 b"HE  looked  at  the  house  across  the  H  street  from  Marjorie's  apart-  ment  and  saw  that  it  was  mov-  ing  away  from  him;  it  became  smaller  and  smaller,  like  a  railroad  station  seen  from  the  last  car  of  a  train:  First  the  faces  become  one  with  the  hats  and  the  bodies,  then  they  merge  with  the  plat-  form,  then  the  station  itself  merges  with  the  trees  and  the  mountains  behind  it,  then  there  remains  but  a  hole  in  the  horizon,  into  which  are  poured  tele-  graph  poles,  gravel,  rails,  and  bushes  shaken  by  the  wind.  But  for  him  it  was  different.  These  wereno  new  horizons  throwing  the  old  one  into  the  caves  of  time;  this  was  death,  darkness  that  streamed  out  of  his  eyes:  He  kept  them  open  and  saw  nothing.  He  woke  up  on  the  carpet.  There  was  a  man's  face  above  him,with  glasses  and  a  bad  breath,  and  the  man  was  asking  him,  &quot;How  are  you  feeling  now?&quot;  &quot;You,  rather,  with  that  bad  breath  of  yours,  how  are  you  feeling?&quot;  he  felt  like  asking  but  did  not.  He  contented  himself  with  thinking  it,  understood  that  the  man  was  a  doctor,  and  told  him  right  away,  in  order  not  to  be  told  by  him,  &quot;Just  a  fainting  spell,  nothing  serious.&quot;  Then  he  saw  Mar-  jorie  ata  step  from  him,  worried,  beau-  tiful  as  ever;  and  felt  so  happy  that  he  did  not  want  her  to  know  he  had  seen  her.  This  would  have  been  like  giving  a  poor  definition  of  his  joy.  He  kept  the  notion  to  himself,  thinking  that  later,  with  adequate,  beautiful,  serious  words,  he  would  recognize  her.  &quot;Tell  me  ex-  actly  what  happened,&quot;  said  the  doctor,  and  he  told  him  in  the  most  minute  de-  tails,  even  using  the  comparison  with  the  view  of  the  station  from  an  outgoing  train,  and  he  did  this  not  to  be  brilliant  but  practical,  as  he  would  have  done  with  a  traffic  policeman  to  avoid  a  fine.  He  was  hoping  to  receive  from  the  doc-  tor,  as  a  reward  for  his  presence  of  mind,  a  less  severe  diagnosis.  Because  he  was  afraid;  he  would  almost  have  pleaded  with  thedoctor,  &quot;Tell  me  I  am  well,  I  will  pay  you  a  bigger  fee.&quot;  As  for  Marjorie,  he  knew  he  had  given  her  a  lesson.  One  does  not  leave  a  sick  man  of  seventy.  And  now  Marjorie  prepared  her  bed  for  him  and  said  to  the  doctor,  &quot;Let's  put  him  here,  so  he  can  rest.&quot;  What  a  strange,  new,  and  wonderful  thing:  In  the  presence  of  a  third  person,  he  was  given  a  right  to  that  bed,  the  object  of  so  many  anguishing  discussions  and  fears.  The  joy  of  this  gave  him  such  strength  that  he  rose  from  the  carpet  by  himself,  and  thought,  This  I  must  write;  it  is  a  fact  of  great  philosophical  impor-  tance:  Joy  as  an  equivalent  of  health....  The  doctor  left,  recommending  to  Marjorie  that  she  keep  him  very  quiet;  no  emotions.  From  her  bed,  with  closed  eyes,  he  listened  to  these  words  spoken  about  him  and  for  him  in  the  entrance  hall  as  he  would  have  to  great  music.  How  good  to  have  a  scientific  lawyer  to  obtain  for  him  what  he  himself  with  his  best  arguments  had  been  unable  to  obtain  for  the  last  several  days.  He  felt  a  great  desire  for  death,  because  the  mere  idea  of  future  discussions  with  her  al-  ready  proved  a  strain  on  his  mind,  but  he  felt  at  the  same  time  an  urge  to  live,  which  he  had  not  felt  for  months.  Here  is  another  major  philosophical  fact,  he  thought:  The  desire  for  death  coincides  with  the  desire  for  life.  ...  He  asked  Marjorie  for  paper  and  pencil.  She  at  first  did  not  want  to  give  them  to  him,  then  yielded  when  she  saw  that  he  was  going  to  be  upset.  He  tried  to  write  and  was  disappointed;  these  arguments,  on  paper,  seemed  quite  childish.  He  fell  asleep,  woke  up  again,  and  she  was  still  at  his  bedside,  like  a  wife.  &quot;What  are  we  going  to  do  now?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;You  should  not  move  from  here.&quot;  But  he  jumped  out  of  bed,  svelte  as  ever,  for  he  knew  now  he  could  not  die.  Life  was  too  beautiful.  He  called  his  wife,  said,  &quot;I  have  been  at  the  library  much  longer  than  I  intended  to;  forgive  me.  I'll  be  home  right  away.&quot;  And  went  home.  The  next  day,  he  called  Marjorie,  found  her  kind  and  humble,  went  to  her  house  in  a  hurry,  stayed  with  her  for  a  few  hours,  and  was  pleased  to  see  her  anguished.  Again  he  had  the  feeling  that  he  had  made  an  important  philosophical  discovery,  in  the  following  terms:  When  the  others  are  afraid  of  your  death,  you  may  be  sure  that  you  won't  die.  If  the  burden  of  fear  is  on  you,  it  will  destroy you,  and  you  will  die  in  solitude.  But  the  certainty  of  other  people's  love  is  an  equivalent  of  vital  force.  ...  He  tried  again  to  write  this  thought  and  was  again  disappointed.  Then  he  went  to  Columbia  University  by  subway,  and  while  crossing  [REDACTED]  he  felt  a  sud-  den  urge  to  stay  closer  to  the  earth.  He  did  not  fall;  it  was  the  street  that  came  all  toward  him,  like  a  good  thing.  He  embraced  it  and  again  had  a  sudden  philosophical  experience:  The  earth  is  cold,  but  underneath  the  crust  there  must  be  fire.  One  should  study  a  much  deeper  geography.  .  ..  T'wo  of  his  stu-  dents  saw  him,  picked  him  up,  and  he  said,  &quot;Let  me  lie  for  awhile.  I  must  first  tie  my  heart  to  my  arms  again.&quot;  And  this,  too,  seemed  a  discovery  to  him.  They  took  him  home  in  a  cab,  his  wife  put  him  to  bed,  the  doctor  came.  This  was  another  doctor,  and  withhim,  too,  he  tried  to  give  evidence  of  lucidity  by  relating  the  details  of  the  accident.  The  doctor  coldly  advised  that  he  go  to  a  hospital  for  a  few  days.  He  seemed  so  upset  by  this  prospect  that  his  wife  did  not  insist.  The  next  day,  he  called  Mar-  jorie,  who  knew  nothing  and  seemed  worried  because  he  had  not  called  be-  fore.  This  most  unusual  break  in  his  telephoning  was  regarded  by  him  as  a  great  personal  achievement.  &quot;I'm  very  well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  was  only  too  busy  to  call  you,  and  I  would  like  to  come  now  for  a  moment.&quot;  Again  she  consented,  without  using  any  of  her  usual  arguments  against  this.  But  the  moment  he  tried  to  leave  the  house,  his  wife  did  not  accept  his  old  excuse  that  he  was  going  to  work  in  the  park  for  a  while.  &quot;T'll  go  with  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  weather  is  so  fine  I  feel  like  taking  ashort  walk.&quot;  This  seemed  treason  to  him.  How  dare  she  share  with  him  his  philosophical  walks?  But  she  seemed  quite  determined  not  to  let  him  go  out  alone.  At  the  corner  drug-  store,  he  stopped  and  called  Marjorie  to  explain  the  reason  for  his  sudden  delay.  To  his  surprise,  she  seemed  pleased;  she  had  always  been  rather  jealous  of  his  wife  before.  &quot;I  am  glad  she  is  going  with  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'The  weather  is  so  fine  today  it  will  do  you  a  world  of  good  to  go  to  the  park.&quot;  The  park?  he  thought,  and  said,  &quot;But  the  park  has  never  existed  except  as  an  alibi.  Then  you  don't  love  me  any  more.&quot;  She  answered  &quot;Yes,&quot;  as  usual,  but  the  tone  displeased  him;  it  was  clearly  the  tone  ofa  sick  nurse.  This  was  no  philosophical  discovery,  this  was  an  element  of  fact,  and  a  very  painful  one.  He  tried  to  be  resigned,  but  the  " b"company  of  his  wife  upset  him,  so  that  he  felt  a  new  fainting  spell  coming  upon  him  andwas  able  to  avoid  it  only  at  great  effort.  She  seemed  aware  of  it,  and  said,  &quot;Let's  sit  here  on  this  bench.  I  feel  suddenly  tired,  Let  me  look  for  a  cab.  Will  you  take  me  back  to  the  house?&quot;  She  left,  and  came  back  after  a  minute  in  a  cab  to  pick  him  up,  and  once  back  home  he  willingly  consented  to  lie  down  for  a  short  rest.  But  the  moment  he  was  on  his  bed,  another  philosophical  thought  came  to  him  unexpectedly:  The  bed  is  part  of  our  organism,  exactly  as  the  earth,  except  that  the  bed  is  inreality  an  altar  on  which  we  sacrifice  to  all  the  most  important  functions  in  life-birth,  reproduction,  and  death....  He  in-  stantly  wrote  down  this  thought,  and  again  it  appeared  rather  childish  in  writ-  ing.  Discouraged,  he  now  tried  to  think  in  more  technical  terms,  as  he  had  in  his  lectures  and  in  the  learned  articles  in  the  review  edited  by  him.  They  seemed  absurd,  incomprehensible.  He  concluded,  I  must  rest,  and  again  this  appeared  as  a  very  profound  thought,  rich  in  logical  consequences  and  worthy  of  long  discussions.  He  began  to  look  about  him,  saw  the  dresser  with  the  combs  and  the  brushes  and  cosmetics,  andhad  such  a  sensation  of  fatigue  that  for  a  while  he  could  not  find  an  explana-  tion  for  it.  Then  he  understood  the  rea-  son:  There  was  no  chair  in  front  of  the  dresser.  The  idea  of  standing  up  was  in  itself  a  cause  of  fatigue.  He  looked  at  the  prints  on  the  wall-reproductions  of  country  houses  near  4974616c79  by  the  ar-  chitect  Palladio,  and  thought,  How  would  it  feel  to  lie  down  in  those  villas  and  enjoy  the  view  of  the  garden?  He  slept  awhile  and  then  decided  to  call  Marjorie  again.  And  he  had  many  dreams  that  he  was  calling  her,  only  to  realize  each  time  he  had  never  left  his  bed.  Then  the  telephone  rang  several  times.  He  wanted  to  get  up,  but  before  he  could  move  his  wife  answered  it,  and  he  had  the  impression  that  she  was  speaking  to  Marjorie.  This  hurt  him  very  much.  Perhaps  it  was  not  true,  but  he  instinctively  felt  that  there,  at  a  few  steps  from  him,  in  the  corridor,  there  was  Marjorie  in  that  wire.  And  his  wife's  tone,  circumspect  and  resigned,  made  him  think  of  a  funeral.  They  are  plotting  together  to  bury  me-the  only  thing  on  which  they  can  agree.  ...  His  anger  was  so  violent  that  he  lost  con-  sciousness.  He  had  a  dream  in  which  he  was  going  to  Marjorie's  apartment  and  settling  down  there  in  the  face  of  the  world;  scandal  or  no  scandal,  he  did  not  care.  This  seemed  to  him  the  wisest  thing  to  do,  and  he  found  enough  strength  to  get  up,  slip  into  his  clothes,      and  leave  the  house  without  answering  his  wife's  question  &quot;Where  are  you  go-  ing,  dear?&quot;  He  left  the  house,  ran  to  Marjorie's  place  at  top  speed,  found  her  so  affectionate  that  he  could  not  help  bursting  into  tears,  and  wiped  his  tears  with  his  bedsheet.  Thus  he  discovered  that  he  had  never  left  his  bed.  Then  a  strange  and  new  thing  hap-  pened.  An  unknown  woman  came  into  his  room  and  smiled  to  him  and  spoke  to  him  in  terms  he  could  hardly  under-  stand.  He  knew  he  had  met  her  before,  but  he  could  not  remember  where  and  when.  The  face  seemed  extremely  fa-  miliar,  and  he  felt  he  must  thank  her  for  her  kindness,  but  he  was  a  bit  sur-  prised  at  findinghimself  in  bed  in  her  house,  and  this  caused  him  embarrass-  ment  and  anguish.  The  effort  he  was  making  to  recognize  her  was  excessive;  he  fainted  again.  Then  the  doctor  came.  He  recognized  the  doctor,  felt  like  ask-  ing  him  who  that  woman  might  be,  but  did  not  want  to  ask  him  right  away.  He  was  too  tired  to  talk.  In  the  meantime,  another  philosophical  discovery  dawned  upon  him:  How  can  a  doctor  cure  you  if  you  lie  down  and  he  stands  up?  ...  He  concluded,  with  gravity:  Pain  should  be  understood.  He  found  the  strength  to  reach  the  pencil  on  his  night  table  and  wrote  down  this  thought  with  great  ef-  fort,  then  reread  it  and  found  it  too  childish  again.  He  cried  a  bit.  The  doc-  tor  left,  and  again  the  strange  woman  came  in,  with  a  towel  to  wipe  his  tears.  There  was  in  that  towel  a  most  beautiful  country-an  endless  beach  with  much  light  and  red  sails  in  the  distance.  All  of  it  contained  in  the  clean  smell  of  oxygen  that  towel  had  absorbed  by  hanging  on  the  roof.  This,  he  thought,  is  a  real  philosophical  fact:  Odors  are  places,  and  they  may  be  translated  into  places,  as  energy  into  matter,  with  the  help  of  Einstein's  formula.  .  ..  Here  is  a  very  important  fact:  We  may  travel  someday  without  having  to  move....  He  felt  like  writing  it,  and  looked  around  for  paper  and  pencil,  when  a  still  more  im-  portant  discovery  revealed  itself  to  him:     " b'There  exists  gravitation.  The  earth  is  profoundly  egocentric;  she  wants  us,  and  then  wants  us  again,  all  the  time.  We  rise  to  escape  from  it.  We  look  at  the  sky  to  liberate  ourselves.  .  .  But  in  the  meantime  the  earth  went  on  pulling  his  hand,  which,  finding  no  support  in  &quot;  e  \xe2\x80\x9dat\xe2\x80\x9c  &quot;are     the  bed,  after  sliding  on  it  for  inches,  abandoned  itself  to  the  earth  for  a  mo-  ment.  The  stream  of  thought  continued,  always  more  philosophical.  So  much  so  that  he  suddenly  forgot  to  breathe  and  had  a  coughing  spell.  He  was  able  to  breathe  again  after  a  while,  and  thought,   How  silly  of  me.  I  must  make  a  note  of  this:  I  should  never  stop  breathing  or  how  can  I  goon  thinking?  ...  He  pushed  the  hand  a  little  farther  out  and  tried  to  lift  it,  but  the  earth,  with  its  old  egotism,  pulled,  and  he  never  reached  the  pencil.'