 b"WHEN,  just  before  the  United  [REDACTED]  entered  the  last  war,  I  was  living  in  [REDACTED],  I  used  to  hear  the  most  bitterly  anti-British  sen-  timents  expressed  by  my  neighbors.  &quot;Arrogant,&quot;  &quot;imperialistic,&quot;  and  &quot;war-  mongering&quot;  were  the  very  least  of  the  names  called.  One  night,  at  a  party  made  up  of  visiting  New  Yorkers,  I  heard  an  ingenious  explanation  of  the  Middle  Western  attitude  given  by  a  ruddy-faced  sociologist  from  Columbia.  Middle  Westerners,  he  said,  being  the  descendants  of  men  who  went  West  from  the  thirteenoriginal  colonies  soon  after  the  Revolution,  had  been  brought  up  in  families  with  a  tradition  ofani-  mosity  toward  the  British  modelled  upon  ideas  in  vogue  in  the  late  eighteenth  century.  Such  a  slogan  as  &quot;I  hate  a  Britisher!&quot;-patriotic  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  when  the  Common  pas-  tured  cows  and  Fairmount  Park  was  country-still  lived  on  in  the  spirit  of  [REDACTED]  and  Decatur  and  [REDACTED].  &quot;It's  an  example  of  the  embalming  of  bygone  antagonisms  which  may  at  one,  time  have  had  a  validity,&quot;  he  said,  savor-  ing  his  words.  &quot;Inappropriateness  to  current  situations  is  what  distinguishes  what  we  call  the  inadequate  social  ap-  proach.  Take  the  Irish  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said,  his  eyes  gleaming  with  enthusiasm.  &quot;''They  came  to  these  shores  straight  from  the  potato  famine,  and  found  in  [REDACTED]  a  hierarchy  comparable  to  the  Anglo-  Irish  aristocrats  whose  in-  difference  and  absenteeism  were  directly  responsible  for  their  miseries.  Transferring  a  once  legitimate  hatred  to  new  surroundings  resulted  in_\xe2\x80\x997  &quot;But  how  perfectly  aw-  ful!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;To  keep  old  hatreds  going  for  centuries  that  way!&quot;  The  sociologist,  interrupted,  looked  at  me  coldly.  &quot;It's  simply  the  manner  in  which  societies  tend  to  project,&quot;  he  said  with  scientific  briskness.  &quot;Their  animosities  appear  to  have  a  life  of  their  own,  independent  of  reality  situations.  Take  the  Arabs-&quot;  But  I  was  still  taking  the  embattled  British,  and  the  people  I  knew  here  who  were  hating  them,  possibly  for  reasons  having  to  do  with  the  far  from  recent  unpleasantness  involving  George  III.  Last  spring,  when  I  went  for  the  first  time  to  [REDACTED],  I  was  in  a  curious  way  reminded  of  [REDACTED].  My  very  first  morning  in  [REDACTED],  as  I  sat  over  an  eleven-o'clock  cup  of  &quot;white&quot;  coffee,  I  found  Lord  Beaverbrook's  Express     lamenting  the  fearful  arrogance  that  required  Macmillan  to  go  to  Washing-  ton  to  visit  Eisenhower,  instead  of  the  American  President's  being  willing  to  cross  the  ocean  to  visit  [REDACTED],  for  a  gracious  change.  I  sighed  and  turned  the  page.  Poor  Mr.  Eisenhower;  he  had  his  faults  and  I  never  voted  for  him,  but  I  was  dead  sure  he  was  not  arrogant.  In  the  weeks  following,  I  was  to  hearken,  in  the  pages  of  the  Times,  the  Observer,  and  the  Sunday  Times,  to  cries  of  impotence  and  anguish  uttered  on  the  subject  of  such  events  as  the  United  [REDACTED]  government's  passing  over  lower  British  bids  for  turbines  to  give  contracts  to  American  industry;  American  planes  flying  to  [REDACTED]  above  the  ten-thousand-foot  Russian  air  cor-  ridor;  the  tariff  the  American  govern-  ment  erected  against  British  wool  ex-  ports.  These,  and  others,  were  all  what  we  would  call  legitimate  gripes;  what  did  not  seem  to  me  legitimate,  or,  in  the  second  halfof  the  twentieth  century,  safe,  was  the  assumption  ofdeliberate  spite  or  indifference  behind  these  acts,  and  the  summoning  up,  by  turning  the  knife  of  jealousy  in  hurt  national  pride,  of  a  we-they  attitude.  I  am  no  economist,  and  no  sociolo-  gist.  My  view  of  the  international  scene  is  tiny  and  female,  documented  entirely  by  personal  events,  such  as  the  cocktail  party  in  [REDACTED]  I  went  to  the  spring  before,  at  which  I  met  a  visiting  Englishman.  He  sat  on  the  flagged  terrace  in  the  late-April  sunshine,  looking  at  some  yellow  blooms  beside  the  gray  stone.  &quot;And  what  are  those  flahrs?&quot;  he  inquired,  meaning,  I  am  convinced,  no  harm.  &quot;''Those  are  primroses,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh?&quot;  he  replied.  (Nobody  but  the  British  can  make  &quot;Oh&quot;  as  a  query  sound  so  like  a  denigration  and  a  re-  proof.)  &quot;But  those  are  not  proper  prim-  roses.&quot;  Upon  that  remark  I  founded  my  own  private  theory  about  Anglo-American  relations,  which  is,  the  reason  for  all  the  resentment,  wrath,  and  hurt  feelings  is  that  one  side  always  assumes  the  other  side  means  by  what  it  says  what  the  first  side  would  have  meant  if  it  had  said  it.  Take,  for  example,  customs  of  polite  ness.  I  was  fascinated,  on  first  arriv-  ing  in  [REDACTED],  by  the  number  of  times  I  and  the  waiters  in  restaurants  found  it  necessary  to  exchange  thanks.  I  sit  down  at  the  table  to  which  I  am  shown,  and  as  the  waiter  pushes  in  my   chair  he  says,  &quot;Thank  you,  Madam.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  I  reply.  Why?  Because  my  husband  told  me  to.  &quot;'There's  too  many  people  to  the  square  inch  in  Eng-  land,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They've  had  to  learn  how  to  get  along  with  the  minimum  of  friction.  Politeness  is  their  solution.  That's  the  reason  for  all  the  queuing  up.  You  don't  suppose  they  want  to  catch  that  bus  any  less  than  a  New  Yorker  does,  do  you?  Look  how  the  queue  breaks  up  at  the  last  moment  and  everybody  scrambles.  The  least  we  can  do  is  go  along  with  the  lubrication.&quot;  So,as  the  waiter  hands  me  the  menu  and  says,  '''Thank  you,&quot;  I  respond,  &quot;'Thank  you.&quot;  When  I  have  ordered  and  lunch  is  brought,  the  waiter  slips  a  hot  plate  in  front  of  me,  saying,  &quot;'Thank  you,  Madam.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  I  reply.  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  he  says,  presumably  for  thanking  Aim.  Even  when  he  fills  my  water  glass-assuming  I  have  per-  suaded  him  to  give  me  a  water  glass,  and  to  fill  it--the  waiter  feels  he  must  add  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  Yet  my  friend  Clarice  Gaines,  who  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  a  month  after  I  did,  exploded  almost  as  soon  as  I  saw  her,  &quot;I  don't  see  how  you  can  play  along  with  that  hypocrisy!  It  makes  me  so  damned  mad  when  that  hotelclerk  calls  me  'Medam.'  He  might  as  well  slap  me  in  the  face.  I  can  just  feel  the  dislike  and  the  arrogance  and  the  snootiness  be-  hind  it.  'Thenk  you,  thenk  you,  thenk  you.'  You  don't  suppose  for  one  mo-  ment  they  mean  it,  sincerely,  do  you?&quot;  &quot;No,  but-&quot;  I  began,  and  stopped.  I  had  come  over  to  Clarice's  hotel,  to  lunch  with  her  before  going  on  to  a  matin\xc3\xa9e  of  &quot;The  Magic  Flute&quot;  at  Covent  Garden,  and  had  waited  for  her  in  a  little  panelled  writing  room.  It  chanced  that  I  looked  up  just  as  Clarice  was  approaching  the  closed  glass  doors  to  the  room  where  I  sat.  A  bellboy  stationed  there  held  the  door  open,  and  Clarice  came  sailing  through,  her  face  full  of  smiles  of  greeting  for  me.  But  the  bellboy's  face  was  full  of  a  sort  of  wry  Cockney  chagrin.  Clarice  had  failed  to  acknowledge  his  part  in  a  ritual.  After  we  had  eaten  a  lunch  consisting  of  a  soup  called,  simply,  &quot;thick,&quot;  de-  licious  [REDACTED]  sole,  and  an  ice  served  with  two  wafers  stuck  into  it,  Clarice  decided  that  she  needed  her  mink  stole,  which  she  had  left  in  her  room.  I  fol-  lowed  her  toward  the  hotel  desk  and  heard  her  ask  the  room  clerk  briskly,  &quot;Got  my  key?  One-twenty-two,&quot;  and  heard  him  reply,  &quot;Yes,  Madam,  yes,  yes,&quot;  in  that  tone  of  British  patience  that  sounds  so  insulting  to  American  ears.  Watching  the  fairy-tale  opera  and  reflecting  at  the  back  of  my  mind  on     " b"what  I  had  seen  and  heard,  I  could  not  but  remember  the  night  when,  after  going  to  see  &quot;Swan  Lake&quot;  danced  here  at  Covent  Garden,  my  husband  and  I-hungry  aft-  er  nothing  but  the  tea  we  had  taken  to  be  in  time  for  the  seven-thirty  curtain-  went  on  to  supper  at  a  pub  nearby  called  the  Marquis  of  Anglesea.  It  proved  to  be  very  chic;  very  expensive  by  English  standards;  and  to  contain  no  Americans  other  than  ourselves  that  I  could  discern.  Across  from  us  in  the  cozy,  crimson-papered  upper  room  with  its  little  fire  sat  a  handsome  English  cou-  ple  whose  voices  rose  above  the  prevailing  low  murmur  of  Britons  eating  out,  which  is  so  noticeable  to  Americans  after  the  babel  in  New  York  restaurants.  Possibly  the  bot-  tle  of  hock  standing  on  their  table  was  their  second.  In  any  case,  they  were  talking  about  &quot;the  Ameddicans.&quot;  It  seemed  to  me  that  theykept  casting  glances  toward  us.  &quot;After  all,&quot;  the  woman  with  the  beautiful,  haggard  face  said  loudly,  &quot;one  must  re-  member  they  are  Ameddicans.&quot;  I  sud-  denly  felt  both  uncomfortable  and  angry.  Yet  now,  listening  to  Mozart's  mu-  sic,  I  wondered  if  my  irritation  hadn't  been  baseless.  How  did  I  know  what  they  had  been  saying?  Just  because  at  home  one  would  pronounce  it  &quot;Amed-  dicans&quot;  in  fun,  when  putting  on  an  act  of  haughty  superiority,  did  not  mean  that  here  the  phrase  I  had  caught  mightn't  be  part  of  some  such  sentence  as  &quot;One  knows  one-  can  utterly  trust  them  because,  after  all,  one  must  re-  member  they  are  Ameddicans,&quot;  or  &quot;'They  may  seem  gauche,  darling,  but  don't  lose  your  temper  and  jump  to  con-  clusions  because,  after  all,  one  must  re-  member  they  are  Ameddicans.&quot;  But,  alas,  there  was  nothing  origi-  nal  about  reaching  the  conclusion  that  both  Americans  and  British  ought  to  be  more  charitable,  put  a  more  favorable  interpretation  on  the  other  side's  re-  marks,  and  stop  projecting.  Wisdom  like  that  had  been  dealt  out  for  decades  from  pulpit  and  from  platform,  without  noticeable  effect.  By  the  time  the  op-  era  was  over  and  I  was  strolling  up  St.  Martin's  Lane  beside  Clarice,  I  felt  slightly  depressed  by  such  melancholy  reflections.  Suddenly  I  was  distracted  by  hearing  a  lusty,  very  young  voice  de-clare,  in  what  seemed  a  pronounced  American  accent,  &quot;Wonna  wok!&quot;  Down  the  street  toward  us  came  straggling  a  large  [REDACTED]  family-four  or  five  ragged  but  lively  children  be-  tween  the  ages  of,  possibly,  four  and  ten;  a  thin,  worn,  but  cheerful  mother;  and,  well  out  in  front,  a  very  small  child  taking  his  first  unsteady  steps.  It  was  he  who  had  so  forcefully  spoken.  His  mother,  pushing  the  baby  carriage  from  which  he  had  just  emancipated  himself,  smiled  proudly  after  her  youngest  as  he  staggered  away  from  her.  &quot;Eh,  lovey,  that're  better  nor  crawlin'  any  dye,  eyen't  it?&quot;  she  said.  I  had  been  aware  of  them  before,  the  babies  of  [REDACTED]-like  an  array  of  great  nodding  roses  blooming  within  the  carriage  work  of  the  magnificent  perambulators  with  which  the  National  Health  Service  provides  them.  I  had  thought  them  surely  the  most  beautiful  babies  in  the  world,  their  large,  judicial  pink  faces  surmounted  by  plumelike  wisps  of  golden  down,  their  round  fists  lifted  on  occasion  as  though  in  com-  mand,  their  feet  curled  like  pink  shells.  But  the  realization  had  not  dawned  on  me  until  that  afternoon  that  English  babies  do  not  speak  with  an  English  accent.  They  speak  with  an  American  accent;  or,  rather,  babies,  American  and  English,  speak  in  the  accents  of  a  lingua  franca  that  may  be  thought  of  as  Inter-  national  Baby.  OON  afterward,  I  moved  from  [REDACTED]  to  Oxford  for  the  remain-  der  of  the  spring,  and  my  researches  into  the  phenomenon  of  infant  Esperanto  were  continued  in  the  learned  atmos-  phere  obtaining  along  the  High,  the  Broad,  and  the  'Turl-streets  upon  which  prams  abound.  My  first  revela-  tion  seemed  borne  out.  English  babies,  regardless  of  class,  do  not  until  they  are  about  four  acquire  their  parents'  accents.  Or,  to  put  it  in  a  more  scholarly  and  precise  way,  their  parents'  intonation;  for  it  is  intonation  that  makes  the  Eng-  lish  sound  the  way  they  do.  They  pitch  their  voices  entirely  differently  than  we  do  ours,  so  that  speech  comes  out  very  clear,  much  higher,  and  with  a  musical  exactness  that  strikes  the  American  ear  as  affected.  One  afternoon  at  tea  in  Oxford  I  heard  an  English  editor  take  off  an  American  publisher  devastating-  ly;  he  did  it  notby  altering  his  pronun-  ciation  of  the  words  but  by  pitching  his  voice  in  his  chest  and  growling,  with  frequent  gasping  pauses  for  breath.  But  all  English-speaking  babies  speak     " b"English  the  same  way.  &quot;Ging!  Mine!&quot;  an  Oxford  don's  baby  will  shout  as  the  celluloid  rattle  disappears  over  the  side  of  the  pram;  and  the  sound  comes  out  loud,  indignant,  and  exactly  as  it  might  be  shouted  from  a  pram  in  Duluth.  It  is,  of  course,  true  that  infant  emotions  are  themselves  the  same  everywhere,  and  express  themselves  in  the  same  stur-  dy  syllables.  I  stood  for  some  time  on  the  Banbury  Road  observing  somebody  roughly  ten  months  old  in  atransport  of  rage  within  his  perambulator.  His  mother,  the  wretch,  had  gone  into  the  chemist's  for  something,  and  here  he  was,  without  a  drop  of  anything  in  the  way  of  milk  within  reach  and  nobody  anywhere  in  sight  to  order  about.  He  was  hurling  his  compact  pink  body  around  the  pale-blue  interior  of  the  car-  riage,  arching  his  back,  clenching  his  fists  and  toes,  and  howling  in  what  sounded  to  me  like  pure  American.  &quot;Gwlawf!&quot;  he  roared.  &quot;Aaaaazh!&quot;  Any  fool  could  understand  what  he  meant;  a  baby's  meanings  are  absolute,  ly  international.  INTERNATIONAL  or  not,  babies  could  not,  of  course,  be  left  in  uncon-  trolled  charge  of  foreign  relations.  The  world  would  not  be  safe.  Gazing  at  that  small  parcelof  fury  hurling  itself  about  the  pram,  I  remembered  my  father  say-  ing,  &quot;If  a  baby's  strength  were  equal  to  its  ferocity,  it  would  destroy  the  globe.&quot;  This  baby  did  seem,  in  fact,  to  possess  characteristics  in  common  with  the  Bomb.  If  it  were  to  be  used  as  an  instrument  of  foreign  policy,  the  baby  would  need  augmenting  by  a  mother  who  would  not  go  chasing  off  into  chemist's  shops;  or  else  by  a  nanny.  The  workability  of  the  latter  arrangement  was  made  evi-  dent  to  me  one  afternoon  as  I  walked  along  the  towpath  beside  the  Isis,  where  the  eights  were  out  practicing  in  the  May  sunshine.  On  the  other  side  of  the  path  were  fields,  yellow  with  butter-  cups,  where  cattle  strayed.  A  large,  sub-  stantial  nanny  in  a  navy-blue  coat  and  felt  hat  was  pushing  a  large,  substantial  baby  of  about  a  year  and  a  half  in  a  stroller.  In  his  hand  he  clutched  a  bunch  of  buttercups.  &quot;E  does  dearly  love  to  taik  a  posy  'ome  to  'is  Mummy,&quot;  the  nanny  ob-  served  asI  stopped  to  admire  the  baby's  fat  cheeks,  nasturtium-colored  curls,  and  stern  blue  eye.  A  shadow  crossed  the  judicial  features;  with  a  cry  of  rage  the  baby  hurled  the  nosegay  to  the  path.  &quot;Bertie  wonna  wok!&quot;  he  commanded,  in  wholly  classless  Baby.  &quot;No  cadgy!  Wok!&quot;  The  nanny  did  not  remonstrate.  She  did  not  waste  time  pointing  out  that  the  young  men  coaching  the  eights,  who  were  dashing  up  and  down  the  towpath  on  bicycles,  megaphones  pressed  to  lips,  showed  no  care  for  their  own  or  anyone  else's  life  and  limb.  She  simply  picked  up  the  buttercups  and  replaced  them  in  the  pink  fist.  &quot;'Is  Mummy  will  be  proud,  when  she  sees  wot  'e's  brought  'er,&quot;  she  continued,  and  stooped  again  to  pluck  a  dandelion  that  had  gone  to  seed.  &quot;Blow,  lamby,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;See  if  it's  getting  on  for  teatime,  do.&quot;  The  psychology  was  astute.  The  baby  puffed  and  then  watched  enchanted  while  bits  of  down  drifted  away  on  the  hay-har-  vest  breeze,  having  quite  forgot,  as  great  powers  will,  his  original  contempt,  frus-  tration,  and  wrath.  HE  season  in  which  all  babies  are  equal  and  speak  the  same  language  is  not  long,  however,  asI  realized  the  next  morning,  sitting  at  Oxford's  Gloucester  Green  terminal,  waiting  for  a  country  bus  to  take  me  to  Dorchester.  Dorchester  on  Thame  is,  today,  a  thatched  village  with  perhaps  eight  hun-  dred  inhabitants  and  a  twelfth-century  abbey  that  could  easily  hold  two  thou-  sand  worshippers;  a  village  where,  it  is  said,  there  were  once  seven  additional  churches.  But  a  misunderstanding  be-  tween  antagonistic  groups  in  the  six-  teenth  century  led  to  the  total  destruc-  tion  of  the  seven  churches,  the  suppres-  sion  of  the  abbey,  and  the  reduction  of  the  population.  Into  the  waiting  room  where  I  sat  came  a  man  and  woman  with  a  little  boy.  He  could  not  have  been  more  than  five,  barely  past  the  full  ravishing  bloom  of  babyhood.  The  parents  sat  down  and  the  boy  wriggled  his  behind  up  onto  the  seat  between  them.  He  began  gravely  to  inspect  his  surroundings  board  walls  with  a  portrait  of  Edward  VII  hangingbetween  the  windows,  an  unlit  iron  stove  in  a  corner  of  the  room,  a  bench,  covered  in  shabby  carpet-  ing,  that  ran  around  its  four  sides.  He  looked  up  at  his  father.  In  high,  clear  unmistakably  English  accent  and  intonation  he  inquired,  &quot;What  is  this  place?&quot;  Haughty,  patronizing,  disparaging,  the  sound  of  his  speech  was  such  that  if  it  had  been  my  house  he  was  talking  about  and  I  had  been  an  American  boy  of  five,  I  would  have  hit  him.  Then,  no  doubt-though  puzzled-he  would  have  hit  me  back. "