 b"CALL  me  uxorious,  spoony,  passion's  plaything,  but  let  a  woman  signify  her  whim  by  so  much  as  a  nod  and,  by  George,  I'll  climb  the  highest  mountain,  swim  the  deepest  ocean  to  gratify  it.  While  the  climbing  and  swimming  this  compulsion  has  en-  tailed  would  stagger  credulity,  they're  piffiing  compared  to  what  I  underwent  recently  in  Europe  to  obtaina  pair  of  earrings.  Chronologically,  the  affair  be-  gan  last  spring  with  a  trivial  observation  of  my  wife's-one  ofthose  remarks  that  drop  like  a  seed  into  the  subconscious  and  germinate  there  over  an  entire  summer.  Halfway  through  a  novel  of  David  Gar-  nett's  she  was  reading,  Madame  looked  up  reflectively.  &quot;Remember  that  garnet  brooch  of  mine?&quot;  sheasked.  &quot;It's  back  in  fashion  again.  Don't  you  think  I  ought  to  get  a  pair  of  earrings  to  match?&quot;  The  only  response  she  got  was  an  in-  dulgent  chuckle  from  behind  my  news-  paper,  which  was  rather  unaccountable,  since  I  lay  dozing  a  good  ten  feet  away  from  it.  At  any  rate,  six  months  later  I  was  in  [REDACTED]  after  a  protracted  stay  abroad,  faced  with  the  problem  of  a  suit-  able  homecoming  gift.  The  usual  pat-  tern  of  perfume,  sweaters,  and  Liberty  squares  seemed  so  deadly  that  I  resolved  to  vary  it,  and  betook  myself  to  the  Cale-  donian  Market,  that  great  repository  of  antiques,  bric-a-brac,  and  pinchbeck  in  Bermondsey.  For  well  over  an  hour,  I  rummaged  through  stalls  laden  with  Victorian  knickknacks,  pewter,  china,  cutlery,  glass,  and  miscellaneous  rubbish  of  every  description  from  passementerie  to  doorknobs,  erotic  nutcrackers  to  scrimshaw.  Somewhere  in  this  magpie's  nest,  Itold  myself  with  decreasing  assurance,  there  must  be  akeepsake  worthy  of  my  spouse.  A  drophead  sew-  ing  machine?  The  woman  bought  all  her  clothes  from  Dior.  A  sphygmometer?  Her  pulse  never  varied  a  hairbreadth.  A  wastebasket  made  from  an  elephant's  foot?  She  doted  on  pachyderms,  cried  unashamedly  at  Babar.  Homeward  bound  to  the  West  End,  I  suddenly  rec-  ollected  her  wistful  reference  to  the  earrings,  and  raced  back  to  Bermondsey.  &quot;Garnet  eardrops,  sir?&quot;  the  dealers  echoed  as  one  man.  &quot;Shouldn't  think  you'd  find  a  pair  in  [REDACTED].  Fearfully  rare.  Terribly  viewx  jeu.  Nobody  fan-  cies  them  nowadays.  Bad  luck,  they      say.  See  them  occasionally  on  a  laundress  or  a  skivvy,  sir,  but  ladies  won't  have  'em.  Sorry,  old  chap.  Have  you  tried  Torquay?  Bournemouth?  Blackpool?  Ah,  yes,  for  a  costume  party,  no.  doubt.  Haven't  the  foggiest,  old  man.  Pawnshop  near  Ludgate  Circus,  but  I  wouldn't  prom-  ise.  For  a  young  woman,  you  said,  sir?  Sorry,  old  boy.&quot;  Overwhelmed  by  futility,  I  was  about  to  abandon  the  quest  when  a  cherry-  nosed  beldam  in  a  man's  cap  and  rope-  knit  sweater  came  to  my  rescue.  The  only  place  that  might  conceivably  han-  dle  such  an  item,  she  said,  detaching  an  inch  of  Woodbine  from  her  lip,  was  a  shop  near  the  British  Museum  whose  stock  of  Edwardian  jewelry  was  unri-  valled.  Be  it  a  stomacher  ora  diamond  garter,  it  could  be  found  at  Intaglio's;  all  the  gentry,  added  my  tarnished  angel  deferentially,  traded  there.  In  less  time  than  it  takes  to  leaf  through  Burke's  Peerage  and  Baronetage,  I  sped  to  Bloomsbury,  found  theshop,  and  com-  municated  my  needs  to  the  gentlewom-  an  presiding  over  it.  She  gave  me  the  weary  smile  one  reserves  for  eccentrics,  and  produced  half  a  dozen  trays  con-  taining  unimaginable  splendors.  Trin-  kets  of  sapphire,  emerald,  ruby,  jade,  fire  opal,  and  every  semiprecious  stone  except  the  garnet  corus-  cated  through  her  fin-  gers,  all  mounted  in  set-  tings  antedating  the  Boer  War.  After  doing  her  utmost  to  sell  me  a  blue  carbuncle  choker,  a  sun-  burst  studded  with  rose  diamonds,  and  a  pearl  dog  collar  worn  by  the  fifth  Marchioness  of  43616e616461derry,  my  sales-  lady  threw  in  the  tow-  el.  &quot;Personally,  I  think  you're  on  a  wild-goose  chase,&quot;  she  declared.  &quot;Of  course,  you  can  al-  ways  insert  an  advert  in  the  agony  column  of  the  Times.  I'm  sure  if  you  offered  a  couple  of  hun-  dred  quid-&quot;  &quot;Wait  a  minute,&quot;  I  said,  realizing  that  I  was  in  danger  of  succumbing  to  an  expensive  mono-  mania.  &quot;Maybe  garnets  area  trifle  d\xc3\xa9mod\xc3\xa9,  at  that.  What  do  you  have  in  a  good,  inexpensive  scarab?&quot;  With  a  click  of  den-  tures  that  graphically  ex-  " b"pressed  her  opinion  of  all  tourists,  and  redskins  in  par-  ticular,  she  slid  a  trayful  of  scarabs  toward  me.  I  selected  one  I  felt  would  blend  nicely  with  any  of  my  wife's  blouses,  especially  those  starched  in  Reckitt's  Blue,  and  bore  it  away.  Almost  immediately,  a  couple  of  disturbing,  seem-  ingly  unrelated  incidents  oc-  curred  that  made  me  wonder  whether  I  had  unwittingly  involved  myself  in  one  of  Hitchcock's  gaudier  thrillers.  Entering  my  hotel  room  about  teatime  the  next  day,  I  surprised  a  valet  half  sub-  merged  in  the  closet,  ostensi-  bly  draping  pants  on  a  hang-  er.  In  response  to  my  query,  he  gave  me  some  curious,  evasive  answer  to  the  effect  that  he  had  discovered  them  on  the  floor.  As  he  withdrew,  I  was  struck  by  his  sphinxlike  smile  and  the  fact  that  his  features  had  a  distinctly  Egyptian  cast.  Could  his  visit  have  had  an  ulterior  motive,  I  asked  myself,  startled-my  scarab,  possibly?  The  tissue  it  was  wrapped  in  appeared  untouched,  but  I  could  have  sworn  the  elastic  had  been  tampered  with.  In  the  automatic  elevator  that  very  same  evening,  though,  I  had  an  encoun-  ter  the  significance  of  which  was  unmis-  takable.  The  car  had  hardly  started  up-  ward  when  my  nostrils  detected  the  characteristic  scentof  some  Oriental  perfume  like  sandalwood.  I  turned  and  received  a  coup  d'oeil  from  a  pair  of  sloe  eyes  berimmed  with  kohl.  The  impact  was  so  abrupt,  their  air  of  invitation  so  unabashed,  that  it  was  a  moment  before  I  had  a  chance  to  discreetly  survey  the  owner.  She  was  a  ravishing  Eurasian,  her  lissome  figure  swathed  in  sables  and  her  sensuous  lips  curled  in  a  mocking  pout-Sax  Rohmer's  to  the  life.  In  a  trice,  I  saw  through  the  whole  design.  Having  failed  to  purloin  my  scarab,  the  ring  in  [REDACTED]  had  detailed  her  to  lure  me  to  some  unsavory  grog-  shop  in  Wapping  Old  Stairs  with  a  trap-  door  opening  conveniently  into  the  Thames.  A  moment's  irresolution  and  I  would  be  done  for,  another  unsolved  file  in  [REDACTED]  Yard.  I  returned  an  equally  mocking  smile  to  the  fair  decoy  and  pressed  the  emergency  button.  &quot;Queen's  gambit  declined,  my  gazelle,&quot;  I  said  grimly,  and  descended.  Her  utter  baf-  flement  was  comical  in  the  extreme.  The  precautions  I  now  took  to  secrete  the  scarab,  unfortunately,  were  so  de-  vious  that  I  ended  by  losing  it  altogether, and  with  my  departure  imminent,  the  need  for  a  present  was  crucial.  The  an-  nual  Kensington  Antiques  Fair,  by  a  coincidence,  was  just  concluding,  and  I  determined  to  make  a  final  search  there  for  the  earrings.  To  my  immod-  erate  joy,  a  handsome  pair  turned  up  in  the  second  booth  I  visited-large,  shapely  garnets  backed  by  silver  filigree  and  a  warranty  from  Mr.  Plimsoll,  the  dealer,  that  they  were  at  least  a  hun-  dred  years  old.  Mr.  Plimsoll  won  my  heart  instantly-a  gentle  sexagenarian  with  silver  hair  and  exquisite  manners,  the  sort  of  elderly  curate  who  populates  English  plays  that  fold  in  two  nights.  His  scrupulousness  especially  endeared  him  to  me;  he  insisted  on  retaining  the  earrings,  even  though  I  had  paid  for  them,  so  that  he  could  replace  a  some-  what  flawed  stone.  &quot;Nonsense,  my  dear  fellow,&quot;  he  said,  waving  aside  my  pro-  tests.  &quot;I  wouldn't  dream  of  letting  your  good  wife  wear  these  unless  they  were  letter-perfect.  Take  a  day  or  two  to  pop  in  another  garnet,  but  I'll  fetch  'em  around  to  your  hotel  in  plenty  of  time  before  you  leave.  Here's  my  card,  and  may  I  say  in  passing  that  I  consider  your  countrymen  the  salt  of  the  earth?&quot;  Well,  I  couldn't  help  choking  up  at  that,  and  we  had  a  pretty  emotional  parting,  wringing  each  other's  hand  and  so  forth,  but  when  four  days  went  by  and  no  Plimsoll,  I  began  to  get  res-  tive.  Since  the  Kensington  Fair  had  closed  meanwhile,  I  tried  phoning  him  at  his  place  of  business,  and  learned  ,  with  agitation,  that  no  such  number  existed.  After  a  nightmare  bus  journey  involving  three  chan  ges,  I  at  length  reached  the  address  in  Peckham  Rye,  the  suburb  of  outer  Lond  on  where  the  shop  was  supposedly  located.  Nobody,  needless  to  say,  had  ever  heard  of  my  antiquary.  En  route  back  to  the  hotel  through  endless  mean  streets  ,  I  consigned  Plimsoll  to  the  seven  t  h  ring  of  purgatory  and,  with  a  pinch  or  two  of  sophistry  ,  effectively  settled  my  gift  problem.  After  all,  it  wasn't  really  the  gift  so  much  as  the  spirit,  et  cetera-and  besides  ,  my  wife  had  probably  forgotten  the  ear-  rings  long  sin  ce.  Ultimately,  at  my  own  convenience,  I'd  buy  her  an  ounce  of  perfume,  a  sweater,  and  a  Liberty  square,  and  Schluss  .  If  they  w  ere  good  enough  for  her  grandmother,  they  were  good  enough  for  her.  And  anyhow,  why  were  women  so  importunate  nowadays?  I  became  so  worked  up  by  the  time  we  got  to  Marble  Arch  that  I  very  nearly  decided  to  bring  her  nothing  at  all.  I  almost  did,  thanks  to  my  precious  Mr.  Plimsoll.  Late  that  afternoon,  as  I  was  s  trolling  along  Shaftesbury  Avenue,  I  saw  him  jaun  til  y  cross  the  zebra  swinging  a  dispatch  case,  sanctimonious  as  damn  all  with  his  silver  locks  flutter-  ing  in  the  wind.  I  shouted  after  him  to  stop.  He  threw  me  a  frightened  glance  and  took  off  in  the  direction  of  Great  Windmill  Street.  For  a  man  of  his  years,  " b"he  showed  amazing  stamina,  and  I  was  well-nigh  beat  when  he  abruptly  ducked  into  the  Nosh  Bar,  a  delicatessen  close  by.  I  pounded  in  after  him,  naturally,  creating  quite  a  tableau  among  the  pa-  trons  munching  their  salt-beef  sand-  wiches  and  drinking  lemon  tea,  but  do  you  know,  he'd  vanished  without  a  trace.  I  was  certain  he  must  have  slipped  out  the  rear  entrance,  until  the  pro-  prictor  finally  managed  to  satisfy  me  that  he  hadn't  any.  Maybe  there  was  a  trapdoor  or  something,  like  those  in  the  grogshops  at  Wapping  Old  Stairs;  I  still  can't  figure  out  where  the  old  bleeder  went.  But  that  wasn't  the  last  of  him  by  a  long  chalk,  and  it  fair  makes  me  break  into  a  muck  sweat  to  think  of  what  en-  sued.  Two  nights  later,  alighting  from  a  cab  in  front  of  the  Palais  de  Danse,  in  Hammersmith,  I  spotted  Plimsoll,  bold  as  brass,  lounging  by  the  stage  door  with  a  cigar  in  his  teeth.  (At  least,  I  think  it  was  Plimsoll;  if  not,  it  was  his  twin  brother.)  Anyway,  he  caught  sight  of  me  simultaneously,  and  whipped  like  a  rabbit  into  a  passage  alongside  the  the-  atre.  I  gave  chase,  and,  hot  on  his  heels,  found  myself  on  a  steep  incline.  It  must  have  led  into  some  sort  of  basement  un-  der  the  stage  or  thereabouts,  because  I  glimpsed  a  costume  rack  and  a  lot  of  electrical  gear  in  transit,  but  I  was  too  distracted  hunting  for  Plimsoll  to  pay  much  heed.  Suddenly  I  heard  a  voice  yell,  &quot;Hey,  there,  mate,  don't  tread  on  that!,&quot;  and,  glancing  down,  saw  that  I  had  stepped  on  a  small  wooden  plat-  form  almost  flush  with  the  floor.  What-  ever  took  place  in  the  next  few  seconds  happened  so  swiftly  that  I  can  still  hard-  ly  credit  it.  With  a  sickening  lurch,  the  platform  shot  upward,  carrying  me  with  it,  and  as  I  cowered  to  protect  my  head  I  heard  a  deafening  fanfare,  climaxing  in  a  crash  of  cymbals.  For  a  moment,  I  was  too  dazzled  by  the  flood  of  candle-  power  illuminating  me  to  distinguish  anything;  then  I  made  out  a  row  of  footlights  dead  ahead,  and  beyond  it  an  infinity  of  grinning  faces,  tier  on  tier.  Overcome  at  the  realization  that  I  had  been  elevated  to  stardom,  I  turned  to  flee,  and  felt  a  sinewy  hand  grip  my  arm.  A  tall,  suave  individual  in  evening  clothes,  his  Mephistophelean  eyebrows  heightened  by  makeup,  was  bathing  me  in  a  smile  not  altogether  devoid  of  menace.  &quot;Steady  on,  my  beauty,&quot;  he  purred.  &quot;Just  relax  and  let  Scarpini  the  Great  waft  you  into  the  Elysian  fields.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  wafted,&quot;  I  squeaked,  crimson  with  embarrassment.  &quot;Look,  Mister,  there's  some  mistake-  I'm  not  in  show  biz-&quot;  &quot;Neither  am  I,&quot;  he  said  glibly.  &quot;This  is  merely  a  little  scientific  experiment  to  demonstrate  the  power  of  mind  over  matter.  Just  stretch  out  on  the  table  here  and  keep  your  eye  on  the  shiny  object  in  my  hand.&quot;  &quot;I  won't,  I  tell  you!&quot;  I  panted,  back-  ing  away.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  you  will,&quot;  he  said,  with  a  catlike  smile.  &quot;Now,  down  you  go,  you  willful  boy,  and  lie  still.  You're  sleepy  .  .  .  you're  getting  sleepier  ..  .&quot;  To  retain  your  composure  under  stress  is  tough  enough,  but  when  you're  forcibly  levitated  into  the  horizontal  and  a  spiv  in  a  rented  dress  suit  starts   passing  hoops  around  you,  you  can't  very  well  behave  like  Lord  Louis  Mountbatten.  The  orchestral  din  was  such,  furthermore,  and  the  applause  so  shattering,  that  my  pleas  to  Scarpini  to  lower  me,  to  release  the  mechanism  or  whatever  the  hell  was  holding  me,  went  unheard.  Eventually-I  wouldn't  know  how-I  made  my  escape  into  the  wings,  and,  limp  as  a  rag,  crept  to  the  nearest  cab  rank.  Speaking  as  a  man  who'd  practically  relived  &quot;The  39  Steps,&quot;  the  balance  of  my  [REDACTED]  so-  journ  was  pretty  humdrum.  I  spent  the  whole  time  in  bed,  except  for  a  quick  trip  to  the  Burlington  Arcade,  where  I  bought  Milady  a  nice  woollen  steamer  shawl  five  feet  long.  It's  the  kind  of  fleece  you  won't  get  anywhere  else  in  [REDACTED]-unless  you  run  into  Plimsoll,  that  is.  If  you  do,  tell  him  I'll  catch  up  with  him  yet. "