 b"WHAT  a  summer!  Everyone  \xe2\x80\x98J\xe2\x80\x98l  was  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED].  Willie  Maugham  was  at  Antibes.  Margot  Asquith  was  at  Jimmy  Sheean's.  Jimmy  Sheean  was  at  Margot  Asquith's.  In  June,  we  all  went  up  to  [REDACTED]  to  watch  the  Prince  of  [REDACTED],  then  the  most  popular  man  of  his  time,  fall  off  his  horse  at  Auteuil.  When  he  did,  the  crowd  rushed  across  the  track,  picked  up  the  young  heir  apparent,  and  carried  him  on  their  shoulders  all  the  way  to  his  room  at  the  Ritz.  Despite  the  twenty-  two-mile  walk  through  heavy  traffic,  with  the  Prince  in  obvious  pain  from  a  broken  collarbone,  it  was  a  stirring  occasion.  Later,  in  the  lobby  ofthe  hotel,  I  noticed  a  slight,  dark-haired  556e6974656420537461746573n  lady  making  her  way  discreetly  to-  ward  the  service  elevator.  &quot;We  shall  be  hearing  more  about  that  girl,&quot;  I  remember  remarking  to  Sherwood  An-  derson,  who  was  covering  the  spectacle  for  the  [REDACTED]  Post-Intelligencer.  I  was  right.  That  girl  was  Helen  Wills  Moody.  This  was  in  1928.  Back  in  New  York,  Jimmy  Walker  was  mayor  and  the  whole  city  had  embarked  on  a  frenzy  of  high  spirits  and  wild  living.  On  [REDACTED],  Fred  and  Adele  Astaire,  fresh  from  a  season's  triumphs  in  &quot;Kumquats  of  1928,&quot;  were  polishing  new  routines  for  the  opening  of  &quot;Kum-  quats  of  1929.&quot;  Out  in  [REDACTED],  a  young  Spanish  actor,  Rodolpho  d'An-     &quot;YM  Modad@  tonguolla,  was  already  making  a  name  for  himself  (Rudolph  Valentino),  sub-  ject  to  approval  by  the  Los  Angeles  Dis-  trict  Court.  It  was  the  era  of  prohibition,  bootleg  gin,  and  the  infield  single.  Charles  D.  Flent  was  the  best-loved  man  in  [REDACTED],  and  Calvin  Coolidge  was  in  the  White  House.  We  were  living  at  the  time  in  a  fashionable  apartment  on  upper  Fifth  [REDACTED].  On  the  advice  of  Bascomb  W.  Bascomb,  my  father  had  invested  heavily  in  the  rising  bail-bond  market,  and  our  house  was  then  a  gathering  place  for  many  of  the  famous  luminaries  oftheday.  On  the  same  evening,  one  might  see  such  glittering  personages  as  William  S.  (Big  Bill)  Thompson,  William  T.  (Big  Bill)  Tilden,  or  Wil-  liam  S.  (Big  Bill)  Hart.  Often,  Otto  Kahn,  the  banker,  would  come  bustling  inlate  in  the  evening  with  a  bagful  of  money  or  Radio  stock,  which  he  would  distribute  to  the  guests.  No\xc3\xa9l  Coward  frequently  made  an  appear-  ance,  as  well  as  many  other  literary  fig-  ures  of  the  time:  Bunny  Wilson,  Victor  Hugo,  Joseph  Moncure  March,  Bruno  Brockton.  Sad,  clever  Bruno  Brockton.  If  only  he  had  published!  One  of  the  best-known  gatherings  in  New  York  in  this  period  was  the  famous  Oxford  Group,  a  collection  of  writers,  playwrights,  and  wits  who  met  every  Wednesday  evening  for  lunch  in  the  old  Oxford  Hotel,  on  Thirty-seventh  Street.  The  members  of  the  Oxford  Group  had  a  reputation  for  dazzling  humor  and  repartee,  to  say  nothing  of  sheer  animal  hunger,  and  to  be  invited  to  their  table  was  one  of  the  most  sought-after  honors  that  could  befall  a  visitor  to  the  city.  It  was  at  one  of  these  lunches,  I  recall,  that  the  famous  ex-  change  between  S.  S.  VanFlogel,  the  columnist,  and  Leo  Tolstoy,  the  Russian  novelist  and  count,  took  place.  Tolstoy,  whose  novel  &quot;War  and  Peace&quot;  had  earlier  attracted  much  critical  attention,  had  been  travelling  incognito  in  New  York  on  the  I.R.T.,  and  was  brought  to  the  lunch  late  one  evening  by  John  Cameron  Gilpin,  the  artist.  Swiftly,  the  conversation  turned  to  a  discussion  ofthe  celebrated  novel.  It  was  widely  known  in  New  York  that  VanFlogel  had  had  it  &quot;in&quot;  for  Tolstoy  for  some  time,  and,  suddenly,  in  a  caustic  tone,  he  asked  the  Russian  if  he  wouldn't  have  written  the  book  differently  if  he  &quot;had  been  a  woman.&quot;  There  was  a  stunned  silence.  VanFlogel's  biting  wit  was  feared  as  far  north  as  Sixty-third  Street,  and  it  was  doubtful  whether  the  elderly  Russian  could  hold  his  own  against  the  columnist.  Tolstoy  looked  around  him  at  the  company.  His  eyes  met  Gilpin's.  &quot;Which  woman?&quot;  he  replied  quickly.  The  rest  is  history.  This  was  the  year  when  the  stock  market  began  its  unparalleled  rise.  Men  were  making  fortunes  overnight.  A  few  even  made  money  during  the  day.  A  veritable  fever,  or  fervor,  of  speculation  swept  Wall  Street,  which  now,  thanks  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission,  higher  margin  rates,  sound  money,  cold  feet,  and  the  Kellogg-Briand  Pact,  is  no  longer  possible.  It  was  the  Golden  Age  of  Sport.  Dempsey  knocked  out  Carpentier.  Tunney  knocked  out  Dempsey.  Babe  Ruth  hit  five  han-  dred  and  three  home  runs.  Charles  D.  Flent  was  the  most  popular  man  in  [REDACTED],  and  Francis  X.  Bush-  man  was  in  the  White  House,  visit-  ing  Calvin  Coolidge.  SCOTT  FrrzcERALD  was  much  in  the  news  at  this  time,  and  his  exploits  were  helping  to  set  the  pace  for  his  generation.  Fitzgerald,  who  had  attended  Princeton  some  years  earlier,  had  been  dropped  from  the  football  squad  for  being  &quot;too  thin,&quot;  and  had  always  regretted  not  hav-  ing  had  a  chance  to  play  John  O'Hara'sYale  team  in  the  Bowl.  One  evening,  toward  the  end  of  the  football  season,  we  were  all  sitting  around  in  the  Plaza  foun-  tain-Maxwell  Perkins,  Burton  " b"Rascoe,  K.  K.  Huneker,  Ellsworth  Vines,  Fitzgerald,  and  myself-when  Fitzgerald  leaped  to  his  feet  and  cried,  &quot;Let's  go  up  to  New  Haven  and  beard  the  bulldog!&quot;  Rascoe  quickly  comman-  deered  a  carriage  from  the  hack  stand  on  Fifty-ninth  Street,  and  we  all  piled  in  forthe  trip  to  [REDACTED].  By  the  time  we  reached  New  Haven,  the  Yale  team  had  already  left  the  prac-  tice  field,  but  Fitzgerald  jumped  out  ofthe  carriage  and  ran  through  the  college  quadrangles  yelling,  &quot;Fire  in  the  engine  room,  men!  Everybody  out  to  the  Bowl!&quot;  What  a  night  that  was!  The  undergraduates  poured  out  of  the  dormitories  and  we  all  swept  out  to  the  great  stadium.  By  this  time,  Fitz-  gerald  and  the  rest  of  us  had  dressed  in  football  gear,  but  Yale  unfortunately  fielded  its  first  lacrosse  team.  I  remem-  ber  Fitzgerald  turning  to  me  as  we  all  trooped  back  to  the  dressing  room  and  saying,  &quot;Twenty  years  from  now,  we  shall  all  have  a  good  laugh  over  this.&quot;  Sad,  brilliant  Scott  Fitzgerald.  Was  he  more  than  just  a  regional  writer?  I  have  always  maintained  that  he  was.  Y  most  lasting  memory  of  the  times,  however,  is  of  the  day  I  went,  with  John  Middleton  Mommsen,  to  meet  the  Lone  Eagle,  the  young  avia-  tor  whose  daring  exploits  and  pioneer-  ing  spirit  had  made  him  the  most  famous  figure  in  the  land.  We  found  the  youth-  ful  pilot  working  in  overalls  beside  a  frail  little  craft,  apparently  made  out  of  buckboard  and  canvas,  with  the  legend  &quot;Spirit  of  St.  Louis&quot;  hand-stencilled  on  its  side.  He  spun  the  propeller.  The  en-  gine  gave  a  few  fitful  coughs  and  lay  still.  He  spun  it  again.  There  was  no  response.  'The  third  time,  he  put  his  whole  lanky  body  into  the  effort.  The  engine  roared  into  action.  Lindbergh-  for  it  was  he-stepped  back  and  turned  toward  us.  &quot;It's  a  serviceable  machine,&quot;  he  said  shyly,  &quot;but  it  will  never  replace  the  Zeppelin.&quot;  How  little  the  three  of  us  knew  then.  War  clouds  were  already  gather-  ing  over  Europe.  The  Zeppelin  was  doomed. "