 b"THE  Thirty-fourth  Street  People  always  came  to  us  in  Rye  for  Christmas  dinner.  The  Thirty-  fourth  Street  People  were  Mother's  aunts  and  uncles-except  for  Aunt  Delie,  who  was  her  great-aunt.  Each  year,  as  Mother  arranged  the  table  seat-  ing  in  advance,  tucking  in  a  Thirty-  fourth  Street  Person  here  and  another  there,  she  would  remind  us  to  be  nice  to  them.  &quot;This  may  be  the  last  Christ-  mas  we'll  have  them  with  us,&quot;  she'd  add  pensively.  Father  knew  better.  They  had  been  coming  to  our  house  for  Christmas  ever  since  he  and  Mother  got  married  in  1888,  and  he  was  sure  they  were  good  for  at  least  another  twenty  years.  There  were  six  of  them-Great-  Great-Aunt  Delie,  Uncle  Ed,  Aunt  Susie,  Aunt  Hattie,  Uncle  Charlie,  and  Auntie  [REDACTED].  By  the  time  I  was  old  enough  to  know  them,  their  ages  ranged  from  fifty-eight  to  sixty-six.  The  tallest  of  them,  Uncle  Ed,  stood  only  five  feet  four  in  his  congress  gaiters,  and  their  average  weight  must  have  been  some-  where  around  ninety-seven  pounds.  But  there  was  a  wiry  indestructibility  about  them  and  a  long  line  of  New  England  nonage-  narians  behind  them.  You  seldom  heard  of  a  Thirty-  fourth  Street  Person  be-  ing  sick.  They  could  eat  anything.  None  of  them  wore  glasses.  Even  Aunt  Delie's  big  black  ear  trumpet  seemed  more  a  symbol  of  authority  than  an  admission  of  infirmity.  Since  there  were  so  many  of  them,  all  of  equal  status,  it  seemed  natural  to  refer  to  them  collectively.  We  could  have  called  them  the  Miles  family,  for  Miles  was  their  name,  but  they'd  lived  on  Thirty-fourth  Street  for  so  long  that  the  street  seemed  to  identify  them  best.  'They  themselves,  of  course,  remembered  the  house  on  Sec-  ond  Street,  just  off  Second  Avenue,  where  they  spent  their  childhood.  Some-  time  during  the  Civil  War,  they  moved  uptown  to  34  West  Thirty-fourth  Street-a  rather  neat  address.  It  was  an  elegant  neighborhood  then,  with  Mrs.  William  B.  Astor  almostnext  door,  on  the  southwest  corner  of  Fifth  Avenue,  and  the  A.  T.  Stewart  mansion  acrossthe  street,  on  the  northwest  cor-  ner.  The  Miles  family  would  have  re-  mained  happily  at  this  address  for  the     rest  of  their  lives,  but  in  1893  the  neigh-  borhood  suffered  a  rude  blow.  Mrs.  As-  tor's  nephew,  William  Waldorf  Astor,  smarting  over  the  fact  that  his  wife  had  been  unable  to  wrest  the  social  leader-  ship  of  New  York  from  his  aunt,  avenged  himself  by  erecting  a  towering  hotel  on  the  land  immediately  adjoining  his  aunt's  bailiwick.  He  called  it  the  Waldorf  Hotel.  Mrs.  Astor  thereupon  withdrew  to  upper  Fifth  Avenue,  fol-  lowed  by  the  four  hundred.  Our  relatives  remained  where  they  were,  but  not  for  long.  In  1897,  Mrs.  Astor's  son,  John  Jacob  Astor,  built  a  twin  hotel,  the  [REDACTED],  on  the  site  of  her  former  house.  The  two  hotels  then  merged  and  became  hyphenated  as  the  Waldorf-[REDACTED].  Thirty-four  West  Thirty-fourth  Street  gave  way  to  Os-  car,  and  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People  moved  a  few  blocks  west,  to  No.  319,  between  Eighth  and  Ninth  Avenues.  That  was  the  house  I  knew.  As  a  child,  I  could  always  identify  it  in  the  row  of  brownstones  because  it  was  the  third  one  beyond  the  [REDACTED]  Opera  House.  The  Opera  House  hadn't  been  built  when  the  aunts  and  uncles  bought  319,  orthey  would  never  have  considered  the  location.  It  was  bad  enough  when  grand  opera  was  presented  there,  but  later  the  place  became  an  out-and-out  theatre,  and  the  Thirty-  fourth  Street  People  dis-  approved  of  the  theatre.  I  must  report,  however,  that  near  the  end  of  the  run  of  a  melodrama  called  &quot;The  Whip,&quot;  which  played  at  the  [REDACTED]  during  the  season  of  1912,  the  rest  of  the  family  discovered  that  Aunt  Susie  had  been  surreptitiously  hanging  out  the  window  of  her  third-  story  back  bedroom  every  night  at  ten-  thirty  to  hear  the  crack  of  a  pistol  shot  from  backstage  at  the  [REDACTED].  Her  secret  came  out  when  she  developed  a  bad  cold,  and  the  window  was  kept  shut  after  that.  Twice  a  year,  when  Mother  herded  my  brother  and  sisters  and  me  into  New  York  to  the  dentist,  we  paid  a  duty  call  on  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People.  We'd  climb  the  flight  of  brownstone  steps  and  pull  the  doorbell,  which  made  a  hollow,  clanging  sound  inside.  After  a  long  wait,  the  door  would  be  opened  an  inch.  One  of  the  Thirty-fourth" b"Street  People  would  peek  out  and  then,  seeing  who  it  was,  open  the  door  wider,  making  little  chirruping  sounds,  and  usher  us  in.  I  can  still  remember  the  smell  of  that  house-so  different  from  our  house  in  Rye,  which  was  full  of  fresh  air,  children,  and  dogs.  I  had  heard  the  expression  &quot;odor  of  sanctity,&quot;  and  I  used  to  think  I  had  actually  de-  tected  it  in  that  house.  I  know  now  it  was  simply  the  smell  of  old  people,  musty  velvet  draperies,  and  camphor-  ated  oil.  AUNTIE  BELLE  was  the  youngest  of  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People,  and  the  most  interesting  to  me,  because  she  was  the  one  who  hadhad  a  tragedy.  I  first  learned  of  it  on  one  of  our  semi-  annual  pilgrimages  to  Thirty-fourth  Street,  when  I  was  about  ten.  Bored,  I  wandered  around  the  dim  front  par-  lor  and  sat  down  at  the  little  square  rosewood  piano  that  was  always  kept  closed.  I  opened  the  lid  and  began  play-  ing  &quot;Chopsticks&quot;  softly  on  the  yellowed  keys.  There  was  a  faint  but  audible  gasp  from  the  circle  of  Thirty-fourth  Street  People.  Then  Auntie  [REDACTED]  rose  from  her  chair,  came  over  to  me,  and  closed  the  lid  gently.  &quot;Nobody  ever  touches  this  piano,  my  dear,  but  myself,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  then  only  to  dust  it.&quot;  Her  voice  was  kind,  but  I  knew  I'd  committed  a  dreadful  feux  pas,  and  could  hardly  wait  to  get  away.  Mother  explained  to  us  afterward,  on  the  crosstown  trolley,  that  the  piano  had  been  given  to  Auntie  [REDACTED]  a  great  many  years  ago  by  her  fianc\xc3\xa9.  This  in-  formation  astonished  us.  Auntie  [REDACTED]  engaged?  It  had  never  occurred  to  us  that  any  of  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People  might  have  had  romances.  It  was  hard  even  to  imagine  them  young.  &quot;What  happened  to  her  fianc\xc3\xa9?  Did  he  die?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Better  if  he  had,&quot;  said  Mother,  as-  suming  one  of  those  closed,  adult's  ex-  pressions.  &quot;No,  he's  still  living.  In  England.&quot;  By  degrees,  we  wormed  the  story  out  of  her.  The  young  man  was  an  Ameri-  can  doctor  named  William  Miner.  He  had  embarked  on  what  promised  to  be  a  brilliant  career,  when  the  Civil  War  broke  out.  He  served  as  an  officer  in  the  Union  Army,  was  wounded  at  Get-  tysburg,  and  layfor  nearly  two  days  on  the  battlefield,  under  a  broiling  sun,  be-  fore  he  was  rescued.  He  apparently  re-  covered,  and  after  he  received  his  Army  discharge  he  became  engaged  to  Auntie  [REDACTED].  He  wished  to  marry  her  immedi-  ately  and  take  her  with  him  to  [REDACTED]," b"where  he  was  going  to  address  a  medi-  cal  convention,  but  her  family  didn't  think  she  knew  him  well  enough  to  mar-  ry  him  so  quickly,  and  he  sailed  alone.  He  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  about  a  week,  attending  meetings  and  putting  the  fin-  ishing  touches  to  his  paper,  when  he  left  his  lodgings  one  morning  around  dawn.  He  walked  through  the  foggy  streets  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  pulled  a  revolver  from  his  pocket,  and  shot  and  killed  a  man  he'd  never  seen  or  heard  of.  He  was  tried  in  the  British  courts,  and  ad-  judged  insane.  He  was  committed  for  life  to  Broadmoor,  an  asylum  in  Eng-  land  for  the  criminally  insane.  My  family  always  thought  that  it  was  the  sunstroke  he  had  suffered  when  wound-  ed  that  proved  his  later  undoing.  It  was  only  a  few  years  ago  that  I  learned  the  rest  of  the  story  of  this  remarkable  man,  who  spent  half  a  century  behind  the  bars  of  the  asylum,  most  of  the  time  entirely  rational,  assisting  the  staff  doctors  in  the  care  of  patients  and,  in  his  spare  hours,  compiling  a  medical  dictionary  that  became  a  standard  reference.  He  and  Auntie  [REDACTED]  corresponded  regularly.  They  both  loved  to  paint,  and  this  was  one  of  the  things  they  wrote  to  each  other  about.  Auntie  [REDACTED]'s  third-  floor  front  room  at  Thirty-fourth  Street  was  filled  with  her  water-color  sketches,  and  when  she  ran  out  of  wall  space  she  tacked  them  up  on  Japanese  screens.  She  gave  Mother  a  framed  landscape  she  had  painted  one  sum-  mer,  which  had  a  large  pastel  haystack  in  the  foreground.  Father  couldn't  bear  it,  and  three  hundred  and  sixty-four  days  of  the  year  it  was  hidden  away,  but  on  Christmas  Mother  hung  it  prom-  inently  in  the  music  room.  OUR  family  gatherings  at  Christmas  were  large-an  average  of  about  thirty-five  came  for  dinner-and  every-  body  gave  presents  to  everybody  else,  with  the  exception  of  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People,  who,  we  were  told,  sim-  ply  could  not  afford  it.  Once,  they'd  been  rather  well  off,  but,  as  Mother  explained  it,  Uncle  Charlie  had  invested  heavily  in  beaver  hats  just  at  the  time  men  were  turning  to  felt  and  straw  hats.  Uncle  Charlie  was  a  little  wraith  of  a  man,  with  a  scraggly  white  beard,  a  pathetic  smile,  and  a  bad  cast  in  one  of  his  faded  blue  eyes.  He  was  born  with  the  cast,  but  the  Miles  family  didn't  believe  in  tampering  with  the  work  of  the  Creator,  so  poor  Uncle  Charlie  went  through  his  ninety-two  yearslook-  ing  vaguely  in  two  directions  at  once.  After  his  hat  miscalculation,  he  was  allowed  to  wind  the  clocks,  and  that  " b"was  all,  until  the  advent  of  the  Grab  Bag,  Then,  every  Christmas,  it  became  Uncle  Charlie's  privilege  to  act  as  the  porter  of  the  Grab  Bag  from  Thirty-  fourth  Street  to  our  home  in  Rye.  I  think  it  was  Auntie  [REDACTED]  who  thought  of  the  idea  of  the  Christmas  Grab  Bag,  the  invention  that  saved  both  money  and  pride  for  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People.  Each  member  of  the  fam-  ily  was  allowed  to  draw  one  gift  from  the  bag,  with  love  and  a  Merry  Christ-  mas  from  Thirty-fourth  Street.  I  must  admit  that  it  was  a  brilliant  solution  to  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People's  prob-  lem  of  penury;  the  bag  itself  consti-  tuted  one  of  the  largest  physical  objects  in  the  Christmas  collection  of  packages,  and  the  excitement  and  chanciness  of  the  draw  almost  made  up  for  the  dis-  appointment  when  one  actually  opened  the  gift  one  had  selected.  As  Auntie  [REDACTED]  said,  it  wasn't  so  much  the  gifts  themselves,  it  was  the  spirit  of  the  thing.  The  bag  was  a  large  carpetbag  with  faded  pink  and  red  roses  against  a  mul-  berry  background.  Before  its  transfor-  mation  into  a  Christmas  tradition,  it  had  always  been  known  as  the  Diaper  Bag,  because  my  Great-Grandmother  Miles  had  used  it  to  carry  her  babies'  diapers  when  she  went  travelling.  Auntie  [REDACTED]  spent  the  whole  year  collecting  things  for  the  Grab  Bag,  wrapping  them  in  tissue  paper  she  had  saved,  and  tying  them  with  colored  string.  Uncle  Charlie  said  she  never  took  her  eyes  off  the  bag  while  it  was  in  transit  in  his  hand  on  Christmas  Day-on  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  crosstown,  the  Fourth  43616e616461street-  car,  the  New  York,  New  Haven  &amp;  [REDACTED]  Railroad,  and  in  the  sleigh  or  carriage  from  the  Rye  station  to  our  house.  Once  in  the  house,  it  was  placed  beside  her  in  the  living  room.  As  each  of  us  went  up  and  dutifully  saluted  her,  we  drew  from  a  Huyler's  candy  box  a  bit  of  cardboard  with  a  number  on  it.  We  were  cautioned  not  to  lose  our  cards,  for  the  numbers  determined  the  order  in  which  we  would  draw  from  the  Grab  Bag  after  dinner.  Dinner  was  at  one-thirty.  The  grownups  had  sherry  in  the  living  room  beforehand.  A  few  sips  and  a  little  tinge  of  pink  would  creep  into  Uncle  Charlie's  cheeks,  and  his  faded  crossed  eyes  would  brighten  as  he  started  tell-  ing  stories  of  theold  days,  before  they  became  Thirty-fourth  Street  People  and  were  simply  the  Miles  family,  on  Sec-  ond  Street.  He  could  remember  accom-  panying  his  mother  over  to  the  public  pump  on  [REDACTED].  Commodore  Van-  derbilt's  wife  used  to  carry  a  bucket  to " b"the  same  pump,  and  she  and  little  Charlie  became  the  best  of  friends.  &quot;Why,  once-&quot;  At  this  juncture,  one  of  the  aunts  would  reach  over  and  quietly  remove  the  sherry  glass  from  Uncle  Charlie's  hand.  After  dinner,  we  were  given  our  presents  from  under  the  tree  in  the  sun  parlor,  and  after  that  it  was  time  for  the  Grab  Bag.  We  children  were  the  ones  who  were  really  excited  by  the  ritual.  Never  once  did  we  find  anything  in  the  Grab  Bag  that  we  liked  or  wanted,  but  there  was  always  that  expectancy.  And  it  made  one  more  present  that  could  be  counted  on  after  we'd  opened  the  oth-  ers.  Auntie  [REDACTED]  would  seat  herself  in  a  high-backed  chair  in  the  living  room,  with  the  bag  placed  on  her  lap,  and  we'd  all  line  up  for  the  drawing.  By  now,  at  least  six  people  would  have  lost  their  numbers.  'There  would  be  a  frantic  search  for  them  while  Auntie  [REDACTED]  waited,  with  a  bright,  martyred  ex-  pression  on  her  face.  By  the  time  the  last  missing  number  was  retrieved,  most  of  the  men  of  the  party  would  have  dis-  appeared,  to  sleep  off  the  effects  of  the  big  dinner  or  to  play  pool  in  the  billiard  room.  Mother  used  to  say  it  was  the  most  trying  time  of  the  whole  day,  get-  ting  everybody  rounded  up  for  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  Grab  Bag  and  trying  to  keep  them  there  until  the  last  present  was  drawn.  Auntie  [REDACTED]  made  most  of  the  Grab  Bag  presents  herself.  'There  were  pen-  wipers  with  pinked  edges,  needlebooks  with  no  needles  in  them,  and  hatpin  holders.  One  Christmas,  my  brother  Laurance  put  himself  in  the  black  books  of  Thirty-fourth  Street  forever  when  he  unwrapped  his  gift  from  the  Grab  Bag  and  promptly  announced  to  the  company,  &quot;I'll  swap  you!  Swap,  any-  body?&quot;  He  had  drawn  a  calendar  of  the  previous  year.  I  also  remember  another  Christmas,  a  few  years  later,  when  Father,  who  was  quite  bald,  drew  a  small  glass  receptacle  that  looked  rather  like  a  little  fishbowl,  with  ribbon  shirred  around  it.  It  was  a  hair  receiver,  to  keep  on  the  bureau.  I  don't  know  whether  it  was  this  par-  ticular  memento  or  simply  the  accumu-  lation  of  too  many  Christmases  with  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People  that  fer-  mented  in  Father,  but  he  made  the  following  Christmas  one  that  none  of  us  ever  forgot.  Sometime  during  that  ensuing  year,  we  acquired  a  large  Edi-  son  phonograph.  The  Edison  records  were  much  thicker  than  the  more  famil-  iar  Victor  records,  and  were  advertised  as  being  unbreakable.  Each  record  was  prefaced  by  a  formal  spoken  announce- " b" ment  giving  the  title  of  the  piece,  the  name  of  the  artist,  and  due  credit  to  the  Edison  Company.  Shortly  before  Christmas,  Father  bought  a  supple-  mentary  kit  for  home  recording,  and  on  Christmas  Eve  he  came  in,  beaming,  with  a  batch  of  new  blank  records  un-  der  his  arm.  While  Mother  was  up-  stairs  wrapping  the  last  presents,  he  closed  the  sliding  doors  between  the  front  hall  and  the  music  room  and  pro-  ceeded  to  do  a  little  private  recording.  The  next  day,  the  Thirty-fourth  Street  People  rolled  up  to  the  house  around  noon-three  of  them  in  our  own  carriage,  driven  by  the  coachman,  and  the  other  three  in  a  depot  hack.  We  were  all  hurried  to  the  front  door  to  greet  them.  And  then,  over  the  flut-  tering  cries  of  &quot;Merry  Christmas!,&quot;  a  sonorous  voice  pealed  forth  from  the  music  room,  &quot;Here  come  Miles  and  Miles  of  relations!  Coming  to  get  a  good  square  meal!&quot;  Mother  uttered  one  short  word.  It  sounded  like  &quot;God!,&quot;  but  it  must  have  been  &quot;George!,&quot;  which  was  my  fa-  ther's  name.  She  left  her  guests  and  darted  into  the  music  room  as  the  voice  continued,  &quot;Aunt  Hattie,  who  has  brought  her  own  gluten  bread-&quot;  Mother  ripped  the  record  from  the  machine,  causing  a  horrible  needle  scratch,  and  instantly  demonstrated  that  Edison  records  were  mot  unbreak-  able.  This  one  hit  the  fireplace  and  smashed  to  smithereens.  I  still  wish  I  could  have  heard  it  all  the  way  through.  Father  told  us  later  that  he  had  included  a  personal  mention  of  every  one  of  the  relatives  in  his  welcoming  address.  HE  Thirty-fourth  Street  People,  in  spite  of  their  apparent  inde-  structibility,  eventually  died  off,  one  by  one.  By  the  time  I  was  through  college,  and  for  the  next  few  years,  only  Auntie  [REDACTED]  and  Uncle  Charlie  arrived  on  Christmas,  and  then,  in  1925,  Uncle  Charlie  died.  Auntie  [REDACTED]  registered  more  puzzlement  than  grief.  &quot;Who  will  wind  the  clocks  and  carry  the  Grab  Bag  to  Rye  on  Christmas?&quot;  she  asked  us  after  the  funeral.  The  solution  was  quite  simple.  Some  relative-I  think  it  was  my  Uncle  Wint,  Mother's  broth-  er-went  once  a  week  to  Thirty-fourth  Street  and  wound  the  clocks.  As  for  the  Grab  Bag,  it  was  shipped  out  each  Christmas  by  American  [REDACTED]  Ex-  press,  and  Auntie  [REDACTED],  for  the  first  time  in  fifteen  years,  was  forced  to  let  it  out  of  her  sight.  Then,  in  the  autumn  of  1927,  the  year  I  was  married,  Mother  received  a  communication  from  Auntie  [REDACTED].  She " b"had  decided  that  this  Christmas  the  Grab  Bag  would  contain  not  the  usual  trifles  but  articles  of  real  value.  She  was  no  longer  young;  she  was  the  last  of  her  generation,  and  the  time  had  come,  she  said,  to  part  with  some  of  the  treasures  of  Thirty-fourth  Street.  This  news  swept  through  the  family.  We  took  a  mental  inventory  of  the  Thirty-  fourth  Street  house,  trying  particularly  to  remember  the  different  valuables  there  that  could  be  squeezed  into  a  car-  petbag.  'There  were  the  Paul  Revere  coffee  spoons  and  the  antique  Lowestoft  bow]  (Mother  had  always  had  a  covet-  ous  eye  on  that  bowl).  There  was  an  ivory  miniature  framed  in  pearls,  and  a  diary  kept  by  an  ancestor  during  the  American  Revolution.  Various  rela-  tives  who  had  said  they  couldn't  make  it  for  Christmas  this  year  suddenly  discovered  that  they  could.  Around  Thanksgiving  time,  I  started  briefing  my  husband  on  what  to  feel  for  in  the  Grab  Bag.  A  week  before  Christmas,  another  message  came  from  Auntie  [REDACTED].  The  Grab  Bag  this  year  was  far  too  valuable  to  entrust  to  the  Express  Company.  Could  someone  in  the  family  fetch  it?  My  sister  Isabel  said  she  would  be  happy  to  drive  in  to  Thirty-fourth  Street  in  our  parents'  car  on  Christmas  morning  and  pick  up  both  the  Grab  Bag  and  Auntie  [REDACTED].  There  was  a  full  complement  of  relatives  waiting  at  the  house  in  Rye  when  they  drove  up.  'The  minute  Auntie  [REDACTED]  removed  her  hat  and  sealskin  shoulder  cape,  we  noticed  something  different  about  her.  The  emerald-and-diamond  brooch  that  she  always  wore  at  the  throat  of  her  com-  pany  dress  was  missing.  All  eyes  turned  toward  the  Grab  Bag,  securely  pad-  locked.  Over  the  sherry,  the  numbers  were  duly  distributed.  My  husband  got  No.  1,  and  Father  drew  No.  2.  For  the  first  time  in  Grab  Bag  history,  no  num-  bers  were  mislaid  and  the  men  of  the  family  didn't  have  to  be  roused  from  naps  or  dragged  from  the  billiard  table  after  dinner.  Even  Father  was  present  as  Auntie  [REDACTED]  seated  herself  in  the  place  of  honor  in  the  living  room  and  took  the  old  carpetbag  on  her  lap.  No.  1  was  called.  My  husband  stepped  forward,  a  bit  self-consciously.  This  was  his  first  Christmas  with  my  family.  'The  spoons!&quot;  I  whispered.  He  nodded  and  groped  among  the  pack-  ages.  &quot;No  fair,&quot;  muttered  my  cousin  Le-  Grand.  &quot;'Take  the  first  thing  your  hand  " b"touches,  William,&quot;  ordered  Auntie  [REDACTED].  My  husband  drew  out  a  small  tissue-  wrapped  package  tied  with  green  string.  The  Revolutionary  War  diary!  I  would  have  preferred  the  Paul  Revere  spoons,  but  the  diary  was  a  real  col-  lector's  item.  We  all  gathered  around,  craning  our  necks,  as  he  unwrapped  the  package  and  held  it  up.  It  was  a  book,  all  right-a  little  dun-colored  volume,  published  in  1899,  called  &quot;By-Paths  and  Bird-Notes.&quot;  I  didn't  dare  look  at  Father.  Then  Mother  pushed  him  forward  for  his  turn.  &quot;The  Lowestoft  bow!,&quot;  she  mur-  mured.  While  Auntie  [REDACTED]  gave  him  chiding  looks,  Father  churned  through  the  Grab  Bag-pinching,  hefting,  calculat-  ing.  In  triumph,  he  came  up  with  a  round,  bowl-shaped  package.  He  tore  off  the  string  and  tissue  and  displayed  the  present.  It  was  a  cheap  brass  bowl,  intended  as  an  ashtray,  and  it  bore  the  inscription  &quot;Greetings  from  the  Phila-  delphia  Sesquicentennial,  1776-1926.&quot;  ODAY  I  own  the  Paul  Revere  spoons.  I  inherited  them  after  Auntie  [REDACTED]'s  death.  It  turned  out  they  weren't  made  by  Paul  Revere  at  all  but  by  Peter  Van  Dyke,  a  Long  Island  sil-  versmith  who  antedated  him. "