 b"A  HOUSE  OF  CARDS  (A  Cristmas  PuavyLEr)  It  is  an  evening  in  mid-December,  and  we  are  in  the  &quot;family  room&quot;  of  the  Courtney  Fortneys,  1310  Old  Cider  Mill  Lane,  Wilton,  [REDACTED].  As  the  curtain  rises,  the  F  ortneys  are  discovered  bent  over  a  bridge  table.  She  is  writing;  he  is  pounding  on  envelopes  as  he  seals  them  and  stacks  them  in  neat  piles.  Floro  Fortney  is  forty;  Courtney  Fortney  is  forty-four;  but  tonight  they  both  feel  a  sagging  fifty.  OURTNEY:  I  was  talking  with  Ed  C  this  morning.  He  says  he  and  Audrey  aren't  sending  any  cards  at  all  this  year.  Frora:  That  sounds  like  Audrey.  Hand  me  the  address  book,  and  stop  pounding  so  hard.  It  isn't  necessary  to  pound  on  Christmas  cards,  CourtNEYy:  It's  not  a  bad  idea  they've  got.  When  you  think  of  all  the  time,  and  money,  and  everything.  Aft-  er  all,  people  just  look  at  them  once  and  then  throw  them  out.  Frora:  I  thought  we  had  the  Dun-  bars'  address  in  here,  CourTNEY:  Just  send  it  in  care  of  her  father.  They  always  spend  the  holi-  days  withhim.  Frora:  Millie  Dunbar's  father  is  dead!  Didn't  you  read  their  card  last  year?  CourtnNEYy:  If  I  had,  I'd  certainly  remember  something  like  that.  You  sure  you  don't  have  them  mixedup  with  the  Barkers?  Her  father  had  that  trou-  ble  with  his  leg  and  all.  Frora:  Who  are  the  Barkers?  COURTNEY:  Who  are  the  Barkers?  Good  Lord,  who  are  the  Eisenhowers?  Barker  was  Ted's  Little  League  man-  ager  in  '53.  Al,  or  Andy,  I  think  it  was.  Andy  Barker.  You  know  the  Barkers.  Frora:  I  may  know  them,  but  I  don't  know  who  they  are.  Here,  put  an  airmail  stamp  on  this.  CourtTNEYy:  Hey,  I  already  sent  one  to  Freddy.  Frora:  When?  CourtTNEYy:  Friday.  Or  the  day  be-  fore.  I  wrote  only  three,  and  one  was  to  Freddy.  Frora:  Then  why  didn't  you  cross  his  name  off?  His  name's  not  crossed  off.  CoUurTNEY:  Well,  I  sent  him  one,  anyway.  I'd  stake  my  life  that  I--  Frora:  Keep  it,  then.  We'll  send  it  next  year.  Or  go  ahead  and  send  it  this  year.  It  won't  hurt  to  send  him  two.  He  probably  doesn't  get  very  many.  CourtTNEYy:  He  shouldn't  get  any.  We  never  get  one  from  him.  I  don't  " b"think  he  sends  cards  to  anyone  except  the  people  over  him  at  the  office.  Frora:  I  don't  know  what  he  does  with  his  money,  except  buy  those  hideous  shoes.  Why  does  he  wear  shoes  like  that?  Didn't  he  go  to  Yale?  I  hope  you  brought  home  your  office  list.  CourtTNEYy:  I  gave  it  to  you  Mon-  day,  or  Tuesday,  or  whenever  it  was.  It  was  on  onion  skin.  You  said  you'd  do  them.  Frora:  I  did  not.  CourtTNEYy:  You  certainly  did.  You  said  you'd  do  them  if  I'd  get  something  for  Minette.  Frora:  Minette  who?  CourtTNEY:  Minette-Anne's  baby.  Anne  is  your  sister.  Frora:  Oh,  Minette.  Well,  I  must  have  been  thinking  of  someone  else.  I'm  not  going  to  buy  a  present  for  a  tiny  baby,  for  heaven's  sake.  We'll  send  a  check.  Besides,  what  can  you  geta  tiny  baby?  CourtNEY  (After  a  yawn):  You  can  get  tiny-baby  things-tiny  dresses,  tiny  hats  with  ribbons,  and  tiny  coats.  Even  a  baby  ought  to  have  something  to  unwrap.  Let's  get  it  a  new  pair  of  those  bronze  shoes.  Frora:  You  ought  to  do  the  ones  on  your  office  list  yourself-or  have  your  secretary  do  them,  the  way  Bill  does.  Have  you  got  anything  for  her  yet?  (She  kicks  off  her  shoes.)  Do  you  want  to  send  one  to  Gene  and  Marie?  CoUurTNEY:  No.  FroRra:  W  hy  not?  CourtNEYy:  Because  I  don't  like  the  way  they've  been  acting  since  they  paved  their  driveway.  Fora:  That's  a  fine  Christmas  spirit.  CourtNEYy:  We  don't  have  to  keep  sending  cards  to  everyone  we  ever  |,  heard  of,  do  we?  Fora:  I've  never  been  so  tired.  |;  Does  [REDACTED]  take  extra  postage?  CourtNEY:  It  shouldn't.  Frora:  I  didn't  say  should  it.  I  said  does  it.  CourtTNEY:  What  do  you  think  I  am,  a  postal  inspector?  How  should  I  know?  Frora:  Well,  don't  snap  at  me.  I  just  asked.  CoUrTNEY:  When  did  you  have  these  printed?  Fora:  Oh,  I  don't  know-last  summer  sometime.  'They  were  on  special.  CourtTNEYy:  They  look  it.  Frora:  What's  the  matter  with  them?  CourtTNEY:  Nothing.  I  justsaid  they  look  it.  Frora:  Don't  tell  me  what  you   " b"said,  I'm  the  one  who  heard  you.  Do  you  think  they  look  cheap?  CouvrtNEy:  I  didn't  say  that.  Frora:  You  inferred  it.  CourtTNEy:  Implied  it.  I  imply,  you  infer.  Frora:  Don't  talk  when  I'm  trying  to  write.  Hand  me  the  box.  CourtTNEYy:  Next  year  we  ought  to  have  everything  printed  on  them.  Frora:  What  do  you  mean,  every-  thing?  CourtTNEY:  I  mean  we  could  make  up  one  message  that  would  do  for  every-  body-the  kind  of  thing  we  always  write  at  the  bottom.  Fora:  Z  always  write,  you  mean.  CourtNEYy:  Well,  whoever.  Any-  way,  you  could  have  the  same  message  printed  on  all  the  cards,  Then  you  wouldn't  have  to  spend  so  much  time  writing.  Frora:  Are  you  out  of  your  mind?  Do  you  think  I  write  the  exact  same  thing  on  every  card?  I  suppose  we'd  want  to  tell  our  close  friends,  the  peo-  ple  we  see  every  few  days,  like  the  Rausches,  and  Abbey  and  Dee,  and  Ed  and  Audrey,  andHelen  and  ev-  eryone,  that  we  built  on  to  the  dining  room?  CourtnEy:  I  don't  see  why  you  even  want  to  send  a  card  to  them.  Here,  do  this  one  over  again.  The  glue  won't  stick.  Fora:  Press  it,  instead  of  pound-  ing.  What  do  you  mean!  CourtNEYy:  I  mean  it's  dumb  to  send  cards  to  people  you  see  all  the  time.  Frora:  They  send  them  to  us.  Why  are  you  in  such  a  foul  mood?  I  never  knew  anyone  to  get  into  such  foul  moods  around  the  holidays.  You  ought  to  go  away  someplace,  by  your-  " b"self,  and  stay  until  after  New  Year's.  CourtNEYy:  That's  not  fair.  Who  has  all  his  shopping  done,  except  three  or  four  things?  Frora:  Well,  now,  that's  not  fair!  How  could  I  get  all  my  shopping  done,  when  I  have  everything  else  to  do,  like  cards,  and  wrapping?  I  don't  pay  to  have  everything  wrapped,  the  way  you  do.  CourtNEY:  Did  you  send  one  to  the  Hills?  Frora:  No,  I  did  not  send  one  to  the  Hills,  and  I'm  not  going  to  send  one  to  the  Hills  We've  sent  them  one  every  single  year  for  I  don't  know  how  long,  and  we  have  yet  to  get  one  from  them.  CourtNEY:  We  got  one  last  year.  I  saw  it.  It  was  green.  Frora:  The  only  green  card  we  got  last  year  was  a  five-cent  one,  from  the  Millers,  and  I  wish  you'd  stop  trying  to  confuse  me.  How  do  you  spell  Wiltz?  Is  there  an&quot;e&quot;?  CoURTNEY:  Never  heard  of  'em.  Frora:  Yes,  you  have.  Hand  me  the  phone  book.  That  friend  of  Ted's  housemother,  that  we  met  at  the  Beck-  mans'  after  the  game.  You  thought  she  was  so  bright.  CourtNEYy:  I  never  said  she  was  bright.  I  might  have  said  she  was  culti-  vated,  or  something  like  that,  maybe,  but  I  never  said  she  was  bright.  Frora:  1d  like  to  know  what's  so  ,  cultivated  about  purple  gloves  and  pierced  ears.  (Scamming  the  phone  book)  Wiltz,  Harrison  F.,  tree  surg.  Two  eight  three  Anderson  PI.  Hmm.  Well.  Oh,  what's  the  matter  with  me?&quot;  Her  name  wasn't  Wiltz,  at  all.  Wiltz  was  June  Everett's  maiden  name-and  we  must  send  her  a  little  something,  too.  What  was  that  woman's  name?  Come  on  now,  help  me  think.  CourtNEYy:  I  don't  want  to  help  &quot;|  think.  I  want  to  help  go  to  bed.  (He  leans  back  in  his  chair  and  begins  to  read  one  of  the  cards  Flora  has  written.)  Hey!  Why  are  you  telling  everyone  we  added  on  to  the  dining  room?  Fora:  Because  it's  news,  that's  why.  And  I  told  you,  I'm  not  telling  everyone.  Just  the  people  we  don't  see.  CourTNEY:  News?  We  did  it  last  February-all  but  the  papering.  FroRrA:  Well,  it  was  after  Christmas,  wasn't  it?  So  it's  news.  CourtTNEY:  It's  too  bad.  Frora:  What  is?  CourtNEYy:  Telling  everyone  about  the  dining  room.  Some  things  we  ought  to  keep  to  ourselves.  Frora:  Would  you  care  to  tell  me" b"what  is  so  terribly  secret  about  building  on?  CourTNEY:  Nothing  at  all,  now  that  you've  gone  and  blabbed  it  to  half  the  world  at  the  bottom  of  all  the  cards.  Frora:  But  you  can  see  it  right  from  the  road.  CourtTNEY:  Only  if  you're  snoop-  ing,  and  crane  your  neck.  Frora:  Maybe  you  know  some  bet-  ter  news  to  write  on  Christmas  cards?  About  your  impacted  wisdom  tooth  the  first  week  in  April,  say,  or  Ted's  bad  check?  I  suppose  you  think  that  would  be  news?  Honestly,  you're  always  so  picky.  There.  (She  puts  down  her  pen  and  stands  up.)  That's  all  I  intend  to  do  tonight.  CourtNEyYy:  It  doesn't  look  like  very  many.  Frora:  It's  more  than  we  ever  get.  CourtnNEYy:  How  many  do  we  get,  on  the  average?  Frora:  I  haven't  any  idea,  but  I  know  that  next  year  we're  only  going  to  send  about  a  dozen  cards.  Fifteen,  at  the  most.  And  I'm  \xc2\xbbot  going  to  write  on  them.  Just  something  short,  like  &quot;And  all  the  best,&quot;  or  perhaps  some-  thing  a  little  more  personal  on  a  few  of  them,  like  ..  .&quot;  (Curtain) "