 b"I  SAW  her  that  spring  between  the  I  third  and  fourth  races  at  Campino  with  the  Conte  de  Capra-the  one  with  the  mustache-drinking  Campar  at  that  nice  easygoing  track,  with  the  mountains  in  the  distance  and  beyond  the  mountains  a  mass  of  cumulus  clouds  that  at  home  would  have  meant  a  tree-  splitting  thunderstorm  by  supper  but  that  amounts  to  nothing  over  there.  I  next  saw  her  at  the  Tennerhof  in  Kitz-  bithel,  where  a  Frenchman  was  singing  556e6974656420537461746573n  cowboy  songs  to  an  audience  that  included  the  Queen  of  the  Nether-  lands,  but  I  never  saw  her  in  the  moun-  tains,  and  I  don't  think  she  skied,  but  just  went  there,  like  so  many  others,  for  the  crowds  and  the  excitement.  Then  I  saw  her  at  the  Lido,  and  again  in  4974616c79  late  one  morning  when  I  was  taking  a  gondola  to  the  station  and  she  was  sit-  ting  on  the  terrace  of  the  Gritti,  drink-  ing  coffee.  I  saw  her  at  the  Passion  Play  in  Erl-not  at  the  Passion  Play,  actual-  ly,  but  at  the  inn  in  the  village,  where  you  have  lunch  during  the  intermission,  and  I  saw  her  at  the  horse  show  in  the  Piazza  di  Siena,  and  that  autumn  in  Treviso,  boarding  the  plane  for  Lon-  don.  Blooey.  But  it  all  might  have  happened.  She  was  one  of  those  tireless  wanderers  who  go  to  bed  night  after  night  to  dream  of  bacon  -lettuce-and-tomato  sandwiches.  Although  she  came  from  asmall  lum-  ber-mill  town  in  the  north  where  they  manufactured  wooden  spoons,  the  kind  of  lonely  place  where  international  so-  ciety  is  spawned,  this  had  nothing  to  do  with  her  wanderings.  Her  father  was     the  mill  agent,  and  the  mill  was  owned  by  the  Tonkin  family-they  owned  a  great  deal,  they  owned  whole  counties,  and  their  divorce  proceedings  were  fol-  lowed  by  the  tabloids-and  young  Mar-  chand  Tonkin,  learning  the  business,  spent  a  month  there  and  fell  in  love  with  Anne.  She  was  a  plain  girl  with  a  sweet  and  modest  disposition-qualities  that  she  never  lost-and  they  were  married  at  the  end  of  a  year.  Though  immensely  rich,  the  Tonkins  were  poor-mouthed,  and  the  young  couple  lived  modestly  in  a  small  town  near  New  York  where  Marchand  worked  in  the  family  office.  They  had  one  child  and  lived  a  con-  tented  and  uneventful  life  until  one  humid  morning  in  the  seventh  year  of  their  marriage.  Marchand  had  a  meeting  in  New  York,  and  he  had  to  catch  an  early  train.  He  planned  to  have  breakfast  in  the  city.  It  was  about  seven  when  he  kissed  Anne  goodbye.  She  had  not  dressed  and  was  lying  in  bed  when  she  heard  him  grind-  ing  the  starter  on  the  car  that  he  used  to  take  to  the  station.  Then  she  heard  the  front  door  open  and  he  called  up  the  stairs.  The  car  wouldn't  start,  and  could  she  drive  him  to  the  station  in  the  Buick?  There  was  no  time  to  dress,  so  she  drew  a  jacket  over  her  shoulders  and  drove  him  to  the  station.  What  was  visible  of  her  was  properly  clad,  but  be-  low  the  jacket  her  nightgown  was  transparent.  Marchand  kissed  her  good-  bye  and  urged  her  to  get  some  clothes  on,  and  she  drove  away  from  the  sta-  tion,  but  at  the  junction  of  Alewives'  Lane  and  Hill  Street  she  ranout  of  gas. She  was  stopped  in  front  of  the  Beardens',  and  they  would  give  her  some  gasoline,  she  knew,  or  at  least  lend  her  a  coat.  She  blew  her  horn  and  blew  it  and  blew  it,  until  she  remembered  that  the  Beardens  were  in  Nassau.  All  she  could  do  then  was  to  wait  in  the  car,  virtually  naked,  until  some  friendly  housewife  came  by  and  offered  her  help.  First,  Mary  Pym  drove  by,  and  although  Anne  waved  to  her,  she  did  not  seem  to  notice.  Then  Julia  Weed  raced  by,  rushing  Francis  to  the  train,  but  she  was  going  too  fast  to  notice  anything.  Then  Jack  Burden,  the  village  rake,  who,  without  being  signalled  to  or  appealed  to  in  any  way,  seemed  drawn  magnetically  to  the  car.  He  stopped  and  asked  if  he  could  help.  She  got  into  his  car-what  else  could  she  do-thinking  of  Lady  Godiva  and  St.  [REDACTED].  The  worst  of  it  was  that  she  didn't  seem  able  to  wake  up-  to  accomplish  the  transition  between  the  shades  of  sleep  and  the  lights  of  day.  And  it  was  a  lightless  day,  close  and  oppressive,  like  the  climate  of  a  harrow-  ing  dream.  Their  driveway  was  shel-  tered  from  the  road  by  some  shrubbery,  and  when  she  got  out  of  the  car  and  thanked  Jack  Burden,  he  followed  her  up  the  steps  and  took  advantage  of  her  in  the  hallway,  where  they  were  discovered  by  Marchand  when  he  came  back  to  get  his  briefcase.  Marchand  left  the  house  then,  and  Anne  never  saw  him  again.  He  died  of  a  heart  attack  in  a  New  York  hotel  ten  days  later.  Her  parents-in-law  sued  for  the  custody  of  the  only  child,  and  dur-  ing  the  trial  Anne  made  the  mistake,  in  her  innocence,  of  blaming  her  mal-  feasance  on  the  humidity.  'The  tabloids  picked  this  up-  &quot;IT  WASN'T  MEB,  IT  WAS  THE  it  swept  the  country.  'There  was  a  popular  song,  &quot;Humid  Isabella.&quot;  It  seemed  that  everywhere  she  went  she  heard  them  singing:  &quot;Oh,  Humid  Isabella  Never  kissed  a  fellah  Unless  there  was  moisture  in  the  air,  But  when  the  skies  were  cloudy,  She  got  very  rowdy  ...&quot;  In  the  middle  of  the  trial  she  surren-  dered  her  claims,  put  on  smoked  glasses,  and  sailed  incognito  for  Genoa,  the  out-  cast  of  a  society  that  seemed  to  her  to  modify  its  invincible  censoriousness  only  with  a  ribald  sense  of  humor.  Of  course,  she  had  a  boodle-her  suf-  ferings  were  only  spiritual-but  she  had  been  burned,  and  her  memories  were  bitter.  From  what  she  knew  of  life  she  was  entitled  to  forgiveness,  but  she  had  received  none,  and  her  own  country,  remembered  across  the  Atlantic,  seemed  to  have  passed  on  her  a  moral  judgment     " b"that  was  unrealistic  and  savage.  She  had  been  made  a  scapegoat;  she  had  been  pilloried;  and  because  she  was  gen-  uinely  purehearted  she  was  deeply  incensed.  She  based  her  expatria-  tion  not  on  cultural  but  on  moral  grounds.  By  impersonating  a  Eu-  ropean  she  meant  to  express  her  disapproval  of  what  had  gone  on  at  home.  She  drifted  all  over  Europe,  but  she  finally  bought  a  villa  in  Tavola-Calda,  and  spent  at  least  half  the  year  there.  She  not  only  learned  Italian,  she  learned  all  the  grunting  noises  and  hand  signals  that  ac-  company  the  language.  In  the  dentist's  chair  she  would  say  &quot;aizee&quot;  instead  of  &quot;ouch,&quot;  and  she  could  wave  a  hornet  away  from  her  wineglass  with  great  finesse.  She  was  proprietary  about  her  expatriation-it  was  her  demesne,  achieved  through  un-  common  sorrow-and  it  irritated  her  to  hear  other  foreigners  speaking  the  language.  Her  villa  was  charming-  nightingales  sang  in  the  oak  trees,  foun-  tains  played  in  the  garden,  and  she  stood  on  the  highest  terrace,  her  hair  dyed  the  shade  of  bronze  that  was  fashion-  able  in  4974616c79  that  year,  calling  down  to  her  guests,  &quot;Ben  tornati.  Quanto  pia-  cere!&quot;  but  the  image  was  never  quite  right.  It  seemed  like  a  reproduction,  with  the  slight  imperfections  that  you  find  in  an  enlargement-the  loss  of  quality.  'The  sense  was  that  she  was  not  so  much  here  in  4974616c79  as  that  she  was  no  longer  there  in  [REDACTED].  She  spent  much  of  her  time  in  the  company  of  people  who,  like  herself,  claimed  to  be  the  victims  of  an  as-  tringent  and  repressive  moral  climate.  Their  hearts  were  on  the  shipping  lanes,  running  away  from  home.  She  paid  for  her  mobility  with  some  loneliness.  The  party  of  friends  she  was  planning  to  meet  in  Wiesbaden  moved  on  without  leaving  an  address.  She  looked  for  them  in  Heidelberg  and  Munich,  but  she  never  found  them.  Wedding  invita-  tions  and  weather  reports  (&quot;Snow  Blankets  the  [REDACTED]  U.S.&quot;)  made  her  terribly  homesick.  She  continued  to  polish  her  impersonation  of  a  European,  and  while  her  accomplishments  were  admirable,  she  remained  morbidly  sensi-  tive  to  criticism  and  detested  being  tak-  en  for  a  tourist.  One  day  at  the  end  &quot;Damn  it,  Ethel,  that  was  a  of  the  season  in  4974616c79,  she  took  a  train  south,  reaching  4974616c79  late  on  a  hot  September  afternoon.  Most  of  the  peo-  ple  of  4974616c79  were  asleep,  and  the  only  sign  of  life  was  the  tourist  buses,  grind-  ing  tirelessly  through  the  streets  like  some  basic  piece  of  engineering-like  the  drains  or  the  light  conduits.  She  gave  her  luggage  check  to  a  porter  and  described  her  bags  to  him  in  fluent  Ital-  ian,  but  he  seemed  to  see  through  her  and  he  mumbled  something  about  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  Oh,  there  were  so  many.  This  irritated  her  and  she  snapped  at  him,  &quot;I  am  not  an  556e6974656420537461746573n.&quot;  &quot;Excuse  me,  Signora,&quot;  he  &quot;What,  then,  is  your  country?&quot;  &quot;I  am,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;a  Greek.&quot;  The  enormity,  the  tragedy  of  her  lie  staggered  her.  What  have  I  done,  she  asked  herself  wildly.  Her  passport  was  as  green  as  grass,  and  she  travelled  under  the  protectorate  of  the  Great  Seal  of  the  United  [REDACTED].  Why  had  she  lied  about  such  an  important  part  of  her  identity?  She  took  a  cab  to  a  hotel  on  the  Via  Veneto,  sent  her  bags  upstairs,  and  went  into  the  bar  for  a  drink.  There  was  a  single  556e6974656420537461746573n  at  the  bar-a  white-haired  man  wearing  a  hearing  aid.  He  was  alone,  he  seemed  lonely,  and  finally  he  turned  to  the  table  where  she  sat  and  asked  most  courteously  if  she  was  556e6974656420537461746573n.  \xe2\x80\x98(Yes.7)  &quot;How  come  you  speak  the  lan-  guage?&quot;  &quot;I  live  here.&quot;  &quot;Stebbins,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;Charlie  Steb-  bins.  Philadelphia.&quot;  said.     childish  thing  to  do!&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  do,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Where  in  Philadelphia?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  was  born  in  Philadelphia,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I  haven't  been  back  in  forty  years.  Shoshone,  [REDACTED]'s  my  real  home.  They  call  it  the  gateway  to  Death  [REDACTED].  My  wife  came  from  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Ha  ha.  My  daughter  went  to  school  in  six  states  of  the  Union.  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  North  and  South  Dakota,  and  [REDACTED].  Mrs.  Stebbins  passed  away  last  year,  and  so  I  thought  I'd  see  a  little  of  the  world.&quot;  The  Stars  and  Stripes  seemed  to  break  out  in  the  air  above  his  head,  and  she  realized  that  in  [REDACTED]  the  leaves  were  turning.  &quot;Where  have  you  been?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;You  know,  it's  a  funny  thing,  but  I'm  not  sure  myself.  This  agency  in  [REDACTED]  planned  the  trip  for  me,  and  they  told  me  I'd  be  travelling  with  a  group  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  but  as  soon  as  I  get  on  the  high  seas  I  find  that  I'm  travel-  ling  alone.  I'll  never  do  it  again.  Some-  times  there's  whole  days  in  which  I  don't  hear  any  decent  556e6974656420537461746573n  spo-  ken.  Why,  sometimes  I  just  sit  up  in  my  room  and  talk  to  myself  for  the  pleasure  of  hearing  556e6974656420537461746573n.  In  this  caf\xc3\xa9  in  [REDACTED],  I  tried  to  get  them  to  fry  me  some  eggs  for  breakfast.  There  must  have  been  five  waiters  standing  around  my  table,  and  there  wasn't  a  one  of  them  who  could  understand  what  I  wanted,  and  in  the  end  I  didn't  get  my  eggs.  I  thought  right  then  and  there  that  Pd  turn  around  and  go  home,  but  then  I  thought  I'd  just  be  cutting  off  my  nose  to  spite  my  face.  After  all,  I  paid  for     " b"everything,  and  it  isn't  likely  at  my  age  that  I'll  get  another  chance  to  see  the  world.  I'm  sixty-eight.  Why,  I  took  a  bus  from  [REDACTED]  to  Munich,  and  you  know  there  wasn't  anybody  on  that  bus  who  spoke  a  word  of  English?  Then  I  tookabus  from  Munich  to  Innsbruck,  and  there  wasn't  anybody  on  that  bus  who  spoke  English,  either.  Then  I  took  a  bus  from  Innsbruck  to  4974616c79,  and  there  wasn't  anybody  on  that  bus  who  spoke  English,  either,  until  some  Ameri-  cans  got  on  at  Cortina.  But  I  don't  have  any  complaints  about  the  hotels.  They  usually  speak  English  in  the  hotels,  and  I've  stayed  in  some  very  nice  ones.&quot;  Sitting  on  a  bar  stool  in  a  Roman  basement,  the  stranger  seemed  to  Anne  to  redeem  her  country.  He  seemed  to  gleam  with  shyness  and  honesty.  The  radio  was  tuned  to  the  Armed  Forces  station  in  4974616c79,  where  they  were  play-  ing  a  recording  of  &quot;Star  Dust.&quot;  &quot;'Star  Dust,'&quot;  the  stranger  said.  &quot;But  I  guess  you  know.  It  was  written  by  a  friend  of  mine.  Hoagy  Carmichael.  He  makes  six,  seven  thousand  dollars  a  year  on  royalties  from  that  song  alone.  He's  a  good  friend  of  mine.  I've  never  met  him,  but  I've  corresponded  with  him.  I  guess  it  must  seem  funny  to  you  that  I  have  a  friend  I've  never  met,  but  Hoagy's  a  real  friend  of  mine.&quot;  This  statement  seemed  much  more  melodic  and  expressive  to  Anne  than  the  music.  Its  juxtaposition,  its  apparent  pointlessness,  and  the  rhythm  with  which  it  was  spoken  seemed  to  her  like  the  music  of  her  own  country,  and  she  remembered  walking,  as  a  girl,  past  the  piles  of  sawdust  at  the  spoon  factory  to  the  house  of  her  best  friend.  If  she  made  the  walk  in  the  afternoon,  she  would  sometimes  have  to  wait  at  the  grade  crossing  for  a  freight  to  pass.  First  there  would  be  a  sound  in  the  distance  like  a  cave  of  winds,  and  then  the  iron  thun-  der,  the  clangor  of  the  wheels.  The  freights  went  through  there  at  full  speed;  they  stormed  through.  But  read-  ing  the  lettering  on  the  cars  used  to  move  her;  used  to  remind  her  not  of  any  glamorous  promise  at  the  end  of  the  line  but  of  the  breadth  and  vastness  of  her  own  country,  as  if  the  states  of  the  Union-wheat  states,  oil  states,  coal  states,  maritime  statese-were  being  drawn  down  the  track  near  where  she  stood  and  where  she  read  Southern  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  &amp;  [REDACTED],  Nickel  Plate,  New  York  Central,  Great  West-  ern,  Rock  Island,  Santa  Fe,  Lacka-  wanna,  -Pennsylvania,  clackety-clack  and  out  of  sight.  &quot;Don't  ery,  lady,&quot;  Mr.  Stebbins  said.  &quot;Don't  ery.&quot;  It  was  time  to  go  home,  and  she  got  a  plane  for  Orly  that  night  and  another  plane  for  Idlewild  the  next  evening.  She  was  shaking  with  excitement  long  before  they  saw  land.  She  was  going  home;  she  was  going  home.  Her  heart  was  in  her  throat.  How  dark  and  fresh  the  water  of  the  Atlantic  looked,  after  those  years  away.  In  the  morning  light,  the  low-lying  islands  with  Indian  names  passed  under  their  starboard  wing,  and  even  the  houses  of  Long  Island,  ar-  ranged  like  the  grids  on  a  waffle  iron,  excited  her.  'They  circled  the  field  once  and  came  down.  She  planned  to  find  a  lunch  counter  in  the  airport  and  order  a  bacon-lettuce-and-tomato  sandwich.  She  gripped  her  umbrella  (4672616e6365ian)  and  her  handbag  (Sienese)  and  waited  her  turn  to  leave  the  plane,  but  as  she  was  coming  down  the  steps,  even  be-  fore  her  shoes  (Roman)  had  touched her  native  earth,  she  heard  a  mechanic  who  was  working  on  a  DC-7  at  the  next  gate  singing:  &quot;Oh,  Humid  Isabella  Never  kissed  a  fellah  ...&quot;  HE  never  left  the  airport.  She  took  the  next  plane  back  to  Orly  and  joined  those  hundreds,  those  thousands  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  who  stream  through  Eu-  rope,  gay  or  sad,as  if  they  were  a  truly  homeless  people.  They  round  a  street  corner  in  Innsbruck,  thirty  strong,  and  vanish.  They  swarm  over  a  bridge  in  4974616c79  and  are  gone.  They  can  be  heard  asking  for  ketchup  in  a  Gasthaus  above  the  clouds  on  the  great  massif,  and  be  seen  poking  among  the  sea  caves,  with  masks  and  snorkels,  in  the  deep  waters  off  Porto  San  Stefano.  She  spent  the  autumn  in  [REDACTED].  KitzbGhel  saw  her.  She  was  in  4974616c79  forthe  horse  show  and  in  Siena  for  the  Palio.  She  was  always  on  the  move,  dream-  ing  of  bacon-lettuce-and-tomato  sand-  wiches.  "