THE  SENSITIVE  BIGAMIST  THER  servants  here  in  Mukalla  O  are  a  mindless,  carefree  lot  com-  pared  to  our  cook,  Mohammed  Omer  Saleh.  You  come  upon  him  sud-  denly  in  the  house,  to  find  him  leaning  against  a  wall,  thinking;  his  face  is  creased  with  twenty-eight  years  of  wor-  ry,  and  under  his  thick  mop  of  woolly  black  hair  his  brain  is  turning,  turning.  You  can  see  him  worrying  about  that,  too,  and  he  often  speaks  of  it.  &quot;All  night,  Mem-Sahib,&quot;  he  says  to  me,  &quot;all  night  I  be  thinking.  Oh,  too  much  troubles,  Mem-Sahib.  All  night  I  never  can  be  sleeping.&quot;  Mohammed's  prob-  lems  always  concern  his  involvement  with  himself  in  a  way  that  is  unusual  here.  It  is  not  that  he  has  a  greater  measure  of  self-esteem  than  most  of  the  Arabs  I  know,  but  that,  having  con-  cluded  there  is  no  one  so  uniquely  im-  portant  as  Mohammed,  he  feels  respon-  sible.  To  him,  his  &quot;thinkings&quot;  are  the  natural  burden  of  such  a  sentient  being.  Mukalla  is  the  capital  of  the  Qua'iti  Sultanate,  on  the  southern  coast  of  Arabia,  and  part  of  the  Eastern  59656d656e  Protectorate,  for  which  my  husband,  Mark,  is  the  fisheries  officer.  We  had  been  living  here  nearly  ayear  when  Mohammed  turned  up  in  Mark's  office,  looking  for  a  job.  He  said  he  was  a  Christian,  born  in  Eritrea  and  educated  in  a  Catholic  mission  school;  he  claimed  friendship  with  Mark's  mechanic;  he  said,  modestly,  that  he  could  do  nearly  everything  very  well,  but  what  did  Mark  have  to  offer  him?  It  happened  that  at  the  time  we  were  in  des-  perate  need  of  a  cook,  and  Mohammed  was  hired.  A  few  months  of  service  went  by.  Mohammed  settled  in.  He  became,  as  he  felt  more  at  home,  a  prodigal  talker,  and  before  long  we  were  acquainted  with  his  every  thought.  Si-  lences,  we  learned,  were  lulls  before  the  storm;  they  quivered  with  the  brew-  ing  of  deeper  problems.  One  day,  after  a  silent  period,  Mo-  hammed  called  to  me  to  come  to  the  kitchen.  I  found  him  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  both  hands  behind  his  back,  a  knowing  smile  on  his  face.  Bringingone  hand  forward,  he  held  a  large  bottle  before  my  eyes.  &quot;This  what  Europeans  drink,&quot;  he  said  in  the  flat  tone  of  an  Arab  announcing  a  fact.  From  his  expression,  however,  I  could  see  that  it  was  a  question,  and  I  said,  &quot;Yes.  It's  not  too  bad.&quot;  The     bottle  held  a  particularly  vile  brand  of  orange  squash,  but  I  did  not  want  to  appear  ungracious;  he  must  have  looked  long  and  hard  to  find  it  in  the  souk-  the  market.  Mohammed  then  brought  the  other  hand  forward.  In  it  he  held  an  enor-  mous  tin  of  Huntley  &amp;  Palmer  biscuits,  which  he  set  down  on  the  table.  &quot;Too  nice,&quot;  he  said,  meaning  &quot;Very  nice.&quot;  &quot;Soon  I  be  giving  big  invitation.  Two,  maybe  three,  maybe  all  Europeans  com-  ing.&quot;  He  looked  very  superior.  &quot;Mrs.  De'  Ath  coming.  Colonel  Colquhoun.&quot;  Then  he  broke  into  Arabic,  and  I  caught  the  word  &quot;azumae&quot;  (&quot;party&quot;)  and  references  to  Mem-Sahib.  &quot;That's  nice,&quot;  J  said.  &quot;Are  we  in-  vited?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Mem-Sahib,  why  not?&quot;  (&quot;Why  not&quot;  is  one  of  Mohammed's  favorite  expressions.  Told,  when  he  first  came  to  us,  to  try  to  keep  the  skin  on  a  chicken  when  plucking  it,  or  to  scale  a  fish  before  frying  it,  he  would  say  cheer-  fully  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  and  then  proceed  as  he  always  had.)  &quot;Why  are  you  giving  a  big  azure,  Mohammed?&quot;  I  inquired.  He  was  standing  expectantly,  waiting  to  be  asked.  &quot;Oh,  Mem-Sahib,  you  know  too  well  this  country  not  be  good  for  one  man  alone.  This  country  too  bad  country  for  one  man.  You  know  my  wife  she  stay  in  59656d656e.  I  write  her  too  many  times,  ask  her  to  come  here  be  with  me  in  my  job,  but  she  not  come.  She  just  same  like  the  European,  Mem-Sahib.  In  59656d656e  she  walk  on  the  street  and  wear  no-ah,  this  thing.&quot;  He  made  a  gesture  over  his  face.  &quot;She  say  she  no  live  in  country  where  she  must  stay  inside.&quot;  Moham-  med  had  shown  us  pictures  of  his  wife  when  he  first  came  to  work  for  us.  Like  Mohammed,  she  is  an  Eritrean,  and  in  the  picture  she  appeared  plump,  attrac-  tive,  and  modern-looking;  her  clothes  and  the  furniture  in  the  background  were  European.  &quot;Won't  she  come  up  here  at  all?&quot;  I  asked  him.  I  could  see  where  the  con-  versation  was  leading,  and  I  sighed.  I  remembered  only  too  well  the  servant  we  had  brought  from  59656d656e-Hassan,  who  was  from  Yemen.  His  father-in-  law,  Hassan  explained,  was  a  fierce  man  who  would  not  dream  of  letting  his     had  been  obliged  to  marry  again  w  hen  he  cam  e  t  o  59656d656e,  lookin  g  for  w  ork  .  The  second  marriage  had  not  b  een  a  success  ,  howe  v  er,  and  when  h  e  came  t  o  us,  he  see  me  d  the  c  onf  i  rmed  bache-  lor  .  Tw  o  months  after  we  had  move  d  to  M  uka  l  la,  the  kohl  a  ppeared  m  ore  heavily  around  hi  s  eye  l  ids;  that,  and  a  new  whit  e  embroi  d  ered  h  ea  d  cl  o  th  ,  an  d  a  s  pl  e  nd  i  d  orange-and-white  sheet,  wh  ich  he  wore  d  rap  e  d  over  one  shoul-  d  er,  proclaimed  the  fa  ct  t  hat  h  e  was  cour  ting  once  more.  H  assan  being  an  old  hand  a  t  the  gam  e,  the  af  f  ai  r  was  easily  managed.  He  found  a  di  v  orced  girl  who  was  in  service  i  n  another  Eu  r  o-  pean  hou  s  eho  l  d,  married  her,  and  br  ough  t  her  to  ou  r  house.  T  ha  t  thi  rd  wif  e  was  the  end  of  Hassan.  He  must  have  been  fort  y-two,  which  is  old  for  he  re,  and  he  was  a  chew  er  of  gat,  wh  ich  has  very  debilitating  e  ffe  c  ts.  His  b  ride,  Selim  a,  was  t  we  nty,  shril  l  -voic  ed  ,  and  l  iv  e  ly  -  a  gay  divorcee,  with  one  fat  ,  ugl  y,  an  e  mic  baby  boy  to  h  er  name  al-  read  y.  Hass  an  had  no  peace  ,  n  or  did  we.  If  the  b  aby  was  n  ot  c  ryi  n  g,  Has  sa  n's  wife  was  sho  uting  a  t  him  .  Hassan  soon  o  ve  r  sl  e  pt  in  the  morning  s,  slept  thr  o  ugh  ou  r  teatime  in  the  afternoon,  coul  d  ha  r  dl  y  keep  on  h  is  f  ee  t  throug  h  a  d  inne  r  par  ty  .  When  Mar  k  fel  l  s  ick  with  dy  sen-  tery  and  there  were  h  is  spec  i  al  wants  to  attend  t  o  as  well  ,  Ha  s  sa  n  co  l  la  p  se  d  com-  pletely  an  d  had  t  o  be  s  hi  p  ped  ba  ck  to  A  den,  complete  wi  th  scream  i  ng  child,  and  Sel  i  ma  pr  egnant  aga  in.  Beca  u  se  Mohammed  is  Mohammed,  h  is  a  ffairs  were  b  oun  d  t  o  be  more  com-  pl  icat  e  d,  and  I  was  f  ull  of  misgivings.  His  de  v  otion  to  h  is  wife  in  59656d656e  and  to  his  Ch  r  istian  religion  were  sub  j  ects  upon  which  h  e  h  ad  insisted  t  o  the  point  of  being  tiresome  ,  an  d  h  is  abo  ut  -  face  startled  m  e.  How  was  he  going  to  tak  e  a  second  wife  and  sti  ll  remain  the  Chris-  tia  n  he  was  s  o  proud  of  bei  ng?  And  where  could  he  find  a  wi  fe  t  o  suit  him  in  Mukalla?  He  had  the  exa  gg  era  ted  snob  bi  shne  s  s  of  the  semi-educated  to-  war  d  the  people  of  the  &quot;pro  vin  ces&quot;  and  their  undi  luted  Arab  w  ays-  th  e  un  -  pave  d  streets,  the  dirt,  the  smells,  the  slums,  the  s  tar  v  ing  ,  ho  w  li  n  g  pye-d  ogs  and  mangy  c  at  s,  the  sh  eep  and  goats  and  d  onkeys  and  cam  e  ls  li  tter  i  ng  the  doo  r  way  s  and  bl  eatin  g  or  braying  o  r  groaning  d  uring  the  long  nights.  Had  a  ll  th  ese  ba  rriers  sudd  enl  y  disa  ppe  ared  in  the  face  of  desire?  &quot;  Is  there  no  chance  that  your  wife  may  change  her  mind  and  come  here?&quot;  I  asked,  without  much  hope.  &quot;No,  Mem-Sahib,&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;Too  many  times  I  write,  but  she  say  she  never  come  to  this  bad  country,  only     I  must  send  money  and  she  wait  for  me  in  59656d656e.  So  I  think,  Mem-Sahib,  I  buy  one  wife  here.  I  find  some  girls,  not  so  bad.&quot;  He  turned  his  mouth  down  expressively  and  shrugged.  &quot;I  talk  to  fathers.  Not  so  much  money-maybe  three  hundred  shillings,  maybe  five  hundred  shillings,  we  see.  And  I  give  azuma  when  I  marry.&quot;  So  that  was  the  reason  for  the  party!  I  could  see  that  this  was  going  to  be  a  long  conversation,  so  I  sat  down  at  the  kitchen  table  and  began  rubbing  up  a  piece  of  the  silver  that  Mohammed  had  laid  there  to  polish.  Even  this  gesture  did  not  remind  him  of  his  work;  he  just  stood,  deep  in  his  own  thoughts.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  you  are  a  Christian,  Mohammed.&quot;  I  had  no  wish  to  act  as  his  religious  conscience,  but  a  servant  in  Arabia  is  very  much  one  of  the  family,  and  there  is  so  little  evidence  of  Christianity  in  this  strongly  Islamic  town  of  Mukalla,  filled  with  intoler-  ance  toward  those  not  of  the  Faith,  that  I  felt  I  should  perhaps  remind  him  of  his  church.  &quot;Oh,  I  not  be  worried,  Mem-Sahib,  that  I  have  one  wife  in  59656d656e,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;because  I  read  myself  in  the  books  that  when  a  Christian  he  go  into  hard  land,  he  can  help  himself  and  take  a  woman.  This  country  not  good  country,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;Too  hard  for  one  man  with  himself.&quot;  I  digested  this  information.  &quot;But  what  will  you  do  when  yougo  back  to  59656d656e  on  a  visit?  Or  if  we  go  back  there  and  you  are  still  with  us-what  happens  then?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  not  be  frighting  about  that,  Mem-Sahib,&quot;  he  said,  with  a  laugh.  &quot;You  see.  I  go  to  thebig  Father  in  the  church,  and  I  tell  him,  'Father,  I  have  be  in  hard  country,  and  I  take  one  wife  there,  and  I  am  surry.&quot;  That's  all.&quot;  &quot;And  what  will  your  59656d656e  wife  say  to  this?&quot;  I  asked.  I  looked  up  from  the  silver  and  smiled,  so  that  he  would  not  feel  I  was  nagging  him.  The  answer  was  quick.  &quot;She  be  an-  gry,  Mem-Sahib.  Too  angry!&quot;  We  shared  this  good  joke  together,  and  then  he  added,  &quot;But  I  never  can  tell  her,  Mem-Sahib.&quot;  After  a  pause,  he  asked  the  question  he  had  wanted  to  ask  me  in  the  beginning:  Did  I  mind  if  he  brought  a  wife  into  the  house  to  live  with  him?  I  told  him  I  did  not,  and  for  a  while  matters  stood  at  that.  HEN  Mark  came  home  for  lunch,  we  shrugged  and  smiled  over  the  lack  of  disciplinein  Moham-  med's  religious  teachings.  We  might  have  concluded  that  he  was  merely     shedding  th  e  in  conven  ie  nces  imposed  by  Christianity  w  ere  it  not  for  the  fact  that  Mohammed  inv  a  ria  b  ly  errs  o  n  the  side  of  the  putting  on  o  f  conscience.  He  dis-  like  s  the  me  mbe  rs  of  his  football  team  because  they  p  lay  roughly,  ignoring  t  he  rules;  he  is  easily  of  fen  ded  by  anything  he  considers  not  right  and  proper  ,  and  he  despises  &quot;these  b  lack  pee  bu  ls  here&quot;  for  their  incivilities,  t  heir  boo  ri  shn  es  s.  We  have  som  etimes  felt  that  he  is  too  refined  for  us,  that  we  would  pre  fer  a  servant  with  few  e  r  sensib  il  ities  and  mor  e  of  the  quality  an  Arab  admires  so-  strength  of  character,  definiteness  of  personality.  But  Mohammed's  delicacy  has  its  uses  i  n  a  European  household,  for  to  the  ordinary  Ar  ab  servant  the  ;|  fine  points  of  do  mes  ti  c  service  are  quite  lost.  Old  Hassan,  f  or  i  nstance,  had  been  deaf  to  all  my  entreaties  not  to  wipe  his  n  ose  on  the  cloth  he  use  d  f  or  dusting  our  fur  n  iture.  We  heard  no  more  from  Mohammed  abo  ut  the  invitation  or  the  new  wife  for  ne  arly  two  w  eeks  .  I  was  curious  but  asked  no  questions.  Then  one  day  Mo-  hammed  came  b  ack  from  the  mar  k  et-  ing  rather  late  r  than  usual,  and,  not  finding  me  in  the  living  ro  om  or  at  my  desk,  came  and  rapp  e  d  sharply  on  the  door  of  my  bedro  om.  &quot;Naam?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes?&quot;  I  went  to  the  door.  Wordlessly,  with  a  little  bow  ,  Mo-  hammed  handed  me  a  small  ,  pla  i  n  wh  ite  envelope  on  which  our  name  was  typed.  &quot;Wha  t's  this,  Mo  hammed  ?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;T  he  invitation  t  o  your  azw  -  ma?&quot;  He  bowed  again,  and  scuttled  a  way  to  the  kit  chen.  I  went  bac  k  to  the  cool  of  our  breeze-  filled  bedroom  and  opened  the  le  tte  r.  Inside,  written  in  longhand  (the  h  and-  w  riting  I  r  ecog  n  ized  as  that  of  Mark's  cle  rk  ,  Saiyed)  on  a  sheet  of  lined  gov-  ern  m  ent  paper,  I  found  the  followin  g  document:  Rrouzest  I  the  undersigned  Mohammed  Omer  Saleh  (cook  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Veevers-  Carter)  humbly  request  to  all  my  favour-  able  gentlemen  and  ladies  that  I  desire  to  marry  within  short  period  and  for  which  I  stand  in  need  of  help  for  my  pecuniary  conditions  as  you  are  all  well  aware  that  on  such  occasion  good  amount  must  be  had  for  incurring  expenses.  Therefore  I  shall  be  pleased  and  highly  obliged  if  you  can  aid  me  to  my  poor  fi-  nancial  position  by  giving  open-hearted  contributions.  Monrammen  Omer  Sarzm:-COOK  Underneath  was  a  list  of  nine  of  the  ten  European  families  who  were  living  in  Mukalla  at  that  time.  Much  to  my  relief,  Mark's  chief,  the  Resident  Adviser,  had  been  omitted.  The  names  were  ina  column  on  the  left-hand  side  of  the  page;  on  the  right  was  a  blank  column,  boldly  headed  by  the  word  &quot;Amount.&quot;  Our  name  headed  the  list.  What  gall!  And  yet  one  could  never  be  sure  just  how  much  Mohammed  really  knew  about  non-Arab  manners.  When  Mark  came  home  that  evening  and  I  showed  him  the  &quot;Request,&quot;  he  found  the  whole  thing  funny.  &quot;More  enterprising  than  I  would  have  ex-  pected,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  you're  wor-  rying  too  much.  No  one's  going  to  take  it  seriously.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I'm  still  annoyed,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  happened  to  his  party  idea,  any-  way?  That  at  least  might  be  amusing,  and  he  could  put  a  basket  at  the  door,  the  way  the  local  bridegrooms  do,  for  theguests  to  drop  coins  into  before  they  leave.  It  would  be  less  embarrass  ing  than  this  direct  solicitation.  Does  he  really  think  he  only  has  to  trouble  himself  to  write  a  letter  and  the  gold  will  pour  in?&quot;  &quot;'That  letter  cost  him  a  pretty  pen-  ny,&quot;  Mark  said.  &quot;Saiyed  sells  his  time  dearly.  And  envelopes!  Very  refined.  Even  invitations  to  a  rich  Arab  mer-  chant's  dinner  party  don't  come  in  en-  velopes.&quot;  In  the  end,  we  didn't  say  anything  to  Mohammed  about  his  letter.  Mark  gave  him  fifty  shillings,  and  Moham-  med  bowed  and  said  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  and  didn't  mention  it,  either.  We  awaited  further  developments.  GAIN  we  waited  for  two  weeks.  I  began  to  wonder  if  Mohammed  had  found  it  easier  to  make  a  little  extra-  legal  arrangement  than  to  get  married,  what  with  having  one  wife  to  support  already.  And  I  didn't  think  he  would  let  her  go-not  a  good-looking  female  like  that,  not  for  a  Mukallan  Somali.  It  must  be  a  Somali  he  was  thinking  of  &quot;buying,&quot;  for  there  were  no  brides  to  be  had  in  Mukalla  for  three  or  four  hundred  shillings  except  the  Somali  girls  who  lived  out  by  the  fish  factory.  We  received  no  further  direct  news  of  Mohammed's  progress,  but  our  friends  did.  When  none  of  them  sent  contributions,  they  all  got  second  notes-this  time  typewritten  (a  still  higher  charge,  I  imagine,  from  Saiyed  ).  Mohammed,  waving  a  sheaf  of  small  envelopes  at  me  one  day,  said  he  had  spent  the  afternoon  delivering  others  like  them,  and  announced,  further,  that  those  in  his  hand  were  for  any  members  of  the  R.A.F.  and  Hussar  detachments  stationed  at  Riyan,  the  airport  for  Mukalla,  who  had  ever  set  foot  in  our  house.  Consumed  with  curiosity,  we  got  Clive  Colquhoun  to  give  us  a  look  at  his.  It  read:  MuraLLa,  23rp  May,  1957  Dear  SiR,  I  the  undersigned  Mr.  Mohammed  Omer  Saleh  (Cook  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vee-  vers-Carter)  humbly  request  you  that  I  desire  to  marry  on  30th.  May,  1957  and  for  which  I  stand  in  need  of  your  generious  contribution  for  my  pecuniary  conditions  as  you  are  well  aware  that  on  such  occa-  sion  good  amount  must  required  for  in-  curring  expenses.  Therefore,  I  shall  be  highly  grateful  if  you  show  me  your  kind  favour.  Yours  faithfully,  ie.  Monammep  Omer  Sare  The  note  was  not  signed  by  hand;  there  was  just  the  space  for  a  signature,  followed  by  &quot;i.e.&quot;  and  the  typed  name.  Obviously,  a  lot  more  work  with  gram-  mar  and  dictionary  had  been  done  on  this  one.  &quot;Highly  grateful&quot;  was  pure  Saiyed-he  puts  &quot;highly  grateful&quot;s  all  through  Mark's  government  letters  if  given  the  chance-and  the  tenuous  grasp  of  English  politeness  and  govern-  ment  jargon  must  have  been  his,  too.  &quot;Pecuniary,&quot;  in  both  notes,  we  decided,  was  Ahmed  Ba  Amer,  the  Sultan's  fish-  eries  officer,  who  works  with  Mark  sometimes.  By  the  time  Mohammed  finally  con-  fided  to  me  that  he  had  sent  out  a  new  letter  he  thought  was  &quot;very  nicely&quot;  and  &quot;good  for  Europeans,&quot;  I  had  begun  to  find  the  amused  and  not  so  amused  in-  quiries  of  the  &quot;Europeans&quot;  a  little  try-  ing.  &quot;I  say,  Wendy,&quot;  for  instance,  'what's  this  extraordinary  letter  we  re-  ceived  from  your  boy  the  other  day?&quot;  Or  &quot;It's  a  bit  of  bloody  cheek,  isn't  it?  ButI'm  willing  to  give  him  ten  bob  just  for  the  idea  of  trying  it  on!  Hope  no  one  copies  the  idea,  though.&quot;  The  Hussars  were  bewildered.  &quot;What  on  earth  do  we  do  with  this  billet-doux?&quot;  one  of  them  asked  me.  Two  or  three  others  were  embarrassed  at  being  approached  so  directly,  and  slipped  me  five  or  ten  bob  to  give  to  Mohammed.  It  was  on  the  occasion  of  one  of  the  Hussar  donations  that  I  decided  to  have  a  little  talk  with  Mohammed.  Ten  shil-  lings  had  just  changed  hands  between  us.  &quot;Look,  Mohammed,&quot;  I  began  gen-  tly,  but  he  interrupted  me.  «&quot;Which  lieutenants  this  coming  from?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;Two  lieuten-  ants  is  coming  here  for  lunch-which  one  give  me  this?&quot;  I  had  to  say  it  was  from  both  of  them,  and  nearly  added  that  he  was  jolly  lucky  to  get  it,  but  frowned  instead,  and  began  again,  not  so  gently.  &quot;Look,  Mohammed,  I  don't  like  to  interfere,  but  you  must  realize  that  you  have  put  our  name  on  these  letters,  and  our  friends  will  ask  us  why  you  are  doing  this  thing.  You  seem  to  say  we  are  behind  you.&quot;  I  went  on  quickly,  in  the  sort  of  English  Mo-  hammed  understands,  &quot;I  must  tell  you,  like  the  Sahib  told  you  before,  this  is  not  the  European  custom,  this  way.  Why  you  are  not  giving  the  party  you  told  me  about  for  your  friends  and  for  the  Europeans?  The  azuma?  That  is  a  bet-  ter  way.  No  one  can  write  like  this  and  expect  to  get  money  from  people!  You  have  not  been  with  us  so  long  that  all  our  friends  know  you  so  well!  Or,  if  you  do  not  have  enough  money  to  give  a  party,  why  do  you  not  ask  them  for  money  yourself,  face  to  face?  This  let-  ter,&quot;I  went  on,  &quot;this  letter  is  not  good,  Mohammed.  It  is  like  a  bill  from  a  shop.  You  are  demanding  money  from  peo-  ple.&quot;  &quot;No,  never,  Mem-Sahib!  Only  ask-  ing,  by  letter.  The  Sahib,  he  said  send  letters  nicely  and  peebuls  they  come  and  give  me  something.&quot;  &quot;'There-you  see,  Mohammed?  You  did  not  understand  the  Sahib.  He  was  talking  about  an  invitation  to  a  party.  You  send  the  invitation,  and  peo-  ple,  if  they  know  you  are  poor,  perhaps  they  come  for  five  minutes,  or  do  not  come  but  send  you  a  gift.  Mafum,  enta?  Do  you  see?  'This,  what  you  have  done,  this  is  not  the  European  custom,  so  everyone  is  asking  me,  why  this  letter?  And  they  find  it  strange,  and  do  not  care  to  give  much  money.&quot;  &quot;Na'am,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;M  afum,  lakin,  I  understand,  but-  &quot;The  Sahib  and  I,  we  give  you  money  because  you  are  our  servant.  But  our  friends?  You  cannot  ask  like  this.  It  is  not  polite.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Mem-Sahib,&quot;  he  said  stiffly,  and  excused  himself  and  went  away.  HE  next  evening,  when  there  were  seven  people  expected  for  dinner,  I  was  in  the  kitchen  giving  Mo-  hammed  a  few  last  directions.  I  had  a  feeling  that  all  was  not  well.  And  when  all  is  not  well  with  Mohammed,  very  little  gets  through  to  him.  He  looked  vaguer  and  vaguer,  and  asI  began  to  despair  of  ever  explaining  the  unmold-  ing  of  a  gelatine,  he  said,  &quot;Excuse  me,  Mem-Sahib,  I  am  very  surry  but  I  am  leaving  this  job.  I  am  be  marry  on  the  thirtieth  of  May.&quot;  That  stopped  my  dissertation  on  the  use  of  hot  cloths.  &quot;Even  so,  why  must  you  leave  us?  May  I  ask  why,  Moham-  med?&quot;  I  demanded.  &quot;I  am-&quot;  He  turned  his  face  away  and  looked  down  at  one  neatly  white-  shod  foot.  &quot;I  am-  full.&quot;  He  put  one  hand  on  his  breast.  &quot;Full.&quot;  I  knew  what  he  meant;  fed  up,  we  would  say.  I  let  a  silence  stand  between  us  for  a  moment,  and  then  said,  &quot;All  right,  Mohammed,  if  you  feel  that  way.  But  let  us  do  the  dinner.&quot;  I  told  Mark  the  next  morning,  and  added  that  I  supposed  it  was  all  my  fault;  Mohammed  was  altogether  too  touchy  for  me.  Mark  was  mad,  &quot;Well,  if  he's  going  to  let  us  down  like  that,  he  bloody  well  can  go!&quot;  he  exploded.  &quot;With  the  trip  to  Bir  Ali  coming  up!  And  still  planning  to  get  married  on  the  thirtieth,  when  he  énew  we'd  be  away.  Did  he  think  we  were  going  to  leave  him  here  to  amuse  himself  in  comfort  while  we  squat  over  our  own  Primus  stove?&quot;  &quot;You'd  better  go  and  have  a  talk  with  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  had.&quot;  «&quot;Well,  don't  be  too  cross.  I've  prob-  ably  offended  him  mortally.&quot;  Half  an  hour  later,  Mark's  footsteps,  returning,  sounded  crisply  on  the  rush  mats  of  the  dining  room,  and  he  stepped  over  the  high  Arab  threshold  into  the  living  room.  &quot;Well?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  was  busy  packing  his  things,  looking  sorrowful  and  dim.  I  asked  him  why  he  was  leaving,  and  he  said  the  Mem-Sahib  was  no  longer  pleased  with  him.  'I  never,&quot;  he  said,  'be  staying  in  a  place  if  the  peebuls  not  pleased  with  me.)  2&gt;  “SO?  &gt;  &quot;I  told  him  not  to  be  so  damned  sen-  sitive  about  a  little  criticism,  that  you  were  only  trying  to  give  him  some  help,  and  that  we  were  perfectly  pleased  with  him  in  his  job-he  must  know  that-  but  we  didn't  like  to  think  of  all  our  acquaintances'  feeling  obligated  by  his  letters.  I  told  him  he  should  get  married  either  in  the  European  way  or  the  Arab.  He  said,  in  that  virtuous  tone  of  his,  that  he  was  doing  it  both  ways,  that  'the  letters  make  all  right  for  Europeans,'  and  then  he'd  give  'big  invitations'  for  all  his  own  friends-'maybe  hundred  peebuls  coming'-where  he'd  do  things  the  Arab  way,  and,  I  suppose,  raise  some  more  money.&quot;  &quot;So?&quot;  I  said  again.  &quot;He  wants  to  stay,  he  says.&quot;  &quot;Do  we  keep  him?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  think  so.  I  told  him  that  we  are  all  three  of  us  going  to  Bir  Ali,  and  he  said  that  was  all  right,  the  thirtieth  of  May  was  an  old  date.  It  seems  he  isn't  getting  the  girl  he  planned  to  get.     But,  he  hastened  to  add,  there  were    plenty  of  others!  Seemed  quite  cheerful  when  I  left  him,  so  I  think  this  has  blown  over.&quot;  In  our  household,  decisions  of  this  kind  lie  with  Mark.  The  subject  was  dropped,  and  when  people  who  came  to  see  us  &quot;generiously&quot;  offered  a  few  shil-  lings,  I  asked  if  they'd  mind  making  the  presentation  to  Mohammed  themselves,  as  he'd  appreciate  it  so  much  more.  We  went  down  to  BirAli  within  the  week.  Throughout  the  trip,  Moham-  med  was  silently  efficient,  and  I  was  re-  lieved  not  to  have  had  to  train  another  boy  while  we  were  on  trek.  WO  or  three  weeks  later,  when  we  were  home  again,  Mohammed,  after  twice  asking  me  for  &quot;some  per-  missions&quot;  to  be  away  in  the  evening,  confided  that  he  was  using  them  for  talking  to  fathers  of  girls.  It  was  a  pity  about  the  first  girl,  he  said  sadly.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;She  was  cheaper.  These  other  mens,  these  fathers,  they  asking  too  much  money,  Mem-Sahib.  All  very  good  girls,  buttoo  much  money.&quot;  &quot;Why  didthe  first  girl  refuse  you?&quot;  I  asked.  Mohammed  looked  past  me  with  a  concentrated  frown.  &quot;She  say,  and  her  father  say,  she  no  come  to  live  in  house  for  Europeans.  She  sayshe  no  live  in  [Christian]  house,  when  everyone  shout  at  her  on  the  street  and  her  friends  never  can  come  to  see  her.&quot;  &quot;But  you  area  Naesrani  yourself.  It's  not  just  the  Sahib  and  me  and  our  house-yes?&quot;  &quot;No,  Mem-Sahib,  I  never  tell  her  father  I  am  a  Christian.  He  be  angry!&quot;  &quot;Did  she  know  you  were  a  Chris-  tian?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  He  paused.  &quot;Yes,  maybe  she  think  I  am  a  Christian,  too.&quot;  We  were  in  the  kitchen  at  the  time.  I  was  making  mayonnaise  while  Moham-  med  washed  the  dishes.  I  let  him  finish  the  glasses  and  then  said,  &quot;Well,maybe,  Mohammed,  you  find  some  one  girl  who  will  come  to  live  with  you  even  if  you  are  a  Christian.  It's  not  such  a  bad  house,  and  you  have  a  nice  room.&quot;  The  part  about  not  living  in  a  Chris-  tian  house  I  suspected  of  being  an  af-  fectation.  Few  people  in  the  world  are  more  mercenary  than  the  Arabs,  and  Mohammed,  especially  by  Somali  stand-  ards,  is  a  well-found  young  man.  I  re-  signed  myself  to  his  doing  things  the  way  he  wanted.  IT  was  in  June,  while  Mark  was  away  in  59656d656e  and  I  hadgone  upcountry  with  Jean  and  Clive  Colquhoun  to    Maula  Matar,  in  the  high,  cool  hills  be-  hind  Mukalla,  that  arrangements  were  concluded,  and  Mohammed  finally  bought  and  married  his  binz-his  girl.  Her  name  was  Hadiya.  Over  a  period  of  days  after  I  got  back,  our  sweeper  retailed  the  great  event,.  Mohammed,  he  reported,  had  spared  no  effort.  He  had  given  a  prenuptial  party  in  the  grand  manner,  using  the  servants'  quar-  ters  of  our  house.  Let  no  one  say  this  was  a  mere  cook  marrying  a  mere  So-  mali!  The  sweeper,  Mubarak  bin  Zima,  had  been  hired  for  the  evening  to  sit  by  the  icebox,  dispensing  cold  water  and  guarding  our  part  of  the  house  from  the  celebrating  guests;  our  entire  comple-  ment  of  living-room  chair  cushions  was  borrowed  for  the  occasion,  so  Moham-  med  and  his  friends  could  sit  in  com-  fort  on  the  floor  of  Mohammed's  room,  and  Mohammed  wore  one  of  Mark's  black  bow  ties  atop  a  white  shirt  and  white  pants,  to  honor,  Europeanly,  the  occasion.  But  no  Europeans  were  in-  vited  in  the  end,  and,  of  course,  no  women.  For  refreshments,  Mohammed  had  set  out,  in  a  prominent  place  at  one  end  of  the  room,  the  &quot;nicely-for-Euro-  peans&quot;  biscuits  and  orange  squash,  and,  at  the  opposite  end,  the  usual  halewae  (a  spiced  gelatine  cut  into  greasy  chunks),  gingered  coffee,  and  cardamom  tea.  Mohammed  had  even  taken  advantage  of  his  Christian  status  to  obtain  an  illegal  bottle  of  whiskey  in  this  dry  town.  (An-  other  of  his  &quot;just-same-European&quot;-isms  was  a  penchant  for  the  stuff  when  he  could  get  it.)  This  was  kept  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  biscuits  and  orange  squash.  An  even  greater  extravagance  was  that  Mohammed  had  hired  the  town  band  to  play  in  our  courtyard  for  the  evening.  It  was  an  act  unprecedented  for  a  servant,  but  Mohammed  consid-  ered  himself  a  servant  by  choice,  not  necessity,  and  that  made  all  the  differ-  ence.  I  could  picture  him,  his  dark  Eritrean  face  above  his  European  clothes  and  the  smile  of  superiority,  and  imagine  him  saying:  &quot;I  show  all  these  black  bastards  how  an  invitations  be!&quot;  As  the  band  played  the  popular  tunes  of  &quot;&quot;Ya  Habibi&quot;  (&quot;Oh,  My  Beloved&quot;)  and  &quot;Ana  wa  Enti'  (&quot;I  and  You,&quot;  in  that  Arablike  order)  in  our  rather  dusty  courtyard,  what  triumphs  did  Moham-  med  see?  All  this  display  should  have  ruined  him  financially,  but  not  at  all!  While  he  had  been  unable  to  toughen  his  fine  sensibilities  to  the  point  of  placing  a  crude  and  obvious  basket  by  the  door,  he  had  conceived  a  much  better  idea,  He  had  made  a  long  speech,  expressing  pleasure  that  his  friends  should  come  to  sucha  poor.man's  wedding  party,  and  then,  with  the  aid  of  the  whiskey,  he  had  instituted  a  series  of  poker  games,  in  which,  I  gathered,  he  won  most  of  his  costs  back  from  his  guests  Mu-  barak,squatting  on  his  haunches  on  the  floor  as  he  told  me  the  story,  allowed  that  Mohammed  was  aDevil,a  Clever  One.  And  no  doubt  Mohammed  con-  curred  in  this  estimate,for  it  had  been  a  smiling,  relaxed  Mohammed  who  met  me  when  I  returned  from  the  hills,  in-  stead  of  the  worried  man  of  affairs  I  had  left.  Everything  was  neatly  in  place,  and  polished;  the  cat  was  fed;  the  bow  tie  had  been  ironed  and  re-  turned.  But  there  was  no  blushing  bride  in  evidence  at  all.  &quot;Where  is  she?&quot;  I  asked  as  soon  as  Mohammed  had  arrived  upstairs  with  my  suitcase  and  sleeping  bag.  &quot;Oh,  she  never  come  yet,  Mem-  Sahib.  Just  we  marry,  then  I  leave  her  with  her  mother  house  for  three  maybe  four  days  and  I  be  go  there  to  sleep.  Then  after,  I  bring  her  here.  She  has  one  small  baby,  too,&quot;  he  said  brightly.  Oh,  no,  I  thought,  not  again!  &quot;Is  it  a  boy?&quot;  I  asked  politely.  It  was  not  possible  to  ask  if  it  was  a  girl,  but  I  prayed  that  it  was;  a  girl  might  not  cry  so  much,  although  all  Arab  children,  hopelessly  spoiled  by  the  housebound  women,  cry  a  great  deal.  &quot;'Yes,a  boy,  Mem-Sahib.  Why  not?&quot;  UT  he  doesn't  cry  too  much,  this  child.  His  father  was  a  Saudi  on  a  visit  to  Mukalla,  and  his  mother  is  a  sturdy  little  wench,  so  he  may  have  stronger  blood  in  his  veins  than  theoth-  er  little  horror.  And  she  is  a  good  girl,  Mohammed's  Hadiya.  She  has  moved  in,  and  we  have  passed  the  vapors  stage  (it  is  the  right  thing  to  do  to  be  con-  stantly  ailing  the  first  month  of  mar-  riage-even  a  second  marriage),  and  have  passed,  too,  the  stage  of  shrill  tit-  tering  when  Mark  chances  to  come  upon  her  unveiled.  She  has  lost  all  her  shyness  with  me  and,  Mohammed-like,  talks  my  ear  off  if  I  let  her.  And  she  stands  up  for  her  rights,  and  sometimes  gives  Mohammed  absolute  hell,  She  has  him  just  where  she  wants  him,  but  it  was  straightened  out  in  the  begin-  ning  that  she  was  not  to  interfere  with  his  job,  so  that's  all  right,  too.  We  took  Mohammed  with  us  on  our  last  trip  up  the  coast,  and  after  we  re-  turned,  Hadiya  told  me  that  she  had  cried  for  her  husband  all  the  time  we  were  away,  that  she  had  had  a  dread-  ful  fight  with  the  Zhobie  (the  laundry-   m  a  n  )  ,  t  h  a  t  the  s  w  e  e  p  e  r  w  as  n'  t  d  o  i  n  g  _  _  -  |  hi  s  j  o  b  ,  a  n  d  t  h  a  t  she  h  a  d  b  ra  ve  ly  a  n  d  _  |  w  it  h  diffi  culty  pre  v  ent  ed  ou  r  frie  nds  \|  f  r  o  m  s  to  ri  ng  th  ei  r  m  e  a  t  i  n  o  ur  ref  rig  -  erator  w  hi  le  we  we  re  go  ne  .  S  h  e  w  a  s  'f  a  l  l  s  m  i  l  e  s  a  n  d  i  nn  oc  en  ce  ,  a  n  d  wa  it  in  g  _  _  ]  for  p  r  a  i  s  e  -  a  nd  a  little  g  ift,  t  o  o  ,  I  thi  n  k,  |  a  s  a  to  ke  n  of  h  ow  w  e  l  l  sh  e'  d  m  a  n  a  g  e  d  .  \  |  S  h  e  spent  a  n  h  o  u  r  t  el  li  n  g  m  e  a  l  l  th  is  ,  |  m  i  x  e  d  wi  th  s  to  rm  s  o  f  abus  e  ag  a  in  st  a  [  |  p  o  l  i  c  e  m  a  n  who  h  a  d  a  cc  us  ed  he  r  m  o  t  h  -  e  r  ,  be  ca  us  e  she  c  a  m  e  t  o  v  i  s  i  t  ,  of  b  e  i  n  g  a  who  re  for  the  E  u  r  o  p  e  a  n  h  o  u  s  e  (the  po-  lic  e  are  p  a  rt  ic  ul  ar  l  y  a  n  t  i  -  B  r  i  t  i  s  h  h  e  r  e  )  ,  a  n  d  t  he  n  she  b  u  r  s  t  int  o  f  i  t  s  of  gi  g  g  le  s  wh  en  I  teased  he  r  a  b  o  u  t  c  r  y  i  n  g  s  o  m  u  c  h I  for  Mohammed.  The  next  day,  Mohammed  worked  languidly,  his  eyes  seeing  far-distant  things.  Finally  he  spoke.  &quot;She  eat  too  much  fish,  Mem-Sahib,  while  I  be  gone.  These  peebuls  here,  they  say  fish  good  for-  for  the  amor,  Mem-Sahib.  Too  much  fish  she  eat,  Mem-Sahib.&quot;  And  then,  a  day  later,  Mohammed  smiling,  pleased,  in  the  kitchen:  &quot;You  know,  Mem-Sahib,  I  say  to  my  wife,  'You  have  be  fat  a  little  while  I  be  away,&quot;  and  she  say,  'I  eat  too  much  food,&quot;  but  \|  I  say,  'I  think  maybe  this  be  something  elses,&quot;  and  she  say,  'Yes,  Mohammed,  yes,  it  is  so.&quot;&quot;  He  put  one  hand  on  his  breast.  &quot;She  is  full,  Mem-Sahib.&quot;  I  sighed,  then  I  looked  at  him  and  smiled.  &quot;We  hope,&quot;  I  said  slowly,  &quot;the  Sahib  and  I,  that  you  will  be  blessed  with  a  boy,  insha'allah-if  it  is  the  will  of  Allah.&quot;  And  Mohammed  answered,  &quot;Alich  ()  rahim,  bismillah-God  is  merciful,  in  |  the  name  of  God.&quot;