 b"THIS  is  one  of  those  stories  that,  for  reasons  of  honor,  have  had  to  be  suppressed.  'The  principal  characters  are  my  brother  and  I  and  a  brigadier  general,  and  the  plot  con-  cerns  a  bombardment,  blackmail,  and  bribery.  'The  story  can  now  be  told,  be-  cause  the  general,  who  was  responsible  for  the  bombardment  and  for  bribing  my  brother,  has  surely  retired,  or  gone  off  to  whatever  Valhalla  exists  for  gen-  erals,  or  been  elevated,  like  so  many  of  his  confreres,  to  the  presidency  of  some  corporation,  and  my  brother,  who  blackmailed  the  general-  Well,  he  was  only  eight  years  old  at  the  time.  It  was  the  summer  of  1942,  and  our  family  had  made  its  annual  migra-  tion  from  [REDACTED]  to  a  rented  cottage  on  Duxbury  Beach,  some  forty  miles  south  of  the  city.  My  father  came  down  only  on  weekends,  because  of  gas  ra-  tioning;  my  mother  spent  her  days  at  the  cottage  tending  my  infant  sister;  and  my  brother  and  I,  clad  in  bathing  suits  that  had  faded  and  dwindled  into  ragged  loincloths,  roamed  freely  from  morning  until  night.  'The  beach  was  a  sandbar  peninsula  seven  mileslong,  with  the  ocean  on  one  side  and  Dux-  bury  Bay  on  the  other,  and,  except  for  a  few  summer  people  in  the  cottages  near  the  mainland  and  some  Coast  Guardsmen  out  at  Gurnet  Point,  it  was  uninhabited.  A  dirt  road  that  ended  at  the  cottage  colony  and  a  wooden  bridge  that  rambled  across  the  bay  on  piles,  a  mile  farther  along  the  peninsula,  were  the  only  routes  of  access.  On  Saturdays  and  Sundays,  picnickers  came  over  the  bridge  and  spread  themselves  upon  the  sand,  but  during  the  week  the  beach  was  deserted.  Like  all  boys  at  the  seashore,  my  brother  and  I  were  beachcombers.  We  poached  quahogs,  collected  driftwood,  captured  minnows  trapped  in  tidal  pools,  and  filled  gunny  sacks  with  pop  bottles  left  behind  by  picnickers.  But,  above  all  else,  we  considered  ourselves  patriots.  We  salvaged  tinfoil  forthe  war  effort  from  discarded  cigarette  packages,  helped  local  residents  dry  sea  moss  to  collect  nitrates  for  munitions  makers,  and  used  the  pop-bottle  refunds  to  buy  Victory  stamps  at  the  post  office.  In  all  these  endeavors,  our  relationship  was  a  military  one.  Since  I  was  two  years  the  elder,  I  was  a  captain;  my  brother  was  a  trusty  scout.  With  the  country  at  war,  leadership  and  discipline  were  accepted  as  a  matter  of  course,  and  like  a  good  soldier,  my  brother  submitted  to  his  status  without  complaint.  The  war  affected  us  in  many  ways " b"that  summer.  'There  was  a  strict  black-  out  every  night,  and  when  we  went  outside  before  bedtime,  the  unaccus-  tomed  darkness  and  the  profound  sea  made  us  feel  close  and  vulnerable  to  the  conflict.  Wreckage  washed  ashore  from  ships  sunk  by  U-boats,  and  each  day  we  poked  through  fresh  piles  of  debris,  vaguely  aware  that  we  were  examining  the  flotsam  of  catastrophe.  The  grownups  talked  incessantly  of  a  submarine  that  had  surfaced  off  the  shore  during  World  War  I  and  lobbed  a  few  shells  into  the  marshland  behind  the  beach.  Had  the  Germans  been  aim-  ing  at  the  old  cable  station?  Would  they  try  again?  And  would  they  not  send  a  landing  party  this  time?  'The  speculation  of  our  elders  filled  us  with  delicious  tension.  The  tin  cans  my  brother  and  I  were  forever  tossing  into  the  waves  became  submarines,  and  the  rocks  we  threw  at  them  depth  charges,  and  the  constant  vigil  we  maintained  for  flotsam,  pop  bottles,  and  marine  life  took  on  a  new  dimension.  For  now  we  were  patrolling  a  stretch  of  the  coast-  a  strategic  flank  of  the  republic.  IT  was  with  this  lofty  mission  in  mind  that  we  arose  at  sunup  one  week-  day  morning  in  July,  made  ourselves  breakfast,  and,  taking  our  bows  and  arrows,  set  off  along  the  beach  for  our  favorite  position  of  defense,  an  aban-  doned  duck-hunting  camp  that  lay  hid-  den  in  the  dunes  several  miles  beyond  the  old  bridge  and  almost  halfway  out  to  Gurnet  Point.  The  camp  was  a  rambling  frame-and-tar-paper  affair,  upon  which  time  and  the  elements  had  wrought  a  deceptive  camouflage.  Winds  and  winter  storms  had  so  shifted  the  dunes  that  it  was  nearly  buried.  Fox-  tail  and  beach-plum  bushes  had  taken  root  in  sand  covering  the  rooftop,  and  only  in  a  hollow  on  the  leeward  side  was  any  part  of  the  building  visible.  Here  my  brother  and  I  had  torn  away  some  rotted  boards  and  fashioned  an  entrance.  The  interior  of  the  camp  was  cavern-  ous  and  dank.  It  consisted  of  four  rooms,  three  of  which  were  half  filled  with  sand  that  had  sifted  down  through  cracks  in  the  roof.  In  the  largest  room,  there  were  several  bunks  with  mildewed  mattresses,  a  rusted  iron  stove,  some  overturned  chairs,  and  a  long  table.  For  us,  these  were  the  furnishings  of  a  bunker  from  which  we  operated  against  the  foe,  and  on  this  day,  as  on  all  the  others,  my  brother  and  I  played  tire-  lessly  at  the  same  game.  Captain  and  scout,  we  lay  on  the  summit  of  a  high  dune,  waiting  to  ambush  enemy  sabo-  " b"teurs,  who  were  disembarking  from  their  rubber  boats.  When  they  came  into  range,  we  unleashed  a  hail  of  arrows  at  them.  Then  we  retreated  to  the  invisible  fastness  of  our  fort  and  hid  until  they  stumbled,  with  Teutonic  stupidity,  into  our  line  of  fire,  giving  us  an  opportunity  to  decimate  them  with  a  volley  fired  through  apertures  in  the  rotting  planks.  Fierce  struggles  took  place  as  the  last  fanatic  attackers  breached  our  bastion.  It  was  hand-to-hand  for  more  than  an  hour,  and  we  backed  slowly  into  a  cor-  ner,  each  forefinger  a  revolver  that  barked  incessantly.  Suddenly  I  whirled  and  fired  at  a  gigantic  German  who  was  climbing  down  through  a  hole  in  the  roof.  The  Nazi  fell,  draped  grotesque-  ly  over  a  beam.  With  my  jackknife,  I  administered  a  coup  de  grace.  And  then  my  brother  shouted  an  incredible  thing.  'You're  dead!&quot;  he  said  to  me.  &quot;You're  shot!&quot;  It  was  a  forbidden  stage  direction  in  our  game.  I  turned  on  him.  &quot;I'm  not!&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;I'm  only  grazed.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  my  brother  gravely.  'You're  dead.&quot;  I  struck  him.  What  followed  was  the  story  of  all  our  quarrels.  My  brother,  hurt  and  outraged,  began  to  cry,  and,  angry  and  ashamed,  I  called  him  a  crybaby.  &quot;You're  not  a  soldier,&quot;  I  said.  It  was  the  worst  insult  of  all.  &quot;I'm  going  to  tell  Father,&quot;  he  an-  nounced,  weeping.  It  was  a  threat  that  always  restored  the  balance  of  power  between  us.  &quot;I'll  never  take  you  on  patrol  again,&quot;  I  told  him,  but  the  retort  was  uneasy.  &quot;You'll  get  a  spanking,&quot;  my  brother  said.  I  put  my  arm  around  him.  &quot;Here,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  can  use  my  jackknife  in  the  next  battle.&quot;  The  knife  was  a  prized  possession.  My  brother  stopped  crying,  but  he  threw  my  arm  off  his  shoulder  and  walked  away.  Then  he  wiped  his  eyes  and  looked  at  the  knife.  &quot;Why  do  I  always  have  to  be  a  scout?&quot;  he  said  bitterly.  &quot;Why  can't  I  be  a  captain,  too?&quot;  I  was  amazed.  My  brother  had  never  objected  to  his  subordinate  position  be-  fore.  I  told  him  he  was  too  young  and  too  small  to  bea  captain.  &quot;Anyway,  you're  always  running  to  Father,&quot;  I  said  scornfully.  Then,  seeing  that  he  was  about  to  cry  again,  I  offered  to  let  him  use  my  bow  as  well  as  the  knife  for  the  next  battle.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  going  home.&quot;  And  with  that,  he  started  for  the  door-  way-a  doorway  no  longer  clogged " b"with  the  bodies  of  our  dead  enemies.  A  strange  and  terrifying  thing  hap-  pened  next.  My  brother-a  small,  sad  figure-paused  before  going  out  alone  into  the  sunlight.  He  was  hoping  that  I  would  call  him  back,  and  clearly  it  was  up  to  me  to  make  another  overture.  But  before  I  could,  there  was  the  sound  of  a  low-flying  airplane,  and  then  a  tremen-  dous  explosion.  The  floor  shuddered  be-  neath  us.  The  old  beams  quivered.  Sand  |_  and  debris  rained  down  upon  us.  My  brother  ran  to  my  side  and  hid  his  face  against  my  chest.  There  was  another  |  explosion,  and  another,  in  rapid  succes-  |:  sion.  Part  of  the  roof  caved  in,  and  the  air  became  filled  with  the  dust  of  de-  cayed  wood.  We  began  to  choke.  Fi-  nally,  in  blind  panic,  we  groped  our  way  outside  to  the  dunes.  We  were  just  in  time  to  see  a  second  plane.  It  flew  low  over  the  beach,  per-  haps  a  hundred  feet  above  the  water's  edge,  and  as  it  drew  abreast  of  us,  three  objects  dropped  from  the  belly.  Almost  at  once,  three  geysers  of  sand  and  wa-  ter  rose  into  the  air  and  there  were  three  explosions,  which  merged  with  the  noise  of  the  plane  into  a  single  roar.  We  threw  ourselves  upon  the  sand  and  watched  the  plane  disappear  over  Gurnet  Point.  Then  we  heard  an-  other  plane,  and  we  began,  frantically,  to  dig.  No  foxhole  was  ever  dug  faster,  and  no  soldiers  ever  melted  more  gratefully  into  the  earth  than  did  my  brother  and  I.  Hugging  each  other,  we  lay  in  the  cool  sand,  sobbing  yet  fascinated  by  the  roar  of  the  planes  and  the  noise  and  spectacle  of  the  bombs.  From  time  to  time,  we  looked  longingly  down  the  beach  in  the  direction  of  our  cottage,  but  what  we  could  see  there  only  terrified  us  more,  for  the  sand  was  crawling  with  tanks,  trucks,  and  men,  and  an  endless  line  of  vehicles  was  creeping  across  the  old  wooden  bridge.  &quot;Maybe  it's  the  Germans&quot;  my  brother  began,  in  a  quavering  voice,  but  just  then  the  planes  returned  for  an-  other  run,  and  we  pressed  our  faces  into  the  sand.  For  a  long  time  after  the  planes  went  away,  we  remained  in  our  foxhole.  Then  we  got  to  our  feet  and  started  down  the  beach  toward  the  bridge.  There  didn't  seem  to  be  anything  else  to  do.  We  walked  slowly,  holding  hands.  &quot;If  they're  Germans,  will  they  shoot  us?&quot;  my  brother  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;We're  too  small.&quot;  Somehow,  it  was  the  most  comforting  and  tragic  admission  I  had  ever  been  forced  to  make.  As  we  drew  closer  to  the  bridge,  we " b"could  make  out  squads  of  soldiers  run-  ning  to  and  fro  with  sandbags  and  shovels.  A  city  of  tents  was  being  erected  on  the  sand,  and  howitzers  were  being  set  in  place  behind  the  dunes.  At  the  outskirts  of  the  encampment,  we  passed  a  huge  sign  that  bore  the  words  &quot;DANGER-EXPLOSIVES&quot;  and  that  warned  all  unauthorized  persons  to  stay  out  of  an  ordnance  testing  area.  We  knew,  by  now,  that  the  soldiers  were  not  the  enemy  but  our  own.  It  was  a  re-  assuring  revelation,  but  soon  we  had  new  cause  for  anxiety,  for  as  we  entered  the  bivouac  area  a  great  silence  fell  over  that  partof  the  beach.  Drivers  stopped  their  trucks  and  leaned  out  of  the  cabs.  Men  dropped  their  work  to  look.  It  seemed  that  everyone  was  watching  us.  We  walked  even  more  slowly  than  be-  fore,  until  we  came  to  a  large  tent-the  largest  tent  of  all.  A  group  of  officers  was  standing  be-  fore  it.  My  brother  and  I  stopped  some  yards  short,  and  for  a  long  moment  we  faced  the  officers  and  they  faced  us  and  nobody  said  a  word.  Finally,  one  of  them,  a  colonel,  came  forward.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where  have  you  boys  come  from?&quot;  Too  frightened  to  speak,  I  turned  and  pointed  up  the  beach.  The  colonel  laughed,  a  trifle  uneasily.  &quot;Far  up  the  beach?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;'Where  the  bombs  fell,&quot;  said  my  brother  shrilly.  The  colonel  stopped  laughing.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  the  general  will  want  to  hear  about  that.&quot;  Plac-  ing  one  hand  on  my  shoulder  and  one  on  my  brother's,  he  herded  us  gently  toward  the  tent.  It  was  easy  to  know  who  was  the  gen-  eral.  He  was  a  tall  man,  with  gray  hair,  blue  eyes,  a  large  stomach,  and  a  grim  face,  and  he  held  his  hands  on  his  hips  the  way  our  father  did  when  making  up  his  mind  to  mete  out  punishment.  None  of  the  other  officers  had  their  hands  on  their  hips.  The  colonel  saluted  the  general,  and  spoke  in  a  low,  guarded  voice,  turn- " b"ing  as  he  did  so  to  point  up  the  beach.  &quot;Impossible!&quot;  the  general  snapped.  The  colonel  whispered  something  else.  The  general  nodded  curtly  and  looked  down  at  us.  &quot;How'd  you  get  out  there?&quot;  he  demanded,  It  was  more  ac-  cusation  than  question.  &quot;We  walked,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;When?&quot;  'There  was  disbelief  in  the  general's  voice.  &quot;'This  morning!&quot;  my  brother  shout-  ed,  in  a  tone  of  insulted  integrity.  &quot;How  early  this  morning?&quot;  the  gen-  eral  asked.  &quot;When  the  sun  came  up,&quot;  my  broth-  er  replied  triumphantly.  The  general  spun  around  and  glared  at  his  officers.  &quot;Was  this  beach  cleared,  or  not?&quot;  he  demanded.  Several  of  the  officers  protested  that  the  beach  had  been  carefully  searched  by  patrols.  The  general  said  he'd  like  to  know  what  kind  of  search  could  over-  look  two  kids  on  a  narrow  strip  of  sand  and  dunes.  No  one  answered  him.  &quot;A  pretty  goddam  sloppy  search,  gentle-  men!&quot;  the  general  answered  himself.  Then  he  turned  to  us  and  asked  if  we  had  seen  any  patrols.  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;We  were  in  our  fort,&quot;  my  brother  said.  Now  the  colonel  bent  down  and  smiled  at  my  brother.  &quot;What  kind  of  fort?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;It  isn't  a  fort,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  an  old  duck-hunting  camp.&quot;  The  colonel  straightened  and  looked  at  the  general.  &quot;Well,  whatever  it  is,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;it  certainly  isn't  on  the  maps,  sir.&quot;  The  general  shook  his  head  in  dis-  gust.  There  was  a  long  whispered  conference,  and  several  times  I  could  hear  the  colonel  saying  something  about  newspapers,  publicity,  and  investiga-  tions.  Finally,  the  general  called  for  silence  with  an  irritable  wave  of  his  hand.  &quot;Tell  them  to  run  along  home,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Can  we  ride  in  a  jeep?&quot;  asked  my  brother,  who  was  by  now  admiring  the  profusion  of  vehicles  and  equipment.  The  colonel  smiled.  &quot;We're  very  busy,  young  man,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Maybe  we  could  help  dig  dugouts,&quot;  my  brother  suggested.  &quot;You  just  run  along  home  [REDACTED];  the  colonel  said.  &quot;We  want  to  be  soldiers,&quot;  my  brother  persisted.  The  colonel  had  started  to  walk  away,  but  now  heturned  and  looked  at  us.  For  some  moments,  he  was  silent.  Then  he  told  us  that  soldiering  was" b"a  very  serious  business,  and  that  if  we  were  to  become  soldiers  we  would  have  to  keep  secret  everything  we  had  seen  and  heard  out  at  the  duck-  hunting  camp.  We  promised  that  we  would.  The  colonel  went  over  to  the  general,  and  there  was  another  confer-  ence,  during  which  the  general  got  red  in  the  face.  &quot;What  d'you  think  I'm  running  here?&quot;  he  exploded  finally.  &quot;A  combat  exercise  or  a  goddam  country  day  school?&quot;  It  was  hard  to  tell  whom  he  was  speaking  to,  because  he  started  out  addressing  the  colonel  and  wound  up  looking  at  my  brother  and  me.  The  colonel  and  my  brother  and  I  flinched  in  unison.  Then  an  expression  of  deep  hurt  appeared  on  my  brother's  face,  and  it  seemed  as  if  he  were  about  to  cry  again.  &quot;I'm  going  to  tell  Father,&quot;  he  said  softly.  He  was  struggling  for  control,  but  it  was  the  same  tone  of  voice  with  which  he  had  threatened  me  out  at  the  camp.  There  was  a  moment  of  absolute  silence,  broken  only  by  the  cries  of  gulls  wheelingoverhead  and  the  gentle  rumble  of  waves  upon  the  beach.  The  general  turned  slowly  and  looked  down  at  my  brother,  and  I  have  often  thought  since  then  that  if  he  ever  afterward  had  the  occasion  to  demand  the  uncondi-  tional  surrender  of  any  of  the  country's  enemies,  he  was  certainly  a  general  who  understood  the  full  meaning  of  what  he  asked.  There  was  another  conference  with  the  colonel,  who  announced  to  us,  a  few  moments  later,  that  he  would  personally  escort  us  home  and  that  we  would,  indeed,  ride  in  a  jeep.  &quot;Can  I  wear  a  helmet?&quot;  my  brother  asked.  The  colonel  smiled  weakly,  removed  his  helmet,  and  placed  it  upon  my  brother's  head.  The  rim  of  the  helmet  came  down  below  his  mouth.  His  next  words  were  muffled,  but  not  inaudible.  &quot;Can  we  come  back  and  be  soldiers?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Can  the  general  be  sure  you'll  keep  our  secret?&quot;  the  colonel  asked.  He  put  the  question  with  consid-  erable  gravity,  and  my  brother  and  I  gravely  assured  him  of  our  silence.  And  so  our  tongues  were  bound  with  a  seal  of  honor  that  neither  of  us  would  have  dreamed  of  violating.  The  colonel  looked  at  the  general,  who  said  nothing,  but  shut  his  eyes  and  appeared  to  hold  his  breath.  Then  the  colonel  nodded,  and  said  we'd  better  get  started  for  home.  WHEN  we  drove  up  to  the  cottage,  our  mother  was  standing  on  the  porch,  holding  our  baby  sister.  The " b"colonel  and  my  brother  and  I  climbed  out  of  the  jeep  and  advanced  over  the  sand  to  the  porch,  but  before  any  ofus  could  say  anything,  our  mother  said,  &quot;I've  been  worried  about  you.  Where  were  you  during  those  explosions?&quot;  &quot;In  a  bunker,&quot;  my  brother  replied.  &quot;Goodness,&quot;  said  our  mother.  She  looked  at  the  colonel.  &quot;I  hope  the  boys  haven't  been  in  the  way.&quot;  The  colonel  said  with  a  gay  smile  that,  quite  the  contrary,  on  behalf  of  the  officers  and  men  of  the  104th  Infantry  Regiment,  26th  National  Guard  Division,  he  had  come  to  ask  her  permission  to  adopt  us  as  mascots  for  the  duration  of  the  maneuvers.  Our  mother  said  she  thought  that  was  awfully  kind  of  the  officers  and  men  of  the  104th  Infantry  Regiment  and,  since  it  was  almost  lunchtime,  wouldn't  the  colonel  like  to  step  inside  fora  cup  of  coffee  and  a  sandwich!  &quot;We  want  to  eat  with  the  soldiers,&quot;  said  my  brother.  &quot;'That's  right!&quot;  the  colonel  said  im-  mediately.  &quot;All  soldiers  have  to  eat  at  the  mess.&quot;  He  grinned  at  our  mother  and  shifted  his  feet  in  the  sand.  &quot;Aren't  you  lucky  boys?&quot;  our  mother  said  to  us,  beaming.  URING  the  week  that  followed,  my  brother  and  Ilived  all  the  dreams  we  had  ever  played,  and  some  that  we  had  never  even  dreamed.  We  dug  foxholes,  went  out  on  patrol,  waved  signal  flags,  stood  inspection,  and  walked  guard.  Occasionally,  the  sol-  diers  took  us  on  jeep  rides  and  gave  us  equipment.  In  addition  to  the  helmet,  which  was  constantly  on  his  head,  my  brother  wore  a  poplin  shirt  that  reached  almost  to  his  knees,  and  a  cartridge  belt  around  his  waist,  from  which  hung  a  water  canteen,  a  first-aid  kit,  and  an  empty  bayonet  scabbard.  We  saw  the  general  frequently.  He  was  a  ubiquitous  overseer,  making  constant  inspections  and  supervising  even  the  most  routine  operations.  Offi-  cers  and  men  seemed  to  spend  as  much  time  watching  for  and  frantically  sig-  nalling  his  approach  as  they  did  in  pre-  paring  for  the  business  of  war.  My  brother  and  I  shared  the  common  ap-  prehension,  and  whenever  the  general  appeared  in  our  vicinity  we  jumped  to  our  feet  with  the  others,  and  my  broth-  er  always  rendered  him  a  smart  salute.  The  general  never  spoke  to  my  broth-  er,  and  my  brother,  in  turn,  never  spoke  to  him.  But  two  or  three  times  I  saw  the  general  look  in  our  direction  with  a  kind  of  curious  disbelief.  Finally,  the  day  came  when  the  regi- " b"ment  decamped.  The  last  tents  were  struck,  and  a  long  line  of  soldiers  gave  the  beach  a  final  policing.  Then  the  tanks,  trucks,  and  jeeps  were  lined  up  in  a  column,  with  the  general's  jeep,  flying  the  divisional  pennant,  at  the  front.  My  brother  and  I  stood  at  the  end  of  the  bridge,  where  the  column  would  pass,  watching  in  silence  and  sorrow.  At  the  last  moment,  the  colo-  nel  came  and  told  usthat  we  could  keep  all  the  equipment  we  had  acquired.  He  also  reminded  us  that,  being  sol-  diers  and  veterans  now,  we  would  be  bound  to  our  promise  forever.  Then  he  shook  hands  with  us  and  walked  back  and  climbed  into  the  jeep  beside  the  general.  A  moment  later,  there  was  a  shout-  ed  command,  which  was  echoed  down  the  line,  and  the  procession  got  under  way.  When  the  general's  jeep  passed  us,  my  brother  squared  his  shoulders  and  saluted.  The  general,  grim  and  un-  smiling  as  always,  returned  the  salute,  and  for  one  brief  moment  their  eyes  met  in  a  glance  that  seemed  to  signify  understanding  of  each  other's  motives  and  intent.  'Then  the  convoy  rattled  over  theold  wooden  bridge  and  on  to  God  only  knows  how  many  other  beaches.  My  brother  and  I  started  home,  and  as  we  walked  I  put  my  arm  around  his  shoulder.  It  was  not  a  protective  ges-  ture  now,  but  one  of  respect.  Some-  thing  had  changed  between  us,  and  from  that  day  on,  for  the  rest  of  our  childhood,  in  all  our  games  and  en-  terprises,  we  were  partners  of  equal  rank.  "