 b"AS  the  fourth  child  in  a  one-car  fam-  A  ily  subject  to  inertia  and  war-  time  gas  rationing,  I  reached  my  eighteenth  birthday  without  having  learned  how  to  drive.  At  the  time,  this  suited  everyone.  But  when  I  also  reached  my  thirtieth  birthday  without  having  acquired  a  driver's  license,  I  no-  ticed  that  my  friends  and  relatives  were  becoming  less  tolerant  of  my  carefree  state,  and  last  summer,  by  popular  de-  mand,  I  reluctantly  enrolled  in  a  driving  school.  I  chose  the  one  nearest  to  my  apartment,  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  went  around  there  one  Monday  morning.  An  enormous  sign  extolling  the  school's  services  hung  in  the  window.  'The  office  itself  was  slightly  larger  than  the  sign,  but  not  much.  The  manager,  whom  I'll  call  Mr.  Herzog,  sat  behind  a  desk  in  a  glassed-off  corner,  and  there  he  inter-  viewed  prospective  pupils.  I  signed  up  for  eight  one-hour  lessons,  on  Tuesday  and  Thursday  mornings,  and  made  it  clear  that  I  wanted  to  learn  on  a  car  with  as  many  automatic  devices  as  possi-  ble.  Mr.  Herzog  said  that  in  thatcase  j  I'd  better  use  one  of  the  Caddies,  and  that  I  could  start  the  next  morning,  with  Ray.  Ray  was  about  forty-five,  and  looked  like  an  earnest  bouncer  in  a  night  club.  He  had  a  baby-blue  Cadillac  with  dual-  control  brakes,  and  an  extensive  collec-  tion  of  sports  shirts,  which  he  wore  with  tails  out  when  the  weather  was  hot,  tails  in  when  it  was  cool.  He  didn't  waste  time  trying  to  explain  how  the  engine  worked,  but  started  me  driving  ||  immediately.  He  seemed  to  know  his  job.  He  never  had  his  foot  hovering  nervously  over  the  brake.  He  called  me  Miss  Barnes,  except  under  stress,  when  he  addressed  me  as  Honey.  Our  routine  was  to  work  our  way  to  East  End  Ave-  |;  nue,  where  there  wasn't  much  traffic  at  that  time  of  day,  and  where,  not  inci-  dentally,  I  would  be  taking  my  driving  test.  (By  the  time  I'd  had  eight  lessons,  |  I  had  trailed  enough  drivers  taking  their  tests  to  know  exactly  what  would  be  ex-  pected  of  me.)  We  would  drive  around  this  section  for  a  while,  then  down  [REDACTED]  River  Drive,  and  back  to  the  school's  office.  For  the  first  three  lessons,  Ray  and  I  had  very  little  conversation  of  an  extra-  curricular  nature.  I  was  too  busy  trying  to  absorb  the  principles  of  driving,  the  rules  of  traffic,  and  the  unpredictable  habits  of  cabdrivers.  The  only  personal  items  I  picked  up  were  that  Ray  had  a  color-television  set  and  that  he  was  tired  all  the  time.  He  said  he  fell  asleep  look-  ing  at  the  set  practically  every  eve- " b" ning.  He  explained  that  fatigue  was  an  occupational  hazard,  and  that  repairs  on  his  car  were  another-that  each  instruc-  tor  owned  his  own  car  and  was  respon-  sible  for  its  upkeep.  I  bore  this  in  mind.  By  the  fourth  lesson,  I  was  somewhat  less  of  a  menace  at  the  wheel  than  I  had  been,  and  Ray  apparently  felt  that  he  could  talk.  He  held  the  door  open  for  me,  as  usual,  and  adjusted  the  seat.  Then,  as  I  started  the  engine,  he  said  that  he'd  fallen  asleep  over  the  televi-  sion  set  again  the  night  before,  and,  boy,  could  he  usea  cup  of  coffee.  &quot;But  I  never  stop  for  coffee  during  a  lesson,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Never.  A  lot  of  the  instructors  do,  but  not  yours  truly.  We  are  not  sup-  posed  to,  on  the  pupil's  time,  even  if  she  says  it's-  Honey!  How  many  times  I  got  to  tell  you-don't  signal  until  you  are  ready  to  pull  out!&quot;  I  made  sure  I  was  ready  to  pull  out,  then  signalled.  Ray  went  right  on  talk-  ing.  &quot;You  know,  you  are  built  for  driv-  ing,  I  mean  to  say,  tall  and  thin,  and  you  don't  have  to  sit  on  a  whole  lot  of  phone  books  and  things.  Or  have  the  seat  moved  all  the  ways  back.  Why,  there  is  one  lady  I  got  who  must  weigh  three  hundred  pounds.  She  can't  hardly  get  behind  the  wheel.  She  couldn't  of  in  the  old-type  cars.&quot;  I  asked  if  any  men  enrolled  in  the  school.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  some-foreigners,  usual-  ly,&quot;  Ray  said.  &quot;But  mostly  it's  wom-  en.  Take  a  right,  and  make  a  broken  U  turn.  Gorgeous  homes  here.  Reelly  gorgeous.  How  about  that  one  at  the  end?  How  about  it?&quot;  I  said  I'd  been  told  that  the  house  he  admired  belonged  to  a  Greek  shipping  magnate.  &quot;Is  that  right?&quot;  Ray  said.  &quot;One  of  them  shipping  guys.  Boy,  are  they  load-  ed!  Well,  it  just  shows  you  that  you  oughtn't  never  to  lie.&quot;  I  waited  hopefully.  After  a  moment,  Ray  continued.  &quot;I  had  this  former  pupil  once.  Honey!  Theoretically,  you  just  ran  over  some  kid.  For  what  reason  are  you  looking  over  your  left  shoulder?  Anyways,  this  former  pupil  I  had-  a  reelly  lovely  girl,  reelly  gorgeous,  in  fact-she  took  around  forty  lessons.  She  did  not  need  forty  lessons,  you  under-  stand,  but  it  so  happened  she  took  what  you  could  call  a  personal  interest  in  me.  So  one  day  she  said  she  liked  that  house  where  that  rich  Greek  lives,  and  all  of  a  sudden,  not  knowing  what  came  over  me,  I  said-whadda  you  suppose  I  said?-I  said,  'It  so  happens  that  is  where  I  live.&quot;  &quot;  I  asked  if  the  girl  had  believed  him.  &quot;Oh,  she  believed  me,  all  right,&quot;  Ray   " b"said.  &quot;But  me-  Well,  it  was  just  one  of  those  things  that  come  into  your  mind  and  are  no  sooner  said  than  forgotten.  Get  a  load  of  that  cabby!  He  would  not  of  got  away  with  that  if  I  had  been  driving.  Anyways,  after  thisgirl  got  her  license,  I  asked  her  for  a  date.  A  cele-  bration.  We  went  around  together  a  coupla  times,  and  one  night  when  I  said  'How  about  calling  it  an  evening  on  ac-  count  I  got  a  long  drive  home?&quot;  she  said,  'A  long  drive  home?&quot;  I  said,  'Yeah,  I  got  to  get  out  to  the  Island.&quot;  So  she  said,  'Since  when  have  you  moved  out  on  the  Island?&quot;  And  I  said  I  had  not  moved,  and  then  I  remembered.  It  was  a  mess!&quot;  &quot;Didn't  she  laugh?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Ray  said.  &quot;She  had  the  view  that  a  man  who  will  lie  about  little  things  will  also  lie  about  big  things,  and  she  could  not  ever  see  me  again.&quot;  WHEN  I  arrived  for  my  lesson  the  following  Tuesday,  Ray,  doubled  over  and  clutching  his  midsection,  was  crawling  out  of  his  Cadillac.  &quot;Good  morning,  Miss  Barnes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  got  something  the  matter  with  me.&quot;  He  crept  into  the  office  and  over  to  Mr.  Herzog,  who  was  sitting,  as  always,  in  his  glass  corner.  I  was  worried,  but  not  Mr.  Herzog.  He  had  Ray  sit  down,  and  busied  himself  finding  a  substitute  to  give  me  my  lesson.  He  finally  selected  an  instructor  named  Charlie-a  tall,  blond  fellow,  running  slightly  to  fat,  who  had  enormous  baby  hands.  He  wore  a  cream-colored  suit  and  brown-  and-white  shoes.  His  Cadillac  matched  his  suit.  After  I'd  driven  for  a  few  minutes,  Charlie  told  me  I  handled  the  car  like  a  living  doll,  and  I-I  suppose  to  show  that  I  could  drive  and  carry  on  a  con-  versation  simultaneously-started  talk-  ing  about  a  holdup  that  had  taken  place  the  day  before.  A  man's  wallet,  with  ten  thousand  dollars  in  it,  had  been  taken.  I  expressed  surprise  at  the   " b"amount,  and  added  that  I  didn't  know'  anyone  who  carried  more  than,  say,  a  hundred  dollars,  if  that.  &quot;You  don't?  I  do,&quot;  Charlie  said.  &quot;I  always  carry  at  least  five  or  six  hundred  Appropriately  dazzled,  I  kept  a  re-  spectful  silence,  but  I  judged  from  the  way  he  was  looking  at  me  that  he  wanted  me  to  ask  him  why.  I  asked  him.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  never  know  when  you  might  run  into  a  good  used-  car  deal.&quot;  He  went  on  to  tell  me  about  the  difficulties  of  trying  to  buy  used  cars  without  a  roll  of  bills  in  one's  pocket.  &quot;No  one  will  give  you  credit,  and  no  one  will  lend  you  dough,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Like  one  time,  I  owned  roadhouses  in  Cali-  fornia  and  New  Jersey,  and  I  got  in  a  little  financial  trouble.I  paid  off  with  checks,  and  afterward  I  had  to  raise  the  money  to  cover  them.  Guys  were  will-  ing  to  lend  me  money  when  they  saw  I  had  a  lot  of  cash  on  me.  Miss  Barnes,  I  did  not  like  the  way  we  made  that  left-hand  turn.  Why,  one  night  I  raised  tenthou,  just  because  I  had  a  roll  of  C  notes  in  my  pocket  and  this  dame  thought  anyone  with  that  much  moola  on  him  must  be  loaded.&quot;  I  was  impressed,  and  said  so.  'That's  nothing,  believe  me,&quot;  Char-  lie  said.  &quot;A  former  pupil  of  mine-a  society  girl;  you'd  know  her  name  in  a  minute,  if  I  could  only  think-well,  anyway,  we  were  driving  back  to  the  school  after  her  test.  I  told  her  I  figured  she  had  passed  it.  So  when  she  gets  out  of  the  car,  she  reaches  in  her  wallet  and  pulls  out  a  bill.  It  was  a  thou.I  had  figured  her  for  a  C  note.  Park  behind  that  Corvette.  I  noticed  she  did  not  have  her  cheaterson,  so  I  said,  'That's  a  thou  you  just  gave  me.'  And  she  said,  'Oh,  I  thought  it  was  a  hundred.  Boy,  she  must  have  had  a  lot  of  dough  in  that  wallet!&quot;  He  didn't  tell  me  which  bill  he  finally  got,  and  I  didn't  ask.  AY  was  back  in  action  for  my  next  lesson.  I  asked  how  he  felt,  and  he  said  he  was  O.K.  &quot;I  am  telling  you,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  got  the  most  awful  pain,  all  of  a  sudden.  Seat  up  far  enough  for  you?  I  may  say  that  the  boss  was  not  ex-  actly  what  youmight  call  sympathetic  to  me  in  the  least.  He  told  me  to  drive  my-  self  to  Bellevue.  You  know  they  say  you  go  to  Bellevue  to  die.  Well,  by  the  time  anybody  so  much  as  looked  at  me,  the  pain  had  naturally  gone.  The  doe  said  it  was  a  spasm  and  I  should  takethe  rest  of  the  day  off.  &quot;It  was  a  mess,  at  the  school.  A  real " b"mess.  You  had  Charlie,  I  believe?  Which  reminds  me,  I  got  to  talk  to  Charlie.  I  got  this  one  pupil,  this  Mrs.  Morelli,  a  reelly  lovely  lady-easy  on  the  brake-but  very  nervous,  and  does  not  like  any  kind  ortype  of  criticism.  Well,  she  had  Charlie,  too,  and  he  was  all  the  time  after  her  about  her  playing  the  wheel  too  much,  and  in  addition  he  stops  for  a  cup  of  coffee,  which  he  usually  does  and  which  I  personally  do  not  do.  On  the  pupil's  time.  Well,  this  Mrs.  Morelli  did  not  exactly  complain,  but  the  boss  has  a  way  of  getting  things  out  of  people,  and  I  know  Charlie  thinks  she  ratted  on  him  and  I  got  to  explain  to  him  that  she  is  reelly  not  that  type  of  person  at  all.&quot;  As  it  happened,  we  saw  Charlie  up  on  East  End  Avenue.  Ray  flagged  him  down,  and  both  of  them  got  out  of  their  cars  and,  apparently,  had  a  satisfactory  talk  about  Mrs.  Morelli.  Charlie  stood  gazing  up  the  avenue,  nodding  under-  standingly,  one  large  hand  resting  on  Ray's  shoulder.  Then  Ray,  coming  back  to  his  car,  paused  to  watch  a  couple  of  taxis  committing  unpardonable  sins.  This,  to  Ray,  was  the  whole  occupation  of  taxis.  &quot;''Them  cabbies!&quot;  he  said  as  he  got  back  in  the  car.  &quot;The  lousiest  drivers  in  New  York  City!  You  got  to  watch  them  all  the  time.  I  try  to  control  my  temper,  but  at  times  it  is  very  difficult  with  cabbies.  Charlie  won't  take  noth-  ing  from  them,  though.  He  won't  take  nothing  from  aexybody.  If  some  joker  cuts  in  front  of  one  of  his  pupils,  you  know  what  he  does?  He  says,  'Move  over,  babe!'-to  the  pupil-and  he  gets  behind  the  wheel  and  chases  the  guy  and  forces  him  into  the  curb.  Charlie  can  figure  things  to  within  one  inch.&quot;  I  said  that  Charlie  seemed  to  be  quite  a  fellow.  &quot;I  am  telling  you,&quot;  Ray  continued,  &quot;Charlie  is  all  man.  One  hundred  per  cent  a  real  operator-you  know  what  I  mean.  Plays  the  horses,  gambles.  Sometimes,  in  fact,  I  have  to  lend  him  two  or  three  hundred  to  get  through  the  week.&quot;  Snooping,  I  remarked  that  it  wasn't  everyone  who  was  in  a  position  to  lend  someone  two  or  three  hundred  dollars  in  cash  at  any  old  time.  &quot;Oh,  that's  no  problem,&quot;  said  Ray.  &quot;I  always  carry  several  hundred  on  me.  So  the  money  comes  and  goes.  But,  per-  sonally,  I  never  take  money  from  women.  Never.  Charlie  does.  Charlie  strips  a  woman  for  whatever  he  can  get.  [REDACTED]  runs  out  of  his  mouth.  Park  in  back  of  the  blue  Chevy.  Believe  me," b"Miss  Barnes,  this  is  a  glamorous  job.  You  not  only  meet  a  lot  of  beautiful  women,  you  meet  a  lot  of  rich  ones.  There  are  all  kinds  of  ladies  who  have  got  nothing  better  to  do.  Sometimes  they  will  take  driving  lessons  for  four  hours  at  a  stretch.  Of  course,  you  don't  drive  all  that  time.  You  go  out  to  lunch,  things  like  that.  I  play  along.  Am  I  a  fool?  But  I  never  take  money.  Gifts,  yes.  I  have  had  some  lovely  gifts.  For  example,  last  summer  this  lady  I  had  :|  given  lessons  to,  she  presented  me  this  color-  TV  set.  With  a  service  warranty  of  one  year.  Must  of  set  her  back  a  couple  of  bucks.  And  this  other  lady  gave  me  half  this  Caddy.  Go  on  to  the  drive  now,  and  speed  it  up.  I  want  to  tell  you  about  my  eight-o'clock,  this  morning.  A  gorgeous  girl.  Reelly  gor-  geous.  She  was  coming  on  to  the  drive  here,  with  the  traffic  and  all,  and  all  of  a  sudden  she  freezes  on  the  gas.  She  freezes  on  the  gas!  I  had  to  knock  her  foot  away  and  jam  on  thebrake.  We  only  dented  one  fender.  I'm  telling  you,  it's  no  wonder  I'm  so  tired  all  the  time.&quot;"