 b"LARGELY  because  we  moved  about     so  much  and  hence  developed  very  few  really  intimate  friend-  ships  anywhere,  my  family  had,  I  think  (there  were  only  the  three  of  us-my  father,  my  mother,  and  me),  a  rather  closerrelationship  than  most.  We  did  move  about,  all  right.  My  father  started  as  an  apprentice  machinist,  as  his  own  father  and  grandfather  had  been  before  him.  He  wound  up  functioning  as  a  part-time  inventor  and,  alternately,  de-  signer  of  special  machinery-in  a  sense,  an  embryonic  form  of  what  hadn't  then  yet  been  called  an  &quot;efficiency  engi-  neer&quot;  -and  his  work  in  the  latter  capac-  ity  took  him,  and  us,  variously  from  New  Haven  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  to  New  York  and  other  stops,  for  stays  ranging  from  six  or  eight  months  up  to  two  or  three  years,  depending  on  his  commitments.  But  even  before  that  period,  he  had  shown  an  itch  to  wander;  once,  indeed,  when  I  was  around  eight  or  nine  years  old,  he  carried  us  all  the  way  out  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  had  a  fling  at  gold  mining.  I  figured  out,  one  day,  that  I  went  to  ten  different  schools  before  I  settled  down  to  the  comparative  stability  of  col-  lege,  and,  as  a  result,  everywhere  I  went  I  was,  for  a  period  at  least,  the  &quot;new  boy,&quot;  the  outsider.  I  didn't  resent  it  particularly  then,  and  I  still  don't,  though  I've  been  told  by  psychologically  minded  acquaintances  that  the  experience  must  have  scarred  me  for  good.  That  was  just  the  way  life  was,  as  I  understood  it,  and  while  it  did  make  for  stretches  of  loneliness  and  uncertainty,  it  had  its  compensations.  Though  I  never  thought  of  it  at  the  time,  I  can  see  now  that  my  parents,  too,  must  have  felt  a  bit  out  of  things  occa-  sionally.  As  I  say,  I  didn'tnotice  it  then.  A  boy,  after  all,  pays  little  real  attention  to  his  parents'  problems;  parents  are  just  there.  And  both  of  mine  were  natural-  ly  very  gregarious.  My  father  was  al-  ways  striking  up  conversations  with  strangers,  and  bringing  business  friends  home  unexpectedly  for  dinner,  and  al-  though  my  mother  felt  obliged  to  com-  plain  about  this  now  and  then,  she  really  enjoyed  it,  for  she,  too,  liked  company.  In  their  turn,  they  were  invited  out  fair-  ly  frequently,  as  it  seemed  to  me,  and  my  mother,  when  we  stayed  put  any-  where  long  enough  for  her  to  get  in-  volved  in  the  local  doings,  was  an  ardent  clubwoman-and  in  an  era  when  too  much  activity  of  that  sort  on  the  part  of  a  woman  was  regarded  with  some  suspicion;  it  made  her  seem  like  a  suffragette,  which  in  fact  my  mother  was.  But  I  can  see  now  that  underneath  all  their  activity  there  was  a  certain  loneliness  on  theirpart.  The  friends  they  made  were  friends,  more  or  less,  of  passage,  and  I  can  remember  that  my  mother  often  recalled  rather  wistfully  their  early  days  in  New  Haven,  where  she  and  my  father  had  grown  up,  met,  and  married,  and  where,  as  she  put  it,  they  had  &quot;known  just  about  every-  body.&quot;  And-perhaps  the  surest  proof  of  her  need  to  maintain  some  feeling  of  continuity-she  kept  up  what  was  in  the  end  to  become  a  really  enormous  corre-  spondence,  writing  regularly  to  people  she  hadn't  seen  in  years  but  whom  she  had  met  along  our  way,  and  remem-  bered  fondly.  The  result  of  all  this  was  to  bind  us  more  closely  together  as  a  family;  there  were  no  barriers  between  me  and  my  parents,  and  surely  this  was  a  compen-  sation.  We  had  our  private  jokes  and  private  references.  (After  all,  why  wouldn't  we,  when  we  had  journeyed  together  from  New  England  as  far  west  as  [REDACTED]  and  Portland  and  back  again,  and  had  shared  all  sorts  of  adventures  along  the  way?  )  If  others  looked  blank  at  our  tales  of  some  of  them,  we  didn't  care.  We  felt  defiant.  We  were  the  travelled  ones,  the  will-o'-the-wisps,  the  gypsies;  they  were  the  stodgy  stay-at-  homes,  and  if  we  insisted  on  that  difference-possibly,  asI  think  of  it  now,  a  bit  too  obviously-  that  didn't  matter  greatly,  either.  It  only  emphasized  our  own  compactness.  The  fact  was,  we  liked  being  to-  gether.  We  played  games  together:  hearts,  crokinole,  checkers,  parcheesi-  simple  games  like  that-on  the  living-  room  table;  or  my  father  and  mother  would  play  cribbage  or  whistwhile  I  did  my  homework  across  the  table  from  them,  under  the  same  dome-shaped,  colored-glass  &quot;Oriental&quot;  hanging  lamp  that  was  one  ofthe  standard  articles  of  furnitureof  the  time,  and  in  the  same  warm,  enfolding  atmosphere.  ODDLY,  though,  my  sense  of  con-  tinuity  depends  in  great  part  on  the  thinnest  thread  of  all-a  mere  whistled  phrase  of  music  that  was  our  family  &quot;call.&quot;  It  was  our  way  of  signal-  " b"ling  one  to  another  in  a  crowd,  on  the  street  or  elsewhere,  and  I  don't  suppose  many  people  go  in  for  that  sort  of  thing  nowadays;  I  imagine  the  very  noise  of  the  traffic  would  defeat  it.  But  like  the  sound  of  those  personal  motifs  in  Wag-  ner,  heralding  Tristan,or  Wotan,  or  the  Valkyries,  the  sound  of  itstill  means  &quot;family&quot;  to  me.  Our  call  was  simple  enough,  certain-  ly.  To  produce  it,  you  just  started  around  middle  C,  ran  up  swiftly  to  as  high  a  note  as  you  could  reach  conven-  iently,  and  then  trailed  back  down  in  a  slow,  slow,  slow  glissando,  finishing-  if  you  felt  like  it,  and  your  breath  held  out-with  a  little  jog,  or  flourish,  at  the  end.  But  the  effect,  the  swift,  darting  rise  and  the  slow  descent,  always  had,  and  still  has,  for  me  a  certain  poignance.  It  was  like  the  rapid  rise  and  dead  fall  of  a  Fourth  of  July  rocket,  and,  per-  haps  because  of  this  mixture  of  qualities,  the  memories  it  brings  back  are  mixed,  half  exultant  and  half  wistful.  For  one  thing,  my  father,  in  his  ebullience,  always  let  loose  a  blast  or  two,  like  a  steamer  approaching  its  port,  as  he  came  home  in  the  evening  from  wherever  his  shop  or  his  office  happened  to  be  at  the  moment  to  wherever  we  happened  to  be  living.  And  so  the  slight  ||  mournfulness  of  dusk  and  the  day's  end  is  associated  with  it,  as  well  as  a  mixed  but  still  vivid  feeling  of  place-of,  for  instance,  the  planked  sidewalks  and  steep,  sloping,  rutted  dirt  roadway  of  [REDACTED]  Fourth  Street  in  Victor,  Colo-  rado,  where  we  lived  during  part  of  my  father's  gold-mining  phase,  and  the  great  sprawl  of  the  Portland  Mine,  halfway  up  Bull  Mountain,  at  the  head  of  the  street;  of  the  even  hillier,  and  shabbier,  streets  of  the  nearby  town  of  Independence  (another  gold-mining  town,  and  a  wild  one,  where  we  also  lived  fora  while  and  where  there  was  a  cluster  of  saloons  and  dance  halls  at  the  lower  end  of  our  street  and  we  heard  gunfire  regularly,  Saturday  nights);  of  the  neatly  shrubbed  and  wide-lawned  expanse  of  Humboldt  Parkway  in  Buf-  falo.  (We  had  come  East  by  then,  and  were  prosperous.)  I  hear  the  sound  of  this  call  (and  again  it  is  twilight)  coming  up  from  the  trolley  stop  on  Dewey  Avenue  at  the  foot  of  the  playground  of  P.  S.  7,  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  in  high  school  by  that  time,  and  P.  S.  7  was  only  a  grade  school.  But  it  had  a  tennis  court,  and  tennis  was  a  passion  with  my  friends  and  me  at  the  period.  We  would  play  until  it  was  actually  so  dark  that  the  only  way  you  could  see  the  ball  was  by  keeping  your  eyes  fixed  unremittingly  on  it;  if " b"you  looked  away  even  for  a  moment,  it  was  lost  irrecoverably  in  the  darkness.  But  we  played  on  and  on-Bill  Lake-  man,  Charley  Keely,  Ted  Benedict,  others-trying  desperately  to  prolong  the  pleasure  of  the  moment  and  post-  pone  its  passing  until  something  or  someone  stopped  us.  In  my  own  case,  this  was  usually  the  sound  of  our  call.  There  were  a  drugstore,  a  grocery,  and  some  other  small  shops  down  at  the  trolley  corner,  all  of  them  with  their  windows  lighted  against  the  evening.  And  presently  there  would  also  be  my  father,  just  alighted  from  the  trolley  and  barely  distinguishable  in  the  gather-  ing  darkness,  whistling  for  me.  And  I  knew  that,  halfway  down  the  block,  on  Bryan  Street,  was  our  house,  its  lights  on,  too,  by  now,  and  my  mother  maybe  already  setting  the  table  for  dinner.  CC  IME  to  come  in.  Time  for  din-  ner.  Play's  over,&quot;  the  whistle  meant  at  such  times.  But  it  had  its  romantic  connotations,  as  well,  though  these  concerned  me  only  indirectly.  My  father  had  used  it  as  a  signal  to  my  mother  in  their  courting  days,  in  New  Haven.  He  had  had  to,  in  fact,  since  it  seemed  that  throughout  most  of  the  courtship  her  parents  had  disapproved  of  him.  But  here  the  real  facts  of  the  matter  were  obscured  by  that  mixture  of  nostalgic  playfulness  and  affectionate  innuendo  that  is  always  confusing  to  a  child  when  he's  listening  to  grownups;  I  was  never  quite  sure  what  was  true  128  about  the  episode  and  what  was  a  sort  |  |  of  intimate  legendry.  There  was  some  exaggeration,  certainly,  for  once  when  my  father  maintained  that  he  had  ac-  tually  been  forbidden  the  house,  my  mother  denied  it  hotly.  \xc2\xabThat's  not  true,  Fred!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;You  were  always  welcome!&quot;  &quot;Not  as  welcome  as  Charlie  Bruce,&quot;  my  father  said  dryly,  and  that  confused  me  still  further,  for  they'd  often  spoken  of  Charlie  Bruce  as  one  of  their  oldest  friends  in  New  Haven,  and  now  here  he  was  being  suddenly  presented  as  a  rival,  and  hence  presumably  an  enemy.  Didn't  grownups  have  any  permanent  feelings  at  all?  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  my  father  went  on,  turning  to  me.  ''They  were  high-class  people  indeed,  the  David-  sons.&quot;  But  now  he  had  put  on  that  extra  solemnity  that  always  made  me  suspect  he  was  joking.  &quot;They  couldn't  abide  me.&quot;  &quot;That's  not  true,  either!&quot;  my  moth-  er  retorted.  &quot;It  wasn't  you,  and  you  know  it.  It  was  some  of  your  friends  they  objected  to.&quot;  At  this,  my  father  widened  his  eyes  in " b"what  appeared  to  be  utter  astonishment.  &quot;My  friends?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;You  know  what  I  mean,&quot;  my  mother  said.  It  was  then  that  I  learned,  to  my  sur-  prise,  that  my  father  had  been  something  ofa  blade  in  his  younger  days.  In  an  amateur  way,  he  had  even  gone  in  for  boxing-then  a  more  or  less  discredit  able  sport.  He  hadhad  a  gym  fitted  out,  with  a  regulation  ring,  in  the  carriage  house  back  of  his  family's  place,  and  he  and  some  of  his  friends  had  worked  out  there,  swatting  each  other  diligently.  They  had  even  had  a  professional  fight-  er  as  their  trainer,  and  had  backed  him  in  the  ring.  &quot;Growler  Rourke,&quot;  my  father  said,  growing  reminiscent.  &quot;And  a  pretty  good  fighter,too,  if  he'd  been  willing  to  leave  the  bottle  alone.&quot;  &quot;Hmph!  Isn't  that  the  trouble  with  them  all?&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;I  don't  know  about  that.  I  wasn't  such  a  bad  boxer  myself,  dear.&quot;  &quot;As  if  that  was  anything  to  boast  of-fighting!&quot;  she  came  back.  For  my  own  part,  I  was  just  staring  at  him,  and  not  entirely  approvingly,  either.  Kids  at  the  age  I  was  then  are  conservative;  they  don't  want  anything  to  disturb  the  pattern  of  their  universe,  and  this  sudden  picture  of  my  sedate  father  as  a  brawler  was  definitely  dis-  concerting.  &quot;Well,  anyway  ..  .&quot;said  my  father,  and  again  he  turned  to  me.  But  I  real-  ized  he  was  still  talking  to  my  mother,  through  me;  I  was  a  sounding  board,  and  though  I  knew  by  now  that  he  was  teasing  her,  it  still  made  me  a  trifle  un-  comfortable.  &quot;That's  the  reason  I  used  to  standout  on  Dixwell  Avenue  and  whistle.  It  was  the  only  way  I  could  get  hold  of  her.  She'd  come  to  my  whistle.&quot;  &quot;Not  to  your  whistle,  sir!&quot;  my  moth-  er  said.  She  had  flushed,  and  this,  as  quite  possibly  she  knew,  was  far  from  |p  being  to  her  disadvantage.  My  mother  had  that  unusual  combination-dark,  smoldering-dark,  red  hair  and  hazel  eyes.  She  had  a  very  white  skin  as  well,  and  the  light  flush  made  her  look  more  attractive  than  ever.  &quot;I'd  come  to  you,&quot;  she  added,  and  from  the  very  tone  of  her  voice  I  knew  that  everything  was  all  right.  UR  signal-or  what  shall  I  call  it,  our  theme  song,  our  motif?-  saved  me  once,  if  not  from  serious  trouble  at  least  from  something  close  to  it.  That  was  when,  playing  out  on  the  dump  of  my  father's  mine  in  [REDACTED],  I  wandered  too  close  to  the  edge,  slipped   " b"over,  and  then,  for  the  life  of  me,  couldn't  get  back.  I  was  only  about  ten  at  the  time,  and  my  memory  of  the  epi-  sode,  even  aided  by  what  I  was  told  about  it  later,  is  rather  fragmentary.  What  I  do  recall  of  it,  though,  I  re-  member  vividly,  for  I  was  pretty  well  scared.  There  is  something  grim  and  a  little  monstrous  about  a  mine  dump,  it  seems  to  me,  Inherently  ugly-as  matter-of-  factly  ugly  as  its  name-it's  a  kind  of  retching  up  of  the  shattered  rock  fetched  forth  from  inside  the  earth,  and,  how-  ever  barren  the  region  it  lies  in,  it  always  looks  out  of  place  in  the  country-  side.  In  a  sense,  too,  it's  a  monument,  inchoate  but  massive,  to  the  drudgery  of  mining,  forthe  dump,  of  course,  is  the  repository  only  of  the  waste  rock  blasted  and  dug  out  in  the  worming  search  for  the  veins  where  the  ore  lies.  The  ore  is  shipped  elsewhere,  to  be  ground  down,  milled,  and  refined.  The  dump  begins  where  the  shaft  begins,  at  the  first  drilling  down  into  the  earth,  and  it  grows  and  grows  remorse-  lessly  as  the  shaft  goes  deeper  and  the  tunnelling  becomes  more  widespread-  grows,  indeed,  until  finally  it  dwarfs  the  hoist  house,  the  shaft  house,  and  the  other  buildings  that  form  the  visible  evidences  of  a  mine's  underground  workings.  Our  mine  was  only  one  of  many  that  were  scattered  around  the  mountain-  side,  their  dumps  terracing  the  steep  slope.  But  it  was  a  fairly  big  one,  for  it  was  a  subsidiary  of  the  big  Vindicator  Mine,  lyinga  little  way  below  us,  and  my  father  had  merely  leased  it-I  guess  with  the  idea  of  finding  out  what  the  gold-mining  business  was  all  about.  It  was  a  &quot;good  producer,&quot;  though,  as  they  said  out  there-it  had  been  worked  be-  fore,  and  heavily-and  the  dump,  even  when  my  father  took  the  mine  over,  had  grown  large  enough  to  have  a  rickety  little  railway,  tramcar  size,  running  out  along  the  top  of  it,  so  that  the  rock  sent  up  from  the  tunnels  could  be  pushed  out  from  the  shaft  head  and  dumped  at  the  far  end.  All  this--the  dump's  size,  and  the  considerable  length  of  the  track-gave  it  an  appearance  of  solidity,  but  this  was  illusory.  The  dump  looked  mountain-  ous,  but  it  lacked  the  coherence  of  a  mountain.  It  was,  instead,  the  debris  of  a  mountain;  it  was  a  mountain  turned  partly  inside  out-a  pile  of  broken,  up-  rooted  rock  set  down  loosely-and  its  slopes  were  held  in  place  at  their  fixed  angle  not  by  the  binding  actionof  roots  and  vegetation  but  only  by  the  most  deli-  cate  balance  between  their  tendency  to  " b"obey  the  force  of  gravity,  and  start  roll-  ing,  and  their  frictional  resistance  to  it.  This  is  a  condition  thatI've  since  learned  is  called  by  the  pleasant  phrase  &quot;&quot;the  angle  of  repose,&quot;  and  almost  any-  thing-even  the  addition  of  so  small  a  weight  as  mine  was  at  the  time-can  disturb  it.  Though  I  didn't  know  the  name  or  the  facts  of  it,  I  discovered  its  practical  implications  on  the  day  I'm  speaking  of,  when  I  fell,  or  slipped,  over  the  edge  of  the  dump.  I  landed  only  a  few  feet  down,  but  when  I  tried  to  climb  back  up  I  found  that  I  couldn't  make  it.  Whenever  I  moved,  the  moun-  tain  moved  with  me,  but  in  the  opposite  direction;  any  toehold  or  handhold  in  the  loose  rubble  gave  way  instantly  be-  neath  me,  and  the  more  I  tried  to  scram-  ble  up,  the  more  surely  I  slid  down.  Rather  oddly,  I  didn't  cry  out;  even  if  I  had,  no  one  could  have  heard  me  clear  back  at  the  mine  shaft.  Anyway,  something  kept  me  quiet-stubbornness,  perhaps,  or  maybe  the  fact  that  I  wasn't  supposed  to  be  out  there  at  all,  and  felt  guilty.  On  my  visits  to  the  mine,  I  was  supposed  to  stay  close  to  the  buildings  around  the  shaft  head.  The  rest  of  the  experience  has  a  kind  of  nightmare  quality  for  me.  I  had  no  way  of  knowing  if  or  when  a  search  for  me  started,  and  in  fact  it  was  quite  a  little  time  before  one  did.  My  father,  luckily,  was  topside  that  afternoon.  But  he  had  other  things  to  occupy  him,  and  it  was  some  time  before  he  missed  me.  All  I  knew  was  that  I  was  in  trouble,  and  the  trouble  was  worsening.  There  I  was,  clinging  to  that  treacherous  slope,  and  no  matter  what  I  did,  I  got  no-  where-or,  rather,  I  got  nowhere  but  down.  I'd  claw  and  scramble  for  a  while,  but  only  to  slide  farther.  stay  still  for  a  while,  but  that  wasn't  satis-  factory,  either,  for  there  was  something  menacing  about  the  loom  ofthat  faceof  brownish-white  broken  rock.  Inevita-  bly,  I'd  start  scrambling  again.  I  must  have  got  a  good  halfway  down  the  slope  before  I  heard  my  father  alternately  calling  my  name  and  whistling.  It's  a  sign  of  how  deeply  embedded  in  my  consciousness  our  signal  was  that  in-  stead  of  yelling  I  whistled  back.  After  that,  I  was  chiefly  surprised  by  the  commotion  that  ensued.  &quot;My  God!&quot;  my  father  cried-but  in  relief,  not  in  anger  or  reproof-when,  peer-  ing  over  the  edge  of  the  dump,  he  finally  sighted  me.  &quot;Just  stay  there!  Stay  still!&quot;  And  I  did,  while  he  sent  a  man  back  to  the  shaft  house  to  hunt  up  some  rope,  and  then  my  father  slid  down  it.  With  the  man  above  belaying  the  rope,  it  was " b"easy  enough  for  my  father  and  me  to  climb  back.  FOR  along  while,  I  was  of  two  minds  about  the  amount  of  danger  I  had  been  inat  the  time.  On  the  face  of  it,  it  seemed  such  a  trivial  affair-a  mere  false  step  or  two  and  then  a  sliding-  and  I  was  surprised  at  my  father's  evi-  dent  relief  when  I  was  hauled  out.  As  he  told  me  later,  though,  there  were  several  things  that  had  scared  him.  Our  mine  dump  was  only  one  in  the  maze  of  shafts  and  dumps  that  formed  the  Vindicator  workings.  There  was  a  whole  series  of  them,  falling  like  a  frozen,  rocky  cascade  down  the  moun-  tainside,  some  of  them  almost  over-  &quot;  |  piling  each  other.  Worse  than  that,  scat-  tered  in  among  them  were  a  number  of  abandoned  shafts,  some  of  them  dating  back  to  the  district's  prospecting  begin-  nings-mere  holes  in  the  ground,  most  of  them,  but  deep  enough  to  be  danger-  ous,  and,  if  covered  at  all,  only  loosely  boarded  over-and  even  veterans  of  the  region  walked  warily  because  of  them.  Then,  too,  the  day  was  lengthening,  and  I  can  see  now  that  my  father  had  good  reason  to  fear.  And  his  concern,  for  once-for  my  father  was  ordinarily  the  most  outspoken  of  men-made  him  conspiratorial.  &quot;Let's  not  tell  your  mother  about  this,  now,  shall  we?&quot;  he  said  to  me,  when  he'd  got  me  brushed  off  and  on  my  feet  again.  &quot;You  know,  it  would  just  upset  her,  and  now  there's  no  need  for  it.&quot;  I  promised,  and  I  was  the  more  puzzled  when  the  first  thing  he  did}  when  we  got  home  was  to  tell  her  all  about  it,  making  me  out  to  be  something  of  a  hero,  or  at  least  a  Spartan,  into  the  bargain.  &quot;He  didn't  yell,  or  scream,  or  anything,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;If  you'd  just  seen  him,  hanging  on  there-&quot;  &quot;He  shouldn't  have  been  there  in  the  first  place,&quot;  my  mother  said.  But  she  didn't  say  it  sharply,  and  I  gathered  that  she  didn't  mind  really;  maybe  she  was  a  little  bit  proud  of  me,  too."