 b"TRANSLATION  of  a  letter  writ-  ten  by  Alexandros  K  oundouriotis,  Needy  Child  No.  6,511  in  the  records  of  Hope,  Incorporated,  an  inter-  national  charity  with  headquarters  in  New  York.  July,  1959  Dear  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bentley:  Dear  556e6974656420537461746573n  Parents,  first  of  all  I  want  to  inquire  about  your  good  health,  and  then,  if  you  ask  me,  tell  you  that  I  am  keeping  well,  for  which  I  thank  God,  and  hope  that  itis  the  same  with  you.  May  God  keep  you  always  well,  and  grant  you  every  hap-  piness  and  joy.  With  great  eagerness  I  was  looking  forward  again  this  month  to  receiving  a  letter  from  you,  but  un-  fortunately  I  have  again  not  received  one.  So  I  am  worried  about  you,  for  I  am  longing  to  hear  about  you,dear  556e6974656420537461746573n  Parents.  You  show  such  a  great  interest  in  me,  and  every  month  I  receive  your  help.  Over  here  it  is  very  hot  at  this  time  of  the  year,  for  we  are  in  the  heart  of  the  summer.  The  work  out  in  the  fields  is  very  tiring,  as  I  hear  the  older  people  saying.  As  for  me,  when  I  have  no  work  at  home  I  go  down  to  the  seafor  a  swim,  and  enjoy  the  sea  with  my  friends.  For  at  this  time  of  the  year  the  sea  is  lovely.  So  much  for  my  news.  Vacations  con-  tinue,  until  it  is  time  for  the  schools  to  reopen,  when  with  new  strength    and  joy  we  shall  begin  our  lessons  again.  Today  that  I  am  writing  to  you  I  re-  ceived  again  the  $8.00  that  you  sent  me,  for  the  month  of  July,  and  I  thank  you  very  much.  With  this  money  I  shall  buy  whatever  I  need,  and  we  shall  also  buy  some  flour  for  our  bread.  In  closing,  I  send  you  greetings  from  my  granny  and  my  sister,  and  hope  that  my  letter  finds  you  in  good  health  and  joy.  I  shall  be  looking  forward  to  receiving  a  letter  from  you,  to  hear  about  you  and  how  you  are  spending  your  summer.  I  greet  you  with  much  affection.  Your  son,  Alexandros  REPL  Y  from  Kenneth  Bentley,  556e6974656420537461746573n  Parent  No.  4,638.  September  25  Dear  Alexandros:  We  are  all  sorry  that  you  should  worry  about  us  because  you  have  not  received  a  letter  from  us.  Ifear  we  are  not  as  regular  in  writing  as  you  are,  but  the  pretentiously  named  organiza-  tion  which  delivers  our  letters  seems  to  be  very  slow,  they  take  about  three  months  asfar  as  I  can  tell.  Perhaps  they  send  them  by  way  of  4368696e61.  You  describe  the  Greek  summer  very  beautifully.  It  is  autumn  now  in  New  York  City.  The  sad  little  trees  along  the  somewhat  sad  little  street  where  I  live  now  are  turning  yellow,  the  ones  that   are  not  already  dead.  The  pretty  girls  that  walk  along  the  main  streets  are  putting  on  hats  again.  In  New  York  the  main  streets  run  north  and  south  so  that  there  is  usually  a  sunny  side  and  a  shady  side  and  now  people  cross  the  street  to  be  on  the  sunny  side  because  the  sun  is  no  longer  too  warm.  'The  sky  is  very  blue  and  some  evenings  after  I  eat  in  a  luncheonette  or  restaurant  I  walk  a  few  blocks  over  to  [REDACTED]  to  watch  the  boats  and  look  at  [REDACTED],  which  is  another  section  of  this  immense  city.  Mrs.  Bentley  and  I  no  longer  live  together.  I  had  not  intended  to  tell  you  this  but  now  the  sentence  is  typed  and  I  see  no  harm  in  it.  Perhaps  already  you  were  wondering  why  I  am  writing  from  New  York  City  instead  of  from  Green-  wich.  Mrs.  Bentley  and  little  [REDACTED]  and  Richard  all  still  live  in  our  nice  home  in  Greenwich  and  the  last  time  I  saw  them  looked  very  well.  [REDACTED]  now  is  starting  kindergarten  and  was  very  excited  and  will  never  wear  dungarees  or  overalls  any  more  but  insists  on  wearing  dresses  because  that  is  what  makes  little  girls  look  nice,  she  thinks.  This  makes  her  mother  rather  angry,  especially  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays  when  [REDACTED]  plays  mostly  in  the  dirt  with  the  neighbor  children.  Richard  walks  very  well  now  and  does  not  like  his  sister  teasing  him.  As  who  does?  I  go  to  see  them  once  a  week  and  pick  up  my  mail  and  your  last  letter  was  one  of  the  letters  I  picked  up  and  was  delighted  to  read.  Mrs.  Bentley  asked  me  to  an-  swer  it,  which  I  was  delighted  to  do,  because  she  had  written  you  the  last  time.  In  fact  I  do  not  think  she  did,  but  writing  letters  was  one  thing  she  was  not  good  at,  although  it  was  her  idea  for  us  to  subscribe  to  Hope,  Incorporated,  and  I  know  she  loves  you  very  much,  and  was  especially  happy  to  learn  that  you  plan  to  begin  school  with  &quot;new  strength  and  joy.&quot;  There  has  been  much  excitement  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  over  the  visit  of  the  head  of  Soviet  [REDACTED],  Mr.  Khrushchev.  He  is  a  very  talkative  and  self-  confident  man  and  in  meeting  some  of  our  own  talkative  and  self-  confident  politicians  there  has  been  some  friction,  much  of  it  right     " b" on  television  where  everybody  could  see.  My  main  worry  was  that  he  would  be  shot  but  I  don't  think  he  will  be  shot  any  more.  His  being  in  the  country  has  been  a  funny  feeling,  as  if  you  have  swallowed  a  penny,  but  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  people  are  so  anxious  for  peace  that  they  will  put  up  with  small  discomforts  if  there  is  any  chance  it  will  do  any  good.  The  United  [REDACTED],  as  perhaps  you  will  learn  in  school,  was  for  many  years  an  isolated  country  and  there  still  is  a  per-  haps  childish  wish  that  other  nations,  even  though  we  area  great  power,  just  let  us  alone,  and  then  the  sun  will  shine.  That  was  not  a  very  good  paragraph  and  perhaps  the  man  or  woman  who  kindly  translates  these  letters  for  us  will  kindly  omit  it.  I  have  a  cold  in  my  chest  that  mixes  with  a  great  deal  of  cigarette  smoke  and  makes  me  very  confused,  especially  after  I  have  been  sitting  still  for  a  while.  I  am  troubled  because  I  imagine  I  hear  you  asking,  &quot;Then  were  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bentley,  who  sent  me  such  happy  letters  from  [REDACTED],  and  photographs  of  their  children,  and  a  sweater  and  a  jackknife  at  Christmas,  telling  lies?  Why  do  they  not  live  together  any  more?&quot;  I  do  not  wish  you  to  worry.  Perhaps  in  your  own  village  you  have  husbands  and  wives  who  quarrel.  Per-  haps  they  quarrel  but  continue  to  live  together  but  in  [REDACTED]  where  we  have  so  much  plumbing  and  fast  automobiles  and  rapid  highways  we  have  forgotten  how  to  live  with  inconveniences,  al-  though  I  admit  that  my  present  mode  of  life  is  something  of  an  inconvenience  to  me.  Or  perhaps  in  your  schooling,  if  you  keep  at  it,  and  I  hope  you  will,  the  priests  or  nuns  will  have  you  read  the  very  great  Greek  poem  The  [REDACTED],  in  which  the  poet  Homer  tells  of  Helen  who  left  her  husband  to  live  with  [REDACTED]  among  the  Trojans.  It  is  something  like  that  with  the  Bentleys,  except  that  I,  a  man,  have  gone  to  live  among  the  Trojans,  leaving  my  wife  at  home.  I  do  not  know  if  the  [REDACTED]  is  a  part  of  your  schooling,  and  would  be  curious  to  know.  Your  nation  should  be  very  proud  of  producing  masterpieces  which  the  whole  world  can  enjoy.  In  the  United  [REDACTED]  the  great  writers  produce  works  which  people  do  not  enjoy,  be-  cause  they  are  so  depressing  to  read.  But  we  were  not  telling  lies,  Mrs.  Bentley  and  [REDACTED]  and  Richard  and  I  were  very  happy  and  to  a  degree  are  yet.  Please  continue  to  send  us  your  won-  derful  letters,  they  will  go  to  Green-  wich,  and  we  will  all  enjoy  them.  We  will  continue  to  send  you  the  money  for  which  you  say  you  are  grateful,  though  the  money  we  give  you  this  way  is  not  a  fourth  of  the  money  we  used  to  spend  for  alcoholic  drinks.  Not  that  Mrs.  Bentley  and  I  drank  all  these  alcoholic  drinks.  We  had  many  friends  who  helped  us,  most  of  them  very  tedious  people,  although  perhaps  you  would  like  them  more  than  I  do.  Certainly  they  would  like  you  more  than  they  liked  me.  I  am  so  happy  that  you  live  near  the  sea  where  you  can  swim  and  relax  from  the  tiring  work  of  the  fields.  I  was  born  far  inland  in  [REDACTED],  a  thousand  miles  from  any  ocean,  and  did  not  come  to  love  the  sea  until  I  was  grown  up  and  mar-  ried.  So  in  that  sense  you  are  luckier  than  I.  Certainly  to  be  near  the  sea  is  a  great  blessing,  and  I  remember  often  thinking  how  nice  it  was  that  my  own  children  should  know  what  it  was  to  run  on  the  sand  of  the  pretty  though  not  large  beach  at  Greenwich,  and  to  have  that  great  calm  horizon  over  their  shoulders.  Now  I  must  end,  forI  have  agreed  to  take  a  young  woman  out  to  dinner,   a  young  woman  who,  you  will  be  inter-  ested  to  hear,  is  herself  Greek  in  origin,  though  born  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  who  has  much  of  the  beauty  of  your  race.  But  I  have  already  cruelly  burdened  our  trans-  lator.  My  best  wishes  to  your  granny,  who  has  taken  such  good  care  of  you  since  your  mother  died,  and  to  your  sister,  whose  welfare  and  good  health  is  such  a  large  concern  in  your  heart.  Sincerely,  Kenneth  Bentley  [REDACTED]:  In  looking  back  at  the  begin-  ning  of  my  letter  I  see  with  regret  that  I  have  been  unkind  to  the  excellent  organization  which  has  made  possible  our  friendship  with  you,  which  has  pro-  duced  your  fine  letters,  which  we  are  always  happy  to  receive  and  which  we  read  and  reread.  If  we  have  not  written  as  often  as  we  should  have  itis  our  fault  and  we  ask  you  to  forgive  us."