 b"DEar  Sirs:  l  ET  me  begin  by  clearing  up  any  pos-  sible  misconception  in  your  minds,  wherever  you  are.  The  collective  by  which  I  address  you  in  the  title  above  is  neither  patronizing  nor  jocose  but  an  exact  industrial  term  in  use  among  pro-  fessional  thieves.  It  is,  I  am  reliably  given  to  understand,  the  technical  argot  for  those  who  engage  in  your  particular  branch  of  the  boost;  i.e.,  burglars  who  rob  while  the  tenants  are  absent,  in  con-  trast  to  hot-slough  prowlers,  those  who  work  while  the  occupants  are  home.  Since  the  latter  obviously  require  an  au-  dacity  you  do  not  possess,  you  may  per-  haps  suppose  that  I  am  taunting  you  as  socially  inferior.  Far  from  it;  I  merely  draw  an  etymological  distinction,  hoping  that  specialists  and  busy  people  like  you  will  welcome  such  precision  in  a  layman.  Above  all,  disabuse  yourselves  of  any  thought  that  I  propose  to  vent  moral  in-  dignation  at  your  rifling  my  residence,  to  whimper  over  the  loss  of  a  few  objets  d'art,  or  to  shame  you  into  rectitude.  My  object,  rather,  is  to  alert  you  to  an  aspect  or  two  of  the  affair  that  could  have  the  gravest  impli-  cations  for  you,  far  beyond  the  legal  sanc-  tions  society  might  in-  flict.  You  have  unwit-  tingly  set  in  motion  forces  so  malign,  so  vindictive,  that  it  would  be  downright  inhumane  of  me  not  to  warn  you  about  them.Quite  candidly,  fellows,  I  wouldn't  be  in  your  shoes  for  all  the  rice  in  4368696e61.  As  you've  doubtless  forgotten  the  circum-  stances  in  the  press  of  more  recent  depreda-  tions,  permit  me  to  re-  capitulate  them  briefly.  Sometime  on  Saturday  evening,  August  22nd,  while  my  family  and  I  were  dining  at  the  Osteria  dell'  Orso,  in  Rome,  you  jimmied  a  window  of  our  home  in  Bucks  County,  Penn-  sylvania,  and  let  your-  selves  into  the  premises.  Hastening  to  the  at-  tic,  the  temperature  of  which  was  easily  hotter  than  the  Gold  Coast,  you  proceeded  to  mask  the  windows  with  a  fancy  wool  coverlet,  some  khaki  pants,  and  the  like,  and  to  ransack  the  innumerable  boxes  and  barrels  stored  there.  What  you  were  looking  for  (unless  you  make  a  hobby  of  collecting  old  tennis  rackets  and  fly  screens)  eludes  me,  but  to  judge  from  phonograph  records  scattered  about  a  fumed-oak  Victrola,  you  danced  two  tangos  and  a  paso  doble,  which  must  have  been  fairly  enervating  in  that  milieu.  You  then  descended  one  story,  glommed  a  television  set  from  the  music  room-the  only  constructive  feature  of  your  visit,  by  the  way-and,  returning  to  the  ground  floor,  entered  the  mas-  ter  bedroom.  From  the  curio  cabinet  on  its  south  wall  and  the  bureaus  be-  neath,  you  abstracted  seventeen  ivory,  metal,  wood,  and  stone  sculptures  of  Oriental  and  African  origin,  two  snuff  -  boxes,  and  a  jade-handled  magnifying  glass.  Rummaging  through  a  stack  of  drawers  nearby,  you  unearthed  an  antique  French  chess  set  in  ivory  and sandalwood,  which,  along  with  two  box  Kodaks,  you  added  to  your  haul.  Then,  having  wrapped  the  lot  in  an  afghan  my  dog  customarily  slept  on,  you  lammed  out  the  front  door,  con-  siderately  leaving  it  open  for  neighbors  to  discover.  So  much  for  the  tiresome  facts,  as  familiar  to  you,  I'm  sure,  asto  the  con-  stables  and  state  troopers  who  followed  in  your  wake.  The  foregoing,  aided  by  several  clues  I'll  withhold  to  keep  you  on  your  toes,  will  pursue  you  with  a  tenacity  worthy  of  Inspector  Javert,  but  before  they  close  in,  gird  yourselves,  I  repeat,  for  a  vengeance  infinitely  more  pitiless.  Fourteen  of  the  sculptures  you  took  possess  properties  of  a  most  curious  and  terrifying  nature,  as  you  will  ob-  serve  when  your  limbs  begin  to  wither  and  your  hair  falls  out  in  patches.  In  time,  these  minor  manifestations  will  multiply  and  effloresce,  riddling  you  with  frambesia,  the  king's  evil,  sheep  rot,  and  clonic  spasm,  until  your  very  exist-  ence  becomes  a  burden  and  you  cry  out  for  release.  All  this,  though,  is  simply  a  prelude,  a  curtain-raiser,  for  what  en-  sues,  and  I  doubt  whether  any  Occi-  " b"dental  could  accurately  forecast  it.  If,  however,  it  would  help  to  intensify  your  anguish,  I  can  delimit  the  powers  of  a  few  of  the  divinities  you've  affronted  and  describe  the  punishment  they  meted  out  in  one  analogous  instance.  Hold  on  tight.  First  of  all,  the  six  figures  of  the  Buddha  you  heisted-four  Siamese  heads,  a  black  obsidian  statuette  in  the  earth-touching  position,  and  a  large  brass  figure  of  the  Dying  Buddha  on  a  teakwood  base.  Now,  you  probably  share  the  widespread  Western  belief  that  the  Lord  Buddha  is  the  most  com-  passionate  of  the  gods,  much  more  so  than  Jehovah  and  Allah  and  the  rest.  'Fess  up-don't  you?  Well,  ordinarily  he  is,  except  (as  the  Wheel  of  the  Law  specifies)  toward  impious  folk  who  steal,  disturb,  or  maltreat  the  Presence.  Very  peculiar  retribution  indeed  seems  to  overtake  such  jokers.  Eight  or  ten  years  ago,  a  couple  of  French  hoods  stole  a  priceless  Khmer  head  from  the  Mus\xc3\xa9e  Guimet,  in  [REDACTED],  and  a  week  later  crawled  into  the  Salp\xc3\xa9tri\xc3\xa9re  with  un-  mistakable  symptoms  of  leprosy.  Hell's  own  amount  of  chaulmoogra  oil  did  nothing  to  alleviate  their  torment;  they  expired  amid  indescribable  fantods,  imploring  the  Blessed  One  to  forgive  their  desecration.  Any  reputable  French  interne  can  supply  you  with  a  dozen  similar  instances,  and  I'll  presently  re-  count  a  case  out  of  my  own  personal  ex-  perience,  but,  for  the  moment,  let's  resume  our  catalogue.  Whether  the  pair  of  Sudanese  ivory  carvings  you  lifted  really  possess  the  juju  to  turn  your  livers  to  lead,  as  a  dealer  in  Khartoum  assured  me,  I  am  not  com-  petent  to  say.  Likewise  the  ivory  Chi-  nese  female  figure  known  as  a  &quot;doctor  lady&quot;  (provenance  Honan);  a  friend  of  mine  removing  her  from  the  curio  cabinet  for  inspection  was  felled  as  if  by  a  hammer,  but  he  had  previously  drunk  a  quantity  of  applejack.  The  three  In-  dian  brass  deities,  though-Ganesa,  Siva,  and  Krishna-are  an  altogether  different  cup  of  tea.  They  hail  from  Travancore,  a  state  in  the  subcontinent  where  Kali,  the  goddess  of  death,  is  worshipped.  Have  you  ever  heard  of  thuggee?  Nuf  sed....  But  it  is  the  wooden  sculpture  from  Bali,  the  one  representing  two  men  with  their  heads  bent  backward  and  their  bodies  inter-  laced  by  a  fish,  that  I  particularly  call  to  your  attention.  Oddly  enough,  this  is  an  amulet  against  housebreakers,  presented  to  the  mem  and  me  by  a  local  rajah  in  1949.  Inscribed  around  its  base  is  a  charm  in  Balinese,  a  dialect  I  take  it  you  don't  comprehend.  Neither  do   I,  but  the  Tjokorda  Agoeng  was  good  enough  to  translate,  and  I'll  do  as  much  for  you.  Whosoever  violates  our  roof  -  tree,  the  legend  state  s,  can  expect  maximal  sorrow.  The  t  eeth  will  rain  from  his  mouth  like  pebbles,  his  wife  will  make  him  cocu with  fishmongers,  and  a  trolley  car  will  grow  in  his  stomach.  Furthermore-and  this,  to  me,  strikes  an  especially  warming  note-it  shall  avail  the  vandals  naught  to  throw  away  or  dispose  of  their  loot.  'The  cycle  of  disaster  starts  the  moment  they  touch  any  belonging  of  ours,  and  dogs  them  unto  the  forty-fifth  generation.  Sort  of  remorseless,  isn't  it?  Still,  there  it  is.  Now,  you  no  doubt  regard  the  pre-  ceding  as  pap;  you're  tooling  around  full  of  gage  in  your  hot  rods,  gorging  " b"yourselves  on  pizza  and  playing  pinball  in  the  taverns  and  generally  behaving  like  Uber-  menschen.  In  that  case,  listen  to  what  befell  an-  other  wisenheimer  who  tangled  with  our  joss.  A  couple  of  years  back,  I  occupied  a  Village  apartment  whose  outer  staircase  contained  the  type  of  niche  called  a  &quot;coffin  turn.&quot;  In  it  was  a  stone  Tibetan  Buddha  I  had  picked  up  in  Bom-  bay,  and  occasionally,  to  make  merit,  my  wife  and  I  garlanded  it  with  flowers  or  laid  a  few  pennies  in  its  lap.  After  a  while,  we  became  aware  that  the  money  was  disappearing  as  fast  as  we  replenished  it.  Our  suspicions  eventu-  ally  centered,  by  the  process  of  elimination,  on  a  grocer's  boy,  a  thoroughly  bad  hat,  who  delivered  cartons  to  the  people  overhead.  The  more  I  probed  into  this  young  man's  activi-  ties  and  character,  the  less  savory  I  found  him.  I  learned,  for  example,  that  he  made  a  practice  of  yapping  at  dogs  e  encountered  and,  in  winter,  of  sprinkling  salt  on  the  icy  pave-  ment  to  scarify  their  feet.  His  energy  was  prodigious;  sometimes  he  would  be  up  be-  fore  dawn,  clad  as  a  garbage  collector  and  hurling  pails  into  areaways  to  exacerbate  us,  and  there-  after  would  hurry  to  the  Bronx  Zoo  to  grimace  at  the  lions  and  press  cigar  butts  against  their  paws.  Evenings,  he  was  frequently  to  be  seen  at  restaurants  like  Enrico  &amp;  Paglieri's  or  Peter's  Back-  yard  drunkenly  donning  ladies'  hats  and  singing  &quot;O  Sole  Mio.&quot;  In  short,  and  to  borrow  an  arboreal  phrase,  slash  timber.  Well,  the  odious  little  toad  went  along  chivying  animals  and  humans  who  couldn't  retaliate,  and  in  due  course,  as  was  inevitable,  over-  reached  himself.  One  morning,  we  discovered  not  only  that  the  pennies  were  missing  from  the  idol  but  that  a  cigarette  had  been  stubbed  out  in  its  lap.  &quot;Now  he's  bought  it,&quot;  said  my  wife  contentedly.  &quot;No  divinity  will  h  old  still  for  that.  He's  really  asking  for  it.&quot;  And  how  right  she  was.  The  next  time  we  saw  him,  he  was  a  changed  person;  he  ha  d  age  d  thi  rty  years,  and  his  face,  t  he  color  of  tallow,  was  criss-  crossed  with  wrinkles,  as  though  it  h  ad  been  wrapped  in  chicken  wire.  Some  sort  of  nemesis  was  haunting  his  footsteps,  he  told  us  in  a  quavering  voice-either  an  ape  spectre  or  Abe  Spector,  a  process-server,  we  couldn't  determine  which.  His  eye  s  had  the  same  dreadful  rigid  stare  as  Dr.  Grimes-  by  Roylott's  when  he  was  found  be-  fore  his  open  safe  wearing  the  speckled  band.  The  grocery  the  youth  worked  for  soon  tired  of  his  depressing  effect  on  customers,  most  of  whom  were  sufficiently  neurotic  without  the  threat  of  incubi,  and  let  him  go.  The  b  eautiful,  the  satisfying  part  of  his  disintegra-  tion,  however  ,  was  the  masterly  wa  y  the  Buddha  polished  him  off.  Re-  duced  to  beggary,  he  at  last  got  a  job  as  office  boy  to  a  television  producer.  Hi  s  Aubris,  deficiency  of  taste,  and  sadism  carried  him  straightaway  to  the  top.  He  evolved  programs  that  plumbed  new  depths  of  bathos  and  be-  smirched  whole  networks,  and  quickly  superseded  his  bess.  Not  long  ago  ,  I  rode  down  with  him  in  an  elevator  in  Radio  City;  he  was  talking  to  him-  self  thirteen  to  the  dozen  and  smok-  ing  two  cigars  at  once,  clearly  a  man  in  extremis.  &quot;See  that  guy?&quot;  the  opera-  tor  asked  pityingly.  &quot;I  wouldn't  be  " b"in  his  shoes  for  all  the  rice  in  4368696e61.  There's  some  kind  of  a  nemesis  haunt-  ing  his  footsteps.&quot;  However  one  looks  at  it,  therefore,  I'd  say  that  your  horoscope  for  this  au-  tumn  is  the  reverse  of  rosy.  The  inven-  tory  you  acquired  from  me  isn't  going  to  be  easy  to  move;  you  can't  very  well  sidle  up  to  people  on  the  street  and  ask  if  they  want  to  buy  a  hot  Bodhisattva.  Additionally,  since  you're  going  to  be  hors  de  combat  pretty  soon  with  sprue,  yaws,  496e646961  boil,  the  Granville  wilt,  liver  fluke,  bilharziasis,  and  a  host  of  other  complications  of  the  hex  you've  aroused,  you  mustn't  expect  to  be  lion-  ized  socially.  My  advice,  if  you  live  long  enough  to  continue  your  vocation,  is  that  the  next  time  you're  attracted  by  the  exotic,  pass  it  up-it's  nothing  but  a  headache.  And  you  can  count  on  me  to  do  the  same.  Compassionately  yours,  S.  J.  PERELMAN  "