 b"OUR  ideas  of  castles,  formed  in  O  childhood,  are  inflexible,  and  why  try  to  reform  them?  Why  point  out  that  in  a  real  castle  thistles  grow  in  the  courtyard,  and  the  threshold  of  the  ruined  throne  room  is  guardedby  a  nest  of  green  adders?  Here  are  the  keep,  the  drawbridge,  the  battlements  and  towers  that  we  took  with  our  lead  soldiers  when  we  were  down  with  the  chicken  pox.  The  first  castle  was  English,  and  this  one  was  built  by  the  King  of  537061696e  during  an  occupation  of  Tuscany,  but  the  sense  of  imaginative  supremacy-the  heightened  mystery  of  nobility-is  the  same.  Nothing  is  incon-  sequential  here.  It  is  thrilling  to  drink  Martinis  on  the  battlements,  it  is  thrill-  ing  to  bathe  in  the  fountain,  it  is  even  thrilling  to  climb  down  the  stairs  into  the  village  after  supper  and  buy  a  box  of  matches.  The  drawbridge  is  down,  the  double  doors  are  open,  and  early  one  morning  we  see  afamily  crossing  the  moat,  carrying  the  paraphernalia  of  a  picnic.  They  are  Americans.  Nothing  they  can  do  will  quite  conceal  the  touching  ridiculousness,  the  clumsiness  of  the  traveller.  The  father  is  a  tall  young  man,  a  little  stooped,  with  curly  hair  and  fine  white  teeth.  His  wife  is  pretty,  and  they  have  two  sons.  Both  boys  are  armed  with  plastic  machine  guns,  which  were  recently  mailed  to  them  by  their  grandparents.  It  is  Sunday,  bells  are  ringing,  and  who  ever  brought  the  bells  into  4974616c79?  Not  the  vece  in  Florence  but  the  harsh  country  bells  that  bing  and  bang  over  the  olive  groves  and  the  cypress  alleys  in  such  an  alien  discord  that  they  might  have  come  in  the  carts  of  Attila  the  Hun.  This  urgent  jangling  sounds  over  the  last  of  the  antique  fish-  ing  villages-really  one  of  the  last  things  of  its  kind.  The  stairs  of  the  castle  wind  down  into  a  place  that  is  lovely  and  remote.  There  are  no  bus  or  train  con-  nections  to  this  place,  no  pensions  or  hotels,  no  art  schools,  no  tourists  or  souve-  nirs;  there  is  not  even  a  post-  card  for  sale.  The  natives  wear  picturesque  costumes,  sing  at  their  work,  and  haul  up  Greek  vases  in  their  fish-  ing  nets.  It  is  one  of  the  last  places  in  the  world  where  you  can  hear  shepherds'  pipes,  where  beautiful  girls  with  loose  bodices  go  un-  photographed  as  they  carry  baskets  of  fish  on  their  heads,  and  where  serenades  are  sung  after  dark,  Down  the  stairs  come  the  Americans  into  the  village.  The  women  in  black,  on  their  way  to  church,  nod  and  wish  them  good  morn-  ing.  &quot;IZ  poeta,&quot;  they  say,  to  each  other.  Good  morning  to  the  poet,  the  wife  of  the  poet,  and  the  poet's  sons.  Their  courtesy  seems  to  embarrass  the  stran-  ger.  &quot;Why  do  they  call  you  a  poet?&quot;  his  older  son  asks,  but  Father  doesn't  reply.  In  the  piazza  there  is  some  evidence  of  the  fact  that  the  village  is  not  quite  per-  fect.  What  has  been  kept  out  by  its  rough  roads  has  come  in  on  the  air.  The  village  boys  roosting  around  the  foun-  tain  have  their  straw  hats  canted  over  their  foreheads,  and  matchsticks  in  their  teeth,  and  when  they  walk  they  swagger  as  if  they  had  been  born  in  a  saddle,  al-  though  there  is  not  a  saddle  horse  in  the  place.  The  blue-green  beam  of  the  tele-  vision  set  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  has  begun  to  trans-  form  them  from  sailors  into  cowboys,  from  fishermen  into  gangsters,  from  shepherds  into  juvenile  delinquents  and  masters  of  ceremonies,  their  bladders  awash  with  Coca-Cola,  and  this  seems  very  sad  to  the  Americans.  \xc2\xa3  colpae  mic,  thinks  Seton,  the  so-called  poet,  as  he  leads  his  family  through  the  piazza  to  the  quays  where  their  rowboat  is  moored.  The  harbor  is  as  round  as  a  soup  plate,  the  opening  lies  between  two  cliffs,  and  on  the  outermost,  the  seaward  cliff,  stands  the  castle,  with  its  round  towers,  that  the  Setons  have  rented  for  the  sum-  mer.  Regarding  the  nearly  perfect  scene,  Seton  throws  out  his  arms  and  exclaims,  &quot;Jesus,  what  a  spot!&quot;  He  raises  an  umbrella  at  the  stern  of  the  rowboat  for  his  wife,  and  quarrels  with  the  boys  about  where  they  will  sit.  &quot;'You  sit  where  I  tell  you  to  sit,  Tommy!&quot;  he  shouts.  &quot;And  I  don't  want  to  hear  an-  other  word  out  of  you.&quot;  The  boys grumble,  and  there  is  a  burst  of  ma-  chine-gun  fire.  They  put  out  to  seain  a  loud  but  not  an  angry  uproar.  The  bells  are  silent  now,  and  they  can  hear  the  wheezing  of  the  old  church  organ,  its  lungs  rotted  with  sea  fog.  The  inshore  water  is  tepid  and  extraordinarily  dirty,  but  out  past  the  mole  the  water  is  so  clear,  so  finely  colored  that  it  seems  like  a  lighter  element,  and  when  Seton  glimpses  the  shadow  of  their  hull,  drawn  over  the  sand  and  rocks  ten  fathoms  down,  it  seems  that  they  float  on  blue  air.  There  are  thongs  for  oarlocks,  and  Seton  rows  by  standing  in  the  waist  and  putting  his  weight  against  the  oars.  He  thinks  that  he  is  quite  adroit  at  this-  even  picturesque-but  he  would  never,  even  at  a  great  distance,  be  taken  for  an  Italian.  Indeed,  there  is  an  air  of  crimi-  nality,  of  shame  about  the  poor  man.  The  illusion  of  levitation,  the  charm-  ing  tranquillity  of  the  day-crenellated  towers  against  that  blueness  of  sky  that  seems  to  be  a  piece  of  our  conscious-  ness-are  not  enough  to  expunge  his  sense  of  guilt  but  only  to  hold  it  in  sus-  pense.  He  is  a  fraud,  an  impostor,  an  aesthetic  criminal,  and,  sensing  his  feel-  ings,  his  wife  says  gently,  &quot;Don't  worry,  darling,  no  one  will  know,  and  if  they  do  know,  they  won't  care.&quot;  He  is  wor-  ried  because  he  is  not  a  poet,  and  be-  cause  this  perfect  day  is,  in  a  sense,  his  day  of  reckoning.  He  is  not  a  poet  at  all,  and  only  hoped  to  be  better  understood  in  4974616c79  if  he  introduced  himself  as  one.  It  is  a  harmless  imposture-really  an  as-  piration.  He  is  in  4974616c79  only  because  he  wants  to  lead  a  more  illustrious  life,  to  at  least  broaden  his  powers  of  reflection.  He  has  even  thought  of  writing  a  poem-something  about  good  and  evil.  There  are  many  other  boats  on  the  water,  rounding  the  cliff.  All  the  idlers  and  beach  boys  are  out,  bumping  gun-  wales,  pinching  their  girls,  and  loudly  singing  phrases  of  canzone.  They  all  salute  i  poeta.  Around  the  cliff  the  shore  is  steep,  terraced  for  vine-  yards,  and  packed  with  wild  rosemary,  and  here  the  sea  has  beaten  into  the  shore  a  chain  of  sandy  coves.  Seton  heads  for  the  largest  of  these,  and  his  sons  dive  off  the  boat  as  he  approaches  the  beach.  He  lands,  and  un-  loads  the  umbrella  and  the  other  gear.  Everyone  speaks  to  them,  everyone  waves,  and  every-      Egan  one  in  the  village  but  eae:  the  few  churchgoers  is  Gaz  on  the  beach.  The  Setons  " b"are  the  only  strangers.  The  sand  is  a  dark-golden  color,  and  the  sea  shines  like  the  curve  of  a  rainbow  -emerald,  malachite,  sapphire,  and  indigo.  'The  striking  absence  of  vulgarity  and  cen-  soriousness  in  the  scene  moves  Seton  so  that  his  chest  seems  to  fill  up  with  some  fluid  of  appreciation.  This  is  sim-  plicity,  he  thinks,  this  is  beauty,  this  is  the  raw  grace  of  human  nature!  He  swims  in  the  fresh  and  buoyant  water,  and  when  he  has  finished  swimming  he  stretches  out  in  the  sun.  But  now  he  seems  restless,  as  if  he  were  troubled  once  more  about  the  fact  that  he  is  not  a  poet.  And  if  he  is  not  a  poet,  then  what  is  he?  He  is  a  television  writer.  Lying  on  the  sand  of  the  cove,  below  the  castle,  is  the  form  of  a  television  writer.  His  crime  is  that  he  is  the  author  of  an  odious  situation  comedy  called  &quot;The  Best  Family.&quot;  When  it  was  revealed  to  him  that  in  dealing  with  mediocrity  he  was  dealing  not  with  flesh  and  blood  but  with  whole  principalities  and  kingdoms  of  wrongdoing,  he  threw  up  his  job  and  fled  to  4974616c79.  But  now  &quot;The  Best  Fam-  ily&quot;  has  been  leased  by  Italian  televi-  sion-it  is  called  &quot;La  Famiglia  Tosta&quot;  over  here-and  the  asininities  he  has  written  will  ascend  to  the  towers  of  Siena,  will  be  heard  in  the  ancient  streets  of  Florence,  and  will  drift  out  of  the  lobby  of  the  Gritti  Palace  onto  the  Grand  Canal.  This  Sunday  is  his  d\xc3\xa9but,  and  his  sons,  who  are  proud  of  him,  have  spread  the  word  in  the  village.  Poete!  His  sons  have  begun  to  skirmish  with  their  machine  guns.  It  is  a  harrowing  reminder  of  his  past.  The  taint  of  tele-  vision  is  on  their  innocent  shoulders.  While  the  children  of  the  village  sing,  dance,  and  gather  wild  flowers,  his  own  sons  advance  from  rock  to  rock,  pre-  tending  to  kill.  It  is  a  mistake,  and  a  triv-  ial  one,  but  it  flusters  him,  although  he  cannot  bring  himself  to  call  them  to  him  and  try  to  explain  that  their  adroit,  ness  at  imitating  the  cries  and  the  pos-  tures  of  the  dying  may  deepen  an  international  misunderstanding.  'They  are  misunderstood,  and  he  can  see  the  women  wagging  their  heads  at  the  thought  of  a  country  so  barbarous  that  even  little  children  are  given  guns  as  playthings.  Mamma  mia!  One  has  seen  it  all  in  the  movies.  One  would  notdare  walk  on  the  streets  of  New  York  be-  cause  of  gang  warfare,  and  once  you  " b"step  out  of  New  York  you  are  in  a  wil-  derness,  full  of  naked  savages.  The  battle  ends,  they  go  swimming  again,  and  Seton,  who  has  brought  along  some  spearfishing  gear,  for  an  hour  exploresa  rocky  ledge  that  sinks  off  the  tip  ofthe  cove.  He  dives,  and  swims  through  a  school  of  transparent  fish,  and  farther  down,  where  the  water  is  dark  and  cold,  he  sees  a  large  octopus  eye  him  wickedly,  gather  up  its  mem-  bers,  and  slip  into  a  cave  paved  with  white  fowers.  There  at  the  edge  of  the  cave  he  sees  a  Greek  vase,  anamphora.  He  dives  for  it,  feels  the  rough  clay  on  his  fingers,  and  goes  up  for  air.  He  dives  again  and  again,  and  finally  brings  the  vase  triumphantly  into  the  light.  It  is  a  plump  form  with  a  narrow  neck  and  two  small  handles.  The  neck  is  looped  with  a  scarf  of  darker  clay.  It  is  broken  nearly  in  two.  Such  vases,  and  vases  much  finer,  are  often  found  along  that  coast,  and  if  they  are  of  no  value,  they  stand  on  the  shelves  of  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  the  bakery,  and  the  barbershop,  but  the  value  of  this  one  to  Seton  is  inestima-  ble-as  if  the  fact  that  a  television  writer  could  reach  into  the  Mediterranean  and  bring  up  a  Greek  vase  were  a  hopeful  cultural  omen,  proof  of  his  own  worthi-  ness.  He  celebrates  his  find  by  drinking  some  wine,  and  then  itis  time  to  eat.  He  polishes  off  the  bottle  of  wine  with  his  lunch,  and  then,  like  everyone  else  on  the  beach,  lies  down  in  the  shade  and  goes  to  sleep.  UST  after  Seton  had  waked  and  re-  freshed  himself  with  a  swim,  he  saw  the  strangers  coming  around  the  point  in  a  boat-a  Roman  family,  Seton  guessed,  who  had  come  up  to  Tarlonia  for  the  weekend.  There  was  a  father,  a  mother,  and  a  son.  Father  fumbled  clumsily  with  the  oars.  The  pallorof  all  three  of  them,  and  their  attitudes,  set  them  apart  from  the  people  of  the  vil-  lage.  It  was  as  if  they  had  approached  the  cove  from  another  continent.  As  they  came  nearer,  the  woman  could  be  heard  asking  her  husband  to  bring  the  boat  up  on  the  beach.  The  father's  replies  were  short-tem-  pered  and  very  loud.  His  patience  was  exhausted.  It  was  not  easy  to  row  a  boat,  he  said.  It  was  not  as  easy  as  it  looked.  It  was  not  easy  to  land  in  strange  coves  where,  if  a  wind  came  up,the  boat  could  be  dashed  topieces  and  he  would  have  to  buy  the  owner  a  new  boat.  Boats  were  expensive.  This  tirade  seemed  to  em-  barrass  the  mother  and  tire  the  son.  They  were  both  dressed  for  bathing  and  the  father  was  not,  and,  in  his  white  shirt,  he  seemed  to  fit  that  much  less  into  the  halcyon  scene.  The  purple  sea  and  the  graceful  swimmers  only  deepened  his  exasperation,  and,  red-faced  with  worry  and  discomfort,  he  called  out  excited  and  needless  warnings  to  the  swimmers,  fired  questions  at  the  people  on  the  shore  (How  deep  was  the  wa-  ter?  How  safe  was  the  cove?  ),  and  finally  brought  his  boat  in  safely.  Dur-  ing  this  loud  performance,  the  boy  smiled  slyly  at  his  motherand  she  smiled  slyly  back.  They  had  put  up  with  this  forso  many  years!  Would  it  never  end?  Fuming  and  grunting,  the  father  dropped  anchor  in  two  feet  of  water,  and  the  mother  and  the  son  slipped  over  the  gunwales  and  swam  away.  Seton  watched  the  father,  who  took  a  copy  of  IL  Tempo  out  of  his  pocket  and  began  to  read,  but  the  light  was  too  bright.  Then  he  felt  anxiously  in  his  pockets  to  see  if  the  house  keys  and  the  car  keys  had  taken  wing  and  flown  away.  After  this,  he  scraped  a  little  bilge  out  of  the  boat  with  a  can.  Then  he  ex-  amined  the  worn  oar  thongs,  looked  at  his  watch,  tested  the  anchor,  looked  at  his  watch  again,  andexamined  the  sky,  where  there  was  a  single  cloud,  for  signs  of  a  tempest.  Finally,  he  sat  down  and  lit  a  cigarette,  and  his  worries,  flying  in  from  all  points  of  the  compass,  could  be  seen  to  arrive  on  his  brow.  They  had  left  the  hot-water  heater  on  in  Rome!  His  apartment  and  all  his  valuables  were  perhaps  at  that  very  moment  being  de-  stroyed  by  the  explosion.  'The  left  front  tire  on  the  car  was  thin  andhad  prob-  ably  gone  flat,  if  thecar  itself  had  not  been  stolen  by  the  brigands  that  you  found  in  these  remote  fishing  villages.  The  cloud  in  the  west  was  small,  to  be  sure,  but  it  was  the  kind  of  cloud  that  heralded  bad  weather,  and  they  would  be  tossed  mercilessly  by  the  high  waves  on  their  way  back  around  the  point,  and  would  reach  the  persion  (where  they  had  already  paid  for  dinner)  after  all  the  best  cutlets  had  been  eaten  and  the  wine  had  been  drunk.  For  all  he  knew,  the  President  might  have  been  assassi-  nated  in  his  absence,  the  lira  devalued.  The  government  might  have  fallen.  He  suddenly  got  to  his  feet  and  began  to  roar  at  his  wife  and  son.  It  was  time  to  go,  it  was  time  to  go.  Night  was  falling.  A  storm  was  coming.  They  would  be  late  for  dinner.  They  would  get  caught  in  the  heavy  traffic  nearFregene.  They  would  miss  all  the  good  television  pro-  grams.  ...  His  wife  and  his  son  turned  and  swam  back  toward  the  boat,  but  they  took  their  time.  It  was  not  late,  they  knew.  Night  was  not  falling,  and  there  " b'was  no  sign  of  a  storm.  They  would  not  miss  dinner  at  the  persion,  They  knew  from  experience  that  they  would  reach  the  pension  long  before  the  tables  were  set,  but  they  hadno  choice.  They  climbed  aboard  while  the  father  weighed  anchor,  shouted  warnings  to  the  swim-  mers,  and  asked  advice  from  the  shore.  He  finally  got  the  boat  into  the  bay,  and  started  around  the  point.  They  had  just  disappeared  when  one  of  the  beach  boys  climbed  to  the  highest  rock  and  waved  a  red  shirt,  shouting,  &quot;Pesce  cane!  Pesce  cane!&quot;  All  the  swimmers  turned,  howling  with  excite-  ment  and  kicking  up  a  heavy  surf,  and  swam  for  the  shore.  Over  the  bar  where  they  had  been,  one  could  see  the  fin  of  a  shark.  The  alarm  had  been  given  in  time,  and  the  shark  seemed  surly  as  he  cruised  through  the  malachite-colored  water.  The  bathers  lined  the  shore,  pointing  out  the  menace  to  one  another,  and  a  little  child  stood  in  the  shallows  shouting,  &quot;Brutte!  Brutta!  Brutta!&quot;  Then  everyone  cheered  as  down  the  path  came  Mario,  the  best  swimmer  in  the  village,  carrying  a  long  spear  gun.  Mario  worked  as  a  stonemason,  and  for  some  reason-perhaps  his  industrious-  ness-had  never  fitted  into  the  scene.  His  legs  were  too  long  or  too  far  apart,  his  shoulders  were  too  round  or  too  square,  his  hair  was  too  thin,  and  that  luxuriance  of  the  flesh  that  had  been  dealt  out  so  generously  to  the  other  bucks  had  bypassed  poor  Mario,.  His  nakedness  seemed  piteous  and  touching,  like  a  stranger  surprised  in  some  inti-  macy.  He  was  cheered  and  compliment-  ed  as  he  came  through  the  crowd,  but  he  could  not  even  muster  a  nervous  smile,  and,  setting  his  thin  lips,  he  strode  into  the  water  and  swam  to  the  bar.  But  the  shark  had  gone,  and  so  had  most  of  the  sunlight.  The  disenchantment  of  a  dark  beach  moved  the  bathers  to  gather  their  things  and  start  for  home.  No  one  waited  for  Mario;  no  one  seemed  to  care.  He  stood  in  the  dark  water  with  his  spear,  ready  to  take  on  his  shoulders  the  safety  and  welfare  of  the  commu-  nity,  but  they  turned  their  backs  on  him  and  sang  as  they  climbed  the  cliff.  To  hell  with  &quot;La  Famiglia  Tosta,\xe2\x80\x9d  Seton  thought.  To  hell  with  it.  This  was  the  loveliest  hour  of  the  whole  day.  All  kinds  of  pleasure-food,  drink,  and  love-lay  ahead  of  him,  and  he  seemed,  by  the  gathering  shadow,  gently  dis-  engaged  from  his  responsibility  for  tele-  vision,  from  the  charge  of  making  sense  of  his  life,  Now  everything  lay  in  the  dark  and  ample  lap  of  night,  and  the  discourse  was  suspended.  The  stairs  they  took  went  past  the  ramparts  they  had  rented,  which  were  festooned  with  flowers,  and  it  was  on  this  stretch,  from  here  up  to  the  draw-  bridge  and  the  portal,  that  the  triumph  of  the  King,  the  architect,  and  the  stone-  masons  was  most  imposing,  for  one  was  involved  in  the  same  breath  with  mili-  tary  impregnability,  princeliness,  and  beauty.  There  was  no  point,  no  turning,  no  tower  or  battlement  where  these  forces  seemed  separate.  All  the  ram-  parts  were  finely  corniced,  and  at  every  point  where  the  enemy  could  have  been  expected  to  advance,  the  great,eightton  crest  of  the  Christian  King  of  537061696e  proclaimed  theblood,  the  faith,  and  the  good  taste  of  the  defender.  Over  the  main  portal,  the  crest  had  fallen  from  its  fine  setting  of  sea  gods  with  tridents  and  had  crashed  into  the  moat,  but  it  had  landedwith  its  blazonings  upward,  and  the  quarterings,  the  cross,  and  the  marble  draperies  could  be  seen  in  the  water.  Then,  on  the  wall,  among  the  other  legends,  Seton  saw  the  words  &quot;Ameri-  cani,  go  home,  go  home.&quot;  The  writing ' b"was  faint;  it  might  have  been  there  since  the  war,  or  its  faintness  might  be  ac-  counted  for  by  the  fact  that  it  had  been  done  in  haste.  Neither  his  wife  nor  his  children  saw  it,  and  he  stood  aside  while  they  crossed  the  drawbridge  into  the  courtyard,  and  then  he  went  back  to  rub  the  words  out  with  his  fingers.  Oh,  who  could  have  written  it?  He  felt  mystified  and  desolate.  He  had  been  invited  to  come  to  this  strange  country.  The  invi-  tations  had  been  clamorous.  Travel  agencies,  shipping  firms,  airlines,  even  the  Italian  government  itself  had  be-  sought  him  to  give  up  his  comfortable  way  of  life  and  travel  abroad.  He  had  accepted  the  invitations,  he  had  com-  mitted  himself  to  their  hospitality,  and  now  he  was  told,  by  this  ancient  wall,  that  he  was  not  wanted.  He  had  never  before  felt  unwanted.  It  had  never  been  said.  He  had  been  wanted  as  a  baby,  wanted  as  a  young  man,  wanted  as  a  lover,  a  husband  and  father,  wanted  as  a  scriptwriter,  a  raconteur  and  companion.  He  had,  if  anything,  been  wanted  excessively,  and  his  only  worry  had  been  to  spare  him-  self,  to  spread  his  sought-after  charms  with  prudence  and  discretion,  so  that  they  would  do  the  most  good.  He  had  been  wanted  for  golf,  for  tennis,  for  bridge,  for  charades,  for  cocktails,  for  boards  of  management-and  yet  this  rude  and  ancient  wall  addressed  him  as  if  he  were  a  pariah,  a  nameless  beggar,  an  outcast.  He  was  most  deeply  wounded.  ICE  was  stored  in  the  castle  dungeon,  and  Seton  took  his  cocktail  shaker  there,  filled  it,  made  some  Martinis,  and  carried  them  up  to  the  battlements  of  the  highest  tower,  where  his  wife  joined  him  to  watch  the  light  ring  its  changes.  Darkness  was  filling  in  the  honey-  combed  cliffs  of  Tarlonia,  and  while  the  hills  along  the  shore  bore  only  the  most  farfetched  resemblance  to  the  breasts  of  women,  they  calmed  Seton's  feelings  and  stirred  in  him  the  same  deep  tenderness.  &quot;I  might  go  down  to  the  caf\xc3\xa9  after  dinner,&quot;  his  wife  said,  &quot;just  to  see  what  sort  of  a  job  they  did  with  the  dubbing.&quot;  She  did  not  understand  the  strength  of  his  feelings  about  writing  for  televi-  sion;  she  had  never  understood.  He  said  nothing.  He  supposed  that,  seen  at  a  distance,  on  his  battlement,  he  might  have  been  taken  for  what  he  was  not-  a  poet,  a  seasoned  traveller,  a  friend  of  Elsa  Maxwell's,  a  prince  or  a  duke-but  this  world  lying  all  about  him  now  did  not  really  have  the  power  to  elevate  and  change  him.  It  was  only  himself-  the  author  of  &quot;The  Best  Family&quot;  -that  he  had  car-  ried  at  such  inconvenience  and  expense  across  borders  and  over  the  sea.  The  flow-  ery  and  massive  setting  had  not  changed  the  fact  that  he  was  sunburned,  amorous,  hungry,  and  stooped,  and  that  the  rock  he  sat  on,  set  in  its  place  by  the  great  King  of  537061696e,  cut  into  his  rump.  At  dinner,  Clementina,  the  cook,  asked  if  she  might  go  into  the  village  and  see  &quot;La  Famiglia  Tosta.&quot;  The  boys,  of  course,  were  going  with  their  mother.  After  dinner,  Seton  went  back  to  his  tower.  The  fishing  fleet  had  begun  to  go  out  past  the  mole,  their  torches  lighted.  The  moon  rose  and  blazed  so  brightly  on  the  sea  that  the  water  seemed  to  turn,  to  spin  in  the  light.  From  the  village  he  could  hear  the  bel  canto  of  mothers  calling  their  children,  men  calling  their  girls,  and,  from  time  to  time,  a  squack  from  the  television  set.  It  would  all  be  over  in  twenty  minutes,  but  the  sense  of  wrongdoing  in  absentic  made  itself  felt  in  his  bones.  Oh,  how  could  one  stop  the  advance  of  barbarism,  vulgarity,  and  censoriousness?  When  he  saw  the  lights  his  family  carried  coming  up  the  stairs,  he  went  down  to  the  moat  to  meet  them.  They  were  not  alone.  Who  was  with  them?  Who  were  these  figures  ascending?  'The  doctor?  The  mayor?  And  a  little  girl  carrying  glad-  joli.  It  was  a  delegation-and  a  friendly  one,  he  could  tell  by  the  lightness  of  their  voices.  They  had  come  to  praise  him.  &quot;It  was  so  beautiful,  so  comical,  so  true  to  life!&quot;  the  doctor  said.  The  little  girl  gave  him  the  flowers,  and  the  mayor  embraced  him  lightly.  &quot;Oh,  we  thought,  Signore,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that  you  were  merely  a  poet.&quot;"