 b"AUTUMN  is  here,  and  that  newly  A  discovered  affliction  of  ours,  the  Discomfort  Index,  has  been  put  away  until  next  summer  by  the  United  States  Weather  [REDACTED];  but  I'm  still  uncomfortable  from  thinking  about  it.  (I  insist  on  thinking  about  it  as  the  Dis-  comfort  Index,  and  not  as  the  Temper-  ature-Humidity  Index,  the  name  it  is  now  given  by  the  Weather  [REDACTED].)  What  bothers  me,  though,  is  not  the  Index  itself  but  the  arithmetic  used  in  figuring  the  Index  out.  According  to  the  [REDACTED],  this  arith-  metic  is:  Add  up  the  readings  on  the  wet  bulb  and  the  dry  bulb  and  multiply  by  four-tenths  and  add  fifteen.  To  give  an  example,  suppose  the  wet  bulb  and  the  dry  bulb  (and  don't  ask  me  what  those  are;  ask  an  electrician  or  some-  body  )-suppose  the  wet  bulb  and  the  dry  bulb  add  up  to  a  hundred  and  sev-  enty-five,  a  number  please  bear  in  mind.  O.K.,  so  this  number  multiplied  by  four-tenths  is  seventy,  plus  fifteen  is  eighty-five,  and  eighty-five  is  our  Dis-  comfort  Index,  which  is  so  discomfort-  able  everybody  should  go  lie  down.  Now,  the  thing  about  this  that  agonizes  me  is,  why  all  the  multiplying  and  add-  ing?  Why  not  just  forget  them?  Why  not  stop  at  a  hundred  and  seventy-five,  and  why  not  say  this  is  the  Discomfort  Index  and  that,  at  a  hundred  and  seventy-five,  everybody  should  go  lie  down?  After  all,  there  isn't  a  bit  of  scientific  meaning  in  that  other  num-  ber,  eighty-five,  except  in  its  being  high-  er  than  seventy-five  or  sixty-five.  It  doesn't  stand  for  any  unit  of  measure-  ment  at  all-a  point  that  was  made  clear  to  me  while  listening  to  the  radio  on  the  day,  June  1st,  that  the  Index  began.  &quot;And  now  for  the  weather  re-  port!&quot;  I  had  heard  an  announcer  chirp.  &quot;''The  temperature  outside  is  fifty-five  degrees,  the  humidity  is  eighty-one  per  cent,  the  wind  is  fifteen  miles  an  hour,  and  the  Discomfort  Index  is-&quot;  For  one  awful  moment,  the  announcer  had  stood,  apparently,  openmouthed,  and  the  sentence  had  remained  hanging  in  midair,  until  he  managed  to  bring  it  down  with  the  grim  words  &quot;-is  fifty-  eight.&quot;  Period.  IT  was  on  this  same  day  that  I  started  to  feel  uneasy  about  the  Index's  lit-  tle  game  of  multiplying  and  adding.  In  the  hope  of  finding  out  the  why  and  wherefore  of  all  that  arithmetic,  I'd  settled  down  in  a  chaise  longue  with  a  page-one  article  in  the  Times,  &quot;Dis-  comfort  Index  Begins  Today.&quot;  Simul-  taneously,  the  sense  of  uncomfortable-  " b"ness  had  settled  down  on  me.Reading  this  bewildering  story,  I'd  slowly  begun  to  feel  like  a  man  who's  trying  to  find  a  little  green  pea  under  a  trio  of  walnut  shells.  The  story  led  off  with  a  stern  warning  that  all  of  this  multiplying  and  adding  business  wasn't  an  easy  thing  to  master;  it  was  a  complicated  pro-  cedure.  It  is  a  complicated  statement  of  arith-  metical  steps  like  an  epicure's  cooking  recipe,  consisting  of  multiplications,  divi-  sions,  and  subtractions  in  irregular  order.  The  Times,  I  felt,  wassomewhat  over-  stating  the  case,  but  I  was  obviously  in  for  some  heavy  reading.  I  got  up  from  the  chaise  longue,  made  me  some  cof-  fee  (from  which  the  caffeine  had  been  subtracted),  added  a  little  cream  and  a  lump  of  sugar,  and  settled  down  again  with  thecoffee  and  the  Times.  The  complicated  statement  of  arithmetical  steps  turned  out  tobe:  Add  temperature  and  humidity,  multi-  ply  by  0.4  and  add  15.  This  immediately  raises  the  question,  why  0.4  and  15?  What  do  they  stand  for?  &quot;Exactly,&quot;  I  said  to  myself,  taking  a  slow  sip  of  coffee.  &quot;What  do  they  stand  for?&quot;  Actually,  they  stand  for  nothing,  they  are  symbols  of  mathematical  tricks.  The  0.4  and  15  are  what  mathematicians  call  numerical  constants...  single  numbers  that  always  have  only  one  particular  value  in  a  given  case.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  realize  that  the  num-  ber  fifteen  has  only  one  particular  value  in  a  given  case:  fifteen.  I  just  want  to  know,  why  do  we  need  it  anyhow?  Why  do-&quot;  If  one  asked  what  portion  of  the  tem-  perature-humidity  sum  one  would  have  to  take  to  get  a  certain  result...  the  answer  would  be,  take  40  per  cent  and  one  will  always  get  a  result  that  is  15  points  less  than  the  result  desired.  ''To  be  sure,  to  be  sure!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  why\xe2\x80\x943,  This  can  be  stated  in  another  way.  In  the  crude  temperature-humidity  average,  the  sum  of  the  two  readings  was  divided  by  2....  Dividing  by2  is  identical  with  multiplying  by  0.5....  If  one  takes  one-  tenth  less  of  the  sum  (0.4  instead  of  0.5),  the  result  will  always  be  15  points  short  of  the  desired  result.  &quot;Now  see  here!&quot;  I  exclaimed,  striking  the  coffee  table  with  the  flat  of  my  hand  and,  in  doing  so,  spilling  a  good  half  of  the  coffee  on  the  floor;  this  is  identical  to  multiplying  the  coffee  by  five-tenths.  &quot;Al  that  I  want  to  know  l\xe2\x80\x99S\xe2\x80\x94J\xe2\x80\x99  Those  who  are  happiest  doing  things  the  way  they  always  did  them,even  at  the " b"sacrifice  of  time  and  effort,  can  translate  the  new  formula  into  [this]  one:  add  temperature  and  humidity,  divide  by  2.5  and  add  15.  Multiplying  by  0.4  is  the  same  as  dividing  by  2.5.  At  that,  I  threw  the  Times  into  the  wastepaper  basket;  this  is  identical  to  multiplying  the  Times  by  zero,  and  was,  either  way  you  look  at  it,  only  a  tempo-  rary  measure,  for  the  Times  was  back  on  my  doorstep  the  next  morning.  And  that  day  it  was  all  apologies,  too.  &quot;''The  formula  that  was  printed  erred,&quot;  it  said  abjectly.  breath)  the  temperature  and  the  humid-  ity  that  were  to  be  added,  it  was  some-  thing  entirely  different-the  wet  bulb  and  the  dry  bulb.  Here  is  the  correct  formula  for  obtain-  ing  theindex:  Add  the  dry-bulb  reading  to  the  wet-bulb  reading,  Multiply  the  sum  by  0.4  andadd  15,  said  the  Times,  and,  with  me  gibbering,  it  let  the  matter  drop.  In  the  name  of  all  that's  holy,  will  somebody  please  tell  me  why  we  have  to  multifly-I  mean  ply  we  have  to  multiwhy-I  mean  ...  ELL,  it  isn't  unreasonable  to  sup-  pose  that  it  all  began  something  like  this.  The  time  was  a  sunny  after-  noon  in  summer  in  New  York  City.  Two  or  three  clouds,  the  color  of  aged  porcelain,  stood  still  in  the  sky,  and  there  was  a  chance  of  widely  scattered  thun-  dershowers  in  the  early  evening.  At  the  [REDACTED]  Weather  [REDACTED],  on  Battery  Place,  A.  J.  Abernathy,  a  meteorol-  ogist  in  charge,  was  looking  with  no  little  interest  at  a  wet-bulb-and-dry-  bulb  thermometer,  a  kind  of  two-piece  weather  instrument  also  called  a  hy-  grometer  or  an  aspirating  psychrometer,  and  Abernathy's  many  assistants,  such  as  Uncle  Wethbee,  were  busy  in  the  middle  distance,  moistening  the  tips  of  their  fingers  and  raising  them  into  the  wind  with  a  view  to  ascertaining  its  set.  Suddenly,  Abernathy's  brow  was  as  furrowed  as  a  concertina.  &quot;Ill  be  a-  Wethbee!&quot;  he  cried  acrossthe  office.  &quot;Uncle  Wethbee!&quot;  &quot;A.  J.?&quot;  Uncle  Wethbee  said,  and  hurried  over  to  his  superior.  &quot;W  hat  isit  now,  A.  J.?&quot;  &quot;Wethbee,  for  cryingout  loud!&quot;  his  superior  said.  &quot;One  of  these  thermom-  eter  bulbs,  the  goddam  thing  is  wet.&quot;  &quot;Is  thet  all?  It's  something  new,  A.  J.,&quot;  said  Wethbee  reassuringly.  &quot;What  the  gizmo  does,  it  tells  you  how  uncomfortable  everyone  is.&quot;  &quot;How  uncomfortable-?&quot;  &quot;A  wet-bulb  thermometer  and  a  dry-  bulb  thermometer,  I  call  the  thing.  Aspirating  psychrometer,  if  people  ask " b"too  many  questions.  Also  hygrometer.&quot;  &quot;How  uncomfortable-?&quot;  &quot;Look  here,&quot;  said  Wethbee  as  he  wetted  the  bulb  of  the  wet-bulb  ther-  mometer  by  sliding  it,  like  a  postage  stamp,  over  his  tongue.  ''The  dry-bulb  temperature  today  is  seventy-six  point  four.  The  wet-bulb  temperature  is-  hmm,  ninety-eight  point  six.  The  two  of  them  added  together,  and  presto!  A  hundred  and  seventy-five  is  how  un-  comfortable  everyone  is.&quot;  &quot;A-  a  hundred  and  seventy-five!&quot;  said  Abernathy,  thunderstruck  (as  pre-  dicted  earlier).  &quot;Haven't  you  heard  of  the  Smith  Act,  Wethbee?  You  just  can't  say  to  people  they're  a  hundred  and  seventy-five  uncomfortable.  They'll  riot  in  the  streets!  They'll  tread  on  the  fag!  They'll-&quot;  &quot;Jiminy  crickets,  A.  J.!  All  itis  is  a  fool  number,&quot;  said  Wethbee.  &quot;So  what's  the  difference  to  me?  Just  move  the  decimal  point-subtract  a  hun-  dred-divide  it  by  two-&quot;  &quot;Divide  it  by  two!  Confound  it,  this  is  the  twentieth  century,  Wethbee!  Di-  vision  went  out  with  the  horse  and  buggy.  Multiply  it  by  point  five-that's  the  way  we're  going  to  do  it.  Point  one,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  No-point  four,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  It'll  be  good  propa-  ganda  for  the  Technical  Assistance  Pro-  ram.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  your  baby,  A.  J.&quot;  &quot;And  then-then  we've  got  to  add  something,  got  to  be  fair,  you  know.  Let's  see  ..  .&quot;  said  Abernathy.  &quot;Weth-  bee!  You're  an  epicure.  Tell  me  a  good  cooking  recipe.&quot;  &quot;A  cooking  recipe,  A.  J.?&quot;  &quot;Hell,  I've  heard  of  one  myself.  'Fifteen  men  on  a  dead  man's  chest,  yo-ho-ho,  and  a  bottle  of  rum.&quot;  I  think  it's  for  eggnog,&quot;  said  Abernathy,  and,  slamming  his  hand  on  a  table  of  trig-  onometric  functions,  he  said,  &quot;Fifteen  it'll  be.  Multiply  by  point  four  and  add  fifteen.&quot;  &quot;Multiply  by  point  four  and  add  fif-  teen,&quot;  said  Uncle  Wethbee,  throwing  in  the  towel.  &quot;And  what  we're  going  to  call  it  is:  the  Discomfort  Index.&quot;  IVE  me  a  minute  and  Pll  have  more  to  say  about  the  multiplying  and  adding  situation,  including  a  rare  idea  for  enriching  it  with  a  little  sub-  traction.  But  first  I  want  to  digress  a  moment  onto  the  [REDACTED]'s  choice  of  the  name  Discomfort  Index.  The  public's  reaction  to  this,  as  everyone  knows,  was  quite  unfavorable,  especially  in  circles  connected  with  the  New  York  City  Summer  Festival.  There  it  was  argued" b"that  a  would-be  visitor  to  the  Festival  might,  upon  happening  to  learn  of  the  New  York  City  Discomfort  In-  dex,  turn  and  say  to  his  family  some-  thing  like  &quot;Seventy-one  point  four!  Tarnation,  let's  go  to  Lake  Louise!&quot;  Bowing  to  the  public  will,  the  [REDACTED]  now  calls  the  Discomfort  Index  the  Temperature-Humidity  Index,  and  the  [REDACTED]  intends,  after  careful  study,  to  call  it  some  such  thing  as  the  Humitemp,  the  Thermidity,  or-I'm  sorry,  I'm  on-  ly  quoting  from  the  Times-the  Toler-  Rate.  The  Times  and  the  people  at  the  New  York  City  Summer  Festival  seem  to  agree  the  answer  lies  in  calling  it  the  Comfort  Index.  The  trouble  here  is  that  if  there's  one  thing  the  Index  isn't,  it  isn't  a  Comfort  Index.  As  the  Weather  [REDACTED]  has  pointed  out,  with  patient  ob-  stinacy,  the  higher  the  Index  is,  the  higher  the  Discomfort  is.  Thinking  ahead  to  next  summer,  I  should  now  like  to  propose  a  way  out  of  this  nomenclatural  impasse,  basing  it  on  the  catch-as-catch-can  arithmetic  al-  ready  seen  at  use  in  determining  the  Discomfort  Index.  This  happy  solution  of  mine  is  to  call  the  Index  the  Comfort  Index,  thereby  satisfying  everyone  ex-  ceptthe  Weather  [REDACTED],  and  to  make  the  Index-by  the  useof  yet  another,  and  dashingly  clever,  stroke  ofarith-  metic-really  a  Comfort  Index,  there-  by  satisfying  the  [REDACTED],  too.  The  new  arithmetic  is  simply  that  (after  adding  the  wet-  and  the  dry-bulb  temperatures  and  multiplying  by  four-tenths  and  add-  ing  fifteen)  ofsubtractingthe  whole  caboodle  from  one  hundred.  Abracadab-  ra,  it  is  now  a  fact  that  the  higher  the  Index  is,  the  higher  the  Comfort.  At  fifteen-the  former  eighty-five-the  comfort  is  pretty  much  at  rock  bottom,  and  everyone  should  go  to  bed.  At  twenty-five-the  quondam  seventy-  five-it  is  quite  a  bit  better,  thank  you,  and  at  thirty-five  everyone  is  feeling  fine,  except  for  a  few  old  grouches.  A  little  subtraction,  as  deftly  administered  as  a  pinch  of  chives  in  the  vichyssoise,  has  done  the  trick,  spelling  all  the  difference  between  a  D.I.  and  a  C.I.  &quot;It  sure  is  a  nice  day  today,&quot;  George,  the  elevator  man,  will  say  to  us  from  now  on.  &quot;In-  dex  up  in  the  thirties,  and  not  a  cloud  in  the  sky.&quot; "