 b"A  SUMMER  night:  all  night  A  someone  has  been  learning  the  [REDACTED].  &quot;I've  got  it!&quot;  the  dancer  cries.  &quot;I've  got  it,  everybody.  Watch  me,  now!&quot;  But  no  one  is  watching.  'The  dancer  is  alone  in  the  dining  room,  clinging  to  the  handle  of  the  door;  the  rest  of  the  party  is  in  the  living  room,  across  the  hall.  &quot;Watch  me!&quot;  travels  unheard  over  the  quiet  lawn  and  the  silent  lake,  and  then  dissolves.  The  walls  of  the  summer  house  are  thin.  'The  doors  have  been  thrown  back  and  the  windows  pushed  as  high  as  they  will  go.  Young  Irmgard  wakes  up  with  her  braids  undone  and  her  thumb  in  her  mouth.  She  has  been  dreaming  about  her  cousin  Bradley;  about  an  old  sidewalk  with  ribbon  grass  growing  in  the  cracks.  &quot;I've  got  it,&quot;  cried  the  witch  who  had  captured  Jorinda,  and  she  reached  out  so  as  to  catch  Jorindel  and  change  him  into  a  bird.  Poor  Mrs.  Bloodworth  is  learning  to  dance.  She  holds  the  handle  of  the  dining-room  door  and  swivels  her  feet  in  satin  shoes,  but  when  she  lets  go  the  handle,  she  falls  down  flat  on  her  be-  hind  and  stays  that  way,  sitting,  her  hair  all  over  her  face,  her  feet  pointing  up-  ward  in  her  new  shoes.  Earlier,  Mrs.  Bloodworth  was  sitting  that  way,  alone,  when,  squinting  through  her  hair,  she  saw  Irmgard  sitting  in  her  nightgown  on  the  stairs.  &quot;Are  you  watching  the  fun?&quot;  she  said  in  atragic  voice.  &quot;Is  it  really  you,  my  sweet  pet?&quot;  And  she  got  to  her  feet  and  crawled  up  the  stairs  on  her  hands  and  knees  to  kiss  Irmgard  with  ginny  breath.  There  is  prohibition  where  Mrs.  Bloodworth  comes  from.  She  has  come  up  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  party;  she  came  up  for  just  one  weekend  and  never  went  away.  The  party  began  as  a  wedding  in  [REDACTED],  but  it  has  been  days  since  anyone  mentioned  the  bride  and  groom.  The  party  be-  gan  in  [REDACTED],  came  down  to  the  lake,  and  now  has  dwindled  to  five:  Irmgard's  mother  and  father,  Mrs.  Bloodworth,  Mrs.  Bloodworth's  friend  Bill,  and  the  best  man,  who  came  up  forthe  wedding  from  Buffalo.  &quot;Darling  pet,  may  I  always  stay?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Bloodworth,  sobbing,  her  arms  around  Irm-  gard's  mother's  neck.  Why  she  was  sobbing  this  way  nobody  knows;  she  is  always  crying,  dancing,  embracing  her  friends.     In  the  morning  Mrs.  Bloodworth  will  be  found  in  the  hammock  outside.  The  hammock  smells  of  fish,  thepillow  is  stuffed  with  straw;  but  Mrs.  Blood-  worth  cannever  be  made  to  go  to  bed.  Irmgard  inspects  her  up  and  down,  from  left  to  right.  It  isn't  every  morn-  ing  of  the  year  that  you  find  a  large  person  helplessly  asleep.  She  is  still  wear-  ing  her  satin  shoes.  Her  eyeballs  are  covered  with  red  nets.  When  she  wakes  up  she  seems  still  asleep,  until  she  says  stickily,  &quot;I'm  having  a  rotten  time,  I  don't  care  what  anybody  says.&quot;  Irm-  gard  backs  off  and  then  turns  and  runs  along  the  gallery-the  veranda,  Mrs.  Bloodworth  would  say-and  up  the  side  of  the  house  and  into  the  big  kitchen,  where  behind  screen  doors  Mrs.  Queen  and  Germaine  are  drinking  tea.  They  are  drinking  it  in  silence,  for  Germaine  does  not  understand  one  word  of  Eng-  lish  and  Mrs.  Queen  is  certainly  not  going  to  learn  any  French.  Germaine  is  Irmgard's  bonne  d'en-  fant.  They  have  been  together  about  a  century,  and  have  a  history  stuffed  with  pageants,  dangers,  near  escapes.  Ger-  maine  has  been  saving  Irmgard  for  years  and  years;  but  now  Irmgard  is  nearly  eight,  and  there  isn't  much  Ger-  maine  can  do  except  iron  her  summer  dresses  and  braid  her  hair.  'They  know  a  separation  is  near;  and  Irmgard  is  cheeky  now,  as  she  never  was  in  the past;  and  Germaine  pretends  there  have  been  other  children  she  has  liked  just  as  well.  She  sips  her  tea.  Irmgard  drops  heavily  on  her  lap,  joggling  the  cup.  She  will  never  be  given  anything  even  approaching  Germaine's  unmeasured  love  again.  She  leans  heavily  on  her  and  makes  her  spill  her  tea.  Germaine  is  mild  and  simple,  a  little  dull.  You  can  be  rude  and  impertinent  if  neces-  sary,  but  she  must  never  be  teased.  Germaine  remembers  the  day  Irm-  gard  was  kidnapped.  When  she  sees  a  warm  August  morning  likethis  one,  she  remembers  that  thrilling  day.  There  was  a  man  in  a  motorcar  who  wanted  to  buy  Irmgard  ice  cream.  She  got  in  the  car  and  it  started  moving,  and  sud-  denly  there  came  Germaine  running  behind,  with  her  mouth  open  and  her  arms  wide,  and  Molly,  the  collie  they  had  in  those  days,  running  with  her  ears  back  and  her  eyes  slits.  &quot;Stop  for  Mol-  ly!&quot;  Irmgard  suddenly  screamed,  and  she  turned  and  threw  up  all  over  the  man's  coat.  &quot;Le  matin  du  kidnap,&quot;  Germaine  begins  softly.  It  is  a  good  thing  she  is  here  to  recall  the  event,  be-  cause  the  truth  is  that  Irmgard  remem-  bers  nothing  about  that  morning  at  all.  Mrs.  Queen  is  standing  up  beside  the  stove.  She  never  sits  down  to  eat,  because  she  wants  them  to  see  how  she  hasn't  a  minute  to  waste;  she  is  on  the  alert  every  second.  Mrs.  Queen  is  not  happy  down  at  the  lake.  It  is  not  what  she  expected  by  &quot;a  country  place.&quot;  When  she  worked  for  Lady  Partridge  things  were  other-  wise;  you  knew  what  to  expect  by  &quot;a  country  place.&quot;  Mrs.  Queen  came  out  to  [REDACTED]  with  Lady  Partridge.  The  wages  were  low,  and  she  had  no  stomach  for  travel,  but  she  was  devoted  to  Lady  P.  and  to  Ty-Ty  and  Buffy,  the  two  cairns.  The  cairns  died,  be-  cause  of  the  change  of  air,  and  after  Lady  P.  had  buried  them,  she  went  out  to  her  daughter  in  [REDACTED],  leaving  Mrs.  Queen  to  look  after  the  graves.  But  Mrs.  Queen  has  never  taken  to  [REDACTED].  She  can't  get  used  to  it.  She  cannot  get  used  to  a  place  where  the  railway  engines  are  that  size  and  make  that  kind  of  noise,  and  where  the  working  people  are  as  tall  as  anyone  else.  When  Mrs.  Queen  was  interviewing  Irm-  gard's  mother,  to  see  if  Irm-  gard's  mother  would  do,she  said  she  had  never  taken  to  the  place  and  couldn't  promise  a  thing.  The  fancy  might  take     " b"her  any  minute  to  turn  straight  around  andgo  back  to  [REDACTED].  She  had  told  Lady  Partridge  the  same  thing.  &quot;When  was  that,  Mrs.  Queen?&quot;  &quot;In  nineteen  ten,  in  the  spring.&quot;  She  has  never  felt  at  home,  and  never  wants  to,  and  never  will.  If  you  ask  her  why  she  is  unhappy,  she  says  it  is  because  of  Ty-Ty  and  Buffy,  the  cairns;  and  because  this  is  a  paltry  rented  house  and  a  paltry  kitchen;  and  she  is  glad  that  Ty-Ty  and  Buffy  are  peacefully  in  their  graves.  The  party  last  night  kept  Mrs.  Queen  awake.  She  had  to  get  up  out  of  her  uncomfortable  bed  and  let  the  collies  out  of  the  garage.  They  knew  there  was  a  party  somewhere,and  were  barking  like  fools.  She  let  them  out,  she  says,  and  then  spent  some  time  on  the  gallery,  looking  in  the  living-room  win-  dow.  It  was  a  hot,  airless  night.  (She  happens  to  have  the  only  stuffy  room  in  the  house.)  The  party  was  singing  &quot;Little  Joe.&quot;  Apparently,  she  did  not  see  Mrs.  Bloodworth  dancing  and  falling  down;  at  least  she  doesn't  mention  it.  Mrs.  Queen  is  not  going  to  clean  up  the  mess  in  the  living  room.  It  is  not  her  line  of  country.  She  is  sick,  sore,  and  weary.  Germaine  will,  if  asked,  but  just  now  she  is  braiding  Irmgard's  hair.  Eat-  ing  toast,  Irmgard  leans  comfortably  against  Germaine.  They  are  perfectly  comfortable  with  each  other,  but  Mrs.  Queen  is  crying  overby  the  stove.  IRMGARD\xe2\x80\x99S  cousin  Bradley  went  back  to  [REDACTED]  yesterday.  She  should  be  missing  him,  but  he  has  vanished,  fallen  out  of  summer  like  a  stone.  He  got  on  the  train  covered  with  bits  of  tape  and  lotion,  and  with  a  patch  on  one  eye.  Bradley  had  a  terrible  summer.  He  got  poison  ivy,  in  July,  before  coming  here.  In  August,  he  grew  a  sty,  which  became  infected,  and  then  he  strained  his  right  arm.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  your  mother  will  say,&quot;  Irmgard's  mother  said.  At  this,  after  a  whole  summer  of  being  without  them,  Bradley  suddenly  re-  membered  he  had  a  father  and  mother,  and  started  to  cry.  Bradley  is  ten,  but  tall  as  eleven.  He  and  Irmgard  have  the  same  look-healthy  and  stubborn,  like  well-fed,  intelligent  mice.  They  often  stare  in  the  mirror,  side  by  side,  positively  blown  up  with  admiration.  But  Bradley  is  superior  to  Irmgard  in  every  way.  When  you  ask  him  what  he  wants  to  be,  he  says  straight  off,  &quot;A  mechanical  and  electrical  engineer,&quot;  whereas  Irmgard  is  still  hesitating  be-  tween  a  veterinary  and  a  nun.  &quot;Have  you  dropped  Freddy  now  that  Bradley  is  here?&quot;  It  seems  that  she  was  asked  that  a  number  of  times.  &quot;Oh,  I  still  like  Freddy,  but  Bradley's  my  cousin  and  everything.&quot;  This  is  a  good  answer.  She  has  others,  such  as,  &quot;I'm  English-Canadian  only  I  can  talk  French  and  I'm  German  descent  on  one  side.&quot;  (Bradley  is  not  required  to  think  of  answers;  he  is  American,  and  that  does.  But  in  [REDACTED]  you  have  to  keep  saying  what  you  are.)  Irmgard's  answer-about  Freddy-lies  on  the  lawn  like  an  old  skipping  rope,  wait-  ing  to  catch  her  up.  &quot;Watch  me,&quot;  poor  Mrs.  Bloodworth  said,  but  nobody  cared,  and  thecry  dissolved.  &quot;I  like  Freddy,&quot;  Irmgard  said,  and  was  heard,  and  the  statement  is  there,  underfoot.  For  if  she  still  likes  Freddy,  why  isn't  he  here?  Freddy's  real  name  is  Alfred  Marcel  Dufresne.  He  has  nine  sisters  and  broth-  ers,  but  doesn't  know  where  they  are.  In  winter  he  lives  in  an  orphanage  in  [REDACTED].  He  used  to  live  there  all  the  year  round,  but  now  that  he  is  over  seven,  old  enough  to  work,  he  spends  the  summer  with  his  uncle,  who  has  a  farm  about  two  miles  back  from  the  lake.  Freddy  is  nearly  Irmgard's  age,  but  smaller,  lighter  on  his  feet  .  He  looks     a  tiny  six.  When  he  comes  to  lunch  with  Irmgard,  which  they  have  out  in  the  kitchen  with  Germaine,  everything  has  to  be  cut  on  his  plate.  He  has  never  eaten  with  anything  but  a  spoon.  His  chin  rests  on  the  edge  of  the  table.  When  he  is  eating,  you  see  nothing  ex-  cept  his  blue  eyes,  his  curly  dirty  hair,  and  his  hand  around  the  bowl  of  the  spoon.  Once,  Germaine  said  calmly,  uncritically,  &quot;You  eat  just  like  a  pig,&quot;  and  Freddy  repeated  in  the  tone  she  had  used,  &quot;comme  un  cochon,&quot;  as  ifit  were  astonishing  that  someone  had,  at  last,  discovered  the  right  words.  Freddy  cannot  eat,  or  read,  or  write,  or  sing,  or  swim.  He  has  never  seen  paints  and  books,  except  Irmgard's;  he  has  never  been  an  imaginary  person,  never  played.  It  was  Irmgard  who  taught  him  how  to  swim.  He  crosses  himself  before  he  goes  in  the  water,  and  looks  down  at  his  wet  feet,  frowning-  a  worried  mosquito-but  he  does  every-  thing  she  says.  The  point  of  their  friend-  ship  is  that  she  doesn't  have  to  say  much.  They  can  read  each  other's  thoughts.  When  Freddy  wants  to  speak,  Irmgard     " b"tells  him  what  he  wants  to  say,  and  Freddy  stands  there,  mute  as  an  animal,  grave,  nodding,  at  ease.  He  does  not  know  the  names  offlowers,  and  does  not  distinguish  between  the  colors  green  and  blue,  'The  apparitions  of  the  Virgin,  which  are  commonplace,  take  place  against  a  heaven  he  says  is  &quot;wert.&quot;  Now,  Bradley  has  never  had  a  vision,  and  if  he  did  he  wouldn't  know  what  it  was.  He  has  no  trouble  explaining  any-  thing.  He  says,  &quot;Well,  this  is  the  way  it  is,&quot;  and  then  says.  He  counts  eight  beats  when  he  swims,  and  once  saved  Irmgard's  life-at  least  he  says  he  did.  He  says  he  held  on  to  her  braids  until  someone  came  by  in  a  boat.  No  one  re-  members  it  but  Bradley;  it  is  a  myth  now,  like  the  matin  du  kidnap.  This  year,  Bradley  arrived  at  the  beginning  of  August.  He  had  spent  July  in  Ver-  mont,  where  he  took  tennis  lessons  and  got  poison  ivy.  He  was  even  taller  than  the  year  before,  and  he  got  down  from  the  train  with  pink  lotion  all  over  his  sores  and,  under  his  arm,  a  tennis  racket  in  a  press.  &quot;What  a  little  stock-  broker  Bradley  is,&quot;  Irmgard  heard  her  mother  say  later  on;but  Mrs.  Queen  declared  that  his  manners  left  nothing  wanting.  Bradley  put  all  his  own  things  away  and  set  out  his  toothbrush  in  a  Mickey  Mouse  glass  he  travelled  with.  Then  he  came  down,  ready  to  swim,  with  his  hair  water-combed.  Irmgard  was  there,  on  the  gallery,  and  so  was  Freddy,  hanging  on  the  outside  of  the  railings,  his  face  poked  into  the  morning-glory  vines.  He  thrusts  his  face  between  the  leaves,  and  grins,  and  shows  the  gaps  in  his  teeth.  &quot;How  small  he  is!  Do  you  play  with  him?&quot;  says  Bradley,  neu-  trally.  Bradley  is  after  information.  He  needs  to  know  the  rules.  But  if  he  had  been  sure  about  Freddy,  if  he  had  seen  right  away  that  they  could  play  with  Freddy,  he  would  neverhave  asked.  And  Irmgard  replies,  &quot;No,  I  don't,&quot;  and  turns  her  back.  Just  so,  on  her  bicycle,  coasting  downhill,  she  has  lost  control  and  closed  her  eyes  to  avoid  seeing  her  own  disaster.  Dizzily,  she  says,  &quot;No,  I  don't,&quot;  and  hopes  Freddy  will  disappear.  But  Freddy  continues  to  hang  on,  his  face  thrust  among  the  leaves,  until  Bradley,  quite  puzzled  now,  says,  &quot;Well,  is  he  a  friend  of  yours,  or  what?&quot;  and  Irmgard  again  says,  &quot;No.&quot;  Eventually,  that  day  or  the  next  day,  or  one  day  of  August,  she  notices  Fred-  dy  has  gone.  Freddy  has  vanished;  but  Bradley  gives  her  a  poor  return.  He  has  thetennis  racket,  and  does  nothing  ex-  cept  practice  against  thehouse.  Irmgard  has  to  chase  the  balls.  He  practices  until  his  arm  is  sore,  and  then  he  is  pleased  and  says  he  has  tennis  arm.  Ever  ybody  bot  hers  him.  The  dogs  go  after  the  balls  and  have  to  be  shut  up  in  t  he  garage.  &quot;Call  the  dogs!&quot;  he  implores.  'This  is  Bradley's  voice,  ov  er  the  lake,  across  the  shrinking  afternoons.  &quot;Please,  some-  body,  call  the  dogs!&quot;  Freddy  is  f  orgotten  ,  but  Irmgard  thinks  she  has  left  someth  ing  in  Mont-  rea  l.  She  g  oes  over  the  things  in  her  personal  suitcase.  Once,  she  got  u  p  in  the  night  to  see  if  her  paintbox  was  there-if  that  hadn't  bee  n  left  in  Mont-  real.  But  the  paintbox  was  there.  Some-  thing  else  must  be  missing.  She  go  es  ove  r  the  list  again.  &quot;'The  fact  is,&quot;  Bradley  said,  a  few  d  ays  ago,  dab  bing  pink  lotion  on  his  poison  i  vy,  &quot;  I  don  't  r  eally  play  with  any  girls  now.  So  unle  ss  you  get  a  brother  or  something,  I  probably  won't  come  again.&quot;  Even  with  lotion  all  over  his  legs  he  looks  splendid.  He  and  Irmgard  stand  side  by  side  in  front  of  the  bath-  room  looking  glass,  and  admire.  She  sucks  in  her  cheeks.  He  peers  athis  sty.  &quot;My  mother  said  you  were  a  stock-  broker,&quot;  Irmgard  confides.  But  Bradley  is  raised  in  a  different  political  cli-  mate  down  there  in  [REDACTED]  and  does  not  recognize  &quot;stockbroker&quot;  asa  term  of  abuse.  He  smiles  fatly,  and  moves  his  sore  tennis  arm  in  a  new  movement  he  has  now.  DURING  August  Freddy  no  longer  existed;  she  had  got  in  the  habit  of  not  seeing  him  there.  But  after  Bradley's  train  pulled  out,as  she  sat  alone  on  the  dock,  kicking  the  lake,  she  thought,  What'll  I  do  now?,  and  remembered  Freddy,  She  knows  what  took  place  the  day  she  said  &quot;No&quot;  and,  even  more,  what  it  meant  when  she  said  &quot;Oh,  I  still  like  Freddy.&quot;  But  she  has  forgotten.  All  she  knows  now  is  that  when  she  finds  Freddy-in  his  uncle's  muddy  farmyard-she  understands  she  hadn't  left  a  paintbox  or  anything  else  in  Mont-  real;  Freddywas  missing,  that  was  all.  But  Freddy  looks  old  and  serious.  He  hangs  his  head.  He  has  been  forbidden  to  play  with  her  now,  he  says.  His  uncle  never  wanted  him  to  go  there  in  the  first  place;  it  was  a  waste  of  time.  He  only  allowed  it  because  they  were  summer  people  from  [REDACTED].  Wondering  where  to  look,  both  look  at  their  shoes.  Their  meeting  is  made  up  of  Freddy's  feet  in  torn  shoes,  her  sandals,  the  trampled  mud  of  the  yard.  Irmgard  sees  blackberries,  not  quite  ripe.  Dumb  as  Freddy,  having  lost  the  power  to  read  his  thoughts,  she  picks  blackberries,  hard  " b"and  greenish,  and  puts  them  in  her  mouth.  Freddy's  uncle  comes  out  of  the  foul  stable  and  says  something  so  obscene  that  the  two  stand  frozen,  ashamed-  Irmgard,  who  does  not  know  what  the  words  mean,  and  Freddy,  who  does.  Then  Freddy  says  he  will  come  with  her  for  just  one  swim,  and  not  to  Irm-  gard's  dock  but  to  a  public  beach  below  the  village,  where  Irmgard  is  forbidden  to  go;  the  water  is  said  to  be  polluted  there.  Germaine  has  her  own  way  of  doing  braids.  She  holds  the  middle  strand  of  hair  in  her  teeth  until  she  has  a  good  grip  on  the  other  two.  Then  she  pulls  until  Irmgard  can  feel  her  scalp  lifted  from  her  head.  Germaine  crosses  hands,  lets  go  the  middle  strand,  and  is  away,  breathing  heavily.  The  plaits  she  makes  are  glossy  and  fat,  and  stay  woven  in  water.  She  works  steadily,  breathing  on  Irmgard's  neck.  Mrs.  Queen  says,  &quot;I'll  wager  you  went  to  see  poor  Freddy  the  instant  that  Bradley  was  out  of  sight.&quot;  (lem.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Don't  'Mmm'  me.  I  hope  he  sent  you  packing.&quot;  &quot;We  went  for  a  swim.&quot;  &quot;I  never  saw  a  thing  like  it.  That  wretched  boy  was  nothing  but  a  slave  to  you  all  summer  until  Bradley  came.  It  was  Freddy  do  this,  come  here,  go  there.  That  charming  English  Mrs.  Bustard  who  was  here  in  July  remarked  the  same  thing.  Irmgard  is  her  mother  all  over  again,'  Mrs.  Bustard  said.  'All  over  again,  Mrs.  Queen.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Bustard  est  une  esp\xc3\xa9ece  de  vache,&quot;  says  Germaine  gently,  who  can-  not  understand  a  word  of  English,  &quot;Irmgard  requires  someone  with  an  iron  hand.  'A  hand  of  iron,&quot;  Mrs.  Bus-  tard  said.&quot;  Irmgard  was  afraid  to  tell  Freddy,  &quot;But  we  haven't  got  our  bathing  suits  or  any  towels.&quot;  He  was  silent,  and  she  could  no  longer  read  his  mind.  The  sun  had  gone  in.  She  was  uneasy,  be-  cause  she  was  swimming  in  a  forbidden  place,  and  frightened  by  the  water  spiders.  There  had  been  other  bathers;  they  had  left  their  candy  wrappers  be-  hind  and  a  single  canvas  shoe.  The  lake  41     was  ruffled,  brown.  She  suggested,  &quot;It's  awfully  cold,&quot;  but  Freddy  began  un-  dressing,  and  Irmgard,  not  sure  of  her  ground,  began  to  unbuckle  her  sandals.  They  turned  their  backs,  in  the  usual  manner.  Irmgard  had  never  seen  any-  body  undressed,  and  no  onehad  ever  seen  her,  except  Germaine.  Her  back  to  Freddy,  shepulled  off  her  cotton  dress,  but  kept  on  her  bloomers.  When  she  turned  again,  Freddy  was  naked.  It  was  not  a  mistake;  she  had  not  turned  around  too  soon.  He  stood  composedly,  with  one  hand  on  his  skinny  ribs.  She  said  only,  &quot;The  water's  dirty  here,&quot;  and  again,  &quot;It's  cold.&quot;  There  were  tin  cans  in  the  lake,  half  sunk  in  mud,  and  the  water  spiders.  When  they  came  out,  Irmgard  stood  goosefleshed,  blue-  lipped.  Freddy  had  not  said  a  word.  Trembling,  wet,  they  put  on  their  clothes.  Irmgard  felt  water  running  into  her  shoes.  She  said  miserably,  &quot;I  think  my  mother  wants  me  now,&quot;  and  edged  one  foot  behind  the  other,  and  turned,  and  went  away.  There  was  nothing  they  could  say,  and  nothing  they  could  play  any  longer.  He  had  dis-     " b"covered  that  he  could  live  without  her.  None  of  the  old  games  would  do.  GERMAINE  knows.  This  is  what  Germaine  said  yesterday  after-  noon;  she  was  simple  and  calm,  and  said,  &quot;Out,  cest  comme  ga.  C'est  bien  malheureux.  Tu  sais,  ma  p'  tite  fille,  je  crois  qu'un  homme,  cest  une  d\xc3\xa9forma-  tion.&quot;  Irmgard  leans  against  Germaine.  They  seem  to  be  consoling  each  other,  because  of  what  they  both  know.  Mrs.  Queen  says,  &quot;Freddy  goes  back  to  an  orphan  asylum.  I  knew  from  the  be-  ginning  the  way  it  would  end.  It  was  not  a  kindness,  allowing  him  to  come  here.  It  was  no  kindness  at  all.&quot;  She  would  say  more,  but  they  have  come  down  and  want  their  breakfast.  After  keeping  her  up  all  night  with  noise,  they  want  their  breakfast  now.  Mrs.  Bloodworth  looks  distressed  and  unwashed.  Her  friend  has  asked  for  beer  instead  of  coffee.  Pleasure  fol-  lowed  by  gloom  is  a  regular  pattern  here.  But  no  matter  how  they  feel,  Irm-  gard's  parents  get  up  and  come  down  for  breakfast,  and  they  judge  their  guests  by  the  way  they  behave  not  in  pleasure  but  in  remorse.  The  man  who  has  asked  for  beer  as  medicine  and  not  for  enjoyment,  and  who  described  the  condition  of  his  stomach  and  the  roots  of  his  hair,  will  never  be  invited  again.  Irmgard  stands  by  her  mother's  chair;  for  the  mother  is  the  mirror,  and  every-  thing  is  reflected  or  darkened,  given  life  or  dismissed,  in  the  picture  her  mother  returns.  The  lake,  the  house,  the  sum-  mer,  the  reason  for  doing  one  thing  in-  stead  of  another  are  reflected  here,  ex-  plained,  clarified,  If  the  mirror  breaks,  everything  will  break,  too.  They  are  talking  quietly  at  the  break-  fast  table.  The  day  began  in  fine  shape,  but  now  itis  going  to  be  cloudy  again.  They  think  they  will  all  go  to  [REDACTED].  It  is  nearly  Labor  Day.  The  pity  of  parties  is  that  they  end.  &quot;Are  you  sad,  too,  now  that  your  little  boy  friend  has  left  you?&quot;  says  Mrs.  Bloodworth,  fixing  Irmgard  with  her  still-sleeping  eyes.  She  means  Bradley;  she  thought  he  and  Irmgard  were  per-  fectly  sweet.  Now,  this  is  just  the  way  they  don't  like  Irmgard  spoken  to,  and  Irmgard  knows  they  will  not  invite  Mrs.  Blood-  worth  again,  either.  'They  weigh  and  measure  and  sift  everything  people  say,  and  Irmgard's  father  looks  cold  and     bored,  and  her  mother  gives  a  wak-  ing  tiger's  look  his  way,  smiles.  They  act  together,  and  read  each  other's  thoughts-just  as  Freddy  and  Irmgard  did.  But,  large,  and  old,  and  powerful,  they  have  greater  powers:  they  see  through  walls,  and  hear  whispered  con-  versations  miles  away.  Irmgard's  fa-  ther  looks  cold,  and  Irmgard,  without  knowing  it,  imitates  his  look.  &quot;Bradley  is  Irmgard's  cousin,&quot;  her  mother  says.  NOW  Irmgard,  who  cannot  re-  member  anything,  who  looked  for  a  paintbox  when  Freddy  had  gone,  who  doesn't  remember  that  she  was  kid-  napped  and  that  Bradley  once  savedher  life-now  Irmgard  remembers  some-  thing.  It  seems  that  Freddy  was  sent  on  an  errand.  He  went  off  down  the  side-  walk,  which  was  heaving,  cracked,  edged  with  ribbon  grass;  and  when  he  came  to  a  certain  place  he  was  no  longer  there.  Something  was  waiting  for  him  there,  and  when  they  came  looking  for  him,  only  Irmgard  knew  that  whatever  had  been  waiting  for  Freddy  was  the  disaster,  the  worst  thing.  Irmgard's  mother  said,  &quot;Imagine  sending  a  child  near  the  woods  at  this  time  of  day!&quot;  Sure  enough,  there  were  trees  nearby.  And  only  Irmgard  knew  that  whatever  had  been  waiting  for  Freddy  had  come  out  of  the  woods.  It  was  the  worst  thing;  and  it  could  not  be  helped.  But  she  does  not  know  exactly  what  it  was.  And  then,  was  it  Freddy?  It  might  have  been  Bradley,  or  even  herself.  Naturally,  no  child  should  go  near  a  strange  forest.  There  are  chances  of  getting  lost.  There  is  the  witch  who  changes  children  into  birds.  Irmgard  grows  red  in  the  face  and  says  loudly,  &quot;I  remember  my  dream.  Freddy  went  on  a  message  and  got  lost.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no  dreams  at  breakfast,  please,&quot;  her  father  says.  Nothing  is  as  dreary  as  a  dream,&quot;  her  mother  says,  agreeing.  &quot;I  think  we  might  make  a  rule  on  that:  no  dreams  at  breakfast.  Otherwise  it  gets  to  be  a  habit.&quot;  Her  father  cheers  up.  Nothing  cheers  them  up  so  fast  as  a  new  rule,  for  when  it  comes  to  making  rules,  they  are  as  bad  as  children.  You  should  see  them  at  croquet. "