 b"THE  house  was  not  itself,  Rela-  tives  were  visiting  from  the  coun-  try.  It  was  an  old  couple  this  time,  an  old  couple  who  could  not  sleep  after  the  sun  was  up  and  who  began  yawning  as  soon  as  dinner  was  over  in  the  evening.  'They  were  silent  at  table,  leaving  the  burden  of  conversation  to  their  host  and  hostess,  and  they  declined  all  outside  invitations  issued  in  their  honor.  [REDACTED]  Johnny  was  on  a  strict  diet.  Yet  wanting  to  be  no  trouble,  both  he  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  refused  to  reveal  any  principle  of  his  diet.  If  he  couldn't  eat  what  was  being  served,  he  would  do  without.  They  made  their  own  beds,  washed  out  their  own  tubs,  avoided  using  salad  forks  and  butter  knives.  Upon  arriving,  they  even  pro-  duced  their  own  old-fashioned  ivory  napkin  rings,  and  when  either  of  them  chanced  to  spill  something  on  the  table-  cloth,  they  begged  the  nearest  Negro  servant's  pardon.  As  a  result,  every-  body,  including  the  servants,  was  very  uncomfortable  from  the  moment  the  old  couple  entered  the  house.  Edmund  Harper,  their  host,  was  most  uncomfortable  of  all.  What's  more,  he  had  to  conceal  the  fact  from  his  wife,  Henrietta,  because  otherwise  he  would  be  accused  of  &quot;not  seeing  her  through.&quot;  Henrietta  was  a  planner,  an  arranger,  a  straighten-outer-especial-  ly  of  other  people's  lives.  Somehow  she  always  managed  to  involve  Edmund  in  her  good  works,  and  never  more  so  than  when  it  was  a  matter  of  relatives  from  the  country.  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  [REDACTED]  Annie,  for  instance,  had  clearly  not  wanted  to  make  this  visit.  In  fact,  they  had  struggled  valiant-  ly  against  Henrietta's  siege.  But  they  couldn't  withstand  Henrietta's  battering  for  very  long.  Henrietta  knew  that  neither  of  them  had  ever  set  foot  in  the  capital  city  of  [REDACTED],  and  she  couldn't  bear  the  thought  of  the  poor  old  souls'  not  seeing  Nash-  ville  before  they  died.  It  end-  ed  by  Edmund's  going  with  Henrietta  in  her  car  to  bring  the  unwilling  visitors  &quot;bodi-  ly&quot;  into  [REDACTED].  Some  weeks  before  the  vis-  it,  Henrietta  had  written  a  letter  suggesting  that  she  might  enter  theold  couple's  house  and  do  their  packing  for  them-that  is,  if  [REDACTED]  Annie  didn't  feel  up  to  it.  And  SF  this  was  what  made  [REDACTED]  Annie  final-  ly  run  up  the  white  flag  and  pretend  to  accept  Henrietta's  terms.  Come  what  might,  the  old  lady's  little  clapboard  Gothic  citadel,  with  its  bay  windows  and  gingerbread  porches,  was  not  going  to  be  entered.  In  its  upright  posture  on  the  rockiest  hill  of  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  stock  farm-a  farm  where  the  land  was  now  mostly  rented  out  and  the  stock  disposed  of,  because  of  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  advanced  years-the  house  was  like  [REDACTED]  Annie's  very  soul,  and  it  would  be  defended  at  all  costs.  The  morn-  ing  that  Henrietta's  new  Chrysler  car  turned  through  the  stone  gateposts  at  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  theold  lady  not  only  had  herself  and  her  husband  thor-  oughly  packed  up,  she  had  them  fully  dressed  for  their  journey,  their  hats  on  their  heads,  and,  with  the  door  to  the  house  already  stoutly  locked,  they  were  seated  side  by  side  on  the  porch  swing,  rigid  as  two  pieces  of  graveyard  statu-  ary.  As  the  car  pulled  up  the  hill,  turn-  ing  cautiously  between  the  scrub  pines  and  the  cedar  trees,  Edmund  Harper  saw  [REDACTED]  Annie  rise  slowly,  in  one  continuous,  wraithlike  movement,  from  her  place  in  the  swing.  Once  on  her  feet,  she  stood  there  still  and  erect  as  a  sentinel.  In  the  swing,  which  until  now  had  remained  motionless,  [REDACTED]  Johnny  permitted  himself  a  quick  little  solo  flight,  so  short  and  tentative  that  he  must  barely  have  touched  his  toe  to  the  porch  floor.  Edmund  interpreted  this  motion  as  a  favorable  sign.  But  then,  almost  immediately,he  saw  the  old  lady's  hand  go  out  to  one  of  the  swing's  chains.  'The  mere  touch  of  her  gloved  hand  was  enough  to  halt  the  swing,  but  for  several  moments  she  kept  her  hand  there  on  the  chain.  And  the  figures  of  the  two  old  people,  thus  ar-  ranged,  made  a  kind  of  tableau  vivant,  which  Edmund  was  to  carry  in  his  mind  throughout  the  visit.  For  twenty-five  years,  Edmund  had  been  seeing  Henrietta  through  such  plans  as  the  present  one.  'Three  coun-  try  nieces  had  been  presented  to  Nash-  ville  society  from  the  Harper  house.  Countless  nephews  had  stayed  there  while  working  their  way  through  the  University-or  as  far  through  it  as  it  seemed  practicable  for  them  to  try  to  go.  And  Henrietta  scarcely  ever  re-  turned  from  a  visit  back  home  without  bringing  news  of  some  ailing  connection  who  needed  to  see  a  [REDACTED]  special-  ist,  needed  a  place  to  stay  while  seeing  the  specialist,  needed  a  place  to  stay  while  convalescing  from  the  inevitable  operation.  The  worst  of  all  this,  for  Edmund,  was  not  what  he  was  called  upon  to  doduring  these  visitations  but  what  he  was  called  upon  to  feel,  and  the  moral  support  he  was  expected  to  give  Henrietta.  For  something  nearly  always  went  wrong.  'Two  of  the  three  nieces  had  eloped  with  worthless  louts  from  back  home  before  their  seasons  in  [REDACTED]  were  half  over.  Most  of  the  countless  nephews  had  taken  to  a  wild  life,  for  which  their  parents  tended  to  blame  the  influence  of  the  Harper  household  more  than  that  of  university  and  frater-  nity  life.  Worse  still,  the  con-  valescents  always  outstayed  their  welcome,  and  Edmund  had  to  support  Henrietta  in  taking  a  firm  hand  when  it  was  time  for  each  poor  old  creature  to  return  to  his  or  her  nearest  of  kin  in  the  country.  In  a  sense,  though,  these  larger  projects  of  Henrietta's  had  been  less  trying  for  Ed-  mund  than  the  smaller  ones-  the  ones  that  she  had  gone  in  for  in  recent  years.  She  had  turned  more  and  more  to  brightening  the  lives  of  people  like  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  Cous-  in  Annie,  people  whose  lives  didn't  seem  absolutely  to  re-  quire  her  touch.  It  was  three-  and  four-day  visits  from  the  likes  of  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  " b"[REDACTED]  Annie  that  Edmund  found  it  hardest  to  adjust  to-visits  from  peo-  ple  not  really  too  far  removed  from  his  own  generation.  He  found  a  part  of  himself  always  reaching  out  and  wanting  to  communicate  with  them,  and  another  part  forever  holding  back,  as  though  afraid  of  what  would  be  communicated.  And  the  same  seemed  to  be  true  for  the  guests  themselves,  particularly  for  the  men.  [REDACTED]  Johnny  Kincaid  was  not,  of  course,  a  real  contemporary  of  Edmund  Harper's.  There  was  a  twelve-year  difference  in  their  ages.  Edmund  was  fifty-eight,  and  [REDACTED]  Johnny  was  seventy.  It  was  a  delicate  difference.  A  certain  respect  was  due  the  older  man,  but  it  had  to  be  manifested  in  a  way  that  would  not  offend  him  and  make  him  feel  that  he  was  an  old  man  and  that  Edmund  was  not.  On  the  first  morn-  ing  after  they  had  fetched  the  old  couple,  and  when  their  silence  had  already  be-  come  pretty  irksome  to  her,  Henrietta  telephoned  Edmund  at  his  office  and  said  that  she  had  a  simple  suggestion  to  make.  At  breakfast  she  had  noticed  that  [REDACTED]  Johnny  seemed  to  wince  every  time  Edmund  addressed  him  as  &quot;Cous-  in&quot;  Johnny.  She  thought  he  might  be  sensitive  about  his  age.  She  suggested  that  that  night  Edmund  should  try  call-  ing  him  just  plain  &quot;Johnny.&quot;  Now,  this  was  the  kind  of  thing  that  was  always  coming  up.  It  seemed  that  every  year  Henrietta  had  to  dig  deeper  into  the  kin  and  deeper  into  the  coun-  try  to  find  suitable  objects  for  her  good  works.  The  couples  were  invariably  rather  distant  kin  of  his  or  hers,  people  Edmund  had  known  all  his  life  but  had  not  known  very  well.  Either  Edmund  couldn't  remember  what  he  had  called  them  as  a  boy  or  he  had  literally  never  called  them  anything.  But  the  problem  had  never  come  into  such  focus  as  it  did  now.  On  the  telephone  he  didn't  dispute  Henrietta's  point,  though  it  was  incon-  ceivable  to  him  that  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  ever  in  his  seventy  years  winced  over  a  small  matter  of  personal  vanity-if  that's  what  it  was.  Edmund's  law  part-  ner  was  with  him  in  his  office,  and  the  firm's  most  moneyed  and  currently  most  troubled  client  was  also  there,  so  Edmund  said  only,  &quot;I'll  see  what  I  can  do  about  it  tonight.&quot;  And  he  wrote  the  word  &quot;Johnny&quot;  on  the  pad  of  paper  in  front  of  him.  &quot;I  can  tell  from  your  voice  that  &gt;  ou're  terribly  busy,&quot;  Henrietta  said  YY  Y&gt;  apologetically.  &quot;No,  not  particularly,&quot;  Edmund  said.  &quot;I  probably  shouldn't  have  called  about  something  so-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  nonsense!&quot;  Edmund  laughed.  And  he  wound  up  the  conversation  in  hearty  tones  meant  to  convince  every-  body  in  earshot  of  his  imperturbability.  But  it  was  a  serious  matter,  of  course.  And  after  he  put  down  the  telephone  he  still  sat  for  a  moment  staring  rather  intently  at  the  instrument.  It  was  his  habit  of  mind,  asa  good  trial  lawyer,  to  think  any  question  through  and  find  a  positive  answer  to  it  as  soon  as  it  came  up.  It  wasn't  the  truth  of  Henrietta's  observation  he  was  debating;  he  had  long  since  accepted  her  contention  that  she  was  &quot;more  sensitive  to  people&quot;  than  he  was,  and  so  he  had  to  assume  that  she  was  right  about  something  like  this.  Nor  was  it  a  question  of  his  willingness  to  do  what  she  asked  of  him.  It  was  a  simple  matter  of  whether  or  not  he  could  bring  himself  to  call  [REDACTED]  Johnny  Kincaid  just  plain  &quot;Johnny.&quot;  Then,  in  a  flash,  he  saw  he  could.  He  could  because-  But  he  didn't  go  into  that  at  the  time.  The  immediate  ques-  " b"tion  was  answered,  and  he  was  free  now  to  return  to  his  client's  urgent  affairs.  T  wasn't  till  several  hours  later  that  he  let  himself  think  again  about  this  silly  piece  of  business  that  Henrietta  hadcooked  up.  He  was  driving  home  from  work  in  his  hard-top  convertible,  and  the  moment  he  opened  the  subject  with  himself,  his  mind  took  him  back  to  the  previous  day.  'They  were  making  the  return  trip  from  the  country,  with  [REDACTED]  Annie  and  [REDACTED]  Johnny  in  the  car.  It  was  a  seventy-five-mile  drive  back  into  [REDACTED];  they  had  to  pass  through  sections  of  three  counties.  Since  they  were  in  Henrietta's  car,  she  was  doing  the  driving,  and  she  was  pro-  viding  most  of  the  conversation,  too.  [REDACTED]  Annie,  wearing  a  plain  black  coat  and  an  even  plainer  black  hat,  was  in  the  front  seat  beside  Henrietta.  In  the  back  seat  of  the  bigcarthe  two  long-legged  men  sat  in  opposite  corners,  eachwith  one  leg  crossed  stiffly  over  the  other.  They  had  travelled  some  twelve  or  fifteen  miles  when  something  made  Edmund  glance  down  at  [REDACTED]  John-  ny's  foot.  He  found  himself  observing  with  great  interest  the  high-topped  shoe,  the  lisle  sock  held  upby  an  elastic  supporter,  and,  since  it  was  still  early  April,  the  long  underwear  showing  above  the  sock,  where  the  old  man's  trouser  leg  was  pulled  up.  Somehow,  to  be  thus  reminded  that  there  were  still  men  who  dressed  in  the  old  style  was  unaccountably  pleasant  to  Edmund.  At  the  same  time  it  saddened  him,  too.  For  here  was  the  kind  of  old  man  that  he  had  once  upon  a  time  sup-  posed  he  would  himself  someday  be-  come.  And  now  he  knew,  of  course,  he  neverwould.  It  seemed  like  being  de-  nied  an  experience  without  which  life  wouldn't  be  complete.  It  seemed  almost  the  same  as  discovering  that  no  matter  how  long  he  lived  he  would  never  be  an  old  man.For  how  could  you  really  be  old  and  have  it  mean  anything  if  you  lived  in  a  world  where  you  weren't  ex-  pected  to  dress  and  behave  in  a  special  way,  in  a  world  where  you  went  on  dressing  and  trying  to  behave  like  a  young  man,  or  at  least  a  middle-aged  man,  till  the  very  end?  It  was  bad  enough  to  be  childless  and  therefore  grandchildless,  as  he  and  Henrietta,  of  course,  were,  without  also  being  denied  any  prospect  of  ever  feeling  or  being  treated  like  a  grandfather-something  that  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  also  childless  and  grandchildless,  must  for  a  long  time  now  have  felt  and  been  treated  like.  Edmund  found  the  subject  absorbing.  The  foot  gave  an  involuntary  little  kick,  and  Edmund  realized  that  this  was  probably  what  had  drawn  his  attention  to  it  in  the  first  place.  The  twitch  was  presently  followed  by  another  and  then,  at  irregular  intervals,  by  another,  and  another.  This  was  bound  to  interest  a  mind  like  Edmund's,  especially  in  its  present  mood.  With  his  lawyer's  eye  he  soon  made  out  that  the  kicks  occurred  always  when  the  car  was  passing  a  field  where  cattle  grazed.  He  wasn't  sur-  prised  when  [REDACTED]  Johnny  finally  came  right  out  with  it:  &quot;Seems  like  the  live-  stock  gets  fatter  every  mile  we  pullin  toward  [REDACTED].&quot;  But  as  soon  as  he  had  said  this,  the  old  man's  eyes  nar-  rowed  and  he  bit  his  lower  lip  with  such  vehemence  that  it  was  plain  he  wished  it  was  his  tongue  he  was  biting.  His  ut-  terance  had  been  as  involuntary  as  any  of  those  kicks  his  foot  was  giving.  It  was  as  if  Fate  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  had  been  waiting  together  for  such  a  slip  from  him.  The  car  had  just  left  a  fine  stretch  of  low  ground,  where  he  had  seen  the  herd  that  brought  forth  his  comment.  Now  the  car  was  climbing  a  long  wooded  hill,  and  in  a  little  clear-  ing  near  the  summit  [REDACTED]  Annie  spied  a  herd  of  bunched-up,  scrawny,  and  altogether  sorry-looking  milk  cows.  For  the  only  time  during  the  long  trip,  she  turned  around  and  showed  her  face  to  the  two  men  in  the  back  seat.  And  it  was  only  the  profile  of  her  face,  at  that.  She  merely  turned  and  stared  out  the  win-  dow,  on  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  side,  at  those  cows  in  the  clearing.  &quot;Yes,  but-&quot;  [REDACTED]  Johnny  began,  " b"exactly  as  though  the  old  lady  had  spoken.  And  then,  [REDACTED]  Annie  hav-  ing  already  turned  her  back  to  him  again,  he  broke  off.  That  was  the  whole  of  the  interchange  between  them.  When  [REDACTED]  Johnny  spoke  again,  which  was  surprisingly  soon,  Edmund  felt  his  words  had  no  reference  to  what  had  passed  between  himand  [REDACTED]  Annie.  He  said  directly  to  Edmund,  &quot;I  guess  a  fellow  who's  been  concerned  with  cattle  as  long  asI  have  won't  ever  see  much  out  a  car  window  but  cows,  no  matter  where  he  goes.&quot;  It  was  some  kind  of  an  apology.  An  apology  for  what?  For  a  certain  boor-  ishness  he  felt  he  had  been  guiltyof?  An  apology  for  his  own  narrow  interest  in  life?  Or  was  it,  rather,  an  indication  of  theold  man's  awareness  of  the  figure  he  must  be  cutting  with  Edmund?  Edmund's  reply  to  the  earlier  out-  burst  and  the  apology  was  a  ten-minute  discourse  on  the  history  of  stock  farming  in  Middle  [REDACTED].  Most  of  what  he  said  came  out  of  some  research  he  had  hadone  of  the  young  men  in  his  office  do  for  acase  he  had  tried  a  few  years  back.  He  wasn't  showing  off.  He  was  honestly  trying  to  reassure  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  to  draw  him  out,  because  already  Edmund's  interest  in  this  man  and  his  desire  to  win  his  confidence  and  to  find  a  common  ground  on  which  they  could  meet  was  considerable.  But  the  discourse  on  cattle  farming  did  not  pro-  duce  a  single  remark  from  [REDACTED]  Johnny.  A  long  silence  followed.  Then  there  was  a  period  of  give-and-take  between  Henrietta  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  about  the  illnesses  and  deaths  of  various  relatives.  After  that,  there  was  more  silence.  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  lips  seemed  to  have  been  permanently  sealed.  But  in  the  last  miles  before  [REDACTED]  his  caution  must  have  been  lulled  by  Henrietta's  fresh  chatter  about  the  [REDACTED]  sights  they  would  be  seeing  in  the  days  just  ahead.  When  a  colossal  city-limits  sign  sud-  denly  hove  into  view  at  the  roadside,  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  mouth  dropped  open.  &quot;Why,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  a  funny  thing.  When  I  was  just  married  and  was  still  just  a  young  fellow,  I  almost  came  here  to  work.&quot;  It  was  as  if  until  then  he  hadn't  known,  or  hadn't  believed,  where  it  was  they  were  taking  him.  &quot;In  a  shoe  factory  it  was.  But  my  wife  and  I  de-  cided  against  it.  I  was  to  start  at  the  bottom  and  maybe  later  goon  the  road  for  them.&quot;  How  different  the  whole  visit  might  have  been  if  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  not  said  that.  Because,  after  that,  Edmund  Harper  would  have  consented  to  almost  " b"any  scheme  of  Henrietta's  to  promote  understanding  between  him  and  his  house  guest.  Why,  what  wonderful  things  mightn't  they  say  to  each  other  if  onlythey  could  talk  together  man  to  |  man!  In  a  flight  of  fancy  that  was  ut-  |  terly  novel  to  him,  Edmund  visualized  |-  [REDACTED]  Johnny  as  he  would  have  ap-  peared  today  had  he  taken  that  job  at  the  shoe  factory.  He  saw  him  now  as  president  of  the  shoe  company  after  years  of  working  up  from  the  bottom,  and  saw  himself  as  a  country  lawyer  in  [REDACTED]  on  a  visit  with  his  rich  rela-  tives.  Why,  it  was  &quot;Maud  Muller&quot;  twice  reversed!  _  Moreover,  the  client  he  was  going  to  see  in  his  office  tomorrow  morning  and  who  had  been  in  his  office  nearly  every  day  for  the  past  two  weeks,  that  richest  and  currently  most  troubled  of  the  ||  firm's  clients,  was  none  other  than  the  president  of  a  shoe  company,  probably  the  very  shoe  company  that  [REDACTED]  #  Johnny  would  have  gone  to  work  j  for.  .  ..  That  was  precisely  how  [REDACTED]  Johnny  might  have  turned  out.  And  to  think  it  was  only  a  difference  of  seventy-  five  miles.  COUSIN  Jounny's  response  to  being  called  just  plain  &quot;Johnny&quot;  was,  to  saythe  least,  disconcerting.  He  did  ex-  actly  what  Henrietta  said  he  had  done  when  Edmund  called  him  &quot;[REDACTED]  Johnny.&quot;  He  winced.  He  drew  in  his  chin-almost  imperceptibly,  though  not  quite-batted  his  eyes,  and  gave  his  head  a  quick  little  shake.  And  then,  as  Ed-  mund  hurried  on  to  finish  the  long  sen-  tence  that  he  had  dropped  his  &quot;Johnny&quot;  in  the  midst  of,  [REDACTED]  Johnny  gazed  past  Edmund  into  a  fire  the  houseboy  had  just  now  lit  in  the  fireplace.  Plainly  he  was  trying  to  decide  how  he  liked  the  sound  of  it--the  sound  of  his  Christian  name  on  the  lips  of  this  man,  this  strange  kind  of  man  who  could  come  in  from  work  at  four-thirty  in  the  afternoon,  disappear  abovestairs  to  change  from  a  dark  double-breasted  suit  to  a  plaid  jacket  and  gray  trousers,  and  then  re-  appear  and  settle  down  to  a  long  eve-  ning  without  ever  mentioning  the  work  that  had  kept  him  all  day.  Edmund  had  carefully  waited,  be-  fore  springing  that  &quot;Johnny&quot;  on  the  old  man,  till  a  moment  when  Henrietta  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  were  well  on  the  other  side  of  the  living  room.  Afterward,  he  realized  that  Henrietta  had  been  con-  spiring  with  him  without  his  knowing  it.  She  had  lured  [REDACTED]  Annie  over  there  beyond  the  piano  to  see  a  scrap-  book  that  she  kept  in  the  piano  bench  for  just  such  moments.  During  the  hour  " b"since  Edmund  had  come  into  the  house,  '{  she  hadn't  mentioned  the  subject  of  their  ({  telephone  conversation.  But  she  knew  well  enough  that  he  was  going  to  follow  ||  her  suggestion.  And  he  knew  what  her  attitude  would  be  by  now:  they  were  in  this  together,  and  she  wanted  to  make  \xc2\xa9]  his  part  as  easy  for  him  as  possible-and  ;|  as  interesting.  One  quick  glance  told  him  that  however  much  he  had  tried  to  slur  his  articulation  of  the  name,  Hen-  rietta  had  heard  it.  As  for  [REDACTED]  Annie,  '}  whose  back  was  toward  him,  he  could  not  at  the  moment  tell  whether  or  not  :|  she  had  heard.  Probably  hecouldnot  have  told  if  he  hadhad  a  clear  view  of  her  face.  And,  for  that  matter,  the  in-  \\|  cident  was  topass  without  his  knowing  what  conclusion  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  reached-whether  he  did  or  didn't  like  the  sound  of  it.  They  went  in  to  dinner  at  six  o'clock.  At  first,  the  table  talk  was  livelier  than  it  had  been  the  previous  night.  [REDACTED]  Annie  right  away  spoke  a  number  of  complete  sentences  that  were  not  dragged  out  of  her  by  direct  questions.  There  was,  in  fact,  every  indication  that  matters  had  taken  a  real  turn  for  the  better.  Edmund  found  himself  wonder-  ing  if  [REDACTED]  Annie  weren't  going  to  |  turn  out  to  be  like  all  the  other  country  ladies  who  had  come  here  in  recent  years-vain,  garrulous,  and  utterly  sus-  ceptible  to  the  luxuries  of  Henrietta's  commodious,  well-staffed,  elegantly  ap-  pointed  house.  The  bright  look  on  Hen-  rietta's  face  at  the  opposite  end  of  the  table  informed  him  that  she  was  think-  ing  the  same  thing.  And  then,  as  though  conscious  of  just  how  far  into  the  woods  she  had  led  them,  [REDACTED]  Annie  Kincaid  began  quietly  closing  in.  &quot;You  mustn't  think,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;that  Mr.  Kincaid  and  I  can't  dine  at  what-  ever  your  accustomed  dinner  hour  is.&quot;  This  was  very  much  in  her  usual  vein-  making  known  her  awareness  that  they  were  dining  earlier  than  was  normal  for  the  Harpers.  Since  the  houseboy  was  removing  the  soup  bowls  at  the  time,  it  might  have  been  supposed  that  what  she  said  was  meant  for  his  ears  and  that  she  had  phrased  it  with  that  in  mind.  But  the  old  lady  wasn't  long  in  finding  an-  other  occasion  to  refer  to  [REDACTED]  Johnny  s  &quot;Mr.  Kincaid.&quot;  She  did  it  a  third  and  fourth  time,  even.  Each  time  it  was  as  if  she  feared  they  hadn't  understood  her  before.  Finally,  though,  she  made  it  absolutely  clear.  During  the  meat  course,  while  everyone  except  [REDACTED]  Johnny  was  working  away  at  the  roast  lamb  and  baked  potatoes,  she  drove  the  point  home  to  her  own  satisfaction.  &quot;It  isn't  that  Mr.  Kincaid  doesn't  like  roast  " b"lamb,&quot;  she  said,  addressing  herself  to  Edmund  and  speaking  in  the  most  old-  fashioned  country-genteel  voice  that  Edmund  had  heard  since  he  was  a  boy  at  home.  &quot;It  isn't  that  he  doesn't  like  roast  lamb,&quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;It's  that  he  dined  alone  with  ladies  at  noon  and  so  had  to  eat  the  greater  share  of  an  un-  commonly  fine  cut  of  sirloin  steak.  He  isn't,  you  understand,  used  to  eating  a  great  deal  of  meat.&quot;  Now  she  turned  to  Henrietta,  &quot;He  seldom  eats  any  meat  at  all  for  supper....&quot;  Edmund,  re-  membering  the  other  ladies  who  had  sat  where  [REDACTED]  Annie  now  sat,  supposed  that  she  would  continue  endlessly  on  this  fascinating  subject.  But,  once  she  saw  that  she  had  the  attention  of  both  host  and  hostess,  she  suddenly  turned  to  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  said  genially,  &quot;You  seldom  eat  any  meat  at  all  for  supper,  do  you,  Mr.  Kincaid?&quot;  It  was  the  voice  of  a  woman  from  an  earlier  generation  than  the  Harpers',  address-  ing  her  husband  with  the  respect  due  a  husband.  How  could  anyone  call  him  just  plain  Johnny  after  that?  The  meat  course  was  finished  in  al-  most  total  silence,  but  Edmund  had  two  things  to  think  about.  After  putting  her  question  to  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  [REDACTED]  Annie  had  turned  a  triumphant  gaze  on  Henrietta,  indicatingthat  she  recog-  nized  who  her  real  adversary  was.  That  was  one  thing.  The  other  thing  was  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  response  to  beingad-  dressed  as  Mr.  Kincaid.  There  was  but  one  way  to  describe  it.  He  winced.  And  there  was  but  one  conclusion  that  Ed-  mund  could  draw:  the  poor  fellow  had  lived  so  long  in  isolation  that  he  would  always  wince  when  singled  out  in  com-  pany  and  addressed  directly  by  any  name  whatever.  [REDACTED]  Annie  and  [REDACTED]  Johnny  retired  within  less  than  thirty  minutes  after  dinner.  As  soon  as  they  were  safely  upstairs,  Edmund  expected  Henrietta  to  launch  into  [REDACTED]  Annie's  perform-  ance.  She  did  nothing  of  the  kind.  While  he  was  setting  up  the  card  table  and  fetching  the  cards  for  a  game  of  double  solitaire,  she  turned  on  the  television  set  and  stood  switching  aimlessly  from  one  channel  to  another-a  practice  she  often  criticized  him  for.  She  seemed  to  be  avoiding  conversation.  Once  they  were  seated  at  the  table,  with  the  cards  laid  out  and  the  television  set  playing  a  fa-  vorite  Western,  Edmund  said  cozily,  &quot;They  disapprove  of  cards,  and  they  detest  TV.&quot;  These  were  two  points  that  [REDACTED]  Annie  had  made  clear  the  first  night.  &quot;I  think  they're  awfully  sweet,  all  the  same,&quot;  Henrietta  said  gently,  smil-" b"ing a  little  and  keeping  her  eyes  on  her  cards.  &quot;Oh,  I  like  them,&quot;  Edmund  said  de-  fensively.  &quot;Everything  they  do  or  say  takes  me  back  forty  years.&quot;  &quot;'They  have  real  character.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Edmund  agreed.  &quot;It  was  pretty  marvellous  the  way  she  let  me  have  it  at  the  table.  She  fairly  rubbed  my  nose  in  it.&quot;  Henrietta  looked  up  at  him.  &quot;You  mean-?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  the  name  business,  of  course.  What  else?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  about  that.  I  suppose  she  always  calls  him  'Mr.  Kincaid.  &quot;  &quot;Well,  what  else  did  you  think  I  meant?&quot;  &quot;Didn't  you  understand  what  she  was  saying:  Of  course,  I  may  be  wrong.&quot;  &quot;What  on  earth?&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  she  was  offended  because  you  left  [REDACTED]  Johnny  to  have  lunch  'alone'-with  the  ladies.  What  else  could  you  make  of  her  emphasis?&quot;  &quot;She  meant  I  should  have  come  home  to  lunch  today?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  darling.  Maybe  not.&quot;  &quot;But  you  think  I  might  come  home  tomorrow?  Or  take  you  all  out  some-  where?&quot;  She  smiled  at  him  appreciatively.  &quot;Or  better  still,&quot;  she  offered,  &quot;take  [REDACTED]  Johnny  to  lunch  with  some  men  down-  town.  I  wonder  if  he  wouldn't  like  that?&quot;  &quot;But  would  [REDACTED]  Annie  let  him?&quot;  Henrietta  leaned  across  the  table  and  spoke  in  aconspiratorial  whisper.  &quot;We  could  see,&quot;  she  said.  Edmund  was  silent.  &quot;Well,  we'll  see  about  it,&quot;  he  said  finally,  notpromising  anything  but  knowing  in  his  heart  that  everything  was  already  promised.  AT  the  breakfast  table  next  morning,  Edmund  sat  admiring  the  grace-  ful  curve  of  Henrietta's  wrist  as  she  poured  coffee  from  the  silver  urn  into  his  cup.  He  had  asked  for  this  third  cup  |  mostly  for  the  sake  of  admiring  again  the  way  she  lifted  the  heavy  urn  and  then  let  the  weight  of  it  pull  her  wrist  over  in  thatpretty  arc.  And  the  ruffles  on  the  collar  of  Henrietta's  breakfast  gown  seemed  particularly  becoming  to  her,  and  Edmund  admired  the  soft  ar-  rangement  of  her  hair  and  the  extraor-  dinary  freshness  of  her  complexion.  She  really  looked  incredibly  young.  She  was  a  beautiful  woman  in  every  sense,  and  nothing  about  her  this  morning  was  more  beautiful  than  the  way  she  had  been  so  right  about  [REDACTED]  Annie.  Cous-  in  Annie  and  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  al-  " b"ready  finished  their  breakfast,  and  the  old  lady  had  gone  back  upstairs  with  her  husband  to  prepare  him  for  his  morning  at  the  office  with  Edmund  and  his  noon-  day  luncheon  at  the  Hermitage  Club.  Edmund  was  now  waiting  for  [REDACTED]  Johnny  to  come  down  inhis  &quot;other  suit&quot;  and  &quot;good  tie.&quot;  He  wouldn't  have  thought  it  possible  for  it  to  turn  out  this  way.  He  was  con-  vinced  all  over  again  of  how  much  more  sensitive  to  people  Henrietta  was  than  he  was.  And  he  was  so  grateful  to  her.  No  sooner  had  he  issued  the  invitation  to  [REDACTED]  Johnny  than  [REDACTED]  Annie  became  positively  affable.  And  at  once  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  begun  nodding  his  head  in  agreement.  Edmund  noticed  also  that  the  old  man  began  pulling  rather  strenuously  at  his  lower  lip,  but  all  such  lip  pullings  and  winces  and  twitches  Edmund  was  now  willing  to  lump  together  as  meaningless  nervous  habits.  He  wasn't  at  all  sure  he  wouldn't  end  by  having  lunch  alone  with  [REDACTED]  Johnny  in  a  booth  at  Jack-  son's  Stable,  where  they  could  talk  with-  out  interruption.  And  what  a  relief  it  was,  anyway,  that  the  thing  was  settled  one  way  or  the  other.  He  had  spent  the  last  hour  in  bed  this  morning  tossing  about  and  wishing  that  he  didn't  have  to  raise  the  question  and  yet  knowing  that  he  want-  ed  to.  Long  before  the  cook  came  in  to  fix  breakfast,  he  had  heard  the  old  cou-  ple  stirring  in  the  guest  room.  It  had  been  this  way  the  first  morning,  too.  The  monotonous  buzz  of  the  two  old  peo-  ple's  lowered  voices  seemed  to  penetrate  the  walls  of  the  house  in  a  way  that  no  ordinary  speech  would  have  done.  At  that  hour,  they  seemed  to  feel  that  they  must  speak  in  the  voice  that  one  normal-  ly  uses  only  when  there  is  someone  dead  in  the  house  or  when  something  has  gone  awfully  wrong.  They  were  hard  of  hearing,  of  course,  and  believed  they  were  whispering!  Edmund  had  to  smile  at  the  thought  of  how  carefully  they  concealed  the  fact  of  their  deafness  in  company.  At  any  rate,  he  woke  to  the  drone  of  these  old  countrypeople's  voices.  And  with  [REDACTED]  Johnny  so     " b"much  on  his  mind,  he  couldn't  go  back  to  sleep  again.  He  knew  that  Henrietta  was  awake,  too,  and  after  a  while  he  felt  her  hand  on  his  shoulder,  and  he  turned  his  head  on  the  pillow  and  looked  at  her.  &quot;It's  awful  to  have  to  lie  here  quietly  like  this,  knowing  that  they're  hungry,&quot;  she  whispered.  There  was  very  little  light  in  the  room,  but  he  could  see  that  as  she  spoke  she  lay  perfectly  relaxed,  with  her  eyes  closed.  &quot;I'd  give  anything  if  there  were  some  way  they  could  go  on  and  have  their  breakfast,&quot;  she  con-  tinued,  still  in  a  whisper.  &quot;Yet  to  get  up  and  offer  to  fix  it  myself,  or  even  to  suggest  they  fix  it  for  themselves,  would  only  make  them  more  uncomfortable,  considering  how  they  are.  ...  What  do  you  think?&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't  know,&quot;  Edmund  said,  trying  to  sound  less  awake  than  he  was.  Finally,  at  seven  o'clock,  they  heard  [REDACTED]  Johnny  creep  down  the  steps  to  fetch  the  morning  Temnmessear  and  then  creep  back  up  to  the  guest  room  again.  (He  wouldn't  for  the  world  have  made  so  free  as  to  sit  down  in  the  living  room  to  read  the  morning  pa-  per-not  without  being  expressly  asked.  It  was  a  wonder  [REDACTED]  Annie  would  let  him  go  down  and  get  the  paper  at  all.)  Edmund  knew,  from  yesterday,  that  from  this  point  on  the  buzz  of  voices  would  be  only  intermittent  until  the  time  came  for  the  first  sounds  of  activity  down  in  the  kitchen.  Then  the  buzz  would  begin  again  and  remain  constant  until  someone  knocked  on  the  guest-room  door  and  announced  break-  fast.  And  that  was  the  way  it  happened.  Everything  went  just  the  way  he  knew  it  would  until  they  were  all  four  seated  at  the  breakfast  table  and  he  had  popped  the  question  to  [REDACTED]  Johnny.  From  then  on,  everything  was  different.  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  gone  up  to  put  on  his  other  suit  and  his  good  tie,  and  Cous-  in  Annie  had  gone  with  him.  Presently  Edmund,  thinking  he  heard  [REDACTED]  Johnny  coming  down  the  stairs,  rose  from  the  table  and  went  round  and  kissed  Henrietta's  cheek.  He  meant  to  join  [REDACTED]  Johnny  in  the  hall  and  to  take  him  directly  to  the  car,  which  had  already  been  brought  up  to  the  side  door.  But  when  he  went  out  into  the  big  front  hall,  it  was  [REDACTED]  Annie  he  saw.  She  had  already  come  three-quar-  ters  of  the  way  down  the  stairs,  and  when  she  saw  Edmund  she  stopped  there,  with  her  hand  on  the  railing.  Even  before  she  spoke,  Edmund  felt  his  heartbeat  quicken.  &quot;It's  a  pity  you've  had  to  wait  around,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He's  so  changeable.&quot;  Edmund  said  nothing.  [REDACTED]  Annie  descended  the  rest  of  the  " b"flight.  At  the  foot  of  the  stairs  she  said,  &quot;He  had  already  changed  to  his  good  clothes,  But  he  doesn't,  after  all,  want  to  miss  the  sights  Henrietta  and  I  will  be  seeing.  He's  getting  back  into  his  other  things  now.&quot;  Henrietta,  hearing  [REDACTED]  Annie's  voice,  had  come  to  the  dining-room  door.  &quot;[REDACTED]  Johnny's  all  right,  isn't  he?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Of  course  he's  all  right,&quot;  said  the  old  lady,  with  a  shade  of  resentment  in  her  voice.  &quot;It's  that  he  doesn't  want  to  miss  that  Presbyterian  church  or  [REDACTED]  Meade  Plantation.&quot;  Then  she  made  her  way  into  the  dining  room,  where  she  had  left  her  coffee  to  cool.  Edmund  went  off  in  the  other  direc-  tion,  making  Ais  way  across  the  hall  and  into  the  dark  corridor  that  led  to  the  side  entrance.  He  knew  that  Henrietta  was  following  him,  but  he  couldn't  trust  himself  to  discuss  the  situation.  He  hoped  to  reach  the  outside  door  before  she  caught  up  with  him  and  merely  wave  to  her  from  the  car.  But  he  had  forgotten  his  hat  and  coat.  When  he  was  at  the  entry  door  he  heard  acoat  hanger  drop  on  the  floor  of  the  cloak  closet,  which  opened  off  the  corridor,  and  he  knew  that  Henrietta  was  fetch-  ing  his  things  for  him.  He  had  to  wait  there  and  submit  to  her  helping  him  on  with  his  coat.  Still  he  would  have  left  without  saying  anything  had  she  not  at  the  last  minute  put  her  hand  on  his  arm  and  said,  &quot;Darling,  you  mustn't  mind.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  really  hate  that  woman,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  Edmund,&quot;  Henrietta  whis-  pered,  &quot;it  may  really  have  been  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  decision.  And  what  difference  does  it  make?  Why  else  do  we  have  them  here  except  to  let  them  do  what-  ever  they  will  enjoy  most?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  why  do  we?&quot;  he  said  angrily.  Henrietta  removed  her  hand  from  his  arm  and  stepped  back,  away  from  him.  With  her  eyes  lowered,  she  said,  &quot;We've  been  over  that.&quot;  Then  she  looked  up  at  him  accusingly;  he  wasn't  seeing  her  through.  THEY  had  been  over  it,  certainly,  some  two  or  three  years  before  this.  And  he  had  thought,  as  she  had,  that  he  would  never  ask  this  question  again.  As  he  had  raced  along  the  corri-  dor,  he  knew  he  would  ask  it  if  he  let  her  overtake  him.  'That's  why  he  had  made  such  a  dash  for  the  car.  He  might  have  reached  into  the  closet  and  grabbed  his  hat-to  hell  with  the  coat!  -but  he  hadn't  had  his  wits  about  him.  And  for  that  you  always  had  to  pay,  Finally,  though,  he  kissed  Henrietta " b"goodbye  again,  and  he  waved  to  her  from  the  car.  But  he  was  so  disturbed  that  he  forgot  to  shift  into  third  gear  till  he  was  halfway  to  town.  All  the  way  to  town  this  morning,  he  went  over  and  over  the  foolish  busi-  ness.  It  had  never  been  so  complicated  before.  This  time  he  was  involved  in  a  way  or  in  a  sense  that  Henrietta  didn't  dream  of.  Or  maybe  she  did.  He  shouldn't  underestimate  her.  In  some  degree  he  was  always  affected  by  these  country  visitors,  as  though  it  were  some-  thing  more  than  a  visit  from  relatives.  With  them  he  had  often  felt  there  ought  to  be  more  to  say  to  each  other  than  there  ever  seemed  to  be.  But  never  about  anyone  before  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  he  felt,  Here  is  such  a  person  as  I  might  have  been,  and  I  am  such  a  one  as  he  might  have  been.  Now  he  could  not  resist  going  back  to  what  he  considered  the  real  beginning.  It  was  Henrietta  who  had  urged  him  to  leave  Ewingsburg,  the  county  seat  where  they  had  grown  up  and  where  he  first  practiced  law.  He  hadn't  wanted  to  leave  and  had  argued  against  it,  and  despite  the  fine  opportunities  offered  him  by  firms  in  [REDACTED],  she  hadn't  begun  urging  him  to  go  until  they  had  been  married  for  five  years  and  had  learned  pretty  definitely  that  there  would  never  be  any  children.  When  he  used  to  come  home  for  lunch  in  Ewings-  burg  and  sat  lingering  over  his  sec-  ond  cup  of  coffee,  it  got  so  he  would  catch  Henrietta  sometimes  stealing  furtive  glances  at  him.  She  suspected  him  of  being  bored  with  his  life.  And  yet  when  he  talked  of  buying  up  more  farmland  and  joining  Uncle  Alex  and  Uncle  Nat  in  their  lespedeza  venture-  aiming  for  the  seed  market-Henrietta  thought  he  would  be  frittering  away  his  life.  He  ought  to  be  ina  big  place,  she  told  him,  where  he  could  have  a  real  career  and  be  fully  occupied.  And  so  they  had  gone  to  [REDACTED].  And  Edmund  was  fully  occupied.  And  perhaps  that  was  the  trouble.  Who  could  say?  Not  that  Henrietta  wasn't  occupied,  too.  She  was  an  enthusiastic  joiner  of  clubs  and  circles  and  commit-  tees.  Why  not?  What  better  way  of  getting  to  know  people?  Edmund  was  entirely  sympathetic.  But  she  was  never  satisfied  until  she  had  tried  to  draw  Edmund  into  each  activity,  and  since  she  always  failed,  she  was  seldom  satis-  fied  with  the  activity  afterward.  In  the  early  days,  she  was  always  finding  some-  thing  new  to  interest  her-and  him.  Edmund  wondered  if  there  would  have  been  a  [REDACTED]  for  the  likes  of  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  to  see  if  " b"Henrietta  hadn't  been  so  active  in  the  work  of  preserving  landmarks  and  set-  ting  up  monuments.  (Even  his  refusal  to  help  iron  out  the  inevitable  legal  snarls  of  that  work  had  never  complete-  ly  destroyed  her  interest  in  it.  Recently  she  had  had  a  hand  in  preserving  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  from  the  vandals  who  wanted  to  pull  it  down.)  For  a  time  she  took  a  great  interest  in  the  home  for  delinquent  girls.  Her  re-  ports  of  the  individual  cases  interested  him  hugely,  but  not  enough  to  make  him  consent  to  join  her  as  a  board  member.  He  came  very  near  to  being  drawn  into  her  juvenile-court  work,  but  somehow  he  even  escaped  involvement  there.  Then,  after  a  number  of  years,  she  began  bringing  in  those  nieces  for  the  d\xc3\xa9butante  season.  Two  of  the  girls  were  from  his  side  ofthe  family,  one  from  hers.  But  that  didn't  matter.  They  were  all  of  them  kinfolks  from  out  home-  the  nieces,  the  nephews,  the  invalids,  and  finally,  after  so  many  years,  the  nearly  contemporary  old  couples.  They  were  his  responsibility,  his  involvement  as  much  as  hers.  There  was  no  getting  around  it-not  in  Edmund's  mind.  And  so  they  came,  and  they  came,  and  they  came.  Finally,  he  began  to  wonder  if  he  and  Henrietta  weren't  more  alike  than  he  had  ever  imagined.  It  occurred  to  him  that  she  was  really  fonder  of  these  visitors  and  of  the  peopleshe  went  out  to  the  country  to  &quot;see  about&quot;  than  she  was  of  the  friends  she  had  gone  to  such  lengths  to  make  in  [REDACTED].  One  day  he  spoke  to  her  about  it.  And  he  suggested  that  perhaps  they  should  think  of  moving  back  to  Ewings-  burg  when  the  time  came  for  him  to  retire  from  his  practice.  Henrietta  laughed  at  the  idea.  Why,  she  asked  him,  should  they  plan  to  bury  them-  selves  alive  in  their  old  age?  Well,  then,  he  had  another  idea.  (He  was  only  trying  to  please  her,  wasn't  he?  )  Why  didn't  they  invite  one  of  her  favorites  from  among  their  not  too  affluent  relatives,  or  maybe  two  of  her  favorites-&quot;It's  the  kind  of  thing  people  used  often  to  do,&quot;  he  said-to  come  and  live  with  them  on  a  permanent  basis?  Wouldn't  that  give  her  an  even  deeper  satisfaction  than  doing  only  a  little  for  this  one  and  that  one?  (He  didn't  say  &quot;And  then  the  house  would  always  seem  itself.&quot;)  But  in  reply  Henrietta  ex-  pressed  an  astonishment  just  short  of  outrage.  How  could  he  imagine  that  this  would  please  her!  &quot;But  why  not?&quot;  Edmund  asked  im-  patiently.  Henrietta  shook  her  head  bitterly.  To  " b"think  that  he  understood  so  little  about     what  her  life  was  like,  she  said.  And  then  for  the  first  time  in  years  she  men-  ;|  tioned  her  disappointment  at  not  being  able  to  have  children,  Edmund  was  con-  fused.  Could  there  possibly  be  any  con-  nection?  Was  she  merely  trying  to  play  on  his  sympathy?  He  felt  his  checks  growing  warm,  and  could  tell  from  the  expression  in  her  eyes  that  she  saw  his  color  rising.  But  looking  deeper  into  :|  her  eyes  he  saw  that  she,  too,  was  utter-  ly  confused.  If  there  was  any  connec-  tion,  then  she  was  as  confused  about  it  as  he  was.  She  knew  no  better  than  he  what  it  meant  or  why  she  had  dragged  it  in.  And  he  was  sure  that,  whatever  it  was,  they  would  never  understand  it  now  and  that,  having  discovered  it  so  late,  they  need  not  do  so.  Their  course  together  was  set,  and  he  had  no  inten-  tion  of  trying  to  change  it.  But  he  felt  a  renewed  interest  in  seeing  to  what  strange  places  it  might  yet  bring  them.  Before  he  reached  his  office  that  sec-  ond  morning  of  the  visit,  he  saw  how  salutary  it  had  been  for  him  to  go  over  the  whole  story  in  his  mind  again.  It  was  going  to  allow  him  to  pass  the  remainder  of  the  visit  in  comparative  equanimity.  From  then  on,  it  would  be  as  if  he  were  an  impartial  witness  to  the  contest  be-  tween  Henrietta  and  [REDACTED]  Annie.  If,  afterward,  he  hadhad  to  testify  in  court  and  explain  why  he  did  not  intervene  be-  tween  them,  he  would  have  had  to  say  that  he  thought  it  only  a  kind  of  game  they  were  playing,  and  that  he  had  had  no  idea  how  deadly  serious  they  were.  HERE  was  no  telephone  call  from  Henrietta  that  day.  Edmund  tried  to  reach  her  just  after  noon,  but  learned  from  the  maid  that  she  and  &quot;the  com-  pany&quot;  hadn't  been  at  home  for  lunch.  The  maid  happened  to  know  the  restau-  rant  out  on  Hillsboro  Pike  where  they  had  gone  and  happened  to  have  the  tele-  phone  number  handy.  Edmund  could  not  help  smiling  as  he  jotted  down  the  number.  Henrietta  knew  he  would  be  expecting  a  call  from  her,  and  knew  that  if  it  didn't  come  Ae  would  call-  not  because  he  would  be  afraid  she  was  pouting  or  because  he  would  feel  a  need  to  apologize.  She  was  not  a  woman  who  pouted,  and  she  always  knew  how  sorry  he  was  when  they  had  had  any  kind  of  tiff.  She  was  wonderful.  He  would  find  her  tonight  in  the  best  of  spirits.  There  would  be  no  reference  made  to  their  exchange  at  the  side  door  this  morning.  It  was  past,  and  she  had  already  for-  gotten  it.  She  was  a  wonderful  woman,  and  nothing  about  her  was  more  won-  " b"derful  than  her  serenity  and  the  way  she  was  certain  to  have  another  sugges-  tion  to  make  to  him  today  or  tonight.  The  only  trouble  was  that  he  knew  what  this  suggestion  would  be,  and  it  was  important  that  he  give  her  the  op-  portunity  of  making  it  as  soon  as  possi-  ble,  He  telephoned  the  restaurant,  but  the  hostess  said  that  Mrs.  Harper  and  her  party  had  just  left.  Not  infrequently  Edmund  stayed  home  from  his  office  for  one  day  of  a  visit  that  wasn't  going  too  well.  It  was  usually  the  last  day.  But  his  staying  was  by  no  means  a  pattern.  He  could  never  be  certain  it  was  the  thing  Henrietta  wanted,  and  he  always  waited  for  her  suggestion.  Tomorrow  would  be  the  last  day  for  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  [REDACTED]  Annie,  and  though  this  was  a  case  in  which  Henrietta  was  almost  sure  to  sug-  gest  it,  it  wasn't  going  to  be  possible  for  him  to  stay.  When  he  came  into  the  house,  that  night,  Henrietta  was  still  upstairs  dress-  ing.  He  considered  this  a  stroke  of  good  luck,  because  it  would  give  her  the  op-  portunity  he  had  in  mind.  Perhaps,  even,  it  was  for  this  that  she  happened  still  to  be  up  there.  Henrietta's  dressing  for  dinner,  like  Edmund's,  consisted  not  of  getting  into  more  formal  attire  but  of  putting  on  something  more  comfortable  and  some-  thing  more  youthful  than  she  ever  wore  away  from  home.  When  he  came  into  her  room,  she  was  fresh  from  her  bath,  still  moving  about  the  room  in  her  knee-  length  slip  and  her  high-heeled  mules.  And  immediately  she  was  bubbling  with  talk  about  the  day's  events,  proving  that  she  bore  him  no  grudge,  even  saying  the  kind  of  things  about  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  that  she  had  refused  to  say  last  night.  &quot;Once,  in  the  car,  when  we  were  on  our  way  out  to  Traveller's  Rest  (they  were  enchanted  by  Travel-  ler's  Rest,  and  didn't  care  for  [REDACTED]  Meade  or  even  the  Hermitage)  once  I  said  (it  was  when  we  were  talking  about  people  from  Ewingsburg  who  live  here,  and  whom  [REDACTED]  Annie  has  re-  " b"fused  to  let  entertain  the  m  or  even  to  see)-  I  said  Bob  Coppinger  has  gotten  to  look  exactly  like  Laurence  Olivier.  'Like  who?&quot;  said  [REDACTED]  Johnny  from  the  back  seat.  [REDACTED]  Annie  w  as  sitting  in  the  front  seat  with  me,  and  she  turned  around  and  said  to  him  with  the  utmost  contempt  for  my  allusion,  'Some  mov-  ing-picture  star,  I  thin  k  ,  Mr.  K  incaid  .  (Yes,  she  h  as  continued  to  call  him  'Mr.  K  incaid'  all  day  tod  ay.)  It  was  as  if  the  old  dear  had  read  my  mind.  I  had  bee  n  thinking  that  eve  n  though  she  disa  p-  proves  so  of  TV,  we  might  be  able  to  get  them  out  to  see  a  Western  movi  e  tonight-something  real  old-fashioned,  like  a  movie.  But  after  her  remark  I  knew  there  was  no  chance,  and  that  it  had  be  en  silly  of  me  to  think  there  might  be.  I  even  marvel  that  she  knows  who  Oliv  ier  is.  But  she  knows  things.  She  knows  things  you'd  never  in  the  world  suppose  she  did.  Let  me  tell  you-  Here,  give  me  a  hand  wit  h  these  but-  tons,  won't  you?&quot;  While  sh  e  talked,  s  he  ha  d  gone  to  her  close  t  and  pulled  out  the  dre  ss  she  was  going  to  wear.  Edmund  was  marvelling  more  at  the  print  of  the  dress  material  an  d  at  the  mysterious  r  ow  of  buttons  down  the  ba  ck  than  at  [REDACTED]  Annie  Kincaid's  knowledge  of  mov  ie  stars.  He  realized  that  the  buttons  seemed  mysterious  because  they  were  at  once  so  un-  necessary,  so  numerous,  and  so  large-  each  the  size  of  a  silver  dollar-and  yet  were  so  carefully  camouflaged,  being  covered  with  the  same  print  the  dress  was  m  ade  of  .  He  found  it  most  absorbing  and  intriguing  and  endearing.  And  suddenly  he  recognized  the  similarity  of  the  whole  fashioning  of  this  dress  to  that  of  dresses  Hen  ri  ett  a  had  worn  when  he  was  courting  her.  As  he  stood  beh  in  d  her,  buttoning  those  buttons,  which  be-  gan  at  the  very  low  wa  istline  and  con-  tinued  up  to  the  rounded  neckline  ,  he  could  not  resist,  midway,  lean  ing  for-  ward  and  kissing  her  on  the  back  of  her  neck.  Henrietta  began  to  give  him the  day's  itinerary  :  the  old  F  in?  Presbyterian  Church,  the  plantation  houses  of  Andrew  Jackson,  John  Overton,  the as  Harding  family.  &quot;Every  place  we  went,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  o  v  had  a  time  making  them  get  out  and  see  th  BIG  b  the  very  thing  they  had come  to  see. But  what  I  was  going  to  tell  you  was  that  when  we  were  on  our  way  down-  town  tosee  the  church,  [REDACTED]  Annie  asked  me  to  point  out  the  James  K  Apartments  and  Vaux  Hall!  Could  you  have  imagined  she  would  have  heard  of  either  or  remembered  the  names?  When  I  told  her  both  buildings  had  been  torn  down,  she  only  said,  I'm  not" b"surprised.&quot;.  ..  What  I  think  is  that  those  were  places  where  friends  of  hers  who  came  to  [REDACTED]  a  million  years  ago  must  have  had  apartments....  We  might  have  lived  thereourselves  if  we  had  come  ten  or  fifteen  years  before  we  did.  Do  you  remember  when  the  Brax-  tons  lived  there-at  Vaux  Hall?&quot;  But  now  it  was  time  for  Edmund  to  rush  off  into  his  room  and  dress.  &quot;Well,  do  make  it  snappy,  dear,&quot;  Henrietta  said.  &quot;Remember  I've  had  them  all  day.  You  must  have  noticed  I'm  quite  hoarse  from  doing  all  thetalking.&quot;  At  dinner,  Edmund  made  a  special  point  of  carrying  his  full  share  of  the  conversation.  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  on  the  other  hand,  was  completely  silent  to-  night  and  ate  absolutely  nothing.  Cous-  in  Annie  was  kept  busy  eating  two  por-  tions  of  everything  sothat  nothing  would  be  wasted  on  their  account.  It  was  the  first  time  [REDACTED]  Annie  had  done  this,  but  then  it  was  the  first  time  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  gone  without  food  altogether.  Edmund  wondered  if  the  old  man  wasn't  hungry  and  if  they  couldn't  find  him  something  in  the  kitchen  he  could  eat.  Yet  he  couldn't  ask.  He  began  speculating  on  how  many  other  discomforts  the  old  man  might  have  suffered  in  the  past  two  days.  He  noticed  that  he  had  come  to  the  table  tonight  without  his  vest.  And  at  some  moment  last  night  he  had  noticed  how  theold  man's  clothes  seemed  to  hang  on  him  and  how  he  seemed  thinner  than  when  he  first  arrived.  The  answer  was  that  he  had  left  off  his  long  underwear.  It  was  the  central  heating  in  the  house!  They  weren't  used  to  it.  And  now  Ed-  mund  recalled  the  scene  in  the  living  room  when  he  came  into  the  house  this  afternoon.  Having  been  detained  at  the  office  to  make  last-minute  revisions  of  his  brief  forthe  shoe-company  case,  Ed-  mund  had  come  home  a  little  later  than  usual,  but  the  houseboy  was  lighting  the  log  fire  in  the  living  room  at  theusual  hour.  Edmund  had,  at  the  time,  been  scarcely  conscious  of  one  detail  in  the  scene,  but  subconsciously  he  had  made  a  note  of  it.  At  the  moment  of  his  en-  trance,  the  houseboy  was  on  his  knees  fanning  the  flames  of  the  fire,  and  across  the  room,  seated  beside  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  with  him  watching  silently  the  houseboy's  efforts,  [REDACTED]  Annie  was  fanning  herself  with  a  little  picture  post-  card  of  the  Hermitage.  Until  these  details  began  to  pile  up  in  his  mind,  at  the  dinner  table,  Ed-  mund  had  thought  of  [REDACTED]  Annie  as  waging  merely  a  defensive  war  against  Henrietta.  Now  he  saw  it  wasn't  so.  She  had  had  the  offensive  from  the  " b"beginning,  and  she  was  winning  bat-  tle  after  battle.  Every  discomfort  that  [REDACTED]  Johnny  suffered  in  silence,  every  dish  he  did  without,  every  custom  he   had  to  conform  to  that  was  &quot;bad  for  him&quot;  was  a  victory  over  Henrietta,  and  gave  the  old  lady  a  deeper  satisfaction  just  because  Henrietta  might  not  be  aware  of  it.  But  Edmund  had  no  premonition  of  how  far  she  might  be  prepared  to  go-  or  perhaps  already  had  gone-until  after  dinner,  when  [REDACTED]  Johnny  and  [REDACTED]  Annie  were  going  up  the  stairs  together.  They  ascended  very  slowly,  and  Edmund  realized  that  her  footsteps  were  every  bit  as  heavy  as  [REDACTED]  Johnny's.  He  recalled  having  mistaken  her  for  the  old  man  on  the  stair  this  morning.  Very  likely  it  had  been  she,  after  all,  who  had  come  down  to  fetch  the  paper  each  morning.  Was  climbing  the  stairs  perhaps  bad  for  [REDACTED]  Johnny?-the  stairs  in  this  house  and  in  all  the  landmarks  he  had  been  taken  to  see?  And  when  he  went  upstairs  this  morning,  had  it  really  been  that  he  couldn't  come  back  down  and  go  with  Edmund  to  the  office?  Suddenly  Ed-  mund  could  visualize  theold  fellow  lying  on  his  back  in  the  bed-or  on  the  floor  even,  before  the  old  lady  helped  him  onto  the  bed  and  made  him  com-  fortable  and  then  came  downstairs  to  say  that  he  had  changed  his  mind.  HEN  their  guests  had  gone  up-  stairs  for  the  night  and  Edmund  was  setting  up  the  card  table  in  the  liv-  ing  room,  Henrietta  still  hadn't  men-  tioned  tomorrow  and  the  possibility  of  his  staying  at  home.  But  after  they  had  arranged  their  cards  and  had  begun  to  play,  the  suggestion  wasn't  long  in  com-  ing.  By  now,  however,  his  concern  for  &amp;  [REDACTED]  Johnny  had  driven  that  problem  out  of  Edmund's  mind,  and  because  of  this  his  reply  to  Henrietta  was  more  abrupt  than  it  might  otherwise  have  been.  'There's  one  thing  I  do  hope,&quot;  she  had  said  with  considerable  force,  &quot;and  that  is  that  you  are  going  to  be  able  to  stay  at  home  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  possibly.&quot;  That  was  all  he  said.  For  a  minute  they  sat  looking  at  each  other  across  the  card  table.  &quot;But  I've  told  them  you'd  be  here,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  wish  youhad  asked  me  earlier,&quot;  he  said,  in  a  softer  tone  now.  Her  voice  was  still  full  of  confidence.  ;  &quot;I  hed  counted  on  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  ,  they  have  gone  up  to  bed  thinking  you'll  be  here.&quot;  &quot;Tomorrow  is  Friday,&quot;  he  said,  as" b"if  speaking  to  a  child,  &quot;I'll  have  to  be  in  court  all  day.  It's  the  shoe-company  case.  There's  no  chance.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Henrietta.  She  knew  that  this  meant  there  really  was  no  chance.  &quot;I'm  truly  sorry,  Henrietta,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Fortunately,  there  will  be  no  court  on  Saturday.  I'll  be  able  to  go  with  you  to  take  them  home.  But  there's  nothing  I  can  do  about  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  there's  not.  I  understand  that,&quot;  she  said,  smiling  at  him.  She  was  already  recovering  from  her  disappoint-  ment.  Quietly  they  began  playing  out  their  game  of  cards.  During  the  rest  of  the  time  they  sat  there,  it  seemed  to  Edmund  that  Henrietta  played  her  cards  as  though  she  were  performing  some  magic  that  was  going  to  change  everything-in  her  favor.  And  he  couldn't  bring  himself  to  tell  her  about  the  sudden  insight  he  had  had  at  the  dinner  table,  or  about  the  ridiculous  but  genuine  and  quite  black  apprehension  that  he  wasn't  able  to  rid  himself  of.  AT  some  hour  in  the  night  he  heard  the  old  woman's  voice  distinctly.  He  tried  to  think  he  had  only  dreamed  it  and  that  some  other  noise  had  waked  him.  But  then  he  heard  her  again  and  heard  [REDACTED]  Johnny.  The  familiar,  funereal  tones  were  unmistakable,  He  only  managed  to  get  back  to  sleep  by  assuring  himself  that  it  meant  it  must  be  nearly  morning,  by  reminding  him-  self  that  he  had  to  have  his  sleep  if  he  was  to  have  his  wits  about  him  in  court  today.  The  next  time  he  woke,  he  put  on  the  light  and  looked  at  his  watch.  He  was  sleeping  alone  in  his  own  room.  The  two  previous  nights  he  had  been  with  Henrietta  in  her  room,  but  tonight  she  hadn't  suggested  it.  His  pocket  watch  was  lying  on  his  bedside  table,  with  the  gold  chain  coiled  about  it.  It  had  been  his  father's  watch,  and  had  the  circum-  ference  and  the  thickness  of  a  doorknob.  Before  he  fastened  his  eyes  on  the  Roman  numerals  to  which  the  filigreed  hands  pointed,  he  remembered  noticing  that  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  watch,  which  the  old  man  took  out  and  wound  before  going  up  to  bed  each  night,  was  almost  ||  identical  with  this  one  of  his  father's.  It  occurred  to  him  that  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  would  be  resting  now  on  the  bedside  }]  table  in  the  guest  room,  with  its  chain  coiled  around  it.  This  neat  coiling  of  the  chain  about  the  watch  was  a  habit  Ed-  mund  had  picked  up  from  his  father,  and  one  that  his  father  had  no  doubt  picked  up  from  his  own  father.  When  finally  Edmund  focussed  his  attention  on  the  face  of  the  watch,  he  found  the  very " b"hour  of  the  night  itself  alarming.  It  was  half  past  three.  From  that  moment,  he  didn't  hear  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  voice  again;  it  was  only  the  old  lady  he  heard.  He  was  certain  now  that  the  old  man  was  really  very  sick.  He  waited,  sitting  on  the  side  of  the  bed,  with  the  light  on.  There  were  silences,  broken  always  and  only  by  [REDACTED]  Annie's  voice.  At  last  he  got  up  and  switched  off  the  light  and  felt  his  way  through  the  bathroom  into  Hen-  rietta's  room.  &quot;Do  you  suppose  something  is  really  wrong?&quot;  Henrietta  said  from  her  bed.  He  was  hardly  through  the  doorway,  and  the  room  was  pitch  dark.  Something  in  the  way  she  said  it  made  him  answer,  &quot;I  suppose  not.&quot;  'The  light's  been  on  in  their  room  for  some  time.  You  can  see  it  on  the  garage  roof.  Do  you  think  you  might  just  go  and  make  sure?-or  I  could.&quot;  &quot;What  good  would  it  do?  It  would  only  make  matters  worse,  considering  how  they  are.&quot;  &quot;Well,  what  do  you  think?&quot;  she  said,  meaning,  &quot;'Then  why  are  you  here?&quot;  &quot;I  couldn't  sleep.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  that  case  today?&quot;  &quot;No,  but  I  thought  I  might  sleep  bet-  ter  in  here.&quot;  He  was  sitting  on  the  side  of  her  bed  now.  &quot;Do  you  mind?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  don't  mind,  silly.&quot;  She  sounded  wide  awake.  &quot;I've  had  a  won-  derfully  funny  thought,&quot;  she  said  as  he  lay  down  beside  her.  &quot;You  might  just  go  to  their  door  and  tell  [REDACTED]  Annie  that  you  won't  be  able  to  stay  home  to-  day.  Then  maybe  she  would  let  him  get  some  sleep.&quot;  &quot;Can  she  be  that  awful?&quot;  Edmund  said.  &quot;You  don't  suppose  it's  anything  more  than  just  that?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  not,&quot;  she  answered,  put-  ting  her  arm  around  him.  T  seven  o'clock  nobo  dy  went  dow  n-  stairs  to  fetch  the  paper.  Edmund  had  lef  t  hi  s  watch  in  his  room,  but  meighborhood  noises  and  a  distant  whistle  told  him  the  time.  He  slept  again,  and  next  time  he  waked  he  knew  it  wa  s  the  unnatural  silence  in  the  house  th  at  had  wake  d  him.  He  slipped  out  of  bed  and  went  in  to  his  room  to  dress.  It  was  seven-thirty  by  his  watch.  He  dres  sed  hurri  edl  y,  but  when  he  went  to  look  in  on  Henrietta  before  going  downstair  s,  he  found  her  also  fully  dress  e  d  and  standing  with  her  hand  on  the  knob  to  the  hall  door.  She  had  put  on  lipstick  but  no  other  makeup.  She  looked  pale  and  frightened.  He  crossed  over  to  her,  and  they  went  out  into  the  hall  together.  'The  door  to  the  guest  room  was   " b"standing  open,  but  the  blinds  were  still  drawn  and  the  room  was  in  complete  darkness.  Presently  [REDACTED]  Annie  ap-  peared  out  of  the  darkness,  wearing  the  black  dress  she  had  worn  on  the  trip  in  from  the  country  and  clutching  some  object  in  her  hand.  Edmund  and  Hen-  rietta  moved  quickly  toward  her,.  As  they  drew  near,  Edmund  saw  it  was  [REDACTED]  Johnny's  watch  she  held.  When  they  stood  before  her  in  the  doorway,  [REDACTED]  Annie  said,  &quot;He's  gone.&quot;  &quot;Gone?&quot;  Edmund  echoed,  and  he  almostadded,  &quot;Where?&quot;  But  in  time  he  remembered  the  euphemism.  She  spoke  as  though  they  had  all  been  waiting  to-  gether  through  the  night  for  the  old  man  to  be  released  from  his  mortal  pain.  He  felt  Henrietta  lean  against  him.  He  put  his  arms  about  her,  and  when  she  turned  and  hid  her  face  on  his  shirt  front,  he  had  to  support  her  to  keep  her  from  crumbling  to  the  floor.  &quot;You  mustn't,&quot;  said  [REDACTED]  Annie.  &quot;I  did  everything  anyone  could  have  done.  We  had  known  for  some  time  he  hadn'tlong.&quot;  Henrietta's  strength  returned.  She  drew  herself  away  from  him  and  faced  [REDACTED]  Annie.  &quot;But  why-  how  could  you  let  him  come  if-&quot;  Edmund  felt  himself  blushing.  Was  his  wife  reallyso  shameless?  But  theold  lady  seemed  to  think  the  question  quite  in  order.  She  even  com-  pleted  it  for  Henrietta.  &quot;If  it  was  un-  wise  for  him?  Because  he  wanted  so  much  to  come,  to  see  what  it  was  like  here.  ...  Like  all  of  us,  he  was  foolish  about  some  things.&quot;  The  two  women  stood  a  moment  looking  at  each  other.  Without  being  blind  to  the  genuine  grief  in  [REDACTED]  Annie's  countenance,  Edmund  detected  the  glint  of  victory  in  the  last  glance  she  gave  Henrietta  before  turning  back  in-  to  the  dark  room.  Poor  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  Edmund  thought  to  himself.  ...  Now  Henrietta  was  following  [REDACTED]  Annie  in  there,  and  now  he  heard  the  old  lady's  first  sobs  and  knew  that  she  had  given  way,  as  she  had  to,  and  was  letting  Henrietta  see  after  her.  The  battle  was  over,  real-  ly.  ...  But  poor  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  he  kept  thinking.  Poor  old  fellow.  ...  Presently  Henrietta  led  [REDACTED]  Annie  out  into  the  hall  again,  and  as  the  two  women  moved  toward  the  door  to  Henrietta's  room,  Henrietta  gave  him  a  look  that  recalled  him  to  his  senses  and  reminded  him  of  his  obligations.  Already  it  was  time  for  him  to  begin  making  the  arrangements.  He  would  be  at  home  after  all  today.  The  court  would  grant  a  postponement  under  the  circumstances.  [REDACTED]  John-  " b"ny  was  gone,  but  he  was  still  here  to  see  Henrietta  through  and  make  the  ar-  rangements.  For  a  moment  Edmund  stood  there  staring  into  the  dead  man's  room.  The  door  should  be  shut,  he  supposed.  And  when  he  had  done  this,  he  would  have  to  go  and  telephone  a  doctor.  [REDACTED]  Annie  didn't  realize  you  couldn't  die  without  a  doctor  nowadays.  While  he  waited  for  the  doctor  to  arrive,  he  would  call  an  undertaker.  No,  he  was  being  as  bad  as  [REDACTED]  Annie.  It  wouldn't  do  to  call  an  undertaker  before  a  doctor  had  been  there.  He  stepped  forward  and  placed  his  hand  on  the  doorknob.  And  then,  as  though  it  was  what  he  had  in-  tended  all  along,  he  went  inside  the  room  and  closed  the  door  behind  him.  He  waited  just  inside  the  door  till  his  eyes  got  used  to  the  dark.  Then  he  went  over  to  the  bed,  where  she  had  the  old  man  laid  out.  At  last  they  were  alone-he  and  [REDACTED]  Johnny.  There  was  only  just  enough  light  for  him  to  make  out  that  she  had  him  completely  dressed,  and  with  something  that  must  be  a  handkexchlef  covermg  his  face.  No  doubt  he  was  wearing  the  very  clothes-his  other  suit  and  good  tie-.  that  he  would  have  worn  to  lunch  at  Jackson's  Stable.  And  would  she  have  put  him  in  his  long  underwear,  Edmund  speculated,  not  idly,  and  not,  certainly,  with  humor.  And  the  vest?  And  the  lisle  socks  and  the  elastic  supporters?  Yes,  she  would  have.  That  was  how  [REDACTED]  Johnny  would  be  taken  back  to  Ewingsburg  for  burial,  was  how  he  would  be  taken  away  from  Edmund's  house,  where  he  had  died.  Suddenly,  at  the  thought  of  it,  Edmund  was  seized  with  a  dreadful  terror  of  their  taking  the  old  man  away.  Wasn't  there  some  way  he  could  postpone  it?  But  postponing  it  wouldn't  be  enough.  What  if  he  should  |-  lock  the  door  to  the  guest  room  and  re-  fuse  to  let  them  have  the  body!  He  stood  peering  through  the  dark-  ness  at  the  white  handkerchief  over  the  old  man's  face,  the  face  whose  features  he  already  found  it  hard  to  remember  distinctly,  and  wondering  at  his  own  simplicity-giving  way  to  such  un-  natural  and  morbid  feelings!  And  at  such  a  time.  Soon  Henrietta  or  [REDACTED]  Annie-or  the  two  of  them  even-  might  come  and  discover  him  there.  That  wasn't  likely,  but  soon  he  would  have  to  go  back  to  them,  and  he  must  |  begin  preparing  himself  for  his  return.  He  knew  that  the  first  step  must  be  to  |.  begin  thinking  of  [REDACTED]  Johnny  more  realistically,  not  as  a  part  of  himself  that  was  being  taken  away  forever  but  once  ||  again  as  a  visitor  from  the  country  who " b"had  died  in  his  guest  room.  And,  all  at  once,  it  seemed  to  Edmund  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  for  him  to  speak  to  his  dead  house  guest.  &quot;Well,  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  you're  gone,&quot;  he  said.  That  was  all  he  said  aloud.  But,  placing  his  two  hands  on  the  smooth  footrail  of  the  bed  as  though  it  were  the  familiar  rail  of  a  jury  box,  he  went  on  silently:  &quot;What  was  it  we  were  going  to  talk  about,  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  in  that  talk  of  ours?  Was  it  our  wives  and  their  wars  within  wars  and  what  made  them  that  way?  We  certainly  ought  to  have  got  round  to  that.  But  it  wasn't  our  wives  who  divided  us.  It  was  some-  how  our  both  being  from  the  country  that  did  it.  You  had  done  one  thing  about  being  from  the  country  and  I  had  done  another.  You  buried  yourself  alive  on  that  farm  of  yours,  I  buried  myself  in  my  work  here.  But  something  in  the  life  out  there  didn't  satisfy  you  the  way  it  should.  The  country  wasn't  itself  any  more.  And  something  was  wrong  for  me  here.  By  'country'  we  mean  theold  world,  don't  we,  [REDACTED]  Johnny?  The  old  ways,  the  old  life,  where  people  had  real  grandfathers  and  real  children,  and  where  love  was  something  that  could  endure  the  light  of  day-something  real,  not  merely  a  hand  one  holds  in  the  dark  so  that  sleep  will  come.  Our  trou-  ble  was,  [REDACTED]  Johnny,  we  were  lost  without  our  old  realities.  We  couldn't  discover  what  it  is  people  keep  alive  for  without  them.  Surely  there  must  be  something.  Other  people  seem  to  know  some  reason  why  it  is  better  to  be  alive  than  dead  this  April  morning.  I  will  have  to  find  it  out.  There  must  be  some-  thing.&quot;"