 b"THREE  years  ago  this  spring,  I  began  to  have  serious  trouble  with  my  tennis  game.  At  first  it  seemed  nothing  more  than  the  customary  early-  season  awkwardness  and  bad  timing,  but  when  my  double  faults  and  netted  backhands  carried  over  into  mid-]  uly,  causing  me  public  humiliation  and  pri-  vate  anguish,  I  knew  that  some  drastic  therapy  was  needed.  The  three  men  I  usually  played  with  were  patient  and  understanding.  They  gave  various  ad-  vice,  but  none  of  it  helped  until  that  hot  Saturday  morning  in  August  when  Wally  Michaels  took  me  aside  between  sets  and  asked,  casually  enough,  &quot;Have  you  ever  thought  of  trying  Zen?&quot;  Coming  from  Wally,  a  steady,  some-  what  plodding  backcourt  player,  the  question  startled  me.  'This  was  long  be-  fore  Zen  Buddhism  had  become  a  com-  monplace  in  suburbia,  and  hard  as  it  is  to  believe  now,  the  books  of  Daisetz  T.  Suzuki,  pioneer  of  Zen  in  [REDACTED],  were  then  known  to  very  few  tennis  players.  Cocktail-party  guests  had  not  yet  begun  to  ask  each  other  Zen  \xc3\xa9kocens,  the  riddle  questions  designed  to  coerce  the  mind  into  a  state  of  non-rational  awareness.  It  was  even  possible  to  spend  a  whole  evening  talking  to  an  old  friend  without  having  to  hear  about  his  sator?  (enlightenment)  or  having  to  argue  the  relative  merits  of  beatnik  Zen,  square  Zen,  and  ladies'  Zen.  I  usually  find  myself  a  little  ahead  of  contemporary  trends,  however,  and  I  had  recently  read  five  or  six  of  Dr.  Suzuki's  early  books  on  Zen,  and  was  then  in  the  midst  of  a  lovely  small  volume,  by  a  German  Zen  addict  named  Eugen  Herri-  gel,  called  &quot;Zen  in  the  Art  of  Archery.&quot;  Wally's  question  therefore  dropped  like  a  stone  into  deep  water.  I  knew,  suddenly  and  inexplicably,  that  Zen  could  well  be  the  answer  to  my  tennis  problem.  The  question  was,  where  could  I  find  a  teacher?  Wally  Michaels  surprised  me  again  by  saying  he  would  ask  his  ros/:,  or  Zen  Master,  whom  he  had  been  go-  ing  to  for  about  two  years  in  hopes  of  increasing  his  annual  sales  record  (Zen  in  the  Art  of  Salesmanship).  He  did  so  that  same  afternoon,  but  the  rosh:  was  unable  to  suggest  anyone.  &quot;'Try  the  Yellow  Pages,&quot;  said  Wally.  &quot;'You  nev-  er  know.&quot;  Without  much  enthusiasm,  I  dug  out  the  Classified  and  leafed  through  it  until  I  came  to  &quot;Tennis  In-  struction.&quot;  About  halfway  down  the  page,  my  eye  was  arrested  by  an  unmis-  takably  Japanese,  Zen-sounding  name,  I.  Ashikawa,  which  was  followed  by     the  cryptic  message  &quot;Fish  &amp;  Birds&quot;  and  an  address  on  upper  [REDACTED],  in  the  [REDACTED].  I  sprang  to  my  feet  with  a  cry  of  triumph.  What  a  perfect  Zen  analo-  gy-tennis  balls  darting  like  fish,  flying  like  birds!  My  wife  suggested,  in  her  lit-  eral  way,  that  it  sounded  like  a  pet  shop  that  had  slipped  into  the  tennis  listings  by  mistake,  but  I  knew  better.  With-  out  a  doubt,  Ashikawa  was  my  man.  The  next  afternoon,  I  took  the  car  and  drove  to  the  upper-[REDACTED]  ad-  dress,  which  turned  out  to  be  a  small  shop  sandwiched  between  two  early-  [REDACTED]-baroque  apartment  houses.  The  dusty  windows  of  the  shop  were  full  of  bird  cages  and  tropical-fish  tanks-a  nice  bit  of  deception.  In  my  eagerness,  I  rang  the  bell  repeatedly  for  ten  min-  utes  or  so,  forgetting  that  novices  often  wait  outside  a  Zen  monastery  for  days  or  even  weeks  before  being  considered  worthy  to  be  admitted.  Finally,  the  door  opened  and  a  feathery  wisp  of  a  man,  with  white  hair  and  a  yellow  sleeveless  shirt,  put  his  head  out  and  said  brusque-  ly,  &quot;Closed.  Go  away.&quot;  &quot;I've  come  to  see  about  tennis  les-  sons,&quot;  Isaid  breathlessly.  &quot;Are  you  a  rosh?  Do  you  teach  the  dharma?&quot;  In-  stead  of  replying,  he  flung  a  handful  of  birdseed  in  my  face,  slammed  the  door,  and  disappeared.  Imagine  my  delight!  Here  was  proof  that  I  had  stumbled  on  a  true  Zen  Mas-  ter,  who  would  break  down  my  slavish  habits  of  rational,  logical  thought,  and  in  so  doing  perhaps  cure  my  wrong-  headed  backhand.  I  drove  home  with  a  high  heart,  cer-  tain  that  I  was  well  begun  on  my  quest  for  enlightenment.  The  next  day,  I  was  back.  When  Ashikawa  threw  the  birdseed  at  me  this  time,  I  managed  to  bow  politely  before  he  slammed  the  door.  Two  days  later,  I  was  able  to  pick  up  a  pinch  of  seed  and  hand  it  back  to  him.  The  following  Monday,  he  let  me  come  in.  The  place  did  give  somewhat  the  ap-  pearance  of  a  pet  shop.  Bird  cages  lined  one  side  wall  and  tropical-fish  tanks  the  other.  Mr.  Ashikawa  led  me  to  a  small,  cluttered  office  in  the  back,  where  a  tethered  myna  bird  glared  at  me  with  bloodshot  eyes  and  said,  enigmatically,  &quot;Porry  want  a  clacker?&quot;  Ashikawa  asked  me  if  I  wanted  to  buy  the  bird,  and  when  I  declined  he  demanded  to  know  just  what  it  was  I  did  want.  &quot;'Whatever  you  can  teach  me,&quot;  I  said,  as  humbly  as  possible.  He  stared  at  me  for  a  long  time,  obviously  trying  to  make  out  whether  I  was  a  restless  dilettante  or  a  serious  Zen  seeker,  At  length,  he  gave  a  little  grunt  and  nod-  ded  his  white  head.  At  such  a  moment,  words  would  have  been  superfluous.  ROM  then  on,  I  came  every  morn-  ing  for  an  hour,  before  going  to  my  office  downtown.  Ashikawa  showed  me  how  to  clean  the  bird  cages  and  the  fish  tanks,  and  I  was  content  to  do  so.  I  remembered  reading  the  story  of  the  young  samurai  who  went  to  a  famous  Zen  Master  to  learn  swordsmanship  and  was  put  to  work  building  fires  and  cooking  the  Master's  meals.  When  he  unwisely  asked  how  long  it  would  be  before  they  could  begin  lessons  in  swordsmanship,  the  Master  struck  him  smartly  on  the  head  with  a  heavy  stick,  and  from  that  time  forward  the  Mas-  ter  would  sneak  up  behind  him  every  time  his  back  was  turned  and  give  him  a  thrashing.  After  several  years  of  this,  the  samurai  became  adept  at  dodging  blows  from  any  angle.  One  day,  he  saw  the  Master  himself  bending  over  a  cooking  fire,  and,  unable  to  resist  the  temptation,  raised  his  own  stick  to  strike  him.  Without  even  looking  up,the  Mas-  ter  caught  the  blow  on  the  lid  of  a  pot.  This  opened  the  samurai's  eyes  to  the  real  secrets  of  swordsmanship,  and  he  was  forever  grateful  to  the  Master,  although  his  wits  became  so  confused  by  the  repeated  blows  on  the  head  that  he  never  amounted  to  much  as  a  swordsman  himself.  Determined  to  avoid  the  samurai's  mistake,  I  said  not  a  word  about  tennis  lessons  for  a  full  six  weeks.  Finally  my  impatience  overcameme.  In  a  foolish  attempt  to  force  the  issue,  I  appeared  one  morning  with  my  ten-  nis  racket  and  some  balls,  The  Master  had  the  grace  to  look  puzzled  rather  than  angry.  It  was  at  this  point  that  he  asked  me  the  first  oan.  &quot;What  have  you  got  there?&quot;  he  said.  There  was  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  this  was  a  koan,.  Obviously,  Ashikawa  knew  a  tennis  racket  when  he  saw  one,  so  his  question  must  have  been  intended  to  jolt  my  mind  intothe  kind  of  non-  rational  awareness  I  was  so  anxious  to  achieve.  I  was  a  good  deal  deeper  into  Zen  by  this  time.  I  had  read  nine  or  ten  more  books  by  Daisetz  T.  Suzuki  and  had  become  increasingly  certain  that  all  my  tennis  problems  could  be  traced  back  to  that  old  troublemaker  the  rational  mind.  I  had  also  been  wondering  when  Ashikawa  would  let  me  sink  my  teeth  intoa  koan,  so  when  he  repeated  the  question  now,  saying  sharply,  &quot;What  have  you  got  there?,&quot;  I  bowed  low  and  said  that  I  would  meditate  on  the  answer.  He  emitted  a  " b"wild  Zen  laugh.  At  last  we  were  get-  ting  somewhere.  After  that,  I  brought  the  racketev-  ery  day.  This  seemed  to  please  the  Master,  who  used  to  remove  the  press  and  let  the  myna  bird  sit  on  the  strings,  where  it  hopped  up  and  down,  croak-  ing  &quot;Porry  want  a  clacker?&quot;  It  was  typical  of  a  Zen  tennis  sage  to  treat  the  racket  itself-centerpiece  of  his  art-  with  such  merry  irreverence.  Autumn  drifted  into  winter.  There  were  times,  I  confess,  when  the  pros-  pects  looked  discouraging.  Ashikawa  seemed  far  more  interested  inhis  fish  and  birds  than  in  the  teaching  of  Zen  tennis.  At  home,  I  suffered  stoically  through  such  indignities  as  hearing  my  wife  tell  our  friends  that  she  had  be-  come  a  Zen  Mother,  while  my  two  chil-  dren  clamored  for  ice-cream  ZAoans.  But  I  was  determined  to  stick  it  out.  ON  January  19th,  I  solved  the  first  koan.  When  the  Master  pointed  to  my  tennis  racket  and  asked  me,  as  he  did  nearly  every  morning,  &quot;What  have  you  got  there?,&quot;  I  felt  a  sudden  wave  of  anger  and  I  answered,  without  thinking,  &quot;A  birdstand,  for  God's  sake!&quot;  He  doubled  over  with  laugh-  ter.  Suddenly  I  knew  that  I  had  pen-  etrated  to  the  heart  of  the  koan,  be-  cause  Ashikawa  stopped  laughing  and  asked  me  another  one,  far  more  diffi-  cult  than  the  first.  &quot;Are  you  crazy?&quot;  he  said.  Instead  of  answering  straight  off  and  making  a  fool  of  myself,  I  decided  to  seize  this  propitious  moment  to  begin  our  Zen  tennis  lessons,.  Motioning  to  Ashikawa  to  follow  me,  I  strode  out  the  door  andaround  the  corner  toward  a  vacant  lot  I  had  been  eying  for  sev-  eral  months.  It  was  bounded  on  two  sides  by  tumble-down  fences,  and  at  the  rear  by  the  smooth,  windowless  wall  of  a  garage.  &quot;How  about  it?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  ready  if  you  are.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  crazy?&quot;  Ashikawa  repeat-  ed,  pretending  to  be  uneasy.  Without  more  ado,  I  addressed  myself  to  the  back  wall,  tossed  up  a  ball,  and  served.  It  was  a  good  first  serve,  hard  and  flat.  The  ball  hit  about  four  feet  up  the  wall  and  came  back  at  an  angle,  bouncing  off  pieces  of  brick  and  tin  cans  and  eventually  disappearing  under  a  parked  Pontiac.  I  stole  a  glance  at  the  Master,  who  looked  dubious.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  said  quickly,  eager  to  impress  him.  &quot;I  was  trying  to  \xc2\xabiz  it.  I  should  just  let  it  fall  from  the  racket  natural-  ly-is  that  right?&quot;  This  falling  bit  was  right  out  of  Herrigel's  book  on  archery,  and  it  must  have  distressed  Ashikawa  no  end  to  have  me  thus  parade  my  pitiful  learning.  He  said  nothing,  but  mo-  tioned  for  me  to  serve  again.  'This  time  the  ball  didn't  even  reach  the  wall.  The  third  serve  slid  off  the  handle  and  went  bouncing  erratically  down  the  street.  A  tatterdemalion  youth  fielded  it  and  made  off  with  it  around  the  corner.  I  retrieved  the  remaining  two  balls  and  continued  serving.  The  Master  watched  me  closely,  muttering  in  Japanese  from  time  to  time  but  never  offering  the  least  " b" particle  of  advice.  I  had  hoped  he  would  make  a  few  suggestions,  although  I  was  well  aware  that  Zen  cannot  be  taught-  that,  in  fact,  &quot;one  knows  it  by  not  knowing  it.&quot;  By  the  time  we  stopped,  I  could  hardly  hit  the  ball.  Our  lessons  followed  this  pattern  for  several  months.  After  cleaning  the  fish  tanks  and  bird  cages,  we  would  go  back  to  the  vacant  lot,  where  I  would  serve  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  often  in  snow  or  rain.  My  serve  grew  steadily  worse,  to  the  intense  delight  ofthe  hordes  of  neighborhood  toughs  who  came  out  to  watch  and  jeer.  'The  Master  was  in-  credibly  patient.  When  I  offered  him  the  racket,  hoping  he  would  demon-  strate,  he  merely  backed  away,  giggling.  He  obviously  meant  for  me  to  learn  by  direct  experience.  Remembering  my  readings  in  Suzuki,  I  tried  to  keep  my  mind  locked  up  in  the  lower  part  of  my  abdomen,  &quot;just  below  the  nave  \xc2\xbb  (so  that  I  might  adjust  myself  &quot;with  the  shifting  situation  from  moment  to  mo-  ment&quot;),  but  it  was  no  use.  This  only  gave  me  cramps.  Then  one  day  in  late  spring,  totally  without  warning,  I  served  a  perfect  ball.  It  seemed  to  float  effortlessly  from  my  racket,  without  conscious  guidance,  in  a  pure  and  beautifully  anti-  intellectual  arc,  to  the  exact  center  of  the  back  wall.  I  turned  eagerly  to  see  the  Master's  reaction.  'To  my  amaze-  ment,  he  was  nowhere  in  sight.  Where  he  had  been  standing  a  moment  ago,  there  was  now  a  large  blue  policeman,  watching  me  coldly.  I  started  to  tell  him  about  the  shot,  but  something  in  his  manner  suggested  that  he  might  have  trouble  understanding,  soI  merely  smiled  pleasantly,  picked  up  the  balls,  and  started  walking  away.  The  police-  man  followed  me  to  my  car,  and  I  thought  it  best  to  drive  away  without  bothering  Ashikawa  again  that  day.  So  great  was  my  joy  at  having  ap-  proached  forthe  first  time,  through  that  perfect  serve,  the  inner  spirit  of  Zen  tennisthat  I  was  not  even  particularly  surprised  to  be  denied  entrance  to  Ashi-  kawa's  shop  the  next  morning.  The  door  was  locked.  When  I  rang,  the  Master  came  to  the  window  shaking  his  head  and  waving  angrily.  He  re-  an  exquisite  gesture.  He  took  this  means  of  telling  me  he  had  no  more  to  teach,  that  I  must  now  find  another  Master  or  proceed  on  my  own.  IN  the  years  since  that  day,  I  have  often  sought  a  new  tennis  Master  to  carry  on  Ashikawa's  work,  and  I  am  still  looking.  But  the  way  of  Zen  has  not  been  closed  to  me-not  by  any  means.  My  tennis  is  rather  strange  now,  byour  club  standards,  and  it  has  become  increasingly  difficult  for  me  to  get  up  a  game.  I  seldom  put  the  ball  in  court  on  my  serve,  and  my  ground  strokes  have  a  way  of  soaring  over  the  backstop  and  off  into  space,  like  swal-  lows.  But  the  great  thing  is,  this  no  longer  concerns  me.  I  rarely  think  now  in  terms  of  winning.  As  I  penetrate  ever  closer  into  the  real  spirit  of  tennis,  I  become  increasingly  aware  that  the  server  and  the  receiver  are  really  one  person,  and  the  goal  of  both  is  not  points  but  satori.  The  transformation  of  my  entire  life  is  at  hand.  I  can  even  derive  pleasure  from  mixed  doubles.  Yesterday  I  solved  the  second  koan.  As  I  missed  an  overhead  smash,  it  suddenly  swept  over  me  that  the  answer  to  the  question  &quot;Are  you  crazy?&quot;  was  simply,  to  paraphrase  Descartes,  &quot;I  think,  therefore  I  must  be  crazy.&quot;  My  sudden  peal  of  pure  Zen  laughter  startled  the  three  ladies  I  was  playing  with,  I'm  afraid,  but  I  felt  no  embar-  rassment;  someday  soon,  I  knew,  I  would  be  able  to  stop  thinking  altogeth-  er  and  attain  satori.  I  only  wish  old  Master  Ashikawa  had  been  around  to  see  my  next  double  fault,  which  was  which was perfect."