 b"WHEN  Tom  Beavers  started  coming  back  to  Richton,  Mis-  sissippi,  on  weekends,  after  the  war  was  over,  everybody  in  town  was  surprised  and  pleased.  They  had  never  noticed  him  much  before  he  paid  them  this  compliment;  now  they  could  not  say  enough  nice  things.  There  was  not  much  left  in  Richton  for  him  to  call  family-just  his  aunt  who  had  raised  him,  Miss  Rita  Beavers,  old  as  God,  ugly  as  sin,  deaf  as  a  post.  So  he  must  be  fond  of  the  town,  they  reasoned;  certainly  it  was  a  pretty  old  place.  Far  too  many  young  men  had  left  it  and  never  come  back  at  all.  He  would  drive  in  every  Friday  night  from  Jackson,  where  he  worked.  All  weekend,  his  Ford,  dusty  of  flank,  like  a  hard-ridden  horse,  would  sit  parked  down  the  hill  near  Miss  Rita's  old  wire  front  gate,  which  sagged  from  the  top  hinge  and  had  worn  a  span  in  the  ground.  On  Saturday  morning,  he  would  head  for  the  drugstore,  then  the  post  office;  then  he  would  be  observed  walking  here  and  there  around  the  streets  under  the  shade  trees.  It  was  as  though  he  were  looking  for  something.  He  wore  steel  taps  on  his  heels,  and  in  the  still  the  click  of  them  on  the  side-  walks  would  sound  across  the  big  front  lawns  and  all  the  way  up  to  the  porches  of  the  houses,  where  two  ladies  might  be  sitting  behind  a  row  of  ferns.  They  would  identify  him  to  one  another,  mur-  muring  in  their  fine  little  voices,  and  say  it  was  just  too  bad  there  was  noth-  ing  here  for  young  people.  It  was  just  a  shame  they  didn't  have  one  or  twomore  old  houses  here,  for  a  Pilgrimage-  look  how  Natchez  had  waked  up.  One  Saturday  morning  in  early  October,  Tom  Beavers  sat  at  the  count-  er  in  the  drugstore  and  reminded  Totsie  Poteet,  the  drugstore  clerk,  of  a  ghost  story.  Did  he  remember  the  strange  old  man  who  used  to  appear  to  people  who  were  coming  into  Richton  along  the  Jackson  road  at  twilight-  what  they  called  &quot;first  dark&quot;?  &quot;Sure  I  remember,&quot;  said  Totsie.  &quot;Old  Cud'n  Jimmy  Wiltshire  used  to  tell  us  about  him  every  time  we  went  possum  hunting.  I  could  see  him  plain  as  I  can  see  you,  the  way  he  used  to  tell  it.  Tall,  with  atop  hat  on,  yeah,  and  waiting  in  the  weeds  alongside  the  road  ditch,  so'n  you  couldn't  tell  if  he  wasn't  taller  than  any  mortal  man  could  be,  because  you  couldn't  tell  if  he  was  standing  down  in  the  ditch  or  not.  It  would  look  like  he  just  grew  up  out  of  the  weeds.  Then  he'd  signal  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Them  that  stopped  never  saw  any-  DARK  body,&quot;  said  Tom  Beavers,  stirring  his  coffee.  &quot;There  were  lots  of  folks  be-  sides  Mr.  Jimmy  that  saw  him.&quot;  &quot;There  was,  let  me  see  ...&quot;  Totsie  enumerated  others-some  men,some  women,  some  known  to  drink,  others  who  never  touched  a  drop.  There  was  no  way  to  explain  it.  &quot;There  was  that  story  the  road  gang  told.  Do  you  re-  member,  or  were  you  off  at  school?  It  was  while  they  were  straightening  the  road  out  to  the  highway-taking  the  curves  out  and  building  a  new  bridge.  Anyway,  they  said  that  one  night  at  quitting  time,  along  in  the  winter  and  just  about  dark,  this  old  guy  signalled  to  some  of  'em.  They  said  they  went  over  and  he  asked  them  to  move  a  bull-  dozer  they  had  left  across  the  road,  be-  cause  he  had  a  wagon  back  behind  on  a  little  dirt  road,  with  a  sick  nigger  girl  in  it.  Had  to  get  to  the  doctor  and  this  was  the  only  way.  They  claimed  they  knew  didn't  nobody  live  back  there  on  that  little  old  road,  but  niggers  can  come  from  anywhere.  So  they  moved  the  bulldozer  and  cleared  back  a  whole  lot  of  other  stuff,  and  waited  and  waited.  Not  only  didn't  no  wagon  ever  come,  but  the  man  that  had  stopped  them,  he  was  gone,  too.  'They  was  right  shook  up  over  it.  You  never  heard  that  one?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  never  did.&quot;  Tom  Beavers  said  this  with  his  eyes  looking  up  over  his  coffee  cup,  as  though  he  sat  behind  a  hand  of  cards.  His  lashes  and  brows  were  heavier  than  was  ordi-  nary,  and  worked  as  a  veil  might,  to  keep  you  away  from  knowing  ex-  actly  what  he  was  think-  ing.  &quot;They  said  he  was  tall  andhad  a  hat  on.&quot;  The  screen  door  flapped  to  announce  a  custom-  er,  but  Totsie  kept  on  talking.  &quot;But  whether  he  was  a  white  man  or  a  real  light-colored  nigger  they  couldn't  say.  Some  said  one  and  some  said  another.  I  figured  they'd  been  pulling  on  the  jug  a  little  earlier  than  usual.  You  know  why?  I  never  heard  of  our  ghost  saying  nothing.  Did  you,  Tom?&quot;  He  moved  away  on  the  last  words,  the  way  a  clerk  will,  talking  back  over  his  shoulder  and  ahead  of  him  to  his  new  customer  at  the  same  time,  as  though  he  had  two  voices  and  two  heads.  &quot;And  what'll  it  be  today,  Miss  Frances?&quot;  The  young  woman  standing  at  the  counter  had  a  prescription  already  out  of  her  bag.  She  stood  with  it  poised  be-     31  tween  her  fingers,  but  her  attention  was  drawn  toward  Tom  Beavers,  his  coffee  cup,  and  the  conversation  she  had  interrupted.  She  was  a  girl  whom  no  ordinary  description  would  fit.  One  would  have  to  know  first  of  all  who  she  was:  Frances  Harvey.  After  that,  it  was  all  right  for  her  to  be  a  little  odd-  looking,  with  her  reddish  hair  that  curled  back  from  her  brow,  her  light  eyes,  and  her  high,  pale  temples.  This  is  not  the  material  for  being  pretty,  but  in  Frances  Harvey  it  was  what  could  sometimes  be  beauty.  Her  family  home  was  laden  with  history  that  nobody  but  the  Harveys  could  remember.  It  would  have  been  on  a  Pilgrimage  if  Richton  had  had  one.  Frances  still  lived  in  it,  looking  after  an  invalid  mother.  &quot;What  were  you-all  talking  about?&quot;  she  wanted  to  know.  &quot;About  that  ghost  they  used  to  tell  about,&quot;  said  Totsie,  holding  out  his  hand  forthe  prescription.  &quot;The  one  people  used  to  see  just  outside  of  town,  on  the  Jackson  road.&quot;  &quot;But  why?&quot;  she  demanded.  &quot;Why  were  you  talking  about  him?&quot;  &quot;Tom,  here-&quot;  the  clerk  began,  but  Tom  Beavers  interrupted  him,  &quot;I  was  asking  because  I  was  curious,&quot;  he  said.  He  had  been  studying  her  from  the  corner  of  his  eye.  Her  face  was  be-  ginning  to  show  the  wear  of  her  moth-  er's  long  illness,  but  that  couldn't  be  called  change.  Changing  was  some-  thing  she  didn't  seem  to  have  done,  her  own  style  being  the  only  one  natural  to  her.  &quot;I  was  asking,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;because  I  saw  him.&quot;  He  turned  away  from  her  somewhat  too  direct  gaze  and  said  to  Totsie  Poteet,  whose  mouth  had  fallen  open,  &quot;It  was  where  the  new  roadruns  close  to  the  old  road,  and  as  far  as  I  could  tell  he  was  right  on  the  part  of  the  old  road  where  people  always  used  to  see  him.&quot;  &quot;But  when?&quot;  Frances  Harvey  de-  manded.  &quot;Last  night,&quot;  he  told  her.  &quot;Just  around  first  dark.  Driving  home.&quot;  A  wealth  of  quick  feeling  came  up  in  her  face.  &quot;So  did  I!  Driving  home  from  Jackson!  I  saw  him,  too!&quot;  FOR  some  people,  a  liking  for  the  same  phonograph  record  or  for  Mayan  archeology  is  enough  of  an  ex-  cuse  to  get  together.  Possibly,  seeing  the  same  ghost  was  no  more  than  that.  Anyway,  a  week  later,  on  Saturday  at  first  dark,  Frances  Harvey  and  Tom  " b"Beavers  were  sitting  together  in  a  car  parked  just  off  the  highway,  near  the  spot  where  they  agreed  the  ghost  had  appeared.  The  season  was  that  long,  peculiar  one  between  summer  and  fall,  and  there  were  so  many  crickets  and  tree  frogs  going  full  tilt  in  their  periphery  that  their  voices  could  hardly  be  distinguished  from  the  background  noises,  though  they  both  would  have  heard  a  single  footfall  in  the  grass.  An  edge  of  autumn  was  in  the  air  at  night,  and  Frances  had  put  on  a  tweed  jacket  at  the  last  minute,  so  the  smell  of  moth-  balls  was  in  the  car,  brisk  and  most  un-  ghostlike.  But  Tom  Beavers  was  not  going  to  forget  the  value  of  the  ghost,  whether  it  put  in  an  appearance  or  not.  His  questions  led  Frances  into  reminiscence.  &quot;No,  I  never  saw  him  before  the  other  night,&quot;  she  admitted.  &quot;The  Ne-  groes  used  to  talk  in  the  kitchen,  and  [REDACTED]  and  I-you  know  my  sister  Re-  gina-would  sit  there  listening,  scared  to  go  and  scared  to  stay.  Then  finally  going  to  bed  upstairs  was  no  relief,  either,  because  sometimes  Aunt  Hen-  rietta  was  visiting  us,  and  she'd  seen  it.  Or  if  she  wasn't  visiting  us,  the  front  room  next  to  us,  where  she  stayed,  would  be  empty,  which  was  worse.  There  was  no  way  to  lock  ourselves  in,  and  besides,  what  was  there  to  lock  out?  We'd  lie  all  night  like  two  sticks  in  bed,  and  shiver.  Papa  finally  had  to  take  a  hand.  He  called  us  in  and  sat  us  down  and  said  that  the  whole  thing  was  easy  to  explain-it  was  all  automobiles.  What  their  headlights  did  with  the  dust  and  shadows  out  on  the  Jackson  road.  'Oh,  but  Sammie  and  Jerry!'  we  said,  with  great  big  eyes,  sitting  side  by  side  on  the  sofa,  with  our  tennis  shoes  flat  on  the  floor.&quot;  &quot;Who  were  Sammie  and  Jerry?&quot;  asked  Tom  Beavers.  &quot;Sammie  was  our  cook.  Jerry  was  her  son,  or  husband,  or  something.  Any-  way,  they  certainly  didn't  have  cars.  Papa  called  them  in.  They  were  stand-  ing  side  by  side  by  the  bookcase,  and  43616e616461and  I  were  on  the  sofa-four  pairs  of  big  eyes,  and  Papa  pointing  his  finger.  Papa  said,  'Now,  you  made  up  these  stories  about  ghosts,  didn't  you?'  'Yes,  sir,'  said  Sammie.  'We  made  them  up.'  'Yes,  sir,  said  Jerry.  'We  sho  did.&quot;  'Well,  then,  you  can  just  stop  it,'  Papa  said.  'See  how  peaked  these  chil-  dren  look?&quot;  Sammie  and  Jerry  were  terribly  polite  to  us  for  a  week,  and  we  got  in  thecar  and  rode  up  and  down  the  Jackson  road  at  first  dark  to  see  if  the  headlights  really  did  it.  But  we  never  saw  anything.  We  didn't  tell  Papa,  but  headlights  had  nothing  what-  ever  to  do  with  it.&quot;  &quot;You  had  your  own  car  then?&quot;  He  couldn't  believe  it.  &quot;Oh,  no!&quot;  She  was  emphatic.  &quot;We  were  too  young  for  that.  Too  young  to  drive,  really,  but  we  did  anyway.&quot;  She  leaned  over  to  let  him  give  her  cigarette  a  light,  and  saw  his  hand  tremble.  Was  he  afraid  of  the  ghost  or  of  her?  She  would  have  to  stay  away  from  talking  family.  Frances  remembered  Tommy  Beavers  from  her  childhood-a  small  boy  going  home  from  school  down  a  muddy  side  road  alone,  walk-  ing  right  down  the  mid-  dle  of  the  road.  His  old  aunt's  house  was  at  the  bottom  of  a  hill.  It  was  damp  there,  and  the  yard  was  always  mud-  dy,  with  big  fat  chicken  tracks  all  over  it,  like  Egyptian  writing.  How  did  Frances  know?  She  could  not  remember  going  there,  ever.  Miss  Rita  Beavers  was  said  to  order  cold  ham,  mus-  tard,  bread,  and  con-  densed  milk  from  the  grocery  store.  &quot;I  doubt  if  that  child  ever  has  anything  hot,&quot;  Frances's  mother  had  said  once.  He  was  always  neatly  dressed  in  the  same  knee  pants,  high  socks,  and  checked  shirt,  and  sat  several  rows  ahead  of  Frances  in  study  hall,  right  in  the  middle  of  his  seat.  He  was  three  grades  behind  her;  in  those  days,  that  much  younger  seemed  very  young  indeed.  What  had  happened  to  his  parents?  There  was  some  story,  but  it  was  not  terribly  interesting,  and,  his  people  be-  ing  of  no  importance,  she  had  forgotten.  &quot;I  think  it's  past  time  for  our  ghost,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He's  never  out  so  late  at  night.&quot;  &quot;He  gets  hungry,  like  me,&quot;  said  Tom  Beavers.  &quot;Are  you  hungry,  Frances?&quot;  They  agreed  on  a  highway  restau-  rant  where  an  orchestra  played  on  weekends.  Everyone  went  there  now.  From  the  moment  they  drew  up  on  the  gravelled  entrance,  cheerful  lights  and  a  blare  of  music  chased  the  spooks  from  their  heads,  Tom  Beavers  ordered  well  and  danced  well,  as  it  turned  out.  Wasn't  there  something  she  had  heard  about  his  being  &quot;smart&quot;&quot;?  By  &quot;smart,&quot;  43616e616461erners  mean  intellectual,  and  they  say  it  in  an  almost  condescending  way,  smart  being  what  you  are  when  you  can't  be  anything  else,  and  itis  better,  at  least,  than  being  nothing.  Frances  Harvey  had  been  away  enough  not  to  look  at  things  from  a  completely  [REDACTED]-  ern  point  of  view,  and  she  was  en-  couraged  to  discover  that  she  and  Tom  had  other  things  in  common  besides  " b"a  ghost,  though  all  stemming,  perhaps,  from  the  imagination  it  took  to  see  one.  They  agreed  about  books  and  favor-  ite  movies  and  longing  to  see  more  plays.  She  sighed  that  life  in  Richton  was  so  confining,  but  he  assured  her  that  Jackson  could  be  just  as  bad;  it  was  get-  ting  to  be  like  any  Middle  Western  city,  he  said,  while  Richton  at  least  had  a  sense  of  the  past.  This  was  the  main  reason,  he  went  on,  gaining  confidence  in  the  jumble  of  commonplace  noises-  dishes,  music,  and  a  couple  of  drinkers  chattering  behind  them-that  he  had  started  coming  back  to  Richton  so  often.  He  wanted  to  keep  a  connection  with  the  past.  He  lived  in  a  modern  apart-  ment,  worked  in  a  soundproof  office-  he  could  be  in  any  city.  But  Richton  was  where  he  had  been  born  and  raised,  and  nothing  could  be  more  old-fashioned.  Too  many  people  seemed  to  have  their  lives  cut  in  two.  He  was  earnest  in  desiringthat  this  should  not  happen  to  him.  &quot;You'd  better  be  careful,&quot;  Frances  said  lightly.  Her  mood  did  not  incline  her  to  profound  conversation.  &quot;There's  more  than  one  ghost  in  Richton.  You  may  turn  into  one  yourself,  like  the  rest  of  us.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  last  thing  I'd  think  of  you,&quot;  he  was  quick  to  assure  her.  Had  Tommy  Beavers  really  said  such  a  thing,  in  such  a  nat-  ural,  charming  way?  Was  Fran-  ces  Harvey  really  so  pleased?  Not  only  was  she  pleased  but,  feeling  warmly  alive  amid  the  music  and  small  lights,  she  agreed  with  him.  She  could  not  have  agreed  with  him  more.  &quot;J  HEAR  that  Thomas  Beavers  has  gotten  to  be  a  very  attractive  man,&quot;  Frances  Har-  vey  's  mo  ther  said  unexpectedly  one  afternoon.  Frances  had  been  reading  aloud-Jane  Austen  th  is  t  ime.  Theirs  was  one  house  where  the  leather-bound  sets  were  actual-  ly  read.  In  Jane  Austen,  men  and  women  seesawed  back  and  f  orth  for  two  or  three  hundred  pages  until  they  struck  a  point  of  balance;  then  th  ey  got  mar-  ried.  She  had  just  put  aside  the  book,  at  the  end  of  a  chapter,  and  risen  to  lower  the  shade  against  the  slant  of  afternoon  sun.  &quot;Or  so  Cud'n  Jennie  and  Mrs.  Giles  Antley  and  Miss  Fannie  Stapleton  have  been  com-  ing  and  telling  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;People  talk,  of  course,  but  the  con-  sensus  is  favorable,&quot;  Mrs.  Harvey  said.  &quot;Wonders  never  cease;  his  mother  ran  away  with  a  brush  salesman.  But  no-  body  can  make  out  what  he's  up  to,  coming  back  to  Richton,&quot;  &quot;Does  he  have  to  be  'up  to'  any-  thing?&quot;  Frances  asked.  &quot;Men  are  always  up  to  something,&quot;  said  the  old  lady  at  once.  She  added,  more  slowly,  &quot;In  Thomas's  case,  may-  be  it  isn't  anything  it  oughtn't  to  be.  They  say  he  reads  a  lot.  He  may  just  have  taken  up  with  some  sort  of  idea.&quot;  Frances  stole  a  long  glance  at  her  mother's  face  on  the  pillow.  Age  and  illness  had  reduced  the  image  of  Mrs.  Harvey  to  a  kind  of  caricature,  cen-  tered  on  a  mouth  that  Frances  could  not  help  comparing  to  that  of  a  fish.  Therewas  a  tension  around  its  rim,  as  though  it  were  outlined  in  bone,  and  the  underlip  even  stuck  out  a  little.  The  mouth  ate,  it  took  medicine,  it  asked  for  things,  it  gasped  when  breath  was  short,  it  commented.  But  when  it  comment-  ed,  it  ceased  to  be  just  a  mouth  and  be-  came  part  of  Mrs.  Harvey,  that  witty  tyrant  with  the  infallible  memory  for  the  right  detail,  who  was  at  her  terrible  best  about  men.  &quot;And  what  could  he  be  thinking  of?&quot;  she  was  wont  to  inquire  when  some  man  had  acted  foolishly.  No  one  could  ever  defend  accurately  the  man  in  question,  and  the  only  conclusion  was  Mrs.  Har-  vey's;  namely,  that  he  wasn't  thinking,  if,  indeed,  he  could.  Although  she  had  never  been  a  belle,  never  a  flirt,  her  popularity  with  men  was  always  for-    " b"midable.  She  would  be  observed  talk-  ing  marathons  with  one  in  a  corner,  and  could  you  ever  be  sure,  when  they  both  burst  into  laughter,  that  they  had  not  just  exchanged  the  most  shocking  sto-  ries?  &quot;Of  course,  he-&quot;  she  would  be-  gin  later,  back  with  the  family,  and  the  masculinity  that  had  just  been  encour-  aged  to  strut  and  preen  a  little  was  quickly  shown  up  as  idiotic.  Perhaps  Mrs.  Harvey  hoped  by  this  method  to  train  her  daughters  away  from  a  lot  of  sentimental  nonsense  that  was  their  birthright  as  pretty  43616e616461ern  girls  in  a  house  with  a  lawn  that  moonlight  fell  on  and  that  was  often  lit  also  by  Japa-  nese  lanterns  hung  for  parties.  &quot;Oh,  he's  not  like  that,  Mama!&quot;  the  little  girls  would  ery.  They  were  already  alert  for  heroes  who  would  ride  up  and  cart  them  off.  &quot;Well,  then,  you  watch,&quot;  she  would  say.  Sure  enough,  if  you  watched,  she  would  be  right.  Mrs.  Harvey's  younger  daughter,  [REDACTED],  was  a  credit  to  her  mother's  long  campaign;  she  married  well.  The  old  lady,  however,  never  tired  of  point-  ing  out  behind  her  son-in-law's  back  that  his  fondness  for  money  was  ill-con-  cealed,  that  he  had  the  longest  feet  she'd  ever  seen,  and  that  he  sometimes  made  grammatical  errors.  Her  elder  daughter,  Frances,  on  a  trip  to  Europe,  fell  in  love,  alas!  The  gentleman  was  of  French  extraction  but  Swiss  citizenship,  and  Frances  did  not  marry  him,  because  he  was  already  married-that  much  filtered  back  to  Richton.  In  response  to  a  cable,  she  had  returned  home  one  hot  July  in  time  to  witness  her  father's  wasted  face  and  last  weeks  of  life.  That  same  September,  the  war  began.  When  peace  came,  Richton  wanted  to  know  if  Frances  Harvey  would  go  back  to  Europe.  Certain  subtly  complicated  European  matters,  little  understood  in  Richton,  seemed  to  be  ob-  structing  Romance;  one  of  them  was  probably  named  Money.  Meanwhile,  Frances's  mother  took  to  bed,  in  what  was  generally  known  to  be  her  last  ill-  ness.  So  no  one  crossed  the  ocean,  but  eventually  Tom  Beavers  came  up  to  Mrs.  Harvey's  room  one  afternoon,  to  tea.  Though  almost  all  her  other  faculties  were  seriously  impaired,  in  ear  and  tongue  Mrs.  Harvey  was  as  sound  as  a  young  beagle,  and  she  could  still  weave  a  more  interesting  conversation  than  most  people  who  go  about  every  day  and  look  at  the  world.  She  was  of  the  old  school  of  43616e616461ern  lady  talkers;  she  vexed  you  with  no  ideas,  she  tried  to  protect  you  from  even  a  moment  of  silence.  In  the  old  days,  when  a  bright  company  filled  the  downstairs  rooms,  she  could  keep  the  ball  rolling  amongst  a  crowd.  Everyone-all  the  men  espe-  cially-got  their  word  in,  butthe  flow  of  things  came  back  to  her.If  one  of  those  twenty-minutes-to-or-after  si-  lences  fell-and  even  with  her  they  did  occur-people  would  turn  and  look  at  her  daughter  Frances.  &quot;And  what  do  you  think?&quot;  some  kind-eyed  gentleman  would  ask.  Frances  did  not  credit  that  she  had  the  sort  of  face  people  would  turn  to,  and  so  did  not  know  how  to  take  advantage  of  it.  What  did  she  think?  Well,  to  answer  that  honestly  took  a  moment  of  reflection-a  fatal  moment,  it  always  turned  out.  Her  mother  would  be  up  instructing  the  maid,  offering  someone  an  ashtray  or  another  goody,  or  remarking  outright,  &quot;Frances  is  so  timid.  She  never  says  a  word.&quot;  Tom  Beavers  stayed  not  only  past  teatime  that  day  but  for  a  drink  as  well.  Mrs.  Harvey  was  induced  to  take  a  glass  of  sherry,  and  now  her  bed  became  her  enormous  throne.  Her  keenest  suffer-  ing  as  an  invalid  was  occasioned  by  the  absence  of  men.  &quot;What  is  a  house  with-  out  a  man  in  it?&quot;  she  would  often  cry.  From  her  eagerness  to  be  charming  to  Frances's  guest  that  afternoon,  it  seemed  that  she  would  have  married  Tom  Beavers  herself  if  he  had  asked  her.  The  amber  liquid  set  in  her  small  four-sided  glass  glowed  like  a  jewel,  and  her  diamond  flashed;  she  had  put  on  her  best  ring  for  the  company.  What  a  pity  no  longer  to  show  her  ankle,  that delicious  bone,  so  remarkably  slender  for  so  ample  a  frame.  Since  the  time  had  flown  so,  they  all  agreed  enthusiastically  that  Tom  should  wait  downstairs  while  Frances  got  ready  to  go  out  to  dinner  with  him.  He  was  hardly  past  the  stair  landing  before  the  old  lady  was  seized  by  such  a  fit  of  coughing  that  she  could  hardly  speak.  &quot;It's  been-  It's  been  too  much-  too  much  for  me!&quot;  she  gasped  out.  But  after  Frances  had  found  the  proper  sedative  for  her,  she  was  calmed,  and  insisted  on  having  her  say.  &quot;'Thomas  Beavers  has  a  good  job  with  an  insurance  company  in  Jackson,&quot;  she  informed  her  daughter,  as  though  Frances  were  incapable  of  finding  out  anything  for  herself.  &quot;He  makes  a  good  appearance.  He  is  the  kind  of  man&quot;-  she  paused-&quot;who  would  value  a  wife  of  good  family.&quot;  She  stopped,  panting  for  breath.  It  was  this  complimenting  a  man  behind  his  back  that  was  too  much  for  her-as  much  out  of  charac-  ter,  and  hence  as  much  of  a  strain,  as  if  she  had  got  out  of  bed  and  tried  to  tap-dance.  &quot;Heavens,  Mama,&quot;  and  almost  giggled.  At  this,  the  old  lady,  thinking  the  girl  had  made  light  of  her  suitor,  half  screamed  at  her  &quot;Don't  be  so  critical,  Frances!  You  can't  be  so  critical  of  men!&quot;  and  fell  into  an  even  more  ter-  rible  spasm  of  coughing.  Frances  had  to  lift  her  from  the  pillow  and  hold  her  straight  until  the  fit  passed  and  her  breath  returned.  Then  Mrs.  Harvey's  old,  dry,  crooked,  ineradicably  feminine  hand  was  laid  on  her  daughter's  arm,  and  when  she  spoke  again  she  shook  the  arm  to  emphasize  her  words.  &quot;When  your  father  knew  he  didn't  have  long  to  live,&quot;  she  whispered,  &quot;we  discussed  whether  to  send  for  you  or  not.  You  know  you  were  his  favorite,  Frances.  'Suppose  our  girl  is  happy  over  there,'  he  said.  'I  wouldn't  want  to  bring  her  back  on  my  account.'  I  said  you  had  to  have  the  right  to  choose  whether  to  come  back  or  not.  You'd  never  forgive  us,  I  said,  if  you  didn't  have  the  right  to  choose.&quot;  Frances  could  visualize  this  very  con-  versation  taking  place  between  her  par-  ents;  she  could  see  them,  decorous  and  serious,  talking  over  the  fact  of  his  ap-  proaching  death  as  though  it  were  a  piece  of  property  for  agreeable  disposi-  tion  in  the  family.  She  could  never  remember  him  without  thinking,  with  a  smile,  how  heused  to  come  home  on  Sunday  from  church  (he  being  the  only  one  of  them  who  went)  and  how,  im-  mediately  after  hanging  his  hat  and  cane  in  the  hall,  he  would  say,  &quot;Let  all  " b"things  proceed  in  orderly  progression  to  their  final  confusion.  How  long  before  dinner?&quot;  No,  she  had  had  to  come  home.  Some  humor  had  always  existed  between  them-her  father  and  her-  and  humor,  of  all  things,  cannot  be  be-  trayed.  &quot;I  meant  to  go  back,&quot;  said  Frances  now.  &quot;But  there  was  the  war.  At  first  I  kept  waiting  for  it  to  be  over.  I  still  wake  up  at  night  sometimes  thinking,  I  wonder  how  much  longer  before  the  war  will  be  over.  And  then-&quot;  She  stopped  short.  For  the  fact  was  that  her  lover  had  been  married  to  somebody  else,  and  her  mother  was  the  very  per-  son  capable  of  pointing  that  out  to  her.  Even  in  theold  lady's  present  silence  she  heard  the  unspoken  thought,  and  got  up  nervously  from  the  bed,  loosing  her-  self  from  the  hand  on  her  arm,  smooth-  ing  her  reddish  hair  where  it  was  in-  clined  to  straggle.  &quot;And  then  he  wrote  me  that  he  had  gone  back  to  his  wife.  Her  family  and  his  had  always  been  close,  and  the  war  brought  them  back  together.  This  was  in  Switzerland-  naturally,  he  couldn't  stay  on  in  [REDACTED]  during  the  war.  There  were  the  chil-  dren,  too-all  of  them  were  Catholic.  Oh,  I  do  understand  how  it  happened.&quot;  Mrs.  Harvey  turnedher  head  im-  patiently  on  the  pillow.  She  dabbed  at  her  moist  upper  lip  with  a  crumpled  linen  handkerchief;  her  diamond  flashed  once  in  motion.  &quot;War,  religion,  wife,  children-yes.  But  men  do  what  they  want  to.&quot;  Could  anyone  make  Frances  as  angry  as  her  mother  could?  &quot;Believe  what  you  like,  then!  You  always  know  so  much  better  than  Ido.  You  would  have  managed  things  somehow.  Oh,  you  would  have  had  your  way!&quot;  &quot;Frances,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Harvey,  &quot;I'm  an  old  woman.&quot;  The  hand  holding  the  handkerchief  fell  wearily,  and  her  eye-  lids  dropped  shut.  &quot;If  you  should  want  to  marry  Thomas  Beavers  and  bring  him  here,  I  will  accept  it.  There  will  be  no  distinctions.  Next,  I  suppose,  we  will  be  having  his  old  deaf  aunt  for  tea.  I  hope  she  has  a  hearing  aid.  I  haven't  got  the  strength  to  holler  at  her.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  any  of  these  plans  are  necessary,  Mama.&quot;  The  eyelids  slowly  lifted.  &quot;None?&quot;  'None.&quot;  Mrs.  Harvey's  breathing  was  as  audi-  ble  as  a  voice.  She  spoke,  at  last,  with-  out  scorn,  honestly.  &quot;I  cannot  bear  the  thought  of  leaving  you  alone.  You,  nor  the  house,  nor  your  place  in  it-alone.  I  foresaw  Tom  Beavers  here!  What  has  he  got  that's  better  than  you  and  this  place?  I  knew  he  would  come!&quot;  Terrible  as  her  mother's  meanness  was,  it  was  not  half  so  terrible  as  her  love,  Answering  nothing,  explaining  nothing,  Frances  stood  without  giving  in.  She  trembled,  and  tears  ran  down  her  cheeks.  The  two  women  looked  at  each  other  helplessly  across  the  darken-  ing  room.  N  the  car,  later  that  night,  Tom  Beavers  asked,  &quot;Is  your  mother  trying  to  get  rid  of  me?&quot;  They  had  passed  an  unsatisfactory  evening,  and  he  was  not  going  away  without  know-  ing  why.  &quot;No,  it's  just  the  other  way  around,&quot;  said  Frances,  in  hercandid  way.  &quot;She  wants  you  so  much  she'd  like  to  eat  " b"you  up.  She  wants  you  in  the  house.  Couldn't  you  tell?&quot;  &quot;She  once  chased  me  out  of  the  yard,&quot;  he  recalled.  &quot;Not  [REDACTED];  They  turned  into  Harvey  Street  (that  was  actually  the  name  of  it),  and  when  he  had  drawn  the  car  up  before  the  dark  front  steps,  he  related  the  inci-  dent.  He  told  her  that  Mrs.  Harvey  had  been  standing  just  there  in  the  yard,  talking  to  some  visitor  who  was  leaving  by  inches,  the  way  ladies  used  to-ten  minutes'  more  talk  for  every  forward  step.  He,  a  boy  not  more  than  nine,  had  been  crossing  a  corner  of  the  lawn  where  a  faint  path  had  already  been  worn;  he  had  had  nothing  to  do  with  wearing  the  path,  and  had  taken  it  quite  inno-  cently  and  openly.  &quot;You,  boy!&quot;  Mrs.  Harvey's  fan  was  an  enormous  painted  thing.  She  had  furled  it  with  a  clack  so  loudhe  could  still  hear  it.  &quot;You  don't  cut  through  my  yard  again!  Now,  you  stop  where  you  are  and  you  go  all  the  way  back  around  by  the  walk,  and  don't  you  ever  do  that  again.&quot;  He  went  back  and  all  the  way  around.  She  was  fanning  comfortably  as  he  passed.  &quot;Old  Miss  Rita  Beavers  nephew,&quot;  he  heard  her  say,  and  though  he  did  not  speak  of  it  now  to  Frances,  Mrs.  Harvey's  rich  tone  had  been  as  stuffed  with  wick-  edness  as  a  fruitcake  with  goodies.  In  it  you  could  have  found  so  many  things:  that,  of  course,  he  didn't  know  any  bet-  ter,  that  he  was  poor,  that  she  knew  his  first  name  but  would  not  deign  to  men-  tion  it,  that  she  meant  him  to  understand  all  this  and  more,  Her  fan  was  proba-  bly  still  somewhere  in  the  house,  he  reflected.  If  he  ever  opened  the  wrong  door,  it  might  fall  from  above  and  brain  him.  It  seemed  impossible  that  nowa-  days  he  could  even  have  the  chance  to  open  the  wrong  door  in  the  Harvey  house.  With  its  graceful  rooms  and  big  lawn,  its  camellias  and  magnolia  trees,  the  house  had  been  one  of  the  enchanted     castles  of  his  childhood,  and  Frances  and  [REDACTED]  Harvey  had  been  two  princesses  running  about  the  lawn  one  Saturday  morning  drying  their  hair  with  big  white  towels  and  not  noticing  when  he  passed.  There  was  a  strong  wind  that  eve-  ning.  On  the  way  home,  Frances  and  'Tom  had  noticed  how  the  night  was  streaming,  but  whether  with  mist  or  dust  or  the  smoke  from  some  far-off  fire  in  the  dry  winter  woods  they  could  not  tell.  As  they  stood  on  the  sidewalk,  the  clouds  raced  over  them,  and  moonlight  now  and  again  came  through.  A  limb  rubbed  against  a  high  cornice.  Inside  the  screened  area  of  the  porch,  the  swing  jangled  its  iron  chains.  Frances's  coat  blew  about  her,  and  her  hair  blew.  She  felt  herself  to  be  no  different  from  anything  there  that  the  wind  was  blow-  ing  on,  her  happiness  of  no  relevance  in  the  dark  torrent  of  nature.  &quot;I  can'tleave  her,  Tom.  But  I  can't  ask  you  to  live  with  her,  either.  Of  all  the  horrible  ideas!  She'd  make  de-  mands,  take  all  my  time,  laugh  at  you  behind  your  back-she  has  to  run  ev-  erything.  You'd  hate  me  in  a  week.&quot;  He  did  not  try  to  pretty  up  the  pic-  ture,  because  he  had  a  feeling  that  it  was  all  too  accurate.  Now,  obviously,  was  the  time  she  should  goon  to  say  there  was  no  good  his  waiting  around  through  the  years  for  her.  But  hearts  are  not  noted  for  practicality,  and  Frances  stood  with  her  hair  blowing,  her  hands  stuck  in  her  coat  pockets,  and  did  not  go  on  to  say  anything.  'Tom  pulled  her  close  to  him-in,  as  it  were,  out  of  the  wind.  &quot;I'll  be  coming  by  next  weekend,  just  like  I've  been  doing.  And  the  next  one,  too,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We'll  just  leave  it  that  way,  if  it's  O.K.  with  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  it  is,  Tom!&quot;  Never  so  satisfied  to  be  weak,  she  kissed  him  and  ran  inside.  He  stood  watching  on  the  walk  until  her  light  flashed  on.  Well,  he  had  got     what  he  was  looking  for;  a  connection  with  the  past,  he  had  said.  It  was  right  upstairs,  a  splendid  old  mass  of  dicta-  torial  female  flesh,  thinking  about  him.  Well,  they  could  go  on,  he  and  Frances,  sitting  on  either  side  of  a  sickbed,  drink-  ing  tea  and  sipping  sherry,  with  streaks  of  gray  broadening  on  their  brows,  while  the  familiar  seasons  came  and  went.  So  he  thought.  Like  Frances,  he  believed  that  the  old  lady  had  a  strangle-  hold  on  life.  Suddenly,  in  March,  Mrs.  Harvey  died.  A  HEAVY  spring  funeral,  with  lots  of  roses  and  other  scented  flowers  in  the  house,  is  the  worst  kind  of  all.  There  is  something  so  recklessly  fecund  about  a  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  spring  that  death  becomes  just  another  word  in  the  dictionary,  along  with  swarms  of  oth-  ers,  and  even  so  pure  and  white  a  thing  as  a  gardenia  has  too  heavy  a  scent  and  may  suggest  decay.  Mrs.  Harvey,  amid  such  odors,  sank  to  rest  with  a  deter-  mined  pomp,  surrounded  by  admiring  eyes.  While  Tom  Beavers  did  not  &quot;sit  with  the  family&quot;  at  this  time,  he  was  often  observed  with  the  Harveys,  and  there  was  whispered  speculation  among  those  who  were  at  the  church  and  the  ceme-  tery  that  the  Harvey  house  might  soon  come  into  new  hands,  &quot;after  a  decent  interval.&quot;  No  one  would  undertake  to  judge  for  a  Harvey  how  longan  in-  terval  was  decent.  Frances  suffered  from  insomnia  in  the  weeks  that  followed,  and  at  night  she  wandered  about  the  spring-swollen  air  of  the  old  house,  smelling  now  spring  and  now  death.  &quot;Let  all  things  proceed  in  orderly  progression  to  their  final  con-  fusion.&quot;  She  had  always  thought  that  the  final  confusion  referred  to  death,  but  now  she  began  to  think  that  it  could  happen  any  time;  that  final  confusion,  having  found  the  door  ajar,  could  come  " b"into  a  house  and  show  no  inclination  to  leave.  The  worrisome  thing,  the  thing  it  all  came  bac  k  to,  was  her  mother  '  s  clothes.  They  were  numerous,  expen-  sive,  and  famou  s,  an  d  Mrs.  Harvey  had  ne  ver  discarded  any  of  them.  If  you  opened  a  closet  door,  hatbo  x  es  as  big  as  crates  towered  above  your  head.  The  shiny  black  trim  of  a  great  shawl  stuck  out  of  a  wardrobe  door  just  below  t  he  lock.  Bene  ath  the  lid  of  a  cedar  chest,  t  he  bright  eyes  of  a  ti  ppe  t  were  re  ady  to  twin  kle  at  you.  And  t  he  jewels!  Franc  es's  sister  had  restrained  her  from  burying  the  m  al  l  on  their  mothe  r,  and  had  eve  n  gone  of  f  with  a  wad  of  them  tangled  up  like  fishing  tackle  in  an  en-  velope,  on  the  ground  of  promises  made  now  and  again  in  the  course  of  the  years.  (&quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  said  Frances,  &quot;what  else  were  you  two  talking  about  besides  jewelry?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember,&quot;  said  [REDACTED],  getting  mad.  &quot;Frances  makes  me  so  mad,&quot;  said  [REDACTED]  to  her  husband  as  they  were  driving  home.  &quot;I  guess  I  can  love  Mama  and  jewelry,  too.  Mama  cer-  tainly  l  oved  us  and  jewelry,  too.&quot;)  One  afternoon,  Frances  went  out  to  the  cemetery  to  take  two  wreaths  sent  by  somebody  who  had  &quot;just  heard.&quot;  She  drove  out  along  the  winding  cemetery  road,  stopping  the  car  a  good  dis-  tance  before  she  reached  the  gate,  in  o  rder  to  walk  through  the  woods.  The  dogwood  was  bea  utiful  tha  t  year.  She  saw  a  field  where  a  house  used  to  stand  but  had  burn  ed  down;  its  cedar  trees  remained,  and  two  bushes  of  bridal  wreath  marked  where  the  front  gate  had  swung.  She  stopped  to  admire  the  clusters  of  white  bloom  m  assing  up  through  the  young,  feathery  lea  f  and  stronger  n  ow  than  t  he  leaf  itself.  In  the  woods,  the  redbud  was  a  smoke  along  shadowy  ridges,  and  the  dogwood  drifted  in  layers,  like  snow  suspended  to  give  you  all  the  time  you  needed  to  wonder  at  it.  But  why,  she  wondered,  do  they  call  it  bridal  wreath?  It's  not  a  wreath  but  a  little  bouquet,.  Wreaths     are  for  funerals,  anyway.  As  if  to  prove  it,  she  looked  down  at  t  he  two  she  he  ld,  one  in  each  hand.  She  walked  on,  and  such  complete  desolation  came  over  her  that  it  was  more  of  a  wonder  than  any-  thing  in  the  woods-more,  even,  than  death.  A  s  she  returned  to  the  car  from  the  two  parallel  graves,  she  met  a  thin,  elderly,  very  light-skinned  Ne  gro  man  in  the  road.  He  inquired  if  she  would  mind  moving  her  car  so  that  he  could  pass.  He  sa  id  that  there  was  a  sick  col-  ored  girl  in  his  wagon,  whom  he  was  driving  in  to  the  doctor.  He  pointed  out  politely  that  she  had  left  her  car  right  in  the  middle  of  the  road.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  te  rribly  sorry,  &quot;  said  Frances,  and  hur-  ried  off  toward  the  car.  That  night,  reading  late  in  bed,  she  thought,  I  could  have  given  her  a  ride  into  town.  No  wonder  they  talk  about  us  up  [REDACTED].  A  mile  into  town  in  a  wagon!  She  might  have  been  having  a  baby.  She  became  conscience-stricken  about  it-foolishly  so,  she  realized,  but " b"if  you  start  worrying  about  something  in  a  house  like  the  oneFrances  Harvey  lived  in,  in  the  dead  of  night,  alone,  you  will  goon  worrying  about  it  until  dawn.  She  was  out  ofsleeping  pills.  She  remembered  having  bought  a  fresh  box  of  sedatives  for  her  mother  the  day  before  she  died.  She  got  up  and  went  into  her  mother's  closed  room,  where  the  bed  had  been  dismantled  for  airing,  its  wooden  parts  propped  along  the  walls.  On  the  closet  shelf  she  found  the  shoe  box  into  which  she  had  packed  away  the  familiar  articles  of  the  bed-  side  table.  Inside  she  found  the  small  enamelled-cardboard  box,  with  thedate  and  prescription  inked  on  the  cover  in  Totsie  Poteet's  somewhat  prissy  hand-  writing,  but  the  box  was  empty.  She  was  surprised,  for  she  realized  that  her  mother  could  have  used  only  one  or  two  of  the  pills.  Frances  was  so  determined  to  get  some  sleep  that  she  searched  the  entire  little  store  of  things  in  the  shoe  box  quite  heartlessly,  but  there  were  no  pills.  She  returned  to  her  room  and  tried  to  read,  but  could  not,  and  so  smoked  instead  and  stared  out  at  the  dawn-blackening  sky.  The  house  sighed.  She  could  not  take  her  mind  off  the  Negro  girl.  If  she  died  .  .  .  When  it  was  light,  she  dressed  and  got  intothe  car.  In  town,  the  postman  was  unlocking  the  post  office  to  sort  the  early  mail.  &quot;I  declare,&quot;  he  said  to  the  rural  mail  car-  rier  who  arrived  a  few  minutes  later,  &quot;&quot;Miss  Frances  Harvey  is  driving  herself  crazy.  Going  back  out  yonder  to  the  cemetery,  and  it  not  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning.&quot;  &quot;Aw,&quot;  said  the  rural  deliveryman  skeptically,  looking  at  the  empty  road.  &quot;That's  right.  I  was  here  and  seen  her.  You  wait  there,  you'll  see  her  come  back.  She'll  drive  herself  nuts.  Them  old  maids  like  that,  left  in  them  old  houses-crazy  and  sweet,  or  crazy  and  mean,  or  just  plain  crazy.  They  just  ain't  locked  up  like  them  that's  down  in  the  asylum.  That's  the  only  difference.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Miss  Frances  Harvey  ain't  no  more  than  thirty-two,  three  years  old.&quot;  ''Then  she's  just  got  more  time  to  get  crazier  in.  You'll  see.&quot;  HAT  day  was  Friday,  and  Tom  Beavers,  back  from  Jackson,  came  up  Frances  Harvey's  sidewalk,  as  usual,  at  exactly  a  quarter  past  seven  in  the  evening.  Frances  was  not  &quot;going  out&quot;  yet,  and  [REDACTED]  had  telephoned  her  long  distance  to  say  that  &quot;in  all  probability&quot;  she  should  not  be  receiving  gentlemen  &quot;in.&quot;  &quot;What  would  Mama  say?&quot;  Re-  gina  asked.  Frances  said  she  didn't  know,  which  was  not  true,  and  went right  on  cooking  dinners  for  Tom  every  weekend.  In  the  dining  room  that  night,  she  sat  across  one  corner  of  the  long  table  from  Tom.  The  useless  length  of  pol-  ished  cherry  stretched  away  from  them  into  the  shadows  as  sadly  as  a  road.  Her  plate  pushed  back,  her  chin  resting  on  one  palm,  Frances  stirred  her  coffee  and  said,  &quot;I  don't  know  what  on  earth  to  do  with  all  of  Mama's  clothes.  I  can't  give  them  away,  I  can't  sell  them,  I  can't  burn  them,  and  the  attic  is  full  already.  What  can  I  do?&quot;  You  look  better  tonight,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;I  slept,&quot;  said  Frances.  &quot;I  slept  and  slept.  From  early  this  morning  until     just  'while  ago.  I  never  slept  so  well.&quot;  Then  she  told  him  about  the  Negro  near  the  cemetery  the  previous  after-  noon,  and  how  she  had  driven  back  out  there  as  soon  as  dawn  came,  and  found  him  again.  He  had  been  walking  across  the  open  field  near  the  remains  of  the  house  that  had  burned  down.  There  was  no  path  to  him  from  her,  and  she  had  hurried  across  ground  uneven  from  old  plowing  and  covered  with  the  kind  of  small,  tender  grass  it  takes  a  very  skillful  mule  to  crop.  &quot;Wait!&quot;  she  had  cried.  &quot;Please  wait!&quot;  The  Negro  had  stopped  and  waited  for  her  to  reach  him.  &quot;Your  daughter?&quot;  she  asked,  out  of  breath.  &quot;Daughter?&quot;  he  repeated.  &quot;''The  colored  girl  that  was  in  the  wagon  yesterday.  She  was  sick,  you  said,  soI  wondered.  I  could  have  taken  her  to  town  in  the  car,  but  I  just  didn't  think.  I  wanted  to  know,  how  is  she?  Is  she  very  sick?&quot;  He  had  removed  his  old  felt  nigger  hat  as  she  approached  him.  &quot;She  a  whole  lot  better,  Miss  Frances.  She  going  to  be  " b"all  right  now.&quot;  Then  he  smiled  at  her.  He  did  not  say  thank  you,  or  anything  more.  Frances  turned  and  walked  back  to  the  road  and  the  c  ar,.  And  exactly  as  though  the  recovery  of  the  Negro  girl  in  the  wagon  had  been  her  own  re-  covery,  she  felt  the  return  of  a  quiet  breath  and  a  steady  pulse,  an  d  sense  d  the  blessed  stirring  of  a  morning  breeze.  Up  in  her  room,  she  had  barely  tim  e  to  dr  aw  an  old  quilt  over  her  before  she  f  ell  asleep.  &quot;When  I  woke,  I  knew  about  Ma-  ma,&quot;  she  said  now  to  Tom.  By  the  deep-  ened  intensity  of  her  voice  and  eyes,  it  was  plain  that  this  was  t  he  important  part.  &quot;I  t  isn't  right  to  say  I  \xc3\xa9mew,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;because  I  had  known  all  the  time-  ever  s  ince  la  st  n  ight.  I  just  real-  ized  it,  that's  all.  I  realized  she  h  ad  killed  herself.  It  h  ad  to  be  that.  &quot;  He  listened  soberly  through  t  he  story  about  the  box  of  sedatives.  &quot;But  why?&quot;  he  asked  her.  &quot;It  maybe  looks  that  way,  but  what  would  be  her  reason  for  doing  it?&quot;  Well,  you  see-&quot;  Frances  said,  and  stopped. Tom  Beavers  talked  quietl  y  on.  &quot;She  didn't  suffer.  Wi  th  what  she  had,  she  could  have  lived  five,  ten,,  who  knows  how  many  years.  She  was  well  cared  for.  Not  hard  up,  I  wouldn't  say  .  Why  ?&quot;  The  pressure  of  his  questioning  could  be  insistent,  and  her  trust  in  him,  even  if  he  was  nobody  but  old  Miss  Rita  Beavers'  nephew,  was  well-nigh  com-  plete.  &quot;Because  of  you  an  d  me,&quot;  she  said,  finally.  &quot;I'm  certain  of  it,  Tom.  She  didn't  wan  t  to  stand  in  our  way.  She  never  knew  how  to  express  l  ove,  you  see.&quot;  Frances  controlled  herself  w  ith  an  effort.  He  did  not  reply,  but  sat  industriously  balancing  a  match  folder  on  the  tines  of  an  unused  serving  fork.  Anyone  who  has  pas  sed  a  lonely  childhood  in  the  company  of  an  old  deaf  aunt  is  not  in-  clined  to  do  ubt  things  hastily,  and  T  om  Beavers  would  n  ot  have  said  he  dis-  believed  anything  Frances  had  told  him.  In  fact,  it  seemed  only  too  real  to  him.  Almost  before  his  eyes,  that  imperial,  practical  old  hand  went  fumbling  for  the  pills  in  the  dark.  But  there  had  been  much  more  to  it  than  just  love,  he  re-  flected.  Bitterness,  to  o,  and  pride,  and  control.  And  humor,  perh  aps  ,  and  the  memory  of  a  frightened  litt  le  boy  chased  out  of  the  yard  by  a  twitch  of  her  fan.  Being  invited  to  tea  was  one  th  ing;  suicide  was  quite  another.  Times  had  certainly  changed,  he  thought.  But,  of  course,  he  could  not  s  ay  that  he  believed  it,  either.  There  was  only  Fra  nces  to  go  by.  The  match  folder  came  to  balance  and  rested  on  the  tines.  He  glan  ced  up  at  her,  and  a  chill  walked  up  his  sp  ine,  for  she  was  too  serene.  Cheek  on  palm,  a  lock  of  reddish  hair  fallen  f  orward,  she  was  staring  at  noth-  ing  with  the  absorbed  silence  of  a  child,  or  ofa  sw  eet,  silver-haired  old  lady  en-  g  aged  in  memory.  Soon  he  might  find  that  more  and  more  of  her  was  vanish-  ing  beneath  this  placid  surface.  He  himself  did  not  know  what  he  had  seen  that  Friday  evening  so  many  months  ago-what  the  figure  had  been  that  stood  forward  from  the  roadside  at  the  tilt  of  the  curve  and  urgently  waved  an  arm  to  him.  By  the  time  he  had  braked  and  backed,  the  man  had  disappeared.  Maybe  it  had  been  some-  " b"body  drunk  (for  Richton  had  plenty  of  those  to  offer),  walking  it  off  in  the  cool  of  the  woods  at  first  dark.  No  such  doubts  had  occurred  to  Frances.  And  what  if  he  told  her  now  the  story  Totsie  had  related  of  the  road  gang  and  the  sick  Negro  girl  in  the  wagon?  Another  labyrinth  would  open  before  her;  she  would  never  get  out.  In  Richton,  the  door  to  the  past  was  always  wide  open,  and  what  came  in  through  it  and  went  out  of  it  had  made  people  &quot;different.&quot;  But  it  scarcely  ever  happens,  even  in  Richton,  that  one  is  able  to  see  the  precise  moment  when  fact  becomes  faith,  when  life  turns  in-  to  legend,  and  people  start  to  bend  their  finest  loyalties  to  make  them-  selves  bemused  custodians  of  the  grave.  Tom  Beavers  saw  that  moment  now,  in  the  profile  of  this  dreaming  girl,  Hm\xe2\x80\x9d  and  he  knew  there  was  no  time  to  lose.  He  dropped  the  match  folder  into  his  coat  pocket.  &quot;I  think  we  should  be  leaving,  Frances.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,  I  don't  know  about  going  out  yet,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;People  criticize  you  so.  [REDACTED]  even  had  the  nerve  to  tele-  phone.  Word  had  got  all  the  way  to  her  that  you  came  here  to  have  supper  with  me  and  we  were  alone  in  the  house.  When  I  tell  the  maid  I  want  bis-  cuits  made  up  for  two  people,  she  looks  like  'What  would  yo  mama  say?&quot;  &quot;  &quot;I  mean,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  think  it's  time  we  left  for  good.&quot;  &quot;And  never  came  back?&quot;  It  was  exactly  like  Frances  to  balk  at  going  to  a  movie  but  seriously  consider  an  elope-  ment.  &quot;Well,  never  is  a  long  time.  I  like  to  see  about  Aunt  Rita  every  once  in  a  great  while.  She  can't  remember  from  one  time  to  the  next  whether  it's  two  days  or  two  years  since  I  last  came,&quot;  She  glanced  about  the  walls  and  at  the  furniture,  the  pictures,  and  the  sil-  ver.  &quot;But  I  thought  you  would  want  to  live  here,  Tom.  It  never  occurred  to  me.  I  know  it  never  occurred  to  Ma-  ma  .  .  .  This  house  .  .  .  It  can't  just  be  left.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  fine  old  house,&quot;  he  agreed.  &quot;Butwhat  would  we  do  with  all  your  mother's  clothes?&quot;  Her  freckled  hand  re-  mained  beside  the  porcelain  cup  for  what  seemed  a  long  time.  He  waited  and  made  no  move  toward  her;  he  felt  her  uncertainty  keenly,  but  he  believed  that  some  people  shouldnot  be  startled  out  of  a  spell.  &quot;It's  justas  you  said,&quot;  he  went  on,  finally.  &quot;You  can't  give  them  away,  you  can't  sell  them,  you  can't  burn  them,  and  you  can't  put  them  in  the  attic,  because  the  attic  is  full  already.  So  what  are  you  going  to  do?&quot;  Between  them,  the  single  candle  flame  achieved  a  si-  lent  altitude.  Then,  polite-  ly,  as  on  any  other  night,  though  shaking  back  her  hair  in  a  decided  way,  she  said,  &quot;Just  let  me  get  my  coat,  Tom.&quot;  She  locked  the  door  when  they  left,  and  put  the  key  under  the  mat-a  last  obsequy  to  the  house.  Their  hearts  were  bounding  ahead  faster  than  they  could  walk  down  the  sidewalk  or  drive  off  in  the  car,  and,  mindful,  perhaps,  of  what  happened  to  people  who  did,  they  did  not  look  back.  Had  they  done  so,  they  would  have  seen  that  the  Harvey  house  was  more  beautiful  than  ever.  All  unconscious  of  its  rejection  by  so  mere  a  person  as  Tom  Beavers,  it  seemed,  instead,  to  have  got  rid  of  what  did  not  suit  it,  to  be  free,  at  last,  to  enter  with  abandon  the  land  of  mourning  and  shadows  and  mem-  ory."