 b"DREAMS  of  chaos  were  Wish-  D  art's  meat;  he  was  proud  of  their  diversity,  and  of  his  trick  of  emerging  from  mortal  danger  un-  scathed.  The  slightest  change  in  pace  provoked  a  nightmare,  so  that  it  was  no  surprise  to  him  when,  falling  asleep  in  his  compartment  a  few  seconds  before  the  train  arrived  at  Cannes,  he  had  a  dream  that  lasted  hours  about  a  sinking  ferryboat  outside  the  harbor.  Millions  of  limp  victims  bowled  elegantly  out  of  the  waves,  water  draining  from  their  skin  and  hair.  There  were  a  few  sur-  vivors,  but  neither  they  nor  the  officials  who  had  arrived  in  great  haste  knew  what  to  do  next.  They  milled  about  on  the  rocky  shore  looking  unsteady  and  pale.  Even  the  victims  seemed  more  drunk  than  dead.  Out  of  this  deplora-  ble  confusion  Wishart  strode,  suitably  dressed  in  a  bathing  costume.  He  shook  his  head  gravely,  but  without  pity,  and  moved  out  and  away.  As  usual,  he  had  foreseen  the  disaster  but  failed  to  give  warning.  Explanations  unrolled  in  his  sleeping  mind:  &quot;I  never  interfere.  It  was  up  to  them  to  ask  me.  They  knew  I  was  there.&quot;  His  triumph  was  only  on  a  moral  level.  He  had  no  physical  vanity  at  all.  He  observed  with  detachment  his  drooping  bathing  trunks,  his  skinny  legs,  his  white  freckled  hands,  his  brushed-  out  fringe  of  graying  hair.  None  of  it  humbled  him.  His  body  had  never  given  him  much  concern.  Wishart  was  pleased  with  the  dream.  No  one  was  gifted  with  a  subconscious  quite  like  his,  tirelessly  creative,  pro-  ducing  without  effort  any  number  of  small  visual  poems  in  excellent  taste.  This  one  might  have  been  a  ballet,  he  decided,  or,  better  still,  because  of  the  black-and-white  groupings  and  the  un-  moving  light,  an  experimental  film,  to  be  called  simply  and  cryptically  &quot;Wish-  art's  Dream.&quot;  He  could  manipulate  this  name  without  conceit,  for  it  was  not  his  own.  That  is,  it  was  not  the  name  that  had  been  gummed  onto  his  personality  some  forty  years  before  without  thought  or  care;  &quot;Wishart&quot;  was  selected,  like  all  the  pieces  of  his  fabricated  life.  Even  the  way  he  looked  was  contrived,  and  if,  on  bad  days,  he  resembled  nothing  so  much  as  a  failed  actor  afflicted  with  dreams,  he  accepted  this  resemblance,  putting  it  down  to  artistic  fatigue.  He  did  not  consider  himself  a  failed  anything.  Success  can  only  be  measured  in  terms  of  distance  travelled,  and  in  Wishart's  case  it  had  been  a  long  flight.  No  wonder  I  look  worn,  he  would  think,  seeing  his  sagged  face  in  the  glass.  He  had  lived  one  of  society's  most  gruelling  roles,  the  escape  from  an  English  slum.  He  had  been  the  sturdy  boy  with  visions  in  his  eyes.  &quot;Scramble,  scrape,  and  scholarship&quot;  should  have  been  written  on  his  brow,  and,  inside  balloons  emerging  from  his  brain,  &quot;a  talent  for  accents&quot;  and  &quot;a  genius  for  kicking  the  past  from  his  shoes.&quot;  He  had  other  attributes,  of  course,  but  it  wasn't  necessary  to  crowd  the  image.  Although  Wishart's  journey  was  by  no  means  unusual,  he  had  man-  aged  it  better  than  nearly  anyone.  Most  scramblers  and  scrapers  take  the  inherit-  ed  structure  with  them,  patching  and  camouflaging  as  they  can,  but  Wishart  had  knocked  his  flat.  He  had  given  him-  self  a  name,  parents,  and  a  class  of  his  choice.  Now,  at  forty-two,  he  passed  as  an  English  gentleman  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  lived,  and  as  an  awfully  decent  556e6974656420537461746573n  when  he  went  to  [REDACTED].  He  had  little  sense  of  humor  where  his  own  affairs  were  concerned,  no  more  than  a  designer  of  comic  postcards  can  be  funny  about  his  art,  but  he  did  some-  times  see  it  as  a  joke  on  life  that  the  quirks  and  crotchets  with  which  he  was  laced  had  grown  out  of  an  imaginary  past.  Having  given  himself  a  tall  squire  of  a  father  who  adored  horses  and  dogs,  Wishart  first  simu-  lated,  then  genuinely  felt  a  disgust  and  terror  of  the  beasts.  The  phantom  parent  was  a  brandy-swiller;  Wish-  art  wouldn't  drink.  Indeed,  as  created  by  his  equally  phan-  tom  son,  the  squire  was  im-  peccably  bien  \xc3\xa9lev\xc3\xa9  but  rather  a  brute;  he  had  not  been  wholly  kind  to  Wishart,  the  moody,  spindly  boy.  The  only  person  out  of  the  real  past  he  remembered  without  loath-  ing  was  a  sister,  Glad,  who  had  become  a  servant  at  eleven  and  had  taught  him  how  to  eat  with  a  knife  and  fork.  At  the  beginning,  in  the  old  days,  before  he  had  been  intelligent  enough  to  settle  for  the  squire  but  had  hinted  at  some-  thing  grand,  he  had  often  been  the  vic-  tim  of  sudden  frights,  when  an  element,  hidden  and  threatening,  had  bubbled  under  his  feet  and  he  had  felt  the  soles  of  his  shoes  growing  warm,  so  thin,  so  friable  was  the  crust  of  his  poor  world.  Nowadays,  he  moved  ina  gassy  atmosphere  of  good  will  and  feigned  successes.  He  seemed  invulnerable.  Strangers  meeting  him  forthe  first  time  often  thought  he  must  be  cele-  brated,  and  wondered  why  they  had  neverheard  of  him  before.  There  was no  earthly  reason  for  anyone's  having  done  so;  he  was  a  teacher  of  dramatics  in  a  preparatory  school,  and  once  this  was  revealed,  and  the  shoddiness  ofthe  school  established,  it  required  Wishart's  most  hypnotic  gifts,  his  most  persuasive  monologue,  to  maintain  the  effect  of  his  person.  As  a  teacher  he  was  barely  adequate,  and  if  he  had  been  an  Ameri-  can  his  556e6974656420537461746573n  school  would  never  have  kept  him.  His  British  personality-  sardonic,  dry-replaced  ability,  or  even  ambition.  Privately,  he  believed  he  was  wasted  in  a  world  of  men  and  boys,  and  had  never  bothered  giving  them  the  full  blaze  of  his  Wishart  creation;  he  saved  it  for  a  world  of  women.  Like  many  spiteful,  snobbish,  fussy  men,  or  acer-  tain  type  of  murderer,  Wishart  chose  his  friends  among  middle-aged  solitary  women.  These  women  were  widowed  or  divorced,  and  lived  in  places  Wishart  liked  to  visit.  Every  year,  then,  shed-  ding  his  working  life,  a  shining  Wish-  art  took  off  for  Europe,  where  he  spent  the  summer  alighting  here  and  there,  depending  on  the  topography  of  his  invitations.  He  lived  on  his  hostesses,  without  shame.  He  was  needed  and  liked.  His  invitations  began  arriving  at  Christmas.  He  knew  that  women  who  will  fret  over  wasting  the  last  bit  of  soap,  or  a  torn  postage  stamp,  or  an  unused  return  ticket,  will  pay  without  a  murmur  for  the  company  of  a  man.  Wishart  was  no  hired  companion-  carrier  of  coats,  fetcher  of  aspirin,  walker  of  dachshunds.  He  considered  it  enough  to  be  there,  supplying  gossip  and  a  listening  ear.  Often  Wishart's  friends  took  it  for  granted  he  was  homosexual,  which  was  all  to  the  good.  He  was  the  chosen  minstrel,  the  symbolic  male,  who  would  never  cause  &quot;trouble.&quot;  He  knew  this  and  it  was  a  galling  thought.  But  he  had  never  managed  to  correct  it.  He  was  much  too  busy  keeping  his  personality  in  place  so  that  it  wouldn't  slip  or  col-  lapse  even  in  his  dreams.  He  had  never  found  time  for  such  an  enervating  activ-  ity  as  proving  his  virility,  which  might  not  only  divert  the  movement  of  his  ambitions  but  could,  indeed,  take  up  an  entire  life.  He  had  what  he  wanted,  and  it  was  enough;  he  had  never  de-  sired  a  fleet  of  oil  tankers.  It  sufficed  him  to  be  accepted  here  and  there.  His  life  would  probably  have  been  easier  if  he  had  not  felt  obliged  to  be  something  special  on  two  conti-  nents,  but  he  was  compelled  to  return  to  [REDACTED]  now,  every  year,  and  make  " b"them  accept  him.  They  accepted  him  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  but  that  was  part  of  the  buried  joke.  Sometimes  he  ventured  a  few  risks,  such  as,  &quot;We  were  most  frightfully  poor  when  I  was  a  child,&quot;  but  he  knew  he  still  hadn't  achieved  the  right  tone.  The  most  successful  im-  posturesare  based  on  truth,  but  how  poor  is  poor,  and  how  closely  should  he  approach  this  burning  fact?  Particular-  ly  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  whole  struc-  ture  could  collapse  for  the  sake  of  a  vowel.  He  got  down  from  the  train,  holding  his  artfully  bashed-up  suitcase,  and  saw,  in  the  shadow  of  the  station,  Mrs.  Bonnie  McCarthy,  his  556e6974656420537461746573n  friend.  She  was  his  relay  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED],  a  point  of  refreshment  be-  tween  the  nasal  sculptress  in  [REDACTED],  who  had  been  his  first  hostess  of  the  season,  and  a  Mrs.  Sebastian  in  4974616c79.  It  would  have  been  sweet  for  Wishart  at  this  moment  if  he  could  have  sum-  moned  an  observer  from  the  past,  a  control  to  establish  how  far  he  had  come.  Supposing  une  of  the  populated  waves  of  his  dream  had  deposited  sister  Glad  on  shore?  He  saw  her  in  cap  and  apron,  a  dour  little  girl,  watching  him  being  greeted  by  this  woman  who  would  not  have  as  much  as  spat  in  their  direc-  tion  if  she  had  known  them  in  the  old  days.  At  this  thought  he  felt  a  faint  stir,  like  the  rumor  of  an  earthquake  some  distance  away.  But  he  knew  he  had  nothing  to  fear  and  that  the  source  of  terror  was  in  his  own  mistakes.  It  had  been  a  mistake  to  remember  Glad.  ie  ISHART,&quot;  his  friend  said  grave-  ly,  without  breaking  her  pose.  Leaning  on  a  furled  peach-colored  parasol,  she  gave  the  appearance  of  liv-  ing  a  minute  of  calm  in  the  middle  of  a  hounding  social  existence.  She  turned  to  him  the  soft,  myopic  eyes  that  had  been  admired  when  she  was  a  girl.  Her  hair  was  cut  in  the  year's  fashion,  like  an  inverted  peony,  and  she  seemed  to  Wishart  beautifully  dressed.  She  might  have  been  waiting  for  something  beyond  Wishart  and  better  than  a  friend-  some  elegant  paradise  he  could  not  im-  agine,  let  alone  attain.  His  admiration  of  her  (her  charm,  wealth,  and  as-  pirations)  flowed  easily  into  admira-  tion  of  himself;  after  all,  he  had  achieved  this  friend.  Almost  tearful  with  self-  felicitation,  he  forgot  how  often  he  and  Bonnie  had  quarrelled  in  the  past.  Their  kiss  of  friendship  here  outside  the  station  was  real.  &quot;Did  you  get  my  telegram?&quot;  he  said,  beginning  the  nervous  remarks  that  preceded  and  followed  all  his  journeys.  He  had  prepared  his  coming  with  a  message:  &quot;Very  depressed  [REDACTED]  like  old  blotting  paper  longing  forsea  sun  you.&quot;  This  wire  he  had  signed  &quot;Baronne  Putbus.&quot;  There  was  no  address,  so  that  Bonnie  was  unable  to  return  a  killing     JULY  11,  1959  answer  she  would  have  signed  &quot;Ly-  sistrata.&quot;  &quot;I  died,&quot;  Bonnie  said,  looking  with  grave,  liquid  eyes.  &quot;I  just  simply  per-  ished.&quot;  After  the  nasal  sculptress  and  her  educated  vowels,  Bonnie's  slight  drawl  fell  gently  on  his  ear.  She  continued  to  look  at  him  gaily,  with-  out  making  a  move,  and  he  began  to  feel  some  unease  in  the  faceof  so  much  bright  expectancy.  He  suddenly  thought,  &quot;Good  God,  has  she  fallen  in  love?,&quot;  adding  in  much  smaller  print,  &quot;With  me?&quot;  Accidents  of  that  sort  had  happened  in  the  past.  Now,  Wishart's  personality  being  an  object  he  used  with  discretion,  when  he  was  doubtful,  or  simply  at  rest,  he  became  a  sort  of  mir-  ror.  Reflected  in  this  mirror,  Bonnie  McCarthy  saw  that  she  was  still  pretty  and  smart.  Dear  darling  Wishart!  He  also  gave  back  her  own  air  of  waiting.  Each  thought  that  the  other  must  have  received  a  piece  of  wonderful  news.  Wishart  was  not  envious;  he  knew  that  the  backwash  of  someone  else's  good  fortune  can  be  very  pleasant  indeed,  and  he  waited  for  Bonnie's  tidings  to  be  revealed.  Perhaps  she  had  rented  a  villa,  so  that  he  would  not  have  to  stay  in  a  hotel.  That  would  be  nice.  &quot;'The  hotel  isn't  far,&quot;  Bonnie  said,  stirring  them  into  motion  at  last.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  walk  a  little,  Wishart?  It's  a  lovely,  lovely  day.&quot;  No  villa,  then;  and  if  the  hotel  was  nearby,  no  sense  paying  a  porter.  Carrying  his  suitcase,  he  followed  her  through  the  station  and  into  the  sudden  heat  of  the  Mediter-  ranean  day.  Later  he  would  hate  these  streets,  and  the  milling,  sweat-  ing,  sunburned  crowd;  he  would  hurry  past  the  sour-milk-smelling  caf\xc3\xa9s  with  his  hand  over  his  nose.  But  now,  at  first  sight,  Cannes  looked  as  it  had  sound-  ed  when  he  said  the  word  in  [REDACTED]-a  composition  in  clear  chalk  colors:  blue,  yel-  low,  white.  Everything  was  intensely  shaded  or  intensely  bright,  hard  and  yellow  on  the  streets,  dark  as  velvet  inside  the  bars.  &quot;I  hope  you  aren't  cross  because  Florence  isn't  here,&quot;  Bonnie  said.  &quot;'She  was  perishing  to  meet  your  train,  but  " b"the  poor  baby  had  something  in  her  eye.  A  grain  of  sand.  She  had  to  go  to  an  oculist  to  have  it  taken  out.  You'll  love  seeing  her  now,  Wishart.  She's  getting  a  style,  you  know?  Everyone  notices  her.  Somebody  said  to  me  on  the  beach-a  total  stranger-somebody  said,  'Your  daughter  is  like  a  Tanagra.'  &quot;  &quot;Of  which  there  are  so  many  fakes,&quot;  Wishart  remarked.  He  did  not  have  a  great  opinion  of  his  friend's  intelligence,  and  may  have  thought  that  a  slight  obtuseness  also  affected  her  hearing.  It  was  insensitive  of  her  to  mention  Flor  now,  just  when  Wishart  was  feeling  so  well.  From  the  beginning,  their  friendship  had  been  marred  by  the  existence  of  Bonnie's  daughter,  a  spoiled,  sulky  girl  he  had  vainly  tried  to  admire.  &quot;There  are  literally  millions  of  men  chasing  her,&quot;  Bonnie  said.  &quot;I've  never  seen  anything  like  it.  Every  time  we  go  to  the  beach  or  the  casino-&quot;  &quot;I'm  surprised  she  hasn't  offered  you  a  son-in-law,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I  suppose  she  is  still  too  young.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  she  isn't!&quot;  Bonnie  cried,  standing  still.  &quot;Wishart,  that  girl  is  twenty-four.  I  don't  know  what  men  want  from  women  now.  I  don't  even  know  what  Flor  wants  We've  been  here  since  the  eighth  of  June,  and  do  you  know  what  she's  picked  up?  A  teeny  little  fellow  from  [REDACTED].  I  swear,  he's  not  five  three.  When  we  go  out,  the  three  of  us,  I  could  die,  I  don't  understand  it-why  she  only  likes  the  wrong  kind.  'Only  likes,  did  I  say?  I  should  have  said  'only  attracts.  They're  awful.  They  don't  even  propose.  She  hasn't  even  got  the  satisfaction  of  turning  them  down.  I  don't  understand  it,  and  that's  all  I  can  say.  Why,  I  had  literally  hundreds  of  proposals,  and  not  from  little  5475726b6579s.  I  stuck  to  my  own  kind.&quot;  He  wanted  to  say,  &quot;Yes,  but  you  were  among  your  own  kind.  The  girl  is  a  floater,  like  me.&quot;  He  sensed  that  Bonnie's  disappointment  in  what  she  called  her  own  kind  had  affected  her  desires  for  Flor.  Her  own  kind  had  betrayed  her;  she  had  told  him  so.  That  was  why  she  lived  in  Europe.  Outside  her  own  kind  was  a  vast  population  of  men  in  suspenders  standing  up  to  carve  the  Sunday  roast.  That  took  care  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  They  walked  on,  slowly.  A  store  window  they  passed  reflected  the  drawn,  dried  expression  that  added  years  to  Wishart's  age  but  removed  him  from  competition  and  torment.  He  found  time  to  admire  the  image,  and  was  further  comforted  by  Bonnie's  next,  astonishing  words:  &quot;Someone  like you,  Wishart,  would  be  good  for  Flor.  I  mean  someone  older,  a  person  I  can  trust.  You  know  what  I  mean-an  Englishman  who's  been  in  [REDACTED],  who's  had  the  best  of  both.&quot;  He  knew  that  she  could  not  be  pro-  posing  him  as  a  husband  for  Florence,  but  he  could  have  loved  her  forever  for  the  confirmation  ofthe  gentleman  he  had  glimpsed  in  the  window,  the  sar-  donic  Englishman  in  [REDACTED],  the  awfully  decent  556e6974656420537461746573n  in  [REDACTED].  He  slipped  his  hand  under  her  elbow;  it  was  almost  a  caress.  They  reached  the  Boulevard  de  la  Croisette,  crossed  over  to  the  sea  side,  and  Bonnie  put  up  her  parasol.  Wish-  art's  good  humor  hung  suspended  as  he  looked  down  at  the  beaches,  the  larva-  like  bodies,  the  rows  of  chairs.  Ev-  ery  beach  carried  its  own  social  stamp,  as  distinct  as  the  strings  of  greasy  flags,  the  raked  pullulating  sand,  and  the  squalid  little  bar  that  marked  the  so-  called  &quot;students'  beach,&quot;  and  the  mauve  and  yellow  awnings,  the  plastic  mat-  tresses  of  the  beach  that  was  a  point  of  reunion  for  4672616e6365ian  homosexuals.  W  ish-  art's  gaze,  uninterested,  was  about  to  slide  over  this  beach  when  Bonnie  ar-  rested  him  by  saying,  &quot;This  is  where  we  bathe,  Wishart,  dear.&quot;  He  turned  his  head  so  suddenly  that  her  parasol  hit  him  in  the  eye,  which  made  him  think  of  her  falsehood  (for  it  was  a  false-  hood,  unquestionably)  about  Flor  and  the  grain  of  sand.  He  looked  with  real  suspicion  now  at  the  sand,  probably  treacherous  with  broken  bottles,  and  at  the  sea,  which,  though  blue  and  sparkling,  was  probably  full  of  germs.  Even  the  sky  was  violated;  across  the  face  of  it  an  airplane  was  writing  the  name  of  a  drink.  &quot;Oh,  my  sweet  heaven!&quot;  Bonnie  said.  She  stood  still,  clutching  Wishart  by  the  arm,  and  said  it  again.  &quot;Sweet  heaven!  Well,  there  she  is.  There's  Flor.  But  that's  not  the  Turk  from  [REDACTED].  No,  Wishart,  her  mother  is  to  have  a  treat.  She's  got  a  new  one.  Oh,  my  sweet  heaven,  Wishart,  where  does  she  find  them?&quot;  &quot;I  expect  she  meets  them  in  trains.&quot;  From  that  distance  he  could  admire  Bonnie's  girl,  thin  and  motionless,  with  brown  skin  and  red  hair.  She  leaned  on  the  low  wall,  looking  down  at  the  sea,  braced  on  her  arms,  as  tense  as  if  the  decision  between  this  beach  and  some  other  one  was  to  decide  the  course  of  her  life.  &quot;She  does  have  extraordi-  nary  coloring,&quot;  he  said,  as  generously  as  he  could.  &quot;She  gets  it  from  me,&quot;  said  Bonnie,  shortly,  as  if  she  had  never  noticed  her  own  hair  was  brown.  The  man  with  Florence  was  stocky  and  dark.  He  wore  sneakers,  tartan  swimming  trunks  of  ample  cut,  a  gold  waterproof  watch,  a  gold  medal  on  a  chain,  and  a  Swedish-university  cap  " b"some  sizes  too  s  mall.  He  carried  a  net  bag  full  of  diving  equipment.  His  chest  was  bare.  &quot;Well,  I  don't  know,&quot;  Bonnie  said.  &quot;I  just  don't  know.&quot;  By  a  common  silent  decision,  the  two  rejected  the  beach  and  turned  and  came  toward  Bonnie  .  They  made  an  impression  as  harsh  and  unpoetical  as  the  day.  The  sun  had  bu  rned  all  expression  from  their  faces-smooth  brown  masks,  in  which  their  eyes,  his  b  rown  and  hers  green,  shone  like  colored  glass.  Even  though  Wishart  had  never  dared  allow  himself  close  relations,  he  was  aware  of  their  existence  to  a  high  degree.  He  could  detect  an  intimate  situation  from  a  glance,  or  a  quality  of  silence.  It  was  one  more  of  his  gifts,  but  he  would  ha  ve  bee  n  happier  without  it.  Pushed  by  forces  he  had  not  summoned  or  invented,  he  had  at  these  moments  a  victim's  face-puzzled,  wounded,  blood  l  ess,  coarse.  The  gap  between  the  two  couples  closed.  Bon-  nie  had  taken  on  a  dreamy,  vacant  air;  she  was  n  ot  planning  t  o  help.  &quot;'This  is  Bob  Harris,&quot;  Florence  said.  &quot;He's  from  New  York  .  &quot;  &quot;I  guessed  that,&quot;  Bonnie  said.  It  was  plain  to  Wishart  that  the  new  man,  now  sincerely  shaking  hands  all  around  ,  had  no  idea  that  Mrs.  McCarthy  might  want  to  demo  lis  h  him.  VERY  day  after  that,  the  four  met  on  Bonnie's  beach  and  lunched  in  a  restaurant  Bonnie  liked.  If  Wishart  had  disapproved  of  the  beach,  it  was  nothing  compared  to  the  restaurant,  which  was  full  of  Bonnie's  new  friends.  Wine-Algerian  pink-came  out  of  a  barrel,  there  were  paper  flags  stuck  in  the  butter,  the  waiters  were  insolent  and  barefoot,  the  menu  was  written  on  a  slate  and  full  of  obscene  puns.  Every-  one  knew  everyone,  and  Wishart  could  have  murdered  Bonnie.  He  was  ap-  palled  at  her  thinking  he  could  possibly  like  the  place,  but  remembered  that  her  attitude  was  the  result  of  years  of  neuter  camaraderie.  It  didn't  matter.  On  the  tenth  of  July  he  was  expected  in  4974616c79.  It  was  nota  pattern  of  life.  It  seemed  to  Wishart  that  Bonnie  was  becoming  silly  with  age.  She  had  developed  a  piercing  laugh,  and  the  af-  fected  drawl  was  becoming  real.  Her  baiting  of  Bob  Harris  was  too  direct  to  be  funny,  and  her  antagonism  was  forming  a  bond  between  them-the  last  thing  on  earth  she  wanted.  Bob  had  the  habit  of  many  556e6974656420537461746573ns  of  constantly  repeating  the  name  of  the  person  he  was  talking  to.  Bonnie  retaliated  by  calling  him  Bob  Harris,  in  full,  every  time  she  spoke  to  him,  and  this,  com-  bined  with  her  slightly  artificial  voice,  made  him  ask,  &quot;Is  that  a  Southern  accent  you've  got,  Mrs.  McCarthy?&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  just  might  be,  Bob  Har-  ris!&quot;  Bonnie  cried,  putting  one  on.  But  it  was  a  movie  accent;  she  did  it  badly,  and  it  got  on  Wishart's  nerves.  &quot;Well,  that's  a  nice  breeze  that's  just  come  up,&quot;&quot;  she  would  say,  trailing  the  vowels.  &quot;We're  certainly  a  nice  little  party,  aren't  we?  It's  nice  being  four.&quot;  Nice  being  four?  Nice  for  Wishart-  the  adored,  the  sought-after,  Europe's  troubadour?  He  closed  his  eyes  and  thought  of  Mrs.  Sebastian,  4974616c79,  shuttered  rooms,  green  canals.  Then  Florence  burst  out  with  some-  thing.  Wishart  guessed  that  these  cheeky  outbursts,  fit  for  a  child  of  twelve,  were  innocent  attempts  to  converse.  Because  of  the  way  her  mother  had  dragged  her  around,  because  she  had  never  been  part  of  a  fixed  society,  she  didn't  know  how  people  talked;  she  had  none  of  the  coins  of  light  exchange.  She  said  in  an  excited  voice,  &quot;'The  Fox,  the  Ape,  the  Bumblebee  were  all  at  odds,  being  three,  and  then  the  Goose  came  out  the  door,  and  stayed  the  odds  by  making  four.  We're  like  that.  Mama's  a  lovely  bumblebee  and  I'm  fox-colored.&quot;  This  left  Wishart  the  vexing  choice  between  being  a  goose  and  an  ape,  and  he  was  the  more  dis-  tressed  to  hear  Bob  say  placidly  that  it  wasn't  the  first  time  he  had  been  called  a  big  ape.  All  at  once  it  seemed  to  him  preferable  to  be  an  ape  than  a  goose.  &quot;Have  you  got  many  friends  in  [REDACTED],  Bob  Harris?&quot;  said  Bonnie,  who  had  seen  Wishart's  face  pucker  and  shrink.  &quot;Last  year  I  had  to  send  out  one  hundred  and  sixty-nine  Christmas  cards,&quot;  said  Bob  simply.  &quot;I  don't  mean  cards  for  the  firm.&quot;  &quot;'The  Bambino  of  the  Eiffel  Tower?  Something  real  4672616e6365ian?&quot;  Bob  looked  down,  with  a  smile.  He  seemed  to  feel  sorry  for  Mrs.  Mc-  Carthy,  who  didn't  know  about  the  cards  people  sent  now-nondenomina-  tional,  either  funny  or  artistic,  depend-  ing  onyour  friends.  He  stayed  in  one  of  the  spun-sugar  palaces  on  the  Croisette,  and  Wishart's  anguished  guess  had  been  correct:  Flor  went  to  his  room  afternoons,  while  Bon-  nie  was  having  her  rest.  'The  room  was  too  noisy,  too  bright,  and  it  was  Flor  who  seemed  most  at  ease,  adjusting  the  blind  so  that  slats  of  shade  covered  the  walls,  placing  her  clothes  neatly  on  a  chair.  She  seemed  to  Bob  exclusive,  a  " b"prize,  even  though  the  evidence  was  that  they  were  both  summer  rats.  He  had  met  her  in  a  caf\xc3\xa9  one  afternoon.  He  saw  his  own  shadow  on  her  table,  and  himself,  furtive,  ratlike,  looking  for  trouble.  WISHART  had  decided  that  Bob  was  no  problem  where  he  was  con-  cerned.  His  shrewdness  was  not  the  variety  likely  to  threaten  Wishart,  and  he  took  up  Flor's  time,  leaving  Bonnie  free  to  listen  to  Wishart's  chat.  He  did  not  desire  Bonnie  to  himself  as  alover  might,  but  he  did  want  to  get  on  with  his  anecdotes  without  continual  inter-  ruptions.  Alone  with  him,  Bonnie  was  the  person  Wishart  liked.  When  they  laughed  together  on  the  beach,  it  was  like  the  old  days,  when  she  had  seemed  so  superior,  enchanting,  and  bright.  They  lived  out  the  fantasy  essential  to  Wishart;  he  might  have  beenback  in  [REDACTED]  saying  and  thinking  &quot;Cannes.&quot;  They  had  worked  out  their  code  of  in-  timate  jokes  for  the  season;  they  called  Bonnie's  young  friends  &quot;Jes  fleurs  et  couronnes,&quot;  and  they  made  fun  of  French  jargon,  with  its  nervous  empha-  sis  on  &quot;moderne&quot;  and  &quot;dynamique.&quot;  When  Bonnie  called  Wishart  &quot;wn  homme  du  vingtieme  siecle,  moderne  et  dynamique,&quot;  they  were  convulsed.  Flor  and  Bob,  a  little  apart,  regarded  them  soberly,  as  if  they  were  a  pair  of  chattering  squirrels.  &quot;Wishart  is  one  of  Mama's  best  friends,&quot;  said  Flor,  apologizing  for  this  elderly  foolishness.  &quot;I've  never  liked  him.  I  think  he  thinks  they're  like  Oberon  and  Titania,  you  know-all  malice  and  showing  off.  Wishart  would  love  to  have  wings  and  power  and  have  people  do  as  he  says.  He's  always  seemed  wormy  to  me.  Have  you  noticed  that  my  mother  pays  for  everything?&quot;  In  point  of  fact,  Bob  paid  for  every-  thing  now.  He  expected  to;  it  was  as  essential  to  his  nature  as  it  was  to  Wish-  art's  to  giggle  and  sneer.  &quot;Wishart  doesn't  like  the  way  I  look.  The  hell  with  him,&quot;  he  said  placidly.  Lying  on  her  back  on  the  sand,  Flor  shaded  her  eyes  to  see  him  properly.  He  was  turned  away.  He  seemed  casual,  indifferent,  but  she  knew  that  he  stayed  on  in  Cannes  because  of  her.  His  holiday  was  over,  and  his  father,  business-  and  family-minded,  was  waiting  for  him  in  [REDACTED].  The  discovery  of  Flor  had  dis-  turbed  Bob.  Until  now  he  had  liked  much  younger  girls,  with  straight  hair  and  mild,  anxious  eyes;  girls  who  were  photographed  in  the  living  room  wear-  ing  printed  silk  and  their  mother's  pearls.  His  ideal  was  the  image  of  some  minor  Germanic  princess,  whose  nick-  name  might  be  Mousie,  and  who,  at  six-  teen,  at  twenty-nine,  at  fifty-three,  seems  to  wear  the  same  costume,  the  same  hair,  and  the  same  air  of  patient  supplication  until  a  husband  can  be  found.  This  picture,  into  which  he  had  tried  to  fit  so  many  women,  now  proved  " b"accommodating;  the  hair  became  red,  the  features  hardened,  the  hands  were  thin  and  brown.  She  stared  at  him  with  less  hopeless  distress.  At  last  the  bland  young  woman  became  Flor,  and  he  did  not  remember  having  held  in  his  mind's  eye  any  face  but  hers,  just  as  he  would  never  expect  to  look  in  the  mirror  one  morning  and  see  any  face  except  his  own.  &quot;Bob  is  just  a  deep,  creative  boy  looking  for  a  girl  with  a  tragic  sense  of  life,&quot;  Wishart  said  to  Bonnie,  who  laughed  herself  to  tears,  for,  having  tried  to  trap  Bob  into  saying  &quot;State-  side&quot;  and  &quot;drapes&quot;  and  having  failed,  she  needed  new  confirmation  of  his  ab-  surdity.  'The  conversation  of  the  pair,  devoid  of  humor,  was  repeated  by  Wishart  or  Bonnie-whichever  was  close  enough  to  hear.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  they're  talking  about  mow?&quot;  was  a  new  opening  for  discussion,  amaze-  ment,  and,  finally,  helpless  laughter.  &quot;''They're  on  birds  today,&quot;  Wishart  would  say,  with  a  deliberately  solemn  face.  &quot;Birds?&quot;  &quot;Birds.&quot;  They  collapsed,  heaving  with  laugh-  ter,  as  if  in  a  fit.  The  fleurs  et  cou-  ronnes,  out  of  sympathy,  joined  in.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  bothered  me  most  when  I  first  came  over  here?&quot;  Wishart  had  heard  Flor  say,  &quot;We  were  in  [REDACTED]  then,  and  I  didn't  recog-  nizea  single  tree  or  a  single  bird.  They  looked  different,  and  the  birds  had  dif-  ferent  songs.  A  robin  wasn't  a  robin  any  more.  It  was  terrible.  It  fright-  ened  me  more  than  anything.  And  they  were  so  drab.  Everything  was  brown  and  gray.  There  aren't  any  red-winged  blackbirds,  you  know--  nothing  with  a  bright  flash.&quot;  &quot;Aren't  there?&quot;  The  urban  boy  tried  to  sound  surprised.  Wishart  sympa-  thized.  The  only  quality  he  shared  with  Bob  was  ignorance  of  nature.  &quot;Didn't  you  know?  That's  what's  missing  here,  in  everything.  'There's  color  enough,  but  you  don't  know  how  I  miss  it--the  bright  flash.&quot;  Bob  saw  the  sun  flash  off  a  speedboat,  and  everywhere  he  looked  he  saw  color  and  light.  The  cars  moving  along  the  Croisette  were  color  enough.  \xc2\xabWill  you  always  live  here  now?&quot;  said  Flor.  &quot;Will  you  never  live  at  home  again?&quot;  &quot;It  depends  on  my  father.  I  came  over  to  learn,  and  I'm  practically  run-  ning  the  whole  [REDACTED]  end.  It's  some-  thing.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  like  business?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  mean  do  I  wish  I  was  an  actor  or  something?&quot;  He  gave  her  a  resentful  look,  and  the  shadow  of  their  first  possible  difference  fell  over  the  exchange.  &quot;My  father  never  did  anything  much,&quot;  she  said.  Her  eyes  were  closed,  and  she  talked  into  the  sun.  The  sun  bleached  her  words.  Any  revelation  was  just  chat.  &quot;Now  they  say  he  drinks  quite  a  lot.  But  that's  none  of  my  busi-  ness.  He  married  a  really  dull  thing,  they  say.  He  and  Mama  are  Catholics,  so  they  don't  believe  in  their  own  di-  vorce.  At  least,  Mama  doesn't.&quot;  He  noticed  that  Flor  kissed  her  moth-  er  anxiously  when  they  met,  as  if  they  had  been  parted  for  days,  or  as  if  he  had  taken  Flor  to  another  country.  The  af-  fection  between  the  two  women  pleased  him.  His  own  mother,  having  died,  had  elevated  the  notion  of  motherhood.  He  liked  people  who  got  on  with  their  parents  and  suspected  those  who  did  not.  &quot;I  suppose  he  thinks  he  shouldn't  be     living  with  his  second  wife,&quot;  Flor  said.  &quot;If  he  still  believes.&quot;  &quot;How  about  you?&quot;  &quot;I'd  believe  anything  I  thought  would  do  me  or  Mama  any  good.&quot;  This  seemed  to  him  insufficient.  He  expected  women  to  be  religious.  He  gave  any  amount  of  money  to  nuns.  HESE  dialogues,  which  Wishart  heard  from  a  distance  while  seem-  ing  to  concentrate  on  his  tan,  and  which  he  found  so  dull  and  discouraging  that  the  pair  seemed  mentally  deficient,  were  attempts  to  furnish  the  past.  Flor  was  perplexed  by  their  separate  pasts.  She  saw  Bob  rather  as  Bonnie  did,  but  with  a  natural  loyalty  to  him  that  was  almost  as  strong  as  a  family  tie.  She  believed  she  was  objective,  detached;  then  she  dis-  covered  he  had  come  down  to  Cannes  from  [REDACTED]  with  a  Swedish  girl,  the  stu-  dent  from  whom  he  had  inherited  the  cap.  Knowing  that  &quot;student&quot;  in  Europe  is  a  generous  term,  covering  a  boundless  field  of  age  as  well  as  activity,  she  ex-  perienced  the  hopeless  jealousy  a  wom-  an  feels  for  someone  she  believes  inferior  to  herself.  It  was  impossible  for  Bon-  nie's  daughter  to  achieve  this  inferiority;  she  saw  the  man  already  lost.  The  girl  and  Bob  had  lived  together,  in  his  room.  Flor's  imagination  constructed  a  spite,  ful  picture  of  a  girl  being  cute  and  Swedish  and  larking  about  in  his  pa-  jamas.  Secretly  flattered,  he  said  no,she  was  rather  sickly  and  quiet.  Her  name  was  Eve,  She  was  off  somewhere  travel-  ling  on  a  bus.  Cards  arrived  bearing  the  sticky  imprint  of  her  lips-a  disgusting  practice.  Trembling  with  feigned  indif-  ference,  Flor  grabbed  the  cap  and  threw  it  out  the  window.  It  landed  on  the  bal-  cony  of  the  room  below.  Bob  rescued  the  cap,  and  kept  it,  but  " b"he  gave  up  his  hotel  and  moved  into  Flor's.  The  new  room  was  better.  It  was  quiet,  dark,  and  contained  no  memories.  It  was  in  the  basement,  with  a  window  high  in  one  wall.  The  walls  were  white.  There  was  sand  every-  where,  in  the  cracked  red  tiles  of  the  floor,  in  the  chinks  of  the  decaying  arm-  chair,  caked  to  the  rope  soles  of  their  shoes.  It  seemed  to  Flor  that  here  the  grit  of  sand  and  salt  came  into  their  lives  and  their  existence  as  a  couple  be-  gan.  When  the  shutters  were  opened,  late  in  the  afternoon,  they  let  in  the  pep-  pery  scent  of  geraniums  and  the  view  of  a  raked  gravel  path.  There  must  have  been  a  four-season  mimosa  near-  by;  the  wind  sent  minute  yellow  pom-  pons  against  the  sill,  and  often  a  gust  of  sweetish  perfume  came  in  with  the  dy-  ing  afternoon.  Flor  had  not  mentioned  the  change  to  Bonnie,  but,  inevitably,  Bonnie  met  her  enemy  at  the  desk,  amiable  and  ar-  rogant,  collecting  his  key.  &quot;Has  that  boy  been  here  all  along?&quot;  she  cried,  in  despair.  She  insisted  on  seeing  his  room.  She  didn't  know  what  she  expected  to  find,  but,  as  she  told  Wishart,  she  had  a  right  to  know.  Bob  invited  her  formal-  ly.  She  came  with  Flor  one  after-  noon,  both  dressed  in  white,  with  skirts  like  lampshades,  Bonnie  on  waves  of  Femme.  He  saw  for  the  first  time  that  the  two  were  alike,  and  perhaps  insep-  arable;  they  had  a  private  casual  way  of  speaking,  and  laughed  at  the  same  things.  It  was  like  seeing  a  college  friend  in  his  own  background,  set  against  his  parents,  his  sisters,  his  moth-  er's  taste  in  books.  He  offered  Bonnie  peanuts  out  of  a  tin,  brandy  in  a  tooth-  brush  glass.  He  saw  everything  about  her  except  that  she  was  attractive,  and  here  their  difference  of  age  was  in  the  way.  Boband  Florence  avoided  sitting  on  the  lumpy  bed,  strewn  with  news-  papers  and  photographs.  That  was  Bonnie's  answer.  They  knew  she  knew;  Bonnie  left  in  triumph,  with  an  air  she  soon  had  cause  to  change.  Now  that  Bonnie  knew,  the  lovers  spent  more  time  together.  They  no  longer  slipped  away  during  Bonnie's  rest;  they  met  when  they  chose  and  stayed  away  as  long  as  they  liked.  If  they  kept  a  pre-  tense  of  secrecy,  it  was  because  to  Bob  a  facade  of  decency  was  needed.  He  had  not  completely  lost  sight  of  the  be-  seeching  princess  into  whose  outline  Flor  had  disappeared.  When  he  and  Flor  were  apart,  he  found  reason  to  doubt.  She  had  told  him  the  birds  of  Europe  were  not  like  the  birds  at  home,  but  what  about  human  beings?  She  never  mentioned  them.  The  breath  of  life  for  him  was  contained  in  relations,  in  his  friendships,  in  which  he  did  not  distinguish  between  the  random  and  the  intense.  All  his  re-  lationships  were  of  the  same  quality.  She  had  told  him  that  this  room  was  like  a  place  she  had  imagined.  The  only  dif-  ference  was  that  her  imagined  room  was  spangled,  bright,  perfectly  silent,  and  full  of  mirrors.  Years  after  this,  he  could  say  to  himself  &quot;Cannes&quot;  and  evoke  a  season  of  his  life,  with  all  the  sounds,  smells,  light  and  dark  that  the  season  had  contained;  but  he  never  re-  membered  accurately  how  it  had  started  or  what  it  had  been  like.  Their  intimacy  came  first,  then  love,  and  some  uncloud-  ed  moments.  Like  most  lovers,  he  be-  lieved  that  the  beginning  was  made  up  of  these  moments  only,  and  he  would  remember  Flor's  silent,  mirrored  room  and  believe  it  was  their  room  at  Cannes,  and  that  he  had  lived  in  it,  too.  One  afternoon  at  the  beginning  of     July,  they  fell  asleep  in  this  room,  the  real  room,  and  when  Flor  woke  it  was  dark.  She  knew  it  had  begun  to  rain  by  the  quickening  in  the  air.  She  got  up  quietly  and  opened  the  shutters.  A  car  came  into  the  hotel  drive;  a  bar  of  light  swept  across  the  ceiling  and  walls.  She  thought  that  what  she  felt  now  came  because  of  the  passage  of  light.  It  was  a  concrete  sensation  of  happiness,  as  if  happiness  could  be  felt,  lifted,  carried  around.  She  had  not  experienced  any-  thing  of  the  kind  before.  She  was  in  a  watery  world  of  perceptions,  where  impulses,  doubts,  intentions,  detached  from  their  roots,  rise  to  the  surface  and  expand.  The  difference  between  Bob  and  herself  was  that  he  hadno  at-  tachments  to  the  past.  This  was  what  caused  him  to  seem  inferior  in  her  moth-  er's  view  of  life,  He  had  told  them  freely  that  his  father  was  self-educated  and  that  his  mother's  parents  were  illiterate,  There  were  no  family  rec-  ords  more  than  a  generation  old.  Flor-  ence  had  been  taught  to  draw  her  sup-  port  from  continuity  and  the  past.  Now  she  saw  that  the  chain  of  fathers  and  daughters  and  mothers  and  sons  had  been  powerless  as  a  charm.  In  trouble,  mistrusting  her  own  capacity  to  think  or  move  or  enjoy  living,  she  was  alone.  She  saw  that  being  positive  of  even  a  few  things-that  she  was  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  pretty,  and  Christian,  and  Bonnie's  girl-had  not  helped.  Bob  Harris  didn't  know  his  mother's  maiden  name,  and  his  father's  father  had  come  out  of  a  Polish  ghetto,  but  Bob  was  not  specifi-  cally  less  556e6974656420537461746573n  than  Florence,  nor  less  proud.  He  was,  if  anything,  more  assertive  and  sure.  She  closed  the  shutters  and  came  toward  him  quietly,  so  that  he  would  not  wake  and  misinterpret  her  drawing  " b"near.  Lacking  an  emotional  country,  it  might  be  possible  to  consider  another  person  one's  home.  She  pressed  her  face  against  his  unmoving  arm,  accepting  everything  imperfect,  as  one  accepts  a  faulty  but  beloved  country,  or  the  language  in  which  one's  thoughts  are  formed.  It  was  the  most  dangerous  of  ideas,  this  &quot;Only  you  can  save  me,&quot;  but  her  need  to  think  it  was  so  overwhelm-  ing  that  she  wondered  if  this  was  what  men,  in  the  past,  had  been  trying  to  say  when  they  had  talked  to  her  about  love.  HE  rainstorm  that  afternoon  was  not  enough.  Everyone  agreed  more  rain  was  needed.  Rain  was  want-  ed  to  wash  the  sand,clean  the  sea,  cool  their  tempers,  rinse  the  hot  roofs  of  the  bathing  cabins  along  the  beach.  When  Wishart  thought  &quot;Cannes&quot;  now,  it  was  not  light,  dark,  and  blue-  ness  but  sand,  and  cigarette  butts,  and  smears  of  oil.  At  night  the  heat  and  the  noise  of  traffic  kept  him  awake.  He  lay  patient  and  motionless,  with  opened  owl  eyes.  He  and  Bonnie  compared  headaches  at  breakfast;  Bonnie's  was  like  something  swelling  inside  the  brain,  a  cluster  of  balloons,  while  Wishart's  was  external,  a  leather  band.  He  could  not  understand  what  Bon-  nie  was  doing  in  this  place;  she  had  been  so  fastidious,  rejecting  a  resort  when  it  became  too  popular,  seeming  to  him  to  have  secret  mysterious  friends  and  places  to  go  to.  He  still  believed  she  would  not  be  here,  fighting  through  mobs  of  sweating  strangers  every  time  she  wanted  aslopped  cup  of  coffee  or  a  few  inches  of  sand,  if  there  had  not  been  a  reason-if  she  had  not  been  expecting  something  real.  After  a  time,  he  realizedthat  Bon-  nie  was  not  waiting  for  anything  to  happen,  and  that  her  air  of  expectancy  the  day  he  arrived  had  been  false.  If  she  had  expected  anything  then,  she  must  have  believed  it  would  come  through  him.  She  talked  now  of  the  futility  of  travel.  She  said  that  Flor  was  cold  and  shallow  and  had  broken  her  heart.  There  was  no  explanation  for  this,  except  that  Flor  was  not  fulfilling  Bonnie's  hopes  and  plans.  Self-pity  followed;  she  said  that  she,  Bonnie,  would  spend  the  rest  of  her  life  like  a  bit  of  old  paper  on  the  beach,  cast  up,  beaten  by  waves,  and  so  forth.  She  didn't  care  what  rubbish  she  said  to  him,  and  she  no  longer  tried  to  be  gay.  Once  she  said,  &quot;It's  no  good,  Wishart;  she's  never  been  a  woman.  How  can  she  feel  what  I  feel?  She's  never  even  had  her  periods.  We've  done  everything-hormones,  God  knows  what  all.  I  tookher  to  [REDACTED].  She  was  so  passive,  she  didn't  seem  to  know  it  was  important.  Sometimes  I  think  she's  dumb.  She  has  these  men-I  don't  know  how  far  she  goes.  I  think  she's  innocent.  Yes,  I  really  do.  I  don't  want  to  think  too  much.  It's  nauseating  when  you  start  to  think  of  your  own  daughter  that  way.  But  she's  cold.  I  know  she's  cold.  That's  why  we  have  no  con-  tact  now.  That's  why  we  have  no  contact  any  more.  I've  never  stopped  being  a  woman.  Thank  God  for  it.  If  I  haven't  married  again,  it  hasn't  been  because  I  haven't  men  after  me.  Wish-  art!  It's  tragic  for  me  tosee  that  girl.  I'm  fifty  andI'm  still  a  woman,  and  she's  twen-  ty-four  and  a  piece  of  ice.&quot;  He  was  lying  beside  her  on  the  sand.  He  pulled  his  straw  hat  over  his  face,  per-  fectly  appalled.  It  was  a  pure  reaction,  unplanned.  If  he  let  his  thoughts  move  without  " b" restraint  into  the  world  of  women,  he  discovered  an  area  dimly  lighted  and  faintly  disgusting,  like  a  kitchen  in  a  slum.  It  was  a  world  of  migraines,  miscarriages,  disorder,  and  tears.  Another  day,  complaining  of  how  miserable  her  life  had  been  in  Eu-  rope,  she  said,  &quot;I  stopped  noticing  when  the  seasons  changed.  Someone  would  say  that  the  trees  were  in  bud.  I  hadn't  even  noticed  that  the  leaves  were  gone.  I  stopped  noticing  everything  around  me,  I  was  so  concentrated  on  Flor.&quot;  She  talked  to  him  about  money,  which  was  new.  When  he  discovered  |  she  was  poor,  she  dwindled,  for  then  she  had  nothing  to  make  her  different  or  better  than  anyone  else.  She  had  \\|  always  been  careful  over  pennies,  but  he  had  believed  it  was  the  passionate  stingi-  ||  ness  of  the  rich.  But  she  was  no  better  {}{|  than  Wishart;  she  was  dependent  on  bounty,  too.  &quot;I  get  no  income  at  all,  ex-  cept  from  my  brothers.  And  Stanley  isn't  required  to  support  me,  although  he  should,  as  I've  had  the  burden  of  the  child.  And  Flor's  money  is  tied  up  in  some  crazy  way  untilshe's  thirty.  My  father  tied  it  up  that  way  because  of  my  divorce;  he  never  trusted  me  again.  Be-  lieve  me,  he  paid  for  it.  I  never  sent  him  as  much  as  a  postcard  from  that  day  until  the  day  he  died.  Family,  Wishart!  God!  Lovely  people,  but  when  it  comes  to  m-o-n-e-y,&quot;  she  said,  spelling  it  out.  &quot;Flor's  allowance  from  {}{  Stanley  was  only  until  her  majority,    and  now  he  hardly  sends  her  anything  at  all.  He  forgets.  He  isn't  made  to  do  anything.  She'll  have  to  wait  now  until  he  dies.  They  say  the  way  he's  living  now  there  won't  be  anything  left.  Wishart,  my  brain  clangs  like  a  cash  register  when  I  think  about  it.  I  never  used  to  worry  at  all,  but  now  I  can't  stop.&quot;  You  thought  she  would  be  married  by  the  time  her  allowance  from  Stanley  stopped,&quot;  Wishart  said.  No  tone  could  make  this  less  odious.  He  thought  he  had  gone  too  far,  and  was  blaming  her  for  having  started  it,  when  she  relieved  him  by  being  simply  angry.  &quot;Do  you  think  it's  easy?  Marriage  proposals  don't  grow  on  trees.  I  can't  understand  it.  I  had  so  many.&quot;  Their  conversation  showed.  how  worn  their  friendship  had  become.  It  was  used  down  to  the  threads;  they  had  no  tolerance  for  each  other  any  more,  and  nothing  new  to  give.  They  were  more  intimate  than  they  needed  to  be.  He  blamed  her.  He  had  tried  to  keep  it  bright.  Once,  Bob  had  asked  Bonnie  why  she  lived  in  Europe,  and  Wishart  had  replied,  &quot;Bonnie  had  Flor  and  then," b"worn  out  with  childbearing,  retired  to  a  permanently  sunny  beach.&quot;  'This  was  a  flattering  version  of  Bonnie's  divorce  and  flight  fromhome.  &quot;Don't  you  listen,&quot;  Bonnie  had  said,  immensely  pleased.  (She  was  pleased  on  another  count:  they  were  sitting  on  the  outer  edge  of  a  caf\xc3\xa9,  and  Bob  was  repeatedly  jostled  by  the  passing  crowd.  He  had  once  said  he  liked  people  and  didn't  mind  noise,  and  Bonnie  saw  to  it  that  he  had  a  basinful  of  both  when  it  could  be  managed.)  Wishart  wanted  their  holi-  day  to  go  on  being  as  it  had  sounded  when  he  said,  in  [REDACTED],  &quot;I  am  go-  ing  to  Cannes  to  stay  with  adelight,  ful  556e6974656420537461746573n  friend.&quot;  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  friend  now  questioned  Wishart  about  his  plans.  He  perceived  with  horror  that  she  was  waiting  for  a  suggestion  from  :|  him.  He  might  have  been  flattered  by  Bonnie's  clinging  to  him,  but  in  friend-  '|  ship  he  was  like  a  lover  who  can  only  't  adore  in  pursuit.  In  a  few  days,  he  would  be  in  4974616c79  with  Mrs.  Sebas-  tian-blessed  Mrs.  Sebastian,  authen-  tically  rich.  Snubbing  Bonnie,he  talked  4974616c79  to  the  fleurs  et  couronnes.  Re-  jected  by  Wishart,  abandoned  by  Flor,  Bonnie  took  on  a  new  expression;  even  more  than  Wishart,  she  looked  like  the  failed  comedian  afflicted  with  dreams.  He  knew  it,  and  was  pleased,  as  if  in  handing  over  a  disease  he  had  reduced  its  malignant  powers.  Then,  in  time  to  bump  him  off  his  high  horse,  Wishart  received  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Sebastian  putting  him  off  until  August.  There  were  no  apologies  and  no  explanations;  she  simply  told  him  not  to  come.  He  remembered  then  that  she  was  cold  and  vulgar,  and  that  she  drank  too  much,  and  that,  although  she  was  a  hefty  piece,  her  nickname  was  Peewee  and  she  insisted  on  being  called  by  it.  She  was  avaricious  and  had  made  Wish-  art  pay  her  fora  bottle  of  DDT  and  a  spray  one  summer  when  the  mosquitoes  were  killing  him.  He  remembered  that  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  terms  Bonnie  was  some-  one  and  Mrs.  Sebastian  nothing  at  all.  Bonnie  became  generous,  decent,  ele-  gant,  and  essential  to  Wishart's  life.  He  turned  to  her  as  if  he  had  been  away;  but  as  far  as  she  was  concerned  he  had  been  away,  and  he  had  lost  ground.  The  dark  glasses  that  seemed  to  condense  the  long  curve  ofthe  beach  into  a  minia-  ture  image  were  turned  elsewhere.  Even  a  diminished,  penitent  Wishart  could  not  see  his  own  reflection.  For  her  part,  Bonnie  was  finding  her  withering  Marchbanks  tedious,  His  pursy  prejudices  no  longer  seemed  de-  licious  humor.  He  made  the  mistake  of  telling  her  a  long,  name-studded  story  of  school  politics  andsomeone  trying  to  " b"get  his  job.It  established  him  in  real-  ity-a  master  afraid  for  his  grubby  post-and  reality  was  not  what  Bonnie  demanded.  She  had  enough  reality  on  her  hands:  in  the  autumn  that  girl  would  be  twenty-five.  Wishart  tried  to  get  back  on  their  old  plane.  &quot;Distract  her,&quot;  he  said  lazily.  &quot;Move  on.  Divert  her  with  culture.  Inspect  the  cathedrals  and  museums.  Take  her  to  the  Mus\xc3\xa9e  de  l'Homme.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  meet  any  men  in  mu-  seums,&quot;  said  Bonnie,  as  if  this  were  a  sore  point.  &quot;Anyway,  what's  the  good?  She  only  comes  to  life  for  slobs.&quot;  After  a  moment  she  said  quietly,  &quot;Don't  you  see,  that's  not  what  I  want  for  Flor.  I  don't  want  her  to  marry  just  anybody.  It  may  sound  funny  to  you,  but  I  don't  even  want  an  556e6974656420537461746573n.  They've  al-  ways  let  me  down.  My  own  brothers  But  I  don't  want  to  go  into  it  again.  I  want  a  European,  but  not  a  Latin,  and  one  who  has  lived  in  the  States  and  has  had  the  best  of  both,.  I  want  someone  much  older  than  Flor,  because  she  needs  that,  and  someone  I  can  trust.  That's  what  I  want  for  my  girl,  and  that's  what  I  meant  when  I  said  proposals  don't  grow  on  trees.  Neither  do  men.&quot;  But  what  did  Wishart  know  about  men?  He  was  a  woman-haunter,  woman's  best  friend.  She  put  on  her  sunglasses  in  order  to  hide  her  exasperation  with  him,  because  he  was  a  man  but  not  the  right  person.  Her  expression  was  perfectly  blank.  There  was  no  doubt  now,  no  other  way  of  interpreting  it.  In  spite  of  his  recent  indifference  to  her,  she  had  not  changed  her  mind.  Wishart  was  being  offered  Flor.  He  had  never  been  foolish  enough  to  dream  of  a  useful  marriage.  He  knew  that  his  choice  one  season  might  damn  him  the  next.  He  had  thought  occasion-  ally  of  a  charming  but  ignorant  peasant  child,  whom  he  could  train;  he  had  the  town  boy's  blurry  vision  of  country  people.  Unfortunately,  he  had  never  met  anyone  of  the  kind.  Certainly  his  peasant  bride,  who  was  expected  to  combine  with  her  exceptional  beauty  a  willingness  to  clean  his  shoes,  was  not  Flor.  This  was  not  the  moment  for  false  steps.  He  saw  himself  back  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  lame-brained  but  perfect  wife.  Preposterous  ideas  made  him  say  in  imagined  conversations,  &quot;The  mother  was  a  charmer;  I  married  the  daugh-  ter.&quot;  He  forgot  the  dangers,  and  what  it  would  be  like  to  have  Bonnie  as  a  mother-in-law.  A  secret  hope  unfurled  and  spread.  He  got  up,  and  in  a  blind,  determined  way  began  to  walk  across " b"the  beach.  Not  far  away  the  lovers  lay  on  the  sand,  facing  each  other,  half  asleep.  Flor's  arm  was  under  her  head,  straight  up.  He  saw  Bob's  back,  burned  nearly  black,  and  Flor's  face.  They  were  so  close  that  their  breath  must  have  mingled.  Their  intimacy  seemed  to  Wishart  established;  it  contained  an  im-  plicit  allegiance,  like  a  family  tie,  with  all  the  antagonism  that  might  suggest  as  well.  While  he  was  watching,  they  came  together.  Wishart  saw  that  Flor  remained  outside  the  kiss.  Two  laurels  with  one  root.  Where  had  he  heard  that?  Each  was  a  missing  part  of  the  other's  character,  and  the  whole,  in  the  kiss,  should  have  been  unflawed.  Flor  wondered  what  it  was  like  for  a  man  to  kiss  her,  and  remembered  words  from  men  she  had  not  loved.  It  was  a  narcissism  so  shameful  that  she  opened  her  eyes,  and  saw  Wishart.  He  was  the  insect  enemy  met  in  an  underground  tunnel,  the  small,  scratching  watcher,  the  boneless  witness  of  an  insect  uni-  verse-a  tiny,  scuttling  universe  that  contained  her  mother,  the  popeyed  Cor-  sican  proprietor  of  this  beach,  the  fleurs  et  couronnes,  her  mother's  procession  of  very  best  most  intimate  friends.  (Before  Wishart  a  bestial  countess,  to  whom  Flor,  as  a  girl,  had  been  instructed  to  be  nice.)  In  a  spasm  of  terror,  which  Bob  mistook  for  abandonment,  she  clung  to  him.  He  was  outside  this  universe  and  from  a  better  place.  Wishart  returned  to  Bonnie  and  sank  down  beside  her  on  the  sand,  adjusting  his  bony  legs  as  if  they  were  collapsible  umbrellas.  If  he  continued  in  error,  it  was  Bonnie's  fault,  for  she  went  on  again  about  men,  the  right  man,  and  Flor.  'The  wind  dropped.  Cannes  settled  into  the  stagnant  afternoon.  The  fleurs  et  couronnes  were  down  from  their  naps  and  chattering  like  budg-  erigars.  Bonnie  had  been  polishing  her  sunglasses  on  the  edge  of  a  towel.  She  stopped,  holding  them,  staring.  &quot;Last  night  I  dreamed  my  daughter  was  a  mermaid,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  does  it  mean?  Wishart,  you  know  all  about  those  things.  What  does  it  mean?&quot;  &quot;Ravissant,&quot;  said  one  of  her  court.  &quot;I  see  the  blue  sea  and  the  grottoes,  everything  coral  and  blue.  Coral  green  and  coral  blue.&quot;  'There  is  no  such  thing  as  coral  blue,&quot;  said  Wishart  mechanically.  &quot;And  Florence,  la  belle  Florence,  floating  and  drifting,  the  bright  hair  spread  like-&quot;  &quot;She  sang  and  she  floated,  she  floated  and  sang,&quot;  took  up  a  minor  figure  who  resembled  a  guppy.  At  a  look  from  Bonnie  he  gave  a  great  gasp  and  shut  up.  &quot;It  was  nothing  like  that  at  [REDACTED];  said" b"Bonnie  snappily.  &quot;It  was  an  ugly  fish-  tail,  like  a  carp's.  It  was  just  like  a  carp's,  and  the  whole  thing  was  agreat  handicap.  The  girl  simply  couldn't  walk.  She  lay  there  on  the  ground  and  couldn't  do  a  thing.  Everybody  stared  at  us.  It  was  a  perfectly  hopeless  dream,  and  I  woke  up  in  a  state  of  great  distress.&quot;  Wishart  had  been  so  disturbed  by  the  kiss  that  moved  into  blankness.  He  could  not  form  a  coherent  thought.  What  interested  him,  finally,  was  the  confirmation  of  his  suspicion  that  Flor  was  a  poseuse.  How  conceited  she  had  been,  lying  there  exploring  her  own  sensations  as  idlyas  a  tourist  pouring  sand  from  one  hand  into  the  other.  He  recalled  the  expression  in  her  eyes-  shrewd,  ratty  eyes,  he  thought,  not  the  eyes  of  a  goddess-and  he  knew  that  she  feared  and  loathed  him  and  might  catch  him  out.  &quot;It  won't  do,&quot;  he  said  to  Bon-  nie.  &quot;It  wouldn't  do,  a  marriage  with  Flor.&quot;  He  heard  the  words,  &quot;She  has  a  crack  across  the  brain,&quot;  but  was  never  certain  afterward  if  he  had  said  them  aloud.  Bonnie  turned  her  pink,  shadowed  face  to  him  in  purest  amazement.  She  noticed  that  Wishart's  eyes  were  so  per-  turbed  and  desperate  that  they  were  almost  beyond  emotion-without  feel-  ing,  like  those  of  a  bird.  Then  she  looked  up  to  the  sky,  where  the  plane  was  end-  lessly  and  silently  writing  the  name  of  a  drink.  She  said,  &quot;I  wish  he  would  write  something  for  us,  something  useful.&quot;  His  mistake  in  thinking  that  Bonnie  considered  him  an  equal  and  would  want  him  for  her  daughter  had  been  greater  than  the  geffe  about  Flor.  Everything  trembled  and  changed;  even  the  color  of  the  sky  seemed  ex-  traordinary.  Wishart  was  fixed  and  paralyzed  in  this  new  landscape,  won-  dering  if  he  was  doing  or  saying  any-  thing  strange,  unable  to  see  or  stop  him-  self.  It  was  years  since  he  had  been  the  victim  of  such  a  fright.  He  had  believed  that  Bonnie  accepted  him  at  his  value.  He  had  believed  that  the  exact  minia-  ture  he  saw  in  her  sunglasses  was  the  Wishart  she  accepted,  the  gentleman  he  had  glimpsed  in  the  store  window  that  first  day.  He  had  thought  that  the  in-  flection  of  a  voice,  the  use  of  some  words,  established  them  as  a  kind.  But  Bonnie  had  never  believed  in  the  image.  She  had  never  considered  him  anything  but  jumped-up.  He  remembered  now  that  she  had  never  let  him  know  her  family  back  home,  had  never  suggested  he  meet  her  brothers.  WHEN  Bonnie  dared  look  again,  Wishart  was  picking  his  way  into  the  sea.  He  was  wearing  his  hat. He" b"did  not  mind  seeming  foolish,  and  be-  lieved  ec  cen  tr  icity  a  dded  to  his  stature.  After  standing  for  a  time,  knee  -deep,  look  ing,  w  ith  the  expression  of  a  brood-ing  camel,  first  at  the  horizon  and  then  back  to  shore,  he  began  to  pick  his  way  o  ut  ag  ain.  'The  wate  r  was  too  dirty  for  swimming,  even  if  the  other  b  athers  had  left  him  room.  &quot;Larg  e  col  ored  balls  were  being  flung  over  my  head,  and  sometimes  against  i  t,&quot;  he  composed,  describing  for  future  audiences  the  sum-  mer  at  Cannes.  &quot;T  he  shriek  ing  chil-dren  of  butchers  were  being  taught  to  swi  m.  &quot;  F  arther  along  the  beach,  Bob  Harris  carried  two  bottles  of  beer,  crowned  with  inverted  pape  r  cups,  down  to  Flor.  Bonnie  watched  without  emotion.  Their  figures  were  motionless  ,  printed  against  her  m  emory,  arrested  in  heat  an  d  the  insupportable  noise.  Everyone  around  Bonnie  was  asleep.  The  sirocco,  unsteady,  pulled  her  para-  sol  about  on  the  sand.  Sitting,  knees  bent,  she  clasped  her  white  feet.  There  was  not  able  mish  on  them.  'The  toes  were  straight,  the  heels  rosy.  She  had  tended  her  feet  like  twin  in  fants,  setting  an  example  for  Flor.  Once,  exasperated  by  Flor's  neglect,  she  had  gone  down  on  her  knees  and  taken  Flor's  feet  on  her  la  p  and  shown  her  how  it  ought  to  be  done.  She  had  creamed  and  mani-  cured  and  pumiced,  while  Flor,  listless,  surreptitiously  trying  to  get  on  with  a  book,  said,  &quot;Oh,  Mama,  I  can  do  i  t.&quot;  &quot;But  you  won't  ,  honey.  You  simply  don't  take  care  of  yourself  unless  I'm  th  ere  .&quot;  She  had  polished  and  tended  h  er  little  idol,  and  for  whom?  For  a  Turk  not  sixty-three  inches  high. \n\nFor Bob Harris in tartan trunks. It was no use; the minutes and hours had passed too quickly. She was perplexed bu the truth that had bothered her all there life - that there was no distance between time and events. Everything raced to a point beyond her reach and sight. Everyone slid out of her grasp: her husband, her daughter, her friends. She let herself fall back. Her field of vision closed in, and from the left came the first, swimming molecules of pain. Wishers, returning from the sea, making a detour to avoid being caught up and battered up in a volley ball game, came up to bonnie unobserved. Patting his yellowed skin with a towel, he watched the evolution of his friends attack. Her face was half in the sun. She twisted to fund the shadow of the rolling parasol. Bitter, withdrawn, he was already pulling about himself the rags of imaginary Wishart: the squire father; Mrs/ Sebastian, rolling in money above" b"the  Grand  Canal.  Bonnie  believed  she  was  really  dying  this  time,  and  won-  dered  if  Flor  could  see.  Flor  said,  &quot;I  think  Mama  has  one  of  her  headaches.&quot;  &quot;You  two  watch  each  other,  don't  you?&quot;  Bob  Harris  said.  A  haze  had  gone  over  the  sky.  She  finished  her  beer,  spread  her  striped  beach  towel  a  little  away  from  him,  and  lay  still.  He  had  told  her  that  his  father  had  telephoned  from  [REDACTED],  and  that  this  time  it  was  an  order.  He  was  leav-  ing  soon,  perhaps  the  next  day.  This  was  July.  The  summer,  a  fruit  already  emptied  by  wasps,  still  hung  on  its  tree.  He  was  leaving.  When  he  had  gone,  she  would  hear  the  question,  the  ghost  voice  that  speaks  to  every  traveller:  &quot;Why  did  you  come  to  this  place?&quot;  Until  now,  she  had  known;  she  was  somewhere  or  other  with  her  mother  because  her  mother  could  not  settle  down,  because  every  rented  flat  and  villa  was  a  horrible  parody  of  home,  or  &quot;  the  home  she  ought  to  have  given  Flor.  When  he  had  gone,  she  would  know  without  illusion  that  she  was  in  Cannes  in  a  rotting  season,  that  the  rot  was  reality,  and  that  there  was  no  hope  in  the  mirrored  room.  &quot;Are  you  coming  to  [REDACTED]  later  on?&quot;  he  asked.  His  father  was  waiting;  he  spoke  with  a  sense  of  urgency,  like  someone  trying  to  ring  off,  holding  the  receiver,  eyes  wandering  around  the  room.  &quot;I  don't  know.  I  don't  know  where  we'll  go  from  here,  or  how  long  Mama  will  stay.  She  and  Wishart  always  fin-  ish  with  a  fight,  and  Mama  loses  her  head  and  we  go  rushing  off.  All  our  relations  at  home  think  we  have  such  a  glamorous  life.  Did  you  ever  go  out  in  the  morning  and  find  a  spider's  web  spangled  with  dew?&quot;  she  said  sudden-  ly.  &quot;You'll  never  find  that  here.  It's  either  too  hot  and  dry  or  it  rains  so  much  the  spider  drowns.  At  my  grand-  mother's  place,  you  know,  summers,  I  used  to  ride,  oh,  early,  early  in  the  morning,  with  my  cousins.  All  my  cousins  were  boys.&quot;&quot;  Her  voice  was  lost  as  she  turned  her  head  away.  &quot;Flor,  why  don't  you  go  home?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  leave  my  mother,  and  she  won't  go.  Maybe  I  don't  dare.  She  used  to  need  me.  Maybe  now  I  need  her.  What  would  I  do  at  home?  My  grandmother  is  dead.  I  haven't  got  a  home.  I  know  I  sound  as  if  I  feel  sorry  for  myself,  but  I  haven't  got  any-  thing.&quot;  &quot;You've  got  your  mother,&quot;  &quot;'There's  me.&quot;  Now  it  was  here-the  circumstance  that  Bonnie  had  loathed  and  desired.  He " b"moved  closer  and  spoke  with  his  lips  to  Flor's  ear,  playing  with  her  hair,  as  if  they  were  alone  on  the  beach  or  in  his  room.  He  remembered  the  basement  room  as  if  they  would  never  be  in  it  again.  He  remembered  her  long  hair,  the  wrinkled  sheets,  the  blanket  thrown  back  because  of  the  heat.  It  was  the  pro-  phetic  instant;  in  it  was  the  compression  of  feeling  that  occurs  in  childhood  and  in  dreams.  Wishart  passed  them;  his  shadow  fell  over  their  feet.  They  were  obliged  to  look  up  and  see  his  onion  skin  and  pickled  eyes.  They  were  polite.  No  one  could  have  said  that  they  had  agreed  in  that  moment  to  change  the  move-  ment  of  four  lives,  and  had  diverted  the  hopes,  desires,  and  ambitions  of  Bonnie  and  of  Bob's  father,  guides  whose  direc-  tion  had  suddenly  failed.  WISHART  went  back  to  his  hotel.  It  was  the  hour  when  people  who  lived  in  pensions  began  to  straggle  up  from  the  sea.  Whole  families  got  in  Wishart's  way.  They  were  badly  sun-  burned,  smelled  of  Ambre  Solaire  and  Skol,  and  looked  as  if  they  couldn't  stand  each  other's  company  another  day.  Wishart  bathed  and  changed.  He  walked  to  the  post  office  and  then  to  the  station  to  see  about  a  bus.  He  was  dryly  forgiving  when  people  stepped  on  his  feet,  but  looked  like  someone  who  will  never  accept  an  apology  again.  He  sent  a  telegram  to  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  he  knew  who  had  a  house  near  Grasse.  He  had  planned  to  skip  them  this  year;  the  husband  disliked  him.  (The  only  kind  of  husband  Wishart  felt  easy  with  was  the  mere  morsel,  the  half-digested  scrap.)  But  he  could  not  stay  with  Bonnie  now,  and  Mrs.  Sebastian  had  put  him  off.  He  summed  up  his  full  horror  of  Cannes  in  a  heart-rending  message  that  began,  &quot;Very  depressed,&quot;  but  he  did  not  sign  a  funny  name,  for  fear  of  making  the  husband  cross.  He  signed  his  own  name  and  pocketed  the  change  and  went  off  to  the  station.  This  time  he  and  Bonnie  were  parting  with-  out  a  quarrel.  That  night  there  was  a  full  moon.  Bonnie  woke  up  suddenly,  as  if  she  had  become  conscious  of  a  thief  in  the  room;  but  it  was  only  Flor,  wearing  the  torn  bathrobe  she  had  owned  since  she  was  fourteen  and  that  Bonnie  never  man-  aged  to  throw  away.  She  was  holding  a  glass  of  water  in  her  hand,  and  looking  down  at  her  sleeping  mother.  &quot;Flor,  is  anything  wrong?&quot;  &quot;I  was  thirsty.&quot;  She  put  the  glass  on  the  night  table  and  sank  down  on  the  floor,  beside  her  mother.  &quot;'That  Wishart,&quot;  said  Bonnie,  now  fully  awake  and  beginning  to  stroke " b"Flor's  hair.  &quot;He  really  takes  himself  for  something.&quot;  &quot;What  is  he  taking  himself  for?&quot;  Bonnie  stroked  her  daughttr\xe2\x80\x99s  hair,  thinking,  My  mermaid,  my  prize.  The  carp  had  vanished  from  the  dream,  leaving  an  iridescent  Flor.  No  one  was  good  enough  for  Florence.  That  was  the  meaning  of  the  dream.  &quot;Your  hair  is  so  stiff,  honey.  It's  full  of  salt.  I  wish  you'd  wear  a  bathing  cap.  Flor,  have  you  got  a  fever  or  something?&quot;  She  wants  to  tell  me  something,  Bonnie  thought.  Let  it  be  anything  except  about  that  boy.  Let  it  be  anything  but  that.  T  dawn,  Wishart,  who  had  been  awake  most  of  the  night,  buckled  his  suitcase.  No  porter  was  around  at  that  hour.  He  walked  to  the  station  in  streets  where  there  was  still  no  sugges-  tion  of  the  terrible  day.  'The  southern  scent,  the  thin  distillation  of  lemons  and  geraniums,  descended  from  the  hills.  Then  heat  began  to  tremble;  Vespas  raced  along  the  port;  the  white-legged  grub  tourists  came  down  from  the  early  train.  Wishart  thought  of  his  new  hostess-academic,  a  husk.  She  chose  the  country  behind  Grasse  because  of  the  shades  of  Gide  and  Saint-Ex-  ghosts  who  would  keep  away  from  her  if  they  knew  what  was  good  for  them.  |  He  climbed  into  the  bus  and  sat  down  among  workingmen  who  had  jobs  in  Grasse,  and  the  sea  dropped  behind  him  as  he  was  borne  away.  In  the  rocking  bus,  his  head  dropped.  He  knew  that  he  was  in  a  bus  and  travel-  ling  to  Grasse,  but  he  saw  Glad,  aged  twelve,  going  off  at  dawn  with  her  lunch  wrapped  in  an  apron.  W  hat  about  the  dirty,  snotty  baby  boy  who  hung  on  her  dress,  whose  fingers  she  had  to  pry  loose  one  at  a  time,  only  to  have  the  hand  clamp  shut  again,  tighter  than  be-  fore?  Could  this  be  Wishart,  clinging,  whining,  crying  &quot;Stay  with  me&quot;?  But  Wishart  was  awake  and  not  to  be  trapped.  He  took  good  care  not  to  dream,  and  when  the  bus  drew  in  at  Grasse,  under  the  trees,  and  he  saw  his  new,  straw-thin  hostess  (chignon,  espa-  drilles,  peasant  garden  hat),  he  did  not  look  like  a  failed  actor  assailed  with  nightmares  but  a  smooth  and  pleasant  schoolmaster  whose  sleep  is  so  deep  that  he  never  dreams  at  all.  "