 b"I  DON'T  know  what  she  was  doing  out  alone  in  that  part  of  Rome-  the  Passeggiata  Archeologica,  of  all  the  out-of-the-way  places-but  there  she  was,  at  an  hour  when  even  in  the  center  of  the  city  it's  so  quiet  one  can  hear  the  traffic  lights  humming.  Some-  one  from  out  of  town,  obviously;  any  Roman  would  have  known  that  while  this  is  a  tourist  walk  in  the  daytime,  at  night  it's  a  cove  for  streetwalkers.  And,  plainly,  she  was  not  one  of  them.  She  didn't  look  it,  for  one  thing,  and  then  she  was  walking  too  fast.  An  Ameri-  can,  judging  from  the  scarf  over  her  head  and  the  shoulder  bag  dangling.  She  might  have  missed  the  last  bus,  or  wanted  tosee  Rome  by  night,  or  quar-  relled  with  her  boy  friend.  I  don't  know.  And  I  can't  think  what  those  boys-children,  really-were  doing  there,  unless  it  was  that  their  aspirations  were  way  ahead  of  their  age.  They  should  have  been  in  bed  long  before.  But  there  they  were,  instead:  in  a  hud-  dle;  fourteen  or  fifteen  years  old;  wear-  ing  pointed  shoes,  striped  suits,  tes-  little  men,  except  for  one  who  was  older  and  taller.  He  was  probably  sixteen  or  seventeen.  They  were  having  an  ani-  mated  discussion  on  the  merits  of  certain  movie  stars.  They  looked  at  him  when  they  spoke,  and  the  success  of  a  remark  depended  on  how  he  reacted,  Some-  times  it  was  with  a  nod  or  a  laugh,  but  more  often  it  was  with  the  butt  of  his  hand.  One  ofthe  boys,  from  the  corner  of  his  eye,  saw  the  girl  when  she  was  about  a  hundred  yards  away.  He  turned  around  and  paid  no  more  attention  to  what  was  said.  Curious  to  know  why  he  ignored  them,  the  others  also  turned  around,  and  the  discussion  sud-  denly  ended.  The  only  sound  now  was  the  distinct  alternation  of  sharp  heels  on  the  asphalt.  As  she  ap-  proached,  the  rhythm  of  her  step  didn't  change.  She  neither  hurried  nor  slowed  down,  and  though  by  now  she  must  have  seen  them,  she  didn't  show  that  she  had-unless  it  was  by  looking  too  fixedly  at  a  point  always  a  few  feet  before  her.  The  Passeggiata  Archeologica  is  a  lonely  park  area  near  the  Baths  of  Cara-  calla.  Scattered  among  laurels  and  oleanders,  there  are  some  Roman  re-  mains-shapeless  brick  structures,  cor-  roded  by  time  and  overgrown  with  vegetation.  There  is  a  road,  and  there  are  various  paths.  The  road  and  the  \xc2\xa5.  paths  are  lined  by  umbrella  pines  and  street  lamps.  Recently,  the  number  of  lamps  has  been  increased  along  the  street,  and  various  others  have  been  put  in  here  and  there  among  the  oleanders.  They  are  powerful  lamps,  which  light  the  trees  with  an  eerie  green.  As  she  came  right  under  one  of  the  lamps  for  a  moment,  she  was  without  shadow.  Then  a  little  dwarf  of  a  shad-  ow  appeared,  which  soon  grew  to  gi-  gantic  proportions  and  at  the  same  time  became  more  diffuse,  until,  as  she  ap-  proached  the  next  lamp,  it  faded,  and  what  shadow  she  had  fell  behind  her.  The  boys'  shadows  reached  across  the  pavement-huge,  like  thoseof  tall  men  in  a  Western.  She  walked  over  their  heads,  then  their  necks  and  their  bodies.  Suddenly,  one  of  them  moved.  Arms  extended,  he  jumped  out  toward  her  and  walked  in  front  of  her,  backward.  He  was  one  ofthe  smallest.  He  stopped.  She  moved  left  to  bypass  him.  He  shift-  ed  with  her.  She  stepped  to  the  right,  butagain  he  was  in  front  of  her  and  checked  her.  She  stopped.  Behind  her,  the  others  were  laughing.  She  turned  back.  Another  boy  stepped  up  to  pre-  vent  her  from  walking  that  way.  Soon  they  were  all  in  a  circle  around  her.  &quot;Oh,  now,  come  on,&quot;  she  said,  in  English,  after  a  moment  of  silence.  \xc2\xab  'Cumo,'  &quot;  they  mocked  her.  &quot;Let  me  go!&quot;  she  screamed,  trying  to  break  through.  In  the  desolate  park,  with  no  one  in  sight,  they  tightened  around  her.  Some  grabbed  hershoulder  bag  by  the  strap;  others  reached  over  to  touch  her.  She  turned  to  the  tall  boy,  appealing  to  him,  but  he  came  up  to  her  and  smiled  like  a  beau.  She  looked  at  him  fiercely,  then  suddenly  she  leaned  for-  ward  and  kissed  him.  Admittedly,  it  wasn't  much  of  a  kiss,  but  for  a  moment  he  wavered  on  his  feet;  helooked  lost.  Then,  recovering,  he  swept  the  boys  away  from  her  and  shouted,  &quot;Leave  her;  she's  mine!&quot;  Only  when  he  had  walked  away  with  her  and  they  were  out  of  his  reach  did  they  jeer.  He  turned  round  and  started  to  chase  them.  They  scattered  in  every  direction.  Meanwhile,  she  had  resumed  walking  at  a  swift,  steady  pace.  He  caught  up  with  her  and  walked  beside  her,  his  head  turned  toward  her  and  his  arms  at  his  sides.  He  looked  at  her  expectantly.  She  looked  straight  in " b" front  of  her.  He  glanced  often  at  the  bushes  and  the  paths  that  led  from  the  road  into  the  remoter  parts  of  the  park.  She  kept  up  her  quick  pace,  and  he  kept  up  with  her.  The  road  forked.  One  branch,  to  the  right,  led  to  the  center  of  the  city;  the  other,  to  the  left,  led  to  the  Aurelian  Wall.  He  looked  left,  longingly,  while  she  took  the  branch  to  :|  the  right.  He  swerved  left  a  few  feet,  and  fell  a  few  steps  behind;  then  he  caught  up  with  her  again.  But  he  couldn't  seem  to  touch  her,  he  couldn't  divert  her.  He  just  continued  walking  beside  her,  a  foot  away,  on  the  side  of  the  open  road,  like  a  correct  escort.  Soon  they  reached  the  Colosseum,  and  he  looked  longingly  at  that,  but  the  Colosseum,  too,  passed  into  the  back-  ground.  It  was  funny  to  see  them  walking  be-  side  one  another-she  never  looking  at  him;  he  almost  continuously  looking  at  her;  going  on  and  on,  at  a  quick  pace,  toward  Piazza  Venezia.  They  were  a  spectacle  one  wanted  to  see  to  the  end.  They  crossed  Piazza  Venezia.  On  they  went,  up  Via  Quattro  Novembre,  a  couple  that  wasn't  a  couple,  past  a  couple  that  was,  pasta  policeman,  until  they  came  to  the  Hotel  Helvetia.  There  she  turned  in  sharply,  and  he  was  left,  like  a  piece  of  mud,  on  the  threshold.  He  stood  outside  the  door,  which  was  still  revolving,  and  looked  in,  like  one  who  can't  enter;  then  he  turned  back.  "