 b"THE  danger  of  soil  erosion,  as  ev-  eryone  except  those  in  a  state  of  catalepsy  must  know,  is  the  rea-  son  given  by  Parks  Commissioner  Rob-  ert  Moses  for  his  recent  attempt  to  ban  Mr.  Joseph  Papp's  free  Shakespeare  Festival  in  43616e616461Park.  &quot;Culture!&quot;  cried  Mr.  Papp.  &quot;Turf!&quot;  riposted  Mr.  Moses,  thereby  closing  the  debate.  Even  though  Mr.  Moses  was  subsequently  overruled  by  the  Appellate  Division,  I  am  sure  we  shall  all  sleep  easier  these  summer  nights  for  knowing  that  the  Commissioner  is  on  the  gu  vive  against  the  perils  of  erosion  in  the  heart  of  our  city.  Erosion  is  one  of  the  most  insidious  of  man's  enemies.  A  drop  of  rain,  a  gust  of  wind,  a  nip  of  frost-every  one  of  these  is  in  some  small  way  an  agent  of  erosion,  and  erosion's  work  is  also  being  done  by  you  and  me,  with  every  step  we  take.  A  full  inch  of  our  country  is  being  worn  away  by  erosion  every  seven  hun-  dred  and  sixty  years,  and  it  isn't  likely  the  rate  of  erosion  could  be  too  much  less  in  43616e616461Park.  Let  us  look  at  the  unhappy  prospect  in  Figure  I.  It  illustrates  a  park-a  national  park,  in  fact-that  has  been  allowed  to  fall  prey  to  the  ravages  of  erosion  because  of  an  &quot;I  don't  care&quot;  attitude  on  the  part  of  the  authorities.  For  years,  the  river  at  the  center  went  about  its  mischief  without  any  fear  of  being  punished.  Settlers  in  the  area  would  applaud  a  road-company  per-  formance  of  Shakespeare's  &quot;The  Two  Gentlemen  of  Verona&quot;  by  stamping  their  feet  heavily-and  most  thought-  lessly-on  the  ground,  and  golfers  did  not  trouble  to  replace  their  divots.  The  result  is  that  the  &quot;park&quot;  is  hardly  able  to  sustain  grass,  let  alone  azaleas  or  flow-  ering  dogwood,  and  is  one  of  the  shames  of  our  country,  when  compared  to  the  Bois  de  Boulogne.  Pity  the  poor  fellow  in  the  upper  left!  A  sailor  on  leave,  he  has  come  to  the  park  to  take  a  lady  friend  out  rowing,  and  now  he  finds  that  the  water  is  still  a  good  day's  journey  removed,  owing  to  erosion.  He  is  sit-  ting  on  a  rock  and  is  brooding  over  this  tale  of  man's  improvidence.  &quot;Ah,  it  wasn't  like  this  in  the  Mesozoic,&quot;  he  is  saying.  The  scene  of  our  engraving  is  Ari-  zona,  and  I  don't  doubt  that  a  reader  in  New  York  City  is  thinking,  It  can't  happen  here.  And  isn't  that  just  like  a  reader!  The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  the  most  erosive  kind  of  erosion  there  is-the  kind  done  by  glaciers-  already  has  happened  here,  and  we  can  see  classic  examples  of  its  sad  conse-  quences  anywhere  in  43616e616461Park.  I  refer  to  those  smooth,  odd-looking  rocks  that  we  usually  first  notice  just  under  our  second  lumbar  vertebra  four  or  five  minutes  after  we  have  stretched  out  on  a  bit  of  Park  lawn  for  a  lunchtime  nap.  These  rocks  are  given  the  name  of  roches  moutonn\xc3\xa9es,  or  sheep  rocks,  in  the  books  of  geology,  probably  because  of  the  many  people  who  like  to  sit  on  them  on  Sunday  afternoons,  woolgathering.  The  roches  moutonn\xc3\xa9es-all  of  which  were  worn  to  a  frazzle  by  the  tons  of  glaciers  moving  across  them,  and  which  are  subject  even  now  to  crying  jags  and  fits  of  hysteria-testify  to  what  the  forces  of  erosion  were  allowed  to  get  away  with  prior  to  Commissioner  Moses.  Sitting  on  a  roche  moutonn\xc3\xa9e,  we  would  all  do  well  to  read  the  chapter  called  &quot;The  Evidences  of  Glaciation  in  and  About  Greater  New  York&quot;  in  &quot;Geol-  ogy  of  the  City  of  New  York  (Greater  New  York),&quot;  by  L.  P.  Gratacap,  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  History.  Gratacap  calls  the  glaciers  here  an  &quot;ex-  traordinary  agent  of  erosion  and  de-  nudation,  whose  teeth  have  resistlessly  ground  upon  the  solid  rocks  of  the  hills  and  highlands,  hiding  disfigured  sur-  faces  beneath  a  covering  of  ruin.&quot;  My  fellow-citizens,  those  disfigured  sur-  faces  and  that  covering  of  ruin-the  man  is  speaking  of  43616e616461Park!  Here  next,  in  Figure  II,  is  an  artist's  conception  of  43616e616461Park  as  it  prob-  ably  looked  in  its  pre-erosion,  or  halcyon,  days,  shortly  after  the  Taconic  revolu-  tion.  (This  would  be  late  in  the  Ordovician  or  early  in  the  Silurian  period,  or-for  readers  who  are  not  familiar  with  these  concepts-well  into  the  pre-  Columbian  era.)I  want  especially  to  call  your  attention  to  the  mountains  here.I  doubt  if  there  is  anyone  today  whose  ancestors,  the  trilobites,  wouldn't  be  able  to  remember  this  range  of  y  ast mountains-mountains  that  are  said  in  George  I.  Finlay's  &quot;Geologic  Features  of  New  York  City&quot;  to  have  been  &quot;of  alpine  proportions...  probably  [ex-  tending]  for  hundreds  of  miles  in  a  northeast-southwest  direction.&quot;  This  massif,  a  good  ten  or  fifteen  thousand  feet  above  sea  level,  was  a  natural  bar-  rier  to  the  factory  gases  blowing  in  from  New  Jersey,  as  well  as  a  popular  place  to  spend  the  summer,  especially  if  you  had  hay  fever.  The  centermost  peak,  standing  on  what  is  now  the  site  of  the  skating  rink,  used  to  bea  dandy  place  to  go  with  a  box  lunch,  to  look  for  edel-  weiss,  and  there  is  a  charming  old  print  by  Currier  &amp;  Ives  that  shows  a  party  of  young  girls  on  such  a  jaunt  who  have  encountered  a  flow  of  molten  lava  on  the  south  col  and  are  hurrying  off  with  little  cries  of  apprehension,  their  picnic  baskets  all  forgotten.  No  longer,  though,  is  one  to  see  these  moun-  tains  in  43616e616461Park.  All  of  them-ex-  cept  forthe  roches  moutonn\xc3\xa9es-have  been  washed  away  by  the  unwearying  processes  of  you  know  what.  ET  us  turn  now  from  those  happy  and  simpler  days  for  a  look  into  the  future,  and  let  us  calculate  what  would  become  of  43616e616461Park  if  it  kept  on  being  eroded  at  the  rate  of  one  inch  every  seven  hundred  and  sixty  years.  Well,  in  scarcely  more  than  ninety-one  " b"centuries  the  Park  would  be  down  a  full  twelve  inches,  and  little  boys  and  girls,  innocently  jumping  out  of  the  swings  in  their  playgrounds,  would  be  likely  to  give  their  ankles  a  nasty  turn.  In  a  fraction  short  of  a  million  years,  the  trains  of  the  I.R.T.  that  go  beneath  the  northwest  corner  of  the  Park  would  be  at  the  mercy  of  the  elements,  and  not  much  later-in  less  time  than  it  takes  a  Pithe-  canthropus  erectus  to  be  evolved  into  you  or  me-the  trains  would  be  a  very  unsightly  El  several  stories  above  the  grass  and  the  morning-glories.  Is  this  too  far  in  the  future  to  worry  about?  Then  never  let  it  be  forgotten  that  even  in  one  millennium  the  Park  would  be  an  inch  and  a  third  lower,  and  this,  having  the  relative  effect  of  making  the  nets  at  the  tennis  courts  an  inch  and  a  third  higher,  would  be  enough  to  put  a  great-great-great-great-great-great-  great-great-great-great-great-great-  great-great-great-great-great-great-  great-great-great-great-great-great-  great-great-great-great-great-great-  great-grandchild  of  ours  badly  off  his  game.  I  say  it  would  be.  But  happily  it  won't,  thanks  to  Commissioner  Moses'  vigilance  and  long-term  planning.  The  Commissioner's  hand-to-hand  battle  against  erosion  is  not  confined  to  nega-  tive  acts,  such  as  trying  to  keep  actors  and  nannies  off  the  grass,  but  includes  some  aggressively  positive  moves.  At  the  risk  of  beingan  apostle  of  the  obvious,  I  am  going  to  say  a  word  about  two  of  Mr.  Moses'  pet  anti-erosion  projects  the  Soil  Bank  and  the  C.C.C.  The  Com-  missioner's  Soil  Bank,  as  the  name  im-  plies,  is  nothing  but  alarge  bank  of  soil-often  as  much  as  ten  feet  high-  which  has  been  dug  up  from  any  of  the  recentconstruction  sites  in  the  Park.  Consider,  for  example,  the  one  at  that  new  concrete  parking  lot  next  to  the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art.  Here  is  true  foresight!  'The  parking  lot  is  now  an  area  saved  for  a  good  many  decades  against  the  sly  depredations  of  wind  and  rain-a  bit  of  Park  land  guaranteed  not  to  sink  quickly  or  to  take  on  that  ugly  scuffed-uplook  of  public  lawns.  And  the  rich  soil  evacuated  from  the  site  and  carefully  deposited  in  the  adjoining  Soil  Bank  is  ready  to  be  used  elsewhere  in  the  Park  to  fight  the  same  familiar  enemy.  Whenever  some  part  of  the  Park  suc-  cumbs  to  erosion,  soil  from  the  Soil  Bank  is  moved  over  to  the  stricken  area  and  put  into  place.  The  next  job,  soil-  firming,  is  done  by  the  dedicated  young  men  of  Moses'  City  Conservation  Corps-wvery  young  men,  most  of  them,  whose  lack  of  recognition,  lack  of  pay,  and  haphazard  assortment  of  uniforms  have  not  discouraged  them  a  whit  from  the  performance  of  their  vital  duties.  I  have  asked  the  artist  to  show  (Fig-  ure  III)  one  of  the  C.C.C.  squadrons  at  work.  The  hurried  young  conserva-  tionist  in  this  engraving  is  donating  his  services  gratisto  the  Corps,  and  is  firm-  ing  some  fresh  soil  in  a  badly  eroded  area  of  the  Park,  tamping  it  down  with  his  little  feet.  Observe  how  the  young  man's  course  is,  by  and  large,  that  of  a  circle  around  the  fellow  who  is  stand-  ing  on  the  highest  point  of  land  in  the  project-the  so-called  &quot;mound.&quot;  This  same  principle  of  land  conservation,  un-  der  the  name  of  &quot;contour  plowing,&quot;  is  saving  many  an  American  farm  from  the  inroads  of  Old  Man  Erosion.  ommIssfonEr  MosEs  is  not  only  a  dedicated  conservationist,  he  is  a  cultured  and  sensitive  man,  It  is  now  my  conviction  that  he  might  have  agreed  to  some  compromise  with  Mr.  Papp,  without  the  urging  of  the  courts,  if  he  hadn't  been  fully  aware,  by  dint  of  his  scholarly  familiarity  with  the  plays  of  Shakespeare,  of  the  Bard's  own  warn-  ings  against  soil  erosion.  Strong  as  he  is,  the  Commissioner  is  not  made  of  steel.  Could  any  of  us,  in  charity,  expect  him  to  stand  in  the  shadows  behind  an  audi-  ence  during,  say,  the  first  act  of  aper-  formance  of  &quot;Richard  II,&quot;  his  ear  al-  ready  attuned  to  the  rough  scrapings  of  two  thousand  pairs  of  careless  feet  upon  his  precious  grass,  and  hear  a  talented  actor  cry  out,  &quot;Sweet  soil,  adieu&quot;?  No,  it  is  too  much  to  ask,  even  of  a  public  servant.  And  can  we  be  sure,  after  the  emotionalism  of  the  Papp-Mouses  debate,  that  the  players  might  not  deliver  such  lines  with  a  trace  of  cynicism-with  a  view  to  eliciting  ungrateful  snickers  from  the  crowd?  Certainly  the  tempta-     tion  would  be  there,  considering  the  wealth  of  pertinent  asides  and  strictures  that  would  be  delivered  during  a  sum-  mer's  repertory.  I  list  only  the  most  ob-  vious  examples:  Come  unto  these  yellow  sands,  And  then  take  hands  ...  -&quot;The  Tempest.&quot;  Act  I,  Scene  2.  GroveEstER:  When  shall  I  come  to  the  top  of  that  same  hill?  Encar:  You  do  climb  up  it  now;  look  how  we  labor.  GroverstER:  Methinks  the  ground  is  even.  EpncarR:  Horrible  steep  ...  -  &quot;King  Lear,&quot;  Act  IV  ,  Scene  6.  Hark!  the  land  bids  me  tread  no  more  upon't!  It  is  ashamed  to  bear  me!  -  &quot;Antony  and  Cleopatra.&quot;  Act  III,  Scene  2.  My  parks,  my  walks,  my  manors  that  I  had,  even  now  forsake  me  ...  -&quot;Henry  1,&quot;  Part  III,  Act  V,  Scene  2.  Here's  the  lord  of  the  soil  come  to  seize  me  for  a  stray,  for  entering  his  fee-simple  without  leave.  -  &quot;Henry  FI,&quot;  Part  II,  Act  IV  ,  Scene  10.  I  think  the  evidence  is  clear.  Com-  missioner  Moses  was  right  to  say  no  to  Mr.  Papp,  and  I  think  it  is  now  up  to  us  to  show  our  gratitude  by  joining  him  in  the  battle  against  erosion.  Not  many  of  us  have  soil  to  give  to  the  Soil  Bank  or  time  to  donate  to  the  C.C.C.,  but  all  ofus  can  help  by  leaving  the  Park  to  those  whose  responsibility  it  is.  People  of  our  fair  city,  keep  off  the  grass!  Un-  less  it  be  to  plant  a  tree  there  on  Arbor  Day,  stay  out  of  43616e616461Park.  And  while  you  are  at  it,  stay  out  of  the  Cloisters,  the  City  Center,  and  the  Metropolitan  Opera  House.  The  rugs  on  the  two  main  aisles  of  the  Met  have  been  eroded  down  to  their  warp  and  woof  in  the  very  short  period,  geo-  logically  speaking,  of  half  a  dozen  years,  owing  to  the  habit  operagoers  have  of  walking  all  over  them.  And  rugs  are  dearer  by  far  than  dirt. "