 b"PEOPLE  I  don't  really  know  keep   trying  to  get  into  my  parlor,  willy-  nilly,  hook  orcrook.  I  say  &quot;par-  lor,&quot;  rather  than  &quot;living  room,&quot;  as  is  now  customary,  because  these  people-  Governor  Rockefeller,  Jean  Sullivan,  Governor  Meyner,  \xc2\xa34  Sullivan,  Harry  Piel,  Blackie  Carbon,  Walter  Cron-  kite-remind  me  of  the  poem  about  the  spider  and  the  fly,  though  in  reverse.  I  am  the  fly,  but  they  come  in,  bringing  their  networks  with  them.  I  don't  mean  that  these  arethe  only  ones.  No!  Doz-  ens  of  arbiters,  dozens  of  soothsayers-  any  number  of  folks  (as  I  am  sure  they  won't  mind  my  calling  them  )--  eagerly  offer  to  come  into  my  home  to  tell  me  sincerely  what's  what  or  to  bring  me  the  world  and  its  decibels.  But  since  they  outnumber  me  so  badly,  my  parlor  is  really  their  parlor  a  good  deal  of  the  time,  making  the  spider-  and-fly  arrangement  work  out  pretty  much  as  it  does  in  the  old  poem,  after  all.  This  complaint  is  familiar,  I  know,  but  I  have  a  reason  for  bringing  it  up.  And  the  retort  is  familiar,  too:  IfI  want  these  people  to  go  away,  I  canalways  switch  them  off.  Well,  that  is  an  igno-  rant  answer-a  bystander's  answer.  I  tried  switching  them  off,  and  I  grant  that  the  peace  seemed  good-the  hush,  and  thetransient  sense  that  I  was  alone  in  my  own  parlor.  But  was  I?  The  folks  themselves  were  gone,  but  still  the  place  was  full.  It  was  full,  now,  of  absences.  There  in  the  room,  and  outside  the  building,  and  through  the  whole  city,  and  in  and  over  Hoboken  and  Saint  Louis  and  [REDACTED],  the  air  was  not  vacant  but  crowded.  It  was  crammed  with  silent  noises.  It  was  one  enormous  swarm  of  things  I  was  not  seeing  and  of  people  who  were  not  speaking  to  me.  'They  were  all  over  the  lot,  indoors  and  out-invisible  and  everywhere.  I  could  not  stand  it.  I  switched  them  back  on.  I  don't  mean  to  say  that  my  television  set  is  going  all  the  time-too  much  of  the  time,  very  likely,  now  that  I  have  capitulated,  but  by  no  means  all  of  it.  I  work  in  an  office  and  some-  times  at  home.  Oc-  casionally  I  ruminate.  There  are  chores  in  the  basement.  My  wife  and  I  eat  alone  in  quiet,  or  with  quiet  friends  who  have  arrived  through  the  front  door.  So  there  ere  lulls,  but  how  long  my  eardrums  are  to  enjoy  them  is  a  question,  for  a  threat  that  can  fill  all  such  gaps  is  coming  up  like  thunder  in  [REDACTED].  Last  month-already  a  month  ago-  a  dispatch  to  the  Times  said  that  a  new  magazine  had  appeared  in  4a6170616e,  and  that  it  foreshadowed  &quot;a  time  when  readers  of  daily  papers  will  be  able  to  get  their  news  with  the  actual  sound  of  events  as  they  happened.&quot;  This  issue  of  the  magazine  carried  magnetically  treated  photographs  of  Niagara  Falls  and  Big  Ben,  and,  the  report  went  on,  &quot;to  bring  sound  from  the  magazine  page  is  as  easy  as  playing  a  record.  ...&quot;  The  page  is  torn  out  and  put  on  a  ma-  chine  called  a  Synchroreader,  and  the  noise  (in  this  first,  foreshadowing  case,  the  roar  of  Niagara  and  the  booming  of  Big  Ben)  &quot;then  issues  from  a  speaker  with  almost  high-fidelity  [REDACTED];  It  appears  that  even  now  &quot;three  major  4a6170616e  printing  plants  are  equipped  with  the  process.&quot;  'The  italics  are  mine,  in  consideration  of  the  diligence  of  the  4a6170616eese  people  and  the  briskness  of  their  export  trade.  I  try  not  to  think  what  this  means.  Among  the  pools  of  silence,  the  lulls,  is  the  time  I  spend  reading-reading  newspapers,  among  other  things;  read-  ing,  in  particular,  the  Sunday  paper.  On  weekdays,  the  papers  do  have  the  headlong  pitch  of  the  affairs  they  tell  about;  the  things  in  them  seem  real,  and  can  haunt  you.  But,  at  least  for  me,  there  is  something  reassuring  about  the  Sunday  paper  no  matter  what  is     in  it-a  quality  I  suppose  it  borrows  from  the  day.  When  I  was  a  child,  I  held  to  the  notion  that  evil  simply  was  not  allowed  to  happen  on  Sunday.  Up  to  midnight  on  Saturday,  and  after  12:01  on  Monday  morning,  anything  could  get  at  me-witches,  highwaymen,  wolves-but  never  on  Sunday.  And  that  is  a  little  the  way  the  world  looks  to  me  when  I  read  about  it  on  Sunday  after  breakfast.  It  is  panoramic  and,  comparatively,  safe.  One  sips  coffee  and  chooses  what  one  wants  of  it,  ac-  companied  by  no  sound  but  pages  rus-  tling  and  an  occasional  reflective  cough  or  shuffle  of  slippers.  Anyway,  that  is  how  itis  now,  in  theera  before  the  Synchroreader.  ND  how  will  it  be  when  the  Syn-  chroreader  comes?  Well,  any-  one's  guess  is  as  good  as  mine,  of  course,  but  I  expect  that  not  only  noise  but  domestic  discord  will  fracture  the  Sab-  bath  of  every  household  in  the  land.  Take  a  typical  Synchroreader-  equipped  American  family-Father,  Mother,  Sister,  Brother-and,  since  we  cannot  know  what  the  paper  will  con-  tain  on  some  future  day,  give  them  the  Times  of  April  26,  1959.  They  are,  asI  say,  typical.  Each  has  his  own  radio,  TV,  hi-fi,  and  tape  recorder,  so  itis  only  fair  and  right  that  each  should  have  his  own  Synchroreader,  too.  But  for  some  perhaps  atavistic  rea-  son,  they  have  only  one  Times  for  the  lot  of  them.  There  is  a  household  rule  againsttearing  it  up  before  break-  fast.  Breakfast,  therefore,  is  a  sullen  meal,  gulped  with  everyone's  eye  on  the  waiting  and  virgin  Times.  At  last,  Mother  rises.  She  steers  for  the  paper,  the  rest  following.  In  the  briefest  of  whiles,  the  Times  is  demolished.  Then  each  member  of  the  family,  clutching  whatever  he  has  managed  to  get  out  of  it,  goes  off  to  his  room  for  his  post-  breakfast  read,  and  presently  a  noise  like  a  tremendous  explosion  shakes  the  house.  It  is  nothing.  Broth-  er  has  put  the  picture  of  atiny  but  mighty  rocket  plane  (magazine  section,  page  52)  into  his  Synchroreader,  and  it  has  broken  the  sound  barrier.  The  others  come  to  their  doors,  but  they  soon  return  to  their  own  reading.  They  are  used  to  Brother,  whose  " b"interest  in  science  is  deep.  Sister's  nose  is  in  the  travel  section.  Page  after  page  of  adver-  tisements  run  through  her  Synchroreader.  An  f  Irish  jig  follows  a  Basque  fandango,  to  be  succeeded  by  a  har-  monica-and-accordion  medley  played  by  what  the  ad  declares  is  a  &quot;happy  group&quot;  -a  veritable  &quot;party  on  wheels&quot;-of  people  taking  a  Greyhound  Escorted  Tour.  Steam-  ships  blow  their  whis-  tles;  trains  blow  theirs.  Again  there  is  a  great  crash,  again  the  house  shakes;  Brother  is  re-  reading  the  piece  about  the  plane.  &quot;Would  you  be  so  good  as  to  shut  up  with  that  sonic  boom?&quot;  Sister  moans.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  plan  my  vacation.&quot;  Mother  is  absorbed  by  a  different  set  of  advertisements.  She  is  deciding  where  to  store  her  furs,  and  has  almost  settled  on  Saks  Fifth  [REDACTED].  Honkings  and  clappings  come  from  her  Synchroreader,  and  then,  in  slow  tempo,  played  on  tin  horns,  &quot;My  Country  'Tis  of  Thee.&quot;  The  seal  in  Saks'  advertisement  is  wear-  ing  a  coronet,  and  looks,  at  a  glance,  to  be  above  such  trite  and  petty-bourgeois  showing  off,  but  advertisers-in  the  fu-  ture,  as  now  -will  know  the  worth  of  the  common  touch.  Mother  decides  on  Saks,  and  turns  to  the  marriages,  but  the  first  strains  of  Mendelssohn  are  in-  terrupted  by  a  bedlam  in  Sister's  room-  shrieks,  croaks,  growls,  a  demented  yell-  ing,  the  whistles  and  cries  of  a  thousand  exotic  birds.  &quot;Sister!&quot;  Mother  calls.  &quot;If  I've  told  you  once,  I've  told  you  a  hundred  times,  you  are  \xc2\xbbot  going  to  go  to  that  jungle!&quot;  (Sister  has  been  pretending  to  read  &quot;Wonderful  Cruises  on  Happy  Ships,&quot;  on  page  X-39  of  the  travel  section.  Actually,  she  was  sneaking  a  longing  look  at  the  ad  down  in  the  corner-  &quot;All-Inclusive  18  Days'  Tour  to  the  'Green  Hell  of  the  Amazon  Jungle-  and  it  got  away  from  her.)  &quot;It's  just  here,&quot;  Sister  protests.  &quot;Can  I  help  it  if  it's  right  here  on  the  page?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  you  can  stop  mooning  over  it  right  now,&quot;  Mother  says.  &quot;You're  not  going.&quot;  There  is  another  explosion,  or,  rath-  er,  forty-five  of  them.   &quot;How  can  a  person  hear  herself  read  with  Air  around?&quot;  Sister  cries.  Father  comes  to  her  door.  &quot;IZ  did  it  that  time,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;They  were  bomb-  ing  this  goose  sanctuary  over  near  Cux-  haven.&quot;  &quot;Who  was  bombing  it'?&quot;  Brother  asks,  coming  out  of  his  own  door.  &quot;Nobody  knows,&quot;  Father  answers.  &quot;Forty-five  bombs  dropped,  and  nobody  knows  who  dropped  them.  It's  a  very  interesting  item.  Come  on  in  and  read  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  just  save  it  for  me,&quot;  Brother  says.  &quot;Thanks,  anyway.  I've  got  a  page  in  here  that  I  want  to  look  at  first.&quot;  He  returns  to  his  Synchroreader,  from  which  there  issues,  with  almost  high-fidelity  effect,  page  4-X  of  the  drama  section.  On  it  are  advertise-  ments  for-among  other  attractions  the  New  York  City  Opera  Company,  the  Juilliard  Orchestra  and  Chorus,  the  Rockettes,  a  program  of  &quot;Folk  Songs  of  Many  Lands,  Including  Exciting  Songs  &amp;  Dances  of  the  American  In-  dian,&quot;  and  the  Ringling  Brothers  and  Barnum  &amp;  Bailey  circus.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  Brother  calls  to  every-  one,  &quot;I  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  some  of  this  was  taped.  You  can  always  tell  when  it's  live  or  when  it's  canned.&quot;  NOUGH  is  enough.  There  are,  of  course,  numberless  other  clarion  items  in  that  Sunday's-or  any  Sun-  day's-Times,  but  we  may  as  well  leave  Father,  Mother,  Sister,  and  Brother  to  the  mercies  of  their  day  and  of  one  an-  39  other.  The  age  that  ushers  in  the  Synchro-  reader  will  usher  out,  at  long  last,  Together-  ness.  I  know  that  when  that  age  comes,  it  will  come,  and  I  will  try  to  be  game.  It  may  not  be  all  bad.  One  Thursday  not  long  ago,  I  saw  a  story  in  the  Herald  Tribune  head-  ed,  &quot;MORE  TROUBLE  IN  SENATE  BUILD-  ING.&quot;  It  appears  that  the  new  Senate  Office  Building  has  resonant  floors,  a  raucous  pub-  lic-address  system  &quot;giv-  en  to  much  bleeping,  squawking,  and  buzz-  ing  when  either  Sena-  tors  or  witnesses  try  to  speak,&quot;  louvered  doors  that  must  be  plugged,  at  considerable  cost,  be-  cause  &quot;conversations  in  supposedly  secret  committee  sessions  float  out  into  the  hallways,&quot;  and  clocks  that  give  off  &quot;a  pathetic  grinding  sound  in  a  sort  of  contrapuntal  effect  to  the  balky  microphones.&quot;  I  think  I  might  even  like  to  have  a  Synchroreader  to  put  that  item  into.  But-that  was  on  a  Thursday.  They  had  better  leave  Sun-  day  alone."