THE  INVASION  PLANNERS  New  England  littoral  stagger  under  a  seasonal  burden  of  letters  of  inquiry.  I've  suspected  for  a  long  time  that  those  addressed  to  hotels,  rooming  houses,  and  chambers  of  commerce  are  probably  exceeded  numerically  by  those  sent  to  private  individuals  who  aren't  even  i»  the  tourist  business.  Con-  sider  the  case  of  a  couple  I'd  like  to  call  Walter  and  Ruth  Drummond  (mostly  because  my  wife  and  I  have  always  been  fond  of  putting  on  elaborate  putty  noses).  The  Drummonds  live  in  a  pleas-  ant,  sprawling  old  [REDACTED]  farm-  house-or,  rather,  ex-farmhouse-near  a  coastal  resort  widely  known  for  its  attractive  beaches  and  for  the  excellent  sailing  its  protected  harbor  affords.  Their  son  David,an  only  child,  who  was  graduated  from  Brown  in  1958,  is  now  doing  a  tour  of  duty  at  the  United  [REDACTED]  Naval  Facility  on  Grand  Turk  Island,  and  so  won't  be  spending  the  coming  summer  with  his  parents.  Left  to  their  own  devices,  the  Drummonds  would  be  more  than  likely  to  spend  these  few  choice  months  enjoying  some  rather  extensive  gardening-a  hobby  they  have  seldom  been  able  to  devote  a  really  satisfactory  amount  of  time  to  in  the  past.  To  &quot;redo  all  the  borders&quot;  has  long  been  their  dream.  But  in  all  likelihood  it  will  remain  no  more  than  a  dream,  as  far  as  the  im-  minent  summer  season  is  concerned-and  probably  for  a  number  of  summers  to  follow.  The  Drum-  monds  have  four  nephews  and  two  nieces,  all  fairly  close  to  each  other  in  age,  and  in  recent  weeks  they  have,  without  exception,  become  notably  brisk  correspondents.  Not  that  this  has  taken  the  Drummonds  by  surprise.  Far  from  it.  They've  been  through  much  this  same  sort  of  ex-  perience  before.  I  l  :VERY  spring,  the  postmen  of  the  HE  opening  guns  fired  by  each  of  the  nephews  and  nieces  were  the  most  telling,  perhaps,  and  subsequent  letters  were  to  be  devoted  mainly  to  general  mopping-up  operations.  'This  year  it  was  Tom  Drummond,  Dart-  mouth  who  first  went  into  action:  Dear  Aunt  RutEH  ano  Unorr  WaruterR:  Hi!  How  are  my  flavorite  relatives?  Something  tells  me  1  still  haven't  thanked  you  properly  for  that  elegant  shaggy  [REDACTED]  you  sent  me  at  Christmas.  It     still  survives,  and  with  onlya  minimum  of  cigarette  burns  and  other  trifling  in-  juries  to  mar  its  beauty.  Thanks  again!  (Or,  in  case  I  haven't  given  tongue  be-  fore,  just  plain,  heartfelt  &quot;thanks.&quot;)  With  Dave  in  the  Navy,  do  you  by  any  chance  long  for  someone  to  pet  and  cosset  this  summer?  Because  if  you  do,  I  believe  I  can  wangle  a  job  at  the  boatyard  in  your  fair  town.  In  other  words,  if  a  slave  laborer  could  be  sure  of  a  comtortable  bed  and  perhaps  one  or  two  Lucullan  meals  a  day  chez  vous,  he  would  be  very,  very  happy!  Hanover  is  still  cold  and  wet  and  mud-  dy  and  completely  unspringlike,  but  I  hope  that  by  mid-June  I  shall  be  cozily  en-  sconced  in  ...  Janet  Masters,  Wellesley  ©62,  was  next:  Dear  Aunt  Rute  ano  Unour  WarrER:  Hi!  The  darling  little  cigarette  lighter  with  its  covering  of  Viennese  petit  point  on  black  is  still  my  pride  and  joy,  and  I  take  a  kind  of  horrid  joy  in  knowing  that  no-  body  else  around  herehas  anything  even  remotely  like  it!  Do  tell  me  something.  Has  my  Cousin  Alice,  that  delightful  but  scheming  girl,  been  forehanded  enough  to  get  in  ahead  of  me  with  an  eager-beaver  letter  regarding  summer  plans?  A  couple  of  months  ago  we  both  agreed  to  apply  for  jobs  as  waitresses  at  the  Point  Breeze  Hotel.  I've  only  just  learned  that  I've  been  accepted,  but  whether  or  not  Alice  has  I  can't  say.  (One  of  the  major  disadvantages  ofa  Smith  ed-  ucation,  I  can  only  conclude,  is  that  they  don't  teach  the  young  to  write.  Except  may-  be  to  answer  prom  invita-  tions!)  Anyway,  I  haven't  heard  from  Alice.  But  may  I  spend  the  summer  with  you,  PLEASE?  I'd  have  my  push  bike  with  me,  and  would  certainly  expect  to  bike  to  and  from  the  hotel  and  not  plague  you  with  requests  to  be  taxied.  Also,  will  there  be  cousins,  male,  on  the  premises?  Not  that  I'm  es-  pecially  pro-  or  anti-  any  of  them.  &quot;I  ask  only  because  I  wish  to  know,&quot;  as  some  character  or  other  in  Dickens  used  to  say.  But  if  there  are  to  be  any  around,  it  might  be  rather  fun,  be-  cause  they  do  have  lots  and  lots  of  friends.  In  fact,  I'll  be  perfectly  honest  and  con-  fess  that  one  of  the  advantages  of  wearing  oneself  to  a  frazzle  as  a  resort-hotel  wait-  ress  is  the  ...  &quot;Oh,  dear!&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  said  to  her  husband.  &quot;You  may  well  say  'Oh,  dear!&quot;  &quot;  he  agreed.  &quot;In  fact,  you  might  put  it  even  more  strongly.&quot;  &quot;Well,  of  course,  I  don't  mean  I  don't  want  them,&quot;  she  said  at  once.  &quot;All  I'm  thinking  about  is  how  to  juggle  things  soas  to  keep  the  guest  room  free.  I  suppose  Janet  had  better  take  David's    room.  And  Tom  can  haveone  of  the  little  rooms  in  the  ell.&quot;  &quot;Wait,&quot;  Drummond  advised.  &quot;'This  is  an  old,  old  story.  Remember?  All  I  say  is-Wait!&quot;  Henry  Ticknor  Masters,  Exeter  ©59,  was  careful  to  avoid  frivolity.  Too  much,  presumably,  was  at  stake:  Dear  Auxt  Rute  anp  Uxorr  WaurTER:  I  am  desirous  of  becoming  a  busboy  at  the  Ocean  House  this  summer  and  have  just  been  accepted  for  this  position,  which  I  am  very  happy  to  hear  about!  It  will  mean  that  I  will  not  be  a  drain  on  my  par-  ents  for  the  coming  vacation.  Unfortu-  nately,  Aunt  Ruth,  your  well-meaning  brother,  my  father,  does  not  consider  that  I  am  old  enough  to  live  in  the  dormitory  provided  by  the  hotel  management  for  its  male  help.  So  could  I,  with  your  kind  per-  mission,  stay  at  yourhouse?  I  will  try  not  to  be  too  much  trouble.  Could  I  have  Dave's  room?  I  have  always  been  his  greatest  admirer,  and  would  definitely  promise  not  to  disturb  any  of  his  personal  effects,  particularly  since  he  is  now  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  Navy.  In  fact,  I  would  try  to  keep  everything  exactly  as  it  was  when  he  was  in  the  room  ...  &quot;I  don't  know  whether  or  not  you  realize  just  how  serious  a  predicament  I'm  in,&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  said  to  her  husband  gravely.  &quot;Realize  it,  hell!  I  saw  it  coming!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  thinking  that  one  of  the  four  small  bedrooms  in  the  ell  would  be  the  logical  place  for  Hank,  and  yet  you're  wondering  whether  he  shouldn't  be  put  in  the  front  part  of  the  house  and  kept  well  away  from  my  brute  nephew  Tom.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  Mrs.  Drummond  said.  &quot;Tom's  a  very  nice  boy.&quot;  &quot;But  still,  that  is  what's  bothering  you,&quot;  Drummond  said.  &quot;Well,  perhaps,&quot;  his  wife  admit-  ted.  &quot;Put  Hank  in  the  ell,&quot;  Drummond  said.  &quot;He's  scheduled  to  enter  Har-  vard  in  September.  Meanwhile,  let's  expose  him  to  Tom  and  Dartmouth,  and  let  him  learn  how  the  other  half  lives.&quot;  PETER  Drummonp,  Jr.,  Harvard  '60,  launched  the  next  attack,  and  in  the  manner  of  an  army,  terrible  with  banners:  Dear,  Sweet,  Kinp  LovenOxEs:  Have  you  heard  the  good  news?  I  am  now  a  reformed  character.  I  have  totally  and  completely  abandoned  marijuana,  and  I  have  given  my  solemn  oath  to  Signor  and  Signora  Lollobrigida  that  I  will  never  see  Gina  again!  It  will  perhaps  make  you  even  happier  (or  will  it?)  to  learn  that  I  have  landed  the  underpaid  but.  for  me,.  much-longed-for  job  as  assistant  tennis  pro  at  your  Yacht  Club,  Wow-dee-dow!  To  come  brusquely  to  the  point,  may  I      hope  for  aid  and  succor?  Will  you  let  me  sleep  on  the  floor  just  outside  your  bed-  room  door,  like  a  trusted  Arab  servant,  or  such?  All  I  beg  is  shelter,  and,  oh,  how  I  beg  it!  I  quite  realize  (without  your  hav-  ing  to  bother  to  remind  me)  that  I  wasn't  exactly  a  model  guest  during  the  two  weeks  I  was  with  you  last  year,  but  I  truly,  truly,  truly  have  reformed.  Will  there  be  any  other  relatively  small  fry  like  me  on  the  premises  this  year?  Such  as  Janet.  for  example?  And  will  she  be  bring-  ing  any  friends  with  her?  Ah  me,  I  fear  I  wander  from  the  subject,  and  so  I  shall  again  come  to  the  point...  &quot;I  think  perhaps  Janet  in  the  guest  bedroom,  and  Hank  in  David's  room,  and  Tom  and  Pete  in  the  ell,&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  said,  closing  her  eyes  and  pressing  a  finger  against  her  forehead  meditatively.  Alice  Drummond,  Smith  '62,  wrote  next,  and  in  a  manner  that  suggested  there  might  have  been  a  certain  validity  in  what  Miss  Janet  Masters  had  said  about  the  teaching  of  English  composi-  tion  at  Northampton:  H1,  youse-  I'm  crushed,  mangled,  and  wholly  disin-  tegrated!  How  could  I  havedone  such  a  thing?  I  mean  how  could  I  not  have  writ-  ten  to  you  sooner  than  this  about  what  is  actually  my  heart's  dearest  desire,  which  is  to  spend  the  coming  summer  with  you?  Is  despair  now  written  all  over  your  faces?  Don't  tell  me.  I  know!  But  you  see  what's  happened  is  this-I've  got  myself  a  job  as  a  waitress  at  the  Point  Breeze  Hotel,  and  Janet  has,  too.  (She's  written  to  me,  but  I  haven't  written  to  her,  because  the  most  terrible  things  have  happened  to  me  this  semester,  and  for  a  while  I  thought  I  was  going  to  be  out  on  my  ear,  but  it  seems  I'm  not,  because  my  scholastic  standing  has  picked  up,  but  I  somehow  couldn't  bear  to  write  and  tell  Janet  how  sordid  it's  all  been,  because  for  some  unaccountable  rea-  son  she  seems  to  think  my  life  here  is  noth-  ing  but  sheer  fun.)  Anyway,  and  anyhow,  to  make  a  long,  sad  story  short,  may  I  COME?  Much  as  I  shall  miss  darling  Dave,  even  though  he  never  could  see  me  for  dust,  as  Mother  sometimes  says  about  the  boys  she  used  to  like,  I  shall  try  to  con-  sole  myself  somehow.  Oh,  darn  it,  now  I've  probably  given  you  the  wrong  impres-  sion,  because  what  I  merely  meant  to  say  was  that  after  ahorrible,  horrible  year  at  Smith,  I...  &quot;Janet  and  Alice  in  the  guest  bed-  room,&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  murmured,  again  with  her  eyes  closed,  &quot;and  Hank     in  David's  old  room,  and  Tom  and  Pete  in  the  ell.&quot;  &quot;No!&quot;  Drummond  said  firmly.  &quot;Keep  the  guest  room  clear  for  our  friends.  Put  Janet  and  Alice  in  Dave's  room,  with  one  of  them  in  Dave's  bed  and  one  on  a  cot.  And  put  Tom,  Pete,  Hank,  and  Freddie  in  the  ell.&quot;  &quot;But  Freddie  hasn't  written  [REDACTED];  Mrs.  Drummond  said,  opening  her  eyes  and  giving  her  husband  a  look  that  was  both  admonishing  and  uneasy.  &quot;Cheer  up,&quot;  Drummond  said.  &quot;He  will.&quot;  And  Frederick  Drummond,  Colgate  '61,  came  through  in  fine  form,  al-  though  somewhat  tardily:  Drar  Aunt  Rute  ano  Unour  Waurer:  This  is  an  awfully  hard  letter  for  me  to  write.  In  the  first  place,  I  don't  think  I've  ever  thanked  you  for  the  [REDACTED]  sweater  you  sent  me  at  Christmas  (my  roommate  seems  to  think  he  owns  it,  which  will  give  you  an  idea  of  what  good  present-pickers  you  are),  and  in  the  second  place,  I  may  as  well  tell  you  right  here  and  now  that  I'm  down  on  my  luck.(If  I  ever  had  any,  which  I  doubt.)  You  see,  I  got  engaged  this  year,  and  everything  went  wrong-I  haven't  told  the  parents-in  fact,  I'm  not  going  to  tell  the  parents-and  now  it's  all  off.  What  I  want  to  do  is  get  a  job  this  summer,  as  near  where  you  are  as  possi-  ble,  and  stay  with  you,  if  you'll  let  me.  I  know  what  you're  going  to  say.  You're  go-  ing  to  say  that  my  sister  Alice  and  I  don't  get  along,  and  that  we'll  be  in  your  hair  all  the  time,  yacking  and  quarrelling  and  everything.  But  we  won't.  (I  know  Alice  is  going  to  ask  if  she  can  come  forthe  sum-  mer,  even  if  you  don't.  As  I  guess  every-  body  knows,  she  isn't  the  world's  greatest  letter  writer.)  The  fact  is,  Alice  is  a  peach,  and  she's  been  in  on  the  beginning  and  middle  and  end  of  this  engagement,  and  I  can  promise  you  we  WON'T  quar-  rel.  And  if  I  can  stay  with  you  and  work  hard  at  a  job  and  maybe  have  occasional  dates  now  and  then  with  Alice's  friends,  but  mot  of  a  serious  nature,  I  shall  be  very,  very  much  happier  next  year.  And  I  certainly  shall  try  not  to  be  a  trouble  to  you.  Do  you  suppose  you  could  possibly  let  me  hear,  at  your  earliest  convenience,  whether  or  not  ...  &amp;C  HAT  are  we  going  to  do,  Wal-  ter?&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  asked.  &quot;Make  up  beds,&quot;  Drummond  said.  &quot;Buy  a  larger  refrigerator.  Order  beer.  In  fact,  we'd  better  put  in  a  standing  order  for  a  certain  number  of  cases  per  week.  Also,  1d  suggest  arranging  for  regular  deliveries  of  hamburger,  ham-  burger  rolls,  frankfurters,  frankfurter  rolls,  mustard,  onions,  ketchup,  pickle  relish,  and  so  on,  in  wholesale  quan-  tities.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  make  it  all  sound  so  easy,&quot;  his  wife  said.  &quot;But  it  is  easy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  we  have  to  do  now  is  engage  a  Lester   Lanin  orchestra  to  come  to  the  house  for  weekends.  Maybe  we  could  put  them  up  in  the  ell.&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  reflected  for  a  mo-  ment  or  two.  'Then  she  said,  &quot;To  tell  the  truth,  I  really  won't  mind  too  much  if  we  don't  redo  the  borders  this  year.  I'm  secretly  sort  of  looking  forward  to  other  things.&quot;  &quot;So  am  I,&quot;  Drummond  said.  &quot;Espe-  cially  now  that  Pete  has  given  up  mari-  juana  and  Lollobrigida,  and  is  planning  to  sleep  just  outside  our  bedroom  door,  like  a  trusted  Arab  servant.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  he  isn't!&quot;  Mrs.  Drum-  mond  said.  &quot;Trusted  Arab  servant  or  no  trusted  Arab  servant,  Peter  is  going  tosleep  in  the  ell.  Kindly  remember  that  Janet  and  Alice  are  going  to  be  sleeping  in  David's  room,  just  across  the  hall  from  us.&quot;  &quot;I  lovethe  way  life  in  this  house  seems  to  turn  into  Restoration  comedy  the  minute  summer  comes,&quot;  Drum-  mond  said.  &quot;You  also  love  the  week  after  Labor  Day,  and  so  do  I,&quot;  Mrs.  Drummond  replied.  &quot;Let's  never  pretend  to  each  other  in  any  way,  shape,  or  form  about  that!&quot; 