 b"THE  late  Rabbi  Max  Schlocssinger,  of  [REDACTED],  was  not  a  man  to  mince  words,  He  particularly  did  not  mince  them  when  he  came  to  speak  of  cantors,  a  melodious  group  who  occupy,  in  twentieth-century  Juda-  ism,  somewhat  the  same  position  that  ministers  of  music  do  in  the  Presby-  terian  Church,  except  that  where  a  minister  of  music  usually  just  directs  a  choir  of  other  people's  voices,  a  cantor  is  expected  to  be  his  own  first  tenor  as  well.  It  was  Dr.  Schloessinger's  profound  love  of  Jewish  liturgy  that  made  him  suspicious  of  cantors.  Cantors,  he  felt,  were  anti-liturgical.  (Rabbis,  of  course,  in  common  with  priests,  Church  of  Eng-  land  clergymen,  imams,  and  mullahs,  are  pro-liturgical.)  As  he  liked  to  point  out,  cantors  once  in  the  past  got  control  of  the  Jewish  service  of  worship,  and  when  they  did  they  made  it  into  a  kind  of  singing  contest  or  Sabbath  opera,  to  the  confounding  of  rabbis,  true  religion,  and  good  taste.  He  was  convinced  that,  given  half  a  chance,  they  would  do  so  again.  The  trouble  began,  Dr.  Schloessinger  has  written  in  &quot;The  Jewish  Encyclope-  dia,&quot;  about  fourteen  hundred  years  ago,  with  the  invention  of  a  kind  of  hymn  known  as  a  piyyut.  (The  name  derives  from  a  Greek  word  that  means  simply  &quot;poetry.&quot;  )  The  earliest  piyyut  writers,  or  peyyetan,  were  French  and  Spanish  rabbis,  who,  naturally,  handled  the  new  form  with  decorum,  but  by  the  year  750  or  so  cantors  had  moved  in  and  taken  over.  Half  the  cantors  in  Europe  were  busy  com-  posing  piyyutim  and,  what  is  worse,  lustily  chanting  their  products  in  syna-  gogue.  According  to  Dr.  Schlocssinger,  a  de-  cline  in  religious  standards  followed  at  once.  For  one  thing,  he  complained,  the  cantors,  in  a  frantic  race  to  com-  pose  the  most  piyyutim,  began  stealing  tunes  from  pagans.  French  folk  songs,  Moorish  chants-the  cantors  snatched  them  without  regard.  These  were  &quot;for-  eign  melodies  taken  from  non-Jewish  sources,&quot;  Dr.  Schlocessinger  wrote  dark-  ly,  and  they  had  no  place  in  the  syna-  gogue.  It  was  no  better,  however,  when  the  cantors  used  proper  Hebrew  melodies  for  their  hymns.  Musical  notation  in  the  eighth  century  was  fairly  primitive,  and  Jewish  music  depended  for  its  sanctity  on  an  oral  tradition  going  back  two  thousand  years  and  carcfully  guarded " b"during  all  that  time  by  a  series  of  devoted  rabbinical  scholars.  But  the  cantors  were  artists,  not  scholars,  and  they  were  much  more  interested  in  de-  vising  something  good  for  next  Friday's  service  than  they  were  in  preserving  tradition,.  'The  result  was  that,  through  the  years,  they  revised  theold  tunes,  &quot;consciously  or  unconsciously,  in  ac-  cordance  with  their  individual  tastes,  which  were  often  very  poor.&quot;  Why  didthe  medieval  rabbis  not  protest  this  kind  of  outrage?  The  an-  swer  is  thatthey  did.  They  were  as  firm  as  Dr.  Schloessinger  himself  in  con-  demning  the  new  music,  but  no  one  would  listen  to  them.  For  in  one  brief  century,  Dr.  Schloessinger  said,  the  cantors  and  their  gaudy  hymns  had  ob-  tained,  &quot;both  over  the  ritual  and  over  the  congregation,  an  almost  limitless  in-  fluence.&quot;  Worse  was  to  come.  Inflamed  by  their  success  with  the  piyyutim,  the  medieval  cantors  began  to  insert  more  and  more  chanting  of  all  sorts  into  the  Sabbath  service.It  became  customary  to  chant  whole  sections  of  the  Sedarim,  or  sacred  readings.  The  rabbi,  who  had  formerly  recited  the  lesson  in  a  dignified  speaking  voice,  could  sit  and  listen.  And  in  time,  even  chanting  ceased  to  satisfy  the  triumphant  cantors.  &quot;Their  vanity,&quot;  wrote  Dr.  Schloessinger,  &quot;also  led  them  to  unsuitably  prolong  single  notes  and  to  introduce  interludes  of  song.&quot;  They  composed  solos  called  sebarot,  &quot;which  they  prolonged  at  will,&quot;  apparently  tak-  ing  frequent  encores  and  repeating  the  best  parts  polyphonically.  The  rabbis  might  stir,  and  dart  meaningful  glances,  but  the  cantors  went  right  on  singing  their  sebarot.  They  went  on  for  cen-  turies.  By  the  seventeenth  century,  the  more  extreme  exhibitionists  among  them  even  got  into  the  habit  of  putting  their  hands  on  their  throats  and  vibrating  their  fin-  gers  up  and  down,  &quot;evidently  to  facili-  tate  trilling  or  the  producing  of  high  notes.&quot;  The  only  result  of  this  sort  of  thing,  Dr.  Schloessinger  said  coldly,  was  to  make  the  services  run  overtime,  which  &quot;naturally  caused  general  weari-  ness,  and  hence  there  resulted  a  great  deal  of  disorder,&quot;  The  specific  problem  of  the  pryyutim  was  eventually  dealt  with  by  the  Re-  form  movement  of  Judaism,  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Rabbi  Schloessinger  could  write  in  1925  that  they  were  seldom  sung  any  more.  And  Rabbi  Francis  L.  Cohen  could  write  the  same  year  that  &quot;the  efforts  ofa  cen-  tury  of  work&quot;  by  devoted  rabbis  seemed  finally  to  have  brought  cantors  and  " b"synagogical  music  under  some  sort  of  control.  BUT  with  the  exuberant  vanity  so  characteristic  of  artists,  the  cantors  have  refused  to  stay  suppressed.  If  Rabbi  Schloessinger  couldlook  at  the  cantoral  scene  in  1959,  he  would  find  his  darkest  fears  confirmed.  Rabbis  are  once  again  moving  into  eclipse,  and  once  again  can-  tors  are  asserting  their  almost  limitless  influence  over  ritual  and  over  congre-  gation.  I  base  this  judgment  chiefly  on  a  rapt  perusal  I  havebeen  making,  for  the  past  couple  of  springs,  of  Passover  advertis-  ing  in  the  travel  section  of  the  [REDACTED]  Times.  Passover  is,  of  course,  one  of  the  three  great  festivals  of  the  Jewish  year,  and  is  intimately  allied  with  Easter.  It  has  traditionally  been  cele-  brated  in  small  groups,  very  privately.  Jesus,  for  example,  celebrated  it  in  an  upper  room  with  just  the  twelve  disciples  (who  addressed  him  as  &quot;Master,&quot;  or  &quot;Rabbi&quot;  ).  If  there  was  a  cantor  present,  the  Gospels  do  not  mention  him.  The  advertisements  thatI've  been  reading  with  such  interest  mention  little  else.  These  days,  it  has  become  popular  in  [REDACTED]  to  celebrate  Passover  in  large  groups,  often  at  resort  hotels,  and  that  means  advertising.  'The  several  hundred  hotels  that  cater  to  the  Passover  trade  are  all  using  cantors  for  lures,  competing  avidly  with  each  other  for  the  best-known  ones  (of  whom  there  are  a  surprisingly  large  number),  and  hardly  thinking  to  mention  rabbis  at  all.  It's  the  story  of  the  piyyutim  all  over  again:  the  rabbis  laid  the  foundation,  but  the  cantors  live  in  the  house.  Take,  for  example,  the  very  large  domicile  in  [REDACTED]  Fallsburg,  [REDACTED],  known  as  Schenk's  Paramount  Hotel.  Schenk's  whetted  expectation  for  many  weeks  before  Passover  this  year  by  promising  that  religious  services  at  the  hotel  would  be  conducted  by  &quot;The  In-  comparable  Cantor  Avrum  Dubow.&quot;  The  advertisements  included  a  photo-  graph  of  Mr.  Dubow,  and  a  handsome  fellow  he  looked,  with  his  hairline  mus-  tache  and  rich  vestments.  In  smaller  type,  as  if  it  were  a  kind  of  afterthought,  Schenk's  mentioned  that  its  incompa-  rable  singer  would  be  &quot;assisted&quot;  by  Rab-  bi  Moshe  Gershon.  Laurel  in  the  Pines,  at  Lakewood,  New  Jersey,  was  more  one-sided  still.  Its  advertisements  promised  the  eager  guest  &quot;The  Renowned  Cantor  Leibele  Waldman&quot;  to  conduct  services  in  &quot;Our  Own  Synagogue,&quot;  and  then,  eschew-  ing  so  much  as  the  dignity  of  first  names,  added  casually  that  the  kitchen" b" would  be  &quot;under  supervision  of  Rabbis  Charlop  and  Reichman.&quot;  That's  the  sort  of  writing  that  would  have  made  Dr.  Schloessinger's  blood  boil.  It's  nothing,  though,  to  what  The  Breakers,  in  Atlantic  City,  put  in  the  paper.  The  Breakers  lured  guests  with  a  vision  of  Cantor  Chaim  Shapiro  and  the  Henry  Spector  Choir  of  &quot;18  Glori-  ous  Voices  in  Our  New  Synagogue  on  Lobby  Floor.&quot;  Then,  lapsing  into  the  familiar  small  print,  the  management  listed  the  following  supplementary  at-  tractions:  &quot;Gala  Floor  Show.  Music.  Dancing.  Indoor  Heated  Swimming  Pool.  Steam  Room.  SunLamps.  Cock-  tail  Lounge.  Hot  &amp;  Cold  Sea  Water  Baths.  Sun  Deck.  Dietary  Laws  Super-  vision.  Rabbi  Moishe  Shapiro.&quot;  First  sun  lamps,  then  the  rabbi.  Still,  Moishe  Shapiro  fared  better  than  the  bulk  of  his  colleagues.  Sixof  the  resorts  out  of  nine  failed  to  men-  tiontheir  rabbis  by  name  at  all.  I'm  not  sure  whether  some  of  them  Ahed  rabbis  for  Passover.  Every  last  one  had  a  cantor,  and  spoke  kindly  of  him,  too.  The  advertisement  of  the  New  Ir-  vington  Hotel,  of  Lakewood,  New  Jer-  sey,  to  take  one  at  random,  urged  patrons  to  come  there  &quot;For  an  Unfor-  gettable  Passover.&quot;  Unforgettable  on  account  of  whom?  Who  but  &quot;The  Famous  Cantor  Isadore  Hyatt&quot;?  Can-  tor  Hyatt  even  looks  famous  in  the  large  accompanying  photograph.  Kutsher's  Country  Club,  Monticello,  [REDACTED],  was  not  backward  in  its  claims,  either.  &quot;Passover-Time  Is  a  Many-Pleasured  Thing,  at  Kutsher's,&quot;  the  management  announced,  in  laroc  black  type,  just  above  a  picture  of  Cantor  Sholom  Katz,  A  block  of  text  to  one  side  details  some  of  the  pleasures.  Chief  among  them  was  an  evening  of  &quot;variety  entertainment,&quot;  which  was  to  be  &quot;highlighted&quot;  by  a  concert  starring  (their  word)  Cantor  Katz.  At  the  same  time,  Brown's,  of  Loch  Sheldrake,  [REDACTED],  a  hotel  that  &quot;leaves  you  breathless&quot;  and  that  is  the  &quot;favorite  resort&quot;  of  Jerry  Lewis,  had  golden-voiced  Cantor  Abraham  W  olkin  on  hand.  The  picture,  in  this  case,  was  the  picture  of  Jerry  Lewis,  but  the  voice  was  the  voice  of  Wolkin.  Those  who  enjoyed  Passover  at  the  fabulous-and  friendly-Raleigh  Ho-  tel,  in  [REDACTED]  Fallsburg,  [REDACTED],  fared  equally  well.  They  heard  the  glorious-voiced  Cantor  Bela  Herskovits,  whose  life  story  thrilled  millions  on  television's  &quot;This  Is  Your  Life.&quot;  The  Waldemere,  in  Livingston  Manor,  [REDACTED],  offered  even  more  thrills  than  the  Raleigh,  and  easily  the  greatest  of " b"them  was  the  singing  of  &quot;world-famous  Cantor  Mordecai  Yardeini  accompanied  by  the  renowned  Kazimirsky  choir.&quot;  And  at  The  Pines,  [REDACTED]  Fallsburg,  [REDACTED],  Phil  and  May  Schweid  were  proud  to  present  &quot;[REDACTED]'s  Foremost  Dramatic  Cantor,&quot;  who  is,  of  course,  Sidney  Shicoff.  Does  this  list  sound  as  ifit  included  all  the  really  prominent  cantors?  Don't  be  misled.  A  full  rendering  would  in-  clude  a  number  of  other  quite  reputable  songsters.  For  example:  At  the  La  Reine  Bradley,  Bradley  [REDACTED],  New  Jersey:  world-famous  Cantor  Samuel  Vigoda.  At  the  Coronet,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  Flor-  ida:  renowned  Cantor  Charles  B.  Bloch.  At  the  Albion,  Asbury  Park,  New  Jersey:  famous  Israeli  Cantor  Moses  Dattner.  At  the  St.  Charles,  Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey:  world-famous  Cantor  Jacob  Fox.  At  Saltz's  Hotel,  Mount  Freedom,  New  Jersey:  renowned  Cantor  Irving  Rogoff.  At  The  Willows,  Lakewood,  New  Jersey:  &quot;elaborate  services  by  famed  cantor,&quot;  who  turned  out  to  be  Cantor  Morris  Doberman.  I've  saved  the  best  for  last.  Cantor  Moshe  Koussevitzky  is  not  only  every  bit  as  much  a  world  figure  as  Cantors  Waldman,  Hyatt,  Yardeini,  Vigoda,  Fox,  and  the  rest,  he  is  also  a  man  of  staggering  activity.  During  Passover  this  year,  he  seemed  to  be  everywhere  at  once.  In  Atlantic  City,  billed  as  the  fa-  mous  Cantor  of  [REDACTED]  and  sponsored  by  a  group  of  nine  motels,  he  gave  a  thrilling  liturgical  and  operatic  concert.  In  another  part  of  the  city,  billed  sim-  ply  as  &quot;World-Famous  Cantor  Moshe  Koussevitzky,&quot;  he  was  the  regular  Passover  cantor  for  the  Chelsea  Hotel.  Up  in  [REDACTED]  Fallsburg,  [REDACTED],  at  the  Flagler  Hotel,  where  golden-voiced " b"Cantor  Benjamin  Alpert  was  the  regu-  lar  officiant,  he  flashed  in  to  give  a  special  concert  as  &quot;International  Tenor  Star  Moshe  Koussevitzky.&quot;  I  may  read  too  much  into  this  last  billing.  But  in  it  I  think  I  detect  the  first  signs  that  the  cantors  are  begin-  ning  to  overreach  themselves,  as  they  did  with  the  piyywtim.  Artistic  vanity  ruined  the  cantors  once,  and  it  may  again.  What  I  mean  is,  Mr.  Kous-  sevitzky's  appearance  at  the  Flagler  did  not  even  require  notice  of  his  cantoral  status.  It's  enough  that  he  is  an  inter-  national  tenor  star,  a  golden  voice  soaring  in  the  lobby.  For  all  the  guests  know,  he  might  in  his  private  religion  be  a  Seventh-day  Adventist.  And  when  the  standards  begin  to  fall,  there's  no  telling  where  they  will  stop.  Perhaps  the  danger  is  clearest  at  Grossinger's,  of  Grossinger,  [REDACTED],  which  is  probably  the  most  famous  re-  sort  of  them  all.  At  Grossinger's,  one  week  before  Passover  this  year,  lording  it  in  the  lobby  as  &quot;honored  guests&quot;  were  five  [REDACTED]  State  senators:  Warren  Anderson,  of  Binghamton;  Earl  Brydges,  of  Niagara  Falls;  Walter  E.  Cooke,  of  [REDACTED];  John  H.  Far-  rell,  of  [REDACTED];  and  &quot;Thomas  Mackell,  of  Queens.  Not  a  cantor  in  the  lot.  Where's  the  threat  in  that?  &quot;The  last-mentioned  gentleman,&quot;  Grossing-  er's  paid  for  space  in  the  Times  to  an-  nounce,  is  &quot;affectionately  known  as  'The  Singing  Senator,'  because  of  his  melodious  voice.&quot;  Five  years  from  now,  who  knows  what  renowned  cantor  may  find  him-  self  standing  in  the  shadows  with  the  rabbis,  listening  while  the  melodious  voice  of  Senator  Mackell  lifts  in  a  thrilling  concert  of  operatic  and  litur-  gical  music?  Which  liturgy  one  shud-  ders  to  think."