 b"SUNDAY  after  Sunday  when  I  was  S  a  child  I  used  to  contemplate  the  Seven  Cardinal  Virtues  in  a  stained-glass  window,  and  weigh  the  sartorial  advantages  of  being  Hope  in  green,  Temperance  in  strawberry  pink,  or  Justice  in  a  splendid  shade  of  purple.  Fortitude  was  out  of  the  running,  for  I  knew  I  should  never  be  allowed  to  wear  armor.  But  Faith,  Hope,  Charity,  Justice,  Temperance,  and  [REDACTED]  had  each  much  to  be  said  for  them;  and  might  have  been  attainable  if  poor  Ted  Hooper  had  not  been  stricken  with  tu-  berculosis  and  my  clothes,  as  a  conse-  quence,  made  by  Mrs.  Hooper,  who  needed  to  earn  now  that  her  husband  could  earn  no  longer.  Everybody  in  our  small  society  knew  Ted  Hooper.  He  was  employed  by  the  livery  stables,  and  though  there  were  other  drivers  he  was  the  star  of  the  establishment,  for  he  drove  with  such  style,  and  looked  so  elegant  sitting  up  on  the  box  with  his  straight  back  and  the  jaunty  cockade  in  his  hat.  Whether  one  satin  the  closed  brougham  watch-  ing  the  rain  spatter  against  the  windows,  or  airily  in  the  victoria,  raised  in  a  temporary  splendor  above  the  common  lot  of  those  who  trudged  on  foot  or  sweltered  in  trains,  the  presence  of  Ted  Hooper  substantiated  one's  sense  of  well-being.  Ted  Hooperwas  always  so  smiling  and  obliging,  and  considered  his  horse,  and  never  seemed  to  mind  how  long  he  was  kept  waiting,  conveying  the  impression  that  he  was  not  only  part  of  one's  pleasure  but  took  ashare  in  it.  &quot;When  can  I  sit  on  the  box  beside  Ted  Hooper?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  when  you  are  a  little  old-  And  then,  all  of  a  sudden-for  he  was  in  such  demand  and  such  a  willing  servant  that  he  went  on  driving  long  after  he  should  have  been  at  home  nurs-  ing  that  tiresome  cough-he  was  no  longer  erect  and  cockaded  in  upper  air  but  felled  and  flattened  on  abed,  and  be-  ing  spoken  of  deploringly,  and  almost  as  though  he  were  a  dead  person  already.  It  was  at  this  juncture  that  my  moth-  er,  paying  a  visit  of  practical  condo-  lence,  discovered  that  Mrs.  Hooper  smocked.  A  smock  frock  is  the  long-sleeved,  knee-length  shirt,  made  of  heavy  linen,  which  generations  of  English  rustics  wore  as  an  outer  garment.  Smocking  is  the  process  by  which  it  was  rendered  ap-  proximately  rainproof  and  windproof  over  the  shoulders  and  across  the  breast  and  back.  The  garment  was  cut  enor-  mouslywide  and  then  gathered  into  tiny  pleats,  which  were  held  in  place  by  a  close  reticulation  of  stitches,  each  stitch  securing  a  pleat  and  tethering  it  to  its  neighbor.  'The  resulting  texture  is  as  thick,  as  stiff,  and  almost  as  weather-  proof  as  hide.  If  Ted  Hooper  had  been  dressed  in  his  wife's  handiwork,  he  would  have  been  much  better  protected  against  wind  and  rain  than  he  was  in  his  close-fitting  livery  jacket  of  bottle-  green  cloth-so  my  mother  remarked,  adding  that  this  was  quite  beside  the  point,  since,  for  one  thing,  no  jobmas-  ter  would  employ  a  driver  who  wore  a  smock  frock;  for  another,  no  one  nowadays  would  be  seen  dead  in  such  an  old-fashioned  affair.  The  latter  did  not  apply  to  my  moth-  er's  daughter.  My  smocked  frocks  were  sturdy  enough-that  I  gratefully  admitted;  I  daresay  they  looked  rather  pretty;  they     Rs  helped  Mrs.  Hooper;  they  may  even  have  helped  to  preserve  a  discarded  traditional  skill.  But  there  was  a  de-  pressing  sameness  about  them,a  too  classical  uniformity.  I  wore  brown  hol-  land  smocks  for  everyday,  white  linen  smocks  for  Sundays,  blue  serge  with  scarlet  smocking  for  winter.  Patterned  materials  were  ruled  out  by  my  mother.  How  foolish  a  field  laborer  would  have  looked  following  the  plow  in  a  pat-  terned  smock!  And  though  I  went  to  my  dancing  class  in  grass-green  or  rose-  colored  silk,  I  was  still  smocked  around  my  top  and  my  wrists,  and  elsewhere  totally  ungarnished.  Envy  consumed  me  when  Nina  Barnett,  bounding  at  my  side  in  the  pas  de  Basque,  unfurled  her  accordion-pleated  satin,  when  Marjorie  Watkins  fluttered  her  rosebud-patterned  chiffon  as  she  hauled  at  the  invisible  rope  in  the  hornpipe-envy  that  I  tried  to  smother  under  snobbery,  quite  as  base  a  passion,  since,  after  begging  in  vain  for  " b"rosebuds  and  accordion  pleating,  I  had  been  made  aware  by  my  mother  that  Nina  and  Marjorie  lived  on  the  other  side  of  the  hill,  and  with  the  sort  of  mothers  who  overdressed  everything,  from  daughters  to  puddings,  which  no  doubt  they  called  sweets.  Nor  was  smocking  all.  My  mother  soon  found  out  that  Mrs.  Hooper,  re-  pository  of  traditional  arts,  knew  how  to  make  sunbonnets.  &quot;You  can  come  with  me  to  Maid-  ments,  and  help  me  choose  some  pretty  patterns.&quot;  Even  the  very  moderate  degree  of  pattern  my  mother  allowed  me  to  help  her  choose-a  lilac  sprig,  a  blue  dot-  made  sunbonnets  a  thrilling  prospect.  But  when  it  came  to  wearing  the  things,  no  wealth  of  arabesque,  no  flauntof  color,  no  riot  of  rose  garlands  from  the  other  side  of  the  hill  could  have  recon-  ciled  me  to  being  at  once  blinkered,  deafened,  and  half  cooked.  Fortunate-  ly,  sunbonnets  could  be  disposed  of.  When  I  had  dropped  one  in  a  horse-  pond,  used  another  to  carry  mulberries  in,  and  left  two  or  three  intrees,  no  more  were  ordered  from  Mrs.  Hooper.  Mrs.  Hooper,  as  I  now  realize,  must  have  thought  all  this  smocking  and  sun-  bonneting  an  extreme  example  of  gen-  try  dementia.  Making  conversation  to  Ted-and  those  who  tend  a  drawn-out  dying  have  to  make  a  great  deal  of  conversation-she  must  often  have  re-  marked  that  she  could  not  understand  it,  really  she  could  not,  a  lady  who  wore  such  pretty  clothes  herself  insisting  on  these  old  bygones  for  her  little  girl,  more  like  a  charity  child  than  anything  else,  and  paying  as  much  for  them  as  if  they  had  been  something  dainty  with  lace.  Why,  even  when  she  was  a  girl,  smocks  and  sunbonnets  had  gone  to  the  scare-  crows,  and  she  had  only  learned  how  to  make  them  because  Great-Aunt  Hetty  had  promised  her  the  tea  set.  ...  Mrs.  Hooperwas  too  gentle  for  scorn,  but  there  was  certainly  a  note  of  puz-  zled  commiseration  in  her  assurances,  as  the  latest  spegimen  was  tried  on  and  the  cuirass  of  smocking  patted  into  place,  that  it  looked  very  sweet,  it  did  really,  very  sweet  and  quite  quaint.  Since  Ted  couldnot  be  left,  in  case  another  bleeding  should  come  on,  these  assurances  were  spoken  in  the  flat  above  the  stables  where  Ted's  employers  al-  lowed  him  to  live  on.  The  stables  were  about  half  a  mile's  walk  away  from  our  house-long  enough  for  a  sense  of  cere-  monial  and  adventure  to  accumulate.  There  was  a  man-size  door  cut  in  the  tall  green  carriage  gates,  and  inside  was  the  cobbled  yard,  the  smell  of  horse   dung,  the  smell  of  hay,  theold  watch-  dog  waking  and  wandering  stiffly  out  of  his  kennel,  the  sound  of  a  horse  munch,  ing,  the  sound  of  Ted  coughing  over-  head.  It  now  seems  to  me  that  these  walks  were  always  undertaken  latish  on  summer  afternoons,  when  the  yard  had  been  freshly  sluiced  and  the  sun  pour-  ing  in  through  the  west-facing  windows  filled  the  low  rooms  with  an  acuteness  of  color,  an  intensity  ofhabitationthat  our  rooms  at  home  never  had.  The  door  opening  from  the  sitting  room  to  the  bedroom  was  kept  on  the  jar.  When  I  was  taken  by  my  nurse,  I  was  shep-  herded  away  from  it.  But  if  my  mother  had  taken  me,  she  would  say,  after  a  glance  of  inquiry  and  an  assenting  nod,  &quot;Now  go  in  and  say  how-do-you-do  to  Mr.  Hooper.&quot;  He  lay  propped  up  in  a  brass  bed,  and  on  the  walls  were  photographs  of  relations,  horses,  Queen  Victoria,  and  a  village  church  smothered  in  ivy.  There  was  a  queer  gay  look  about  him,  an  insubstantial  festiveness.  His  cheeks  were  as  brightly  and  patchily  pink  as  if  he  were  a  painted  wooden  toy,  his  dark  eyes  glittered,  he  seemed  to  be  having  a  private  party  alone  with  the  photo-  graphs  and  the  streaking  light-a  party  for  which  he  had  put  on  his  best  night-  shirt.  But  his  hands  belied  the  rest.  They  were  too  large,  too  real,  to  join  in  the  party,  and  when  they  crooked  them-  selves  round  his  spitting  bowl,  there  was  something  sad  and  awkward  and  servile  in  the  gesture.  A  few  years  later  when  my  grand-  father  lay  dying  of  the  same  disease,  I  was  not  allowed  into  his  room,  and  made  my  how-do-you-dos  from  the  passage.  In  his  case,  there  wasno  call  for  the  etiquette  of  good  manners  that  obtained  in  visiting  the  poor.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  7  HEN  I  was  young,  it  was  part  of  one's  education  to  learn  how  to  make  such  visits  befittingly,  what  ques-  tions  to  ask,  what  gifts  to  take  and  how  to  give  them  without  offending.  My  mother  did  such  things  admirably,  though  she  took  no  pleasure  in  them  and  certainly  never  felt  any  mitigating  glows  of  goodness.  On  the  contrary,  once  out  of  the  house  and  round  the  corner,  she  would  hurry  to  wash  off  any  stains  of  virtue  by  going  to  thepastry  cook's  for  a  cup  of  coffee  and  a  maca-  roon,  or  to  the  nursery  garden  to  buy  another  fuchsia,  or  poke  about  in  the  second-hand-furniture  shop.  Her  min-  istrations  were  exclusively  practical;  if  she  could  have  bestowed  them  on  a  mangy  old  dog  or  a  deserving  donkey  (but,  indeed,  she  often  did)  she  would  have  found  a  great  deal  more  fulfill-  " b"ment  in  them;  and  she  always  put  on  a  flippant  hat  for  such  occasions,  in  order  not  to  look  like  a  &quot;Goodie.&quot;  (  &quot;Goodies&quot;  were  ladies  who  visited  their  comple-  mental  &quot;Poories&quot;  with  an  eye  to  being  religiously  improving  and  improved.)  So,  though  I  was  almost  seventeen  when  our  leading  Goodie,  then  nearing  another  lying-in,  asked  me  to  take  over  visiting  Mrs.  Darwin,  who  had  cancer,  I  hadhadno  practice  in  supplying  spiritual  consolations.  But  such,  I  knew,  would  be  expected  of  me,  since  this  was  indeed  a  leading  Goodie,  one  born  in  the  episcopal  purple,  and  a  great-niece  of  Mr.  Gladstone's,  enthusiastically  pious  and  convinced  that  all  and  sundry  only  needed  an  ardent  shove  in  the  right  direction  to  become  pious,  too.  &quot;I'm  sure  you  know  Mrs.  Darwin.  She's  sucha  dear  person!&quot;  I  knew  Mrs.  Darwin's  cakes,  and  that  Mr.  Darwin's  opinion  on  hotbeds  was  much  valued  by  our  gardener,  so  I  agreed  that  I  knew  Mrs.  Darwin.  &quot;There's  no  hope  forher,  I'm  afraid.  But  she  has  so  enjoyed  our  little  quiet  readings.  Can  you  manage  Tuesday  afternoons?&quot;  &quot;&quot;What  book  have  you  been  reading?  I  expect  she  would  like  me  to  go  on  with  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  'The  Imitation  of  Christ.  One  can't  do  better.&quot;  Pleased  to  oblige  in  any  measure,  I  said  with  alacrity,  &quot;We've  got  a  copy  of  that,  I  know.&quot;  This  was  not  a  success.  I  have  since  found  that  assents  made  with  alacrity  seldom  are,  when  made  to  Goodies.  They  prefer  one  to  sound  as  if  the  road  would  wind  uphill  all  the  way,  and  the  shirt  be  hairy.  I  hastened  to  add,  &quot;Where  did  you  leave  off?&quot;  The  Goodie  flushed.  It  was  plain  she  did  not  remember  where.  As  though  brushing  off  a  fly  in  a  Christian  spirit,  she  said,  &quot;Any  chapter  will  do,  I  imagine.&quot;  So  this  was  not  much  of  a  success,  either.  I  realized  I  still  had  something  to  learn.  I  told  my  mother  none  of  this.  (I  suppose  it  was  a  time  when  we  were  having  one  of  our  quarrels  and  civilly  ignoring  each  other's  goings  on.)  I  re-  member  wishing,  though,  when  Tues-  day  came,  that  it  had  been  winter,  when  I  could  have  put  &quot;The  Imitation  of  Christ&quot;  into  a  muff,  It  was  midsummer,  brilliantly  hot  and  fine,  the  sort  of  weather  when,  if  you  have  to  lie  in  bed,  it  is  impossible  to  pretend  that  you  are  doing  so  from  choice.  My  feelings  when  I  set  out  were  inconven-  iently  positive.  I  was  afraid  of  what  I  might  find,  I  was  embarrassed  to  be  thrusting  myself  on  someone  I  did  not  know,  I  was  pretty  sure  I  was  about  to  be  a  hypocrite.  As  I  went  into  Mrs.  Darwin'sbedroom,  all  this  was  abol-  ished  by  the  superior  positiveness  of  a  person  who  is  under  sentence  of  death  and  still  remains  alive.  A  canary  burst  into  song.  Mrs.  Darwin  said  he  liked  visitors;  the  canary  led  to  Mrs.  Pring's  25     parrot,  an  esteemed  mutual  acquaint-  ance;  a  potted  geranium  opened  into  Mr.  Darwin's  prospects  for  the  flower  show.  It  could  have  seemed  like  any  other  pleasant  trivial  conversation  on  a  fine  summer  afternoon  if  there  had  not  been,  when  she  spoke  or  replied,  a  quali-  ty  of  belatedness,  such  as  an  echo,  an-  swering  from  a  distance,  has.  But  a  sense  of  duty  reminded  me  that  I  was  there  not  to  talk  about  thunderstorms  and  vegetable  marrows  but  to  read  aloud  from  a  celebrated  manual  of  de-  votion.  I  opened  the  book.  Mrs.  Darwin  closed  her  eyes.  I  suppose  few  people  could  open  &quot;The  Imitation  of  Christ&quot;  for  the  first  time  and  fail  to  be  charmed  by  its  simplicity,  its  candor,  its  gentle  soutto-voce  insistence-a  tune  that  Au-  gustan  poets  heard  in  brooks  and  de-  scribed  as  &quot;purling.&quot;  I  turned  a  page,  it  purled  on,  I  turned  another  page.  .  .  .  I  could  understand  why  people  who  read  it  aloud  to  sufferers  found  it  soothing.  A  sensation  of  being  soothed  was  slight-  ly  overcoming  me,  too,  and  the  canary  had  fallen  silent,  tweaking  his  bosom  for  lice  but  without  much  conviction.  Mrs.  Darwin  shifted  in  her  bed  and  muttered  at  her  pain.  She  would  die,  we  would  all  die,  centuries  would  be  turned  like  pages;  but  Thomas  a  Kempis  would  continue  to  purl,  a  brook  that  would  never  reach  an  ocean.  But  then,  again,  why  shouldn't  he?  Nuns  are  contented  with  their  narrow  cells,  Wordsworth  contentedly  occupied  himself  in  writing  the  sonnets  to  the  River  Duddon-  " b"though  fortunately  he  wrote  other  things  as  well.  .  ..  After  reading  for  fifteen  minutes,  I  shut  up  &quot;The  Imitation  of  Christ&quot;-  I'm  afraid  with  a  slight  bang.  Mrs.  Darwin  lay  with  closed  eyes.  Her  fore-  head  was  flushed;  there  was  sweat  on  her  upper  lip.  The  woman  who  re-  mained  alive  had  been  almost  entirely  usurped  by  the  woman  under  sentence  of  death.  When  she  opened  her  eyes,  the  beauty  of  those  pure  lucent  gray  irises  was  so  astonishing,  and  her  eyes  were  so  like  something  immortal  and  detached  negligently  inhabiting  a  body  it  had  nothing  in  common  with,  that  I  was  stricken  to  the  heart  and  prepared  to  goon  with  Thomas  a  Kempis  till  nightfall,  if  Mrs.  Darwin  wished  it.  &quot;Thank  you  very  much.&quot;  Since  it  seemed  that  she  did  not  wish  it,  I  said  that  I  must  be  going,  that  I  hoped  I  had  not  stayed  too  long  and  overtired  her.  &quot;It  is  verykind  of  you  to  come,  I'm  sure,&quot;&quot;  she  said,  making  no  attempt  to  delay  me.  &quot;And  may  I  come  next  Tuesday?&quot;  &quot;That  would  be  very  nice.&quot;  &quot;And  then  we  could  go  on  with  the  reading.  Unless  there  is  something  else  you  would  like  better?&quot;  She  looked  me  up  and  down,  thoughtfully,  discreetly.  Apparently  the  scrutiny  satisfied  her,  for  the  woman  who  had  remained  alive  re\xc3\xa9merged,  and  gave  me  a  very  kindly  smile.  &quot;Well-  to  tell  the  truth-&quot;  She  paused  for  an-  other  glance,  but  it  was  a  brief  one.  &quot;'To  tell  the  truth,  I've  always  been  fond  of  a  nice  novel.&quot;  I  said  that  I  really  did  not  see  why  we  should  let  a  whole  week  go  by,  and  it  was  agreed  that  I  should  come  the  day  after  tomorrow.  HAT  happened  next  I  can  only  attribute  to  the  intervention  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  since  of  myself-in  the  words  of  the  catechism-I  was  not  able  to  do  this  thing.  If  it  had  not  been  for  such  an  intervention,  I  do  not  see  how  Mrs.  Darwin  could  have  been  pre-  served  from  one  of  the  nice  novels  of  Dostoevski,  unless  by  falling  into  the  cat's-cradle  mercies  of  the  latest  Henry  James.  As  it  was,  when  I  got  home  I  went  straight  to  the  spare-room  book-  case,  whence,  after  having  replaced  &quot;'The  Imitation  of  Christ,&quot;  I  removed  &quot;The  City  of  Beautiful  Nonsense,&quot;  by  Ernest  Temple  Thurston,  &quot;The  Visits  of  Elizabeth,&quot;  by  Elinor  Glyn,  and  &quot;Peter's  Mother,&quot;  by  Mrs.  de  la  Pasture.  "