 b"FIRST  of  all,  this  is  a  story  of  Fother  days-of  the  days  when  servants  wore  livery  and  their  masters  rode  in  landaus.  Among  the  people  still  in  service  in  my  grand-  father's  household  when  the  old  gen-  tleman  died,  in  Vicenza,  many  years  ago,  was  the  coachman  Angelino,  who  was  always  called  Lin  for  short.  My  grandfather  had  arranged  his  affairs  carefully,  taking  into  account  that  after  his  death  the  need  for  Lin's  serv-  ices  would  be  greatly  curtailed,  and  that  maintaining  a  horse  and  carriage  and  coachman  would  be  uneconomical  for  my  grandmother.  Therefore,  my  grandfather  provided  in  his  will  that  the  family  horse  and  large  carriage  be  given  outright  to  Lin.  With  them,  Lin  would  be  able  to  earn  a  steady  living.  The  bequest  carried  certain  conditions.  Lin  was  to  give  precedence  to  my  grand-  mother  whenever  she  needed  his  serv-  ices,  and  on  those  occasions,  instead  of  using  the  large  open  carriage  that  had  been  bequeathed  to  him,  he  was  to  hitch  his  horse  to  a  small  buggy,  called  a  botte,  which  was  to  remain  in  the  family's  possession.  Also,  when  Lin  drove  up  to  take  my  grandmother  out  in  the  botte-an  elegant  little  carriage  of  gray-and-black  wood,  neatly  uphol-  stered  in  leather  and  black  silk-he  was  to  be  dressed  correctly.  This  meant,  above  all,  that  he  was  to  wear  his  coachman's  top  hat,  rather  than  the  ordinary  cap  he  wore  for  public  serv-  ice.  All  this  having  been  set  forth  explicitly,  my  grand-  father  died  with  his  con-  science  at  rest,  at  least  as  far  as  Lin  and  his  future,  the  horse's  well-being,  thecar-  riage's  upkeep,  and  my  grandmother's  comfort  and  thrift  were  concerned.  A  true  gentleman  of  the  nineteenth  century,  my  grandfather  must  have  felt  satisfied  that  he  had  done  his  duty  properly  and  at  the  same  time  had  been  more  socialist  and  generous  than  the  Socialists  themselves,  whom  he  cordially  detested.  All  this  happened  sometime  before  the  outbreak  of  the  First  World  War,  to  which  Lin  was  not  called  because  he  was  slightly  deformed  in  one  foot.  My  grandfather-in  kindly  good  na-  ture,  and  also  because  it  was  considered  sage  for  gentlemen  to  say  things  that  reminded  their  servants  and  inferiors  of  the  superiority  vested  in  a  cultured  master-had  often  said  that  Lin  had     the  footof  Mephistopheles,  and  that  this  was  the  real  reason  he  was  fond  of  him.  &quot;So!&quot;  my  grandfather  would  exclaim  whenever  he  caught  Lin  in  some  mischief  or  other.  &quot;You  think  you  can  play  the  smart-aleck  with  me  because  you  have  the  footof  Mephi-  stopheles!&quot;  Then  Lin  would  sulk  until  my  grandfather  added,  &quot;Now,  don't  get  any  strange  ideas.  I  told  you  only  that  your  foot  is  Mephistophelean.  Do  you  think  I'd  let  you  drive  me  and  my  family  if  I  knew  that  any  more  of  you  belonged  to  him?&quot;  My  grandfather's  other  heirs  also  found  that,  in  death  as  in  life,  he  was  the  just  and  provident  gentleman  they  had  always  loved.  They  blessed  his  memory  aloud,  and  tacitly  they  agreed  that  Lin,  being  only  the  coachman  and  not  a  relative,  should  be  the  heir  most  grateful  to  my  grandfather's  memory  for  the  rest  of  his  mortal  days-and  thereafter  for  eternity,  in  case  he  should  be  worthy  enough  to  meet  my  grandfather  in  par-  adise.  Lin  agreed  that  he  owed  my  grand-  father  a  great  deal,  and  I  am  sure  that  as  he  wept  at  the  funeral,  he  must  have  indeed  looked  forward  to  meeting  his  employer  again  in  paradise.  And  yet,  asI  think  back  to  Lin,and,  particularly,  to  the  opinion  that  my  mother  ended  by  having  of  him,  I  am  afraid  that  Lin  was  never  able  to  set  his  Mephistophelean  foot  in  the  paradise  my  grand-  father  went  to.  As  for  my  mother,  in  spite  of  all  her  infinite  Christian  mercy,  she  believed  to  the  last  that  Lin  was  an  ungrateful  sinner  for  whose  soul  we  had  to  pray.  My  mother  was  a  per-  son  disposed  to  pity,  but  there  were  matters  upon  which  she  did  not  give  ground  and  for  the  pardon  of  which  she  trusted  only  to  the  mercy  of  God.  As  for  an  aunt  of  mine,  who  was  a  nun  and  considered  very  saintly,  when  she  came  to  hear  of  the  scandal  for  which  Lin  was  banished  from  any  further  rapport  with  our  fam-  ily,  she  exclaimed,  in  horror,  &quot;But  how  dreadful!  I  don't  say  it  isn't  up  to  God  to  forgive  him,  but  how  could  he  have  done  such  a  thing?  It's  not  so  much  the  offense  that  he's  given  the  family  as  the  treason  he's  committed  against  poor  Papa's  memory!&quot;  Y  BUT  everything  in  order.  You  should  know  that  during  the  First  World  War  my  family,  like  many  others  in  the    " b"Veneto,  got  out  before  the  enemy's  ad-  vance,  and  found  refuge  beyond  the  Po.  Then  began  a  series  of  troubles  that  were  to  fall  on  the  family  from  that  time  until  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  My  father,  then  my  grandmother  died.  After  that,  my  mother,  left  alone  except  for  her  children,  and  in  financial  difficulty,  returned  to  theold  family  house  in  Vicenza,  where  my  two  sisters  and  I  grew  to  adulthood.  Back  in  Vicenza,  and  needing  occa-  sional  transport,  my  mother  naturally  thought  of  Lin,  and,  to  her  relief,  dis-  covered  that,  aged  as  he  was,he  was  still  a  public  coachman,  and  that,  if  not  his  horse,  at  least  his  carriage  was  the  one  her  father  had  given  him.  It  now  had  the  number  &quot;6,&quot;  its  municipal  license  number,  painted  on  both  its  sides.  The  small  buggy  that  was  to  have  been  kept  for  family  use  had  disappeared,  and  about  this  Lin  was  most  apologetic  to  my  mother,  though  he  never  could  ac-  count  for  where  it  had  gone,  and  my  mother  never  pressed  him.  She  was  probably  just  as  content  to  ride  in  the  public  carriage;  she  had  many  troubles,  and  it  must  have  been  agentle  surcease  from  them  to  ride  again  in  her  father's  spacious  landau  and  pick  up  the  threads  of  past  memories.  And  Lin,  for  his  part,  was  happy  to  see  my  mother  back  in  her  home  town;  he  not  only  treated  her  with  the  respect  of  the  old  days  but  gave  her  special  rates  and  spe-  cial  consideration.  Each  time  he  served  her,  he  wore  the  topper  he  had  worn  when  he  drove  my  grandfather.  &quot;This  alone  reveals  a  delicacy  of  sentiment  to  be  found  only  among  the  uncultured  but  warmhearted  poor,&quot;  my  mother  ob-  served,  very  moved.  Actually,  we  did  not  have  to  call  on  Lin  very  often  at  first.  When  we  did,  we  would  send  to  tell  him  that  we  wanted  him  at  the  door  at  a  certain  time,  or  that  we  would  be  arriving  at  the  station  on  a  certain  train,  and  we  could  be  sure  that  he  would  be  there  punctually,  bowing  and  smiling,  top  hat  in  hand,  ready  to  seat  my  mother  in  the  place  of  honor  and,  if  there  was  a  chill  in  the  air,  to  cover  her  legs  with  a  lap  robe.  He  was  a  strange  man.  With  the  years,  he  seemed  to  have  become  shorter  and  heavier.  He  had  large,  slightly  sloping  shoulders,  a  square  face  always  red  from  sun  or  wine,  and  the  sliest  eyes  I  have  ever  seen.  In  their  depths,  you  could  read  clearly  that  every  bow  and  sweep  of  the  top  hat,  every  obse-  quious  gesture  he  made  us,  was  in  part  sincere,  in  part  lightly  mocking.  In  his  manner,  there  was  always  the  respectful  irony  that  many  people  in  the  Veneto  " b"assume  to  assert  themselves.  In  wine  he  found  everything,  though  he  never  lost  his  grip  on  reality;  he  had  goodness  and  cynicism,  obsequiousness  and  disdain,  resignation  and  rebellion,  and  he  came  to  terms  with  them  all  as  best  he  could.  Someone  told  my  mother  once  that  Lin  beat  his  wife,  and  my  mother,  being  impulsive,  confronted  him  with  this  in-  formation  the  very  next  time  she  saw  him.  He  did  not  deny  it,  but  there  was  such  astonishment  in  his  expression  that  she  interpreted  it  then  and  there  as  confirmation  of  his  innocence  and  has-  tened  to  reassure  him.  &quot;You  poor  devil!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  all  the  gossip  of  idle  tongues.  I  know  you  wouldn't  hurt  a  fly.&quot;  And  my  mother  was  completely  sure  of  this,  because  in  the  family  it  had  always  been  noted  that  Lin  was  one  of  those  rare  and  expert  coachmen  who  never  took  a  whip  to  their  horses.  In  her  simplicity,  my  mother  did  not  stop  to  think  that  the  care  of  an  expensive  horse  is  one  thing,  the  care  ofa  wife  another.  In  any  case,  Lin  knew  how  to  handle  my  mother.  He  used  a  system  of  con-  fidential  deference,  behaving  like  a  serv-  ant  who  feels  himself  honored  to  know  everything  concerning  the  family  he  works  for.  He  cultivated  the  art  of  al-  ways  making  subtle,  nostalgic  references  to  a  past  that  my  mother  and  he  had  shared  during  that  happier  time  when  he  was  a  member  of  the  household.  &quot;What  a  pretty  little  girl  you  were,  Signora  Lucia!&quot;  Lin  would  say  to  her.  &quot;Do  you  remember  those  fine  days  when  your  parents  were  still  living,  and  we  all  would  go  to  the  country  to  spend  a  while  at  Breganze?  Ah,  those  were  the  times!  Ladies  were  ladies,  and  gentlemen  were  gentlemen!  And  plenty  of  work  for  everyone-not  like  today.  With  your  permission,  let  me  say,  Signora  Lucia,  that  you  are  still  beauti-  ful.  Even  more  than  your  own  beautiful  daughters.&quot;  My  sisters  were  always  amused  at  this  banter,  but  by  the  time  the  elder  was  seventeen  and  the  younger  fifteen,  they  were,  in  truth,  quite  lovely.  They  and  my  mother  began  to  take  many  excur-  sions  together.  They  travelled  to  4974616c79  for  the  sea  air,  and  to  rest  and  visit  with  our  cousins,  and  to  Ferrara  to  see  our  aunt,  the  nun,  and  every  time  they  went  away  it  was  Lin  who  drove  them  to  the  station  and  met  them  on  their  return.  And  then,  one  day,  my  mother  began  to  complain  that  the  new  generation  in  Vicenza  had  become  truly  exasperating  in  its  lack  of  good  manners  and  discre-  tion.  &quot;Every  time  the  girls  and  I  go   " b"through  town  in  the  carriage,  it  seems,  and  especially  on  weekends  and  holi-  days,  we  pass  those  loafers  in  front  of  the  caf\xc3\xa9s,  and  there's  always  some  young  hoodlum  who  has  nothing  better  to  do  than  come  right  up  to  the  carriage  and  stare  at  us.  Sometimes  they  actually  be-  gin  to  flirt  with  the  girls.  It's  very  an-  noying.  Even  poor  Lin  is  embarrassed.&quot;  In  fact,  on  the  next  occasion  Lin  said  to  her,  &quot;Excuse  me,  Signora  Lucia,  but  since  the  girls  attract  so  much  attention,  perhaps  it  would  be  better  for  us  to  go  by  the  side  streets,  instead  of  through  the  middle  of  town,  even  if  it  takes  a  little  longer.&quot;  &quot;No,  and  then  no!&quot;  my  mother  an-  swered,  with  the  utmost  indignation.  &quot;If  things  go  on  like  this,  I'll  give  the  next  hoodlum  a  lesson  he  deserves.  I'll  take  my  umbrella.&quot;  And  though  Lin  seemed  truly  con-  cerned  about  the  matter,  my  sisters  and  1  were  merely  amused,  and  old  Mariolina,  the  woman  who  helped  around  the  house,  laughed  outright  when  my  moth-  er  decried  the  young  men's  brash  be-  havior.  Then,  one  Saturday,  my  motherand  sisters  returned  from  a  trip  to  4974616c79,  and  Lin  went,  as  usual,  to  meet  them  at  the  station  and  bring  them  home.  .|  They  crossed  the  city  at  a  leisurely  pace,  for  it  was  a  lovely,  mild  day,  and  the  streets  were  festive,  crowded  with  peo-  ple  out  to  enjoy  the  sun.  The  carriage  stopped  for  a  traffic  signal  near  a  caf\xc3\xa9  with  a  crowd  of  young  men  lounging  about  in  front  of  it,  and  one  of  them  suddenly  jumped  up  on  the  foot  drop  of  the  carriage,  put  his  head  under  the  canopy,  winked  at  the  elder  of  my  sis-  ters,  and  said,  &quot;'You're  as  beautiful  as  a  flame.  Where  did  they  find  you?  Can  I  come  and  see  you  tonight?&quot;  My  mother  was  beside  herself  with  rage.  She  banged  the  fellow  on  the  head  with  her  umbrella,  which  she  had  in-  deed  carried  along,  and  then,  in  an  ac-  cess  of  zeal,  rapped  it  excitedly  against  Lin's  back,  as  if  she  were  whipping  the  horse,  and  called  out,  &quot;Away!  Away  from  this  inferno  of  rogues  and  vaga-  bonds!&quot;  The  carriage  arrived  home  at  a  fine  clip,  the  horse  clattering  valiantly  over  the  old  cobbled  streets,  my  sisters  gig-  gling,  and  my  mother  red  in  the  face  with  anger.  As  for  Lin,  as  soon  as  the  baggage  had  been  taken  care  of,  he  dis-  appeared  in  what  appeared  to  be  un-  usual  confusion,  without  even  giving  my  mother  a  final  bow  and  salutation.  &quot;But  didn't  you  know?&quot;  Mariolina  said  as  she  helped  my  mother  lie  down  on  the  chaise  and  fanned  her.  &quot;Lin  is " b"the  one  who  has  the  contract.  That's  right,&quot;  she  continued,  as  my  mother  showed  no  sign  of  understanding.  &quot;Lin  is  the  one  who  has  the  contract  to  take  the  madam  and  her  new  girls  out  riding  every  so  often,  so  that  the  caf\xc3\xa9  loungers  can  look  over  the  crop.&quot;  Presently,  illuminated  at  last  about  facts  of  which,  up  to  then,  she  had  had  only  a  vague  idea,  overcome  with  hu-  miliation  and  repugnance,  my  mother  swore  that  she  never  wanted  to  see  Lin  again.  When  he  came,  soon  after,  to  offer  his  apologies,  she  would  not  re-  ceive  him.  SOME  time  later,  Lin  stopped  me  on  the  street,  hat  in  hand,  his  voice  im-  ploring.  &quot;How  could  I  have  survived  the  war  if  I  hadn't  had  steady  work  with  the  girls?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  a  man.  You  know  how  it  is.  Now  I'm  old,  and  no  one  else  will  hire  me  because  I'm  under  contract  to  the  girls  But  how  can  I  make  out  otherwise?  And  your  mother,  that  saintly  woman-can't  she  under-  stand?  I  take  the  old  ones  to  the  sta-  tion  and  I  bring  the  new  ones  back,  that's  all,  and  the  young  men  wait  for  Number  Six  to  go  through  town,  so  they  can  look  them  over.&quot;  But  when  I  told  my  mother  what  Lin  had  said,  she  berated  me  for  having  even  spoken  to  the  wretch-the  be-  trayer  of  sacred  memories  and  defiler  of  sacrosanct  vehicles.  Without  mention-  ing  him  by  name  (then  or  ever  after),  she  said,  &quot;As  for  Number  Six,  we  can  pray  for  him.  But  forgive  him-never|  Oh  that,  never!&quot; "