 b"REALITY  is  what  great  writers  R:  write  about.  I  know  that,  and  if  I  am  ever  in  danger  of  forget-  ting  it,  some  great  writer  is  pretty  sure  to  give  an  interview  to  somebody  and  remind  me  of  it.  There  was  Dostoevski,  and  there  was  Proust,  and  Flaubert  and  Turgenev  and  Stendhal,  and  there  was  Henry  James,  and  then  there  is  always  this  writer  who  is  giving  the  interview  and  seems  to  have  been  influenced  by  all  the  best  people-and  what  they  all  wrote  about  was  Reality.  Granting  this,  there  come  times  when  I  want  to  escaepe  from  reality,  into  a  dream  world,  and  when  that  happens,  I  go  along  to  the  bookshop  in  [REDACTED]'s  Kingsway,  run  by  Her  Majesty's  Stationery  Office  for  the  sale  of  government  and  depart-  mental  papers  and  pamphlets,  technical  treatises,  digests,  abstracts  of  statistics,  and  leaflets  on  coccidiosis  in  chickens.  It  is  a  pleasant  place,  well  laid  out,  spacious,  free  from  compulsions.  Here  there  is  no  pressure  to  buy,  external  or  internal-no  massed  central  stall  of  Im-  portant  New  Books,  most  of  which  one  ought  to  have  read,  some  of  which  one  has  reached  the  point  of  pretending  to  have  read  (&quot;Doctor  Zhivago,&quot;  for  ex-  ample),  and  all  of  which  cost  thirty-five  shillings  or  more.  The  fear  of  so  much  as  fingering  a  book,  which  often  over-  comes  me  in  an  ordinary  bookshop,  in  case  temptation  or  moral  compulsion  or  the  sudden  arrival  of  a  salesman  may  in-  duce  me  to  make  a  purchase,  is  alto-  gether  absent  in  the  showrooms  of  H.  M.  Stationery  Office.  Nobody  can  say  that  I  ought  to  have  read  J.  S.  Bell's  &quot;Azimuthal  Inhomogeneity  in  the  Strong-Focussing  Bevatron&quot;  (Part  2,  1/9d.).  I  have  never  pretended,  or  by  my  silence  allowed  it  to  be  assumed,  that  I  have  read  &quot;Horse-Flies  of  the  Ethi-  opian  Region&quot;  (Vol.  III,  90/-),  nor,  fond  as  I  am  of  grass,  could  the  best  salesman  in  the  world  force  me  against  my  will  to  buy  &quot;Couch  or  Twitch,&quot;  in  the  Ministry  of  Agriculture's  great  se-  ries  of  Advisory  Leaflets  (3d.  each).  All  this  is  a  considerable  comfort,  and  adds  to  the  dreamlike  quality  of  the  place.  Even  when,  as  happened  a  day  or  two  ago,  I  am  standing  with  a  book  actually  open  in  my  hand-it  was  a  paperback  called  &quot;Measurement  of  Small  Holes,&quot;  sponsored  by  the  Depart-  ment  of  Scientific  and  Industrial  Re-  search-I  feel  no  pricking  of  alarm  on  hearing  the  familiar  &quot;Can  I  help  you?&quot;  at  my  elbow.  I  do  not  instinctively  slip  the  book  back  on  its  pile  with  a  half-  ashamed  &quot;I'm  just  looking  round,  thank  you.&quot;  I  can-indeed,  I  did-enter  boldly  into  conversation  with  the  sales-  man.  &quot;Is  this  a  reliable  book  on  the  sub-  ject?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;For  beginners,  I  mean?&quot;  He  said  that  as  far  as  he  knew,  it  was  the  only  book  on  the  subject,  and     added,  &quot;As  you  see,  it  is  translated  from  the  527573736961n.&quot;  So  it  was.  I.  A.  Grigor'evy  wrote  it,  and  the  D.S.I.R.  had  it  translated  be-  cause  (as  an  Editor's  Note  states)  &quot;it  appeared  likely  to  be  of  interest  to  many,  and  no  similar  manual  in  English  could  be  found.&quot;  I  should  have  liked  to  ask  the  assistant  a  few  further  questions.  Why  is  the  West  sofar  behind  [REDACTED]  in  the  measurement  of  small  holes?  What  is  [REDACTED]  doing  to  close  the  gap?  Is  she  even  in  a  position  to  estimate  its  extent,  or  are  we  hopelessly  outdis-  tanced,  too,  in  the  measurement  of  large  holes?  But  he  had  excused  himself  to  attend  to  a  customer  who  wanted  the  Herring  Industry  Board's  Twenty-  second  Annual  Report  and  by  the  time  he  was  free  again,  my  own  atten-  tion  had  been  diverted  to  some  remark-  able  transcripts  of  Industrial  Disputes  Tribunal  Awards.  It  was  interesting  to  try  to  pick  out  the  likely  best-sellers  from  a  fascinating  range  of  titles.  Would  No.  994,  &quot;Grading  of  Tree  Pruners  or  Loppers  Employed  by  Local  Authorities  in  the  County  of  Middle-  sex,&quot;  take  the  public's  fancy?  Or  No.  1021,  &quot;Payment  of  Cost  of  Living  Bonus  to  Workers  Employed  by  a  Firm  of  Beret  Manufacturers  at  Burnley&quot;?  It  was  hard  to  say.  Authorship  has  al-  ways  been  a  lottery.  Authorship!  All  these  books  and  pamphlets,  with  their  strange,  esoteric,  alluring  titles,  may  not  reflect  reality  as  the  word  is  understood  in  the  world  of  literature,  but  they  did  not,  after  all,  write  themselves.  One  can-  not  spend  half  an  hour  in  Her  Majesty's  Stationery  Office  show-  rooms  without  becoming  aware  that  behind  the  dreamlike  array  of  treatises  and  reports,  abstracts  and  Command  papers,  stands  a  great  army  of  writers,  collators,  and  ab-  stractors.  &quot;Benthic  Animals  as  In-  dicaters  of  Hydrographic  Condi-  tions  and  Climatic  Change  in  Svalbard  Waters&quot;  (for  the  record,  it  costs  22/6d.,  and  is  No.  10  of  Vol.  XX  of  Series  II  of  &quot;Fishery  Investigations&quot;)  did  not  spring  ful-  ly  documented  from  some  pigeon-  hole  in  the  Ministry  of  Agricul-  ture,  Fisheries  and  Food.  It  had  to  be  sweated  out,  phrase  by  phrase,  in  the  mind  of  Mr.  R.  W.  Blacker,  and  I  am  only  sorry  I  had  no  time  to  glance  inside  it.  Who  wrote  Defence  Specifi-  cation  No.  1128,  &quot;Socks,  Wool,  Men's,  Fine  Gauge,&quot;  incorporating  Amendment  No.  1  and  practically  given  away  at  1/3d.?  The  lack  of  recognition  of  these  writers,  simply  " b"because  they  are  specialists,  fills  me,  as  I  roam  about  this  endlessly  fascinating  shop,  with  sadness.  Anybody  can  write  a  novel.  Joyce  Cary,  on  his  own  admis-  sion,  used  to  begin  his  books  in  the  mid-  dle  with  the  big  scene  and  work  back-  wards  from  there,  recklessly  inventing  the  incidents  and  characters  necessary  to  bring  the  central  situation  about.  You  can't  go  to  work  on  &quot;Influence  of  Pres-  sure  Ratio  and  Divergence  Angle  on  the  Shock  Position  in  T'wo  Dimensional,  Over-Expanded,  Convergent-Diver-  gent  Nozzles&quot;  (4/-)  in  that  slipshod  sort  of  way.  It  has  to  be  planned  from  the  word  go.  How  did  co-authors  P.  F.  Ashwood  and  G.  W.  Crosse  set  about  the  taskof  producing  what  is,  I  believe,  the  definitive  work  on  the  subject?  How  long  did  it  take  them  to  agree  on  their  title,  which  in  itself  would  have  put  An-  thony  Trollope  seriously  behind  sched-  ule?  OBODY  seems  to  know,  or  care.  When  it  comes  to  the  Reality  boys,  there  is  no  difficulty  at  all  about  discovering  how  they  face  their  prob-  lems.  I  have  before  me  a  book,  recently  published  in  my  country  and  called  &quot;Writers  at  Work,&quot;  in  which  a  series  of  interviewers  put  probing  questions  to  William  Faulkner,  Nelson  Algren,  E.  M.  Forster,  and  many  other  writers  of  the  kind  one  trips  over  in  ordinary  bookshops.  Here  all  is  revealed.  The  processes  of  imaginative  writing  are  made  stimulatingly  clear.  Flicking  over  the  pages  at  random,  my  eye  catches:  FauiKnErR:  My  own  experience  has  been  that  the  tools  I  need  for  my  trade  are  paper,  tobacco,  food,  and  a  little  whiskey.  IntErviewrr:  Bourbon,  you  mean?  FAULKNER:  No,  I  ain't  that  particular.  Between  Scotch  and  nothing  I'll  take  Scotch.  Again:  IntERrviEwERS  [it  took  two  for  this  as-  signment]:  Did  you  ever  feel  that  you  should  try  heroin,  in  connection  with  writ-  ing  a  book  about  users?  ALGREN:  No.  Or:  IntErviewErs:  There  is,  for  us,  an  ex-  citing  spiral  of  redefinition  in  your  own  work  from  &quot;I'll  Take  My  Stand&quot;  through  the  novels  to  &quot;Segregation.&quot;.  .  .  Would  you  say  that  each  book  marks  a  redefinition  of  reality  arrived  at  through  a  combat  with  the  past?  My  eye  didn't  catch  Robert  Penn  [REDACTED]'s  answer  to  that  one.  It  hur-  ried  on  to  Alberto  Moravia:  Moravia:  I  consider  my  literary  ante-  cedents  to  be  Manzoni,  Dostoevski,  Joyce.  Of  the  French,  I  like,  primarily,    the  eighteenth  century,  Voltaire,  Diderot;  then  Stendhal,  Balzac,  Maupassant.  IntERrviEwERSs:  Flaubert?  Moravia:  Not  particularly.  IntERrvIEWwERS:  Zola?  Moravia:  Not  at  alll  ...I've  got  a  splitting  headache.  I'm  sorry.  &quot;Writers  at  Work&quot;  is  admirably  done,  and  very  much  worth  while.  But  standing  in  the  bookshop  of  H.  M.  Sta-  tionery  Office,  with  one  hand  resting  lightly  on  Mr.  R.  H.  Merson's  concise  &quot;Generalization  ofthe  Nyquist  Stability  Criterion  with  Particular  Reference  to  Phasing  Error&quot;&quot;  and  the  other  supported  by  D.  H.  Cushing's  somewhat  baldly  titled  &quot;'The  Number  of  Pilchards  in  the  Channel,&quot;  I  have  a  strong  conviction  that  &quot;Writers  at  Work&quot;  is  too  narrow  in  its  scope.  There  are  other  authors,  less  well  known,  perhaps,  but  concerned,  for  all  that,  with  a  strange  reality  of  their  own,  whose  methods  of  work-  ing  would  be  hardly  less  illuminating.  Could  not  somebody  persuade  the  In-  terviewers  to  widen  their  canvas  and  go  to  work  again?  InterviEwEr:  There  is,  for  us,  Mr.  Merson,  an  exciting  spiralof  redefini-  tion-  R.  H.  Merson:  I'm  afraid  I  haven't  read  it.  Of  course,  when  I  was  younger,  I  was  very  much  influenced  by  G.  E.  Gadd's  &quot;Numerical  Integration  of  Lami-  nar  Compressible  Boundary  Equations,  with  Special  Reference  to  the  Positionof  Separation  When  the  Wall  Is  Cooled.&quot;  IntErvirwER\xc2\xae:  Of  course.  Do  you  re-  generalize?  Or:  IntERVIEWER:  Did  you  feel,  when  you  were  working  on  &quot;Lupins  asa  Farm  Crop&quot;  forthe  Ministry  of  Agriculture,  that  you  ought  to  eatthe  damned  stuff?  Anonymous  AutHor  or  Apvisory  LrarieEt  No.  464:  No.  Or,  again:  IntErviEwER:  I  have  been  dipping  into  &quot;Arid  Zone  Research  No.  XI:  Climatology  and  Microclimatology,&quot;  from  the  &quot;Pro-  ceedings  of  the  Canberra  Symposium,&quot;  which,  as  you  will  recall,  is  offered  at  55/-,  clothbound.  What  would  you  say  is  the  first  essential  for  a  young  man  anxious  to  take  up  research  in  Arid  Zones  with  a  view  to  a  literary  career?  THe  CanBErRA  Symposium:  Beer.  Or  even:  Erits:  ...  and  Proust  and  Tolstoy  and,  of  course,  Gogol.  Of  the  Greeks,  I  pre-  fer  Aeschylus  and  Plato.  Then  there's  Mark  Twain.  I'm  afraid  I  don't  read  Dante  more  than  three  or  four  times  a  year.  IntERrviEwER:  Pasternak?  ELLs:  Never.  I  am  more  interested  at  the  moment  in  I.  A.  Grigor'ev.  You  know  his  &quot;Msmeperne  Maxex  Orsepceruit,&quot;  I  sup-  pose?  IntErviEwER:  I've  got  a  splitting  head-  ache.  I'm  sorry....  "