 b"IN  recent  weeks,  I  have  been  trying   to  correct  a  social  fault-one  that  must  have  slowed  me  down  for  years.  For  a  long  time,  I  had  been  aware  that  I  was  the  next  thing  to  a  coward  in  conversation.  At  cocktails,  at  cook-  outs,  at  Sunday  brunches,  at  buffet  sup-  pers,  I  would  come  up  with  only  the  most  mouselike  gambits.  I  would  dis-  close  to  a  lady  the  state  of  the  weather;  I  would  without  cause  tell  a  man  that  I  was  glad  to  meet  him.  And  sometimes  I  would  try,  ever  so  delicately,  to  learn  my  companions'  occupations,  if  I  didn't  already  know  them,  but  always  without  in  the  least  meaning  to  seem  to  pry.  Oh,  I  might  have  guessed  that  I  should  be  asking  how  much  he  made,  or  how  old  she  was,  or  whether  their  flat  silver  was  sterling-but  I  didn't.  I  went  skulking  along  telling  people  I  hadn't  seen  them  in  ages,  and  asking  only  what  the  good  word  was.  Then,  one  night,  I  went  to  a  theatre,  and,  browsing  in  the  Pleybil/,  came  on  an  advertisement  that  showed  a  picture  of  a  bottle  of  Lanson  champagne.  The  advertisement  declared  the  champagne  to  be  [REDACTED]'s  finest  since  1760,  and  concluded  with  a  magnificently  noncha-  lant  remark:  &quot;'There's  only  one  ques-  tion-can  you  afford  it?&quot;  Well!  Here  was  unimpeachable  social  authority,  a  firm  that  had  outlasted  empires,  and  undoubtedly  had  launched  a  thousand  ships,  proposing  an  approach  that  it  clearly  considered  both  unique  and,  somehow,  surgical-one  that  would  get  to  the  core  of  things,  and  get  there  with  no  nonsense.  I  was,  need  I  say,  elated.  It  seemed  such  a  simple  question-to  be  asked  kindly,  but  with  a  penetrating  glance,  a  direct  question  demanding  an  answer.  Whole  untrite  conversations,  whole  fields  of  sprightly  social  research,  suddenly  opened  to  me.  True,  I  had  a  series  of  small  premoni-  tory  chills.  Hadn't  someone  or  other  al-  ready  dealt  with  the  question?  And  what,  after  all,  did  Lanson  cost?  And  would  one  like  Lanson  if  one  could  afford  it?  And  how  much  Lanson  did  Lanson  mean?  A  bottle?  A  case?  Lan-  son  every  Saturday?  Lanson  once  in  a  while?  Vintage  Lanson?  Lanson  for  lunch?  Would  one  ask  Lanson's  ques-  tion  of  a  known  teetotaller?  Of  a  known  Piper-Heidsieck  user?  And  weren't  these,  all  of  them,  questions?  Neverthe-  less,  if  Lanson  said  that  the  only  question  was,  &quot;Can  you  afford  it,&quot;  that  was  good  enough  for  me.  Lanson  had  thought  it  through.  But-was  there  no  end  to  questions?  -why  limit  oneself,  I  won-  dered.  Why  stop  with  Lanson?  If  one   could  ask  such  a  question  about  cham-  pagne,  surely  one  could  ask  it  about  other  things,  and,  eager  to  expand  my  social  horizons,  I  resolved  to  ask  it.  N  the  following  evening,  armed  with  purpose  and  Webster's  defi-  nition  of  the  word  &quot;afford,&quot;  I  dropped  in  on  an  old  acquaintance.  His  name  is  Herbert.  He  lives  alone  and  he  is  of  a  philosophical  turn  of  mind,  and  these  two  things  together  have,  I  fear,  made  him  a  trifle  garrulous.  Still,  I  like  him.  We  chatted  for  a  while  of  this  and  that,  my  eye  wandering  about  his  living  room  as  I  estimated  the  cost  of  its  fur-  nishings,  and  I  had  almost  decided  to  inquire  if  he  could  afford  his  hunting  prints,  when  he  deflected  me  by  offering  me  a  Scotch.  Now,  in  the  past,  if  any-  one  did  that,  I  was  likely  to  say  simply  &quot;Yes,&quot;  or  &quot;No,&quot;  and  add  &quot;'Thank  you.&quot;  As  I  have  noted,  I  tend  to  be  craven  in  some  circumstances.  But  when  Herbert  spoke,  I  realized  that  the  moment  I  was  waiting  for  had  come.  Even  so,  I  toyed  briefly  with  half  meas-  ures.  I  thought  I  might  just  say,  &quot;Oh,  I  suppose  so,  if  that's  all  you've  got,&quot;  or  &quot;I  don't  know-what  kind  of  Scotch?  ,&quot;  and  let  it  go  at  that.  But  after  all,  I  was  there  to  do  things  the  Lanson  way,  and  in  the  end,  that  was  how  I  did  them.  &quot;Why,  thank  you,  Herbert,  I'd  like  that  very  much,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Can  you  af-  ford  it?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  afford?&quot;  Her-  bert  asked  me  in  some  surprise.  &quot;A  good  question,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;though  there  is  really  supposed  to  be  only  one,  and  I  have  already  asked  it.  What  I  mean  is,  can  you  incur,  stand,  or  bear  it  without  serious  detriment  (as  to  finan-  cial  condition,  health,  reputation,  etc.)?  Can  you  give  forth,  yield,  furnish,  as  olives  eff  ord  oil;  the  earth  eff  ords  fruit;  the  sea  effords  fish?  Furthermore,  can  you-?&quot;  &quot;I  think  I've  got  your  general  idea,&quot;  Herbert  said,  interrupting  me,  &quot;but  it  is  a  complex  question,  and  if  you  really  want  the  answer  to  it,  youhad  better     have  the  Scotch,&quot;  He  went  away  ana  returned  carrying  two  glasses,  and  talk-  ing  as  he  came.  &quot;To  make  a  rough  start,  and  because  we  must  start  some-  where,&quot;  he  said,  stretching  out  in  his  chair,  &quot;let  us  try  to  simplify.  In  the  olive-oil,  fruit,  or  fish  sense,  I  do  mani-  festly  afford  Scotch,  so  we  can  dispense  with  that  aspect  of  your  question.  By  the  way,  would  you  like  a  little  bite  of  something?  No?  Well,  then,  this  Scotch  comes  at  seven  twenty-five  plus  tax,  which  brings  it  to  seven  forty-  seven-neither  the  most  nor  the  least  expensive.  Moderation  in  all  things.&quot;  He  rose  and  began  to  pace.  &quot;We  can  leave  out,  forthe  moment,  the  question  of  how  much  I  can  bear,  without  seri-  ous  detriment,  to  pay  for  pleasure  in  general,  what  my  pleasures  are,  and  the  order  of  their  importance  to  me.  These  are  matters  to  which  I  have  given  some  study.  Know  thyself.  But  the  only  thing  that  is  relevant  at  this  point  is  the  fact  that  certain  enjoyments  overlap.  I  re-  gard  your  company  as  a  pleasure,  and  drinking  seven-fifty  Scotch  (in  modera-  tion)  as  a  pleasure  also,  and  now  I  am  having  both,  each  enhancing  the  other.  The  whole  is  greater  than  the  sum  of  its  parts,  as  any  philosopher  will  gladly  tell  you.  So  I  conclude  that  I  am  at  least  able  to  afford  this  Scotch  on  this  occasion.  But-relative  to  my  gross  income,  which  you  may  or  may  not  know  is  ...&quot;  I  did  not  know,  and  I  do  not  know.  Hypnotized,  I  dropped  off  to  sleep  at  that  very  instant,  and  woke  only  as  Her-  bert  was  concluding  his  answer  to  my  question,  a  long  time  later.  It  seemed  to  be,in  brief,  &quot;'Yes  and  no.&quot;  On  my  way  home,  I  reflected  that  I  had  not  set  myself  an  easy  task,  and  in-  deed  it  has  not  proved  so.  Lanson's  question  is  cunning.  It  is,  in  fact,  a  true  conundrum,  which  Webster  defines  as  a  thing  that  puzzles,  and  as  a  question  to  which  only  a  conjectural  answer  can  be  made.  SINCE  that  evening,  returning  now  and  again  to  [REDACTED]  theatres  to  renew  my  sense  of  mission,  I  have  asked  Lanson's  question  many  times,  and  have  ha  d  many  replies,  but  no  answers.  A  rather  prim  elderly  second  cousin  o  f  mine  as  good  as  asked  me,  in  return,  what  had  become  of  my  upbringing;  he  evaded  the  question  of  whether  or  not  he  could  afford  his  house.  One  man  thought  I  was  from  the  Bureau  of  In-  ternal  Revenue.  I  had  only  just  made  his  acquaintance.  We  were  admiring  the  same  painting  in  an  art  gallery.  He  said  he  had  recently  bought  another  work  by  the  artist.  I  asked  him  if  he  " b"could  afford  it.  He  went  off  like  a  string  of  firecrackers.  &quot;Afford?&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Afford?  It  was  a  steal!  I'm  ashamed  to  say  how  little  I  paid  for  it.  4  ford!&quot;  He  asked  me  if  I  was  from  the  Bureau,  and  I  assured  him  I  was  not.  He  said  he  guessed  that  the  time  of  year  was  what  made  a  man  so  jumpy,  and,  with-  out  a  backward  look,  he  scuttled  away.  I  remember  others.  One  bright,  wintry  afternoon,  a  few  weeks  ago,  I  ran  into  a  former  neighbor  of  mine.  We  stopped  to  pass  the  time  of  day.  He  is  a  young  man,  full  of  a  young  man's  colt-  ish  spirits.  He  was  carrying  a  dozen  long-stemmed  roses,  which  he  told  me  were  for  his  wife.  I  said  they  were  a  gift  that  was  always  sure  to  be  welcome.  &quot;But  can  you  afford  it?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;The  truth  is,  I  can't  afford  jelly-  beans,  today,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  that's  life.&quot;  He  told  me  that  he  was  cleanedout  and  in  the  doghouse-that  you  kick  the  old  gong  around  for  just  one  night,  and  " b"there  you  are,  broke  and  a  leper.  &quot;I  don't  know  whether  you  would  say  I  can  afford  these  things  or  not.&quot;  He  waved  the  roses.  &quot;But  I  can't  afford  not  to  afford  them.&quot;  And  so  it  went.  A  woman  buying  an  alligator  handbag  said  thatof  course  she  couldn't  afford  it.  &quot;It's  for  my  very  best  friend  in  the  world,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;It's  for  her  birthday.  And  she  couldn't  begin  to  afford  the  perfume  she  sent  me.&quot;  A  man  buying  a  derby  said  that  curiosity  killed  the  cat.  Another,  buying  a  necklace,  told  me  to  shinny  on  my  own  side.  And  then  I  remember  (who  would  not?  )  another  day,  when  I  was  on  a  train  and  found  myself  seated  next  to  a  massive  old  gentleman  dressed  in  eccen-  tric  style.  He  was  wearing  a  heavy,  square-cut,  voluminous  black  suit,  and  across  his  enveloping  vest,  the  buttons  of  which  were  cloth-covered,  hung  a  pon-  derous  gold  watch  chain.  He  was  partly  bald,  and  what  hair  he  had  was  white,  except  for  his  drooping  mustache,  which  was  gray.  We  exchanged  a  pleasantry  or  two.  He  carried,  I  saw,  a  gold-  headed  cane.  I  asked  him  casually  if  he  could  afford  it.  &quot;I  am  not  in  Wall  Street  for  my  health,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  let  that  pass.  I  find  it  odd  that  you  should  ask  me  that  question.  Only  the  other  day,a  person  wanted  to  know  if  I  could  afford  some  brand  or  other  of  champagne.  Now,  champagne  is  a  symbol  of  the  leisure  class,  and  if  you  destroy  the  leisure  class,  you  destroy  civilization.  On  the  other  hand,  I  no  longer  go  as  far  as  an  ac-  quaintance  of  mine  who  has  allowed  himself  to  be  quoted  as  saying  &quot;'The  public  be  damned.  The  public,  sir,  is  at  presenta  large  stockholder,  and  it  be-  hooves  us  to  know  its  ways,  and  not  sell  [REDACTED]  short.  What  interests  me  at  the  moment  is  this-I  must  say  I  dis-  like  the  word-revolution  in  manners.  Has  it  caught  on  with  the-ah-public,  do  you  think,  or  will  it  pass?&quot;  &quot;It  will  probably  pass  after  the  cur-  rent  theatrical  season,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  can  you  afford  Lanson?  It  may  strike  you  as  a  silly  question,  but  I  assure  you  it  is  the  only  one.&quot;  He  put  one  thumb  into  an  armhole  of  his  vest  and  turned  his  piercing  gaze  and  great  nose  toward  me.  &quot;If  that  is  the  only  question,  have  you  ever  felt  obliged  to  ask  it  of  yourself?&quot;  he  inquired.  &quot;Because,  if  you  have  to  ask  if  you  can  afford  champagne-you  can't.&quot;  He  rose  and  strode  off  to  the  club  car,  terminating  our  conversation.  I  SHOULD  explain  that  my  chief  en-  counter  with  Lanson  occurred  some  years  ago.  I  was  new  here  then,  and  the  time  and  the  city  were  full  of  bustle.  &quot;Jumbo&quot;  was  in  the  Hippodrome,  and  the  beguine,  danced  by  a  girl  named  June  Knight,  was  beginning,  for  the  first  time,  at  the  Music  Box.  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  was  all  over  the  papers,  Shirley  Temple  movies  were  all  over  town,  and  during  Christmas  week  Fiorello  LaGuardia,  heralded  by  two  police  buglers,  appeared  at  the  Bronx  Terminal  Market  at  seven  o'clock  of  a  cold  morning,  climbed  onto  the  tail-  gate  of  a  truck,  and  read  a  proclamation  against  small  artichokes.  All  this-and  much  more  that  went  on-seemed  lovely  to  me,  and  in  retro-  spect  much  of  it  appears  to  have  been  handed  me,  personally,  by  a  friend  somewhat  older  than  I,  who  brought  it  all  to  a  focus  with  the  help  of  the  turn  of  the  year  and  Lanson  champagne.  He  invited  a  number  of  people  to  agala  in  midtown,  and-though  I  can't  speak  for  the  others-I  know  that  if  I  had  not  been  included,  I  would  have  been  bring-  ing  in  the  New  Year  with  root  beer.  (I  could  have  afforded  it,  considering  the  occasion.)  As  it  was,  the  occasion  was  splendid.  The  serpentines  arched,  the  confetti  blew  in  gusts.  The  collars  of  dress  shirts  were  winged,  evening  dresses  were  long,  socks  and  stockings  were  of  silk,  and  taxis  were  big  enough  to  get  into.  The  night  was  purple  and  cold,  the  dawn  gray-streaked  and  cheer-  ful,  and  the  music  went  'round  and  'round,  and  it  came  out  everywhere.  And  if  it  had  occurred  to  me  to  won-  der  whether  or  not  my  host  could  af-  ford  the  Lanson  that  went  with  it  all,  I  suppose  I  would-arbitrarily-have  answered  that  he  could.  But  I  failed.  I  muffed  my  chance.  I  didn't  \xc3\xa9zow,  and  I  never  thought  to  ask.  At  the  time,  I  hadn't  even  been  told  that  I  was  sup-  posed  to.  "