 b"IT  was  not  really  a  hill  town-noth- ing  like  Assisi  or  Perugia  or  Sa-  racinesco,  perched  on  a  three-thou-  sand-foot  crag,  with  walls  the  dispiriting  gray  of  shirt  cardboards  and  mustard  lichen  blooming  on  the  crooked  roofs,  The  land,  in  fact,  was  flat,  the  houses  frame.  This  was  in  the  eastern  United  [REDACTED],  and  the  kind  of  place  where  most  of  us  live.  It  was  the  unincorporated  township  of  B--,  with  a  population  of  perhaps  two  hundred  married  cou-  ples,  all  of  them  with  dogs  and  children,  and  many  of  them  with  servants;  it  resembled  a  hill  town  only  in  a  man-  ner  of  speaking,  in  that  the  ailing,  the  disheartened,  and  the  poor  could  not  ascend  the  steep  moral  path  that  formed  its  natural  defense,  and  the  moment  any  of  the  inhabitants  became  infected  with  unhappiness  or  discontent,  they  sensed  the  hopelessness  of  existing  on  such  a  high  spiritual  altitude,  and  went  to  live  in  the  plain.  Life  was  unprecedentedly  comfortable  and  tranquil.  B--  was  exclusively  for  the  felicitous.  The  house-  wives  kissed  their  husbands  tenderly  in  the  morning  and  passionately  at  night-  fall.  In  nearly  every  house  there  was  love,  graciousness,  and  high  hopes.  The  schools  were  excellent,  the  roads  were  smooth,  the  drains  and  other  services  were  ideal,  and  one  spring  evening  at  dusk  an  im-  mense  scarlet  moving  van  with  gold  lettering  on  its  sides  came  up  the  street  and  stopped  in  front  of  the  Marple  house,  which  had  been  empty  then  for  three  months.  The  gilt  and  scarlet  of  the  van,  bright  even  in  the  twilight,  was  an  inspired  attempt  to  dis-  guise  the  true  sorrow-  fulness  of  wandering.  &quot;We  Carry  Loads  and  Part  Loads  to  All  Far  Distant  Places,&quot;  said  the  gold  letters  on  the  sides,  and  this  legend  had  the  effect  ofa  distant  train  whistle.  Martha  Folkestone,  who  lived  next  door,  watched  through  a  window  as  the  portables  of  her  new  neighbors  were  carried  across  the  porch.  &quot;''That  looks  like  real  Chippendale,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;although  it's  hard    to  tell  in  this  light.  They  have  two  children.  They  seem  like  nice  people.  Oh,  I  wish  there  was  something  I  could  bring  them  to  make  them  feel  at  home.  Do  you  think  they'd  like  flowers?  I  suppose  we  could  ask  them  for  a  drink.  Do  you  think  they'd  like  a  drink?  Would  you  want  to  go  over  and  ask  them  if  they'd  like  a  drink?&quot;  Later,  when  the  furniture  was  all  indoors  and  the  van  had  gone,  Charlie  Folkestone  crossed  the  lawn  between  the  two  houses  and  introduced  himself  to  Peaches  and  Gee-Gee,  This  is  what  he  saw.  Peaches  was  peaches-blond  and  warm,  with  a  low-cut  dress  and  a  luminous  front.  Gee-Gee  had  been  a  handsome  man,  and  perhaps  still  was,  although  his  yellow  curls  were  thin.  His  face  seemed  both  angelic  and  men-  acing.  He  had  never  (Charlie  learned  later)  been  a  boxer,  but  his  eyes  were  slightly  squinted  and  his  square,  hand-  some  forehead  had  the  conformation  of  layers  of  scar  tissue.  You  might  have  said  that  his  look  was  thoughtful  until  you  realized  that  he  was  not  a  thought-  ful  man.  It  was  the  earnest  and  con-  tained  look  of  those  who  area  little  hard  of  hearing  or  a  little  stupid.  They  would  be  delighted  to  have  a drink.  'They  would  be  right  over.  Peaches  wanted  to  put  on  some  lipstick  and  say  good  night  to  the  children,  and  then  they  would  be  right  over.  They  came  right  over,  and  what  seemed  to  be  an  unusually  pleasant  evening  began.  The  Folkestones  had  been  worried  about  who  their  new  neighbors  would  be,  and  to  find  a  couple  as  sympathetic  as  Gee-Gee  and  Peaches  made  them  very  high-spirited.  Like  everyone  else,  they  loved  to  express  an  opinion  about  their  neighbors,  and  Gee-Gee  and  Peaches  were,  naturally,  interested.  It  was  the  beginning  of  a  friendship,  and  the  Folke-  stones  overlooked  their  usual  concern  withtime  and  sobriety.  It  got  late-it  was  past  midnight-and  Charlie  did  not  notice  how  much  whiskey  was  being  poured  or  that  Gee-Gee  seemed  to  be  getting  drunk.  Gee-Gee  became  very  quiet-he  dropped  out  of  the  conver-  sation-and  then  he  suddenly  inter-  rupted  Martha  in  a  flat,  unpleasant  drawl.  &quot;God,  but  you're  stuffy  people,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  no,  Gee-Gee!&quot;  Peaches  said.  &quot;Not  on  our  first  night!&quot;  \xc2\xabYou've  had  too  much  to  drink,  Gee-  Gee,&quot;  Charlie  said.  &quot;Like  hell  I  have,&quot;  said  Gee-Gee.  He  bent  over  and  began  to  unlace  his  shoes.  &quot;I  haven't  had  half  enough.&quot;  &quot;Please,  Gee-Gee,  please,&quot;  Peaches  said.  &quot;I  have  to  teach  them,  honey,&quot;  Gee-Gee  said.  &quot;'They've  got  to  learn.&quot;  Then  he  stood  up  and,  with  the  cunning  and  dexterity  of  a  drunk,  got  out  of  most  of  his  cloth-  ing  before  anyone  could  stop  him.  &quot;Get  out  of  here,&quot;  Charlie  said.  &quot;'The  pleasure's  all  mine,  neighbor,&quot;  said  Gee-Gee.  He  kicked  over  a  hammered-brass  umbrella  stand  on  his  way  out  the  door.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  frightfully  sorry!&quot;  Peaches  said.  &quot;I  feel  terribly  about  this!&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,  my  dear,&quot;  Martha  said.  &quot;He's  probably  very  tired,  and  we've  all  had  too  much  to  drink.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Peaches  said.  &quot;It  always  happens.  Everywhere.  We've  moved  eight  times  in  the  last  eight  years,  and  " b"there's  never  been  any-  one  to  say  goodbye  to  us.  Not  a  soul.  Oh,  he  was  a  beautiful  man  when  I  first  knew  him!  You  never  saw  anyone  sofine  and  strong  and  generous.  'They  called  him  the  Greek  God  at  college.  That's  why  he's  called  Gee-Gee.  He  was  All-America  twice,  but  he  was  never  a  mon-  ey  player-he  always  played  straight  out  of  his  heart.  Everybody  loved  him.  Now  it's  all  gone,  but  I  tell  myself  that  I  once  had  the  love  of  a  good  man.  I  don't  think  many  women  have  known  that  kind  of  love.  Oh,  I  wish  he'd  come  back.  I  wish  he'd  be  the  way  he  was.  The  night  before  last,  when  we  were  packing  up  the  dishes  in  the  old  house,  he  got  drunk  and  I  slapped  him  in  the  face,  and  I  shouted  at  him,  'Come  back!  Come  back!  Come  back  to  me,  Gee-Gee!'  But  he  didn't  listen.  He  didn't  hear  me.  He  doesn't  hear  anyone  any  more-not  even  the  voices  of  his  children.  I  ask  myself  every  day  what  I've  done  to  be  punished  so  cruelly.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  my  dear!&quot;  Martha  said.  &quot;You  won't  be  around  to  say  good-  bye  when  we  go,&quot;  Peaches  said.  &quot;We'll  last  a  year.  You  wait  and  see.  Some  people  have  tender  farewell  parties,  but  even  the  garbage  man  in  the  last  place  was  glad  to  see  us  go.&quot;  With  a  grace  and  resignation  that  transcended  the  ruined  evening,  she  began  to  gather  up  the  clothing  that  her  husband  had  scattered  on  the  rug.  &quot;Each  time  we  move,  I  think  that  the  change  will  be  good  for  him,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;When  we  got  here  tonight,  it  all  looked  so  pretty  and  quiet  that  I  thought  he  might  change.  Well,  you  don't  have  to  ask  us  again.  You  know  what  it's  like.&quot;  A  FEW  days  or  perhaps  a  week  later,  Charlie  saw  Gee-Gee  on  the  station  platform  in  the  morning  and  saw  how  completely  personable  his  neighbor  was  when  he  was  sober.  B--  was  not  an  easy  place  to  con-  quer,  but  Gee-Gee  seemed  already  to  have  won  the  affectionate  respect  of  his  neighbors.  Charlie  could  see,  as  he  watched  him  standing  in  the  sun  among  the  other  commuters,  that  he  would  be  asked  to  join  everything.  Gee-Gee  greeted  Charlie  heartily,  and  there  was  no  trace  of  the  ugliness  he  had  shown  that  night.  Indeed,  it  was  impossible  to  believe  that  this  charming  and  hand-  some  man  had  been  so  offensive.  In  the  morning  light,  and  surrounded  by  new  friends,  he  seemed  to  challenge  the  memory.  He  seemed  almost  able  to  transfer  the  blame  onto  Charlie.  Arrangements  for  the  social  initia-  tion  of  the  new  couple  were  unusually  rapid  and  elaborate,  and  began  with  a  dinner  party  at  the  Watermans'.  Char-  lie  was  already  at  the  party  when  Gee-  Gee  and  Peaches  came  in,  and  they  came  in  like  royalty.  Arm  in  arm,  radi-  ant  and  beautiful,  they  seemed,  at  the  moment  of  their  entrance,  to  make  the  evening.  It  was  a  large  party,  and  Charlie  hardly  saw  them  until  they  went  in  to  dinner.  He  sat  close  to  Peaches,  but  Gee-Gee  was  at  the  other   end  of  the  table.  They  were  halfway  through  dessert  when  Gee-Gee's  flat  and  unpleasant  drawl  sounded,  like  a  parade  command,  over  the  general  con-  versation.  &quot;What  a  God-damned  bunch  of  stuffed  shirts!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  put  a  little  vitality  into  the  conversation,  shall  we?&quot;  He  sprang  onto  the  center  of  the  table  and  began  to  sing  a  dirty  song  and  dance  a  jig.  Women  screamed.  Dishes  were  upset  and  broken.  Dresses  were  ruined.  Peaches  pled  to  her  way-  ward  husband.  The  effect  of  this  out-  rageous  performance  was  to  empty  the  dining  room  of  everyone  but  Gee-Gee  and  Charlie.  &quot;Get  down  off  there,  Gee-Gee,&quot;  Charlie  said.  &quot;I  have  to  teach  them,&quot;  Gee-Gee  said.  &quot;I've  got  to  teach  them.&quot;  You're  not  teaching  anybody  any-  thing  but  the  fact  that  you're  a  rotten  drunk.&quot;  &quot;They've  got  to  learn,&quot;  Gee-Gee  said.  &quot;I've  got  to  teach  them.&quot;  He  " b"got  down  off  the  table,  breaking  a  few  more  dishes,  and  wandered  out  into  the  kitchen,  where  he  embraced  the  cook,  and  then  he  went  on  out  into  the  night.  NE  might  have  thought  that  this  was  warning  enough  to  a  worldly  community,  but  unusual  amounts  of  forgiveness  were  extended  to  Gee-Gee.  One  liked  him,  and  there  was  always  the  chance  that  he  might  not  misbehave.  There  was  always  his  charming  figure  in  the  morning  light  to  confound  his  enemics,  but  it  began  to  seem  more  and  more  like  a  lurethat  would  let  him  into  houses  where  he  could  break  the  crock-  ery.  Forgiveness  was  not  what  he  wanted,  and  if  he  seemed  to  have  failed  at  offending  the  sensibilities  of  his  host-  ess  he  would  increase  and  complicate  his  outrageousness.  No  one  had  ever  seen  anything  like  it.  He  undressed  at  the  Bilkers'.  At  the  Levys'  he  drop-kicked  a  bowl  of  soft  cheese  onto  the  ceiling.  He  danced  the  Highland  flingin  his  underpants,  set  fire  to  wastebaskets,  and  swung  on  the  Townsends'  chandelier-  that  famous  chandelier.  Inside  of  six  weeks,  there  was  not  a  house  in  B---  where  he  was  welcome.  The  Folkestones  still  saw  him,  of  course-saw  him  in  his  garden  in  the  evening  and  talked  to  him  across  the     hedge.  Charlie  was  greatly  troubled  at  the  spectacle  of  someone  falling  so  swiftly  from  grace,  and  he  would  have  liked  to  help.  He  and  Martha  talked  with  Peaches,  but  Peaches  was  without  hope.  She  did  not  understand  what  had  happened  to  her  Adonis,  and  that  was  as  far  as  her  intelligence  took  her.  Now  and  then  some  innocent  stranger  from  the  next  town  or  perhaps  some  new-  comer  would  be  taken  with  Gee-Gee  and  ask  him  to  dinner.  The  perform-  ance  was  always  the  same,  the  dishes  were  always  broken.  The  Folkestones  were  neighbors-there  was  this  ancient  bond-and  Charlie  may  have  thought  that  he  could  save  the  man.  When  Gee-  Gee  and  Peaches  quarrelled,  sometimes  she  telephoned  Charlie  and  asked  his  protection.  He  went  there  one  summer  evening  after  she  had  telephoned.  The  quarrel  was  over;  Peaches  was  reading  a  comic  book  in  the  living  room,  and  Gee-Gee  was  sitting  at  the  dining-room  table  with  a  drink  in  his  hand.  Charlie  stood  over  his  friend.  &quot;Gee-Gee.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98ch&quot;,  &quot;Will  you  go  on  the  wagon?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO&quot;,  &quot;Will  you  go  on  the  wagon  if  I  goon  the  wagon?&quot;  (fNO.77  \xc2\xabWill  you  go  to  a  psychiatrist?&quot;  &quot;Why?  I  know  my-  self.  I  only  have  to  play  it  out.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  go  toa  psychiatrist  if  I  go  with  you?  %  (&lt;NO.))  &quot;Will  you  do  any-  thing  to  help  yourself?&quot;  &quot;Ihave  to  teach  them.&quot;  Then  he  threw  back  his  head  and  sobbed,  &quot;Oh,  Jesus  .  ..&quot;  Charlie  turned  away.  It  seemed,  at  that  in-  stant,  that  Gee-Gee  had  heard,  from  some  wilderness  of  his  own,  the  noise  of  a  distant  horn  that  prophesied  the  manner  and  the  hour  of  his  death.  There  seemed  to  be  some  tremendous  valid-  ity  to  the  drunken  man.  Folkestone  felt  an  up-  heaval  in  his  spirit.  He  felt  he  understood  the  drunken  man's  mes-  sage;  he  had  always  sensed  it.  It  was  at  the  bottom  of  their  friend-  ship.  Gee-Gee  was  an  advocate  for  the  lame,  the  diseased,  the  poor,  for  those  who  through  no  fault  of  their  own  live  out  their  lives  in  misery  and  pain.  To  the  happy  and  the  wellborn  and  the  rich  he  had  this  to  say-that  for  all  their  affection,  their  comforts,  and  their  privileges,  they  would  not  be  spared  the  pangs  of  anger  and  lust  and  the  agonies  of  death.  He  only  meant  them  to  be  prepared  for  the  blow  when  the  blow  fell.  But  was  it  not  possible  to  accept  this  truth  with-  out  having  him  dance  a  jig  in  your  liv-  ing  room?  He  spoke  from  some  vision  of  the  suffering  in  life,  but  was  it  neces-  sary  to  suffer  oneself  in  order  to  accept  his  message?  It  seemed  so.  &quot;Gee-Gee?&quot;  Charlie  asked.  t\xe2\x80\x98YCS.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;What  are  you  trying  to  teach  them?&quot;  &quot;You'll  never  know.  God-damned  stuffy.&quot;  You're  too  HEY  didn't  even  last  a  year.  In  November,  someone  made  them  a  decent  offer  for  the  house  and  they  sold  it.  The  gold-and-scarlet  moving  van  returned,  and  they  crossed  the  state  line,  into  the  town  of  Y--,  where  they  bought  another  house.  The  Folke-  stones  were  glad  to  see  them  go.  A  well-  behaved  young  couple  took  their  place,  and  everything  was  as  it  had  been.  They  " b"were  seldom  remembered.  But  through  a  string  of  friends  Charlie  learned,  the  following  winter,  that  Gee-Gee  had  broken  his  hip  playing  football  a  day  or  two  before  Christmas.  This  fact,  for  some  reason,  remained  with  him,  and  one  Sunday  afternoon  when  he  had  nothing  much  better  to  do  he  got  Gee-  Gee's  telephone  number  from  Informa-  tion  and  called  his  old  neighbor  to  say  that  he  was  coming  over  for  a  drink.  Gee-Gee  roared  with  enthusiasm  and  gave  Charlie  directions  for  getting  to  the  house.  It  was  a  long  drive,  and  halfway  there  Charlie  wondered  why  he  had  un-  dertaken  it.  Y--  was  several  cuts  be-  low  B-.  The  house  was  in  a  develop-  ment,  and  the  builder  had  not  stopped  at  mere  ugliness;  he  had  constructed  a  community  that  looked,  with  its  recti-  linear  windows,  like  a  penal  colony.  The  streets  were  named  after  universities  Princeton  Street,  Yale  Street,  Rutgers  Street,  and  so  forth.  Only  a  few  of  the  houses  had  been  sold,  and  Gee-Gee's  house  was  surrounded  by  empty  dwell-  ings.  Charlie  rang  the  bell  and  heard  Gee-Gee  shouting  for  him  to  come  in.  The  house  was  a  mess,  and  as  he  was  taking  his  coat  off,  Gee-Gee  came  slow-  ly  down  the  hall  half  riding  in  a  child's  wagon,  which  he  propelled  by  pushing  a  crutch.  His  right  hip  and  leg  were  encased  in  a  massive  cast.  &quot;Where's  Peaches?&quot;  Charlie  asked.  &quot;She's  in  Nassau.  She  and  thechildren  went  to  Nassau  for  Christmas.&quot;  &quot;A  n  d  alone?&quot;  &quot;I  wanted  them  to  go.  I  made  them  go  Nothing  can  be  done  for  me.  I  get  along  all  right  on  this  wagon.  When  I'm  hungry,  I  make  a  sandwich.  I  wanted  them  to  go.  I  made  them  go.  Peaches  needed  a  vacation,  and  I  like  being  alone  Come  on  into  the  liv-  ing  room  and  make  me  a  drink.  I  can't  get  the  ice  trays  out-that's  about  the  only  thing  I  can't  do.  I  can  shave  and  get  into  bed  and  so  forth,  but  I  can't  get  the  ice  trays  out.&quot;  Charlie  got  some  ice.  He  was  glad  to  have  something  to  do.  The  left  you  image  of  Gee-Gee  in  his  wagon  had  shocked  him,  and  he  felt  a  terrify-  ing  stillness  over  the  place.  Out  of  the  kitchen  window  he  could  see  row  upon  row  of  ugly,  empty  houses.  He  felt  as  if  some  hideous  melodrama  were  ap-  proaching  its  climax.  But  in  the  liv-  ing  room  Gee-Gee  was  his  most  charm-  ing,  and  his  smile  and  his  voice  gave  the  afternoon  a  momentary  equilibri-  um.  Charlie  asked  if  Gee-Gee  couldn't  get  a  nurse  to  stay  with  him.  Couldn't  someone  be  found  to  stay  with  him?  Couldn't  he  at  least  rent  a  wheel-  chair?  Gee-Gee  laughed  away  all  these  suggestions.  He  was  contented.  Peaches  had  written  him  from  Nassau.  The  were  having  a  marvellous  time,  Charlie  believed  that  Gee-Gee  had  made  them  go.  It  was  this  detail,  above  everything  else,  that  gave  the  situation  its  horror.  Peaches  would  have  liked,  naturally  enough,  to  go  to  Nassau,  but  she  never  would  have  insisted.  She  was  much  too  innocent  to  have  any  envious  dreams  of  travel.  Gee-Gee  would  have  insisted  that  she  go;  he  would  have  made  the  trip  so  tempting  that  she  could  not,  in  her  innocence,  resist  it.  Did  he  wish  to  be  left  alone,  drunken  and   crippled,  in  an  isolated  house?  Did  he  need  to  feel  abused?  It  seemed  so.  The  disorder  of  the  house  and  the  image  of  his  wife  and  children  running,  running,  running  on  some  coral  beach  seemed  like  asuccessful  contrivance-a  kind  of  triumph.  Gee-Gee  lit  a  afigeu\xe2\x80\x99cttc  and,  forget\xe2\x80\x94  ting  about  it,  lit  another,  and  fumbled  so  clumsily  with  the  matches  that  Char-  lie  saw  that  he  might  easily  burn  to  death.  Hoisting  himself  from  the  wagon  into  a  chair,  he  nearly  fell,  and  if  he  were  alone  and  fell,  he  could  easily  die  of  hunger  and  thirst  on  his  own  rug.  But  there  might  be  some  drunken  cunning  in  his  clumsiness,  his  playing  with  fire.  He  smiled  slyly  when  he  saw  the  look  on  Charlie's  face.  &quot;Don't  worry  about  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  be  all  right.  I  have  my  guardian  angel.&quot;  &quot;That's  what  everybody  thinks,&quot;  Charlie  said.  &quot;Oh,  but  I  have.&quot;  Outside,  it  had  begun  to  snow.  The  winter  sky  was  overcast,  and  it  would  soon  be  dark.  Charlie  said  thathe  had  to  go.  &quot;Sit  down,&quot;  Gee-Gee  said.  &quot;Sit  down  and  have  another  drink.&quot;  Char-  lie's  conscience  held  him  there  a  few  moments  longer.  How  could  he  openly  aban-  don  a  friend-a  neigh-  bor,  at  least-to  the  peril  of  death?  But  he  had  no  choice;  his  fam-  ily  was  waiting  and  he  had  to  go.  &quot;Don'twor-  ry  about  me,&quot;  Gee-Gee  said  when  Charlie  was  putting  on  his  coat.  &quot;I  have  my  angel.&quot;  It  was  later  than  Charlie  had  realized.  The  snow  was  heavy  now,  and  he  had  a  two-  hour  drive,  on  wind-  ing  back  roads.  There  was  a  little  rise  going  out  of  Y\xc2\xa5--,  and  the  new  snow  was  so  slick  that  he  had  trouble  making  the  hill.  There  were  steeper  hills  ahead  of  him.  Only  one  of  his  windshield  wipers  worked,  and  the  snow  quickly  covered  the  glass  and  left  him  with  one  small  aperture  onto  the  world.  The  snow  sped  into  the  headlights  at  a  dizzying  rate,  and  at  one  place  where  the  road  was  narrow  the  car  slid  off  onto  the  shoulder  and  he  had     " b"to  race  the  motor  for  ten  minutes  in  order  to  get  back  onto  the  hard  surface.  It  was  a  lonely  stretch  there-miles  from  any  house-and  he  would  have  had  a  sloppy  walk  inhis  loafers.  The  car  skidded  and  weaved  up  every  hill,  and  it  seemed  that  he  reached  the  top  by  the  thinnest  margin  of  luck.  After  driving  for  two  hours,  he  was  still  far  from  home.  The  snow  was  so  deep  that  guiding  the  car  was  like  the  trickiest  kind  of  navigation.  It  took  him  three  hours  to  get  back,  and  he  was  tired  when  he  drove  into  the  darkness  and  peace  of  his  own  garage-tired  and  infinitely  grateful.  Martha  and  the  children  had  eaten  their  supper,  and  she  wanted  to  go  over  to  the  Lissoms'  and  discuss  some  school-board  business.  He  told  her  that  the  driving  was  bad,  and  since  it  was  such  a  short  distance,  she  decided  to  walk.  He  lit  a  fire  and  made  a  drink,  and  the  children  sat  at  the  table  with  him  while  he  ate  his  supper.  After  supper  on  Sunday  nights,  the  Folkestones  played,  or  tried  to  play,  trios.  Charlie  played  the  clarinet,  his  daughter  played  the  piano,  and  his  older  son  had  a  tenor  recorder.  The  baby  wandered  around  underfoot.  This  Sun-  day  night  they  played  simple  arrange-  ments  of  eighteenth-century  music  in  the  pleasantest  family  atmosphere-  complimenting  themselves  when  they  squeezed  through  a  difficult  passage,  and  extending  into  the  music  what  was  best  in  their  relationship.  They  were  playing  a  Vivaldi  sonata  when  the  tele-  phone  rang.  Charlie  knew  immediately  who  it  was.  &quot;Charlie,  Charlie,&quot;  Gee-Gee  said.  &quot;Jesus.  I'm  in  hot  water.  Right  after  you  left  I  fell  out  of  the  God-damned  wagon.  It  took  me  two  hours  to  get  to  the  telephone.  You've  got  to  get  over.  There's  nobody  else,  You're  my  only  friend.  You've  got  to  get  over  here.  Charlie?:  You  hear  [REDACTED];  It  must  have  been  the  strangeness  of  the  look  on  Charlie's  facethat  made  the  baby  scream.  'The  little  girl  picked  him  up  in  her  arms,  and  stared,  as  did  the  other  boy,  at  their  father.  They  seemed  to  know  the  whole  picture,  every  detail  of  it,  and  they  looked  at  him  calmly,  as  if  they  were  expecting  him  to  make  some  decision  that  had  nothing  to  do  with  the  continuing  of  a  pleasant  evening  in  a  snowbound  house-but  a  decision  that  would  have  a  profound  effect  on  their  knowledge  of  him  andon  their  final  happiness.  Their  looks  were,  he  thought,  clear  and  appealing,  and  whatever  he  did  would  be  final.  &quot;You  hear  me,  Charlie?  You  hear  [REDACTED];  Gee-Gee  asked.  &quot;It  took  me  damned  near  two  hours  to  crawl  over  to  the  telephone.  You've  got  to  help  me.  No  one  else  will  come.&quot;  Charlie  hung  up.  Gee-Gee  must  have  heard  the  sound  of  his  breathing  and  the  baby  crying,  but  Charlie  had  said  nothing.  He  gave  no  explanation  to  the  children,  and  they  asked  for  none.  They  knew.  His  daughter  went  back  to  the  piano,  and  when  the  telephone  rang  again  and  he  did  not  answer  it,  no  one  questioned  the  ringing  of  the  phone.  They  seemed  happy  and  relieved  when  it  stopped  ringing,  and  they  played  Vi-  valdi  until  nine  o'clock,  when  he  sent  them  up  to  bed.  He  made  a  drink  to  diminish  the  feeling  that  some  emotional  explosion  had  taken  place,  that  some  violence  had  shaken  the  air.  He  did  not  know  what  " b"he  had  done  or  how  to  cope  with  his  conscience.  He  would  tell  Martha  about  it  when  she  came  in,  he  thought.  That  would  be  a  step  toward  com-  prehension.  But  when  she  re-  turned  he  said  nothing.  He  was  afraid  that  if  she  brought  her  intelligence  to  the  problem  it  would  only  confirm  his  guilt.  &quot;But  why  didn't  you  tele-  phone  me  at  the  Lissoms'?&quot;  she  might  have  asked.  &quot;I  could  have  come  home  and  you  could  have  gone  over.&quot;  She  was  too  compassionate  a  woman  to  ac-  cept  passively,  as  he  was  doing,  the  thought  of  a  friend,  a  neighbor,  lying  in  agony.  She  went  on  upstairs.  He  poured  some  whiskey  into  his  glass.  If  he  had  called  the  Lis-  soms',  if  she  had  returned  to  care  forthe  children  and  left  him  free  to  help  Gee-Gee,  would  he  have  been  able  to  make  the  return  trip  in  the  heavy  snow?  He  could  have  put  on  chains,  but  where  were  the  chains?  Were  they  in  the  car  or  in  the  cellar?  He  didn't  know.  He  hadn't  used  them  that  year.  But  perhaps  by  now  the  roads  would  have  been  plowed.  Perhaps  the  storm  was  over.  This  last,  distressing  possibility  made  him  feel  sick.  Had  the  sky  betrayed  him?  He  switched  on  the  outside  light  and  went  hesitant,  ly,  unwillingly,  toward  the  window.  The  clean  snow  gave  off  an  ingrati-  ating  sparkle,  and  the  beam  of  light  shone  into  empty  and  peaceful  air.  The  snow  must  have  stopped  a  few  minutes  after  he  had  entered  the  house.  But  how  couldhe  have  known?  How  could  he  be  expected  to  take  into  consideration  the  caprices  of  the  weather?  And  what  about  that  look  the  children  had  given  him-so  stern,  so  clear,  so  like  a  declara-  tion  that  his  place  at  that  hour  was  with  them,  and  not  with  the  succoring  of  drunkards  who  had  forfeited  the  chance  to  be  taken  seriously?  Then  the  image  of  Gee-Gee  re-  turned,  crushing  in  its  misery,  and  he  remembered  Peaches  standing  in  the  hallway  at  the  Watermans'  calling,  &quot;Come  back!  Come  back!&quot;  She  was  calling  back  the  youth  that  Charlie  had  never  known,  but  it  was  easy  to  imagine  what  Gee-Gee  must  have  been-fair,  high-spirited,  generous,  and  strong-  and  why  had  it  all  come  to  ruin?  Come  back!  Come  back!  She  seemed  to  call  after  the  sweetness  of  a  summer's  day-  roses  in  bloom  and  all  the  doors  and  windows  open  onto  the  garden.  It  was  all  there  in  her  voice;  it  was  like  the  il-  lusion  of  an  abandoned  house  in  the  last  rays  of  the  sun.  A  large  place,  falling  to  pieces,  haunted  for  children  and  a  head-  ache  for  the  police  and  fire  departments,  but,  seeing  it  with  its  windows  blazing  in  the  sunset,  one  thinks  that  they  have  all  come  back.  Cook  is  in  the  kitchen  rolling  pastry.  The  smell  of  chicken  rises  up  the  back  stairs.  The  front  rooms  are  ready  for  the  children  and  their  many  friends,  A  coal  fire  burns  in  the  grate.  Then  as  the  light  goes  off  the  windows,  the  true  ugliness  of  the  place  scowls  into  the  dusk  with  redoubled  force,  as,  when  the  notes  of  that  long-  ago  summer  left  Peaches'  voice,  one  saw  the  finality  and  confusion  of  despair  in  her  innocent  face.  Come  back!  Come  back!  He  poured  himself  some  more  whiskey,  and  as  he  raised  the  glass  to  his  mouth  he  heard  the  wind  change  and  saw-the  outside  light  was  still  on-the  snow  begin  tospin  down  again,  with  the  vindictive  swirl  of  a  blizzard.  The  road  was  impassable;  he  could  not  have  made  the  trip.  The  change  in  the  weather  had  given  him  sweet  absolution,  and  he  watched  the  snow  with  a  smile  of  love,     &quot;Maybe  we're  just  old-fashioned,  Mrs.  Haywood,  but  we  recommend  Anaconda  Copper  because  we  like  the  folks  that  run  things  up  there.&quot;  o  but  he  stayed  up  until  three  in  the  morn-  ing  with  the  bottle.  He  was  red-eyed  and  shaken  the  next  morning,  and  ducked  out  of  his  office  at  eleven  and  drank  two  Martinis.  He  had  two  more  before  lunch  and  an-  other  at  four  and  two  on  the  train,  and  came  reeling  home  for  supper.  The  clinical  details  of  heavy  drinking  are  familiar  to  all  of  us;  itis  only  the  human  picture  that  concerns  us  here,  and  Martha  was  finally  driven  to  speak  to  him.  She  spoke  most  gently.  &quot;You're  drinking  too  much,  dar-  ling,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You've  been  drinking  too  much  for  three  weeks.&quot;  &quot;My  drinking,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;is  my  own  God-damned  business.  You  mind  your  business  and  I'll  mind  mine.&quot;  It  got  worse  and  worse,  and  she  had  to  do  something.  She  finally  went  to  their  rector-a  good-looking  young  bachelor  who  practiced  both  psychology  and  liturgy-for  advice.  He  listened  sympathetically.  &quot;I  stopped  at  the  rec-  tory  this  afternoon,&quot;  she  said  when  she  got  home  that  night,  &quot;and  I  talked  with  Father  Hemming.  He  wonders  why  you  haven't  been  in  church,  and  he  wants  to  talk  to  you.  He's  such  a  good-looking  " b" man,&quot;  she  added,  trying  to  make  what  she  had  just  said  sound  less  like  a  planned  speech,  &quot;that  I  wonder  why  he's  never  married.&quot;   Charlie-drunk,  as  usual-  went  to  the  telephone  and  called  the  rectory.  &quot;Look,  Father,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My  wife  tells  me  that  you've  been  enter-  taining  her  in  the  afternoons.  Well,  I  don't  like  it.  You  keep  your  hands  off  my  wife.  You  hear  me?  That  damned  black  suit  you  wear  doesn't  cut  any  ice  with  me.  You  keep  your  hands  off  my  wife  or  I'll  bust  your  pretty  little  nose.&quot;  In  the  end,  he  lost  his  job,  and  they  had  to  move,  and  began  their  wander-  ings,  like  Gee-Gee  and  Peaches,  in  the  scarlet-and-gold  van.  AND  what  happened  to  Gee-Gee-  what  ever  became  of  him?  That  boozy  guardian  angel,  her  hair  dishev-  elled  and  the  strings  of  her  harp  broken,  still  seemed  to  hover  over  where  he  lay.  After  telephoning  Charlie  that  night,  he  telephoned  the  fire  department.  'They  were  there  in  eight  minutes  flat,  with  bells  ringing  and  sirens  blowing.  They  got  him  into  bed,  made  him  a  fresh  drink,  and  one  of  the  firemen,  who  had  nothing  better  to  do,  stayed  on  until  Peaches  got  back  from  Nassau.  They  had  a  fine  time,  eating  all  the  steaks  in  the  deep  freeze  and  drinking  a  quart  of  bourbon  every  day.  Gee-Gee  could  walk  by  the  time  Peaches  and  the  chil-  dren  got  back,  and  he  took  up  that  dis-  orderly  life  for  which  he  seemed  so  much  better  equipped  than  his  neigh-  bor,  but  they  had  to  move  at  the  end  of  the  year,  and,  like  the  Folkestones,  van-  ished  from  the  hill  towns.  "