 b"AS  far  as  Henry  could  remember-  in  all  his  eight  years-the  thatch-roofed  cottage  that  stood  alooflyjust  around  the  corner  from  the  colored  people's  street  in  which  he  lived  had  never  had  an  occupant.  And,  like  his  friends,  he  knew  that  this  house  was  a  European  one.  He  always  felt  a  thrill  of  guilt  when  he  scrambled  through  a  hole  in  the  myrtle  hedge  on  the  street  and  then  crept  across  to  the  bathroom  wall  ofthe  cottage.  He  often  climbed  halfway  up  this  particular  wall,  by  hold-  ing  on  to  a  drainpipe.  And  if  his  breath  did  not  cloud  the  window  too  quickly,  he  could  see  the  bathtub  inside,  resting  on  ball-and-claw  feet,  like  some  sleep-  ing  dragon.  But  it  was  the  garden  that  he  knew  best.  The  weeds  had  grown  so  tall  that  they  made  a  wonderful  place  in  which  to  hide  and  regain  his  breath  when  he  was  playing  hide-and-seek  with  the  oth-  ers-Willie  Abrahams  and  Gloria  and  some  of  the  smaller  children.  He  often  found  valuable  things  there,  among  the  old  boxes  and  tins.  Once,  he  had  found  a  man's  shoe  with  a  perfectly  good  lace  threaded  through  it.  And  when  he  had  removed  the  lace  and  given  it  to  his  mother  as  a  present,  she  had  thanked  him,  saying  that  it  might  come  in  handy  one  day.  He  had  also  found  a  woman's  felt  hat,  and  had  been  puzzled  when  his  mother  refused  it.  She  had  been  cross  about  that.  In  the  whole  of  [REDACTED]  Town,  he  thought,  there  was  no  garden  lovelier  than  this  one.  Certainly  there  wereno  flowers  in  it-not  even  nasturtiums-  but  there  were  many,  many  empty  wine  bottles,  with  shining  naked  stems,  and  he  liked  nothing  better  than  to  help  the  empty-bottles  man  with  his  harvest  when  he  came  by.  Henry  felt  proud  that  he  had  taught  himself  to  read  the  labels  on  some  of  the  bottles;  his  favor-  ite  was  the  bright  red-and-yellow  label  that  said  &quot;Golden  Blossom.&quot;  In  the  same  fashion,  without  any  schooling,  he  had  learned  to  read  those  notices  near  some  of  the  beaches  in  [REDACTED]  Town  that  said  \xc2\xa9EUROPEANS  ONLY,&quot;  and  when  he  played  about  in  the  garden,  though  there  was  no  such  notice  to  be  seen,  he  felt  both  alert  and  excited.  Since  the  house  had  been  emp-  ty  for  so  long,  the  manure  cart  always  bypassed  it,  and  the  fish  vender  never  blew  his  horn  as  he  went  by.  The  thatch  roof  was  crooked,  and  whitewash  had  flaked  off  the  walls.  There  was  always  a  good  fall  of  whitewash  on  the  narrow  stoep  that  ran  the  length  of  the  house  in  front.  Sometimes  the  stoep  showed  the  fresh  prints  of  dirty  naked  feet,  which  he  tried  toidentify  as  Gloria's  or  Willie's  when  it  was  their  turn  to  hide  from  him.  Willie's  feet  were  the  easier  to  distinguish,  because  at  regular  intervals  along  the  stoep  the  footprints  were  punctuated  by  a  round  blob-the  bouncing  imprint  of  the  ball  that  healways  played  with.  Henry  could  follow  this  spoor  like  a  hunter,  until  he  reached  the  jungle  at  the  end  of  the  stoep,  where  the  trail  would  vanish  into  the  tall  grass,  only  to  reappear  at  the  back  of  the  house,  on  two  narrow  ce-  ment  steps  leading  to  the  kitchen  door.  Sometimes  he  stood  on  these  steps  and  fitted  his  feet  inside  the  imprints  of  Wil-  lie's,  and  it  was  like  standing  in  shoes  that  were  much  too  big  for  him.  The  accompanying  blobof  the  ball  was  al-  ways  there,beside  the  toes  of  the  right  foot.  Some  days,  when  he  felt  daring,  he  knocked  at  the  kitchen  door  and  rattled  the  brass  handle.  But  before  you  could  count  ten,  he  would  be  around  the  cor-  ner,  to  the  safe  side  of  the  house,  by  the  bathroom  window,  and  would  dart  through  the  tunnel  in  the  hedge,  and,  panting,  run  halfway  down  the  block.  Then,  one  day,the  house  became  occupied.  And  some  days  later  Gloria  came  running  through  the  street,  flick-  ing  her  fingers  in  excitement,  to  tell  them  that  she  had  seen  the  occupant.  They  were  playing  bus-bus  at  the  time,  but  Henry's  heart  was  not  in  the  game.  Willie  Abrahams  was  always  both  the  conductor  and  the  driver,  and  he  had  divided  the  other  children  up  so  quick-  ly  that  none  of  them  really  knew  what  they  were  supposed  to  be-European  or  non-European.  There  was  some  con-  fusion  asto  where  they  should  sit.  Hen-  ry  was  supposed  to  be  a  non-European  that  day,  and  he  had  sat  in  one  of  the  European  seats,  and  Willie  had  punched     BV,  him  in  the  chest.  But  it  wasn't  Henry's  fault;  the  seats  of  the  bus  had  not  been  marked  clearly  on  the  street,  nor,  for  that  matter,  had  the  outlines  of  the  actual  bus.  Willie  always  had  his  own  way.  He  created  his  own  sound  ef-  fects  and  insisted  that  the  bus  was  moving.  But  as  faras  Henry  was  con-  cerned,  it  hadn't  moved  an  inch,  and  he  noticed  that  the  cottage  at  thecor-  ner  of  the  road  stayed  exactly  where  it  was.  He  began  to  think  about  the  cottage  and  the  hedge  and  the  garden,  which  would  now  be  forbidden  to  him.  He  told  Willie  that  he  was  sick  and  tired  of  bus-bus,  and  Willie  clouted  him  again,  this  time  on  the  ear.  He  was  glad,  therefore,  of  Gloria's  interrup-  tion  and  the  scurry  she  caused  among  the  docile  travellers  sitting  one  behind  another  in  the  middle  of  the  street.  &quot;It's  a  Jurropean!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;A  terrible  Jurropean!&quot;  All  of  them  except  Willie  Abrahams  scrambled  to  their  feet  and  followed  her  to  the  pave-  ment's  edge.  He  came  along  in  his  own  time,  tossing  his  ball  up  lightly.  &quot;You  have  never  seen  such  a  terrible  Jurropean  woman  in  your  life!&quot;  she  added.  Her  lower  lip  carried  the  im-  print  of  her  teeth.  &quot;So  what?&quot;  said  Willie  Abrahams,  busy  with  his  ball.  Henry  saw  him  throw  it  high  in  the  air  and  catch  it  in  one  hand.  Henry  remembered  certain  conversations  he  had  had  with  his  uncle.  &quot;Is  she  a  gov-  ernment's  woman?&quot;  he  asked  of  Glo-  ria  while  his  eyes  remained  on  Willie.  Willie,  he  knew,  was  only  pretending  not  to  listen  to  them  and  pretending  not  to  care,  throwing  the  ball  up  that  way  and  diverting  everyone's  attention  from  the  discussion.  It  was  a  very  new-  looking  ball,  and  it  looked  just  like  an  orange.  Since  Willie  bounced  it  only  along  the  stoeps  of  houses,  and  never  on  the  street,  if  he  could  help  it,it  was  still  clean.  He  never  gave  anyone  else  a  chance  to  hold  it  or  catch  it.  &quot;Is  shea  government's  woman?&quot;  Henry  repeated  loudly.  Only  his  uncle  could  use  such  long  words,  he  thought.  Willie  Abrahams  did  not  have  such  an  uncle.  Henry's  uncle  was  a  fisherman-a  giant  of  a  man.  He  was  so  tall  that  if  he  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  sea,  the  water  would  cover  him  only  as  far  as  his  chest.  The  uncle  had  often  told  Henry  this.  He  spoke  a  good  deal  about  things  like  governments.  He  spoke  all  the  time  when  Henry  went  to  Kalk  Bay  with  his  mother  to  visit  him.  &quot;Is  a  what's  woman?&quot;  asked  " b"Gloria,  dismissing  her  own  ignorance  impatiently.  &quot;I  don't  care  if  she's  a  what's  woman.  I  just  want  to  tell  you  that  this  Jurropean  woman  is  as  tall  as  a  man.&quot;  &quot;As  tall  as  a  man,&quot;  said  Henry  with  a  smile.  &quot;Why,  my  uncle&quot;  But  at  that  moment  Willie's  ball  soared  so  high  in  the  sky  that  every-  one,  including  Henry,  had  to  look  up  at  it.  Willie  caught  the  ball  in  his  left  hand.  Gloria  began  totalk  in  a  whisper,  and  they  had  to  crowd  very  close  around  her  in  order  to  hear  what  she  was  saying.  &quot;She's  old.  Terribly,  ter-  ribly  old,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  crackly  voice.  &quot;Like  a  grandmother,  and  her  hair  is  white.&quot;  Everyone  was  disappointed  by  this  whispered  disclosure,  and  Gloria  looked  cross.  But  a  moment  later  she  bound  all  the  children  together  with  a  cord  of  fear.  &quot;Jus'  wait  till  you  see  her  hair,&quot;  she  said,  throwing  out  her  arms  and  dangling  her  fingers.  &quot;It's  so  long.  It  comes  down  all  over  her,  like  a  sheet  on  a  spook.&quot;  Only  Willie  Abrahams  ignored  her.  Kicking  out  his  right  leg,  he  threw  his  ball  up  under  it,  so  that  it  came  spin-  ning  cleverly  before  his  face.  He  clapped  his  hands  twice  and  caught  it  under  his  nose.  &quot;So  what?&quot;  was  all  he  said.  MYSTERIOUSLY  and  swiftly,  the  news  of  the  new  occupant  reached  the  venders  all  over  [REDACTED]  Town,  it  seemed,  f  w/  w  w  p\xc2\xbb  &quot;ru  B  P4  and,  one  by  one,  they  appeared  in  front  of  the  cottage,  calling  out  their  wares.  The  day  the  manure  cart  came  by,  Henry  ran  after  it  and  caught  up  with  it  round  the  corner  when  it  pulled  up  in  front  of  the  house.  He  stopped,  safe-  ly  across  the  street,  and  watched.  There  behind  the  gate  stood  the  woman.  A  spiral  of  fright  coiled  through  him  when  he  saw  that  she  looked  exactly  as  Gloria  had  described  her.  She  was  as  tall  as  the  myrtle  hedge  that  rose  on  either  side  of  her,  and  though  her  white  hair  was  not  as  float-  ingly  long  as  he  had  imagined,  it  was  long  enough.  It  rustled,  he  thought,  when  she  shook  her  head  at  the  ma-  nure  vender  and  said,  &quot;No.  No,  thank  you.&quot;  She  was  holding  a  broom  in  one  hand.  Swearing  at  the  old  dray  horse  be-  cause  it  had  moved  a  few  paces  beyond  the  gate,  the  vender  seized  the  bridle  and  brought  the  cart  to  a  standstill,  and  turned  back  to  argue  with  the  woman.  Just  then,  Henry  saw  Willie  Abrahams  come  by.  He  was  playing  with  his  ball.  He  ran  right  past  the  woman's  gate  and  stopped  beside  the  horse,  so  that  he  was  across  the  street  from  Henry,  with  the  cart  between  them.  The  woman,  Henry  knew,  could  see  Willie  clearly  from  her  gate.  Henry  could  see  only  Willie's  head  over  the  bulk  of  the  cart,  and  the  little  orange  ball  rising  and  falling  regularly  above  it.  &quot;I  am  telling  you,  it's  fine  manure,&quot;  the  vender  was  saying.  &quot;Pure  stuff,  APRIL  4,  1959  pure  lovely  stuff.&quot;  He  swung  round  and  grasped  a  sample  from  the  load  and  held  it  out  to  the  woman.  &quot;You  can  see  it's  real  old  stuff,  It's  mature.  You  won't  get  stuff  like  this  easy.  Lady  can  see  with  lady's  own  eyes.  'This  is  real  old  stable  manure,  real  stuff,  with  no  straws  mixed  in.  No  one-&quot;  The  vender  stopped  suddenly,  his  attention  seem-  ingly  diverted  by  Willie's  ball,  which  had  soared  overhead,  like  a  little  bird  in  the  sky.  &quot;No  one's  got  such  fine  brown  manure,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;I  don't  want  any  manure,&quot;  said  the  woman,  turning  her  broom  so  that  the  bristles  pointed  upward.  Methodi-  cally,  she  began  to  remove  some  fluff  that  had  collected  there.  &quot;Whoa!&quot;  shouted  the  vender  as  the  old  dray  edged  forward.  &quot;Whoa,  you  demn  fool!&quot;  He  turned  to  Willie.  &quot;Go  throw  your  ball  somewhere  else!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;Go  play  somewhere  else,  you  no-good-type  Teddy  bear.&quot;  The  woman,  meanwhile,  stepped  through  the  gate  and  closed  it  behind  her.  Henry  could  still  see  Willie's  ball  rising  and  falling  regularly.  'The  woman,  he  no-  ticed,  seemed  fascinated  by  it.  The  vender  spat.  &quot;Excuse,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Excuse,  lady.  I  jus'  want  to  explain.  You  gota  real  jungle  in  your  garden.  I  can  turn  any  jungle  into  a  park.  You  jus'  give  me  a  pair  of  clippers,  and  I  will  make  your  hedge  short,  so  that  the  whole  of  Devil's  Peak  can  jump  into  view  for  you.&quot;  Henry  heard  a  shout  from  Willie.  " b"&quot;Catch,  Henry!  Catch!  I'm  going  to  throw  my  ball  to  you!&quot;  Even  as  Willie  yelled,  the  ball  whizzed  past  the  vender's  head  and  skimmed  over  the  cart  and  right  into  Henry's  bewildered  hands.  He  had  scarcely  grasped  it  when  Willie,  who  had  edged  closer  to  the  woman  at  the  gate,  shouted,  &quot;Dis  a  tennis  net!  Dis  cart.  Now  throw  my  ball  back,  but  mind  you  don't  hit  the  lady.&quot;  &quot;You  devils!&quot;  screamed  the  vender.  You  spoiling  my  sale!&quot;  Henry  held  on  to  the  ball,  paralyzed.  The  woman  had  her  eyes  on  him.  For  a  moment,  nothing  happened.  The  horse  and  cart  had  not  moved,  and  it  almost  seemed  as  if  nothing  had  happened.  It  was  incredible  that  he  had  Willie's  ball  in  his  hands.  The  vender  spoke  again,  but  in  a  warm,  pleased  voice.  &quot;Whoa,  there,  Venus-boy,&quot;  he  said  to  the  horse.  &quot;Don't  shif  yet.  Lady  says  lady  wants  sackful  manure  for  her  hedge,  to  block  out  children  from  street.  Hedge  doesn't  grow  properly,  side  thatthe  children's  on.  Lady  knows  what  devils  those  children  are.  Knows  what  no-good-  type  loafers  they  are.  Teddy  bears.  Lady  doesn't  know  that  I  don't  like  children.  I  always  say  to  the  wife,  'Don't  give  me  any  more  sucking  ba-  bies.'  Wors'  thing  about  a  wife  is  the  sucking  babies.  Never  knows  from  look-  ing  at  a  baby  jus'  what  type  no-good  devil's  going  to  grow.&quot;  Standing  aloft  on  his  cart  now,  which  was  shaking  like  a  cradle,  he  confidently  began  to  fill  a  sack.  &quot;Lady  mus'  jus'  let  l  me  know,&quot;  he  went  on,  you  a  secret.  I  can  twist  a  chicken's  neck  even  better  than  you  can.&quot;  It  seemed  a  reflex  action,  unrelated  to  Willie's  piercing  whistle  for  the  ball,  that  made  Henry  spring  away  and  up  the  street.  He  knew  that  Willie  was  after  him;he  had  not  thrown  back  the  ball.  But  as  he  ran,  turning  the  corner  into  his  own  street  and  clutching  the  ball  as  though  his  life  depended  on  it,  he  also  knew  that  Willie  was,  like  him-  self,  fleeing  from  the  woman.  He  fled  down  that  street,  and  Glo-  ria,  who  had  been  playing  farther  along  it,  began  to  run  in  his  direction.  &quot;Whatsa  matter?&quot;  she  asked  as  he  flashed  past  her,  as  the  houses  down  one  side  ofthe  street  flashed  past  him  and  seemed,  like  a  mirror,  to  reflect  the  streak  of  houses  opposite.  He  overtook  three  more  children.  He  overtook  a  dog  that  had  suddenly  appeared,  barking.  He  ran  past  his  own  house.  He  ran  for  his  life,  running  from  the  woman.  He  could  hear  her  feet  thundering  behind,  and  her  broomstick  swishing  in  the  air  above.  His  bare  heels,  clapping  hard  on  the  pavement,  carried  him  to  the  very  end  of  the  street  and  to  the  houses  and  gardens  and  walls  that  closed  it  off  into  a  dead  end.  He  was  trapped.  He  could  hear  Willie  close  behind  him.  Better  to  CENHUAL  MOTORS     &quot;if  ladyhas  any  trouble  with  those  children.  I  can  twis'  a  neck  as  quick  as  a  chicken.&quot;  Like  a  sand  dune,  the  load  of  manure  shifted  as  the  vender  worked,  and  a  small  hillock  concealed  Willie  Abrahams'  face.  But  Henry  could  still  see  the  woman.  She  was  as  thin  as  her  broomstick,  and  her  face  looked  like  a  long  green  melon  above  it.  She  had  narrow  eyes  that  looked  as  though  they  had  been  cut  in  the  melon  with  a  penknife.  She  was  look-  ing  directly  over  the  cart  at  him.  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  he  heard  her  say  to  the  vender.  &quot;Thank  you  for  offering  to  help  me.  But  I'll  tell   fling  the  ball  at  him,  he  thought  in  a  rush-better  that  than  to  die  under  Willie's  fists.  He  turned  blindly,  made  a  desperate  dodge  past  Willie,  and  found  himself  zooming  like  a  bullet  back  up  the  street.  Bewildered  groups  of  running  children  stopped  as  he  ap-  proached  them,  turned  as  he  reached  them,  and  then  began  running  after  him.  He  gained  the  corner  again  and  darted  across  the  street,  noticing,  with  a  flick  of  an  eye,  that  the  woman  had  disappeared.  'The  manure  vender  was  leading  his  horse  and  cart  away.  When  he  reached  the  pavement  opposite  the  thatch-roofed  house,  he  stopped,  close  to  collapse.  The  game  was  up.  His  vision  was  blurred.  In  a  haze,  he  saw  Willie,  followed  by  Gloria  and  the  others.  They  had  all  reached  the  hedge  in  front  of  the  house,  just  opposite  him.  In  a  matter  of  seconds,  Willie  would  dive  across  the  narrow  street  and  be-  gin  to  kill  him.  He  still  had  time  to  save  himself.  He  threw  the  ball  des-  perately.  &quot;Catch,  Willie!  Catch!&quot;  he  shouted.  But  instead  of  the  little  orange  ball's  hitting  Willie  on  the  head,  and  thereby  arresting  his  awful  approach,  it  rose  high  above  Willie,  high  above  the  hedge,  and  then  swooped  like  a  bird  through     " b"the  bathroom  window.  No  glass  broke  to  signal  the  disaster  of  its  disappear-  ance.  There  was  something  terribly  final  about  it.  It  was  like  a  bright  bead  that  had  been  swallowed  by  mistake.  Henry  stood  where  he  was.  Willie  looked  at  the  bathroom  window,  and  after  a  while  Gloria  said  dully,  &quot;It's  gone.&quot;  Willie  said  nothing.  He  walked  across  the  street  and  gave  Henry  a  clout  on  the  ear.  'The  two  boys  stood  side  by  side,  panting  speechlessly.  'The  children  were  all  staring  at  the  bathroom  win-  dow.  All  the  stragglers  came  across  the  street  and  clustered  about  the  two  silent  boys.  &quot;Maybe  it  will  come  out  ofthe  win-  dow  again,&quot;  said  Gloria  after  a  while.  &quot;Yesterday,  Kosie  wanted  to  throw  a  jam  tin  at  me,  and  the  jam  tin  jumped  into  the  window,  and  the  next  minute  it  jumped  out  of  the  window.  Then  Kosie  did  throw  it  at  me.&quot;  &quot;That's  a  big  fib,&quot;  said  the  usually  silent  Kosice.  &quot;It's  not,&quot;  returned  Gloria,  &quot;You  are  the  fibber.&quot;  But  the  natural  progress  of  the  quar-  rel  was  aborted,  for  at  that  moment  the  children  saw  the  bathroom  window  close.  Willie  Abrahams  turned  to  face  Henry.  &quot;I  am  going  to  kill  you,  Hen-  ry,&quot;  he  said.  Gloria  squatted  on  the  street,  and,  pressing  her  cheek  againstthe  side  of  one  knee,  she  began  to  draw  slowly  with  a  pebble  on  the  ground.  Willie  Abrahams  said,  &quot;You  know  what  I  am  going  to  do  to  you,  Henry?&quot;  He  straightened  himself.  His  head  rose  way  above  Henry's.  Seeing  his  opponent  thus,  Henry  found  it  almost  impossible  to  musterup  his  relationship  to  his  powerful  uncle,  and  to  bring  to  the  surface  of  his  own  face  some  pale  reflection  of  those  muscles  so  impressively  stamped  on  his  uncle's  features.  However,  he  tightened  his  jaw  and  then  rose  up  on  his  toes,  less-  ening  somewhat  the  height  of  his  rival.  For  a  while,  nothing  happened.  Willie  Abrahams  put  one  foot  forward,  bent  his  arms,  and  tightened  his  fists.  &quot;I'm  not  afraid,&quot;  said  Henry,  sag-  gingonto  his  heels  and  preparing  his  own  fists.  &quot;I'm  not  afraid  of  you.  I'm  not  afraid  of  anyone.  Not  even  a  Jur-  ropean.&quot;  &quot;Not  afraid?&quot;  jeered  Willie.  &quot;Exactly,  not  afraid,&quot;  said  Henry.  \xc2\xab'Not  even  of  a  Jurropean?&quot;  sneered  Willie.  &quot;Exactly,&quot;  confirmed  Henry.  &quot;Not  even  of  governments.  Governments  in  the  whole  world.  In  Kalk  Bay.  In  Paarl.  Never  mind  just  [REDACTED]  Town.&quot;    &quot;And  Johannesburg?&quot;  jeered  Wil-  lie,  beginning  to  spar,  &quot;And  Johannesburg,&quot;  said  Henry,  dodging  and  jabbing.  They  danced  opposite  each  other  for  some  time,  their  heads  lowered,  their  arms  winged,  and  then  Henry  said,  &quot;Even  if  your  ball  was  in  the  house  of  a  king,  I  wouldn't  be  afraid  to  get  it.  Even  if  your  ball  was  in  the  house  of  a  spook,  I  wouldn't  be  afraid.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?&quot;  said  Willie.  &quot;'That's  so,&quot;  said  Henry.  All  at  once,  Willie  stood  still,  &quot;All  right,  Henry,&quot;  he  said,  in  a  peculiar  voice.  &quot;What's  all  right?&quot;  asked  Henry.  &quot;I  just  said  all  right,&quot;  said  Willie.  &quot;So  then,&quot;  said  Henry,  beginning  to  realize  his  predicament.  &quot;So  then,  all  right.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  not  all  right,&quot;  countered  Willie.  &quot;You  see,  when  Willie  Abra-  hams  says  all  right,  he  means  now.  He  doesn't  mean  jus'  now;  he  doesn't  mean  now-now;  he  doesn't  mean  never-  mind-later-on-now.  You  understand,  " b"Henry?  You  understand  what  he  means?  You  understand,  Henry,  if  you  don't  bring  back  the  ball  to  Willie  Abrahams,  you  understand  that  Willie  Abrahams  is  going  to  twis'  your  neck,  twis'  it  quicker  than  a  chicken's?&quot;  N  Henry  slid  through  the  hole  in  the  hedge,  he  thought  of  his  street,  the  houses  in  it,  the  games  of  hopscotch  marked  out  on  the  pavement.  He  even  thought  lingeringly  of  some  of  his  friends.  He  reached  the  wall  ofthe  house  and  straightened  up.  He  walked  through  the  tall  grass  at  the  back  of  the  house,  and  mounted  the  steps  before  the  kitchen  door.  He  stood  there  for  a  long  time.  After  a  while,  he  began  to  beat  upon  the  door  with  his  hands,  making  on  it  the  sound  of  running  feet.  Suddenly  the  door  opened,  and  there  stood  the  woman.  &quot;&quot;Well?&quot;  she  said.  He  felt  his  mouth  drop  open  as  he  looked  up  into  her  face.  'What's  the  matter  with  you?&quot;  she  said,  after  what  seemed  a  long  time.  &quot;Have  you  lost  your  tongue?&quot;  &quot;It's  not  my  tongue  I  lost,&quot;  he  said,  desperately  seizing  this  opening.  &quot;It's  my  ball.  I  mean  it's  not  my  ball.  I  mean  it's  Willie  Abrahams'  ball.&quot;  &quot;I've  got  it,&quot;  she  said  curtly.  &quot;Yes,  M'm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well,  come  on,&quot;  she  said,  stepping  back  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;Come  inside.  I'm  not  going  to  eat  you.&quot;  As  she  led  him  past  a  large  kitchen  table,  he  saw  upon  it  a  board,  a  bowl,  and  a  very  large  knife.  He  followed  her  into  a  dark  passage.  &quot;This  way,&quot;  she  said,  and  the  next  mo-  ment  he  found  himself  in  a  large,  bright  room.  &quot;I  know  I  did  put  it  here,&quot;  she  said,  seeming  to  talk  to  herself.  &quot;It  must  be  in  the  studio  somewhere.  I've  been  un-  packing  things  all  day.  Now,  let's  see.&quot;  He  saw  the  room  about  him  swim-  mingly.  The  walls  were  covered  with  pictures  of  people's  faces.  'There  was  a  large  table  in  the  center  of  the  floor,  and  on  it  was  a  jug  containing  seven  hundred  paintbrushes.  There  was  also  a  jar  that  held  three  hundred  and  forty-  three  pencils.  A  branch  of  black  sea-  weed  lay  upon  a  great  heap  of  paper  that  was  also  on  the  table.  And  he  saw  that  there  was  not  only  a  lampshade  dangling  from  the  ceiling  but  the  skele-  ton  of  a  large  white  crab  as  well.  He  looked  quickly  at  the  window.  On  the  sill  was  a  pile  of  stones-big  stones,  round  stones,  prickly  stones.  He  was  just  about  to  exclaim  over  all  this  when  the  woman  said,  &quot;Look.  There  it  is.  Of  course.&quot;  She  went  to  the  window  sill  and  took  the  little  orange  ball  from  among  the  stones.  She  squeezed  it  in  her  hand,  and  then  she  bounced  it  on  the  floor,  and  it  sprang  up  against  her  breast,  where  she  caught  it.  &quot;It's  nice,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  almost  alive.&quot;  Then  she  gave  it  to  him.  He  wanted  to  flash  out  of  the  house,  but  she  said,  &quot;Don't  you  want  some  sweets?&quot;  She  spoke  as  though  he  had  refused  her.  &quot;Excuse?&quot;  he  said.  He  followed  her  through  the  passage  and  into  the  kitchen.  She  stopped  before  a  tall,  shaky  dresser  and,  pulling  open  a  drawer,  found  some  sweets  there.  &quot;I  wouldn't  eat  them  all  at  once,&quot;  she  ad-  vised.  &quot;Keep  some  for  later.  Or  you  could  give  some  to  your  friends.&quot;  FEW  moments  later,  he  was  standing  in  the  tall  grass  near  the  kitchen  door.  He  put  nearly  all  the  sweets  into  his  mouth-somany  that  when  he  closed  his  lips  he  felt  that  his  cheeks  would  burst.  'There  were  three  sweets  left,  and  these  he  stuffed  into  his  shirt  pocket.  Why  should  he  give  them  away?   When  he  had  finished  munching,  he  wiped  his  mouth.  Willie's  ball  was  sticky  in  his  hands,  so  he  rubbed  it  on  his  pants.  He  decided  that  he  wasn't  going  to  tell  them  what  sort  of  a  per-  son  that  European  was.  'They  would  never  believe  him.  They  would  say  he  was  a  fibber.  Not  only  were  they  not  going  to  get  any  sweets  but  they  were  not  going  to  get  the  chance  to  call  him  a  fibber.  As  he  made  his  way  to  the  hole  in  the  hedge,  he  thought  of  the  strange  room  he  had  seen.  &quot;All  the  walls,&quot;  he  could  hear  himself  saying  to  them,  &quot;has  got  heads  of  people  hanging  on  them,  dripping  blood.&quot;  His  spine  tingled  as  he  thought  of  the  dead  crab  suspended  from  the  ceiling.  He  thought  of  the  stones  arranged  like  missiles  on  the  win-  dow  sill.  Then,  as  he  squeezed  himself  through  the  hedge,  he  remembered  the  large  knife  he  had  seen  on  the  kitchen  table.  He  felt  like  a  hero  as  he  clutched  Willie's  ball  and  straightened  up  on  his  side  of  the  hedge.  He  was  tall,  very  tall.  He  walked  stiffly  tojoin  his  com-  rades."