 THE  VILLAGE  [REDACTED]  day  late  in  February,  a  O  young  doctor  in  Rome  was  asked  by  the  Veterans  Affairs  Office  in  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Embassy  to  go  and  visit  a  man  in  a  remote  mountain  village.  Theman  was  an  Italian  who  had  emigrated  to  [REDACTED],  served  in  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Army  during  the  First  World  War,  and  later  returned  to  4974616c79.  If  found  disabled,  he  was  en-  titled  to  a  pension.  The  doctor,  because  he  spoke  Eng-  lish  as  well  as  Italian  and  saw  to  his  cases  promptly,  examined  most  of  the  veterans  for  the  Embassy.  They  usually  came  to  his  office,  but  if  they  were  un-  able  to  travel,  as  in  this  case,  he  went  to  their  homes.  On  receiving  the  authori-  zation  from  the  Embassy,  he  opened  a  large-scale  road  map  of  Central  4974616c79  and  looked  for  the  veteran's  village  in  the  province  of  Teramo.  At  first  he  couldn't  find  it,  but  after  a  methodical  search  he  spotted  it  about  a  hundred  miles  northeast  of  Rome,  its  small  let-  ters  indistinct  in  the  brownness  symbol-  izing  a  mountain.  He  looked  at  the  thick  red  line  that,  like  a  virulent  shoot,  led  from  Rome  to  where  a  yellow  branch  took  off  from  it.  The  yellow  branch  sent  off  several  colorless  twigs.  One  became  a  succession  of  dots  that  continued  as  faras  the  village.  The  doctor  wasn't  discouraged.  In  fact,  he  rather  welcomed  the  chance  of  taking  a  trip  to  a  place  so  far  out  of  the  way,  and  one  morning  a  few  days  later  he  set  out  in  his  car.  After  three  hours'  steady  driving,  he  crossed  the  divide  of  the  Apen-  nines,  and  then,  after  a  long  descent,  he  came  to  the  country  road.  He  took  it,  crossed  a  river,  and  soon  began  a  very  gradual  climb.  It  was  a  day  in  which  clouds  and  clear  blueness  vied  for  posses-  sion  of  the  sky.  In  the  early  part  of  winter,thecold  weather  had  been  crowded  out  by  southern  winds,  and  now,  encouraged  by  northern  ones,  it  was  trying  to  regain  a  footing.  On  his  left,  and  below  him,  he  could  see  the  river  he  had  crossed.  On  his  right,  there  was  the  steep  mountain.  The  road  was  like  along,  narrow,  and  oblique  shelf  running  along  a  sloping  wall.  Up  he  went,  till  the  river  became  a  stream  interrupted  by  glistening,  thin  waterfalls,  each  of  which  brought  it  nearer  the  level  of  the  road;  then  it     was  only  a  trickle  of  water,  which  the  road  finally  crossed  with  the  aid  of  the  smallest  stone  bridge.  At  this  point,  the  thought  that  he  was  close  to  the  source  of  the  river  made  him  stop,  leave  the  car  on  the  edge  of  the  road,  and  follow  the  trickle  of  water.  After  a  short  walk,  he  came  to  a  spring.  Its  thin,  very  cold,  and  pure  water  tempted  him.  He  took  long  draughts  of  it,  pausing  after  each  one  and  musing  upon  its  freshness.  He  returned  to  the  car,  and  soon  he  was  approaching  the  ridge;  the  horizon  was  becoming  wider  and  wider,  the  earth  was  disclosing  more  and  more  of  its  mountains.  Suddenly  he  saw  the  other  side.  Before  him,  the  mountains  rose  in  unexpected,  strange  shapes,  like  single  waves  in  a  rough  sea.  Some  were  white,  others  blue;  those  nearer  were  violet,  and  those  still  near-  er  and  below  him  rusty  because  of  the  oaks.  Where  he  was,  the  mountain  was  bare;  the  withered  grass  blew  in  the  wind.  Near  the  ditch  at  the  edge  of  the  road,there  was  snow.  A  thin  layer  of  it  covered  the  grass  here  and  there,  and  was  pierced  by  its  blades-soon  by  snow-  drops,  he  thought.  The  road  kept  on  the  ridge,  swerving  only  a  little  to  one  side  or  the  other,  like  a  man  on  a  tightrope.  Whenever  it  got  nearer  the  north  side,  the  snow  in-  creased.  Happily,  the  road  preferred  the  south  side.  As  he  went  on,  it  be-  came  narrower  and  more  uneven.  He  thought  of  the  dots  on  the  map.  He  had  gone  about  fifteen  miles  since  leav-  ing  the  main  road,  and,  judging  from  the  map,  there  were  only  a  few  more  to  the  village.  He  kept  on  driving,  the  road  still  following  the  crest  in  a  serpentine  fash-  ion.It  must  lead  some-  where,  he  thought.  He  was  getting  tense  when  he  finally  saw  the  village;  about  two  miles  farther  and  a  little  below  him,  it  lay  on  the  sunny  side  of  the  ridge-a  cluster  of  about  twenty  stone  houses  blending  with  the  moun-  tain  they  stood  on.  Cheerfully,  he  drove  toward  it.  It  looked  compact,  like  a  herd  of  sheep  trying  to  keep  warm.  He  didn't  enter  the  village  with  the  car;  he  thought  it  would  be  more  respectful  to  leave  it  outside.  The  first  inhabitants  he  met  were  some  children,.  He  asked  one  of  them-a  little  girl  with  braids,  a  pink  dress,  knee  socks,  and  heavy  boots    where  his  patient  lived.  She  knew  at  once  and  offered  to  accompany  him  there.  Another  girl  joined  her.  They  went  down  the  central  street  ofthe  vil-  lage,  a  slushy  walk  made  of  round,  rough,  firmly  set  cobblestones.  The  houses  on  each  side  were  connected,  arches  or  vaults  reaching  like  friendly  arms  from  one  to  the  other.  It  was  past  lunchtime,  and  there  weren't  many  people  about.  The  few  there  were  lumbermen,  probably-stared  at  him  as  if  he  were  a  tax  collector  or  some  equal-  ly  unwelcome  official.  He  wanted  to  tell  them  he  was  nothing  so  ruinous.  HE  house  where  the  veteran  lived  ,  was  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  vil-  lage.  The  little  girls  led  him  up  an  )|  outside  staircase  to  a  door  that  was  ajar.  There  he  gave  them  fifty  lire,  and  /  they  left  him  with  a  smile.  An  old  wom-  '  an-thin,  with  sunken  but  very  bright  :|  eyes-opened  the  door,  and  the  doctor  ,  introduced  himself.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  she  said,  stammering  with  embarrassment.  He  was  shown  into  the  kitchen,  a  small  room  with  a  fireplace,  by  which  an  old  man  sat  in  a  rocking  chair.  This  was  his  patient,  and  the  doctor  sat  down  beside  him.  The  woman,  who  was  the  old  man's  wife,  went  out  and  came  back  a  minute  later  with  her  daughter,  a  girl  of  perhaps  twenty-five.  She  was  quite  pretty,  with  pink  cheeks  and  a  soft  roundness  about  her,.  &quot;We've  been  ex-  pecting  you  from  day  to  day,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;''The  Embassy  wrote  us  that  you  were  coming.&quot;  In  a  clear,  concise  way  she  told  him  her  father's  story-how,  a  few  months  ago,  an  attack  of  cerebral  thrombosis  had  paralyzed  his  left  side.  He  had  im-  proved  a  little  since  then,  she  added,  but  it  still  took  both  her  and  her  mother  to  lift  him  from  the  bed  to  the  chair  and  back.  The  old  man  silently  wept  when  she  spoke  of  his  helplessness.  The  doctor  examined  him  and  made  a  few  notes.  He  assured  them  he  would  get  the  pension.  He  felt  better  now  that  the  busi-  ness  of  the  examination  was  over.  He  warmed  up  to  the  fire  and  his  company.  He  admired  the  fireplace,  its  simple  porphyry  pillars  and  mantel  smoothed  by  time.  The  doctor  thought  of  his  own  ugly  little  electric  stoves.  A  huge  block  of  wood  was  burning.  The  old  man  gazed  at  it,  and  every  once  in  a  while,  with  his  good  leg  gave  himself  a  great  push  backward  to  start  his  chair  rocking.  &quot;He  shouldn't  shove  himself  back  like  that,  should  he,  Doctor?&quot;  his  wife     said.  &quot;How  many  times  have  we  told  him  it's  bad  for  his  head!&quot;  The  doctor  laughed.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  little  movement  may  do  him  good.&quot;  The  old  man  looked  pleased  that  his  rocking  should  meet  with  the  doctor's  approval.  A  smile  formed  and  lingered  on  his  face.  For  once,  the  ladies  were  wrong.  The  flames  flowed  upward  luxuri-  antly  and  quietly.  &quot;With  this  fire  in  front  of  you,&quot;  the  doctor  said  to  his  patient,  &quot;you  don't  have  to  travel.  It  moves  and  it's  so  varied,  so  changeful,  like  the  sea,like  a  river-better  than  a  river,  I  think.  It  flows,  it  trembles,  it  dances  for  you,  sometimes  it  sings.&quot;  The  wife  and  daughter  looked  at  him.  They  had  never  seen  a  doctor  like  this;  clearly,  he  was  not  what  they  had  expected  at  all.  But  the  old  man  con-  tinued  gazing  at  the  fire  that  kept  him  warm.  Perhaps  he  had  never  compared  it  to  a  stream  or  to  a  dancer,  but  it  had  been  a  great  comfort,  nevertheless.  Without  a  word,  in  the  way  a  horse  looks  at  the  grassy  fields  and  the  moun-  tains,  the  old  man  looked  at  the  fire  and  took  comfort.  &quot;Yes,  you  are  all  right  up  here,&quot;  the  doctor  continued.  &quot;'There  are  no  nuises  but  kind  noises.  No  horns  blow  but  the  shepherds'.&quot;  Rising  from  his  chair  to  leave,  his  head  knocked  on  something.  He  glanced  up  and  saw  a  row  of  sausages  and  salami  hanging  in  festoons  from  the  ceiling.  He  looked  at  them  for  a  mo-  ment  or  two.  It  occurred  to  the  daugh-  ter  that  perhaps  he  hadn't  eaten.  She  and  her  mother  questioned  him  closely.  He  had  to  admit  that  he  hadn't.  A  few  minutes  later,  there  was  a  sizzle  in  the  kitchen.  The  table  was  set,      and  eggs,  sausages,  cheese,  bread,  wine,  and  then  coffee  were  brought  in.  While  the  doctor  ate  and  relished  it  all,  the  old  man  rocked  in  his  chair,  conscious  of  being  a  good  host,  &quot;There  are  no  restaurants  in  these  parts,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;None  for  twenty  or  thirty  miles.  Eat  in  peace,&quot;  he  added,  like  a  man  in  the  Bible.  It  wasn't  easy  for  the  doctor  to  feel  at  ease  with  people,  but  here  he  was;  here  it  was  simple.  The  daughter  went  in  and  out  of  the  kitchen  so  lightly.  She  was  so  adept  and  so  nimble,  and  she  took  care  of  him  without  being  obsequious.  IT  was  time  to  go.  'The  doctor  shook  hands  with  the  old  man  and  his  wife,  and  thanked  them.  The  daugh-  ter,  without  putting  a  coat  on  or  chang-  ing  her  felt  shoes,  accompanied  him  to  the  car.  On  their  way,  all  the  children  they  met  said  hello  to  her.  &quot;I  am  their  teacher,&quot;  she  explained.  He  was  reminded  of  how  he  had  once  esteemed  and  revered  a  teacher  of  his  own.  He  felt  old.  &quot;I  think  you  live  in  abeautiful  village,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  isolated  but  it's  nice.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  it's  nice  because  it's  iso-  lated.&quot;  &quot;But  it  can  get  so  windy;  sometimes  the  wind  blows  for  weeks  without  ceas-  ing,  and  the  snow  ...  During  that  bad  winter  two  years  ago,  so  much  snow  fell  we  were  cut  off,  and  a  helicopter  came  with  food  and  boxes  of  medicine.&quot;  Twenty  miles  from  the  main  road,  he  thought.  Three  thousand  feet  high.  The  war  itself  had  probably  bypassed  this  village,  except  for  taking  its  sons  away.  &quot;Did  the  Germans  ever  get  here?&quot;  he  asked  her.  &quot;'Yes,  they  came,&quot;  she  said.  So  the  war  had  reached  even  here,  Like  a  wave,  it  had  swept  up  the  Italian  peninsula,  submerging  it  all.  They  came  to  the  car.  He  shook  hands  with  her.  A  whiff  of  wind,  per-  haps  announcing  a  long  spell  of  windy  days  ora  snowstorm,  blew  her  hair.  A  flake  of  snow,  perhaps  come  from  a  dis-  tant  peak,  flew  past  him,  then  spiralled  upward.  From  the  car,  he  waved  good-  bye  to  her.  Red-cheeked,  in  her  felt  shoes,  one  hand  clutching  her  dress  at  the  neck,  she  waved  back.  He  adjusted  the  rear-view  mirror  and  looked  at  her.  There  she  was,  standing  still,  looking  smaller  and  smaller.  A  short  distance  outside  the  village,  a  goat  saw  his  car  and  rushed  away,  though  he  wasn't  anywhere  near  it-  rushed  about  a  thousand  feet  away.  Farther  on,  near  the  top  of  a  hill,  he  ran  out  of  gas,  and  two  men  with  mules    towed  him  to  the  top,  so  he  could  coast  to  a  gas  station.  Such  a  nice  pace  those  mules  kept.  He  gave  the  men  a  tip;  it  was  only  three  hundred  lire,  but  from  the  way  they  thanked  him  he  was  afraid  they  didn't  make  much  more  than  that  in  a  day.  They  shook  hands,  and  he  got  in  the  car.  He  wished,  afterward,  that  he'd  gone  and  had  a  bottle  of  wine  with  them.  He  could  still  feel,  in  his  palms,  the  roughness  of  those  good,  strong  hands;  like  country  bread.  Someday  I'll  go  back,  he  said  to  him-  self.  Perhaps  soon,  headded,  thinking  of  his  life  in  the  city:  the  drudgery,  his  practice  that  wasn't  a  medical  practice  in  the  true  sense  of  the  word-not  the  medical  practice  he  had  dreamed  of.  The  greater  part  of  his  work  had  to  do  with  pensions,  with  checking  and  in-  specting;  even  when  he  had  gone  to  the  mountain  village  just  now,  he  had  gone  as  a  sort  of  inspector,  to  verify  some  poor  country  doctor's  assertions.  What  if  he  left  Rome  and  went  back  up  there?  What  if  he  abandoned  every-  thing  now,  packed  his  suitcases  and  put  them  in  the  car?  He  had  money  and  a  checkbook.  He  didn't  need  anything  more.  Yes,  what  if  he  should  write  a  few  letters,  close  up  the  apartment  in  the  morning,  and  just  leave,  before  anyone  could  call  him.  It  could  all  be  done  overnight.  In  the  village  hecould  practice.  'The  nearest  doctor  was  on  the  slope  of  another  mountain.  He  would  be  needed.  ...  HAT  night,  he  packed  a  bag,  to  see  what  it  felt  like-the  first  step.  He  packed  another.  My  God,  though,  there  were  so  many  things  to  be  packed.  He  would  have  to  come  back  for  them,  that's  all.  For  now,  he  would  take  only  two  bags.  It  was  past  two  o'clock.  He  didn't  trust  his  alarm  clock  to  wake  him;  he  called  the  telephone  service  and  asked  to  be  awakened  at  a  quarter  of  seven.  MARCH,  Punctually  at  a  quarter  of  seven,  the  telephone  rang  and  his  hand  groped  for  it.  &quot;Good  morning,  you  asked  to  be  called  at  six-forty-five,&quot;  a  fresh,  clear  feminine  voice  said,  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  he  muttered.  It  took  him  a  while  to  find  the  cradle  to  put  the  telephone  back.  He  sighed  when  he  found  it  at  last.  His  arm  sought  the  pillow.  He  thought  of  the  girl  with  the  clarionlike  voice  on  the  phone,  who  woke  up  so  many  people.  But  should  he  get  up?  Wasn't  it  rather  absurd?  Of  course  it  was.  Of  course  it  was.  How  could  it  possibly  have  seemed  so  reasonable  the  night  before?  Much  better,  much  easier  to  sleep.  He  snuggled  his  head  into  the  pillow.  The  telephone  woke  him  again,  a  few  hours  later.  The  call  was  from  the  veterans'  office.  &quot;Doctor?&quot;  the  man  said.  He  glanced  at  the  suitcases.  &quot;Doctor?&quot;  the  man  said  again.  &quot;Hello,  Doctor?&quot;  (‘Yes'))  &quot;Can  you  hear  me?  There  must  be  a  bad  connection.&quot;  It  was  not  the  connection;  he  was  thinking  of  a  doctor's  life  in  the  village,  and  he  wanted  tosay,  &quot;I'm  leaving  town.  I  found  that-  I  found  a  vil-  lage.&quot;  The  man  hung  up.  The  doctor  looked  blankly  at  the  suitcases.  'Then  the  telephone  rang  again,  and  the  same  man  asked  if  he  could  send  someone  over  for  examina-  tion.  ''Yes,  yes;  send  him  over,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  not  right  away.  At  eleven-  fifteen.&quot;  He  replaced  the  telephone;  his  arm  sought  the  pillow;  he  closed  his  eyes.  For  a  moment,  he  was  a  doctor  in  a  mountain  village.  He  slept  another  half  hour,  and  then,  slowly,  he  got  up. 