 b"I WAS  just  thinking  around  in  my  sad  backyard,  looking  at  those  little  drab  careless  starshaped  clumps  of  crabgrass  and  beautiful  chunks  of  some  old  bicycle  crying  out  without  words  of  the  American  Noon  and  half  a  news-  paper  with  an  ad  about  a  lotion  for  people  with  dry  skins  and  dry  souls,  when  my  mother  opened  our  frantic  banging  screendoor  and  shouted,  &quot;Gogi  Himmelman's  here.&quot;  She  might  have  shouted  the  Archangel  Gabriel  was  here,  or  Captain  Easy  or  Baron  Charlus  in  Proust's  great  book:  Gogi  Himmel-  man  of  the  tattered  old  greenasgrass  knickers  and  wild  teeth  and  the  vastiest,  most  vortical,  most  insatiable  wonder-  filled  eyes  I  have  ever  known.  &quot;Let's  go,  Lee,&quot;  he  sang  out,  and  I  could  see  he  looked  sadder  than  ever,  his  nose  all  rubbed  raw  by  a  cheap  handkerchief  and  a  dreary  Bandaid  unravelling  off  his  thumb.  &quot;I  know  the  way!&quot;  That  was  Gogi's  inimitable  unintellectual  method  of  putting  it  that  he  was  on  fire  with  the  esoteric  paradoxical  Tao  and  there  was  no  holding  him  when  he  was  in  that  mood.  I  said,  &quot;I'm  going,  Mom,&quot;  and  she  said,  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  and  when  I  looked  back  at  her  hesitant  in  the  pearly  mystical  UnitedStateshome  light  I  felt  absolutely  sad,  thinking  of  all  the  times  she  had  vacuumed  the  same  carpets.  His  scooter  was  out  front,  the  self-  same,  the  nonpareil,  with  its  paint  scab-  bing  off  intricately  and  its  scratchedon  dirty  words  and  its  nuts  and  bolts  chat-  tering  with  fear,  and  I  got  my  tricycle  out  of  the  garage,  and  he  was  off,  his  left  foot  kicking  with  that  same  insuperable  energy  or  even  better.  I  said,  &quot;Hey  wait,&quot;  and  wondered  if  I  could  keep  up  and  probably  couldn't  have  if  my  beltbuckle  hadn't  got  involved  with  his  rear  fender.  This  was  IT.  We  scuttered  down  our  drive  and  right  over  Mrs.  Cacciatore's  rock  garden  with  the  tiny  castles  made  out  of  plaster  that  always  made  me  sad  when  I  looked  at  them  alone.  With  Gogi  it  was  different;  he  just  kept  right  on  going,  his  foot  kicking  with  that  delirious  thirtyrevolutionsasecond  frenzy,  right  over  thetop  of  the  big-  gest,  a  Blenheim  six  feet  tall  at  the  tur-  rets;  and  suddenly  I  saw  it  the  way  he  saw  it,  embracing  everything  with  his  unfluctuating  generosity,  imbecile  saint  of  our  fudging  age,  a  mad  desperado  in  our  Twentieth  Century  Northern  Hemisphere  Nirvana  deserts.  We  rattled  on  down  through  her  iris  bed  and  broke  into  the  wide  shimmer-  ing  pavement.  &quot;Contemplate  those  holy  hydrants,&quot;  he  shouted  back  at  me  through  the  wind.  &quot;Get  a  load  of  those  petulantoperable  latches;  catch  the  magic  of  those  pickets  standing  up  proud  and  sequential  like  the  arguments  in  Im-  manuel  Kant;  boom,  boom,  bitty-boom  BOOM!&quot;  and  it  was  true.  &quot;What  happens  when  we're  dead?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;'The  infinite  never-to-be-defiled  subtlety  of  the  late  Big  Sid  Catlett  on  the  hushed  trap  drums,&quot;  he  continued,  mad  with  his  own  dreams,  imitating  the  whisks,  &quot;Swish,  swish,  swishy-swish  swoosHx!&quot;  The  sun  was  breaking  over  the  tops  of  Mr.  Linderman's  privet  hedge,  little  rows  of  leaves  set  in  there  delicate  and  justso  like  mints  in  a  Howard  Johnson's  roadside  eatery.  Mitzi  Leggett  came  out  of  the  house,  and  Gogi  stopped  the  scooter,  and  put  his  hands  on  her.  &quot;The  virginal  starchblue  fabric;  printed  with  stylized  kittens  and  puppies,&quot;  Gogi  ex-  plained  in  his  curiously  beseechingly  transcendent  accents.  &quot;The  searing  in-     credible  immocence!  Oh!  Oh!  Oh!&quot;  His  eyes  poured  water  down  his  face  like  broken  blisters.  &quot;'Take  me  along,&quot;  Mitzi  said  openly  to  me,  right  with  Gogi  there  and  hear-  ing  every  word,  alive  to  every  meaning,  his  nervous  essence  making  his  freckles  tremble  like  a  field  of  [REDACTED]  windblown  nochaff  barley.  &quot;I  want  to,&quot;  I  told  her,  and  tried  to,  but  I  couldn't,  not  there.  I  didn't  have  the  stomach  for  it.  She  pretended  to  care,  She  was  a  lovely  beauty.  I  felt  my  spokes  snap  under  me;  Gogi  was  going  again,  his  eyes  tightshut  in  ecstasy,  his  foot  kicking  so  the  hole  in  his  shoesole  showed  every  time,  a  tiny  chronic  rent  in  the  iridescent  miasmal  veil  that  In-  trinsic  Mind  tries  to  hide  behind.  Wow!  Dr.  Fairweather's  house  came  up  on  the  left,  delicious  stucco  like  pie-  crust  in  the  type  of  joints  that  attract  truckers,  and  then  the  place  of  the  beautiful  Mrs.  Mertz,  with  her  camny  deeprooted  husband  bringing  up  glori-  ous  heartbreaking  tabourets  and  knick-  knacks  from  his  workshop  in  the  base-  ment,  a  betooled  woodshavingsmelling  fantasy  worthy  of  [REDACTED]  or  Hegel  or  a  seagull.  Vistas!  Old  Miss  Hooper  raced  into  her  yard  and  made  a  grab  for  us,  and  Gogi  Himmelman,  the  excruci-  ating  superbo,  shifted  to  the  other  foot  and  laughed  at  her  careworn  face.  Then  the  breathless  agape  green  space  of  the  Princeling  mansion,  with  its  rich  calm  and  potted  Tropic  of  Cancer  plants.  Then  it  was  over.  Gogi  and  I  went  limp  at  the  corner  under  a  sign  saying  ELM  STREET  with  irony  because  all  the  elms  had  been  cut  down  so  they  wouldn't  get  the  blight,  sad  stumps  diminishing  down  the  American  perspective  whisperingly.  &quot;My  spokes  are  gone,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;Friend-ahem-zip,  zip-parting  a  relative  concept-Bergson's  invalu-  able  marvelchocked  work-tch,  tch.&quot;  He  stood  there,  desperately  wanting  to  do  the  right  thing,  yet  always  lacking  with  an  indistinguishable  grandeur  that  petty  ability.  &quot;Go,&quot;  Itold  him.  He  was  already  halfway  back,  a  flurrying  spark,  to  where  Mitzi  waited  with  irrepressible  woman  warmth.  Well.  In  landsend  despair  I  stood  there  stranded.  Across  the  asphalt  that  was  sufficiently  semifluid  to  receive  and  embalm  millions  of  starsharp  stones  and  bravely  gay  candywrappers  a  drugstore  twinkled  artificial  enticement.  But  I  was  not  allowed  to  cross  the  street.  I  stood  on  the  gray  curb  thinking,  They  said  I  could  cross  it  when  I  grew  up,  but  what  do  they  mean  grown  up?  I'm  thirty-nine  now,  and  felt  sad.  "