 b"AFTER  collecting  the  family  mail  at  five  o'clock  one  Friday  after-  noon,  in  Majorca,  where  I  live,  I  stopped  by  at  the  village  caf\xc3\xa9,  and  found  everyone  disturbed  and  excited.  I  asked  whatwas  wrong.  &quot;The  Count  of  Deia  is  dead,&quot;  [REDACTED]  told  me,from  behind  the  bar.  She  and  her  husband,  as  proprietors  of  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  know  all  the  news.  I  could  see  that  she  had  been  crying.  &quot;But  I  met  him  only  a  few  hours  ago!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;He  seemed  in  per-  fect  health  and  full  of  jokes,  though  per-  haps  rather  sad  ones.&quot;  &quot;Where  was  that,  Don  Roberto?&quot;  &quot;On  the  path  near  the  Ass  Rock.&quot;  &quot;At  what  time?&quot;  &quot;Just  after  the  midday  Angelus.&quot;  &quot;''Then  you  must  have  been  the  last  man  to  see  him  alive.  What  did  he  say?&quot;  &quot;He  asked  me  for  a  cigarette.  I  told  him  that  I  had  no  blond  tobacco,  only  black.  'All  the  better,  he  said.  'I  do  not  enjoy  smoking  straw.&quot;  I  handed  him  my  old  sealskin  pouch  and  a  packet  of  cigarette  papers.  We  sat  down  to-  gether  on  a  rock.  He  rolled  a  cigarette,  and  I  offered  matches,  but  he  excused  himself  and  used  a  small  burning  glass  to  light  his  cigarette.  He  said  that  this  was  a  more  economical  procedure,  and  besides  the  sun  was  his  friend.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  make  any  other  remark?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked.  &quot;'That  the  sun  was  indeed  his  only  friend  now.&quot;  'The  poor  gentleman!&quot;  &quot;I  had  wine  in  my  basket  and  gave  him  a  drink.  He  took  a  sip,  and  then  considerately  wiped  the  mouth  of  the  flask  with  a  clean  handkerchief.  After  discussing  a  Latin  poet  admired  by  both  of  us,  we  shook  hands,  whereupon  he  went  up  the  hill,  hoping  that  I  would  soon  pay  him  a  visit.&quot;  &quot;He  was  found  in  the  Ass  Rock  res-  ervoir,  at  three  o'clock-may  his  soul  find  peace!  Don  Julian  hurried  there,  followed  by  the  doctor,  who  tried  arti-  ficial  respiration.  The  Count  had  tied  a  heavy  stone  to  his  feet,  but  Don  Julian,  who  is  a  very  good  priest,  always  ready  to  give  sinners  the  benefit  of  every  doubt,  insisted  that  this  had  been  an  ill-advised  means  of  reaching  the  reser-  voir  bottom  in  search  of  a  fallen  coin  or  some  other  small  object.  In  effect,  that  the  poor  gentleman  was  the  victim  of  an  accident.  He  pointed  out  that  the  Count's  gold  watchand  pocketbook  had  been  placed  for  security  on  the  wall.  Then,  although  the  doctor  at  last  pro-  nounced  him  dead,  Don  Juliin  would  not  believe  it.  He  bent  over  the  Count,  asking  him  to  make  a  sincere  actof  repentance.  No  reply  came,  but  Don  Julian  says  that  the  Count's  face  ex-  pressed  humble  assent,  and  that  he  therefore  felt  justified  in  giving  him  ab-  solution.  The  deceased  will  be  buried  tomorrow,  with  the  customary  rites,  the  judge  having  now  signed  a  certificate  of  accidental  death.&quot;  &quot;A  great  solace  for  the  Count's  fami-  ly,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;For  what  remains  of  it.  He  has  a  nonagenarian  aunt  in  537061696e,  and  a  second  cousin,  a  nun,  cloistered  at  Car-  tagena.  The  seven-hundred-year-old  title  is  at  last  extinct.&quot;  &quot;There  will  be  an  all-night  vigil  at  his  house?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Don  Roberto.  My  husband  and  I  hope  to  see  you  there  presently.&quot;  HOW  much  did  I  know  about  the  Count,  after  a  casual  acquaintance  of  four  or  five  months?  Not  very  much,  really.  He  was  what  is  called  a  charac-  ter.  My  mother  always  warned  me  against  becoming  a  character.  Ire-  member  that  when  I  once  asked  her  the  meaning  of  &quot;a  character,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;Like  people  who  feed  birds  in  public  gardens,  and  usually  have  two  or  three  perched  on  their  heads.&quot;  But  the  Count  would  never  have  done  anything  so  obvious  and  vulgar  as  that.  Vultures,  in  a  cemetery,  perhaps.  He  was  aneat,  ugly  little  man  of  fifty,  always  dressed  in  the  same  gray  fustian  jacket  and  trou-  sers,  with  a  French  hunting  waistcoat,  and  his  hirsute  but  well-manicured  hands  were,  as  a  rule,  fidgeting  at  the  links  of  a  thick  gold  watch  chain.  He  never  wore  a  hat,  and  his  bald  head  was  lavishly  freckled.  A  humorous  con-  tempt  for  the  world  showed  in  the  curl  of  his  nostrils,  and  the  anger  smoldering  behind  his  black  eves  attracted  me;  most  Majorcans  are  childishly  stolid  and  complaisant.  The  Count  talked  a  beau-  tiful  Castilian  and  a  still  more  beautiful  Majorcan.  Our  island  aristocracy  con-  verse  in  Mallorquina  aulica,  a  court-  ly  dialect  of  their  own,  close  to  Prov-  encal,  and  distinguished  by  numerous  thirteenth-century  forms  that  have  disappeared  from  Mallorquina  plebeia,  the  language  of  commoners.  I  gathered  that  the  Count  was  recently  widowed  andhad  no  children.  I  knew  that  he  was  an  admirable  Latin  scholar,  and  an  authority  on  the  late-medieval  Peasants'  Revolt;  he  talked  of  publishing  a  mon-  ograph  on  Christopher  [REDACTED],  to  prove  him  a  Majorcan  outlaw  who  had  fled  to  Genoa  after  his  family  es-  tates  were  confiscated  at  the  collapse  of  the  Revolt.  The  Count  lived  alone,  at-  tended  by  a  valet,  at  Ca'n  Deia-a  tall  sixteenth-century  house,  adjoining  the  church,  which  had  his  coat  of  arms  carved  above  the  lintel.  Except  for  an  occasional  game  of  truce  at  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  with  the  mayor,  the  schoolmaster,  and  the  doctor,  he  took  almost  no  part  in  village  life.  Women  and  children  seemed  to  be  scared  of  him,  though  I  could  not  un-  derstand  why,  since  he  never  raised  his  voice  or  made  a  scene.  VERY  villager  of  consequence  went  to  pay  hislast  respects  that  evening.  The  Count  ranked  as  a  local  man,  because  he  owned  Ca'n  Deia;  but  the  family  seat  was  the  Palacio  Deia,  at  Palma,  and  until  he  settled  among  us,  only  six  months  before  his  death,  Ca'n  Deia  had  stood  empty  for  genera-  tions,  though  it  was  opened  and  ritually  whitewashed  once  a  year,  at  Easter.  The  furniture,  pictures,  and  china  suggested  theearly  eighteen-thirties  as  the  period  of  its  last  tenancy.  Ac-  cording  to  the  sacristan,  who  preserved  ancient  village  traditions,  one  of  the  Count's  collateral  ancestors-&quot;one  af-  flicted  with  most  informal  habits&quot;  was  then  guarded  there  by  a  couple  of  servants,  to  save  his  family  the  embar-  rassment  of  keeping  him  at  home,  or  the  disgrace  of  confining  him  in  a  mad-  house.  'The  sacristan  explained  that  the  unfortunate  young  fellow  hadhad  to  be  sewn  into  his  clothes  to  prevent  him  from  removing  them  in  public,  especial-  ly  at  [REDACTED]  &quot;He  came  here  during  the  Carlist  Wars,&quot;  he  once  told  me,  &quot;dur-  ing  the  year  when  a  famine  reduced  the  villageto  eating  locust  beans.  It  was  he  who  contrived  those  silhouettes  hanging  on  the  passage  walls.  Are  they  not  curious?&quot;  The  silhouettes  were  in-  tricate  cutouts,  made  of  white  paper,  of  palm  trees,  hunting  scenes,  pipe-  smoking  gallants  in  extravagant  cos-  tume,  heraldic  designs,  enormous  doves,  flowers,  mermaids,  and  unicorns,  all  crazily  juxtaposed  on  a  background  of  blue  sugar-loaf  paper,  but  formalized  by  plain  gilt  frames.  The  dead  Count  lay  upstairs,  among  white  roses  and  Madonna  lilies,  wear-  ing  court  dress  adorned  with  splen-  " b"did  orders.  The  flower  scent  nearly  drowned  the  smell  of  camphor,  and  carefully  placed  rose  petals  hid,  I  discov-  ered  later,  the  more  conspicuous  holes  (moths?  mice?  )  in  the  black  velvet  of  his  suit-there  had  been  no  occasion  for  him  to  wear  court  dress  since  Al-  fonso  XIII's  abdication,  more  than  twenty  years  ago.  The  Count's  face  had  been  decently  made  up  by  the  midwife,  and  everyone  agreed  that  he  looked  as  peaceful  as  a  child;  she  had  not  dis-  guised  the  characteristic  half  smile  at  the  corner  of  his  mouth.  When  I  went  in,  a  memory  made  my  own  mouth  twitch  sympathetical-  ly.  &quot;;O  Sefior  muerto!&quot;  I  muttered.  It  was  a  joke  that  the  Count  had  told  me  himself,  about  a  village  theatrical  show  he  had  once  seen.  A  faithful  page,  discovering  the  murdered  body  of  his  liege  lord,  should  have  cried  out,  in  desperation,  &quot;;O  Setor!  {}{Muerto  esta!  {}{Tarde  llegamos!&quot;  (&quot;O  my  lord!  You  are  dead!  We  have  come  too  late!&quot;)  But  the  actor  had  learned  his  part  from  a  prompt  script  without  accents  or  punc-  tuation,so  he  tripped  onto  the  stage  and  gaily  exclaimed,  &quot;;O  Sefior  muerto,  esta  tarde  llegamos!&quot;  (&quot;Oh,  Mr.  Corpse,  we  are  coming  this  evening!&quot;)  Downstairs,  in  the  stone-flagged  par-  lor,  we  mourners  occupied  a  long  line  of  low,  corded  chairs,  such  as  almost  every  Majorcan  family  keeps  for  bap-  tisms,  funerals,  weddings,  and  first     communions.  But  these  had  been  bor-  rowed  from  the  sacristan's  house,  next  door;  Ca'n  Deia  contained  only  huge  seignorial  armchairs  in  faded  red  velvet  and  tall  black  leather  ones  with  octago-  nal  brass  studs.  Black  coffee  and  biscuits  were  served,  and  a  box  of  cigars  lay  open  on  the  two-inch-thick  tabletop.  As  the  last  man  to  have  seen  the  Count  alive,  I  had  to  tell  my  story  several  times.  For  the  sake  of  good  manners,  I  embellished  it  by  recalling  his  comments  on  the  unstinted  hospitality  that  the  vil-  lage  worthies  had  shown  him-the  de-  vout  priest,  the  correct  justice  of  the  peace,  the  learned  schoolmaster,  the  in-  defatigable  doctor.  But  one  genuine  and  most  enigmatic  remark  of  the  Count's  I  kept  to  myself,  for  fear  it  might  per-  haps  hurt  someone's  feelings.  He  had  thrown  the  words  over  his  shoulder  as  he  turned  toward  the  reservoir.  &quot;She  landed  yesterday,  you  see.  Not  far  from  here.  That  is  why  I  must  leave  you.&quot;  OUR  solemn  gathering  grew  some-  what  cozier  at  eleven  o'clock,  when  the  electric  light  dimmed  and  re-  covered  three  times,  as  a  sign  that  half  an  hour  later  it  would  be  cut  off  for  the  night.  At  this  signal,  most  of  the  vil-  lagers  took  their  leave.  Those  of  us  who  remained  drew  up  our  chairs  in  a  circle  around  the  table,  and  the  Count's  burly  Majorcan  valet,  our  host,  lit  long  ec-  clesiastical  tapers  stuck  in  pewter  candlesticks.  Two  bottles  of  brandy,  and  another  of  anis,  appearedon  a  tray,  and  we  soon  started  talking  freely.  There  were  seven  of  us:  Guillermo,  the  val-  et;  the  schoolmaster,  who  has  literary  pre-  tensions;  the  emaciated  sacristan;  Maria,  the  midwife;  Don  [REDACTED]  Fons  y  Pons,  the  Count's  family  lawyer,  whom  I  had  not  met  before;  [REDACTED]'s  hus-  band,  who  drives  our  village  bus  as  well  as  owning  the  caf\xc3\xa9;  and  myself.  &quot;An  ideally  consti-  tuted  party,&quot;  said  the  schoolmaster,  beaming.  &quot;More  in  number  than  the  Graces,  and  less  in  number  than  the  Muses.&quot;  &quot;But,&quot;  said  the  sac-  ristan,  &quot;precisely  equal  in  number  with  those  who  sufficiently  honor  the  memory  of  the  deceased  gentleman  upstairs  to  keep  an  all-night  vigil  for  him!&quot;  &quot;I  have  seen  no  member  of  the  no-  bility  about  the  village,&quot;  said  [REDACTED]'s  husband,  &quot;though  news  of  his  accident  must  have  reached  the  capital  hours  ago.&quot;  The  lawyer  stroked  his  white  mus-  tache,  hemmed,  and  explained:  &quot;Many  are  out  of  town,  the  rest  are  attending  the  Italian  opera.  But  we  can  expect  representatives  of  all  the  great  families  at  tomorrow's  funeral  service.  'They  cannot  well  omit  this  act  of  courtesy  to  one  who  was  not  only  the  senior  nobleman  of  Majorca  but  also  heredi-  tary  pomander  bearer  to  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Spain.&quot;  ''The  hypocrites,  how  they  disliked  my  master!&quot;  the  valet  burst  out.  &quot;His  father  fell  in  love  with  a  beautiful  peas-  ant  girl  from  Costitx  at  the  Martinmas  pig-killing,  and  had  the  good  sense  to  marry  her,  instead  of  seducing  the  poor  innocent  and  flinging  a  hundred-peseta  note  in  her  lap,  as  any  of  themwould  have  done.  She  was  a  woman  of  great  character,  was  theold  Countess,  and  pious  to  a  fault.  'Those  degenerates  pre-  tended  to  scorn  our  Count  as  the  off-  springof  a  misalliance,  yet  theyenvied  him  his  learning,  his  courage,  his  in-  dependence  of  spirit!  None  of  them  but  would  have  been  the  better  for  a  few  spoonfuls  of  wholesome  peasant  blood  " b"in  his  veins.  The  old  Countess  died  when  my  master  was  five  years  old,  and  he  adored  her  memory;  indeed,  some  say  that  it  was  the  unfortunate  noble-  man's  ruin.&quot;  &quot;Come,  man!&quot;  Maria,  the  midwife,  challenged  him.  &quot;How  can  adoration  for  a  mother's  memory  ruin  anyone?&quot;  Guillermo  appealed  to  the  lawyer.  &quot;Don  [REDACTED],  correct  me  if  I  am  wrong,  but  this  is  the  story  as  told  in  the  servants'  quarters,  and  we  are  sticklers  for  accuracy.&quot;  &quot;Tell  it  your  own  way,  Guillermo,&quot;  said  the  lawyer.  &quot;Well,&quot;  the  valet  continued,  &quot;Don  Ignacio,  the  Count's  only  brother,  two  years  his  junior,  drove  a  fast  car  down  the  La  Puebla  road.  Rain  had  fallen,  and  the  tarmac  was  slippery  with  mud  from  the  potato  carts.  He  had  his  wife  beside  him,  and  both  were  killed  in-  stantly  when  they  skidded  and  hit  a  tree.  Their  graceful,  green-eyed,  thir-  teen-year-old  daughter,  Dofia  Acebo,  came  under  my  master's  guardian-  ship-she  had  no  suitable  aunts  or  other  relatives  on  either  side  of  the  family-  and  since  he  was  a  bachelor,  this  embar-  rassed  him  a  little.  But  he  accepted  his  responsibility,  and,  finding  the  child  sadly  ignorant,  though  not  lacking  in  intelligence  or  humor,  removed  her  from  the  convent  school  where  she  had  studied,  and  became  her  tutor.  They  lived  in  the  Palacio  Deia.  He  taught  Dofia  Acebo  history,  heraldry,  geog-  raphy,  botany,  French,  and  Latin.  She  soon  dropped  her  school  friends,  because  none  of  them  had  the  same  interests  or  enjoyed  the  same  liberty  as  herself,  and  my  master  kept  her  out  of  Palma  soci-  ety-'Lest  she  should  turn  intoa  profli-  gate  modern  woman,'  as  he  said.  Only  three  hours  a  day  she  studied,  yet  they  were  worth  thirty  hours  at  a  convent,  for  he  taught  like  an  angel,  and  work  was  more  like  play  to  them.  The  fam-  ily  chaplain,  of  course,  attended  to  her  religious  needs.  My  master  took  Dofia  Acebo  everywhere  with  him-to  thea-  tres,  concerts,  bullfights,  cockfights,  free-style  wrestling  matches-but  both  enjoyed  far  more  the  entertainments  of  their  own  devising.  They  were  formi-  dable  jokesters,  and  would  leave  the  palace  at  all  hours,  disguised  as  gypsies,  or  drunks,  or  peddlers,  or  peasants,  and  have  a  thousand  droll  adventures  in  the  bystreets  of  Palma.&quot;  &quot;Give  us  an  example,&quot;  said  the  schoolmaster.  &quot;  'A  thousand  droll  ad-  ventures'  is  no  way  to  tell  a  story!&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  they  once  competed  as  to  who  could  first  earn  fifty  pesetas  from  a  stranger  by  barefaced  fraud.  I  was  the  timekeeper.  My  master,  wearing  a  cloth  cap,  a  false  beard,  and  spectacles,  visited  a  second-hand  bookstall,  where  he  paid  five  pesetas  for  a  volume  on  apiculture.  He  then  added  a  zero  to  the  figure  on  the  flyleaf,  wrapped  the  book  in  a  sheet  of  brown  paper,  slipped  into  a  caf\xc3\xa9  to  find  a  newspaper,  and  went  through  the  obituary  notices  on  the  second  page  of  La  Ultime  Hora.  Discovering  that  a  certain  Don  Fulano  de  Tal,an  importer  of  uralite  piping,  had  died  only  two  streets  away,  he  took  the  book  to  his  house,  and  inquired  for  Don  Fulano.  'Alas,  he  is  dead!&quot;  sobbed  the  widow.  'Alas,  and  doubly  alas!?  echoed  the  Count.  'Don  Fulano,  a  val-  ued  friend  of  mine,  ordered  this  volume  a  week  ago,  and  I  have  just  managed  to  procure  it  in  537061696e'  He  was  turning  sorrowfully  away  when  the  widow  asked  leave  to  inspect  the  book.  'Ah,  a  practical  treatise  on  beekeeping,&quot;  she  said  tenderly.  'My  poor  angel  must,  after  all,  have  contemplated  the  tran-  quil  country  life  that  I  so  often  urged  upon  him,  begging  him  to  sell  his  busi-  ness  in  good  time.  How  right  I  was,  for  an  overworked  heart  carried  him  off.  I  must  buy  this  as  a  memento  of  his  affection.  How  much  did  it  cost  you?' My  master  showed  her  the  price  on  the  flyleaf,  and  mentioned  another  five  pesetas  of  postal  charges.  In  the  cir-  cumstances,  he  was  prepared  to  forgo  his  commission,  and  the  widow  let  him  do  so,  thanking  him  for  his  nobility  of  heart.  'That  game  took  less  than  half  an  hour,  but  Dofia  Acebo  had  already  won  the  contest.  She  sold  two  out-of-  date  twenty-five-peseta  raffle  tickets  for  an  automobile  to  some  German  tourists  and  was  home  before  my  watch  marked  five  minutes.&quot;  &quot;Proceed  with  your  story,  man  said  Maria,  the  midwife.  &quot;You  men-  tioned  the  Count's  ruinous  love  for  his  dead  mother.&quot;  &quot;I  am  coming  to  that.  The  innocent  comradeship  between  the  Count  and  Dofia  Acebo  could  not  last  forever,  be-  cause,  as  she  grew  older  and  plumper,  she  came  to  bear  such  a  close  resem-  blance  to  the  portrait  of  her  grand-  mother,  theold  Countess,  whose  Chris-  tian  name  she  inherited,  that  they  might  have  been  twins.  In  short,  when  she  reached  the  age  of  fifteen,  my  master  fell  in  love  with  her,  much  to  his  alarm  and  confusion.  What  should  he  do?  The  two  hadbecome  so  deeply attached " b"to  each  other,  from  living  alone  in  the  great  palace,  with  only  the  chaplain  and  usservants  as  chorus  to  their  prolonged  comedy,  that  it  seemed  most  cruel  to  send  her  away.  But  would  it  not  be  worse  if  she  stayed?  After  much  heart-  searching,  and  with  the  chaplain's  dubi-  ous  approval,  he  decided  to  marry  her.  Of  course,  though  marriage  between  uncle  and  niece  can  be  sanctioned  by  the  Church,  out  of  respect  for  awell-  known  gospel  precedent,  such  unions  are  extremely  rare.  Here  in  this  village,  if  an  uncle  were  to  show  a  niece  undue  tenderness,  conches  would  be  blown  all  night  around  his  house,  and  filth  left  on  the  doorstep.  But  to  a  Count  of  Deia  all  things  within  reason  are  permitted,     for  did  not  his  ancestors  play  a  distin-  guished  part  in  restraining  the  Major-  can  clergy  from  allegiance  to  the  anti-  popes  at  Avignon?  Nevertheless,  it  was  a  costly  and  troublesome  procedure,  even  for  my  master,  to  secure  a  dis-  pensation  from  the  [REDACTED];  to  begin  with,  the  Bishop  of  Palma  had  to  sup-  ply  a  covering  letter,  explaining  the  peculiar  nature  of  the  case,  and  the  Bishop  raised  technical  difficulties.&quot;  &quot;Enough,  Guillermo!&quot;  interrupted  " b"the  lawyer.  &quot;Leave  the  in-  tricacies  of  canon  law  to  can-  ons,  and  stick  to  the  facts!  The  Count  of  Deia  and  Dofia  Acebo  were  married,  and  it  proved  no  happy  marriage.&quot;  &quot;''That  is  the  truth,&quot;  the  valet  agreed.  &quot;At  first,  Dofia  Acebo,  who  was  still  only  sixteen  years  old,  treated  the  wedding  as  another  of  their  wild,  scandalous  jokes,  and  one  that  would  give  her  an  enviable  social  status,  so  they  went  off  on  their  honeymoon  to  San  Sebastian  in  the  high-  est  spirits.  Then,  finding  that  she  was  seriously  expected  to  become  her  uncle's  wife,  in  factas  well  as  name,  and  to  present  him  with  an  heir,  she  felt  a  certain  distaste  and  even,  it  may  be,  moral  seru-  ples,  though  their  union  had  been  fully  legitimized.&quot;  &quot;I  heard  some  talk  of  that,&quot;  said  the  midwife,  keep-  ing  a  straight  face.  &quot;She  re-  jected  his  caresses,  but  in  a  most  affectionate  manner.&quot;  &quot;  'Affectionate'  is  right,  Dofia  Maria,&quot;  the  valet  an-  swered,  no  less  gravely.  &quot;The  Count  was  very  ticklish,  and  whenever  he  attempted  any  more  than  avuncular  endear-  ments,  she  would  tickle  him  in  the  ribs  until  he  nearly  died  from  laughter  and  annoy-  ance.&quot;  The  lawyer  interrupted  again.  &quot;A  tragic  tale!  The  exasperated  Count,  aware  that  he  had  made  a  serious  error,  but  determined  to  teach  his  Countess  a  lesson,  sued  for  an  annulment-which  proved  as  trou-  blesome  and  costly  to  obtain  as  the  marriage  license-without  her  consent  or  knowledge.  One  fine  morning,  she  awoke  to  find  the  wedding  ring  absent  from  her  finger,  and  when  she  raised  a  hue  and  cry,  Margalida,  the  housemaid,  informed  her,  as  she  had  been  instructed,  that  she  no  longer  had  any  need  of  the  trinket.&quot;  &quot;Dofia  Acebo  resented  this  joke  so  bitterly,&quot;  said  the  valet,  nodding  his  head  up  and  down  for  emphasis,  &quot;that  the  couple  never  resumed  their  former  carefree  play,  and  soon  she  ran  off  with  a  young  Colombian  band  leader,  whom  she  had  encountered  at  Tito's  Bar.  From  every  city  they  visited,  to  comply  with  his  engagements,  she  would  send  the  Count  picture  postcards  of  lovers--  some  sentimental,  some  grossly  comic,    and  all  in  the  lowest  popular  taste.  The  Count  grew  increasingly  morose,  and  took  to  his  bed,  seeing  nobody.  When  at  last  he  regained  his  health,  we  found  him  altered  and  the  prey  to  a  compul-  sion  for  strange  games.  If  we  attended  Mass  in  [REDACTED]  Eulalia  church,  for  in-  stance,  where  patterns  of  alternate  white  and  dark-red  marble  squares  line  the  pavement,  he  would  experience  great  difficulty  in  approaching  the  altar  steps;  there  were  always  holy  women  kneel-  ing  in  prayer  on  the  red  marble  squares  he  felt  he  had  to  tread  upon.  'Excuse  me,  good  woman,'  he  would  mutter.  'Would  you  mind  moving  twenty  centi-  metres  to  the  right?&quot;  They  would  look  up  in  great  vexation,  but  he  always  got  his  way.  The  Mass  priest  would  blanch  when  he  saw  him,  because  the  Count,  once  he  had  gained  the  steps,  would  wring  his  hands  and  utter  a  low  moan  of  'Oo-00!&quot;  at  the  slightest  mispronunci-  ation  or  grammatic  error  in  Latin.&quot;  &quot;I  watched  him  once  for  a  half  an  hour  at  the  Palm  Sunday  Fair,&quot;  put  in  [REDACTED]'s  husband,  &quot;some  three  months  after  Dofia  Acebo's  departure.  He  was  leaning  over  the  counter  of  theshoot-  ing  gallery,  and  behind  him  waited  a  queue  of  little  boys,  whom  he  made  stand  to  attention,  like  soldiers.  Hav-  ing  fired  a  few  preliminary  shots  to  gauge  the  precise  twist  in  his  rifle  bar-  rel,  he  bought  an  enormous  stack  of  counters  and  shot  with  monotonous  in-  sistence  at  the  same  iron  plate.  'Crack!'  'Crack!'  'Crack!'  At  each  hit,  a  door  would  fly  open,  and  out  came  a  doll,  dressed  as  a  waitress,  with  a  tray  in  her  hands,  and  on  it  a  miniature  bottle  of  so-called  vermut.  He  would  beckon  for  the  bottle,  uncork  it,  pour  the  con-  tents  down  the  throat  of  the  foremost  " b"boy,  send  him  back  to  the  end  of  the  queue,  and  resume  his  marksmanship.  The  proprietor  shouted  curses  at  him,  but  could  do  nothing  else.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  he  leave  the  palace?&quot;  asked  the  sacristan.  &quot;Was  it  to  avoid  unhappy  memories  of  his  marriage?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps,&quot;  said  the  valet.  &quot;But  he  announced  that  he  had  taken  refuge  from  the  enemy,  here  in  the  mountains.  When  I  inquired  what  enemy,  he  an-  swered,  'Those  who  smoke  blond  tobac-  co3  those  who  strew  our  quiet  Majorcan  beaches  with  pink,  peeling  human  flesh;  those  who  roar  round  the  island  in  for-  eign  cars  ten  metres  long;  those  who  prefer  aluminum  to  earthenware,  and  plastics  to  glass;  those  who  demolish  the  old  quarters  of  Palma  and  erect  travel  agencies,  souvenir  shops,  and  tall,  bar-  rackslike  hotels  on  the  ruins;  those  who  keep  their  radios  bawling  incessantly  along  the  street  at  siesta  time;  those  who  swill  Caca-Loco  and  bottled  beer!'  The  last  straw  came  with  the  closing  of  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Figaro,  which  everyone  of  char-  acter  in  Palma  used  to  frequent,  and  the  conversion  of  its  premises  into  palatial  offices  for  Messrs.  Thomas  Cook  &amp;  Son.  He  had  sat  there  most  mornings,  at  a  corner  table,  playing  dominoes  with  the  Cat-stewer-&quot;  &quot;Who  was  that?&quot;  I  asked.   Both  the  schoolmaster  and  Cata-  lina's  husband  wanted  to  tell  me  about  the  Cat-stewer,  but  the  sacristan  held  the  floor.  It  appears  that  this  well-  known  figure  had  been  cook  to  the  old  Bishop  of  Palma,  who  died,  and  the  new  Bishop  made  the  mistake  of  criticizing  one  of  his  sauces.  Though  he  kept  silent,  his  pride  was  wounded,  and  at  a  banquet  to  which  the  new  Bishop  invited  the  Captain-General  and  his  staff,  he  served  up  a  delicious  rabbit  ragout.  When  called  into  the  dining  room  to  receive  extravagant  compliments,  he  said,  &quot;'Yes,  beyond  all  doubt  I  am  the  best  cook  in  Majorca!  I  can  make  stewed  alley  cat  taste  like  the  tenderest  rabbit.  And  now,  My  Lord  Bishop,  I  have  finished,  and  wish  you  and  your  guests  a  very  good  night!&quot;  He  threw  his  tall  chef's  hat  on  the  floor,  and  marched  out  in  glory.  Aft-  er  that,  he  drifted  around  Palma  pick-  ing  up  cigarette  butts  dropped  by  tour-  ists,  and  accepting  coffees  from  Palma  folk  who  admired  his  spirit.  He  never  cooked  another  meal.  In  the  severe  shortage  of  cooks  caused  by  the  building  of  too  many  hotels,  the  Cat-stewer  was  wooed  with  enormous  offers-up  to  a  hundred  thousand  pesetas  a  year-for  his  culinary  services.  He  only  spat  for  an  answer.  &quot;What  did  the  Count  do  about  his  persecution  by  the  ex-Countess's  post-  cards?&quot;  I  asked.  It  was  an  embarrassing  question.  Three  of  my  fellow-mourners  stirred  uncomfortably  in  their  chairs,  but  kept  silent,  warned  by  the  lawyer's  frown.  Maria,  the  midwife,  took  pity  on  me.  &quot;The  Count  had  peasant  blood,  Don  Roberto.  It  is  known  that,  in  his  chagrin,  he  consulted  a  wise  wom-  an  at  Andraitx.  Nothing  can  be  said  for  certain  asto  the  advice  she  gave  him.  At  all  events,  the  persecution  ended  when  Dofia  Acebo  died,  early  last  year.&quot;  &quot;How  did  she  die,  Dofia  Maria?&quot;  &quot;By  drowning,  also.  The  new  liner  in  which  she  and  her  young  band  leader  were  travelling  from  [REDACTED]  to  the  Argentine  struck  a  rock  and  foun-  dered.&quot;  Don  Toms  hastily  changed  the  sub-  ject.  &quot;The  Count  had  the  kindest  heart,&quot;  he  babbled.  &quot;One  day,  plagued  by  his  neurotic  compulsion,  he  tried  to  pass  from  one  end  of  San  Miguel  Street  to  the  other  while  dodging  alternately  to  the  right  and  left  of  persons  who  ap-  proached.  This  made  him  perform  a  hazardous  dance,  because  it  was  a  busy  Saturday  morning,  with  the  farmers,  as  usual,  crowding  the  streets  and  the  tables  outside  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Suizo.  Along  roared  a  Vespa  motor  scooter;  the  Count  dashed  across  its  path,  trying  to  pass  it  on  his  right.  The  scooter  struck  his  foot,  the  rider  fell  off,  and  the  machine  fell,  though  its  engine  continued  to  throb  where  it  lay  overturned  by  the  sidewalk.  A  baker's  boy  astride  a  bicycle,  balanc-  ing  a  huge  tray  of  pastries  on  his  head,  ran  into  the  Vespa,  and  all  the  pastries  were  spilled.  'Young  man,'  cried  the  Count  to  the  Vespa  rider,  who  was  nurs-  inga  bruised  elbow,  'how  dare  you  take  your  dangerous  machine  down  San  Mi-  guel  Street  on  a  Saturday  morning?'  A  blind  woman  lottery  vender,  seated  on  the  curb,  felt  her  skirts  lifted  by  the  wind  of  the  Vespa's  exhaust,  and  let  out  a  scream.  The  Count  immediately  paid  the  baker's  boy,  and  then  consoled  the  old  creature,  kissed  her  hand,  bought  five  lottery  tickets  and  tore  them  up-hav-  ing  a  soul  above  money-and  guided  her  into  the  Suizo,  where  she  rapidly  downed  several  brandies.  The  baker's  boy  collected  the  pastries,  dusted  them  on  his  trousers,  restacked  them  on  the  tray,  and  rode  on,  the  richer  by  a  hun-  dred  pesetas.  'The  deceased  had  his  faults,  as  who  has  not,  but  will  we  ever  look  upon  his  like  again?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98N  7  E  sat  talking  and  drinking  un-  til  five  o'clock,  and  then  pre-  pared  to  depart.  We  went  upstairs     " b"for  a  last  farewell,  be-  fore  leaving  the  Count  to  the  companionship  of  his  best  friend,  who  was  already  gild-  ing  the  mountaintops.  &quot;'The  Spanish  taste  for  black  velvet,&quot;  observed  the  schoolmaster  sen-  tentiously,  eying  the  Count's  court  dress,  's  often  thought  to  re-  flect  the  gloomy  side  of  our  national  character.  That  is  an  error.  Our  ancestors  gloried  in  the  indigo  plant,  which  alone  afforded  them  a  fast  sable  dye  to  con-  trast  with  the  brilliant  white  of  their  linen  cuffs  and  ruffs.  Spanish  black  velvet  never  turned  rusty  or  green.  Guillermo  did  well  in  choosing  those  lilies  and  roses  to  set  it  off.  Our  friend's  darkest  moods  were  always  enlivened  by  vivid  flashes  of  the  purest  white.&quot;  HE  funeral  Masses  for  the  Count  took  place  at  ten  o'clock,  and  every  noble  house  in  Palma  sent  representa-  tives.  Our  village  square  was  crowded  with  their  sleek  American  and  Italian  cars.  The  visitors  kept  together  in  a  tight,  silent  bunch,  and  made  me  feel  a  peasant  of  peasants.  Throughout  the  service,  which  the  Bishop  himself  con-  ducted,  with  the  aidof  several  subsidi-  ary  priests,  including  Don  Julian,  I  was  puzzling  to  myself:  &quot;She  landed  yes-  terday,  you  see.  Not  far  from  here.  That  is  why  I  must  leave  you.&quot;  Who  had  landed  that  Thursday?  Where?  &quot;She&quot;  couldnot  have  been  Dofia  Acebo,  and  it  was  generally  agreed  that  no  oth-  er  woman  had  figured  in  the  Count's  adult  life.  Maria,  the  midwife,  had  hinted  at  a  recourse  to  witchcraft,  but  since  witchcraft  is  a  subject  that  Major-  cans  never  discuss  with  foreigners,  I  concluded  that  it  would  be  wiser  to  let  the  problem  lie.  The  next  day,  as  it  happened,  Jack  and  Gloria  Stonegate-]  ack  is  a  shrewd  North  of  England  retired  business-  man,  and  Gloria  is  a  genius  at  repair-  ing  antique  china-had  asked  my  wife  and  me  to  lunch  with  them  at  Paguera,  which  is  a  few  miles  from  Andraitx.  Paguera  has  the  sunniest  climate  in  Ma-  jorca,  which  means,  of  course,  insuffi-  cient  rain,  and  therefore  a  perpetual  water  shortage.  But  against  that  you  may  set  a  fine,  sandy  beach,  pine  for-  ests,  and  swimming  as  early  as  March.  &quot;Anything  new  happened  here  since  last  time?&quot;  I  asked  Jack,  over  drinks.  &quot;Nothing  much,  old  boy,  except  two  motor-bike  accidents,  one  death  by  drowning,  a  kerosene  shortage,  a  fight  between  some  Dutchmen  in  the  grocery  store,  and  a  coffin  washed  up  on  the  islet  three  days  ago.&quot;  &quot;''The  coffin  sounds  the  most  inter-  esting.&quot;  &quot;It  certainly  was!  It  contained  a  carved  wooden  doll,  about  three  feet  long-obviously  a  portrait  of  someone  real-wearing  a  bridal  robe  and  veil.  What  do  you  make  of  that?  Round  her  shoulders  she  wore  a  miniature  post-  bag,  striped  with  the  Spanish  colors,  and  in  the  bag  we  found  an  assortment  of  rather  stupid  amatory  picture  postcards  from  all  over  the  place-Tangier,  [REDACTED],  Blackpool,  Atlantic  City,  Copenhagen.  The  name  and  address  of  the  person  who  had  received  them  all  had  been  carefully  cut  out,  with  scissors  or  a  razor,  and  there  was  no  message  on  any  of  them-only  the  signature  'A.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;How  big  was  the  coffin?&quot;  &quot;Life-size.  It  must  have  been  a  long  time  in  the  water.  I  got  a  good  look  at  the  cards.  The  latest  one  came  from  Rio  de  Janeiro,  postmarked  eighteen  months  ago.  A  yard  or  two  of  frayed  rope  hung  from  a  handle  of  the  coffin.  Evidently  it  had  been  weighted  down  by  stones  the  lead  lining  wasn't  quite  heavy  enough  to  keep  it  on  the  bottom-but  it  must  have  broken  loose  in  the  big  storm  last  week.  The  Guardias  and  the  priest  were  examining  it  as  I  wandered  up.  The  priest  seemed  shocked  to  the  core,  and  even  the  Guardias  were  upset.  What  do  you  make  of  that  story,  old  boy?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  just  a  practical  joke,&quot;  I  reas-  sured  Jack.  &quot;Some  Majorcans  will  go  to  any  length  for  a  laugh-you'd  be  sur-  prised!&quot;  &quot;I  call  it  a  damned  macabreform  of  humor,&quot;  Jack  grumbled.  &quot;But  then,  I'm  English.&quot;  PLEASE  do  not  ask  whether,  in  my  opinion,  Dofia  Acebo's  death  by  drowning  was  just  a  coincidence.  Be  content  with  facts.  The  coffined  doll  must  be  accepted  as  valid  evidence  that  the  Count,  with  a  witch's  assistance,  tried  to  procure  Dofia  Acebo's  death  by  magical  means.  Unofficially,  my  fellow-  villagers  do  not  doubt  that  he  succeeded.  They  condemn  his  action  as  un-Catho-  lic,  of  course,  but  the  provocation  was  enormous,  and  how  else  could  a  Count  of  Deia,  with  a  peasant  mother,  have  been  expected  to  act?  Officially,  they  agree  with  the  priest:  it  was  a  sad  coinci-  dence.  Officially,  so  do  I."