 b"I AM  selfish  and  tired,  and  vicarious,  ness  is  what  I  crave.  What  I  want  now  is  to  have  a  total  stranger  stop  me  on  the  street  and  say,  &quot;I  ask  nothing  of  you  but  to  have  you  listen  to  my  story.  I  want  nothing  else  from  you-not  even  sympathy.  Come  into  this  bar,  and  I  will  buy  you  a  drink  and  tell  you  about  my  fascinating  life.&quot;  And  then  for  the  next  two  hours  he  will  talk  to  me  bril-  liantly,  telling  me,  without  interrup-  tions  or  afterthoughts  or  sentimentality,  a  story  of  many  people  and  places-one  that  absorbs  me  entirely.  He  will  be  able  to  let  me  see  the  precise  expression  in  his  wife's  eyes  when  she  looks  in  a  mirror  late  one  evening  and  decides  she  is  get-  ting  older,  and,  through  his  words,  I  will  be  ableto  hear  the  diminishing  sound  of  a  distant  trolley  car  in  a  small  [REDACTED]  town  thirty  years  ago.  While  he  talks,  he  will  occasionally  have  diffi-  culty  in  suppressing  outright  laughter,  and  a  few  moments  later  real  tears  will  run  out  from  under  his  eyeglasses.  All  the  people  and  events  that  he  talks  about  will  become  a  part  of  my  life,  but  then  in  the  end  the  stranger  will  shake  my  hand  and  we  will  separate  and  never  meet  again.  And,  for  once,  I  will  have  had  to  make  no  decisions,  to  offer  no  kind  words  or  warning  or  advice.  There  will  have  been  no  demands  on  me.  This  is  a  scene  I  dream  of  often.  Do  people  lean  on  each  other  more  than  they  used  to,  or  do  all  men  come  to  a  point  in  their  lives  where  they  find  that  their  true  function  is  to  listen  to  the  troubles  of  those  around  them,  and  to  pretend  to  be  wise  and  reassuring  and  full  of  hope?  I  come  home  at  night  and  hang  up  my  overcoat,  and  my  wife  comes  out  of  the  kitchen  and  says,  &quot;Dan,  I  wish  you'd  try  to  talk  to  Tony.  Some-  thing's  gone  wrong  for  him,  and  he  won't  tell  me  what  it  is.  He's  been  up  in  his  room  ever  since  he  got  back  from  school.&quot;  I  promise  to  talk  to  our  son,  and  then  I  look  through  the  mail  and  find  a  letter  from  my  sister,  who  lives  in  Illinois.  Her  two  youngest  daughters  need  immediate  major  dental  work,  she  writes,  and  her  husband  (who  is  an  assistant  curator  in  an  art  museum)  has  again  been  passed  over  for  promotion,  because  the  head  of  his  department  is  suffering  from  senile  jealousy  and  be-  cause  my  brother-in-law  has  no  social  contacts  with  any  of  the  museum  trus-  tees.  Although  I  cannot  afford  to  pay  for  my  nieces'  dentistry  and  cannot  un-  derstand  museum  politics,  I  make  a   FEBRUARY  21,  1959  mental  note  to  write  my  sister  in  the  morning.  After  dinner,  I  go  up  to  Tony's  room  and  sit  on  the  edge  of  his  bed  and  ask  him  about  his  schoolwork,  and  he  looks  at  the  floor  and  blushes  and  mumbles  that  everything  is  fine,  and  then  he  starts  tearing  a  piece  of  note-  book  paper  into  tiny  squares.  Just  as  I  am  about  to  leave,  he  tells  me  that  his  algebra  teacher  has  warned  him  that  he  will  be  dropped  from  the  basketball  squad  if  his  marks  do  not  improve,  and  that  his  best  friend,  who  visited  us  at  the  beach  for  a  week  last  summer,  has  not  invited  him  to  go  skiing  in  New  Hamp-  shire  during  the  spring  vacation,  al-  though  Tomy  knows  he  has  invited  two  other  classmates.  I  sit  down  again,  and  start  totalk  about  the  algebra.  But  there  is  no  way  for  me  to  make  him  like  his  schoolwork,  and  I  know  that  there  is  no  cure  for  the  fears  and  pains  of  youth.  Two  days  later,  my  wife  tells  me  that  someone,  probably  the  cleaning  wom-  an,  has  stolen  fifteen  dollars  out  of  her  purse  but  that  she  is  afraid  to  ac-  cuse  her.  &quot;It's  degrading,&quot;  she  says.  She  sighs  twice,  like  an  overtired  child,  and  says,  &quot;I  am  degraded.  This  life  is  degrading.  My  fingers  are  all  cracked  from  dishwater,  and  my  hair  is  coming  out  in  handfuls.  We  haven't  been  away  alone  together  for  more  than  two  years.  I  will  not,  I  simply  will  not,  go  back  to  Wausaket  next  summer  when  we  can't  afford  to  join  theField  Club.  W  hat  are  we  going  to  do  about  it?  Oh,  how  can  you  sit  there  and  read  and  get  ready  to  lie  to  me  about  how  everything  is  going  to  get  better?&quot;  During  the  weekend,  my  mother  asks  me  whether  electronic  companies  are  considered  a  really  safe  investment,  and  whether  she  should  move  to  a  smaller  apartment  even  though  it  would  mean  selling  some  of  the  furniture  she  has  kept  from  her  old  house.  And  at  a  cocktail  party  Lynn  Aylmer  takes  me  into  a  corner  and  begins  to  cry.  Harry  has  started  drinking  again,  she  tells  me,  holding  my  hand.  &quot;He  won't  go  to  a  psychiatrist  about  it,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;He  won't  talk  about  it  at  all.  He  won't  talk  about  anything.  Couldn't  you  talk  to  him?  Could  you  have  lunch  with  me  in  town  someday  and  tell  me  what  you  think  I  ought  to  do?&quot;  I  am  in  the  insurance  business,  and  lately  it  has  occurred  to  me  that  this  may  be  why  everyone  I  know  seems  to  cry  out  to  me  for  help.  Perhaps  there  is  some  spurious  professional  expression  of  responsibility  and  hope  that  has  grown  permanent  on  my  face.  But  how  can  I  explain  the  impatience  I  feel  these  days  when  I  visit  a  client's  office?  I  sit  beside  his  desk  and  take  out  our  bro-  " b" chures  and  rate  tables,  and  he  glances  at  them  warily,  and  then  he  takes  off  his  glasses  and  pinches  one  eyebrow  and  looks  out  the  window  as  if  he  wished  he  were  somewhere  else,  and  thenhe  tells  me  that  he  is  underinsured  and  that  he  must  also  make  plans  for  more  in-  come  after  his  retirement.  &quot;But  I  can't  afford  another  big  insurance  bite,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I've  still  got  two  kids  to  see  through  college.  I've  got  two  mortgages  on  my  house  in  Scarsdale,  and  a  de-  mand  note  at  my  bank.  I've  gone  as  far  in  this  business  as  I'm  going  to  get.  In  another  five  years,  they'll  start  giving  some  of  my  work  to  a  younger  man.  I'm  afraid  to  take  another  physical  exam.&quot;  He  smiles  at  me,  and  throws  up  his  hands.  &quot;Is  there  any  way  you  people  can  help  me?  There  must  be  lots  of  other  men  in  my  position.&quot;  He  is  a  pigeon,  an  absolute  pigeon  ripe  for  sign-  ing,  but  what  I  really  want  to  do  is  to  put  my  papers  back  in  my  briefcase  and  walk  out.  Nobody  can  help  him-no-  body  in  this  world-and  I  hate  him  for  being  honest  and  helpless.  Even  in  my  office,  I'm  no  longer  safe.  I  know  that  some  afternoon  this  week  George  Hel-  ler,  who  works  just  down  the  hall  from  me,  will  stick  his  head  in  my  door  again  and  say,  &quot;Got  a  minute,  Dan?&quot;  George's  wife  has  multiple  sclerosis,  and  he  has  learned  to  make  the  best  of  it,  but  I  will  want  to  shout,  &quot;No!  Get  out  of  here!  Go  see  your  minister,  go  get  drunk.  But  leave  me  alone!  Stop  depending  on  me.&quot;  Is  it  any  wonder  that  I  long  for  vicariousness,  that  I  have  started  read-  ing  murder  mysteries,  that  I  want  to  surround  myself  with  strangers  and  in-  dulge  my  new,  secret  vice  of  eavesdrop-  ping?  BOUT  once  a  month,  I  get  away  from  home  for  two  or  three  nights  on  a  short  business  swing.  It  shames  me  to  say  so,  but  I  have  come  to  look  for-  ward  to  it.  Sitting  in  a  dull  staff  meeting  at  one  of  our  branch  offices,  taking  an  extra  Martini  before  a  steak  dinner  in  Locke-Ober's  with  our  New  England  man,  watching  a  movie  alone  in  the  friendly  dark-here  I  am  safe,  here  no  one  can  touch  me.  I  call  my  wife  in  the  evening  from  my  hotel  room,  and  she  tells  me  that  I  am  missed,  and  then  Tony  comes  on  to  say  that  he  has  cap-  tured  a  baby  squirrel,  which  he  hasput  in  the  old  hamster  cage,  and  to  ask  if  I  will  go  skating  with  him  on  Saturday,  and  when  I  hang  up,  I  am  struck  with  a  wave  of  love  and  longing  for  them  that  is  warmer  and  simpler  than  any-  thing  I  feel  when  I  am  at  home.  And  then,  with  my  feet  up  on  the  hotel  bedspread,  I  light  a  cigarette  and  look around  my  neat,  empty  room,  and  my  heart  thumps  a  little  faster  asI  realize  that  now  I  can  enjoy  the  luxury  of  loncliness,  and  that  I  can  go  out  and  just  look  at  people  and  listen  to  them  and  be  nobody-a  fly  on  the  wall,  a  pair  of  ears,  a  free  man.  There  is  a  bar  off  the  lobby  of  the  hotel  where  I  stay  in  [REDACTED]  that  is  made  for  eavesdropping.  It  is  small-perhaps  twenty  tables,  close  together-and  dark  enough  to  make  it  difficult  to  read  an  evening  newspaper  over  one's  highball,  if  one  were  really  trying  to  read  it.  There  is  a  serving  bar,  but  no  bar  proper  to  encourage  lonely  conversationalists.  Lots  of  mir-  rors,  set  at  seated  eye  level,  and  the  usual  bad  wallpaper-in  this  case,  silver  parrots  and  cockatoos  nestling  in  black  jungle  leaves.  This  bar  has  been  my  secret  club,  my  listening  post,  the  den  of  my  little  vice.  What  stories  I  could  tell  about  the  homeward-bound  couples  who  stop  there  for  a  nightcap,  the  late  drinkers,  and  the  groups  in  evening  clothes  who  have  clustered  into  talk  and  drink  after  a  party!  I  know  them  all;  without  suspecting  it,  they  have  left  their  indiscreet  laughter  and  their  pri-  vate  facial  expressions  and  their  dreary  and  hopeful  and  impossible  confidences  with  me.  It  is  sad  to  think  that  I  shall  probably  never  go  back  there-not  aft-  er  last  week,  I  won't.  I  was  there  last  Thursday  night.  I  came  in  at  about  ten-thirty  and  got  my  favorite  table-the  small  one  against  the  far  wall  in  the  middle,  next  to  the  round  table  for  six.  The  bar  was  about  half  full;  it  fills  up  after  eleven.  I  recognized  the  couple  in  the  left-hand  corner.  They  are  permanent  residents  in  the  hotel.  He  is  about  sixty,  and  is  a  retired  smalltime  judge.  Her  deepest  interest  in  life  is  growing  roses,  and  she  is  pro-  foundly  unhappy  to  be  without  a  garden  now  that  they  have  sold  their  big  house,  which  I  think  was  in  Villanova.  They  have  one  son,  who  is  either  in  the  diplo-  matic  service  or  else  is  acareer  officer  in  the  Navy,and  a  daughter  in  Balti-  more  whose  drinking  worries  them  ter-  ribly.  The  judge  likes  to  play  the  guitar.  On  this  particular  night,  however,  they  were  out  of  earshot.  I  ordered  my  Scotch  and  opened  my  paper,  and  by  remaining  absolutely  still  and  concen-  trating  my  hearing  likea  radar  saucer  I  was  able  to  pick  up  most  of  a  conver-  " b" sation  between  a  couple  in  their  early  thirties,  who  sat  directly  across  from  me.  They  knew  each  other  well.  They  sat  side  by  side,  looking  at  their  Old-Fash-  ioneds  and  talking  slowly.  I  liked  her  right  away.  She  had  big,  serious  eyes  and  long,  tapering  hands  and  a  way  of  pausing  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence  while  she  chose  the  precise  words  she  was  looking  for.  Oh,  she  was  a  dar-  ling-much  too  good  for  the  likes  of  him.  He  had  a  blustery  way  of  talk-  ing,  and,  over  my  newspaper,  I  could  see  that  he  always  smiled  when  he  talked,  even  though  she  never  looked  at  him.  A  charm  boy.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said  at  one  point,  &quot;she  probably  is\xc2\xbb#'t  going  to  die.  At  least,  she's  not  in  a  condition  where  you  can  expect  it  right  away.  At  her  age,  it  could  be  next  week  or  two  years  from  now.&quot;  &quot;I  know  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We've  both  known  that  for  three  years.  And  now  she  doesn't  even  know  who  you  are.&quot;  &quot;I  think  she  does,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;At  least  some  of  the  time.  I'm  sure  she'd  know  it  if  there  were  just  a  nurse  there,  or  if  she  was  in  some  kind  of  a-  well,  not  at  home.&quot;  &quot;I  tell  you  I  all  that,&quot;  he  said  impatiently,  but  still  smiling.  &quot;'Those  are  the  facts,  so  O.K.  But  I  don't  see  why,on  a  night  when  you  can't  get  out,  it  isn't  perfectly  all  right  for  me-&quot;  There  was  a  burst  of  laughterhere  from  alarge  party  at  a  table  near  the  bar,  and  I  missed  what  they  said  next.  When  I  could  hear  them  again,  she  was  saying,  in  a  voice  full  of  tenderness,  &quot;-all  mixed  up  playing  cards.  She  drops  them,  and  then  gets  terribly  em-  barrassed,  and  I  evenhave  to  look  in  her  hand  and  make  her  next  play  for  her.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  damn  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  why  take  it  out  on  me?  You  know  per-  fectly  well-&quot;  And  here  I  lost  them.  Four  middle-  aged  women  wearing  fur  coats  and  car-  rying  concert  programs  came  in  and  took  the  table  right  next  to  the  couple.  Their  gabble  ended  my  afternoons  in  that  sickroom,  where  that  lovely  girl  would  pour  teafor  the  invalid  and  draw  the  blinds  at  the  end  of  the  day  and  help  theold  lady  sort  out  her  confused  and  frightening  scraps  of  recollection  about  gardeners  who  were  long  dead  and  coach  dogs  who  had  barked  at  her  when  she  was  a  child.  At  this  moment,  I  became  aware  of  a  voice  right  next  to  me-from  thebig  table  just  to  my  right.  'The  voice  had  been  there  all  along,  I  realized,  but  I  hadn't  paid  attention,  because  there  were  three  men  at  the  table,  and  business  talk  is  apt  to  bedreary.  But  this  was  an  unusual  voice-deep  and  confident  and  pervading.  It  came  from  the  large  man  who  had  his  back  to  me,  not  three  feet  away.  I  picked  up  his  face  in  the  mirror  across  the  room-a  big,  reddish  face  with  heavy  lines  running  down  from  the  nostrils  to  the  edges  of  his  mouth.  He  had  thick  white  hair,  and  his  black,  curved  eyebrows  gave  him  a  surprised,  almost  popeyed  expression.  The  two  men  with  him  were  much  younger;  they  were  both  about  thirty-  five,  I'd  say,  though  one  of  themwas  almost  bald.  They  hardly  spoke  at  all,  and  kept  their  eyes  on  the  large  man's  face,  and  I  concluded  that  they  were  junior  employees  in  his  firm.  He  may  not  havebeen  their  boss,  but  he  was  a  superior.  I  could  hear  every  word  from  their  table,  and  by  keeping  my  eyes  on  the  mirror  I  could  see  the  expressions  and  smallest  motions  of  the  three  of  them.  It  was  perfect  for  me.  &quot;It  comes  down  to  a  matter  of  sure-  ness  in  what  you're  doing,&quot;  the  big  man  was  saying.  &quot;If  you're  not  sure  of  your-  self,  nobody  will  pay  one  bit  of  damned  attention  to  you.  Don't  you  agree?  Look,  George,  Martin:  have  you  ever  trained  a  dog?  You  must  have.  Well,  you  admit  it's  got  to  be  him  or  you.  If  you're  fumbling  your  way,  trying  to  make  a  palof  him  and  train  him,  too,  you'll  never  get  anywhere.  Right?  Tell  you  a  story.  Three  yearsago,  one  of  our  Labradors,  Max,  started  growling  at  -OcpEN  NasH  anybody  who  came  by  the  sidewalk  in  front  of  our  place.  Thought  we  might  have  to  get  rid  of  him.  Well,  I'lltell  you  what  I  did.  I  watched  him  carefully,  and  the  very  next  time  he  bared  his  teeth  out  there,  I  took  him  by  the  scruff  of  the  neck  and  dragged  him  into  the  garage.  I  tied  him  up  short  with  a  piece  of  rope  and  then  gotout  an  old  riding  crop  of  mine  and  beat  the  absolute  living  bejesus  out  of  him.  He  really  screamed.  Then  I  put  a  bow!  of  water  down  next  to  him,  keeping  him  tied  up,  and  I  locked  the  doors  on  himand  kept  him  in  there,  in  the  dark,  for  twenty-four  hours.  I  told  my  wife  that  when  I  went  back  we'd  either  have  a  ravening,  crazy  ani-  mal  who'd  have  to  be  destroyed  or  a  good,  dependable  dog.  Cruel,  you'd  say,  wouldn't  you,  Martin?&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  sounds  a  little  extreme,&quot;  the  bald  one  said.  &quot;Well,  sir,  I  went  back  the  next  morning  and  let  out  Max-he  jumped  up  and  wagged  all  over  the  place,  sore  as  he  was-and  from  that  day  to  this  he's  been  the  friendliest,  quietest,  gentlest  dog  we  have.  It  worked.  It  worked  be-  cause,  God  damn  it,  I  knew  what  I  was  doing,  and  I  had  the  nerve  to  act  on  my  knowledge.  Let's  do  this  again.  Same  all  around?&quot;  I  saw  that  the  two  younger  men  hadn't  finished  their  drinks,  but  they  both  downed  them  quickly  and  took  fresh  ones.  The  big  man  wasn't  really  drunk,  I  decided,  but  he'd  had  quite  a  few.  &quot;I  guess  it's  leadership  I'm  talking  about,&quot;  the  man  said  after  taking  a  swig  from  his  new  highball.  &quot;It's  an  old-fash-  ioned  word-an  unstylish  word  these  days.I  think  it's  going  out.  That's  why  I'm  talking  to  you  men  like  this.  Good  men,  both  of  you.  I've  been  watching  you.  But  by  God,  how  do  you  two  plan  " b"to  get  ahead-way  ahead-if  you  go  on  just  doing  your  work  well  and  being  just  nice  guys?  I  don't  understand  peo-  ple  any  more.  Everybody  wants  to  be  liked,  and  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  maybe  not  as  much  as  all  that,&quot;  George  said.  He  was  smiling,  looking  at  hisglass.  &quot;I-  I  think  a  man  can  be  liked  and  still  get  ahead.  But  he  shouldn't  care  about  being  liked,  if  you  know  what-&quot;  &quot;Shouldn't  care  one  damn  bit,&quot;  the  older  man-  interrupted.  &quot;Leadership.  Guts-that's  what  I'm  talking  about.  Individual  guts.  Look.  Either  of  you  ever  row  in  a  shell  in  college?  No?  Well,  I'll  tell  you  a  test  of  guts.  It's  in  the  last  half  mile  of  a  stiff  two-mile  race,  You  want  to  quit.  You  want  to  stop  and  puke  and  never  lift  your  arms  again.  But  you  don't.  You  keep  on  pull-  ing.  Oh,  maybe  it's  a  little  because  of  37  the  others  in  the  boat  and  not  wanting  to  let  them  down.  But  mostly  it's  be-  cause  of  you.  You  know  it's  a  test,  and  you  know  if  you  quit,  you'll  never  get  over  it  for  the  rest  of  your  life.  You'll  never  be  a  leader.  Damned  if  I  don't  think  most  men  go  through  life  these  days  without  ever  testing  their  courage  once.  Not  even  once.  They're  followers,  not  leaders.&quot;  At  this  point,  the  two  younger  men  " b"    \n\n started  talking  about  the  [REDACTED]  college  crew,  trying  to  get  the  man  off  his  theme,  and  I  ordered  myselfan-  other  drink.  I'd  had  enough  of  him.  But  the  couple  acrossthe  way  had  left,  and  I  couldn't  get  away  from  that  voice.  I  could  feel  myself  leaning  toward  their  table,  which  is  something  I  try  not  to  do.  &quot;No,  I  want  to  get  back  to  our  sub-  ject  here,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;'The  subject  is  leadership.  Martin,  you  were  in  the  Army,  weren't  you?  A  lieutenant,  or  some  such?  Were  you  ever  in  combat?&quot;  &quot;A  few  times,&quot;  the  bald  one  said.  &quot;Would  it  surprise  you  if  I  said  that  wasn't  the  kind  of  guts  or  leadership  I  mean  at  all?  Because  the  Army's  too  easy.  You  take  orders,  and  you  hand  them  on.  You  can't  run.  You  do  what  you're  told.  Right?  No  offense,of  course.  Nothing  personal  in  what  I  said,  you  understand?&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  said  Martin.  He'd  stopped  looking  at  the  man.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  said  the  big  man.  &quot;No,  the  Army  is  mase  society  these  days.  It's  more  of  getting  along  with  the  other  fellow.  Even  the  generals  don't  lead  any  more;  they  hold  a  staff  meeting  in-  stead.  Just  like  in  business  firms.  No,  let's  invent  an  example.  Let's  take  a  desert  island.  Let's  say  this  is  a  desert  island  and  we've  all  just  been  wrecked-  the  three  of  us  and  a  few  more.  It's  a  rough  do,  We're  going  to  be  here  for  months.  What  do  we  do  first,  hey?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  George  said  after  a  moment.  &quot;Look  for  water.  Elect  a  lead-  Cr.  &quot;Ha!&quot;  The  big  man  gufflawed  so  loudly  that  I  jumped,  just  like  the  other  two.  &quot;Elect  a  leader!  I'll  be  God-  damned!  That's  just  what  you  would  do,  isn't  it?  And  if  you  were  nominated  for  leader,  you  wouldn't  even  vote  for  yourself,  would  you?&quot;  George  looked  up  at  him  in  surprise.  He  was  a  little  flushed.  &quot;Maybe  not,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  depends.&quot;  &quot;I'll  bet  you  wouldn't,  George,&quot;  the  older  man  said.  &quot;Because  you're  a  gen-  tleman.  You're  just  another  nice  guy,  George.  You're  thinking  about  wheth-  erthe  neighbors  will  like  you.  But  this  isn't  an  outing  with  your  kids.  We're  shipwrecked  now,  remember-you,  me,  everybody  in  this  room.  And  it's  a  question  of  survival.  The  right  leader  may  mean  the  difference  between  living  and  dying.  The  leader-the  man  with  guts  and  faith  in  himself-would  know  it  had  to  be  him.  He  would  have  to  take  over.  That  shocks  you,  doesn't  it,  young  man?  Well,  I'll  tell  you  something  else.  He'd  have  to  take  over  even  if  another  man  had  been  elected  leader.  There  might  well  be  some  violence.  Yes,  there  probably  would  be  violence.&quot;  There  was  a  moment  of  silence,  and  I  discovered  that  I  was  trembling  a  little.  And  then  the  bald  younger  man,  Martin,  spoke,  in  a  tone  of  voice  he  hadn't  used  before.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said  curtly.  &quot;I  agree  with  you.  There  would  be  violence.&quot;  He  sounded  so  different,  so  sure  of  himself,that  for  a  moment  I  thought  he  had  jumped  up  and  was  looking  down  at  the  big  man.  I  could  seein  the  mir-  ror  that  he  hadn't,  but  before  I  could  check  myself  I  swung  around  and  looked  right  at  the  three  of  them.  I  had  never  done  such  a  thing  before.  There  I  was,  an  arm's  length  away  from  the  big  man's  back:  I  could  see  how  his  suit  was  stretched  by  the  fat  and  muscle  of   his  shoulders.  The  two  younger  men  slowly  raised  their  heads  and  watched  me.  I  looked  at  one  of  them  and  then  at  the  other.  Secretly,  almost  imperceptibly,  George  smiled  at  me,  right  past  the  big  man's  ear,  and  then,  so  gently  that  I  nearly  didn't  see  it,  Martin  nodded  to  me.  The  sweat  started  out  on  my  palms.  I  could  feel  the  hot  sand  of  the  island  beach  through  my  tattered  shoes,  and  the  noonday  sun  burning  my  arms.  Without  a  sec-  ond's  pause,  I  silently  drew  the  rusty  machete  from  my  belt  (it  was  the  one  weapon  we  had  saved  from  the  wreck),  and  grasped  it  in  both  hands.  I  kept  my  eyes  on  the  place-the  little  roll  of  fat  on  his  big  neck,  just  below  the  hairline-and  swung  with  all  my  might,  like  a  man  swinging  a  ballbat.  There  wasno  noise.  He  didn't  even  take  a  step.  Only  his  arms  stiffened,  and  then  he  fell  heavily  on  his  face  in  the  sand.  As  he  fell,  all  the  silver  parrots  and  cockatoos  started  out  of  the  black  leaves  of  the  jungle  trees  and  flew  around  our  heads,  filling  the  bright  air  with  their  ugly  cries  and  the  heavy  thrashing  of  their  wings.  NEVER  looked  back  at  them.  I  didn't  even  finish  my  drink.  I  got  up  from  the  table  and  went  over  to  the  serving  bar  and  paid  my  tab,  and  then  I  walked  out,  looking  away  from  their  table.  I  went  up  to  my  room  and  un-  dressed  and  washed  and  got  into  bed.  I  lay  there,  smoking  a  cigarette  in  the  dark,  and  I  thought,  Damn  him.  Damn  them.  They  never  said  a  word  to  me,  but  they  made  me  kill  for  them.  We  all  lean  on  each  other.  We  depend  oneach  other,  We're  all  stuck  on  the  same  island.  "