 b"FROM  a  distance,  the  two  window  Fdressers  always  looked  alike  to  Harry  Green,  when,  from  his  counter  in  Furnishings  and  Fabrics,  he  saw  them  moving  lightly  across  the  showroom  floor,  busying  themselves  about  the  displays.  Usually  they  came  to  his  floor  early  in  the  morning,  in  those  rushed  moments  before  the  department  store  was  opened  to  the  public,  and  since  the  seasons  framed  in  the  store  windows  downstairs  were  always  ahead  of  [REDACTED]  Town's  current  climate,  they  came  to  his  counter  often,  to  ask  for  new  mate-  rials.  There  was  a  youthful  eagerness  about  them  as  they  impatiently  antici-  pated  spring  in  midwinter,  fleeting  au-  tumn  in  bright  summer.  Since  Harry  Green  was  shortsighted,  he  was  hardly  able  to  do  more  than  dis-  tinguish  one  from  the  other-Eva  from  Jackson-when  the  two  of  them  stood  nudging  each  other  on  the  other  side  of  his  counter.  They  wore  identical  tight-  fitting  black  trousers.  They  were  so  young  that  they  seemed  not  only  to  hur-  rythe  seasons  but  to  sport  with  time  itself,  for  Jackson  had  a  small,  neat  mustache  beneath  his  nose  and  Eva  wore  bright  lipstick  on  her  upturned  lips,  both  of  them  looking  like  children  made  up  for  a  play.  But  always  there  was  such  a  confused  mingling  of  laughter  from  them  that  he  found  it  difficult  to  separate  them  in  his  mind.  Despite  their  youthfulness,  they  were  both  very  polite,  and  there  seemed  to  be  complete  agreement  between  them  as  they  stood  side  by  side,  one  qualifying  or  repeating  with  enthusiasm  the  opin-  ion  of  the  other.  &quot;'Those  velvets,&quot;  Jack-  $2  4  son  had  once  begun  on  a  rainy  winter's  morning,  \xc2\xae  &quot;are  too  introverted  in  texture-&quot;  &quot;For  summer,&quot;  Eva  had  continued.  &quot;So  we  thought,  Mr.  Green,  a  light,  cool  fabric,  some-  thing  like  a  shantung-&quot;  &quot;A  water-blue  shan-  tung,&quot;  specified  Jackson,  &quot;if  we  can  possibly  wring  of  you.&quot;  &quot;Sea-blue  shantung,&quot;  said  Eva.  &quot;As  a  glorious  back-  1,  ground  to  the  new  bath-  ing  costumes,&quot;  explained  Jackson.     While  their  enthusiasms  were  iden-  tical,  there  was,  nevertheless,  one  very  noticeable  difference  between  them.  Jackson  was  an  Englishman,  new  to  [REDACTED]  Africa,  and  he  spoke  in  a  resonant  and  confident  voice  that  bore  no  trace  ofthe  accents  common  to  [REDACTED]  Town.  Often,  in  those  moments  before  the  store  was  opened  to  the  public,  when  the  escalators  could  be  heard  whirring  through  the  vast  architectural  stillness  of  the  store,  Jackson's  voice  moved  up  and  down  in  the  building  effortless,  ly  and  independently,  calling  for  his  partner.  Harry  Green  would  hear  the  cry  of  &quot;E-va!&quot;  as  it  rose  up-probably  from  Household  Linens  below-to  his  floor.  Over  the  large  pieces  of  furniture,  shaped  from  oak  and  imbuia,  mahogany  and  birch,  it  would  come  drifting  through  the  blue  neon  light  to  his  count-  er,  sounding  as  melancholy  as  the  call  of  a  migrant  bird  in  search  of  its  mate.  One  morning,  shortly  after  he  heard  this  familiar  call,  he  saw  one  of  the  window  dressers  hurrying  toward  his  counter.  No  sooner  had  he  identified  Eva  than  she  rushed  off  again,  leaving  on  the  counter  before  him  a  slice  of  birthday  cake,  not  very  successfully  wrapped  in  a  green  paper  napkin.  Apart  from  feeling  sorry  that  he  had  not  had  a  chance  to  congratulate  Eva  on     yards  and  yards  of  it  out  this  day,  obviously  her  birthday,  Harry  Green  did  not  regard  the  cake  with  particular  interest,  for  he  did  not  have  a  sweet  tooth.  During  the  tea  break  up-  stairs  in  the  staff  room,  he  ate  some  of  it  halfheartedly  and  left  the  rest  lying  in  his  saucer.  HAT  night,  however,  when  he  was  having  dinner  at  home  with  his  wife  and  his  son,  he  remembered  the  cake.  He  looked  irritably  at  his  son  Cedric,  who  had  grown  into  a  tall,  growly-looking  young  man  with  a  beard.  A  scholarship  was  seeing  Cedric  through  to  a  science  degree  at  theuni-  versity.  Somehow  the  boy  always  im-  posed  silence  on  their  meals,  and  to  this  silence  Alice  was  a  respectful  and  sub-  missive  partner.  In  fact,  what  conversa-  tion  there  was  at  table  travelled  shortly  from  one  to  another,  along  with  the  butter  or  the  salt,  and  stopped  altogether  when  a  second  helping  of  a  casserole  was  refused.  If  Harry  Green's  family  had  been  normally  sociable  at  meals,  he  might  have  mentioned  in  passing  that  one  of  the  window  dressers  had  cele-  brated  a  birthday.  But  the  trivial  thought  of  the  cake  sank  in  his  mind  as  quickly  as  it  had  risen  there.  Whenever  he  tried  to  break  a  silence  by  telling  them  of  some  little  incident  at  his  work,  Alice  had  a  way  of  waiting  to  recognize  the  general  direction  of  his  story  and  then  taking  it  from  him,  in  her  high  quick  voice,  with  some  familiar,  dis-  tantly  similar  recollec-  tion  of  her  own.  While  he  ate  his  din-  ner,  he  reflected  on  how  little  he  knew  of  his  son's  life  at  the  university.  (There  was  a  splendid  view  of  the  university  from  their  bathroom  window-a  view  of  the  central  hall,  as  imposing-  ly  colonnaded  as  a  Greek  temple,  and  below  it  the  gray  rectangular  blocks  of  lecture  rooms,  steep-  ly  posed  on  the  green  wooded  slopes  of  Devil's  Peak,  next  to  Table  Mountain.)  He  reached  forthe  bread.  &quot;Your  maths,  Cedric,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How's  your  maths  your  mathematics?&quot;  He  took  a  lump  of  butter  and  squashed  it  all  over  his  bread.  &quot;Pure?&quot;  Cedric  said  after  some  time.  &quot;Or  {}{g\xef\xac\x81\xe2\x80\x99df\xe2\x80\x99b  .  I  applied?&quot;  His  beard  was  " b" so  heavy  that  it  scarcely  moved,  even  when  he  spoke.  &quot;&quot;Your  applied,&quot;  said  Harry,  choosing  quickly,  aware,  as  always,  of  the  virile,  pent-up  adolescent  impatience  coursing  through  his  son  and  searching  for  an  outlet.  Cedric  was  drumming  his  fingers  bluntly  on  the  cloth.  Before  that,  he  had  been  humming  a  tune  behind  closed  lips.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Cedric  said,  shifting  his  feet  noisily  under  the  table.  Then,  as  though  in  response  to  some  secret  signal  from  her  son,  Alice  inter-  vened,  a  proprietary  smile  on  her  face.  'Your  pure's  excellent,  too,&quot;  she  said.  She  had,  Harry  knew,  some  theory  that  maths  and  music  were  allied  sub-  jects,  and  music  was  her  own  strong  point.  She  was  forever  singing  tunes  that  she  had  heard  only  once,  over  the  wireless  or  at  the  cinema.  Unlike  her,  Harry  did  not  look  for  gifts  in  himself  that  might  explain  some  flair  of  the  boy's.  He  was  prepared  to  regard  his  son's  brain  objectively,  as  something  so  unrelated  to  either  of  them  that  it  might  have  been  spontancously  generat-  ed  one  day  eighteen  years  back.  The  silence  that  Alice  so  carefully  assured  at  mealtime  was  always  abrupt-  ly  dismissed  the  moment  Cedric  left  the  table  and  returned  to  his  books  in  his  own  room.  In  the  living  room,  she  would  settle  herself  comfortably  and  communicatively  opposite  Harry  in  her  armchair  with  her  knitting,  while  he  swung  one  leg  over  the  other,  crackled  his  newspaper,  and  familiarly  beat  the  arm  of  his  chair  with  his  open  palm.  Usually,  he  half  listened  to  her.  On  this  evening,  after  what  he  thought  had  been  along,  repetitive  dis-  course,  he  heard  her  saying,  &quot;All  men,  at  the  age  of  forty  or  more,  become  adolescents  again.  'They  behave  like  adolescents.  It  happens  to  all  men.&quot;  &quot;What  happens  to  all  men?&quot;  he  asked  testily.  &quot;You  know  what.  You  needn't  pre-  tend.  At  any  rate,  when  I  told  poor  Gertie  Corbett  that  it's  just  a  second  adolescence  Tommy  is  going  through,  shedid  seem  comforted,  poor  girl.  Of  course,  the  whole  of  [REDACTED]  Town  knows  about  it.  I'm  sure  that  even  though  you  are  going  through  it,  you  wouldn't  be-  have  as  irresponsibly  as  Tommy.  I  told  Gertie  that  there  is  nothing  she  can  really  do  about  the  whole  silly  affair.  One  has  to  be  intelligent  about  these  things.&quot;  There  was  something  corrosive  about  the  way  she  said  the  word  &quot;intelligent.&quot;  He  shifted  in  his  chair,  aware  of  her  arched  eyebrows.  &quot;Intelligent?&quot;  he  snapped.  &quot;Intelligent?  Your  son  could  do  with  a  little  less  intelligence  and  a  little  more  politeness.  My  God,  you  should  see  the  way  the  window  dressers  behave,  if  you  want  to  know  what  po-  liteness  is.  Ifind  it  a  real  pleasure  to  work  with  them.&quot;  Then  he  remem-  bered  the  cake  again.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,  one  of  them  rushed  up  specially  to  give  me  a  piece  of  birthday  cake  to-  day.  I  could  see  your  son  behaving  as  pleasantly.&quot;  &quot;Who?&quot;  said  Alice,  after  a  few  mo-  ments.  &quot;The  window  dressers.&quot;  &quot;I  heard  you,  Harry.  But  about  whom  are  you  speaking?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  about  who?&quot;  &quot;About  whom,&quot;  said  Alice  hum-  mingly.  &quot;About  whom,  specifically,  are  you  talking?  I  mean  which  one?&quot;  &quot;Eva,&quot;  he  replied  carelessly,  fleeting  ly  separating  her  in  his  mind  from  Jack-  son.  &quot;How  old  is  she?&quot;  But  just  as  he  was  about  to  guess,  she  silenced  him  warningly  with  one  raised  needle  while  she  counted  the  stitches  on  the  other.  He  went  back  to  his  paper.  &quot;Is  she  young?&quot;  she  asked  when  she  had  finished  counting.  He  turned  a  page  noisily.  &quot;She's  a  child.&quot;  &quot;Why  should  she  give  you  some  of  her  cake?&quot;  There  seemed  no  logic  in  such  a  question.  It  was  unanswerable.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  me  some  of  her  cake?&quot;  he  countered.  &quot;Exactly  that,&quot;  returned  Alice.  \xc2\xab'There  are  lots  and  lots  of  people  in  the  store,  aren't  there?&quot;  True,  if  one  began  to  think  of  a  birthday  cake-the  small  round  shape,  " b" and  the  few  triangles  that  could  be  cut  from  it-and  of  the  numbers  of  people  who  worked  in  the  store,  it  did  seem  that  he  had  been  particularly  favored.  After  all,  below  his  floor  was  House-  hold  Linens.  Below  that,  Men's  and  Sports.  Below  that,  Women's.  Then,  on  Ground,  where  the  variety  of  goods  increased  and  the  numbers  of  counters  multiplied,  the  assistants  became  a  blur  of  almost  uncountable  figures.  He  felt  suddenly  pleased.  Alice  went  on  with  her  knitting.  She  was  making  a  summer  pullover  for  Cedric.  Through  his  newspaper  he  re-  mained  vaguely  conscious  of  her.  After  some  time,  he  finished  his  paper  and  be-  gan  to  watch  her.  Her  fingers  moved  mesmerically,  the  white  wool  streaming  through  them  as  soothingly  and  abun-  dantly  as  milk.  As  the  hungry  needles  were  fed,  the  jersey,  partly  heaped  on  her  lap,  partly  drawn  against  her  breast,  seemed  to  grow,  seemed,  as  it  rose  and  fell  so  close  to  her  body,  to  be  breathing  with  her.  Then,  as  if  unable  to  absorb  more  wool,  the  needles  stopped  clicking,  and  the  jersey  lay  still  on  her  lap.  In  the  sudden  quiet,  he  looked  at  her  face  and  was  touched  by  the  faded,  gentle  maternal  expression  he  saw  in  it,  by  the  wistful  smile  that  surfaced  with  a  sigh  to  her  mouth.  She  looked  very  sweet,  he  thought,  as  she  put  her  arms  tenderly  about  the  jersey  as  though  she  had  Cedric  sleeping  on  her  lap.  She  leaned  forward  and  whispered  some-  thing.  &quot;What,  dear?&quot;  he  asked,  also  speak-  ing  softly  and  leaning  forward.  &quot;What  was  that  you  asked,  my  dear?&quot;  &quot;Pretty?&quot;  Her  voice  loudened  sud-  denly.  &quot;I  said  pretty-is  she  very  pret-  ty?  &gt;&gt;  &quot;What  the  hell  are  you  trying  to  get  at?&quot;  he  asked,  snatching  up  his  pa-  per,  affronted  by  this  sudden  switch  in  her  mood.  &quot;You  know  what.&quot;  &quot;What  what?&quot;  &quot;Harry,&quot;  she  cautioned,  &quot;I'm  not  deaf.  I  might  be  aging  more  rapidly  than  you,  but  I  am  not  deaf.  I  have  told  you  before  I  am  not  deaf.  In  any  case,  you  know  very  well  what  I  mean.&quot;  She  drew  up  her  knitting  once  more  and  began  to  work  the  needles  jerkily.  ''You  are  not  all  that  different  from  Tommy  Corbett-or  any  other  man,  for  that  matter.  Now  do  you  know  what  I  mean?&quot;  It  was  the  knowingness,  the  nagging  knowingness  of  Alice  that  always  wore  him  down,  he  thought,  closing  his  eyes,  dropping  the  useless  newspaper  to  the  floor,  and  putting  a  hand  to  his  face.  He  sat  like  this  for  a  long  time.  Sometimes  \n\n her  voice  floated  to  him  .  He  heard  her  say,  &quot;Now  ,  why  the  grunt?  &quot;  Did  she  really  imagine  ,  he  thought,  tha  the  was  getting  excited  ov  er  some  adolescent  girl  ?  Was  she  really  reducing  him  to  the  same  age  as  this  girl  ?  Was  it  Ais  birthday  to  d  ay?  Was  h  e  turningtwenty,  or  twenty-one,  all  over  again?  Had  he  become  adolescent  once  more?  &quot;I  only  asked  you  a  civil  question,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Is  it  too  much  for  you  to  give  me  a  civil  reply?&quot;  He  heard  the  querulous  rise  in  her  voice.  He  took  his  hand  from  his  face,  pursed  his  lips,  and  began  to  drum  steadily  with  his  fingers  on  one  arm  of  his  chair.  Then  the  fingers  of  his  other  hand  swung  into  action  on  the  other  chair  arm.  Louder  and  louder  he  drummed,  and  quicker  and  quicker  his  fingers  danced.  It  was  impossible,  im-  possible,  he  thought  rhythmically,  to  " b"answer  Alice's  ques-  tions,  questions.  Yet  as  he  shuffled  his  feet  on  the  carpet  he  was  aware  of  a  strangeness  all  about  him.  Was  he  dream-  ing?  Or  had  Alice  real-  ly  willed  him  back  to  his  floor  in  the  store?  Was  he  back  in  Furnishings  and  Fabrics?  He  was  at  his  count-  er  and  he  noticed  one  of  the  window  dressers  moving  toward  him.  At  first  he  thought  it  was  Jackson,  because  of  the  trousers,  and  because  Eva  walked  just  as  he  did,  lithely,  through  the  narrow  aisles  that  separated  the  suites  of  furniture.  But  when  she  appeared  be-  fore  him,  almost  magi-  cally,  with  only  the  up-  per  half  of  her  body  visible  above  the  count-  er,  she  looked  like  a  genie.  Why  had  he  not  realized  before  that  this  part  of  her  was  like  a  genie?  Had  she  materialized  out  of  his  own  thoughts,  or  from  smoke  rising  from  some  lamp  that  burned  se-  cretly  on  the  floor,  on  the  other  side  of  the  counter?  His  heart  be-  gan  to  pound.  &quot;Harry!  Harry!&quot;  He  opened  his  eyes  suddenly.  He  heard  Alice's  summoning  voice,  but  he  was  sure  it  was  his  heart  that  had  startled  him.  &quot;What  ever  is  the  matter  with  you?&quot;  Alice  asked,  peering  at  him  from  her  chair.  &quot;Are  you  feeling  ill?&quot;  He  tapped  his  heart.  His  damn  heart,  he  thought.  He  never  had  a  chance  to  forget  it.  He  was  always  conscious  of  it.  In  fact,  so  as  not  to  alarm  Alice,  he  al-  ways  referred  to  it,  jokingly,  as  the  old  ticker.  For  the  last  ten  years  or  so,  he  had  been  aware  of  its  vulnerability,  for,  like  a  clock  that  has  been  overwound  or  not  wound  at  all,  it  seemed  either  to  work  too  fast  or  to  stop.  There  were  times  late  at  night,  after  they  had  gone  to  bed,  when  it  seemed  to  him  that  it  had  ceased  functioning  altogether.  And  then,  in  order  to  listen  to  his  heart,  he  would  stop  breathing  and  open  his  eyes.  Somehow,  despite  the  surround-  ing  darkness,  he  was  always  reassured  by  the  outlines  of  his  own  clothes,  which  Alice  draped  around  an  upright  oak  chair  near  his  bed,  dressing  it  like  a  dummy.  The  knowledge  that  she  took  it  for  granted  that  he  would  goon  living,  that  he  would  put  on  his  clothes  once  more  and  go  to  work  once  more,  always  comforted  him.  He  felt  the  same  way  when,  having  opened  his  eyes  with  a  start,  he  saw  the  familiar  armchair  with  Alice  in  it.  \xc2\xab'The  ticker,&quot;  he  explained.  &quot;It's  just  the  old  ticker.&quot;  That  she  should  simply  lean  back  in  her  chair,  unperturbed,  made  him  regard  her  and  the  furniture  about  her  with  an  aggrieved,  unforgiving  eye.    How  dowdy  she  was,  he  thought,  notic-  ing  the  tired  way  in  which  her  graying  hair  lay  on  her  head,  how  yellowed  it  was  under  the  too-bright  light  cast  from  the  standing  lamp.  Behind  her,  the  flow-  ered  cretonne  curtains  had  faded.  Her  feet  rested  on  the  floor  in  a  tangled  pattern  of  leaves  and  twigs  from  which  most  of  the  color  had  long  since  drained.  The  chairs  needed  reupholstering.  Even  the  cat,  which  he  suddenly  noticed  sleep-  ing  on  the  sofa,  looked  as  though  it  could  do  with  a  refurring.  They  had  had  the  animal  neutered  some  seven  years  back,  and  it  had  grown  gross,  sulky,  and  resentful.  Of  course,  he  thought,  if  they  had  never  had  Cedric,  the  place  would  not  have  become  so  " b"shabby  in  such  ashort  time.  Every-  where-on  the  furniture,  on  the  walls,  on  the  ffoors-there  were  thecorrosive  marks  of  the  child  who  had  grown  up  in  the  place.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  went  on  to  himself,  he  wouldn't  mind  leaving  this  house  and  setting  up  on  his  own  somewhere.  He  had  never  liked  this  part  of  [REDACTED]  Town,  so  shadowed  by  the  mountain.  He  would  have  preferred  the  False  Bay  side,  with  its  wide  view  of  the  sea.  Wonderful  bathing  in  sum-  mer,  good  fishing  in  winter.  Sighing,  he  closed  his  eyes  once  more.  &quot;Why  are  you  so  secretive  about  her,  if  you  have  nothing  to  hide?&quot;  he  heard  Alice's  voice  say  distantly.  But  again  he  felt  himself  to  be  in  Furnish-  ings  and  Fabrics.  Here  Alice  could  not  see  what  was  happening,  and  Eva  was  leaning  quite  marvellously  over  his  counter,  almost  within  touching  dis-  tance,  smiling  at  him  with  her  smooth  young  face.  There  was  an  electrifying  moment  when  their  hands  did  touch,  when  he  received  from  her  the  little,  charmed  packet  of  cake.  Here  his  heart  thudded  so  strongly  that  he  could  scarcely  visualize  how  her  pretty  head  nodded  to  him  from  the  escalator  as  she  sank  with  it  through  the  building,  below  his  line  of  vision.  &quot;You  really  are  the  limit,  Harry,&quot;  Alice  said  crossly.  He  opened  his  eyes  and  watched  her  as  she  gathered  up  her  knitting  and  stuffed  it  inside  the  linen  bag  she  always  carried  about  with  her.  &quot;It's  not  terribly  interesting  trying  to     make  conversation  with  you.  You  al-  ways  complain  about  Cedric's  silences.  But,  my  God,  if  there  is  something  the  boy  has  inherited  from  you,  you  know  what  it  is.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Thank  you  very  much  for  the  compliment.&quot;  Long  after  she  left  the  room,  he  still  resented  the  remark.  She  was  always  finding  mental  resemblances  between  herself  and  Cedric,  yet  how  grudging  she  was  when  other  people  noticed  that  he  was  as  tall  as  Cedric,  or  that  he  had  the  same  blue  eyes  as  Cedric!  She  even  liked  to  think  thatshe  resembled  the  boy  phys-  ically.  Well,  maybe  she  did,  long  ago,  about  a  decade  and  a  half  ago,  he  thought,  suddenly  remembering  the  way  theyboth  used  to  rush  forward  to  greet  him  the  moment  he  returned  from  work.  There  had  been  a  lot  in  common  between  them  then,  he  re-  membered.  They  had  both  spoken  in  the  same  high,  lightly  pitched  voice,  they  both  had  had  the  same  soft-armed  way  of  hugging  him,  and  the  same  sort  of  smoothness  about  their  faces,  which  he  felt  when  he  bent  forward  to  kiss  them.  He  rose  from  his  chair  and  walked  automatically  to  the  sofa.  The  cat  looked  sluggish  and  dazed  when  he  picked  it  up  and  held  it  in  the  crook  of  his  arm,  and,  in  a  way,  he  was  sorry  to  have  to  put  it  out.  He  left  a  window  open,  so  that  it  could  come  inside  when  it  wanted  to.  Then,  walking  easily,  al-  most  springily,  he  went  to  lock  the  kitchen  door.  He  looked  forward  to  tomorrow.  He  knew  that  the  showroom  al-  ways  had  a  deserted,  forlorn  aspect  before  Eva  appeared.  Swiftly  his  mind  reviewed  all  the  chairs  there,  from  which  no  one  ever  spoke,  all  the  tables  off  which  a  meal  had  never  been  eaten,  all  the  beds  from  which  the  neon-  lit  silk  covers  had  never  been  turned,  all  the  wardrobes  from  which  clothes  had  nev-  er  been  taken.  He  could  al-  most  see  Eva  busy  about  the  place,  transforming  it,  as  prettily  asa  young  housewife.  When  he  went  through  the  passage  on  his  way  to  the  bedroom,  he  noticed  a  line  of  yellow  light  lying  under  Cedric's  door,  and  he  walked  past  it  on  tiptoe.  From  the  bathroom  came  the  sound  of  rushing  water,  and  he  could  hear  Alice  singing  in  there.  A  stray  tune  wandered  companion-  ably  into  his  mind  as  he  got  himself  ready  for  bed.  His  clothes  for  the  morn-  ing  had  already  been  laid  out  on  the  chair,  and  without  hesitating  he  re-  moved  the  tie  that  Alice  had  laid  on  top  of  his  shirt.  He  put  it  back  in  his  ward-  robe  and  selected  another.  Then,  seeing  a  fresh  handkerchief  folded  in  his  jacket  pocket,  he  pulled  it  out  and,  with  quite  a  flourish,  puffed  it  out  airily  above  the  dark,  sober  cloth  of  his  suit. "