 b"I  READ  in  the  Times  not  long  ago  that  the  Daughters  of  the  Ameri-  can  Revolution  are  trying  to  find  out  what  sort  of  stuff  the  schoolchildren  of  [REDACTED]  are  reading  in  their  textbooks.  As  one  who  has  from  time  to  time  been  acquainted  both  with  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  and  with  [REDACTED]  schoolchildren,  I  was  instantly  struck  by  the  thought  that  what  is  likely  to  happen  now  is  that  the  schoolchildren  of  [REDACTED]  will  re-  sent  these  intrusive  tactics  on  the  part  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolu-  tion  and,  in  retaliation,  will  try  to  find  out  what  the  Daughters  ofthe  American  Revolution  are  reading  in  their  books.  This  is  the  sort  of  movement  that  can  lead  to  disorder,  and  before  it  gets  rolling  it  seems  to  me  that  the  school-  children  of  [REDACTED]  would  do  well  to  build  it  on  a  foundation  of  solid  fact  and  not  on  the  rickety  mixture  of  incorrect  impressions  and  wild  surmise  that  is  to  be  observed  at  present  in  the  minds  of  these  schoolchildren  regarding  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolu-  tion.  There  is,  for  example,  the  widely  held  notion  among  [REDACTED]  school-  children  that  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  is  an  exclusive  organization  made  up  entirely  of  very  aged  ladies  whose  fathers  fought  in  the  American  Revolution.  It  is  not.  No  matter  how  old  a  lady  is,  she  can't  be  old  enough  to  be  the  daughter  of  anybody  who  took  part  in  that  affair.  Even  the  youngest  daughter  of  the  youngest  member  of  the  armed  forces  under  George  [REDACTED]-a  drummer  boy,  say,  or  a  fife  boy,  who  wasn't  old  enough  to  have  a  daugh-  ter  during  the  war  but  had  her  after  it  was  over-would  not  be  an  active  member  of  the  D.A.R.  now.  Let  us  take  an  extreme,  hypothetical  case.  Boys  who  blew  fifes  as  members  of  [REDACTED]'s  armed  forces  were  gen-  erally  younger  than  the  boys  who  beat  drums,  because  a  drum  is  more  cum-  bersome  to  carry  on  a  long  march  than   a  fife.  Therefore,  we  will  take  a  fife  blower.  Suppose  he  was  big  for  his  age,  musically  precocious,  and  a  convincing  liar.  By  claiming  to  be  twelve  years  old  when  he  was  actually  only  ten,  he  was  able  to  join  a  fife-and-drum  corps  on  the  day  before  Cornwallis  surrendered  to  [REDACTED]  at  Yorktown  in  1781.  He  would  thus  have  been  born  in  1771.  After  he  got  out  of  the  Army,  emerged  from  puberty,  and  found  a  wife,  he  may,  of  course,  have  had  many  daugh-  ters.  We  are  not  concerned  with  them  here.  What  we  are  concerned  with  is  his  youngest  and  final  daughter.  We'll  say  he  sired  this  daughter  in  1836,  when  he  was  sixty-five  years  old.  This  doesn't  occur  frequently,  but  such  claims  have  been  made  and  accepted  now  and  then  in  the  absence  of  absolute  proof  of  the  spuriousness  of  the  claim.  If  he  had  that  daughter  at  the  age  of  sixty-five,  he  would  be  throwing  his  seed  about  as  far  into  the  future  as  it  could  possibly  be  thrown.  Still,  that  daughter  would  have  been  born  in  1836  and  she  would  be  one  hundred  and  twenty-  three  years  old  this  year.  However,  if  she  waited  until  she  was  fifty  before  having  Aer  last  and  young-  est  daughter,  that  daughter  would  have  been  born  in  1886  and  would  now  be  only  seventy-three  years  old.  She  could  conceivably  be  a  Daughter  of  the  Ameri-  can  Revolution,  only  she  wouldn't  bea  daughter  but  a  granddaughter  of  the  fife  blower.  Thus  we  see  that  none  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  are  daughters,  and  few,  if  any,  are  even  granddaugh-  ters.  At  best,  the  oldest  of  them  are  great-grand-  daughters  or  great-great-  granddaughters.  If  they  are  spry  enough  to  go  out  and  commandeer  the  text-  books  of  the  schoolchildren  of  [REDACTED],  read  them,  and  form  opinions  about  them,  they  are,  in  all  like-  lihood,  great-great-great-  granddaughters  or  great-  great-great-great-grand-  daughters.  Some  are  even  great-great-great-great-  great-granddaughters.  There  are,  of  course,  many  young  people  who  are  obsessed  by  an  impres-  sion  regarding  the  D.A.R.  that  is  the  exact  reverse  of  the  one  exploded  above.  " b"This  bloc thinks of the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  as  being  a  crowd  of  organized  female  teen-agers,  because  the  members  go  around  designating  themselves  as  daughters.  As  already  pointed  out,  they  are  not  daughters.  Conversely,  a  lady  can't  become  a  mem-  ber  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  until  she  is  old  enough  to  be  a  mother.  ND  the  D.A.R.  is  not  an  exclu-  sive  organization.  Take  an  aver-  age,  run-of-the-mill,  healthy,  middle-  aged  would-be  member  of  the  D.A.R.  who  is  a  great-great-great-great-grand-  daughter.  She  doesn't  have  just  one  great-great-great-great-grandfather.  Even  the  progenitors  of  members  of  the  D.A.R.  have  a  way  of  doubling  up,  somewhat  in  the  manner  of  bets  in  a  dice  game.  That  great-great-great-  great-granddaughter  has  one  father,  two  grandfathers,  four  great-grand-  fathers,  eight  great-great-grandfathers,  sixteen  great-great-great-grandfathers,  and  no  fewer  than  thirty-two  great-  great-great-great-grandfathers.  In  ap-  plying  for  membership  in  the  D.A.R.,  she  can  take  her  pick  of  them.  Any  one  of  those  thirty-two  great-great-great-great-grandfathers  will  do.  And  if  she  had  that  many  great-great-great-great-  grandfathers  in  this  country  at  the  time  of  the  American  Revolution  and  not  evenone  of  them  helped  in  the  war  ef-  fort,  she  would  have  every  reason  to  be  ashamed  of  the  bunch  of  them.  She  would  have  every  reason  to  be  so  ashamed  that  she  would  hide  her  head.  She'd  shun  the  D.A.R.  and  you'd  nev-  er  hear  a  peep  out  of  her  on  the  subject  of  ancestry.  But  the  chances  that  any-  body  had  thirty-two  great-great-great-  great-grandfathers  in  the  colonies  dur-  ing  that  revolution  and  isn't  eligible  to  be  a  D.A.R.  are  slim.  In  order  for  his  great-great-great-great-granddaughter  to  be  able  to  get  in  the  D.A.R.,  all  any  one  of  them  needed  to  do  was  help  out  the  American  side.  He  didn't  have  to  fight;  he  didn't  have  to  be  even  a  drum-  mer  boy  or  a  fife  boy.  According  to  the  Encyclopedia  Americana  (Volume  VIII,  page  493),  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  is  &quot;a  society  com-  posed  of  women  who  are  descendants  of  ancestors,  any  of  whom  'with  unfailing  loyalty  rendered  material  aidto  the  cause  of  independence  as  a  recognized  patriot,  as  soldier  or  sailor,  or  asa  civil  officer  in  one  of  the  several  colo-  nies  or  [REDACTED]'&quot;  If  just  one  of  those  thirty-two  great-great-great-great-  grandfathers  had  done  nothing  but  serve  without  ill-humor  as  a  clerk  in  some  rural  post  office,  his  great-great-great-  great-granddaughter  could  have  got  into  the  D.A.R.  with  flying  colors  and  would  now  be  able  to  hold  her  head  up  and  assist  in  the  task  of  finding  out  what  the  schoolchildren  of  [REDACTED]  are  reading.  Going  backward  from  one  descend-  ant  to  the  ancestors  has  demonstrated,  I  trust,  at  least  one  aspectof  the  non-ex-  clusiveness  of  the  D.A.R.  Going  for-  ward  from  a  single  ancestor  to  his  de-  scendants  will,  I  believe,  demonstrate  another  important  aspect  of  this  non-  exclusiveness.  Here  I  am  able  to  drop  the  hypothetical  in  favor  of  the  actual.  It  happens  that  one  of  my  sixteen  great-  great-great-grandfathers  fought  in  the  American  Revolution,  What  the  fifteen  others  were  doing  at  that  time  has  never  been  mentioned  by  any  member  of  my  family,  but  the  procreativeness  of  this  one  great-great-great-grandfather  and  his  offspring  has  been  gone  over  with  a  fine-tooth  comb.  As  a  result,  a  genea-  logical  study  by  the  late  Robert  Bell  Woodworth,  D.Sc.,  and  a  cousin  of  " b" mine  and  of  a  great  many  other  people,  was  published  in  1942  by  the  McClure  Company,  Inc.,  of  Staunton,  [REDACTED].  It  shows  that  this  Revolutionary  soldier  had,  according  to  Dr.  Woodworth,  &quot;nine  children,  thirty  grandchildren,  108  great  grandchildren,  378  great-  great  grandchildren,  607  great-great,  great  grandchildren,  554  great-great-  great-great  grandchildren,  73  great-  great-great-great-great  grandchil-  dren,  and  753  in-laws-2,514  persons  in  all  [counting  the  soldier  and  his  wife],  to  which  are  to  be  added  the  per-  sons  in  the  Addenda  which  follows  and  the  great  number  as  to  whom,  in  spite  of  my  diligence,  I  have  been  able  to  obtain  no  information  even  as  to  their  exist-  ence.&quot;  Thus,  if  my  fifteen  other  great-  great-great-grandfathers  ledthe  same  kind  of  life  that  one  did,  there  would  be  a  grand  total  of  40,208  persons  con-  nected  with  me  who  were  or  are  eligible  to  be  Daughters  of  the  American  Revo-  lution  or,  if  they  were  or  are  males,  to  have  Daughters  of  the  American  Revo-  lution.  'This,  of  course,  would  be  with-  out  counting  those  in  any  addendas  or  the  multitudes  who  failed  to  show  up  for  roll  call.  But,  as  I  am  only  too  ready  to  do,  let  us  forget  about  my  fifteen  other  great-great-great-grandfathers.  From  the  sixteenth  one  alone  there  appear  to  have  sprung  2,512  persons  who  could  be  Daughters  of  the  Amer-  ican  Revolution,  or  could  have  them.  In  1940,  according  to  the  Encyclo-  pedia  Americana,  there  were  143,000  members  of  the  D.A.R.  Although  many  of  them  were  great-great-great-  great-granddaughters,  let  ussay  they  were  all  just  great-great-great-grand-  daughters.  If  each  of  them  were  con-  nected,  like  me,  with  2,512  relatives  de-  scended  from  just  one  of  their  sixteen  great-great-great-grandfathers,  that  would  give  us,  or  them,  a  grand  total  of  359,216,000  persons  who  have  been  or  could  be  D.A.R  .s,  or  who  could  produce  D.A.R.s  if  they  felt  like  it.  There  is  nothing  exclusive  about  a  situa-  tion  like  that.  MOST  of  these  ancestors  and  cous-  ins  ofthe  Daughters  ofthe  American  Revolution  were,  or  are,  of  what  is  generally  called  the  Anglo-  Saxon  race.  But  I  will  get  to  the  An-  glo-Saxons  later.  First,  let  me  finish  with  the  encyclopedias.  In  addition  to  telling  us  how  many  D.A.R.s  there  were  in  1940,  the  Americana  has  some-  thing  to  say  about  the  Daughters  of  the  Confederacy,  the  Daughters  of  the  Holland  Dames,  the  Daughters  of  the  King,  The  Order  of,  and  the  Daughters  of  the  Revolution  (not  to  be  confused  with  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution).  The  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolu-  tion  was  founded  in  1890,  and  in  1940  had  a  membership,  as  we  have  said,  of  143,000,  and  2,550  chapters.  The  plain  Daughters  ofthe  Revolution  was  founded  in  1891,  only  has  about  8,000   members,  and  no  encyclopedia  knows  how  many  chapters.  The  entrance  re-  quirements  of  the  D.R.  are  practically  the  same  as  those  of  the  D.4.R.,  but  no  encyclopedia  has  taken  the  pains  to  ex-  plain  why  both  sets  of  these  Daughters  don't  get  together.  The  Daughters  of  the  Confederacy,  naturally,  have  to  be  descended  from  men  who  fought  on  the  wrong  side  in  the  American  Civil  War;  they  have  1,575  chapters  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  one  in  [REDACTED],  but  their  total  membership  is  a  secret.  Even  the  num-  ber  of  chapters  of  the  Daughters  of  the  Holland  Dames  is  a  secret,  and  so  is  the  number  of  chapters  of  the  Daugh-  ters  of  the  King,  The  Order  of.  The  D.H.D.  are  descendants  of  Dutch  set-  tlers,  and  the  D.K.T.O.  (&quot;not,&quot;  as  the  Americana  warns,  &quot;to  be  confounded  " b"With the  King's  Daughters&quot;)  is  simply  a  Protestant  Episcopal  order,  organized  in  1885,  whose  members  do  not  neces-  sarily  have  any  ancestors  at  all.  The  Americana  is  far  superior  in  the  daughter  department  to  the  Columbia  Encyclopedia  and  the  Encyclopedia  [REDACTED].  The  Columbia  mentions  on-  ly  the  D.A.R.  and  is  cool  enough  to-  ward  them  to  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  &quot;the  refusal  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  to  permit  the  use  of  Constitution  Hall  [its  auditorium  in  [REDACTED]  ]  to  'nonwhite'  entertainers  brought  much  public  condemnation  and  the  resignation  from  the  group  of  Elea-  nor  Roosevelt  in  1939.&quot;  As  for  the  Bri-  tannica,  there  is  no  article  on  the  D.A.R.  or  any  other  Daughters.  In  its  columns  (Volume  7,  pages  70  and  71),  what  comes  after  Daudet,  L\xc3\xa9on,  who  married  a  granddaughter  of  Victor  Hugo  and  unchivalrously  divorced  her,  and  Dau-  gavpils  (Dvinsk),  a  town  in  Latvia,  which  went  through  many  revolutions  but  had  no  daughters,  is  Daulatabad,  a  hill-fortressin  Hyderabad,  where  daugh-  ters  are  customarily  married  before  they  areold  enough  to  become  mothers.  T  remains  now  only  to  inquire  into  the  nature  of  the  Anglo-Saxons.  Most  of  the  Daughters  of  every  variety    listed  by  the  Americana,  including  even  the  Daughters  of  the  King,  The  Order  of,  but  excepting  the  Daughters  of  the  Holland  Dames,  are  descended  from  Anglo-Saxons,  which,  according  to  all  three  encyclopedias,  was  originally  sim-  ply  a  name  given  to  German-speaking  peoples  who  settled  in  England  after  the  decline  of  the  Roman  rule  there.  &quot;'The  Angles  mentioned  by  Tacitus,&quot;  says  the  Columbia  diffidently,  &quot;are  prob-  ably  the  same  people,  who  seem  to  have  come  from  what  is  now  Schleswig  in  the  later  decades  of  the  5th  cent....  The  Saxons,  a  Germanic  tribe  who  had  been  the  continental  neighbors  of  the  Angles,  also  settled  in  England  in  the  late  5th  cent.  after  earlier  marauding  forays  there.  .  .  .  The  use  of  the  term  'Anglo-Saxons'  to  denote  non-Celtic  settlers  of  England  dates  from  the  16th  cent.  In  more  modern  times  it  is  loosely  used  to  denote  any  of  the  people  of  or  de-  scendants  of  the  peoples  of  the  British  Isles,  including  the  Danes  and  Nor-  mans.&quot;  The  more  charitably  inclined  schoolchildren  of  [REDACTED]  will  not  find  it  difficult  to  understand  why  the  descendants  of  such  polyglot  and  lawless  forebears  have  a  tendency  to  stick  to-  gether  and  why  they  want  to  find  out  whether  the  [REDACTED]  schoolchil-  dren  of  today  are  reading  books  that  31  &gt;  \xc2\xbb  expose  the  origins  of  the  ancestors  of  members  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution.  However,  the  schoolchildren  of  [REDACTED]  will  prob-  ably  insist  on  ransacking  the  homes  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolu-  tion  anyway,  in  order  to  find  out  what  they  are  reading.  In  my  opinion,  they  are  going  to  be  disappointed.  They  would  be  wiser  if  they  went  on  these  marauding  forays  in  order  to  find  out  what  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution  are  not  reading.  But,  after  all,  they  are  only  schoolchildren,  and  we  mustn't  expect  too  much  of  them. "