 b"FrRraocH  was  a  shooting  lodge  in  FCounty  Mayo  that  had  belonged  to  a  whiskey  baron.  For  fifty  pounds  a  month,  whoever  rented  it  be-  came  monarch  of  about  ten  thousand  acres,  which  claimed  to  be  a  grouse  moor,  and  of  several  pools  in  a  pre-  served  salmon  river.  The  salmon  were  there,  You  could  see  them  leaping,  leaping  from  the  low,  warm,  crystal  water,  and  toppling  back  into  it  with  a  heart-thumping,  sidelong  swash.  But  they  were  impossible  to  catch,  because  of  the  golden  weather.  We  basked  by  the  river  in  a  cloud  of  midges,  tor-  mented  by  the  insects  and  by  the  unat-  tainable  fish.  As  for  the  famous  grouse,  at  a  generous  estimate  there  may  have  been  a  hundred  in  all  those  thousands  of  acres.  Several  guns  ranging  the  mountains  industriously  all  day  behind  a  passable  setter  might  end  with  three  or  four  brace.  This  made  Fraoch  a  first-  rate  place  for  hawking.  If  you  are  on  one  of  the  lordly  York-  shire  grouse  moors,  where  you  can  hardly  walk  ten  paces  without  tripping  over  a  pack  of  birds,  it  is  redundant  to  use  a  setter.  You  find  more  grouse  than  you  would  ever  carry,  simply  by  walking  forward.  So  you  sit  in  a  butt  with  a  bot-  tle  of  champagne  while  the  birds  are  driven  over  you  in  bullet-fast  streams.  If  you  are  on  the  starved  tops  of  Mayo,  however,  you  need  a  wide-ranging  dog  to  find  a  shot  at  all.  In  falconry,  too,  different  terrains  suit  different  kinds  of  activity.  It  is  no  use  flying  merlins  in  strong  heather  or  peregrines  in  wood-  land,  because  in  each  case  the  quarry  can  hide  itself  from  the  pursuer  too  easily.  Merlins  need  downland  like  Salis-  bury  [REDACTED],  and  peregrines  need  the  moor.  On  the  other  hand,  a  peregrine  on  a  well-stocked  moor  would  not  be  interesting.  She  would  kill  her  maxi-  mum  in  half  an  hour  or  less,  too  easily,  and  it  would  betime  to  go  home.  At  Fraoch,  where  the  grouse  were  crafty  and  ancient,  you  needed  strong  thighs  to  march  the  mountains  and  a  high  heart  to  circumvent  the  birds,  even  with  two  peregrine  falcons.  The  lodge  stood  at  the  end  of  a  two-  mile  drive,  or  side  road,  in  a  bower  of  rhododendrons  and  fuchsias,  looking  out  between  their  thick  leaves,  across  a  dozen  miles  of  bog,  to  the  town  of  Crossmolina.  No  tree  or  other  house  was  visible  from  the  overgrown  lawn.  It  was  a  charming,  gimerack  house-  shabbily,  sparsely,  comfortably  fur-  nished.  It  even  had  a  working  bathroom,  which  worked  with  a  roar,  on  some  kind  of  geyser  understood  by  the  cook  and  the  housemaids.  The  old-fashioned,  broken-springed,  second-hand,  chintz-  covered,  welcoming  armchairs  had  been  brought,  somehow  or  other,  all  the  way  from  [REDACTED].  As  is  usual  in  Ireland,  the  ugly  furniture  was  leavened  here  and  there  by  a  fine  eighteenth-century  piece  or  by  a  cut-glass  decanter.  On  the  wall  of  the  sitting  room,  there  was  an  ama-  teurtracing  of  the  outline  of  a  fifteen-  pound  salmon.  On  a  side  table  lay  the  game  book,  with  its  few  entries.  'The  washstands  of  the  bedrooms  were  of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  the  old  beds  were  deep  and  comfortable.  I  had  rent-  ed  the  lodge,  on  this  occasion,for  the  month  of  August,  and  had  invited  my  friend  David  Garnett,  the  novelist,  and  his  wife  and  two  young  children  to  share  it  with  me.  Fraoch  had  two  unsurpassable  beau-  ties.  On  the  mountain  of  Slieve  Fyagh  behind  it,  outside  the  shaded  grounds  in  thesunshine,  there  was  a  minute  water-  fall,  or  glide  of  water.  The  soft,  tart,  ale-colored  stream  slid  over  the  smooth  stones  from  stepto  step,  cool  and  glis-  tering  in  the  late-August  heat.  And  the  bogland  plain  that  stretched  to  Cross-  molina  was  held  in  a  horseshoe  of  barren  mountains  that  roseto  about  twenty-  five  hundred  feet.  Behind  us,  the  hills  of  Slieve  Fyagh,  Benmore,  and  Mauma-  keogh  nourished  thegrouse.  On  the  other  side,  Corslieve  and  the  Nephin  Beg  range  carried  a  loving  eye  to  the  distant  sugar  loaf  of  Nephin,  twenty-six  hundred  and  forty-six  feet,  whose  sum-  mit  I  had  once  reached  in  solitude,  car-  rying  a  male  peregrine  falcon,  or  tercel,  panting  in  the  sunlight.  Several  of  these  heights  had  cairns  on  them.  On  Corslieve,  there  was  a  laborious  pile  of  stones  called  Leaght-  dauhybaun-Fair  David's  Cairn--  which  was  either  in  memory  ofa  King  Dathi,  who  had  been  killed  there  by  lightning  in  the  year  427,  or  else  of  a  blond  robber  called  David,  also  slain  there,  but  by  the  military,  some  thirteen  hundred  years  later.  Probably  it  was  a  prehistoric  erection,  taken  over  by  the     king  and  by  the  robber  in  their  turns.  It  stood  aloof,  incredibly  old  and  distant,  against  thelonely  skyline.  It  was  an  ancient  landscape,  which  had  few  contacts  with  modern  history.  Away  to  the  northeast,  near  Sligo,  was  the  hillside  fortification,  called  a  rath,  where  the  hero-king  Eoghan  Bel  had  been  buried,  killed  in  battle  by  the  Ulstermen  fourteen  hundred  years  be-  fore.  He  had  been  buried  upright,  stand-  ing  with  his  spear  in  hand.  After  that,  the  UIstermen  had  always  been  defeated  when  they  reached  his  tumulus-until  they  had  the  presence  of  mind  to  dig  him  up  and  bury  him  upside  down.  For  a  view  like  this,  which  shared  the  Lord's  peace  with  the  derring-do  of  kings  and  warriors,  fifty  pounds  a  month  did  not  seem  too  much.  NE  day,  we  climbed  Slieve  Fyagh  in  search  of  grouse-David  Gar-  nett  (who  is  known  to  his  friends  as  Bunny)  and  I,  a  setter  of  mine  named  Brownie,  and  thekeeper,  Joyce,  who  carried  my  two  peregrine  falcons  on  a  square  frame  called  a  cadge.  We  rested  in  the  high,  bright  air  and  ate  our  lunch.  &quot;How  many  of  these  creatures  have  you  trained?&quot;  Bunny  asked,  munching  a  sandwich.  &quot;It  depends  what  you  mean  by  'trained,'  &quot;  I  said.  I  counted  them  on  my  fingers.  &quot;If  you  include  owls,  and  the  ones  I  failed  with,  I  have  had  thir-  teen.  The  most  distinguished  was  a  gyr-  falcon.  But  I  was  only  her  owner  on  paper.  I  only  saw  her  once.  A  sister  of  hers  was  flown  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  pres-  ent  for  General  Goring,  in  one  of  those  corrugated  airplanes.  He  received  her  with  pomp  and  circumstance.&quot;  &quot;Was  she  one  of  the  ones  that  Ernest  Vesey  collected  in  Iceland?&quot;  &quot;I  might  have  guessed  you  would  know  all  about  it.&quot;  Bunny  was  the  kindest,  best-edu-  cated,  most  formidable  person  I  knew.  Whenever  I  began  to  explain  something  to  him,  it  was  discouraging  to  findthat  he  knew  it  already,  and  generally  knew  more  than  I  did.  Now  he  smiled  with  asymmetrical,  frightening  eyes,  his  gray  hair  fluffing  in  a  slight  movement  of  the  hill  breeze.  &quot;One  of  the  many  thingsI  know  noth-  ing  about  is  falconry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  must  explain  it  to  me.&quot;  &quot;It  would  take  six  months.&quot;  &quot;''Then  tell  me  about  the  ones  you  had.&quot;  He  was  always  ableto  give  me  a  feeling  of  pleasure  and  importance.  &quot;Oh,  Bunny,  don't  ask.  If  I  start  talk-  ing  about  hawks,  I  go  on  forever.&quot;  He  fixed  me  with  an  unmoving  eye.  " b" &quot;Very  well.  The  one  I  started  with  was  a  kestrel.  It  belonged  to  a  friend.  You  couldn't  train  it  for  much  except  catching  mice.  It  had  a  high  voice-'Zee,  kee,  kee-and  its  talons  were  like  needles.  We  loosed  it-let  it  go-when  it  was  grown  up.  Then  I  got  involved  with  two  goshawks  from  [REDACTED],  who  taught  me  a  lot.  They  were  enor-  mous,  short-winged  hawks,  and  you  flew  them  from  the  glove.  After  them,  I  had  a  pair  of  merlins-absolute  dar-  lings.  They  were  tiny  creatures,  hardly  as  big  as  a  pigeon.  They  were  halfway  between  hawks  and  falcons.  They  flew  from  the  fist  like  hawks,  but  the  chase  generally  went  into  the  sky,  like  the  old-fashioned  chase  of  peregrines  after  herons.  They  were  glorious!I  triedto  call  them  Balin  and  Balan,  after  the  knights  in  Malory.  But  they  were  iden-  tical  to  look  at,  soI  had  to  give  one  of  them  red  jesses  and  the  other  one  black  ones.  The  result  was  that  in  the  end  " b" they  got  called  Red  and  Black.  You  fly  them  at  larks.  The  lark  goes  straight  up,  singing,  like  a  helicopter.  The  merlin  swings  away  in  sweeping  circles,  like  a  Spitfire-often  in  the  opposite  direc-  tion-to  gain  height.  A  merlin  has  to  get  upwind  of  the  lark  and  above  it.  It's  a  tremendous  aerial  combat.  They  go  so  high  that  they're  just  dots.  It  ends  with  a  downward  streak,  like  a  meteor,  when  they  both  dive.I  made  asuccess  with  the  merlins.  They  taught  me  twice  as  much  as  the  goshawks.  One  of  the  nice  things  about  merlins  is  that  you  have  to  loose  them  before  the  winter,  because  they  are  not  veryhardy.  'They  are  the  friendliest  hawks.  You  Hke  setting  them  free.  After  that,  I  thought  I  was  ready  to  start  on  peregrines.  I  have  lost  three  of  them  so  far,  by  stupidity.  Now  we  have  these  two-Cressida  and  the  tercel.&quot;  I  was  beginning  to  get  excited,  just  as  I  had  known  I  would.  &quot;Bunny,  listen,&quot;  I  went  on.  &quot;What  I  learned  from  the  merlins  was  this.  May  I  tell  you  about  it?'  Am  I  boring  you?  It  was  a  sort  of  illumination-you  know,  a  sort  of  Pentecost.  The  atmosphere  became  phosphorescent  when  it  dawned  on  me,  like  finding  the  Holy  Grail.  You  see,  with  merlins  you  loose  the  young  ones  in  a  barn  to  begin  with.  You  take  in  their  chopped-up  food  on  a  board.  After  a  few  days,  they  feed  in  front  of  you,  and  will  even  fly  down  to  the  board  while  you  are  chopping  the  food.  Then  you  capture  them,  and  tie  them  to  their  perches  out-of-doors  on  a     leash.  When  you  take  out  their  food  on  the  board,they  still  fly  toward  it.  The  next  step  is  to  offer  the  food  in  your  hand.  &quot;But  when  I  did  this,  theyflew  in  the  opposite  direction,  as  if  they  were  terri-  fied.  I  tried  again  and  again  and  again.  I  was  in  despair.  Then  the  Holy  Ghost  descended.  I  thought-it  was  an  effort  of  thought,  like  giving  birth  to  some-  thing-I  thought,  They  associate  food  with  board,  not  with  hand.  How  can  I  make  my  hand  like  a  board?  So  I  held  the  hand  flat,  palm  downward,  and  laid  the  food  on  the  back  of  it.  They  under-  stood  instantly,  and  came.  &quot;You  see,  in  training  a  hawk-  which,  of  course,  has  an  absolutely  dif-  ferent  brain  structure  from  ours-you  are  stringing  together  a  series  of  con-  ditioned  reflexes.  Food-Board-Flat  Hand-Hand-Me.  Eventually  they  must  come  to  the  trainer,  even  when  loose,  because  they  associate  him  with  food.  But  the  gaps  between  the  reflexes  must  not  be  too  wide.  They  couldn't  bridge  the  gap  from  board  to  hand.  So  I  had  to  put  in  a  halfway  step-the  flat  hand.&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  lose  the  peregrines?&quot;  Bunny  asked.  &quot;I  miscalculated  their  age  when  I  got  them.  I  put  them  out  to  hack-which  means  letting  them  fly  loose  when  young-too  late,  and  they  just  cleared  off.  I'm  only  a  learner,  Bunny.  I'm  terrified  about  Cressida  and  the  tercel.&quot;  A  few  yards  away  from  us,  with  his  back  turned,  the  keeper  Joyce  was  eating  his  own  sandwiches.  He  was  a  noble  retainer  who  lived  at  the  Fraoch  lodge,  serving  its  various  tenants.  He  was  one  of  the  old-fashioned  kind  who  believed  in  being  polite  to  the  laird.  He  was  eat-  ing  separately  by  his  own  choice,  not  by  ours.  Beside  him  was  the  cadge  with  the  two  peregrines  seated  on  it,  motionless,  extinguished  by  their  hoods.  'T  he  terrifying  thing  about  Cressida  is  that  sooner  or  later  she  is  going  to  have  to  wait  on-be  released  for  hunt-  ing.  You  don't  fly  peregrines  from  the  glove.  You  just  throw  them  away  into  the  air,  and  they  go  up  and  up.  Five  hundred  feet,  perhaps.  Quite  loose.  Then  they  circle  above  you,  almost  out  of  sight,  and  you  go  forward  with  the  setter,  searching  for  a  pack  of  grouse.  When  you  find  a  pack,  you  put  them  up,  and  the  peregrine  dives  like  a  thun-  derbolt.  'The  trouble  is,  Cressida  had  her  first  training  with  a  friend  of  mine.  I  have  not  had  her  from  the  beginning.  I  don't  know  her  properly.  But  the  dreadful  moment  has  to  come  when  I  toss  her  away,  with  no  quarry  in  sight,  and  leave  her  to  climb  to  heaven.  Suppose  she  is  not  ready  to  wait  on?  Suppose  she  just  clears  off,  like  those  three  others?  Sup-  pose  it  takes  usa  long  time  to  find  a  pack  of  grouse,  and  she  gets  bored  and  goes?  That's  why  I  have  been  fiddling  about  all  morning,  carrying  her  on  the  cadge,  looking  for  a  good  set.  If  only  Brownie  would  give  us  a  firm  point,  I  would  throw  her  off,  wait  until  she  was  up,  and  spring  the  birds.  But  Brownie  is  being  wild  today,  as  you  saw.  She's  run-  ning  in  on  the  sitting  birds.  I  daren't  trust  Cressida  to  hang  about  the  sky.  I  don't  know  what  to  do.  When  you  have  lost  three  peregrines,  it  is  apt  to  shake  your  nerve.&quot;  &quot;Well,  what's  the  answer?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God!  I  wonder  if  I  could  try  flying  her  from  the  fist?  I  shall  have  to  think  up  something.  Suppose  I  carried  her  like  a  merlin,  with  the  hood  off,  and  then  if  Brownie  runs  in  on  the  set,  I  could  let  her  try  to  overtake  from  ground  level?  What  do  you  think?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  anything  about  it.&quot;  &quot;God!&quot;  I  put  my  head  in  my  hands  and  stared  between  my  knees  at  one  of  the  small  carnivorous  plants  that  catch  flies  and  digest  them.  S  I  think  about  it  now,  I  can  under-  stand  the  stupidity  of  what  I  did  that  afternoon.  Cressida  was  a  peregrine  falcon,  at  least  two  years  old,  who  had  been  trained  by  Gilbert  Blaine,  one  of  the  greatest  of  falconers.  This  gentle-  man  was  breaking  up  his  family  of  hawks  and  dogs,  and  had  given  her  to  " b"me.  She  was  a  crafty  old  devil,  with  a  distinct  character  of  her  own-partly  ill-  tempered,  partly  pussylike  if  she  was  in  a  good  humor,  and  at  times  you  could  almost  swear  that  she  had  a  distorted  sense  offun.  The  trouble  was  that  I  did  not  understand  her.I  had  no  means  of  knowing  how  thoroughly  she  had  been  trained,  and  she  had  been  spending  the  winter  and  spring  without  work.  She  had  been  on  holiday  in  the  mews-liv-  ing  indoors  or  on  a  block-while  she  molted.  This  was  her  first  day's  work  for  me  on  a  war  footing,  and  I  did  not  know  how  much  she  remembered  of  her  previous  education.  I  did  not  know  how  much  she  accepted  my  control,  or  whether  she  was  in  condition  to  fly.  In  any  case,  I  was  an  ignoramus  about  peregrines.  I  ought  to  have  waited,  of  course,  until  I  was  surethat  Cressida  remem-  bered  her  training  and  was  sharp-set.  I  ought  to  have  let  the  young  setter  quiet  down  for  a  day  or  two,  until  I  could  rely  on  a  steady  point.  Then,  on  a  firm  set,  I  ought  to  have  cast  Cressida  off  un-  til  she  had  reached  her  altitude,  put  up  the  birds  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  en-  joyed  our  triumph.  But  I  did  none  of  these  things.  In-  stead,  I  tried  to  fly  her  like  amerlin,  which  was  ridiculous.  My  only  excuse  is  that  itis  difficult  for  a  falconer  to  think  clearly.  Falconry  is  not  a  hobby  or  an  amusement;  it  is  a  rage.  You  eat  it  and  drink  it,  sleep  it  and  think  it.  You  tremble  to  write  of  it,  even  in  recollec-  tion.  It  is,  as  King  James  I  remarked,  an  extreme  stirrer-up  of  passions.  After  lunch,  we  set  out  and  moved  upwind  in  the  roasting  sunshine,  stum-  bling,  sweating,  angry,  and  bothered,  on  the  tussocky  hill.  I  took  off  Cres-  sida's  hood,  and  she  was  as  pettish  as  we  were.  She  expected  to  be  thrown  off,  as  usual.  Instead,  she  was  held  to  my  glove  byher  jesses,  which  she  could  not  understand.  She  fluttered  her  wings  in  the  hot  air-&quot;bating,&quot;  in  the  language  of  falconry-panting  with  fury,  her  beak  open,  frowning  upon  me  with  her  burnt-umber  eye.  We  humans  began  to  quarrel  among  ourselves,  upbraiding  each  other  on  as-  sorted  topics.  We  accused  each  other  of  going  too  fast,  or  going  too  slow,  or  being  clumsy,  or  annoying  the  hawk,  or  forgetting  where  the  wind  was,  or  any-  thing  else  that  proved  handy.  The  set-  ter,  as  wild  as  everybody  else,  quartered  in  front  of  us,  out  of  contact.  She  had  already  sent  away  three  packs  of  grouse  that  morning  by  running  in  before  we  could  catch  up  with  her.  She  had  also  chased  a  hare,  It  was  the  kind  of  day  on  which  peppery  colonels  will  shout  at   dogs  and  thrash  them  and  dance  up  and  down  on  the  mountainside,  shaking  their  fists  at  heaven.  Sometimes,  if  the  dog  is  far  enough  away,  they  will  dis-  charge  their  guns  at  it.  We  were  scarcely  a  mile  from  Fraoch  when  Brownie  got  her  set.  She  held  it,  and  we  hurried.  She  was  hun-  dreds  of  yards  ahead.  She  looked  over  her  shoulder  at  us.  I  began,  fatally,  to  yell,  &quot;Steady,  steady!&quot;  Cressida  recog-  nized  the  point  and  wanted  to  take  the  air,  but  I  checked  her.  She  bated  in  fury.  Brownie  looked  over  her  shoulder  a  second  time,  and  took  one  pace.  &quot;Steady,  steady!&quot;  She  began  to  snake  forward,  low  to  the  ground,  head  and  tail  in  a  straight  line,  slowly,  then  less  slowly,  then  faster.  &quot;Steady,  steady!&quot;  Encouraged  by  the  uproar  and  stam-  pede  behind  her,  she  dashed  in.  They  were  off,  flickering  and  whick-  ering,  closeto  the  heather.  Cressida  flew,  half  checked  by  me  in  a  last  second  of  indecision,  stumbled  in  the  air,  and  was  away.  They  had  per-  haps  a  hundred  yards  start  on  her.  She  had  no  altitude  and  was  out  of  training,  because  of  her  long  holiday  and  molt.  Everybody  seemed  to  be  running  or  fly-  ing  or  barkingor  cursing  as  the  grouse  vanished  in  the  distance,  And  Cressida,  defeated,  vanished  in-  to  the  cobalt  sky.  SW  UNG  the  lure,  made  of  leather  with  some  feathers  tied  to  it,  round  and  round  my  head  at  intervals  until  sunset.  I  blew  the  whistle.  I  went  over  in  my  mind  all  thethings  I  ought  to  have  done  or  ought  not  to  have  done.  I  sulked,  with  my  tail  between  my  legs,  and  could  not  meet  Bunny's  eye.  Itried  to  invent  reasons  why  it  was  his  fault,  or  Joyce's,  or  the  dog's.  There  was  nothing  to  be  seen  of  Cressida-nothing  in  the  wide  world.  Before  we  went  to  dinner,  I  left  some  meat  tied  to  the  falcon's  block  outside  the  house,  in  case  she  should  grow  hun-  gry  and  come  home  for  it.  I  also  con-  structed  a  special  trap  out  of  feathers  and  fishing  line,  which  I  had  once  be-  fore  used  successfully  onan  escaped  hawk.Dinner  was  a  gloomy  meal,  though  everybody  tried  to  talk  of  some-  thing  else.  Bunny  and  his  wife,  Ray,  and  their  two  children  were  experts  at  not  blaming  people  for  mischances,  and  they  were  also  sensitive  to  feelings,  but  I  was  bitter.  In  the  morning,  the  meat  that  was  tied  to  the  block  had  not  been  touched.  The  tercel  sat  on  his  own  block,  alone,  sometimes  cocking  his  head  sidewise  to  gaze  at  the  sky-a  fact  I  ought  to  have  taken  more  notice  of.  Everything  felt  " b"loose  or  abandoned,  like  a  tug  of  war  in  which  the  other  team  has  let  go  of  the  rope.  I  wandered  about  the  garden  after  breakfast,  feeling  pointless.  But  there  must  have  been  something  at  the  back  of  my  mind-an  unconscious  recollection  of  a  trick  I  had  once  read  about.  I  did  not  actually  remember  the  trick  until  I  had  played  it.  It  developed  by  itself.  I  looked  up  the  keeper  and  said,  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  Joyce,  we've  lost  her.  We  had  better  go  and  shoot  some  grouse  for  dinner.  In  any  case,  I  want  Brownie  to  settle  down.  Mr.  Garnett  says  he  is  go-  ing  to  try  the  river.&quot;  &quot;Very  good,  sir.&quot;  Brownie  had  been  wild  because  we  were  wild-anxiety  is  catching-and  because  she  was  confused  by  the  falcons.  She  had  been  asked  to  work  with  no  guns  visible,  which  had  muddled  her,  and  it  was  the  beginning  of  the  season,  and  she  was  young,  and  Fraoch  was  a  new  place.  Now  that  we  were  carrying  guns  instead  of  hawks,  and  the  place  was  more  familiar,  she  began  to  behave.  She  found  us  a  nice  set  in  the  flat  bog  below  the  lodge,  and  held  it.  We  caught  up  with  her,  gently  pat-  ting  the  rigid  rump  to  urge  her  very  slowly  forward,  pace  by  pace.  The  birds  did  not  want  to  fly-and  I  ought  to  have  noticed  that,  too.  Trembling,  on  tiptoe  almost,  the  tail  straight  and  one  front  paw  in  the  air,  she  crept  with  us  right  among  them.  Then  they  were  off.  At  my  first  shot,  she  dropped  like  a  veteran.  I  swung  on  the  second  bird  and  killed  it,  as  well  as  the  first.  Is  it  possible-for  it  seems  so  in  retro-  spect-that  Cressida  struck  the  second  bird  before  it  touched  the  ground?  When  a  peregrine  stoops  from  her  pitch,  you  can  actually  hear  the  wind  in  her  feathers-a  sort  of  &quot;Fffrp!&quot;  as  she  hurtles  by.  When  she  strikes  a  flying  grouse,  she  bowls  it  over  in  a  cloud  of  feathers,  head  over  heels,  exactly  as  if  it  had  been  shot.  You  can  hear  the  thump.  Then  she  sweeps  upward  in  a  stall  turn  and  binds  to  the  body,  like  Dracula.  So  there  she  was-my  beautiful,  crazy  Cressida-clutching  the  dead  bird  in  the  heather  and  glaring  at  us  with  an  expression  I  could  not  decipher.  She  mantled  over  the  quarry,  shielding  it  with  greedy  wings,  as  if  to  keep  us  away.  She  began  to  pluck  and  toss  the  feathers,  starting  at  the  head-for  she  had  been  superbly  educated.  A  pere-  grine  is  allowed  the  head  for  a  reward,  but  the  body  goes  to  the  kitchen.  I  began  to  tremble  like  Brownie.  I  motioned  to  Joyce  to  stay  where  he  was  and  hold  the  bitch.  It  was  important  not  to  approach  too  quickly.  I  waited  until  Cressida  was  settling  down  to  her  meal.  Then  I  walked  to  her  slowly  and  cir-  cuitously,  stood  for  a  few  moments,  squatted,  and  held  out  my  glove,  I  lifted  her,  grouse  and  all-she  not  making  the  faintest  protest-and  felt  for  the  jesses,  which,  once  held,  would  bring  her  into  my  possession  once  again.  Joyce  and  I  sighed  simultaneously,  deeply.  I  straightened  up.  We  smiled  warmly  upon  one  an-  other,  God  wasin  his  heaven  and  all  was  right  with  the  world.  HE  had  been  there  since  we  started,  out  of  human  sight  in  the  dazzling  sky  above  our  heads,  and  beautifully  waiting  on.  I  remembered  at  last  that  this  was  a  recognized  way  of  reclaiming  a  lost  fal-  con-to  shoot  a  grouse  for  her,  in  case  she  was  in  the  offing.  Joyce  and  I  began  talking  quickly,  both  at  once,  telling  each  other  all  about  it.  We  detached  the  carcass  from  Cressida's  talons,  praising  her.  I  fastened  her  to  the  cadge,  and  Joyce,  after  patting  Brownie  and  making  much  of  her,  col-  lected  the  other  bird  and  brought  it  back.  He  handed  the  grouse  to  me,  and  I  weighed  the  sooty,  tawny,  red-specked  body  in  my  hand.  One  wing  re-  flected  the  sky,  a  steely  light  gleaming  from  the  oiled  primaries.  Joyce,  looking  on,  said  that  he  thought  it  was  an  old  cock.  Some  tint  in  the  bird's  plumage  made  me  disagree.  &quot;I  think  he's  this  year's  bird,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;If  I  may,  sir  .  .  .&quot;  Joyce  took  the  grouse  from  me,  gently  opened  the  bleeding  beak,  and  inserted  his  thumb.  He  allowed  the  bird's  entire  weight  to  hang  from  the  lower  beak,  which  snapped.  &quot;Quite  right,&quot;  he  saidquietly.  &quot;'This  year's.&quot;  I  was  astonished,  forI  had  never  seen  this  done  before.  &quot;Why  so,  Joyce?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Well,  sir,  it  takes  an  old  bird  to  stand  that.  He's  got  more  to  him.  A  young  bird's  jaw  will  always  break  with  his  own  weight.&quot;  He  picked  up  the  cadge  and  called  the  dog,  and  we  started  back  toward  Fraoch.  After  my  idiocy  and  panic  with  Cressida,  I  could  not  get  over  what  I  had  just  witnessed.  I  wondered  how  long  it  had  taken  man  to  discover  this  strange  trick  of  weighing.  Who  first  happened  to  lift  a  grouse  by  that  un-  likely  part,  and  had  the  intelligence  to  go  on  lifting  until  he  learned  to  inter-  pret  what  happened?  When  I  thought  of  how  stupid  man  is,  it  depressed  me  to  think  how  long  he  must  have  been  ob-  serving  things."