 b"NEIL  Hovey  came  for  me  wearing  N  a  good  suit.  He  parked  his  fa-  ther's  blue  Chrysler  on  the  dirt  ramp  by  our  barn  and  gotout  and  stood  by  the  open  car  door  in  a  double-breast-  ed  tan  gabardine  suit,  his  hands  in  his  pockets  and  his  hair  combed  with  water,  squinting  up  at  a  lightning  rod  an  old  hurricane  had  knocked  crooked.  We  were  driving  to  [REDACTED],  so  I  had  packed  my  good  clothes  and  dressed  in  worn-out  slacks  and  an  outgrown  cor-  duroy  shirt.  But  Neil,  though  not  my  closest  friend,  was  the  one  I  had  always  been  most  relaxed  with,  so  I  wasn't  very  disturbed.  My  parents  and  I  walked  out  from  the  house,  across  the  low  stretch  of  lawn  that  was  mostly  mud  after  the  thaw  that  had  come  on  Christmas  Day,  and  my  grandmother,though  I  had  kissed  her  goodbye  inside  the  house,  came  out  onto  the  porch,  stooped  and  rather  angry-looking,  her  head  haloed  by  wild  old  woman's  white  hair  and  the  hand  more  severely  afflicted  by  arthritis  waggling  at  her  breast  in  a  worried  way.  It  was  growing  dark,  and  my  grandfa-  ther  had  gone  to  bed.  &quot;Nev-er  trust  the  man  who  wears  the  red  necktie  and  parts  his  hair  in  the  middle&quot;  had  been  his  final  advice  to  me.  We  had  expected  Neil  since  the  mid-  dle  of  the  afternoon.  Nineteen  almost  twenty,  I  was  a  college  sophomore  home  on  vacation;  that  fall  I  had  met  ina  fine-arts  course  a  girl  I  had  decided  I  loved,  and  she  had  invited  me  to  the  New  Year's  party  her  parents  always  gave  and  to  stay  at  her  house  a  few  days.  She  lived  in  [REDACTED]  and  so  did  Neil  now,  though  he  hadgone  to  our  high  school.  His  fatherdid  something-sold  steel  was  my  impression,  a  huge  man  opening  a  briefcase  and  saying  &quot;The  I-beams  are  very  good  this  year'&quot;-  that  required  him  to  be  always  on  the  move,  so  that  at  about  thirteen  Neil  had  been  left  with  Mrs.  Hovey's  par-  ents.  They  had  lived  in  Olinger  since  the  town  was  incorporated;  indeed,  old  Jesse  Lancaster,  whose  sick  larynx  whistled  when  he  breathed  to  us  boys  his  shocking  and  uproarious  thoughts  on  the  girls  that  walked  by  his  porch  all  day  long,  had  twice  been  burgess.  Meanwhile  Neil's  father  got  a  station-  ary  job,  in  [REDACTED],  but  he  let  Neil  stay  in  Olinger  until  he  finished  high  school.  From  [REDACTED]  to  this  part  of  Pennsyl-  vania  was  a  drive  of  seventeen  hours.  In  the  twenty  months  Neil  had  been  gone,  he  had  come  east  fairly  often;  he  loved  driving,  and  Olinger  was  the  one  thing  he  had  that  was  close  to  a  childhood  home.  In  [REDACTED]  he  was  working  in  a  garage  and  getting  his  teeth  straightened  by  the  Army  so  they  could  draft  him.  The  Korean  War  was  on.  He  had  to  go  back,  and  I  wanted  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  so  it  was  a  happy  ar-  rangement.  &quot;You're  all  dressed  up,&quot;  I  accused  him  immediately.  &quot;I've  been  saying  goodbye.&quot;  The  knot  of  his  necktie  was  low  and  the  corners  of  his  mouth  were  rubbed  with  pink.  Years  later  my  mother  re-  called  how  that  evening  his  breath  stank  so  strongly  of  beer  she  was  frightened  to  let  me  go  with  him.  &quot;Your  grand-  father  always  thought  his  grandfather  was  a  very  dubious  character,&quot;  she  said  My  father  and  Neil  put  my  suitcases  into  the  trunk;  they  contained  all  the  clothes  I  had  brought  with  me  from  school,  for  the  girl  and  I  were  going  back  to  college  on  the  train  together,  and  I  would  not  see  my  home  again  un-  til  spring.  &quot;Well,  goodbye,  boys,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;I  think  you're  both  very  brave.&quot;  In  regard  to  me  she  meant  the  girl  as  much  as  the  roads.  &quot;Don't  you  worry,  Mrs.  Nord-  holm,&quot;  Neil  told  her  quickly.  &quot;He'll  be  safer  than  in  his  own  bed.  I  bet  he  sleeps  from  here  to  496e646961na  &quot;  He  looked  at  me  with  an  irritating  imitation  of  her  own  fond  gaze.  When  they  shook  hands  goodbye  it  was  with  an  equality  estab-  lished  on  the  base  of  my  helplessness.  His  being  so  slick  startled  me,  but  you  can  have  a  friend  for  years  and  never  see  how  he  operates  with  adults.  I  embraced  my  mother  and  over  her  shoulder  with  the  camera  of  my  head  tried  to  take  a  snapshot  I  could  keep  of  the  house,  the  woods  behind  it  and  the  sunset  behind  them,  the  bench  beneath  the  walnut  tree  where  my  grandfather  cut  apples  into  skinless  bits  and  fed  them  to  himself,  and  the  ruts  the  bakery  truck  had  made  in  the  soft  lawn  that  morning.  We  started  down  the  half  mile  of  dirt  road  to  the  highway  that,  one  way,  went  through  Olinger  to  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  and,  the  other  way,  led  through  farm-  land  to  the  Turnpike.  It  was  luxurious  after  the  stress  of  farewell  to  finger  a  cigarette  out  of  the  pack  squaring  my  shirt  pocket.  My  family  knew  I  smoked  but  I  didn't  do  it  in  front  of  them;  we  were  all  too  sensitive  to  bear  the  awk-  wardness.  I  lit  mine  and  held  the  match  for  Hovey.  It  was  a  relaxed  friendship.  We  were  about  the  same  height  and  had  the  same  degree  of  athletic  incom-  petence  and  the  same  curious  lack  of  whatever  force  it  was  that  aroused  loyalty  and  compliance  in  beautiful  girls.  There  was  his  bad  teeth  and  my  skin  allergy;  these  were  being  remedied  now,  when  they  mattered  less.  But  it  seemed  to  me  that  the  most  important  thing-about  both  our  friendship  and  our  failures  to  become,  for  all  the  love  we  felt  for  women,  actual  lovers-was  that  he  and  I  lived  with  grandparents.  This  im-  proved  both  our  backward  and  forward  vistas;  we  knew  about  the  midnight  coughing  fits  and  bedside  commodes  that  awaited  most  men,  and  we  had  a  sense  of  childhoods  before  1900,  when  the  farmer  ruled  the  land  and  [REDACTED]  faced  west.  We  had  gained  a  humane  dimension  that  made  us  gentle  and  hu-  morous  among  peers  but  diffident  at  dances  and  hesitant  in  cars.  Girls  hate  boys'  doubts;  they  amount  to  insults.  Gentleness  is  for  married  women  to  ap-  preciate.  ('This  is  my  thinking  then.)  A  girl  who  has  received  out  of  nowhere  a  gift  worth  all  Africa's  ivory  and  Asia's  gold  wants  more  than  just  humanity  to  bestow  it  on.  When  he  came  to  the  highway  Neil  turned  right,  toward  Olinger,  instead  of  left,  toward  the  Turnpike.  My  re-  action  was  to  twist  and  assure  myself  through  the  rear  window  that,  though  a  pink  triangle  of  sandstone  stared  through  the  bare  treetops,  nobody  at  my  house  could  possibly  see.  When  he  was  again  in  third  gear,  Neil  asked,  &quot;Are  you  in  a  hurry?&quot;  &quot;No.  Not  especially.&quot;  &quot;Schumann's  having  his  New  Year's  party  two  days  early  so  we  can  go.  I  thought  we'd  go  for  a  couple  hours  and  miss  the  Friday-night  stuff  on  the  Pike.&quot;  His  mouth  moved  and  closed  carefully  over  the  dull,  silver,  painful  braces.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  care.&quot;  In  everything  that  followed  there  was  this  sensation  of  my  being  picked  up  and  carried  somewhere.  T  was  four  miles  from  the  farm  to  Olinger;  we  entered  by  Buchanan  Road,  driving  past  the  tall  white  brick  house  I  had  lived  in  until  I  was  fifteen.  My  grandfather  had  bought  it  before  I  was  born  and  his  stocks  went  bad,  " b"which  had  happened  in  the  same  year.  The  new  owners  had  strung  colored  bulbs  all  along  t  he  front  doorframe  and  the  e  dges  of  the  porch  roof.  Downtown  the  cardboard  Santa  Claus  still  nodded  in  the  drugstore  wi  ndow,  but  the  loudspeaker  on  the  undertaker's  lawn  had  stopped  broadcasting  caro  l  s.  It  wa  s  quite  dark  now,  so  the  arches  of  red  and  green  lights  above  G  rand  Avenue  seemed  miracles  of  lift;  in  daylight  you  sa  w  the  bulbs  were  just  hung  from  a  stra  ight  c  able  by  cords  of  different  lengths.  Larry  Sc  human  lived  on  the  o  ther  side  of  town,  the  n  ewer  side.  Lights  ran  all  the  way  up  the  front  edges  of  his  house  and  across  the  rain  gutter.  THe  next-door  neighbor  had  a  plywood  reindeer-and-sleigh  flo  odlit  on  his  front  lawn  and  a  snowm  an  o  f  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9  lea  ning  tipsily  (his  eyes  were  x's)  agai  nst  the  corner  of  the  house.  No  re  al  snow  had  falle  n  yet  that  winter.  The  air  this  evening,  tho  ugh,  hinted  that  harder  weather  wa  s  com  -  ing.  The  Sch  um  ans'  living  r  oom  felt  warm.  In  one  corner  a  bl  ue  spruce  drenched  with  tinsel  reached  to  the  ceiling;  around  its  pot  surged  a  drift  of  wrapp  ing  pa  per  and  ri  bbon  and  boxes,  a  fe  w  still  conta  inin  g  presents-gloves  and  diaries  and  other  small  properties  that  hadn't  yet  bee  n  absorbed  into  the  main  stream  of  affluence.  The  orna-  mental  balls  were  big  as  baseballs  and  all  either  crims  o  n  or  indigo;  the  tree  was  so  well  d  ressed  I  felt  self-conscious  in  t  he  same  r  oom  with  it,  w  ithout  a  coat  or  tie  and  wearing  an  old  green  shirt  too  short  in  the  sleeves,  Everyone  els  e  wa  s  dressed  for  a  party  .  Then  Mr.  Schuman  stamped  in  comfortingly,  crushing  us  all  into  one  underneath  his  welcome-  Neil  an  d  me  and  the  three  other  boys  who  had  shown  up  so  far.  He  was  dressed  to  g  o  out  on  the  town,  in  a  va  nilla  topcoat  and  silvery  silk  muffler,  and  s  moking  a  cigar  with  the  ba  nd  still  on.  You  could  see,  in  Mr.  Schuman,  where  Lar  ry  g  ot  the  red  hair  and  pale  eyelashes  and  the  self-confidence,  b  ut  what  in  the  son  was  smirking  and  pushy  was  in  the  father  s  hrewd  an  d  master-  ful.  What  the  one  used  to  make  you  nerv  ous  the  other  used  to  put  you  at  ease.  While  Mr.  was  jollying  us,  Zoe  Loessner,  Larry's  pr  obable  fianc\xc3\xa9e  and  the  only  girl  at  the  party  so  far,  wa  s  talking  nicely  to  Mrs.,  nodding  with  her  entire  neck  and  fingering  h  er  Kresge  pearls  and  blowing  cigarette  smoke  through  the  corners  of  her  mouth,  to  keep  it  away  from  the  middle-aged  woman's  face.  Each  time  Zoe  spat  out  a  plume,  the  shelf  of  blond  hair  over-  hanging  her  temple  lifted  slightly,  so  CR&quot;   emphatic  was  her  politeness.  Mrs.  Schuman  beamed  serenely  above  her  fur  coat  and  rhinestone  pocketbook.  It  was  odd  to  see  her  dressed  in  the  trap-  pings  of  the  prosperity  which  usually  supported  her  good  nature  invisibly,  like  a  firm  mattress  under  a  homely  bright  quilt.  She  was  a  prime  product  of  the  country,  a  [REDACTED]  Dutch  woman,  who  loved  feeding  her  sons,  and  imagined  that  the  entire  world,  like  her  life,  was  going  well.  I  never  saw  her  not  smile,  except  at  her  husband.  At  last  she  moved  him  into  the  outdoors.  He  turned  at  the  threshold  and  did  a  trick  with  his  knees  and  called  in  to  us,  &quot;Be  good  and  if  you  can't  be  good,  be  careful.&quot;  With  them  out  of  the  way,  the  next  item  was  getting  liquor.  It  was  a  fa-  miliar  business.  Did  anybody  have  a  forged  driver's  license?  If  not,  who  would  dare  to  make  one?  Larry  could  provide  496e646961  ink.  Then  again,  Larry's  older  brother  Dale  might  be  home  and  would  go  if  it  didn't  take  too  much  time.  However,  on  weekends  he  often  went  straight  from  work  to  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e's  apartment  and  stayed  until  Sunday.  If  worst  came  to  worst,  Larry  knew  an  illegal  place  in  [REDACTED],  but  they  really  soaked  you.  'The  problem  was  solved  strangely.  More  people  were  arriving  all  the  time,  and  one  of  them,  Cookie  Behn,  who  had  been  held  back  one  year  and  hence  was  deposited  in  our  grade,  announced  that  last  November  he  had  become  in  honest  fact  twenty-one.  I,  at  least,  gave  Cookie  my  share  of  the  money  feeling  a  little  queasy,  vice  had  become  so  handy.  The  party  was  the  party  I  had  been  going  to  all  my  life,  beginning  with  Ann  Mahlon's  first  Halloween  party,  that  I  attended  as  a  hot,  lumbering,  breath-  less,  and  blind  Donald  Duck.  My  mother  had  made  the  costume,  and  the  eyes  kept  slipping,  and  were  farther  apart  than  my  eyes,  so  that  even  when  the  clouds  of  gauze  parted,  it  was  to  reveal  the  frustrating  depthless  world  seen  with  one  eye.  Ann,  who  because  her  mother  loved  her  so  much  as  a  child  had  remained  somewhat  childish,  and  I  and  another  boy  and  girl  who  were  not  involved  in  any  romantic  crisis  went  down  into  the  Schumans'  basement  to  play  circular  ping-pong.  Armed  with  paddles,  we  stood  each  at  a  side  of  the  table  and  when  the  ball  was  stroked  ran  around  it  counterclockwise,  slap-  ping  the  ball  and  laughing.  To  run  bet-     " b"ter  the  girls  took  off  their  high-  1  heeled  shoes  and  ruined  their  stockings  on  the  cement  floor.  Their  faces  and  arms  and  shoulder  sections  became  flushed,  and  when  either  of  the  girls  lunged  forward  toward  the  net  the  stiff  neckline  of  her  semi-formal  dress  dropped  away  and  the  white  cups  of  her  brassi\xc3\xa9re  could  be  glimpsed  holding  in  fat,  and  when  one  of  them  reached  high  her  shavedarmpit  gleamed  like  a  bit  of  chicken  skin.  An  earring  of  Ann's  flew  off  and  the  two  connected  rhinestones  skidded  to  lie  near  the  wall,  among  the  Schumans'  power  mower  and  badmin-  ton  poles  and  empty  bronze  motor-oil  cans  twice  punctured  by  triangles.  All  these  images  were  immediately  lost  in  the  whirl  of  our  running;  we  were  dizzy  before  we  stopped.  Ann  leaned  on  me  getting  back  into  her  shoes.  When  we  pushed  the  cellar  door  open  it  banged  against  the  newel  post  of  the  carpeted  stairs  going  to  the  second  floor;  a  third  of  the  way  up,  a  couple  sat  discussing.  The  girl,  Jacky  Iselin,  cried  without  emotion-the  tears  and  nothing  else,  like  water  flow-  ing  over  wood.  Some  people  were  in  the  kitchen,  mixing  drinks  and  making  noise.  In  the  living  room  others  danced  to  records:  78s  then-stiff  discs  stacked  in  a  ponderous  leaning  cylinder  on  the  spindle  of  the  Schumans'  console.  Ev-  ery  three  minutes,  with  a  click  and  a  crash,  another  dropped  and  the  mood  abruptly  changed.  One  moment  it  would  be  &quot;Stay  As  Sweet  As  You  Are&quot;:  Clarence  Lang  with  the  absolute  expression  of  an  idiot  standing  and  rocking  monotonously  with  June  Kaufmann's  boneless  sad  brown  hand  trapped  in  his  and  their  faces,  staring  in  the  same  direction,  pasted  together  like  the  facets  of  an  idol.  The  music  stopped;  when  they  parted,  a  big  squarish  dark  patch  stained  the  cheek  of  each.  Then  the  next  moment  it  would  be  Good-  man's  &quot;Loch  Lomond&quot;  or  &quot;Cherokee&quot;  and  nobody  but  Margaret  Lento  want-  ed  to  jitterbug.  Mad,  she  danced  by  her-  self,  swinging  her  head  recklessly  and  snapping  her  backside;  a  corner  of  her  skirt  flipped  a  Christmas  ball  onto  the  rug,  where  it  collapsed  into  a  hundred  convex  reflectors.  Female  shoes  were  scattered  in  innocent  pairs  about  the  room.  Some  were  flats,  resting  under  the  sofa  shyly  toed  in;  others  were  high  heels  lying  askew,  the  spike  of  one  thrust  into  its  mate.  Sitting  alone  and  ignored  in  a  great  armchair,  I  experi-  enced  within  a  warm  keen  dishevel-  ment,  as  if  there  were  real  tears  in  my  eyes.  Had  things  been  less  unchanged,  they  would  have  seemed  less  tragic.  But  the  girls  who  had  stepped  out  ofthese  shoes  were,  with  few  exceptions,  the  ones  who  had  attended  my  life's  party.  The  alterations  were  so  small:  a  hair-  cut,  an  engagement  ring,  a  tendency  toward  plumpness  more  frankly  con-  fessed.  While  they  wheeled  above  me  I  sometimes  caught  from  their  faces  an  unfamiliar  glint,  off  of  a  hardness  I  did  not  remember,  as  if  beneath  their  skins  these  girls  were  growing  more  dense.  The  brutality  added  to  the  fea-  tures  of  the  boys  I  knew  seemed  a  more  willed  effect,  more  desired  and  so  less  grievous.  Considering  that  there  was  a  war,  surprisingly  many  were  present-  4-F  or  at  college  or  simply  waiting  to  be  called.  Shortly  before  midnight  the  door  rattled,  and  there,  under  the  porch  light,  looking  forlorn  and  chilled  in  their  brief  athletic  jackets,  stood  three  members  of  the  class  ahead  of  ours  who  in  the  old  days  always  tried  to  crash  Schuman's  parties.  At  Olinger  High  they  had  been  sports  stars,  and  they  still  stood  with  that  well-coordinated  loose-  ness,  a  look  of  dangling  from  strings.  The  three  of  them  had  enrolled  to-  gether  at  Melanchthon,  a  small  Lu-  theran  college  on  the  edge  of  [REDACTED],  and  in  this  season  played  on  the  Melanch-  thon  basketball  team.  That  is,  two  did;  the  third  hadn't  been  good  enough.  Schuman,  out  of  cowardice  more  than  mercy,  let  them  in,  and  they  hid  imme-  diately  in  the  basement,  and  didn't  bother  us,  having  brought  their  own  bottle.  There  was  one  novel  awkwardness.  Darryl  Bechtel  had  married  Emmy  Johnson,  and  the  couple  came.  Darryl  had  worked  in  his  father's  greenhouse  and  had  been  considered  dull;  it  was  Emmy  that  we  knew.  At  first  no  one  danced  with  her,  and  Darryl  didn't  know  how,  but  then  Schuman,  perhaps  as  host,  dared.  Others  followed,  but  Schuman  had  her  in  his  arms  most  often,  and  at  midnight,  when  we  were  pre-  tending  the  new  year  began,  he  kissed  her;  a  wave  of  kissing  swept  the  room  now,  and  everyone  struggled  to  kiss     Emmy.  Even  I  did.  There  was  some-  thing  about  her  being  married  that  made  it  extraordinary.  Her  cheeks  burning,  she  kept  glancing  around  for  rescue,  but  Darryl,  embarrassed  to  see  his  wife  dance,  had  gone  into  old  man  Schu-  man's  den,  where  Neil  sat  brooding,  sunk  in  mysterious  sorrow.  When  the  kissing  subsided  and  Darryl  emerged,  I  went  in  to  see  Neil.  He  was  holding  his  face  in  his  hands  and  tapping  his  foot  to  a  record  playing  on  Mr.  Schuman's  private  phonograph:  Krupa's  &quot;Dark  Eyes.&quot;  The  arrange-  ment  was  droning  and  circular  and  Neil  had  kept  the  record  going  for  hours.  He  loved  saxophones;  most  of  us  children  of  that  depression  vintage  did.  I  asked  him,  &quot;Do  you  think  the  traffic  on  the  Turnpike  has  died  down  by  now?&quot;  He  took  down  the  tall  glass  on  the  cabinet  beside  him  and  took  a  studied  swallow.  From  the  side,  his  face  seemed  lean  and  somewhat  blue.  &quot;Maybe,&quot;  he  said,  staring  at  the  ice  cubes  submerged  in  the  ochre  liquid.  &quot;The  girl  in  Chi-  cago's  expecting  you?&quot;  &quot;Well,  yeah,  but  we  can  call  and  let  her  know,  once  we  know.&quot;  &quot;You  think  she'll  spoil?&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  mean,  won't  you  be  seeing  her  all  the  time  after  we  get  there?  Aren't  you  going  to  marry  her?&quot;  &quot;I  have  no  idea.I  might.&quot;  &quot;Well  then  you'll  have  the  rest  of  Kingdom  Come  to  see  her.&quot;  He  looked  directlyat  me,  and  it  was  plain  in  the  blur  of  his  eyes  that  he  was  sick-drunk.  &quot;'The  trouble  with  you  guys  that  have  all  the  luck,&quot;  he  said  slowly,  &quot;is  that  you  don't  give  a  damn  about  us  that  don't  have  any.&quot;  Such  melodramatic  rude-  ness,  coming  from  Neil,  surprised  me,  as  had  his  blarney  with  my  mother  hours  before.  In  trying  to  evade  his  steady,  wounded  stare,  I  discovered  there  was  another  person  in  the  room:  a  girl  sitting  with  her  shoeson,  read-  ing  Holiday.  Though  she  held  the  magazine  in  front  of  her  face,  I  knew  from  the  gaudy  air  of  her  clothes  and  from  her  unfamiliar  legs  that  she  " b"was  the  girl  friend  Margaret  Lento  had  brought.  Margaret  didn't  come  from  Olinger  but  from  Riverside,  a  section  of  [REDACTED].  She  had  met  Larry  Schuman  at  a  sum-  mer  job  in  a  restaurant,  and  for  the  rest  of  high  school  they  had  more  or  less  gone  together.  Since  then,  though,  it  had  dawned  on  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Schuman  that  even  ina  democracy  distinctions  exist:  probably  welcome  news  to  Larry.  In  the  cruelest  and  most  prolonged  way  he  could  manage,  he  had  been  breaking  off  with  her  throughout  the  year  now  nearly  ended.  I  had  been  sur-  prised  to  find  her  at  this  party.  Ob-  viously  she  had  felt  shaky  about  attend-  ing  and  had  brought  the  friend  as  the  only  kind  of  protection  she  could  afford.  The  other  girl  was  acting  just  like  a  guard.  There  being  no  answer  to  Neil,  I  went  into  the  living  room,  where  Mar-  garet,  insanely  drunk,  was  throwing  herself  around  as  if  wanting  to  break  a  bone.  Somewhat  in  time  to  the  music  she  would  run  a  few  steps,  then  snap  her  body  like  a  whip,  her  chin  striking  her  chest  and  her  hands  flying  back-  ward,  fingers  fanned,  as  her  shoulders  pitched  forward.  In  her  state  her  body  was  childishly  plastic;  unharmed,  she  would  bounce  back  from  thisjolt  and  begin  to  clap  and  kick  and  hum.  Schu-  man  stayed  away  from  her.  Margaret  was  small,  not  more  than  five  three,  with  the  smallness  ripeness  comes  to  early,  She  had  bleached  a  section  of  her  black  hair  platinum,  cropped  her  head  all  over,  and  trained  th  e  stubble  into  short  hyacinthine  curls  like  those  on  antique  statues  of  boys.  Her  face  seemed  quite  coarse  from  the  front,  so  her  p  ro-  file  was  classical  unexpectedly.  She  mi  ght  have  been  Portia.  When  she  was  not  putting  on  her  savage,  pointless  dance,  she  was  in  the  bathroom  being  sick.  Th  e  pi  ty  an  d  the  vulgarity  of  her  exhibition  ma  de  everyone  who  was  sober  uncomfortable;  our  common  guilt  in  witnessing  this  girl's  rites  broug  h  t  us  so  close  together  in  tha  t  room  that  it  seemed  never,  not  in  all  time,  could  we  be  parted.  I  myself  was  perfectly  sober.  I  had  the  impression  people  only  drank  to  stop  being  unhappy  and  I  nearly  always  f  elt  at  l  east  fairly  happy.  Luckily,  Margaret  was  in  a  sick  phase  around  one  o'clock,  when  the  elder  Schumans  came  home.  'They  looked  in  at  us  briefly.  It  was  a  pleasant  joke  to  see  in  their  smiles  that,  however  corrupt  and  unwinking  we  felt,  to  them  we  looked  young  and  sleepy:  Larry's  friends.  Things  quieted  after  they  went  up  the  stairs,  In  half  an  hour,  people  began  coming  out  of  the  kitchen  bal-  ancing  cups  of  coffee.  By  two  o'clock,  four  girls  stood  in  aprons  at  Mrs.  Schu-  man's  sink,  and  others  were  padding  back  and  forth  carrying  glasses  and  ash-  trays.  Another  blameless  racket  pierced  the  clatter  in  the  kitchen.  Out  on  the  cold  grass  the  three  Melanchthon  ath-  letes  had  set  up  the  badminton  net  and  in  the  faint  glow  given  off  by  the  house  were  playing.  The  bird,  ascend-  ing  and  descending  through  uneven  bars  of  light,  glimmered  like  a  firefly.  Now  that  the  party  was  dying,  Neil's  apathy  seemed  deliberately  exasperating,  even  vindictive.  For  at  least  another  hour,  he  persisted  in  hearing  &quot;Dark  Eyes&quot;  over  and  over  again,  holding  his  head  and  tapping  his  foot.  'The  entire  scene  in  the  den  had  developed  a  fixity  that  was  uncanny;  the  girl  remained  in  the  chair  " b"and  read  magazines,  Holiday  and  Es-  quire,  one  after  another.  In  the  mean-  time,  cars  came  and  went  and  raced  their  motors  out  front;  Schuman  took  Ann  Mahlon  home  and  didn't  come  back;  and  the  athletes  carried  the  neigh-  bor's  artificial  snowman  into  the  center  of  the  street  and  disappeared.  Some-  how  in  the  arrangements  shuffled  to-  gether  at  the  end,Neil  had  agreed  to  take  Margaret  and  the  other  girl  home.  Margaret  convalesced  in  the  downstairs  bathroom  for  most  of  that  hour.  I  un-  locked  a  little  glass  bookcase  ornament-  inga  desk  in  the  dark  dining  room  and  removed  a  volume  of  Thackeray's  Works.  It  turned  out  to  be  Volume  II  of  &quot;Henry  Esmond.&quot;  I  began  it,  rather  than  break  another  book  out  of  the  set,  which  had  been  squeezed  in  there  so  long  the  bindings  had  sort  of  interpen-  etrated.  Esmond  was  going  off  to  war  again  when  Neil  appeared  in  the  archway  and  said,  &quot;O.K.,  Norseman.  Let's  go  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Norseman&quot;  was  a  variant  of  my  name  he  used  only  when  he  was  feeling  special  affection.  We  turned  off  all  the  lamps  and  left  the  hall  bulb  burning  against  Larry's  return.  Margaret  Lento  seemed  chastened.  Neil  gave  her  his  arm  and  helped  her  into  the  back  seat  of  his  father'scar;  I  stood  aside  to  let  the  other  girl  get  in  with  her,  but  Neil  indicated  that  I  should.  I  supposed  he  realized  this  left  only  the  mute  den-girl  to  go  up  front  with  him.  She  sat  well  over  on  her  side,  was  all  I  noticed.  Neil  backed  into  the  street  and  with  unusual  care  steered  past  the  snowman.  Our  head-  lights  made  vivid  the  fact  that  the  snow-  man's  back  was  a  hollow  right-angled  gash;  he  had  been  built  up  against  the  corner  of  the  house.  FROM  Olinger,  Riverside  was  di-  agonally  across  [REDACTED].  The  city  was  sleeping  as  we  drove  through  it.  Most  of  the  stop  lights  were  blinking  green.  Among  cities  [REDACTED]  had  a  bad  reputa-  tion;  its  graft  and  gambling  and  easy  juries  and  bawdyhouses  were  supposed-  ly  notorious  throughout  the  Middle  At-  lantic  states.  But  to  me  it  always  pre-  sented  an  innocent  face:  row  after  row  of  houses  built  of  a  local  dusty-red  brick,  the  color  of  flowerpots,  each  house  forti-  fied  with  a  tiny,  intimate,  balustraded  porch,  and  nothing  but  the  wealth  of  movie  houses  and  beer  signs  along  its  main  street  to  suggest  that  its  citizens  loved  pleasure  more  than  the  run  of  mankind.  Indeed,  as  we  moved  at  moderate  speed  down  these  hushed  streets  bordered  with  parked  cars,  a  limestone  church  bulking  at  every  corner  and  the  hooded  street  lamps  keeping  watch  from  above,  [REDACTED]  seemed  less  the  ultimate  center  of  an  urban  region  than  itself  a  suburb  of  some  vast  mythi-  cal  metropolis,  like  Pandemonium  or  Paradise.  I  was  conscious  of  evergreen  wreaths  on  door  after  door  and  of  fan-  lights  of  stained  glass  in  which  the  house  number  was  embedded.  I  was  also  con-  scious  that  every  block  was  one  block  farther  from  the  Turnpike.  Riverside,  fitted  into  the  bends  of  the  Schuylkill,  was  not  so  regularly  laidout.  Margaret's  house  was  one  of  a  short  row,  composition-shingled,  which  we  approached  from  the  rear,  down  a  tiny  cement  alley  speckled  with  drains.  The  porches  were  a  few  inches  higher  than  the  narrow  pavement.  Margaret  asked  us  if  we  wanted  to  come  in  for  a  cup  of  coffee,  since  we  were  going  to  [REDACTED];  Neil  accepted  by  getting  out  of  the  car  and  slamming  his  door.  The  noise  filled  the  alley,  alarming  me.  I  wondered  at  the  easy  social  life  that  evidently  existed  among  my  friends  at  three-thirty  in  the  morning.  Margaret  did,  however,  lead  us  in  stealthily,  and  she  turned  on  only  the  kitchen  switch.  The  kitchen  was  divided  from  the  living  room  by  a  large  sofa,  which  faced  into  littered  gloom  where  distant  light  from  beyond  the  alley  spilled  over  a  window  sill  and  across  the  spines  of  a  radiator.  In  one  corner  the  glass  of  a  television  set  showed;  the  screen  would  seem  absurd-  ly  small  now,  but  then  it  seemed  dispro-  portionately  elegant.  'The  shabbiness  everywhere  would  not  have  struck  me  so  much  if  I  hadn't  just  come  from  Schuman's  place.  Neil  and  the  other  girl  sat  on  the  sofa;  Margaret  held  a  match  to  a  gas  burner  and,  as  the  blue  flame  licked  an  old  kettle,  doled  instant  coffee  into  four  flowered  cups.  By  the  kitchen's  solitary  window,  overlooking  a  drab  [REDACTED]  street,  some-  one  who  had  once  lived  in  this  house  had  built  a  breakfast  nook  like  a  luncheon-  ette  booth,  a  yellow  table  between  two  high-backed  benches.  I  sat  in  it  and  read  all  the  words  I  could  see:  &quot;Salt,&quot;  &quot;Pep-  " b" per,&quot;  &quot;Have  Some  LUMPS,&quot;  &quot;Decem-  ber,&quot;  &quot;Mohn's  Milk  Inc.-A  Very  Merry  Christmas  and  Joyous  New  Year-Mohn's  Milk  is  Safe  Milk-  'Mommy,  Make  It  Mohan's!  &quot;  &quot;Matches,&quot;  &quot;Hotpoint,&quot;  &quot;PRESS,&quot;  &quot;Magee  Stove  FEDERAL  &amp;  Furnace  Corp.,&quot;  &quot;God  Isin  This  House,&quot;  &quot;Ave  Maria  Gratia  Plena,&quot;  &quot;SHREDDED  WHEAT  Benefits-Exciting  New  Pat-  tern  KUNGSHOLM.&quot;  After  serving  the  two  on  the  sofa,  Margaret  came  to  me  with  coffee  and  sat  down  opposite  me  in  the  booth.  Fatigue  had  raised  two  blue  welts  beneath  her  eyes.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  asked  her,  &quot;did  you  have  a  good  time?&quot;  She  smiled  and  glanced  down  and  made  the  small  sound  &quot;Ch,&quot;  vestigial  of  &quot;Jesus.&quot;&quot;  With  absent-minded  del-  icacy  she  stirred  her  coffee,  lifting  and  replacing  the  spoon  without  a  ripple.  &quot;Rather  odd  at  the  end,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Not  even  the  host  there.&quot;  &quot;He  took  Ann  Mahlon  home.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  I  was  surprised  that  she  did,  having  been  sick  in  the  bathroom  for  that  hour.  &quot;You  sound  jealous,&quot;  she  added.  &quot;Who  does?  I  do?  I  don't.&quot;  &quot;'You  like  her,  John,  don't  you?&quot;  Her  using  my  first  name  and  the  quali-  ty  of  the  question  did  not,  though  we  " b" had  really-not  counting  parties-just  met,  seem  forward,  considering  the  hour  and  that  she  had  brought  me  cof-  fee.  There  is  little  further  to  go  with  a  girl  who  has  brought  you  coffee.  &quot;Oh,  I  like  everybody,&quot;  I  toldher,  &quot;and  the  longer  I've  known  them  the  more  I  like  them,  because  the  more  they're  me.  The  only  people  I  like  better  are  ones  I've  just  met.  Now  Ann  Mahlon  I've  known  since  kindergarten.  Every  day  her  mother  used  to  bring  her  to  the  edge  of  the  schoolyard  for  months  after  all  the  other  mothers  had  stopped.&quot;  I  wanted  to  cut  a  figure  in  Margaret's  eyes,  but  they  were  too  dark.  Stoically  she  had  got  on  top  of  her  weariness,  but  it  was  growing  big-  ger  under  her.  &quot;Did  you  like  her  then?&quot;  &quot;I  felt  sorry  for  her  being  embar-  rassed  by  her  mother.&quot;  She  asked  me,  &quot;What  was  Larry  like  when  he  was  little?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  bright.  Kind  of  mean.&quot;  &quot;Was  he  mean?&quot;  &quot;I'd  say  so.  Yes.  In  some  grade  or  other  he  and  I  began  to  play  chess  to-  gether.  I  always  won  until  secretly  he  took  lessons  from  a  man  his  parents  knew  and  read  strategy  books.&quot;  Margaret  laughed,  genuinely  pleased.  &quot;'Then  did  he  win?&quot;  &quot;Once.  After  that  I  really  tried,  and  after  that  he  decided  chess  was  kid  stuff.  Besides,  he'd  used  me  up.  He'd  have  these  runs  on  people  where  you'd  be  down  at  his  house  every  afternoon,  then  in  a  couple  months  he'dget  a  new  pet  and  that'd  be  that.&quot;  &quot;He's  funny,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  has  a  kind  of  cold  mind.  He  decides  on  what  he  wants,  then  he  does  what  he  has  to  do,  you  know,  and  nothing  anybody  says  can  change  him.&quot;  &quot;He  does  tend  to  get  what  he  wants,&quot;  Itold  her  guardedly,  realizing  that  to  her  this  meant  her.  Poor  bruised  little  girl,  in  her  mind  he  was  all  the  time  cleaving  with  rare  cunning  through  his  parents'  objections  straight  to  her.  My  coffee  was  nearly  gone,  so  I  glanced  toward  the  sofa  in  the  other  room.  Neil  and  the  girl  had  sunk  out  of  sight  behind  its  back.  Before  this  it  had  honestly  not  occurred  to  me  that  they  had  a  relationship,  but  now  that  I  saw,  it  seemed  plausible,  and,  atthis  time  of  night,  good  news,  though  it  meant  we  would  not  be  going  to  Chi-  cago  quite  yet.  So  I  talked  to  Margaret  about  Larry,  and  she  responded,  showing  really  quite  an  acute  sense  of  him.  To  me,  consider-  ingthe  personality  ofa  childhood  friend  so  seriously,  as  if  overnight  he  had  be-  come  a  factor  in  the  world,  seemed  ab-  surd;  I  couldn't  even  deeply  believe  that  in  her  world  he  mattered  much.  Larry    Schuman,  in  little  more  than  a  year,  had  become  nothing  to  me.  'The  important  thing,  rather  than  the  subject,  was  the  conversation  itself,  the  quick  agree-  ments,  the  slow  nods,  the  weave  of  dif-  ferent  memories;  it  was  like  one  of  those  [REDACTED]  baskets  shaped  underwater  around  a  worthless  stone.  She  offered  me  more  coffee.  When  she  returned  with  it,  she  sat  down  not  opposite  but  beside  me,  lifting  me  to  such  a  pitch  of  gratitude  and  affection  that  the  only  way  I  could  think  to  ex-  press  it  was  by  xot  kissing  her,  as  if  a  kiss  were  another  piece  of  abuse  women  suffered.  She  said,  &quot;Cold.  Cheap  bas-  tard  turns  the  thermostat  down  to  six-  ty,&quot;  meaning  her  father.  She  drew  my  arm  around  her  shoulders  and  folded  my  hand  about  her  bare  forearm,  to  warm  it.  The  back  of  my  thumb  fitted  against  the  curve  of  one  breast.  Her  head  went  into  the  hollow  where  my  arm  and  chest  joined;  she  was  terribly  small,  measured  against  your  own  body.  Perhaps  she  weighed  a  hundred  pounds.  Her  lids  lowered  and  I  kissed  her  two  beautiful  eyebrows  and  then  the  spaces  of  skin  between  the  rough  curls,  some  black  and  some  bleached,  that  fringed  her  forehead.  Other  than  this  I  tried  to  keep  as  still  as  a  bed  would  be.  It  had  grown  cold.  A  shiver  starting  on  the  side  away  from  her  would  twitch  my  shoulders  when  I  tried  to  repress  it;  she  wouldfrown  and  unconscious-  ly  draw  my  arm  tighter.  No  one  had  switched  the  kitchen  light  off.  On  Margaret's  fore-  shortened  upper  lip  there  seemed  to  be  two  pencil  marks;  the  length  of  wrist  my  badly  fitting  sleeve  exposed  looked  pale  and  naked  against  the  spiralling  down  of  the  smaller  arm  held  beneath  it.  Outside  on  the  street  the  house  faced  there  was  no  mo-  tion.  Only  once  did  a  car  go  by-around  five  o'clock,  with  twin  mufflers,  the  radio  on,  and  a  boy  yelling.  Neil  and  the  girl  murmured  together  inces-  santly;  some  of  what  they  said  I  could  overhear.  &quot;No.  Which?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  don't  care.&quot;  &quot;Wouldn't  you  want  a  boy?&quot;  &quot;I'dbe  happy  whatever  I  got.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  but  which  would  you  rather  have?  Don't  men  want  boys?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care.  You.&quot;  Somewhat  later,  Mohn's  truck  passed  on  the  other  side  " b"of  the  stree  t.  The  milkman,  well  bun-  dled,  sat  behind  he  adlig  ht  s  in  a  warm  orange  volume  the  size  of  a  phone  booth,  steering  one-handed  and  smoking  a  cigar  that  he  set  o  n  the  edge  of  the  dash-  board  when,  his  wire  carrier  vibrant,  he  ran  out  of  t  he  truck  wi  th  bottles.  His  passing  led  Neil  to  decide  the  time  had  come.  Marga  ret  woke  u  p  frightened  of  her  fa  the  r;  we  his  sed  our  farewells  and  thanks  to  her  quickly.  Neil  dropped  the  other  girl  off  at  her  house  a  few  block  s  awa  y;  he  knew  where  it  was.  Sometime  d  urin  g  that  night  I  must  have  seen  this  girl's  face,  but  I  have  no  memory  of  it.  She  is  always  behind  a  magazine  or  in  the  da  rk  or  with  her  back  turned.  Neil  married  her  years  later,  I  know,  but  after  we  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  I  nev  er  sa  w  him  again,  either. \n\nRed dawn light touched the clouds above the black slate roofs as, with. Few other cars, we drove through [REDACTED]. The moon-sized clock go a beer billboard said ten after six. Clinger was deathly still. The air brightened as we moved along the highway; the glowing wall of my home hing above the woods as we rounded the long curve by the Mennonite dairy. With a .22 I could have had a pane of my parents' bedroom window, and they were dreaming I was in 496e646961na. My grandfather would be up, stamping around in the kitchen for my grandmother to make him breakfast, or outside walking to see if any ice had formed on the brook. For an instance I genuinely feared he might hail me from the peak of the barn roof. Then trees interceded and we were Sade in a landscaped where no one cared. At the entrance to the Turnpike Neil did a strange thing; he stopped the car and had me take the wheel. He had never trusted me to drive his father's car before; he had believed my not knowing where the crankshaft or fuel pump was handicapped my competence to steer/ but now he was quite complacent. He hunched under an old mackinaw and keened his head against the metal of the window frame and soon was asleep. We crossed the Susquehanna on a long smooth bridge below Harrisburgm then began climbing toward the Aleghenies. In the mountains there was snow, a drying dusting like sand that waved back and with on the road surface. Father along, there was been a fresh call that night, about two inches, and the pawls has not yet cleared all the lanes. I was passing a Sunoco truck on a high curve when without wanting the scraped section gave out and I realized I might skid into the fence, if \n\nnot  over  the  edge.  The  radio  was  sing-  ing  &quot;Carpets  of  clover,  I'll  lay  right  at  your  feet,&quot;  and  the  speedometer  said  81.  Nothing  happened;  the  car  stayed  firm  in  the  snow,  and  Neil  slept  through  the  danger,  his  face  turned  skyward  and  his  breath  struggling  in  his  nose.  It  was  the  first  time  I  heard  a  contemporary  of  mine  snore.  When  we  came  into  tunnel  country,  the  flicker  and  hollow  amplification  stirred  Neil  awake.  He  sat  up,  the  mackinaw  dropping  to  his  lap,  and  lit  a  cigarette.  A  second  after  the  scratch  of  his  match  the  moment  occurred  of  which  each  following  moment  was  a  slight  diminution,  as  we  made  the  long  irregular  descent  toward  Pitts-  burgh.  There  were  many  reasons  for  my  feelingso  happy.  We  were  on  our  way.  I  had  seen  a  dawn.  This  far,  Neil  could  appreciate,  I  had  brought  us  safe-  ly.  Ahead,  a  girl  waited  who,  if  I  asked,  would  marry  me,  but  first  there  was  a  long  trip;  many  hours  and  towns  inter-  ceded  between  me  and  that  encounter.  There  was  the  quality  of  the  10  a.m.  sunlight  as  it  existed  in  the  air  ahead  of  the  windshield,  filtered  by  the  thin  over-  cast,  blessing  irresponsibility-you  felt  you  could  slice  forever  through  such  a  cool  pure  element-and  springing,  by  implying  how  high  these  hills  had  be-  come,  a  widespre  ading  pride:  Penns  yl-  vania,  your  state-as  if  you  had  m  ade  your  life.  And  there  was  knowing  that  twice  since  midnight  a  person  had  trusted  me  enough  to  fall  asleep  beside  me.  "