 b"THINGS  narrow  down  as  the  years  go  on;the  infinite  prospects,  the  endless  variety  of  possible  out-  comes  that  confront  one,  or  seem  to,  when  one  is  young  tend  to  diminish  in-  exorably  as  one  grows  older.  The  walls  close  in,  and  the  exit,  as  one  approaches  it,  gets  not  larger  but  smaller.  I  still  remember,  for  instance,  the  moment  when  I  decided  (learned,  rather;  the  fact  was  borne  in  on  me)  that  I  would  never  be  really  rich.  It  was  one  of  those  clear,  crisp  days  in  early  spring  that  have  now  become  almost  legendary,  in  our  smog-smitten  New  York-when  the  very  air  seems  to  have  a  sparkle  of  its  own,  as  the  sun  has  its  own  special  brilliance,  spreading  cool-  ness  and  clarity,  rather  than  warmth,  over  everything-and  I  was  walking  down  Fifth  [REDACTED].  I  was  passing  a  row  of  shops  somewhere  below  Fifty-  seventh  Street  when  a  car  pulled  into  the  curb  just  ahead  of  me.  It  was  a  town  car,  black,  sleek,  pol-  ished,  luxurious,  and  it  had  hardly  stopped  before  a  footman  hopped  out  and  opened  the  door,  and  a  woman-a  very  pretty  woman,  too,  slim,  hatless,  with  an  oval  face,  white-skinned,  and  hair  as  sleekly  black  as  the  car  itself-  stepped  to  the  pavement.  She  was  furred,  and  she  wore  the  furs  carelessly;  she  was  jewelled,  she  was  exquisite.  She  was  also  abstracted,  or  else  so  complete-  ly  assured  that  she  felt  no  need  to  defer  to  others,  for  she  gave  not  a  glance  to  any  ofus  who  were  passing  at  the  time;  we  made  way  for  her  as  she  walked  quickly  across  the  sidewalk  and  into  one  of  the  shops.  I  never  saw  her  again,  that  I  know  of.  But  I  remember  the  whole  thing  vividly,  for  it  was  then,  on  seeing  her,  that  I  was  seized  with  a  sudden  realiza-  tion  of  the  amount  of  sheer  wealth  there  must  be-that  there  had  to  be-in  the  background,  to  produce  this  swift,  lovely  apparition.  In  a  way,  the  moment  had  the  quality  of  a  real  revelation,  for  I  re-  member  thinking,  too,  of  the  thousands  of  tiny  details,  each  one  costly  and  neces-  sary,  and  above  all  long-accustomed,  that  were  implicit  in  the  episode,  from  the  car  that  was  not  only  washed  but  dusted  daily  (and  the  carriage  house,  still  maintained  on  some  side  street  up-  town,  and  the  men-the  chauffeur,  the  footman-who  did  the  washing  and  dusting  )  to  the  maids,  the  laundress,  the  cook,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  household  who  clothed,  fed,  pampered,  and  cared  for  this  precious  creature;  in  short,  the  wealth  (and,  I  felt  sure,  the  long-  accumulated,  established  wealth)  that  was  involved  in  and  was  essential  to  every  moment  of  her  existence.  As  I  say,I  never  saw  the  lady  again,  and  indeed  I  had  no  desire  to.  She  was  in  her  middle  thirties,  for  one  thing,  which  made  her  an  &quot;older  woman&quot;  in  my  eyes.  I  don't  want,  either,  to  make  it  seem  that  I  felt  in  any  way  mournful  or  even  wistful  about  the  episode.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  was  not  only  impressed,  I  was  also  appalled  by  the  complications  that  wealth,  as  I  suddenly  realized,  car-  ried  with  it;  being  rich,  fora  bohemian  like  myself,  might  very  possibly  be  the  least  bit  boring.  Or  being  that  rich,  anyway.  I  can't  tell  precisely  why  that  revelation  should  have  come  over  me  at  that  particular  moment  on  Fifth  Ave-  nue;  in  fact,  at  first  glance  it  seems  odd  that  it  should  have  happened  so,  for  I  had  just  come  back  from  a  stay  of  some  years  in  [REDACTED],  and  I'd  seen  there,  many  times,  handsomer  and  more  exotic  cars-Isottas,  Hispanos,  Bugattis-with  even  more  glamorous  women  riding  in  them.  Yet  it  occurs  to  me,  now  -mightn't  that  have  been  part  of  the  reason?  For  the  wealth  I  saw  there  was  French  wealth,  and  so  a  little  unreal  and  mysterious,  as  the  women  I  saw  descending  from  their  cars  in  front  of  the  shops  along  the  Rue  de  la  Paix  were  French,  too,  and  so  equally  remote  and  mysterious.  Now,  though,  I  was  on  my  own  home  grounds.  The  money  here  was  reckoned  in  millions,  not  in  milliards,  and  it  was  not  in  francs  but  in  dollars  the  kind  that  I  had  in  my  pockets,  except  that  I  had  fewer  of  them.  And-I  don't  know  -there  may  have  been  other  im-  pulses  involved  that  I  don't  remember  now.  All  this  happened  in  the  early  nineteen-twenties,  when  I  was  in  my  early  twenties  myself.  I  was  a  writer,  or  I  wanted  to  beone,  and  though  I  knew  that  the  occupation  was  generally  con-  sidered  to  be  unremunerative,  I  didn't  want  to  work  at  anything  else  any  more  than  I  had  to.  So  I  dreamed,  instead,  of  some  un-  demanding  but  still  life-sustaining  job  (as  a  railroad-crossing  tender,  maybe,  where  I  could  write  away  cozily  in  my  little  shack  between  trains)  or,  alterna-  tively,  of  some  sudden  coup  (a  stock-  market  tip,  say,  that  I  played  astutely,  pyramiding  a  small  initial  investment  right  up  into  thousands,  then  tens  and  even  hundreds  of  thousands)  that  would  relieve  me  forever  of  any  finan-  cial  worries.  And  till  then-and,  till  then,  it  had  been  my  family  that  had  largely  support-  ed  me-it  had  been  dreams  like  this  that  had  buffered  me  against  reality.  I  suppose  it  was  the  sense  of  reality  that  caught  up  with  me  that  day  on  Fifth  [REDACTED].  At  any  rate,  I  can  still  recall  the  definiteness  and  the  clarity-the  quietness  of  it,  too,  for  my  mood  was  not  envious  or  resentful;  one  doesn't  quar-  rel  with  finality-of  the  thought  that  crossed  my  mind  as  the  woman  crossed  the  sidewalk  before  me:  I  shall  never,  really,  be  rich.  CAN'T  recall  now,  precisely,  the  moment  when  I  knew  my  parents  weren't  rich-weren't  just  asrich  and  as  powerful  as  anyone  else  in  the  world.  At  the  outset  of  a  child's  life,  his  parents  are  the  world.  They  are  everything,  the  all-wise,  the  all-deciding;  they  are  the  omnipotent,  omnipresent  shield,  and  it's  only  later,  and  by  degrees-and  in  some  cases,  I  imagine,  how  painfully-  that  he  learns  they  are  not  supreme  in  everything,  that  there  are  other  people  who  are  stronger,  wiser,  more  capable  than  they.  I  was  lucky  in  that  respect-in  the  first  place,  because  my  father  was  a  true  man  of  impulse,  and  given  to  wan-  dering.  I  had  hardly  got  started  in  grammar  school,  in  New  Haven,  before  I  was  whisked  out  of  there  and  on  to  another,  in  Victor,  [REDACTED]  (where  he'd  decided  to  have  a  try  at  gold  min-  ing),  and  from  then  on  we  lived  in  so  many  different  places  that  I  almost  lost  count  of  them.  I  once  figured  out  that  I  went  to  eight  different  grammar  and  high  schools,  altogether,  before  I  got  away  tocollege,  and  to  a  comparatively  sedentary  life  of  my  own,  but  I  may  have  left  out  a  couple  along  the  way.  All  this  moving  about,  I've  been  told,  must  have  scarred  me  psychologically,  and  it  may  be  it  did  so,  though  I  rather  " b"doubt  it.  It  was  certainly  exciting  at  the  time,  and  since  it  put  me  perpetually  in  the  role  of  the  new  boy  wherever  I  went,  it  also  left  me  a  little  outside  the  local  currents,  social,  financial,  and  otherwise.  In  the  second  place,  when  my  father  did  settle  down-if  that's  the  proper  word  for  it-it  was  to  a  violentlyvari-  able  career  as,  alternately,  a  designer  of  special  machinery  (at  which  he  pros-  pered)  and  then  a  sort  of  part-time  in-  ventor  (at  which,  most  of  the  time,  he  didn't).  What  he'd  do,  in  other  words,  was  pile  up  a  sort  of  grubstake,  work-  ing  athis  profession,  and  then  devote  it  to  developing  one  of  his  never-quite-  perfected  inventions  (which,  of  course,  when  completed,  was  going  to  make  us  millions),  and  our  economic  life,  in  consequence,  was  subject  to  such  wild  ups  and  downs  that  not  only  I  but  my  parents  themselves  scarcely  knew  where  we  were  at,  from  one  day  to  another.  There  were,  of  course,  the  revelatory  moments  when-  Well,  why  can't  I  have  a  bicycle?  All  the  other  kids  have  one!  And  why  are  we  having  rice  pud-  ding  so  much,  all  of  a  sudden,  instead  of  chocolate  layer  cake?  There  were  the  times,  too,  when  the  atmosphere  grew  vaguely  disquieting-when  I'd  hear  my  parents  talking,  not  freely  and  cheer-  fully  but  soberly  and  low,  mysteriously, long  after  my  bedtime.  But  for  the  most  part,  mistakenly  or  not,  they  tried  to  keep  their  money  troubles  from  me,  and  as  far  as  I  can  recall,  it  wasn't  until  I  was  about  fifteen  that  I  really  came  up  against  the  facts  of  our  life,  financially,  and  then  it  was  in  such  a  mixture  of  the  dramatic,  the  ludicrous,  and  the  purely  loving  that  the  incident  was  robbed  of  any  unpleasantness.  E  had  come  East  by  that  time.  We  were  living  in  New  York,  and  it  occurs  to  me  now  that  my  father,  coming  East,  may  have  found  himself  faced  with  something  like  the  same  shift  in  values  that  I  encountered,  coming  back  to  New  York  from  [REDACTED].  For  in  a  sense,  in  the  West,  when  we  were  there,  the  atmosphere  was  bohemian,  too.  In  the  mining  regions,  money,  of  itself,  was  inconsequential-or  say,  rather,  it  existed  in  that  most  rarefied  area  of  all,  the  future.  As  in  Montpar-  nasse,  where  every  man  was  a  genius  until  he  had  written  his  book  or  painted  his  picture,  so,  out  there,  any  manwho  had  a  mine-a  hole  in  the  ground,  or  the  start  of  one-was,  potentially,  the  equal  of  the  Strattons,  the  Penroses,  or  any  other  of  the  already  almost  mythical  figures  who  had  made  their  fortunes  in  the  district.  Gold  was  there;  all  a  man  had  to  do  was  to  find  it,  as  they  had  done,  and  that  might  happen  to  any-  one,  any  day.  And,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  my  father  hadn't  done  badly  in  his  mining  venture,  for  a  green  Easterner.  He'd  made  no  great  &quot;strikes,&quot;  to  be  sure;  the  truth  was  (though  no  one  knew  it  yet)  that  the  day  of  the  really  big  strikes  was  over,  in  the  district.  But  he  had  leased  a  couple  of  claims,  and  had  worked  them  capably,  emerging  with  enough  to  finance  a  leisurely  trip  farther  out,  to  the  Coast,  and  still  have  something  left  over  for  the  start  in  the  East;  and  I  can  see  now  that  it  may  well  have  been  quite  a  change  for  both  my  father  and  my  mother  to  come  from  that  hopeful,  euphoric  atmosphere  to  the  hard-and-fast,  matter-of-fact  one  of  New  York.  We  had  been  in  one  of  our  &quot;up&quot;  periods,  in  other  words,  and  now  we  were  going  through  one  of  our  downs.  But  I  didn't  realize  this,  or  even  begin  to,  until  Icalled  for  my  father  late  one  December  afternoon,  to  do  our  Christ-  mas  shopping.  I  called  for  him  after  school,  at  a  little  machine  shop  he  had  set  up,  downtown,  for  his  experiments,  and  the  scene  itself,  as  it  comes  back  to  my  mind,  has  a  certain  Dickensian  flavor:  the  slush,  and  the  wintry  streets  and  sidewalks,  dark  except  where  the  light  from  shopwindows  struck  across  them;  the  rush  and  the  noiseof  the  traffic;  and  the  excitement,  over  and  under  it  all,  of  the  approaching  holidays.  It  was  only  my  father's  mood  that  seemed  out  of  keep-  ing.  My  father  was  an  old-  line  Yankee  by  birth,  but  in  most  ways  he  was  the  antith-  esis  of  the  traditional  Yankee  type;  he  wasplump  and  cheer-  ful  rather  than  lanky  and  taciturn,  generous  instead  of  penny-pinching.  But  here  we  were,  starting  out  on  what  should  havebeen  a  lively  ex-  pedition,  and  yet  he  stalked  along  glum  and  largely  silent,  beside  me.  When  he  talked,  it  was  mainly  about  economy.  &quot;We've  really  got  to  go  easy  on  every-  thing  this  year.  Your  mother  says  so  herself,  and  she's  right,&quot;  he  said  once.  We  were  head-  ing  toward  Wanamaker's-  I  guess  because  it  was  my  mother's  favorite  store-and  we  had  stopped  in  front  of  a  women's-wear  shop  to  look  at  a  display  of  stockings.  Stockings,  at  least,  would  be  practical.  &quot;Things  aren't  going  as  fast  as  I'd  like  them  to  at  the  shop,&quot;  " b"he  went  on  as  we  start-  ed  off  again.  (Stock-  ings,  it  appeared,  were  a  little  too  practical.)  &quot;Not  that  it's  anything  for  you  to  worry  about,  boy.  We'll  make  out  all  right;  we  always  have.  And  this  time  I  really  think  I'm  on  the  edge  of  some-  thing.  Something  big,&quot;  he  added,  as  we  paused  again,  in  front  of  a  household-supplies  store,  its  windows  full  of  casseroles,  coffee-  pots,  double  boilers,  and  so  on.  &quot;No,  no.  She  does  enough  cooking,&quot;he  said  restlessly,  and  we  moved  on  once  more.  So  it  went,  until  we  got  to  Wanamaker's.  I  still  remember  the  brilliance  and  anima-  tion  of  the  place,  with  its  profusion  of  lights  and  decorations  all  cen-  tering  on  the  big  rotun-  da  as  we  came  in.  Department  stores  were  really  palaces  of  commerce  then,  or  they  seemed  so  toa  boy  fresh  from  the  West.  I  had  little  time  to  enjoy  the  spec-  tacle,  though.  Wanamaker's  had  a  bow-  tique,  in  those  days,  called  &quot;Coin  de  Par-  is&quot;  and  set  apart  fastidiously  in  a  corner  of  the  main  floor.  It  featured  especially  choice  pieces  of  jewelry,  among  other  things,  and  we  stopped  there.  And  with-  in  minutes,  it  seemed,  my  father  had  bought  an  antique  necklace  of  the  kind  called  a  &quot;lavalli\xc2\xa2re&quot;-a  fine  silver  chain  strung  with  amethyst  pendants.  I  don't  remember  the  price,  though  it  was  obviously  high.  And  I  didn't  realize  the  enormity  of  what  my  father  had  done  until  Christmas  morning,  when  my  mother  opened  the  package  it  came  in,  looked  at  the  necklace  a  moment  and  then  at  my  father,  and  then,  to  my  utter  bewilderment,  burst  into  tears.  &quot;Fred!  Fred!  How  could  you!&quot;  she  cried.  To  my  still  greater  horror,  my  father  jumped  up  and  began  yelling  at  her.  Until  then,  I  had  rarely  seen  my  parents  in  open  conflict,  and  now,  suddenly,  all  was  pandemonium-my  mother  in  tears  and  my  father  stamping  about,  red-faced  and  angry-looking-and,  as  far  as  I  could  see,  for  no  reason.  &quot;I  won't  wear  it!  I  won't  even  touch  it!  You'll  have  to  take  it  back!&quot;  she  was  crying.  And  he,  shouting,  &quot;God  damn  it,  Hattie!  Will  you  listen  to  me?  Will  you     THIN  ICE  listen?  We  looked  all  over  town  for  something  cheap!&quot;  &quot;Cheap!&quot;  she  cried.  My  mother  was  Scotch-Irish,  red-haired,  and  easily  as  emotional  as  he,  but  she  had  somehow  got  castin  the  position  of  the  balance  wheel  of  the  family.  And  this  time,  as  always,  he  overrode  her.  &quot;'Yes,  cheap!&quot;  he  cried,  louder  than  she.  &quot;But  I  just  couldn't  do  it.  Damn  it,  you  deserve  this!&quot;  &quot;Deserve  it?&quot;  she  said,  and,  again  in-  explicably,  she  burst  outlaughing.  Watching,  I  knew  everything  was  going  to  be  all  right.  E  were  living  on  Edgecombe  [REDACTED],  then,  on  the  heights  above  Morningside  Park  and,  beyond  that,  the  upper  reaches  of  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  dreary  region.  We'd  just  dropped  there,  somehow,  coming  from  the  West;  even  then,  we  weren't  that  poor.  And  it  was  the  drearier,  for  me,  be-  cause  the  school  I'd  been  sent  to  was  way  downtown  and  I  hadno  contacts,  scholastic  or  otherwise,  with  the  other  kids  in  the  neighborhood.  Our  Christ-  mas,  before  the  necklace  appeared,  had  been  a  careful,  conservative,  economical  one.  In  a  way,  though-a  way  that  my  father  surely  could  not  have  foreseen-  the  necklace  made  the  day.  To  my  father,  I  suppose,  it  was  a  promise,  as  to  my  mother  it  was  intended  as  reassur-  ance,  and  in  the  end  she  accepted  it  in  HS       Mm?  that  fashion.  Suddenly,  everything  was  gay.  We  forgot  the  dismal  little  flat  and  the  run-down  neighborhood,  and  when  my  mother  sat  down  to  dinner,  in  her  best  dress  and  with  the  necklace  gleam-  ing  at  her  throat,  I  remember  thinking  that  she  had  never  looked  prettier.  Once,  she  puther  hand  up  and  touched  it.  &quot;But  the  bills,  Fred!&quot;  she  protested.  As  many  women  will,  she  couldn't  help  mixing  her  pleasure  with  practicality;  in  a  sense,  it  was  a  way  ofpropitiating  the  future.  &quot;And  the  end  of  the  month  so  near!  How'll  we  ever  pay  them?  You  know,  I'll  never  be  able  to  wear  this  with  a  clear  conscience  till  those  bills  are  paid.&quot;  &quot;We'll  pay  them,&quot;  my  father  said  stoutly,  andI'm  sure  we  did.  Indeed,  I  think  the  necklace  may  have  been  a  turning  point-of  confidence,  say,  and  encouragement-for  soon  after  that,  on  my  birthday,  I  got  a  bicycle,  and  soon  after  that  we  moved  to  Rochester  and  got  a  car.  And  if  my  mother's  sole  con-  cern  about  the  necklace  was  the  bills,  that  must  have  righted  itself,  too,  for  it  was  still  among  her  effects  when  she  died."