 b"LOOKING  back  on  it  now,  I  realize     that  one  of  the  strangest  things  about  the  time  I  spent,  from  Jan-  uary,  1942,  to  September,  1943,  as  sec-  retary  to  the  Sawbwa  of  Mangshih,  in  4368696e61,  was  the  fact  that  I  paid  almost  no  attention  to  the  war.  Mangshih,  which  is  one  of  the  Chinese  Shan  States,  lies  next  to  the  Burma  border,  and  by  mid-1943  the  Japanese  Army  was  only  about  a  hundred  miles  to  the  southwest  of  us  and  advancing  steadily.  We  were  all  aware  of  the  war,  of  course,  for  the  new  Burma  Road  ran  right  through  the  capital  of  the  state  (also  called  Mang-  shih),  bringing  a  constant  two-way  stream  of  soldiers  and  dirty  trucks  and  military  vehicles.  But  my  job  kept  me  occupied  with  other  matters--notably,  the  modernization  program  my  boss  was  trying  to  organize  in  his  little  state.  Sawbwa  Fang  Yu-chi,  a  pleasant  Chinese  in  his  early  forties,  was  at  least  somewhat  Westernized,  and  was  anxious  to  educate  his  subjects  to  the  advantages  of  rudimentary  hygiene,  crop  diversity,  and  permanent,  concrete  buildings.  He  had  a  hard  time  of  it,  for  the  great  majority  of  Mangshih  citizens  were  Shans,  members  of  a  sturdy  local  tribe  of  Mongoloid  peasants,  who  pre-  ferred  to  eat  and  live  and  cultivate  their  rice  fields  in  exactly  the  same  fashion  as  their  ancestors.  The  Sawbwa  could  not  order  them  to  change;  he  had  to  lead  them,  fighting  superstition  and  cheerful  indolence  at  every  step.  In  -  Mangshih,  a  much  more  immediate  and  far  more  ancient  enemy  than  the  Japa-  nese  was  malaria,  and  I  was  forced  to  start  paying  atten-  tion  to  this  enemy  almost  at  once,  from  the  moment  I  re-  ceived  a  letter  from  Dr.  Streppone,  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  medical  missionary  whom  I  had  known  in  4368696e61.  He  asked  me  rather  brusquely  to  recommend  him  to  the  Sawbwa  and  to  inform  His  Excel-  lency  of  his  intention  to  declare  war  against  malaria  in  Mangshih.  Dr.  Streppone-which,  by  the  way,  is  not  his  name-was  a  man  of  such  im-  placable  stubbornness  that  I  knew  he  would  manage  to  fight  malaria  in  Mangshih  whether  the  Sawbwa  ap-  proved  or  not.  But  I  was  new  to  the  Sawbwa's  staff  and  anxious  to  be  effi-  cient,  so  I  determined  to  do  a  little  scouting  on  the  malaria  situation  before  I  approached  the  ruler  about  Dr.  Streppone.  I  discovered  that  malaria  afflicted  almost  everyone  on  the  border  except  the  Buddhist  monks,  who  seemed  to  es-  cape  it  because  the  temples  in  which  they  lived  were  always  clouded  with  incense  smoke,  and  thus  free  of  the  disease-  carrying  mosquitoes.  But  the  Shans  and  the  yellow-robed  monks  themselves  be-  lieved  that  the  devil  of  the  disease  avoided  the  monks  because  of  their  holi-  ness,  and  this  belief  added  to  the  monks'  already  considerable  authority.  Malaria  was  known  in  Mangshih  as  &quot;the  trem-  bling  disease,&quot;  and  was  generally  be-  lieved  to  be  caused  by  a  poisonous  night  vapor.  'The  popular  three-thousand-  year-old  cure  was  the  application  of  half  a  dozen  leeches  to  the  patient's  forehead.  With  these  facts  to  back  up  my  request,  I  went  to  the  Sawbhwa  and  pointed  out  what  a  fine  civilized  thing  it  would  be  for  him  to  invite  Dr.  Streppone  to  Mangshih  to  alleviate  the  suffering  of  his  subjects.  The  Sawhwa  told  me  that  it  was  difficult  for  him  to  change  tradi-  tions  and  beliefs  among  his  people,  even  with  the  backing  of  innumerable  royal  proclamations.  Still,  malaria  was  a  bad  thing,  the  Sawbwa  went  on,  and  he  also  observed  that  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  in  Mangshih  might  cheer  up  Ida.  (Ida  was  his  sec-  ond  wife-a  nineteen-year-old  half-  Irish,  half-Chinese  girl  who  loved  danc-  ing,  badminton,  and  bridge,  and  was  lonely  for  entertain-  ment  and  for  conversation  in  English.)  I  wrote  out  the  in-  vitation  and  the  Sawbwa  signed  it.  [REDACTED].  STREPPONE  came  to  Mangshih  in  the  early  spring  of  1943-a  time  when  the  Japanese  were  intensify-  ing  their  effort  to  break  into  4368696e61  through  the  back  door,  and  many  Chinese  in  Mangshih  were  selling  their  property,  preparatory  to  fleeing  inland.  But  the  Doctor  arrived  in  a  cheerful  mood,  ready  to  go  to  work.  He  was  about  forty-five  and  full  of  en-  ergy-a  muscular,  squarely  built  bache-  lor,  with  a  bulldog  jaw,  which  he  had  to  shave  twice  a  day.  I  took  him  to  the  Sawbwa's  new  official  residence,  named  Ida  House,  and  introduced  him  for-  mally.  He  and  the  Sawbwa  hit  it  off  at  once,  even  though  Dr.  Streppone  loathed  dancing  and  bridge,  and  said  so.  He  announced  emphatically  that  he  had  come  to  fight  malaria  and  would  not  have  time  for  any  entertainment,  except  possibly  an  occasional  game  of  Chinese  " b"checkers  on  weekends.  The  Sawbwa,  who  thought  that  all  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  playboys,  was  considerably  surprised  by  this  evidence  of  energy  and  resolution;  as  for  his  young  wife,  she  didn't  mind,  because  she  had  lost  all  interest  in  Dr.  Streppone  as  soon  as  she  saw  that  he  didn't  resemble  Robert  Taylor.  Dr.  Streppone  told  the  Sawbwa  that  he  wanted  to  live  in  an  ordinary  Shan  house,  in  order  to  win  the  confidence  of  the  natives.  The  Sawbwa,  who  was  face-loving  and  hated  to  expose  the  ugly  conditions  under  which  his  subjects  lived,  thereupon  issued  his  first  royal  proclamation  in  aid  of  Dr.  Streppone.  He  ordered  Old  Wu,  the  head  of  43616e616461Village,  which  was  a  small,  ramshackle  community  five  miles  outside  the  town  of  Mangshih,  to  evacuate  his  residence  for  the  accommodation  of  the  Western  medicine  man.  He  also  appointed  me  to  be  the  Doctor's  part-time  interpreter,  and  instructed  me  to  use  discretion  and  moderation  in  translation,  because  his  mild-looking  Shans  were  capable  of  pretty  rough  language.  Old  Wu,  a  dried-up  man  in  his  late  sixties,  promptly  vacated  his  house,  which  was  a  three-room  hut  with  a  pig-  gery  in  the  back  yard,  and  moved  in  with  his  two  sons  next  door.  His  elder  son  was  a  quiet  farmer  with  a  wife  and  two  children;  the  younger,  a  lean  bach-  elor  named  Ah  Wu,  was  a  free-lance  truck  driver  on  the  Burma  Road.  He  seemed  a  bit  unfriendly  to  the  Doctor  andme,  perhaps  because  he  had  had  to  give  up  his  room  to  his  father  and  sleep  in  the  family  living  room  himself.  Dr.  Streppone  had  his  hut  cleaned  and  turned  into  a  rough  dispensary  and  living  quarters.  On  the  day  he  moved  in,  hearoused  considerable  curiosity  in  43616e616461Village-a  hamlet  of  two  dozen  huts,  four  banyan  trees,  and  six  clusters  of  bamboo,  Old  Wu's  two  grandsons,  who  looked  to  be  about  four  or  five  and  still  wore  open-seat  trousers,  followed  Dr.  Streppone  around  and  stared  at  him  with  large  black  eyes  and  wide-open  -{  mouths.  In  the  middle  of  opening  a  -  crate  of  supplies,  the  Doctor  suddenly  _|  whirled  around  and  grabbed  the  older  _|  boy  by  the  arm.  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  he  said,  ex-  {}{  amining  the  boy's  distended  stomach.  &quot;All  hardened  up.  A  bad  case  of  ,)  malaria.&quot;  He  let  the  boy  go  and  tried  to  -|  grab  the  other,  but  the  two  darted  out  of  the  hut  like  frightened  chickens,  scream-  ing  for  their  mother.  &quot;I'll  start  right  here  with  the  headman's  family,&quot;  Dr.  Streppone  said  to  me.  &quot;Please  tell  the  old  man.  Ask  him  to  bring  in  his  whole  family.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  right  away?&quot;  I  asked." b"&quot;Sure,  right  away,&quot;  he  said,  con-  tinuing  his  unpacking.  When  the  family-four  adults  and  the  two  children-followed  me  into  Dr.  Streppone's  waiting  room,  they  cast  fur-  tive  glances  at  the  changes  in  the  hut  and  then  uneasily  squatted  in  a  corner,  the  two  boys  hiding  behind  their  moth-  er.  I  went  into  the  next  room  and  warned  the  Doctor  not  to  frighten  them  when  taking  blood  samples,  because  all  Mangshih  would  hear  of  it,  and  he  agreed  to  go  easy  on  his  first  patients.  The  examination  went  well.  He  dis-  covered  that  the  whole  family  had  symptoms  of  malaria,  with  the  possible  exception  of  the  daughter-in-law.  Ah  Wu,  the  truck  driver,  had  the  worst  case.  Old  Wu  himself  had  been  fight-  ing  a  private,  stalemated  war  against  the  disease  for  so  long  that  he  was  hardly  aware  of  it.  Dr.  Streppone  told  me  that  only  a  small  fraction  of  the  malaria  parasites  in  the  old  man's  blood  would  be  sufficient  to  kill  an  ordinary  white  man  in  about  two  days.  I  relayed  this  to  Old  Wu,  and  he  took  it  as  a  compli-  ment,  nodding  proudly  to  his  sons,  as  though  he  had  won  a  contest.  Dr.  Streppone  gave  him  a  whole  bottle  of  quinine  and  explained,  through  me,  how  todistribute  the  pills  daily  among  the  members  of  his  family.  Then  he  told  them  to  get  some  mosquito  nets.  Old  Wu  listened  carefully  and  nodded.  It  was  a  good  start-far  too  good.  The  next  morning,  we  found  that  every  able-bodied  young  man  in  43616e616461Village,  including  Ah  Wu,  had  disappeared.  It  took  me  only  a  few  minutes  to  find  out  what  had  scared  them  away;  the  white  medicine  man's  real  mission  in  the  Shan  States,  it  was  being  said,  was  to  collect  young  men  to  be  shipped  to  [REDACTED]  and  there  boiled  down  and  converted  into  &quot;flying  oil&quot;  for  airplanes.  The  Sawbwa,  to  whom  we  hurried  with  the  problem,  was  irked  by  this  evidence  of  his  subjects'  ignorance.  He  issued  a  quick  proclamation  orderingeach  eld-  er  to  get  his  sons  back  in  three  days  or  face  a  fine  of  three  catties  of  rice  and  a  hog.  We  then  investigatedthe  origin  of  the  rumor,  and  found  that  it  was  the  creation  of  Benevolent  Loyalty,  the  chief  monk  at  White  Cloud  Tem-  ple,  which  was  the  largest  Buddhist  temple  in  Mangshih;  he  had  spread  the  word  among  the  daily  worshippers  and  donors  of  incense  money.  Dr.  Strep-  pone  was  angry  at  first,  but  he  soon  chalked  it  off  as  professional  jealousy.  He  asked  me  to  take  a  message  to  Benevolent  Loyalty,  assuring  him  that  the  Western  medicine  man  would  not  muscle  in  on  his  religion.  &quot;And  tell  His" b" Holiness  that  I'm  not  in  the  fiying-oil  business,  either,&quot;  he  added,  suddenly  guffawing.  Three  days  later,  the  young  men  began  to  drift  back  to  43616e616461Village.  Some  of  them,  however,  had  run  deep  into  Burma,  and  it  took  their  parents  a  week  or  more  to  get  them  home.  The  Sawbwa,  who  loved  barbecued  pork,  collected  the  fines  and  was  soon  in  excellent  humor  about  the  whole  in-  cident.  S  Dr.  Streppone  stepped  up  the  pace  of  his  work,  interpreting  for  him  took  up  more  and  more  of  my  time,  until  finally  the  Sawbwa  lent  me  to  the  Doctor  outright,  though  I  continued  to  live  in  my  old  quarters  in  the  New  Light  Hotel,  in  Mangshih.  Dr.  Strep-  pone  and  I  plotted  our  campaign  care-  fully,  aiming  first  to  conquer  43616e616461Vil-  lage  and  then  to  envelop  the  other  villages,  one  by  one,  having  first  sof-  tened  them  up  with  propaganda.  In  the  next  two  weeks,  he  and  I  visited  vari-  ous  villages  in  our  spare  moments,  and  talked  to  the  residents  about  weather  and  soil,  joking  a  little,  gossiping  a  lit-  tle,  and  then  telling  them  about  the  evils  of  mosquitoes  and  the  foolishness  of  treating  the  trembling  disease  with  leeches.  Dr.  Streppone's  patients  in  43616e616461Village  lined  up  docilely  every  day,  palms  outstretched,  to  receive  their  quinine  tablets.  Then,  at  six  o'clock  one  morning,  I  was  awakened  in  my  hotel  room  by  Dr.  Streppone's  shaking  me  roughly  by  the  shoulder.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  he  said  an-  grily.  &quot;'Take  me  to  Old  Wu.  I've  al-  ready  been  there,  but  theold  buzzard  wouldn't  see  me.  All  I  got  was  a  big  argument  from  his  son,  and  I  haven't  the  faintest  idea  what  he  was  arguing  about.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  I  asked,  hur-  rying  into  my  clothes.  &quot;Oh,  I  just  discovered  that  the  old  faker  hasn't  been  giving  the  quinine  to  his  family  at  all.  I  just  saw  those  two  grandsons  playing  some  kind  of  a  game  in  their  courtyard,  using  about  fifty  quinine  tablets  as  chips,  and  an  empty  bottle  lying  beside  them  in  the  mud.  Can  you  beat  it!&quot;  We  marched  to  the  sons'  house  and  found  Ah  Wu  lying  in  bed  in  the  mid-  dle  room.  He  was  pale  and  shaking,  and  there  were  five  leeches  attached  to  his  forehead.  Dr.  Streppone  ignored  this  repellent  sight  and  demanded  to  see  Old  Wu.  The  old  man  refused  to  come  out  of  his  bedroom,  but  sent  his  elder  sonout  to  tell  us  that  the  Western  medicine  man  had  offended  the  Merci-   " b"ful  Buddha  by  killing  insects  and  bugs  with  a  magic  gun.  This  was  a  refer-  ence  to  a  DDT  sprayer  that  the  Doctor  had  recently  been  using  on  mosquitoes.  In  a  counterattack,  Dr.  Streppone  de-  manded  to  know  why  his  valuable  quinine  tablets  were  being  used  by  chil-  dren  as  chips  in  a  game,  instead  of  being  in  their  bellies,  where  they  belonged.  This  message,  relayed  by  me  and  the  elder  son,  finally  brought  Old  Wu  out  of  his  room.  He  stalked  over  to  Dr.  Streppone  and  indignantly  announced  that  it  was  a  good  thing  that  none  of  his  family  had  taken  the  Western  medicine  man's  tablets,  for  he  had  offended  the  gods  and  brought  evil  spirits  into  the  household.  &quot;Look  at  my  second  dog  son!&quot;  he  shouted,  pointing  at  Ah  Wu  with  a  trembling  finger.  &quot;His  condition  is  much  worse.  He  has  never  been  so  sick  before!&quot;  I  should  have  remembered  the  Saw-  bwa's  instructions  and  used  modera-  tion  in  my  translation,  for  when  Dr.  Streppone  learned  what  Old  Wu  had  said,  he  went  over  to  the  bed  and  start-  ed  tearing  the  leeches  from  the  sick  man's  skin.  After  he  had  tossed  them  away  like  so  many  dirty  bandages,  he  felt  Ah  Wu's  forehead.  &quot;Not  so  bad,&quot;  he  said.  He  took  a  fresh  bottle  of  quinine  tablets  from  his  pocket.  &quot;This  time  I'll  wetch  him  swallow  the  damn  things,&quot;  he  told  me.  'Tell  them  to  bring  me  some  water.&quot;  When  I  translated,  Old  Wu  said  that  no  one  was  to  stir  for  water,  and  Ah  Wu  weakly  proclaimed  that  he  wouldn't  swallow  the  tablets,  water  or  no  water.  'There  was  a  short,  embar-  rassing  silence  while  patient  and  doctor  stared  at  each  other,  and  then  Dr.  Streppone  made  a  sudden  attempt  to  stuff  the  tablets  into  Ah  Wu's  mouth.  There  were  cries  and  shouts,  and  I  pulled  Dr.  Streppone  back  just  before  Ah  Wu  could  bite  his  hand.  Panting,  I  suggested  that  we  should  take  our  problem  to  the  Sawbwa,  and  after  an-  other  furious  glare  at  his  patient  Dr.  Streppone  muttered  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  and  we  left.  The  Sawbwa  was  very  obliging  once  he  had  heard  the  disgraceful  story.  He  told  his  Shan  secretary  to  write  a  proclamation  on  the  spot,  ordering  his  subjects  to  take  their  medicine  when  told  to  do  so.  We  all  watched  the  secretary  write  the  words  on  a  piece  of  yellow  paper,  and  then  the  Sawbwa  affixed  his  large  red  seal  at  the  bottom  and  handed  the  document  to  Dr.  Strep-  pone.  The  Doctor  took  the  proclama-  tion  back  to  43616e616461Village  like  a  general  returning  to  a  battlefield  with  six  fresh " b"divisions.  He  entered  the  hut  and,  with-  out  saying  a  word,  showed  the  yellow  paper  to  the  old  man  and  to  Ah  Wu.  It  worked  instantly.  In  fact,  the  change  in  Old  Wu's  attitude  was  so  quick  and  so  abject  that  I  felt  rather  upset  by  this  evidence  of  feudalism  and  servitude  in  the  Shan  States.  But  Dr.  Streppone  was  delighted.  &quot;Good!  Good!&quot;  he  said  cheerfully,  watching  Ah  Wu  toss  the  quinine  tablets  into  his  mouth  and  fol-  low  them  with  a  drink  of  water.  &quot;They  have  real  loyalty  to  the  Sawbwa.  Why,  with  this  proclamation,  we'll  have  the  whole  problem  cleaned  up  in  a  month.  Fine  loyal  people!&quot;  [REDACTED].  STREPPONE  was  busier  than  ever  during  that  month.  It  was  an  anxious  time,  for  the  war  news  from  Burma  grew  worse  and  worse,  and  thousands  of  refugees  began  to  stream  into  Mangshih  over  the  Burma  Road.  But  Dr.  Streppone,  busy  with  his  own  war,  ignored  all  this.  Wielding  his  proclamation,  he  visited  an  increasing  number  of  patients  daily,  taking  their  temperature,  throwing  away  their  leeches,  giving  them  quinine,  and  talk-  ing  to  them  gently  in  a  newly  acquired,  broken  version  of  the  native  tongue.  After  two  weeks,  I  could  not  find  any-  one  in  43616e616461Village  who  had  not  been  treated  by  the  Doctor,  but,  oddly  enough,  I  could  see  no  perceptible  de-  crease  in  the  trembling  disease.  Ah  Wu's  condition  was  still  very  bad.  He  would  stay  in  bed,  sweating  and  shak-  ing,  for  two  or  three  days,  and  then,  the  moment  he  felt  better,  vanish  with  his  truck  down  the  Burma  Road,  or  else  be  seen  hanging  around  the  market  place  and  firting  with  the  girls.  Dr.  Streppone  told  me  that  Ah  Wu's  case  was  a  very  stubborn  one.  I  had  begun  to  think  that  the  natives  were  tricking  us  in  some  way,  and  I  wondered  wheth-  er  the  Doctor  sharedamy  suspicions  about  the  true  reason  for  the  persistence  of  malaria  in  Mangshih.  I  had  almost  de-  termined  to  speak  up,  when  there  was  another  early-morning  explosion  in  my  room.  &quot;I  think  I'm  going  to  start  knocking  some  teeth  out  around  here!&quot;  Dr.  Streppone  announced  angrily,  banging  the  door  shut  behind  him.  &quot;And  I  think  I'll  start  with  Ah  Wu.  Do  you  realize  that  that  crook  has  probably  never  swal-  lowed  a  single  one  of  the  quinine  tablets  I've  been  giving  him?  He's  been  hiding  them  under  his  tongue  while  he  swal-  lowed  the  water.  He's  fooled  me  for  a  solid  month!&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  find  out?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;My  cook  told  me.  He  went  to  feed " b"garbage  to  the  hogs  and  saw  Ah  Wu  run  out  of  his  house  and  spit  three  tab-  lets  into  the  hog  trough.  I've  gone  around  the  village  this  morning,  and  as  far  asI  can  determine,  every  patient  in  43616e616461Village  has  been  doing  the  same  thing-spitting  the  quinine  out  the  min-  ute  my  back  is  turned.  What  actors  they  are!  How  dumb  I've  been!  For  a  whole  month,  nobody  but  those  damned  hogs  has  been  eating  my  quinine.&quot;  &quot;I  was  just  beginning  to  wonder,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  lick  this  thing  yet  Dr.  Streppone  said,  his  square  jaw  working.  &quot;You'd  better  come  with  me.  I'll  need  your  help.&quot;  &quot;What  are  we  going  to  do?&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  give  Ah  Wu  an  in-  jection.  I'll  need  you  to  hold  him  down  or  knock  him  out  while  I  give  him  the  shot.  And  then  I'll  watch  him  try  to  squeeze  the  medicine  out  of  his  veins!  Come  on.&quot;  Again  I  persuaded  him  that  his  Job  would  be  easier  if  he  had  a  proclamation  from  the  Sawbwa,  and  half  an  hour  later  we  stormed  into  the  Wus'  hut  with  another  yellow  paper,  this  -ne  say-  ing  that  any  subject  in  Mangshih  should  accept  with  gratitude  the  Western  doc-  tor's  gift  ofa  pump.  Ah  Wu  was  in  bed  again,  and  looked  very  weak.  This  time,  Dr.  Streppone  did  not  tear  away  the  leeches  but  patted  Ah  Wu  gently  on  the  shoulder  and  asked  him  how  he  was  feeling.  When  Ah  Wu  read  the  new  proclamation,  he  nodded  and  managed  a  faint  grin.  Dr.  Streppone  opened  his  bag,  and  Ah  Wu  leaned  eagerly  over  the  edge  of  the  bed  to  see  what  kind  of  pump  he  was  about  to  be  given.  As  the  Doctor  fitted  the  needle  in  place  and  filled  the  syringe,  the  smile  faded  from  Ah  Wu's  face  and  was  replaced  by  an  expression  of  puzzlement  and  then  by  a  look  of  frank  terror.  The  Doctor  swabbed  Ah  Wu's  arm  and  leaned  for-  ward.  Just  as  he  was  about  to  plunge  the  needle  in,  Ah  Wu  let  out  an  ear-  rending  scream,  threw  back  the  covers,  leaped  over  the  footof  the  bed,  and  bolted  out  the  door  like  an  Olympic  dash  champion.  Dr.  Streppone  and  I  hurried  to  the  door  andsaw  him,  fever  and  all,  race  up  the  muddy  street  and  disappear  around  the  corner  of  a  hut.  As  we  walked  slowly  back  to  Dr.  Streppone's  quarters,  I  urged  him  to  think  of  packing  up  and  returning  to  4368696e61.  The  Shans  obviously  did  not  want  to  be  treated  for  malaria,  and  be-  sides,  I  said,  the  Japanese  would  prob-  ably  be  here  any  day,  and  the  Doctor  would  be  doing  nobody  any  good  as  a  prisoner  of  war.  Dr.  Streppone  re- " b"mained  silent.  When  we  arrived  in  his  office,  he  turned  to  me  with  a  surpr  is-  ing  grin.  &quot;I'  ve  just  been  too  aggressive  about  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  time  for  me  [  _  to  ge  ts  ma  rt.  I've  g  ot  an  idea.  Why  don't  we  kidnap  Benevolent  Loyalty?&quot;  &quot;What  fo  r?&quot;  I  said,  startled.  &quot;Get  him  out  of  that  temple  and  let  the  mosquitoes  take  a  bite.  That  wi  ll  |  show  the  natives  that  he's  no  more  of  a  god  than  a  c  hicke  n  peddler.  A  nd  then  I'll  show  them  that  I  can  straight-  en  out  his  malaria.  I'll  prove  that  I  can  do  a  better  job  than  those  blast  e  d  leeches.&quot;  I  was  ups  et  by  his  wild  i  dea,  but  I  had  to  admit  that  the  monk  was  certain-  ly  the  gr  eatest  local  obstacle  to  medical  education  and  Dr.  Streppone's  victo  ry.  I  rather  ad  mired  Buddhism,  from  wha  t  |,  I  had  seen  of  it  in  Mangshih;  it  taught  the  natives  to  be  honest  and  faithfu  l,  |  took  the  place  of  an  organized  system  of  law,  and  made  the  Shan  States  a  very  peaceful  place.  But  I  was  no  ad-  |_  mirer  of  Benevolent  Loyalty,  who  seemed  entirely  willing  to  hold  his  in-  fluence  among  the  Shans  by  abetting  ignorance.  &quot;I'll  string  along  with  you,&quot;  I  said  to  Dr.  Streppone.  &quot;But  let's  go  to  the  Sawbwa  first.  He's  had  his  own  troubles  with  Benevolent  Loyalty,  so  it's  perfectly  safe,  and  we'll  need  his  help  if  we're  to  become  criminals.&quot;  When  we  told  our  plan  to  the  Saw-  bwa,  he  laughed  for  more  than  a  min-  ute,  unable  to  speak.  Then,  between  bursts  of  chuckles,  he  said,  &quot;I  have  a  good  idea.  You  can  kidnap  him  around  midnight  and  tie  him  up  to  one  of  those  banyan  trees  outside  his  temple.  Then  I'll  send  a  couple  of  policemen  to  rescue  him,  and  later  on  they  can  say  that  he  was  tied  up  and  robbed  by  some  moun-  tain  bandits.  Will  two  hours  be  enough  time  for  him  to  catch  malaria?&quot;  &quot;One  bite  will  do  it,&quot;  Dr.  Streppone  said.  &quot;Good!&quot;  said  the  Sawbwa,  rubbing  his  hands.  &quot;Then  we'll  let  him  be  sick  just  long  enough  for  everyone  to  know  about  his  vulnerability.  But,&quot;  he  added,  raising  his  hand,  &quot;I  don't  want  his  life  endangered.&quot;  &quot;I'll  fix  him  up  in  no  time,&quot;  Dr.  Streppone  said.  &quot;It  isn't  really  dan-  gerous,  because  the  malaria  around  here  isn't  the  blackwater  type.  But  when  he's  cured,  I'll  depend  on  you  for  some  publicity,  Your  Excellency.&quot;  &quot;Never  fear,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  said.  &quot;If  the  chief  monk  is  sick  and  then  is  cured,  the  whole  of  Mangshih  will  know  about  it  within  five  hours.  My  policemen  will  free  him,  but  the  kidnapping  will  be  done  by  you  at  your  own  risk.&quot;  He  jerked " b" his  head  toward  me.  &quot;'You  and  Secre-  tary  Lee,  of  course.&quot;  That  evening,  Dr.  Streppone  and  I  made  our  plans.  The  kidnapping  was  to  be  carried  out  twenty-four  hours  later,  at  midnight,  when  all  the  monks  would  be  asleep  in  their  separate  rooms  in  White  Cloud  Temple.  Since  Be-  nevolent  Loyalty  was  fat  and  weak,  and  the  temple  gate  was  never  locked,  we  assured  ourselves  that  the  whole  thing  could  be  easily  done,  even  by  ama-  teurs.  We  finished  our  preparations  by  cutting  out  two  squares  of  black  silk,  to  use  as  masks.  By  this  time,  I  was  more  than  a  little  frightened,  and  had  begun  to  regret  the  entire  idea,  but  it  was  too  late  for  me  to  back  out  and  keep  my  honor.  ITHER  Benevolent  Loyalty  was  favored  by  the  gods  or  else  the  Shans  were  meant  to  suffer  from  ma-  laria  forever,  because  the  next  day  the  Japanese  burst  into  Mangshih  from  Burma.  I  was  awakened  early  by  the  roaring  of  planes  and  banging  of  guns,  and  rushed  out  of  the  hotel  into  a  scene  of  utter  panic.  I  had  no  time  to  pack.  The  Sawbwa,  to  whom  I  reported,  at  IdaHouse,  as  quickly  asI  could,  insisted  that  I  take  one  of  his  private  cars-an  old  Austin-and  his  official  chauffeur,  and  head  north.  &quot;But  what  about  you,  Sawbwa?&quot;  I  asked  anxiously.  &quot;Surely  you're  notgo-  ing  tostay?  The  Japanese  will  be  here  at  any  moment.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I'm  going  to  stay,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  said  gently.  &quot;Most  of  my  peo-  ple  will  have  to  remain,  and  I  shall  be  with  them.  I'll  be  all  right.  There  is  a  technique  to  surviving  wars,  just  as  there  is  a  technique  to  fighting  malaria.  Now  you  must  be  on  your  way.&quot;  He  led  me  out  onto  the  porch  of  Ida  House,  and  we  stood  there  for  a  moment,  watching  the  smoke  rising  from  the  town  of  Mangshih  and,  far-  ther  off,  the  clouds  of  dust  from  the  fleeing  vehicles  on  the  Burma  Road.  &quot;You're  sure  you  won't  change  your  mind,  Sawbwa?&quot;  I  asked.  He  shook  his  head,  and  accompanied  me  to  the  car.  &quot;Good  luck,  Secretary  Lee,&quot;  he  said  when  I  had  climbed  in.  &quot;Come  back  and  see  me  after  the  war.  I  shall  need  your  help  against  Benev-  olent  Loyalty.&quot;  The  chauffeur  drove  through  the  smoke  and  shambles  of  the  town,  and  onto  the  Burma  Road,  where  we  joined  the  procession  heading  north.  Both  lanes  of  the  road  were  jammed  with  cars  and  trucks.  They  crawled  along,  bumper  to  bumper,  blowing  their  horns  furi- " b"ously  at  pedestrians.  If  a  car  broke  down,  passengers  from  the  vehicles  be-  hind  would  leap  out  and  throw  it  into  the  ditch  in  order  to  keep  the  road  clear.  In  all  this  excitement,  I  had  had  no  time  to  think  about  Dr.  Streppone,  and  it  wasn't  until  two  or  three  hours  lat-  er,  when  we  had  crept  out  of  the  Shan  States  and  the  panic  had  subsided  a  little,  that  I  began  to  wonder  whether  he  had  escaped,  and,  if  so,  how.  By  the  time  we  passed  Lung  Ling,  a  Chinese  mountain  town,  the  traffic  had  thinned  out  enough  to  let  drivers  pull  off  the  road  and  fill  their  cars  up  with  water  and  gasoline  from  cansthey  carried  with  them.  About  ten  miles  north  of  Lung  Ling,  we  came  upon  Ah  Wu's  truck  drawn  up  at  the  side  of  the  road;  it  was  easy  to  recognize,  because  it  was  the  shabbiest  we  had  seen  on  the  whole  journey.  My  driver  pulled  over  and  parked  right  in  front  of  it,  telling  me  that  Ah  Wu  would  certainly  have  some  extra  gasoline  he  could  sell  us.  As  I  got  out  of  the  car,  I  met  Ah  Wu,  carry-  ing  a  bucket  of  water,  and  asked  him  if  he  had  chanced  to  see  Dr.  Streppone.  &quot;In  here,&quot;  he  said,  climbing  over  the  tailboard  with  the  bucket.  I  clambered  up  onto  the  truck  and  was  astonished  to  see  Dr.  Streppone  lying  in  the  back,  with  five  enormous  leeches  clinging  to  his  forehead.  Sitting  beside  him  were  Ah  Wu's  sister-in-law  and  the  two  boys.  &quot;Hello,  Doctor!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  certainly  glad  you  got  away.  Are  you  sick?&quot;  Dr.  Streppone  opened  his  eyes,  and  his  pale  face  brightened  a  little.  &quot;'Yeah,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Malaria.  It  finally  got  me,  instead  of  that  monk.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cWell  I  can  see  they're  taking  care  of  you  &quot;I  lost  everything,&quot;  he  said  weakly.  &quot;All  my  supplies,  all  my  instruments.  But  this  damned  Ah  Wu  saved  my  life.  He  found  me  sick  and  hustled  me  into  his  truck  just  before  a  bomb  hit  43616e616461Village.&quot;  Ah  Wu  looked  over  at  me  with  a  wicked  smile,  and  fished  four  or  five  black  leeches  out  of  the  bucket  and  dropped  them  into  a  tin  washbasin.  &quot;Fresh  supplies,&quot;  he  said.  He  held  his  loathsome  collection  toward  me,  and  added,  &quot;The  Western  medicine  man  will  not  die.  I  have  collected  enough  lifesaving  leeches  to  last  him  for  an  entire  month.&quot;  T  took  us  almost  three  weeks  to  reach  4368696e61,  about  three  hun-  dred  miles  away.  Dr.  Streppone  be-  came  paler  and  paler  during  the  jolting" b"trip,  but  he  lived.  Occasionally,  I  would  leave  my  Austin  and  ride  for  a  while  in  Ah  Wu's  truck  to  keep  the  Doctor  com-  pany.  From  time  to  time,  I  tried  surrep-  titiously  to  throw  away  some  of  the  leeches,  but  the  Wus  always  stopped  me  indignantly.  I  could  not  insist,  for,  after  all,  it  was  their  truck  and  he  was  their  patient.  When  we  arrived  in  4368696e61,  our  first  stop  was  at  the  hospital,  where  we  left  Dr.  Streppone.  I  arranged  to  fly  on  to  Chungking  the  next  morning,  but  anhour  or  so  before  I  left,  I  returned  to  the  hospital  to  pay  the  Doctor  a  visit.  He  had  had  some  blood  transfusions,  and  was  sit-  ting  up  in  bed,  looking  better.  &quot;I'm  go-  ing  back  there&quot;  were  his  first  words  to  me.  He  scratched  his  square  jaw,  which  was  now  covered  with  a  beard.  &quot;I'm  goingback  there  the  minute  the  Japs  are  kicked  out.  I'm  going  to  lick  malaria  in  Mangshih,  even  if  I  have  to  kidnap  all  the  monks  in  the  temple  to  do  it!&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  leeches?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Can  you  remember  enough  of  the  trip  to  remember  your  leeches?&quot;  &quot;Sure  I  remember.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  they  saved  you?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  they  didn't  save  me!&quot;  he  said  disgustedly.  &quot;Don't  get  super-  stitious  onme.  I  was  just  too  weak  to  stop  the  Wus  from  slapping  them  on.&quot;  He  pointed  a  finger  at  me  and  per-  mitted  himself  a  small  smile.  &quot;One  thing  I'm  going  to  do  before  I  go  back  to  Mangshih,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  look  up  that  damned  Ah  Wu  and  give  him  his  malaria  shot.&quot;  "