 b"ON  November  20th,  according  to  the  Times  of  November  21st,  President  Eisenhower  &quot;re-  turned  to  his  favorite  vacation  spot&quot;-  the  Augusta  National  Golf  Club,  in  Augusta,  [REDACTED].  In  many  ways,  the  circumstances  surrounding  thistrip  were  like  those  surrounding  his  pre-  vious  trips  to  Augusta.  The  President  &quot;arrived  at  Bush  Field,  just  outside  Augusta,  in  midafternoon  aboard  his  special  plane,  the  Columbine  III;&quot;  he  was  met  at  the  airfield  &quot;by  Col.  Paul  Snowden,  commanding  officer  of  [REDACTED]  Gordon,&quot;  and  by  &quot;Jerome  Frank-  lin,  an  executive  ofthe  American  Cyanamid  Corporation,  and  Albert  Peabody,  treasurer  of  the  Augusta  National  Bank;&quot;and  he  &quot;was  on  the  first  tee  ofthe  par-72  Masters  tour-  nament  course  as  quickly  as  he  could  change  [from  a  dark  blue  suit  and  gray  fedora]  into  golfing  clothes.&quot;  The  significant  thing  about  thistrip  on  No-  vember  20th  was  that,  as  the  Times  explained,  &quot;he  was  accompanied  on      the  flight  from  [REDACTED]  only  by  George  Champion,  president  ofthe  Chase  [REDACTED]  Bank  of  New  York,&quot;  and  the  significant  thing  about  that  sentence  is  not  the  name  of  his  com-  panion  or  the  line  of  work  in  which  his  companion  is  engaged,;  itis  the  fact  that  he  was  accompanied  &quot;only&quot;  by  that  companion.  The  reason  he  was  accompanied  &quot;only&quot;  by  Mr.  Champion  was  given  farther  along  in  the  Times  story  from  Augusta:  &quot;Mrs.  Eisenhower  did  not  accompany  the  President  on  the  flight  from  [REDACTED].  She  was  host-  ess  at  a  White  House  luncheon  for  women  delegates  to  the  United  Nations.  She  will  arrive  here  by  train  tomorrow  morning.&quot;  The  Times  told  about  the  luncheon  itself  in  a  separate  story,  from  [REDACTED],  tacked  on  the  end  of  the  one  from  Augusta.  It  was  brief  and  it  appeared  on  page  20,  whereas  the  one  about  Mr.  Eisenhower's  trip  was  a  column  long  and  started  on  page  1.  Because  there  seems  to  me  to  be  a  pos-  sibility  that  what  happened  at  the  lunch-eon  will  revolutionize  diplo-  macy,  bring  the  Cold  War  to  a  close,  and  create  a  spirit  of  un-  derstanding  between  all  nations,  large  and  small,  that  may  lead  to  world  disarmament  and  permanent  peace,  I  feel  that  the  least  I  can  do  is  quote  in  full  what  the  Times  (with  the  as-  sistance  of  the  Associated  Press)  had  tosay:  WasHincton,  Nov.  20  (AP)-Mrs.  Eisenhower  overcame  a  language  barrier  by  talking  with  her  hands  today  while  en-  tertaining  forty-one  UnitedNations  wom-  an  delegates  and  alternates.  United  Nations  precedence  placed  the  Soviet  Union's  representative,  Mme.  N.  A.  Muravyeva,  on  the  First  Lady's  left  at  the  luncheon  table.  The  Soviet  Minister  of  Social  Security  speaks  little  English.  Mme.  Muravyeva  saidlater  that  she  and  Mrs.  Eisenhower  had  understood  each  other  very  well.  If  you  give  the  matter  some  seri-  ous  thought,  it  is  not  surprising  that  Mrs.  Eisenhower  was  the  one  to  hit  upon  a  means  of  communication  be-  tween  the  527573736961ns  and  us  that  may,  if  generally  adopted,  get  us  somewhere.  It  is  just  like  a  wom-  an  to  do  such  a  thing.  Although  the  practice  of  talking  has  increased  in  volume  in  interna-  tional  circles  during  re-  cent  years,  it  has  dete-  riorated  as  an  effective  means  of  communication  in  those  circles.  Even  some  talks  that  were  sup-  posed  to  lead  to  further  talks  failed  to  accomplish  anything.  The  use  of  written  language  in  dip-  lomatic  notes  and  in  direct  correspondence  between  the  heads  of  this  government  and  the  Soviet  government  also  petered  out;  in  the  end,  this  side  simply  sent  the  other  side's  letter  back  to  it,  saying  it  didn't  deserve  a  reply.  Now,  there  are  sev-  eral  well-known  sign  languages  in  existence,  but  itis  not  known  which  one  Mrs.  Eisenhower  used  at  the  White  House  luncheon.  In  any  case,  to  avoid  starting  out  on  the  wrong  foot,  or  hand,  these  existing  sign  languages  should  be  tak-  en  into  silent  considera-  tion  before  itis  decided  which  sign  language  will     " b"be  the  most  suitable  for  adoption  on  diplo-  matic  levels,  and  on  up.  I  have  done  a  good  deal  of  research  on  this  sub-  ject,  and  am  glad  to  of-  fer  some  facts  and  con-  clusions  for  what  they  may  be  worth.  TRAPPIST  monks,  who  observe  abso-  lute  silence,  use  what  is  saidto  be  an  in-  teresting  and  expressive  sign  language,  but  there  are  many  drawbacks  here  for  our  purposes.  The  adoption  of  the  Trappist  monks'  sign  language  by  Western  and  Eastern  diplomats  and  heads  of  state  is  not  recommended.  In  the  first  place,  there  is  the  religious  aspect.  Ner-  ther  Secretary  Dulles  nor  the  Soviet  Foreign  Minister,  Mr.  Gromy-  ko,for  example,  would  greatly  care  for  hob-  nobbing  with  Trappist  monks  in  order  to  learn  their  sign  language.  Even  if  the  two  men  could  be  persuaded  by  public  opinion  to  do  so,  they  would  have  a  harder  time  learning  that  language  than  need  be,  forthe  paradoxical  reason  that  the  Trappist  monks  don't  talk,.  In  eliminating  talk  and  replacing  it  with  sign  language,  it  is  best  to  approach  the  taskof  instruction  in  a  spirit  of  com-  promise-to  admit  at  the  outset  that  a  certain  amount  of  talking  between  teacher  and  student  in  the  course  of  the  lessons  will  make  that  task  easier  and  less  time-consuming.  The  American  Plains  496e646961ns,  before  we  began  to  massacre  them,  developed  a  sign  language  by  means  of  which,  ac-  cording  to  one  of  my  sources,  &quot;speak-  ers  of  mutually  unintelligible  languages  communicated  freely.&quot;  Some  of  the  descendants  of  the  Plains  496e646961ns  are  available  in  this  country,  and  many  of  them  can  communicate  orally  as  well  as  in  sign  language.  However,  the  only  examples  of  the  Plains  496e646961n  sign  language  that  are  given  by  my  source  are  unpromising.  &quot;For  a  lie,&quot;  this  source  says,  &quot;first  two  fingers  of  the  right  hand  spread  apart  and  extended  from  the  lips  (i.e.,  two  tongues);  a  dog,  same  two  fingers  drawn  across  the  breast  (i.e.,  track  of  a  travois);  a  horse,  same  two  fingers  astride  the  extended  fingers  ofthe  left  hand  (i.e.,  something  ridden).&quot;  These  examples  suggest  not  only  that  the  Plains  496e646961n  sign  language  is  a  limited,  two-finger  affair  but  also  that  the  elements  of  accusa-  tion  and  epithet  are  unfittingly  over-  emphasized  for  our  purposes.  And  it  is  doubtful  if  the  527573736961n  diplomats,  and  Mr.  Khrushchev,  would  think  much  of  becoming  the  pupils  of  our  Plains  496e646961ns.  They  would  probably  even  prefer  to  learn  the  sign  lan-  guage  from  Trappist  monks,  in  which  case  we  would  all  be  back  where  we  started.  Sign  languages  said  to  be  rich  in  vo-  cabulary  are  frequently  employed  by  the  Naga  hillsmen  of  Assam,  in  northeast-  ern  496e646961,  and  by  many  African  tribes,  but  all  the  Naga  hillsmen  are  head-  hunters,  and  some  of  the  African  tribes-  men  are  cannibals.  Even  if  the  students  of  sign  language  could  overcome  their  prejudices  against  these  customs,  and.  would  consent  to  go  to  the  Nagas  or  the  Africans  for  their  lessons,  they  would  have  to  learn  the  oral  language  in  order  to  speed  up  the  course  of  instruction,  and  this,  again,  would  consume  valuable  time.  HERE  is,  finally,  the  sign  lan-  guage  of  the  deaf.  These  are  per-  sons  who  are  not,  as  they  were  once  called,  deaf-mutes,  or  dummies.  They  either  were  born  totally  deaf  or  became  soat  an  early  age,  as  a  result  of  some  childhood  disease,  such  as  measles  or  scarlet  fever,  but  in  almost  all  cases  their  vocal  organs  are  in  perfect  order.  They  form  a  lively,  intelligent  minority  group  in  every  country  of  the  world  today.  Although  the  New  York  public-school  system  is  opposed  to  teaching  the  sign  language  to  the  deaf  these  days,  and  pre-  fers  to  try  to  teach  them  to  talk  orally  (with  only  a  moderate  degree  of  suc-  cess,  I  have  been  told),  many  Roman  Catholic  schools  forthe  deaf  favor  the  sign  language  and  use  it  in  conjunction  with  the  public  schools'  methods  of  teaching  oral  communication,  and  so  do  various  Jewish  institutions,  notably  the  Jewish  Society  for  the  Deaf,  on  Eighty-  fifth  Street.  Some  of  the  graduates  of  such  schools  and  institutions  here  and  in  other  cities  can  communicate  both  oral-  " b"ly  and  in  sign  language,  and  all  of  their  instructors  can.  'The  instructors  are  also  able  to  hear.  Other  countries  of  the  world,  including  [REDACTED]  and  her  satel-  lites,  have  similar  setups.  It  happens  that  an  Olympic  Games  for  the  Deafwas  held  in  4974616c79,  4974616c79,  in  1957  (there  will  be  another,  in  [REDACTED],  in  1961,  bar-  ring  a  third  world  war),  and  the  Ameri-  can  team  returned  with  reports  that  they  had  been  able  to  communicate  most  suc-  cessfully  by  sign  language  with  the  members  of  the  527573736961n  team.  Accord-  ing  to  Dr.  Emil  M.  Zabell,  a  psycholo-  gist  who  is  administrative  assistant  of  the  Jewish  Society  for  the  Deaf,  this  sign  language  is,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  an  international  sign  lan-  guage.  &quot;The  vast  majority  of  the  signs  in  all  countries  arethe  same,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;Or  the  signs  are  so  similar,  or  so  expressive,  that  when  there  are  differ-  ences,  the  average  users  of  sign  language  canunderstandone  another  without  dif-  iculty.&quot;  The  best  estimate  by  experts  with  whom  I  talked  is  that  it  would  take  less  than  a  year  for  an  intelligent  and  en-  thusiastic  diplomat  or  head  of  state  to  learn  this  sign  language,  provided  the  student  had  frequent  lessons  from  an  instructor  who  could  both  hear  and  talk,  and  provided  further  that  the  student  fraternized  in  between  lessons  with  peo-  ple  who  knew  the  sign  language  but  could  not  hear.  There  are  social  clubs  for  the  deaf  in  this  city,  in  other  Ameri-  can  cities,  and  in  cities  of  all  countries  of  the  world.  As  a  rule,  the  members  of  these  clubs  are  far  above  the  average  in  intelligence  and  education,  and  are  un-  usually  friendly  and  peace-loving.  They  appear  to  be  so  happy  in  their  ability  to  communicate,  even  if  it  is  only  with  their  hands,  that  they  discuss,  rather  than  argue,  and  hardly  ever  come  to  blows,  no  matter  what  they  are  com-  municating  about.  It  might  be  well,  at  this  point,  to  de-  scribe  the  gestures  that  represent,  in  this  sign  language,  some  of  the  terms  fre-  quently  used  orally  at  present  in  inter-  national  circles.  Here  area  few:  Power,  Strength-Hold  out  the  fists  in  front  from  the  sides,  elbows  at  sides;  lift  the  fists  toward  the  right,  and  throw  them  over  to  the  left  with  a  circular  swinging  motion,  and  then  bring  them  down;  keep  them  in  the  same  relative  position  as  to  distance  and  direction  of  motion  all  the  time.  Weakness-Make  a  &quot;V&quot;  of  two  fingers  and  showthem  standing,  in  the  palm  of  the  other  hand;  then  bend  them  so  the  fingers  seem  to  fall  slowly  into  the  palm.  To  Influence,  Cause,  Effect  by  Force  or  Persuastion-Place  the  hands  out  a  little,  thumbs  pointing  upward,  one  well  in  front  and  the  other  off  to  one  side,  then  turn  the  hands  so  that  the  thumbs  finally  point  outward,  moving  both  hands  simultaneously.  Peace-Clasp  hands  as  if  you  were  shaking  hands  with  yourself,  then  turn  them  over  and  repeat  the  handshake  upside  down.  Finally,  bring  the  hands  away  from  each  other,  palms  down,  as  if  stroking  something  on  either  side  in  opposite  directions  and  in  a  soothing  manner.  Fight-Knock  the  fists  against  the  sides  of  the  face,  or  before  the  face-  one's  own  face,  that  is.  AT  first  thought,  it  might  appear  that  the  use  of  sign  language  would  prove  too  strenuous  forthe  average  diplomat  or  head  of  state,  but  actually  the  physical  exertion  required  is  negligible.  Anybody  who  watches  two  or  more  people  using  this  sign  language  is  at  once  impressed  by  the  beauty,  rhythm,  expressiveness,  and  easygoing  nature  of  the  gestures.  &quot;In  making  the  signs,&quot;  says  a  passage  in  a  book  called  &quot;The  Sign  Language-A     Manual  of  Signs,&quot;  by  J.  Schuyler  Long,  [REDACTED],  Litt.D.,  who  was  for  many  years  principal  of  the  Iowa  School  for  the  Deaf,  &quot;it  is  recommended  that  the  arm  be  held  in  an  easy  position  near  the  body.  ...It  is  not  necessary  to  move  the  arm,  but  a  short  leverage  is  conducive  to  ease  and  is  permissible,  provided  the  hand  delivers  the  sign  within  an  imaginary  ring  of,  say,  ten  inches  in  diameter.  In  colloquial  uses  the  fingers  need  not  be  so  closely  held  nor  so  firmly  flexed  ...  but  sprawling  should  be  avoided.&quot;  Although  the  users  of  sign  language  can  and  do  communicate  spiritedly  and  sometimes  make  statements  of  consid-  erable  length,  few  would  undertake  to  communicate  by  signs  for  a  whole  hour  or  more  without  stopping.  This  is  all  to  the  good.  Sign  language  offers  a  simple,  clear,  and  silent  method  of  communica-  tion.  No  interpreters  are  required.  It  is  more  or  less  unadaptable  to  either  subtlety  or  cireumlocution.  A  man  using  sign  language  pretty  much  says  what  he  means,  and  says  it  solely  for  the  benefit  of  the  person  or  persons  with  whom  he  is  communicating.  Once  learned  and  put  to  use  in  international  circles,  sign  lan-  guage  will  no  doubt  be  taken  up  in  other  areas,  producing  effects  that  I  hardly  need  go  into  at  this  early  stage  of  the  game,  although  the  universal  use  of  sign  language  would  inevitably  en-  hance  the  entertainment  values  of  tele-  vision,  would  eliminate  everything  but  music  from  the  radio,  and  would  revive  silent  motion  pictures,  which  many  peo-  ple  feel  would  also  be  all  to  the  good.  It  seems  to  me  to  go  without  saying  that  Mrs.  Eisenhower  has  added  still  another  laurel  to  her  crown  as  First  Lady  of  the  Land. "