 b"MY  sister  Michiko  went  to  M  [REDACTED]  to  attend  an  Eastern  college  when  I  was  five  years  old.  No  one  knew  exactly  what  line  of  study  she  intended  to  pursue,  but  this  was  not  important,  for  my  father,  who  was  a  gentleman  of  leisure  and  an  amateur  scholar  of  some  standing,  be-  lieved  that  going  to  school  and  travel-  ling  were  both  for  one's  mind.  Michiko  was  to  he  gone  for  several  years-two  or  three,  depending  on  how  she  felt-  and  all  my  family,  several  of  her  friends,  and  some  of  our  acquaintances  went  to  Yokohama  tosee  her  off.  I  don't  re-  membermuch  about  the  occasion,  for  it  was  a  fairly  common  occurrence  for  us  to  be  taken  to  greet  someone  or  to  send  someone  off  on  the  ocean  liners.  One  boat  was  more  or  less  like  an-  other-the  same  gangplank,  the  same  carpeted  halls  and  chandelier-lit  dining  rooms,  the  same  narrowand  steep  stair-  cases,  and  the  rows  of  cabin  doors  that  had  an  air  of  immaculate  impersonality  and  secretiveness  about  them.  There  were  always  the  noisy  crowds  of  peo-  ple,  the  blasting  whistles,  and,  finally,  the  cascade  of  many-colored  paper  tapes.  I  was  bored  with  it  all,  most  of  the  time.  But  one  thing  I  do  remember  clearly  about  Michiko's  departure  was  her  cos-  tume.  When  she  embarked  from  Yoko-  hama,  on  a  lovely  spring  day,  she  wore  Japanese  clothes-a  long-sleeved  pale-  pink  kimono  with  cherry  blossoms  scattered  all  over  it,  and  a  pleat-  ed,  ankle-length  overskirt  of  navy-blue  serge,  which  consti-  tuted  the  typical  attire  of  Jap-  anese  schoolgirls  then.  She  spoke  little  English-correct,  I  sup-  pose  it  was,  but  none  too  fluent.  And  she  was  too  shy  at  the  last  moment  to  throw  rolls  of  paper  tape,  as  everyone  else  was  doing  on  the  first-class  deck  where  she  stood.  We  were  all  very  much  surprised  when  she  finally  mustered  enough  cour-  age  to  aska  passing  steward  to  throw  the  tapes  for  her.  The  steward  obliged,  and  we  all  held  on  to  the  ends  of  the  tapes,  and  the  ship  sailed  away  slowly,  amid  cheers,  fluttering  handkerchiefs,  and  my  mother's  tears.  Later,  we  had  dinner  at  a  Chinese  restaurant,  the  White  Moth,  and  came  home.  During  the  ensuing  two  years,  my  mother  was  always  making  up  packages  of  Japanese  goods  my  sister  had  asked  for  in  her  letters  and  sending  them  off-preserves,  kimonos,  sashes,  fans.  &quot;I  wonder  what  Michiko  does  with  these  things,&quot;  Mother  remarked  once.  &quot;By  this  time,  she  must  have  enough  to  set  up  a  household  over  there,&quot;  What  Michiko  did  with  them  remained  a  mystery,  for  she  was  not  a  very  regular  correspondent.  But  from  all  indications  Michiko  was  spending  her  days  busily  and  happily,  and  that,  I  suppose,  was  enough  for  Mother.  AFTER  two  years,  my  sister  came  home,  without  having  established  a  household  in  [REDACTED],  as  Mother  had  feared  she  might  do.  But  she  came  home  with  a  mission-the  mission  of  Ameri-  canizing  our  household.  Michiko's  ship,  the  Chichibu  Maru,  arrived  on  a  rainy  September  day,  and  I  shall  never  forget  the  moment  when  she  came  trotting  down  the  gangplank.  Her  appearance  had  changed  so  com-  pletely  that  at  first  I  took  her  fora  stranger.  Her  hair,  which  she  had  al-  ways  swept  back  into  a  modest  little  bun,  was  now  short,  waved,  and  hanging  loose.  She  wore  a  dark-brown  hat,  a  one-piece  beige  dress  with  beads  shim-  mering  down  the  front,  and  a  pair  of  narrow-toed,  very  high-heeled  shoes.  In  fact,  she  appeared  no  different  from  the  foreign  ladies  who  came  down  the  gangplank  before  and  after  her.  &quot;Maa,  Michiko-san,&quot;'  said  Mother,  already  intears.  &quot;I'm  so  glad  you  are  back  safe  and  sound.&quot;  &quot;Why,  of  course,  Mother,&quot;  said  my  sister  cheerfully.  &quot;It  was  a  wonderful  trip.  Too  bad  it  ended  so  quick-  ly.&quot;  I  don't  know  whether  Mother  resented  this  remark.  Most  probably  she  was  too  busy  wiping  her  tears  to  take  it  in.  So  we  came  home,  and  had  a  grand  dinner  of  welcome.  My  sister  had  brought  me  a  doll  al-  most  as  big  as  myself,  and  there  was  an  air  gun  for  my  brother,  and  within  the  next  few  days  our  household  settled  down  to  its  nor-  mal  routine.  Or  at  least  so  my  mother  thought  for  a  while.  The  change  came  about  gradually-very  gradually  and  almost  imperceptibly.  Michiko's  firm  resolution  to  become  556e6974656420537461746573nized  and  to  556e6974656420537461746573nize  the  rest  of  our  family  manifested  itself  in  small  ways  at  first.  Several  days  after  my  sister's  return,  her  luggage  arrived.  On  going  through  it,  my  mother  found  no  trace  of  the  things  she  had  sent  off  while  Michiko  was  still  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;What  happened  to  all  the  kimonos  you  took  there  with  you,  Michiko-san?&quot;  asked  Mother,  slightly  alarmed.  &quot;And  " b"those  things  you  asked  me  to  send.  Did  you  leave  them  there?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  gave  most  of  them  away,  Mother,&quot;  my  sister  replied  nonchalant-  ly.  &quot;People  liked  them  so  much,  you  know.&quot;  Mother  was  silent  for  a  while.  Then  she  said,  with  ever  so  slight  a  tone  of  an-  noyance  in  her  voice,  &quot;But,  Michiko-  san,  what  are  you  going  to  do  just  now?  You  will  needyour  kimonos  for  visiting  and  parties.  And  it  will  take  a  little  time  to  have  all  the  new  ones  made.&quot;  &quot;That's  all  right,  Mother,&quot;  said  my  sister,  unperturbed.  &quot;I'm  going  to  wear  Western  clothes  from  now  on.&quot;  Mother  raised  her  eyebrows  but  she  didn't  say  a  word.  And  from  that  day  on,  it  was  tacitly  understood  by  my  fam-  ily  that  Michiko  would  wear  Western  clothes,  even  when  the  rest  of  us  didn't.  It  must  have  made  acurious  contrast  at  garden  parties-all  the  other  girls  dressed  in  Japanese  costume,  looking  dainty  with  their  long  sleeves  and  bro-  caded  sashes,  and  my  sister  a  solitary  fig-  ure  in  Western  clothes,  with  her  face  half  concealed  in  what  seemed  an  in-  verted  flowerpot.  Gradually  she  became  known  as  &quot;the  Hatsumi  family's  daugh-  ter  who  came  back  from  [REDACTED]'&quot;-a  label  that  set  her  off  from  the  other  girls  her  age,  and  at  the  same  time,  I  fear,  somewhat  lessened  her  marriage  possi-  bilities.  Mother  may  have  been  worried  about  it,  but  my  sister  seemed  quite  uncon-  cerned.  There  were,  she  said,  more  important  things  to  think  about  than  marriage-things  such  as  the  welfare  of  those  around  her.  And  since  I  was  the  youngest  of  the  family,  and  the  most  pliable,  my  sister's  attempts  at  revolu-  tionizing  the  house  started  with  me.She  began  to  curl  my  straight  black  hair  and  tie  huge,  flame-colored  ribbons  on  top  of  my  head,  and  she  encouraged  me  to  run  around  as  much  as  possible  in  our  formal  garden,  for  she  thought  I  was  too  quiet  and  spent  too  much  time  just  sitting  and  reading.  Her  experimentation  went  well  as  long  as  it  did  not  bring  me  into  contact  with  Mother.  For  although  lenient  in  general  as  to  how  her  children  should  be  brought  up,  my  mother  did  have  de-  cided  views  on  certain  things.  'The  first  clash,  I  remember,  came  on  the  day  of  Shichi-go-san-a  traditional  festival  for  children  aged  seven,  five,  and  three,  when  boys  and  girls  of  these  ages  are  dressed  up  and  taken  to  temples  and  shrines,  for  no  more  particular  reason  (or  so  it  seemed  to  me)  than  to  buy  a  bag  of  red  and  white  candies  and  come  home  with  a  straw  owl  dangling  from  a  bamboo  rod  clutched  in  our  hands.  At  " b"any  rate,  just  as  I  was  about  to  leave  for  a  nearby  shrine,  all  dressed  up,  my  sister  appeared  and  saw  me.  &quot;Why,  Mother!&quot;  she  said,  in  a  shocked  voice.  &quot;Reiko  has  lipstick,  rouge,  and  powder  on--and  shelooks  horrible!  At  her  age,  Mother,  it's  ridic-  ulous.  It's  not  natural  at  all.  In  Amer-  ica,  children  her  age  never  put  makeup  en:  In  vain  Mother  tried  to  point  out  that  it  was  just  a  custom,  and  quite  an  in-  nocent  one,  and  that  in  my  scarlet-and-  gold  kimono  I  would  look  as  pale  as  a  ghost  if  I  wore  no  rouge  or  lipstick.  She  reminded  Michiko  that  I  was  a  rather  sicklychild,  whose  wan  appearance  had  always  been  accentuated  by  the  gor-  geous  coloring  of  Japanese  festive  cos-  tume.  My  sister  still  insisted  that  I  have  my  face  washed  right  away.  Mother  raised  her  eyebrows  again  but  gave  in,  and  I  was  taken  to  the  bathroom,  where  my  nurse,  Etsu,  looking  quite  gloomy,  wiped  my  face  with  a  wet  towel.  I  forget  the  rest  of  what  happened  that  day,  except  that  people  seemed  to  be  paying  special  attention  to  me  as  I  walked  up  the  stone  pavement  ofthe  shrine  with  Etsu.  Some  went  so  far  as  to  turn  around  as  I  passed,  or  to  shake  their  heads,  as  if  they  thought  I  was  there  to  pray  for  recovery  from  some  serious  ailment.  Etsu,  of  course,  didn't  say  anything,  for  she  was,  after  all,  just  a  nurse.  But  for  some  reason  I  had  a  vague  feeling  that  she  didn't  like  my  sister.  This  was  all  the  more  incompre-  hensible  because  Michiko  took  special  care  to  be  nice  to  all  our  servants.  &quot;We  must  treat  them  like  human  beings,&quot;  she  used  to  say,  &quot;not  like  slaves  or  ma-  chines.&quot;  Apparently,  Etsu  didn't  want  to  be  treated  like  a  human  being,  and  I  began  to  notice  soon  afterward  that  the  rest  of  our  maids  didn't,  either.  There  was,  for  instance,  the  question  of  my  sister's  laundry.  Ever  since  Mi-  chiko  came  home,  she  had  insisted  on  doing  things  for  herself.  &quot;Independence  of  spirit,&quot;  she  called  it.  And  although  I  suppose  her  insistence  onwashing  and  ironing  her  own  clothes  did  relieve  some  of  our  maids'  burdens,  our  domestic  staff  seemed,  on  the  whole,  to  be  a  bit  hurt  by  it.  &quot;Of  course,  I  don't  suppose  we  could  do  such  fine  work  as  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  people  do,&quot;  I  heard  our  old  housekeeper,  Kiyo,  remark  to  one  of  the  undermaids  one  day,  &quot;but  still  the  young  mistress  could  give  us  a  try  at  it.&quot;  Matters  were  further  complicated  when  my  sister  began  insisting  that  the  maids  should  not  be  kept  up  after  a  cer-  tain  hour,  even  when  we  happened  to  have  some  guests.  &quot;Mother,&quot;  Michiko  " b"declared,  &quot;it's  simply  inhuman  to  keep  them  up  waiting  all  hours  of  the  night  for  us  to  call  them  with  a  handclap.  Besides,  they  have  to  get  up  at  six  o'clock  the  next  day.&quot;  My  mother  agreed  with  her  as  far  as  the  sentiment  went,  but  there  was  noth-  ing  she  could  do  to  solve  the  practical  problem.  If  the  guests  chose  to  stay,  she  pointed  out,  she  couldn't  possibly  sug-  gest  to  them  that  they  leave.  And  while  the  guests  were  there,  it  was  unseemly  for  Mother,  or  anyone  else  in  the  fami-  ly,  to  stir  about  producing  teacups  and  refreshments.  \xe2\x80\x9cThe  only  thing  I  can  think  of,  dear,&quot;  said  Mother  resigned-  ly,  &quot;is  for  the  maids  to  take  turns  at  staying  up.&quot;  But  that  didn't  work  out,  either.  Be-  cause  the  rest  of  the  maids  felt  sorry  for  the  one  whose  turn  it  was  to  wait  on  us,  all  of  them  stayed  up,  anyway.  &quot;I  couldn't  go  to  sleep  while  Kiyo-san  was  staying  up  for  I  don't  know  how  long,&quot;  said  Etsu  to  me  one  morning.  &quot;She  has  been  here  eight  more  years  than  I  have.  It  would  be  quite  improper  for  me  to  go  to  bed  before  her.&quot;  HE  next  reform  concerned  the  servants'  holidays.  According  to  Japanese  tradition,  servants  have  two  holidays  a  year.  One  comes  in  summer,  at  the  time  of  O-Bon-the  three  days  of  the  return  of  their  ancestral  spirits-  and  the  other  in  winter,  around  the  fif-  teenth  of  January.  On  each  of  these  occasions,  our  servants  would  be  given  the  night  off.  Now,  this  seemed  un-  speakably  cruel  to  my  sister.  &quot;Why,  in  [REDACTED]  they  have  a  day  off  every  week,  Mother!  We  should  give  them  a  holiday  at  least  once  a  month.&quot;  Mother  thought  it  was  a  fine  idea,  if  the  maids  really  wanted  it  that  way,  and  said  she  would  be  glad  to  give  them  extra  pay,  and  perhaps  some  kimono  materials,  so  they  could  go  out  more  often.  The  change  actually  might  have  taken  place  had  it  not  been  for  Mitsu,  the  parlormaid,  a  pale,  thin  little  girl  who  had  been  with  us  quite  a  long  time.  Since  her  home  was  nearby,  just  outside  the  city,  it  would  havebeen  a  pleasant  arrangement  for  her,  too,  except  for  the  fact  that  she  came  from  a  family  of  eleven  children  and  had  a  drunkard  father  and  a  step-  mother  who  was  a  shrew.  If  she  had  a  holiday,  she  would  have  to  go  home.  It  would  be  unthinkable  for  her  not  to,  and,  moreover,  she  would  have  to  spend  most  of  her  earnings  on  presents  to  take  home  to  her  family  each  time.  Mother  wasn't  surprised  when  Mitsu  came  to  her  one  day  and  hesitantly  declined  the  privilege  of  having  a  holiday  every" b"month.  The  girl  was  in  agonies,  evi-  dently,  for  she  felt  that  it  was  unpar-  donable  to  reject  the  kindness  of  her  patrons,  and  was  also  afraid  that  we  might  think  she  was  being  cold  and  heartless  to  her  own  family.  &quot;''That's  all  right,  Mitsu,&quot;  Mother  said  consolingly.  &quot;I  was  thinking  you  had  better  not  go  home  toooften  just  now  anyway.  Instead  of  worrying  about  your  family  too  much,  you  should  be  getting  things  ready  for  yourself.&quot;  At  the  time,  I  didn't  know  why  Mitsu  blushed  so  deeply.  Later,  I  learned  that  my  mother  had  received  a  proposal  for  Mitsu-quite  a  favorable  one,  from  the  owner  of  a  clog  store-  and  was  arranging  the  match  for  her.  Naturally,  Mother  thought  it  was  bet-  ter  for  Mitsu  to  save  as  much  as  she  could  out  of  her  salary  and  extra  allow-  ance,  to  enrich  the  trousseau  Mother  was  to  give  her.  There  was  a  blowup  when  my  sister  heard  about  it.  &quot;Why,  Mother!  Ar-  ranging  a  match  for  Mitsu!  Arranging  a  match-that's  horrible.  And  I  sup-  pose  she  hasn't  even  seenthe  man.&quot;  &quot;Mitsu  doesn't  seem  to  object  to  it,  though,&quot;  interposed  Mother  mildly.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  Michiko  said  indig-  nantly.  &quot;What  could  she  do  but  agree  with  you?  You  are  her  employer,  after  all.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  suggest  that  I  do,  then?&quot;  asked  Mother.  &quot;Mitsu  is  nearly  twenty-three,  and  she  has  to  settle  her-  self  sooner  or  later.  It's  getting  late  for  her  as  it  is-unless  she  wants  to  stay  with  us  for  the  rest  of  her  life.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  she  shouldn't  do  that,&quot;  said  my  sister.  &quot;What  I  meantwas  that  she  should  wait  till  someone  who  really  cares  for  her  comes  along  and  asks  her  to  marry  him.  Instead  of  this  old-fash-  ioned  go-between  thing.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  think,  Michiko-san,&quot;  Mother  said  quietly,  &quot;that  perhaps  the  owner  of  the  clog  store  has  seen  Mitsu  several  times-talked  to  her  and  liked  her-and  has  decided  that  he  likes  her  enough  to  make  her  the  mistress  of  his  household  and  mother  of  his  children?&quot;  &quot;But  what  about  Mitsu?&quot;  asked  my  sister,  furious.  &quot;Doesn't  she  have  a  right  to  choose?&quot;  &quot;Of  course,  Michiko-san,&quot;  said  Mother.  &quot;She  can  say  no,  which  she  didn't.&quot;  That  closed  the  argument,  and  with-  in  a  few  months  Mitsu  left  our  house,  looking  as  pale  and  thin  and  melancholy  as  ever,  to  marry  the  clog-store  owner.  A  year  or  so  later,  she  had  a  fine  boy  baby  and  came  to  show  him  to  us,  and  after  that  she  always  came  to  pay  us  a  New  Year  visit,  bringing  boxes  of  candy " b"or  baskets  of  fruit,  and  looking  happy  |#*  and  rosy  and  much  prettier.  AVING  been  sadly  disappointed  in  her  attempts  to  reform  our  do-  mestics'  condition,  Michiko  turned  her  hopeful  eyes  toward  the  outside  world.  Her  formal  education  was  complete.  Tea  ceremony  and  flower  arrangement,  she  said  frankly,  bored  her.  There  was  but  one  thing  left  for  her  to  do;  she  was  determined  to  go  to  work,  The  idea  frightened  Mother.  &quot;But,  Michiko-san,&quot;  she  said  imploringly,  &quot;that  kind  of  thing  1s  simply  not  done.  Think  of  your  friends;  at  least  think  of  mine.  No  proper  young  girl  works,  un-  less  she  is  an  orphan  or  something.  Why,  you  won't  be  able  to  get  married.&quot;  My  sister  was  adamant.  Every  day,  the  argument  went  on,  until  finally  Mother  gave  in  and  my  sister  went  to  work  at  the  office  of  an  Italian  motorcar  company,  situated  in  the  Imperial  Hotel.  After  Michiko  had  been  working  for  a  week  or  two,  Mother  invited  her  em-  ployers,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Viale,  to  our  home  for  tea.  They  arrived  in  a  beauti-  ful  Fiat  car,  with  several  dozen  lovely  long-stemmed  roses,  and  we  became  very  good  friends.  For  a  time,  everything  went  on  smoothly.  My  sister  liked  her  work,  and  after  a  while  Mother  became  quite  resigned  to  the  situation.  Peace  reigned  in  our  household  for  several  weeks  be-  fore  the  next  storm  struck.  This  time,  I  think,  it  was  really  my  fault.  Because  I  worshipped  my  sister  in  those  days,  I  used  to  follow  her  around  whenever  I  could.  I  would  go  up  to  her  room  when  she  came  home  from  work,  to  finger  all  the  curious  and  wonderful  foreign  things  that  lay  scattered  about,  ask  questions,  and  in  general  make  a  nuisance  of  myself  until  she  found  some  'J  errand  that  would  send  me  offfor  a  ||  while.  One  day,  she  asked  me  to  go  to  the  post  office  and  mail  a  letter  for  her.  I  was  delighted  that  she  should  entrust  me  with  such  an  important  task,  and  although  I  was  never  allowed  to  wander  out  of  the  house  alone,  I  set  off  imme-  diately,  and  came  home  without  getting  lost  on  the  way.  I  reported  to  my  sister,  and  she  fished  aten-sen  piece  out  of  her  purse  and  gave  it  to  me.  I  was  overcome  with  joy  and  surprise,  forI  had  never  had  any  money  before.  Although  my  older  brothers  and  sisters  received  al-  lowances  when  they  had  attained  the  dignity  and  independence  of  commuting  to  and  from  school  by  themselves,  most  of  the  things  we  needed  were  procured  for  us.  When  we  wanted  sweets  outside  of  teatime,  for  instance,  we  asked  our  nurse,  who  asked  Kiyo,  the  housekeeper, " b"are  like  spun-silk  floss  of  pale  rose  or  iridescent  white,  floating  around  tiny  wooden   sticks-quite  literally,  so  it  ||  seemed  to  me  then,  out  of  this  world.  But  to  my  grief,  cotton  cakes  were  ruled  out  of  my  life  by  my  strict  upbringing.  I  was  told  that  they  were  what  the  tyashi  children  ate-iyashii  meaning  anything  from  low,  common,  indelicate,  and  vulgar  to  unmannerly,  unrefined,  uncouth,  and  gluttonous.  Many  a  time,  I  had  looked  at  those  iyes/i\xc3\xa9  children  with  an  envious  side  glance  as  they  went  skipping  down  the  road  with  their  beau-  tiful  cotton  cakes.  Once,  however,  Mitsu-the  little,  good-hearted  Mitsu-had  taken  pity  on  my  unexpressed  desires,  and,  on  our  way  home  from  kindergarten,  had  bought  me  one.  Bought  it  out  of  her  own  pock-  et,  I  recall  with  a  tug  at  my  heart.  But,  alas,  Mitsu,  like  the  rest  of  our  house-  hold,  was  a  prude.  She  insisted  that  I  must  wait  until  we  reached  home  before  I  tasted  it-or  at  least  until  we  were  within  the  confines  of  our  high  stone  wall.  And  that  day  happened  to  be  a  bit  windy.  I  ran  practically  all  the  way  home,  holding  the  cotton  cake  in  my  hand  and  watching,  with  afeverish  eye,  as  it  dissolved  gradually  into  the  breeze.  When  we  arrived,  I  had  nothing  in  my  hand  but  a  thin  little  stick,  looking  bare  and  forlorn.  As  I  said,  Japanese  cotton  cakes  are  ethereal  things.  At  any  rate,  when  I  received,  so  un-  expectedly,  the  ten-sen  tip  from  Michi-  ko,  the  first  thing  I  thought  of  was  the  cotton  cake.  Now  I  could  realize  my  dreams.  Now  I  could  get  not  only  a  pink  cotton  cake  but  a  white  one  as  well,  and  perhaps  eat  them  immediately,  hid-  den  behind  the  tall  oak  tree  on  the  Kishimojin  Temple  premises.  I  was  growing  very  bold  in  my  ideas.  My  sis-  ter's  teaching  was  taking  root,  and  I  was  acquiring  a  spirit  of  independence  and  enterprise.  The  cotton  cakes  were  sold  under  one  of  the  tall  oak  trees  near  the  water-  less  well  in  the  temple  garden,  by  an  old  man  with  a  flowing  white  beard.  He  sat  behind  an  open,  movable  stall  that  had  a  round  copper  pot  in  the  middle  and  a  wooden  pedal  below.  When  he  had  a   " b"customer,  he  would  step  on  the  pedal  and  the  delicate  substance  came  whirl-  ing  out  of  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  form-  ing  a  fluffy  ball  around  a  wooden  chop-  stick.  My  heart  was  beating  very  fast  when  I  reached  the  front  of  the  stall  and  placed  the  ten-sen  piece  on  the  counter.  The  old  man  looked  up  and  blinked.  &quot;How  many  do  you  want,  little  Miss?&quot;  he  asked,  in  a  quavering  voice.  I  didn't  know  what  to  say,  and  kept  silence.  &quot;One?&quot;  he  asked.  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Two?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Three?  ...  Four?  ...  Five?&quot;  I  didn't  know  how  many  cotton  cakes  I  could  get  with  ten  sen,  but  I  thought  it  perhaps  wise  to  come  to  a  compromise,  and  nodded.  The  old  man,  without  tak-  ing  up  the  money,  began  spinning  the  silk  floss  around  the  wooden  stick.  The  first  cotton  cake  that  he  handed  to  me  was  white,  and  the  second  one  was  pink.  After  the  fourth,  I  discovered  I  couldn't  hold  any  more  in  my  hands.  In  spite  of  what  I  had  intended,  it  didn't  occur  to  me  to  eat  them  right  away;  I  was  too  fascinated  by  the  spinning.  Suddenly  I  heard  someone  exclaim,  in  a  shocked  tone,right  behind  me,  &quot;Maa,  Reiko-sama!  What  on  earth  are  you  doing  here?  Are  you  alone?&quot;  I  turned  around  in  a  hurry,  and  found  Miye-san,  our  old  home  seam-  stress,  standing  behind  me.  She  looked  triumphant,  and  forthe  moment  I  hated  her.  &quot;Why,  you  are  alone,  and  buying  iyashi  cakes,  too!&quot;  she  crlcd  gloating  over  her  dlgcovcry  Miye-san  would  do  anything  to  get  into  Mother's  good  graces.  &quot;We  must  go  home  at  once,&quot;  she  said  happily.  The  iyashit  cakes  were  distributed  among  the  fyash#  children,  and  I  was  hustled  home  in  disgrace.  A  conference  took  place  that  evening  among  Mother,  Father,  Michiko,  and  me.  \xe2\x80\x9cBut  Mother  I  dldn  t  mean  to  do  any  harm,\xe2\x80\x9d  said  Michiko,  almost  in  tears.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  'no  harm&quot;?&quot;  asked  Mother  sternly.  &quot;When  the  time  comes  that  Reiko  needs  an  allowance,  she  will  receive  one.  But  in  the  mean-  while  I  don't  want  her  to  have  any  strange  notions.  Why,  running  around  on  umnds  and  rcce1v1ng  wages  for  it  How  despicable!  And,  moreover,  to  make  her  think  she  can  go  and  buy  whatever  she  wants!  VVh),  Michiko-  san,  wouldn't  you  be  responsible  if  Reiko  went  and  bought  a  rotten  banana  and  became-sick  from  it?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  think  of  it  that  way!&quot;  wailed  my  sister.  &quot;I  asked  her  to  do  something  for  me,  and  I  thought  she  was  entitled  to  a  reward.  Why,  in   " b"[REDACTED]  everyone  works-even  chil-  dren  and  old  people.&quot;  &quot;'They  work  here,  too-some  of  them,&quot;  said  Mother,  unperturbed.  &quot;Just  go  into  any  coal  mine  down  south  and  you  will  see  children  working.  It's  a  pity,  of  course,  and  I  hope  something  will  be  done  about  it.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  mean  coal  mines,&quot;  said  my  sister.  &quot;Children  work  for  pocket  mon-  ey-even  well-brought-up  children-  and  nobody  thinks  anything  of  it.&quot;  Mother  looked  incredulous  for  a  moment,  and  then  said,  &quot;Well,  I  do  think  it  is  a  shame  that  children  have  to  work  at  all.  It  is,  of  course,  fine  to  do  so  when  necessary,  but  your  father  is  not  penniless,  and  I  am  not  dying  of  tuberculosis.  You  can  wait  to  train  Reiko  till  such  things  happen.&quot;  Michiko  kept  silence.  I  suppose  she  had  given  up.  &quot;At  any  rate,&quot;  continued  Mother,  &quot;I  hope  you  will  stop  interfering  with  the  way  our  life  is  run  here  in  our  home.  I  let  you  do  whatever  you  wanted,  for  I  thought  youhad  to  finish  your  Ameri-  can  education  here.  But  from  now  on  do  forget  about  what  you  learned  in  [REDACTED]  till  you  have  a  household  of  your  own.&quot;  My  sister  still  said  nothing,  looking  down  at  the  hem  of  the  straw  matting.  &quot;And,&quot;  Mother  added,  a  bit  ironi-  cally,  &quot;be  assured  that  I  won't  interfere  with  your  way  of  running  your  life  when  you  get  married  and  settle  down.&quot;  All  the  while,  Father  had  sat  there  on  his  cushion,  without  saying  anything.  EXT  morning,  I  met  Father  walking  in  the  garden.  &quot;Well,  well,  Reiko,&quot;  he  said  amiably.  &quot;How  are  things  with  you  today?&quot;  &quot;Fine,  Father,&quot;  I  said,  ready  to  skip  away.  &quot;Nice  weather,  isn't  it?&quot;  he  said,  still  looking  at  me.  &quot;Yes,  Father.&quot;  &quot;By  the  way,&quot;  he  said,  tugging  at  his  mustache,  &quot;do  you  want  anything?&quot;  &quot;Do  I  want  anything?&quot;  I  must  have  sounded  surprised.  Father  coughed.  &quot;I  mean  by  that,  is  there  anything  you  wish  particularly  to  have?&quot;  he  said,  now  seemingly  in-  tent  on  theleaves  of  a  morning-glory.  I  was  surprised.  He  had  never  asked  me  aquestion  of  that  sort  before.  Any-  thing  I  wanted,  or  needed,  was  given  to  me  by  Mother,  or,  more  often,  by  Kiyo.  Father  just  wasn't  the  sort  of  person  one  asked  things  of.  He  seemed  always  dignified  and  a  bit  remote.  We  children  seldom  saw  him  except  at  din-  nertime.  'The  rest  of  the  time  he  spent  in  his  study,  writing  books  on  religion,  philosophy,  and  sometimes  politics.  At  any  rate,  the  opportunity  was  there,  and  I  wasn't  going  to  let  it  pass.  I  thought  for  a  while,  and  came  out  with  an  answer.  &quot;I  want  a  little  bicycle,  Father,&quot;  I  said.  My  brother  had  one,  and  had  always  insisted  on  carrying  me  on  it  withhim,  perched  behind  the  seat  and  clinging  to  his  waist.  But  one  day,  going  around  thesharimbat  tree,  he  upset  the  bicycle,  and  since  then  I  was  forbidden  to  be  his  passenger.  So  I  wanted  to  have  a  bicycle  myself,  although  I  knew  Mother  wouldn't  like  it.  Father  thought  for  a  while,  in  his  turn,  and  then  nodded.  &quot;Very  well,  you  shall  have  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Thank  you,  Father,&quot;  I  said,  hard-  ly  able  to  believe  my  ears.  A  little  blue  bicycle  arrived  within  a  few  days,  and  Father,  from  the  win-  dow  of  his  study,  watched  me  try  to  ride  it.  I  toppled  over  onto  the  lawn  sev-  eral  times,  and  then  gave  up.  The  little  bicycle  was  put  away  in  a  storehouse  [,  and  forgotten.  Years  later,  rummaging  for  some-  thing  else  in  the  cellar,  I  came  across  the  bicycle.  It  was  intact  underneath  a  layer  of  dust,  and,  looking  at  it,  I  re-  membered,  suddenly  and  clearly,  some  words  once  written  by  my  father:  &quot;All  changes  must  come  from  within.  One  |  cannot  force  anything,  even  good,  on  others.&quot;  And  those  words,  from  a  book  banned  by  the  wartime  censorship,  re-  minded  me  a  little  sadly  how  his  advice  hadgone  unheeded  by  my  sister,  myself,  and  the  rest  of  the  world. "