 b"AUNT IDA  was  really  no  relation  of  mine,  but  I  knew  her  when  I  was  a  child,  and  I  was  taught  to  address  her  so.  Her  earlier  life-before  I  was  old  enough  to  be  conscious  of  her  slightly  flamboyant  presence-must  have  been  an  embodiment  of  the  Ed-  wardian  legend.  She  was  at  that  time  the  wife  of  a  banker  and  one  of  society's  beauties,  and  she  had  first  been  pre-  sented  at  Court  in  1897,  the  year  of  Queen  Victoria's  Diamond  Jubilee.  It  was  only  after  her  second  marriage,  which  took  place  in  1935,  that  I  came  to  know  her  intimately.  By  then,  I  was  married,  too,  and  she  happened  to  ap-  prove  of  my  husband  and,  in  conse-  quence,  of  me.  We  went  to  [REDACTED]  for  her  wed-  ding  reception,  at  Claridge's  Hotel,  at  six-thirty  in  the  evening.  'The  marriage  ceremony  had  been  conducted  by  one  of  her  brothers,  who  was  a  bishop,  in  the  private  chapel  of  his  residence,  in  a  pro-  vincial  city,  earlier  in  the  day,  At  the  reception,  Aunt  Ida  wore  a  pale-pink  silk  cr\xc3\xa9pe  dress  and  a  spray  of  orchids,  diamonds  galore,  and  a  little  hat  of  black  feathers.  Her  hair  was  bleached;  she  had  the  figure  of  a  girl,  immense  vitality,  and  superb  health;  and,  with  almost  per-  fect  classical  features  and  lively  brown  eyes,  although  she  was  fifty-seven  she  didn't  look  a  day  over  forty.  All  her  friends  were  at  the  reception,  and  since  most  of  them  had  never  met  the  groom,  they  began  asking  for  him.  Eventually,  it  was  established  that  he  was  the  little  white-  haired  gentleman,  with  a  dis-  tinctive  Roman  nose  and  wearing  a  gray  suit  and  a  red  carnation  in  his  buttonhole,  who  was  standing  by  one  of  the  flower-banked  fireplaces.  He  had  a  twinkle  in  his  eye,  and  he  was  smiling  benignly  on  the  scene,  and  with  loving  pride  on  Aunt  Ida.  He  was  seventy-two.  He  had  been  a  widower  for  a  great  many  years.  He  had  known  Aunt  Ida  since  she  was  a  girl,  and  after  she  had  been  a  widow  threeyears  he  had  proposed  to  her,  by  letter.  The  first  thing  Aunt  Ida  did,  after  having  a  honeymoon  in  [REDACTED],  was  to  set  about  altering,  redecorating,  and  refur-  nishing  her  husband's  house.  It  was  an  enormous  house,  and  perfectly  hideous.  In  the  northern  county  where  it  was  situated,  the  houses  are  almost  invariably  built  of  the  native  stone,  but  in  1860  a  millionaire  shipowner  had  built  this  one  of  red  brick-which  was  costly,  for  the  bricks  had  to  be  brought  a  good  distance.     The  house  was  a  near  replica  of  Queen  Victoria's  residence  of  Osborne,  on  the  Isle  of  Wight.  It  had  forty  bedrooms.  Uncle  Oswald  (as  I  came  to  address  him)  had  lived  a  somewhat  Spartan  life  there  alone,  as  a  widower,  caring  for  little  except  the  pack  of  foxhounds  of  which  he  had  been  Master  for  thirty-  five  years,  and  his  famous  Aberdeen  Angus  cattle.  His  bedroom  was  small,  it  was  at  the  end  of  a  passage,  and  it  faced  north.  Hisbed  was  a  narrow  iron  one,  painted  white,  and  as  he  disliked  the  weight  of  bedclothes,  he  had  them  draped  over  the  sort  of  cage  that  is  sometimes  used  in  hospitals  to  relieve  pressure  on  patients'  legs.  A  short  while  before  Uncle  Oswald  married  Aunt  Ida,  he  had  retired  from  being  Master  of  the  local  pack  of  fox-  hounds,  although  he  continued  to  hunt  right  up  until  the  war.  He  said  that  being  Master  had  cost  him  three  thou-  sand  pounds  a  year,  but  it  was  clear  that  he  really  retired  only  because  he  thought  he  was  too  old.  He  was,  of  course,  a  very  rich  man.  I  think  that  if  he  hadn't  married  Aunt  Ida  after  giving  up  the  Mastership,  he  would  have  diedof  bore-  dom.  His  children,  like  hers,  were  all  married,  and  they  were  all  far  away  from  him.  As  it  was,  he  lived  to  be  eighty-eight,  in  full  possession  of  his  mental  and  physical  faculties  almost  to  the  last.  When  Aunt  Ida  came  to  live  in  the  house,  he  moved  into  her  room,  which,  once  she  had  got  it  fixed,  was  P  like  a  film  star's.  She  not  only  gave  him  love  and  devotion  but  brought  new  interests  into  his  life,  and  made  him  spend  money  on  his  house-on  pic-  tures  and  furniture  and  objets  d'art-and  on  travel.  Every  winter,  in  peacetime,  they  went  for  two  \xc2\xabmonths  to  [REDACTED],  always  sailing  by  French  Line  because  of  the  food  and  the  wines,  and  taking  Aunt  Ida's  personal  maid,  Beacham,  and  Un-  cle  Oswald's  valet.  Every  summer,  they  went  for  a  gentle  cure  at  some  European  spa  where  there  was  a  casino.  But  it  was  the  house  and  its  improve-  ment  and  embellishment  that  occupied  their  interest  most.  ATNT  Topa  had  exquisite  taste-a  taste  that  was,  actually,  a  forecast  of  the  decorative  fashion  that  has  come  since  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  Hardlyanyonehad  wallpapers  before  the  war,  but  Aunt  Ida  had,  and  many  of  hers  were  French,  and  of  old  and  very  beautiful  design.  And  she  searched  out  period  chimneypieces  of  carved  whitemarble,  of  the  sort  gener-  ally  admired  today,  and  Georgian  fire  grates,  too.  A  lot  of  the  pieces  of  lovely  eighteenth-century  furniture  that  she  brought  into  the  house,  and  many  of  the  pictures,  had  belonged  to  her  family,  and  she  had  lived  with  them  all  her  life.  She  had  her  bedroom  walls  covered  with  apricot  silk  damask,  and  she  had  a  huge  gilt  Italian  bed,  with  cherubs  gambolling  among  the  azure  clouds  that  were  painted  on  the  inside  of  the  canopy.  When  her  county  neighbors  saw  what  she  had  done  to  the  house,  they  gasped.  It  was  aconservative  county,  and  remote,  and  the  majority  of  the  housesran  to  stags'  heads  as  decora-  tion  for  their  halls-which  invariably  smelled  of  wet  mackintoshes  and  wet  dogs.  But  in  her  hall  Aunt  Ida  had  Canalettos,  and  seventeenth-century  Dutch  flower  paintings,  andFrench  tapestries,  and  a  gilt  cage  full  of  singing  birds,  and  crystal  chandeliers  that  hung  on  scarlet  silken  ropes,  and  an  eight-  eenth-century  French  sledge  that  had  pastoral  scenes  painted  on  its  sides  and  was  filled  with  hothouse  flowers.  There  was  a  tower  above  the  center  block  of  the  house,  and  the  tower  rooms  were  reached  by  a  narrow  stairway  leading  up  from  a  door  on  the  second  floor.  In  the  first  room  one  came  to,  going  up  this  stair,  Aunt  Ida  wrote  most  of  her  letters,  sitting  at  a  table  by  the  window,  or  readbooks  on  whatever  subject  interested  her  at  the  moment.  On  the  walls  were  framed  photographs  of  her  family  and  her  horses;  in  her  day,  she  had  been  a  noted  horse-  woman.  Above  this  little  sitting  room  she  made  a  tiny  chapel,  which  her  broth-  er,  the  bishop,  consecrated.  She  used  this  chapel  for  her  private  devotions.  She  was  High  Church,  and  she  was  im-  patient  with,  and  a  little  intolerant  of,  Low.  The  church  nearest  the  house  was  in  a  hamlet  a  few  miles  away,  and  the  services  there  were  decidedly  Low.  All  eyes  would  be  turned  upon  her  as  she  came  in  and  genuflected  to  the  altar  be-  fore  entering  her  pew,  and  again  when  she  genuflected  before  going  out.  The  church  itself  was  a  small  thirteenth,  century  building,  and  as  it  had  no  organ  and  no  choir-but  only  a  harmonium--  psalms  were  never  sung.  They  were  re-  cited  turnabout,  verse  by  verse,  by  the  congregation,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  rector  and  harmonium  player,  on  the  other.  When  it  was  the  congregation's  turn,  her  clear,  resonant  voice  imparted  meaning  to  the  verse.  Hers  was  the  only  house  I  have  ever  " b"stayed  in  where  there  were  Family  Prayers  every  morn-  ing.  They  took  place  in  the  dining  room  after  breakfast.  The  servants  filed  in-the  butler,  the  three  footmen,  the  pantry  boy  (but  not  the  chef,  because  he  was  French  and  a  Roman  Catholic),  the  house-  maids,  in  print  dresses  and  caps  and  aprons,  and  Beacham,  in  her  black  dress  and  white  apron.  Aunt  Ida  always  read  the  prayers-sometimes,  if  she  was  going  riding,  in  a  black  sidesaddle  habit.  Regrettably,  most  house  guests  evaded  this  rite,  and  Uncle  Oswald  very  often  did,too.  His  excuse  was  that  his  jodhpurs  were  too  tight  to  kneel  in.  Aunt  Ida  didn't  take  much  interest  in  the  garden,  except  for  what  it  produced  for  the  table;  the  head  gardener  al-  ways  arranged  the  flowers  in  the  house,  Unlike  most  Eng-  lishwomen,  she  was  never  seen  with  a  trowel  in  her  hand,  or  even  cutting  roses.  The  sum-  mers  in  that  northern  country  are  short,  and  they  begin  late.  In  August,  the  strawberries  are  at  their  ripest.  Sometimes  Aunt  Ida  would  make  her  guests  pick  them.  She  had  had  the  head  gar-  dener  plant  the  little  French  strawber-  ries  that  are  called  fraises  des  bois.  They  are  supposed  to  be  sweeter  than  any  others,  but  they  are  a  proper  chore  to  pick.  So  it  may  have  been  a  mischievous  impulse  that  made  her  once  put  a  basket  into  the  hand  of  a  particularly  corpulent  male  guest  and  ask  him  to  fill  it  with  fraises  des  bors.  INDOORS,  the  evening  routine  be-  gan  at  six  o'clock,  when  Uncle  Os-  wald  mixed  dry  Martinis  in  the  library.  At  half  past  six,  one  would  go  upstairs  to  make  leisurely  preparation  for  dinner,  which  was  always  at  eight.  One's  eve-  ning  clothes  would  be  laid  out,  the  housemaid  detailed  to  look  after  one  having  asked  earlier  in  the  day  which  frock  Madam  would  wear  that  evening  (Uncle  Oswald's  valet  and  a  footman  would  lay  out  the  male  guests'  clothes),  and  the  housemaid  would  be  waiting  to  prepare  one's  bath.  Most  of  the  bath-  rooms  that  Aunt  Ida  had  installed  (there  were  only  two  in  the  whole  house  before  she  went  to  live  there)  were  originally  bedrooms  or  dressing  rooms,  so  they  were  large  and  cozily  carpeted,  and  had  fireplaces,  in  which,  in  autumn  and  winter,  or  on  cold  days  in  spring,  coals  would  be  glowing.  There  were  mirrors  over  the  mantelpieces,  and  pic-  tures  on  the  papered  walls,  and,  on  a  Regency  or  Empire  table,  there  was  al-  ways  a  selection  of  perfumed  bath  salts  in  Bohemian  glass  bottles,  cut-glass  bowls  of  powder,  and  the  softest  and  largest  of  down  puffs.  Before  dinner,  the  guests  assembled  on  the  Aubusson  carpet  in  the  Wedg-  wood-blue-and-white  drawing  room,  under  pink-and-blue  Venetian  chande-  liers,  and  stood  around  drinking  sherry  .  When  dinner  was  announced,  Uncle  Oswald  would  give  his  arm  to  the  woman  whose  title,  or  husband's  posi-  tion,  or  age,  gave  her  precedence  over  the  other  women,  and  Aunt  Ida  would  tell  each  man  which  of  these  he  was  to  take  in.  She  would  follow  last,  on  the  arm  of  the  most  important  male  guest.  The  dinners  were  long,  by  modern  standards,  consisting  of  five  or  six  courses  and  accompanying  wines.  At  the  end,  Aunt  Ida  would  rise,  and  the  women  would  rise  and  follow  her  out,  leaving  the  men  to  the  port  and  the  brandy.  Aunt  Ida  got  cross  if  Uncle  Oswald  kept  the  men  too  long  in  the  dining  room,  and  when  they  joined  the  ladies,  there  was  conversation-often  witty  and  sparkling-led  by  Aunt  Ida,  who  was  a  mistress  of  that  art,  and  mis-  tress,  too,  of  the  art  not  only  of  putting  people  at  ease  but  of  filling  them  with  confidence  and  persuading  them  to  show  a  talent  for  conversation  that  they  might  have  been  unaware  they  possessed.  At  ten-fifteen,  a  footman  would  come  in,  carrying  a  huge  silver  tray  on  which  were  bottles,  and  tall,  narrow  cut-glass  tumblers,  and  a  silver  pot  of  camomile  tea  for  Aunt  Ida.  When  I  was  there  alone,  or  with  my  husband  and  no  other  guests,  the  eve-  ning  routine  was  exactly  the  same.  Uncle  Oswald  would  offer  me  his  arm  to  take  me  to  dinner.  We  would  walk  along  the  hall  and  into  the  dining  room,  where,  on  a  summer  night,  we  could  see,  through  the  wide  windows,  the  green,  rolling  country  dotted  with  trees,  and  the  fields  enclosed  by  low  stone  walls-all  of  it  belonging  to  Uncle  Oswald.  Afterward,  we  would  sit  in  the  library  or  what  was  called  &quot;the  small  green  drawing  room,&quot;  and  there  would  be  conversation.  Aunt  Ida  did  not  play  cards  or  knit  or  do  needlework.  Neither  did  she  play  the  piano;  she  wasn't  in  the  least  musical.  Her  interest  was  centered  in  books  and  art  and  his-  tory,  and  people.  She  had  a  great  feeling  " b"for  the  past,  and  she  could  bring  it  alive,  for  she  saw  it  through  the  characters  and  the  personalities  of  the  men  and  women  who  had  made  it  memorable.  Often,  in  the  middle  of  the  discussion,  she  would  rise  from  her  chair  and  look  for  a  book  to  verify  a  fact.  Uncle  Os-  wald  was  not  as  erudite  as  she,  buthe  had  a  shrewd  and  balanced  judgment  of  character,  and  of  the  events  of  his  own  times,  and,  having  lived  so  long,  he  had  a  priceless  fund  of  anecdotes  about  men  and  women  of  renown.  I  particularly  enjoyed  hearing  Aunt  Ida  talk  about  her  life  in  the  Edwardian  era-to  be  precise,  in  the  period  be-  tween  1900  and  1914,  which  is  loosely  called  the  Edwardian  era.  She  would  speak  of  the  [REDACTED]  season  and  Ascot,  and  of  country-house  parties  where  practical  jokes  had  been  regular  pas-  times  and  amateur  theatricals  the  rage.  These  had  been  doneon  a  lavish  scale,  and  very  often  professional  actors  and  actresses  had  been  engaged  to  coach  the  performers.  Because  of  this  practice,  she  had  known  all  the  leading  actors  and  actresses  of  that  day:  Sir  Herbert  Beerbohm  Tree,  Sir  Frank  Benson,  and  a  pair  whom  I  will  call  Sir  Richard  Grant-Ward  and  his  wife,  [REDACTED]  Milvane,  who  were  still-when  I  was  a  frequent  visitor  at  the  house-  her  friends.  She  called  Sir  Richard  &quot;Dick'&quot;&quot;-&quot;dear  Dick.&quot;  She  had  a  small  painting  of  him,  which  showed  his  Apollo  profile  above  the  sombre     doublet  of  Hamlet,  in  her  sitting  room  in  the  tower.  L  THOUGH  Richard  Grant-  Ward  had  been  knighted,  I  don't  think  he  was  ever  considered  a  great  actor-one  who  drew  [REDACTED]  audi-  ences  as  others  did.  Aunt  Ida  said  his  loyalty  to  his  wife,  and  her  insistence  that  she,  and  no  other  actress,  should  play  opposite  him,  ruined  his  career.  But  he  must  have  done  a  great  deal  to  bring  Shakespeare  to  a  wide  audience  in  the  provinces,  and  in  [REDACTED]  and  Can-  ada.  I  remember  his  having  annual  farewell  tours  when  I  was  about  ten  or  eleven  years  old.  His  Hamlet  I  am  a  bit  dim  about  (I  was,  of  course,  too  young  to  be  a  judge),.  but  I  remember  his  wife's  Ophelia  as  an  old  lady  in  a  voluminous  nightdress  and  a  blond  wig.  I  was  also  taken  to  see  him  play  Mark  Antony  in  &quot;Julius  Caesar,&quot;  and  I  have  never  forgotten  his  pronunciation.  &quot;Fare  him  not,  Caesar,  he's  not  darn-  gerous.  He  is  a  mor-bel  Ror-man  and  well  given.&quot;  But  Aunt  Ida  loved  him  and  his  wife,  good  actors  or  not,  and  tenderly  she  would  say,  &quot;Poor  dears,  they  never  succeeded  in  saving  very  much  for  their  retirement.&quot;  Aunt  Ida  was  very  much  interested  in  occult  matters,  and  claimed  to  be  psychic.  She  did,I  know,  have  curious  premonitions  sometimes,  which  sim-  ply  couldn't  be  accounted  for.  Twice  in  her  life  something  had  told  her  not  to  make  a  journey  by  train,  and  each  time  an  accident  had  occurred  to  the  train  she  would  have  travelled  by.  And  through  one  of  her  psychic  turns  she  and  Uncle  Oswald  came  to  have  the  Grant-  Wards  as  their  wartime  guests.  The  house  being  in  such  an  isolated  part  of  the  country,  the  advent  of  the  war  made  practi-  cally  no  difference  there  at  first.  The  butler  was  tooold  for  war  service,  one  of  the  footmen  was  unfit,  and  the  place  of  the  third  was  taken  by  a  sixteen-year-old  boy.  None  of  the  women  servants  showed  any  in-  clination  to  volunteer,  and  conscription  of  women  did  not  come  until  much  later.  As  there  were  three  cars,  a  station  wagon,and  a  van  for  household  shopping,  there  were  plenty  of  petrol  coupons.  Uncle  Oswald  did,  however,  buy  a  radio,  which  he  and  Aunt  Ida  had  previously  refused  to  have.  He  sat  close  to  it  dur-  ing  all  news  programs,  wishing,  he  said,  that  he  were  not  so  old  and  that  he  could  be  &quot;in  it.&quot;  He  had  fought  as  a  cavalry  officer  in  the  [REDACTED]  African  war,  and  although  too  old  to  do  the  same  thing  in  the  First  World  War,  he  had  managed  to  get  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  liaison  officer.  The  bombing  of  [REDACTED]  great-  ly  distressed  him.  It  made  him  feel  im-  potent,  he  said,  unable  to  hit  back.  Aunt  Ida's  psychic  turn  occurred  when  the  [REDACTED]  blitz  was  at  its  height.  Early  one  morning,  she  woke  repeating  the  name  of  the  Grant-Wards.  &quot;The  Grant-W  ards,&quot;  she  kept  saying.  &quot;The  Grant-Wards  are  in  danger.&quot;  She  picked  up  her  bedside  telephone  and  put  in  a  call  to  their  [REDACTED]  number.  After  an  interminable  time,  Sir  Richard  answered.  'The  connection  was  very  weak,  and  Aunt  Ida  had  to  shout.  How  were  they?  Were  they  all  right?  They  were  all  right,  she  heard  him  say,  in  a  faraway  voice,  but  they  had  had  a  terri-  ble  night  and  [REDACTED]  was  prostrate.  &quot;Come!&quot;  Aunt  Ida  shouted.  &quot;Come  to  us,  dear  Dick!  Come  up  here  to  us,  at  once.&quot;  They  came.  They  arrivedthe  eve-  ning  of  the  following  day,  after  a  slow  and  cold  ten-hour  journey  by  train,  with  sixty-four  pieces  of  luggage.  A  " b"good  deal  of  it  consisted  of  enormous  dress  hampers,  such  as  they  would  have  taken  on  tour  to  carry  their  various  costumes.  They  also  brought  with  them  Sir  Richard's  old  dresser,  Billy,  and  Lady  Grant-Ward's  old  dresser,  Evie.  There  was  a  part  of  the  house  known  as  the  bachelors'  wing.  It  consisted  of  an  upstairs  corridor  with  a  number  of  bedrooms  and  two  bathrooms  opening  off  it.  It  was  reached  by  a  separate  stair-  case,  and,  as  its  name  implies,  it  was  where  single  male  guests  usually  slept.  All  the  rooms  were  far  less  ornate  than  those  in  the  main  part  of  the  house,  but  they  were  very  cozy  nevertheless.  It  was  there  that  Aunt  Ida  put  the  Grant-  Wards  and  Billy  and  Evie.  She  turned  one  bedroom  intoa  comfortably  fur-  nished  sitting  room,  and  she  bought  a  radio  for  them.  She  thought  they  could  feel  independent  there,  being  able  to  come  and  go  as  they  liked.  To  help  further  this  feeling  of  independence,  she  resolved  never  to  enter  that  wing  un-  less  she  was  invited,  and  the  whole  time  they  were  there-about  twelve  months-they  never  did  invite  her.  She  was  a  bit  worried  to  start  with  over  how  Billy  and  Evie  would  hit  it  off  with  the  servants,  but  they  proved  to  be  a  terrific  success.  Billy  was  a  typical  red-nosed  come-  dian  of  the  old  school  of  [REDACTED]  music-  hall  entertainers.  He  was  completely  bald,  and  he  wore  a  cloth  cap  on  his  head  most  of  the  time,  even  in  the  house.  He  had  begun  his  career  as  a  callboy,  and  then  he'd  gone  into  vaude-  ville,  Too  old  for  that-  or  perhaps  never  quite  original  enough\xe2\x80\x94ha  had  drifted  into  various  jobs  connected  with  the  theatre  untilfinally  he  became  a  dresser,  first  to  a  matin\xc3\xa9e  idol,  now  long  forgotten,  who  died  ofdrink,  and  then  to  Sir  Richard.  Almost  every  day,  Billy  went  to  the  vil-  lage,  five  miles  off,  where  there  were  a  few  shops  and  a  post  of-  fice,  or  to  the  nearest  town,  twelve  miles  away.  Whenever  the  station  wagon  or  the  van  was  going  to  either,  Billy  got  a  lift  in  it.  Other  times,  he  walked  down  the  long  drive  to  the  road.  and  either  thumbed  a  lift  or  walked  a  couple  of  miles  and  caught  a  bus.  Once  at  his  des-  tination,  he  would  visit  a  few  shops,  and  when  he'd  done  that,  he  would  settle  down  in  a  pub  until  it  was  time  to  go  back,  meanwhile  getting  into  a  state  that  Beacham  spoke  of  as  &quot;nicely,  thank  you.&quot;  Evie  was  a  little,  virile  woman  with  a  pale,  wrinkled  face  and  beady  eyes.  She,  too,  had  been  on  the  music-hall  stage  once,  but  ina  very  refined  act.  Dressed  as  a  [REDACTED]  lady,  and  accom-  panied  by  a  piano,  she  had  recited  pas-  sages  from  Shakespeare  and  little  verses  by  the  lesser  Elizabethan  poets,  such  as:  Lay  a  garland  on  my  hearse  Of  the  dismal  yew;  Maidens,  willow  branches  bear;  Say  I  died  true.  This,  when  spoken  in  a  quavering  voice  in  the  servants'  hall,  brought  tears  to  the  eyes  of  the  younger  housemaids.  SIR  RicHaro  and  Lady  Grant-W  ard  had  been  at  the  house  nine  months  when,  after  my  husband  had  gone  to  the  Middle  East,  I  went  there  for  a  week's  visit  in  July.  Coming  from  the  south-from  [REDACTED]-I  felt  almost  as  if  I  were  stepping  back  into  another  age.  Everything  was  just  as  it  had  always  been.  Uncle  Oswald  still  mixed  the  dry  Martinis  in  the  library-after  the  six-o'clock  news,  now  -and  then  we  all  went  up  to  our  rooms  to  change  for  din-  ner.  There  was  sherry  before  dinner,  which  was  announced  by  the  butler.  Uncle  Oswald  gave  his  arm  to  Lady  Grant-Ward,  and  Aunt  Ida  took  Sir  Richard's.  I  walked  alone,  between  the  two  couples.  IfI  had  been  old  enough  to  remem-  ber  Richard  Grant-Ward  and  [REDACTED]  Milvane  in  their  prime,  I  would  surely  have  been  shocked.  Sir  Richard  did  his  best  to  conceal  his  age  by  dyeing  his  still  wavy  hair,  but  he  had  been  a  tall  man,  and  now  he  had  shrunk  pitiably,  There  were  pouches  under  his  dark  eyes  and  deep  lines  in  his  cheeks,  though  his  cele-  brated  profile  was  still  fine.  Poor  little  Lady  Grant-Ward's  periwinkle-blue  eyes  had  begun  to  fail,  and,  as  she  wouldn't  wear  glasses,  she  had  to  be  helped  everywhere,  lest  the  perilously  high  heels  on  her  astonishingly  tiny  feet  should  make  her  trip.  To  me,  who,  years  before,  had  thought  her  an  old  woman  wearing  a  voluminous  night-  dress  and  a  blond  wig,  she  looked  much  the  same,  except  that  she  now  wore  a  shapeless,  trailing  dress  of  chiffon,  and  a  long  velvet  cape,  in  pale  rainbow  colors.  It  was  a  cold  summer,  and  Sir  Richard  felt  the  cold.  I  would  see  him,  clad  in  a  worn  old  fur-lined  overcoat  and  wearing  an  old  wide-brimmed  black  felt  hat,  sitting  shivering  in  a  patch  of  sun,  or  in  the  unheat-  ed  conservatory.  Aunt  Ida,  who  loved  dear  Dick  best,  told  me  that  poor  [REDACTED]  had  always  been  incredibly  stupid,  and  hadn't  the  brains  of  a  hen.  I  must  admit  we  were  all  rather  startled  when,  one  Sunday  at  luncheon,  she  said  to  an  admiral,  who  had  driv-  en  over  from  the  sea-  port  where  his  base  was,  that  this  was  such  a  dull  war,  and  the  last  war  had  been  such  a  jolly  one.  She  explained  how  jolly  the  other  war  had  been,  when  she  and  her  husband  toured  the  front  in  [REDACTED]  and  entertained  the  brave  boys.  The  last  evening  I  spent  at  the  house  that  July  was  like  all  the  others.  After  dinner,  Aunt  Ida  and  Lady  Grant-Ward  and  I  left  Uncle  Oswald  and  Sir    " b"Richard  with  the  port  and  the  brandy,  and  they  joined  us  a  little  later,  for  con-  versation.  At  ten-fifteen,  a  footman  brought  in  the  drinks  and  Aunt  Ida's  camomile  tea.  At  eleven,  or  thereabouts,  Aunt  Ida  indicated  that  it  was  time  for  bed.  You  always  had  to  wait  for  her  to  do  this,  the  way  one  must  wait  for  royalty.  I  never  dared  confess  to  tired-  ness  and  a  desire  for  early  bed  in  that  house.  In  Aunt  Ida's  view-possibly  it  was  a  view  shared  by  all  of  her  genera-  tion  and  upbringing-if  you  were  tired  you  did  not  come  down  to  dinner  at  all;  you  had  it  in  your  room.  If  you  were  well  enough  to  come  down,  then  you  were  well  enough  to  see  the  evening  out  as  your  hostess  wished.  Saying  good  night,  Sir  Richard,  in  a  courtly  gesture,  bowed  low  over  my  hand,  and  Uncle  Oswald  bowed  simi-  larly  over  Lady  Grant-Ward's.  Aunt  Ida  kissed  them  both.I  noticed  how  shiny  the  silk  lapels  of  Sir  Richard's  din-  ner  jacket  were,  and  how  frayed  they  were  at  the  edges;  how  tattered  Lady  Grant-  Ward's  evening  finery  was,  how  discolored  and  stained,  in  places,  her  long  velvet  cape.  And  I  was  deeply  moved  to  think  that  they  had  found  sanctuary  there,  with  such  attention  and  comfort  and  luxury.  HE  Grant-W  ards  would  probably  have  remained  there  until  they  died-which  they  did  in  1944,  within  three  months  of  each  other-if,  in  Oc-tober,  1941,  the  government  had  not  commandeered  the  house  for  use  as  a  military  hospital.  Aunt  Ida  and  Uncle  Oswald  were  given  six  weeks'  notice  to  vacate  it.  They  took  the  news  very  well.  Beacham  said,  &quot;I  think  they'll  both  be  happier  to  get  nearer  to  things.  It's  got  a  bit  quiet  up  here.&quot;  They  bought  a  smaller  house  in  [REDACTED],  and  before  they  left  the  house  in  the  north,  the  Grant-W  ards  went  off,  with  Billy  and  Evie,  to  lodge  somewhere  in  Surrey.  I  had  left  some  family  treasures  with  Aunt  Ida  when  my  husband  went  to  the  Middle  East,  and  I  made  a  trip  north  to  arrange  for  them  to  be  stored  elsewhere.  I  arrived  in  the  evening  of  the  day  the  Grant-Wards  departed.  The  following  day,  Aunt  Ida  and  Beacham  and  I  had  a  look  at  what  had  been  their  sitting  room.  Housemaids  had  already  been  busy,  and  the  slipcovers  of  the  sofas  and  chairs  had  been  ripped  off  to  be  sent  to  the  cleaners,  and  the  cur-  tains  had  been  taken  down.  Although  the  room  had  been  thoroughly  dusted  and  swept,  and  the  windows  were wide  open,  there  was  a  very  definite  smell.  &quot;What  on  earth  can  it  be?&quot;  Aunt  Ida  asked.  &quot;Fish,&quot;  I  said.  I  thought  it  was  cooking  fat,  too-something  rather  penetrating-but  fish  predominated.  Aunt  Ida  said  that  it  couldn't  be  fish,  up  there.  Just  then,  one  of  the  men-  servants  came  to  tell  her  that  someone  wanted  to  speak  to  her  on  the  telephone.  She  went  away  and  left  me  there  with  Beacham.  Beacham  was  a  Devonshire  woman,  with  a  roses-and-cream  complexion  and  a  deep,  slow  voice.  She  had  been  Aunt  Ida's  personal  maid  for  twenty-two  years.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said  when  Aunt  Ida  had  gone.  &quot;It  is  fish,  all  right.  They  had  afrying  pan,  and  they  used  to  cook  in  here.  I  didn't  dare  ever  tell  Madam.  But  you  know  how  often  Billy  used  to  go  shopping?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;That  was  what  he  went  to  buy.  It  was  kippers,  usually,  But  when  he  couldn't  get  kippers,  he'd  get  sausages,  and  he'd  coax  a  bit  of  cooking  fat  out  of  Chef,  and  Evie  would  cook  it  for  them  over  the  fire  in  here,  and  they'd  sit  down  in  their  dressing  gowns  and  eat  it,  and  drink  stout  with  it.&quot;  T  said,  &quot;You  mean  Billy  and  Evie  did  this?&quot;  &quot;No,  Madam,&quot;  Beacham  said.  &quot;Sir  Richard  and  Her  Ladyship.  Every  night,  when  they  got  up  here  after  being  " b"with  the  master  and  Madam  down-  stairs,  Billy  and  Evie  would  help  them  out  of  their  clothes,  and  put  on  their  dressing  gowns,  and  Evie  would  cook  the  kippers  over  the  fire,  and  they'd  have  them  on  that  little  table.  They'd  brought  some  of  their  plates  and  knives  and  forks  with  them,  in  all  that  luggage,  and  Evie  would  do  the  washing-up  in  the  bath-  room.&quot;  I  was  astounded.  I  couldn't  believe  it  was  possible  that  anyone  would  want  toeat  a  kipper  or  a  sausage  after  having  dined  in  state  with  Uncle  Oswald  and  Aunt  Ida  from  eight  o'clock  until  nine  or  nine-fifteen.  &quot;But,  why?&quot;  I  asked.  \xe2\x80\x9cWhy?  'They've  always  done  it,  apparent-  ly,&quot;  Beacham  said.  &quot;All  their  lives,  ac-  cording  to  Billy.  After  a  performance,  he  said.  When  they  got  home  after  a  performance,  they  always  had  kippers  or  sausages.&quot;  &quot;But  they  retired  years  ago,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;They  weren't  acting  any  more.  They  weren't  giving  performances  here.&quot;  Beacham  smiled.  &quot;That  was  what  was  so  funny,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  suppose  it  was  a  habit  with  them,  and  they  thought  they  were  still  acting,  or  something.  And  Billy  must  have  thought  so,  be-  cause  he  said  it  was  a  performance  here,  seven  nights  a  week.  What  could  he  have  meant,  do  you  think?&quot;  I  said,  untruthfully,  that  I  had  no  idea."