 b"WHEN  I  was  a  child  in  4974616c79,  in  the  early  twenties,  I  was  for-  bidden  to  go  out  by  myself.  The  official  reason  for  this  was  that  it  did  not  become  a  little  girl  to  beseen  in  the  street  without  her  mother,  a  rela-  tive,  or  a  servant  by  her  side,  but  the  real  reason  was  the  fearthat  bandits  might  kidnap  me.  'This  fear  was  never  admitted  openly;  it  was  too  wounding  to  the  Roman  pride,  which  relegated  ban-  dits  to  southern  4974616c79  and  Sicily-re-  gions  we  despised  as  backward.  We  Romans  were  so  superior  that  one  of  my  cousins  was  forbidden  to  marry  her  love,  an  eminently  eligible  Sicilian  lawyer,  on  the  ground  that  no  marriage  to  a  Sicilian  could  be  happy,  because  everybody  knew  that  Sicilians  were  bandits.  But  the  fact  remained  that  bandits  roamed  the  Roman  countryside,  and  even  came  into  town  for  holdups  and  kidnappings.  In  Monte  Porzio  Catone,  a  small  town  eighteen  miles  away  in  the  Alban  Hills,  the  rule  about  not  going  out  alone  was  less  strictly  enforced.  Every  sum-  mer,  I  used  to  be  sent  there  to  stay  with  the  head  of  our  family,  my  Great-  Aunt  Rosa.  Using  methods  that  any  bandit  would  have  en-  vied,  Aunt  Rosa  had  increased  her  wealth  enormously.  'To  make  up  for  this,  she  spent  a  good  part  of  her  time  in  church  and  gave  a  large  portion  of  her  in-  come  to  Church  char-  ities,  and  often  re-  marked  that  there  was  nothing  wrong  with  worldly  possessions  as  long  as  they  were  put  to  a  good  use.  My  father  said  that,  considering  Aunt  Rosa's  business  practices,  it  was  just  as  well  for  her  to  make  provisions  for  her  spirit-  ual  welfare.  My  moth-  er,  like  every  other  member  of  Aunt  Rosa's  family,  was  worried  by  the  old  lady's  threat  to  leave  everything  to  the  Church.  Aunt  Rosa  used  her  will  as  an  instrument  for  playing  the  various  members  of  her  family  off  against  each  other  and  for  bludgeoning  them  into  doing  her  all  sorts  of  services.  Her  property  was  almost  entirely  tax-ex-  empt,  because  she  had  persuaded  a  well-  connected  relative  to  make  a  deal  with  the  authorities-so  shameful  a  deal,  ap-  parently,  that  it  was  never  to  be  men-  tioned  in  his  presence.  She  spared  her-  self  the  cost  of  a  winter  apartment  in  4974616c79  by  staying  with  one  member  of  the  family  or  another.  She  was  like  royalty;  we  had  to  be  at  her  beck  and  call  no  matter  whether  we  were  in  our  baths  or  our  beds,  in  the  office  or  at  a  party.  And  all  these  services  were  given  with  a  great  big,  broad  smile,  because  of  her  will  and  the  money  we  hoped  would  be  ours.  In  this  competition  for  Aunt  Rosa's  money,  naturally  the  children  in  the  family  were  put  forward,  since  we  might  inherit  something  even  if  our  elders  should  fail  to  win  our  great-  aunt's  heart.  My  cousin  Nicola  and  I  were  believed  to  be  her  favorites.  The  other  children  were  either  too  young  and  ingenuous  to  play  their  cards  care-  fully  or  too  old  and  rebellious  to  visit  her  at  all.  The  year  Nicola  was  twelve  and  I  was  eight,  we  went  to  see  her  to-  gether,  for  neither  set  of  parents  was  willing  to  allow  the  other  a  clear  field.  IKE  all  Roman  hill  towns,  Monte  Porzio  looked  then,  and  looks  now,  much  as  it  did  centuries  ago-a  tangle  ofstone  houses  and  overlapping  gray  tile  roofs,  with  an  occasional  accent  of  green  from  a  back  garden-though  it  had  acquired  certain  modern  aspects,  such  as  a  rural  trolley  that  connected  it  with  the  next  town,  Frascati,  and  electric  lights,  and  a  bandstand  on  the  piazza,  and  a  row  of  acacia  trees  on  the  main  road.  'The  town  water  came  from  two  public  fountains,  and  the  women  fetched  it  in  the  great  wasp-waisted  copper  vessels  of  ancient  4974616c79,  which  they  carried  in  the  time-honored  fash-  ion,  settled  in  a  nest  of  rags  on  topof  their  heads.  Aunt  Rosa  lived  in  a  square  gray  three-story  house,  not  quite  a  palazzo,  whose  builder,  three  centuries  ago,  had  not  believed  in  the  frivolities  of  late  baroque.  'The  front  gave  onto  a  nar-  row,  cobbled  street.  You  entered " b"through  a  heavy  portal  with  big  carved-  brass  knockers-the  building's  sole  dec-  oration,  aside  from  a  few  austere  carv-  ings  on  the  lintels.  'The  first  floor  was  given  over  to  the  dining  room,  the  kitchens,  and  the  storerooms.  From  the  great  cupboards  there,  to  which  Aunt  Rosa  alone  held  the  keys,  she  doled  out  the  daily  ration  of  paste,  flour,  coffee,  sugar,  salt,  oil,  and  wine.  On  the  next  floor  were  three  cavernous,  sparsely  furnished  salons.  They  were  hung  with  faded  damask.  Upright  Empire  chairs  lined  the  walls.  A  round  inlaid  table  stood  in  the  middle  of  each  room,  and  an  uncompromising  settee  stood  catty-cornered  at  each  end.  Only  the  floors,  laid  out  in  an  intricate  design  of  colored  mosaic,  were  beautiful.  The  rooms  would  have  had  a  certain  melan-  choly  splendor  but  for  the  pictures,  which  reflected  piety  rather  than  taste.  In  each  of  the  three  salons,  a  large  tinted  photograph  of  the  Holy  Father  hung  over  the  fireplace,  where  fires  of  fragrant  olivewood  burned  on  special  occasions,  and  on  each  side  of  the  Holy  Father  were  large  photographs  of  members  of  Aunt  Rosa's  family-  framed  in  red  plush  if  the  sitter  was  still  alive  and  in  black  plush  with  a  little  wreath  of  shiny  black  beads  if  he  was  dead.  Chromos  and  lithographs  of  the  saints  decorated  the  other  walls.  The  bedrooms-ascetic  as  any  nun's  cell,  Aunt  Rosa  proudly  said-were  on  the  next  floor.  Unlike  the  salons,  which  were  still  lit  with  kerosene  lamps,  each  bedroom  had  a  miserable,  weak  little  electric  bulb  hanging  from  a  cord  in  the  middle  of  the  ceiling.  The  maids-girls  from  the  surrounding  farms-slept  on  straw  pallets  in  the  kitchens.  A  great,  oppressive  silence  filled  the  house.  The  maids  seldom  sang  or  laughed  aloud.  Aunt  Rosa's  gloomy  at-  titude,  often  expressed  in  our  hearing,  was  that  it  is  wise  to  be  severe  with  chil-  dren,  animals,  and  domestics.  Since  she  found  it  difficult  to  be  severe  with  the  cats,  beyond  relegating  them  to  the  storerooms  with  very  little  food,  to  make  them  better  mousers,  the  domestics  and  Nicola  and  I  bore  the  brunt  of  her  severity.  Aunt  Rosa  had  discovered  that  Nicola  did  not  even  understand  the  Lat-  in  of  the  Mass,  so  he  had  a  daily  Latin  lesson,  given  by  atimid  curate.  I  had  to  do  the  daily  dusting  and  to  practice  the  piano  for  two  hours  and  then  sit  with  a  piece  of  embroidery  on  my  lap.  The  maids,  poor  girls,  were  not  allowed  to  go  out  except  for  carefully  timed  mar-  keting  sorties  and  an  equally  carefully  timed  Sunday-afternoon  visit  to  their  parents.  Monte  Porzio's  weekly  movie" b"was  not  for  them-or,  for  that  matter,  for  Nicola  and  me.  The  household  went  to  church  in  a  body-six  o'clock  Mass  on  weekdays,  High  Mass  on  Sundays,  and  confession  on  Saturday  after-  noons,  this  being  followed  by  a  visit  to  the  cemetery,  to  pray  for  Aunt  Rosa's  husband  and  child,  both  of  whom  died  long  before  we  were  born,.  However,  we  children  were  allowed  to  go  out  together  or  alone,  several  times  a  day.  We  ran  errands.  We  fetched  the  morn-  ing  and  afternoon  paper,  and  fresh  water  from  the  fountain  when  our  great-aunt  felt  the  need  of  a  drink.  We  were  even  allowed  to  take  a  stroll,  provided  we  did  not  go  outside  the  town  limits,  where  bandits  might  kid-  nap  us.  In  and  around  Monte  Porzio,  bandits  were  taken  for  granted.  They  were  the  fathers,  husbands,  brothers,  and  sweethearts  of  the  more  respectable  citi-  zens,  and  could  count  on  their  help. The  bandits  crimes  consisted  of  raiding  chicken  coops  and  cellars  and  of  steal-  ing  grapes  and  olives  from  the  trees,  and,  occasionally,  a  well-laden  wine  cart.  They  had  never  been  known  to  hurt  anybody,  and  were  not  interfered  with  by  the  local  police.  AYNT  Rosa  employed  a  number  of  tenant  farmers,  and  the  most  ca-pable  of  them  was  Giacinto,  a  man  of  the  Roman  type,  with  thin  lips,  aclean-  shaven  face,  and  a  sarcastic  manner.  He  had  done  well  for  himself-and  for  the  old  lady-on  her  best  farm,  making  and  selling  her  wine,  but  she  suspected  him  of  dishonesty.  &quot;If  he  were  honest,&quot;  she  lamented,  &quot;how  could  he  have  a  bed-  room  full  of  carved  furniture,  how  could  his  wife  wear  a  silk  dress  to  church,  and,  above  all,  how  could  he  eat  meat  every  day  instead  of  only  on  Sundays?&quot;  When  Giacinto  came  to  invite  us  to  the  christening  of  his  fourth  child,  she  did  not  turn  him  down,  though  she  would  have  liked  to.  Just  as  it  had  been  his  duty  to  invite  his  landlord  to  what  he  planned,  not  without  malice,  to  be  a  splendid  occasion,  it  was  her  duty  to  put  in  an  appearance.  On  the  other  hand,  it  would  not  do  to  appear  too  friendly,  since  that  might  lead  to  heav-  en  knows  what  future  abuses  on  Gia-  cinto's  part.  So  Aunt  Rosa  decided  to  go  to  the  church,  and  have  Nicola  and  me  represent  her  at  Giacinto's  house.  We  were  to  return  from  there  with  the  curate,  who,  following  rural  etiquette,  had  also  been  invited  to  the  party.  The  next  Sunday,  the  christening " b"party  arrived  at  our  house  in  the  early  afternoon.  Giacinto  and  his  wife,  Sora  Antonietta,  were  dressed  in  black,  and  so  were  the  godparents.  The  midwife,  who  acted  as  master  of  ceremonies,  was  in  purple  taffeta.  Giacinto's  other  children  had  been  left  at  home.  We  presented  our  gifts.  Aunt  Rosa  gave  the  infant  a  gold  chain  and  medal  that  had  been  blessed  by  the  Pope,  Nicola  and  I  a  gold  bracelet  and  a  coral  neck-  lace.  The  infant,  only  five  days  old,  had  arrived  in  all  her  christening  finery  Over  the  white  swaddling  clothes,  which  left  only  her  arms  free  and  were  held  tight  with  crisscrossed  ribbons,  like  a  della  Robbia  bembino,  she  wore  an  exquisitely  embroidered  linen  dress  made  by  the  local  nuns-&quot;just  like  the  signori's  children,&quot;  Giacinto  observed.  Aunt  Rosa  raised  her  eyebrows  at  this,  but  did  not  pursue  the  subject.  The  christening  ceremony  was  short.  The  curate  was  waiting  for  us  by  the  font,  which  had  been  decorated  with  a  lace  petticoat  coquettishly  gathered  with  a  garland  of  artificial  flowers.  The  infant  behaved  admirably,  and  we  were  back  at  our  house  in  no  time.  One  of  the  salons  had  been  opened,  and  we  had  hot  chocolate  and  aniseed  biscuits.  Then  we  toasted  the  newborn  with  rainbow-  colored  liqueurs,  as  sweet  and  sticky  as  hair  oil,  and  Aunt  Rosa  sent  Nicola  and  me  off,  with  instructions  to  behave  with  dignity  and  to  be  home  early.  Giacinto  was  driving  one  of  the  tra-  ditional  high-shafted,  two-wheeled,  canvas-covered  wine  carts  of  the  Ro-  man  countryside,  which  today  exist  only  as  miniatures  on  souvenir  stands.  For  the  occasion,  the  carts  had  bouquets  of  flowers  stuck  above  the  wheels;  the  mules  wore  carnations  behind  their  ears  and  had  streamers  floating  from  their  reims.  The  curate,  as  the  guest  of  honor,  stepped  up  first,  lifting  his " b"soutane.  Then  I  jumped  in,  then  the  midwife,  and  the  baby  was  handed  up  to  her  by  Giacinto.  Nicola  followed  with  the  rest  of  the  party  in  an  equally  festive  cart.  With  much  shouting  and  clicking  of  whips,  we  drove  over  the  bumpy  road,  leaving  a  cloud  of  white  dust  behind  us.  Giacinto's  house  was  some  distance  away,  in  a  hollow,  shaded  by  fig,  peach,  apricot,  and  medlar  trees,  It  was  large  and  square,  of  travertine-that  warm-  toned  stone  used  for  so  much  Roman  building-with  an  arched  doorway  high  enough  and  wide  enough  to  let  a  fully  loaded  mule  pass  into  the  court-  yard  without  touching  the  sides,  The  kitchen  took  up  the  greater  part  of  the  first  floor,  and  had  a  big  fireplace  '  flanked  by  cement  benches.  The  cook-  ing  was  done  on  a  wood-burning  stove.  The  copper  utensils  shone,  fresh  flow-  ers  and  candles  had  been  put  under  the  chromos  of  the  saints,  on  the  white-  washed  walls,  and  in  one  corner  stood  a  bench  with  a  row  of  copper  amphorae,  which  held  the  household's  water,  and  a  dipper  to  drink  from.  The  red  brick  floor  was  still  damp  from  being  scrubbed;  the  kitchen  table  and  chairs  ,  were  pushed  against  the  walls.  We  went  straight  upstairs  to  Giacinto's  bedroom  to  freshen  up.  I  could  see  why  Aunt  Rosa  had  taken  such  umbrage  at  the  furnishings.  There  was  so  much  furni-  ture  you  could  barely  move  around,  and  every  last  inch  of  it  was  carved  and  gilded.  Even  the  frames  of  the  family  photographs  were  carved  and  gilded.  As  we  came  downstairs,  the  other  guests  were  arriving.  It  looked  like  a  sober  gathering.  Only  the  young  girls  and  the  children  wore  colors.  The  men's  black  jackets  hung  over  one  shoulder  and  their  hats  were  pushed  well  back,  against  the  heat.  The  wom-  en  had  put  on  their  jewelry-the  mas-  sive  gold  chains  and  bracelets  in  which  the  prosperous  Roman  peasants  invest  their  money.  Some  of  them  sported  gold  filigree  arrows  in  theirtight  hair  knots,  and  filigree  earbobs,  and  chains  of  big  red  coral  beads.  The  baby,  still  dressed  in  her  full  christening  finery,  was  handed  around  and  admired  and  kissed.  Sora  Antonietta  was  busy  forcing  food  on  her  guests.  The  kitchen  table  had  been  laid  with  an  embroidered  linen  tablecloth,  'There  were  platters  of  cold  cuts,  and  cheeses,  and  dozens  of  long,  thin  loaves  of  city  bread.  Since  this  was  a  great  occasion,  there  were  cakes-crisscrossed  tarts  filled  with  jam,  and  flat  pink-iced  cakes  made  with  olive  oil,  which  took  a  dozen  eggs  to  leaven,  and  evenan  elegant" b"rum  gatecu,  made  with  ladyfingers  and  rum  cream.  Giacinto  kept  bringing  up  from  the  cellar  straw-covered  fiasch  full  of  his  best  red  and  white  wines.  There  were  also  bottles  of  muscatel  and  marsala  and  vino  cotto-a  strong,  sweet  brew  made  from  special  grapes  and  cooked,  to  make  it  even  sweeter  and  stronger.  The  men's  voices  grew  louder,  and  the  women,  relaxing  their  vigilance  over  the  girls,  started  taking  part  in  the  general  conversation.  'The  girls,  in  their  turn,  giggled  unashamedly  with  the  boys.  Nicola  and  I  gorged  on  ham,  which  Aunt  Rosa  considered  too  ex-  travagant  for  her  household,  and  cake-especially  the  rum  cake.  Ordi-  nary  wine  we  did  not  touch-only  the  vino  cotto.  After  a  time,  Giacinto  took  us  aside  and  said  that  if  we  went  and  hid  upstairs  somewhere,  we  wouldn't  have  to  go  home  with  the  curate,  who  at  that  moment  was  eating  and  drink-  ing,  swapping  stories,  and  backslapping,  along  with  everyone  else.  So  we  did.  We  hid  in  the  loft  of  the  house,  where  figs  were  spread  in  rows  on  sheets  to  dry  for  the  winter,  and  hams  and  bacons  hung  from  the  ceiling,  and  bins  of  grain  and  flour  stood  against  the  walls.  We  could  hear  the  party  growing  live-  lier  and  livelier.  Somebody  (was  it  Gia-  cinto?  )  gave  the  midwife  a  playful  slap  on  the  behind,  and  immediately  after  that  we  heard  the  curate  calling  our  names.  Finally,  he  gave  up  looking  for  us,  and  we  heard  him  beg  Giacinto  to  send  us  home  as  soon  as  possible,  with-  out  fail.  A  short  while  later,  Giacinto  fetched  us  back  and  gave  us  more  cake  and  more  viro  cotto.  The  young  cou-  ples,  seeing  their  elders  engaged  in  so  much  pinching  and  slapping,  started  sneaking  off  into  the  garden.  The  chil-  dren  were  completely  out  of  control,  shrieking  and  upsetting  plates  and  glasses.  Giacinto  decided  that  it  was  time  for  him  to  drive  Nicola  and  me  home,  if  we  were  to  get  there  in  time  for  sup-  per,  but  up  in  the  loft  we  had  hatched  a  plan;  we  wanted  to  go  home  on  foot,  alone-unchaperoned,  for  once.  Gia-  cinto  said  no  at  first,  and  then,  as  we  still  refused  to  get  in  the  cart,  he  turned  to  his  guests  in  a  disgusted  way  and  asked  them  rhetorically  if  they  thought  anything  could  really  happen  to  us  in  broad  daylight  on  a  beautiful  Sunday  afternoon?  The  guests  agreed  that  nothing  could  happen,  and  we  were  dispatched  on  our  way.  The  road  wandered  through  vine-  yards  and  olive  groves,  between  low  walls  of  loosely  piled  stones.  The  tall  grasses  growing  in  the  cracks  were  white " b"with  dust.  We  passed  several  little  shrines  where  bunches  of  flowers  lan-  guished  under  rain-washed  frescoes  of  Virgins  and  saints.  It  was  very  hot,  and  we  stopped  torest  by  a  dilapidated  little  shrine  where  San  Sebastian  was  being  pierced  by  arrows.  Sitting  on  the  steps,  we  began  to  sing,  as  loud  as  we  could,  a  song  that  we  knew  to  be  unsuitable  for  us  to  know.  Suddenly,  two  very  dirty  and  heavily  bearded  men  stood  before  us.  They  had  on  ragged  black  corduroy  breeches,  tied  at  the  legs  with  strips  of  soiled  white  linen,  a  short-sleeved  leather  vest  over  a  torn  shirt,  and  a  great  black  cape  that  hung  over  their  shoulders.  Their  hats  were  pulled  well  forward  over  their  eyes.  Each  man  carried  a  double-  barrelled  gun  on  a  leather  strap,  and  had  a  long  knife  and  an  old-fashioned  pistol  stuck  casually  inhis  belt.  Themen  looked  at  us  in  silence.  We  stared  back.  The  younger  one,  sighing  sadly,  said,  &quot;Isn't  it  terrible  what  things  have  come  to  when  the  children  of  the  gentry  sing  such  indecent  songs?  On  a  Sunday,  too!  What  would  your  great-  aunt  say?&quot;  &quot;Who  are  you?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;You  should  be  ashamed  of  your-  self,  bambina,  to  sing  such  obsceni-  ties!&quot;  Then,  turning  to  Nicola,  he  said,  &quot;Don't  be  frightened,  my  lad,  we  won't  hurt  you.  Just  come  with  us  quietly.&quot;  Nicola,  who  had  been  looking  with  interest  at  the  guns,  got  up  willingly.  &quot;What  are  you  carrying  guns  for,  if  you're  not  going  to  hurt  us?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  against  the  law.  And  such  old-  fashioned  guns,  too.&quot;  &quot;We  are  bandits,&quot;  said  the  older  man,  with  pride.  &quot;And  we  are  gentle-  men  who  know  what's  right.  You,  lit-  tle  girl-go  home  and  tell  the  Signora  that  unless  she  deposits  ten  thousand  lire,  within  two  days,  right  here  under " b"the  flower  vase  of  the  shrine  of  the  blessed  San  Sebastian,  we'll  send  the  boy  back  to  her  piecemeal,  beginning  with  his  ears.&quot;  Please,  take  me,  too,&quot;  I  pleaded,  hating  that  Nicola  should  have  all  the  excitement.  &quot;Do  as  I  tell  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  keep  that  tongue  of  yours  under  control,  or  you'll  die  an  old  maid.&quot;  Then  they  went  off,  taking  Nicola  with  them,  and  shouting,  &quot;Remem-  ber-ten  thousand  lire  in  two  days!  Here!&quot;  ARRIVED  home  as  the  bells  were  ringing  for  vespers,  and  managed  to  sneak  up  to  my  room.  There  I  sat  down  with  a  book,  as  if  I'd  been  home  for  hours.  The  house  was  even  more  silent  than  usual,  and  that  alarmed  me.  Where  was  Aunt  Rosa?  Why  hadn't  she  checked  up  on  me?  I  started  down  to  the  kitchen  to  find  out,  and  met  one  of  the  maids  on  the  stairs.  &quot;Are  you  ready?&quot;  she  shouted.  &quot;'They're  coming!  Madonna  mia,  you  look  a  sight!  Wash  your  face  and  comb  your  hair  and  put  on  a  clean  dress-they'll  be  here  any  minute!  And  tell  Nicola!&quot;  Aunt  Rosa  had  spent  the  afternoon  at  the  house  of  the  parish  priest,  it  seemed,  helping  to  entertain  the  Bishop  of  Frascati.  Since  the  priest  had  to  go  and  hold  the  evening  services,  the  Bishop  had  graciously  consented  to  come  to  our  house,  with  his  retinue,  to  meet  the  town's  notables,  who  had  been  summoned  by  our  maids.  Half  an  hour  later,  when  I  had  made  myself  presentable,  I  went  down-  stairs.  The  Bishop  and  his  retinue  were  talking  to  Aunt  Rosa,  the  doc-  tor,  the  lawyer,  the  chief  of  police,  the  pharmacist  (who  was  also  the  mayor),  and  several  important  wine  dealers,  who  had  come  with  their  wives.  The  ladies  were  all  dressed  up,  with  a  good  deal  of  jewelry  on  their  wrists  and  bosom  and  fingers.  Aunt  Rosa,  in  the  flowing  widow's  weeds  she  wore  whenever  she  left  the  house,  beamed  with  subservience  at  the  clergy  and  with  condescension  at  all  the  others.  She  introduced  me  to  the  Bishop,  pinch-  ing  my  arm  hard,  so  that  I  would  re-  member  to  curtsy  and  kiss  his  ring.  The  maids  were  handing  around  lit-  tle  seedcakes  and  small  glasses  of  ver-  mouth  or  marsala,  Aunt  Rosa  told  one  of  them  to  go  look  for  Nicola,  and  I  said,  &quot;Nicola  isn't  here,  Aunt  Rosa.  He's  been  kidnapped  by  the  bandits.  They  told  me  to  tell  you.&quot;  Aunt  Rosa  uttered  a  shriek,  and  then " b"with  a  gesture  of  high  tragedy  allowed  herself  to  be  led  to  a  chair.  Smelling  salts  were  brought,  and  the  Bishop  sat  next  to  her,  patting  her  hand  and  mak-  ing  soothing  noises.  Then  she  started  up  again.  Her  Nicola,  her  lamb,  had  fallen  prey  to  those  vultures!  The  chief  of  police,  with  gold  braid  on  his  uniform  and  immaculate  white  gloves  on  his  hands,  came  over  to  me  and  said  pompously,  &quot;Now,  little  girl,  tell  us  exactly  what  happened.&quot;  The  message  about  Nicola's  ears  con-  vinced  everybody  that  the  bandits  were  indeed  real  bandits.  Aunt  Rosa  was  assisted  up  the  stairs  to  her  room.  The  Bishop  and  his  companions  shuffled  away  in  embarrassment,  and  the  party  broke  up.  'The  chief  of  police  stayed  on,  waiting  for  Aunt  Rosa  to  recover  sufficiently  to  discuss  what  should  be  done.  She  sent  word  down  to  him  not  to  do  anything  till  morning,  because  by  then  the  boy  would  undoubtedly  be  ack.  The  chief  of  police  was  most  agreeable  to  this  proposal,  since  he  had  only  two  carabinieri  at  his  disposal  and  knew  how  they  would  feel  about  the  task  of  recovering  Nicola.  THE  next  morning,  I  got  up  well  before  sunrise  and  made  my  way  through  the  dark,  deserted  town  to  the shrineof  San  Sebastian.  My  guess  had  been  right.  The  two  bandits  were  there,  eating  bread  and  salami,  and  drinking  red  wine  from  a  bottle.  &quot;Where's  the  money?&quot;  they  asked.  You've  got  to  take  me,  too,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;She  won't  give  you  a  penny  for  Nicola,  but  if  I'm  gone,  too,  there'll  be  such  a  to-do  that  she'll  be  forced  to  pay.&quot;  The  two  men  looked  at  each  other.  The  older  one  said,  &quot;I  guess  she's  right.&quot;  The  younger  man  looked  glum.  &quot;I  guess  it's  the  only  way  to  bring  the  old  lady  around,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  what  an  inconvenience!&quot;  The  bandits  made  me  get  into  a  cart  and  covered  me  with  an  old  blanket.  We  travelled  through  the  countryside  for  a  couple  of  hours,  and  from  time  to  time  I  heard  the  bandits  cheerfully  greeting  peasants  on  their  way  to  work.  At  last  we  stopped  at  a  place  far  down  in  the  plain,  so  far  away  that  the  hill  of  Monte  Porzio  was  only  a  silhouette  on  the  horizon.  In  a  thick  grove  of  fruit  trees  run  wild  were  the  ruins  of  a  burned-out  house.  The  cellar  was  still  intact,  and  here  the  bandits  had  made  themselves  a  hideout.  They  had  sacks  of  straw  to  sleep  on,  a  table,  and  a  few  chairs.  'There  was  a  picture  of  the  Virgin  with  an  Eternal  Light  candle  " b"burning  beneath  it.  In  one  corner,  on  the  dirt  floor,  smoldered  the  embers  of  a  fire  that  kept  an  enamel  coffeepot  warm.  In  another  corner,  Nicola  was  play-  ing  morra  with  a  third  man.  Morra  is  a  low-class  gambling  game  played  with  the  hands;  each  player  guesses  how  many  fingers  his  opponent  will  thrust  forth.  In  those  days,  morre  was  forbid-  den  by  law,  because  it  led  to  too  many  knifings.  Besides  Nicola's  companion,  there  was  another  man  present,  who  looked  pretty  much  like  the  others.  None  of  them-least  of  all  Nicola-  were  pleased  to  see  me,  and  they  said  so.  My  spirits  rather  dampened,  I  sat  down  in  a  corner.  One  of  the  men  gave  me  a  cup  of  hot,  sweet  coffee  and  told  me  to  keep  quiet.  In  another  corner  of  the  room,  the  bandits  had  gathered  and  were  obviously  discussing  what  should  be  done  with  us  children.  There  was  no  doubt  that  my  coming  had  upset  their  plans;  my  own  two  bandits,  so  to  speak,  were  cursed  thoroughly  for  having  brought  me.  Then  they  told  me  their  decision-I  was  to  go  back  home,  right  away.  I  started  weeping  loudly,  and  this  so  shocked  the  bandits  that  one  of  them  began  to  lecture  me  on  how  little  girls  should  behave.  At  that  point,  the  door  burst  open  and  a  man  dressed  in  the  faded  cotton  the  peasants  wear  to  work  rushed  in  with  the  news  that  the  carabinieri  were  coming.  Confusion  broke  out.  &quot;Where  arethe  carabinieri?&quot;  shouted  the  ban-dits.  &quot;How  many  are  there?&quot;  &quot;They  are  gathering  in  Monte  Porzio-all  the  carabinieri  from  Monte  Compatri  and  Frascati,&quot;  said.  &quot;His  Excellency  the  Bishop  called  them,  because  the  old  lady  isn't  going  to  pay  a  penny.&quot; The  bandits  cleared  out  immediately,   with  Nicola.  As  they  started  up  the  cart,  they  called  to  me  to  get  home  asbest  I  could.  One  of  the  men  threw  me  a  little  parcel  wrapped  in  newspaper,  which  I  was  to  give  to  Aunt  Rosa.  I  must  have  walked  for  over  an  hour  be-  fore  I  met  some  peasants  and  persuaded  them  to  take  me  home  in  their  cart.  I  got  home  in  the  late  morning,  and  nobody  paid  any  attention  to  me  asI  came  into  the  kitchen.  The  chief  of  police  and  a  dozen  men  in  rather  grubby  uniforms,  but  armed  with  rifles  and  pistols,  were  sitting  with  my  aunt  at  the  big  table.  They  were  planning  strategy  and  drinking  more  wine  than  the  old  lady  liked,  as  I  could  see  from  her  disapproving  glances.  I  thrust  the  newspaper  parcel  into  Aunt  Rosa's  " b"hands,  and  explained  that  it  came  from  the  bandits.  Too  excited  to  inquire  how  I  came  to  have  the  parcel,  she  opened  it,  andsaw  a  handful  of  Nicola's  reddish  hair.  My  aunt  shrieked,  and  drank  a  full  glass  of  wine  herself.  Then  she  said,  &quot;I  will  not  be  bullied  into  submission.  Even  if  my  poor  little  Nicola  has  to  suffer  for  a  while,  it  is  better  that  his  precious  inheritance  should  not  be  touched.  But  you  men-you  will  catch  the  criminals,  to  prove  that  in  our  glo-  rious  4974616c79  crime  shall  not  go  unpun-  ished.  Who  knows?&quot;  she  added  coyly.  &quot;''There  might  be  some  reward  in  it  for  you.&quot;  HE  carabinieri  spent  the  next  two  days  searching  the  countryside  in  a  desultory  manner.  Aunt  Rosa  com-  posed  herself  to  wait  and  to  pray.  Sev-  eral  times,  it  was  suggested  to  her  that  she  call  off  the  search  and  negotiate,  but  she  refused  indignantly.  The  parish  priest,  thoroughly  alarmed,  got  in  touch  with  Nicola's  fa-  ther,  who  came  immediately.  My  uncle  was  outraged  that  Aunt  Rosa  had  done  nothing,  and  used  obscene  language  in  her  presence  and  called  her  names.  When  she  threatened  to  cut  him  out  of  her  will,  he  laughed,  and  threw  a  glass  of  wine  at  her,  missed  her,  and  deplored  his  poor  aim.  Then  he  went  to  the  chief  of  police  and  announced  that  he  was  going  to  take  matters  into  his  own  hands.  Through  an  intermediary,  he  sent  word  to  the  bandits  to  meet  him-  where,  I  never  learned-and  arrange  for  the  ransom.  They  were  to  bring  the  boy.  The  two  original  kidnappers  deliv-  ered  Nicola  over  to  my  uncle.  For  their  trouble,  they  received  ten  lire  each,  as  opposed  to  their  original  price  of  ten  thousand  lire.  'They  took  the  money  without  a  murmur.  'The  only  difficulty  my  uncle  had  was  with  his  son,  who  did  not  want  to  go  home  to  a  life  of  restraint  and  study,  and  created  such  a  commo-" b"tion  that  one  of  the  bandits  tried  to  in-  tercede,  on  the  ground  that,  after  all,  they  had  taken  good  care  of  the  boy,  so  why  couldn't  he  stay  a  little  longer?  They'd  return  him  in  a  few  weeks,  for  sure.  My  uncle's  answer  was  to  give  Nicola  a  thrashing,  but  afterward  he  allowed  him  to  say  goodbye  to  his  cap-  tors.  Nicola  embraced  them  tenderly,  swearing  eternal  friendship  and  promis-  ing  to  come  and  see  them  soon.  The  bandits,  too,  were  moved.  As  a  part-  ing  gift,  one  of  them  gave  the  boy  a  sil-  ver  holy  medal.  That  same  day,  my  uncle  took  both  ofus  back  to  4974616c79.  HE  family's  attitude  toward  Aunt  Rosa's  money  did  not  change  as  a  result  of  the  kidnapping,  and  she  con-  tinued  to  lord  it  over  us.  While  I  was  away  at  school  in  [REDACTED],  she  suf-  fered  a  stroke,.  At  the  first  news  of  her  illness,  my  mother,  my  uncle,  and  a  number  of  other  relatives  hastened  to  her  bedside,  and  took  turns  watching  over  her,  She  died  without  regaining  consciousness.  Aunt  Rosa  had  made  a  will  only  a  few  weeks  before  she  was  stricken.  It  was  read  in  one  of  the  salons,  which  had  been  decorated  with  black  cr\xc3\xa9pe  stream-  ers  for  the  occasion.  'The  atmosphere  was  tense,  and  it  was  made  more  so  by  the  presence  of  the  parish  priest-a  most  unusual  thing.  The  will  was  simple.  Everything  Aunt  Rosa  had  was  left  un-  conditionally  to  the  Church,  with  the  exception  of  two  bequests.  My  mother  received  a  length  of  black  dress  mate-  rial,  which  age  had  made  rusty  at  the  folds,  and  Nicola  received  Aunt  Rosa's  well-worn  second-best  Latin  missal,  with  the  admonition  that  he  use  it  often  and  carefully. "