 b"said,  almost  with  enjoyment.  &quot;And  I  wouldn't  mind  that  itself  if  only  they'd  leave  me  my  housekeeper.  The  jail  won't  take  much  out  of  her,  but  'twill  kill  me.  At  my  age  I'm  not  going  to  be  able  to  find  another  woman  to  look  after  me  the  way  she  does.  Unless  they'd  let  me  go  to  jail  along  with  her.&quot;  Tim  was  an  emotional  young  man,  and  he  could  hardly  contemplate  the  personal  problems  that  the  Bishop  set  up  in  that  casual  way  of  his.  ''There's  nobody  in  this  place  would  do  anything  to  upset  you,&quot;  he  said,  growing  red.  &quot;I'm  sure  they'll  be  well  satisfied  if  she  paid  the  fine,  without  sending  her  to  jail.  The  only  thing  is,  from  my  point  of  view,  could  you  con-  trol  her?&quot;  &quot;I  could  do  nothing  of  the  kind,&quot;  the  Bishop  replied  in  his  blank  way.  &quot;If  I  was  to  give  you  my  oath  to  control  her  for  the  future,  would  you  believe  me?  You  would  not.I  couldn't  control  her.  You  might  be  able  to  do  it.&quot;  &quot;I'd  damn  soon  do  it  if  I  had  a  free  hand,&quot;  Tim  said  loyally.  &quot;I'd  give  you  all  the  hand  you  want,&quot;  the  Bishop  said  placidly.  &quot;I'd  give  you  quarters  here  if  you  wanted  them.  You  see,  'tis  more  in  my  interest  than  yours  to  stop  the  scandal,  before  they  have  me  married  to  her.&quot;  From  the  dryness  of  his  tone,  the  Bishop,  an  unemotion-  al  man,  seemed  to  be  suffering.  &quot;I  wouldn't  forget  it  for  you,&quot;  he  added  anxiously.  &quot;Anyway,  I'll  have  a  talk  to  Butcher,  and  see  if  he  can't  do  some-  thing  for  you.  Not  thatthat  poor  fool  knows  what  he's  doing,  most  of  the  time.&quot;  HAT  afternoon,  the  Bishop  sat  on  by  his  window  and  watched  as  a  lorry  drove  up  before  his  palace  and  Tim  [REDACTED]  loaded  it  with  commodities  the  Bishop  had  thought  long  gone  from  the  world-chests  of  tea,  bags  of  sugar,  boxes  of  butter.  There  seemed  to  be  no  end  to  them.  He  felt  crushed  and  humbled.  Like  all  bishops,  he  was  ad-  dicted  to  power,  but  he  saw  now  that  a  bishop's  power,  like  a  bishop's  knowl-  edge,  was  little  better  than  a  shadow.  He  was  just  a  lonely  old  man  who  was  dependent  on  women,  exactly  as  when  they  had  changed  his  napkin  and  he  had  crowed  and  kicked  his  heels.  There  was  no  escape.  Mercifully,  Nellie  herself  didn't  put  in  an  appearance  as  the  premises  were  gone  through.  That  evening,  when  she  opened  the  door  and  said  meekly,  &quot;Din-  ner  is  served,  my  Lord,&quot;  the  Bishop  went  in  to  a  royal  spread-the  juiciest  of  roast  beef,  with  roast  potatoes  and  ten-  der  young  peas  drowned  in  butter.  The  Bishop  ate  stolidly  through  it,  reading  the  book  in  front  of  his  plate  and  never  addressing  a  word  to  her.  He  was  too  bitter.  He  went  to  his  study  and  took  down  the  history  of  the  diocese,  which  had  so  often  consoled  him  in  earlier  griefs,  but  that  night  there  was  no  con-  solation  in  it.  It  seemed  that  none  of  the  men  who  had  held  the  see  before  him  was  of  the  sort  to  be  dominated  by  an  old  housekeeper,  except  for  an  eight-  eenth-century  bishop  who,  in  order  to  inherit  a  legacy,  had  become  a  Protes-  tant.  The  door  opened,  and  Nellie  looked  shyly  in.  &quot;What  way  are  you  feeling  now?&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;Let  me  alone,&quot;  he  said  in  a  dry  voice,  without  looking  at  her.  &quot;My  heart  is  broken!&quot;  &quot;?Tisn't  your  heart  at  [REDACTED];  she  said  shamefastly.  &quot;  'Tis  that  beef.  'T'wasn't  hung  long  enough,  that's  all.  There  isn't  a  butcher  in  this  town  will  be  bothered  to  hang  beef.  Would  I  get  you  a  couple  of  scrambled  eggs?&quot;  &quot;Go  away,  I  said.&quot;  &quot;You're  right,  my  Lord.  There's  nothing  in  eggs.  Would  I  fry  you  a  couple  of  rashers?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  anything,  woman!&quot;  he  said,  almost  shouting  at  her.  &quot;The  dear  knows,  the  rashers  aren't  worth  it,&quot;  she  admitted  with  a  heavy  sigh.  &quot;Nothing  only  old  bones,  and  the  hair  still  sprouting  on  them.  What  you  want  is  a  nice  little  juicy  bit  of  Lim-  erick  ham  with  a  couple  of  mashed  pota-  toes  and  milk  sauce  with  parsley.  That'll  make  a  new  man  of  you.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  angrily.  &quot;But  go  away  and  let  me  alone.&quot;  His  mouth  was  already  watering,  but  he  knew  that  there  was  no  ham  in  Limerick  or  out  of  it  that  could  lift  his  sorrow;  that  whenever  a  woman  says  something  will  make  a  new  man  of  you,  all  she  means  is  that,  like  the  rest  of  her  crooked  devices,  it  will  make  an  old  man  of  you  before  your  time. " b"IN  the  1880s,  Emporia,  [REDACTED],  was  a  friendly  town  with  a  population  of  about  eight  thousand.  Laid  out  in  the  form  of  a  square,  the  town  was  bisected  from  north  to  south  by  Com-  mercial  Street  and  from  eastto  westby  Sixth  [REDACTED],  At  the  north  end  of  Commercial  Street  stood  the  State  Nor-  mal,  and  at  the  south  end  was  Soden's  Mill  and  Grove.  The  waters  of  the  Cottonwood  River  turned  the  mill  wheel  and  ground  the  grain  brought  in  by  the  farmers  of  the  region.  The  Grove  was  the  town's  main  picnic  spot,  though  some  picnicking  parties  went  to  the  banks  of  the  Neosho  River,  north  of  the  Normal.  In  the  spring,  the  prairie  between  the  Normal  and  the  river  was  thick  with  wild  flowers-yellow  cowslips,  blue  violets,  Johnny-jump-  ups,  jack-in-the-pulpits,  and  white  grassflowers  that  we  called  spring  beauties.  My  family  lived  in  a  rambling  old  frame  house  on  Merchant  Street,  one  block  west  of  Commercial  and  three  blocks  north  of  Sixth  [REDACTED].  The  house  had  a  cellar,  where  food  was  stored  and  where  washing  and  ironing  were  done  by  a  Negro  woman  named  Rena,  who  came  two  days  a  week.  Rena  had  a  daughter,  who  inherited  my  old  clothes.  I  once  heard  my  mother  say,  &quot;Rena,  you  won't  want  these  stockings.  They  are  full  of  holes.&quot;  &quot;Makes  no  difference,&quot;  said  Rena.  &quot;I  jest  puts  two  pairs  on  Pearly,  and  the  holes  don't  hardlyever  \\&amp;  When  Rena  came  to  work  at  our  house,  she  al-  ways  rode  the  mule  car,  and  my  mother  would  add  two  nickels  to  her  day's  wages  to  pay  the  fare  each  way.  The  mule  car  was  smaller  and  lighter  than  a  trolley  car,  with  several  windows  and  with  two  seats,  one  on  each  side,  extending  from  one  end  of  the  car  to  the  other.  It  ran,  on  tracks,  the  length  of  Commercial  Street,  between  the  Normal,  in  the  north,  and  Soden's  Mill,  in  thesouth,  and,  largely  at  the  request  of  passengers,  took  side  trips  on  Sixth  [REDACTED],  between  the  rail-  road  depot,  which  was  the  western  ter-  minal  of  the  mule-car  tracks,  and  the  open  prairie,  which  marked  their  east-  ern  limit.  Near  the  driver,  a  glass  coin  box  was  fastened  to  one  side  of  the  car.  Nickels  were  dropped  into  it  and  could  be  watched  as  they  slipped  slowly  down  from  level  to  level  on  slanting  glass  shelves.  In  winter,  straw  was  spread  on  the  floor  to  keep  the  passengers'  feet  warm,  but  a  better  way  to  keep  warm  was  to  hop  off  and  walk  beside  the  car  for  a  while  and  then  hop  on  again.  It  was  not  difficult  to  match  the  leisurely  pace  of  the  mule.  I  think  he  wore  a  bell.  I  seem  to  remember  the  tinkle  of  a  bell  sounding  in  time  to  the  clop  of  the  mule's  feet.  ONE  summer  morning,  when  I  was  about  seven  years  old,  my  mother  woke  me  and  told  me  to  dress  quickly,  because,  she  said,  she  had  one  of  her  sick  headaches,  and  she  wanted  me  to  go  and  get  Rena.  My  father  was  away  on  a  trip.  I  dressed  and  had  a  hasty  break-  fast,  and  shortly  before  ten  o'clock  I  left  the  house,  with  one  nickel  in  my  hand,  for  immediate  use,  and  another  one,  for  the  return  trip,  tied  in  a  corner  of  my  handkerchief,  which  was  fastened  inside  my  dress  pocket  with  a  safety  pin.  When  I  got  to  Commercial  Street,  I  could  see  the  mule  car  coming  south  from  the  Normal.  It  was  empty  when  it  reached  the  corner  where  I  waited,  and  the  mule  stood  obligingly  until  I  deposited  my  nickel  and  took  a  seat.  The  driver  asked  where  I  wanted  to  go,  and  I  said,  &quot;West  to  the  depot.&quot;  &quot;Ain't  no  train,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  asked,  &quot;Where  you  goin'?&quot;  I  explained  that  I  was  the  bearer  of  a  message  to  Rena  Jones,  who  worked  for  my  mother  and  who  lived  beyond  the  depot.  The  driver  nodded,  and  we  drove  on.  At  Sixth  [REDACTED],  two  women  load-  ed  with  bundles  came  aboard  and  told  the  driver  to  take  them  to  the  Mill.  The  driver  regarded  me  casually  and  then,  appar-  ently  having  made  up  his  mind,  said  to  me,  &quot;I'll  give  you  a  ride  all  the  way  to  the  Mill  an'  back  an'  I  won't  charge  you-how's  that?&quot;  &quot;''That's  fine,&quot;  said  one  of  the  women,  and  theyboth  settled  them-  selves  and  their  bundles.  &quot;We  got  to  get  home  with  this  stuff,  and  this  little  girl's  got  lots  of  time.  Fun  to  ride  on  the  car,  ain't  it,  Sis?&quot;  I  did  not  reply;  it  didn't  seem  to  matter  very  much.  Distances  in  Emporia  were  not  great.  I  could  have  walked.  From  Commer-  cial  Street  to  the  depot  was  only  a  little  farther  than  the  distance  from  my  home  to  the  grocery  store,  where  I  went  al-  most  daily  and  sometimes  more  than " b"once  a  day.  It  was,  however,  unfamiliar  territory.  Actually,  I  was  now  deterred  from  walking  by  one  thing  only:  I  hed  poid  my  mickel.  'The  payment  of  a  nickel  implied  that  I  would  be  delivered  to  my  destination.  My  dignity  demand-  ed  it.  I  amused  myself  by  thinking  of  some  of  the  things  that  a  nickel  would  buy-a  loaf  offreshly  baked  bread,  or  six  sugar  cookies,  or  six  fat  doughnuts  at  Harvey's  bakery,  or  a  dish  of  ice  cream  at  the  ice-cream  parlor.  I  was  making  myself  hungry.  If  the  driver  had  returned  my  nickel,  I  would  glad-  ly  have  walked  and  spent  it  for  food.  The  reason  my  mother  had  told  me  to  ride,  I  think,  was  that  she  was  afraid  I'd  loiter.  She  didn't  understand  about  mules.  'The  thought  of  my  mother  disturbed  me.  She  had  one  of  her  sick  headaches  and  she  was  all  alone,  but  I  dismissed  these  facts  from  my  mind,  be-  cause  we  were  about  ready  to  start  again.  T  the  Mill,  the  women  with  the  bundles  departed.  The  driver  then  stepped  out  of  the  car,  unhitched  the  mule,  led  him  around  to  the  other  end,  and  hitched  him  up  again.  Then  he  got  in  and  shifted  the  glass  box  to  what  was  now  the  front,  or  north,  end  of  the  car,  and  we  sat  awhile,  rest-  ing  the  mule.  I  have  no  idea  how  long  we  might  have  waited  had  not  a  man  walked  up  to  the  car.  He  was  well  dressed  and  had  a  waxed  mustache.  Bustling  on,  with  the  air  of  a  man  in  a  hurry,  he  deposited  his  fare  and  sat  down  across  from  me,  We  then  drove  off.  Every  now  and  then,  the  man  would  twist  the  ends  of  his  mustache,  and  from  time  to  time  he  took  out  his  watch,  which  was  fastened  toa  heavy  gold  chain  that  had  a  winding  key  and  also  several  emblems  dangling  from  it,  and  looked  at  it,  and  made  clucking  noises  with  his  tongue.  He  seemed  to  be  worrying  over  being  late  for  some-  thing.  I  wondered  whether,  when  we  got  to  Sixth  [REDACTED],  he  would  want  to  keep  on  north  or  whether  he  would  turn  east  and  I  would  be  given  another  free  ride.  Well,  at  Sixth  [REDACTED]  the  gentleman  said  he  had  an  important  en-  gagement  near  the  eastern  terminal  of  the  tracks.  The  driver  looked  at  me  and  said,  &quot;When  we  git  back,  I'll  take  you  to  the  depot  no  matter  who  gits  on.&quot;  I  nodded.  I  felt  sure  that  the  gentle-  man  wouldn't  want  to  first  take  a  ride  out  to  the  depot  and  back,  even  if  it  was  free.  As  we  rode  east,  the  man  kept  twirling  his  mustache  ends  and  looking  at  his  watch.  Once  he  asked  me  if  I  was  the  driver's  little  girl.  I  shook  my  head,  and " b"that  was  the  end  of  our  conversation.  Finally,  he  got  up  and  went  to  the  front  end,  where  the  driver  sat.  &quot;Can't  you  make  that  mule  go  a  little  faster?&quot;  he  asked.  (Nope.),  &quot;I  can  walk  as  fast  as  we  are  going.&quot;  (Yup\xe2\x80\x98,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;  Doesn't  this  town  have  any  hacks?&quot;  &quot;  A  carryall  makes  the  trains  and  takes  folks  to  the  hotel.  Cost  s  two  bits.  &quot;  &quot;Some  hick  town.&quot;  &quot;We  like  it,&quot;  said  the  driver.  ''Them  as  don't  needn't  stay.&quot;  The  man  laughed.  &quot;No  offense  in-  tended  ,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  could've  hired  a  rig  from  the  livery  stable  if  you  was  in  such  an  all-  fired  hurry.  Gilchrist's  got  some  high  -  steppers  .  You'd  ought  to  see  what  they  can  turn  out  for  a  funeral.  &quot;  'The  man  subsided  after  that  and  re-  sumed  the  twirling  of  his  mustache.  He  may  have  become  resigned,  as  I  had,  to   going  where  the  mule  went,  and  when.  As  we  neared  the  eastern  end  of  the  line,  the  man  jumped  off  and  started  on  a  run  to  ward  a  large  house set  back  from  the  road.  The  driver  looked  after  him,  spat  out  the  window,  and  said,  &quot;'  Them  barbershop  swells  with  their  waxed  mustaches  think  ever'thin's  got  to  stop  for  'em  .&quot;  &quot;  'The  mule  almost  did,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'  'They  think  they  can  come  over  from  [REDACTED]  City  and  tell  us  what's  what.&quot;  &quot;  Was  he  from  [REDACTED]  City?&quot;  &quot;Al  ways  grumblin',  nothin'  suits  '  em.  I  can  spot  'em  ever  '  time.  &quot;  He  got  out  then  and  unhitched  the  mule,  but  not,  as  I  expectantly  hoped,  to  hitch  him  to  the  return  end  of  the  car.  Holding  the  mule  by  the  halter,  he  put  his  head  in  the  door  and  spoke  to  me.  &quot;You  better  git  out  and  stretch  your  legs.  I  gotta  feed  an'  water  the  mule.  &quot;  With  that,  he  started  down  a  side  road  and  left  me  alone  in  the  car.  I  got  out  and  walked  around  the  car  a  few  times,  but  there  was  nothing  to  see,  no  s  hop-  windows  to  gaze  into  -just  a  few  houses  and,  beyond  them,  the  open  prairie.  I  got  back  into  the  car  and  sat  on  the  driver's  seat  .  He  had  a  sort  of  cushion  there,  and  it  was  a  welcome  re-  lief.  I  tried  to  imagine  that  I  was  driv-ing  the  mule,  but  my  eyes  tired  with  looking  at  the  bright,  sun-baked  prairie.  I  walked  up  and  d  own  the  car,  and  then  tried  to  see  how  the  nickels  could  be  taken  from  the  glass  box.  Presently,  I  stretched  out  full  length  on  one  of  the  seats,  but  it  was  too  hard  and  I  soon  stood  up  again.  After  what  seemed  like  a  good  chunk  of  eternity,  I  saw  the  " b"driver  returning  with  the  mule.  The  driver  was  eating  an  apple.  He  finished  it  and  fed  the  core  to  the  mule  before  he  hitched  him  again  to  the  car.  By  the  time  he  had  transferred  the  glass  box,  I  was  ready  to  cry,  I  was  so  hungry.  I  think  I  envied  the  mule  the  apple  core.  I  had  long  since  extracted  the  last  bit  of  satisfaction  from  the  free  ride,  and  I  was  having  qualms  over  what  I  should  say  to  my  mother.  I  had  no  watch,  but  I  thought  it  must  be  almost  one  o'clock.  ACK  at  Sixth  and  Commercial,  a  very  pompous  gentleman,  with  long  whiskers,  came  up  to  the  driver  and  asked,  &quot;Which  way  are  you  going?&quot;  &quot;I  was  aimin'  to  go  west,&quot;  said  the  driver.  &quot;I  have  to  get  to  the  Normal,&quot;  said  the  man.  He  told  who  he  was,  a  Pro-  fessor  Something-or-Other.  &quot;Ill  give  you  two  bits  to  take  me  there,&quot;  he  added.  He  got  in,  put  his  money  in  the  glass  box,  and  sat  down.  The  driver  pretended  not  to  notice  me  or  to  re-  member  what  he  had  said  about  taking  me  to  the  depot  no  matter  who  got  on.  He  just  turned  the  mule  north  without  resting  him,  and  presently  he  even  hur-  ried  the  mule-something  he  wouldn't  do  for  the  man  with  the  mustache.  This  man,  the  professor,  kept  smoothing  his  long  whiskers.  I  was  fascinated  by  the  two-bit  piece.  It  moved  down  the  glass  shelves  more  slowly  than  the  nickels  had.  We  made  good  time  and  soon  reached  the  Normal,  where  the  profes-  sor  got  off,  thanking  the  driver  but  not  even  noticing  me.  The  driver  again  rested  the  mule.  While  we  were  wait-  ing,  a  red-faced  countrywoman,  wear-  ing  men's  shoes  and  carrying  a  basket,  got  on  the  car,  paid  her  nickel,  and  sat  down  across  from  me.  She  took  a  news-  paper  from  her  basket  and  began  fan-  ning  herself  with  it.  &quot;Hot,  ain't  it?&quot;  she  said.  Then  she  asked  me  how  long  before  the  car  would  start.  I  said  I  didn't  know.  &quot;I  ain't  feelin'  good,&quot;  said  the  wom-  an.  &quot;'The  driver's  bringing  the  mule  around,&quot;  I  said,  thinking  how  red  her  face  was.  &quot;We'll  be  starting  pretty  soon  now.  You  know,  a  man  who  got  off  just  now  was  a  professor,  and  he  put  two  bits  in  the  box  to  have  the  driver  bring  him  to  the  Normal  instead  of  taking  me  to  the  depot.&quot;  The  woman  looked  at  the  box,  as  if  to  make  sure  that  what  I  said  was  true.  Then  she  shook  her  head.  &quot;He  must  be  awful  rich,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Or  foolish,&quot;  said  the  woman.  She  " b"leaned  back  and  fanned  harder  and  harder,  until  presently  she  dropped  the  paper.  &quot;Your  face  is  awful  red,&quot;  I  said.  She  looked  at  me  but  didn't  say  anything.  Just  then,  the  driver  put  his  head  in  the  door  and  asked  her  where  she  wanted  to  go.  It  seemed  hard  for  her  to  speak,  but  she  finally  said  she  wanted  to  go  to  the  depot  to  pick  up  some  machine  parts  that  would  be  on  the  train.  The  driver  nodded  approvingly.  Before  we  got  back  to  Sixth  and  Commercial,  something  happened  to  the  woman.  Her  eyes  rolled,  and  then  she  slumped  down  and  slid  onto  the  floor,  and  lay  there  moaning.  Stepping  over  her,  I  went  up  to  thedriver  and  pulled  his  sleeve.  He  looked  at  me  and  sort  of  scowled  and  nodded.  &quot;We're  goin'  to  the  depot,&quot;  he  said.  I  pointed  behind  me  to  the  woman  and  said,  &quot;She's  not  dead.  I  can  see  her  breathing.&quot;  The  driver  stopped  the  mule.  We  were  near  the  center  of  town.  Then  he  looked  back  at  the  prostrate  form  and  scratched  his  head.  &quot;Hell  and  tarna-  tion.  Can't  take  her  to  the  depot  like  that.  You  stay  here  with  her,&quot;  he  said,  and  got  off  the  car.  I  stayed.  I  was  frightened,  but  there  was  nothing  I  could  do.  The  driver  came  right  back  with  several  men.  T  wo  of  them  and  the  driver  got  into  the  car,  and  the  rest  stood  outside.  &quot;'Think  we  can  lift  her?&quot;  asked  the  driver.  &quot;She's  a  big  woman.&quot;  One  of  the  men  got  behind  herand,  putting  his  hands  under  her  shoulders,  lifted  her.  She  moaned  and  her  head  drooped.  &quot;'You  get  her  from  that  end,&quot;  he  said  to  the  driver,  &quot;and  let's  see  if  we  can  hoist  her.&quot;  They  got  her  up,  and  the  third  man  put  his  arms  under  her  waist,  and  they  moved  her  to  the  door.  There  they  ran  into  trouble.  The  woman  was  like  a  piece  of  furniture  that  won'tgo  round  a  bend.  They  had  to  stand  her  up  and  they  almost  dropped  her,  but  when  they  got  her  off  the  car,  there  were  the  other  men  tohelp.  Oneman  said  to  take  her  to  the  Whitley  House,  which  was  just  a  few  doors  away;  he  said  the  hotel  could  get  a  doctor,  They  started  off  toward  the  hotel,  and  I  went  out  onto  the  sidewalk.  While  I  was  standing  there,  [REDACTED]  Graham  came  along.  She  lived  on  the  next  corner  from  our  house,  and  some-  times  she  noticed  me.  A  freckle-faced  girl,  she  was  older  and  bigger  than  I  was,  and  she  went  to  parties  with  boys,  and  even  out  driving  with  them.  Her  father  was  publisher  of  one  of  Emporia's  two  newspapers.  She  told  me  once  that" b"her  father  said  he  found  her  under  a  sunflower  and  that  was  why  she  was  so  freckled.  [REDACTED]  was  an  adopted  child,  and  she  knew  it,  but  she  didn't  mind.  She  stopped  now  and  asked  me  what  was  going  on.  Itold  her  what  had  hap-  pened.  She  took  my  hand  and  said,  &quot;Let's  find  out  about  it,  and  I'll  tell  my  father.&quot;  A  crowd  had  gathered  outside  the  hotel.  We  pushed  through  and  got  inside.  The  woman  was  lying  on  the  floor  of  the  lobby,  and  the  men  were  all  standing  around  her.  [REDACTED]  got  a  pad  and  pencil  out  of  her  pocketbook  and  asked  the  men  what  the  woman's  name  was.  Nobody  knew.  They  said  they  had  seen  her  about  but  didn't  know  her  name.  &quot;Where's  the  doctor?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked.  They  said  he  was  coming.  I  kept  looking  at  the  driver.  I  was  proud  to  be  with  [REDACTED],  and  I  hoped  he'd  notice.  A  doctor  arrived  with  his  black  bag,  and  knelt  down  beside  the  woman.  He  listened  to  her  heart  and  shook  his  head.  &quot;Think  you  men  can  carry  her  to  a  room?&quot;  &quot;Upstairs?&quot;  one  of  the  men  said.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  said  the  doctor,  &quot;but  I  can't  take  care  of  her  here  on  the  floor.  She  should  be  put  to  bed,  and  I  can  get  a  woman  to  stay  with  her  until  we  find  out  who  she  is-that  is,  if  she  lives  that  long.  I'd  say  she's  had  a  stroke.&quot;  [REDACTED]  went  up  to  the  doctor  and  said,  &quot;I'll  have  my  father  put  it  in  the  pa-  per,  so  her  folks  will  know  what  hap-  pened  to  her.  Did  she  have  a  pocketbook  or  a  bag?&quot;  The  men  shook  their  heads.  &quot;She  had  a  basket,&quot;  I  volunteered,  &quot;and  it's  in  the  car.&quot;  &quot;Run  and  get  it,&quot;  said  [REDACTED].  I  ran  outside,  and  over  to  the  car.  A  lot  of  boys  were  jumping  on  and  off  the  front  steps  of  the  car,  trying  to  make  it  rock.  The  mule  wasn't  paying  any  at-  tention.  'The  boys  let  me  through,  and  I  got  the  basket  and  took  it  back  to  the  hotel.  Inside  the  basket  was  a  shabby  old  pocketbook.  [REDACTED]  opened  it  and  found  a  letter  there  with  a  name  on  the  envelope  but  no  address  except  Em-  poria,  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  wrote  down  the  name  and  then  opened  the  letter,  which  turned  out  to  be  from  a  company  that  was  sending  the  woman  some  sewing,  machine  parts  that  were  to  be  picked  up  at  the  depot  when  the  train  came  in  that  day.  The  driver  said  he  could  get  them  for  her,  if  they  wanted  him  to.  [REDACTED]  gave  him  the  letter,  and  said,  &quot;You'd  better  do  that.&quot;  I  certainly  admired  how  she  took  over.  She  put  the  pocketbook  back  in  the  basket,  which  she  then  gave  to  the  doc-  tor.  When  she  left,  the  men  all  looked" b"after  her.  She  had  a  certain  style,  in  spite  of  the  freckles.  The  men  picked  up  the  woman,  and  I  went  out  to  the  side-  walk  to  get  out  of  the  way.  I  watched  [REDACTED]  going  up  the  street.  Years  later,  when  my  family  moved  to  [REDACTED]  City  and  my  mother  took  me  to  &quot;The  Mikado,&quot;  we  saw  [REDACTED]  in  the  chorus.  She  called  herself  [REDACTED]  Livingstone.  My  mother  explained  that  the  Grahams  hadn't  wanted  her  to  use  their  name  when  she  went  on  the  stage;  her  father  had  said  that  she  was  to  be  an  adven-  turer,  and  suggested  Livingstone.  We  heard  later  on  that  she  got  a  lot  of  notoriety  for  wearing  tights  in  some-  thing  called  &quot;The  Black  Crook,&quot;  in  New  York  City,  and,  as  time  went  on,  she  became,  of  course,  quite  celebrated.  When  she  was  growing  old,  she  had  her  memoirs  published  in  Cosmopolitan,  and  in  them  she  referred  to  herself  as  the  most  dangerous  woman  in  Europe  and  the  playfellow  of  Queen  Victoria's  boy  Edward,  Prince  of  [REDACTED].  She  also  told  of  winning  a  bet  and  getting  a  free  trip  around  the  world.  Another  thing  I  heard  later  was  that  once,  when  she  was  on  her  way  to  Reno  to  start  a  night  club,  she  stopped  uff  at  Emporia  to  daz-  zle  her  old  friends  with  her  car,  her  diamonds,  and  her  adventures.  Now  she  was  just  a  big  girl  with  freckles  and  a  way  with  her.  HE  driver  and  the  other  men  were  coming  out  of  the  hotel,  and  I  went  back  to  the  car.  The  boys  had  gone.  I  was  beginning  to  have  a  fatalistic  feeling  about  ever  getting  to  the  depot,  and  it  looked  as  if  I  was  right.  When  the  driver  got  in  the  car  and  flicked  the  reins,  the  mule  pulled  but  the  car  wouldn't  move.  The  driver  got  out  and,  looking  at  the  front  wheels,  saw  that  K  they  were  off  the  rails.  He  then  looked  at  me  and  scratched  his  head.  &quot;Now, how  did  that  happen?&quot;  he  asked.  I  told  #  him  about  the  boys.  He  nodded.  &quot;''Trou-ble  don't  never  come  single,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You'd  better  go  stand  on  the  sidewalk  and  keep  an  eye  on  the  car.  I  got  to  git  help  if  we're  goin'  to  make  that  train.&quot;  believe  he  now  thought  I  was  meeting that  train,  too.  I  went  over  to  the  sidewalk,  wonder-  ing  why  he  wanted  me  to  watch  the  car.  I  was  so  hungry  by  now  that  I  was  hav-  ing  pains  in  my  stomach.  I  thought  seri-  ously  of  walking  home  to  get  something  to  eat  and  to  explain  to  my  mother,  but  I  was  afraid  she  might  not  let  me  come  back,  or,  if  she  did,  the  mule  car  would  be  gone.  In  a  few  minutes,  the  driver  showed  up  with  some men,  one  of  whom  I  recognized  as  a  blacksmith,  be-" b"cause  he  wore  a  leather  apron  and  car-  ried  a  big  iron  bar.  The  men  started  try-  ing  to  lever  the  front  end  of  the  car  back  onto  the  tracks.  Presently  they  succeeded,  and  a  shout  went  up  from  a  group  of  onlookers.  The  driver  thanked  the  blacksmith  and  the  other  men,  and  then  began  looking  around.  I  figured  he  was  looking  for  me,  so  I  went  over  and  got  in  the  car  once  more.  'Then  some  other  people  got  in,  all  of  whom  were  going  west,  but  by  the  time  we  reached  the  depot,  I  was  the  only  passenger.  The  driver  regarded  me  thoughtfully.  &quot;You  goin'  back?&quot;  he  asked.  I  said  I  was.  &quot;How  long  before  you'll  be  ready  to  go?&quot;  I  said  I  didn't  know.  &quot;There's  a  train  about  four  that  I  aim  to  wait  for.  Can  you  be  back  by  then?&quot;  I  said  I  would  try.  Rena  lived  beyond  the  town  limits,  in  a  colored  community  called  Stringtown.  I  had  never  been  there,  and  neither  had  my  mother.  She  had  told  me  to  ask  some  nice-looking  person  to  point  out  the  way.  I  looked  around  uncertainly  and  decided  to  ask  the  driver.  &quot;Stringtown?&quot;  he  said,  in  answer  to  my  question.  &quot;It's  over  that  way.  Ipick  'em  up  in  the  mornin'  goin'  to  work,  an'  they  come  from  over  there.  Just  keep  walkin'  until  you  see  some  houses.  Just  ask  anybody  you  see.  Is  your  lady  a  colored  person?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;Well,  you  hurry  an'  try  to  git  back  by  four.  You're  kinda  little  to  be  goin'  over  there  by  yourself.&quot;  I  explained  again  that  my  mother  was  sick  and  had  sent  me  for  Rena.  A  momentary  look  of  concern  crossed  the  driver's  face.  &quot;I  picked  you  up  about  ten  this  mornin',  didn't  I?&quot;  he  asked.  I  said  that  was  about  the  time.  &quot;Where  I  made  my  mistake,&quot;  said  the  driver,  &quot;was  takin'  that  two  bits  for  a  nickel  ride.  I  shoulda  knowed  I'd  have  trouble.  Broke  my  word  to  you,  too,  Now  you  git  goin'  and  try  to  git  back  here  by  four.  T'll  wait  for  you  long  as  I  can.&quot;  IT  seemed  like  a  long  walk  over  the  prairie  stubble  before  I  came  to  a  group  of  houses.  There  I  spoke  to  a  colored  woman,  and  she  pointed  out  the  home  of  Rena  Jones.  I  went  up  to  the  door  and  knocked.  Rena  opened  it,  and  I  was  so  relieved  when  I  saw  her  kind,  familiarfacethat  I  cried.  She  had  me  sit  down  and  gave  me  some  cold  corn  bread  and  molasses.  It  was  heavenly.  While  we  were  talking,  a  girl  about  my  own  age  came  into  the  room  and  stood  looking  at  me.  &quot;This  my  Pearly,&quot;  said  Rena.  The  girl  grinned  at  me,and  I " b"grinned  back.  She  was  wearing  one  of  my  faded  gingham  dresses.  I  looked  for  stockings,  but  her  brown  legs  were  bare.  &quot;Pearly,&quot;  said  Rena,  &quot;take  a  clean  glass  and  draw  Marcia  a  fresh  drink  of  water.  How  long  you  been  on  the  way,  child?&quot;  I  told  her  about  the  mule-car  ride  and  she  shook  her  head.  &quot;That  how  they  uses  children.  It  a  shame.  You  git  along  back  and  ketch  that  four  o'clock  if  it  on  time.  Your  poor  mother  goin'  to  be  that  worried.  Tell  her  I  come  to-  morrow.  If  I  go  now,  I  meets  myself  gettin'  home  to  cook  supper  for  my  fambly.&quot;  I  said  goodbye  and  began  running  toward  the  depot,  afraidthat  the  mule  car  might  leave  without  me.  Twice  I  fell  down.  My  hands,  which  were  sticky  with  molasses,  picked  up  quite  a  bit  of  dry  [REDACTED]  dirt,  and  I  began  to  cry  again.  When  I  reached  the  station,  the  car  was  still  there.  The  driver  said  that  the  train  was  late  and  for  me  to  wait  in  the  car.  I  got  in.  The  car  was  beginning  to  be  as  familiar  as  home.  The  train  was  quite  late,  and  it  must  have  been  al-  most  five  o'clock  when  some  passengers  alighted,  with  their  baggage,  and  board-  ed  the  mule  car.  At  Sixth  and  Commercial,  a  poll  of  the  passengers  determined  that  most  of  them  wanted  to  go  north,  so,  a  little  later,  I  got  off.  I  was  almost  sorry.  Tiredand  hungry  though  I  was,  I  was  becoming  afraid  to  face  my  mother.  When  I  got  home,  Mother  was  standing  at  the  door.  She  took  one  look  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Where  on  this  earth  have  you  been?  After  you  left,  I  took  a  bromide  and  went  to  sleep.  I  woke  up  once,  thought  I  heard  Rena  in  the  kitchen,  and  went  back  to  sleep.  When  I  really  woke,  and  neither  of  you  were  here,  I  was  out  of  my  mind  with  worry.  Where  on  this  earth  have  youbeen?&quot;  This  time  she  stopped  for  an  answer,  and  I  replied  with  the  simple  truth.  &quot;I've  been  riding  on  the  mule  car-  free.&quot;  I  then  thought  of  the  nickel  tied  in  my  handkerchief  and  still  pinned  to  my  dress  pocket.  I  had  forgotten  to  put  it  into  the  glass  box.  So  I  had,  in  point  of  time,  enjoyed  what  was  probably  the  longest  nickel  ride  in  mule-car  history. "