 b"WHY  didn't  you  tell  me  before  that  youhad  another  Bar  Association  meeting  today?&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  said,  and  at  that  mo-  ment,  looking  out  of  the  bedroom  window,  saw  three  black-and-white  heifers  roaming  the  vegetable  garden.  &quot;Oh,  for  mercy's  sake!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;Look  who's  out  there.&quot;  Mr.  Manwaring,  putting  in  his  cuff  links  by  the  touch  system,  came  to  stand  beside  her.  Through  the  open  window  they  could  hear  the  sound  of  grass  being  torn  up  by  the  large  mouthful.  It  was  October;  grass  torn  today  would  not  come  again  till  spring.  &quot;They  must  be  Alfie  Wallop's,&quot;  he  said,  bending  to  get  a  better  view.  &quot;He's  been  pretty  good  about  the  fences  lately,  though;  this  hasn't  happened  in  three  years,  I'd  say,  so  these  must  be  the  granddaughters  of  the  ones  who  tipped  over  the  grape  arbor.&quot;  A  small  length  of  slate  retaining  wall  behind  the  raspberries  toppled  and  slithered  to  the  grass,  spurned  beneath  a  strong  young  foot.  &quot;Pretty,  aren't  they?&quot;  Mr.  Man-  waring  said.  &quot;I'll  go  telephone  Alfie.&quot;  In  a  couple  of  minutes  he  returned,  and  reported  that  Alfie  already  knew  about  the  heifers.  &quot;'That  is,  he  did  and  he  didn't.  He  knew  they  were  some-  where  they  ought  not  to  be.It  seems  somebody  telephoned  him  earlier,  but  he  didn't  know  who  it  was.&quot;  \xc2\xab'T  hat  must  have  been  Bertha.  That  was  clever  of  her,  wasn't  it?  She  must  have  seen  them  through  the  kitchen  window.  How  do  you  mean,  he  didn't  know  who?&quot;  &quot;He  said  the  person  who  called  gave  her  name,  but  he  didn't  get  it,  and  he  didn't  like  to  ask  her  to  repeat  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no!  Rural  politeness.  And  look  at  my  hair,  as  well.&quot;  Still  in  her  wrap-  per,  she  sat  down,  disconsolate  all  at  once,  before  the  dressing-table  mirror.  &quot;I  was  going  to  have  it  cut  today  if  we  went  to  New  York.  I  look  like  one  of  those  native  women  in  the  National  Geographic.&quot;  She  picked  up  a  heavy  comb  and  began  working  it.  Mr.  Manwaring  flipped  over  the  end  of  his  gray  silk  tie.  &quot;Maybe  next  week  we  can  get  away  somewhere,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Go  driving  North  for  two  or  three  days.&quot;  FTER  he  had  left  for  his  meeting,  Mrs.  Manwaring  put  away  the  black  suit  she  had  gotout  for  the  day,  and  followed  the  track  of  an  or-  dinary  Tuesday.  She  praised  Bertha  for  her  alertness  in  telephoning  Alfie  Wallop,  telephoned  him  herself  after  observing  a  sweet-faced  tan  heifer  prowling  the  rhubarb  bed,  squirted  pen-  icillin  into  the  ear  of  Sambo,  the  family  cat,  and  dreamed  the  while,  with  an-  ticipation,  of  a  long  autumn  weekend  away.  &quot;Oh,  the  many  country  inns  we've  closed  down,&quot;  she  reflected.  It  had  be-  come  customary  with  the  Manwarings  to  take  a  little  last  trip  as  winter  loomed,  a  final  run  through  the  countryside  of  northern  New  England  and  sometimes  over  the  border  into  [REDACTED]  for  a  night  or  two.  Inns  closed  for  the  season  be-  hind  their  travelling  tires.  Doors  could  be  heard  clapping  to,  and  keys  turning,  as  they  departed,  mornings,  after  a  single  night.  Getting  themselves  taken  inat  all  was  often  quite  a  trick.  Well-l-1,&quot;  proprietors  would  say,  du-  bious,  elbows  on  the  sill  of  their  recep-  tion  nooks.  &quot;We  were  through  for  the  season.&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  would  then  smile,  a  begging  smile.  &quot;But  just  the  one  night?  Well  all  right.  Come  in.  Just  the  one  night,  then,  and  no  meals.  Everybody's  gone  for  the  season.  [REDACTED];  And  they  would  be  admitted  with  their  overnight  bags  in  hand  to  some  square,  chill  cham-  ber,  where  presently  a  maid,  summoned  from  somewhere  she  would  rather  be-home,  may-  be-and  hustled  into  her  apron,  would  cast  on  them  resentful  glances  over  the  sheets  she  shook  out  and  spread,  over  the  folded  blankets  she  flung  open  and  twitched  into  place.  Mrs.  Manwaring  could  recall  numerous  such  evenings.  Particu-  larly  she  remembered  a  night  in  Saint  Andrews.  They  were  the  only  guests;  they  had  already  closed  by  their  presence  an  establishment  in  White  River  Junction  and  would  go  on  to  do  the  same  in  Nashua  on  the  way  down.  In  Saint  Andrews,  Canadian  rain  was  falling  through  the  October  evening  as,  fol-  lowed  by  a  cat  Mr.  Man-  waringhad  given  his  coffee  cream  to,  they  returned  to  the  inn  from  the  restaurant  where  they  had  had  dinner.  Thin,  " b"pale-gold  leaves  fell  with  the  rain,  slid  the  rods  of  water  to  the  wet  gravel  walk.  The  cat's  steps  made  no  sound.  The  last  time  they  turned  to  ask  him  to  go  back,  he  had  disappeared.  That  evening,  there  had  been  one  small  high  street  light  only,  and  no  other  people  out  so  late-eight-  fifteen  as  it  was.  Mrs.  Man-  waring  modestly  pulled  the  window  shade  in  the  bath-  room  they  had  to  them-  selves,  and  when  she  let  it  up  again  in  the  morning  found  the  window  did  not  give  on  a  street  or  an  alley  or  a  yard  but  only  a  few  feet  into  a  curious  little  room  on  a  level  with  the  sill-asquare  little  space  filled  with  wildly  blossom-  ing  begonias,  giant  red  and  pink  and  yellow.  &quot;How  I  love  short  trips,&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  had  said  then,  standing,  delighted,  before  the  unexpected  display.  But  today-&quot;No  trips,&quot;  she  saidto  herself  sadly.  &quot;Not  even  to  New  York.&quot;  HE  cows  were  eating  swags  of  honeysuckle  when,  at  midmorning,  Mrs.  Manwaring  started  off  with  the  cat  to  the  vet's.  &quot;So  eat  away,&quot;  she  said  out  the  window.  It  was  never  possible  to  cope  with  all  the  honeysuckle  there  was  in  the  world.  She  was  unable  to  get  out  of  the  drive  be-  cause  of  Alfie  Wallop's  large  truck,  which  sat,  empty,  in  the  entrance,  but  of  Alfie  himself  no  sign,  un-  less  a  far  mooing  behind  the  house  and  up  the  hill  meant  he  was  back  up  there,  rounding  up  stragglers.  Mrs.  Manwaring  switched  off  the  motor  and  at  once  the  cat,  who  up  till  then  had  been  very  good,  began  complaining  in  his  basket.  She  admonished  him  through  the  wickerwork.  The  large  dog  she  had  brought  along  for  company,  in  case  she  had  to  leave  Sambo  at  the  doctor's,  moved  up  from  the  back  seat  and  blew  on  her  neck,  with  a  cold  whiskery  breath,  a  kiss.  Her  eyes  glazed  while  she  waited.  She  stared  out  at  the  copper  and  gold  and  bronze  of  theday.  Ocu-  lists  said  staring  was  the  worst  thing  you  could  do,  that  it  led  to  all  troubles later,  but  she  was  unable  to  unfix  her  wide,  unblinking  watching,  she  was  so  comfortable  there;  and  her  ears,  too,  scarcely  registered  the  sounds  in  the  morning-Alfie  Wallop's  ineffectual  whooping  in  the  orchard,  dreamy  re-  mote  pops  from  the  guns  of  hunters  in  the  surrounding  wood,  who,  she  hoped,  were  bagging  foxes  by  the  score  and  nothing  else.  The  sharpest  sound  was,  over  all  the  day,  the  pointed  scream  of  jays  who,  crying  havoc,  crossed  mead-  ows  of  air  from  treetop  to  treetop.  It  proved  to  be  not  necessary  to  leave  the  cat.  &quot;Coming  along  nicely  after  all,&quot;  the  vet  said,  peering  within  the  fringed  twitching  ear.  Mrs.  Manwar-  ing  was  very  glad,  and  said  so,  It  wasn't  just  the  inconvenience,  she  assured  him  as  she  gathered  the  cat  up;  it  was  sim-  ply  she  hated  having  any  creature  hurt,  or  even  uncomfortable.  Less  than  an  hour  later,  she  deeply  wished  she  had  had  to  leave  the  cat.  Bertha  brought  her  her  luncheon  tray,  and  Mrs.  Manwaring  decided  to  eat  outdoors,  the  day  being  so  warm,  so  golden  and  copper  bright,  and  just  for  a  minute,  against  her  better  judgment,  she  set  down  the  loaded  tray  across  the  ironwork  frame  of  an  arbor  table,  whose  top  was  already  stored  in  the  at-" b"tic  for  the  winter,  and  walked  away  to  get  the  Times,  which  was  not  far,  only  inside  the  door,  but  a  premonition,  strik-  ing  between  her  shoulder  blades,  caused  her  to  turn  her  head  over  her  shoulder,  and  sure  enough  the  cat  had  leapt.  While  she  watched,  frozen,  the  laden  tray  was  tipping,  tipping.  As  the  cat  jumped  clear,  and  all  the  dishes,  the  saltcellar,  and  the  sherry  glass  began  their  long  fall,  she  knew  a  wild  unrea-  soning  hope,  a  less-than-second-long  conviction  born  of  her  optimistic  nature,  that  this  time  everything  would  land  on  the  arbor's  brick  floor  unbroken-not  necessarily  right  side  up,  but  not  broken.  However,  dear  God,  let  them  break  and  not  chip!  she  thought,  flying.  The  next  moment  she  was  kneeling,  fending  off  Sambo,  who  was  determined  on  gobbling  up  creamed  chicken  shot  with  blue  slivers  of  Bristol  glass.  &quot;T  DON'T  know  that  he  swallowed  any,&quot;  she  told  the  patient  vet,  her  arms  again  full  of  cat.  &quot;I  couldn't  swear  to  it.  But  I  couldn't  find  all  the  pieces.  Glass,  I  mean,  not  chicken.&quot;  The  vet  sighed  &quot;lavage,&quot;  drawing  the  word  out  very  long  and  expensive,  sounding.  &quot;Can  you  come  back  for  him  at  four?&quot;  he  asked,  and  Mrs.  Manwar-  ing  said  yes,  of  course-she  wasn't  do-  ing  anything  much  that  day.  Driving  back  down  the  lane,  she  was  irked  to  see  what  must  be  ahunter's  car  parked  at  the  side,  not  ten  feet  from  their  farthest  &quot;No  Hunting&quot;  sign.  &quot;So  he's  over  in  our  backwoods  by  now,&quot;  she  said  to  herself,  seething  with  anger.  When  she  opened  the  front  door,  Ber-  tha  was  lying  in  wait  for  her  in  the  front  hall,  and  said  that  while  Mrs.  Manwaring  had  been  at  the  doctor's,  she  had  seen  a  hunter  prowling  just  be-  yond  the  garden  wall  and  had  called  the  game  warden  at  the  town  hall.  And  indeed,  even  as  Mrs.  Manwaring,  stretched  now  for  tranquillity  in  a  long  garden  chair,  took  the  first  dry  bite  of  the  peanut-butter  sandwich  that  had  replaced  the  creamed  chicken,  she  saw  the  warden  prodding  a  young  man  in  a  red  cap-an  Italian-up  the  slope  of  the  terrace  toward  her  chair.  &quot;Here  he  is,&quot;  the  warden  said,  grim  and  panting.  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to  run  him  in?&quot;  The  young  Italian  assumed  a  grace-  ful  attitude  and  gazed  at  Mrs.  Man-  waring.  &quot;What  are  you  shooting?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Ani-mals,&quot;  he  answered.  Ele-  phants,  it  sounded  like,  or  Alfie's  cows,  maybe.  Was  it  he  whom,  one  day  last  week,  she  had  seen  tear  down  a  &quot;No  Hunting&quot;  sign  up  the  lane?  If  it  was  not  he,  it  was  someone  who  resembled  him  closely.  She  accused  him,  and  at  once  his  eyes  took  on  an  Andrea  del  Sarto  look,  cast  themselves  up  in  supplication,  then  down  in  pious  denial.  &quot;Not  me,  lady.&quot;  &quot;Oh  all  right.  Let  him  go,  officer.  But  if  you  come  anywhere  near  my  house  again,  I'll  certainly  send  for  the  police  and  lodgea  complaint.&quot;  There  was  no  car  in  the  lane  when,  " b"just  before  four,  she  set  off  to  retrieve  the  cat.  If  we'd  gone  to  New  York,  we'd  have  been  at  some  lovely  English  murder  movie  by  now,  she  thought,  all  in  fog,  and  with  vicars.  Then  we  would  have  had  a  drink  at  the  St.  Regis.  Then  ...  &quot;Any  glass?&quot;  she  asked  the  vet.  &quot;'None,&quot;  said  he,  regret  in  his  voice.  Coming  back  down  the  lane  ten  min-  utes  later,  Mrs.  Manwaring  was  swept  with  rage  to  see  another  car-a  hunter's  car,  surely-drawn  up  close  to  their  boundary  wall.  &quot;Oh,  damn  them  all!&quot;  she  cried,  and  slammed  on  the  brake.  What  right  had  its  owner  to  come  thrusting  out  into  the  country,  trespass-  ing  on  her  back  acres,  killing  and  maim-  ing!  Tears  filled  her  eyes  and  nose  at  the  thought  of  decimated,  desolated  rabbit  families,  till  then  living  out  their  lives  in  her  wood,  and  of  large,  high-  stepping  birds  with  their  enamelled  feathers  bloodied  in  an  instant,  fall-  ing  to  the  ground  to  die.  She  looked  about  for  something  with  which  to  wreak  revenge-a  sharp  stone  to  scar  the  car's  surface.  From  beyond  the  hill  came  the  sound  of  a  shot,  then  two  or  three.  If  I  knew  how  to,  she  thought,  I'd  let  out  all  his  gas.  Or  put  sand  in  something.  There  were  plenty  of  stones  lying  be-  side  that  country  road,  and  many  of  them  sharp,  but  she  found  she  did  not  bend  to  pick  one  up.  Instead,  suddenly  she  yawned.  She  couldn't  have  moved  to  save  herself.  Her  thoughts  roamed  backward  over  her  long,  her  not  un-  usual  day,  a  day  she  wouldn't  have  wanted  to  be  otherwise  than  it  had  been.  The  cat  called  to  her  from  the  car.  &quot;Oh,  shut  up,&quot;  she  said,  absently.  &quot;I'm  coming  in  a  minute,  after  I-&quot;  Trans-  fixed  in  the  warm  sunlight  of  the  au-  tumn  afternoon,  she  stood,  brooding,  and  musing,  and  watched  a  few  late  gold  leaves  drifting  down.  So  beautiful,  the  day  was.  It  would  not  be  this  way  tomorrow.  Something  was  already  go-  ing.  Every  time  a  leaf  came  slanting  down,  perfection  was  lessened  a  little.  At  this  minute  I  would  like  to  live  for-  ever,  she  thought.  With  an  effort  she  bestirred  herself  and  sallied  a  little  way  into  a  copse,  glanced  about  a  moment,  though  she  had  forgotten  what  she  was  looking  for,  and  then  came  out  again  and  got  in  thecar  and  drove  home,  and  never  knew-so  difficult  is  it  for  a  hunter  to  tell  the  difference,  on  a  dappled  fall  day,  between  an  utterly  happy  house-  wife  and  a  large  grouse-how  near  she  came  to  getting  shot. "