 b"ONE  afternoon  recently,  I  took, as  they  say,  a  personal  loan  from  a  friendly  bank.  When  I  came  home  and  added  this  sum  to  the  previous  balance  in  my  checkbook,  the  figure  that  materialized  in  the  left-hand  balance  column  was  $1492.16.  Ignor-  ing  the  sixteen  cents,  I  suddenly  re-  alized,  gave  this  figure  a  new  signifi-  cance.  It  seemed  a  marvellous  omen  for  me  to  be  setting  out  on  asea  of  bills  with  such  a  promising  number  on  my  ship,  linking  the  hopes  of  my  credi-  tors  with  the  discovery  of  [REDACTED].  This  auspicious  beginning  to  the  month-  ly  chore  served  to  put  me  in  apleasant  historical  frame  of  mind  and  to  postpone  the  painful  business  ofactually  writing  checks.  What  othergreat  events,  I  won-  dered  idly,  had  taken  place  in  $1492&quot;  I  went  into  the  living  room  and  found,  on  the  bottom  shelf  of  the  book-  case,  the  Encyclopedia  of  World  His-  tory,  which  my  wife's  [REDACTED]  aunt  gave  us  as  a  wedding  present  twelve  years  ago.  After  leafing  through  the  Preface,  Foreword,  Introduction,  Index,  and  Genealogical  Tables,  I  plunged  into  Later  Middle  Ages,  Western  Europe,  and  learned  that  this  crucial  year  also  marked  the  death  of  Lorenzo  the  Mag-  nificent  and  of  Pope  Innocent  VIII  (&quot;the  first  pope  to  recognize  his  children  and  dine  publicly  with  ladies&quot;).  What  else?  The  Russians,  under  Ivan  III,  were  invading  [REDACTED],  as  usual.  Over  in  [REDACTED],  Henry  VII  had  just  signed  the  Peace  ofEtaples.  I  was  about  to  dig  into  Far  Eastern  history  when  my  wife  called  to  me  from  the  kitchen  that  she  needed  ten  dollars  for  the  cleaning  wom-  an.  There  being  no  ready  cash  in  the  house,  I  was  forced  to  write  out  a  check.  This,  of  course,  spoiled  thebalance,  so  I  went  ahead  and  paid  the  gas  company  and  the  mortgage  installment,  and  sad-  ly  subtracted  the  total  from  $1492.16.  The  new  balance,  carried  over  to  the  following  page,  was  $1394.29.  My  curiosity  still  aroused  (how  can  we  understand  the  present  without  un-  derstanding  the  past?  ,  I  returned  to  the  encyclopedia  and  found,  with  a  surge  of  relief,  that  I  was  still  in  the  interesting  Later  Middle  Ages.  In  $1394,  it  turned  out,  a  twenty-year  truce  had  been  signed  between  the  Swiss  Confederation  and  the  Duke  of Austria,  whereupon  Austria  abandoned  its  claims  to  Zug  and  Glarus.  Not  quite  up  to  $1492,  admittedly,  but  it  was  something.  Hopefully,  I  veered  into  Eastern  Europe,  only  to  learn  that  I  had  missed  by  nine  years  the  capture  of  Sofia  by  the  Ottoman  Turks  ($1385),  and  by  five  years  the  battle  of  Kossovo  ($1389)-&quot;a  decisive  date  in  all  Balkan  history.&quot;  The  ground  here  seemed  unpromising,  so  I  drifted  back  to  our  side  of  the  Iron  Curtain,  look-  ing  for  $1394s.  In  $1400,  I  noted  with  some  surprise,  King  Wenceslas  of  Bohemia  was  deposed  &quot;for  drunken-  ness  and  incompetence.&quot;  (Good  King  Wenceslas?  )  Back  I  coursed  through  Medicis  and  Holy  Roman  Emperors,  Guelfs  and  Ghibellines,  Neapolitan  An-  jJous,  and  neglected  figures  like  Joan-  na  II  ($1415-$1435),  sister  of  Ladis-  las,  an  amorous  widow  whose  &quot;amazing  intrigues  .  .  .  with  her  favorites,  succes-  sors  designate,  and  rival  claimants  to  the  throne  kept  Italian  diplomacy  in  a  turmoil&quot;  for  many  years.  But  only  pre-  cise  dates  would  do  if  I  was  going  to  play  the  game  right,  and  4974616c79,  Portu-  gal,  537061696e,  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED]  didn't  seem  to  have  made  significant  history  in  $1394.  I  shut  the  book  with  a  snap,  snagging  a  hangnail  between  the  Black  Death  and  the  Battle  of  Agincourt,  and  applied  myself  once  more  to  my  own  rival  claimants.  Checks  to  the  plumber,  the  fuel  com-  pany,  and  the  consulting  tree  surgeon  reduced  the  balance  to  $1235.61-a  disappointing  figure  in  all  respects.  The  only  incident  worth  mention  in  Euro-  pean  history  in  that  year  was  an  expedi-  tion  sent  by  John  Vatatzes  against  the  Venetians,  which  &quot;failed  to  achieve  anything.&quot;  Earlier  (later,  that  is),  in  $1305,  another  Wenceslas  (Wences-  las  1),  challenged  by  claimants  of  the  Piast  family,  had  resigned  and  gone  home  to  die,  and  in  $1234  there  was  &quot;unrest  in  southern  4974616c79,&quot;  but  mere  un-  rest  no  longer  interested  me,.  I  hurried  on,  paying  the  exterminator,  the  gar-  bage  man,  and  the  newspaper-delivery  service,  and  looking  for  other  small  bills.  I  felt  a  sharp  joy  when  a  bill  for  a  renewed  magazine  subscription  enabled  me  to  pause  for  a  moment  on  the  field  of  Runnymede  and  hail  the  signing  of  the  Magna  Carta  at  $1215.39.  Down  I  dropped  through  the  Cru-  sades  and  the  Rise  of  the  Towns,  through  the  reigns  of  Louis  the  Young  and  Louis  the  Fat,  coming  finally,  by  way  of  Altman's,  Bloomingdale's,  and  Bonwit  Teller,  to  the  $1076  Synod  of  Worms.  Frankly,  I  would  have  pre-  ferred  $1077  and  Henry  IV's  dash  across  the  Alps  to  the  melodramatic  pen-  " b"ance  at  Canossa,  beloved  by  modern  newspaper  correspondents,  but  I  refused  to  tinker  with  history.  At  $1001.02  (coronation  of  St.  Ste-  phen,  greatest  ruler  of  the  Arpad  dynasty),  I  stopped  for  dinner,  post-  poning  the  dreary  des-  cent  into  three  figures  and  the  early  Middle  Ages.  During  the  meal,  I  astonished  my  wife  and  our  two  older  children  by  references  to  the  Bat-  tle  of  Bouvines  ($1214),  in  which  Philip  II  and  Frederick  the  something  had  completed  the  defeat  of  Otto  and  the  Welfs.  &quot;You  mean  wolves?&quot;  asked  my  daughter,  who  is  in  the  fourthgrade.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  I  shot  back,  and  went  on  quick-  ly  to  a  discussion  of  Manegold  of  Lau-  tenbach,  who  developed  the  theory  that  an  evil  ruler  violates  his  contract  with  his  subjects  and  may  therefore  be  de-  posed.  My  wife  said  she  would  bear  this  in  mind.  CTUALLY,  it  was  the  next  morn-  ing  before  I  returned  to  the  check-  book  and  the  encyclopedia,  where  I  im-  mediately  became  bogged  down  in  the  Abbasid  Caliphate  (&quot;537061696e  never  recog-  nized  it,  nor  did  Morocco&quot;)  and  the  Danish  kings,  from  Knut  the  Great  back  to  Harold  Bluetooth.  Still  search-  ing  for  bills  of  small  denomination,  soas  to  prolong  the  Middle  Ages,  I  paid  McDermott's  Dairy,  Oak  Tree  Phar-  macy,  and  the  waterworks.  This  brought  me  to  $929.91,  the  year  in  which  St.  Wenceslas  (this  must  have  been  the  good  one!)  had  the  bad  luck  to  be  murdered  by  his  younger  brother,  who  thereupon  ascended  the  Bohemian  throne  as  Boleslav  I.  I  had  a  strange  feeling  that  this  would  mark  my  last  encounter  with  the  Wenceslases  (of  the  House  of  Premsyl),  and  I  was  right.  The  scene  was  darkening.  As  my  bal-  ance  declined,  history  grew  less  splendid.  Charles  the  Fat  (who  blocked  Charles  the  Bald's  advance  to  the  Rhine  )  reigned  for  the  exact  number  of  years,  or  dollars,  it  took  to  satisfy  Bide-  A-Wee  Diaper  Service.  The  disintegra-  tion  ofthe  Carolingian  Empire,  played  out  in  reverse,  led  me,  via  Andy's  Meats,  Tots'  Togs,  and  a  place  called  Twig,  Ltd.,  to  the  start  of  the  reign  of  Charlemagne  ($771.05  )-that  typical German&quot;  who  &quot;understood  Greek,  spoke  Latin,  but  could  not  learn  to  write.&quot;  Just  as  the  pile  of  bills  at  my  right  elbow  seemed  to  be  shrinking,  I  un-  covered  a  quarterly  notice  from  the  In-  ternal  Revenue  Service,  plainly  marked  &quot;Do  Not  Fold  or  Spindle.&quot;  The  thought  of  missing  out  entirely  on  the  Merovingian  kings  so  distressed  me  that  I  nearly  lost  my  temper  and  spindled  the  notice,  but  instead  I  sighed  and  paid  up,  reeling  back  through  Vandals  and  Visigoths  to  the  birth  of  Emperor  Jovi-  anus  ($331.33),  who  &quot;surrendered  Mesopotamia  to  the  Persians  and  died  soon  after.&quot;  Battered  and  full  of  fore-  boding,  I  was  borne  down  by  two  M.D.s  and  a  D.D.S.  into  the  third  cen-  tury,  &quot;characterized  by  the  complete  collapse  of  government  and  economics  throughout  the  Mediterranean.&quot;  'The  Dark  Ages  were  upon  me.  I  was  now  twelve  centuries  from  that  jubilant  start  in  $1492.16,  and  there  remained  four  or  five  inches  of  unpaid  bills  A  few  more  big  ones,  I  knew,  would  push  me  over  the  brink  into  overdraft,  or  B.C.  Writing  in  a  cramped,  unwilling  hand,  I  slogged  through  the  Antonines  and  the  Flavians  toward  Augustus  Caesar,  hoping  that  the  rest  of  the  bills  would  stay  in  two  figures,  but  long  be-  fore  the  end  I  knew  the  game  was  up.  My  balance  stood  at  $54.06  (death  of  the  Emperor  Claudius,  &quot;reputedly  from  poison  administered  by  Agrippina  in  a  dish  of  mushrooms&quot;).  The  bill  I  had  just  opened  was  from  the  insurance  company,  for  $118.54  (the  year  Hadri-  an  took  his  oath  not  to  execute  senators  without  trial).  Smothering  a  Latin  oath,  I  shut  the  encyclopedia  on  insol-  vent  Rome  and  bankrupt  [REDACTED],  and  went  downtown  to  see  about  another  loan.  After  all,  I  reminded  myself,  [REDACTED]  himself  had  managed  to  raise  the  money  for  three  voyages  to  the  New  World  before  they  sent  him  home  in  chains. "