 b"DANIEL,  who  could  neither  walk nor  talk,  because  he  was  still  a  crawling  baby,  always  slept  on  the  safe  part  of  the  bed,  against  the  wall,  while  Janie,  who  was  seven  years  old,  had  to  lie  next  to  the  unprotected  edge.  The  largest  part  of  the  bed  belonged  to  their  grandmother,  whose  body  at  night  filled  all  that  hollowed  space  between  them.  She  always  lay  on  her  side,  and  the  blanket,  rising  and  spreading  along  her  body,  often  reminded  Janie  of  a  cloud  that  had  drifted  over  [REDACTED]  Town  and  alighted  on  top  of  Table  Moun-  tain.  Every  night,  Janie  crawled  as  close  to  her  grandmother's  back  as  she  could,  but  no  sooner  had  she  found  cover  and  shelter  there,  and  a  nice  little  place  for  her  knees  and  fists,  than  her  grandmother  would  move  and  the  bed  would  creak  terribly.  Groaning,  her  grandmother  would  turn  to  face  her.  At  such  times,  Janie's  edge  of  the  bed  seemed  to  rise  above  the  floor  as  pre-  cipitously  as  a  rock  ledge  on  the  moun-  tain.  Sometimes  she  felt  herself  start  to  fall,  and  it  was  with  a  sharp  cry  of  re-  lief  that  she  would  bounce  into  wake-  fulness  and  feel  her  grandmother's  arms  pulling  her  crossly  to  safety.  Then  she  found  her  grandmother  very  nice-al-  most  as  nice  as  her  own  mother,  whom  she  saw  only  on  Sundays.  Her  mother  was  a  sleep-in  domestic  servant  who  worked  in  another  suburb  of  [REDACTED]  Town,  far  from  theirs.  Her  grandmother,  on  the  other  hand,  lived  close  to  her  place  of  work.  She  sold  flowers  on  the  sidewalk  in  front  of  a  large  department  store,  on  a  main  street,  and  her  one-room  cottage  was  at-  tached  to  a  house  that  was  situ-  ated  at  the  end  ofa  narrow  lane  sloping  down  from  this  street.  She  was  always  the  first  flower  seller  to  begin  work,  for  the  other  colored  flower  sellers  lived  near  the  farms  where  the  flowers  were  grown,  and  they  reached  the  pavement  outside  the  store  long  after  Janie,  her  grand-  mother,  and  Daniel.  Early  in  the  morning,  Janie's  grand-  mother  would  go  to  a  near-  by  sheltered  alley  and  get  her  equipment-the  soapbox  upon  which  she  sat  and  the  boxes  upon  which  she  set  her  baths  and  tins,  filled  each  morning  with  water  from  a  tap  in  the  alley.  Everything  would  be  ready  by  the  time  the  flower  van  pulled  up  at  the  curb.  So  when  the  other  flower      sellers  were  busily  drawing  their  boxes  from  the  alley  and  setting  them  out  on  the  pavement's  outer  edge,  or  filling  their  baths  with  water,  Janie's  grand-  mother  had  a  contented  smile  on  her  face.  She  looked  about  her  in  an  organ-  ized  way  while  the  heads  of  her  col-  leagues  were  still  moving  busily  and  confusedly  behind  the  moist,  whispering  heads  of  the  flowers  they  were  arrang-  ing.  She  sat  up  straight  and  high  on  her  soapbox,  the  open  end  of  which  was  be-  hind  her.  The  box  was  also  used  as  a  cupboard  for  their  daytime  things-  their  food,  spare  cloths  for  Daniel,  and  a  tin  containing  raffia,  an  old  pair  of  scissors,  and  a  razor  blade,  which  were  used  for  cutting  and  binding  the  flowers  she  sold.  The  smiles  that  patterned  her  broad  face  as  she  sat  there  beside  her  flowers,  gossiping  with  her  closest  neigh-  bor,  Mrs.  Isaacs,  seemed  to  Janie  to  be  repeated  in  her  comfortably  rumpled  dress  and  in  her  amiably  creased  stock-  ings.  Her  shoes,  shining  next  to  a  stack  of  newspapers,  which  she  used  for  wrap-  ping  her  bouquets,  seemed  to  catch  the  warm  beams  from  her  eyes.  She  was  certainly  as  happy  as  any  of  the  other  flower  sellers  who  lined  the  pavement.  Therefore,  Janie  could  not  understand  why  her  grandmother  should  change  into  such  a  cross  and  complaining  per-  son  the  moment  she  prepared  herself  for  the  walk  home  at  the  end  of  each  day.  On  this  particular  afternoon,  as  they  crossed  the  main  street  and  went  down  their  little  lane  to  the  cottage  at  the  end  of  it,  Janie,  who  was  walking  behind,  noticed  that  her  grandmother  was  car-rying  Daniel  as  though  he  made  her  neck  ache.  Daniel,  straddling  her  neck,  turned  around  to  smile  at  Janie,  his  round  face  rising  as  bright  as  a  moon  above  the  wide  shoul-  der.  He  didn't  care  about  his  grand-  mother's  troubles.  When  the  rumble  of  the  traffic  behind  them  became  fainter,  Janie  could  hear  what  her  grandmother  was  saying.  It  was  nothing  new.  She  was  simply  going  through  her  familiar  list  of  grievances.  Janie  didn't  know  it,  but  this  list  was  not  unlike  a  memoran-  dum  that  might  have  been  delivered  at  an  annual  general  meeting  of  a  ladies'  benevolent  society,  for  it  contained  in-  volved  subclauses  and  additional  argu-  ment  detailed  enough  to  silence  the  most  troublesome  members.  Its  repetitive  na-  ture  could  enlighten  the  stupid  and  mes-  merize  the  dreamy.  It  was  an  extremely  long  list,  but  she  grumbled  at  great  speed,  so  that  by  the  time  she  paused  before  the  gate  of  the  cottage  she  had  made  mumbling  but  methodical  refer-  ence  to  almost  everything  in  it.  Re-  spectfully,  Janie  tiptoed  behind  her,  through  the  gate  and  along  a  sandy  path,  which  ran  parallel  to  a  fowl  run  and  up  to  the  door  of  their  cottage.  The  grandmother  had  already  com-  plained  about  the  bed,  the  uncom-  fortable  situation  she  found  herself  in  every  night,  and  those  nocturnal  habits  peculiar,  it  seemed,  to  her  grandchil-  dren.  Then  she  had  gone  on  to  com-  plain  about  the  room  itself  and  the  house  it  adjoined,  the  owners  of  which  she  despised,  not  merely  because  they  fancied  themselves  but  because  they  charged  her  too  high  a  rental.  Janie  knew  that  she  would  now  re-  mark  on  her  hatred  for  the  fowls,  which  Janie  felt  sorry  for.  As  her  grandmother  passed  by,  all  the  shabby  little  hens  began  to  run  about  in  zigzags,  miraculously  not  colliding  with  each  other  within  their  small  enclosure.  Not  one  of  them  seemed  a  fit  match  for  the  single  cock,  who  looked  about  him  with  a  com-  c  posed  yet  slightly  offended  air.  He  was  really  a  tall  cock,  and  his  feathers  were  arranged  fluffily  around  his  legs,  like  very  fine  pantaloons.  Yet  to  him  Janie's  grandmother  said,  &quot;K'ss!  What  a  stink!&quot;  The  cock  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  run  as  though  the  sand  beneath  him  were  silver  and  not  a  dirty  gray.  &quot;Ass!&quot;  said  Janie's  grand-  mother  once  more,  as  she  put  Daniel  down  on  the  step  before  their  door  and  searched  in  the  " b"wide  pocket  of  her  apron  for  the  key.  Janie  looked  quickly  at  the  cock.  He  raised  one  foot  off  the  ground  and  dangled  the  claws  as  assuredly  as  a  man  idly  swinging  a  bunch  of  silver  keys.  &quot;I  can  only  stand  to  look  at  beautiful  things,&quot;  went  on  Janie's  grandmother  as  she  struggled  to  fit  the  key  into  its  dark  little  hole,  &quot;because  I  am  that  sort  of  a  person.&quot;  When  she  had  unlocked  the  door,  she  turned  and  glowered  at  the  fowl  run,  at  the  dusty  loquat  tree  that  grew  beside  it,  and  at  the  cock,  who  now  stamped  his  foot  to  the  ground  and  pranced  forward  indignantly.  Behind  the  cock  was  a  corrugated-iron  fence,  which  rippled  gold  and  silver  in  a  long  shaft  of  late  sunlight.  And  behind  the  fence  and  above  it  was,  of  course,  Table  Mountain.  When  the  door  was  at  last  opened,  a  floodof  watery  gold  light  streamed  into  the  room;  as  it  washed  the  walls,  all  the  smudged  squares  of  glass  in  the  frames  of  the  many  gravure  portraits  of  the  Queen  and  General  Smuts  were  suddenly  filled  with  lustre.  Janie  thought  the  room  looked  simply  beauti-ful.  The  light  struck  the  small  deal  table  that  stood  in  the  center  of  the  floor,  and,  as  though  being  drawn  irresistibly  to  a  magnet,  countless  gold  splinters  rose  up  pricklingly  from  its  surface.  Along  one  side  wall,  and  not  receiving  any  of  this  haloed  light,  was  the  bed.  Instantly,  Janie  felt  sorry  for  it.  It  seemed  a  shame  that  her  grandmother  hated  this  bed  so  blindly  that  she  did  not  at  least  appreci-  ate  its  length,  for  it  was  as  long  as  the  whole  room.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you,  Janie?&quot;  she  heard  her  grandmother  say.  &quot;Springing  up  and  springing  down  in  the  doorway.  If  you  don't  fancy  this  room,  you  can  stay  outside.&quot;  The  enchantment  was  gone  when  Janie  came  into  the  room  and  closed  the  door  behind  her.  It  was  dark  inside,  and  her  grandmother  lit  a  candle.  A  giant  shadow  slipped  off  her  arms  and  moved  across  one  wall.  &quot;I  am  the  sort  of  person  who  can  only  stand  to  live  in  a  nice  place,&quot;  said  her  grand-  mother  again,  as  she  pre-  pared  Daniel's  porridge.  Often,  when  the  old  woman  elevated  herself  to  this  idealized  person,  full  of  eccentric  likes  and  dis-  likes,  Janie  pretended  that  she,  too,  was  an  adult-a  most  understanding  sort  of  adult.  She  sat  on  the  bed  without  swinging  her  legs,  and  she  folded  her  arms  gravely.  When  she  was  in  this  mood,  she  thought  of  her  grandmother  by  her  name,  Mrs.  Japhta.  Yes,  Mrs.  Japhta,  she  thought  now,  in  private  agreement.  Exactly,  Mrs.  Japhta.  That  is  just  what  I  also  think.  &quot;And  I  am  too  old  a  person,&quot;  theold  woman  was  saying  as  she  un-  dressed  Daniel  and  sat  him  suddenly  in  an  enamel  basin  of  water,&quot;to  be  looking  after  a  crawling  baby.&quot;  Now,  that  is  exactly  how  I  feel,  Mrs.  Japhta,  thought  Janie,  forgetting  not  to  swing  her  legs.  Es-  pecially  about  that  child  Daniel.  I  don't  mind  other  " b"children.  I  can  stand  them.  I  just  can't  stand  that  child  Daniel,  you  know,  because  I  am  that  sort  of  a  person.  He  makes  me  sick,  you  under-  stand.  Unhappily,  this  little  game  did  not  last  long.  The  old  woman  took  Daniel  up  in  her  arms,  sat  him  on  her  lap,  and  drew  the  table  to  the  bed.  He  was  old  enough  to  feed  him-  self,  in  a  messy,  indirect  sort  of  way,  but  for  some  reason  the  old  woman  always  kept  him  in  her  arms  while  he  ate,  and  she  herself  plied  the  porridge  spoon  back  and  forth  between  the  dish  and  his  mouth.  While  she  did  this,  her  eyes  became  fool-  ish-looking  and  her  mouth  as  twitchy  as  a  rabbit's.  &quot;Ah,  my  whole  dear  world,&quot;  she  said  now,  in  an  entirely  different  tone.  &quot;Ah,  my  pretty  little  boy  child.  Aren't  you  just  as  pretty  as  a  little  girl  child?  Eat,  my  baby,  eat.&quot;  Janie  unfolded  her  stiff  arms,  and  swung  her  legs  rapidly.  She  might  as  well  not  be  present  at  all,  for  all  the  notice  her  grandmother  took  of  her,  she  thought.  At  last  the  bowl  was  empty  and  Daniel  was  full,  and  her  grandmother  started  to  prepare  Daniel's  part  of  the  bed.  Sighing  with  satisfaction,  she  took  up  an  old  rubber  sheet  and,  placing  it  on  the  bed,  close  to  the  wall,  smoothed  it  with  her  hand  as  carefully  as  if  she  were  scraping  butter  on  a  slice  of  bread.  And  Daniel  might  have  been  a  tasty  bit  of  sandwich  meat,  the  way  she  munched  her  lips  as  she  laid  him  down  and  cov-  ered  him  with  a  shawl.  JANIE  had  no  appetite  for  supper  that  night.  &quot;Why  don't  you  eat?&quot;  chal-  lengedher  grandmother  as  she  pushed  the  plate  of  jam  sandwiches  along  the  table  to  Janie,  who  was  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bed.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you?&quot;  she  asked  indistinctly,  straining  sweet  black  tea  through  the  bread  in  her  mouth.  &quot;Look  how  thin  your  arms  and  legs  are,&quot;  she  said,  taking  a  large,  steamy  gulp  of  tea.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  she  said,  staring  at  no  one  opposite  her,  &quot;it  is  all  rightfor  them  to  sulk.&quot;  Often  she  addressed  some  third,  in-  visible  person  in  this  way-a  person  who  might  have  been  sitting  opposite  her  if  there  had  been  a  chair  on  the  other  side  of  the  table.  It  was  to  this  unseen  per-  son  that  she  now  directed  her  conversa-tion.  &quot;They  can  complain  as  much  as  they  like.  But  you  know  itis  me,  me  who  must  never  open  my  mouth.  I  am  the  person  who  must  never  say  that  Janie  is  just  skin  and  bone,  with  arms  and  legs  just  like  a  monkey's.&quot;  She  turned  her  head  sharply  to  Janie.  &quot;Eat,&quot;  she  snapped.  &quot;Eat.&quot;  Later,  when  Janie  had  finished  two  sandwiches,  the  old  woman  spoke  gen-  tly  to  her.  &quot;You  want  an  egg,  Janie?  I  got  an  egg.  Let  me  boil  you  one.&quot;  But  hardly  had  she  shown  this  concern  when  she  seemed  to  remember  the  person  opposite  her.  &quot;I  am  ashamed  of  my  own  flesh  and  blood,&quot;  she  saidto  this  person.  &quot;I  am  ashamed  of  my  daughter.&quot;  Hearing  this,  Janie  shifted  farther  back  on  the  bed  and  wished  she  were  heavy  enough  to  sink  right  through  it  to  the  floor.  She  hated  it  when  her  grand-  mother  began  to  complain  about  her  own  mother.  She  began  to  stroke  a  small  piece  of  the  blanket  meditatively.  What  a  soft  sort  of  person  her  mother  was,  she  thought.  She  closed  her  eyes  tightly  and  remembered  her  mother's  last  visit  with  such  intensity  that  it  suddenly  became  the  previous  Sunday  again.  She  found  herself  waiting  for  her  mother  outside  the  door,  and  as  she jumped  up  and  down  on  the  narrow  step,  Table  Mountain  and  Devil's  Peak  began  to  jump  with  her,  in  enormous  sympathetic  accord.  Higher  and  higher  they  jumped,  above  the  rusty  edge  of  the  corrugated-iron  fence.  The  sun  in  the  sky  was  as  lovely  as  a  bright  yellow  beach  ball  that  she  herself  might  have  thrown  up  there.  She  heard  the  gate  click.  She  felt  herself  leaping  from  the  step  into  her  mother's  arms,  and,  in  a  rushing,  blind  sort  of  ecstasy,  she  felt  her  mother's  georgette  scarf  and  the  chilly  tingling  of  little  beads  against  her  face.  &quot;Whoops,  Janie!&quot;  she  heard  her  mother  say.  &quot;Careful.  You  nearly  knocked  me  right  over.  You  mustn't  rush  at  me  like  that  again,Janie.  You  understand,  Janie?  You  can  hurt  me.&quot;  On  the  bed,  Janie  opened  her  eyes  in  a  puzzled  way.  &quot;At  last,&quot;  she  heard  her  grandmother  saying.  &quot;At  last  you  pay  attention.  Didn't  you  hear  me  ask  you  four  times  to  stop  bouncing?  Are  you  deaf?&quot;  But  this  chiding  was  in  pa-  rentheses,  for  the  old  woman  was  dis-  cussing  something  at  great  length  with  her  invisible  companion.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;she  has  got  nothing  to  worry  about  so  long  as  I  am  alive.  Then  she  hasgot  me  to  look  " b"after  the  baby.  I  look  so  well  after  Daniel  and  Janie,  she  is  quite  sure  I  will  look  after  the  new  baby  also.  It  is  for  granted  that  she  takes  me.  But  I  want  to  ask  her  something.  W  hat  is  going  to  happen  to  all  of  them  when  I  die?&quot;  Janie  looked  behind  her.  Daniel  was  fast  asleep.  When  he  was  quiet  and  still  like  that,  he  almost  looked  quite  nice,  she  thought.  On  the  wall  above  him,  the  paint  had  peeled  off  in  pleas,  ing  little  patterns,  and  higher  up  was  a  window  with  fluttering  curtains  that  did  not  quite  meet.  She  looked  quickly  down  at  Daniel.  He  was  asleep,  and  not  frightened  by  the  curtains'  being  chased  by  all  that  black  air  streaming  into  the  room.  &quot;I  am  not  afraid  to  die,&quot;  her  grand-  mother  went  on  staunchly.  &quot;And  I  am  not  ashamed  to  die.  I  have  paid  for  my  funeral,  every  penny.  I  finished  paying  last  year  already.  I  don't  owe  the  funeral  insurance  another  farthing.  But  there  is  no  honey  running  down  my  throat  and  into  my  stomach,  even  so.  There  is  a  bitter  lump  in  my  stomach,  all  right.  Just  when  I  can  spend  a  few  extra  pennies  now,  on  this  and  that,  I  can't  even  enjoy  my  old  age,  because  my  daughter  comes  to  tell  me  the  latest  news.  She  has  got  nothing  to  say  about  the  latest  expenses  I  can  expect.  Mind  you,  not  that  I  didn't  know  before  she  comes  to  give  me  this  news.  I  don't  need  glasses  to  see.  But  what,  I  want  toask,  is  going  to  happen  to  me  when  I  get  sick  just  before  I  die?  I  can't  even  be  sick  alone  on  my  bed.  And  I  am  not  the  sort  of  person  who  will  go  to  a  hos-  pital.  No,  thank  you.  I  don't  want  any  of  those  training  doctors  from  the  juni-  versity  opening  up  this  old  body  of  mine  and  pulling  from  it  my  kidneys  and  my  heart  and  my  liver.  No,  thank  you.  Leave  this  body  of  mine  alone,  with  all  the  luggage  inside,  locked  up.  But  what  am  I  to  do  when  I  get  sick  and  can't  lie  on  this  bed  except  with  three  children?&quot;  Even  in  bed  that  night,  theold  woman  went  on  about  her  troubles,  in  a  loud,  close  voice.  Each  time  Janie  felt  herself  falling  off  the  bed,  the  old  woman  complained  about  the  bed  roll-  ing  and  said  that  she  felt  seasick.  &quot;Up-  down,  up-down,&quot;  she  groaned.  &quot;''That's  what  happens  if  you  have  to  share  your  only  bed  with  your  grandchildren.  How  can  I  take  the  new  baby?  Where  must  I  put  it  on  this  bed?  'There  isn't  even  room  to  squeeze  between  Janie  and  my-  self  one  linaria,  never  mind  a  snap-  dragon.&quot;  In  her  struggle  to  keep  herself  on  the  bed  that  night,  Janie  could  scarce-ly  understand  what  her  grandmother  was  talking  about.  She  wondered  what  baby  she  was  referring  to.  Vaguely,  she  reflected  thata  linaria  was  like  a  baby  snapdragon,  but  her  mind  refused  to  work  further.  The  little  bed,  like  some  frail  vessel  riding  a  very  wild  sea,  rocked  for  hours,  and  at  times  it  seemed  to  be  sinking  with  all  hands.  Somehow  they  drifted  through  the  night,  and  early  the  next  morning  Janie  saw  the  tip  of  Devil's  Peak  through  the  window.  It  rose  like  a  miracle  into  an  unusually  clear  October  sky.  HISnew  day  opened  benignly  over  [REDACTED]  Town,  and  by  the  time  they  had  breakfasted  and  hurried  to  the  street  and  set  up  the  boxes  and  tins  and  flowers,  Janie  had  forgotten  what  had  been  troubling  her  during  the  night.  The  air  was  so  warm  and  calm  that  it  hung  like  a  net  over  the  gay  line  of  flower  sellers,  seeming  to  enmesh  with-in  its  blue  haze  not  only  the  humming  of  the  bees  that  hovered  above  the  flow-  ers  but  the  gossip  of  the  flower  sellers  themselves.  In  the  midst  of  this  mesh  of  air,  her  grandmother's  and  Mrs.  Isaacs'  laughing  voices  were  the  loudest.  Ev-  erywhere  there  was  a  pithy,  moist  smell  of  wattle  leaves  and  larkspurs  and  wat-  sonias.  Janie  followed  Daniel  as  he  crawled  along  the  pavement  through  the  bright  aisle  formed  by  the  flowers  along  the  curb  and  their  reflection  in  the  gleam-  ing  store  windows.  Grudgingly,  she  kept  him  from  crawling  under  a  lorry  that  had  drawn  up  in  front  of  a  butch-  er's  shop  near  the  end  of  the  block.  Terrible  carcasses  were  being  pulled  from  the  back  of  this  lorry  by  men  who  shielded  themselves  in  ghostly  hoods  of  hessian  sacking.  She  stood  close  to  Dan-  iel,  so  that  his  fingers  would  not  be  mashed  by  the  large,  hard-soled  feet  of  pedestrians.  She  saw  to  it  that  he  did  not  fall  into  a  water-filled  tub  that  had  not  yet  been  raised  from  the  pavement.  And,  owing  to  her  vigilance,  he  did  not  choke  on  a  button,  and  his  thin  fingers  were  not  stung  by  a  lighted  cigarette  end.  She  was  an  efficient  nurse,  but  when  her  grandmother  had  a  customer  and  called  her,  she  gladly  ran  to  her  and  handed  her  the  strands  of  raffia  with  which  she  bound  the  dripping  stems,  and  the  newspaper  with  which  she  wrapped  them,  and  the  razor  blade  with  which  she  cut  off  a  dead  flower  head.  Yet  it  was  not  her  grandmother  who  was  impressed  by  her  usefulness,  but  " b"Mrs.  Isaacs.  &quot;What  a  good  child  you  &gt;  are,  Janie,&quot;  she  said,  her  eyes  shining  at  her  through  a  branch  of  loquat  leaves.  &quot;Just  look  at  the  way  you  help  everyone.  Just  look  how  carefully  you  mind  Daniel.  Doesn't  she,  Danny  boy?  Ag!  Sweet  thing!  You  got  a  nice  little  sister,  lovey.  Upsy!  Come  to  Auntie.  Come,  my  baby,  you  old-fashioned  little  thing.&quot;  Janie  watched  her  lift  Daniel  to  her  lap  and  dandle  him  there,  beside  the  swaying  loquat  branches.  &quot;They  say  that  Danny  boy  has  got  my  eyes  exactly,&quot;  said  Janie's  grand-  mother,  beaming  on  her  soapbox.  Janie  could  feel  with  her  tongue  the  tiny  ridged  edge  of  one  of  her  new  teeth,  and,  tasting  it  thoughtfully,  she  turned  her  back  on  Mrs,  Isaacs  and  her  grandmother,  and  stared  at  the  shopwindow  behind  them.  It  shone  like  amirror,  and  at  first  all  she  could  see  in  it  was  a  clear  reflection  of  her  grand-  mother's  body,  rising  like  some  strange,  primeval  growth  out  of  the  baths,  dwarfing  the  arums  and  watsonias.  She  shifted  sidewise  along  the  window  until  she  could  make  out  one  arm  that  belonged  to  Mrs.  Isaacs,  from  which  a  branch  of  loquat  seemed  to  sprout.  And,  looking  into  the  edge  of  the  window,  she  could  even  make  out  the  white-  coated  figure  of  the  fruit  vender  whose  barrow  was  at  the  corner  of  the  street.  He  seemed  to  be  crying  at  her,  out  of  the  window,  &quot;Yeppels!  Cookers  and  eaters!  Yeppels!  Ten  for  a  bob!&quot;  Janie  had  often  seen  this  vender  of  apples  at  close  quarters,  and  she  was  a  little  frightened  of  him,  because  his  eyes  always  moved  strangely  about  his  face,  travelling  independent  of  each  other.     She  quickly  shifted  her  gaze  to  the  cen-  ter  of  the  window,  where  she  could  no  longer  see  him,  and  then,  leaning  for-  ward,  she  pressed  her  face  against  the  cold  glass.  At  that  moment,  everything  behind  her  vanished,  and  she  saw  for  the  first  time  what  was  reallyinside  the  window.  It  was  a  bed.  It  was  an  enormous  bed,  with  a  rich  spread  of  pink  quilted  satin.  Astonished  by  its  size,  she  stepped  back  slightly,  only  to  find  that  a  tub  of  arums  had  in  some  extraordinary  manner  penetrated  the  glass  and  settled  on  top  of  the  bed,  as  though  that  were  its  right-  ful  place.  She  drew  quickly  up  to  the  window,  and  the  tub  vanished,  without  leaving  the  slightest  water  stain  on  the  fine  cover.  It  was  a  most  solid  bed.  It  was  too  large,  she  thought,  to  creak.  In  fact,   " b"it  was  as  large  as  a  room.  Not  only  as  long  as  a  room,  like  their  own  bed,  but  as  broad,  too.  To  ease  such  a  bed  into  a  room,  one  would  have  to  remove  the  roof  and  in  some  fashion  lower  the  bed  to  the  floor.  Then,  when  the  roof  had  been  replaced,  all  the  floor  would  have  vanished  beneath  the  bed.  It  would  be  quite  a  problem  to  know  what  to  do  with  the  table  and  the  cupboard,  unless  these  articles  of  furniture  could  somehow  be  stored  under  the  bed.  This  thought  troubled  her,  for  both  the  table  and  the  cupboard  were  essential.  But  maybe  one  couldn't  have  everything,  she  decided,  andwas  comforted  by  this  thought.  The  more  she  looked  at  the  bed,  the  more  she  approved  of  it.  It  was  a  bed  upon  which  one  could  bounce  all  the  way  up  to  the  ceiling,  swiftly  ascending  past  the  portraits  of  the  Queen  and  General  Smuts  on  the  way  up,  and  as  swiftly  passing  them  on  the  way  down.  But  Janie  was  tooold  to  think  only  about  pleasures.  With  an  effort,  she  stopped  testing  the  resiliency  of  the  bed  and  began  to  measure  it  with  a  steadier  eye,  estimating  just  what  accommoda-  tion  such  a  bed  could  afford.  Examining  the  width  of  the  bed  in  relation  to  the  sizes  of  all  the  people  she  knew  best,  she  placed  them  thoughtfully  on  it,  one  by  one.  First  of  all,  she  took  Daniel.  She  put  him  on  the  farthest  edge  of  the  bed,  sandwiching  him  there,  as  usual,  be-  tween  his  own  rubber  sheet  and  a  shawl.  She  squeezed  him  down  hard.  Then  she  took  her  grandmother,  who,  being  full  of  things  like  hearts  and  livers  and  kidneys,  weighed  as  much  as  a  tub  of  water.  But  since  this  was  the  most  wonderful  bed  in  the  world,  the  impressive  weight  of  her  body  made  scarcely  a  dent  in  the  fine  satin  cover.  Janie  laid  her  grandmother  flat  on  her  back,  with  a  lot  of  space  between  her  and  Daniel,  and  then,  as  further  pro-  tection  against  the  old  woman's  restless  complaints,  she  left  a  large  space  on  the  near  side.  This  was  for  the  invisible  companion  to  whom  her  grandmother  spoke  each  night.  Despite  this  lack  of  economy,  there  was  still  a  great  deal  of  room  left-so  much,  in  fact,  that  Janie  allowed  Mrs.  Isaacs  to  climb  into  the  bed  next.  In  her  mind,  Janie  arranged  these  people  on  the  bed  rather  defiantly  and  impatiently,  but  her  attitude  softened  when  she  thought  of  the  ideal  place  for  her  mother  and  herself.  Between  the  two  of  them  there  would  not  be  space  for  a  single  linaria,  she  thought,  vague-  ly  remembering  that  her  grandmother  had  said  something  like  this  the  night  before.  All  at  once,  half-forgotten  words,  sharp  little  thoughts,  and  frightening  feelings  of  unease  shook  about  in  her  mind  and  then  slipped  into  an  unmis-  takable  pattern,  like  cold  chips  of  glass  within  a  kaleidoscope.  She  could  see  her  own  face  reflected  in  the  window.  It  had  crinkled  up  into  an  expression  that  presaged  age  and,  with  age,  the  whole  disaster  of  a  new  understanding.  There  was  going  to  be  a  new  baby.  Yet  it  was  Daniel's  voice,  crying  be-  hind  her,  that  made  her  step  back  from  the  window  as  though  she  had  been  re-  pulsed.  All  at  once,  the  sun  began  to  stream  through  the  glass,  carrying  on  its  shafts  the  ordinary,  familiar  things  of  the  street  behind  her-the  flower  sell-  ers,  the  baths  of  bright  flowers,  and  her  grandmother.  She  turned  around  quick-  ly  once  more  to  face  them. "