 b"ONE  summer  in  the  middle  thir-ties,  my  wife  and  I  spent  our  two-week  vacation  in  [REDACTED].  We  stayed  about  a  week  in  [REDACTED],  which  we  found  delightful,  and  then  decided  to  go  to  the  country  for  a  few  days.  So  we  went  to  the  Ie  d'Orl\xc3\xa9ans,  an  island  about  twenty  miles  long  and  five  miles  wide  lying  in  the  St.  Law-  rence,  a  few  miles  east  of  the  city.  It  was  a  very  lovely  spot,  mostly  mild  rolling  country  but  hilly  at  the  far  end,  where  there  was  a  beautiful  view  of  the  wide  river  and  the  Laurentian  Mountains.  At  the  time,  the  island  was  devoted  almost  entirely  to  farming,  and  the  peo-  ple  referred  to  themselves  as  cultive-  teurs,  avoiding  the  patronizing  word  habitant.  Nearly  all  their  buildings  had  been  put  up  around,  or  well  before,  1700.  Most  were  of  field  stone,  usually  whitewashed,  and  had  steep-gabled  Norman  roofs,  high  chimneys  at  each  end,  and  ground-floor  doors  that  were  divided  horizontally  in  the  middle  and  opened  onto  uncovered  wooden  porches  called  galeries.  At  [REDACTED].  P\xc3\xa9tronille,  theferry  port,  there  was  a  modest  inn  named  the  Ch&amp;-  teau  Bel-Air,  which  had  a  license  to  sell  ale-the  only  place  on  the  island  where  anything  alcoholic  was  legally  obtain-  able.  The  inn  was  built  of  clapboards,  with  little  shingled  turrets  to  make  it  live  up  to  its  name.  The  dining  room  hadhuge  windows  that  gave  on  the  river,  and  small,  expensive,  but  excel-  lent  sandwiches  were  served  there.  The  staff  was  one  old  lady  and  two  girls.  I  shall  always  remember  theold  lady  be-  cause  ofa  joke  she  made.  My  wife  and  I  were  lunching  there  oneday  during  a  solar  eclipse,  and  everyone  rushed  out  to  watch  it.  When  it  was  over,I  couldn't  find  a  waitress  to  pay  my  bill  to.  The  old  lady  took  the  money,  cackling  with  laughter,  and  said,  &quot;Eh-heh,  elle  Sest  \xc3\xa9clps\xc3\xa9e  avec  P\xc3\xa9clipse!&quot;  Since  that  visit,  the  Ile  d'Orl\xc3\xa9ans  has  utterly  changed.  A  vehicular  bridge  now  crosses  over  from  the  mainland,  and  a  concrete  highway  runs  down  the  mid-  dle  ofthe  island,  replete  with  blatting,  sputtering  buses  and  little  honky-tonk  resorts  and  roadhouses.  The  nice  little  ferries  havebeen  discontinued,  and  the  whole  place  has  become  a  tourist  drop.  N  the  Basse  [REDACTED]  in  [REDACTED],  that  summer,  we  found  a  public  phone  in  a  Chinese  laundry,  where  the  staff  spoke  only  Chinese  and  French  and  the  coin  box,  made  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  took  only  American  nickels,  and,  get-" b"ting  a  number  from  the  classified  direc-  tory,  we  called  a  bicycle  shop  and  ar-  ranged  to  hire  a  couple  of  bicycles,  which  we  took  over  with  us  on  the  ferry.  The  afternoon  sun  was  hot.  We  dis-  covered,  when  we  had  bicycled  up  a  few  of  the  hills  toward  the  end  of  the  island,  locally  known  as  les  petites  cotes,  that  they  were  not  so  petites  and  we  were  getting  winded.  We  stopped  at  the  gen-  eral  store  of  a  hamlet,  and  drank  some  delicious  ice-cold  water  from  a  back-  yard  well.  Then  we  bought  cigarettes  and  talked  to  the  proprietor  about  find-  ing  a  place  to  stay.  The  whole  commu-  nity,  apparently,  except  those  who  were  working  in  the  fields,  turned  out  to  in-  spect  us.  They  were  friendly  enough,  but  baffled  by  my  French,  which  was  more  or  less  standard  and  thus  different  from  their  dialect.  The  proprietor  told  us  to  try  the  place  of  a  friend,  whom  I  will  call  Hormisdas  (locally  pronounced  &quot;Hormissdawss&quot;  )  Morteaux.  The  first  name  is  thatof  a  sixth-century  pope,  the  second  a  time-honored  Norman  name.  The  storekeeper  said  the  friend  had  a  very  fine  house  on  a  farm  in  the  neigh-  boring  township  of  Marmoutier,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Emile  de  P\xc3\xa9ribonka.  (These  names,  too,  are  not  the  actual  ones.)  He  gave  us  as  a  landmark  a  tiny  seventeenth-century  church;  it  was  still  in  use,  he  said,  and  could  hold  exactly  twenty  parishioners  at  a  time.  After  pushing  up  and  down  a  few  more  cotes  and  passing  the  little  church,  we  rolled  down  a  long  slope  toward  the  bank  of  the  St.  Lawrence  and  found  ourselves  on  a  little  road  leading  to  a  gate  in  front  of  a  house  that  we  felt  must  be  the  Morteauxes'.  It  was  just  as  fine  as  the  storekeeper  had  said,  with  a  clear  view  of  the  river  and  the  mountains,  and  on  a  pebbly  beach  behind  the  outbuild-  ings  there  was  a  small  lighthouse,  one  of  many  along  the  coast  of  the  island.  The  sun  had  just  set  and  it  was  getting  dark.  We  jingled  our  bicycle  bells.  The  upper  half  of  one  of  the  ground-floor  doors  opened,  and  a  rather  unprepos-  sessing  face  looked  out-that  of  a  fat  old  man  who  had  not  shaved  for  several  days.  After  a  moment,  he  opened  the  other  half  and  stepped  out,  and  we  saw  that  he  was  wearing  a  faded  blue  shirt  without  a  collar  (butwith  a  collar  but-  ton),  no  tie,  and  both  suspenders  and  a  leather  belt-a  popular  mode  of  dress  in  [REDACTED]  Province.  He  asked,  not  very  cordially,  what  we  wanted.  When  I  told  him,  he  seemed  of  two  minds  about  us  and  did  not,  or  pretended  not  to,  rec-  ognize  the  name  of  the  storekeeper.  Then  his  wife  came  out-a  tall,  clean, " b"handsome  old  lady  who  had  obviously  once  been  beautiful.  She  spoke  French  that  was  almost  standard-much  better  thanher  husband's  buzzing  patois.  She  was  cordial  but  uncertain.  'Then  a  child  ran  out,  a  sturdy,  pretty  blond  girl  of  about  four,  who  shot  a  stream  of  ques-  tionsat  us  and  plainly  took  a  liking  to  us.  The  old  man's  manner  changed  im-  mediately.  he  said.  &quot;Si  Julie  vous  donne  la  bienvenue,  entrex,  en-  trex.&quot;  We  all  went  inside.  The  house  was  spotless  and  well  aired.  The  floors  had  amazing  star-shaped  designs  in  high-  colored  paints,  which  are  common  in  those  parts.  On  the  upper  floor  were  a  loom  and  a  spinning  wheel,  which  were  frequently  in  use,  Mme.  Morteaux  told  us.  She  also  told  us  her  maiden  name-  it  was  Scottish-and  said  that  she  was  descended  from  one  of  Wolfe's  High-  landers.  Many  French  Canadians  are  oflargely  Scottish  ancestry.  We  were  then  shown  into  a  room  on  the  first  floor;  it  had  a  double  bed,  spread  with  hand-woven  sheets  and  blankets.  The  family  consisted  of  five  people:  the  old  couple,  ason  and  his  wife,  and  little  Julie,  the  grandchild.  The  two  men  worked  the  farm  and  the  light-  house,  and  helped  with  the  weaving.  At  suppertime,  we  met  the  son,  Elz\xc3\xa9ar.  He  was  a  large,  good-looking  young  man  with  light-brown  hair  and  blue  eyes,  who  much  resembled  his  mother  and  Julie.  He  kissed  his  parents  (calling  his  father  &quot;son  p\xc3\xa9re,&quot;  a  Canadianism  I  have  never  figured  out)  and  greeted  us  politely.  His  manner  was  very  quiet  and  reserved,  and  there  was  something  infinitely  sad  about  his  expression.  He  rarely  smiled,  and  talked  little.  His  wife-surprisingly,  forthe  mother  of  Julie-was  small,  with  very  poor  pos-  ture,  and  thin,  pale,  and  slatternly.  Her  eyes  were  lacklustre,  she  spoke  a  very  thick  dialect,  and  she  looked  thoroughly  beat  up.  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  hardly  addressed  her  at  all,  except  on  household  matters.  We  enjoyed  our  stay.  We  took  bi-  cycle  rides  and  went  swimming,and  the  time  passed  quietly  and  bucolically.  The  son  showed  us  how  to  work  the  loom;  thefather  took  us  up  in  the  lighthouse  and  explained  its  operation  to  us.  The  job  was  hereditary,  he  said,  and  had  passed  from  father  to  son  for  about  two  hundred  years.  Once,  the  light  had  been  merely  a  flaming  coal  buck-  et.  Throughout  our  stay,  the  son  re-  mained  taciturn  and  brooding,  though  he  seemed  a  shade  more  cheerful  when  he  was  showing  us  something;  he  was  always  gentle.  And  we  played  with  Julie,  a  child  of  iron  physique,  to  the" b"point  of  exhaustion.  'The  old  man  de-  lighted  in  watching  this,  and  kept  saying  over  and  over  again,  &quot;Ah,  la  belle  petite,  ma  belle  petite.&quot;  Also,  he  kept  asking  me  what  I  thought  of  Hilaire,  whom  I  did  not  know.  It  turned  out  he  was  talking  about  Hitler,  then  much  in  the  news.  ABOUT  three  years  later,  my  wife  and  I  went  up  to  [REDACTED]  again,  this  time  on  a  Canadian  Pacific  steamer.  A  fellow-passenger,  a  banker  from  Bos-  ton  who  had  his  car  on  board,  decided  to  come  over  to  the  island  with  us,  and  he  drove  us  from  the  ferry  port  out  to  the  Morteauxes'.  He  was  a  World  War  I  veteran  and  a  tremendous  Fran-  cophile.  Everything  reminded  him  of  [REDACTED],  and  he  kept  stopping  the  car  on  the  way  and  making  me  ask  unneces-  sary  directions  just  so  he  could  hear  French  speken.  When  we  got  to  the  Morteauxes',  I  had  a  momentary  start.  On  top  of  the  house,  along  theridge-  pole,  was  a  huge  wooden  sign  that  said  &quot;KRONKHEIT.&quot;  I  found  out  later  that  it  was  just  an  advertisement  for  a  tractor  firm,  which  had  paid  the  Morteauxes  a  few  dollars  to  put  it  up.  But  it  may  have  been  an  omen  at  that.  All  was  not  well  with  the  family.  We  found  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  and  his  wife  in.  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  seemed  more  deject-  edthan  ever.  He  told  me  that  his  moth-  er  had  died  shortly  after  we  left  them,  and  that  his  father  was  in  a  [REDACTED]  hos-  pital  recovering  from  a  kidney  opera-  tion.  He  seemed  hesitant  about  talking  any  more,  and  then  he  suddenly  blurted  out  that  his  father  had  remarried.  For  the  first  time,  I  saw  his  gentle  features  darken  with  anger.  &quot;Une  \xc3\xa9trang\xc3\xa9re!&quot;  he  said,  banging  his  fist  on  a  table.  &quot;Le  pere  s'est  marie  avec  une  \xc3\xa9trang\xc3\xa9ere!&quot;  What  he  meant  by  this,  we  soon  learned,  was  that  his  father's  new  wife  had  come  from  Brockville,  Ontario.  She  was  just  as  French  Canadian  as  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  and  his  wife  were,  but  to  them  a  for-  eigner,  implacably.  He  had  truly  loved  his  mother,  and  he  couldn't  abide  the  interloper.  They  had  put  her  in  a  room  at  the  other  end  of  the  house,  given  her  a  stove  and  utensils,  and  told  her  to  stay  there.  When  the  father  came  back  from  the  hospital,  either  he  could  stay  there  with  her  or  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  and  his  wife  would  leave  the  farm  and  maybe  go  to  the  [REDACTED]  and  find  work.  I  warned  him  about  the  unemployment  situation;  the  depression  was  still  far  from  over.  The  conversation  ended  there.  Julie  was  out  visiting  somewhere  and  we  didn't  see  her  at  all.  The  [REDACTED]  man,  when  he  was  shown  the  spinning  wheel  upstairs,  wanted  to  buy  it,  but  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  said  it  was" b"in  use  and  not  for  sale.  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  seemed  as  much  surprised  at  the  offer  as  the  556e6974656420537461746573ian  was  at  its  refusal.  We  had  tea,  ate  some  delicious  cr\xc3\xa9pes  Cane-  diennes,  paid,  and  left.  The  following  day,  my  wife  and  I  went  to  visit  the  old  man  in  the  [REDACTED]  hospital.  I  had  never  seen  so  many  nuns  at  one  time  before  in  my  life.  He  seemed  well  looked  after  but  pale,  shrunken,  and,  without  his  stubble  of  beard,  un-  familiar.  He  also  wandered  a  bit  in  his  speech,  and  I  wondered  if  he  was  quite  sure  who  we  were.  He  asked  if  we  had  seen  Julie,  and  seemed  bothered  because  she  had  not  been  at  home.  But  then  he  smiled  and  said,  &quot;Ah,  Julie,  cest  ma  fille,  ga.  La  petite  cherie.  Elle  est  &amp;  moi.&quot;  Soon  after  that,  three  nuns  marched  up  in  single  file  and  told  us  not  to  tire  him,  so  we  left.  FEW  years  later,  shortly  before  Pearl  [REDACTED],  we  went  to  the  Ile  d'Orl\xc3\xa9ans  once  more.  Signs  of  change  were  everywhere;  the  bridge  was  under  construction  and  the  new  highway  be-  gun.  This  time,  we  were  driving  our  own  car.  We  got  to  the  house  but  went  no  farther  than  the  gate.  The  windows  were  boarded  up,  and  a  sign  on  a  post  in  front  of  the  galerie  said  &quot;MAISON  ET  TERRAIN  A  VENDRE.&quot;  The  &quot;KRONK-  HEIT&quot;  sign  was  still  there,  looking  weathered  and  faded.  We  stopped  at  the  post  office  in  Mar-  moutier  to  ask  about  the  Morteaux  fam-  ily.  There  were  two  postmistresses,  sis-  ters,  bothneat  old  ladies  dressed  in  gingham  and  wearing  small-lensed,  steel-rimmed  spectacles.  As  so  many  French  Canadians  do,  they  looked  like  typical  New  Englanders.  They  knew  all  about  the  Morteauxes.  The  father  had  died  ofthe  operation  after  all;  the  son  had  kicked  out  the  widowed  step-  mother,  who  had  returned  to  Brock-  ville.  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  had  then  put  the  farm  up  for  sale  and  gone  with  his  wife  and  Julie  to  a  new  boom  town  on  the  north  coast,  called  Baie  Comeau,  and  found  work  there.  I  asked  if  Julie  had  stayed  as  pretty  as  she  was  when  we  knew  her.  They  looked  at  each  other  and  tittered,  and  said  yes,  she  was  pretty,  all  right.  There  was  something  veiled  and  odd  about  their  manner.  Recognizing  them  as  inveterate  gossips,  I  was  sure  they  would  go  on  talking.  I  lit  a  cigarette  and  waited.  One  of  them  finally  said,  &quot;Well,  they're  all  gone  now,  and  ev-  erybody  knew  it  anyway,  so  I  don't  see  the  harm  in  telling  you.  Julie  was  Hormisdas'  child.  Her  grandfather's.&quot;  &quot;What!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh,  yes.  You  know,  they  were  the  " b"only  childless  family  in  the  parish,  and  they  felt  it  such  a  disgrace.  Poor  Elz\xc3\xa9ar!  The  kidding  he  had  to  take,  He  went  to  a  doctor  and  was  told  he  couldn't  have  any  children.  You  know,  up  here  every-  one  has  big  families.  The  Church  wants  it  that  way.  I  hear  it  isn't  like  that  in  the  [REDACTED]-Protestants  and  all-but  here  .  .  .  Anyway,  it  isn't  as  bad  as  first  cousins  marrying,  and  there's  plenty  of  that  around  here.&quot;  &quot;But  what  didthe  cur\xc3\xa9  think  about  it?&quot;  I  asked.  The  two  crones  looked  at  each  other.  &quot;Well,&quot;  one  of  them  said,  &quot;we  don't  know  for  sure  about  that.  When  Hor-  misdas  and  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  told  him  what  had  been  done,  we  think  he  just  told  them  to  pray  and  confess  and  let  God  judge  them.  He's  dead  too,  le  pauvre  P\xc3\xa9re  Br\xc3\xa9tignol,  a  kind,  worldly  man.  He  sure  didn't  tell  them  to  tell  about  it,  though.  But  theold  fool,  Hormisdas,  when  Julie  turned  out  so  pretty  and  all,  he  was  so  proud  of  her  he  couldn't  keep  his  mouth  shut.  Funny  how  she  turned  out  to  look  more  like  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  after  all.&quot;  We  left,  and  headed  back  to  [REDACTED].  What  an  unobservant  fool  I  had  been!  When  Hormisdas  said  things  like  &quot;Ele  est  &amp;  mot&quot;  and  &quot;C'est  ma  fille,&quot;  he  had  meant  them  literally,  and  not  as  expres-  sions  of  affection,  which  I  had  taken  them  to  be.  Poor  Elz\xc3\xa9ar  indeed!  I  thought  of  his  sad,  handsome  face,  and  its  expression  of  inner  pain-an  expres-  sion  I  now  understood. "