 b"ONE  afternoon  last  winter,  when  the  telephone  rang  in  my  house  in  Wheeling,  New  York,  I  started  not  to  answer  it;it  was  snowing,  I  was  reading  a  book  I  had  been  waiting  for  weeks  to  get  hold  of,  and  I  did  not  want  to  be  disturbed.  But  it  seemed  to  me  that  the  peals  of  the  bell  were  longer,  \xc2\xabmore  insistent  than  usual,  so  I  picked  up  the  phone  and  said,  &quot;Hello.&quot;  It  was  Peter  Forbes-and  neither  that  name  nor  any  other  is  theactual  one-and  he  was  calling  from  Bridge-  port.  He  said  abruptly,  and  wheezily,  for  he  is  an  asthmatic,  &quot;Ma  is  terribly  ill.  Really  awfully  sick.&quot;  He  paused,  and  I  said  I  was  very  sor-  ry.  His  mother,  Sarah  Forbes,  and  my  mother  had  grown  up  together  in  a  colored  section  of  [REDACTED].  Peter  said,  &quot;She's  got  some  dishes  she  wants  you  to  have.  So  will  you  come  as  soon  as  you  can?  Because  she  is  really  very  sick.&quot;  I  had  heard  that  Sarah,  who  was  in  her  seventies,  was  not  well,  but  I  was  startled  to  learn  that  she  was  &quot;terribly  ill,&quot;  &quot;really  very  sick.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I'll  come  tomorrow.  Will  that  be  all  right?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Please  come  today.  Ma  keeps  worrying  about  these  dishes.  So  will  you  please  come-well,  right  away?  She  is  really  terribly,  terribly  ill.&quot;  Knowing  Sarah  as  well  as  I  did,  I  could  understand  his  insistence.  Sarah  had  an  unpleasant  voice;  it  was  a  queru-  lous,  peevish  voice.  When  she  was  an-  gry  or  irritated,  or  wanted  you  to  do  something  that  you  did  not  want  to  do,  she  talked  and  talked  and  talked,  until  finally  her  voice  seemed  to  be  pursuing  you.  It  was  like  a  physical  pursuit  from  which  there  was  no  escape.  I  said,&quot;T'll  leave  right  away,&quot;and  hung  up.  It  took  me  three  hours  to  drive  from  Wheeling  to  [REDACTED],  though  the  distance  is  only  forty-five  miles.  But  it  is  forty-five  miles  of  winding  road-all  hills  and  sharp  curves.  The  slush  in  the  road  was  beginning  to  freeze,  and  the  windshield  wiper  kept  getting  stuck;  at  frequent  intervals  I  had  to  stop  the  car  and  get  out  and  push  the  snow  away  so  the  wiper  could  function  again.  During  that  long,  tedious  drive,  I  kept  thinking  about  Sarah  and  remem-  bering  things  about  her.  It  was  at  least  two  years  since  I  had  seen  her.  But  be-  fore  that,  over  a  period  of  twenty  years,  I  had  seen  her  almost  every  summer,  because  Peter  drove  over  to  Wheeling  to  go  fishing,  and  his  mother  came,  too.  She  usually  accompanied  him  whenever  he  went  out  for  a  ride.  He  would  leave  her  at  my  house,  so  that  she  could  visit  with  me  while  he  and  his  two  boys  went  fishing.  I  thoroughly  enjoyed  these  visits,  for  Sarah  could  be  utterly  charming  when  she  was  so  minded.  She  was  a  tall  woman  with  rather  bushy  black  hair  that  had  a  streak  of  gray  near  the  front.  Her  skin  was  a  wonderful  reddish-  brown  color  and  quite  unwrinkled,  in  spite  of  her  age.  She  would  have  been  extremely  attractive  if  she  hadn't  grown  so  fat.  All  this  fat  was  deposited  on  her  abdomen  and  behind.  Her  legs  had  stayed  thin,  and  her  feet  were  long  and  thin,  and  her  head,  neck,  and  shoulders  were  small,  but  she  was  huge  from  waist  to  knee.  In  silhouette,  she  looked  rather  like  a  pouter  pigeon  in  reverse.  Her  legs  were  not  sturdy  enough  to  support  so  much  weight,  and  she  was  al-  ways  leaning  against  doors,  or  against  people,  for  support.  This  gave  her  an  air  of  helplessness,  which  was  complete-  ly  spurious.  She  had  a  caustic  sense  of  humor,  and,  though  she  was  an  old  woman,  if  something  struck  her  as  be-  ing  funny,  she  would  be  seized  by  fits  of  giggling  justas  if  she  were  a  very  young  and  silly  girl.  I  KNEW  a  great  deal  about  Sarah  Forbes,  This  knowledge  stemmed  from  a  long-distance  telephone  call  that  she  made  to  my  mother  thirty-three  years  ago,  when  I  was  nine  years  old.  I  overheard  my  mother's  side  of  the  conversation.  I  can  still  repeat  what  she  said,  word  for  word,  even  imitating  the  intonation,  the  inflection  of  her  voice.  In  those  days  we  lived  in  the  build-  ing  that  housed  my  father's  drugstore,  in  Wheeling.  Our  kitchen  was  on  the  ground  floor,  behind  the  store,  and  the  bedrooms  were  upstairs,  above  it.  Just  as  other  children  sat  in  the  family  living  room,  I  sat  in  the  drugstore-right  near  the  front  window  on  a  bench  when  the  weather  was  cold,  outside  on  the  wood-  en  steps  that  extended  across  the  front  of  the  building  when  the  weather  was  warm.  Sitting  outside  on  those  splintery  steps,  I  could  hear  everything  that  went  on  inside.  In  summer,  the  big  front  door  of  the  store  stayed  wide  open  all  day,  and  there  was  a  screen  doorwith  fancy  scrollwork  on  all  the  wooden  parts.  There  were  windows  on  either  side  of  the  door.  On  each  window,  my  father  had  painted  his  name  in  white  letters  with  the  most  wonderful  curli-  cues  and  flourishes,  and  under  it  the  word  &quot;Druggist.&quot;  On  one  window  it  said  &quot;Cold  Soda,&quot;  and  on  the  other window  &quot;Ice  Cream,&quot;  and  over  the  door  it  said  &quot;Drug  Store.&quot;  Whether  Isat  inside  the  store  or  out-  side  it,  I  had  a  long,  sweeping  view  of  the  church,  the  church  green,  and  the  street.  The  street  was  as  carefully  com-  posed  as  a  painting:  tall  elm  trees,  white  fences,  Federal  houses.  If  I  was  sitting  outside  on  the  steps,  listening  to  whatwent  on  in  the  store,  no  one  paid  any  attention  to  me,  but  if  I  was  sitting  inside  on  the  bench  near  the  window,  my  mother  or  my  father  would  shoo  me  out  whenever  a  custom-  er  reached  the  really  interesting  part  of  the  story  he  was  telling.  I  was  always  being  shooed  out  until  I  discovered  that  if  I  sat  motionless  on  the  bench,  with  a  book  held  open  in  front  of  me,  and  did  not  glance  up,  everyone  forgot  about  me.  Occasionally,  someone  would  stop  right  in  the  middle  of  a  hair-raising  sto-  ry,  and  then  my  father  would  say,  &quot;Oh,  she's  got  her  nose  in  a  book.  She's  just  like  she's  deaf  when  she's  got  her  nose  in  a  book.  You  can  say  anything  you  want  to  and  she  won't  hear  a  word.&quot;  It  was  like  having  a  permanent  season  ticket  in  a  theatre  where  there  was  a  continuous  performance  and  the  same  play  was  never  given  twice.  My  special  interest  in  Sarah  dates  from  a  rainy  afternoon  when  I  was  sit-  ting  inside  the  store.  It  was  a  dull  after-  noon-no  customers,  nothing,  just  the  busy  sound  of  rain  dripping  from  the  eaves,  hitting  the  wooden  steps.  The  wall  telephone  rang,  and  my  mother,  wiping  her  hands  on  her  apron,  came  to  answer  it  from  the  kitch-  en,  which  was  just  behind  the  prescription  room  of  the  store.  Before  she  picked  up  the  receiv-  er,  she  said,  &quot;That's  a  long-distance  call.  I  can  tell  by  the  way  the  operator  is  ringing.  That's  a  long-distance  call.&quot;  Isat  up  straight,  I  picked  up  my  book,  and  I  heard  the  tinkling  sound  of  money  being  dropped  in  at  the  other  end.  Then  I  heard  my  mother  say-  ing,  &quot;Why,  Sarah,  how  are  you?  ...  What?  What  did  you  say?  ...  Found  him?  Found  him  where?&quot;  She  listened.  &quot;Oh,  xo!&quot;  She  listened  again.  &quot;Oh,  my  dear!  Why,  how  dreadful!  Surely  an  accident.  You  think-&quot;  A  longer  period  of  listening.  &quot;Oh,  no.  Why  that's  impossible.  Nobody  would  de-  liberately-&quot;  She  didn't  finish  what  she  was  going  to  say,  and  listened  again.  &quot;A  letter?  Forbes  left  a  letter?  Tear  it  up!  You  mustn't  let  anyone  know  that-&quot;  There  was  a  long  pause.  &quot;But  you  must  think  of  Peter.  These  things  have  an  effect  on-  Excuse  me.&quot;  She  turned  and  looked  at  me.  I  had  put  the  book  down  on  the  bench,  and  I  " b"was  staring  straight  at  her,  breathing  quite  fast  and  listening  so  intently  that  my  mouth  was  open.  She  said,  &quot;Go  out  and  play.&quot;  I  kept  staring  at  her,  not  moving,  be-  cause  I  was  trying  to  figure  out  what  in  the  world  she  and  Sarah  Forbes  had  been  discussing.  What  had  happened  that  no  one  must  know  about?  She  said  again,  her  voice  rising  slight-  ly,  &quot;Go  out  and  play.&quot;  So  I  went  the  long  way,  through  the  back  ofthe  store  and  the  prescription  room  and  the  kitchen,  and  I  slammed  the  back  door,  and  then  I  edged  inside  the  prescription  room  again,  very  quietly,  and  I  heard  my  mother  say,  &quot;He  must  have  had  a  heart  attack  and  fallen  right  across  the  railroad  tracks  justas  the  train  was  due.  That's  the  only  possible  explanation.  And,  Sarah,  burn  that  let-  ter.  Burn  it  up!&quot;  She  hung  up  the  phone,  and  then  she  said  to  herself,  &quot;How  dreadful.  How  perfectly  dreadful!&quot;  W  HETHER  Sarah  took  my  moth-  er's  advice  and  burned  Forbes  letter  I  do  not  know,  but  it  became  common  knowledge  that  he  had  com-  mitted  suicide,  and  his  death  was  so  re-  ported  in  the  [REDACTED]  newspapers.  His  body  had  been  foundon  the  rail-  road  tracks  near  Shacktown,  an  outly-  ing,  poverty-stricken  section  of  Bridge-  port,  where  the  white  riffraff  lived  and  the  lowest  brothels  were  to  be  found.  He  was  the  only  person  that  my  father  and  my  mother  and  my  aunts  had  ever  known  who  had  killed  himself,  and  they  talked  about  him  endlessly-not  his  sui-  cide  but  his  life  as  they  had  known  it.  His  death  seemed  to  have  put  them  on  the  defensive.  They  sounded  as  though  he  had  said  to  them,  &quot;'This  lifeall  ofus  colored  folk  lead  is  valueless,  itis  disgust  ing,  it  is  cheap,  itis  contemptible,  and  I  am  throwing  it  away,  so  that  everyone  will  know  exactly  what  I  think  of  it.&quot;  They  did  not  say  this,  but  they  sounded  perplexed  and  uneasy  whenever  they  spoke  of  Forbes,  and  they  seemed  to  feel  that  if  they  could  pool  their  knowl-  edge  of  him  they  might  be  able  to  reach  some  acceptable  explanation  of  why  he  had  killed  himself.  I  heard  Forbes  and  Sarah  discussed,  off  and  on,  all  during  the  period  of  my  growing  up.  I  never  saw  Forbes.  The  Wingates,  an  enormously  wealthy  white  family  for  whom  he  worked,  had  stopped  com-  ing  to  W  heeling  before  I  was  born,  and  he  had  stopped  coming  there,  too.  But  I  heard  him  described  so  often  that  I  know  exactly  what  he  looked  like,  how  he  sounded  when  he  talked,  what  kind  of  clothes  he  wore.  He  was  a  tall,  slender  black  man.  He  was  butler,  social  secretary,  gentleman's  gentleman.  When  Mr.  Wingate  became  ill,  he  played  the  role  of  male  nurse.  Then,  after  Mr.  Wingate's  death,  he  ran  the  house  for  Mrs.  Wingate.  He  could  cook,  he  couldsew,  he  could  act  as  coachman  if  necessary;  he  did  all  the  buying  and  all  the  hiring.  The  Wingates  were  summer  resi-  dents  of  Wheeling.  Their  winter  home  was  in  [REDACTED].  In  Wheeling,  they  owned  what  they  called  a  cottage;  it  was  an  exact  replica  of  an  old  Southern  mansion-white  columns,  long  gravelled  driveways,  carefully  maintained  lawns,  brick  stables,  and  all  within  six  hundred  feet  of  Long  Island  Sound.  During  the  summer,  Forbes  rode  a  bicycle  over  to  my  father's  drugstore  every  pleasant  afternoon.  He  said  he  needed  the  exer-  cise.  Whenever  I  heard  my  family  describing  Forbes,  I  always  thought  how  dull  and  uninteresting  he  must  have  been.  There  would  never  be  anything  unex-  pected  about  him,  never  anything  unexplained.  He  would  always  move  exactly  as  he  was  supposed  to  when  someone  pulled  the  proper  strings.  He  was  serious,  economical,  extremely  con-  servative-a  tall,  elegant  figure  in  carefully  pressed  black  clothes  and  polished  shoes.  His  voice  was  slight-  ly  effeminate,  his  speech  very  precise.  Mrs.  Wingate  was  an  Episcopalian  and  so  was  Forbes.  But  one  day  when  my  father  was  talking  about  Forbes,  some  six  months  after  his  death,  he  suddenly  threw  his  head  back  and  laughed.  He  said,  &quot;I  can  see  him  now,  bicycling  down  the  street,  with  those  long  legs  of  his  pinched  up  in  those  straight  tight  pants  he  wore,  pumping  his  legs  upand  down,  and  whistling  'Has  Anybody  Seen  Miss  Dora  Dean?&quot;  with  his  coattails  flying  in  the  wind.  I  can  see  him  now.&quot;  And  he  laughed  again.  At  the  time,  I  could  not  understand  why  my  father  should  have  found  this  funny.  Years  later,  I  learned  that  the  tune  Forbes  whistled  was  one  that  Bert  Williams  and  George  Walker,  a  mem-  orable  team  of  Negro  comedians,  had  made  famous  along  with  their  cake-  walk.  They  were  singing  &quot;Dora  Dean&quot;  in  New  York  in  about  1896.  Dora  Dean,  the  girl  of  the  song,  played  the  lead  in  a  hit  show  called  &quot;The  Creole  Show,&quot;  which  was  notable  for  a  chorus  of  sixteen  beautiful  colored  girls.  I  sup-  pose  it  amused  my  father  to  think  that  Forbes,  who  seemed  to  have  silver  pol-  ish  in  his  veins  instead  of  good  red  blood,  should  be  whistling  a  tune  that  suggested  cakewalks,  beautiful  brown  girls,  and  ragtime.  Mrs.  Wingate's  name  entered  into  the  discussions  of  Forbes  because  he  worked  for  her.  It  was  usually  my  " b"mother  who  spoke  of  Mrs.  Wingate,  and  she  said  the  same  thing  so  often  that  I  can  quote  her:  &quot;Mrs.  Wingate  al-  ways  said  she  simply  couldn't  live  with-  out  Forbes.  She  said  he  planned  the  menus,  he  checked  the  guest  lists,  he  supervised  the  wine  cellar-he  did  ev-  erything.  Remember  how  she  used  to  come  in  the  store  and  say  he  was  her  mind,  her  heart,  her  hands?  That  was  a  funny  thing  to  say,  wasn't  it?&quot;  There  would  be  a  pause,  and  then  she  would  say,  &quot;Wasn't  it  too  bad  that  she  let  her-  self  get  so  fat?&quot;  It  was  from  my  mother  that  I  learned  what  Mrs.  Wingate  looked  like.  She  was  short  and  blond,  and  her  face  looked  like  the  face  of  a  fat  china  doll-  pink-and-white  and  round.  She  used  rice  powder  and  rouge  to  achieve  this  effect.  She  bought  these  items  in  our  drugstore.  The  powder  came  wrapped  in  thin  white  paper  with  a  self  stripe,  and  the  rouge  came  in  little  round  card-  board  boxes,  and  inside  there  was  a  round,  hard  cake  of  reddish  powder  and  a  tiny  powder  puff  to  apply  it  with.  She  must  have  used  a  great  deal  of  rouge,  because  at  least  once  during  the  summer  she  would  send  Forbes  up  to  the  drugstore  with  a  carton  filled  with  these  little  empty  rouge  boxes.  He  would  put  them  on  the  counter,  saying,  in  his  careful,  precise,  high-pitched  voice,  &quot;Mrs.  Wingate  thought  you  might  be  able  to  use  these.&quot;  My  father  said  he  dumped  them  on  the  pile  of  rub-  bish  in  back  of  the  store,  to  be  burned,  wonder-  ing  what  in  the  world  she  thought  he  would  or  could  use  them  for.  They  smelled  of  per-  fume,  and  the  reddish  powder  had  discolored  them,  even  on  the  out-  side.  Mrs.  Wingate  grew  fatter  and  fatter,  until,  finally,  getting  her  in  and  out  of  carriages,  and  then,  during  a  later  period,  in  and  out  of  cars-even  cars  that  were  specially  built-  was  impossible  unless  Forbes  was  on  hand.  Forbes  was  lean,  but  he  was  wiry  and  tre-  mendously  strong.  He  could  get  Mrs.  Win-  gate  in  and  out  ofa  carriage  or  a  car  without  effort;  at  least  he  gave  the  appearance  of  effortlessness.  My  father  said  it  was  Mrs.  Wingate  who  panted,  who  frowned,  whose  flesh  quivered,  whose  forehead  was  damp-  ened  with  sweat.  My  father  always  ended  his  descrip-  tion  of  this  performance  by  saying,  &quot;Re-  member  how  he  used  to  have  that  white  woman  practically  on  his  back?  Yes,  sir,  practically  on  his  back.&quot;  After  I  heard  my  father  say  that,  I  retained  a  curious  mental  picture  of  Forbes-a  lean,  wiry  black  man  carry-  ing  an  enormously  fat  pink-and-white  woman  piggyback.  He  did  not  lean  over  or  bend  over  under  the  woman's  weight;  he  stood  straight,  back  unbent,  so  that  she  kept  sliding  down,  down,  down,  and  as  he  carried  this  quivering,  soft-fleshed  Mrs.  Wingate,  he  was  whis-  tling  &quot;Has  Anybody  Seen  Miss  Dora  Dean?&quot;  DON'T  know  that  Forbes  was  ac-  tually  looking  for  a  reasonable  fac-  simile  of  Dora  Dean,  but  he  found  one,  and  he  fell  in  love  with  her  when  he  was  forty  years  old.  That  was  in  1900.  He  was  so  completely  the  per-  fect  servant,  with  no  emotional  ties  of  his  own  and  no  life  of  his  own,  that  my  family  seemed  to  think  it  was  almost  shocking  that  his  attention  should  have  been  diverted  from  his  job  long  enough  to  let  him  fall  in  love.  But  it  must  have  been  inevitable  from  the  first  moment  he  saw  Sarah  Trum-  bull.  I  have  a  full-length  photograph  of  hertaken  before  she  was  married.  She  might  well  have  been  one  of  those  beau-  tiful  girls  in  &quot;'The  Creole  Show.&quot;  In  the  photograph,  she  has  a  young,  innocent  face-lovely  eyes,  and  a  pointed  chin,  and  avery  pretty  mouth  with  a  quirk  at  the  corner  that  suggestsa  sense  of  hu-  mor.  Her  hair  is  slightly  frizzy,  and  it  is  worn  in  a  high,  puffed-out  pompa-  dour,  which  serves  as  a  frame  for  the  small,  exquisite  face.  She  is  wearing  a  shirtwaist  with  big,  stiff  sleeves,  and  a  tight  choker  of  lace  around  her  throat.  This  costume  makes  her  waist  look  tiny  and  her  neck  long  and  graceful.  My  mother  had  been  born  in  Bridge-  port,  and  though  she  was  older  than  Sarah,  she  had  known  her  quite  well.  Sarah  was  the  only  child  of  a  Baptist  minister,  and,  according  to  my  moth-  er's  rather  severe  stand-  ards,  she  was  a  silly,  giggling  girl  with  a  reputation  for  being  fast.  She  was  frivolous,  flirtatious.  She  liked  to  play  cards,  and  played  pinochle  for  money.  She  played  the  violin  very  well,  and  she  used  to  wear  aring  with  a  diamond  in  it  on  her  little  finger,  and  just  beforeshe  started  to  play,  she  would  polish  it  on  her  skirt,  so  that  it  would  catch  the  light  and  wink  at  the  audi-  ence.  She  had  scandal-  izedthe  people  in  her  father's  church  because  she  played  ragtime  on  the  piano  at  dances,  parties,  and  cakewalks.  (I  overheard  my  father  say  that  he  had  al-  ways  heard  this  called  &quot;whorehouse  music;&quot;  he  couldn't  understand  how  it  got  to  be  &quot;rag-  time.&quot;)  Anyway,  one  night  in  1900  Forbes  had  a  night  off  and  went  to  a  " b"dance  in  New  Haven,  and  there  was  Sarah  Trumbull  in  a  white  muslin  dress  with  violet  ribbons,  playing  ragtime  on  the  piano.  And  there  was  a  cakewalk  that  night,  and  Forbes  and  Sarah  were  the  winners.  I  found  a  yellowed  clipping  about  it  in  one  of  my  mother's  scrap-  books-that's  how  I  know  what  Sarah  was  wearing.  I  have  never  seen  a  cakewalk,  but  I  have  heard  it  described.  About  four-  teen  couples  took  part,  and  they  walked  in  time  to  music-not  in  a  circle  but  in  a  square,  with  the  men  on  the  inside.  The  participants  were  always  beauti-  fully  dressed,  and  they  walked  with  grace  and  style.  It  was  a  strutting  kind  of  walk.  The  test  of  their  skill  lay  in  the  way  they  pivoted  when  they  turned  the  corners.  The  judges  stopped  the  music  at  intervals  and  eliminated  pos-  sibly  three  couples  at  a  time.  The  most  graceful  couple  was  awarded  a  beauti-  fully  decorated  cake,  so  that  they  had  literally  walked  to  win  a  cake.  In  those  days,  Sarah  Trumbull  was  tall,  slender,  and  graceful,  and  John  Forbes  was  equally  tall,  slender,  and  graceful.  He  was  probably  very  solemn  and  she  was  probably  giggling  as  they  turned  the  corners  in  a  cakewalk.  A  year  later,  they  were  married  in  the  Episcopal  Church  (colored)  in  [REDACTED].  Sarah  was  a  Baptist  and  her  father  was  a  Baptist  minister,  but  she  was  married  in  an  Episcopal  church.  If  this  had  been  a  prizefight,  I  would  say  that  Mrs.  Wingate  won  the  first  round  on  points.  HEN  my  family  discussed  Forbes,  they  skipped  the  years  after  his  marriage  and  went  straight  from  his  wedding  to  Sarah  Trumbull  in  an  Epis-  copal  church  (colored)  to  his  death,  twenty-four  years  later.  Because  I  knew  so  little  of  the  intervening  years,  I  pictured  him  as  being  as  ageless  as  a  highly  stylized  figure  in  a  marionette  show-black,  erect,  elegantly  dressed,  effeminate,  temperamental  as  a  cat.  I  had  never  been  able  to  explain  why  our  cats  did  the  things  they  did,  and  since  there  did  not  seem  to  be  any  reasonable  explanation  for  Forbes'  suicide,  I  at-  tributed  to  him  the  unreasonableness  of  a  cat.  The  conversations  in  which  my  par-  ents  conjectured  why  Forbes  killed  him-  self  were  inconclusive  and  repetitive.  My  mother  would  sigh  and  say  that  she  real-  ly  believed  Forbes  killed  himself  because  Sarah  was  such  a  slovenly  housekeep-  er-that  he  just  couldn't  bear  the  dirt  and  the  confusion  in  which  he  had  to  live,  because,  after  all,  he  was  accustomed  to  the  elegance  of  the  Wingate  mansion. My  father  never  quite  agreed.  He  said,  &quot;Well,  yes,  except  that  he'd  been  married  to  Sarah  for  twenty  years  or  so.  Why  should  he  suddenly  get  upset  about  dirt  after  all  that  time?&quot;  Once,  my  mother  pressed  him  for  his  point  of  view,  and  he  said,  &quot;Maybe  he  was  the  type  that  never  should  have  married.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean  by  that?&quot;  &quot;Well,  he'd  worked  for  that  Mrs.  Wingate,  and  he  waited  too  long  to  get  married,  and  then  he  married  a  young  girl.  How  old  was  Sarah-twen-  ty,  wasn't  she?  And  he  was  forty  at  the  time,  and-&quot;  'Yes,  yes,&quot;  my  mother  said  impa-  tiently.  &quot;But  what  did  you  mean  when  you  said  he  was  atype  that  never  should  have  married?&quot;  &quot;Well,  if  he'd  been  another  type  of  man,  I  would  have  said  there  was  more  than  met  the  eye  between  him  and  Mrs.  Win-  gate.  But  he  was  so  ladylike  there  couldn't  have  been.  Mrs.  Wingate  thought  a  lot  of  him,  and  he  thought  a  lot  of  Mrs.  Wingate.  That's  all  there  was  to  it-it  was  just  like  one  of  those  lifetime  friendships  between  two  ladies.&quot;  &quot;  'Between  two  ladies'!&quot;  my  mother  said  indignantly.  &quot;Why,  what  a  wicked  thing  to  say!  Forbes  was-  Well,  I've  never  seen  another  man,  white  or  black,  with  manners  like  his.  He  was  a  perfect  gentleman.&quot;  &quot;'Too  perfect,&quot;  my  father  saiddryly.  &quot;T  hat  type  don't  make  good  husbands.&quot;  &quot;But  something  must  have  happened  to  make  him  kill  himself.  He  was  thrifty  and  hard-working  and  intelli-  gent  and  honest.  Why  should  he  kill  himself?&quot;     My  father  tried  to  end  the  conversa-  tion.  &quot;It  isn't  good  to  keep  talking  about  the  dead  like  this,  figuring  and  figuring  about  why  they  did  some-  thing-it's  like  you  were  pulling  at  them,  trying  to  pull  them  back.  After  all,  how  do  you  know  but  you  might  succeed  in  bringing  them  back?  It's  best  to  let  them  alone.  Let  Forbes  alone,  It  isn't  for  nothing  that  they  have  that  saying  about  let  them  rest  in  peace.&quot;  _-  There  was  silence  for  a  while.  Then  my  mother  said  softly,  &quot;But  I  do  wish  I  knew  why  he  killed  himself.&quot;  My  father  said,  &quot;Sarah  told  you  he  said  in  the  letter  he  was  tired  of  living.  I  don't  believe  that.  But  I  guess  we  have  to  accept  it.  'There's  just  one  thing  I'd  like  to  know.&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;I  keep  wondering  what  he  was  doing  in  Shacktown.  That  seems  a  strange  place  for  a  re-  spectable  married  man  like  Forbes.  That's  where  all  those  barefooted  for-  eign  women  live,  and  practically  every  one  of  those  orange-crate  houses  they  live  in  has  a  red  light  in  the  window.  It  seems  like  a  strange  part  of  the  city  for  a  respectable  married  man  like  Forbes  to  have  been  visiting.&quot;  Y  the  time  I  was  ten,  Forbes'  death  had  for  me  a  kind  of  reality  of  its  own-a  theatrical  reality.  I  used  to  sit  on  the  steps  in  front  of  the  drugstore,  and  half  close  my  eyes  so  that  I  could  block  out  the  church  green  and  the  picket  fences  and  the  elm  trees  and  the  big  old  houses,  and  I  would  pretend  that  I  was  looking  at  a  play  instead.  I  set  it  up  in  my  mind's  eye.  'The  play  takes  " b"place  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  railroad  tracks,  where  the  land  is  all  cinders,  in  a  section  where  voluptuous,  big-  hipped  foreign  women  go  barefooted,  wrap  their  heads  and  shoulders  in  bril-  liant  red-and-green  shawls,  and  carry  bundles  on  their  heads-that  is,  those  who  work.  Those  who  do  not  work  wear  hats  with  so  many  feathers  on  them  theylook  as  if  they  had  whole  tur-  keys  on  their  heads.  'The  houses  in  this  area  are  built  entirely  of  packing  cases  and  orange  crates.  'There  is  the  sound  of  a  train  in  the  distance,  and  a  thin,  carefully  dressed  black  man,  in  a  neat  black  suit  and  polished  shoes,  walks  swiftly  onstage  and  up  the  slight  incline  toward  the  railroad  tracks-no  path  there,  no  road.  It  is  a  winter's  night,  and  cold.  This  is  Forbes  and  he  is  not  wearing  an  overcoat.  As  narrator  for  an  imaginary  audi-  ence,  I  used  to  say,  &quot;What  is  he  doing  in  this  part  of  town  in  his  neat  black  suit  and  his  starched  white  shirt?  He  could  not  possibly  know  anyone  here  in  Shack-  town,  a  place  built  of  cinders  and  pack-  ing  cases.  Bleak.  Treeless.  No  road  here.  What  is  he  doing  here?  Where  is  he  going?&quot;  The  train  whistles,  and  Forbes  walks  up  the  embankment  and  lies  down  across  the  tracks.  The  train  comes  roar-  ing  into  sight  and  it  slices  him  in  two-  quickly,  neatly.  And  the  curtain  comes  down  as  a  telephone  rings  in  a  drugstore  miles  away.  This  picture  of  Forbes  remained  with  me,  unchanged;  I  still  see  him  like  that.  But  in  the  intervening  years  Sarah  changed.  My  first  distinct  recollection  of  her  was  of  a  stout  middle-aged  woman  with  a  querulous  voice,  which  was  always  lifted  in  complaint.  Her  complaint  centered  on  money-the  lack  of  it,  the  importance  of  it.  But  even  in  middle  age  there  were  vestigial  remains  of  the  girl  who  scandalized  the  religious  colored  folk  of  [REDACTED]  by  pounding  out  whorehouse  music  on  the  piano,  and  who  looked  as  though  she  had  just  stepped  out  of  the  chorus  line  of  &quot;The  Creole  Show&quot;:  the  wonderful  smooth  reddish-brown  skin,  the  giggle  over  which  she  seemed  to  have  no  control,  and  the  flirtatious  manner  of  a  Gay  Nineties  beauty.  The  coyness  and  the  fits  of  giggling  she  had  as  an  old  woman  were  relics  of  these  mannerisms.  I  GOT  to  [REDACTED]  just  at  dusk.  As  I  rang  the  bell  of  the  two-story  frame  house  where  Sarah  lived,  I  re-  membered  something.  'This  was  the  house  that  Mrs.  Wingate  had  given  to  Forbes  and  Sarah  as  a  wedding  present.  They  had  lived  in  it  together  exactly  three  weeks,  and  then  Forbes  went  back  to  live  at  the  Wingate  mansion.  Mrs.  " b"Wingate  had  asked  him  to  come  back  because  she  might  want  to  go  out  at  night,  and  how  could  she  get  in  and  out  of  a  car  without  him?  It  would  be  very  inconvenient  to  have  to  wait  for  him  to  come  all  the  way  from  the  other  side  of  town.  (The  Wingate  mansion  was  at  the  south  end  ofthe  city,  and  the  dark-  brown,  two-story  taxpayer  was  at  the  north  end  of  the  city.)  Mrs.  Wingate  had  said  that  Sarah  would,  of  course,  stay  where  she  was.  She  increased  Forbes'  wages  and  promised  to  remem-  ber  him  most  generously  in  her  will.  &quot;It  was  a  funny  thing,&quot;  my  mother  once  said.  &quot;You  know,  Sarah  used  to  call  Forbes  by  his  first  name,  John,  when  he  was  courting  her,  and  when  they  were  first  married.  After  he  went  back  to  live  at  Mrs.  Wingate's,  she  called  him  Forbes.  All  the  rest  of  his  life,  she  called  him  by  his  last  name,  just  as  though  she  was  talking  to  Mrs.  Win-  gate's  butler.&quot;  One  of  Peter  Forbes'  gangling  boys-Sarah's  younger  grandson-  opened  the  door,  and  I  stopped  thinking  about  the  past.  He  was  a  nice-man-  nered,  gentle-looking  boy,  tall  and  thin,  his  face  shaped  rather  like  Sarah's  in  the  old  photograph-a  small-boned  face.  His  skin  was  the  same  wonderful  reddish-brown  color.  I  wondered  why  he  wasn't  in  school,  and  immediately  asked  him.  &quot;I've  finished,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  finished  last  June.  I'm  eighteen  and  I'm  going  in  the  Army.&quot;  I  said  what  most  people  say  when  confronted  by  evidence  of  the  passage     of  time.  &quot;It  doesn't  seem  possible.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;Yeah,  that's  right,&quot;  took  a  deep  breath,  and  said,  &quot;Nana's  in  the  bedroom.  You'd  better  come  right  in.&quot;  He  seemed  to  be  affected  by  the  same  need  for  haste  that  had  made  his  father  urge  me  to  come  see  Sarah  right  away.  I  did  not  pause  even  long  enough  to  take  my  coat  off;  I  followed  him  down  a  dark  hall,  trying  to  re-  member  what  his  real  name  was.  Sarah  had  brought  Peter's  children  up.  Peter  had  been  married  to  a  very  nice  girl,  and  they  had  two  boys.  The  very  nice  girl  left  Peter  after  the  second  baby  was  born  and  never  came  back.  Sarah  had  given  nicknames  to  the  boys;  the  older  was  called  Boodie,  and  the  young-  er  was  Lud.  It  was  Lud  who  had  an-  swered  the  door.  I  could  not  remember  anything  but  the  nickname-Lud.  We  entered  a  bedroom  at  the  back  of  the  house.  The  moment  I  saw  Sarah,  I  knew  that  she  was  dying.  She  was  sitting  slumped  over  in  a  wheelchair.  In  the  two  years  since  I  had  seen  her,  she  had  become  a  gaunt  old  woman  with  terrible  bruised  shadowsunder  her  eyes,  and  she  was  so  thin  that  she  looked  like  a  skeleton.  Her  skin,  which  had  been  that  rich  reddish  brown,  was  now  over-  laid  with  gray.  Lud  said,  &quot;Nana,  she's  here.  She's  come,  Nana.&quot;  Sarah  opened  her  eyes  and  nodded.  The  eyes  that  I  had  remembered  as  black  and  penetrating  were  dull,  and  their  color  had  changed;  they  were  light  brown.  I  bentover  and  kissed  her.  &quot;I'm  not  so  bright  today,&quot;  she said,  and  the  words  came  out  slowly,  as  though  she  had  to  think  about  using  the  muscles  of  her  throat,  her  tongue,  her  lips-  had  to  think,  even,  be-  fore  she  breathed.  Aft-  er  she  finished  speaking,  she  closed  her  eyes,  and  she  looked  as  though  she  were  al-  ready  dead.  &quot;She  isn't  asleep,&quot;  Lud  said.  &quot;You  just  say  something  to  her.  She'll  answer-won't  you,  Nana?&quot;  Sarah  did  notan-  swer.  I  took  off  my  coat,  for  the  heat  in  the  room  was  unbearable,  and  I  looked  around  for  a  place  to  put  it  and  laid  it  on  a  chair,  think-  ing  that  the  room  had  not  changed.  It  was  exactly  as  I  remembered  it,  and  I  had  not  been  in  it  for  twenty  years.  There  was  too  much  furniture,  the  windows  were  heavily  curtained,  there  was  a  figured  carpet  on  the  floor,  and  a  brass  bed,a  very  beautiful  brass  bed;  one  of  the  walls  was  covered  with  framed  photographs.  A  white  cat  darted  through  the  room,  and  I  jumped,  startled,  remembering  another  white  cat  that  used  to  dart  through  these  same  rooms-but  that  was  twenty  years  ago.  &quot;''That's  surely  not  the  same  cat,  Lud?  The  one  you've  always  had?&quot;  &quot;We've  had  this  one  about  three  years.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  But  the  other  cat  was  white,  too,  wasn't  it?  It  was  deaf,  and  it  had  never  been  outside  the  house-isn't  that  right?  And  it  had  blue  eyes.&quot;  &quot;So's  this  one.  He  doesn't  go  out-  side.  He's  deaf,  and  he's  got  blue  eyes.&quot;  Lud  grinned,  and  his  face  was  sudden-  lylively  and  very  young.  &quot;And  he's  white,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  laughed  out  loud.  &quot;Nana  calls  him  our  white  folks.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  cat's  name?&quot;  &quot;Willie,&quot;  That  was  the  name  of  the  other  cat,  the  one  I  had  known.  And  Willie,  so  Sarah  Forbes  had  said  (boasted,  per-  haps?  )-Willie  did  not  like  men.  I  wondered  if  this  cat  did.  &quot;Is  he  friendly?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Lud  said.  &quot;Doesn't  like  men,&quot;  Sarah  Forbes  said.  Her  voice  was  strong  and  clear,  and  it  had  its  old  familiar  querulousness.  The  boy  and  I  looked  at  her  in  surprise.  " b"She  seemed  about  to  say  something  more,  and  I  wondered  what  it  was  go-  ing  to  be,  for  there  was  a  kind  of  ma-  levolence  in  her  expression.  But  Peter  Forbes  came  into  the  room,  and  shedid  not  say  anything.  We  shook  hands  and  talked  about  the  weather,  and  I  thought  how  little  he  had  changed  during  the  years  I  had  known  him.  He  is  a  tall,  slender  man,  middle-aged  now,  with  a  shaggy  head  and  a  petulant  mouth  that  has  deeply  etched  lines  at  the  corners.  At  the  sight  of  Peter,  Sarah  seemed  to  grow  stronger.  She  sat  up  straight.  &quot;Wheel  me  out  to  the  dining  room,&quot;  She  ordered.  &quot;'Yes,  [REDACTED];  he  said  obediently.  The  wheelchair  made  no  sound.  &quot;'You  come,  too,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  &quot;''There's  some  china  ...&quot;  Sarah's  voice  trailed  off,  and  she  was  slumping  again,  almost  onto  one  arm  of  the  wheelchair,  her  arms,  head,  and  neck  absolutely  limp.  She  looked  like  a  dis-  carded  rag  doll.  We  stood  in  the  dining  room  and  looked  at  her,  all  three  of  us.  I  said,  &quot;I'd  better  go.  She's  not  well  enough  to  be  doing  this.  She  hasn't  the  strength.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  go,&quot;  Peter  said,  with  a  firmness  that  surprised  me.  &quot;Ma  has  some  dishes  she  wants  you  to  have.  She's  been  talking  about  them  for  days  now.  She  won't  give  us  a  minute's  peace  until  you  have  them.  You've  got  to  stay  un-  til  she  gives  them  to  you.&quot;  Then  he  added,  very  politely  and  quite  winning-  ly,  &quot;Please  don't  go.&quot;  So  I  stayed.  The  dining  room  was  just  as  hot  as  the  bedroom.  It,  too,  was  filled  with  furniture-a  dining-room  set,  three  cabinets  filled  with  china  and  glassware,  a  studio  couch,  and,  in  a  bay  window,  a  big  aquarium  with  fish  in  it.  Willie,  the  white  cat,  ran  into  the  room  from  the  hall,  clawed  his  way  up  the  draperies  at  the  bay  window,  and  sat  crouched  on  the  cornice,  staring  into  the  fish  tank.  His  round  blue  eyes  kept  fol-  lowing  the  movements  of  the  fish,  back  and  forth,  back  and  forth.  &quot;Doesn't  he  try  to  catch  the  fish?&quot;  I  asked.  Lud  said,  &quot;That's  what  he  wants  to  do.  But  he  can't  get  at  them.  So  he  just  watches  them.&quot;  &quot;Why,  that's  &quot;Can't  you-&quot;  Sarah  had  straightened  up  again.  &quot;Open  those  doors,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes,  Ma.&quot;  Peter  opened  one  of  the  china  cabinets.  &quot;Get  my  cane.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Ma.&quot;  He  went  into  the  bed-  room  and  came  back  with  a  slender  Ma-  terrible,&quot;  I_  said.  lacca  cane.  She  took  it  from  him  in  a  swift  snatching  movement,  and,  hold-  ing  it  and  pointing  with  it,  was  trans-  formed.  She  was  no  longer  a  hideous  old  woman  dying  slowly  but  an  arro-  gant,  commanding  figure.  &quot;That,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  that,&quot;  point-  ing  imperiously  to  a  shelf  in  the  china  cabinet  where  a  tall  chocolate  pot  stood,  with  matching  cups  and  saucers,  cov-  ered  thick  with  dust.  &quot;Get  a  carton  and  some  newspa-  pers.&quot;  She  pointed  at  Lud,  and  she  jabbed  him  viciously  in  the  stomach  with  the  cane.  He  jumped,  and  said  &quot;Oh,  oo-ooh  !,&quot;  pain  and  outrage  in  his  voice.  &quot;Go  get  the  carton,&quot;  Peter  said  mat-  ter-of-factly.  While  we  waited  for  Lud  to  come  back,  Sarah  seemed  to  doze.  Finally,  Peter  sat  down  and  motioned  to  me  to  sit  down.  He  picked  up  a  newspaper  and  began  to  read.  Something  about  the  way  Sarah  had  ordered  him  around  set  me  to  wonder-  ing  what  kind  of  childhood  Peter  had  had.  He  must  have  been  about  twelve  years  old  when  Mrs.  Wingate  died  and  left  thirty-five  thousand  dollars  to  Forbes.  With  this  money,  Forbes  took  what  he  called  a  flyer  in  real  estate;  he  ac-  quired  an  equity  in  six  tenement  houses.  My  mother  had  disapproved.  She  dis-  trusted  the  whole  idea  of  mortgages  and  loans,  and  she  felt  that  Forbes  was  gam-  bling  with  his  inheritance;  if  his  tenants  were  unable  to  pay  the  rent,  he  would  be  unable  to  meet  the  interest  on  his  notes  and  would  lose  everything.  During  this  period,  Mother  went  to  see  Sarah  fairly  often,  and  she  always  came  away  from  these  visits  quite  dis-  turbed.  She  said  that  Sarah,  who  had  at  one  time  cared  too  much  about  her  looks,  now  did  not  seem  to  care  at  all. The  house  was  dreadful-confused  and  dusty.  She  said  that  Forbes  had  changed.  He  was  still  immaculate,  but  he  was  now  too  thin-bony-and  his  movements  were  jerky.  He  seemed  to  have  a  dreadful,  almost  maniacal  urge  to  keep  moving,  and  he  would  sit  down,  stand  up,  walk  about  the  room,  sit  down  again,  get  up,  walk  about  again.  At  first  she  used  to  say  that  he  was  nervous,  and  then  she  amended  this  and  enlarged  it  by  saying  he  was  distraught.  Mrs,.  Wingate  had  been  dead  exactly  two  years  when  Forbes  committed  sui-  cide.  Immediately,  all  of  Sarah's  friends  predicted  financial  disaster  for  her.  Forbes'  money  was  tied  up  in  heavily  mortgaged  real  estate,  and  shortly  after  his  death  the  depression  came  along,  with  its  eviction  notices  and  foreclo-  sures.  I  glanced  at  Sarah,  dozing  in  the  wheelchair,  her  chin  resting  on  her  chest.  At  twenty,  she  had  been  a  silly,  giggling  girl.  And  yet  somewhere  un-  der  the  surface  there  must  have  been  the  makings  of  a  cold,  shrewd  property  owner,  a  badgering,  browbeating  fish-  wife  of  a  woman  who  could  intimidate  drunks,  evict  widows  and  orphans-a  woman  capable  of  using  an  umbrella  or  a  hatpin  as  a  weapon.  She  had  made  regular  weekly  collections  of  rent,  be-  cause  she  soon  learned  that  if  she  went  around  only  once  a  month,  the  rent  money  would  have  gone  for  food  or  for  liquor  or  for  playing  the  numbers.  Peter  went  with  her  when  she  made  her  col-  lections.  He  was  tall,  thin,  and  asth-  matic,  and  wore  tweed  knee  pants  and  long  stockings-a  ridiculous  costume  for  a  boy  in  his  teens.  It  was  during  those  years  that  Sarah  perfected  her  technique  of  leaning  against  people,  and  began  to  develop  a  whining  voice.  She  began  to  get" b"fat.  Her  behind  seemed  to  swell  up,  but  her  legs  stayed  thin,  like  pipestems,  so  that  she  walked  carefully.  She  was  what  my  father  called  spindle-shanked.  I  suppose  she  had  to  whine,  to  threat-  en,  to  cajole,  perhaps  cry,  in  order  to  screw  the  rent  money  out  of  her  ten-  ants;  at  any  rate,  she  succeeded.  Years  later,  she  told  Mother  that  she  had  not  lost  asingle  piece  of  property.  She  final-  ly  sold  all  of  it  except  the  two-story  tax-  payer  where  they  lived.  She  said  that  the  bank  that  held  the  mortgages  and  notes  had  congratulated  her;  they  told  her  that  no  real-estate  operator  in  [REDACTED]  had  been  able  to  do  what  she  had  done-bring  all  his  property  through  the  depression  intact.  Sarah  straightened  up  in  the  wheel-  chair  and  pointed  with  her  cane.  &quot;''That,&quot;  she  said.  Peter  hesitated.  &quot;'That&quot;  seemed  to  be  some  white  cups  and  saucers  with  no  adornment  of  any  kind.  Sarah  threatened  Peter  with  the  cane,  and  he  took  them  out  of  the  cabi-  net  and  put  them  on  the  table.  &quot;Perfect,&quot;  she  said  to  me.  &quot;Six  of  them.  All  perfect.  Belonged  to  my  grandmother.  Handed  down.  They're  yours  now.  You  hand  them  down.&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Wait  a  minute,&quot;  I  said,  slowly  and  distinctly,  in  order  to  be  sureshe  understood.  &quot;W  hat  about  your  grandsons?  What  about  Lud  and  Boodie?:  These  cups  should  belong  to  Lud  and  Boodic.&quot;  &quot;They  will  run  with  whores,&quot;  she  said  coldly,  &quot;Just  like  Peter  does.  Just  like  Forbes  kept  trying  to  do,  onlyhe  couldn't.  That's  what  he  was  after  in  Shacktown  that  time,  and  when  he  found  he  couldn't-just  wasn't  able  to-he  laid  himself  down  on  the  rail-  road  track.&quot;  She  paused  for  a  moment.  &quot;I  cried  for  three  days  afterward.  For  three  whole  days.&quot;  She  paused  again.  &quot;I  wasn't  crying  because  of  what  hap-  pened  to  him.  I  was  crying  because  of  what  had  happened  to  me.  To  my  whole  life.  My  whole  life.&quot;  I  could  not  look  at  Peter.  him  take  a  deep  breath.  Sarah  said,  &quot;''Those  cups  are  yours.  I'm  giving  them  to  you  so  that  I'll  know  where  they  are.  I'll  know  who  owns  them.  If  they  should  stay  here  .  ..&quot;  She  shrugged.  Lud  came  back  with  the  carton  and  a  pile  of  newspapers,  and  Sarah  did  not  even  glance  in  his  direction.  She  said,  ''The  chocolate  cups  belonged  to  a  French  king.  Mrs.  Wingate  gave  them  to  me  for  a  wedding  present  when  I  mar-  ried  her  Forbes.  I  want  you  to  have  them  so  that  I'll  know  who  owns  them.&quot;  We  wrapped  the  pieces  of  china  sepa-  rately,  and  put  wads  of  crumpled  news-  paperin  between  as  we  packed  the  carton.  Sarah  watched  us.  Sometimes  she  half  closed  her  eyes,  but  she  kept  looking  un-  til  we  had  finished.  After  that,  her  head  slumped  and  her  breathing  changed.  It  was  light,  shallow,  with  pauses  in  be-  tween.  I  could  hear  the  thumping  of  her  heart  way  across  the  room.  I  said  &quot;Goodbye,  Sarah,&quot;  and  kissed  the  back  of  her  neck,  but  she  did  not  answer  or  move,  It  was  still  snowing  when  Lud  car-  ried  the  carton  out  to  the  car  for  me,  held  the  door  open,  and  closed  it  after  I  got  in.  I  thought  he  did  it  with  a  kind  of  gracefulness  that  he  couldn't  possi-  bly  have  acquired  from  Peter;  perhaps  it  was  something  inherited  from  Forbes,  his  grandfather.  Lud  said,  &quot;Did  those  cups  really  be-  long  to  one  of  the  kings  of  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;Maybe.  I  really  don't  know.  I  wish  you'd  put  them  back  in  the  house.  This  whole  carton  of  china  is  more  yours  than  it  is  mine.  These  things  belonged  to  your  grandmother,  and  they  should  stay  in  your  family.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  he  said  hastily,  and  he  stepped  away  from  the  car.  &quot;I  don't  want  them.  What  would  I  do  with  them?  Besides,  Nana's  ghost  would  come  back  and  bug  me.&quot;  He  laughed  uneasily.  &quot;And  if  Nana's  ghost  bugged  anybody,  they'd  flip  for  sure.&quot;  When  I  got  home,  I  washed  the  chocolate  set  and,  having  got  rid  of  the  accumulated  dust  of  fifty  years,  I  de-  cided  that  it  could  easily  have  belonged  to  one  of  the  kings  of  [REDACTED].  It  was  of  the  very  old,  soft-paste  type  of  porcelain.  It  had  been  made  in  the  Sevres  factory,  and  it  was  exquisitely  decorated  in  the  lovely  color  known  as  rose  Pompadour.  I  was  admiring  the  shape  of  the  cups  when  the  telephone  rang.  It  was  Peter  Forbes.  He  said,  &quot;Ma  died  in  her  sleep  just  a  few  minutes  after  you  left.&quot;  "