 b"WHEN  Guy  Dutour  returned  from  a  triumphant  tour  of  the  American  continents,  North  and  [REDACTED],  he  shut  himself  up  in  his  suite  at  the  Hotel  Carlyle  for  two  weeks  of  complete  rest.  It  was  spring,  and  for  the  first  time  in  his  career  he  could  no  longer  listen  to  his  own  repertoire.  On  the  subject  of  first-rate  music  for  the  wide-eyed  high-  school  student  who  &quot;took&quot;  piano,  he  spoke  with  cynicism.  He  felt  slightly  sick  at  the  thought  of  train  menus.  (&quot;One  piece  of  shoe  sole  between  two  pieces  of  cotton  wool,&quot;  he  kept  telling  his  wife,  as  if  he  had  invented  the  image.)  And  he  had  become  terrified  of  air  travel.  After  having  flown  for  years  and  years  without  a  mishap,  he  now  decided  that  he  was  flouting  Fortune  every  time  he  stepped  into  a  plane;  as  if  it  were  rou-  lette,  soon  her  wheel  would  point  to  Crash,  He  knew  that  he  needed  a  sabbatical,  but  when  he  reviewed  his  life,  he  saw  that  he  could  allow  himself  no  rest;  his  wife,  Annette,  seemed  to  be  spending  more  precipitately  than  usual;  he  had  re-  cently  bought  a  town  house,  which  had  to  have  extensive  repairs  before  they  could  leave  the  Carlyle  and  move  into  it.  And  for  pianists  the  competition  was  not  growing  less  severe;  with  each  musi-  cal  season  came  a  touchingly  disorgan-  ized  young  genius  of  the  keyboard,  or,  in  default,  a  resuscitated  wonder-child.  So  he  sat  in  his  study,  suffering  from  a  slight  depression.  He  drank  more  cognac  than  he  allowed  himself  on  tour,  ate  complicated  meals,  read  &quot;Les  Nouvelles  Enqu\xc3\xa9tes  de  Maigret,&quot;  and,  to  keep  himself  from  answering,  lit  an-  other  cigarette  every  time  the  telephone  rang.  Once  a  day,  following  a  reassuring  call  to  WEather  6-1212,  Guy  Dutour  put  on  his  oldest  suit,  dark  glasses,  a  green  scarf,  and  a  checkered  cap;  fas-  tened  a  pair  of  clips  to  the  cuffs  of  his  trousers;  let  himself  out  of  his  apart,  ment,  and  rang  for  the  elevator.  On  the  ground  floor,  he  walked  to  a  tele-  phone  booth  and  shut  himself  in.  The  elevator  man  ran  toward  the  door-  man.  They  held  a  short,  whispered  conference;  then  the  doorman  ran  to-  ward  the  garage  next  door.  He  soon  re-  turned,  wheeling  a  bicycle,  which  he  parked  by  the  curb  at  the  front  entrance.  Then  he  ran  back  through  the  lobby  to  the  telephone  booth.  Gently,  he  knocked  on  the  glass.  Guy  Dutour  crossed  the  lobby  quickly,  and  went  through  the  revolving  door.  Once  astride  his  machine,  he  calmly  rode  to-  ward  Carl  Schurz  Park.  Annette  still  attended  benefits  and  dinners  on  the  arm  of  an  old  friend,  a  French  biographer  of  note.  Having  in-  vented,  and  carefully  retained,  her  hus-  band's  itinerary  for  these  two  weeks,  she  announced,  with  perfect  composure,  that  Guy  was  alone  in  [REDACTED],  pay-  ing  tribute  to  the  Vermeers  at  the  Na-  tional  Gallery.  Actually,  he  had  not  set  foot  in  a  museum  for  years,  and  his  taste,  in  any  case,  ran  to  Tiepolos  and  Bouchers.  In  June,  Guy  Dutour  &quot;opened&quot;  the  Lewisohn  Stadium,  The  concert  began  with  several  short  speeches.  A  new  dressing  room  was  dedicated.  Then,  as  Tchaikovsky's  &quot;Romeo  and  Juliet&quot;  Overture  got  under  way,  a  dull  drizzle  interrupted  the  hum  of  airplane  engines,  thus  dividing  everyone's  attention.  The  concert  was  cancelled,  and  rain  checks  were  given  out.  On  the  second  night,  toward  the  conclusion  of  the  first  move-  ment  of  Tchaikovsky's  Concerto  No.  1  in  B  Flat  Minor,  a  violent  rainstorm  lifted  the  audience  from  their  seats.  The  conductor  let  his  baton  fall  with  a  gesture  of  theatrical  helplessness  and  started  fussing  with  the  mechanics  of  the  microphone,  When  at  last  he  spoke,  it  was  at  close  range,  and  with  a  dis-  tinct  lisp:  &quot;I  think  that  this  is  enough  flirting  with  the  weather.  We  had  better  call  it  a  day.  Or  rather&quot;  -he  sighed,  smiled,  and  raised  his  eyes  to  the  sky-&quot;a  night.&quot;  In  September,  the  F  riendly  Little  Orchestral  Association  failed  to  open  on  schedule,  because  of  a  disagreement  with  the  Musicians'  Union,  and  che  critic  Justin  Berg  wrote  for  the  music  page  an  editorial  in  which  he  damned  the  politics  that  had  &quot;silenced&quot;  his  &quot;favorite  little  ensemble.&quot;  Meanwhile  the  immensely  wealthy  Wilena  Samuels,  a  zipper  heiress  and  the  musicians'  con-  fidante  and  hostess,  who  was  sensitive  to  negative  musical  emanations,  took  to  her  bed  with  a  bad  case  of  feverish  flu.  &quot;Maestro  Cagliostro,&quot;  her  doctor,  visited  her  morning  and  evening.  (He  treated  susceptive  nerves  with  long  needles,  lashed  older  ladies  into  a  cheer-  ful  state  of  shock  with  foul  language,  cajoled  the  rich  patron,  and  when  faced  with  genuine  musical  talent  as  yet  unrecognized,  sliced  his  bills  into  token  fees.  He  adored  music,  and  was  altogether  more  of  a  charlatan-magician  than  a  general  practitioner.)  When  Wilena  Samuels  friends,  al-  ready  worried  over  the  legend  of  her  nervous  heart,  heard  that  she  was  running  a  high  fever,  they  fell  upon  their  telephones.  Without  her  ministrations  they  were  lost.  During  Wilena  Samuels  ilIness-necessarily  a  period  of  musical  repression,  since  no  benefits  were  organized,  no  young  pianists  in  search  of  new  continents  to  conquer  were  introduced  to  [REDACTED]  American  managers,  and  no  musical  dinner  parties  given-she  nevertheless  man-  aged  to  follow  the  criticisms,  the  record  reviews,  the  an-  nouncements  for  future  con-  " b"certs.  She  thought  she  sensed  a  trend  in  the  air;  she  planned  to  back  it  up,  and  give,  simultaneously,  the  impression  that  she  was  its  originator.  She  saw  herself  as  the  giant  figurehead  of  a  symbolic  vir-  tuoso's  galley.  Piston  and  Diamond  put  her  to  sleep.  Madrigals  gave  her  a  head-  ache.  She  had  long  ago  decided  that  ear-  ly  music,  modern  music  were  pass\xc3\xa9.  Actually,  only  romantic  music  reached  her,  and  she  could  never  get  enough  of  it.  And  as  she  rested,  weakened  from  sweating  and  fever,  a  certain  name  started  revolving  in  her  head,  like  a  fragment  of  melody  overheard  at  dusk.  The  name  was  Liszt-poor  neglected  Franz  Liszt.  When  she  got  up  at  last,  starved  for  the  scent  of  Town  Hall  on  a  rainy  night,  the  first  person  she  received  was  a  young  Hungarian  pianist  whom  she  was  spon-  soring,  and  who  was  falling  short  of  her  expectations.  Instead  of  telling  him  to  practice  two  more  hours  each  day  (he  already  practiced  seven  )  or  that  she  had  finally  arranged  for  him  to  meet  the  conductor  who  lisped,  she  installed  him,  to  his  dismay,  at  her  dressing  table.  Carefully,  she  observed  the  young  man's  reflection.  Then  she  brushed  back  the  unruly  lock  over  his  forehead.  About  his  sideburns  there  was  little  she  could  do.  &quot;You  must  stop  looking  like  Elvis  Presley,&quot;  said  Wilena  Samuels  rather  severely.  &quot;Let  your  hair  grow  long  if  you  wish,  but  for  goodness'  sake  make  it  lyrical,  make  it  distingu\xc3\xa9.  Look  leonine!&quot;  she  continued,  and,  in  a  low-  er  voice,  admonished,  &quot;Think  of  Franz  Liszt  ...&quot;  At  the  first  concert  she  attended,  the  pianist,  up-and-coming  and  French,  played  Liszt's  &quot;B\xc3\xa9n\xc3\xa9diction  de  Dieu  dans  la  Solitude.&quot;  Wilena  Samuels  had  heard  his  recordings,  and  she  felt  little  sympathy  for  his  playing.  During  the  intermission,  she  walked  into  Guy  Dutour's  box  and  folded  Annette  into  her  arms.  Annette,  half  smothered,  in-  voluntarily  moaned.  The  biographer  stood  up  with  all  the  decorum  of  a  French  biographer  wearing  the  uniform  of  the  Academy  (to  which  he  aspired).  Then  he  bowed,  and  sat  down  again.  Guy  Dutour,  who  had  missed  Wilena  Samuels'  entrance,  turned  to  his  neigh-  bor,  a  young  English  comedienne,  who  was  swallowing  some  pills.  &quot;Are  you  now  tranquil?&quot;  he  asked,  exercising  the  fingers  of  his  right  hand  on  the  rim  of  the  box.  He  still  had  not  seen  Wilena  Samuels  standing  beside  him.  She  stooped  from  her  great  height  to  the  level  of  his  ear.  &quot;Stinks-no?&quot;  she  whispered.  He  sighed,  and  said,  &quot;He  plays  like a  lawyer;  the  case  he  pleads  is  not  his  own,  Nor  is  it-and  that  is  even  more  unfortunate-the  composer's.&quot;  Wilena  Samuels,  paler  than  usual  and  vastly  elegant  in  her  eternal,  un-  fashionably-hemmed  black,  started  back  to  her  own  box.  Bowing  slightly  from  time  to  time  with  a  peculiarly  archaic  grace-tense  spine,  absent  eyes,  Tonic  smile-she  advanced  in  the  guise  of  the  muse.  She  was  certain  that  the  small  groups  on  the  stairs  and  in  thelobby,  smoking  and  speaking  softly,  were  as  attuned  as  she  was  to  an  idea  that  would  soon  become,  she  hoped,  Guy  Dutour's  inspiration.  She  must  right  her  galley  and  pilot  her  favorite  pianist  through  all  his  musical  mishaps  to  a  triumphant  docking  at  the  concert  hall,  and  she  could  do  it  with  the  help  of  Franz  Liszt.  In  late  September,  the  Sunday  papers  forecast  an  extraordinary  event,  sched-  uled  for  the  early  part  of  Novem-  ber.  Above  the  name  &quot;DUTOUR&quot;  the  announcement  heralded  &quot;Unprece-  dented!&quot;  and,  underneath  it,  explained  &quot;Guy  Dutour  plays  an  all-Liszt  pro-  gram,  first  time  at  popular  prices,  $2  top.,)  Rival  pianists  gloated,  considering  it  a  slightly  desperate  and  stooping  gesture.  HE  skies  became  wan.  In  Octo-  ber,  the  Dutours'  town  house  be-  gan  to  look  inhabited.  'The  copper  handles  and  lock  shone,  the  black  door  was  freshly  painted.  But  on  the  sec-  ond  floor  the  windows  of  Guy  Du-  tour's  study  remained  bare.  Here,  day  after  day,  in  the  lustreless  light,  he  sat  practicing,  with  the  window  open  and  his  Pekinese,  Malachite,  on  a  cushion  at  his  feet.  He  was  a  man  of  little  visual  sense,  but  the  room  was  pleasant.  Soon  Annette  with  her  color  chart  (Iees-of-wine  for  the  couch,  olive  for  the  armchairs)  and  the  decorator  with  his  tape  measure  (must  build  a  narrow  shelf  for  manuscripts  of  Berlioz,  Chopin,  Liszt,  etc.  ..  .  not  too  much  attention  to  " b"detail,  room  must  remain  masculine)  would  come  in  and  spoil  everything.  But  for  the  moment,  Guy  Dutour  could  still  throw  cushions  to  the  floor  before  sitting  down  in  an  armchair,  and  then  sink  his  slippered  feet  into  them.  The  library  he  would  never  read-mostly  criticism,  correspondence,  and  biogra-  phies  of  musicians  of  the  nineteenth  century-was  still  confined  to  card-  board  boxes  piled  in  a  corner.  The  all-  red  Dufy  he  had  not  managed  to  digest  in  spite  of  the  years  stood  on  the  floor,  face  to  the  wall.  The  Louis  XV  draper-  ies  destined  for  his  windows  were  being  restored,  and  this  delay  granted  him,  at  least  temporarily,  the  maximum  amount  of  light.  Then,  one  morning,  the  fog  rose,  hail  fell,  and  the  only  tree  on  the  block,  a  stripped  little  tree  cradled  in  macadam  and  restrained  between  two  posts  by  rubber  belts  and  wires,  began  to  wobble  in  the  wind.  Guy  Dutour  took  his  hands  off  the  keyboard  and  rubbed  them  together.  He  managed  to  generate  a  little  heat  in  the  palms,but  the  joints  remained  stiff-a  little  numb,  even.  Without  get-  ting  up,  he  reached  for  a  large  Swiss  cowbell  that  served  as  paperweight  to  the  &quot;Hungarian  Rhapsodies,&quot;  and  shook  it  energetically.  Like  most  musicians,  he  seemed  impervious  to  veryloud  noise.  But  Malachite  growled,  and  raised  her  head  slowly  from  the  cushion  by  the  pedals.  Guy  Dutour  thought,  She  does  not  like  to  be  reminded.  ...  For  Mala-  chite  had  been  a  great  teaser  of  cows  throughout  the  Swiss  vacations  of  her  childhood  and  youth.  Now  there  was  only  lassitude,  lazy  reflexes,  and,  worst  of  all,  the  chronic  wheeze  that  left  her  without  any  breath  whatever.  Annette  called  the  veterinary  every  morning,  and  Malachite  continued  to  be  carried,  like  a  football,  up  and  down  the  stairs,  and  even,  this  past  week,  from  room  to  room.  The  Pekinese  laid  her  head  back  on  the  familiar  gros  point,  lovingly  em-  broidered  by  Wilena  Samuels,  closed  her  laminated  eyes  carefully  one  at  a  time,  and  Guy  Dutour  registered  the  painful  sound  of  her  breathing.  He  sighed  and  returned  to  the  &quot;Mephisto  Waltz.&quot;  Gertrude,  Guy  Dutour's  maid  for  seventeen  years,  waited  for  the  end  of  a  phrase  behind  the  closed  door;  then  she  walked  in  without  knocking.  When  he  heard  her  progress  toward  the  piano-Gertrude  was  breaking  in  a  new  pair  of  cr\xc3\xa9pe-soled  moccasins-  Guy  Dutour,  still  playing,  mimed  the  fact  that  he  was  cold.  His  teeth  chat-  tered  on  the  sound  &quot;bvovovovovyy,&quot;  a  fitful  chill  shook  his  spine,  and  he  pointed  with  his  chin,  first  to  the  open  window,  then  to  the  cold  radiator.  Ger-  trude  closed  the  window,  bent  down  by  the  radiator,  and  forcibly  turned  the  knob.  The  radiator  clattered  and  sighed;  soon  a  thin  jet  of  steam  rose  from  the  safety  valve,  followed  by  a  curving  spray  of  boiling  water.  A  fusty  smell  spread  through  the  room.  Mala-  chite  sneezed.  Winter,  season  of  New  York  recitals,  was  here.  At  four  o'clock  that  afternoon,  the  telephone  rang.  Gertrude  had  run  around  the  corner  to  Gristede's  for  an-  other  quarter  pound  of  butter,  and  so  the  telephone  rang  and  rang  unan-  swered.  Guy  Dutour  tried  not  to  hear it.  At  last,  in  her  bedroom  on  the  third  floor,  Annette  picked  up  the  telephone  and  sat  down  on  her  unmade  bed.  &quot;Allo?&quot;  she  said  softly.  It  was  Wilena  Samuels.  &quot;Dear  heart,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  contralto  that  had  not  regained  its  purity  since  her  illness,  &quot;all  our  troubles  are  over.  Last  night  a  clairvoyant&quot;-she  waited  for  en-  couragement;  it  did  not  come-&quot;read  the  palms  of  my  hands.&quot;  Annette,  who  was  studying  her  bare  legs  and  feet,  opened  the  appointment  book  on  her  night  table  and  found  the  name  of  her  pedicurist  written  across  the  emptiness  of  a  Tuesday  afternoon  four  days  hence.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Wilena  Samuels  repeated,  &quot;I  feel  that  our  troubles  are  definitely  over.  After  the  usual  rubbish  about  letters  and  trips,  that  clairvoyant  really  got  down  to  business.  She  said,  'I  see  a  project  close  to  your  heart.  You  set  the  date  " b"some  time  ago.  This  project  will  prove  successful  beyond  your  expectations.  Our  recital,&quot;  said  Wilena  Samuels,  ten-  derly.  &quot;And  wait  a  minute,  I'm  not  finished.  She  also  said,  Someone  very  dear  to  you,  someone  close  to  your  heart,  is  in  bad  health  just  now.  Don't  worry,  I  see  a  complete  recovery.&quot;  Our  dear  Malachite,&quot;  said  Wilena  Samuels,  softly.  &quot;I  must  come  over  tonight  and  give  you  details.  Fantastic  woman!&quot;  Annette  hesitated.  &quot;Couscous  is  com-  ing  to  dinner,&quot;  she  said  at  last.  There  was  a  silence.  Couscous  was  the  rather  adolescent  nickname  Wilena  Samuels  had  conferred  on  the  French  biogra-  pher,  after  she  had  watched  him  stuffing  himself  in  an  Algerian  restaurant.  The  fact  was  that  she  rather  disliked  him.  She  thought  him  pompous  beyond  his  reputation  for  pomposity,  and  although  her  own,  antiquated  French  was  fluid  and  not  unpoetic,  she  could  not  follow  the  subtleties  of  his  eternal,  ranting  nar-  rative.  She  misunderstood  his  jokes  (&quot;Ma  nouvelle  biographie!  Sublime!  IL  ne  reste  plus  gw  a  P\xc3\xa9crire!&quot;).  But  she  could  hardly  admit  to  herself  that  what  she  resented  most  about  him  was  his  friendship  with  the  Dutours.  It  was  common  knowledge  that  he  had  been  Annette's  lover,  and  a  scene  in  his  fic-  tionalized  autobiography  (&quot;.  .  .  et  ce  fut  sur  ce  vieux  tapis  persan,  devant  ce  feu  mourant,  que  je  la  pris  ..  .&quot;)  had  struck  a  puritanical  blow  to  her  solar  plexus,  and  for  this  she  could  not  forgive  her-  self.  &quot;''Then  I  shall  see,&quot;  said  Wilena  Samuels.  abruptly.  Annette  walked  into  the  bathroom,  switched  on  the  light,  and  picked  up  a  magnifying  mirror.  'The  image  she  showed  the  world  in  the  evening  was  far  removed  from  her  daytime  appear-  ance  at  home.  At  five  in  the  afternoon,  she  still  wore  one  of  her  husband's  dis-  carded  dressing  gowns,  with  the  sleeves  rolled  up,  a  pair  of  frayed  straw  slippers  on  her  bare  feet,  and  this  year's  cream  on  her  face  and  throat.  From  the  ex-  tract  of  chick  embryos  that  had  been  the  rage  a  few  yearsback,  Annette  had  gone  on,  through  the  royal  jelly  of  the  queen  bee,  to  the  latest  miracle-  tranquillizers  for  the  skin.  A  dinner  at  home,  these  days,  filled  her  with  a  vague  but  persistent  domestic  anguish.  A  cleaning  woman  came  every  day,  but  they  had  no  cook.  Gertrude  didthe  cooking,  and  had  tantrums.  De-  voted  though  she  was,  she  simply  did  not  want  to  perform  duties  for  which  she  had  not  been  hired.  In  the  past  forty-eight  hours,  the  situation  had  become  grave.  Gertrude  had  been  surprised  talking  to  herself  over  the  ironing  board.  Annette  had  overheard  the  strange  words  &quot;muille-  pattes  sur  patins  &amp;  roulettes,&quot;  followed  by  an  endless  repetition  of  the  never-  ending  chores  that  had  been  imposed  on  her,  Gertrude,  in  a  new  house,  with  three  floors.  'That  was  yesterday.  Later  in  the  afternoon,  Annette,  concerned,  had  secretly  followed  her  to  Gristede's.  Gertrude  hadon  the  old  beaver  coat  And  she  hung  up,  rather  Annette  had  given  her  several  seasons  ago;  it  was  terribly  long  on  Gertrude,  who  was  broad  and  tiny,  and  it  had  split  between  the  shoulder  blades  and  been  sewn  up  so  crudely  with  brown  wool  that  her  back,  in  closeup,  resembled  that  of  a  bear  with  a  surgical  scar.  An  empty  string  bag  hung  from  her  right  hand.  Malachite,  wheezing  and  sneezing  and  in  a  pitiful  state,  was  tucked  under  her  left  armpit.  Gertrude  was  out  to  attract  sympathy,  and  looked  unnecessarily  pathetic.  Annette  watched  her  through  the  store  window.  She  started  by  count-  ing  potato  eyes,  and  to  choose  two  pounds  of  potatoes  took  her  a  good  five  minutes.  Then  she  quickly  deposited  Malachite  in  a  vegetable  scale,  in  order  to  weigh,  by  hand,  the  relative  merits  of  two  grapefruits.  A  young  salesclerk  rushed  over,  and  rather  than  be  a  wit-  ness  to  the  terrible  scene  Annette  had  walked  away  while  Gertrude,  making  fearful  grimaces  over  the  vegetable  counter,  loudly  proclaimed  the  barba-  rism  of  broccoli  (&quot;chou-fleur  vert  pour  les  Peaux-Rouges&quot;).  But  even  this  ter-  rible  behavior  did  little  to  disguise  her  helplessness.  Gertrude  refused  to  learn  a  word  of  English,  and  missed  what  she  called  her  &quot;kitchenenette&quot;  at  the  Hotel  Carlyle,  where  her  housekeeping  duties  consisted  of  making  chicoried  coffee  and  heating  croissants  in  the  morning,  and  then  calling  room  service  the  rest  of  the  day.  In  the  bathroom,  Annette  reviewed  Gertrude's  predicament  and  shook  her  head.  Her  chignon,  carelessly  pinned,  " b"moved  a  little.  She  checked  the  pins  with  lowered  head,  a  nd  when  she  straightened  it,  the  sight  of  her  hair  in  the  bathroom  mirror,  so  pale  and  luminous  under  the  bare  bulb,  stopped  her  for  a  mo-  ment;  that  beautiful,  very  long  hair  had  es-  caped,  without  a  single  effort  on  her  part,  not  only  the  cut  and  the  permanent  but  even  the  professional  shampoo  and  set.  And  in  spite  of  all  the  commotion  in  their  lives,  Gertrude,  plying  two  soft-bristled  brushes  backed  with  tortoise  shell,  still  managed  to  brush  it  for  half  an  hour  each  day.  With  a  lipstick,  Annette  made  a  small  cross  on  the  mirror.  She  must  not  forget  to  call  the  veterinary  at  a  quarter  to  six.  She  took  off  the  dressing  gown,  rolled  it  into  a  ball,  and  threw  it  in  a  corner  of  the  bathroom.  Then  she  climbed  into  the  tub  and  settled  herself,  without  an  intake  of  breath,  into  the  almost  cold  water.  This  wood  nymph's  bath  was  a  daily  habit  ever  since  she  had  read,  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  a  biography  of  Diane  de  Poitiers.  In  the  second-floor  study,  Guy  Dutour  played  &quot;Fun\xc3\xa9railles.&quot;  No  in-  clined  yellow  faces,  like  chrysanthe-  mums  in  the  rain,  no  image  of  funeral  processions  under  domed  umbrellas,  no  smell  of  dug  wet  earth  came  to  disturb  his  concentration.  Confronted  with  a  small  but  obstructing  technical  difficulty,  he  repeated  ashort  passage  slowly  and  patiently  until  the  knot  was  unravelled.  Yet  he  was  not  totally  absorbed.  Mala-  chite  was  sitting  up,  her  neck  taut,  her  thinned  chest  rigid,  her  fur  matted  and  damp.  It  took  all  of  her  energy  to  per-  form  the  act  of  breathing.  She  inhaled  short  gasps  of  air  and  then  exhaled  very  slowly  and  with  difficulty,  moaning  softly  just  before  the  next  intake.  Guy  Dutour  picked  her  up  and  kissed  the  damp  fur  between  her  eyes;  she  closed  them  slowly,  recognized  his  habitual  caress,  and  growled  acceptance.  He  stroked  her  back,  gently;  then,  even  more  gently,  he  scratched  thefur  above  her  ears.  Her  paws  appeared  curiously  rigid,  her  fur  felt  cold  and  inorganic,  her  heartbeat  violent.  The  veterinary  had  drugged  her  yesterday,  and  for  a  time  had  eased  her  breathing;  now  it  seemed  to  have  grown  worse  again.  Yet  he  had  said  that  Malachite  sounded  far  worse  than  she  really  was,  and  that  there  was  no  immediate  danger.  Of  course,  the  New  York  climate  was  dis-     astrous,  but  it  would  not  prove  fatal,  either.  Guy  Dutour  sighed;  he'd  had  enough  Liszt  for  the  day.  Besides,  it  was  five  o'clock.  He  had  to  dress.  With  formality,  he  deposited  Malachite  back  on  her  cushion.  Gertrude  stood  in  the  basement  kitch-  en,  plunged  in  martial  gloom  over  a  gleaming  stove  that  still  bore  the  Good  Housekeeping  seal.  Holding  a  long  steel  knitting  needle  in  her  right  hand  and  a  pot  holder  in  her  left,  she  mounted  the  kitchen  stepladder  and  lifted  the  cover  off  the  earthenware  pot.  With  a  grimace  of  distrust,  she  sucked  in  the  rising  steam.  Then,  with  one  swift  downward  movement  of  her  right  hand,  she  stabbed  the  powle  aw  pot.  Once  again,  it  would  not  be  ready  on  time.  According  to  Gertrude,  the  American  chicken  was  faultily  constructed,  like  the  American  woman,  being  overlong  in  the  leg,  and  so  it  had  to  cook  beyond  the  time  allotted  to  its  weight.  In  the  pantry  on  the  first  floor,  Annette  opened  a  refrigerator  that  had  been  emptied  of  trays  and  shelves,  took  out  a  tall  vase  containing  sixteen  sul-  phurous  carnations,  and  carried  it  up  to  the  study  on  the  second  floor.  Guy  Dutour  poured  himself  some  brandy,  added  a  little  water,  sat  down,  kicked  off  his  felt  slippers,  and  slipped  farther  down  into  his  armchair.  Gertrude  ran  in,  sniffliing  and  with  new  shoes  squeaking,  picked  up  Mala-  chite,  and  ran  off,  muttering  into  her  ear  a  sweet  chaos  of  complaints  and  en-  dearments.  The  doorbell  rang.  The  biographer  came  in,  made  him-  self  comfortable  in  a  corner  of  the  couch,  raised  his  tiny  glass  of  porto,  and  said,  thoughtfully,  &quot;Ah!  Liszt!&quot;-  pronouncing  it  &quot;Litz,&quot;  in  the  French  manner.  He  had  never  published  a  mu-  sical  biography.  &quot;In  preparation  for  my  lectures  at  Mills  College,  tonight  we  speak  nothing  but  English.  Litz!  I  would  like  to  write  a  very  short  biog-  raphy  entitled,  'L'  Abb\xc3\xa9  Litz.  All  biog-  raphies  of  Litz  are  half  filled  with  Chopin  and  George  Sand,  as  all  Cho-  pin's  are  with  Litz  and  Marie  d'  Agoult.  Very  unnerving.  In  my  biography  there  will  be  no  Chopin,  wrapped  in  brown  blankets,  coughing  mazurkas  in  the  gloom  of  deluged  Valldemosa.&quot;  Here  he  paused,  delighted  with  his  own  English,  and  swallowed  a  little  porto.  &quot;No  George,  with  her  walking  stick.  No  Solange,  dressed  as  aboy.  No  Marie  d'Agoult,  standing,  in  white,  and  in  profile,  against  moonlit  columns.  No.  Give  me  the  impregnable  and  theatrical  mystery  of  white-haired  Litz  walking  down  the  gravelled  path  of  an  autumn  garden,  a  br\xc3\xa9viaire  against  his  heart.  But  do  not  underestimate  him.&quot;  And  here  he  waved  his  right  index  finger  back  and  forth.  &quot;Laudanum-was  it  laudanum?-is  still  being  consumed  by  distraught  ladies  in  second-rate  hotel  rooms.&quot;  Guy  Dutour,  often  abstracted  and  a  poor  listener,  watched  his  wife  finger  the  pleats  of  her  new,  short  white  dress.  It  was  the  dress  of  a  worldly  child,  and  it  tacked  onto  her  self-conscious  beauty  a  look  of  gravity,  a  sudden  innocence.  He  observed  the  watchful,  listening  tilt  of  her  head,  and,  in  her  usually  brilliant  eyes,  a  new  complexity  of  expression,  a  docility  hovering  on  the  edge  of  pain.  Suddenly,  he  slapped  his  thin  hands  against  his  thighs:  so  there  it  was;  now  he  knew  it.  Nothing  serious  yet,  but  she  had  begun  to  brood  over  a  new  love  plot.  He  got  up,  walked  toward  the  piano,  sighed,  sat  down,  and  began  &quot;Fun\xc3\xa9railles.&quot;  Annette  listened;  she  was  expecting  a  call  from  Wilena  Samuels  prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9,  the  young  Hungarian,  who  had  fol-  lowed  Annette's  bare  back  at  a  charity  ball  with  the  air  of  a  rabbit  about  to  be  executed.  He  was  ridiculous,  but  the  antiquated  manner  in  which  he  paid  his  respects,  his  innocence,  and  his  obvious  devotion  had  touched  her.  She  hoped  the  call  would  come  in  the  course  of  &quot;Fun\xc3\xa9railles.&quot;  The  telephone  rang.  Annette  ran  upstairs  to  her  bedroom,  " b"lifted  the  telephone,  and  sat  down  on  her  unmade  bed.  &quot;Allo?&quot;  she  asked  softly.  It  was  Wilena  Samuels.  &quot;Dear  heart,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  afraid  my  news  is  far  from  excellent.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Annette.  &quot;Well,  the  news  is  not  bad  yet.  Who  knows,  it  may  mean  nothing,  but  my  heart  is  broken.  The  .  .  .  tickets  are  not  selling  well.&quot;  HEN  Annette  returned  to  the  study,  Guy  Dutour  was  in  his  armchair.  He  watched  her  while  she  sat  down.  She  saw  that  he  was  watching  her,  and,  suddenly  embarrassed,  crossed     her  legs  as  she  had  been  taught  to  do  just  before  leav-  ing  the  convent.  Her  love  for  her  husband  was  bound  at  all  times  to  the  prestige  of  his  musical  career,  and  it  had  just  suffered  a  setback.  &quot;Ah!  'Fun\xc3\xa9railles'!&quot;  said  the  French  biographer.  '&quot;P\xc3\xa9re-Lachaise;  Chopin's  grave-an  ugly  tombstone,  and  on  the  grave  aprofusion  of  violets,  from  Michon's.  No;  let  me  try  again.  'Fun\xc3\xa9-  railles'!  Evocation  of  a  fu-  neral  procession;  young  cy-   " b"press  trees;  inclined  faces  in  the  shadow  of  immense  black  umbrellas,  wet  earth,  smell  of  giant  rust-colored  chrysanthe-  mums  ...&quot;  &quot;What  about  dinner?&quot;  asked  Guy  Dutour.  &quot;I'll  see,&quot;  said  Annette.  She  got  up,  but  the  sight  of  Gertrude,  standing  in  the  doorway,  prevented  her  from  moving.  It  was  obvious  that  Ger-  trude  did  not  stand  there,  totally  un-  done,  to  announce  dinner.  She  looked  as  if  she  had  taken  a  steam  bath  with  her  clothes  on,  Her  faded-blue  working  dress  was  all  crumpled,  her  face  was  a  large,  shiny  mask.  Wisps  of  usually  smooth  hair  curled  unexpectedly  about  her  ears.  And  her  eyes!  Her  glistening  eyes  held  a  strong  reflection  of  light,  the  tears  having  settled  in  them  like  dew.  Gertrude  opened  her  mouth  and,  ad-  dressing  Guy  Dutour,  said,  &quot;Mala-  chite-&quot;  It  was  unnecessary  for  her  to  go  on;  they  had  all  understood.  The  French  biographer  looked  up  at  the  ceil-  ing.  Guy  Dutour  looked  down  at  his  hands.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Annette  said  to  herself.  &quot;Malachite  is  dead.  Let's  bury  her.&quot;  She  took  Gertrude  firmly  by  the  shoulders,  turned  her  around,  and  start-  ed  her  down  to  the  basement.  Heart  failure,  she  decided  on  the  first-  floor  landing.  After  all  that  effort  in  breathing.  Poor  Guy!  She  tried  to  imagine  Malachite  dead,  and  her  mind's  eye  immediately  produced  Malachite  on  her  back  with  paws  drawn  up  and  curled.  Annette,  annoyed,  stopped  herself.  No,  that  was  a  dead  canary.  She  heard  Gertrude  muttering  on  the  basement  stairs,  seemingly  unconscious  that  she  was  overheard:  &quot;.  .  Hitel  Barbizon,  pour  dames  seules  comme  mot  .  ..&quot;  So  Gertrude  was  going.  Once  be-  fore,  Gertrude  had  disappeared,  care-  fully  leaving  her  address  behind.  She  must  be  left  alone  tonight  to  do  what  she  felt  like  doing.  Tomorrow  would  be  time  enough  to  send  &quot;Maestro  Ca-  gliostro,&quot;  who  could  double  as  psy-  chiatrist  in  time  of  emergency,  after  her.  Poor  Gertrude;  this  last  year  had  been  too  much  for  her!  Poor  Guy!  On  the  night  of  the  all-Liszt  recital,  the  chain  of  fetishes  must  once  more  be  complete:  the  gold  compass  charm,  the  diamond-  and-onyx  shirt  studs,  Malachite,  her  cushion,  and  Gertrude,  who  prepared  the  backstage  tllewul  with  three  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Break  a  link  and  you  invite  catastrophe;  Malachite  must  be  replaced  and  Gertrude  brought  back,  or  Guy  might  bury  Liszt  and  cancel  the  recital.  Gertrude  went  to  her  bedroom,  which  was  next  to  the  kitchen,  and  locked  her-  self  in.  Annette  listened  at  the  door  for  a  moment.  She  heard  Gertrude  fall  to  her  knees;  then  she  heard  the  sound  of  a  large  object  light-  ly  scraping  the  wooden  floor;  then  two  familiar  snaps,  and  the  suitcase,  which  had  once  belonged  to  Guy  Dutour,  opened.  Annette  turned  away.  Malachite  must  be  in  the  kitchen;  perhaps  on  her  toile  deJouy  cushion,  under  the  canopy  of  a  new  Formica  table  with  tubular  legs.  And  while  Gertrude  opened  the  drawer  in  which  she  kept  her  flowered  night-  gowns,  her  box  of  camo-  mile,  and  her  two  hot-water  bottles,  Annette  slowly  pushed  open  the  swinging  door  and  walked  into  the  kitchen.     N  the  study,  the  two  men  sat,  Guy  Dutour  with  his  elbows  on  his  thighs  and  his  face  in  his  hands.  The  biog-  rapher  found  the  situation  absurd.  Here,  in  constraint,  hunger,  and  imbecilic  si-  lence,  sat  two  men,  one  of  them  mourning  a  dog.  &quot;Malachite  ..  .&quot;  Guy  Dutour  said  at  last,  through  his  hands.  &quot;Ce  fut  pendant  'Fun\xc3\xa9railles  .  ..  &gt;  &gt;&gt;  the  biographer  attempted,  &quot;.  .  .  guelle  rendit  le  dernier  soupir.&quot;  Guy  Dutour  did  not  move.  The  French  biographer  shrugged  his  shoul-  ders;  he  hadgone  beyond  the  first,  un-  controllable  embarrassment  caused  him  by  Guy  Dutour's  grief,  and  he  now  ob-  served  his  nails.  After  awhile,  the  front  door  slammed  shut,  and  the  sound  revived  him.  He  heard  Gertrude's  voice  screaming  &quot;Taxi!  Taxi!&quot;  Then  the  door  of  the  taxi  slammed  shut.  &quot;Malachite  .  .  .&quot;said  Guy  Dutour,  lifting  his  face  from  his  hands.  And  the  biographer  froze;  in  a  sec-  ond,  in  a  moment,  and  in  silence,  he  would  be  asked  for  sympathy."