 b"THE  Wrysons  wanted  things  in  I  the  suburb  of  Shady  Hill  to  re-  main  exactly  as  they  were.  Their  dread  of  change-of  irregularity  of  any  sort-was  acute,  and  when  the  Larkin  estate  was  sold  for  an  old  people's  rest  home,  the  Wrysons  went  to  the  Village  Council  meeting  and  demanded  to  know  what  sort  ofold  people  these  old  people  were  going  to  be.  The  Wrysons'  civic  activities  were  confined  to  upzon-  ing,  but  they  were  very  active  in  this  field,  and  if  you  were  invited  to  their  house  for  cocktails,  the  chances  were  that  you  would  be  asked  to  sign  an  up-  zoning  petition  before  you  got  away.  This  was  something  more  than  a  natu-  ral  desire  to  preserve  the  character  of  the  community.  'They  seemed  to  sense  that  there  was  a  stranger  at  the  gates-un-  washed,  tirelessly  scheming,  foreign,  the  father  of  disorderly  children  who  would  ruin  their  rose  garden  and  depreciate  their  real-estate  investment,  a  man  with  a  beard,  a  garlic  breath,  and  a  book.  The  Wrysons  took  no  part  in  the  intellectual  life  of  the  community.  There  was  hard-  ly  a  book  in  their  house,  and,  in  a  place  where  even  cooks  were  known  to  have  Picasso  reproductions  hanging  above  their  washstands,  the  Wrysons'  taste  in  painting  stopped  at  marine  sunsets  and  bowls  of  flowers.  Donald  Wryson  was  a  large  man  with  thinning  fair  hair  and  the  cheerful  air  of  a  bully,  but  he  was  a  bully  only  in  the  defense  of  rectitude,  class  distinctions,  and  the  orderly  ap-  pearance  of  things.  Irene  Wryson  was  not  a  totally  unattractive  woman,  but  she  was  both  shy  and  contentious-es-  pecially  contentious  on  the  subject  of  upzoning.  'They  had  one  child,  a  little  girl  named  Dolly,  and  they  lived  in  a  pleasant  house  on  Ale-  wives  Lane,  and  they  went  in  for  gardening.  This  was  another  way  of  keeping  up  the  appearance  of  things,  and  Donald  Wryson  was  very  critical  of  a  neighbor  who  had  ragged  syringa  bushes  and  a  bare  spot  on  her  front  lawn.  They  led  a  limited  so-  cial  life;  they  seemed  to  have  no  ambitions  or  needs  in  this  direction,  although  at  Christ-  mas  each  year  they  sent  out  about  six  hundred  cards.  The  preparation  and  addressing  of  these  must  have  occupied  their  evenings  for  at  least  two  weeks.  Donald  had  a  laugh  like  a  jackass,  and  people  who  did  not  like  him  were  careful  not  to  sit  in  the  same  train  coach  with  him.  The  Wrysons  were  stiff;  they  were  inflexible.  They  seemed  to  experience  not  distaste  but  alarm  when  they  found  quack  grass  in  their  lawn  or  heard  of  a  contemplated  divorce  among  their  neighbors,  They  were  odd,  of  course.  They  were  not  as  odd  as  poor,  dizzy  Flossie  Dolmetch,  who  was  caught  forging  drug  prescriptions  and  was  dis-  covered  to  have  been  under  the  influ-  ence  of  morphine  for  three  years.  They  were  not  as  odd  as  Caruthers  Mason,  with  his  collection  of  two  thousand  lewd  photographs,  or  as  odd  as  Mrs.  Temon,  who,  with  those  two  lovely  children  in  the  next  room-  But  why  go  on?  They  were  odd.  Irene  Wryson's  oddness  centered  on  a  dream.  She  dreamed  once  or  twice  a  month  that  someone-some  enemy  or  hapless  American  pilot-had  exploded  a  hydrogen  bomb.  In  the  light  of  day,  her  dream  was  inadmissible,  for  she  couldnot  relate  it  to  her  garden,  her  in-  terest  in  upzoning,  or  her  comfortable  way  of  life.  She  could  not  bring  herself  to  tell  her  husband  at  breakfast  that  she  had  dreamed  about  the  hydrogen  bomb.  Faced  with  the  pleasant  table  and  its  view  of  the  garden-faced  evenwith  rain  and  snow-she  could  not  find  it  in  herself  to  explain  what  had  troubled  her  sleep.  The  dream  cost  her  much  in  ener-  gy  and  composure,  and  often  left  her  deeply  depressed.  Its  sequence  of  events  varied,  but  it  usually  went  like  this.  The  dream  was  set  in  Shady  Hill-  she  dreamed  that  she  woke  in  her  own  bed.  Donald  was  always  gone.  She  was at  once  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  bomb  had  exploded.  Mattress  stuffing  and  a  trickle  of  brown  water  were  com-  ing  through  a  big  hole  in  the  ceiling.  The  sky  was  gray-lightless-although  there  were  in  the  west  a  few  threads  of  red  light,  like  those  charming  vapor  trails  we  see  in  the  air  after  the  sun  has  set.  She  didn't  know  if  these  were  vapor  trails  or  some  part  of  that  force  that  would  destroy  the  marrow  in  her  bones.  The  gray  air  seemed  final.  The  sky  would  never  shine  with  light  again.  From  her  window  she  could  see  a  river,  and  now,  as  she  watched,  boats  began  to  come  upstream.  At  first,  there  were  only  two  or  three.  Then  there  were  tens,  and  then  there  were  hundreds.  There  were  outboards,  excursion  boats,  yachts,  schooners  with  auxiliary  motors;  there  were  even  rowboats.  The  num-  ber  of  boats  grew  until  the  water  was  covered  with  them,  and  the  noise  of  motors  roseto  a  loud  din.  'The  jockey-  ing  for  position  in  this  retreat  up  the  river  became  aggressive  and  then  sav-  age.  She  saw  men  firing  pistols  at  one  another,  and  a  rowboat,  in  which  there  was  a  family  with  little  children,  smashed  and  sunk  by  a  cruiser.  She  cried,in  her  dream,  to  see  this  inhuman-  ity  as  the  world  was  ending.  She  cried,  and  she  went  on  watching,  as  if  some  truth  was  being  revealed  to  her-as  if  she  had  always  known  this  to  be  the  hu-  man  condition,  as  if  she  had  always  known  the  world  to  be  dangerous  and  the  comforts  of  her  life  in  Shady  Hill  to  be  the  merest  palliative.  Then  in  her  dream  she  turned  away  from  the  window  and  went  through  the  bathroom  that  connected  their  room  and  Dolly's.  Her  daughter  was  sleeping  sweetly,  and  she  woke  her.  At  this  point,  her  emotions  were  at  their  strong-  est.  The  force  and  purity  of  the  love  that  she  felt  toward  this  fragrant  child  was  an  agony.  She  dressed  the  little  girl  and  put  a  snowsuit  on  her  and  led  her  into  the  bath-  room.  She  opened  the  medi-  cine  cabinet,  the  one  place  in  the  house  that  the  Wrysons,  in  their  passion  for  neatness,  had  not  put  in  order.  It  was  crowded  with  leftover  medi-  cines  from  Dolly's  trifling  ill-  nesses-cough  syrups,  cala-  mine  lotion  for  poison  ivy,  aspirin,  and  physics.  And  the  mild  perfume  of  these  rem-  nants  and  the  tenderness  she  had  felt  for  her  daughter  when  she  was  ill-as  if  the  door  of  the  medicine  cabinet  " b"had  been  a  window  opening  onto  some  dazzling  summer  of  the  emotions  made  her  cry  again.  Among  the  bottles  was  one  that  said  &quot;Poison,&quot;  and  she  reached  for  this  and  unscrewed  the  top,  and  shook  into  her  left  hand  a  pill  for  herself  and  one  for  the  girl.  She  told  the  trusting  child  some  gentle  lie,  and  was  about  to  put  the  pill  between  her  lips  when  the  ceiling  of  the  bathroom  col-  lapsed  and  they  stood  knee-deep  in  plas-  ter  and  dirty  water.  She  groped  around  in  the  water  for  the  poison,  but  it  was  lost,  and  the  dream  usually  ended  in  this  way.  And  how  could  shelean  across  the  breakfast  table  and  explain  her  pallor  to  her  husky  husband  with  this  detailed  vision  of  the  end  of  the  world?  He  would  have  laughed  his  jackass  laugh.  DONALD  Waryson's  oddness  could  be  traced  easily  enough  to  his  child-  hood.  He  had  been  raised  in  asmall  town  in  the  Middle  West  that  couldn't  have  had  much  to  recommend  it,  and  his  father,  an  old-fashioned  commercial  traveller,  with  a  hothouse  rose  in  his  buttonhole  and  buff-colored  spats,  had  abandoned  his  wife  and  his  son  when  the  boy  was  young.  Mrs.  Wryson  had  few  friends  and  no  family.  With  her  husband  gone,  she  got  a  job  as  a  clerk  in  an  insurance  office,  and  took  up,  with  her  son,  a  life  of  unmitigated  melan-  choly  and  need.  She  never  forgot  the  horror  of  her  abandonment,  and  she  leaned  so  heavily  for  support  on  her  son  that  she  seemed  to  threaten  his  animal  spirits.  Her  life  was  a  Calvary,  as  she  often  said,  and  the  most  she  could  do  was  to  keep  body  and  soul  together.  She  had  been  young  and  fair  and  happy  once,  and  the  only  way  she  had  of  evoking  these  lost  times  was  by  giving  her  son  baking  lessons.  When  the  nights  were  long  and  cold  and  the  wind  whis-  tled  around  the  four-family  house  where  they  lived,  she  would  light  a  fire  in  the  kitchen  range  and  drop  an  apple  peel  onto  the  stove  lid  for  the  fragrance.  Then  Donald  would  put  on  anapron  and  scurry  around,  getting  out  the  nec-  essary  bowls  and  pans,  measuring  out  flour  and  sugar,  separating  eggs.  He  learned  the  contents  of  every  cupboard.  He  knew  where  the  spices  and  the  sugar  were  kept,  the  nut  meats  and  the  citron,  and  when  the  work  was  done,  he  enjoyed  washing  the  bowls  and  pans  and  put-  ting  them  back  where  they  belonged.  Donald  loved  these  hours  himself,  most-  ly  because  they  seemed  to  dispel  the  op-  pression  that  stood  unlifted  over  those  years  of  his  mother's  life-and  was  there  any  reason  why  a  lonely  boy  should  rebel  against  the  feeling  of  securi-  ty  that  he  found  in  the  kitchen  on  a stormy  night?  She  taught  him  how  to  make  cookies  and  muffins  and  banana  bread,  and,  finally,  a  Lady  [REDACTED]  cake.  It  was  sometimes  after  eleven  o'clock  when  their  work  was  done.  &quot;We  do  have  a  good  time  together,  don't  we,  son?&quot;  Mrs.  Wryson  would  ask.  &quot;We  have  a  lovely  time  together,  don't  we,  you  and  me.  Oh,  hear  that  wind  howling!  Think  of  the  poor  sailors  at  sea.&quot;  Then  she  would  embrace  him,  she  would  run  her  fingers  through  his  light  hair,  and  sometimes,  although  he  was  much  too  big,  she  would  draw  him  onto  her  lap.  All  ofthat  was  long  ago.  Mrs.  Wry-  son  was  dead,  and  when  Donald  stood  at  the  edge  of  her  grave  he  had  not  felt  any  very  great  grief.  She  had  been  reconciled  to  dying  years  before  she  did  die,  and  her  conversation  had  been  full  of  gallant  references  to  the  grave.  Years  later,  when  Donald  was  living  alone  in  New  York,  he  had  been  overtaken  sud-  denly,  one  spring  evening,  by  a  depres-  sion  as  keen  as  any  in  his  adolescence.  He  did  not  drink,  he  did  not  enjoybooks  or  movies  or  the  theatre,  and,  like  his  mother,  he  had  few  friends.  Searching  desperately  for  some  way  to  take  out  of  this  misery,  he  hit  on  the  idea  of  baking  a  Lady  [REDACTED]  cake.  He  went  out  and  bought  the  ingredients-deeply  ashamed  of  himself-and  sifted  the  flour  and  chopped  the  nuts  and  citron  in  the  kitchenofthe  little  walkup  apart-  ment  where  he  lived.  As  he  stirred  the  cake  batter,  he  felt  his  depression  vanish.  It  was  not  until  he  had  put  the  cake  in  the  oven  and  sat  down  to  wipe  his  hands  on  his  apron  that  he  realized  how  suc-  cessful  he  had  been  in  summoning  the  ghost  of  his  mother  and  the  sense  of  se-  curity  he  had  experienced  as  a  child  in  her  kitchen  on  stormy  nights.  When  the  cake  was  done,he  iced  it,  ate  a  slice,  and  dumped  the  rest  into  the  garbage.  The  next  timehe  felt  troubled,  he  " b"resisted  the  temptation  to  bake  a  cake,  but  he  was  not  always  able  to  do  this,  and  during  the  eight  or  nine  years  he  had  beenmarried  to  Irenehe  must  have  baked  eight  or  nine  cakes.  He  took  ex-  traordinary  precautions,  and  she  knew  nothing  of  this.  She  believed  him  to  be  a  complete  stranger  to  the  kitchen,  And  how  could  he  at  the  breakfast  table-  all  two  hundred  and  sixteen  pounds  of  him-explain  that  he  looked  sleepy  be-  cause  he  had  been  up  until  three  baking  a  Lady  [REDACTED]  cake,  which  he  had  hidden  in  the  garage?  IVEN  these  unpleasant  facts,  then,  about  these  not  attractive  people,  we  can  dispatch  them  brightly  enough,  and  who  but  Dolly  would  ever  miss  them?  Donald  Wryson,  in  his  crusad-  ing  zeal  for  upzoning,  was  out  in  all  kinds  of  weather,  and  let's  say  that  one  night,  when  he  was  returning  from  a  referendum  in  an  ice  storm,  his  car  skidded  down  Hill  Street,  struck  the  big  elm  at  the  corner,  and  was  demolished.  Finis.  His  poor  widow,  either  through  love  or  dependence,  was  inconsolable.  Getting  out  of  bed  one  morning,  a  month  or  so  after  the  loss  of  her  hus-  band,  she  got  her  feet  caught  in  the  dust  ruffle  and  fell  and  broke  her  hip.  Weak- ened  by  a  long  convalescence,  she  con-  tracted  pneumonia  and  departed  this  life.  This  leaves  us  with  Dolly  to  ac-  count  for,  and  what  a  sad  tale  we  can  write  for  this  little  girl.  During  the  months  in  which  her  parents'  will  is  in  probate,  she  lives  first  on  the  charity  and  then  on  the  forbearance  of  her  neigh-  bors.  Finally,  she  is  sent  to  live  with  her  only  relative,  a  cousin  of  her  moth-  er's,  who  is  a  schoolteacher  in  Los  An-  geles.  How  many  hundreds  of  nights  will  she  cry  herself  to  sleep  in  bewilder-  ment  and  loneliness.  How  strange  and  cold  the  world  will  seem.  There  is  little  to  remind  her  of  her  parents  except  at  Christmas,  when,  forwarded  from  Shady  Hill,  will  come  Greetings  from  Mrs.  Sallust  Trevor,  who  has  been  liv-  ing  in  [REDACTED]  and  does  not  know  about  the  " b"accident;  Salutations  from  the  Parkers,  who  live  in  [REDACTED]  and  never  did  get  their  lists  straight;  Season's  Greetings  from  Meyers'  Drugstore;  Merry  Christ-  mas  from  the  Perry  Browns;  Santissi-  mas  from  the  Oak  Tree  Italian  Res-  taurant;  A  Joyeux  No\xc3\xa9l  from  Dodie  Smith.  Year  after  year,  it  will  be  this  little  girl's  responsibility  to  throw  into  the  wastebasket  these  cheerful  holi-  day  greetings  that  have  followed  her  par-  ents  to  and  beyond  the  grave.  ...  But  this  did  not  happen,  and  ifit  had,  it  would  have  thrown  no  light  on  what  we  know.  What  happened  was  this.  Irene  Wry-  son  had  her  dream  one  night.  When  she  woke,  she  saw  that  her  husband  was  not  in  bed.  The  air  smelled  sweet.  Sweating  suddenly,  the  beating  of  her  heart  strained  with  terror,  she  realized  that  the  endhad  come.  What  could  that  sweetness  in  the  air  be  but  atomic  ash?  She  ran  to  the  window,  but  the  river  was  empty.  Half  asleep  and  feeling  cruelly  lost  as  she  was,  she  was  kept  from  waking  Dolly  only  by  a  healthy  curiosity.  'There  was  smoke  in  the  hall-  way,  but  it  was  not  the  smoke  of  any  common  fire.  The  sweetness  made  her  feel  surethat  this  was  lethal  ash.  Led  on  by  the  smell,  she  went  on  down  the  stairs  and  through  the  dining  room  into  the  lighted  kitchen.  Donald  was  asleep  with  his  head  on  the  table  and  the  room  was  full  of  smoke.  &quot;Oh,  my  darling,&quot;  she  cried,  and  woke  him.  &quot;I  burned  it,&quot;  he  said  when  he  saw  the  smoke  pouring  from  the  oven.  &quot;I  burned  the  damned  thing.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  it  was  the  hydrogen  bomb,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  a  cake,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  burned  it.  What  made  you  think  it  was  the  hydro-  gen  bomb?&quot;  &quot;If  you  wanted  something  to  eat,  you  should  have  waked  me,&quot;  she  said.  She  turned  off  the  oven,  and  opened  the  window  to  let  out  the  smell  of  smoke  and  let  in  the  smell  of  nicotiana  and  other  night  flowers,  She  may  have  hesitated  for  a  moment,  for  what  would  the  stranger  at  the  gates-that  intruder  with  his  beard  and  his  book-have  made  of  this  couple,  in  their  night  clothes,  in  the  smoke-filled  kitchen  at  half  past  four  in  the  morning?  Some  comprehen-  sion-perhaps  momentary-of  the  complexity  of  life  must  have  come  to  them,  but  it  was  only  momentary.  There  were  no  further  explanations.  He  threw  the  cake,  which  was  burned  to  a  cinder,  into  the  garbage,  and  they  turned  out  the  lights  and  climbed  the  stairs,  more  mystified  by  life  than  ever,  and  more  interested  than  ever  in  a  good  appearance. "