 b"NOWADAYS &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden  of  the  Sheik&quot;  would  hardly  be  the  hot  potato  that  it  was  in  1931.  The  erotica  of  yesteryear  arethe  best-sellers  of  today.  &quot;'The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  was  the  onlyitem  of  erotica  I  ever  owned,  and  it  served  a  purpose;  it  taught  me  that  I  was  not  cut  out  to  be  a  collector  of  erotica.  I  was  too  prone  to  feelings  of  guilt,  for  one  thing,  too  short  of  cash,  for  another.  Erotica  came  high  in  those  days.  At  least,  I  thought  so;  I  paid  ten  dollars  for  my  one  flyer  in  the  field.  It  was  a  spicy  tale  of  life  in  a  harem,  with  a  phenome-  nally  gifted  sheik,  whose  name  escapes  me,  as  the  hero.  I  came  into  possession  of  it  casually  and  unexpectedly.  I  was  sitting,  one  afternoon,  in  an  office  in  New  York,  bothering  two  friends  who  were  trying  to  work.  'The  door  opened,  and  in  came  a  benevolent-looking  man  with  silvered  locks,  carryinga  bulging  briefcase.  He  looked  like  one  of  the  Cheeryble  Brothers,  and  I  sized  him  up  as  a  humanitarian  collecting  funds  for  a  worthy  cause.  I  erred  in  this  ap-  praisal.  He  was  a  purveyor  of  naughty  books.  Mr.  Cheeryble  spread  his  sultry  wares  before  the  three  of  us,  and  we  set  to  work  zestfully  to  inspect  them.  The  zest,  I  may  say,  was  inward.  Out-  wardly,  we  wore  a  casual,  almost  bored  air  that  belied  interest.  This  was  meant  to  im-  press  one  another  and  the  booklegger,  but  I  doubt  whether  it  suc-  ceeded,  at  least  with  the  booklegger.  In  the  prac-  tice  of  his  clandestine  trade,  he  must  have  en-  countered  that  gambit  often.  My  friends  and  I  en-  joyed  a  leisurely  inspec-  tion  of  the  books.  Mr.  Cheeryble  was  in  no  hurry.  After  a  while,  my  friends  thanked  him  forthe  glimpse  of  his  merchandise  and,  pleading  financial  embarrassment,  asked  to  be  excused  from  making  any  purchases  that  day.  I  was  as  financially  embarrassed  as  they  were,  but  the  notion  to  become  a  rake-  hell  suddenly  took  me,  and  I  forked  over  ten  dollars  for  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden  of  the  Sheik.&quot;  Ichose  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  because  it  was  both  vivid  in  text  and  graphically  illustrated.  It  was  hand-  somely  bound,  too.  The  booklegger     stocked  other  racy  items,  but  most  of  them  were  plainly  bound  and  not  illus-  trated  at  all.  I  remember  one  plain-  looking  book,  the  cover  of  which  an-  nounced  it  to  be  a  textbook  on  physics.  In  actual  fact,  it  contained  the  adven-  tures  ofa  young  lady  named  Fanny  Hill,  who  was  considered  a  highflier  in  her  day,  but  who  would  be  laughed  at  as  an  old  slowpoke  by  some  ofthe  fic-  tion  heroines  of  today.  The  transaction  completed,  Mr.  Cheeryble  gave  us  his  blessing  and  de-  parted.  I  started  to  leave,  too,  but  was  detained  for  a  considerable  time,  dur-  ing  which  my  two  friends  thriftily  read  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  free  of  charge.  I  NOW  considered  myself  a  practic-  ing  rakehell,  but  even  as  I  walked  homeward  with  &quot;The  Perfumed  Gar-  den&quot;  under  my  arm,  misgivings  began  to  trouble  me.  Suppose  a  plainclothes  detective  came  along  and,  with  that  un-  canny  perception  some  detectives  have,  divined  the  nature  of  the  book  I  was  carrying,  seized  it,  and  placed  me  un-  der  arrest  for  transporting  bawdry  through  the  streets  of  New  York.  A  picture  of  myself  marching  lock  step  to  breakfast  on  Welfare  Island  formed  in  my  mind.  Presently,  another  fancy  that  made  my  heart  skip  a  beat  occurred  to  me.  Suppose  an  automobile  hit  me.  The  jolt  would  no  doubt  fling  the  book  a  good  distance  from  me,  but  some  Nosy  Parker  would  be  sure  to  retrieve  it  and  hand  it  to  the  cop  who  would  be  making  kindly  inquiries  about  my  cuts,  contusions,  and  abrasions.  The  cop  would  glance  at  the  book,  see  its  perfidy,  and  switch  instantly  from  Good  Samaritan  to  An-  thony  Comstock.  I  would  land  in  the  prison  ward  at  Bellevue,  and  he  would  take  the  evidence  to  the  station  house  to  enjoy  at  his  leisure,  probably  shar-  ing  it  with  his  fellow-constables.  The  wages  of  sin  is  anxiety.  It  struck  me  that  the  venerable  booklegger,  making  his  daily  rounds  through  the  streets  of  New  York  carrying  that  briefcase  loaded  with  dynamite,  must  be  an  in-  trepid  fellow.  I  got  home  unmolested  by  the  vice  squad  and  unbruised  by  motor  vehicles.  Once  safely  there,  I  had  a  chance  to" b"examine  my  purchase.  I  cannot  pretend  that  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  was  a  valuable  human  document.  Its  central  theme  was  not  new,  it  did  not  fill  a  long-felt  want,  and  it  lacked  an  index.  Yet  this  reader  could  not  put  it  down.  There  was  little  in  the  book  I  did  not  know,  or  had  not  heard  about.  My  youth  had  not  been  entirely  sheltered,  thanks  in  some  degree  to  my  own  enter-  prise  and  the  society  of  a  livelyset  of  playmates.  In  my  high-school  years,  I  had  a  sketchy  acquaintance  with  the  chief  work  of  Dr.  Krafft-Ebing.  The  father  of  one  of  my  schoolmates  was  a  doctor,  and  he  owned  a  copy  of  Krafft-  Ebing's  &quot;Psychopathia  Sexualis,&quot;  which  he  kept  in  a  locked  bookcase.  His  son  had  found  out  where  the  key  was  hid-  den,  and  on  dull  afternoons  he  gave  readings  for  a  few  cronies.  Dr.  Krafft-  Ebing  had  had  some  bizarre  patients,  but  our  understanding  of  their  peccadil-  loes  was  clouded  by  his  habit  of  writ-  ing  the  d\xc3\xa9nouements  of  their  case  his-  tories  in  Latin,  a  language  we  habitually  flunked.  I  had  also,  in  more  recent  years,  read  &quot;Lady  Chatterley's  Lover,&quot;  unexpurgated;  a  girl  I  knew  had  brought  it  home  from  finishing  school  one  June.  Her  parents  had  snatched  it  from  her  instantly,  read  it  with  interest,  and  passed  it  among  their  friends.  Al-  though  I  had  put  in  my  application  a  day  after  the  book  reached  town,  I  did  not  get  to  read  it  until  late  August.  Fi-  nally,  I  had  spent  a  good  many  years  as  a  New  York  newspaperman-an  experience  that,  of  course,  would  rub  the  innocence  off  Galahad  himself,  and  reduce  his  strength  by  nine  and  a  half.  That  about  sums  up  my  career  as  a  rip,  and  my  qualifications  as  an  expert  on  erotica.  HE  apartment  in  which  at  the  time  I  occupied  a  room  belonged  to  an  affable  and  patient  litt\xc3\xa9rateur.  When  he  came  home  that  afternoon,  I  tossed  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  to  him,  saying  casually,  &quot;'There's  some-  thing  may  interest  you.&quot;  He  took  the  book  in  his  stride,  asked  where  I  had  got  it,  and,  when  told  I  had  parted  with  cash  for  it,  said,  &quot;Well,  I  be  damned!&quot;  Then  he  added,  &quot;You  better  not  leave  this  around  where  Mrs.  Hostetter  will  see  it.&quot;  I  started.  I  had  not  taken  Mrs.  Hostetter  into  consideration.  I  should  have  done  so.  Mrs.  Hostetter  was  the  plump,  efficient,  and  respectable  little  woman  who  kept  house  for  us.  She  looked  a  good  deal  like  Queen  Victoria,  andhad  something  of  Her  Late  Majes-" b"ty's  august  manner.  I  respected  Mrs.  Hostetter.  Indeed,  I  stood  in  awe  of  her,  and  always  felt  self-conscious  un-  der  her  maternal  eye  when,  after  cir-  cumstances  entirely  within  my  control  had  kept  me  at  Tony's  or  the  Dizzy  Club  for  most  of  a  night,  I  crept  from  my  room  at  noon  in  search  of  coffee.  I  may  have  been  unduly  apprehen-  sive,  but  it  did  seem  to  me  a  safe  bet  that  if  Mrs.  Hostetter  caught  a  glimpse  of  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  she  would  take  off  her  apron  and  quit  our  service,  refusing  to  cook  for  libertines  and  probably  saying,  &quot;We  are  not  amused.&quot;  Since  she  was  a  treasure,  her  loss  would  be  a  calamity  and  most  unfair  to  my  roommate,  who  had  gone  to  a  good  deal  of  trouble  to  find  Mrs.  Hostetter  and  persuade  her  to  come  and  be  our  Hebe,  and  who  was  entirely  innocent  in  the  matter  of  &quot;The  Perfumed  Gar-  den.&quot;  The  immediate  problem  was  to  hide  the  book  someplace  where  Mrs.  Hostet-  ter  would  not  find  it.  A  logical  spot  suggested  itself-in  one  of  the  book-  cases,  behind  the  reputable  books-but  I  saw  at  once  that  this  was  too  risky.  Mrs.  Hostetter  was  an  inveterate  book  duster.  I  thought  of  hiding  the  book  under  the  mattress  of  my  bed,  but  here,  again,  Mrs.  Hostetter  had  me  stymied;  she  was  not  only  a  book  duster,  she  was  also  a  great  turner  of  mattresses.  I  be-  gan  to  feel  like  an  incompetent  fence  into  whose  lap  some  hot  jewelry  has  been  dumped  and  who  has  no  idea  what  to  do  with  it.  As  a  temporary  measure,  I  hid  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  in  a  hatbox  on  a  shelf  at  the  back  of  my  clothes  closet.  The  box  contained  a  derby,  which,  by  request,  I  no  longer  wore.  That  night,  I  slept  on  the  problem  of  finding  a  more  permanent  hiding  place,  and  tossed  a  good  deal  in  the  process.  But  I  awoke  with  the  answer.  Poe!  &quot;The  Purloined  Letter&quot;!  I  would  hide  &quot;'The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  in  the  most  conspicuous  place  possible-on  the  coffee  table  in  my  room,  for  instance,  with  a  couple  of  blameless  volumes,  like  &quot;Barchester  Towers&quot;  and  &quot;A  Window  in  Thrums,&quot;  alongside  as  chaperons.  If  there  was  anything  to  Poe's  theory,  Mrs.  Hostet-  ter  would  not  notice  the  book  any  more  than  visitors  to  the  blackmailing  poli-  tician's  apartment  had  noticed  the  pur-  loined  letter,  brazenly  visible  in  the  card  rack,  until  Auguste  Dupin  spotted  It.  Sober  reflection  dimmed  my  hope.  I  knew  that  if  Poe  had  called  on  Mrs.  Hostetter  to  locate  the  purloined  letter,  she  would  have  found  it  instantly,  mak-" b"ing  M.  Dupin  look  like  a  Keystone  cop.  I  knew  this  because  I  remembered  the  brilliant  jobshe  had  made  of  find-  ing  my  bridgework.  I  had  come  home  very  late  one  night,  after  an  evening's  hard  work  nullifying  the  Volstead  Act,  and,  in  the  course  of  preparing  for  bed,  removed  a  recently  acquired  two-tooth  denture  and  hid  it-presumably  in  case  of  thieves  who  might  enter  during  the  night.  Rising  the  following  noon,  I  missed  the  bridge  from  its  accustomed  place,  and,  having  no  memory  of  taking  it  out,  concluded  that  I  had  swallowed  it.  In  a  panic,I  told  Mrs.  Hostetter  what  had  happened,  saying  that  I  must  get  to  a  hospital  quickly,  for  by  now  I  could  feel  the  bridge-  work  lodged  heavily  inside  me.  Mrs.  Hostetter  soothed  me  and  had  a  look  around.  She  entered  my  room  and,  with  the  unerring  instinct  of  a  witch-  hazel  twig  bending  toward  a  hidden  spring,  went  straight  to  my  desk  and  found  the  bridgework  where  I  had  hidden  it,  behind  a  photograph.  What  chance  was  there  of  hiding  &quot;The  Per-  fumed  Garden&quot;  from  her?  &quot;Iwish  I  had  never  bought  the  damn  thing,&quot;  I  said  to  my  roommate.  He  suggested  that  I  give  it,  or  throw  it,  away.  &quot;I  don't  know  anybody  well  enough  to  give  it  to,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  don't  tell  me  to  throw  it  in  a  trash  can,  because  somebody  would  fish  it  out  and  bring  it  right  back  to  me.&quot;  Still,  he  had  given  me  an  idea.  Would  it  be  practicable  to  get  rid  of  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  by  mailing  it  as  an  anonymous  gift  to  some  friend?  Even  better,  to  a  stranger?  Who  in  New  York  that  I  did  not  know  would  be  least  likely  to  own  a  copy?  I  considered  several  possibilities.  There  was  a  cru-  sading  divine  much  in  the  headlines  of  those  days,  but  I  ruled  him  out,  on  the  technicality  that  I  had  once  met  him.  I  had  interviewed  him  on  that  occasion,  and  when  I  was  about  to  leave  he  had  asked  me  to  remain  a  few  moments  while  he  prayed  that  I  and  all  other  abandoned  newspaper  reporters  would  reform.  Discarding  the  crusader,  I  weighed  several  other  candidates,  including  Dr.  Nicholas  Murray  Butler,  who  was  president  of  Columbia  but  a  stranger  to  me.  Dr.  Butler  almost  won.  He  had  once  thrown  a  friend  of  mine  out  of  Columbia  for  writing,  in  a  college  pub-  lication,  something  that  he,  Dr.  Butler,  did  not  like.  It  would  be  a  nice  gesture  of  reprisal  to  send  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  to  Dr.  Butler.  But  then  I  asked  myself  if  I  would  want  the  head" b"of  my  own  alma  mater  to  read  such  a  book.  I  tried  to  imagine  the  president  of  Cornell  doing  so,  failed  dismally,  and  gave  up  all  thought  of  sending  the  book  through  the  mails  to  anybody,  friend  or  stranger,.  It  wouldn't  have  worked  anyhow.  The  postal  authorities  would  have  tracked  me  down  in  jig  time  and  hustled  me  off  to  [REDACTED].  I  don't  suppose  there  has  been  a  guilt  feeling  as  rampant  as  mine  was  during  that  brief  &quot;Per-  fumed  Garden&quot;  crisis  since  Dr.  Freud  was  an  interne.  Never  have  I  seen  my  superego  so  refractory,  before  or  since.  I  continued  to  worry  about  Mrs.  Hostetter.  Had  she  seen  the  book?  I  had  no  way  of  knowing.  She  had  not  given  us  notice,  and  that  was  a  favor-  able  sign.  The  book  still  lay  in  the  hat-  box,  underneath  the  derby;  I  checked  on  it  frequently,  and  took  comfort  from  the  thought  that,  as  far  as  I  knew,  Mrs.  Hostetter  was  not  a  derby  duster.  I  scanned  her  face  anxiously,  at  breakfast,  for  signs  that  she  was  not  amused,  but  her  countenance  was  bland  and  told  me  nothing.  Then  I  got  it.  I  would  take  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  for  a  ride!  A  ride  on  the  subway!  I  would  sit  in  a  corner  of  a  car,  and  at  some  convenient  stop  I  would  slink  out,  leaving  the  hot  potato  behind.  Why  hadn't  I  thought  of  this  before?  My  elation  did  not  last.  The  spectre  ofthe  law  arose  again,  this  time  worse  than  ever.  Now  it  was  a  lady  dick  who  entered  the  picture-one  of  those  policewomen  assigned  to  ride  the  sub-  ways  and  arrest  such  shady  characters  as  mashers,  dips,  and,  no  doubt,  toters  of  indecent  literature.  I  pictured  the  catastrophe:  I  am  sidling  out  of  the  car.  The  lady  dick  is  seated  nearby.  She  no-  tices  I  have  left  my  book  but  suspects  nothing,  yet.  She  hails  me  courteously  and  is  about  to  hand  me  &quot;The  Per-  fumed  Garden&quot;  when  the  old  hawk-  shaw  intuition  swells  within  her  and  she  takes  a  look  at  it.  Her  courtesy  vanishes,  her  manner  freezes,  a  badge  flashes,  handcuffs  encircle  my  wrists,  and  a  steely  voice  says,  &quot;Young  man,  you  are  under  arrest,  and  I  warn  you  not  to  try  to  escape,  for,  though  only  a  woman,  I  am  an  expert  at  judo.&quot;  And  then  I  see  myself  spending  the  next  few  years  pick-  ing  oakum  at  Dannemora.  If  you're  go-  ing  to  whip  up  a  guilt  fantasy,  you  might  as  well  make  it  a  good  one.  HORTLY  after  I  had  abandoned  the  subway-ride  idea,  a  youth  from  my  home  town,  who  was  studying  at" b'Columbia,  dropped  in  to  see  me.  My  roommate  and  I  were  having  our  after-  noon  raillery  hour,  with  me  and  my  &quot;Perfumed  Garden&quot;  as  the  object  of  the  raillery,  so  it  seemed  in  order  to  ac-  quaint  the  young  visitor  with  the  imbro-  glio.  With  the  enthusiasm  of  his  years,  the  youth  expressed  a  lively  curiosity  about  the  book.  I  dug  it  out  of  the  hat-  box,  and  when  the  tyke  saw  it  his  eyes  popped  and  he  exclaimed  &quot;Oh,  boy!&quot;  A  little  later,  he  wondered  hesitantly  if  he  could  borrow  it.  &quot;Borrow  it!&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;You  can  have  it!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  boy!&quot;  he  cried  again,  and,  with  the  briefest  of  leave-takings,  he  hurried  offto  astonish  the  brothers  at  his  fraternity  house.  So  &quot;The  Perfumed  Garden&quot;  did  get  to  Columbia,  though  not  to  Dr.  Butler.  And  my  career  as  a  collector  of  erotica  ended  before  it  had  much  more  than  started.  Once  again  I  could  look  Mrs.  Hostetter  in  the  eye-or  at  least  I  felt  that  I  could  now  start  practicing  how  to  look  her  in  the  eye. '