 FEW  summers  ago-it  was  a  year  or  so  before  third  class  was  abolished  on  French  trains  my  wife  and  I  boarded  a  local  at  Le  Mans,  where  we  had  been  looking  at  the  cathedral,  to  go  to  visit  friends  in  a  small  town  about  twenty  miles  away.  Our  friends  had  arranged  to  call  for  us  at  Le  Mans  in  their  car  after  lunch,  but  then  had  been  prevented  by  engine  trouble,  so,  in  midafternoon,  we  took  seats  in  a  third-class  compartment,  and  immediately  found  ourselves  in  the  midst  of  a  drama.  An  elderly,  wrinkled-faced  peasant  woman,  wearing  a  coif  that  proclaimed  her  as  coming  from  a  little  farther  south,  was  weeping  bitterly.  On  her  knees  she  was  holding  a  large  mesh  shopping  bag  that  contained  a  fully  feathered  but  inert  black-and-white  chicken.  &quot;It's  dying,&quot;  the  woman  sobbed,  caressing  the  feathers  through  the  mesh.  &quot;Dying.  It  will  be  dead  be-  fore  I  get  there.  What  will  my  daugh-  ter-in-law  say?&quot;  She  had  started  out  that  morning,  she  told  the  compartment,  from  her  home  in  a  village  about  fifty  miles  the  other  side  of  Le  Mans,  to  visit  her  son  and  daughter-in-law  in  a  hamlet  that  I  recognized  from  its  name  as  being  the  station  before  the  one  we  were  going  to.  With  her,as  a  gift,  she  had  brought  this  fine,  healthy,  large  hen.  But  alas!  The  heat,  and  per-  haps  the  agitation  of  travelling  .  ..  Even  before  she  got  to  Le  Mans  she  had  become  worried,  she  said,  for  the  bird  had  begun  to  gasp  (the  old  lady  opened  an  almost  toothless  little  mouth  in  imitation-almost  too  graph-  ic  imitation-of  a  panting  hen),  and  though  she  had  taken  it  to  the  lavabo  and  dripped  water  down  its  throat  and  onto  its  head,  it  had  not  revived.  At  Le  Mans,  she  hadhad  to  wait  and  change  trains,  and  the  assistant  chef  degare  couldn't  have  been  kinder.  He  had  found  a  medicine  dropper,  and  had  fedthe  poor  hen  some  brandy,  taken  from  a  bottle  that  he  had  in  his  private  locker,  for  which  he  hadn't  charged  a  sou.  But  the  bird  hadn't  re-  sponded  to  that,  or  to  the  pieces  of  ice  that  she  had  bought  from  a  drink  vender  and  had  held  under  its  black-  and-white  wings.  Now  there  was  clear-  ly  no  hope.  Almost  all  signs  of  life  were  gone.  &quot;Look  at  her  poor  eyes,  mes-  sieurs-dames!&quot;  the  old  lady  cried.  She  pulled  the  fowl's  head  through  one  of  the  meshes  of  the  bag  and  showed  us     that  its  eyelids  were  all  but  shut;  visible  and  glaucous  beneath  them  were  only  the  merest  crescents.  &quot;If  my  daughter-in-law  were  a  per-  son  of  good  character,  I  wouldn't  be  so  upset,&quot;  the  old  lady  told  us.  &quot;But  she  is  of  a  hardness,  messieurs-dames.  Of  a  hardness  that  makes  it  impossible  for  me  to  see  how  my  poor  son  stands  her.  And  hard  not  only  to  him!  Always  at-  tributing  the  wrong  motives  to  every-  one,  always  finding  fault.  So  you  can  imagine  how  she  acts  to  me,  who  have  the  misfortune  to  be  her  mother-in-law!  You  can  imagine  what  her  behavior  will  be  when  I  arrive  bearing  as  a  gift  a  dead  hen!'Ah!  How  long  has  that  been  a  corpse?  How  have  you  preserved  it?  What  do  you  expect  me  to  do  with  carrion?&quot;  I  can  hear  her.  And  there's  nobody  here  who  was  on  the  other  train-the  one  that  I  took  this  morn-  ing-and  saw  what  a  fine,  healthy  bird  I'd  brought!  But  you,  messieurs-  dames,  you  could  bear  witness  for  me  that  even  when  you  first  saw  the  bird  it  was  alive.  It  won't  be  for  many  min-  utes  more,  I  know,  but-  And  the  old  lady  let  out  a  sound  that  was  half  screech,  half  moan.  &quot;It's  happened!  It's  all  over.  Ah,  ma  pauvre  petite  co-  cotte!&quot;  And,  bending,  she  kissed  the  soft  feathers,  and  stroked  them  again  and  again,  tears  coursing  down  her  wrinkled  cheeks.  Everyone  in  the  com-  partment  offered  consola-  tion,  but  her  heart  seemed  broken.  Her  sobs  were  pitiful  to  hear,  and  when  the  train  had  stopped  at  one  or  two  small  stations,  and  we  knew  that  hers  would  be  the  next,  my  wife  and  I  looked  at  each  other  guiltily,  know-  ing  that,  of  course,  we  wouldn't  get  off  with  her  to  bear  witness  when  she  met  her  daughter-in-law,  but  feel-  ing  at  the  same  time  that  the  merest  charity  demanded  that  we  do  so.  As  the  train  slowed,  we  helped  her  get  her  valises  and  bundles  off  the  rack,  and  the  man  sitting  nearest  the  door  took  them  out  into  the  corridor  for  her.  &quot;Au  revoir,  messieurs-dames,&quot;  she  said,  wip-  ing  her  eyes  and  her  face  on  a  huge  blue  handkerchief  that  she  had  taken  out  of  some  pocket  in  her  black  clothes.  &quot;Au  revoir,  au  plaisir.&quot;  And  she  moved  slowly  out  into  the  corridor,  the  mesh  bag,  with  its  tragic  contents,  in  her  arms.  E  all  stared  out  the  window,  dreading  the  cruel  scene  that  lay  ahead,  yet  unable  to  restrain  ourselves.  On  the  platform,  in  addition  to  the   stationmaster,  were  just  two  people-  a  middle-aged  farmer,  apparently,  and  a  woman  with  him.  He  had  a  look  of  the  old  lady  about  him,  and  his  companion  didn't  seer  hard;  she  was  a  ruddy-  faced,  decidedly  benevolent-looking  matron.  As  the  train  pulled  to  a  stop,  they  looked  this  way  and  that,  and  then  hurried  to  the  door  at  the  front  end  of  our  car.  We  all  peered  out  shamelessly.  Both  the  man  and  the  woman  helped  theold  lady  down,  both  of  them  kissed  ]  her,  they  took  all  her  bags  and  bundles  except  the  mesh  bag,  and  they  started  down  the  platform.  They  approached  the  window  where  we  were.  The  old  lady  seemed  quiet,  passive.  She  came  toward  us  between  the  two  younger  people,  her  eyes  lowered.  But  as  she  reached  us-we  marvelled  that  she  knew  just  where  she  was,  for  she  had  been  staring  fixedly  at  the  ground-  she  began  to  scream.  &quot;Bear  witness!&quot;  she  shouted,  staring  up  at  us  and  way-  ing  a  hand.  &quot;'Tell  her,  tell  her,  mes-  sicurs-dames,  that  it  was  alive  when  you  first  saw  it!  'Tell  her!  Tell  her!&quot;  We  all  began  to  answer.  &quot;Yes,  Mad-  ame!&quot;  we  called  to  the  daughter-in-  law.  &quot;The  chicken  was  indeed  alive.  It  started  out  a  beautiful,  healthy  bird.  We  saw  it  die  ourselves.  ...&quot;  The  daughter-in-law  and  her  hus-  band  looked  at  us  in  bewilderment.  We  pointed  to  the  hen  in  the  mesh  bag,  nod-  ding,  urging  them  to  understand.  But  suddenly  our  words  were  drowned-  drowned  by  language  that  we  could  scarcely  believe  we  were  hearing.  Abuse,  vituperation  poured  out  of  the  old  lady's  mouth-that  tiny,  almost  toothless  little  mouth  that  had  looked  so  like  a  panting  hen's  open  beak-vio-  lent  denunciation,  blasphemies,  even,  all  directed  at  the  daughter-in-law.  &quot;Of  course  the  hen  died!  What  hen  wouldn't  die,  knowing  it  was  coming  to  you,  you...&quot;  It  was  horrible.  We  stared.  So  did  the  son  and  the  daughter-in-law.  Had  the  old  lady's  mind  suddenly  cracked,  given  way  to  grief  at  the  death  of  the  bird,  or  to  dread  of  what  was  to  follow?  Was  there  any  cause  for  dread?  The  train  began  to  move.  Tenderly,  both  the  son  and  the  daughter-in-law  began  to  stroke  the  old  lady,  as  tenderly  as  she  had  stroked  her  hen.  The  son  took  the  hen  from  her  and  stroked  her  hands.  The  daughter-in-law  patted  her  shoul-  der,  even  stroked  her  face.  Their  faces  were  still  full  of  bewilderment  and  shock.  Never  had  two  people  seemed  kindlier,  more  concerned.  We  all  stared  back  as  long  as  we  could,  until  the  trio-  or  the  quartet,  if  you  count  the  hen  that  had  (or  had  it?)  been  so  healthy   that  morning-had  vanished,  leaving  all  of  us  in  the  compartment  staring  at  each  other  in  an  orgy,  a  veritable  orgy,  of  perplexity. 