THE  LIGHT,  FIRM  HAND  OF  MRS.  PEREGRINE  BISSETT  5  OULD  it  be  worth  while,  un-  ‘;  ‘l  packing,  just  for  one  night?&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  said,  stand-  ing  before  the  dressing  table  of  Bed-  room  No.  8  at  Castle  Hover,  in  the  [REDACTED]  of  England.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  I  think  I  will,  if  only  to  give  my  poor  things  a  change  from  the  suitcase.&quot;  She  pulled  open  the  top  drawer,  in-  tending  to  bestow  therein  her  stockings,  scarves,  belts,  and  sleep  shade,  but  she  shut  it  again  immediately  at  sight  of  the  little  drift  of  face  powder  on  the  pink  paper  lining,  and  the  single  hair.  The  room  itself  was  lovely,  shabby,  and  somewhat  filthy.  &quot;I  guess  not,  then,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I've  seen  four  maids  in  the  hall.  An  easygoing  lot  they  must  be.&quot;  John  Manwaring,  hanging  his  rain-  coat  and  one  suit  in  a  cupboard  that  could  have  held  the  wardrobe  of  a  prince,  said,  &quot;Let's  not  bother,  just  for  one  night.&quot;  How  wide  the  halls  were  in  that  ancient  house,  how  dark  the  furniture.  Big  jars  of  pungent  autumn  flowers  stood  on  the  chests  they  passed  as  they  pursued  what  they  hoped  was  the  right  way  to  arrive  downstairs  at  a  bar.  Tall  clocks  stood  on  the  landings.  &quot;Look!&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  said.  &quot;This  one  says  quarter  of  seven,  and  the  one  in  the  hall  above  said  seven,  and  the  one  outside  our  door  was  a  little  past.  'That's  odd.&quot;  &quot;Look  out  here.  How  green  every-  thing  is.&quot;  They  paused  by  an  open  window  and  gazed  out.  Abraded  small  stone  beasts,  upright  and  rain-worn,  stood  as  erect  on  balcony  railings  and  roofs  as  the  day  they  had  been  hoisted  to  their  perches  to  face,  in  all  directions,  the  green  slopes  walling  in  their  circular  flat  valley;  the  handful  of  centuries  intervening  be-  tween  that  proud  day  and  the  September  evening  the  Manwarings  stood  admir-  ing  had  draped  an  emerald  moss  wig  over  each  fierce  little  head.  Sunlight  still  filled  the  bow!  where  Castle  Hover  lay,  but  that  other,  inverted  bowl,  the  sky,  was  already  crisscrossed  by  swal-  lows  catching  their  last  insects  before  night  should  come.  The  Manwarings  went  on  down.  There  were  only  two  people  in  the  bar,  which  must  once  have  been  the  library-a  man  in  a  white  jacket  stand-  ing  behind  the  counter,  opening  a  bot-  tle,  and  a  tall  woman  on  a  bar  stool,  with  an  evening  bag,  her  glasses,  her  drink  before  her.  The  Manwarings  selected  a  table  of  shiny  yellow  wood  near  a  long  window,  and  sat  down.  A  very  small  dish  of  nuts  was  on  the  table-  rather  limp  nuts,  Mrs.  Manwaring  dis-  covered,  and  as  she  was  in  theact  of  returning  an  almond  her  glance  en-  countered  that  ofthe  woman  at  the  bar,  who  stood  up  off  the  stool  and  advanced  down  the  room  on  the  Manwarings  with  a  welcoming  smile.  &quot;I'm  Vera  Bissett,&quot;  she  said  as  she  came.  &quot;Shall  I  join  you?&quot;  Mrs.  Bissett  was  a  tightly  swathed  cylinder,  in  a  dress  several  seasons  gone  and  a  vast  rope  of  pink  quartz;  very  tall  and  flat  she  was,  and  worldly-terribly  worldly,  they  thought,  for  a  woman  who  lived  in  the  country-as  she  loomed  over  them,  swaying,  carrying  some  pale,  quartz-colored  drink  strange  to  the  Americans.  As  she  sat  down  at  their  table,  she  said  to  them,  &quot;Ihope  you're  comfortable  in  Room  Eight,&quot;  and  called,  &quot;Drinks,  Geoff,&quot;  over  her  shoulder,  and  then  Mrs.  Manwaring  realized  who  she  was-the  owner,  the  proprietor  of  Cas-  tle  Hover.  Seen  close  to,  in  the  clear  evening  light  from  the  window,  she  proved  to  have  large  blue  eyes  extrava-  gantly  outlined  in  black,  and  relentlessly  black  hair  and  a  wide  red  smile.  &quot;So  glad,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  try  to  make  ev-  erybody  frightfully,  frightfully  comfort-  able.  Now,  what  can  Geoff  bring  you?  This  is  on  the  house.  ..  .  Oh,  yes,  it  is!  Am  I  not  to  do  what  I  like  in  my  own  house?  ..  .  T'wo  dry  Martinis,  Geoff,&quot;  she  went  on,  miraculously  divining  what  John  Manwaring  had  been  mildly  trying  to  get  said-though  what  he  had  been  prepared  to  say  was  'T  wo  gin  and  French,  please.&quot;  &quot;I  may  beonly  an  innkeeper  these  days,  but  I  can  still  be  hospitable.  Years  ago,  before  we  lost  all  our-our  money!  Ha!  Isn't  it  laughable!  -we  lived  the  most  beauti-  ful  life  here,  my  husband  and  I.&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring,  who  had  only  just  closed  her  lips  after  a  continuing  at-  tempt  to  say  what  a  delightful  house  for  an  inn  Castle  Hover  was,  now  opened  them  again  and  said  it.  &quot;For  a  very  special  sort  ofinn,  for  a  while,  yes,  p'haps.  Of  course,  we're  not  too  full  just  now.  End  of  the  sea-  son.&quot;  Mrs.  Bissett  thoughtfully  drank,  and  then  said,  &quot;Hunted  four  days  a  week,  once.  Ten  horses.&quot;  John  Manwaring  shook  his  head  and  made  a  cluck  in  his  throat,  denoting  sympathy,  but  it  did  seem  almost  pre-  sumptuous  to  be  sorry  for  anyone  as  truly  worldly  as  Mrs.  Bissett.  Her  thickly  blackened  lashes  splayed  up  every  time  she  spoke,  and  her  mouth  looked  ready  for  a  strong  bit.  The  Americans  wondered  to  themselves  about  Mr.  Bissett-who  and  where  was  ?  The  illustrated  brochure  that  had  brought  them  here  for  the  first  night  of  their  trip  through  the  southwestern  counties  had  said  only,  &quot;managed  by  the  light,  firm  hand  of  Mrs.  Peregrine  Bis-  sett.&quot;  Where,  then,  was  Peregrine?  Buried,  perhaps,  lightly  but  firmly.  &quot;And  here  is  Peregrine,&quot;  Mrs.  Bis-  sett  said,  waving  at  a  thin  man  sidling  down  the  room  between  those  new  shiny  yellow  bar  tables  and  chairs  he  must  have  so  hated  to  encounter  in  his  library.  &quot;Join  us,  darling?&quot;  called  Mrs.  Bissett.  &quot;Now,  this  round's  on  me,&quot;  John  Manwaring  said,  with  what  proved  to  be  unnecessary  determination.  It  was  clear  why  the  brochure  men-  tioned  only  Mrs.  Bissett;  Mr.  Bissett's  friends  must  for  some  years  have  been  saying  to  each  other,  &quot;Not  the  man  he  was,  Peregrine.&quot;  He  had  a  battered  look.  Tossed  by  horses,  perhaps?  By  two  wars?  By  that  thing  he  had  not  ex-  pected  to  have  happen  to  him--simple  old  age?  He  talked  about  his  roses-flori-  bunda,  perpetual  tea,  and  miniature.  &quot;Peregrine,  poor  lamb,  he's  a  dream-  '  his  wife  fondly  told  them.  &quot;I  do  everything.&quot;  He  was  her  wizened  baby.  &quot;I  simply  can't  think  what  would  ever-&quot;  she  began,  but  she  never  fin-  ished.  &quot;Oh,  Geoff,&quot;  she  called,  having  chanced  to  glance  down  into  her  glass.  &quot;Mine,&quot;  said  John  again,  and  he  was  rewarded  by  a  worldly,  flashing  smile  and  the  gay  assurance  that  he  was  too  good.  &quot;Do  have  a  nut,&quot;  he  was  urged.  &quot;Won't  you?&quot;  He  proffered  the  tiny  bowl.  &quot;I?'  Oh,  no,  no.  .  .  .  Take  them  away.  I  absolutely  dote  on  nuts,  but  I  mustn't  gain  an  ounce,  my  doctor  says.&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  then  made  depre-  catory  sounds  implying  Mrs.  Bissett  hadn't  a  thing  to  be  concerned  about  on  that  score.  &quot;'Yes.  Not  one  ounce,  he  says,  threatening  me.  My  heart's  quite  ridiculously  wonky,  you  know.  But  of  course  you  couldn't  know.  Spins  like  a  top,  sometimes,  doesn't  it,  Peregrine,  my  pet?&quot;  And  John,  who  had  doubts  about  the  wonkiness  of  Mrs.  Bissett's  heart,  was  touched  when  Mr.  Bissett  laid  one  of  his  small  hands  on  Mrs.  Bis-  sett's  long  blunt  one  and  said,  &quot;Hush;&quot;  and  he  did  then  believe.  INNER  took  place  in  a  noble  square  room  where  many  tables,  set  with  beautiful  old  linen,  waited  for     custom.  There  was  only  one  other  cou-  ple,  over  by  afar  window.  Mrs.  Bissett,  sitting  down  with  her  husband  at  a  table  just  inside  the  door,  as  though  to  cope  with  the  hungry  horde  that  might  pour  in,  performed  introductions  across  the  expanse  of  tablecloths,  cutlery,  and  flowers.  The  Manwarings  and  the  Steins  exchanged  bows  and  four  smiles  that  only  barely  carried  across  all  that  space.  Later,  over  soup,  steak,  and  savory,  served  by  several  maids,  there  were  painful  attempts  at  conversation  from  table  to  table  that  sounded-is-  landed  as  they  were  in  the  room-not  only  hoarse  but  foolish  to  their  perpetra-  tors.  After  dinner,  they  all  gathered  in  the  drawing  room  by  the  fire.  It  came  out  at  once  that  the  Steins  were  travelling  in  a  large  limousine,  with  chauffeur,  through  the  [REDACTED]  of  England,  and  were  bound  for  Here-  ford  the  following  morning.  &quot;'We're  going  to  Wells  for  the  night,&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  put  in.  &quot;Hereford!&quot;  exclaimed  Mrs.  Bissett.  &quot;Really?  Why  into  Hereford,  particu-  larly?&quot;  &quot;Well,  we've  heard  about  it,&quot;  Mr.  Stein  said.  &quot;It  sounds  very  pleasant.&quot;  Mrs.  Bissett  caught  sight  of  a  man  in  the  hall,  and  got  up  and  hastened  off.  They  heard  her  greet  him  by  name  and  say  how  utterly  splendid  to  see  him  again,  back  where  he  belonged.  There  was  further  talk  out  there;  presently  she  returned,  callinginto  the  hall  over  her  shoulder,  &quot;But  if  you  do  change  your  mind,  remember  we're  the  home  for  lost  and  strayed  bachelors,  won't  you?&quot;  She  folded  her  long  body  down  into  the  sofa  corner  again.  &quot;Edward  New-  come,&quot;  she  told  her  husband.  &quot;Back  in  the  village  for  the  winter.  No,&quot;  she  went  on,  in  answer  to  his  questioning  look.  &quot;Putting  up  at  the  pub  till  spring.  Just  dropped  up  here  to  get  some  of  his  tack.  Oh,  well.&quot;  She  straightened  up  and  turned  her  attention  to  the  guests  she  had.  &quot;Winters  we  love.  It's  so  quiet  here.  Hardly  a  soul.  It's  what  Peregrine  and  I  love  best.  'Time  just  saun-  ters  by,  the  way  it  ought  to,  and  not  rush,  rush-  I  do  think  it's  so  amusing,  don't  you,  the  way  it  seems  to  go  rush-  ing,  rushing  by.  But  summers,  I  give  you  my  word,  there's  a  steady  stream  of  guests  coming  in  at  the  gate.  Though  as  a  matter  of  fact,  for  some  unknown  reason,  this  past  summer  was  not  foo  hectic  here.  No,  not  too.  But  often  enough,  in  addition  to  our  guests  who've  booked  ahead,  one  of  those  great  pink-  and-blue  motors  comes  sweeping  in  and  up  to  the  door,  but  usually,  thank  heavy-  en,  the  people  don't  want  to  stay  the  night.  They  order  tea,  and  unsling  their  cameras  and  go  clicking  all  over  the  place.  Snapping  away  at  each  other  as  they  lie  in  my  garden  chairs,&quot;  she  said  scornfully,  swinging  her  quartz  chain  back  and  forth,  as  though  it  were  a  part  of  herself  angrily  twitching.  &quot;Now,  my  dear,&quot;  Peregrine  said  mildly.  &quot;Now,  now,  Vera.  Not  to  get  upset.&quot;  Mrs.  Bissett  caught  her  breath  and  apologized,  and  turning  again  to  the  Steins  she  said,  &quot;But  you  never  did  tell  me  why  it  was  you  wanted  to  go  in-  to  Hereford,  did  you!  It's  absolutely  charming  over  there,  of  course,  and  you  should  see  it,  but  to  stay-to  stey  there-I  can't  for  the  life  of  me  think  of  one  single  inn  where  you  would  he  comfortable  at  all.  Not  a  single  one  in  all  Herefordshire.&quot;  &quot;We  just  thought-&quot;  Mr.  Stein  gently  began,  but  his  voice  was  inun-  dated  by  the  rolling  waves  of  his  host-  ess's  concern.  &quot;Oh,  I  daresay  you  could  find  beds,  somewhere,  such  as  they'd  be,  and  not  at  the  three  guineas  a  night  I  have  to  charge.  Ha!  Don't  I  sound  like  a  businesswoman!  ..  .  You  are  comfort-  able  here,  aren't  you?  Oh,  good.  Every-  one  always  is.  Now,  I've  just  had  the  most  perfect  thought  while  I've  been  talking.  After  a  lovely  night  here  in  my  divine  beds,  why  not  get  in  your  car  in  the  morning  and  be  driven  around  in  Hereford  for  the  day?  I'll  ring  up  a  rather  nice  restaurant  I  know  of,  and  they'll  do  you  a  very  decent  luncheon  if  I  ask  them  to,  and  then,  end  of  the  afternoon,  just  come  rolling  comforta-  bly  back  here  and  there'll  be  one  of  our  good  dinners  waiting  for  you,  and  another  restful  night.  Another  night  or  two  you  could  have,  because  I  rather  wonder  if  some  people  I'd  booked  for  your  room  actually  are  coming,  or  not.  V.L.P  .s,  and  you  know  how  unpredict-  able  they  are.  So  I  think  I  could  man-  age,  for  you.&quot;  The  Steins  protested  that  it  wasn't   the  three  guineas  at  all  but  just  that  they  had  heard  of  Hereford  as  being-  But  Mrs.  Bissett's  voice  swept  on  and  over  them,  conjuring  up  the  most  delightful  plans.  &quot;So,  the  day  after,  you  would  enjoy  yourselves  tremendously  if  you  made  the  circuit  of  Bath  and  Wells.  And  there's  Berkeley  Castle  open  now,  too-worth  a  whole  day  to  itself.  You  had  planned  to  see  Berkeley,  hadn't  you?  No?  Oh,  my  dears!  Then  back  to  me  forthe  night.  I  was,  rather,  thinking  of  giving  roast  pheasant  for  dinner  that  night.  You  like  pheasant,  of  course.&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  silently  exclaimed,  &quot;Oh,  you  poor  goops!  Don't  listen  to  her.  Don't  give  in.&quot;  She  watched  Mrs.  Stein's  soft  hands  fluttering  in  inde-  cision.  Can't  you  see  how  you're  be-  ing  pushed  around,  Mrs.  Manwaring  thought.  Does  she  need  the  money  so  desperately?  Maybe  Peregrine  isn't  told  everything  about  their  affairs.  Short  of  money;  short  of  breath  ...  Because  it  was  apparent  that  by  the  time  Mrs.  Bissett  had  arrived  at  her  inspiration  of  pheasant,  she  was  in  some  distress.  But  she  smiled  and  smiled,  though  panting,  and  got  back  her  breath  little  by  little.  The  Steins  were  murmuring  together.  &quot;How  about  a  nightcap?&quot;  suggested  Mr.  Manwaring,  who  was  made  rest-  less  by  all  this  talk.  &quot;On  us,&quot;  said  Mr.  Stein,  turning.  &quot;'To  celebrate  we  have  decided,  Mrs  S.  and  me,  to  accept  the  kind  oﬁcr  of  our  hostess  to  make  her  beautiful  home  our  headquarters.&quot;  &quot;So  glad,&quot;  Mrs.  Bissett  said,  sound-  ing  all  at  once  indifferent,  or  possibly  quite  tired,  and  &quot;So  sorry,&quot;  polite  but  aloof,  to  Mrs.  Manwaring  when  she  earnestly  pointed  out  that  they,  too,  would  have  liked  to  stay  longer  at  Castle  Hover  except  that  their  trip  was  all  planned,  andhad  been  for  weeks.  UT  later,  stretched  out  in  one  of  Mrs.  Bissett's  divine  beds,  Mrs.  Manwaring  couldn't  get  to  sleep.  The  clock  outside  their  bedroom  door  had  bonged  ten  times;  shelay  waiting  for  the  ones  on  the  lower  floors  to  catch  up.  Through  large  windows  she  saw  the  black,  star-sprinkled  sky,  arched  over  Castle  Hover  as  it  had  been  for  she  didn't  know  how  many  years;  hun-  dreds  of  years.  But  how  much  longer  would  the  great  house  belong  to  the  Bissetts?  Not  long.  Not  forever;  not  many  years,  even.  What  was  to  become  of  Peregrine  on  that  day,  that  sad  and  surely  coming  day  when  Mrs.  Bissett  couldn't,  quite,  get  her  breath?  Mrs.  Manwaring  lay  and  listened  to  her  husband,  deeply  asleep.  Was  he  breathing  naturally?  Was  it  all  right  for  him  to  be  puffing  quite  so  hard?  She  raised  herself  on  one  elbow.  &quot;John!  Turn  over.&quot;  There  was  no  abatement  in  the  huffing  and  puffing.  &quot;Turn  over!&quot;  After  a  pause,  he  said  &quot;I  will&quot;  in  low,  sincere  tones,  like  one  acceding  to  his  marriage  vows.  There  was  no  accompanying  rustle,  but  in  a  moment  she  knew  he  was  now  awake.  &quot;Ter-  rible,  isn't  it?&quot;  he  asked,  through  the  darkness.  &quot;W  hat  is?&quot;  &quot;The  way  she  has  to  work.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  for  heaven's  sake!  She  was  playing  them  for  all  she  was  worth,  I  never  saw  such  a  performance.  She  had  just  sense  enough  not  to  try  it  on  us.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  His  voice  was  peaceful.  She  could  even  hear  a  yawn.  &quot;If  we  started  in  the  mornings  by  ten,  we'd  have  all  the  time  in  the  world,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Gloucester  and  Tewkesbury  tomor-  row.  Burford  and  Stow-on-the-Wold,  and  that  section,  other  days.  Back  here  nights,  all  very  leisurely,  very  pleasant.  What  do  you  say?&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  whacked  her  pil-  low  and  turned  it  over.  &quot;If  we  stay  on  here,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  know  one  thing  I'm  going  to  get  done,  and  that's  make  one  of  those  dozens  of  maids  clean  out  the  dressing-table  drawers!&quot;  &quot;Do  that,&quot;  said  Mr.  Manwaring,  and  turned  over  as  requested,  and  went  back  to  sleep.  