 b"IN  the  summer  of  1941,  when  I  was seventeen,  I  was  released  from  in-  ternment  and  I  felt  like  a  child  who  has  been  long  in  bed  with  a  fever  and  finds  that  on  getting  up  his  legs  are  too  shaky  for  him  to  go  skipping  around  as  he  wanted.  I  had  spent  a  year  with  four  hundred  other  Italians  in  a  camp  near  [REDACTED].  Three  years  before,  because  of  the  Fas-  cist  anti-Semitic  campaign,  my  family  and  I  had  left  4974616c79  and  gone  to  Eng-  land.  In  June,  1940,  when  4974616c79  en-  tered  the  war,  all  Italian  men  in  Eng-  land  between  the  ages  of  sixteen  and  seventy  were  interned,  regardless  of  their  political  opinions,  Things  were  done  in  a  hurry.  'There  was  the  danger  of  invasion,  Fifth  Columnists  were  ac-  tivein  [REDACTED],  and  there  was  no  time  to  draw  distinctions.  A  few  months  be-  fore,  the  Germans  and  Austrians  in  [REDACTED],  Jewish  refugees  included,  had  been  interned.  I  was,  in  June,  1940,  away  from  home,  in  a  boarding  school  in  North  [REDACTED].  For  this  reason,  when  the  order  to  intern  Italians  came,  I  wasn't  taken  to  the  same  internment  camp  as  my  father  and  elder  brother.  'The  British  government's  policy  was  to  send  enemy  aliens  away  as  soon  as  possible  from  what  might  at  any  moment  be-  come  a  theatre  of  war.  My  father  and  brother  were  sent  to  the  Isle  of  Man.  I  was  put  in  a  batch  that  was  sent  to  [REDACTED].  Another  batch  was  shipped  to  [REDACTED].  Still  another  went  down  in  mid-ocean  aboard  the  Arandora  Star.  For  a  few  weeks,  my  family  thought  I  was  on  it.  After  six  months  of  internment  in  [REDACTED],  I  was  given  thechoice  eitherto  await  release  in  [REDACTED]  or  to  go  back  to  [REDACTED]  and  be  re-  leased  there,  by  joining  the  Pioneer  Corps  (a  unit  of  engineers  made  up  of  aliens).  Three  things  made  me  decide  to  re-  main.  I  had  a  mistaken  belief  that  my  release  in  [REDACTED]  was  imminent-  I  spent  my  days  writing  applications  declaring  my  anti-Fascism,  and  ex-  pected  each  day  to  be  re-  leased  on  the  next;  my  parents,  who  were  pre-  occupied  by  conditions  in  [REDACTED],  advised  me  to  stay;  and  relatives  and  a  family  friend  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  offered  to  pay  my  expenses  while  I  was  on  their  side  of  the  ocean.  It  was  six  months  before  I  was  released.  Wholly  unaccustomed  to  freedom,  like  a  bird  just  set  free  from  a  cage,  I  found  that  the  beautiful,  long  flights  I  had  dreamed  couldn't  be  quite  as  readily  accomplished  as  they  had  been  in  my  fancy.  Even  the  first  moments  of  free-  dom  weren't  what  I  had  hoped  they  would  be.  'Time  and  again,  I  had  imag-  ined  myself  standing  alone  outside  the  gate,  with  walls  and  barbed  wire  behind  me,  at  last  able  to  choose  any  one  of  the  several  roads  that  led  away  from  the  camp  to  the  marvellous  world  open  to  me.  But  that  image  was  spoiled  by  having  one  of  the  camp  officers  accom-  pany  me  in  to  town  and,  once  there,  take  me  to  his  home.  I  felt  it  was  like  having  the  internment  prolonged.  I  re-  member  something  constantly  urging  me  to  leave,  to  go  and  walk  alone  in  the  city  that  for  a  whole  year  I  had  seen  so  tantalizingly  close.  I  remember  my  impatience  at  last  winning  over  my  shyness,  and  awkwardly,  very  self-con-  sciously  I  rose  while  he  was  insisting  that  I  should  stay  a  little  longer.  It  seemed  as  if  I  were  cheating  my  free-  dom  of  every  moment  that  passed.  I  re-  member  walking  down  the  front  steps  of  his  house  and  feeling  under  his  gaze  until,  having  gone  round  a  curve,  I  looked  back,  and,  seeing  there  was  no  one  behind  me,  I  suddenly  broke  into  a  run  that  lasted  till  I  was  out  of  breath-and  I  had  caught  up  with  my  freedom.  I  remember  wandering  about  Mon-  treal  a  long  time,  climbing  a  hill  and  see-  ing,  hardly  discernible  in  the  distance,  the  tiny  island  that  had  been  my  world  for  a  year.  I  remember  running  down  that  hill  and,  halfway,  saying  to  myself,  \xc2\xabYou  are  free-you  don't  have  to  prove  it!&quot;  'This  thought  had  the  effect  of  a  brake.  It  sent  me  at  a  slow  pace  toward  the  boarding  house  where  a  refugee  committee  had  arranged  for  me  to  spend  a  few  days.  It  wasn't  so  late-half  past  eleven,  I  think-when  I  arrived,  and  yet  the  landlady,  who  had  been  expect-  ing  me,  was  worried  and  told  me  she  was  about  to  phone  the  police.  The  police  .  .  .  the  police  ...  Oh,  but  why?  Just  the  thought  of  the  police  looking  for  me  made  me  shudder  and  have  visions  of  myself  being  taken  back  to  the  camp. AFTER a short stay in [REDACTED], I went to live in [REDACTED]. My American relatives, learning that I would not be allowed into [REDACTED], had reserved a room for me in a small, out-of-the-way hotel there, owned by a man to whom they, in turn, were related. My relatives were kin to my maternal grandmother, who was an American, born in [REDACTED], [REDACTED]. Her father was a minister from Syracuse, [REDACTED]. In 1872, he took his family to 4974616c79, where he founded a church. She married an Italian. The hotel was full of old people. I remember the dead silence of the little room where I lived. It was &quot;a nice, quiet part of town, &quot; the man who owned the hotel said. But I needed sound. If only I could have heard then even faintly the hum of [REDACTED], south of that border that, as an alien, I wasn't permitted to cross, I am sure it would have sounded like music. I remember how im-patiently I used to talk from my room to the center of [REDACTED], where the traffic was thickest, where the lights shone the brightest, and how," b"once  there,  I  would  postpone  for  as  long  as  possible  the  time  when,  with  an  empty  feeling  inside  and  my  feet  aching,  I  would  take  the  trolley  back  to  the  deadly  parts  of  the  town-the  cemetery  parts-to  a  hotel  where  a  few  retired  people  lived.  I  remember  returning  to  the  room  along  a  dark  corridor,  over  creaky  floors,  opening  the  door,  and  finding  the  walls,  the  white  bedcovers,  and  the  towel  all  staring  at  me  like  so  many  blanks.  I  remember  my  image  as  I  walked  past  the  mirror,  arresting  me,  and  how  I  stood  there  looking  at  it,  looking  at  the  restlessness  inside  me.  &quot;Is  the  day  really  over?&quot;  I  would  ask  my-  self,  pulling  down  the  bedcovers.  I  be-  gan  to  wonder  if  I  would  expend  myself  day  after  day,  silently,  slowly,  with  no  outward  sign  and  everything  happening  within,  like  champagne  that  has  been  kept  too  long  in  the  bottle  and,  when  it  is  opened  at  last,  has  gone  flat.  Would  anyone  know  me?  Would  anyone  see  the  spark  that  somewhere  existed  with-  in  me?  Would  I  always  keep  it  a  secret?  With  such  thoughts  I  would  slowly  get  into  bed  and  lie  wondering.  Often  an  urge  to  rise,  to  dress  and  go  out  to  the  center  of  town  would  overcome  me.  At  times,  I  would  get  as  far  asrising  from  bed  and  switching  the  light  on;  then  I  would  stare  a  long  time  at  the  glare  of  the  lamp,  which  hurt  my  eyes  and  yet  attracted  my  gaze  as  though  I  were  a  moth.  Other  times,  I  would  get  dressed  and  would  return  to  bed  just  when  I  was  ready  to  leavethe  room.  Twice,  I  remember,  I  actually  walked  as  far  as  the  center  of  town,  with  the  intention  of  going  to  dance  in  some  night  club  where  there  were  hostesses.  The  first  time,  I  stopped  in  front  of  such  a  place  but  did  not  go  in,  and  the  second  time  I  left  before  a  waiter  could  get  me  to  sit  down.  I  remember  the  meals-all  paid  for  by  my  relatives-that  glued  me  to  the  hotel,  the  dining  room  with  its  few  ta-  bles,  occupied  by  old  couples  who  some-  times  whispered  but  never  talked  to  each  other  aloud.  It  was  a  hesitant,  lonely  time,  and  es-  pecially  lonely  at  seventeen,  when  I  hadn't  yet  acquired  the  courage  to  ap-  proach  women  lonelier  than  I,  or  to  talk  to  girls  over  counters;  when  I  was  too  restless  to  read,  and  felt  guilty  about  going  to  so  many  movies.  But  one  day  a  letter  arrived  from  a  distant  American  cousin,  who  wrote  that  she  was  coming  to  pay  me  a  visit,  and  the  atmosphere  of  depression  was  swept  away.  Her  name  was  Jane.  I  had  met  her  five  years  before  in  4974616c79,  when  she  stayed  at  my  home  while  on  vacation.  I  remembered  her  vague-  ly-a  girl  of  fourteen  with  red  hair,  who  had  learned  Italian  by  reading  poetry  aloud  with  my  father.  I  won-  dered  what  she  had  grown  to  be  like  at  nineteen-this  girl  who  was  travel-  ling  hundreds  of  miles  just  to  see  me.  Didn't  she  have  anything  better  to  do?  Somehow  I  didn't  think  she  would  be  beautiful.  But  she  was.  She  was  radiant,  with  red  hair  like  the  setting  sun  and  a  moon-  white  complexion.  I  felt  almost  too  shy  to  shake  hands  with  her.  What's  more,  she  liked  me.  And  that  surprised  me  even  more,  because  I  didn't  think  so  much  of  myself  in  those  days.  Jane  was  the  first  person  I  had  met  for  over  a  year  who  seemed  to  have  warmth  and  affection  to  spare.  Right  away,  from  the  moment  I  saw  her,  she  treated  me  as  if  I  were  her  favorite  friend.  It  made  me  think  that  perhaps  she  also  was  lonely,  and  that  she  hadn't  come  to  [REDACTED]  with  purely  altruistic  intentions.  I  was  glad  of  that,  because  it  is  much  nicer  to  be  comforted  if  one  can  comfort  in  return.  She  was  training  to  be  anurse  in     the  Army.  I  thought  of  all  the  oppor-  tunities  she  had  to  make  friends.  I  asked  her  about  the  doctors  and  the  soldiers  she  met-hadn't  someone  stolen  her  heart?  No,  no  one  of  those  glor-  ious  men  had.  She  had  come  to  see  me.  And,  talking  to  her,  I  came  to  under-  stand  that  her  stay  at  my  home  had  left  a  deeper  impression  on  her  than  I  supposed.  I  have  met  girls  in  my  life  who  look  beautiful  to  me  but  not  to  others,  who  have  a  beauty  of  expression,  an  inner  beauty-a  light,  really-to  which  some  people  are  blind.  Jane  had  this  kind  of  beauty  and  the  other  besides.  She  looked  beautiful  not  just  to  me  but  to  everyone.  Also,  she  walked  as  if  she  weren't  aware  of  her  beauty,  and  this  made  her  twice  as  beautiful.  She  was  slightly  absent-  minded,  given  to  daydreaming.  One  saw  it  in  the  way  she  moved  and  paused,  in  the  way  she  looked  at  objects  and  people-as  though  she  saw  aspects  in  them  that  were  hidden  to  others.  Crea-  tion  seemed  enriched  when  reflected  in  her  eyes.  &quot;Don't  thank  me  for  coming  up,  it's  a  pleasure.  It  really,  really  is  a  pleas-  ure,&quot;  she  said,  holding  both  my  hands  and  shaking  them  till  I  couldn't  help  laughing.  That  laugh  swept  away  all  my  sadness  and  much  of  my  shyness  as  well.  I  wanted  to  take  her  hand  in  mine  and  say,  &quot;Come,  let's  run  down  asfar  as  the  river,  let's  go  and  pick  some  grapes,  or  climb  up  some  old  trees  to-  gether.&quot;  But  where  I  lived  in  [REDACTED]  there  were  only  long  streets  and  hard  pavements,  houses,  and  forbiddingly  trim  little  lawns.  I  remember  that  she  found  a  letter  waiting  for  her  at  the  hotel.  &quot;It's  from  my  aunt,&quot;  she  said,  opening  it.  &quot;She  writes  it's  so  good  of  me  to  come  and  see  you.  As  if  I  were  doing  it  as  a  duty!  I'm  not  your  big  sister!&quot;  And  she  tossed  the  letter  away,  aiming  at  a  wastepaper  " b"basket.  I  watched  the  crumpled  letter's  flight  across  the  room.  Amazingly,  it  landed  where  she  meant  it  to.  I  clapped  my  hands  in  a  burst  of  delight.  I  felt  I  was  conspiring  with  her  against  the  dutiful  and  dull  world  that  her  well-  meaning  aunt  represented.  I  remember  going  into  Jane's  room,  and  how  impressed  I  was  with  her  be-  longings;  her  comb  and  her  brush,  all  her  things  had  a  lustre  about  them.  When  I  went  back  to  my  room  that  evening,  it  seemed  so  dismal  compared  to  hers,  and  yet  they  were  the  same  kind  of  room;  the  walls  and  the  furniture  were  quite  the  same  in  both.  The  next  morning,  when  I  knocked  at  her  door,  she  was  still  in  bed.  She  asked  me  to  come  in  and  pull  up  the  blindsforher.  Then  I  remember  her  rising,  and  the  long  cherry-blossom  nightgown  she  wore.  Vaguely  I  re-  member  her  saying  &quot;Now  I  must  get  dressed,  it's  late.  Will  you  wait  for  me  in  the  hall?&quot;  and  in  the  hall  gazing  at  the  blank  wall  as  if  it  were  a  screen,  and  picturing  something  very  different  from  what  my  eyes  saw.     Later,  I  remember,  she  asked  me  for  a  cigarette.  I  didn't  smoke  at  the  time,  but  seeing  her  smoke  made  me  want  to,  and  that  was  when  I  started  smoking.  We  took  many  walks  about  town;  the  city  looked  different  with  her.  Streets  that  had  seemed  very  long  while  I  was  walking  alone  seemed  too  short.  In  buses,  we  so  soon  came  to  the  end  of  the  line.  NE  day,  I  suggested  we  go  to  the  lake.  It  was  some  time  before  we  could  see  it,  because  for  a  long  stretch  [REDACTED]  has  only  docks  and  warehouses  on  the  lake-no  esplanade.  The  city  is  built  as  if  it  were  trying  to  avoid  the  one  really  beautiful  thing  nature  gave  it.  When  we  finally  reached  the  lake,  we  walked  along  the  shore.  Soon  we  found  a  place  where  rowboats  and  canoes  could  be  rented.  We  took  a  canoe,  and  I  paddled  while  Jane  sat  facing  me.  We  skirted  the  shore  until  we  came  to  the  mouth  of  a  stream.  We  entered  it  and  paddled  upstream.  The  water  was  calm,  there  was  hardly  any  current,  and  just  one  stroke  was  enough  to  send  the  canoe  forward  a  long  way.  We  had  to  duck  our  heads  under  two  or  three  bridges,  and  then  we  reached  an  area  that  was  quite  deserted.  That  stream-I  can  hardly  believe  now  that  it  is  near  [REDACTED]  and  that  it  still  really  exists,  that  if  I  wanted  to  badly  enough  I  could  even  find  it  again  and  retrace  its  course.  I  remember  the  reeds  and  the  sound  the  canoe  made  as  we  swished  over  them,  past  them.  I  re-  member  the  leaves  of  the  willows-how  they  brushed  our  heads  as  we  glided.  I  remember  the  paddle-how  at  each  stroke  it  sank  in  the  water,  and  my  fist  getting  gloved  in  the  loose,  floating  leaves.  And  I  remember  the  banks  of  the  stream-the  woody  greenbanks  that  narrowed  as  we  went  farther  and  farther,  until  they  were  just  a  few  yards  apart,  and  then  just  a  few  feet,  so  that  the  canoe  was  arrested  and  could  go  no  farther.  Above  us  was  a  green  sky  of  willow  trees;  all  around  us  were  the  tall,  thick  reeds,  hiding  us,  holding  us  still.  Jane,  in  front  of  me,  was  sitting  " b"on  the  floor  of  the  canoe  as  in  a  shell.  I  felt  that  I  had  finally  arrived  somewhere  wonderful,  so  unexpected  and  beyond  my  plans  that  it  seemed  mythical.  I  felt  we  had  arrived  there  not  by  chance,  but  that  some  secret  vir-  tue  had  brought  us  to  this  place.  &quot;We  have  arrived,&quot;  I  said  to  her.  She  didn't  answer;  there  was  no  need.  It  was  as  if  the  enchantment  would  suffer  from  any  word  spoken,  any  move  made,  in  that  stillness.  AND  yet  it  was  my  not  making  any  move  that  turned  out  to  be  what  brought  an  end  to  everything  inex-  pressible  or  enchanted  between  us.  As  I  looked  at  her,  sitting  within  reach  of  my  arms,  canopied  by  thattentof  green  on  the  water,  I  knew  there  was  still  much  to  be  said,  far  still  to  go;  I  knew  there  was  a  line  that  had  been  flung  and  was  asking  to  be  tightened.  But  I  was  new  to  this  knowledge,  didn't  know  what  she  thought,  dared  not  ask  her.  And  so,  after  a  while,  I  turned  around  in  the  canoe  and  began  to  paddle  back.  And  the  line  wasn't  tight-  ened,  it  never  closed  into  a  knot,  and  I  wonder  what  my  life  would  have  been  if  it  had.  With  her,I  think  the  connection  had  been  gradually  tied  and  had  never  got  tight  enough  to  hurt,  so  that,  later,  it  slowly  loosened  until  it  held  her  no  longer.  For  me,  at  that  period  of  my  life,  everything  involved  some  degree  of  hesitation.  I  remember  clearly  as  far  as  I've  told,  but  I  have  entirely  forgotten  what  hap-  pened  during  the  rest  of  her  stay.  The  trip  back  to  the  lake,  our  return  to  To-  ronto,  her  departure  from  there  have  faded  from  mymind  almost  as  though  they  never  took  place.  I  stayed  four  more  years  in  [REDACTED],  going  first  to  school,  then  to  college,  liking  it  better  with  each  year  that  went  by.  In1945,  as  soon  as  the  war  was  over,  I  returned  to  [REDACTED]  tojoin  my  family.  A  few  months  later,  we  were  back  in  4974616c79.  By  this  time  Jane  was  married  to  a  surgeon.  When  I  thought  of  her,  it  was  with  the  feeling  that  what  we  had  meant  to  each  other  had  ceased  at  the  stream-or,  rather,  as  if  we  had  left  it  there,  and  there  it  had  stuck,  firmly  tied  to  the  place,  secretly,  silently  living  on  its  own,  independent  of  us,  hovering  just  above  the  surface,  still  perhaps  seeking  what  we  hadn't  reached.  For  years  I  waited  for  another  such  setting  and  partner.  They  nevercame.  And  I  was  left  with  the  feeling  that  I  had  missed  my  chance,  and  with  the  thought  that  never  again  would  love  present  itself  so  tempting  and  fair. "