 b"ONCE  upon  a  time,  there  was  a  woman  who  didn't  want  any-  thing  more.  Tables,  chairs,  pic-  tures,  old  china,  potted  plants,  scatter  rugs,  washcloths,  bookends,  sewing  scissors-there  was  nothing  she  needed  beyond  what  she  already  had,  and  when  people  asked  her  &quot;Isn't  there  some-  thing  you'd  like  for  your  birthday?&quot;  she  said  &quot;No,  I  really  don't  want  a  thing,&quot;  which  bothered  them,  of  course,  because  there  were  a  great  many  things  that  they  wanted,  and  so  they  set  about  trying  to  find  something  for  her.  They  gave  her  cookbooks,  which  she  thanked  them  for  politely  and  put  on  the  shelf  with  the  other  cookbooks.  They  gave  her  hooked  rugs,  which  she  thanked  them  for  and  put  in  the  attic.  They  gave  her  autographed  copies  of  their  own  books,  which  she  had  already  bought  and  read,  but  she  thanked  them  and  put  the  two  copies  side  by  side  in  the  bookcase.  'They  gave  her  woollen  scarves,  which  had  to  be  wrapped  in  newspaper  and  put  away  in  the  cedar  chest,  which  was  full.  And  they  gave  her  a  portable  radio,  a  footstool,  a  fire  screen,  and  a  folding  table,  all  of  which  presented  a  problem  to  her,  though  she  managed  eventually  to  put  them  away  somewhere  out  of  sight.  &quot;If  people  only  wouldn't  give  me  things,&quot;  she  used  to  say  to  herself,  with-  out  realizing  for  quite  a  long  while  thatshe  had  gone  one  step  further  and  didn't  even  want  thethings  she  already  had.  One  day,  she  opened  her  front  door,  with  her  hat  and  coat  and  gloves  on,  ready  to  go  out  and  get  in  the  car  and  drive  downtown,  and  there,  lying  across  the  welcome  mat,  was  a  man,  sound  asleep  or  dead  drunk,  she  was  not  sure  which,.  His  clothes  were  filthy,  he  needed  a  bath,  and  he  hadn't  shaved,  and  it  was  obvious  at  a  glance  that  he  was  a  tramp,  with  nothing  in  his  pockets,  and  no  place  of  his  own  to  go  to.  Her  first  impulse  was  to  step  back  into  the  house  and  call  the  police,  but  then  he  opened  his  eyes,  which  were  so  mild  in  their  expression  that  she  had  another  impulse  instead,  which  was  to  go  back  inside  and  make  him  a  pot  of  coffee.  And  then  she  had  the  third  and  most  interest-  ing  idea  of  all.  She  opened  her  purse  and  took  out  her  house  key  and  her  car  key  and  gave  them  to  him.  On  second  thought,  she  handed  him  her  purse,  too,  and  went  off  down  the  sidewalk  without  looking  back  to  see  what  hap-  pened.  If  she  had  stopped  to  think,  she  would  have  realized  that  you  don't  get  rid  of  everything  you  own  as  easily  as  all  that.  She  should  have  given  him  a  deed  to  the  house,  and  the  registration  certifi-  cate  for  the  car,  and  a  forwarding  ad-  dress  to  show  to  people  who  turned  up  asking  for  her,  and  a  signed  statement  to  show  to  the  police.  But  she  didn't  think  of  any  of  these  things,  because  she  was  so  taken  with  the  idea  of  giving  away  everything  she  had,  three  days  before  Christmas,  when  the  hall  closet  was  full  of  unopened  packages  and  the  mailman  came  twice  a  day  with  more.  There  was  snow  on  the  ground,  but  she  had  her  arctics  on,  and  it  did  not  occur  to  her  to  give  them  away,  because  she  was  not  morbid  or  fanatical.  She  walked  downtown,  and  tried  not  to  see  the  store  windows,  which  usually  de-  pressed  her  because  they  were  full  of  things  she  already  had,  or  hadhad  un-  til  a  few  minutes  before,  and  one  does  not  get  used  to  the  idea  of  being  free  of  things  all  at  once;  it  takestime.  'The  people  she  passed  were  carrying  all  sorts  of  awkward  parcels,  sometimes  two  and  three  of  them  tied  together,  and  these  things  they  had  bought  and  were  carry-  ing  home,  either  to  give  to  somebody  or  to  give  to  themselves,  did  not  seem  to  have  brought  the  light  of  pleasure  to  their  eyes.  She  came  to  a  bakery,  and  the  sight  of  the  Italian  fruit  bread  and  French  pastries  and  croissants  and  brioches  and  hard-crusted  wheels  and  sticks  of  whitebread  in  the  window  re-  minded  her  that  there  was  no  bread  in  the  house.  She  didn't  want  any  for  her-  self;  she  was  not  hungry.  But  she  re-membered  the  tramp,  who  would  prob-  ably  be  disappointed  when  he  sat  down  at  the  kitchen  table  with  a  cup  of  hot  coffee  and  found  there  was  no  bread  and  butter  to  go  with  it.  So  she  turned  and  went  into  the  shop,  which  was  crowded  with  people  buying  bread  and  pastry  and  party  favors  and  other  fancy  staples  for  the  holidays,  but  she  didn't  mind  waiting.  'There  was  nothing  that  she  should  have  been  doing  at  that  mo-  ment,  and  the  place  smelled  of  fresh  bread,  which  was  baked  on  the  premises,  and  it  was  a  long  time  since  she  had  smelled  this  happy  smell.  When  her  turn  came,  she  got  as  far  as  &quot;I  want-&quot;  and  then  stopped,  be-  cause  her  arm  was  unnaturally  light  without  the  familiar  weight  of  her  purse  on  it.  But  she  realized  that  the  tramp  could-and  in  fact  would  have  to-go  out  and  buy  his  own  bread,  be-  cause  she  had  given  him  all  the  money  she  had,  and  her  bankbook,  in  case  he  ran  out  of  cash,  which  he  eventually  would,  and  needed  to  dip  into  her  sav-  ings  account.  So,  smiling  at  the  wom-  an  behind  the  counter,  she  said,  &quot;I  just  want  to  stand  here  and  smell  the  smell  of  fresh  bread.&quot;  Unfortunately,  there  were  a  great  many  things  that  the  woman  behind  the  counter  wanted,  and  so  she  didn't  un-  derstand;  besides,  she  had  grown  so  accustomed  to  the  smell  of  fresh  bread  that  she  didn't  even  smell  it  any  more.  And  she  suspected  that  the  woman  was  a  thief,  or  perhaps  the  accomplice  of  thieves,  who,  when  she  signalled  to  them  that  the  shop  was  empty  of  cus-  tomers,  would  rush  in,  with  their  faces  masked  and  guns  in  their  hands,  and  help  themselves  to  the  contents  of  the  cash  register.  But  if  you  are  in  business  you  never  can  be  sure  who  you  are  dealing  with,  and  one  person's  money  is  as  good  as  another's,  and  so  she  pointed  to  a  sign:  &quot;No  loitering  on  the  Premises.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  said  the  woman,  and  turned  and  went  outside.  It  was  get-  ting  dark,  and  she  had  no  place  to  go  to,  which  pleased  her,  and  no  en-  gagements,  which  also  pleased  her,  but  she  found  that  she  couldn't  get  the  smell  of  fresh  bread  out  of  her  mind  as  she  walked  along,  with  her  collar  turned  up  against  the  evening  wind.  Suddenly  it  occurred  to  her  that  she  could  go  back  home-only  it  was  not  her  home  any  longer-  and  ask  the  tramp  if  he'd  mind  if  she  made  some  bread.  WHEN  she  got  home,  the  front  door  was  wide  open  and  the  oil-burner  was  running.  The  key  " b"was  in  the  door.  She  called  and  there  was  no  answer.  The  place,  which  she  had  expected  to  find  ransacked  from  top  to  bottom,  seemed  to  be  in  perfect  order,  ex-  cept  that  the  car  keys  were  lying  on  the  floor  in  the  library.  She  saw,  looking  out  of  the  library  window,  that  the  car  was  still  in  the  garage.  Noth-  ing  was  missing:  not  the  contents  of  her  purse,  which  she  did  not  want;  not  the  typewriter,  which  she  seldom  used;  not  the  portable  radio,  which  she  never  played;  not  the  pair  of  expensive  binocu-  lars  somebody  had  in-  sisted  on  giving  her;  not  even  the  flat  silver  and  her  jewelry,  which  she  would  have  been  happy  to  see  the  last  of.  Ap-  parently,  the  man  she  found  lying  on  her  door-  step  didn't  want  any-  thing  either.  With  a  deep  sigh,  she  adjusted  herself  to  the  idea  that  she  was  not,  after  all,  free  of  things,  and  with  a  shrug  accepted  the  idea  that  she  still  had  a  roof  over  her  head.  &quot;I  wonder  if  he-&quot;  she  said  to  herself,  and  started  for  the  kitchen,  which  was  in  some  disorder.  The  tramp  had  not  stopped  to  make  a  pot  of  coffee  for  himself,  but  had  sampled  the  contents  of  the  liquor  closet  instead,  and  then  worked  his  way  rather  unsystematically  through  the  icebox,  tossing  wrappers  and  bones  and  anything  in  the  way  of  leftovers  that  didn't  appeal  to  him  on  the  kitchen  floor.  &quot;Surely  he  wouldn't  think  to-&quot;  the  woman  said  to  herself  hopefully,  and  with  a  beating  heart  she  put  out  her  hand  and  opened  the  flour  bin.  Sure  enough,  the  tramp  had  not  stolen  the  flour;  or,  it  turned  out,  the  skim  milk,  orthe  butter,  or  the  yeast,  orthe  salt  and  sugar.  She  got  out  the  breadboard  and  the  measuring  spoons  and  the  measuring  cups,  and  put  on  a  clean  white  apron,  and  began  to  measure  and  mix  the  in-  gredients,  and  when  the  dough  had  risen  and  the  oven  was  the  right  tem-  perature,  she  slipped  the  pans  in  and  closed  the  oven  door  quickly  and  sat  down  to  wait.  For  a  short  while  she  was  afraid  that  the  whole  thing  was  an  illusion,  and  that  she  would  not  really  care  any  more  about  the  smell  of  fresh  bread  baking  than  she  did  about  hooked rugs  there  was  no  floor  space  for,  or  the  woollen  scarves  in  the  cedar  chest,  or  the  money  in  her  savings  account,  or  the  roof  over  her  head.  Then  it  began,  faintly,  ever  so  faintly  at  first,  but  un-  mistakable.  She  closed  her  eves  and  caught  the  odor  with  a  series  of  little  searching  sniffs.  &quot;Oh,  bread,  hurry!&quot;  she  said  to  it,  and  when  the  bread,  all  golden,  was  out  of  the  pans  and  cooling  on  the  kitchen  table,  she  made  herself  a  pot  of  good  strong  coffee.  'This  is  more  like  it,  she  said  to  herself.  And  indeed,  from  that  time  on,  it  was.  II  N  a  country  near  [REDACTED]  dwelt  a  woman  who  never  drew  breath  ex-  cept  to  complain.  There  was  in  that  country  much  to  complain  of-the  long  cold  winters,  the  scarcity  of  food,  and  robber  bands  that  descended  on  poor  farmers  at  night  and  left  their  fields  and  barns  blazing.  But  these  things  the  woman  had  by  an  inequality  of  fate  been  spared.  Her  husband  was  young  and  strong  and  worked  hard  and  was  kind  to  her.  And  they  had  a  child,  a  three-year-  old  boy,  who  was  healthy  and  happy,  obedient  and  good.  The  roof  never  leaked,  there  was  always  food  in  the  larder  and  peat  moss  piled  high  outside  the  door  for  the  fireplace  she  cooked  by.  But  still  the  woman  complained,  morn-  ing,  noon,  and  night.  One  day  when  she  was  out  feeding  her  hens,  she  heard  a  great  beating  of  wings  and  looked  up  anxiously,  thinking  it  was  a  hawk  come  to  raid  her  hencoop,  and  saw  a  big  white  gander,  which  sailed  once  around  the  house  and  then  settled  at  her  feet  and  began  to  peck  at  the  grain  she  had  scattered  for  her  hens.  While  she  was  wondering  how  she  could  catch  the  wild  bird  without  the  help  of  her  husband,  who  was  away  in  the  fields,  it  flapped  its  great  soft  wings  and  said,  &quot;So  far  as  I  can  see,  you  have  less  than  any  woman  in  this  country  to  complain  about.&quot;  &quot;That's  true  enough,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;Then  why  do  you  do  it?&quot;  asked  the  bird.  &quot;Because  there  is  so  much  injustice  in  the  world,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;In  the  village  yesterday  a  woman  in  her  sleep  rolled  over  on  her  child  and  smothered  it,  and  an  old  man  starved  to  death  last  month,  within  three  miles  of  here.  Wherever  I  look,  I  see  human  misery,  and  here  there  is  none,  and  I  am  afraid.&quot;  &quot;Of  what?&quot;  asked  the  bird.  &quot;I  am  afraid  lest  they  look  down  from  the  sky  and  see  how  blessed  I  am,  compared  to  my  neighbors,  and  decide  to  even  things  up  a  bit.  Thisway,  if  " b"they  do  look  down,  they  will  also  hear  me  complaining,  and  think,  'That  poor  woman  has  lots  to  contend  with,'  and  go  on  about  their  business.&quot;  &quot;Very  clever  of  you,&quot;  the  bird  said,  cleaning  the  underside  of  its  wing  with  its  beak.  &quot;But  in  the  sky  anything  but  thetruth  has  a  hollow  ring.  One  more  word  of  complaint  out  of  you  and  all  the  misfortunes  of  all  your  neighbors  will  be  visited  on  you  and  on  your  hus-  band  and  child.&quot;  The  bird  flapped  its  wings  slowly,  rose  above  her,  sailed  once  around  the  chimney,  and  then,  flying  higher  and  higher,  was  lost  in  the  clouds.  While  the  woman  stood  peering  after  it,  the  bread  that  she  had  left  in  the  oven  burned  to  a  cinder.  HE  bread  was  the  beginning  of  many  small  misfortunes,  which  oc-  curred  more  and  more  frequently  as  time  went  on.  The  horse  went  lame,  the  hens  stopped  laying,  and  after  too  long  a  season  of  rain  the  hay  all  rotted  in  the  fields.  The  cow  went  dry  but  produced  no  calf.  The  roof  began  to  leak,  and  when  the  woman's  husband  went  up  to  fix  it,  he  fell  and  broke  his  leg  and  was  laid  up  for  months,  with  winter  coming  on.  And  while  the  woman  was  outside,  trying  to  do  his  work  for  him,  the  child  pulled  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  off  the  stove  and  was  badly  scalded.  And  still  no  word  of  complaint  crossed  the  woman's  lips.  In  her  heart  she  knew  that  worse  things  could  hap-  pen,  and  in  time  worse  things  did.  A  day  came  when  there  was  nothing  to  eat  in  the  larder  and  the  woman  had  to  go  the  rounds  of  herneighbors  and  beg  for  food,  and  those  she  had  never  turned  hungry  from  her  door  refused  her,  on  the  ground  that  anyone  so  continually  visited  by  misfortune  must  at  some  time  have  had  sexual  intercourse  with  the  Devil.  The  man's  leg  did  not  heal,  and  the  child  grew  sickly  and  pale.  The  woman  searched  for  edible  roots  and  berries,  and  set  snares  for  rabbits  and  small  birds,  and  so  kept  her  family  from  starving,  until  one  day,  when  she  was  far  away  in  the  marshes,  some  drunken  soldiers  happened  by  and  wantonly  set  fire  to  the  barns,  and  went  on  their  way,  reeling  and  tittering.  'The  heat  of  the  burning  barns  made  a  downdraft,  and  a  shower  of  sparks  landed  on  the  thatched  roof  of  the  farmhouse,  and  that,  too,  caught  on  fire.  In  a  very  R  few  minutes,  while  the  neighbors  stood  around  in  a  big  circle,  not  daring  to  come  nearer  because  of  the  heat  of  the  flames,  the  house  burned  to  the  ground,  and  the  man  and  the  child  both  perished.  When  the  woman  came  run-  ning  across  the  fields,  crying  and  wringing  her  hands,  people  who  had  known  her  all  their  lives  and  were  moved  at  last  by  her  misfortunes  tried  to  intercept  her  and  lead  her  away,  but  she  would  have  none  of  them.  At  nightfall  they  left  her  there,  and  she  did  not  even  see  them  go.  She  sat  with  her  head  on  her  knees  and  listened  for  the  sound  of  wings.  At  midnight  the  great  bird  sailed  once  around  the  black-  ened  chimney  and  settled  on  the  ground  before  her,  its  feathers  rosy  with  the  glow  from  the  em-  bers.  The  bird  seemed  to  be  wait-  ing  for  her  to  speak,  and  when  she  said  nothing  it  stretched  its  neck  and  arched  its  back  and  finally  said,  in  a  voice  much  kinder  than  the  last  time,  &quot;This  is  a  great  pity.  All  the  misfor-  tunes  of  all  your  neighbors  have  been  visited  on  you,  without  a  word  of  complaint  from  you  to  bring  them  on.  But  the  gods  can't  be  everywhere  at  once,  you  know,  and  sometimes  they  get  the  cart  before  the  horse.  If  you'd  like  to  complain  now,  you  may.&quot;  The  wind  blew  a  shower  of  sparks  upward  and  the  bird  fanned  them  away  with  its  wings.  The  woman  did  not  speak.  'This  much  I  can  do  for  you,&quot;  the  bird  said,  &quot;and  I  wish  it  was  more.&quot;  When  the  woman  raised  her  head,  she  saw  a  young  man  whose  face,  even  in  the  dying  firelight,  she  recognized.  There  before  her  stood  her  child,  her  little  son,  but  grown  now,  in  the  pride  of  manhood.  All  power  of  speech  left  her.  She  put  outher  arms  and  in  that  instant,  brought  on  by  such  a  vio-  lent  beating  of  wings  as  few  men  have  ever  dreamed  of,  the  air  turned  white.  What  the  woman  at  first  took  to  be  tiny  feathers  proved  to  be  snow.  It  melted  against  her  cheek,  and  turned  her  hair  white,  and  soon  put  the  fire  out.  The  snowcame  down  all  night,  and  all  the  next  day,  and  for  many  days  thereafter,  and  was  so  deep  that  it  lasted  all  winter,  and  in  the  spring  grass  grew  up  in  what  had  once  been  the  rooms  of  the  farmhouse,  but  ofthe  woman  there  was  no  trace  whatever. "