 b" I'm  a  Story  Boor  HousE.  I  Hate  to  Brag,  but  I  Know  You'll  Love  Me  When  You  See  Me!  I'm  an  English  farm  house-artistic  rustic,  situated  on  a  hill-  side  in  a  lovely  secluded  spot  in  Sherman  Oaks.  Large  living  room  antiqued,  Gothic  type  beams;  large  picture  window;  floor  to  ceiling  stone  F.P.;  artistic  balcony.  My  floors  are  pegged  planks,  2  bdrms.  and  den,  adorable  kitchen  with  brick  recess  for  stove,  canopy,  plenty  of  tile.  Floor  fur-  naces.  My  doors  have  hand-made  latches.  Locatedon  two  lots,  plenty  of  flowers  and  fruit  trees.  A  peaceful,  comfortable,  in-  spirational  hide-a-way-You'll  want  me!  -Adv.  in  the  [REDACTED]  Reporter.  VERYTHING  was  so  new  and  ex-  E  citing  our  first  week  in  Holly-  wood  that  Hamish  and  I  hardly  slept  a  wink.  I  guess  we  were  both  pret-  ty  exhausted  when  we  got  there,  after  the  strain  of  those  last  few  days  in  New  York-his  agent  dickering  with  [REDACTED],  and  the  farewell  parties  the  cast  gave  him,  and  subletting  the  apartment,  all  the  mad  and  glamorous  stuff  that  hap-  pens  when  your  husband  lands  a  term  contract.  And  goodness  knows  it  all  happened  suddenly  enough.  One  min-  ute  Hamish  was  just  an  obscure  actor  playing  a  wastrel  in  an  off-[REDACTED]  production  of  Eugene  Brieux's  &quot;Dam-  aged  Goods,&quot;  the  nexthe  was  Ranse  Gantry,  the  new  Western  find,  and  we  were  rolling  along  La  Cienega  in  the  Carey  Cadillac  that  had  met  us  at  the  airport.  See  all  those,  honey?&quot;  Hamish  chuckled  in  his  new  deep-throated  W  est-  ern  drawl,  pointing  to-  ward  the  lights  that  sparkled  on  the  hills.  &quot;I'm  going  to  pull  them  down  and  make  a  coro-  net  for  your  hair.&quot;  I  saw  the  chauffeur  up  front  cringe  as  if  he  had  heard  the  words  be-  fore,  but  I  didn't  care.  &quot;Silly,&quot;  I  said  fondly.  &quot;There's  only  one  thing  I  really  want,  Hamish.  How-  ever  big  you  become,  you  mustn't  forget  your  first  love-the  theatre,&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  he  assured  me.  &quot;No  matter  what  happens,  I'll  take  time  out  to  do  at  least  two  shows  a  year  on  [REDACTED].&quot;  The  glass  panel  between  us  and  the  driver  slid  up  noiselessly.  &quot;Look,  kitten,  you  will  remember  about  my  name,  won't  you?  I  mean,  everyone  at  the  studio'll  be  calling  me  Ranse-&quot;  Short  for  'rancid'?&quot;  I  teased,  snug-  gling  up  to  him.  He  laughed,  for,  unlike  most  actors,  he  always  saw  the  point  of  a  joke.  &quot;I  may  be  an  actor,&quot;  he  said,  and  drew     my  face  to  his,  &quot;but  this  is  one  'yoke'I  understand.&quot;  And  so  we  rode  into  the  golden  future,  two  carefree  children  with  quips  on  our  lips.  Well,  that  was  just  the  beginning.  There  was  so  much  to  do  and  see.  [REDACTED]  Boulevard,  with  its  fabulous  shops  and  eateries-quaint  little  nooks  that  served  Fissionburgers  and  Sky-  High  Malteds  Too  Thick  for  a  Straw,  the  footprints  of  all  the  greats  at  Grau-  man's  Chinese,  the  scores  of  marvellous  souvenir  stores  and  booteries  and  sad-  dleries  that  make  it  the  most  cosmopoli-  tan  street  in  the  world.  'Then  Beverly  Hills,  with  row  on  row  of  aristocratic  homes-stately  Southern  mansions  and  Renaissance  palaces  and  Tudor  dean-  eries-and  Bel-Air,  with  its  gracious  country  atmosphere,  and  the  dreamy  carillon  in  the  bell  tower  of  [REDACTED],  ten  times  the  size  of  Harvard,  sum-  moning  thousands  of  students  to  class  with  the  strains  of  &quot;Smoke  Gets  in  Your  Eyes.&quot;  And  that  gray  old  Pacific  at  [REDACTED],  stretching  away  endlessly  to  romantic  places  like  Catalina  and  Pago  Pago.  And  the  [REDACTED]  commissary,  with  the  biggies  democratically  lunch-  ing  alongside  extras,  and  the  Coconut  Grove,  and  the  oil  derricks,  and  TV  City-we  lived  in  a  perfect  whirl.  Rid-  ing  around  in  our  baby-blue  Porsche,  Ranse  soon  picked  up  a  stunning  tan,  and  though  he  always  wore  smoked  glasses  so  people  wouldn't  recognize  him,  plenty  did,  even  if  he  hadn't  appeared  in  any  pictures  yet.  &quot;I'm  going  to  have  lots  of  trouble  with  you,  Alkali  Ike,&quot;  I  used  to  kid  him.  &quot;I  dug  that  blonde  at  the  intersection  batting  her  lashes  at  you.&quot;  &quot;Ease  off,  [REDACTED],&quot;  he'd  murmur  sheepishly.  (He  was  practicing  a  sheepish  murmur  modelled  on  Gregory  Peck's.)  &quot;Those  switch-tailed  heifers  don't  appeal  to  this  cowpoke.  I'm  just  a  very  lucky  Joe  starting  a  movie  career.&quot;  And  once  he  did,  life  wasn't  so  rosy  for  me,  cooped  up  in  one  room  at  the  Lespedeza  Arms.  I'd  shop,  have  my  nails  done  or  return  a  bra,  somehow  fritter  away  the  day  till  Ranse  got  back  from  the  studio,  but  within  a  week  or  two  the  place  began  to  give  me  claustro-  phobia.  After  all,  as  I  explained  to  Ranse,  this  wasn't  just  a  hit-and-run  part;  with  his  term  deal,  we  could  af-  ford  a  home  of  our  own,  a  little  ranch  house  where  I'd  make  him  pizzas  and he'd  study  his  scripts  or  twang  on  his  guitar.  He  bought  the  idea-it  remind-  ed  him  of  those  color  photos  of  Hugh  O'Brian  in  TV  Guide-so  we  started  looking.  I  didn't  know  there  was  as  much  real  estate  as  I  saw  in  the  next  three  weeks,  so  many  custom  Regencies  and  split-level  chateaux  and  smog-free  Shangri-Las.  Every  single  one,  though,  had  some  drawback,  and  nine-tenths  were  out  of  our  price  range.  The  one  that  came  closest,  a  sweet  Cape  Cod  rental  on  stilts  in  [REDACTED]  Canyon,  fiz-  zled  out  when  Ranse  told  the  owner  his  profession.  &quot;Vandals!&quot;  she  screamed,.  'The  last  actor  I  had  here  baked  a  fish  in  my  silver  tea  tray!&quot;  She  caught  up  a  broom  and  lunged  at  him.  &quot;Get  out  of  here,  youyahoo!&quot;  Then,  just  as  I  was  in  despair,  our  dream  house  discovered  us-in,  of  all  places,  the  darlingest  ad  in  the  Holly-  wood  Reporter.  It  was  terribly  clever,  written  in  the  first  person,  like  a  dog  begging  to  be  adopted-full  of  simply  heavenly  details,  Old  World  yet  func-  tional,  a  combination  of  a  Sussex  cottage  and  Frank  Lloyd  Wright.  We  couldn't  wait  to  see  it,  but  there  was  some  mys-  tery  about  the  exact  owner  and  we  had  to  go  through  a  realtor,  a  kind  of  a  fat  man  named  Hitchcraft.  &quot;Never  mind  whose  it  is,  dear,&quot;  he  told  me,  witha  sulky  smile,  as  he  drove  us  out  to  the  valley.  &quot;'This  is  the  type  prop-  erty  that  speaks  for  itself.  If  you  like  it,  we've  got  a  deal.&quot;  Well,  it  was  one  of  those  things-love  at  first  sight.  Ranse  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  living  room  gloating  like  a  big  kid  over  the  hand-  hewn  rafters,  the  crooked  hinges.  &quot;Is  this  sensational  or  is  this  sensation-  al?&quot;  he  crowed.  &quot;I  tell  you,  [REDACTED],  it's  not  for  real!  Right  out  of  Walt  Disney.&quot;  &quot;But  very  personal  at  the  same  time,&quot;  I  chimed  in.  &quot;The  place  seys  something  to  me-do  you  know  what  I  mean?&quot;  ''Yes,  it  does  to  everyone,&quot;  Hitch-  craft  said  in  a  hurry-up  kind  of  way.  &quot;It-  it  grows  on  you.  Er-why  don't  we  step  outside  and  discuss  terms?&quot;  To  our  surprise,  the  price  was  a  third  of  what  we'd  expected,  and  when  he  of-  fered  to  rent  for  a  spell  with  an  option  to  buy,  we  jumped  at  it.  As  Ranse  said  later,  if  he  weren't  such  a  judge  of  char-  acter-actors  have  to  size  up  people  in  a  flash-he'd  have  suspected  Mr.  Hitch-  craft  was  anxious  to  rent  the  house.  But  he  was  just  being  overanalytical-I  suppose  from  the  year  he  put  in  with  the  Actors'  Studio.  \xe2\x80\x98N  7  E  were  a  month  getting  settled,  what  with  rugs  and  drapes  and  some  occasional  pieces  that  Harper  " b"Brothers  lost  in  transit  from  the  warehouse.  I  used  a  mixture  of  Spanish  colonial     and  Chinese  modern  as  my  basic  decorative  scheme,  and  worked  out  a  cozy  din-  ing  area  in  rock  maple  un-  der  the  balcony,  from  which  I  suspended  driftwood  lamps  with  glazed-chintz  shades.  Clumsy  big  bear  that  he  was,  Ranse  was  al-  ways  lacerating  his  scalp  on  the  driftwood,  but  he  had  to  admit  the  effect  was  scrumptious.  Except  for  my  vanity,  upholstered  in  a  se-  rape  I  found  on  Olvera  Street,  my  bedroom  was  fluffy,  while  Ranse's  was  nautical  in  tone-a  built-in  bunk  with  a  porthole  paint-  ed  above  it,  fish  nets  looped  upon  the  walls,  and  all  the  accessories  bound  off  in  Ma-  nila  rope.  As  for  the  den,  we  converted  that  into  a  Polynesian-style  bar-  oodles  of  rattan  and  chubby  hogsheads  to  roost  on  as  we  quaffed  the  rum  con-  coctions  Ranse  never  tired  of  invent-  ing.  We  both  of  us  were  dead  with  fatigue  the  night  we  tacked  up  the  last  bullfight  poster,  but  we  felt  a  sense  of  completion-the  way  Marlon  must  feel  after  a  preview,  or  James  Jones  when  he  finishes  a  trilogy.  The  first  hint  I  got  of  anything  un-  canny  was  like  a  week  later,  one  morn-  ing  just  before  lunch.  I  was  in  the  kitchen  mixing  a  fig-and-avocado  pur\xc3\xa9e  in  the  blender,  humming  away  content-  edly  to  myself,  when  all  of  a  sudden  this  voice  spoke  up  in  a  sneery,  insinuating  whisper.  &quot;Happy  as  a  sandboy,  aren't  you?&quot;  it  said  with  an  oily  little  snicker.  &quot;Not  a  care  in  the  world.  Well,  you're  in  for  a  surprise.&quot;  My  heart  gave  a  great  agonizing  thump,  and  I  was  scared  I  was  going  to  faint.  The  voice  wasn't  coming  from  any  one  direction;  it  was  all  aroundme,  as  if  the  house  itself  was  talking.  &quot;You're  awfully  naive  about  that  husband  of  yours,  my  pet,&quot;  it  went  on,  in  a  hateful,  fake-solicitous  tone.  &quot;Do  you  really  believe  he  was  on  loca-  tion  last  night?  That  was  pancake  on  his  cheek,  all  right,  but  he  didn't  put  it  there.  Stop  deceiving  yourself-you  can  dependon  Aim  to  do  that.&quot;  There  was  a  lot  more,  all  about  some  Latin-  American  creature  with  jet  propulsion,  but  I  stuffed  my  fingers  in  my  ears  and  ran  out  to  the  lanai.  Once  my  panic  sub-  sided,  I  tried  to  rationalize  the  thing.  It  wasn't  a  hangover  or  a  hallucination;  I  hadn't  had  a  drink  in  days,  and  I  nev-er  touch  tranquillizers  or  bennies.  'The  wordshad  sounded  as  distinct,  as  clear,  as  a  tape  recording-a  nasty,  unctuous  voice,  neither  a  man's  nor  a  woman's,  with  a  pronounced  English  accent.  That  eliminated  the  only  possibility  I  could  think  of-our  Japanese  gardener,  who,  in  any  case,  was  miles  away  at  the  incinerator,  burning  pecan  hulls  and  talking  to  them  in  sign  language.  Un-  able  to  explain  it,  I  finally  decided  the  whole  business  was  psychological  and  erased  it  from  my  mind,  but  I  used  every  pretext  to  spend  the  rest  of  the  day  outdoors.  &quot;'Something  troubling  you,  queri-  da?&quot;  Ranse  inquired  lightly  that  eve-  ning  as  we  sat  over  coffee  in  the  patio-drinking  it,  that  is-and  listened  to  the  traffic  on  the  Freeway.  Save  for  the  occasional  thud  of  a  ripe  grape-  fruit,  no  sound  disturbed  the  velvety  tropical  night.  Ranse's  eyebrows,  al-  beit  his  question  was  casual,  were  raised  in  concern.  &quot;Why,  of  course  not,  cero  mto,&quot;  I  said,  all  froth  and  insouciance.  &quot;What  ever  could  be,  in  this-  this  enchanted  castle  of  ours?&quot;  Simultaneously,  all  the  horrid  jealousy  implanted  in  me  that  morning  boiled  up,  demanding  to  be  placated.  I  adopted  my  most  offhand  manner.  &quot;Have  you  finished  the  hay-  ride  sequence  yet?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;'d  love  to  watch  the  night  shooting,  if  I'm  not  in  the  way.&quot;  Ranse  hesitated  in  a  fashion  that  im-  mediately  confirmed  my  worst  fears.  &quot;Afraid  that's  out  of  the  question,  baby,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'You  see,  Chita  [REDACTED]  and  I  do  a  pretty  torrid  scene  there.  She  freezes  when  civilians  are  present,  so  the  director's  closed  the  set.&quot;  &quot;How  chummy  for  the  two  of  you,&quot;  I  said  gaily.  &quot;Heavens,  I  didn't  mean  to  intrude.  ...&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Now  hold  on  a  second,&quot;  Ranse  pro-  tested.  &quot;This  isn't  for  kicks,  sweetie-  it's  the  way  Daddy  earns  his  bread.  Can  I  help  it  if  this  Mexican  spitfire  is  fan-  tastically  stacked  and  wears  a  flimsy  blouse?  I  do  what  they  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;And  let  the  chaps  fall  where  they  may,&quot;  I  couldn't  resist  adding.  Natural-  ly,  he  flew  into  a  passion  at  that-raked  up  the  past  and  accused  me  of  carrying  atorch  for  Byron  Wormser,  my  ex-  and  we  both  lost  control.  After  Id  had  a  good  cry,  though,  I  realized  how  in-  nocent  the  poor  guy  was  and  forgave  him.  A  man  of  his  talent  was  bound  to  encounter  all  sorts  of  reefs  in  his  work,  but  thanks  to  my  palship  and  wifely  in-  sight  he  could  steer  past  them  safely.  I  fell  asleep  that  night  supremely  confi-  dent  that  be  his  name  Phil  Feldkamp,  Hamish  Trefoil,  or  Ranse  Gantry-  and  they  all  were-he  was  mine.  My  heartsease  was  doomed  to  short  shrift.  The  following  afternoon,  I  got  home  from  the  beauty  parlor,  made  myself  a  cup  of  tea,  and  decided  to  take  a  quick  tubbefore  meeting  Ranse  at  the  Shrimp  Basket,  this  cute  spot  where  you  lounge  in  baskets  and  the  waiters  bring  you  tiny,  delectable  shrimp.  Just  as  I  was  pulling  on  my  shower  cap,that  ghoulish  voice  began  needling  me  again  " b"in  its  odious,  caressing  way.  &quot;Well,  ducky,  at  last  we're  alone  together,&quot;  it  purred.  &quot;So  you  thought  a  facial  and  a  finger  wave  would  help  you  hold  him,  ch?  How  delightfully  artless  you  are!  That  cr\xc3\xa9py  neck  and  those  middle-aged  hips  aren't  much  competition  for  the  most  luscious  hellcat  since  Lupe  Velez.  How  do  you  suppose  Ae  feels  when  he  compares  her  creamy,  satiny  skin-&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Stop  it-stop  it!&quot;  I  screamed,  beat-  ing  away  the  noxious  words  that  en-  veloped  me.  &quot;Why  are  you  telling  me  all  this?&quot;  &quot;Because  I'm  yours,&quot;  the  voice  ex-  ulted.  &quot;Every  stuccoed  inch  of  me,  from  the  plaster  pickaninny  out  front  to  the  fireproof  thatch  on  my  roof.  Because  you  acquired  me  in  lawful  money  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  pursuant  to  the  terms  and  covenants  of  the  standard  lease  ap-  proved  by  the  Los  Angeles  Real  Estate  Board.  And  because  I'm  watching  over  and  under  and  all  around  you,  which  your  husband  isn't  by  a  long  chalk.  That  lad's  got  other  fish  to  fry,  and  take  it  from  me,  they're  crackling.  If  you  don't  believe  it,  go  over  to  the  [REDACTED]  Golondrina,  on  South  Normandie  Ave-  nue,  third  floor  rear.  .  ..&quot;  I  was  sobbing  on  the  divan  when  Ranse  came  in,  and  I  was  so  hysterical  I  didn't  even  pretend  to  be  subtle.  I  let  him  have  it-told  him  that  everything  was  over  between  us  and  thatI  had  all  the  evidence  I  needed  for  a  divorce.  At  first  he  was  dumfounded,  absolutely  shattered.  Then  he  began  yelling  de-  nials  and  counteraccusations.  He  said  that  I'd  been  stepping  out  with  five  men  I  never  heard  of,  one  of  them  a  chiro-  practor  on  Lankershim  Boulevard,  that  he'd  had  daily  reports  on  my  didos  from  a  source  he  wouldn't  reveal.  When  I  swore  I'd  drag  him  through  the  mire  till  he  proved  it,  he  collapsed  like  a  pup  tent,  started  whimpering  about  his  ca-  reer  and  his  mom.  &quot;Honey,  I  don't  know  how  to  say  this,&quot;  he  faltered.  &quot;M-my  report  didn't  come  from  a  private  eye  or  anything.  It-  it  was  a  voice.&quot;  He  paled  with  alarm  at  the  expression  on  my  face.  &quot;[REDACTED]-what's  the  matter?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  darling!&quot;  I  cried,  taking  shel-  ter  in  his  arms.  &quot;My  precious  sweet,  can't  you  see  what's  happened?  We've  both  got  the  same  horrible  delusion!&quot;  Breathless  and  yet  strangely  relieved,  I  poured  out  the  story  of  my  visitations.  It  tallied  with  his  in  the  main,  except  that  the  voice  had  wounded  Ranse  pro-  fessionally,  calling  him  an  adenoidal  lout  and  advising  him  to  grease  cars  for  a  livelihood.  &quot;It's  senseless  to  fight  this  obsession  by  ourselves,  dearest,&quot;  I  pleaded.  &quot;Maybe  we  ought  to  consult-well,  a  doctor  who  knows  about  such  things.&quot;  &quot;Gee,  get  involved  with  a  shrinker?&quot;  He  hesitated,  clouding  over.  &quot;We  can't  afford-  Wait  a  minute,  though,  I've  got  a  hunch!  Do  you  remember  Morris  Carnarvon,  who  plays  those  psychiatrist  roles  in  pictures?  He  could  give  us  some  advice.  I'll  phone  him-&quot;  &quot;No,  we  mustn't  lose  our  heads,&quot;  I  broke  in.  &quot;First,  let's  call  the  rental  agent,  that  fat  man-  what's  his  name?  Hitch-  craft,  that's  it.  Here,  you  talkto  him-I'll  get  on  the  extension.  And  be  cagey-don't  saytoo  much.&quot;  My  warning  was  un-  necessary.  'The  moment  the  agent  heard  Ranse's  voice,  I  could  tell  that  he  knew  what  was  up,  that  there'd  been  trouble  be-  fore.  He  didn't  admit  anything,  of  course-gave  out  with  a  lot  of  double-  talk  about  the  rhythm  of  the  house,  and  not  everybody  adjusting  to  its  special  appeal,  and  so  forth.  When  Ranse  in-  sisted  he  come  over,  how-  ever,  he  got  slippery  and  said  he  was  involved  in  a  big  deal  he  couldn't  aban-  don.  &quot;Your  landlord?&quot;  he  said,  obviously  stalling.  &quot;Why-er-  yes,  understandably.  Well,  the  fact  is,  Mr.  Gantry,  we're  not  quite  sure  who  it  is.  ...  My  dear  sir,  I'd  be  only  too  happy  to  if  I  did.  ..  .  No,  I  never  have,  and  neither  has  anyone  else  in  this  office.&quot;  His  tone  had  become  definitely  snappish.  'Your  checks?  Well,  I  merely  obey  instructions.  I  deposit  them  in  the  trunk  of  that  English  walnut  at  the  rear  of  your  garden.&quot;  That  was  all  we  needed  to  know.  Half  an  hour  later,  Ranse  and  I  crammed  the  last  of  what  clothes  we  cared  about  into  the  boot  of  the  Porsche  and  backed  it  out  of  the  driveway.  As  he  fumbled  on  his  smoked  glasses,  I  turned  for  a  final  look  at  the  house.  Under  the  trellis  near  the  laundry  area  stood  a  character  like  out  of  a  novel  by  Thomas  Hardy,  only  a  little  more  ectoplasmic-a  gnarled  old  man  in  a  rustic-type  smock,  leaning  on  a  staff.  He  was  waving  farewell  and  grinning  from  ear  to  ear.  I  kept  mum  till  we  hit  the  Freeway,  but  then-  Oh  boy,  Flips-  ville, "