 b"FOR  a  number  of  years  now,  I  have  been  sweating  out  the  re-  ligious  life  on  the  assumption  that  if  I  work  it  right,  I  will  someday  be  a  saint.St.  Francis  of  South  Bend,  per-  haps.  I  have  been  working,  studying,  and  praying  in  accordance  with  the  Holy  Rule  of  my  Order  (the  Congre-  gation  of  the  Holy  Cross,  whose  mother  house  is  at  43616e616461Dame  ),  but  apparently  I  have  not  been  trying  hard  enough,  be-  cause  as  the  years  go  by,  it  becomes  more  and  more  clear  thatunless  things  pick  up,  I  am  not  going  to  be  a  saint.  Therefore,  there  will  never  be  any  biography  of  me.  'This  is  a  pity,  because  I  have  been  thinking  up  paragraphs  for  it,  and  chapter  headings.  It  is  an  ancient  practice  of  religious  houses  everywhere  to  have  one  of  the  members  read  aloud  to  the  others  at  meals.  Sometimes  the  reading  is  from  the  New  Testament  or  from  the  early  Fathers  of  the  Church,  but  sometimes  itis  from  the  lives  of  the  saints,  and  these  selections  are  the  ones  that  cause  me  trouble.  For  years,I  have  been  listening  to  the  reader  as  he  drones  out  these  biographies,  saying  to  myself,  &quot;That  would  sound  good,&quot;  or  &quot;That  wouldn't  go  at  [REDACTED];  and  generally  pick-  ing  and  choosing  what  would  be  best  for  my  biography.  Now,  alas,  it  looks  as  ifit  might  never  be  written,  unless  I  get  a  move  on.  All  this,  I  realize,  is  quite  a  severe  fault  in  me,  and  I  know  a  religious  should  not  indulge  in  such  thoughts,  but  the  question  of  my  biography  has  be-  come  a  constant  distraction,  and  al-  though  I  have  tried  to  stop  thinking  about  it,  I  cannot.  The  great  trouble  is  that  every  time  I  get  a  clear  picture  of  my  futurebiogra-  pher  sitting  at  his  desk  putting  things  down  the  way  they  should  be,  a  much  stronger  image  comes  along,  blotting  out  the  first.  Sometimes  itis  the  vision  of  the  biographer  suddenly  being  over-  come  with  a  wave  of  truth;  at  other  times,  it  is  the  image  of  the  Devil's  ad-  vocate  at  my  canonization  process,  loud-  ly  blurting  out  things  that  should  never  be  brought  up.  Nevertheless,  everything  I  do  and  everything  that  happens  to  me  I  find  myself  putting  into  words-into  the  traditional  words  of  the  saintly  histories.  For  example,  my  moments  of  spiritual  mortification.  You  see,  there  are  quite  a  few  foods  I  don't  like.  When  some-  thing  like  broccoli  comes  around  the  table,  I  always  pass  it  by,  and  occasion-  ally  someone  will  remark  on  my  ab-  stemiousness.  Immediately,  I  see  how  it  will  be  written  up  in  the  definitive  work  on  my  life.  &quot;Blessed  Francis,&quot;  the  au-  thor  will  say,  &quot;was  widely  known  for  his  sense  ofmortification.  Whenever  some  delicacy  was  placed  on  the  table,  he  would  fold  his  arms  chastely  over  his  breast,  look  toward  Heaven,  and  say  No  &quot; Then  it  occurs  to  me  that  this  is  such  an  atrocious  lie  that  it  will  scarcely  hold  up  under  the  scrutiny  of  later  historians.  I  am  overcome  with  fear,  but  my  mind  will  not  let  the  subject  be.  Fascinated,  it  insists  on  pushing  on  and  on,  until  I  see  the  gray-headed  old  scholar  writing:  Blessed  Francis  would  certainly  not  havegone  very  far  on  the  strength  of  his  mortification.  A  list  of  the  foods  he  turned  up  his  nose  at  would,  I  am  afraid,  consume  most  of  the  pages  of  this  little  work.  We  are  not  here  to  discuss  the  man's  short-  comings;  let  us  concentrate  on  what  good  there  was  in  him.  My  mind  flees  to  safer  subjects.  But  there  are  no  safe  subjects-really  safe,  I  mean.  A  biographer  can  turn  al-  most  anything  against  you.  'Take,  for  example,  my  best  quality,  meekness.  The  way  I  see  it,  the  biographer  will  do  well  to  hit  this  hard  and  make  a  lot  out  of  it,  because,  as  we  both  know,  he's  not  going  to  get  much  more  to  work  with.  He  might  begin  by  saying  something  like  this:  The  virtue  of  meekness  was  Francis's  crowning  glory.  No  matter  how  severely  he  was  reprimanded,  no  matter  how  offen-  sive  the  person  who  insulted  him,  Blessed  Francis  would  take  it  all,  with  never  more  than  a  pained  look  on  his  face.  This  author  has  witnessed  countless  instances  where  the  ordinary  mortal  might  have  been  tempted  to  strike  back,  to  hurl  some  in-  sult  over  his  shoulder  as  he  strode  from  the  room.  Not  Francis;  he  kept  his  temper  bound  with  hoops  of  steel.  and  his  inflexi-  ble  will  kept  always  under  control  the  mighty  fire  that  raged  within  him.  Now  comes  the  redaction.  I  can  just  as  easily  see  him  putting  down  some-  thing  like  this:  To  the  casual  observer,  it  might  easily  have  seemed  that  Francis  had  mastered  himself  completely,  tor  all  agree  that  he  never  answered  back.  This  is  so  notable in  his  character  that  historians  are  rather  well  united  in  the  belief  that  either  Francis  was,  in  truth,  one  of  the  greatest  practi-  tioners  of  the  virtue  of  meekness  that  this  world  has  ever  seen,  or  else  it  was  but  a  mask,  concealing  a  most  horrendous  lack  of  fortitude.  Not  all  my  qualities  are  so  easy  to  reverse,  however,  My  biographer  will  have  a  rough  time  proving  that  I  am  a  sluggard:  Blessed  Francis's  enemies  would  have  us  believe  that  he  lived  ina  semicomatose  state.  They  have  it  that  he  was  never  given  a  position  of  responsibility  because  of  his  forgetfulness  and  lack  of  serious  attentive-  ness.  Some  even  go  so  far  as  to  say  that  he  fell  asleep  every  day  at  morning  medita-  tion,  and  never  really  woke  up  until  he  smelled  food  at  the  noon  meal,  while  oth-  ers  would  not  stop  there,  but  push  this  on  to  late  at  night.  An  example  of  how  falla-  cious,  and  even  deceitful,  this  detraction  is  can  be  found  in  Francis's  own  words-that  he  never  missed  breakfast  or  dinner  dur-  ing  his  entire  life.  Yet  even  by  the  names  that  were  applied  to  him-viz..  dope.  slow-  poke-we  see  that  his  enemies  were  cer-  tainly  not  impressedby  his  mental  acumen.  This,  however.  must  be  discounted.  Every-  one  who  knows  anything  at  all  about  the  spiritual  life  will  know  that  those  who  have  advanced  farthest  in  it  often  are  un-  aware  of  their  surroundings.  Francis,  we  believe,  had  this  quality  to  an  extreme  de-  gree,  and  in  all  fairness  we  must  conclude  that  his  stupor  was  due  to  spiritual  activ-  ity,  rather  than  to  mental  sloth.  At  least,  my  man  won't  have  to  strain  when  he  gets  on  the  subject  of  recrea-  tion:  Francis  was  an  excellent  community  man.  Alien  to  him  was  any  aspect  of  the  kill-joy,  or  of  a  &quot;holier-than-thou&quot;  atti-  tude.  Francis  loved  a  good  time  as  much  as  anybody,  and  had  one  whenever  he  could.  At  these  moments,  he  became  extremely  wide  awake,  helping  others  to  the  table  where  the  refreshments  were,  and  helping  himself.  We  know  from  the  great  number  of  times  his  superior  had  to  call  him  down  for  this  exuberant  spirit  that  he  had  all  the  fire  needed  fortrue  sanctity,  would  he  but  make  use  of  it.  To  judge  by  the  re-  peated  warnings  he  received,  there  is  also  some  ground  for  believing  that  in  this  matter  of  recreation  he  had  a  most  resili-  ent  attitude-truly  a  fine  quality  in  any-  one  striving  for  perfection.  For  thosead-  mirers  wishing  to  see  Francis  at  his  best,  they  can  find  no  better  place  to  observe  him  than  the  poolroom,  the  card  table,  or  the  bowling  alley.  Something  I  hope  my  biographer  either  does  a  good  job  on  or  leaves  alone  is  my  sense  of  humor.  I  can't  help  thinking  that  I  have  a  fine  sense  of  humor,  but  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  show  now  what  I  mean.  I  mean  I  can  no  longer  remember  exactl,  some  of  the  really  clever  things  I've  said.  No,  the  more  I  think  about  it,  the  more  I  am  inclined  to  leave  out  thejokes  en-  tirely.  Much  as  I  like  the  idea  of  going  down  in  history  as  one  of  those  rare  in-  " b"dividuals  who  are  able  to  combine  sanc-  tity  with  a  fine  sense  of  humor,  there  is  too  much  at  stakehere.  I  would  rather  not  take  any  chances.  SAID  a  while  back  that  I  had  some  chapter  headings  figured  out.  The  first  chapter,  about  my  infancy,  I  expect  will  be  entitled  simply  &quot;Chosen.&quot;  This  chapter  tells  how,  to  all  intents  and  pur-  poses,  I  was  just  another  dirty-faced  kid,  except  for  my  all-consuming  desire  to  leada  crusade  to  the  Holy  Places.  It  would  be  nice  if  I  could  work  in  a  shaft  of  light  coming  down  through  the  heavy-  ens  at  my  birth,  but  too  many  people  know  there  wasn't  any,  and  that  kills  that.  I  have  discreetly  inquired  whether  there  were  any  significant  omens  or  events  during  my  first  days  on  earth,  but  there  was  nothing  edifying.  Chapter  2  is  going  to  be  called  &quot;The  Years  of  Trial.&quot;  I'm  not  ashamed  of  this  one  at  all.  Most  of  my  years  have  been  years  of  trial;  it's  been  nothing  but  trouble  all  the  way  back,  for  as  far  as  I  can  remember.  Chapter  3  is  another  one  I'm  not  em-  barrassed  about:  &quot;Wild  Oats.&quot;  This  concerns  my  early  school  days,  and  there  is  absolutely  no  need  for  the  biographer  to  go  making  up  stuff  to  move  the  story  along.  Actually,  the  more  I  think  of  it,  the  more  I  feel  that  it  had  better  be  the  shortest  chapter  in  the  book.  I've  come  to  the  conclusion  that  between  the  years  of  six  and  twelve  nobody  really  looks  very  good;  you  can't  do  much  for  a  man,  or  a  saint,  by  telling  how  many  times  a  week  he  made  an  ass  out  of  him-  self  in  the  classroom.  Better  just  let  Chapter  3  slide  bywith  the  usual  stuff  about  Francis  &quot;waxing  strong&quot;  and  lay-  ing  firm  foundations  for  the  struggle  ahead,  showing  pronounced  manly  vir-  tue,  being  admired  and  imitated  by  his  playmates,  defending  small  children  from  huge  bullies,  helping  the  pastor,  and  being  extremely  polite  to  the  ladies  of  the  Altar  Society.  This  is  the  mate-  rial  a  lot  of  people  will  buy  the  book  for,  and  I  want  it  to  have  quite  a  sale.  But  in  all  fairness  I  should  let  the  reader  in  on  the  fact  that  I  was  the  kind  of  kid  who  always  played  right  field;  if  you  know  anything  about  baseball  as  played  by  children,  this  will  give  you  all  you  need  to  know  about  how  far  I  still  had  to  go  at  this  time.  Another  chapter  heading  I  am  quite  taken  with  is  &quot;Out  of  the  Frying  Pan,  Into  the  Fire.&quot;  I  don't  know  yet  what  it  will  refer  to,  but  I  think  maybe  it  would  be  good  to  split  it  up,  and  have  one  chapter  called  &quot;Out  of  the  Frying  Pan&quot;  followed  by  one  entitled  &quot;Into  the  Fire.&quot;  Actually,  there  should  be  no     trouble  finding  subject  matter  for  either  of  them,  because,  as  I  have  indicated,  this  sort  of  thing  is  pretty  much  the  story  of  my  life.  Every  spiritual  biography  ought  to  have  one  chapter  called  &quot;Not  Long  for  This  [REDACTED];  It  should  be  saved  for  that  part  of  the  book  where  the  reader's  interest  tends  to  flag.  I  know  that  even  my  most  devoted  reader's  taste  can  be  cloyed  by  the  constant  repetition  of  facts  about  me.  If,  however,  some  hope  is  held  out  to  him  that  I  will  die  in  the  next  chapter  and  he  will  be  rid  of  me,  the  mere  fact  that  he  has  paid  for  the  book  should  be  enough  to  make  him  continue  reading.  HEN  I  stop  to  think  of  the  innu-  merable  obstacles  in  the  way  of  my  life's  dream,  of  all  the  things  that  can  gowrong,  I  am  inclined  to  grow  faint.  When  I  think  of  the  petty  jeal-  ousies  that  may  intrude  themselves  upon  it,  the  antagonisms  it  will  arouse,  I  am  filled  with  fear.  Then  I  feel  sorry  for  the  author,  and  even  sorrier  for  myself.  I  reflect  how  much  easier  it  would  be  justto  lead  a  good  life  and  be  done  with  the  whole  thing.  And-who  knows?  -  I  might  do  it.  It  would  certainly  make  a  good  last  chapter. "