 b"THE  other  night  at  a  party,  I  hap-  pened  to  overhear  a  woman  say-  ing  ruefully  that  her  children,  in  their  nightly  prayers,  remembered  a  young  bachelor  friend  of  the  family  ahead  of  their  father  and  mother,  and  that  the  friend  took  his  responsibility  rather  lightly.  Thinking  about  it  later,  I  wondered  if  the  reason  for  this  light-  ness  might  be  not  that  he  was  a  bachelor  but  that  he  was  young.  For,  now  that  I  am  in  my  thirties,  if  I  become  friends  with  a  childI  am  more  aware  of  the  responsibility  than  when  I  was  twenty.  But  I  am  not  at  all  sure  that  I  am  any  the  better  person  for  this,  or  that  a  sense  of  responsibility  is  something  that  children  value  or  need  in  adults  who  aren't  their  parents,  and  I  can  remember  one  incident  in  which  what  was  required  was  simply  personal;  in-  terference-for  it  was  really  that  of  akind  that  I  might  now  hesitate  over.  A  dozen  years  ago,  I  was  more  lighthearted.  I  was  sailing  from  [REDACTED]  to  England  after  the  war,  one  of  ten  passengers  aboard  a  freighter.  In  the  cabin  next  to  mine  there  was  a  child  with  her  mother.  They  were  on  their  way  home  from  [REDACTED],  where  the  Japanese  had  in-  terned  them.  The  child  was  a  little  girl  of  four,  frail  and  gentle  as  only  little  girls  can  be.  I  was  with  them  in  the  lounge  when  we  entered  the  fog  banks  of  Newfoundland  and  the  ship's  horn  began  blowing.  Loud,  long,  and  dismal  bellows  it  made.  The  first  one  seemed  especially  long.  It  couldn't  have  lasted  more  than  a  few  seconds,  yet  it  seemed  it  would  never  cease.  Loud  and  disturb-  ing,  they  came  at  regular  intervals,  making  the  minutes  of  silence  in  be-  tween  seem  short  and  irrelevant.  The  horn  reminded  the  little  girl  of  the  sirens  that  announced  air  raids,  or  perhaps  the  roll  calls  in  the  camp.  Every  time  it  blew,  she  screamed  and  frantically  hugged  her  mother  for  shelter.  Now,  it  takes  a  long  time  for  a  ship  to  cross  the  fog  banks  of  Newfound-  land.  Hard  as  her  mother  tried  to  explain  to  her  that  there  was  no  danger  of  air  raids  or  roll  calls,  the  child  couldn't  help  crying  eachtime  the  horn  blew.  Her  little  windpipe  accompanied  the  huge,  monstrous  one  of  the  ship,  and  the  low  note  and  the  high  note  mingled  to  make  a  strident  duet.  How  long  would  it  last?  I  went  on  deck  and  looked  down  for  the  sea,  but  I  couldn't  see  it.  I  looked  up  for  the  sky. " b"There  was  no  sky,  only  gray  denseness.  I  looked  in  front  of  me  for  clear  spaces,  but  there  were  none-only  fog  and  no  break  in  the  fog;  different  thicknesses  of  it  sometimes,  that  was  all;  cloudlets  within  a  cloud,  clouds  within  an  overcast  sky,  all  moving  at  sea  level,  cleft  only  by  the  shape  of  a  ship  and  the  sound  ofa  horn  drowning  the  screams  of  a  child.  Would  it  never  cease?  I  felt  like  go-  ing  up  to  ask  the  captain  if  he  wouldn't  please  stop  it.  After  all,  he  had  radar  now,  hadn't  he?  Of  course  hehad;  there  it  was,  the  vane,  turning,  revolv-  ing,  peering  through  miles  of  fog.  I  could  see  it-or,  rather,  I  could  make  it  out.  But  I  also  knew  that  in  this  weather  it  was  regulation  to  blow  the  foghorn.  There  seemed  no  remedy.  The  little  girl  didn't  get  used  to  the  horn.  It  seemed  she  never  would.  It  seemed  she  would  goon  and  on  till  she  screamed  herself  to  exhaustion,  The  silent  minutes  seemed  to  come  not  toquiet  her  or  bring  her  relief  but  to  let  her  recover  her  voice  for  the  next  sound.  It  seemed  cruel-it  seemed  cruel  that  now  peace  had  come,  there  shouldn't  be  peace  for  her.  For  her  the  war  had  not  ended.  It  was  still  going  on.  Echoes  of  it,  out  of  time,  out  of  place,  like  a  swarm  of  wasps,  still  pursued  her.  Her  mother  was  carrying  her  out  of  the  lounge,  ineffectually  trying  to  con-  sole  her,  when  I  stopped  them  and  asked  the  child's  mother  if  she  would  let  me  try.  She  gave  the  little  girl  to  me,  and  I  held  her  in  my  right  arm.  I  got  on  my  knees  and  put  my  left  hand  on  the  floor.  With  my  right  I  placed  her  on  my  back.  She  put  her  arms  around  my  neck,  and  I  went  down  on  all  fours.  &quot;I  am  a  pony  now  and  you  are  a  lady  on  horseback,&quot;  I  said.  I  remember  one  ofthe  passengers'  telling  me  I  would  get  my  trousers  dirty.  I  neighed  angrily  at  him.  She  was  a  good  rider,  I  found.  Her  knees  hugged  my  ribs  tightly.  &quot;That's  right,  hug  on  tight,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  aren't  supposed  to  talk;  you  are  a  pony,&quot;  she  replied.  I  went  round  the  lounge  once;  then  I  stopped.  She  spurred  my  chest  with  her  heels,  and  pulled  my  hair  with  her  nerv-  ous  little  hands.  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Not  till  I  hear  the  signal,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;What  signal?&quot;  &quot;The  horn  blowing,  that's  my  sig-  nal.&quot;  She  sat  still  and  silent.  I  could  sense  that  she  was  deep  in  thought.  &quot;'The  horn?&quot;  she  said,  perplexedly.  &quot;Is  that  your  signal?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot; It  was  due  to  blow  now  at  any  mo-  ment.  I  waited,  she  waited,  her  mother  waited.  We  all  looked  at  each  other,  waiting.  Rarely,  I  think,  have  I  gone  through  such  suspense.  Then  it  blew,  and  I  trotted  forth,  and  she  wasn't  cry-  mg.  At  the  end  of  the  sound,  I  stopped.  When  the  horn  was  about  to  blow  again,  I  got  set  and  repeated  the  se-  quence.  This  we  did  three  or  four  times.  At  each  signal  I  sprang  forth  like  a  race  horse  when  the  starting  gate  is  lifted.  She  loved  it.  If  I  felt  that  she  was  about  to  fall,  I  would  bring  an  arm  up  and  steady  her.  At  the  next  interval-the  fourth  or  the  fifth,  whichever  it  was-  I  got  up  and  we  held  hands.  Itold  her  the  pony  was  tired.  The  suspense-for  me,  at  least-was  even  greater  this  time.  But  when  the  horn  blew  at  last,  she  was  smiling.  Later,  if  I  remember  cor-  rectly,  we  had  another  run.  She  was  laughing.  By  showing  her  how  to  put  a  finger  in  front  of  her  mouth  and  blow  on  it,  buzzing  and  humming  against  it,  I  even  got  her  to  imitate  the  sound  of  the  horn. "