 b"A  FEW  weeks  after  my  gradua- tion  from  the  South-West  As-  sociated  University,  in  Kun-  ming,  in  1942,  I  landed  a  job  as  the  modern,  English-speaking  secretary  to  Fang  Yu-chi,  the  Sawbwa  of  Mang-  shih.  Mangshih  is  about  the  size  of  Rhode  Island,  and  is  the  largest  and  richest  of  the  Chinese  Shan  States,  which  lie  along  the  border  of  Burma.  Actually,  it  is  not  a  state  at  all,  but  a  county  in  Yunnan  Province;  the  coun-  ty  seat,  also  called  Mangshih,  is  the  only  sizable  town  in  the  area.  It  is  inhabited  by  the  simple,  fun-loving  Shans,  the  wild  Kachins,  and  a  few  other,  smaller  tribes,  all  of  which  are  Mongoloid  butnot  actually  Chinese,  although  their  ruler,  Sawbwa  Fang,  was  a  Chinese  who  had  inherited  his  title  and  prerogatives,  much  like  a  mahara-  jah.  I  liked  Mangshih  at  once.  I  found  the  Shans  to  be  sturdy  and  good-look-  ing-especially  the  women,  who  wear  white  blouses  and  tight  black  skirts,  and  like  to  sport  a  wild  floweror  two  in  their  queues,  which  they  wind  around  their     pretty  heads.  (The  first  modern  item  I  saw  during  my  stay  there  was  an  old  upper  plate,  which  hung  as  an  orna-  ment  from  a  woman's  neck.)  The  scen-  ery  in  Mangshih  is  an  art  gallery  filled  with  Oriental  water  colors-vast  rice  fields,  distant  mountains  half  hidden  be-  hind  a  thin  layer  of  fog,  red  Buddhist  temples  peeking  around  clusters  of  bam-  boo,  and  long,  carpetlikevalleys  dec-  orated  with  sacred  banyans,  which  look,  from  a  distance,  like  beach  umbrellas.  The  Sawbwa,  a  cheerful  ruler  much  beloved  by  his  people,  had  recently  un-  dertaken  a  vast  modernization  pro-  gram,  and  I  was  one  of  a  handful  of  outsiders  who  had  been  imported  to  help  him  realize  it.  No  one  knew  with  any  certainty  why  Sawbwa  Fang,  at  the  age  of  forty-one,  had  suddenly  de-  cided  to  modernize  his  kingdom;  he  was  an  amiable  and  honest  man  but  had  the  reputation  of  being  extremely  lazy.  I  had  been  told  that  his  decision  was  the  direct  result  of  his  having  been  cured  of  the  opium  habit,  but  I  rather  sus-  pected  there  were  other  and  better  rea-sons.  For  one  thing,  the  newly  com-  pleted  Burma  Road  came  right  through  the  town  of  Mangshih,  and  the  Sawbwa  must  have  realized  that  his  state  was  in  danger  of  being  regarded  as  backward  by  the  outsiders  who  were  seeing  it  for  the  first  time.  For  another,  two  weeks  after  his  cure  the  Sawbwa  had  gone  to  Rangoon  and  taken  a  second  wife-  a  nineteen-year-old  Eurasian  girl  named  Ida,  who  loved  dancing,  bad-  minton,  and  bridge.  The  marriage,  which  had  been  ar-  ranged  through  a  Chinese  merchant,  did  not  at  first  reflect  much  glory  on  the  royal  house  of  Mangshih.  The  Sawbwa's  first  wife  was  still  living  and  still  married  to  him.  Furthermore,  Ida  herselfreadily  admitted  that  her  father  was  an  Irish  seaman  and  her  mother  a  Chinese  dance-hall  hostess.  In  order  not  to  lose  face,  the  Sawbwa  re-  vised  her  pedigree  to  some  extent;  her  father  was  metamorphosed  into  a  Brit-  ish  colonel,  and  her  mother  became  a  Mongolian  princess  who  had  moved  to  Burma,  Thus,  Ida  could  claim  to  be  Anglo-Burmese-an  ethnic  label  that  sounded  both  modern  and  rather  ele-  gant.  Ida  was  small  but  extremely  well  proportioned,  with  dark  eyes  and  long,  wavy  hair.  She  liked  to  wear  khaki  shorts  with  high-heeled  sandals  that  showed  off  her  delicate,  lacquered  toe-  nails.  Her  English  was  heavily  ac-  cented,  but  she  spoke  flawless  Chinese  and  Burmese,  and  also  a  smattering  of  French-picked  up,she  once  told  me,  from  a  Hindu  professional  strong  man,  who  had  succeeded  the  Irishman  in  the  role  of  her  father.  Sawbwa  Fang  was  delighted  with  her  and  called  her  &quot;Ida  darling,&quot;  the  only  English  he  had  so  far  managed  to  learn  in  his  great  effort  to  modernize  himself.  It  was  no  secret  in  Mangshih  that  Old  Lady  Fang,  the  Sawbwa's  first  wife,  liked  Ida  very  much.  (Though  the  first  Mrs.  Fang  was  only  a  few  years  older  than  the  Sawbwa,  everyone  ad-  dressed  her  as  Old  Lady-an  honor  to  which  only  a  Sawbwa's  first  wife  was  entitled.)  I  learned  from  the  Sawbwa's  chauffeur  that  shortly  after  Ida's  ar-  rival  she  had  paid  the  older  woman  a  visit,  during  which  the  Sawbwa  was  left  waiting  outside  in  his  new  Buick  sedan.  Old  Lady  Fang  had  become  something  of  a  recluse.  She  very  rarely  saw  her  husband,  and  lived  in  an  old-  fashioned  Chinese  house  with  her  only  son,  her  daughter-in-law,  and  two  grandchildren.  There  she  led  a  quiet  life,  playing  mah-jongg  and  worshipping  Buddha.  According  to  the  chauffeur,  who  had  handled  the  formal  introduc-  " b"tions,  Ida  had  at  once  endeared  her-  self  to  Mrs.  Fang  by  affectionately  ad-  dressing  her  as  Mama,  and  both  women  had  enjoyed  the  visit  so  much  that  the  Sawbwa  was  kept  waiting  in  his  car  for  more  than  an  hour.  The  start  of  the  modernization  pro-  gram  coincided  almost  exactly  with  the  arrival  of  Ida  in  Mangshih.  A  certain  Mr.  Yin,  an  engineer  imported  from  4368696e61,  drew  upmost  of  the  mod-  ernization  plans,  and  his  prodigious  efforts  soon  transformed  the  town  of  Mangshih  into  a  comfortable  stop-  over  on  the  Burma  Road,  which  was  constantly  jammed  with  American  lend-  lease  trucks  travelling  between  Ran-  goon  and  4368696e61,  bringing  Ameri-  can  strategic  material  to  the  battlefronts  in  interior  4368696e61.  Under  his  guidance,  the  Shans  began  building  roads  and  bridges  and  installing  electric  lights  and  telephones.  Beggars  were  cleared  out  of  the  town,  and  the  entire  Mangshih  police  force  of  six  men,  who  had  always  worn  everyday  blue  cotton  blouses  and  trousers  while  on  duty,  suddenly  ap-  pcared  resplendent  in  high-collared  khaki  uniforms  and  heavy,  squeaking  leather  boots,  which  they  spent  most  of  their  working  hours  polishing.  Even  the  curriculum  of  the  elementary  school,  the  only  educational  institution  in  Mangshih,  was  modernized  to  include  such  up-to-date  courses  as  English,  arithmetic,  and  rubber-ball  kicking.  Some  enterprising  4368696e61  merchants  must  have  heard  of  all  this  progressive  stirring-about,  for  they  built  a  caf\xc3\xa9  and  a  public  bathhouse  in  Mangshih,  both  of  which  quickly  became  popular.  Perhaps  Mr.  Yin's  most  striking  achievement  was  the  construction  of  two  buildings-the  first  Western  house  in  Mangshih  and  the  New  Light  Hotel.  The  house  was  a  two-story  brick  affair  with  a  swimming  pool  in  back  and  a  badminton  court  in  front.  The  Sawbwa  immediately  proclaimed  it  his  official  residence,  named  it  Ida  House,  and  moved  in  with  his  modern  bride.  The  hotel,  a  four-story  structure  that  fronted  on  the  dusty  market  place,  was  even  more  awe-inspiring.  When  it  was  com-  pleted,  the  grateful  Sawbwa  bestowed  the  title  of  Minister  of  Construction  for  Mangshih  on  Mr.  Yin,  who  then  moved  into  the  hotel  as  its  manager.  Under  Mr.  Yin's  personal  direction,  it  was  soon  doing  a  booming  business  ac-  commodating  travellers  from  the  Burma  Road.  ESPITE  all  this  constructive,  modern  bustle,  Sawbwa  Fang  was not  satisfied;  he  ordered  every  member " b"of  his  staff  to  supply  him  with  other  new  ideas.  As  his  modern  secretary-he  also  had  an  &quot;old-fashioned&quot;  secretary,  who  was  in  his  eighties-I,  too,  was  expected  to  think  up  projects,  but  all  my  ideas  turned  out  to  be  prohibitively  expensive.  Finally,  I  suggested  that  the  state  should  plant  tung  trees  on  the  Mangshih  hill-  sides.  I  had  read  somewhere  that  tung  oil  was  an  important  ingredient  of  paint  and  lacquer,  and  I  figured  that  it  would  therefore  be  in  great  demand  in  Amer-  ica.  The  Sawbwa  took  my  advice  this  time,  and  ordered,  at  tremendous  cost,  half  a  million  tung  sprouts  from  Kun-  ming.  He  then  recruited  hundreds  of  planters  from  among  the  savage  Kachins,  who  lived  apart,  on  their  own  mountain,  and  practiced  a  haphazard,  wandering  sort  of  cultivation.  They  were  a  proud,  tough-minded  people,  and  the  Sawbwa  was  able  to  secure  their  cooperation  only  by  promising  to  pay  them  liberally  in  rice  and  hogs.  Once  this  program  got  under  way,  the  Sawbwa  fell  into  the  habit  of  tour-  ing  Mangshih  in  his  Buick,  making  con-  stant  stops  to  comment  on  planting  or  construction  and  to  ask  bystanders  for  advice.  This  also  gave  him  an  oppor-  tunity  to  show  off  his  modern  wife.  With  her,  he  would  drive  out  to  the  sur-  rounding  hills  to  supervise  the  work  of  the  Kachins,  or  would  stop  in  at  the  New  Light  Hotel  to  visit  a  dignitary  who  was  passing  through  or  to  inquire  after  some  important  foreign  tourist.  He  especially  enjoyed  taking  her  to  lunch  at  his  yamen-a  kind  of  combina-  tion  palace  and  official  headquarters,  about  a  mile  from  Ida  House,  where  the  business  of  all  his  various  public  depart-  ments  was  carried  out.  Idaloved  these  duties,  and  seized  every  occasion  to  dis-  play  her  new  clothes.  One  of  her  favor-  ite  outfits  featured  riding  breeches  and  a  whip,  though  the  Sawbwa  had  not  yet  acquired  a  stable.  Everything  went  smoothly  until,  about  halfway  through  the  planting  of  the  tung  sprouts,  the  Kachins  suddenly  adopted  a  modern  program  of  their  own  and  went  on  strike.  The  dispute  arose  not  over  unfair  working  conditions  but  over  an  act  of  sacrilege  that  had  alleged-  ly  been  committed  against  their  moun-  tain  god.  It  was  reported  that  some  Chinese  shepherds  had  visited  the  god's  shrine  on  Kachin  Mountain,  a  rugged  peak  only  fifteen  miles  from  the  town  of  Mangshih,  and  had  insulted  him  by  drawing  obscene  pictures  on  the  altar.  The  furious  Kachins  revenged  them-  selves  by  going  on  strike  against  the  Sawbwa,  who  was  a  Chinese.  The  strike  was  tragically  effective." b"Hundreds  of  thousands  of  tung  sprouts,  left  unplanted,  would  soon  die,  but  the  other  Mangshih  tribes,  including  the  Shans,  were  too  much  afraid  of  the  Ka-  chins  to  help.  As  the  strike  entered  its  third  week,  the  Sawhwa's  eyes  were  shadowed  with  grief  and  he  would  sit  in  his  office  for  hours,  rubbing  his  forehead  between  thumb  and  forefinger.  In  an  effort  to  find  some  solution,  the  Sawbwa  began  arriving  at  his  office  at  about  eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning,  a  full  hour  earlier  than  was  his  custom,  and  he  initiated  daily  conferences  with  his  staff,  some  of  whom  lived  in  the  yamen.  The  Sawbwa's  office  was  in  the  rear  of  the  old  building,  which  included  four  courtyards  and  fifty-odd  dark,  spacious,  high-ceilinged  rooms  scantily  furnished  with  heavy  black  ancestral  chairs  and  tables.  The  entire  yamen  was  in  the  charge  of  Mr.  Yang,  the  Sawbwa's  old-fashioned  secretary,  who  had  lived  in  it  for  more  than  fifty  years.  Mr.  Yang  had  been  in  the  habit  of  re-  maining  in  bed  until  late  afternoon,  but  since  the  start  of  the  modernization  pro-  gram  he  had  been  obliged  to  rise  before  midday.  He  did  so  reluctantly,  grum-  bling  that  the  program  was  sure  to  kill  him,  for,  as  everyone  knew,  the  morn-  ingfog  was  a  poisonous  gas  that  caused  malaria,  and  the  only  way  to  avoid  it  was  to  remain  in  bed.  Actually,  there  was  no  need  for  him  to  get  up  at  all,  since  the  Sawbwa  seldom  consulted  him  any  more.  ONE  morning,  the  Sawbwa  sum-  moned  us  to  a  conference  in  one  of  the  large  central  rooms  of  the  yamen.  We  all  sat  down  around  a  long  table,  which  I  had  had  covered  with  a  white  tablecloth  in  order  to  lighten  the  gloom,  and  the  Sawbwa  took  his  seat  at  the  head,  like  a  business  execu-  tive  presiding  over  a  board  meeting.  He  looked  as  though  he  hadn't  slept  well;  his  eyes  were  bloodshot,  and  his  thinning  hair  was  not  as  meticulously  combed  as  usual.  I  felt  sorry  for  him,  and  also  a  little  guilty,  since  the  crisis  had  come  about  as  a  result  of  my  sug-  gestion.  The  conference,  which  was  carefully  conducted  according  to  a  procedure  laid  down  in  a  handbook  the  Sawbwa  had  bought  entitled  &quot;Modern  Govern-  ment,&quot;  began  with  a  report  on  the  strike  from  Mr.  Wu,  who  was  the  Min-  ister  of  Labor  Relations  and  the  only  staff  member  who  could  speak  the  Ka-  chin  dialect.  He  was  a  middle-aged  man  who  wore  a  Western  coat  over  his  Chinese  blouse  and  trousers.  He  report-  ed  only  that  the  Kachins  still  rejected" b"all  his  attempts  to  pacify  them,  at  which  the  Sawbwa  scowled  slightly,  as  if  suf-  fering  from  heartburn.  &quot;But,&quot;  Mr.  Wu  added  significantly,  &quot;they  have  agreed  to  send  down  a  special  delegation  of  their  chiefs  to  negotiate  with  us.  They  will  come  to  the  yamen  tomorrow  after-  noon  and  listen  to  our  proposals.&quot;  The  chief  of  police,  a  large  man  with  a  rugged  face,  who  was  also  dressed  in  a  Western  coat,  which  was  fouror  five  inches  too  short,  then  interrupted  to  urge  the  Sawbwa  to  appeal  to  higher  authority.  The  police  chief  felt  surethat  |  Governor  Lung,  of  Yunnan  Province,  would  be  only  too  glad  to  send  down  troops  to  force  the  Kachins  back  to  work,  even  if  it  meant  decapitating  a  few  of  them  as  a  warning  against  any  further  trouble.  We  all  thought  this  was  a  little  drastic,  and  Mr.  Wu  made  a  counterproposal.  &quot;If  the  First  Lady  of  Mangshih,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;or,  rather,  the  second  First  Lady  of  Mangshih,  will  go  to  Kachin  Mountain  with  two  oxen  and  offer  them  as  a  sacrifice  to  the  mountain  god,  and  perhaps  bring  herself  to  give  the  god  three  kow  tows  on  behalf  of  the  state,  it  might  mend  the  insult  committed  by  the  ignorant  shepherds.&quot;  The  Sawbwa's  face  lit  up  briefly,  but  then  he  scowled  again  and  asked  for  other  opinions.  All  the  department  heads  made  suggestions,  but  none  of  them  seemed  any  better.  The  Minister  of  Trade,  who  was  a  cousin  of  Sawbwa  Fang's  and  an  opium  addict,  recommended,  for  instance,  that  the  Sawbwa  offer  the  Kachin  chiefs  half  a  dozen  slave  girls.  When  it  was  my  turn,  I  suggest-  ed  a  completely  modern  solution-an  increase  in  wages,  a  five-day  work  week,  and  a  promise  of  neutral  arbitra-  tion  of  future  misunderstandings.  I  drew  a  blank  from  my  colleagues,  and  I  wasn't  sure  that  the  Sawbwa  himself  understood  what  I  was  talking  about.  So  the  conference  ended  inconclusive-  ly,  as  most  of  our  conferences  did,  and  the  Sawbwa  retired  to  his  private  office  to  rub  his  forehead.  I  returned  to  mine,  feeling  unhappy  and  wonder-  ing  whether  my  suggestion,  even  if  it  had  been  accepted,  would  have  worked  at  all.  It  certainly  would  have  cost  the  state  a  lot  of  rice  and  hogs.  About  half  an  hour  later,  a  Shan  servant  announced  that  the  Sawbwa  wanted  to  see  me  in  private.  I  hurried  to  his  office.  The  Sawbwa  asked  me  to  sit  down  in  one  of  the  ancestral  chairs  and  offered  me  a  cigarette,  but  before  he  could  tell  me  what  was  on  his  mind,  Mr.  Yang  shuffled  in  to  seek  his  official  seal  on  some  documents.  The  Sawbwa" b"looked  slightly  annoyed,  but  politely  asked  him  to  sit  down  with  us.  The  old  man,  who  was  wearing  a  blue  satin  gown  and  puffing  on  a  four-foot-long  bamboo  pipe,  blew  the  dust  off  an  an-  tique  chair  and  seated  himself  stiffly  and  formally,  with  his  feet  slightly  apart  and  one  hand  resting  on  his  knee,  as  in  a  typical  ancestor  portrait.  The  Sawbwa  asked  Mr.  Yang  what  he  thought  of  the  strike,  adding  hastily  that  he  wanted  to  hear  Mr.  Yang's  opinion,  not  Confucius's.  The  old  man  cleared  his  throat  and  said  that  the  State  of  Mangshih  resembled  the  body  of  a  sleeping  dragon,  with  its  head  stretch-  ing  toward  Burma,  in  the  south,  and  its  tail  coiling  peacefully  toward  the  north.  Because  the  Kachins  had  been  digging  in  the  dragon's  back  to  plant  the  tung  trees,  the  dragon  had  been  dis-  turbed.  Fortunately,  however,  the  Sawbwa's  family  ancestors  had  made  the  Kachins  stop  digging,  thus  doubt-  less  preventing  a  great  catastrophe  to  the  state.  So  the  strike  was,  in  fact,  willed  by  the  dead  ancestors,  a  blessing  rather  than  a-  But  here  the  Sawbwa  interrupted  with  a  loud  cough  and  changed  the  sub-  ject.  &quot;Secretary  Yang,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;what  do  you  think  of  women?  What  is  a  man's  best  attitude  toward  them?&quot;  The  question  seemed  very  odd  to  me,  though  I  was  sure  the  Sawbwa  must  have  had  a  reason  for  asking  it.  Before  answering,  the  old  man  knocked  out  the  ashes  of  his  pipe  against  the  leg  of  his  chair,  and  then  smoothed  his  white  whiskers.  &quot;Women  are  like  water,&quot;  he  observed,  finally.  &quot;They  are  difficult  to  manage.  Confucius  has  truly  said,  'Keep  them  ata  distance,  they  resent  it;  treat  them  familiarly,  they  do  not  respect  you.'  &quot;  &quot;That  will  be  all,  Secretary  Yang,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  said,  rising.  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  The  old  man  stood  up,  gathered  his  documents,  bowed,  and  left.  Sawbwa  Fang  sat  down  and  shook  his  head  de-  spairingly.  &quot;It  is  a  pity,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that  theold  secretary  is  a  part  of  the  yamen  that  cannot  be  discarded  like  a  piece  of  old  furniture.&quot;  The  Sawbwa  paused,  almost  as  if  he  were  embarrassed  at  what  he  was  about  to  say  next.  &quot;Secretary  Lee,&quot;  he  said  at  last,  &quot;I  have  asked  you  here  to  render  me  a  private  service.  Can  you  come  to  dinner  at  my  house  this  evening?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said,  wondering  whatwas  on  his  mind.  &quot;Good.  We  shall  leave  the  office  early  today.  We  can  walk  home  and  have  a  breath  of  fresh  air.&quot;  At  five-thirty,  we  left  the  yamen, " b"crossed  the  dusty  Burma  Road,and  took  the  little  winding  trail  that  led  to  Ida  House.  The  Sawbwa  walked  in  silence,  a  step  or  two  ahead  of  me,  his  shoulders  hunched  forward.  It  was  a  beautiful  afternoon,  ideal  weather  for  planting,  and  it  was  probably  a  torture  to  him  to  look  at  the  deserted  hills  around  us,  where  his  expensive  tung  sprouts  should  have  been  growing.  The  sun  had  begun  to  dip  behind  Kachin  Mountain,  making  it  look,  in  silhouette,  like  a  sleeping  camel  with  three  humps.  Near  the  path,  some  local  Shan  girls  were  bathing  in  the  clear,  shallow  water  of  Mangshih  River,  laughing  and  sing-  ing  as  if  for  our  special  benefit,  but  Sawbwa  Fang  walked  past  without  ap-  pearing  to  notice  them.  As  we  drew  near  Ida  House,  the  Sawbwa  suddenly  broke  the  silence,  say-  ing,  &quot;Secretary  Lee,  I've  been  having  a  little  trouble  with  Ida  lately.  For  the  past  two  weeks  she  has  been  unhappy,  and  I  don't  know  why.&quot;  &quot;Is  she  well?&quot;  I  asked.  'Yes,  there  is  nothing  wrong  with  her  health.  But  I  haven't  invited  you  here  to  help  me  solve  my  domestic  diffi-  culties.  I  am  only  concerned  with  the  strike.  This  morning  at  the  conference,  I  found  one  suggestion  quite  work-  able-Mr.  Wu's  plan  to  have  Ida  go  and  make  an  offering  to  the  Kachin  mountain  god.  But  Ida  is  a  modern  woman;  she  might  object  to  such  an  errand-especially  to  kowtowing.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  we  could  omit  the  kow-towing  part,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  you  cannot  omit  the  kowtow  when  you  make  an  offering  to  the  Kachin  god,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  said.  &quot;That  would  be  like  bringing  a  gift  to  a  friend  but,  instead  of  handing  it  to  him,  tossing  it  on  the  ground  and  telling  him  to  pick  it  up.  No,  that  would  be  impossible.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  want  me  to  do,  Saw- bwa?&quot;  I  asked,rather  helplessly.  &quot;Since  I  have  been  having  this  little  A  trouble  with  Ida,&quot;he  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  I  am  in  any  position  to  ask  for  her  help.  However,  you  are  on  friendly  terms  with  her,  and  she  seems  to  like  you.  Perhaps  you  could  suggest  it  to  her-quite  casually,  of  course.  You  might  even  present  the  whole  idea  as  your  own,  something  that  popped  into  your  mind  over  dessert;  she  will  be  easier  to  approach  after  the  main  course.  But  it  must  sound  quite  spontaneous.&quot;  &quot;I  shall  try  my  best,  Sawbwa,&quot;  I  said.  WE  found  Ida  in  the  thickly  car-  peted  living  room  of  Ida  House.  She  was  staring  out  at  the  garden " b"through  a  picture  window.  As  we  en-  tered  the  room,  the  Sawbhwa  coughed  to  attract  her  attention,  but  she  ignored  him  and  continued  to  stand  there  mo-  tionless.  With  her  long,  wavy  hair  hanging  down  to  her  shoulders  and  her  modern  purple  silk  Chinese  gown  cling-  ing  to  her  slim  body,  she  presented  a  picture  of  lovely  petulance.  Sighing  deeply,  the  Sawbwa  sank  into  an  arm-  chair,  and  for  several  moments  nobody  spoke.  I  was  somewhat  embarrassed,  and  finally,  realizing  that  she  might  not  have  seen  me  come  in,I  hesitantly  greeted  her.  She  turned  around  immediately,  and  returned  my  greeting  with  such  exag-  gerated  warmth  that  I  knew  she  was  acting.  'Then,  still  ignoring  the  Saw-  bwa,  she  challenged  me  to  a  game  of  badminton.  I  was  in  no  mood  for  bad-minton  just  before  dinner,  but  the  Saw-  bwa,  with  a  great  show  of  good  spirits,  urged  me  to  accept.  Ida  went  upstairs  to  change,  reappeared  in  a  disconcert-  ingly  attractive  costume  of  shorts  and  a  white  blouse,  and  gaily  swept  me  out  onto  the  court.  She  played  well  and  energetically,  but  I  did  not  really  have  my  mind  on  the  game.  I  kept  worrying  over  my  as-  signment  and  wondering  how  I  could  bring  up  the  subject  of  the  strike  in  a  properly  casual  manner.  I  had  also  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  strike  was  re-  sponsible  for  Ida's  coldness  toward  her  husband;  the  Sawbwa  had  been  giving  it  all  his  time  and  attention,  and  Ida,  who  was  only  a  child,  had  become  first  bored  and  then  resentful.  But  I  couldn't  think  of  anything  I  could  do  about  thet.  I  was  so  occupied  with  these  problems  that  I  lost  the  game,  and  my  appetite  as  well.  After  the  badminton,  Ida  seemed  more  cheerful.  We  returned  to  the  liv-  ing  room,  and  a  servant  appeared  with  a  basin  of  water  and  a  towel  for  me.  Before  going  upstairs  to  change,  Ida  came  over  and  dipped  her  hands  in  the  basin,  and  then,  to  my  embarrassment,  sprinkled  water  on  my  face  and  ran  off  giggling.  The  dinner  was  a  very  elab-  orate,  very  British  meal,  with  one  main  course  of  roast  beef  and  another  of  roast  chicken,  The  Sawbwa  chewed  slowly,  his  mouth  closed  and  a  slight  frown  be-  tween  his  thin  eyebrows.  I  always  had  the  impression  that  he  disliked  Western  dishes  and  ate  them  with  a  feeling  of  faint  nausea.  Ida,  on  the  other  hand,  had  a  hearty  appetite.  After  the  main  courses,  she  picked  up  two  slices  of  bread,  buttered  them  heavily,  and  ate  them  sandwich-fashion.  At  each  bite,  she  carefully  bared  her  front  teeth  to " b"avoid  smearing  her  lipstick.  She  spoke  only  to  me-chattering  about  her  good-  looking  Burmese  boy  friends,  the  won-  derful  times  she  had  had  in  Rangoon,  and  how  she  wished  that  the  Sawbwa  would  take  her  to  Europe.  When  the  cream  pudding  was  served,  I  realized  that  it  was  time  for  me  to  car-  ry  out  my  assignment,  and  I  began  to  perspire.  I  started  by  talking  about  what  fine  weather  we  had  been  having.  The  Sawbwa  agreed  with  me  and  expanded  on  the  subject.  Finally,  I  mentioned  the  possibility  of  a  picnic-a  topic  that  im-  mediately  set  Ida  off  on  a  series  of  remi-  niscences  about  picnics  on  which  she  had  had  to  fend  off  various  handsome  and  eager  suitors.  I  waited  politely  for  an-  other  opening,  and  at  last  blurted  out,  &quot;Why  don't  we  have  a  picnic  on  Ka-  chin  Mountain?&quot;  The  Sawbwa  understood  me  at  once.  &quot;An  excellent  idea!&quot;  he  cried.  Ida's  face  brightened.  For  the  first  time,  she  turned  to  the  Sawbwa  and  ad-  dressed  him  directly.  &quot;I  could  wear  my  new  slacks,  my  straw  sandals,  and  a  coolie  hat!&quot;  she  said.  The  Sawbwa  coughed  and  looked  at  me.  I  knew  he  wanted  her  to  wear  something  more  dignified,  since  making  an  offering  to  a  god  was  a  formal  occa-  sion.  Blushing  at  my  own  acting,  I  now  snapped  my  fingers  and  exclaimed  that  we  couldn't  possibly  have  a  picnic  on  Kachin  Mountain,  because  of  the  strike.  &quot;The  Kachins  might  make  a  pic-  nic  out  ofws,&quot;  I  said.  The  Sawbwa  agreed,  and  expressed  his  deep  regret.  This  was  the  point  at  which  I  had  orig-  inally  planned  to  snap  my  fingers,  but,  having  snapped  them  once,  I  could  see  no  advantage  in  doing  it  again.  So,  de-  prived  of  my  dramatic  flourish,  I  only  said  weakly,  &quot;Mrs.  Fang,  you  could  save  the  situation.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  Ida  asked.  &quot;You  could  render  the  state  a  great  service.&quot;  &quot;Service?  What  service?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  you  could  stop  the  Kachin  strike,&quot;  I  said,  doing  my  best  not  to  stammer.  &quot;You  could  represent  the  state  and  make  an  offering  to  the  Ka-  chin  god.&quot;  &quot;What  sort  of  offering?&quot;  Ida  asked,  her  face  going  blank.  &quot;Of  two  oxen  and  three  kowtows,&quot;  I  said  quickly.  &quot;I'm  sure  the  Kachins  would  be  very  happy  and  stop  the  strike.  You  would-&quot;  ''Yes,  yes,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  interrupted  eagerly.  &quot;'That's  why  you  should  wear  your  best  clothes,  darling  Ida.  The  blue  silk  gown  would  look  very  nice,  and-&quot;  You  mean  you  want  me  to  kowtow  " b"to  the  ugly  wooden  idol  of  a  bunch  of  savages?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Well,  yes,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  said,  &quot;but  only  so  we  can  have  our  picnic.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  just  sey  you  want  me  to  stop  the  strike?&quot;  Ida  said  heated-  ly.  &quot;You  always  treat  me  like  a  three-  year-old!  Now  I'll  xzever  go  to  your  old  mountain!  Oh,  I  hate  you!&quot;  She  flung  her  spoon  on  the  table  and  ran  upstairs.  The  Sawbwa  looked  at  me  and  shrugged  his  shoulders  sadly.  N  the  yamen  the  next  afternoon,  I  heard  voices  in  the  conference  hall  and  looked  in  to  see  what  was  going  on.  Half  a  dozen  Kachin  chiefs,  the  members  ofthe  special  delegation,  were  squatting  on  the  floor,  smoking  rustic  pipes  hewn  out  of  sections  of  full-grown  bamboo.  They  were  sun-baked,  brawny  fellows,  stripped  to  the  waist  and  dressed  in  blue  cotton  trousers  and  tur-  bans.  They  carried  long,  sheathed  swords  on  their  backs,  suspended  by  colorful  red,  blue,  and  white  hand-  woven  cords.  Mr.  Wu  was  talking  to  them  in  Kachin  dialect  while  Secretary  Yang  sat  stiffly  in  another  chair,  listen-  ing  and  smoking.  Presently,  Sawbwa  Fang  arrived,  followed  by  a  servant,  and  the  Kachins  all  rose  to  greet  him.  The  Sawbwa,  who  looked  businesslike,  and  even  confident,  nodded  to  them  and  indicated  that  they  could  sit  down  again.  Mr.  Wu  reported  that  the  Kachins  were  ready  to  accept  his  proposal  but  wanted  an  offering  of  four  oxen,  instead  of  two.  &quot;Tell  them,  we  will  offer  three  oxen,&quot;  the  Sawbwa  said.  &quot;My  wife-  my  first  wife,  that  is-will  bring  them  to  Kachin  Mountain  at  sunrise  tomor-  row.&quot;  Mr.  Wu  translated,  and  the  chiefs  immediately  began  grumbling  and  mur-  muring  among  themselves.  After  a  brief  discussion  with  the  Kachins,  Mr.  Wu  turned  to  the  Sawbwa  and  said,  &quot;''They  say  that  if  it  is  to  be  Old  Lady  Fang  who  brings  the  offering,  then  it  must  be  siv  oxen.&quot;  The  Sawbwa  coughed  angrily  behind  his  handkerchief  and  then  rubbed  his  forehead  for  a  moment.  &quot;My  first  wife  will  bring  four  oxen  and  make  six  kow-  tows  to  the  god,&quot;  he  said.  There  was  more  translation  and  murmuring,  and  finally  Mr.  Wu  said,  &quot;They  will  settle  for  five  oxen  and  three  kowtows.&quot;  The  Sawbwa,  looking  tired,  nodded.  &quot;All  right,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  impa-  tiently.  &quot;Tell  them  to  resume  work  to-  morrow.&quot;  He  turned  to  his  servant. 'Tell  Old  Lady  Fang  that  I  want  her" b"to  make  an  offering  of  five  oxen  at  the  i  shrine  of  the  Kachin  god  at  five  o'clock  tomorrow  morning.  Minister  Wu  will  tell  her  what  to  do.  A  sedan  chair  will  be  dispatched  to  her  to  take  her  to  the  mountain.&quot;  After  the  servant  had  bowed  and  gone  out,  Sawbwa  Fang  rose  and  re-  tired  to  his  private  office.  The  Kachin  chiefs  smoked  one  more  pipeful  of  to-  bacco  and  left,  apparently  satisfied.  Back  in  my  office,  I  wondered  what  would  happen  if  OldLady  Fang  also  refused  to  go,  but  this  fear  proved  groundless.  The  oxen  were  turned  over  to  the  chiefs,  the  Old  Lady  made  three  elegant  kowtows,  and  the  Kachins  went  back  to  planting  at  once.  All  the  tung  sprouts,  including  those  planted  before  the  strike,  withered  and  died  a  few  days  later.  After  this,  Saw-  bwa  Fang  showed  much  less  interest  in  his  modernization  program,  and  rarely  even  took  rides  in  his  Buick.  He  spent  a  great  dealof  his  time  with  Ida,  and  offi-  cials  in  the  yamen  told  me,  with  evident  relief,  that  life  in  Mangshih  seemed  al-  most  as  lazy  and  old-fashioned  as  it  had  been  before  the  Sawbwa  took  a  new  wife."