 b"I OWN,  as  nearly  as I can  com- pute  it,  some  10,365,025,000  head  of  livestock,  or  sayten  bil-  lion  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  mil-  lion,  in  rounder  figures.  This  is  quite  a  responsibility,  and  there  are  times  when  I  wonder  whether,  with  only  a  quarter-acre  plot  of  ordinary  British  land  to  my  name,  I  can  continue  to  support  them.  My  herd  of  springtails  cannot  be  less  than  fifteen  million  strong.  They  have  a  forked  springing  organ  that  enables  them  to  jump  the  equivalent,  in  man,  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  yards,  and  the  abdomen  is  absolutely  distinctive  in  hav-  ing  only  six  segments.  Thus  they  are  easily  recognizable  and  can  be  picked  out  at  once  from  my  ten  billion  three  hundred  and  fifty  million  other  charges.  With  patience,  that  is.  I  have  not  yet,     as  a  matter  of  fact,  seen  one  of  them,  although  if  put  end  to  end  they  would  cover,  without  jumping,  a  distance  of  eighty-three  thousand  yards.  Spring-  tails  are  small  thysanuran  insects  belong-  ing  to  the  suborder  Collembola,  and  there  is  no  doubt  that  I  have  plenty  of  them.  Dr.  E.  B.  Ford,  a  considerable  entomologist  and  no  mean  enumerator,  has  found  that  an  acre  of  meadowland  contains  about  two  hundred  and  thirty  million  springtails  in  the  top  nine-inch  layer.  (Dr.  Ford's  figure  is  quoted  by  Dr.  A.  D.  Irams  in  his  &quot;Insect  Natural  History.&quot;  Sir  E.  John  Russell,  F.R.S.,  in  &quot;The  World  of  the  Soil,&quot;  gives  two  hundred  and  eighty  million.  But  I  fol-  low  Ford.)  Roughly  a  thirdof  my  plot-say  a  twelfth  of  an  acre-is  mown  meadowland,  'This  gives  me,  by  simple  division,  upward  of  nineteen  million,  but  I  have  knocked  off  four  million  for  modesty.  I  doubt  whether  I  have  more  than  twenty-five  or  thirty  thousand  earth-  worms,  taking  an  average  based  on  the  approximations  given  in  Sir  John  Rus-  sell's  book  for  population  per  acre  of  &quot;permanent  pastures,  leys,  first  year  arable  and  fifth  year  arable,&quot;  respective-  ly.  That  partof  my  garden  which  is  not  ley  (sown  pastureland,  in  my  coun-  try  )is  twenty-fourth-year  arable,  so  the  calculation  is  rough.  I  do  not  see,  though,  that  such  digging  as  I  do  can  disturb  my  earthworms  much.  Those  I  come  across  I  always  put  back,  and  the  robin  that  lives  here  is  not  insatiable.  My  worms  are  a  useful  lot,  putting  de-  caying  leaves  away  and  aerating  the  soil  to  the  best  of  their  ability.  I  like  them  all,  except  perhaps  the  thin  scarlet  kind  that  live  under  bricks  rosea?  ),  and  I  am  sorry  not  to  have  realized,  until  I  read  Sir  John's  book,  that  the  livid  welt  some  of  them  display  is  not  the  place  where  two  halves  have  rejoined  but  a  sign  of  sexual  maturity.  If  I  have  stared,  it  was  in  ignorance.  The  number  of  nematodes  and  ar-  thropods  that  live  here  is  out  of  all  reason.  They  should  take  a  leaf  out  of  the  book  of  the  enchytracids,  which  scarcely  exceed  fifty  thousand  per  square  metre,  or  say  fifty  million  in  all  on  this  ranch.  Enchytracids  are  smallish  worms-about  five  millimetres  long.  Big  ones  may  beten  millimetres,  but  the  whole  tribe  is  very  susceptible  to  drought  and  &quot;few  live  to  attain  their  maximum  growth.&quot;  Enchytraeid  lovers  should  keep  the  hose  going  in  dry  spells.  I  like  to  think  when  I  am  out  there  watering  that  tens  of  millions  of  these  defenseless  creatures  will  live  to  bless  my  name.  I  shall  do  nothing  whatever  to  sustain  my  nematodes,  which  are  only  eelworms,  when  all  is  said,  and  can  survive  for  long  periods  without  water.  They  are  about  one-fiftieth  of  an  inch  long  or  more,  have  as  many  as  six  lips  in  some  species,  and  run  to  twenty  million  per  square  metre  on  grassland  and  a  million  or  so  on  cultivated  land.  A  Dane  called  C.  Overgaard  Nielsen  totted  them  up  on  his  place  in  Jutland,  and  I  accept  his  results  without  question.  (Nielsen's  figures,  however  impressive,  do  not  startle  Sir  E.  John  Russell.  &quot;It  may  seem  strange,&quot;  he  remarks  ina  com-  ment  on  Nielsen's  painstaking  count,  &quot;that  the  numbers  of  free-living  nema-  todes  are  not  larger.&quot;)  Making  every  allowance  for  differences  in  soil,  mois-  ture,  and  so  on,  between  Nielsen's  plot  and  mine,  I  cannot  possibly  have  fewer  than  ten  billion  nematodes,  each  " b"with  a  muscular  esophagus  in  addition  to  all  those  lips.  Of  arthropods,  excluding  springtails,  I  have  to  feed  and  water  not  much  under  three  hundred  million,  most  of  them  mites.  I  also  keep  a  good  mixed  assortment  of  wireworms,  slugs,  snails,  clickbeetles,  lice,  hymenop-  tera,  and  so  on,  butnot  enough  to  upsetthe  ecology  hereabouts.  Taking  one  crea-  ture  with  another,  my  esti-  mate  of  ten  billion  three  hundred-odd  million  for  the  lot  seems  fair  and  reasonable.  These  are  all  sizable  animals,  visible  to  the  naked  eye.  Not  one  of  them  is  a  mere  micro-  organism.  Many  of  them,  as  the  name  &quot;arthropod&quot;  im-  plies,  have  jointed  feet.  Countless  millions  have  nerv-  ous  systems.  I  think  they  can  scarcely  have  hearts  beating  away  out  there  beneath  the  grass  and  the  delphiniums,  or  the  noise  would  be  deafening.  But  they  are  all  animals  tangible,  mobile,  hungry  ani-  mals-and  the  thought  of  their  numbers  fills  me  with  pride  and  awe.  I  have  deliberately  ignored  protozoa.  Such  minute  or-  ganisms  as  the  amoeba  and  the  long-tailed  flagellate,  which  when  magnified  fif-  teen  hundred  times  only  measure  an  inch  or  so  across,  or  the  giant  rhizopod,  so  vague,  tenuous,  and  amorphous  a  crea-  turethat  even  when  it  is  big  enough  for  you  to  see  it,  you  can't-these  are  neither  here  nor  there.  I  did,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  from  a  hint  or  two  dropped  by  Sir  John  Russell,  calculate  that  there  are  perhaps  eighteen  billion  giant  rhizopods  knocking  about  my  compound,  but  it  made  no  impression  on  me.  Amoebae  and  flagellates,  for  those  who  like  to  get  the  full  picture  of  my  tiny  suburban  pleasance,  are  even  less  significant.  The  experts  prefer,  understandably,  to  estimate  the  pop-  ulation  of  these  organisms  by  weight  rather  than  numbers.  They  come  out  together  at  something  under  forty  pounds  per  quarter  acre.  I  could  put  the  whole  lot  in  a  sack  and  pick  them  up  singlehanded.  CURIOUS  feature  of  the  dis-  covery  that  one  has  tem  billion  ani-  mals  in  one's  garden,  not  counting  pro-  21     &quot;If  a  camp  can't  get  Channel  Nine,  I  think  they  ought  to  say  so  before  a  person  comes  all  the  way  up  here.&quot;  tozoa,  is  that  when  one  passes  the  information  on  to  one's  neighbors  (who  have  similar-sized  plots,  presumably  not  less  richly  blessed),  they  do  not  readily  kindle.  &quot;Fancy!&quot;  they  say.  There  is  some  failure  of  the  imagination  here.  People  often  find  difficulty,  I  think,  in  visualizing  aggregations  of  more  than  a  few  hundred  thousand  individuals.  It  is  not  easy  to  get  a  clear  picture  of  fifteen  million  springtails.  I  have  therefore  been  at  pains  to  measure  the  treading  area  of  my  shod  foot.  It  is  38.5  square  inches.  Sir  John  may  think  it  strange  that  itis  not  larger,  but  that  is  how  it  works  out.  There  are  1,568,160  square  inches  in  a  quarter  acre,  and  asimple  calculation  shows  that  my  foot  goes  into  my  garden  rather  more  than  forty  thousand  times.  IfI  now  make  the  assumption  that  all  my  livestock  are  evenly  distributed  about  the  garden  according  to  their  kinds,  the  reader  will  begin  to  see  where  we  are  heading.  I  can  reckon  that  every  time  I  put  my  foot  down  outside  the  house,  it  presses  heavily  upon:  400  springtails  five-eighths  of  an  earthworm  1,250  enchytraeids  7,500  arthropods  tails),  and  250,000  nematodes  (excluding  spring-  plus,  if  you  wish,  450,000  giant  rhizo-  pods  and  one  sixty-fourth  of  an  ounce  of  mixed  flagellates  and  amoebae.  Read-  ers  with  size  10s  should  increase  these  figures  by  twenty-five  per  cent.  Or  they  may  prefer  to  move  into  an  apartment."