 b"ONCE  upon  a  time,there  was  a country  so  large  that  mes-  sengers  journeying  from  the  capital  to  the  frontier  were  often  never  heard  from  again.  The  royal  palace  was  immense,  the  palace  grounds  oc-  cupied  thousands  of  acres,  and  rescue  parties  had  to  be  sent  out  to  locate  im-  portant  personages  who  had  got  con-  fused  and  lost  their  way  in  the  rose  garden.  The  King's  guard  was  made  up  entirely  of  menwho  were  seven  feet  tall,  and  the  horses  that  drew  his  enor-  mous  gilded  coach  were  as  broad  as  Percherons.  And  the  courtiers  often  had  trouble  staying  awake  during  the  King's  witty  remarks,  which,  like  his  gestures,  were  modelled  on  those  of  his  royal  father,  known  in  history  books  as  Charles  the  Ponderous.  At  court  con-  certs,  the  program  listed  various  sym-  phonies,  concertos,  divertiment  for  strings  and  oboe,  quartets,  quintets,  and  what  have  you,  but  the  musicians  played  only  the  largo  and  lento  movements,  omittingboth  the  allegro  vivace  at  the  beginning  and  the  presto  at  the  end,  in  the  belief  that  they  were  impossible  to  play  and  would  no  doubt  be  nerve-  racking  to  have  to  hear.  At  the  court  balls,  there  was  an  interval  of  an  hour  or  so  between  minuets,  during  which  the  dancers  fanned  themselves  and  re-  covered  their  breath.  A  simple  audience  with  the  King  went  on  all  day,  with-  out  accomplishing  anything.  The  royal  proclamations,  read  in  every  square  and  market  place  in  the  kingdom,  took  up  so  much  time  and  were  so  packed  with  polysyllabic  words  of  Latin  derivation  that  when  the  inhabitants  were  free  to  return  to  their  plows  and  shoemaker's  benches,  their  looms  and  churns  and  shops,  they  found  that  their  minds  were  slow  and  listless,  and  very  little  work  was  done  in  this  once  prosperous  king-  dom.  The  imports  exceeded  the  exports  by  several  milliards  of  pounds  sterling,  and  the  currency  was  so  inflated  that  arithmetic  was  no  longer  useful  in  set-  tling  accounts  and  bookkeepers  had  to  resort  to  differential  calculus  and  a  slide  rule.  It  took  the  King  a  long  time  to  real-  ize  that  something  was  wrong  and  an-  other  five  years  to  consider  carefully  what  he  ought  to  do  about  it.  The  council  of  state  had  not  met  since  his  father's  time,  and  when  it  finally  con-  vened,  at  his  order,  the  King's  opening  remarks  took  three  weeks,  after  which  the  council  adjourned  and  met  again  in  the  following  autumn.  The  chancel-  lor  of  the  exchequer  estimated  expendi-  tures  for  the  next  nine  years  at  rather  more  than  thirty  times  expenditures  for  the  past  nine  years,  and  revenues  at  one  one-hundredth  of  expenditures.  'The  evening  papers  reported  that  in  general  the  chancellor's  tone  was  optimistic  and  appeared  to  satisfy  the  King  and  coun-  cil.  During  the  next  three  days  the  members  of  the  council  rose,  one  after  another,  and  begged  for  afurther  ad-  journment,  on  the  ground  that  they  needed  time  and  statisticians  to  con-  sider  the  difficulty  that  had  been  placed  before  them.  'The  only  dissenting  voice  was  that  of  the  royal  astronomer,  who,  with  long,  long  pauses  after  each  word, said,  &quot;My  lord,  the  stars  are  moving  much  more  quickly  than  they  used  to,  or  else  we  are  mov-  ing  more  slowly,  and  it  is  my  opinion  that  the  root  of  the  trouble  lies-&quot;  &quot;Louder!&quot;  called  a  voice  at  the  back  of  the  council  chamber,  which  held  five  thousand  people.  &quot;We  can't  hear  you  back  here.&quot;  &quot;No  one  knows  exactly  what  day  of  the  week  it  is,&quot;  the  astronomer  said.  &quot;And  speaking  for  myself,  I  cannot  say  that  I  am  even  sure  of  the  month.  Every  year  the  earth  grows  more  out  of  touch  with  the  sky.&quot;  &quot;In  your  royal  father's  time,&quot;  the  astronomer  continued,  when  the  coun-  cil  convened  the  next  morning,  &quot;many  people  had  watches  and  could  tell  the  time  of  day,  and  the  clever  ones  were  able  to  keep  track  of  what  day  of  the  week  it  was,  and  even  to  predict  more  or  less  accurately  the  end  of  one  month  and  the  beginning  of  another.  It  is  my  opinion  that  we  should,  with  Your  Majesty's  approval  and  encouragement,  construct  a  timepiece.&quot;  &quot;But  if  there  were  so  many  watches  in  our  father's  reign,  why  construct  one?&quot;  said  the  King.  &quot;There  must  still  bea  timepiece  somewhere.&quot;  &quot;Your  Majesty,&quot;  said  the  astrono-  mer,  &quot;Ihave  inquired  exhaustively  into  the  matter,  and  while  itis  true  that  here  and  there,  in  remote  districts,  itis  still  possible  to  locate  a  timepiece,  they  have  not  been  wound  for  decades,  the  works  are  corrodedwith  rust,  and  they  do  not  keep  time  at  all,  let  alone  the  precise  mathematical  time  that  would  serve  our  present  purposes.  What  we  need,  in  my  humble  opinion,  is  a  watch  that  can  be  wound  and  will  run.&quot;  &quot;We  seem  to  remember  a  watch  heavily  encrusted  with  jewels  that  was  presented  to  us  by  a  visiting  potentate,&quot;  said  the  King,  &quot;on  our  tenth  birthday.  But  it  was  all  so  long  ago.  No  doubt  that  watch  has  been  mislaid.&quot;  The  chancellor  of  the  exchequer  rose  and  stated  categorically  that  the  watch  in  question  had  not  been  mislaid.  &quot;I  cannot  put  my  hand  on  it  at  a  moment's  notice,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I  know  I  saw  it  listed  in  a  survey  of  the  royal  assets,  five  or  ten  years  ago.&quot;  &quot;If  it  was  listed  in  the  survey,&quot;  the  King  said,  &quot;then  it  must  be  somewhere.  In  the  sub-basement  of  the  treasury,  perhaps.  But  I  dare  say  that,  like  the  others,  it  has  grown  rusty.  But  tell  me,&quot;  he  said,  turning  back  to  the  as-  tronomer,  &quot;were  not  the  watches  that  people  carried  during  the  reign  of  our  father  very  small-so  small  they  could  be  carried  in  a  man's  vest  pocket?  And  were  not  the  works  flimsy?  And  did  " b"not  these  watches  have  to  be  wound  once  a  day?&quot;  &quot;Even  so,  Your  Maj-  esty.  The  cases  were  sometimes  of  silver  and  gold,  but  the  works  that  hurried  the  hour  and  the  minute  hand  round  and  round  and  in  this  way  in-  dicated  the  rushing  of  time  were  exceedingly  delicate,  and  the  watches  had  to  be  wound  once  a  day,  preferably  at  bed-  time.&quot;  &quot;That's  what  we  thought,&quot;  said  the  King.  &quot;And  if  you  dropped  one  of  these  watches,  did  it  not  break,  and  have  to  be  left  at  the  watch-  mender's  for  weeks  at  a  time  while  it  was  being  repaired,  with  the  result  that  the  person  or  persons  who  carried  it  had  no  way  of  telling  the  time?&quot;  &quot;There  was  that  diffi-  culty,&quot;  the  astronomer  admitted.  &quot;And  would  be  again,  unless  we  con-  structed  an  alternate  watch,  to  be  referred  to  on  those  occasions  when-&quot;  &quot;It  seems  hardly  fit-  ting  that  a  kingdom  the  size  of  this  be  run  according  to  an  instrument  so  unde-  pendable  and  so  unimpressive,&quot;  said  the  King.  &quot;If  you  are  truly  convinced  that  a  watch  will  bring  the  earth  closer  to  the  sky  and,  incidentally,  improve  the  con-  dition  of  the  treasury,  then  we  will  con-  struct  a  watch  and  see  that  all  civil,  ec-  clesiastical,  and  court  activities  conform  to  it.  But  we  will  construct  this  timepiece  of  some  appropriate  material.  Something  solid,  durable,  and  rustproof,  that  will  not  need  tinkering  with  or  constant  winding.  Let  the  watch  be  constructed  of  marble.&quot;  HE  construction  of  a  marble  watch,  the  first  ever  attempted,  so  far  as  anybody  knows,  went  on  without  interruption,  diligently,  for  fifteen  years,  during  which  time  the  inhabitants  of  the  kingdom  grew  threadbare,  and  the  treasury  used  up  its  last  resources  on  the  quarrying  and  cutting  of  snow-white  stone.  The  court  astronomer  had  a  nervous  breakdown  and  was  replaced  by  his  assistant,  who  in  turn  died  of  a  broken  heart.  The  work  was  carried  on  byone  person  and  another  up  until  the  very  day  the  kingdom  was  invaded  by  an  army  from  one  of  the  very  small  but  active  neighboring  kingdoms.  The  enemy  troops  were  in  possession  of  the  capital  before  the  people  realizedthat  their  country  had  been  invaded.  The  King  escaped  with  his  life  and  the  blue-  prints  of  the  great  Timepiece.  He  hid  first  in  the  hut  of  a  fisherman  on  the  shore  of  a  lake  so  broad  that  even  on  a  clear  day  you  couldnot  see  the  op-  posite  shore.  Then  he  was  sheltered  by  a  charcoal  burner  whose  hut  was  in  the  shadow  of  a  mountain  so  tall  that  the  snow-covered  peak  was  usually  hidden  by  clouds.  And  finally  he  was  driven  to  accept  the  hospitality  of  a  poor  poacher  who  lived  by  snaring  rabbits  in  a  wood  so  dense  that  no  man  had  ever  pene-  trated  more  than  halfway  through  it.  In  the  course  of  these  successive  flights,  the  King  lost  weight,  learned  to  move  quickly,toeat  and  sleep  in  snatches,  and  to  speak  sometimes  with  admi-  rable  conciseness,  on  the  run.  Sincethere  was  no  court,  there  were  no  courtproc-  lamations  that  needed  composing,  The  poachers  wife  and  daughter  were  busy  with  their  own  affairs,  which  were  never  affairs  of  state,  and  so  he  could  not  offer  his  opinion  about  the  way  they  were  conducted.  The  occasional  mes-  sengers  and  spies  brought  only  discour-  aging  news,  and  the  King  devoted  him-  self  to  the  study  of  natural  history.  Many  of  the  birds  and  beasts  that  he  watched  were,  he  couldnot  help  notic-  ing,  extremely  small,  and  some  of  the  insects  were  so  minute  that  they  might  easily  have  served  as  parts  of  the  old-  fashioned  watches  that  people  carried  during  the  reign  of  his  father.  Even  so,  it  appeared  that  by  their  smallness  and  quickness  they  were  often  able  to  escape  from  or  defend  themselves  against  their  natural  enemies.  The  ants  particularly  commanded  the  King's  respect  and  at-  tention.  After  observing  them  for  some  time,  he  settled  the  question  of  the  royal  succession  by  marrying  the  poacher's  quite  charming  daughter,  and  thereby  rid  himself  of  the  only  one  of  his  prob-  lems  that  was  at  all  pressing.  After  a  short  interval,  a  mere  nine  or  ten  months,  she  presented  him  with  a  son,  and  during  the  baptism  of  the  Heir  Apparent  at  a  forest  spring  a  mes-  senger  arrived  with  mud  on  his  boots  and  his  horse  in  a  lather.  The  enemy--  never,  it  seemed,  very  large  in  num-  ber-had  grown  weary  of  subjugating  so  inactive  a  country,  had  provoked  a  war  with  another  small  neighboring  state,  and  had  not  been  heard  of  for  nearly  six  months.  It  was  presumed  that  " b"either  they  had  been  defeated  in  battle  and  perhaps  perished  or  else  they  had  simply  got  lost  somewhere  between  the  capital  and  the  frontier  and  were  wan-  dering  around,  helpless  and  incapable  of  further  harm.  At  all  events,  there  was  no  longer  any  reason  why  the  King  should  not  return  and  rule  over  his  people.  Unfortunately,  the  messenger  added,  the  enemy's  last  outrageous  act  before  they  departed  on  their  warlike  expedition  had  been  to  pull  down  the  royal  palace,  but  the  Royal  College  of  Architects  was  already  at  work  on  the  design  fora  new  palace  that  would  far  surpass,  in  size  and  splendor,  the  one  that  had  been  destroyed.  The  King  and  Queen  and  Heir  Ap-  parent  travelled  all  the  way  through  crowds  that  were  half  naked  but  not  listless,  and  that  indeed  often  cheered  quite  energetically.  The  King  pitched  a  tent  in  the  rose  garden,  now  over-  grown  with  brambles,  and  sent  for  the  College  of  Architects.  Together  they  went  through  the  plans  for  the  new  palace,  while  the  Queen  looked  over  the  King's  shoulder.  &quot;Much  too  extensive,&quot;  he  said,  as-  tonishing  everyone  by  the  quickness  of  his  decision  and  the  brevity  with  which  it  was  conveyed.  &quot;By  your  own  least  conservative  estimate,  the  quarrying  and  cutting  of  that  much  marble  will  take  fifty  years.  Possibly  longer.  I  am  not  a  young  man  and  this  tent  leaks.  Since  it  is  traditional  that  the  king  live  in  a  mar-  ble  palace,  I  must,  I  suppose,  follow  the  custom  of  my  ancestors,  though  wood,  I  have  recently  discov-  ered,  is  easier  to  heat  and  less  clammy  on  damp  days-  Did  the  enemy  car-  ry  watches?&quot;  &quot;No,  Your  Majesty,&quot;  said  the  Architect  Royal.  &quot;They  were  so  quick  in  everything  they  did  that  they  seemed  not  to  know  or  care  what  time  it  was.&quot;  &quot;The  great  Timepiece  was  not  de-  stroyed  along  with  the  palace?&quot;  The  Architect  Royal  shook  his  head.  &quot;'There  was  talk  of  destroying  it,  but  the  cnemy  general  paida  visit  to  the  site  of  this  magnificent  experiment  and  was  so  impressed  that  he  said,  'Let  it  be.  If  we  destroy  it,  nobody  will  ever  believe  that  people  are  as  foolish  as  they  really  are.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  said  the  King,  and  for  sev-  eral  minutes  he  remained  deep  in  thought.  At  last  he  roused  himself  and  said,  &quot;Fine.  There  ought  to  be  just  enough  marble  in  that  uncompleted  watch  to  construct  a  palace  the  size  of  the  poacher's  hut,  for  which  Her  Maj-  esty  is,  quite  naturally,  homesick.  A     week  ought  to  be  ample  time  for  draw-  ing  up  the  plans  and  executing  them.  And  if  you  can  locate  an  ant's  nest,  will  you  transport  that  also  to  the  palace  courtyard,  and  then  goon  about  your  business.&quot;  [REDACTED]  this,  being  the  King's  decree,  was  done,  and  in  no  time  at  all  the  want  of  equilibrium  between  ex-  ports  and  imports  was  a  thing  of  the  past.  At  court  concerts,  musical  compo-  sitions  were  played  straight  through  from  beginning  to  end.  At  court  balls,  the  minuet  gave  way  to  the  waltz  and  the  mazurka.  The  Queen  got  over  her  homesickness,  and  the  King,  observing  the  ant  colony  whenever  he  had  some  decision  of  great  moment  to  make,  soon  brought  on  an  era  of  such  prosperity  that  he  is  referred  to  in  all  the  history  books  as  &quot;Charles  the  Expediter&quot;  and  by  the  common  people,  affectionately,  as  &quot;Charles  the  Flea.&quot;  NCE  upon  a  time,  there  was  a  half-crazy  woman  who  lived  off  the  leavings  of  other  people,  who  shook  their  heads  when  they  saw  her  com-  ing,  and  tried  not  to  get  in  conversa-  tion  with  her.  They  wanted  to  be  kind,  but  there  is  a  limit  to  kindness,  and  the  half-crazy  woman  was  so  distracted  that  anyone  listening  to  her  began  to  feel  half  crazy,  too.  Since  people  avoided  her,  she  talked  to  any  stray  dog  or  cat  that  came  along,  and  sometimes  even  to  theold  willow  tree  that  grew  by  her  door,  One  autumn  eve-  ning  when  the  weight  around  her  heart  was  too  heavy  to  bear,  she  went  outside  to  the  sty  where  she  kept  her  thin,  disgrun-  tled  pig  and  said  sorrow-  fully,  &quot;Pig,  you  won't  die  of  hunger,  will  you?&quot;  The  pig  said,  &quot;No,  I  won't  die  of  hunger.&quot;  \xc2\xabThank  you  for  that,&quot;  the  half-crazy  woman  said,  but  she  was  not  satisfied.  The  pig  hadhad  nothing  to  eat  for  three  days.  She  went  back  into  the  house  and  saw  the  fire  burning  low  on  the  hearth  and  said,  &quot;Fire,  you  won't  go  out,  will  you?&quot;  The  fire  said,  &quot;No,  I  won't  go  out.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  for  that,&quot;  the  half-  crazy  woman  said,  and  tried  not  to  worry,  even  though  there  was  only  an  armful  of  faggots  to  last  all  night.  But  then  she  remembered  the  bread  baking  in  the  oven.  She  opened  the  oven  door  and  looked  in  and  saw  the  loaf  baking  from  the  heat  of  the  stones  in  the  chimney  and  thought,  What  if  I  should  forget  to  take  it  out?  What  if  the  loaf  should  burn?  She  said  anxiously,  &quot;Loaf,  you  won't  burn,  will  you?&quot;  The  loaf  said,  &quot;No,  I  won't  burn.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  for  that,&quot;  the  half-crazy  woman  said,  and  thought,  Now  I  have  nothing  to  trouble  me.  But  the  wind,  rising,  shook  the  walls  and  rattled  the  door  of  her  poor  cottage,  and  so  she  lit  a  candle  and  went  up  the  ladder  that  led  to  the  attic.  The  attic  was  low  and  she  could  barely  stand  up-  right.  She  heard  the  wind  straining  at  the  eaves  and  thought  how  old  the  house  was,  and  how  poorly  built,  and  she  put  her  hand  up  and  said,  &quot;Roof  over  my  head,  you  won't  blow  away,  will  you?&quot;  The  roof  said,  &quot;No,  I  won't  blow  away.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Thank  you  for  that,&quot;  the  half-crazy  woman  said,  and  tried  to  feel  happy,  but  happiness  doesn't  come  for  the  asking,  and  there  was  a  musty  smell  in  the  attic  that  she  couldn't  account  for.  It  was  not  the  smell  of  old  clothes,  or  of  dust,  or  of  leather,  exactly,  but  something  of  all  of  these  things,  and  it  added  to  the  weight  around  her  heart.  It  must  be  the  smell  of  Death,  she  thought,  and  in  that  very  instant  felt  his  presence  there,  in  her  empty  attic.  He  was  standing  behind  her,  close  enough  to  make  the  hairs  on  the  back  of  her  neck  stiffen  and  rise.  &quot;Death,  you  won't  ever  leave  me,  will  you?&quot;  she  cried,  and  was  frightened  at  the  sound  of  her  own  words.  No,  I  won't  ever  leave  you,&quot;  Death  said.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  worry.  Go  downstairs  and  take  the  loaf  out  of  the  oven  before  it  burns  and  throw  some  wood  on  the  fire  before  it  goes  out  and  feed  thepig  before  it  dies  of  hunger.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  for  that,&quot;  the  half-crazy  woman  said,  and  climbed  down  the  lad-  der  and  took  the  loaf,  which  was  a  gold-  en  brown,  out  of  the  oven,  and  threw  some  faggots  on  the  fire,  which  blazed  up  brightly,  and  took  some  meat  scraps  that  she  had  been  saving  for  her  own  supper  out  to  the  pig.  The  wind  had  died  down  suddenly,  and  the  half-crazy  woman  saw  that  it  was  going  to  be  a  calm  clear  night  with  millions  of  stars  in  the  heavens.  She  found  a  stick  and  scratched  the  pig's  back  until  it  grunted  with  pleasure.  Then  she  went  into  the  house  and  cut  a  slice  from  the  warm  loaf  and  ate  it  by  the  fire.  The  weight  was  gone  from  around  her  heart.  She  thought  of  the  presence  waiting  in  the  attic  and  listened  but  there  was  no  sound.  The  house  was  still.  And  the  half-crazy  woman  knew  for  the  first  time  what  itis  to  have  peace  of  mind.  "