 b"DRIVING  home  to  Swann  Cove,  with  the  sunset  fading  behind  him,  Rugby  [REDACTED]  was  an-  noyed  by  the  billboards  that  here  and  there  spoiled  the  beauty  of  the  Dorset  coast.  Most  of  them  advertised  soap  or  custard  powders,  but  one  announced  a  new  tubeless  tire,  and  another  an  all-  purpose  plastic.  Rugby  had  worked  along  both  these  lines  at  one  time,  but  without  commercial  success.  &quot;All  the  same,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  &quot;my  own  things  have  brought  in  a  nice  little  in-  come  for  nearly  twenty  years.&quot;  Rugby  was  not,  as  he  would  some-  times  but  not  always  explain,  a  scientist.  &quot;Just  an  inventor,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;We  count  only  as  ingenious  mechanics  now-  adays.&quot;  Perhaps  Rugby  passed  rather  too  lightly  over  the  difference  between  these  days  and  those  days.  He  had  had  two  quite  brilliant  ideas  when  he  was  still  at  [REDACTED]-an  improved  cooling  system  for  marine  motors,  and  an  improved  rust-resistant  paint.  After  the  war,  he  had  worked  on  a  wide  vari-  ety  of  projects,  many  of  which  might  have  been  quite  interesting  twenty  years  earlier.  All  the  same,  he  still  drew  his  nice  little  income.  What's  more,  he  was  driving  a  convertible  Bentley  that  was  not  yet  three  months  old.  A  new  con-  vertible  Bentley  goes  very  well  with  a  nice  income,  butnot  with  a  little  one.  At  about  the  same  hour,  Julius  Cleg-  horn  was  approaching  Swann  Cove,  but  he  was  coming  from  [REDACTED]  and  by  the  inland  road.  Julius  was  an  extremely  junior  partner  in  a  firm  of  architects  only  just  enough  of  a  partner  to  have  been  able  recently  to  start  leaving  early  on  Friday  afternoons.  This  permitted  him  to  arrive  at  the  43616e616461s'  house  in  time  for  dinner,  and  all  the  spring  he  had  been  spending  his  Saturdays  and  Sundays  with  these  new  friends  of  his,  scraping  and  sandpapering  and  finally  launching  their  sailboat,  getting  it  ready  for  the  summer  sailing.  Julius  could  not  be  called  handsome,  his  features  being  rather  snub.  Never-  theless,  his  neck,  which  was  thick,  had  taken  on  a  warm  tan  as  he  worked  un-  der  the  low  sun  of  March  and  April,  and  it  was  covered,  like  his  arms,  which  were  also  thick,  with  a  flaxen  fuzz.  Al-  though  there  was  really  no  resemblance,  this  sometimes  reminded  people  of  the  down  on  a  peach.  There  was  also  some-  thing  rather  flushed  and  fruity  about  his  cheeks  and  his  mouth.  Altogether,  he  was  a  very  edible-looking  young  man.  Now,  as  he  drove  over  the  rolling  ridges  on  the  little  side  road  that  at  last  ran  down  to  the  cliffs  of  Swann  Cove,  Julius  was  tempted  to  shout  with  pleas-  ure.  The  light  was  going  fast.  The  sea  tilted  up  into  his  windscreen.  At  first  it  was  like  a  peacock-blue  mountain,  and  then  like  an  indigo  cloud.  Little  drops  of  melting  gold  appeared  trembling  on  the  disappearing  headlands,  and  before  he  got  to  the  bottom  of  the  hill,  he  had  to  switch  on  his  lights.  The  43616e616461s'  drive  ran  close  to  the  edge  of  the  low  cliff,  from  which  it  was  separated  byan  enormous  hedge  ofarborvitae.  A  warm  updraft  brought  the  smell  of  salt  and  seaweed  through  the  spicy  leaves,  and  Julius  felt  quite  drunk  for  a  moment  at  the  thought  of  the  delicate  double-ended  Swedish  ketch  that  lay  awaiting  him  at  its  mooring  just  below.  The  next  moment,  he  was  in  front  of  the  house.  The  front  door  opened  as  he  ran  up  the  steps;  the  maid  had  seen  his  headlights  on  the  drive.  It  is  always  agreeable  not  to  have  to  ring  and  wait.  &quot;Here  I  am,  Emily!&quot;  he  cried  to  her.  &quot;Late  again,  you  see!&quot;  The  square  hall,  which  had  rather  stood  on  the  dignity  of  its  Jacobean  panelling  on  the  occasion  of  his  first  visit,  now  offered  Julius  the  casual  wel-  come  of  an  intimate  friend.  It  even  went  so  far  as  to  breathe  a  hint  of  beef  roasting  for  dinner.  &quot;Dinner's  not  quite  ready  yet,  sir.  Mrs.  [REDACTED]'s  still  upstairs,  I  think.  Can  I  take  your  bag?&quot;  &quot;Don't  bother.  I  know  the  way.  Same  room,  I  suppose?&quot;  Julius  ran  upstairs  and  marched  into  the  room  that  had  been  his  on  all  the  previous  weekends.  He  was  hap-  pily  surprised  to  find  Maria  [REDACTED]  in  the  actof  putting  a  bowl  of  cowslips  on  the  table  between  the  windows.  Julius  dropped  his  bag  on  the  floor,  strode  over,  and  enfolded  his  hostess  in  a  bearlike  hug.  Some  young  women  like  bears,  or  hugs,  or  both.  Others,  for  one  reason  or  another,  do  not  invite  such  exuberant,  though  often  quite  innocent,  contacts.  Had  Julius  not  enjoyed  his  drive  so  much,  had  he  not  seen  the  sea  dissolving  into  its  living  darkness,  and  smelled  the  warm  salt  air  through  the  spicy  leaves,  and  thought  of  the  lovely  shape  of  the  boat,  and  had  he  not  been  greeted  by  the  opening  door  and  the  smile  of  the  maid  and  the  smell  of  the  food  and  the  sweetness  of  the  flowers,  he  would  hardly  haveventured  to  enfold  Maria  [REDACTED]  in  a  bearlike  hug.  &quot;Julius,  you  idiot,  you're  breaking  my  back!&quot;  Maria  was  kind  enough  to  seek  an  ex-cuse  for  stepping  away;  she  found  that  the  curtain  needed  drawing  across  the  window  just  behind  her.  Even  in  doing  this,  she  looked  back  at  Julius  with  a  pleasant  smile,  She  wished  to  make  doubly  sure  that  Rugby's  rather  hard-  up  young  friend  would  not  feel  that  he  was  being  in  any  way  subdued.  &quot;Maria,  I  wouldn't  break  your  back  for  all  the  world,but  it's  so  absolutely  wonderful  to  be  down  here  again.  Where's  old  Ruggles?&quot;  &quot;He  went  over  to  Exmouth  to  get  them  to  weld  something  he  dug  out  of  the  engine.  He'll  be  back  any  minute.  Dinners  just  about  ready.  There'll  be  a  drink  waiting  for  you  downstairs.&quot;  &quot;Good!  Fine!  Splendid!  I'll  be  down  in  exactly  two  minutes.  I  only  hope  Ruggles  doesn't  hold  up  that  beef  I  smelled  roasting.&quot;  Julius  need  not  have  had  any  misgiv-  ings;  Rugby  had  already  arrived.  Com-  ing  by  the  coast  road,  he  had  driven  in  by  the  back  way,  into  the  old  farmyard  behind  the  house,  where  a  cart  shed  had  been  converted  into  a  garage.  As  he  crossed  the  kitchen  garden  toward  the  back  of  the  house,  he  had  looked  up  at  the  lighted  window  of  the  guest  room,  at  the  very  moment  when  Julius  was  en-  folding  Maria  in  his  bearlike  hug.  To  Rugby,  this  bearlike  hug  offered  all  the  appearance  of  a  passionate  embrace.  He  saw  Maria  draw  the  curtain,  and  while  she  was  still  in  the  act  of  doing  so,  he  saw  her  smile  and  turn  to  the  young  man  behind  her.  It  has  been  said  that  there  is  always  someone  on  the  other  side  of  a  door;  there  were  quite  certain-  ly  two  people  and  a  bedroom  on  the  other  side  of  that  curtain.  A  smile  suggests  pleasure,  acur-  tain  suggests  concealment;  the  two  together  imply  guilt.  The  only  question  that  remained  in  Rugby's  mind  was  the  all-  importantone  of  what  to  do  about  it.  The  red-blooded  will  be  readywith  all  sorts  of  helpful  hints.  Stride  into  the  house.  Fling  open  the  door.  Catch  them  in  whatever  act  they  may  be  snatching  time  for.  Knock  the  wretch  down.  Drag  him  up  by  the  close-gripped  lapels  of  his  jacket.  Thrash  him  within  an  inch  of  his  life.  Raise  a  hand,  perhaps,  to  menace,  but  on  the  whole  not  to  strike,  the  cowering  spouse.Finally,  spurn  out,  eject,  expel,  with  a  burning  glance  and  a  blistering  tongue  and  the  toeof  a  flaming  boot,  this  snake  in  the  long  grass  and  this  fall-  en  Eve  from  the  Eden  they  have  so  vilely  defiled,  into  whatever  may  be  the  prevailing  weather,  Rugby's  blood  was  no  doubt  as  " b"red  as  the  next  man's;  all  these  projects  presented  themselves  to  him  with  the  utmost  vivacity.  Nevertheless,  he  was  bothered  by  all  sorts  of  little  hitches  and  drawbacks,  'There  were,  for  example,  the  ears  and  the  tongues  ofthe  servants;  there  was  also  the  delicate  question  of  style.  Thrashing  is  like  a  performance  on  the  violin;  unless  it  can  be  carried  out  with  the  greatest  ease  and  mastery,  it  had  better  not  be  embarked  upon  at  all.  For  some  reason  or  other,  lovers  tend  to  be  younger  and  lustier  than  husbands,  and  Rugby  now  remembered  Julius's  ten-  year  advantage,  and  the  thickness  of  his  neck  and  arms.  He  noted  also  that  the  weather  was  unusually  warm  and  balmy  for  early  May,  and  therefore  not  very  suitable  for  an  ejection.  Moreover,  they  might  refuse  to  be  ejected.&quot;  It  was  Maria's  house,  given  her,  lock,  stock,  and  barrel,  by  her  of-  fensively  rich  old  father.  Rugby  re-  alized  that  he  himself  might  be  reduced  to  packing  a  bag  and  making  a  dignified  withdrawal,  or,  at  all  events,  a  with-  drawal.  Or  a  retreat,  or  a  sneaking  out,  for  there  could  be  nothing  dignified  about  it.  Guilt  is  infinitely  worse,  morally,  than  the  suffering  of  insult  and  in  jury,  but  it  feels,  and  even  looks,  more  pros-  perous  and  agreeable.  After  all,  we  choose  to  be  guilty;  no  one  chooses  to  be  insulted  and  injured.  For  this  rea-  son,  guilt  is  not  so  much  sniggered  at  by  servants  and  neighbors,  or  at  least  it  is       sniggered  at  with  more  envy  than  con-  tempt.  Now,  Rugby  [REDACTED]  had  no  taste  for  being  either  pitied  or  despised;  he  was  by  nature  an  extremely  proud  man.  His  pride  was  all  the  more  alert  and  sensitive  because  his  income  from  his  early  inventions,  though  nice,  was  also  little.  It  amounted  only  to  a  few  hun-  dred  a  year,  and  Maria's  father,  who  was  scarcely  even  a  gentleman,  had  set  up  a  tax-dodging  trust  for  his  only  child  that  yielded  her  as  many  thousands.  Hers  was  the  house;  hers  the  Bentley;  hers,  legally,  the  lovely  and  beloved  forty-foot  double-ended  Swedish  ketch.  It  was  understood,  though  never  com-  puted  by  the  two  of  them,  that  Rugby's  small  income  paid  his  share  of  the  house-  hold  expenses.  By  itself,  it  would  pay  for  nothing  more  than  a  meagre,  bed-sit-  ting-room  sort  of  life  in  [REDACTED].  And  Rugby,  though  an  extremely  proud  man,  was  not  quite  as  proud  as  all  that.  It  is  a  bitter  and  miserable  thing  to  be  a  proud  man  and  yet  not  as  proud  as  all  that.  UGBY  stood  there  in  the  warm  and  garden  darkness,  as  still  and  as  empty-headed  and  as  comically  cruci-  fied  as  the  scarecrow  that  leaned  strick,  en  and  askew  among  the  rows  of  newly  sprouting  peas.  At  last,  a  voice  said  flat-  ly,  &quot;At  least,  I  know,  and  they  don't  know  that  I  know.&quot;  This  voice  must  have  been  one  of  his  own;  like  Joan  of  Arc,  we  all  have  many.  The  cool  and  business-  like  tone  of  this  one  gave  Rugby  the  illusion  that  things  were  some-  where,  somehow,  un-  der  control;  it  was  like  knowing  that  one's  bankruptcy  and  ruin  are  in  the  hands  of  a  first-class  lawyer.  Rug-  by  found  it  possible  to  moisten  his  lips,  to  move,  even  to  walk  into  the  house.  He  found  Mariaand  Julius  standing  in  the  hall  with  drinks  in  their  hands.  Their  looks  of  impervious  innocence  were  like  a  bright  new  all-purpose  plastic.  They  turned  smiling  faces  to  greet  him,  and  as  they  did  so,  he  saw  his  own  face  in  the  mir-  ror  over  the  fireplace.  The  sight  of  this  poor  betrayed  ghost-pale,  sick,  dead,  drowned  like  a  suicide  in  the  antique  dimness  of  the  glass-moved  him  to  such  pity  that  he  could  neither  smile  nor  speak.  &quot;How  well  they  do  it!&quot;  said  he  to  himself.  &quot;And  I  cannot!  No  doubt  they've  had  plenty  of  practice!&quot;  In  the  midst  of  some  vociferations  from  Julius  and  the  dry  and  dumb  open-  ing  of  his  own  mouth,  Maria  said,  &quot;You're  rather  late.  Let  me  look  at  you!  Rugby,  is  anything  the  matter?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  he.  &quot;Nothing  at  all.  At  least,  nothing  much.  Not  quite  nothing.  I  ran  over  a  miserable  dog.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God,  Ruggles!&quot;  said  Julius.  &quot;I  know  just  how  you  feel!&quot;  &quot;How  dreadful,  darling!  Did  you  kill  the  poor  thing?&quot;  &quot;Kill  it?  Yes.  I  had  to.  Afterward.  To  put  it  out  of  its  misery.  Will  you  very  kindly  pour  me  a  drink?&quot;  This  dog,  invented  all  in  a  split  sec-  ond,  became  quite  attached  to  its  cre-  ator;  it  stayed  with  him  in  a  number  of  guises  throughout  the  evening.  He  could  leave  it  on  guard  over  his  drawn  looks  and  long  silences,  and  at  the  same  time  it  bore  him  company  on  his  swift-stalking  explorations  of  the  world  in  which  he  found  himself  living  or  dying.  The  others  went  yawning  to  bed  rather  early.  Rugby  sat  alone,  thinking  those  old-fashioned  thoughts  that  come  creeping  in  like  elderly  rela-  tives  whenever  there's  a  death  in  the  head.  He  thought  of  lust  and  wicked-  ness,  and  of  punishment;  he  thought     " b"of  hypocrisy,  treachery,  ingratitude.  &quot;'These  people  have  taken  everything  I  had!  They  have  stolen  my  life!  They  have  killed  me!&quot;  Cries  of  &quot;Thief!&quot;  and  &quot;Murder!&quot;  are  bound  to  bring  Justice  stumbling  blindfold  to  the  scene,  her  scales  see-  sawing  wildly  and  her  sword  upraised,  ready  for  instant  action.  Rugby,  how-  ever,  was  not  ready  for  instant  action.  The  fantasy  upon  which  he  had  begun  to  embark  was  a  deadly  one,  and  he  had  to  decide  how  to  handle  it.  For  the  present,  he  wanted  to  keep  it  from  spreading  its  wings;  he  wanted  to  keep  it  inside  him  in  the  larval  stage.  This,  unfortunately,  is  the  stage  in  which  things  feed  and  grow.  &quot;We  must  have  proof,&quot;  said  Rugby.  &quot;Plain,  cold,  legal-  istic,  scientific  proof.&quot;  He  knew  he  would  get  no  proof  over  the  weekend,  however  stupid  he  pre-  tended  to  be,  and  however  watchful  he  actually  was.  He  had  seen,  at  the  very  moment  he  entered  the  house,  how  ex-  tremely  clever  they  were.  But  on  Sunday  night,  Julius  having  left  after  dinner,  Rugby  again  went  late  to  bed,  and  he  had  no  sooner  entered  their  bedroom  than  Maria  began  to  talk  in  her  sleep.  Usually,  she  slept  very  quietly,  putting  on  a  rather  childish  and  defenseless  look,  which,  it  now  occurred  to  him,  was  perhaps  rather  over-  doing  it  on  the  part  of  a  woman  of  nearly  thirty,  and  one  who  had  so  much  to  defend.  He  listened,  but  no  words  were  distinguishable.  He  whis-  pered  Julius's  name  to  her,  using  it  as  a  call  ora  cue  to  bring  her  secret  out  like  a  sleepwalking  Lady  Macbeth.  But  her  disci-  plined  iniquity  would  only  mut-  ter  in  the  knavish  and  evasive  double-talk  of  sleeptalkers,  a  thieves'  argot  in  which  Rugby  still  managed  to  hear  the  long  groan  of  remorse  buried  alive,  and  the  plaintiveness  of  lost  in-  nocence  wandering  like  a  little  girl  lost  in  the  tangled  woods  of  sleep,  and  the  soft,  tear-drop-  ping,  stone-wearing  persistence  of  the  captive  who  weeps  end-  lessly  to  be  free.  Rugby  lit  a  cigarette  in  the  dark,  and  walked  to  the  win-  dow.  &quot;If  I  get  rid  of  Julius,&quot;  he  whispered  to  himself,  using  the  term  in  the  ordinary  social  sense,  &quot;if  I  stop  themnow,  they  will  run  away  together.  And  if  I  don't  stop  them,  they  will  get  greedier  and  greedier,  and  they  will  run  away  together  just  the  same.  Either  way,  I  shall  lose     her.&quot;  It  was  at  this  moment  that  a  per-  son  inside  his  head  who  was  almost  un-  known  to  him,  a  poor  and  distant  rela-  tive  with  the  manner  of  an  accountant,  attempted  to  attract  his  attention  with  an  inventory  of  other  items  he  would  lose-house,  yacht,  income,  Bentley,  etc.  Rugby,  you  may  be  sure,  brushed  aside  this  tactless  partisan.  &quot;All  that  will  arrange  itself,&quot;  said  he  coolly,  &quot;and  with  exact  justice,  when  justice  is  done.&quot;  When  he  used  the  word  &quot;justice,&quot;  he  felt  a  strange  sensation,  as  of  being  in-  fated,  of  being  about  to  leave  the  ground.  &quot;But  first,&quot;  he  said,  bringing  himself  down  to  earth  again,  &quot;the  proof!&quot;  N  Monday,  Tuesday,  and  Wednes-  day,  Rugby  took  advantage  of  Maria's  marketing  and  tea-party  ab-  sences  to  make  a  thorough  search  of  her  desk,  her  drawers,  her  clothes,  her  closets,  her  boxes  and  bags  and  purses,  and  even  the  pages  of  her  &quot;Alice&quot;  and  her  Hopkins  and  her  Auden  and  such,  which  she  kept  on  a  shelf  of  her  own.  He  was  not  such  a  foolasto  expect  any  but  negative  results  from  this  operation,  which  he  undertook  only  as  a  concession  to  scientific  meth-  od.  Nevertheless,  even  negative  evi-  dence  is  not  wholly  to  be  despised.  33  &quot;What  is  a  footprint,&quot;  asked  Rugby  of  himself,  &quot;but  a  negative,  an  emptiness,  left  by  one  who  has,  however,  been  there?  There  will  be  an  absence  of  let-  ters  in  her  desk,  justas  there  are  no  bruises  on  her  skin,  or  only  bruises  she  might  have  got  aboard  the  yacht.  Adultery  is  athletic  and  efficient  nowa-  days.  Sunburned  adultery!  I  mean,  there's  no  more  soft,  snowlike  flesh  for  every  animal  to  leave  its  tracks  in.  There  is  no  more  lingerie  in  the  world;  these  things  could  be  worn  by  a  school-  girl-almost  by  a  boy.  Yet  this  stuff  is  more  sexy  than  all  the  silks  and  frills  and  such  nonsense;  it  is  more  brisk  and  ready,  and  no  doubt  he  found  it  so.  Ah,  here's  her  diary!  An  interesting  place  to  keep  it!&quot;  Rugby  took  the  diary  from  under  the  pile  of  undergarments-a  hiding  place  actually  not  very  interesting,  since  it  is  commonly  made  use  of  in  a  girl's  early  teens,  and  continued  out  of  habit  except  by  those  to  whom  concealment  is  a  mat-  ter  of  importance.  &quot;We  shall  not  find  any  cryptic  entries  here,&quot;  said  Rugby.  He  soon  saw  that  he  was  right,  ex-  cept  in  the  sense  that  gaps,  abbreviations,  obscure  references,  and  indecipherable  scribbles  made  the  whole  diary  cryptic.  Here  were  the  wet  roads  of  winter  (&quot;Nasty  skid  near  Andover&quot;)  and  the  " b"flowers  of  spring,  birthdays,  rainbows,  the  new  car,  sowings  and  plantings,  colds  and  dinner  parties,  plays  and  exhibitions-all  the  happiness  of  Janu-  ary,  February,  March,  and  April  flaking  and  fading  like  a  fresco  on  a  crumbling  wall.  This  intermittent  and  uncertain  record  could  be  regarded  as  a  fragmentary  portrait  of  Maria,  or  at  least  as  a  portrait  of  her  girlishness.  &quot;Which,&quot;  said  Rugby,  &quot;is  like  that  childish  look  she  puts  on  in  her  sleep,  a  lure  and  a  lie.&quot;  He  tried  to  read  between  the  broken  lines;  he  was  all  nerves  and  intuition.  He  stared  angrily  at  each  page,  as  if  demanding  an  answer  to  a  question  still  laboring  to  be  formulated.  There  are  mental  stresses  so  intense  as  to  insist  on  a  physical  expression;  Rugby  actually  lifted  his  nose  and  inhaled  deeply.  He  was,  in  fact,  snuffing  up  the  salty  smell  of  guilt,  which  brings  out  the  hound  in  all  of  us.  &quot;There  is  something  missing  here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Something  has  been  carefully  left  out.&quot;  Even  as  he  spoke,  he  realized  that  it  was  Julius's  name.  There  were  names  enough,  or  initials,  of  all  sorts  of  people  of  no  importance  whatever.  His  own  &quot;R.&quot;  met  his  eyes  wherever  he  looked,  like  a  forced  card  being  thrust  upon  him  by  a  conjurer.  &quot;This  is  rather  too  blatant,&quot;  said  Rugby  bitterly.  &quot;We  are  not  on  our  honeymoon.&quot;  He  saw  Mary  Truslow's  name,  Mary  Tierney's,  Edith  Whitehouse's,  old  Dr.  Cros-  by's-all  as  dullas  ditchwater.  Even  the  servants  were  there,  and  the  gar-  dener.  But  of  Julius,  apart  from  one  casual  mention  on  that  weekend  in  February  when  first  they  had  him  down,  not  a  single  word!  Not  a  single  word  of  all  the  other  weekends,  the  straw-fire  affection,  the  talk,  the  jokes,  the  work  on  the  boat,  the  plans  for  the  summer  cruise  together!  Julius's  name  was  missing,  but  so,  though  Rugby  failed  to  notice  it,  were  the  names  of  Sir  Alec  Whitehouse  and  Gerald  Tierney  and  other  attractive  young  men  of  their  circle.  There  was  a  very  simple  reason  for  this.  Maria,  who  had  married  very  young,  had  early  re-  solved,  and  with  more  firmness  than  perhaps  should  have  been  necessary,  to  be  a  good,  warm,  loving,  loyal  wife.  For  some  reason  or  other,  this  quite  in-  telligent,  and  even  sophisticated,  young  woman  had  got  it  into  her  head  that  she  was  oversexed,  and  it  was  this  that  caused  her  to  worry  and  resolve.  She  had  decided  she  could  notpermit  her-  self  to  feel  the  existence  of  certain  young  men.  She  was  unable  to  keep  them  out  of  her  days,  and  perhaps  out  of  her  dreams,  but  at  least  she  excluded  them  from  her  diary,  and  very  often  without  thinking  of  it.  Whether  or  not,  in  view  of  the  sun-bleached  fuzz  on  Julius's  neck  and  arms,  she  would  have  dared  to  eat  a  peach  is  a  question  not  to  be  asked,  since  peaches  were  not  yet  in  season.  Jealousy  is  the  only  vice  that  has  no  sort  of  pleasure  attached  to  it.  It  is  true  that  it  resurrects  in  us  the  power  to  love.  In  Rugby,  love  had  snored  away  years  of  potential  happiness,  deep  in  a  dream  of  self.  But,  after  all,  one  can-  not  watch  a  young  woman's  smiles  and  glances,  or  track  her  through  her  desk  and  her  drawers  and  her  thoughts  and  herdays  without  one's  nostrils  being  filled  with  her  scent.  The  scent  of  the  body  and  the  mind  of  a  young  woman  like  Maria  is  intoxicating  in  itself.  With  a  little  of  the  smell  of  guilt  mingled  in,  it  can  become  quite  clinically  madden-  ing.  Rugby's  love  awoke,  but  like  a  damned  soul  awakening  in  hell;  it  was     ugly  and  it  was  in  pain.  The  love  and  pain  were  such  that  he  could  hardly  wait  for  the  next  stage  of  the  chase.  This  was  due  on  Thursday,  the  day  of  the  cheap  day-return  ticket  to  Lon-  don,  when  country  wives  go  up  for  shopping  and  to  get  their  hair  done.  Rugby  knew  exactly  what  happened  on  thosedays;  he  was  obsessed  by  a  sort  of  mirage,  more  vivid  than  his  actual  surroundings,  of  his  wife  in  Julius's  rooms,  wearing  nothing  but  that  pow-  erfully  built  young  man'sample  bath-  robe,  with  the  sleeves  turned  back  over  her  wrists,  and  eating  a  sandwich  dinner  in  sinful  haste.  This  picture  afflicted  him  terribly-especially  the  sleeves.  It  was  in  the  hope  of  simul-  taneously  confirming  it  and  abolishing  it  that  he  determined  to  follow  her  to  town.  It  is  not  extirely  true  that  jealousy  is  a  vice  with  no  pleasure  attached  to  it.  Skills  and  hazards  and  the  prospect  of  a  death  at  the  end  are  the  essential  elements  of  all  sports,  and  these  are  developed  to  their  highest  pitch  not  in  hunting  the  fox  or  the  tiger  but  in  wife-hunting  in  the  wanton  streets.  Following  on  foot,  yet  keeping  oneself  unseen,  sensing  with  a  high-strung  instinct  which  turning  she  has  taken,  crossing  after  the  lights  have  changed,  " b"ducking  into  shop  en-  trances,  slipping  through  the  intricate  entangle-  ments  in  the  aisles  of  de-  partment  stores,  skirting  the  dangerous  depths  of  mirrors,  short-cutting  to  the  proper  exit  for  the  breakaway,  following  in  a  cab  without  uttering  the  unutterable  words  &quot;Fol-  low  that  cab!  ,&quot;  waiting  in  a  doorway  asin  a  duck-  blind-these  are  thrills  deserving  of  tapestries,  _  prints,  a  literature,  and  special  magazines  contain-  ing  the  price  lists  of  firms  ready  to  supply  unnotice-  able  raincoats,  protective  umbrellas,  and  unchar-  acteristic  hats.  Rugby  brought  unbe-  lievable  skill  to  this  pursuit,  and  derived  from  it  all  its  excruciating  and  almost  unrecognizable  pleasure.  The  only  trouble  was,  he  drew  absolutely  blank,  and  not  only  on  the  first  Thursday  but  on  the  sec-  ond  and  the  third  also.  Close  as  he  followed  and  cleverly  as  he  concealed  himself,  he  could  not  track  his  quarry  either  to  Julius's  rooms  or  to  a  hotel  or  to  any  place  where  they  could  conceivably  meet.  &quot;Is  it  possible  that  they  suspect  that  I  know?&quot;  he  asked  himself  at  last.  &quot;If  they  do,&quot;  he  an-  swered,  &quot;they  will  stay  apart  until  they  can  stay  apart  no  longer.  Then  they  will  run  away  togeth-  er.  Or,  rather,&quot;since  one  can  hardly  run  under  a  load  of  securities,  a  house,  gar-  den,  yacht,  car,  and  all  the  rest  of  it,  they  will  throw  me  out.  Then  they  will  go  abroad  for  a  few  months,  while  I  move  away  into  whatever  squalid  hole  I  can  afford,  and  then  they  will  come  back  and  live  here  and  be  welcomed  by  everyone.&quot;  Continuing  his  cool,  thorough  back-  tracking,  Rugby  even  went  intothe  empty  guest  room  one  night  tosee  if  the  pale  face  of  one  standing  where  he  had  stood  when  he  came  home  that  eve-  ning  could  be  seen  from  the  window.  A  clump  of  white  Shasta  daisies,  standing  a  little  nearer  than  he  had,  was  quite  invisible.  He  asked  himself  if  he  could  have  shown  his  suspicions  in  his  man-  ner,  or  could  have  been  seen  when  he  was  following,  but  he  knew  perfectly  well  that  he  had  made  no  slips  whatever.  His  mind  was  functioning  with  a  better  than  benzedrine  clarity.  He  felt  he  was  looking  down  from  an  immense  height,  through  a  hole  in  the  clouds,  at  two  little  creatures  gambolling  over  a  wide  plain.  &quot;'The  moment  will  arrive  when  I  shall  reach  out  my  hand  and  obliterate  them-like  that!&quot;  He  resolutely  dismissed  the  ideathat  a  soporific  could  have  been  put  in  his  after-dinner  coffee  on  the  weekends  to  enable  Maria  to  pay  midnight  visits  to  the  guest  room.  He  knew  that  this  was  out  of  character  for  both  Maria  and  Julius.  He  knew  that  it  was  nonsense  to  ascribe  his  recent  deep  and  cavernous  sleeps  and  his  unrefreshed  awakenings,  or  even  Maria's  oddly  frequent  inquir-  ies  as  to  how  he  felt,  to  any  such  cause.  Even  more  insane-he  didn't  in  the  least  hesitate  to  usethe  word-was  the  idea  of  the  dosage's  being  increased,  un-  til  one  night  his  heart  would  fail  and  he  would  be  left  for  good  in  one  of  those  gravelike  sleeps.  Having  reasoned  so  clearly,  Rugby  now  found  himself  unable  to  reason  any  further;  he  was  up  against  a  blank  wall.  He  was  not  aware  of  certain  forces  that  were  building  up  within  him.  When  certain  explosive  fluids,  such  as  fulmi-  nate  of  mercury,  reach  a  critically  un-  stable  condition,  they  begin  to  travail  with  forces  of  their  own,  and  the  flash  that  ignites  them  is  self-generated.  So  Rugby  at  this  moment  was  both  ready  for  a  revelation  and  ready  to  act.  &quot;Not  in  town,  and  not  in  the  house  here,&quot;  he  " b"said  to  himself  one  afternoon,  for  per-  haps  the  thousandth  time.  &quot;But  there  is  no  other  place!&quot;  he  answered  himself,  as  was  now  his  cus-  tom.  &quot;Except  perhaps  the  boat.  But  we  have  always  been  together  on  the  boat.&quot;  This  was  a  lie,  and  suddenly  he  knew  it.  He  ought  to  have  known  it  before.  He  had  lied  to  himself.  He  had  blotted  out  those  many  afternoons  when,  the  wind  being  cold,  or  his  back  aching,  or  he  being  avid  for  the  next  chapter  of  his  book,  he  had  saidto  Maria  and  Julius,  &quot;Look  here,  will  you  two  carry  on  for  a  little?  There's  something  I  want  to  fiddle  with  in  the  lab.&quot;  You  two  carry  on.  A  phrase  of  this  sort,  swinging  like  a  bell  in  its  ambigui-  ty,  can  clang  and  clang  in  the  back  of  one's  head  while  still  one  heaves  to  vomit  up  the  full  admission,  for  which  the  whole  situation,  like  the  impassive  analyst,  is  waiting.  &quot;I  ducked  out  of  the  work,&quot;  said  Rugby  now.  The  more  ab-  ject  and  humiliating  a  confession  is,  the  more  overwhelmingly  convincing  it  is  certain  to  be.It  is  the  equivalent  of  proof.  You  two  carry  on!  'The  yacht  her-  self  was  moored  a  hundred  feet  out,  because  ofthe  tides,  and  they  went  to  and  fro  in  a  dinghy.  When  Rugby  had  left  them  at  work  in  the  afternoons,  Julius  would  row  him  back  to  the  dock,  and  if  Rugby  had  come  down  later  on,  he  would  have  had  to  shout  for  the  dinghy  to  come  and  fetch  him  again.  And  they  were  remodelling  the  galley  according  to  certain  ideas  of  Julius's!  She  and  Julius  were  below  deck  all  the  time!  There  had  never  been  such  se-  curity  in  the  world.  You  two  carry  on!  The  boat,  his  be-  loved  boat,  was  their  opportunity  and  their  accomplice.  It  had  taken  them  in,  hidden  them  from  him,  bedded  them.  -  Rugby  experienced  a  moment  of  weak-  ness  in  which  helooked  back  with  an  ineffable  nostalgia  to  the  nursery  inno-  cence  and  the  happy,  toylike  littleness  of  his  feelings  about  Maria  in  Julius's  rooms,  wearing  his  bathrobe  with  the  sleeves  turned  back.  This  was  his  last  infirmity  of  that  sort.  A  man  whose  wife,  whose  friend,  and  whose  boat  have  all  betrayed  him  must  think  only  of  action.  &quot;I  shall  obliterate  them,  all  three-like  that!  But  I  will  do  it  ef-  ficiently.  I,  too,  have  a  right  to  security.  I  have  a  right  to&quot;-he  had  the  good  taste  not  to  refer  to  Maria's  money-  &quot;my  own  life,  and  to  marry  again,  and  to  have  another  friend,  another  boat,  even.  But  this  time,  perhaps,  a  yawl.&quot;  HEY  were  now  in  June.  The  work  on  the  boat  was  all  done,  and  Saturdays  and  Sundays  were  spent  sailing  her  on  short  day  trips  in  anticipation  of  August,  when  Julius  would  be  on  holiday  and  they  would  set  out  on  their  long-planned  cruise.  Rugby  saw  clearly  that  it  was  nec-  essary  to  establish  a  pat-  tern.  It  should  definite-  ly  not  happen  the  first  time.  &quot;Would  you  two  mind  taking  her  out  by  yourselves  today?&quot;  he  said  to  them  the  next  Saturday  morning.  (You  two  carry  on!)  They  both  protested,  but  he  was  ready  for  that.  &quot;The  thing  is,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I've  got  an  idea.  I  absolutely  must  work  on  it.  If  I'm  right,  it's  something  that  could  make  quite  a  bit  of  a  bang.&quot;  Maria,  you  may  be  sure,  put  up  a  most  convincing  show  of  reluctance.  The  next  week,  after  a  similar  ex-  change,  she  even  followed  him  to  his  lab.  &quot;Look,  Rugby,  you've  got  all  the  week  to  work  in.  Surely  you  can  come  along  today?&quot;  &quot;I  can't,  dear,  because  I  have  to  put  the  pressure  on  when  the  ideas  are  com-  ing.  And  today  I  feel  just  in  the  mood.&quot;  &quot;Rugby,  if  you  won't  come,  I'd  just  as  soonnotgo.&quot;  &quot;Butwhat  about  Julius?  What  is  he  down  here  for,  if  not  for  the  sailing?  I  think  we  have  to  be  fair  to  him.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Julius  won't  mind.&quot;  &quot;I  think  he'd  mind  very  much.  Do  you  think  you  know  him  better  than  I  do?  I'm  quite  sure  that  he'd  mind.  What's  more,  he  needs  the  experience.  I  wanthim  to  have  all  the  experience  he  can  get.  I'm  thinking  of  August,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Well,  if  you  say  so.&quot;  &quot;Better  go  out  with  the  wind  as  far  as  you  can,  and  try  coming  back  against  it.  And  if  it's  getting  late,  usethe  en-  gine.  After  all,  it's  all  experience.  Everything  you  doon  a  boat  is  experi-  ence  of  one  sort  or  another,  don't  you  think?  I  mean,  in  its  way.&quot;  Rugby  knew  very  well  they  were  likely  to  go  out  with  the  wind  without  any  such  suggestion  on  his  part.It  was  the  quickest  way  of  reaching  that  dis-  tance,  ten  or  fifteen  or  twenty  miles  out,  where  they  would  feel  safe  from  obser-  vation  from  the  shore.  He  knew  also  that  they  would  stay  there  so  long,  wallowing,  that  they'd  be  too  late  for  the  long  job  of  tacking  home  under  sail,  and  they  would  make  up  the  time  by  coming  in  under  power.  He  felt  it  as  well  to  smooth  the  path  for  them  by     very  casually  advising  them  to  do  just  what  they  most  wanted  to  do.  On  those  days  that  he  stayed  at  home,  he  worked  in  that  well-equipped  labora-  tory  that  Maria's  father  had  built  for  him,  perhaps  as  if  giving  him  a  hint.  It  requires  no  great  inventiveness  to  rig  up  a  primitive  device  that  will  convert  a  fuel  tank  first  into  an  incendiary  bomb,  then  into  an  explosive  bomb,  and  then  into  an  incendiary  bomb  again.  Rugby  felt  it  desirable,  though,  that  the  spark-  producing  mechanism  should  itself  be  thoroughly  combustible,  He  knew  how  often  boats  will  burn  down  to  the  waterline  and  then  obstinately  remain  afloat.  So  he  set  to  work,  and  he  had  never  worked  as  hard  or  as  well  in  all  his  life.  His  head  seemed  to  be  filled  with  the  remorseless  light  of  moonlight,  only  a  hundred  times  brighter.  Prob-  lems  that  had  defeated  him  in  his  earlier  work  on  plastics  melted  away  in  this  uncanny  light,  and  at  the  end  ofa  month  he  had  a  substance  entirely  of  his  own  creation  and  every  bit  as  good  as  celluloid,  the  existence  of  which  he  had  ignored.  A  timing  device  was  also  needed,  and  here  Rugby  had  some  very  stringent  requirements.  It  was  essential  that  the  explosion  should  occur  at  a  time  when  the  boat  was  far  out  in  the  Channel,  when  no  other  craft  were  visible  on  the  horizon,  and  when  all  other  factors  were  at  their  optimum.  'This  would  seem  to  call  for  both  radar  and  a  me-  chanical  brain,  but  Rugby  was  not  one  of  those  insane  scientists  who  are  un-  aware  of  the  limits  of  their  resources.  &quot;I  shall  be  there  to  do  the  timing  myself,&quot;  said  he.  There  was  nothing  in  the  least  sui-  cidal  in  this  decision.  On  the  contrary,  it  was  designed  as  a  final  and  fool-  proof  insurance  against  anything's  go-  ing  wrong.  Not  only  was  it  intended  to  guard  against  any  unforeseen  interfer-  ence  with  his  plans  but  it  would  tri-  " b"umphantly  silence  that  sort  of  malicious  gossip  that  has  so  frequently  led  to  trou-  blein  matters  of  this  kind.  Julius  and  Maria  had  gone  out  alone  on  six  of  the  last  eight  excursions;  the  most  malicious-  ly  inspired  imbecile  would  scarcely  dare  to  suggest  that  Rugby  would  arrange  an  accident  for  one  of  the  very  few  trips  when  he  himself  was  aboard.  It  was  not,  of  course,  his  intention  to  be  actually  aboard  at  the  moment  of  the  explosion.  On  the  night  before  it  was  to  happen,  he  went  down  to  the  boat.  Julius  and  Maria,  fatigued  by  their  day  on  the  sea,  had  already  gone  up  to  bed.  Rugby  had  very  little  to  do.  He  made  his  opening  in  the  fuel  tank,  and  sealed  it  with  a  quickly  removable  plug.  He  fastened  his  sparking  device  underneath  the  tank  and  triggered  it  with  a  line  that  he  ran  forward  under  the  deck  and  out  through  a  little  hole  he  bored  in  the  deck  just  astern  of  the  bow.  He  tied  a  knot  in  the  line,  so  that  it  would  not  slip  back  through  the  hole.  Rugby  then  col-  lected  all  the  life  jackets  but  one,  and  took  them  ashore  with  him.  These  he  locked  up  in  a  little  shed  on  the  dock.  &quot;At  breakfast,&quot;  said  he  to  himself  as  he  walked  up  from  the  shed,  &quot;I  shall  announce  that  I'm  coming  along,  and  they'll  try  to  look  tremendously  pleased.  We  shall  row  out  in  the  dinghy,  which,  as  usual,  we  shall  leave  tied  up  at  the  mooring.  They  will  not  notice  the  ab-  sence  of  the  life  jackets.  If  they  do,  I  shall  say  that  I  put  them  in  the  shed  to  have  them  inspected  before  we  start  on  the  cruise.  &quot;But  they  will  notice  nothing.  Twenty  or  thirty  miles  out,  I  shall  ask  Julius  to  take  the  wheel.  I  shall  see  to  it  that  Maria  sits  beside  him;  there  will  be  no  difficulty  about  that.  I  then  go  be-  low.  I  take  the  remaining  life  jacket  in  my  hand.  I  pull  out  the  plug  in  the  tank.  I  gothrough  thegalley  and  up  through  the  forward  hatch.  I  take  up  my  posi-  tion  in  the  bow  with  the  line  in  my  hand.  After  watching  them  for  a  little  while,  I  will  attract  their  attention.  &quot;'I  don'tthink  you  have  noticed,  you  are  so  taken  up  with  each  other,  that  there  are  no  life  jackets  aboard  ex-  cept  this  one  here,  I  will  say.  'The  gratings  are  all  nailed  down;  nothing  aboard  can  float.  Do  you  see  this  line?  When  I  pull  it,  the  boat  will  blow  up  and  then  it  will  burn  furiously.  Don't  move,  or  I'll  pull  it  at  once!  &quot;'Then  I  shall  add  a  few  words  about  what  they  have  done  to  me,  and  then  I  shall  jump,  pulling  the  cord  as  I  go.&quot;  Rugby  spenta  considerable  time  choos-  ing  the  best  possible  words  for  his  final  excoriation,  and  it  was  almost  daylight  when  he  got  to  bed. He  fell  into  one  of  those  bottomless  sleeps  he  had  been  having,  and  he  was  a  little  late  in  getting  downstairs  in  the  morning.  Maria  had  held  up  breakfast  for  him.  He  saw  her  and  Julius  outside,  walking  up  and  down  the  drive.  He  had  to  call  to  them  two  or  three  times  be-  fore  they  heard  him.  &quot;You  shouldn't  have  waited  break-  fast,&quot;  he  said  as  they  came  in.  &quot;All  the  same,  I'm  glad  you  did.  I'm  taking  the  day  off,  and  we  can  all  go  out  together.&quot;  &quot;Rugby  ..  .&quot;  said  Maria.  &quot;We  ought  to  have  told  you  last  night,&quot;  said  Julius,  &quot;the  minute  we  got  in.  But  we  were  so  absolutely  over-  whelmed.  It  took  us  so  completely  by  surprise.&quot;  &quot;I  was  afraid  of  it,&quot;  said  Maria.  &quot;But  I  thought  it  would  never  happen.  I  meant  it  never  to  happen.  Truly  I  did,  Rugby.  But  yesterday  it  was  so  sudden,  and  so  tremendous  ..  .&quot;  &quot;It  was  like  a  thunderbolt,&quot;  said  Julius.  &quot;It  knocked  us  right  off  our  feet.&quot;  And  he  put  his  arm  around  Ma-  ria,  who  was  beginning  to  cry."