 b"SOME  years  ago,  in  the  course  of  mywork  as  a  government  anthro-  pologist,  I  went  South  to  study  Indian  arts  and  crafts.  The  assignment  seemed  routine,  and  promised  no  special  excitement.  A  map  I  looked  atin  the  [REDACTED]  office  of  the  Indian  Service  showed  the  peninsula  I  was  bound  for  to  be  long,  narrow,  and  flat.  The  only  spot  that  had  a  suggestion  of  particular  interest  or  mystery  about  it  was  an  eye  of  land  right  in  the  middle,  labelled  &quot;Big  Tree  Swamp.&quot;  The  first  two  weeks  in  the  field  I  spent  making  preliminary  surveys.  I  toured  the  coast  of  the  peninsula,  driv-  ing  comfortably  on  the  highway  that  followed  it,  and  visiting  one  after  another  of  the  commercial  &quot;Indian  vil-  lages&quot;  that  dotted  it.  Coconut-fibre  dolls,  plaited  baskets,  and  patchwork  garments  were  displayed  for  sale  in  most  of  the  clustered  huts  that  made  up  these  villages,  but  I  could  find  no  one  who  would  discuss  the  crafts  with  me.,  The  Indians  were  blas\xc3\xa9.  I  was  just  another  female  tourist,  to  them,  and  so  I  found  I  was  getting  nowhere  with  my  work.  Finally,  I1  went  to  the  regional  Indian  Agency  and  asked  the  super-  intendent's  advice.  &quot;You'd  better  go  in  to  Big  Tree,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  Indians  back  there  don't  see  many  whites,  and  they're  willing  to  talk.  If  [REDACTED]  wants  you  to  organize  a  crafts  cooperative  for  them&quot;-I  winced  at  this,  since  the  Indians  were  supposed  to  want  to  organize,  and  I  was  supposed,  as  part  of  my  job,  to  help  them-'&quot;the  Big  Tree  Indians  arethe  ones  who  need  it.  They  haven't  any  way  to  sell  what  they  make.  We're  sending  a  truck  in.  tomorrow,  and  you  can  go  along.  It  leaves  at  seven  in  the  morning.  The  teacher  and  his  wife  have  a  spare  bedroom  in  the  school,  and  you  can  stay  there.  Stock  up  a  month's  groceries  for  yourself-  we  may  send  the  next  truck  sooner,  but  you  never  know.  The  teacher  calls  us  on  the  two-way  radio  every  eve-  ning.  I'll  tell  him  you're  coming,  and  he'll  get  a  guide  to  take  you  around  among  the  Indians.&quot;  The  superintendent  spoke  so  casually  that  I  walked  out  of  his  office  and  drove  to  the  nearest  supermarket  without  re-  fiecting  very  much  on  what  I  might  be  getting  into.  I  shopped  carefully,  giving  consideration  to  the  probable  lack  of  ice  in  the  swamp,  and  the  possibility  that  I  might  have  to  cook  on  a  wood  stove.  A  month's  supplies  filled  two  carts,  and  I  was  clumsy  wheeling  them  into  line   at  the  cash  register.  Inadvertently,  I  bumped  the  man  ahead  of  me.  He  turned,  showing  me  a  broad,  flat  Indian  face  and  a  pair  of  furious  eyes.  When  he  saw  that  I  was  a  woman,  he  calmed  down.  &quot;Excuse  me,'  sorry.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,  lady,&quot;  he  said.  I  began  unloading  my  carts,  If  I  thought  about  the  man  at  all,  it  was  to  conclude  that  he  was  probably  an  Agen-  cy  employee;  what  I  had  heard  of  his  English  was  unaccented,  and  he  was  evi-  dently  used  to  shopping  in  supermarkets.  Also,  he  was  dressed  like  any  average  customer.  He  wore  gray-and-white  striped  seersucker  pants  and  a  soft  gray  work  shirt,  which  was  stretched  by  the  width  of  his  flat  shoulders.  When  I  left  the  market  a  few  minutes  later  and  saw  him  putting  his  purchases  into  an  enor-  mous  truck  that  had  an  Indian  Service  license,  my  half  guess  seemed  con-  firmed.  I  reported  to  the  Agency  at  half  past  six  the  next  morning.  My  supplies  were  loaded  into  the  vast  truck  I  had  seen  at  the  market,  and  I  was  stowed  on  the  front  seat,  next  to  the  driver-a  small,  chipper  gingersnap  of  a  man,  who  spoke  with  a  marked  Cockney  accent.  His  name  was  Brainard,  he  told  me,  and  he  had  been  born  in  the  [REDACTED],  of  Eng-  lish  parents,  but  had  lived  on  the  fringes  of  Big  Tree  Swamp  most  of  his  adult  life,  and  could  &quot;speak  Indian.&quot;  &quot;I  know  all  about  these  Indians,&quot;  he  boasted.  &quot;I  know  more  than  any  other  white  man,  I  guess  lots  of  things  they  don't  want  any-  body  to  know.  But  they  trust  me,  most  of  them.&quot;  While  he  sat  talking,  I  was  aware  of  people  climbing  quietly  into  the  truck  body,  which  was  separated  from  us  by  a  partition,  and  when  we  started  off,  I  had  the  impression  that  the  truck  was  almost  full.  '  I  said.  &quot;I'm  very  HE  truck-Mr.  Brainard  called  it  &quot;the  swamp  wagon,&quot;  and  later  I  understood  why-bowled  along  the  hard-surfaced  highway  for  a  couple  of  hours.  We  looped  around  the  end  of  the  peninsula  and  went  halfway  up  the  other  side,  and  then  veered  inland.  The  road  was  still  paved,  and  with  asphalt,  but  this  was  not  the  smooth  asphalt  of  the  highway.  This  paving  was  rippled  by  heat  and  by  the  unevenness  of  the  sand  on  which  it  had  been  laid.  I  turned  to  look  back  at  some  of  the  pines  that  had  begun  to  appear,  conspicuous  after  the  palmettos  and  scrub  that  lined  the  coast  " b"road,  and  jumped.  &quot;What's  the  mat-  ter?&quot;  Mr.  Brainard  asked.  &quot;I  forgot  we  had  passengers,&quot;  I  an-  swered,  laughing.  &quot;The  back's  full  of  men.&quot;  &quot;Sure.  Sure,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Giving  them  a  hitch  home.  They've  been  in  town,  shopping.  It  helps  them,  and  it  won't  hurt  usto  have  some  extra  hands  if  we  should  get  stuck.&quot;  &quot;No,  it  won't,&quot;  I  agreed.  &quot;Men  do  all  the  shopping,&quot;  my  com-  panion  went  on,  and  then  he  said,  &quot;Look  out!  Pavement's  gone!  Must  have  washed  out  in  the  storm  last  night.&quot;  We  began  jolting  over  a  broken  road,  which  soon  became  simply  a  dirt  one.  &quot;Probably  have  rough  going  from  here  on  in.  Yes-they  don't  let  the  women  go  into  town  if  they  can  help  it.  They  say  it  isn't  good  for  them.  Puts  ideas  in  their  heads.  So  the  women  get  left  at  home,  and  the  men  go  to  town  and  buy  everything  the  women  need.&quot;  &quot;Not  the  cloth  for  the  patchwork!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  I  had  assumed,  without  thinking  much  about  it,  that  the  women  would  choose  their  own  materials.  &quot;Sure.  Why  not'  The  men  speak  some  English,  and  most  of  the  women  don't.  Ain't  supposed  to.  Women  hard-  ly  ever  talk  to  any  men  except  those  in  their  own  families,  and  they  sure  wouldn't  talk  to  strange  white  men  in  stores.&quot;  &quot;Ladies  don't  do  it,&quot;  I  said,  under  my  breath.  &quot;'That's  right,&quot;  Mr.  Brainard  said.  ''There's  lots  of  things  Indian  ladies  don't  do.  They  wouldn't  be  caught  dead  sitting  on  this  seat  with  me.  But  they've  got  over  being  surprised  if  white  women  do  things  they  don't.  They  figure  whites  have  their  own  rules.&quot;  The  dirt  road,  rough  as  it  was,  ended  after  a  time,  and  we  drove  along  a  sand  track.  Then  that  gave  way  to  a  trail,  to  which  we  drove  parallel.  I  fell  into  a  prolonged  misery  of  trying  to  stay  on  my  side  of  the  slippery  leather  seat  and  keep  out  of  the  driver's  way  when  he  reached  for  his  various  levers  and  shifts.  Sometimes  we  dropped  violently  into  huge  holes,  and  then  he  left  his  seat,  snaked  a  winch  chain,  attached  to  the  front  axle,  around  the  nearest  tree  or  stump,  climbed  back  in,  and  meshed  an  assortment  of  gears,  and  the  truck  pulled  itself  out  like  a  spider  climbing  its  own  web.  At  times,  the  holes  were  so  deep  or  the  swampy  ground  so  slip-  pery  that  all  our  passengers  had  to  get  out  and  push;  sometimes  Mr.  Brainard  left  me  to  drive,  and  joined  them.  Be-  fore  the  day  was  out,  I  had  mastered  the  intricacies  of  the  compound  shift.  It  was  dark  when  we  reached  the" b"&quot;hammock&quot;  in  the  swamp  where  the  government  school  was  located.  Our  passengers  gathered  their  goods  and  vanished  into  the  blackness,  and  the  schoolteacher  and  his  wife-Mr.  and  Mrs.  Meade-came  out  to  greet  me.  &quot;You  made  good  time,&quot;  Mrs.  Meade  remarked.  &quot;Only  eight  hours  from  the  blacktop,  Mr.  Brainard  says.&quot;  I  was  too  tired  to  pretend  casualness.  &quot;It  seemed  like  eight  weeks,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'd  think  it  would  be  better  to  come  in  through  the  swamp  in  a  canoe.&quot;  &quot;It  is,&quot;  she  agreed.  &quot;It's  all  we  use,  in  here.  The  trouble  is  you  can't  put  as  much  in  a  canoe  as  you  can  in  the  swamp  wagon.  Now,  we  never  figure  on  any-  body's  going  to  work  the  first  day  here.  You  just  stay  in  bed  and  rest  tomorrow  morning.  We'll  have  a  guide  and  a  dug-  out  for  you  the  next  day.&quot;  &quot;Where  shall  I  put  the  groceries?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;We'll  unpack  them  and  sort  them  in  with  ours,&quot;  Mrs.  Meade  answered.  &quot;We  can  take  turns  cooking,  and  all  eat  together.  I  wish  I'd  known  sooner  that  you  were  coming.  I'd  have  asked  you  to  bring  some  fresh  meat.  Well,  maybe  Jim  Osceola  will  go  hunting  the  end  of  the  week,  and  get  us  some  veni-  son.  We'll  get  him  to  guide  for  you.  He  speaks  English,  and  he's  used  to  white  people.  ...&quot;  Her  voice  grew  faint.  I  was  still  on  the  seat  of  the  swamp  wag-  on,  and  my  ears,  like  my  eyes,  were  closing  under  the  load  of  my  weariness.  I  SLEPT  through  much  of  the  next  day,  but  on  the  second  morning  I  felt  that  I  could  resume  living.  There  was  a  smell  of  coffee  in  the  air,  and  I  got  up  and  dressed,  and  went  into  the  Meades'  kitchen,  where  Mrs.  Meade  was  frying  eggs.  &quot;Jim  Osceola  brought  them,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;He's  kept  hens  ever  since  he  came  back  from  govern-  ment  boarding  school,  though  he  has  to  fight  the  bull  snakes  and  the  skunks  for  the  eggs  and  chicks.  He's  out  on  the  steps  now,  if  you  want  to  speak  to  him.  He  says  he'll  guide  for  you.&quot;  I  thanked  her,  and  went  out  through  the  screened  back  porch.  A  man  in  a  brilliant  patchwork  shirt  rose  from  the  steps  when  he  heard  me  coming,  and  as  heturned  toward  me,  I  recognized  my  acquaintance  of  the  supermarket.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  he  answered.  You  want  a  guide?&quot; &quot;Yes.  &quot;Where  do  you  want  to  go?&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  visit  people's  homes,  and  talk  to  the  ladies.  Can  you  interpret  for  me?&quot;  &quot;If  their  husbands  is  home.&quot;  He" b"grinned,  and  I  remembered  some  of  Brainard's  remarks  on  the  way  in.  &quot;We  can  start  with  your  own  family,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Perhaps  your  wife-&quot;  &quot;We'll  start  with  my  sisters,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  go  eat.  Change  your  shoes-  you  can't  go  in  them  high  heels.  Get  a  snake  kit.  They  won't  let  you  off  the  hammock  without  one.  You  don't  need  it  when  you're  with  me,  because  the  In-  dians  have  a  treaty  with  the  snakes  to  leave  each  other  alone,  but  the  govern-  ment  people  don't  believe  that.  I'll  get  the  dugout.  We  can  start  in  an  hour.&quot;  An  hour  later,  when  I  had  had  break-  fast,  changed  into  sneakers,  and  strapped  a  snake-bite  kit  to  the  belt  of  my  denim  skirt,  I  found  Jim  waiting  on  the  steps  again.  (Long  experience  in  other  parts  of  the  country  had  taught  me  never  to  wear  slacks  on  field  trips  with  Indians.  Pants  are  not  feminine;  ladies  don't  wear  them.)  I  looked  at  the  broad  back,  blurred  by  the  screen,  and  prayed  silently  that  I  might  not  breach  any  unknown  taboos.  &quot;I'm  ready,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  said  Jim,  rising.  &quot;Come  on.&quot;  He  led  the  way  across  the  sandy  ham-  mock-its  floor  a  good  three  feet  higher  than  the  level  of  the  surrounding  swamp-to  a  palmetto  stump  on  the  far  side.  A  log,  somewhat  hollowed  out,  was  tied  to  the  stump's  exposed  root  by  a  twist  of  heavy  brown  wrapping  cord.  &quot;Get  in,  lady,&quot;  Jim  said,  and  I  scrambled  into  the  stern  of  the  dugout.  He  untied  the  cord,  stepped  in  amid-  ships,  his  back  to  me,  and  picked  up  a  pole  that  lay  on  the  bottom.  Without  further  conversation,  he  struck  the  pole  into  the  mud  and  shoved.  We  were  off.  LL  day,  Jim  and  I  threaded  the  waterways,  travelling  from  one  hammock  to  another.  I  watched  his  back.  When  we  reached  a  hammock,  and  he  had  tied  the  dugout  to  a  handy  stump,  he  led  the  way,  along  trails  in-  visible  to  me,  to  settlements  that  I  could  not  have  found.  'The  shelters  were  arborlike  affairs,  thatched  with  branches  of  the  palmettos  that  grew  all  around.  Jim  then  sat  with  the  men  and  I  with  the  women,  on  the  benches  that  were  the  only  furnishings  of  these  struc-  tures.  No  man  looked  at  any  woman.  Instead,  the  men  sat  with  their  backs  turned  to  the  women,  who,  for  their  part,  sat  with  their  eyes  on  their  basket-plaiting  or  sewing,  their  chil-  dren,  or  sometimes-fleetingly-the  backs  of  the  men.  In  each  place,  I  did  as  the  other  ladies  did.  By  the  end  of  the  day,  I  had  learned  how  to  be-  have,  and  while  I  could  have  said  of " b"Jim's  face  only  that  it  was  an  Indian's  &amp;  and  broad,  I  could  have  described  the  back  of  his  shirt  in  minute  detail.  The  days  went  on,  and  I  grew  better  and  better  acquainted  with  Jim's  back.  His  face,  too,  gradually  became  familiar  to  me,  though  it  still  was  seldom  more  than  a  blurred  semi-profile  turned  to-  ward  me  on  the  few  occasions  when  we  spoke,  and  it  seems,  when  I  look  back,  that  we  spoke  very  little.  Speech  was  unnecessary.  We  went  from  hammock  to  hammock,  visiting  each  one  two  or  three  times,  and  the  women  showed  me  their  work  and-largely  in  panto-  mime-how  they  did  it.  Sometimes  Jim  interpreted;  sometimes,  if  there  was  a  girl  present  who  had  been  to  boarding  school,  he  did  not.  On  these  occasions,  he  sat  silent,  regarding  the  ground,  waiting  for  me  to  be  ready  to  go  on.  We  never  made  plans  in  advance  for  a  day's  work.  Each  morning,  Jim  rose  from  the  back  steps  as  I  came  out,  and  walked  ahead  of  me  down  the  path.  We  took  our  places  in  the  canoe,  and  went  on  our  rounds,.  Jim  seemed  to  know  which  hammock  I  would  want  to  begin  with.  In  the  evening,  we  re-  turned  to  the  school,  and  he  led  me  from  the  water's  edge  to  the  house  and  then  vanished  into  the  scrub.  Sometimes  he  went  in  one  direction,  sometimes  in  another.  I  had  no  more  idea  where  his  home  was  after  I  had  been  there  two  weeks  than  I  had  on  the  day  of  my  ar-  rival.  One  day,  Jim  said  to  me,  &quot;I  got  to  be  off  work  awhile.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said.  I  had  had  guides  before.  Sooner  or  later,  they  all  got  tired  of  guiding  and  wanted  to  return  to  their  own  world  for  a  time.  I  had  learned  that  they  were  more  likely  to  come  back  if  I  made  no  objection.  &quot;We  gota  green-corn  dance  com-  ing  up,&quot;  Jim  explained.  &quot;What  we  call  abusk.  My  old  daddy,  he's  the  dance  chief-kind  of  like  a  minister  in  your  religion.  He'd  be  hurt  if  I  wasn't  there  for  the  dance.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right.  Go  on,&quot;  I  said.  My  past  guides  had  seldom  explained  their  reasons  for  wanting  to  be  away,  but  when  they  had,  and  the  reasons  had  involved  a  ceremony  or  festivity,  the  explanation  usually  constituted  an  in-  vitation  to  attend  it.  &quot;May  I  go  to  the  dance?&quot;  I  asked.  \xc2\xab&quot;White  people  don't,&quot;  said  Jim  flatly.  &quot;'Then  I  won't  try  to,&quot;  I  assured  him.  He  was  silent  a  moment.  &quot;I  be  gone  eight  days,&quot;  he  said,  finally.  &quot;Four  days  for  getting  ready,  and  four  days  for  the  dance,.  Then  I  be  back.&quot;  &quot;Is  everybody  going?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;All " b"the  men?  If  they  are,  I'll  stay  at  the  school  and  work  on  reports.  Your  sis-  ters?  Your  wife?  I've  never  met  your  wife,  you  know.&quot;  I  knew  he  had  a  wife,  and  I  had  hinted-cautiously-that  I  would  like  to  meet  her,  but  he  had  ignored  the  hints.  &quot;Everybody  going,&quot;  Jim  said.  &quot;And  you  can't  get  no  other  guide.  You  stay  at  the  school.  My  sisters-everybody.  All  going.&quot;  Brainard  came  to  the  school  that  evening,  and  I  mentioned  the  busk  to  him.  &quot;I'm  going,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;I  been  lots  of  times.  They  like  for  me  to  sit  with  the  old  men.  I'm  the  only  white  person  they  let  come  around,&quot;  &quot;I'd  like  to  go,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Jim  doesn't  seem  to  think  it's  a  good  idea,  though.&quot;  &quot;It  isn't,&quot;  he  answered  seriously.  &quot;Things  get  kind  of  rough.  They  save  up  all  the  punishments  for  the  year,  and  then  they  really  lay  into  each  other  at  the  dance.  You  wouldn't  like  it.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  suppose  not.&quot;  &quot;Whipping  with  thorns  or  palmetto  blades-it's  nothing  for  you  to  see,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;'You  stay  home.  The  dance  is  no  place  for  you.&quot;  UITE  often  during  the  next  week,  I  thought  of  what  Brainard  had  said.  Jim's  father  was  a  chief-a  priest.  Jim  himself  might  be  in  line  for  cere-  monial  office,  and  I  wondered  if  per-  haps  one  of  his  duties  was  to  whip  wrongdoers.  That  might  explain  why  he  didn't  want  an  outsider  present.  He  mightn't  want  me  to  see  him  doing  something  that  he  knew  would  be,  by  my  standards,  cruel.  On  the  ninth  morning,  Jim  came  back.  My  reports  were  finished  and  in  their  envelopes,  ready  to  mail  when  I  got  &quot;outside.&quot;  Word  had  come  on  the  two-way  radio  the  evening  before  that  there  were  messages  from  Washing-  ton  waiting  for  me  at  the  Agency.  In  two  more  days,  Mr.  Brainard's  swamp  wagon  was  going  to  make  its  monthly  trip,  taking  me  out.  This  would  be  my  next-to-last  trip  withJim.  I  had  finished  breakfast,  and  was  waiting  for  Jim  to  appear  on  the  path  beyond  the  porch.  He  had  never  been  late  before,  and  I  had  about  decided  to  give  him  up.  Now,  surprisingly,  he  stood  facing  me.  &quot;You  ready?&quot;  he  asked.  I  nodded.  He  stepped  aside  and  let  me  lead  the  way  down  to  the  bayou.  I  was  mo-  mentarily  startled  by  this  change  in  his  behavior,  but  when  we  were  in  the  canoe,  he  turned  his  back  on  me,  as  always,  and  began  to  pole.  He  had  on,  I  noticed,  a  handsome  new  patch-  %  work  shirt-one  I  had  never  seen  be-" b"fore.  Its  colors  were  jewel-bright,  its  patterns  complex.  I  watched  it  swing  and  stretch  with  his  movements,  and  as  I  watched,  its  colors  and  patterns  be-  gan  to  blur  and  fade.  Or  not  to  fade  but,  rather,  to  streak  and  run  together,  as  if  the  red  in  the  patterns  were  being smeared  over  the  other  colors.  &quot;Jim!&quot;  I  screamed.  He  thrust  the  pole  deep  into  the  mud  to  hold  the  canoe,  and  looked  at  me  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;What?&quot;  he  said,  almost  stupidly.  &quot;What  happened  to  you?  You're  bleeding!  Go  back  to  the  school,.  You're  hurt.&quot;  &quot;If  you  want  to,&quot;  he  muttered.  We  were  no  more  than  a  dozen  strokes  from  the  school  landing,  but  by  the  time  we  reached  it  he  was  soaked  with  blood  from  neck  to  heels.  I  tied  the  canoe  clumsily,  and  we  stumbled  up  the  path.  Mrs.  Meade  was  nowhere  in  sight.  I  made  Jim  sit  on  a  stool  on  the  screened  porch,  and  helped  him  out  ofthe  terrible  shirt.  Then  I  saw  his  back.  The  skin  was  gone,  and  considerable  flesh  with  it.  The  flat  shoulder  muscles  lay  exposed  as  if  they  belonged  to  a  cadaver  in  a  dissecting  room.  I  won-  dered  how  the  man  could  move  at  all,  let  alone  pole  a  canoe.  &quot;Jim,  what  could  you  do  that  was  bad  enough-&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  want  you  to  find  out  they  whipped  me,&quot;  he  said.  I  told  him  to  wait,  and  went  inside.  The  first-aid  kit,  fortunately,  was  never  locked,  and  I  took  out  everything  I  thought  I  could  use.  While  I  bathed  the  wounds  and  tried  to  dress  them,  Jim  talked.  At  first,  it  was  a  slow,  incoher-  ent  muttering.  I  think  he  was  a  little  delirious  with  pain  and  exhaustion.  I  didn't  want  to  listen,  but  he  rambled  on  and  on,  and  the  same  words  came  again  and  again,  gradually  forming  a  coherent  whole.  &quot;Us  Indians  are  funny.  We  have  our  own  ways  of  doing  things.  We  been  hiding  in  the  swamps  a  long  time.  We  don't  go  nowhere  much.  We  don't  have  nothing  to  do  with  other  people,  if  we  can  help  it.  We  got  our  own  ways,  we  want  to  keep  them.  &quot;How  come  both  them  girls  are  so  pretty?  How  come  it's  so  hard  to  make  upyour  mind  to  one  girl?  I  never  thought  anybody'd  find  out.  One  liv-  ing  outside,  and  one  in  here.  That's  why  I  never  answered  you  when  you  talked  about  meeting  my  wife.  You're  such  a  nice  lady,  I  didn't  want  you  to  meet  the  one  here  and  then  later  on  find  out  about  the  other  one.  &quot;I  never  told  nobody.  Maybe  Brain-  ard  found  out.  He  finds  out  anything  " b"he  wants  to.  He  speaks  enough  Indian,  He  could  guess.  He'd  tell.&quot;  &quot;Be  still,  Jim,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  can't  do  anything  for  you  if  you  keep  on  twist-  ing  around.&quot;  He  sat  silent  and  motionless  for  a  minute,  and  then  the  words  flowed  again.  &quot;They're  nice  girls.  I  like  them  both.  The  one  outside,  she  speaks  Eng-  lish.  I  went  to  boarding  school  with  her.  It  wasn't  me  gother  in  trouble-  it  was  my  buddy-but  she  come  to  me,  crying,  so  I  married  her.  I  love  that  first  little  boy  of  hers.  We  have  two  of  our  own  now,  and  I  feel  about  him  just  the  way  I  feel  about  them.&quot;  &quot;Be  quiet,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  must  sit  still.&quot;  &quot;''This  one  here,  she  don't  have  no  babies.  Maybe  she  can't.  My  daddy  picked  her  for  me,  and  I  had  to  marry  her.  Chiefs'  sons  are  supposed  to  have  babies,  but  the  girls  got  to  belong  to  the  right  families.  I  suppose  I  ought  to  have  told  my  daddy  about  my  other  wife.  He  might  have  let  me  keep  her  and  not  marry  this  one.  &quot;It's  easy  to  have  two  wives  when  you  come  and  go,  like  me.  It's  good.  It's  like  being  at  home  all  the  time,  whether  you're  here  or  outside.  I  got  to  beat  the  Agency  a  lot  of  the  time,  interpret-  ing.  A  man  needs  a  wife.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said,  trying  to  soothe  him.  I  began  to  sprinkle  sulfa  powder  over  his  back.  &quot;A  man  needs  a  wife,  but  he  ought  to  choose.&quot;  &quot;He  ought  to  choose.  That's  what  my  daddy  says.  He  ought  to  choose.  The  old  Indian  way  was  for  us  to  have  just  one  wife,  he  says.  But  I  didn't  want  to  choose.&quot;  &quot;Be  quiet,  Jim,&quot;  I  said  again.  &quot;Sit  still.  The  bleeding  will  stop  soon  if  you're  quiet.  Then  you  can  go  home.&quot;  &quot;Go  home  to  my  Big  Tree  wife,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes.  I'll  do  that.  She's  the  one  I'll  keep.  Maybe  if  I  stay  home  more,  we  can  have  babies.  The  other  one-  she'll  get  a  different  man  without  any  trouble.  All  those  girls  outside,  they  can  get  men  if  they  want  them.  I'll  go  home  to  my  Big  Tree  wife,  and  see  if  I  can  sleep  for  a  while.&quot;  He  rose,  and  stood  looking  at  me.  &quot;'Thank  you  for  fixing  me  up,&quot;  he  said.  I  picked  his  shirt  up  from  the  floor  and  handed  it  to  him,  the  screen  door  closed  quietly  behind  him,  and,  while  I  stood  watching,  he  vanished  into  the  scrub."