 b"I  have  been  informed,  concerns  the  bringing  of  culture  to  a  small  [REDACTED]  town  in  the  nineteen-twenties  by  a  pitchman,  played  by  Robert  Preston,  who  sells  mu-  sical  instruments  to  children  who  have  heretofore  neverheard  of  John  Philip  Sousa  or  the  other  finer  things  of  life.  Mr.  Willson  has  said  that  all  this  actual-  ly  happened  in  his  own  [REDACTED]  town  when  he  was  a  boy,  and  that  he  ended  up  playing  a  flute  in  the  town  band.  I  can  only  conclude  that  this  sort  of  thing  was  a  common  cultural  phenomenon  in  the  Middle  West  three  decades  ago,  because  I  had  precisely  the  same  experience  at  the  age  of  nine,  when  a  music  man  came  to  our  town  of  [REDACTED]  Springs,  [REDACTED].  I,  too,  ended  up  playing  the  flute.  [REDACTED]  Springs  was  feeling  expansive  and  ready  for  culture  when  the  man  from  the  Hinkham  Music  Store,  in  [REDACTED]  City,  came  to  town  in  the  au-  tumn  of  1928.  Oil  wells  were  pumping  steadily  just  outside  the  city  limits,  and  refinery  gas  flares,  burning  off  waste,  glared  orange-red  across  the  damp  sand-  bars  of  the  [REDACTED]  River.  One  [REDACTED]  Springs  man  had  devised  a  method  of  extracting  table  salt  from  oil-well  brine,  andwas  considered  a  cinch  to  make  a  million  within  ayear.  Station  KVOO  was  broadcasting  programs  like  &quot;''The  Twenty  Singing  Colo-  nels&quot;  from  the  Philtower  Building,  in  [REDACTED]-a  structure  we  could  see  faintly  on  the  horizon  from  [REDACTED]  Springs.  Bul-  letins  in  the  [REDACTED]  World  reported  that  C.C.  Pyle's  cross-country  Bunion  Derby  would  shortly  come  hobbling  through  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  Springs,  and  other  nearby  towns.  In  this  atmosphere  of  good  things  happening  everywhere,  it  was  not  sur-  prising  that  the  man  from  the  Hinkham  Music  Store  was  made  welcome  in  [REDACTED]  Springs  and  immediately  invited  to  ad-  dress  the  Boosters'  Club.  My  father,  as  pastorof  the  Presbyterian  Church,  was  aBooster,  and  since  the  meeting  was  to  be  a  Father  and  Son  Luncheon,  he  took  me  along.  I  can  still  see  the  Boosters  at  that  meeting,  seated  on  folding  funeral  chairs  at  a  long  table  in  the  Excello  Cafe  and  blowing  cigar  smoke  at  the  ceiling  as  they  listened  to  the  Hinkham  salesman  make  his  pitch.  &quot;If  [REDACTED]  Springs  wants  a  school  band,&quot;  the  music  man  said  earnestly,  &quot;I     know  it  wants  a  good  band-just  as  good  as  the  one  I  just  helped  start  in  Sapulpa.  And  if  [REDACTED]  Springs  is  to  have  a  good  band-a  smzappy  band-it  has  to  have  a  complete  band,  and  by  that  I  mean  a  band  that  includes  every  single  living  instrument!  Not  just  your  trum-  pets  and  clarinets  and  drums  but  their  faithful  cousins-the  gentle  mello-  phone,  the  strident  trombone,  the  lively  bassoon,  and,  of  course,  the  tuba,  that  noble  work  of  metal  which  ...  well,  which  supports  the  whole  band,  har-  monically,  like  Atlas  holding  up  the  world!&quot;  He  paused  to  drink  a  glass  of  water  and  to  let  this  point  reach  home  plate.  In  a  few  seconds,  he  continued,  &quot;Now,  naturally,  some  of  these  fine  instruments  cost  more  than  others.  There's  a  lot  of  metal-a  lot  of  metal-in  those  tubas,  and  some  ofthese  band  instruments  are  likea  veritable  bunch  of  Swiss  watches,  they're  so  hard  to  put  together  at  the  factory.  Let's  face  the  facts.  If  we  left  it  for  each  youngster's  parents  to  pick  out  a  horn  without  paying  attention  to  what  the  other  kids  were  buying,  why,  we'd  have  an  unbalanced  band,  an  in-  complete  band,  and,  I'll  tell  you,  per-  haps  no  band  at  all!  You  need  all  the  instruments,  and  somebody  has  to  buy  thetuba,  the  saxophone,  and  so  on  down  the  line.  Now,  here's  what  the  Hinkham  Music  Store  is  prepared  to  do.  We  are  prepared  to  sell  every  single  instrument,  no  matter  how  big  or  how  complicated,  for  exactly  the  same  price  if  this  forward-looking  town  is  prepared  to  subscribe  to  the  complete  band.  The  price  for  each  and  every  instrument  is  precisely  sixty  dollars-five  dollars  down  and  the  balance  in  eleven  easy,  equal  monthly  payments.  &quot;Now,how  do  we  distribute  these  instruments?  How  do  we  spread  them  out,so  that  each  child  and  parent  can  choose  the  desired  object  of  his  musical  future?  Why,  we  do  it  in  the  most  dem-  ocratic  and  fair  way  possible!  You  gentlemen  name  the  day,  and  I  will  display  every  instrument  in  the  band  in  one  room.  Parents  and  children  walk  in  and  help  themselves-first  come,  first  served.  What  could  be  fairer  or  easier  than  that?&quot;  Nothing,  apparently,  seemed  fairer  or  easier  or  more  desirable  to  [REDACTED]  Springs.  At  the  end  of  the  meeting,  the  Boosters  generously  and  unanimously " b"voted  to  underwrite  the  entire  cost  of  uniforms  for  a  high-school  band.  In  the  next  few  days,  the  Hinkham  man  also  addressed  the  faculties  of  the  high  school  and  the  Central  and  Garfield  elemen-  tary  schools.  After  that,  he  spoke  direct-  ly  to  the  children,  at  school  assemblies,  where  he  told  us  that  the  school  system  had  contracted  for  a  complete  band  and  that  the  instruments  would  be  displayed  in  a  week's  time  in  the  high-school  gymnasium.  &quot;Now,  it's  up  to  you  fine  young  people,&quot;  he  saidto  our  assembly  at  Central  Elementary,  &quot;to  decide  on  the  instrument  of  your  choice  and  then  speak  to  your  parents,  being  sure  to  point  out  the  modest  down  payment.&quot;  BEFORE  the  arrival  of  the  Hink-  ham  music  man,  I  had  lived  a  fairly  irresponsible  life  for  the  son  of  a  min-  ister.  My  father  and  his  congregation  were  not  hard  Calvinists,  and  I  was  per-  mitted  to  enjoy  myself.  We  had  a  family  ministerial  pass  to  the  movies,  which  was  kept  in  the  oak  sideboard  in  our  dining  room,  and  which  allowed  me  to  visit  the  Star  Theatre  on  Saturday  after-  noons.  A  parishioner  who  owned  both  an  amusement  park  and  a  local  interur-  ban  railroad  had  given  us  another  pass,  which  I  used  frequently,  riding  both  his  Dodgem  cars  and  his  trains.  With  these  advantages,  I  might  have  remained  a pure  hedonist  if  it  hadn't  been  for  my  'I  mother.  She  believed  in  culture,  and  culture  to  her  meant  music.  She  played  the  piano  every  evening,  sitting  under  her  framed  diploma  from  the  Columbia  Music  Institute.  Father  had  a  collection  of  sheet  music-songs  like  &quot;The  Red  Scarf&quot;  and  &quot;Asleep  in  the  Deep&quot;-  which  he  kept  in  the  hinged  piano  seat,  and  sometimes  he  sang  while  my  mother  played.  It  was  therefore  not  surprising  that  Mother  passed  up  elocution  and  tap-dancing  lessons  for  me,  and  enrolled  me  instead  in  the  piano  classes  of  Mrs.  Stevenson,  a  stout-hearted  widow  who  could  easily  encompass  an  octave  and  two  notes  on  the  keyboard  with  each  hand.  Mrs.  Stevenson  was  the  local  repre-sentative  of  the  Melody  Way  piano  system.  Each  of  her  pupils  was  equipped  with  the  system's  patented  cardboard  keyboard,  which  looked  exactly  like  the  real  thing  but  did  not  play.  For  practice  on  our  pianos  at  home,  we  were  given  cardboard  keyboard  finders-a  sort  of  musical  slide  rule  showing  the  relation-  ship  between  the  notes  on  the  music  staff  and  the  keys  on  a  piano.  Twice  a  week,  half  a  dozen  of  us  sat  in  Mrs.  Stevenson's  living  room  and  drummed  out  the  first  tune  in  the  Melody  Way" b"music  bookon  our  dummy  keyboards  while  Mrs.  Stevenson  walked  around  the  room  clapping  her  hands,  correcting  our  posture  and  hand  positions,  and  smiling,  always  smiling.  We  sang  aloud  while  we  played  mutely,  &quot;'The  Mell-oh-  dee  W  aay-ee  is  eez-zee  to  plaay-ce!&quot;  Then,  one  by  one,  we  went  up  to  Mrs.  Stevenson's  piano,  which  had  a  plaster  collie  seated  on  a  lace  doily  on  the  lid,  and  took  a  crack  at  the  real  thing  while  theothers  continued  with  their  Braille  pianos.  &quot;Bright  eyes,  I  spy!&quot;  Mrs.  Stevenson  would  cry  as  she  placed  our  fingers  on  the  proper  notes.  &quot;Prac-  tice  makes  perfect.  Music  soothes  the  savage  beast.&quot;  After  a  month  of  this  kind  of  in-  struction,  Mrs.  Stevenson  informed  my  class  that  we  had  been  booked  for  a  recital  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  thunderstruck,  and  instantly  soured  on  the  Melody  W  ay,  the  piano,  and  the  deviousness  and  pushiness  of  culture  in  general.  Protests  to  my  mother  that  I  was  not  ready  did  no  good.  On  the  appointed  day,  she  rode  with  me  to  556e6974656420537461746573on  the  inter-  urban  car  and  then  sat  with  the  other  mothers  in  the  recital  hall.  I  played  a  simple  variation  on  the  Melody  Way  theme  song,  and  it  was  a  nightmare,  mostly  because  my  left  hand  was  still  totally  unsynchronized  with  my  right.  On  the  way  home,  I  delivered  an  ulti-  matum  to  my  mother  on  further  lessons  with  Mrs.  Stevenson.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  Mother  replied  at  once,  &quot;if  you  want  to  start  tap-dancing  lessons  instead  ..  .&quot;  It  was  precisely  at  this  difficult  point  in  my  life  that  the  Hinkham  music  man  came  to  [REDACTED]  Springs,  bringing  what  seemed  to  be  a  solution  to  all  my  cul-  tural  problems.  After  listening  to  him  at  the  Boosters'  meeting,  I  was  hooked.  Playing  in  a  band,  I  decided  at  once,  would  be  much  more  fun  than  playing  for  Mrs.  Stevenson,  and  would  also  fur-  nish  me  with  a  perfect  excuse  for  giving  up  the  Melody  Way.  IT  didn't  turn  out  to  be  quite  as  easy  asI  had  hoped.  For  one  thing,  Fa-  ther,  who  had  the  last  word  on  such  domestic  matters,  tabled  judgment  on  whether  or  not  I  should  be  allowed  to  join  the  band  until  the  day  when  the  in-  struments  were  to  be  spread  out  on  the  gymnasium  floor.  Unfortunately,  he  was  unable  to  give  his  decision  that  morning.  He  was  called  out  before  breakfast  to  the  bedside  of  a  man  who  had  been  injured  in  an  oil-field  acci-  dent.  Mother  said  we  would  have  to  wait  until  after  school  to  get  Father's  approval.  I  arrived  home  at  three-fifteen  that" b"afternoon,  and  Father  still  had  not  re-  turned.  &quot;Look,&quot;  I  pleaded.  &quot;By  the  time  we  get  to  the  gym,  all  the  instru-  ments  will  be  gone.  'The  soprano  saxo-  phones  and  drums  are  already  finished,  and  there  are  only  a  few  peck  horns  and  junk  like  that  left.&quot;  &quot;We'll  wait  until  four  for  your  fa-  ther,&quot;  Mother  said,  &quot;and  then-  then  we'llsee.&quot;  Father  had  not  returned  by  four,  and  Mother  quietly  put  on  her  coat.  As  I  picked  up  my  cap,  she  stopped  at  the  front  door  and  said,  &quot;I'll  take  the  re-  sponsibility  for  letting  you  join  the  band.  But  in  return  you'll  have  to  promise  me  that  you  won't  give  up  your  piano  les-  sons.&quot;  I  protested  vigorously,  but  I  knew  I  was  trapped.  By  that  time,  my  own  vision  of  myself,  in  a  resplendent  uni-  form,  tootling  on  a  tuba  or  a  French  horn  as  the  band  swung  down  Main  Street  had  become  too  vivid.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  said,  finally,  &quot;but  let's  hurry.&quot;  The  gymnasium  floor  had  been  fairly  well  picked  over  by  the  time  we  arrived.  The  Hinkham  music  man  was  hopping,  broken-field  style,  over  the  remainder  of  the  instruments,  stopping  occasional-  ly  to  runan  arpeggio  on  a  trumpet  or  to  playa  few  bars  from  &quot;Drink  to  Me  Only  with  Thine  Eyes&quot;  on  a  clarinet.  I  despaired  of  finding  anything.  One  tuba  was  left,  but  the  saxophones  were  signed  for  and  the  mellophones  and  drums  had  long  since  evaporated.  When  the  Hinkham  man  realized  that  the  re-  maining  instruments-mostly  clarinets  and  lighter  woodwinds-were  not  do-  ing  too  well,  he  looked  at  his  watch  and  reached  into  his  vest  pocket  for  a  pitch  pipe,  which  he  blew  for  attention.  Then  he  jumped  up  onto  a  platform,  tucked  his  thumbs  in  his  vest,  and  delivered  a  short  speech  about  the  relationship  be-  tween  teeth  and  the  playing  of  certain  band  instruments.  All  the  parents  and  children  present  were  awed  by  his  store  of  information.  The  gist  of  his  talk  was  that  children,  so  often  inclined  to  have  protruding  upper  teeth,  would  be  wise  to  choose  a  clarinet  or  an  oboe,  instead  of  one  of  the  more  flamboyant  horns.  This  announcement  had  entirely  the  wrong  effect  upon  my  mother,  who  quickly  walked  over  to  the  Hinkham  man  and  explained  that  I  was  in  the  middle  of  an  expensive  program  of  or-  thodontia  with  a  dentist  in  [REDACTED],  who  was  trying  to  get  my  upper  teeth  to  grow  forward,  not  back.  The  music  man  looked  at  my  teeth  and  then  flicked  his  eye  over  the  remaining  instruments  on  the  floor  and  the  line  of  mothers  with" b"bucktoothed  children  that  hadformed  up  behind  my  mother.  &quot;Have  you  considered  the  flute?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;No,  we  haven't,&quot;  Mother  an-  swered.  &quot;I  had  thought  a  cornet  might  be  rather  nice.&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  flute  is  a  happy  little  in-  strument-a  little  tricky  to  play,  but  I'm  sure  your  son  will  master  it  easily.  A  sheer  pleasure  to  have  around  the  house.  Not  so  noisy  and  blustery,  you  know,  as  some  of  its  brothers  in  the  band,  and  easy  for  a  lad  your  son's  size  to  carry.  You  can  go  far  on  a  flute.&quot;  By  this  time,the  floor  was  almost  bare;  only  the  flute,  an  oboe,  and  two  clarinets  remained.  Mother  looked  around  at  the  line  behind  her.  &quot;We'll  take  the  flute,&quot;  she  said  quickly,  and  handed  the  music  man  five  dollars.  That  evening,  Father  told  Mother  that  her  decision  had  been  sound.  After  supper,  we  took  the  flute  out  of  its  case  and  tried  to  put  it  together.  The  two  pieces  of  pipe  would  not  fit,  for  some  reason,  and  we  were  unable  even  to  fit  them  back  into  the  narrow  purple-  velvet-lined  case,  for  fear  of  bending  the  keys.  Thus,  I  had  to  go  to  the  first  band  practice  at  Central  Elementary  carrying  my  fragmented  flute  wrapped  in  tissue  paper  from  an  old  hatbox,  with  the  empty  case  in  my  other  hand.  HE  Hinkham  man  had  done  his  job  so  well  that  when  the  last  in-  strument  had  vanished  from  the  gym-  nasium  floor,  it  was  discovered  that  [REDACTED]  Springs  had  contracted  for  no  fewer  than  a  hundred  and  fifty  instruments,  and  had  on  its  civic  hands  the  responsibil-  ity  not  for  one  but  for  three  entire  bands-one  for  each  school.  The  school  board  immediately  hired  a  Mr.  Dale  Watling,  a  recent  graduate  of  normal  school,  to  train  us  all  in  bandsmanship.  The  moment  he  was  appointed,  the  football  committee  of  the  Boosters  ap-  proached  him  and  asked  if  he  could  have  a  band  ready  to  put  on  the  field  for  the  Bartlesville  game  the  next  fall.  My  father  told  me  that  Mr.  Watling  had  smiled  bravely  and  said  he'd  try.  I  saw  Mr.  Watling  for  the  first  time  when  I  reported  for  our  initial  re-  hearsal,  which  was  held  in  the  main  en-  trance  hall  of  our  school,  in  the  class  period  right  after  lunch.  He  was  a  pale  man  and  quite  short,  but  I  decided  al-  most  at  once  that  he  was  a  person  of  great  taste  and  self-assurance.  After  seating  us  by  sections  in  a  semicircle  of folding  chairs,  he  started  showing  each  of  us  how  to  hold  his  instrument  and" b"how  to  blow  it.  When  he  came  to  me,  he  smilingly  unwrapped  the  flute  from  its  tissue  paper,  removed  a  small  ring  that  was  guarding  the  greased  end  of  the  mouthpiece  joint,  and  easilyfitted  the  flute  together.  I  was  embarrassed  that  my  family  and  I  hadn't  been  able  to  figure  that  one  out.  &quot;Now,  hold  it  like  this,&quot;  Mr.  Wat-  ling  said.  &quot;Left  hand  here,  right  hand  here,  fingers  here,here,  here,  and  here.  Hold  your  elbows  up  like  you're  saluting  the  flag.  You'll  get  tired  at  first,  but  you'll  get  over  that.  Put  this  mouthpiece  under  your  bottom  lip  and  blow  across  this  little  hole,  just  like  you'd  blow  over  the  top  of  a  pop  bottle.  Try  it.  Say  I  tried  it.  Nothing  happened.  &quot;Again!&quot;  Still  nothing.  &quot;Mr.  Watling,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  feel  a  little  dizzy.&quot;  Some  of  the  new  clarinettists  giggled  through  their  buckteeth.  &quot;Let  me  have  it  a  minute,&quot;  said  Mr.  Watling.  He  put  it  to  his  mouth,  pursed  his  lips,  and  blew.  No  sound  came  out  and  I  looked  around  defiantly  at  the  other  bandsmen.  He  tried  again,  still  without  success,  while  the  giggles  spread  to  the  saxophone  section.  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Very  strange.  Ver-y  strange.&quot;  He  seemed  about  to  give  up  and  move  on  to  the  oboe  player  when  he  upended  the  flute  and  looked  inside.  He  broke  into  a  big  smile.  &quot;Ha!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Here's  our  beastie.  Son,  you  left  the  swab  brush  inside.  No  wonder  it  wouldn't  blow.  'That's  a  good  one  on  you!&quot;  He  pulled  out  the  swab,  re-  assembled  the  flute,  and  then  played  what  seemed  to  be  several  thousand  cascading  notes.  He  handed  the  flute  back  to  me.  &quot;Now  you  try,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Remember-like  a  bottle!  Taaa!  Taaa!&quot;  I  took  the  flute  and  carefully  ad-  justed  my  lower  lip.  A  small,  clear  whistle  did  indeed  come  out.  &quot;Splendid!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Now,  later,  when  I  have  the  whole  band  play  at  once,  I  want  you  to  blow  just  that  way,  with  your  fingers  down  on  all  the  keys.  Remember!  Taaal!&quot;  He  had  fifty  bandsmen  to  tutor  in  just  this  way,  and  I  was  astounded  at  his  vir-  tuosity  and  cleverness.  One  girl,  I  re-  member,  began  to  cry  when  she  couldn't  geta  sound  out  of  her  cornet.  &quot;Pretend  you  have  a  hair  on  the  tip  of  your  tongue  and  you're  trying  to  get  it  off,&quot;  Mr.  Watling  said.  She  did,  and  a  fine  blast  ensued.  &quot;Splendid!&quot;  he  cried,  and  moved  on.  Halfan  hour  later,  Mr.  Watling  stepped  up  on  a  small  podium  before  us," b"wiped  his  forehead,  and  buttoned  his  coat.  &quot;Now,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  am  the  con-  ductor,  you  arethe  musicians.  'Togeth-  er,  we  arethe  band.&quot;  He  held  up  a  baton.  &quot;This  little  stick  is  just  a  long  fingerfor  you  to  watch.  It  will  talk  to  you,  and  you  willtalk  back  to  it,  with  your  instruments.  Now,  when  this  stick  comes  down,  blow  your  instruments  all  together,  just  as  I  showed  you.&quot;  Mr.  Watling  raised  his  arms  high  above  his  head,  counted  one,  two,  three,  and  brought  both  arms  down  briskly.  Central  Elementary  had  never  heard  anything  quite  like  it.  Teachers  conduct-  ing  classes  for  those  unfortunates  who  hadn't  joined  the  march  to  culture  in  [REDACTED]  Springs  stuck  their  heads  out  of  classroom  doors  and  smiled  enormously  at  each  other.  We  in  the  band  were  flab-  bergasted  and  proudly  self-conscious.  &quot;Splendid!  Splendid!&quot;  cried  Mr.  Watling.  He  jumped  down  from  the  podiumand  began  distributing  copies  of  &quot;Wheeler's  Beginning  Band  Book&quot;  to  us  all.  &quot;You  have  just  played  the  first  note  in  this  book.  Take  the  books  home  and  keep  practicing  that  note.  Next  time  we  meet,  we'll  add  three  new  notes.&quot;  Within  two  weeks,  we  were  playing  &quot;T  Tonight.&quot;  URING  the  winter,  our  band  blew  its  way  through  the  Wheeler  band  book,  progressing  note  by  note,  phrase  by  phrase.  Some  of  the  bandsmen  dropped  out,  but  their  places  were  quick-  ly  taken  by  recruits  who  could  not  resist  the  twice-weekly  noise  out  in  the  hall.  My  flute  came  along  handsomely.  Mother  and  I  played  duets  on  &quot;Melody  in  F&quot;  and  &quot;Le  Secret.&quot;  She  and  I  or-  ganized  a  sort  of  bootleg  Sunday-school  orchestra,  entirely  independent  of  Mr.  Watling,  and  sent  away  for  the  ballet  music  from  &quot;Rosamunde,&quot;  which  had  a  flashy  flute  part.  Then  Mr.  Watling  an-  nounced  one  day  that  elementary-school  musicians  who  showed  exceptional  promise  might  be  allowed  to  join  the  high-school  band,  which  was  going  great  guns  and  was  already  drawing  a  steady  bead  on  the  &quot;Light  Cavalry  Overture.&quot;  Privately,  he  told  me  that  my  own  chances  of  achieving  this  step  would  be  improved  if  I  could  manage  to  add  the  piccolo  to  my  repertoire  of  instruments.  The  piccolo,  Iquickly  discovered,  is  a  shrill  flute,  an  octave  higher  than  its  larger  brother.  I  thought  it  would  be  easy  to  play,  since  it  fingered  exactly  like  the  flute.  Unaccountably,  the  Hink-  ham  man  had  not  included  a  piccolo  among  his  instruments-for  good  rea-  son,  Father  muttered,  because  no  piece " b"of  pipe  eight  inches  long  could  possibly  be  worth  sixty  dollars.  But  it  was  Father  who  bought  me  a  piccolo;  he  came  home  from  a  Synod  meeting  in  [REDACTED]  City  with  one  that  he  had  found  in  a  pawnshop.  It  was  indeed  small,  but  it  peeped  mightily  for  its  size.  Mr.  Watling  was  as  good  as  his  word,  and  immediately  promoted  me  to  the  high-school  band.  A  classmate  of  mine,  Harold  Vogler,  who  had  proved  to  be  a  natural  on  the  saxophone,  was  also  moved  up,  and  Mr.  Watling  arranged  for  us  to  be  excused  from  hygiene  and  spelling  classes  to  attendthe  senior  band  practice.  I  was  proud  of  myself,  and  scarcely  cared  that  practically  all  my  spare  time  was  now  given  up  to  practic-  ing,  since  I  was  now  a  member  of  two  bands  and  the  Sunday-school  orchestra,  and  was  still  in  the  toils  of  Mrs.  Steven-  son  and  the  Melody  Way.  The  arrival  of  the  uniforms  was  a  great  moment  for  us  all.  They  were  delivered  during  a  high-school  band  practice,  and  we  all  stopped  playing  and  started  ripping  open  the  crates  in  which  they  were  packed.  We  discovered  at  once  that  they  weren't  full  uniforms  at  all  but  only  capes  and  overseas  caps.  Mr.  Watling  told  us  that  we  were  to  supply  our  own  white  shirts  and  white  duck  trousers  to  wear  with  them.  We  were  happy  anyway,  for  the  capes  black  flannel  piped  with  gold  stripes  and  lined  with  gold  satin-were  beautiful.  The  caps  had  graceful  lyres,  surmount-  ed  by  the  initials  &quot;S.S.H.,&quot;  embroidered  on  the  left  side.  Unfortunately,  the  capes  were  all  the  same  size,  and  much  too  big  for  me,  and  I  had  to  stuff  newspaper  into  the  sweatband  of  the  smallest-sized  cap  in  order  to  make  it  fit.  Neverthe-  less,  we  were  all  inspired  by  this  physical  evidence  that  we  were,  at  last,  a  real  band.  &quot;Wouldn't  it  be  wonderful,&quot;  Mr.  Watling  said  to  us  that  afternoon,  &quot;if  our  band-this  very  band-could  march  onto  the  field  during  the  half  at  the  Bartlesville  game  next  fall,  playing  'The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever'!  We  might  even  arrange  for  a  corps  of  girls  in  costume  to  accompany  our  perform-  ance  with  a  flag  drill.  What  a  spec-  tacle!&quot;  This  dream-&quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever&quot;  rendered  perfectly  by  the  full  band-became  an  obsession  for  us  all,  but  especially  for  me.  &quot;'The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever&quot;  displays  Sousa's  evi-  dent  love  for  the  piccolo.  The  instru-  ment  has  the  entire  second  refrain  all  to  itself  in  obbligato.  I  went  to  work  on  the  part  immediately  at  home,  trying  to  master  the  intricate  trills  and  runs,  and  particularly  the  high,  sustained  notes" b'that  are  meant  to  shaftpiercingly  above  every  other  noise  in  the  band.  Mean-  while,  we  added  special  after-school  practice  sessions  to  our  already  jammed  schedule  of  rehearsals.  Spring  came  at  last,  and  as  [REDACTED]  Springs  thawed,  we  moved  outside  for  marching  practice.  It  was  quite  a  while  before  we  were  able  to  march  and  play  simultaneously,  and  Mr.  Watling,  who  was  beginning  to  show  the  strain  of  his  job,  proved  to  be  a  stern  drill  sergeant.  He  could  be  quite  nasty  when  we  failed  to  keep  our  files  dressed  up.  I  had  other  reasons  for  finding  the  marching  not  half  as  exciting  as  I  had  thought  it  would  be.  It  was  downright  tiring  for  me.  Trombones  come  first  in  the  classic  marching  formation,  and  in  our  band  all  the  trombones  were  played  by  the  older,  leggier  high-school  boys,  who  liked  to  see  which  of  them  could  take  the  longest  strides.  My  place  was  way  in  the  rear,  behind  the  trumpets  and  clarinets  and  the  last  of  the  woodwinds,  and  I  quickly  discovered  that  it  was  im-  possible  for  me  to  keep  up,  even  while  taking  the  longest  steps  imaginable,  without  adding  a  quick  skipping  step  after  every  fifth  or  sixth  pace.  Later,  when  we  marched  in  uniform,  I  realized  for  the  first  time  that  my  cape  was  much  too  long.  Instead  of  coming  to  my  knees,  it  hung  down  right  to  my  ankles,  where  it  managed  to  trip  me  up  every  few  yards,  usually  when  I  was  skipping  to  catch  up  with  the  others.  Another  disheartening  moment  for  me  was  my  discovery  that  there  is  no  practical  way  for  a  piccolo  player  to  carry  sheet  music.  The  other  instru-  ments  had  handy  clip  lyres  attached,  but  a  piccolo  is  so  small  that  such  a  fixed  music  holder  torques  it  forward  and  out  of  playing  position.  I  tried  holding  an  underarm  stick  with  the  music  attached  at  the  end,  and  then  I  tried  a  head  lyre,  butboth  were  too  uncomfortable.  I  even  tried  pinning  my  music  to  the  cape  of  the  trumpet  player  ahead  of  me,  but  it  was  almost  impossible  to  see  the  jig-  gling  notes  when  we  marched.  There  was  nothing  for  me  to  do  but  learn  all  the  piccolo  parts  by  heart,  including  the  one  for  &quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  For-  ever.&quot;  In  the  meantime,  I  discovered  that  when  I  forgot  a  phrase  or  two  in  the  middle  of  a  tune,  a  high  trill,  sustained  for  a  few  bars,  made  an  acceptable  pic-  colo  part.  [REDACTED]  afternoon  toward  the  end  of  the  school  term,  we  trooped  into  school  after  a  particularly  demanding  marching  session,  with  our  shoes  cov-  ered  with  asphalt  melted  by  the  hot  May' b"sun.  Mr.  Watling  wiped  his  forehead  and  announced  that  we  had  had  enough  marching.  He  told  us  that  we  were  to  give  a  concert  on  the  last  day  of  the  school  year.  &quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever&quot;  was  to  be  the  final  number  on  the  program.  Panic  seized  me.  I  thought  of  the  Melody  Way  recital  disaster,  and  won-  dered  bitterly  why,  oh,  why  culture  had  to  make  such  a  spectacle  of  itself.  But  I  was  part  of  a  movement,  and  I  realized  that  I  had  to  face  up  to  my  responsibili-  ties  to  [REDACTED]  Springs.  I  started  prac-  ticing  the  piccolo  part  of  &quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever&quot;  during  my  lunch  hour,  as  well  as  in  the  evenings.  One  night  shortly  before  the  concert,  I  had  stopped  my  practicing  long  enough  to  catch  my  breath.  I  was  sit-  ting  in  our  dining  room,  listening  to  &quot;The  Twenty  Singing  Colonels&quot;  over  KVOO,  when  I  heard  Father  yell  sharply  from  the  living  room.  &quot;Fiddle-  sticks!&quot;  he  cried.  He  walked  into  the  dining  room  carrying  my  piccolo  in  one  hand  and  the  evening  paper  in  the  other.  &quot;Why  did  you  leave  your  piccolo  on  my  chair?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;Of  all  the  fool  things  to  do!  I  sat  down  to  read  my  paper,  and  look  what  happened.&quot;  The  pipe  had  been  bent  into  an  arc.  The  trill  keys,  so  much  a  part  ofthe  in-  strument's  personality,  were  hopelessly  stuck.  I  tried  to  blow  a  scale,  but  only  two  orthree  sad  peeps  emerged.  My  mother  bit  her  lower  lip  and  slowly  shook  her  head,  while  pain  and  relief,  in  almost  equal  quantities,  flowed  through  me.  It  was  humiliating  to  tell  Mr.  Wat-  ling  what  had  happened.  He  looked  at  the  bent  piccolo  and  shrugged  hopeless-  ly.  Programs  had  been  printed  for  the  concert,  but  without  the  piccolo,  he  said,  we  would  just  have  to  give  up  &quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever&quot;  as  the  finale.  I  felt  I  had  defrauded  him.  The  concert,  though,  set  [REDACTED]  Springs  on  its  ear.  Playing  in  thesecure  company  of  two  high-school  flutists,  I  dida  good  job  on  the  &quot;Light  Cavalry  Overture&quot;  and  felt  slightly  redeemed.  Parents,  already  more  than  halfway  through  their  monthly  installment  pay-  ments  to  Hinkham's,  pressed  each  oth-  er's  hands  in  congratulation,  and  the  reporter  from  the  [REDACTED]  Springs  Leader  gave  us  a  fine  notice.  Mr.  Watling  had  arranged  to  have  the  piccolo  repaired,for  less  than  ten  dollars,  and  when  it  came  back  from  the  shop,  it  worked  fine.  The  music  season  had  ended  by  then.  I  ran  into  Mr.  Wat-  ling  on  the  street  one  day  at  the  begin-  ning  of  vacation,  and  he  told  me  that  he" b"was  off  to  the  State  University  to  study for  his  Master's  degree.  &quot;Forget  about the  concert,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  We'll  have a  crack  at  The  Stars  and  Stripes  For-  ever'  next  fall,  in  plenty  of  time  for  the  Bartlesville  game.  It  will  be  a  spectacle  this  town  will  never  forget!&quot;  As  he  spoke,  I  saw  in  his  eyes  the  same  fervent  gleam  I  had  seen  that  afternoon  in  November  when  he  raised  his  arms  to  bring  forth  the  first  extraordinary  blare  of  sound  from  our  elementary-school  band.  I  practiced  &quot;The  Stars  and  Stripes  Forever&quot;  all  summer  and  got  the  piccolo  part  down  cold,  but  I  never  had  a  chance  to  show  Mr.  Watling  what  I  could  do.  My  family  unexpectedly  moved  from  [REDACTED]  Springs  to  Warrens-  burg,  [REDACTED],  in  September  of  1929,  and  I  took  my  flute  and  my  piccolo  with  me,  joining  the  school  band  in  our  new  town.  The  stock-market  crash  occurred  at  almost  exactly  the  same  time  as  the  Bartlesville  game  that  year,  and  I  never  learned  how  [REDACTED]  Springs  reacted  to  that,  or  who  won  the  game,  or  whether  Mr.  Watling  ever  found  a  new  piccolo player.  But  I  feel  sure  that  the  end  of the  boom  years  meant  nothing  to  the  town  on  that  particular  afternoon,  when its  band,  all  brave  in  gold  and  black,  first  swung  onto  the  field.  Culture  was  on  the  march  at  last."