 b"I  WAS  brought  up  in  an  atmosphere  that  one  could  scarcely  call  reli-  giously  restrictive,  my  parents  being  of  the  opinion  that  children  must  eventually  work  out  matters  of  religion  on  their  own.  My  mother  made  a  habit  of  hearing  me  quietly  recite  the  Lord's  Prayer  each  night,  and  subsequently  in-  voke  blessings  on  her,  my  father,  and  my  elder  sister,  but  that  was  about  the  extent  of  my  family  training  in  piety.  However,  for  a  considerable  time  I  did  have  what  might  loosely  beconsidered  a  religious  life,  which  neither  of  my  parents  was  remotely  aware  of.  It  began  when  I  was  a  boy  of  ten,  and  Miss  Berry  was  employed  as  my  governess.  The  impression  she  has  left  with  me  is  of  a  general  rotundity,  and  of  tweedy  English  clothes  that  were  too  large  even  for  her  and  that  seemed  always  on  the  verge  of  collapse.  She  was  patient  and  good-natured,  letting  me  have  my  way  in  most  issues  of  impor-  tance:  staying  up  late  enough  to  hear  &quot;Inner  Sanctum;  staying  home  from  school  if  I  alleged  a  pain  in  my  stomach;  going,  on  Sunday  afternoons,  to  a  [REDACTED]  horror  show  instead  of  to  the  Trans-Lux.  But  Miss  Berry,  though  not  a  churchgoer,  was  great  on  the  power  of  prayers,  and,  taking  over  from  my  mother,  she  set  out  to  reform  and  revitalize  mine.  After  listening  to  my  recitation  of  the  Lord's  Prayer,  she  said  that  I  might  just  as  well  be  reciting  the  alphabet.  &quot;You  must  not  rattle  it  off,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;You  must  repeat  the  words  slowly  and  think  through  what  they  mean.&quot;  I  was  a  resourceful  child  under  duress,  and  soon  developed  a  way  of  saying  the  words,  in  phrases  separated  by  long  pauses,  that  seemed  to  satisfy  Miss  Berry.  The  trouble  was  that  it  didn't,  for  long,  satisfy  me.  The  idea  of  thinking  about  what  I  said,  though  I  resisted  it  at  first,  began  to  have  a  kind  of  challenge  and  fascination  for  me,  and  soon,  when  I  had  finished  my  performance  and  Miss  Berry  had  left  my  room,  I  would  feel  compelled  to  re-  peat  the  prayer  to  myself  over  and  over,  until  I  was  convinced  I  hed  thought  out  each  phrase.  This  I  could  easily  have  survived,  but  presently  Miss  Berry  made  other  demands  on  my  prayers.  First,  she  took  her  own  place  in  the  blessings  section,  after  my  sister,  and  then  she  suggested  that  I  include  Uncle  Ned.  I  asked  politely  who  Uncle  Ned  was.  'There's  no  call  to  go  into  that,&quot;  she  " b"said.  &quot;Just  say  a  prayer  for  him,  God  rest  his  soul.&quot;  So  I  added  Uncle  Ned  to  the  bless-  ings  list,  but  I  never  did  find  out  any-  thing  about  him.  However,  Miss  Berry  was  less  secretive  about  several  other  members  of  her  family  who,  one  by  one,  came  to  gain  a  place  in  my  prayers.  I  think  [REDACTED]  Henry  must  have  been  her  favorite,  for  she  asked  me  to  put  a  little  postscript  after  his  name-a  wish  that  he  would  recover  from  his  one  weakness.  Though  I  never  learned  what  his  one  weakness  was,  I  believe  now  that  it  must  have  been  a  fondness  for  the  bottle.  She  told  many  stories  about  him  that  seem  to  bear  out  this  judgment.  One  of  them  had  to  do  with  his  mislaying  his  keys,  crawling  into  the  house  through  a  cellar  window,  and  falling  asleep  on  a  great  black  pile  of  coal-and  whenever  she  finished  the  tale,  she  would  break  into  great  guffaws.  at  the  thought  of  it.  &quot;But  it's  not  any-  thing  to  laugh  over,&quot;  she  would  add  quickly.  &quot;At  heart,  he's  a  fine  man,  and  you  must  never  forget  him  in  your  prayers.&quot;  I  didn't,  for  some  time,  and  my  &quot;Please  bless  [REDACTED]  Henry  and  may  he  recover  from  his  one  weakness&quot;  established  an  entirely  new  tradition.  Soon  Miss  Berry  had  me  add  a  Mrs.  Murdock  to  my  prayers,  along  with  the  request  that  &quot;her  brother  may  be  able  to  come  home  soon,&quot;  and  aFelix  Labsley-the  son  of  a  family  friend,  I  believe-for  whom  I  asked  that  he  be  admitted  to  King's  College  in  the  fall.  HE  people  and  special  requests  that  Miss  Berry  added  to  my  prayers  were  not  endless.  There  were  perhaps  only  a  dozen  altogether,  but  they  were  enough  to  form  a  new  habit,  and  when,  somemonths  after  she  had  come,  Miss  Berry  returned  to  England,  I  found  myself  quite  unable  to  drop  her,  Uncle  Ned,  [REDACTED]  Henry,  Mrs.  Murdock,  Felix  Labsley,  or  any  of  the  rest  of  them  from  my  list.  I  did  once  try  leaving  out  a  few  of  them,  but  with  such  subsequent  misgivings  that  I  ended  up  by  devoting  a  whole  belated  prayer  to  them  before  I  could  fall  asleep.  At  any  rate,  I  was  now  left  to  say  my  prayers  in  silence,  and  on  my  own.  You  might  think  that  this  would  have  resulted  in  a  gradual  laxity  of  prayer  discipline,  but,  on  the  contrary,  now  that  my  prayers  were  solely  my  respon-  sibility,  I  felt  all  the  more  under  obliga-  tionto  think  and  say  them  fastidiously.  And  unfortunately,  instead  of  rebelling  against  Miss  Berry's  system,or  at  least  simplifying  it,  I  extended  it,  for  it  soon" b"occurred  to  me  that  if  I  were  to  con-  tinue  praying  for  persons  I  didn't  even  know,  it  was  hardly  right  to  omit  more  regular  acquaintances.  Should  my  fam-  ily  and  Miss  Berry's  have  a  monopoly  on  my  prayers?  What  about  my  friends  in  school?  My  teachers?  Our  cook?  My  aunt  in  New  Hampshire,  where  I  stayed  the  summer?  Her  cook?  Her  gardener,  Charlie  Brown?  They  were  all  people  I  knew,  and  they  all  meant  a  good  deal  more  to  me  than  [REDACTED]  Henry  or  Uncle  Ned.  By  my  eleventh  year,  my  prayer  list  had  assumed  formidable  proportions.  Additions  were  endless,  and  it  was  im-  possible  for  me  to  make  any  compensat-  ing  subtractions.  My  sister  eventually  asked  me  to  include  the  name  of  her  favorite  suitorin  my  prayers,  but  when  he  had  been  given  the  gate  and  she  told  me  to  drop  Forrest  and  add  Jonathan,  I  could  not  do  it.  Jonathan  was  added,  but  Forrest  stayed.  The  taxing  inclusiveness  of  my  prayers  was  aggravated  at  about  this  time  by  my  first  sophisticated  doubts  as  to  whether  I  really  existed  and,  if  so,  why.  I  think  these  doubts  were  partly  the  result  of  insufficient  sleep,  which  came  of  my  habit  of  listening  to  mystery  and  horror  programs  on  the  radio  until  after  midnight.  Anyway,  in  addition  to  my  prayers  for  other  people,  my  doubts  led  me  to  start  a  whole  new  series  of  prayers  for  myself-attempts  at  assert-  ing  my  existence  and  defining  my  iden-  tity.  At  this  period,  my  prayer  would  go  something  like  this,  following,  of  course,  a  carefully  thought-through  recitation  of  the  Lord's  Prayer:  &quot;Please  bless  Mama  and  Daddy  and  Cornelia  [my  sister]  and  Aunt  Deedee  and  Uncle  Richard  and  Aunt  Moneena  and " b"Uncle  Jay  and  Great-Aunt  Florence  and  Uncle  Bill  and  Aunt  Esther  and  Charlotte  and  Tom  and  Ann  and  Marion  [cousins  of  mine]  and  my  oth-  er  cousins  in  England  and  Miss  Berry  (may  she  be  happy  in  England)  and  Uncle  Ned  (God  rest  his  soul)  and  [REDACTED]  Henry  (may  he  have  recovered  from  his  one  weakness)  and  Mrs.  Mur-  dock  (may  her  brother  have  arrived  home  by  now  and  Felix  Labsley  (may  he  have  beenadmitted  to  King's  Col-  lege).  And  please  bless  Polson  and  Pernikoff  and  Eustis  and  Sweeney  and  Fraser  and  Romaine  (may  I  beat  him  in  the  fifty-yard  dash  on  Field  Day)  and  Dreyfus  and  Bogardus  (may  I  not  get  caught  using  his  Latin  notes)  and  Schwartz  and  Strong  and  Crossman.  These  were  all  schoolmates,  whom  I  prayed  for  in  the  order  of  where   they  sat  in  the  classroom.  And  please  bless  Forrest  and  Jonathan  and  Porky  [the  latest  suitor]  and  Cynthia  my  girl  friend  and  Miss  Peacock  [my  girl  friend's  governess]  and  Mrs.  Heather-  ford  I  don't  know  who  she  was  and  Mr.  Bigelow  and  Captain  Fry  and  Mr.  Jenkins  my  teachers  and  Miss  Claridge  my  great-aunt's  nurse  and  Charlie  Brown  and  Ellen  [my  great-  aunt's  cook]  and  everybody.  And  please,  God,  let  me  know  always  who  I  am  and  why  I'm  here,  and  not  get  any  weird  ideas.  If  there's  anything  wrong  about  anything  I've  said,  I  take  it  back.  So.  Good  night.&quot;  Actually,  my  prayers  were  three  or  four  times  as  long  as  the  fragment  I  have  quoted,  and  in  order  not  to  omit  anyone  I  had  to  follow  a  kind  of  visual  prayer  pattern  that  took  the  shape  of  a  huge  mushroom.  Starting  at  the  bottom  of  the  mushroom,  I  would  think  slowly  up  the  left  side  of  the  stem,  which  rep-  resented  various  members  of  my  family.  Then,  working  clockwise,  1d  think  along  the  left  underside  of  the  mush-  room's  cap,  where,  in  my  mind's  eye,  Miss  Berry  and  her  relatives  and  friends  were  lined  up.  The  top  surface  of  the  cap  was  reserved  for  my  schoolmates,  teachers,  and  friends,  and  its  right  un-  derside  for  &quot;people,&quot;  by  which  I  meant  Cornelia's  boy  friends,  the  cook,  Mrs,  Heatherford,  and  so  on.  'The  right  side  of  the  stem  was  devoted  to  &quot;miscel-  lany,&quot;&quot;  which  consisted  mainly  of  myself.  HOW  long  my  list  might  have  grown  had  I  not  come  down  with  a  severe  case  of  measles  is  impossible  to  say.  But  while  I  was  sick,  I  had  a  per-  fect  excuse  to  suspend  my  prayers  tem-  porarily,  and  when  I  got  well,  I  found  that  something  remarkable  had  hap-  pened;  the  ice  was  broken,  and  I  was  no  longer  plagued  by  theold  compul-  sion.  I  had  discovered  what  a  fine  thing  it  was  to  fall  asleep  every  night  con-  science-free,  and  now,  even  with  my  health  restored,  my  conscience  did  not  trouble  me.  This  freedom  did  notturn  out  to  be  altogether  complete  (prayers  have  a  way  of  coming  back  to  you),  but  I  never  again  made  the  whole  jour-  ney  around  the  edges  of  that  formidable,  complex,  and  ever-growing  mushroom.  What  of  Uncle  Ned,  [REDACTED]  Henry,  Mrs.  Murdock,  and  Felix  Labsley?  I  know  that  Miss  Berry  isstill  alive,  so  they're  sure  of  having  a  place  in  her  prayers,  at  least.  What  does  disturb  me  sometimes  is  the  probability  that  Miss  Berry  still  has  me  in  her  prayers-and  in  Heaven  knows  who  else's-and  I  wonder  if  itis  perhaps  ungenerous  of  me  not  to  reciprocate.  But  the  ability  to  receive  graciously  without  a  feeling  of  obligation  is  a  quality  I  have  always  admired.  It  is  a  kind  of  spiritual  gen-  erosity  in  itself,  and  I  am  now  doing  my  level  bestto  acquire  it."