 b"I  WAS  always  ashamed  of  the  way  I  acted  at  Jack's  funeral  until  last  week.  And  then,  on  the  shopping  square  of  our  town  in  [REDACTED],  I  met  Jack's  niece  and  exchanged  apleasant  time  of  day  with  her,  and  as  we  parted,  she  not  only  said  the  usual  &quot;Well,  it's  nice  tosee  you,  Baby&quot;  but  added,  &quot;'You're  a  great  comfort  to  me.&quot;  No  one  had  ever  called  me  a  comfort  before,  and  I  have  been  seeking  to  understand  why  she  did  then.,  Her  name  is  Clara.  She  is  a  large,  good  colored  woman,  motherand  grandmother,  whose  brood  has  scat-  tered  to  the  [REDACTED]  but  who  still  works  in  the  houses  of  white  people,  just  as  she  has  done  all  her  life.  In  my  girl-  hood,  she  cooked  for  a  family  that  lived  down  the  street  from  mine,  in  the  Mid-  dle  [REDACTED]  village  of  Gordonsville,  where  I  was  born  and  raised.  After  I  started  grade  school,  she  often  stopped  me  asI  passed  the  house  where  she  worked,  and  gave  me  acold  biscuit  filled  with  butter  and  sugar  to  take  with  me,and  in  other  ways  she  has  been  kind  to  me  as  long  as  I've  known  her,  be-  cause  she  is  naturally  kind  and  because  Jack-her  uncle,  Jack  McClain-lived  on  our  place.  Jack  was  born  a  slave  on  our  place,  which  had  been  in  our  family  since  1800  and  was  inherited  by  my  mother  from  hermother.His  mother,  who  was  bought  some  years  before  the  Civil  War  from  the  McClain  family,  whose  name  she  adopted,  died,  during  the  war,  when  Jack  was  seven  years  old.  The  family  story  is  that  his  first  duty  on  our  place  was  to  be  on  the  lookout  for  raiding  Yankee  cavalry,  and  that  it  was  due  to  his  faithful  watch  that  we  came  through  the  war  with  seven  horses.  He  never  married,  and  when  I  knew  him  he  was  bald,  very  straight  of  back,  and  very  dark,  andhad  the  nicest  lines  in  his  face  I  have  ever  seen.  His  face  had  aged  amiably.  I  never  heard  him  laugh,but  he  always  seemed  about  to  smile.  I  don't  know  what  his  title  was;  no  one  ever  called  him  houseman  or  driver  or  anything  except  Jack.  He  was  always  there  to  do  whatever  we  needed.  He  saddled  horses,  washed  the  car,  cleaned  our  old  twelve-room  house,  served  meals,  played  I  spy  with  my  two  young-  er  sisters  and  me,  swung  us  high  in  the  swing  under  the  oak  tree,  took  us  fishing,  gave  us  piggyback  rides,  and,  when  he  could  do  it  without  telling  a  lie-for  he  was  scrupulously  truthful-intercept-  ed  trouble  between  us  and  our   parents.  I  accepted  him  as  I  didthe  air  I  breathed.  He  left  us  because  we  could  not  keep  him,  and  it  was  then  I  knew  that  our  family  was  going  down.  HERE  had  already  been  signs.  The  house  needed  paint,  and  there  was  an  occasional  flurry  of  talk  about  having  it  painted,  but  the  job  was  never  done.  The  long  line  of  field  hands  who  used  to  come  grinning  down  the  locust-  tree  path  from  the  barn  at  noon  to  eat  dinner  in  the  huge  old  kitchen-where  Aunt  Rilla,  also  born  a  slave  on  the  place,  served  big  field-hand  dishes  of  greens  and  corn  bread  and  hominy  and  black-eyed  peas  and  pork  meat  and  molasses-had  dwindled  to  a  listless  three  orfour  who  brought  lunches  wrapped  in  newspaper  and  sat  on  the  loading  platform  of  the  barn  the  whole  noon  hour.  My  parents  no  longer  trav-  elled  luxuriously  for  weeks.  We  no  longer  went  to  [REDACTED]  or  Memphis  for  the  winter  (always  taking  Jack  with  us,  of  course).  All  argument  over  which  college  I  would  attend  when  I  grew  up  seemed  to  have  ceased.  But  these  things  had  not  alarmed  me.  There  had  been  other  bad  times,  when  crops  failed  or  prices  dropped,  and  they  had  always  ended  in  new  trips,  new  clothes,  fresh  plans.  And  then,  one  morning  in  our  living  room,  when  I  was  about  ten  years  old,  I  heard  Jack  and  my  mother  talking.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  simply  can't  pay  you  any  longer.&quot;  &quot;''That's  all  right,  Miss  Fanny.&quot;  I  could  see  he  was  not  surprised  but  mere-  ly  puzzled.  &quot;I  can  wait.&quot;  There  were  a  lot  of  things  about  her-  self  that  my  mother  was  proud  of,.  She  was  proud  of  her  looks,  she  was  proud  of  having  got  her  college  [REDACTED]  at  eighteen,  she  was  family  proud,  but  most  of  all  she  was  proud  of  her  poise.  She  had  been  raised  to  believe  that  the  true  test  of  a  person's  character  is  keeping  calm  through  every  disaster.  She  had  re-  mained  calm  through  death,  funerals,  accidents,  shooting  feuds  on  our  street,  runaway  horses,  runaway  automobiles,  mad  dogs,  and  thieves  in  the  night,  and  she  remained  calm  now.  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  I  can't  let  you  do  it.  I've  written  my  cousins  in  [REDACTED]-you  know  the  Judge  and  his  wife-and  they  want  you  to  come  to  them.  They'll  be  good  to  you.  They  have  a  nice  room  for  you.&quot;  The  puzzled  look  left  his  eyes.  He  accepted  the  situation,.  &quot;When  do  they  want  me,  Miss  Fanny?&quot;  For  a  fleeting  second,  her  face  moved;  then  she  opened  one  hand  and  showed  him  a  train  ticket  and  a  slim  roll  of  bills  and  a  letter  addressed  to  her,  and  said  calmly,  &quot;I  had  this  letter  on  the  morning  train.  They  want  you  to  take  the  afternoon  train  today.  They'll  meet  you.&quot;  She  handed  him  the  ticket  and  the  bills.  He  looked  thoughtfully  at  them,  and  put  them  in  his  vest  pocket.  &quot;You  can  go  and  pack  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes'm,&quot;  he  said,  and  went  slowly  out  of  the  room.  I  had  heard,  clearly,  everything  they  said,  but  I  did  not  yet  believe  it.  Jack  served  lunch,  as  usual.  My  father  was  away  on  business,  and  my  two  sisters  squirmed  at  the  table  and  drew  re-  proving  glances  from  Mother,  and  all  of  us  idly  talked  neighborhood  chatter.  There  is  a  family  story  that  once,  at  a  dinner  party,  which  my  sisters  and  I  were  too  young  to  attend,  my  mother  said,  &quot;Jack,  please  bring  hot  biscuits,&quot;  and  he  blurted,  &quot;I  can't,  Miss  Fanny.  The  chillen  done  et  'em  all  up,&quot;  and  he  was  instructed  afterward  never  to  ex-  plain  but  justto  go  silently  out  of  the  room  and  bring  whatever  we  did  have.  I  am  pretty  sure  this  happened,  because  later  on  there  were  some  fairly  stiff  warnings  to  my  sisters  and  me  not  to  waylay  Jack  and  snitch  food  off  the  trays.  But  we  teased  him  anyway  by  pretending  we  were  going  to  snitch  food.  We  had  given  him  a  rough  time.  Now,  watching  his  slow,  silent  circuit  of  the  table,  I  could  not  imagine  he  would  not  always  be  there.  That  afternoon,  my  mother  casually  suggested  to  my  sisters  and  me  that  we  go  play  with  friends  who  lived  up  the  street.  We  said  we  would,  but  when  we  reached  our  front  gate,  I  hung  back.  The  way  to  the  railroad  station  was  down  the  street.  &quot;You  all  go  on,&quot;  I  said  to  my  sisters.  &quot;I'll  join  you  after  a  while.&quot;  They  gave  me  a  little  argu-  ment,  but  finally  went,  and  I  waited.  Sure  enough,  Jack  pres-  ently  came  walking  alone  from  thehouse.  He  was  wearing  his  " b"usual  clothes-a  dark  suit  with  vest.  I  had  never  seen  him  in  anything  else,  ex-  cept  when  he  put  on  an  apron  in  the  kitchen,  orwhile  he  was  washing  the  car.  Today,  he  also  wore  a  hat  and  car-  ried  a  bundlehe  had  made  by  spreading  a  red-printed  cotton  handkerchief  flat  and  placing  things  on  it,  and  then  tying  the  corners  together  in  a  four-eared  knot.  The  bundle  was  about  the  size  of  a  cantaloupe.  &quot;Where  you  going,  Jack?&quot;  I  said,  hangingon  the  railing  beside  the  gate.  &quot;I'm  just  going  for  a  walk,  Milbry,&quot;  he  said,  using  the  nickname  the  Negroes  on  the  place  had  given  me.  His  tone  was  bright-the  tone  in  which  he  had  al-  ways  reassured  us  that  everything  was  all  right.  &quot;What  you  got  in  your  handkerchief,  Jack?&quot;  I  asked.  He  pulled  open  one  of  the  slits  be-  neath  the  four-eared  knot.  &quot;I  got  the  knife  your  pappy  gave  me  for  Christ-  mas.&quot;  His  finger  poked  the  knife  into  view.  &quot;And  the  watch  your  grandma  gave  me.&quot;  It  was  a  large  silver  watch.  My  grandmother,  who  had  been  a  very  little  girl  during  the  Civil  War,  had  died  before  I  was  born.  &quot;And  my  socks  and  hankerchers.&quot;  Then  his  finger  found  the  roll  of  bills.  &quot;And  some  money.&quot;  &quot;When  you  coming  back,  Jack?&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  come  back  and  visit  you  sometimes,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  he  looked  at  me  and  walked  through  the  gate.  &quot;Real  often,&quot;  he  said,  looking  back  kindly  at  me.  And  then  he  walked  down  the  street.  There  is  a  lot  of  talk  now  about  how  the  Supreme  Court  rul-  ing  on  segregation  ended  the  old  days  in  the  [REDACTED].  For  me,  the  old  days  end-  ed  when  Jack  left,  OON  after  that,  Aunt  Rilla  died.  She  had  always  been  in  the  kitchen  when  I  came  down  in  the  morning,  until  the  morning  I  found  my  mother  ineptly  pushing  pots  and  pans  around  on  the  stove,  and  she  told  me  Aunt  Rilla  had  gone  to  see  her  niece,  Stella,  the  night  before  and  decided  tostay  overnight  because  she  felt  tired,  and  had  died  in  her  sleep.  Stella  had  sent  word.  At  ten,  I  was  not  yet  considered  old  enough  to  go  to  a  funeral  (although  I  had  recently  been  promoted  to  eating  with  guests),  but  later  that  day  I  went  with  my  parents,  for  the  first  time,  when  they  paid  a  funeral  call.  Stella  lived  in  a  small  house  with  a  large  front  porch,  set  on  the  top  of  a  hill  in  the  middle  of  a  pasture.  A  big  tree  grew  near  the  house,  and  as  our  car  started  up  the  hill,  along  two  bare  ruts  nearly  hidden  in  grass,  I  saw  that  several  horses,  a  few  with  buggies  at-  tached,  were  loosely  hitched  to  the  tree.  This  indicated  there  must  be  quite  a  few  people  inside  the  house.  The  door  was  shut,  and  Stella  sat  alone  on  the  front  porch,  on  a  backless  bench.  Stella,  unlike  Aunt  Rilla,  who  had  been  skinny  as  a  stick,  was  rather  plump.  The  mo-  ment  Stella  saw  us,  she  crossed  her  arms  over  her  breast,  shut  her  eyes,  and  bent  over  until  her  head  nearly  touched  her  knees.  As  we  reached  the  top  of  the  hill,  she  slowly  raised  up,  opened  her  mouth,  and  began  along,  terrible  wail.  It  " b"started  on  a  low  note  and  rose  in  both  tone  and  volume  as  she  lifted  her  head  until,  when  she  finally  sat  upright  and  lifted  her  face,  with  eyes  still  closed,  to  the  porch  roof,  the  wail  became  a  high  keening,  almost  unbearable  to  hear.  As  she  slowly  bent  her  face  to  her  knees,  the  wail  went  back  down  to  its  lowest  pitch.  Goose  bumps  broke  out  all  over  me.  Alone  on  the  rear  seat,  I  clutched  the  coat  rail  in  front  of  me  with  terror.  My  only  thought  was  that,  before  our  very  eyes,  she  had  thrust  a  knife  into  her  heart  and  pressed  her  hands  over  her  breast  to  keep  the  knife  from  falling  naked  into  her  lap.  Before  I  could  move,  her  head  began  rising  again,  the  wail  rising  with  her.  Our  car  stopped.  I  screamed,  &quot;Mother!&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  Mother  said  calmly.  &quot;That's  the  way  they  mourn.&quot;  Then  I  saw  that  Father  also  was  calm.  Father  had  not  been  raised,  as  Mother  had,  to  value  calm;  usually  he  was  calm  only  when  there  was  nothing  to  uncalm  him.  Now  everyone  was  calm  but  me.  No  one  ran  out  of  the  house  with  first  aid.  Even  the  horses  stood  quiet,  except  for  a  few  nervous  snorts.  I  thereafter  gave  a  good  imitation  of  calm  myself.  I  sat  frozen  through  several  more  wails.  Then,  quite  casually,  Stella  stopped.  She  picked  up  a  palm-leaf  fan  from  the  bench  and  fanned  her  face  with  one  hand  while  she  wiped  sweat  from  her  forehead  with  the  other.  She  spoke  pleasantly.  &quot;How-do,  Miss  Fan-  ny,  Mr.  Prewett,  Milbry.&quot;  &quot;How  are  you,  Stella?&quot;  said  my  mother.  My  father  got  out  of  the  car  and  helped  her  out.  He  said  to  me,  &quot;Stay  here,&quot;  and  they  walked  up  onto  the  porch.  They  shook  hands  with  Stella,  and  then  went  into  the  house,  and  the  door  closed  after  them.  I  took  a  deep  breath  and  stared  at  Stella,  She  smiled  at  me.  Then  she  glanced  behind  me,  toward  the  road  up  the  hill.  I  heard  the  6  C&amp;  sound  of  a  car's  motor,  and  suddenly  she  was  bending  over  andcoming  up  again,  and  the  eerie  wail  was  rising  and  falling,  again  and  again.  Afterward,  I  learned  that  it  was  local  mourning  protocol  among  the  Negroes  for  Aunt  Rilla's  relatives  to  take  turns  at  mourning  on  Stella's  porch,  but  that  Stella,  who  was  considered  the  best  mourner  among  them,  had  allowed  no  one  to  relieve  her  during  the  whole  day  the  white  people  came  and  paid  their  respects  to  Aunt  Rilla.  I  also  learned  that  since  it  was  summer,  it  was  custom-  ary  for  the  white  people  to  speak  to  Stella  without  getting  out  of  their  cars  and  then  remain  sitting  there  a  short  time  before  leaving.  If  it  had  been  win-  ter  and  Stella  had  been  in  the  house,  the  white  people  would  have  gone  up  to  the  door  to  speak.  My  parents  had  gone  inside  because  Aunt  Rilla  was  &quot;ours.&quot;  Another  thing  I  was  told  later  on  was  that  at  the  funeral  (Mother  and  Father  went)  the  colored  people  had  behaved  as  decorously  as  white  people  did  at  funerals-even  better  than  the  white  people  at  some  funerals,  my  mother  said.  &quot;Aunt  Rilla's  relatives  all  wore  nice  black,  too,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  proud  of  them.&quot;  From  this  it  appeared  that  it  was  all  right  for  the  colored  people  to  follow  their  ancestral  customs  in  their  own  homes  as  long  as  they  followed  our  ancestral  customs  outside,  I  still  don't  know  what  all  this  meant,  but  I  do  know  that  we  considered  ourselves  a  well-bred,  civilized  community,  even  though  we  were  an  isolated  agricultural  village  that  had  never  reached  a  popula-  tion  of  three  hundred,  colored  and  white.     FTER  Aunt  Rilla's  funeral,  the  field  hands,  with  their  lunches,  disappeared  entirely.  Clara,  now  mar-  ried  and  raising  her  family,  moved  to  a  larger  town  nearby,  where  she  hoped  to  find  wider  advantages,  and  a  great  many  of  the  more  ambitious  colored  people  soon  followed  her  and  settled  there.  We  closed  the  upstairs  of  our  house,  to  save  heat  in  winter  and  clean-  ing  in  summer.  Before  long,  keeping  the  downstairs  neat  proved  too  much  for  my  mother  and  sisters  and  me,  and  the  rooms  began  to  look  discouraged.  Jack  came  back  to  visit  us  often,  at  first.  He  didn't  let  us  know  he  was  com-  ing,  since  he  could  neither  read  nor  write;  he  just  appeared  on  Friday  or  Saturday  night  and  went  to  his  room  and  then  took  over  as  of  old.  On  these  visits,  he  cooked  the  meals,  in  addition  to  cleaning  the  house  and  serving  us  at  table,  andon  Sunday  afternoon  he  went  back  to  [REDACTED].  When  he  was  with  us,  we  had  the  brief  illusion  that  every-  thing  was  all  right  again,  and  probably  he  himself  fancied  that  each  time  he  came  he  had  come  to  stay,  but  soon  his  visits  grew  farther  and  farther  apart,  and  there  was  no  illusion  anywhere.  There  was,  instead,  a  thing  called  infla-  tion,  teamed  with  a  thing  called  declin-  ing  land  values.  But  I  was  not  interested  in  causes.  I  was  interested  only  in  grow-  ing  up  faster  than  we  slid  down,  because  I  thought  that  when  I  grew  up,  and  took  over,  things  would  straighten  out.  As  my  mother's  oldest  daughter,  I  was  expected  to  manage.  When  I  did  grow  up,  however,  there  was  nothing  left  to  manage.  The  home  place  had  been  sold.  (It  had  promptly  burned  down,  and  I  was  proud  of  it  for  refusing  to  be  owned  by  anyone  but  us.)  My  parents  were  divorced.  My  mother  had  bought  a  small  &quot;modern&quot;  house  in  the  same  town  to  which,  earli-  er,  Clara  and  her  friends  had  gone.  Our  big  old  furniture  would  not  go  in  the  house;  we  had  to  get  new.  We  hated  it.  And  we  got  claustrophobia  from  the  low  ceilings  and  small  closets.  Steadily,  our  housekeeping  problems  became  worse.  Jack  left  my  cousins'  house  in  [REDACTED]  and  went  to  another  family,  " b"strangers  to  us.  His  new  mistress  wrote  a  letter  tous  for  him,  which  my  mother,  reading  between  the  lines,  interpreted  to  mean  that  he  would  like  to  come  to  see  us;  but  we  had  no  place  at  all  for  him  now.  She  had  to  write  and  tell  him  so,  in  vague  language  that  would  nothurt  him  when  his  new  mistress  read  him  the  letter.  There  was  a  thing  called  a  depression  haunting  us  now.  I  had  fallen  in  love  with  a  man  in  the  town;  he  had  no  job.  But  I  married  him  anyway,  he  found  one,  and  we  planned  to  have  a  baby.  Then,  later,  my  mother  became  fatally  ill.  She  died  two  weeks  before  my  daughter  was  born.  I  did  not  go  to  her  funeral.  My  doc-  tor  ordered  me  not  to,  and  I  was  cra-  venly  glad,  because  by  not  seeing  her  dead  I  could  still,  at  times,  believe  her  alive.  My  sisters  went  to  live  with  rela-  tives;  my  husband  and  I  found  a  two-  room  apartment  without  a  kitchenette,  and  I  cooked  on  a  hot  plate  in  the  bed-  room  and  washed  baby  clothes  in  an  old  bathtub  perched  high  on  iron  feet.  Clara  cooked  for  a  family  in  the  neighborhood,  and  occasionally  we  passed  on  the  street  and  exchanged  a  pleasant  time  of  day.  She  asked  me  when  I  had  had  news  of  Jack,  and  I  asked  her  for  news,  and  as  neither  of  us  had  heard  from  him  we  supposed  that  his  new  mistress  did  not  like  to  write  letters  for  him,  Then  Clara  got  a  message  that  he  was  sick,  and  she  went  to  see  him.  When  she  got  back,  she  came  to  see  me.  He  had  sent  me  a  message,  which  she  had  promised  to  deliver,  in  person,  as  soon  as  she  could.  &quot;He  didn't  know  Miss  Fanny  was  dead,&quot;  Clara  said,  &quot;and  it  hurt  him  mighty  bad.  But  you  ought  to've  seen  his  face  when  I  told  him  you  had  a  baby.  'Why,  Milbry  don't  know  how  to  raise  a  baby!'  he  said  over  and  over.  'Why,  she's  only  a  baby  herself!&quot;  And  then  he  studied  about  it  awhile,  and  he  said  for  me  to  come  straight  back  and  tell  you     that  as  soon  as  he  got  up  again  he  was  coming  over  here  and  raise  your  baby  for  you.  He  said  for  you  not  to  worry  about  a  thing!  So  I  came  straight  to  tell  you.&quot;  There  were  many  ways  in  which  I  had  let  my  mother  down.  I  was  not  beautiful;  I  had  no  [REDACTED];  and  I  had  lost  a  lot  of  family  pride;  but  in  one  thing,  at  least,  I  was  determined  not  to  fail  her.  I  was  determined  to  have  poise.  I  would  have  much  preferred  to  weep,  but  in-  stead  I  said  calmly,  &quot;Sweet  old  Jack!  How  I  wish  he  could!&quot;-thus  delicate-  ly  indicating  that  I  had  no  place  for  him,  which  she  knew  as  well  as  Idid.  She  said  cheerfully,  &quot;Don't  you  wor-  ry.  He  will.  The  last  thing  he  said  to  me  was  that  he  was  going  to  come  over  here  and  raise  you  your  baby!&quot;  Even  though  I  knew  he  couldn't  do  this,  I  had  the  oddest  feeling,  after  Clara  left,  that  everything,  at  last,  was  going  to  be  all  right.  The  two  rooms  without  kitchenette  expanded  to  twelve,  and  my  daughter  and  I  were  waiting  to  play  I  spy  with  Jack,  and  be  swung  high  in  the  swing.  Sweet  Jack,  who  could  neither  read  nor  write,  had  sent  me  the  one  message  I  most  wanted  to  hear.  In  less  than  a  week,  Clara  phoned  to  tell  me  he  was  dead.  She  was  bringing  his  body  back  to  our  town  for  a  funeral  in  the  little  Church  of  God,  on  Market  Street,  because,  she  said,  &quot;most  all  of  his  relatives  live  here  now.&quot;  She  told  me  the  time  of  the  funeral,  and  the  day,  and  I  said  I  would  be  there.  Then  Iar-  ranged  to  have  a  small  floral  piece  sent  to  the  church,  and  I  asked  a  friend  to  go  with  me,  a  young  woman  with  a  rural  [REDACTED]  background  who  would,  I  thought,  understand.  My  husband  promised  to  baby-sit.  HE  day  of  the  funeral,  I  put  on  a  dark  dress.  About  three  o'clock,  my  friend  came  by  my  apartment  and  we  drove  to  the  church.  We  were  the  last  to  arrive,  and  we  slipped  inside  and  sat  down  on  the  back  bench.  Jack's  by  this  time  large  connec-  tion  of  nieces  and  nephews  and  grand-  nieces  and  grandnephews,  including,  of  course,  Clara,  filled  the  first  two  rows.  They  were  all  dressed  in  mourn-  ing  black  and  looked  very  nice.  I  was  glad  to  see  a  fair  number  of  friends  of  theirs  scattered  over  the  other  benches.  It  gave  the  church  an  almost  filled  look.  There  were  not  a  lot  of  flowers,  but  enough  for  an  old  manwho  was  a  stranger  in  town.  'The  burial  was  in  the  charge  of  a  young  white  undertaker,  who  leaned  against  the  back  wall,  and  the  funeral  sermon  was  to  be  preached  by  an  old  colored  preacher,  who  sat  be-  hind  the  pulpit.  The  closed  coffin,  rest-  ing  on  a  frame  with  rubber-tired  wheels,  was  directly  in  front  of  the  pulpit.  Short-  ly  after  my  friend  and  I  sat  down,  the  funeral  began.  The  sermon  was  almost  funny.  The  preacher  was  no  doubt  a  good  man  of  God,  but  he  used  the  old-fashioned  mannerisms  and  speech  that  white  men  blacked  up  as  colored  men  used  in  minstrel  shows  for  laughs,  and  I  was  ashamed  both  for  himand  for  the  peo-  ple  who  laughed  at  such  mannerisms  and  speech  in  minstrel  shows.  Jack's  relatives,  however,  sat  politely  poised  throughout.  I  thought  Mother  would  have  been  proud  of  them.  I  was  calm,  too.  She  would  havebeen  proud  of  me.  At  the  end  of  the  last  prayer,  the  under-  taker  went  to  the  coffin  and  raised  the  lid,  so  that  the  relatives  and  friends  could  file  past  for  the  &quot;last  look.&quot;  I  knew  that  the  country  custom  of  mourning  as  Stella  had  mourned  (Stella  was  now  dead,  too)  was  not  observed  in  our  new,  more  sophisticated  town,  and  soI  was  a  little  surprised  that  this  filing  past  the  open  coffin,  which  was  also  an  old  country  custom  fast  dying  out,  was  being  observed;  but  it  was  all  right,  I  thought,  because  Jack  had  been  " b"born  and  raised  in  the  old  ways  and  doubtless  would  have  wanted  it.  The  undertaker  stood  back  and  glanced  at  Clara-a  signal  for  the  bereaved  to  rise  and  come  forward.  No  one  rose.  Silence  gripped  the  church.  The  undertaker  looked  perplexed.  He  went  uncertainly  to  Clara  and  bent  his  head.  After  a  mo-  ment  of  whispering,  he  straightened  up  and  looked  apologetically  at  me.  Then  he  came  down  the  aisle  and  bent  his  head  beside  my  ear.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  family  says  itis  your  right  to  go  first.&quot;  I  had  not  expected  this.  &quot;'Thank  you,  that's  awfully  sweet  of  them,&quot;  I  said,  and  then  quickly  added,  &quot;But  it  is  their  place  to  go  first.&quot;  He  went  back  and  whispered  to  Clara,  and  in  a  moment  Clara  rose  and  led  the  relatives  and  friends  past  the  coffin  in  a  long,  slow,  sad  susurrus  of  steps.  When  the  last  person  in  the  line  had  returned  to  his  seat  and  sat  down,  the  undertaker  put  his  hand  on  the  lid  to  close  the  coffin  but  stopped  at  a  gesture  from  Clara.  Again  he  walked  over  to  her  and  they  went  through  the  ritual  of  the  bent  head,  the  whispers;  and  again  he  came  apologetically  to  me.  &quot;'The  family  told  me  not  to  close  the  casket  until  you  have  had  your  look,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  can't,&quot;  I  began,  thinking  of  all  the  reasons  why  I  couldn't,  in  order  to  ex-  plain  to  Clara  afterward.  I  would  ex-  plain,  I  thought,  that  I  had  not  even  looked  at  my  own  mother  and  that  I  did  not  now  want  to  see  Jack,  so  I  could  believe,  at  least  some  of  the  time,  that  neither  Jack  nor  my  mother  was  really  dead,  and  our  home  burned.  I  began  to  cry.  I  tried  to  cry  silently,  but  when  the  undertaker  continued  to  stand  and  stare  at  me  worriedly,  I  heard  myself  sob  aloud.  At  once  he  went  back  down  the  aisle  and  closed  the  coffin.  The  rela-  tives  rose.  He  began  slowly  rolling  the  coffin  toward  me  down  the  aisle,  with  the  procession  of  relatives  in  mourning  black  decorously  following.  I  clenched  my  hands  and  shut  my  eyes  and  bent  my  head  as  the  coffin  neared  me,  but  I  could  hear,  above  my  sobbing,  the  whisper  of  rubber-tired  wheels  as  it  passed  me.  Then,  all  at  once,  arms  were  around  me-loving  arms  hugging  me,  and  patting  my  bowed  back.  Voices  whispered,  &quot;Don't  cry,  Baby,  don't  cry.&quot;  Clara  whispered,  &quot;Jack  loved  you.  He  understands.&quot;  And  then  I  wailed.  The  wail  did  not  start  as  low  as  Stella's,  or  go  as  high,  and  it  was  never  as  loud.  But  I  laid  my  head  on  my  knees  and  raised  up,  and  the  wail  was  with  me.  When  the  procession  left,  I  sat  on,  silently  weeping-my  friend  stricken  dumb  be-  side  me.  I  wept  for  all  the  times  I  had  wanted  to  weep  and  had  not.  I  wept  for  the  times  I  had  pre-  tended  to  be  brave  and  was  not.  I  wept  for  the  old  days  and  the  new.  I  wept  for  shame.  And  then,  completely  wept  out,  I  left  the  empty  church  with  my  friend.  OR  days,  I  hid  at  home,  trying  not  to  think  what  Jack's  relatives  must  be  thinking  of  me;  miser-  ably  seeing  in  my  mind's  eye  the  solemn  shaking  of  heads  with  which  they  pronounced  me  not  up  to  standard.  The  next  time  I  met  Clara  on  the  street,  I  spoke  quickly,  and  hur-  ried  past.  But  we  live  in  the  same  town,  and  it  is  not  a  large  town-around  ten  thousand  at  most,  I  guess-so  it  was  inevitable  that  we  should  often  meet  again.  And  when  we  met,  she  always  spoke  so  kindly  that  gradually  I  forgot  my  feeling  of  having  disgraced  her,  and  began  to  'stop  and  pass  a  pleasant  time  of  day.  When  her  husband  died,  I  paid  my  funeral  call.  When  her  children  and  grandchildren  emigrated  to  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  I  sym-  pathized.  Yet  other  white  friends  had  sympathized,  other  white  friends  had  gone  to  her  house  when  her  husband  died,  other  white  friends  pass  a  pleasant  time  of  day  with  her  when  they  meet.  It  was  for  some  other  reason,  surely,  that  last  week  she  said,  &quot;'You're  a  com-  fort  to  me.&quot;  How  do  I  comfort  her?  I  think  it  is  the  memory  of  the  wail."