 b"SOMETIMES  I  wish  things  so  in-tensely  they  happen.  But  the  cir-  cumstances  through  which  they  come  about,  the  ways  chosen  to  let  me  have  what  I  want,  are  invariably  quite  different  from  those  I  had  in  mind.  It's  as  if  Fate  cared  only  about  the  end,  not  the  means.  Something  of  this  sort  happened  to  me  one  summer  when  I  worked  in  the  Canadian  [REDACTED].  The  job-a  regular  student's  job,  which  my  professor  of  zoology  had  kindly  found  for  me-was  to  go  around  with  a  man  in  the  Forestry  Service  looking  for  budworms.  These  are  minute  insects  that  enter  the  buds  of  trees  and  destroy  them,  and  stunt  the  growth  ofthe  tree  itself.  'They  are  worse  than  forest  fires  for  the  spruce  and  bal-  sam  woods  of  that  region.  My  boss-a  tall,  thin,  quiet  man-and  I  would  clip  a  few  small  branches  in  different  places,  collect  them,  and  take  the  bundle  to  the  laboratory,  a  log  cabin  by  a  large  lake  in  the  backwoods.  My  boss  would  ex-  amine  any  budworms  he  foundunder  a  microscope  to  see  if  they  had  parasites.  The  parasites  were  potentially  our  al-  lies.  My  boss  thought  that  if  he  could  find  a  suitable  parasite,  he  would  be  able  to  check  the  budworm  infestation  by  sending  the  parasite  to  a  culture  station  down  south,  where  they  would  LAKE  let  it  multiply  by  the  million  and  then  scatter  these  millions  over  the  forest  by  airplane.  'The  budworms  would  be  killed,  and  the  trees  would  be  all  green  again.  'The  trouble  was  that  the  para-  sites  themselves  were  diseased.  What  we  needed  was  a  healthy  parasite.  Our  search  for  it  took  us  over  vast  stretches  of  forest  in  a  country  laced  by  rivers  and  lakes.  The  backwoods  were  like  an  occan-  one  didn't  venture  too  far  in  them  alone  without  a  feeling  of  awe.  There  was  a  sense  of  danger  lurking  in  their  dark-  ness,  and  in  their  silence,  which  the  in-  frequent  sound  of  birds  made  deeper  still.  Walking  in  the  woods,  one  was  constantly  aware  of  those  who  had  lost  their  way.  One  thought  of  the  stories  about  them  and  the  advice  that  one  was  continually  given:  &quot;If  you  get  lost,  listen  for  the  sound  of  a  motorboat  on  the  lake.&quot;  Sometimes  we  would  be  away  from  the  laboratory  for  just  a  few  hours,  sometimes  for  a  few  days,  and  once  we  went  away  for  two  weeks.  My  boss  had  his  wife  with  him,  and  during  the  shorter  trips  she  remained  at  the  labora-  tory,  but  if  the  trip  took  longer  than  one  day  she  came  along  with  us.  The  short  trips  were  to  places  within  walking  dis-  tance  of  the  log  cabin;the  longer  ones were  usually  to  some  far  corner  of  the  lake,  and  we  would  go  there  in  a  small  outboard  motorboat.  Navigation  was  difficult  because  of  the  many  inlets,  bays,  islands,  and  straits.  The  lake  was  called  Star  Lake,  because  of  its  shape,  but  it  was  much  more  complicated  than  the  conven-  tional  figureof  a  star,  and  from  the  sky  it  must  have  looked  more  like  a  blue  octopus.  We  always  took  a  map  and  a  compass  along.  When  we  reached  our  destination,  we  would  pull  the  boat  up  on  the  shore,  start  clipping  branches,  and  then,  to-  ward  evening,  cook  our  meal  over  a  fire.  When  night  came,  we  would  pitch  a  tent,  take  our  sleeping  bags  out  of  the  boat,  and  go  to  sleep.  I  had  a  small  sleeping  bag,  and  my  boss  had  a  huge,  wide  one,  specially  made  for  two,  and  he  and  his  wife  slept  in  it.  He  was  a  nice  guy,  my  boss.  When-  ever  I  made  a  mistake,  he  would  pass  over  it.  Once,  I  made  a  miscount  of  the  budworms,  and  he  went  so  far  as  to  say,  &quot;Good,  it  shows  you  are  not  a  calculat-  ing  machine.&quot;  It  was  a  fine  attitude,  I  thought.  He  could  imitate  the  songs  of  birds  and  also  translate  them  into  Eng-  lish.  He  claimed  one  bird  said,  &quot;Sweet,  sweet,  sweet  ...  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Can-  ada.&quot;  Once,  we  were  in  the  middle  of  the  lake  and  he  saw  a  loon  flying  a  long  way  up.  He  made  a  loon  call,  and  it  swooped  down  till  it  wasn't  more  than  a  few  feet  from  us.  &quot;What  did  you  say  to  him?&quot;  his  wife  asked  when  she  had  recovered  her  breath.  &quot;I  said,  'Come  on  down,  &quot;  my  boss  said,  smiling  at  her.  But  that  wasn't  the  end  of  it.  The  loon,  having  got  up  again,  made  a  cry.  &quot;What  did  Ae  say?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;He  said,  'I  thought  you  were  a  loon.&quot;  &quot;  Later,  she  told  me  the  Canadian  Broadcasting  Cor-  poration  had  paid  him  a  good  round  sum  just  to  imitate  a  loon  in  a  play  they  broadcast.  She  must  have  been  about  twenty-six,  he  was  thirty,  and  I  was  eighteen,  given  to  wild  dreams,  very  apt  to  fall  in  love  at  first  sight.  My  boss's  wife  was  pretty,  with  light  chestnut  hair  parted  on  the  side.  Sometimes  she  washed  her  hair  in  the  lake,  and  then  for  a  long  time  she  combed  it  in  the  sun.  She  never  wore  blue  jeans  but  was  al-  ways  in  thin,  silky  dresses,  and  " b"brought  with  her  an  air  of  refinement.  When  she  stood  on  the  wharf  and  the  wind  blew  her  skirt,  pressing  it  against  her  on  one  side  and  making  it  flutter  on  the  other,  she  looked  all  right.  When  they  were  out  of  the  log  cabin,  I  would  sometimes  steal  into  their  bedroom  and  reach  my  hand  out  and  touch  her  clothes.  So  pretty,  sophisticated,  and  city-bred  my  boss's  wife  was,  I  won-  dered  how  she  could  stand  living  in  the  backwoods  with  us  all  that  time.  But  I  guess  she  loved  him.  And  he  loved  her.  They  made  a  nice  couple.  Sometimes  at  night  I  used  to  hear  them  laughing  to-  gether.  The  laughing  would  fade  into  whispers,  the  whispers  fade  into  silence.  Then,  in  vain  efforts  to  improve  my  po-  sition,I  would  give  scissorlike  kicks  to  my  sleeping  bag,  but  my  position  was  that  ofa  bachelor,  and  a  single  bed  is  a  bachelor's  lot.  I  had  only  her  image.  It  kept  me  awake,  it  put  me  to  sleep.  I  thought  I  loved  her.  I  thought  I  loved  her  far  more  than  he  did.  I  never  revealed  it,  of  course,  and  perhaps  she  never  knew  that  I  loved  her,  unless  I  gave  myself  away  by  looking  too  far  the  other  way  when  we  met  or  bygoing  a  little  too  eagerly  on  errands  for  her.  She'd  make  a  gesture  as  if  she  wanted  some  object.  &quot;Get  you  something?&quot;  I'd  say.  She  would  tell  me  what  it  was,  and  I  would  rush  for  it.  Once  her  husband  laughed  about  it,  I  know.  I  remember  entertaining  strange  thoughts.  I  wondered  what  it  would  be  like  if  he  should  suddenly  leave  us  alone.  At  night,  before  going  to  sleep,  I  mused  on  the  possibilities.  Once,  I  imagined  a  telegram  arriving  and  the  telegram  said  he  was  urgently  needed  in  [REDACTED]  for  a  couple  of  days.  I  pictured  him  entrust-  ing  his  wife  to  my  care.  In  my  mind  he  was  in  [REDACTED]  already;  already  a  letter  from  him  was  coming  to  tell  her  he  would  have  to  postpone  his  return  for  a  while.  It  was  silly,  of  course,  because  if  any  wire  of  the  kind  had  come,  she  would  have  gone  withhim,  but  it  provided  wonderful  entertainment,  nevertheless-especially  the  first  time  I  thought  it.  From  too  much  thinking  about  it,  the  idea  lost  some  of  its  fresh-  ness,  and  I  knew  that  it  would  soon  have  no  more  reality.  But  then,  unexpected-  ly,  a  new  thought  would  come  to  my  mind  and  make  the  entertainment  vivid  again.  In  these  thoughts  I  never  wished  him  any  harm.  I  never  imagined  anything  unpleasant  happening  to  him.  I  liked  him,  as  I  have  already  said.  All  I  wanted  in  the  first  act  of  my  imaginary  play  was  a  nice  motive  for  being  left  alone  with  her  in  the  second.  Once  the  second  act  had  begun,  I  was  over  the  hump,  I  was  happy;  it  was  like  having  climbed  to  the  Garden  of  Eden,  where  I  could  indulge  in  love  and  sleep  and  all  comfort.  As  for  the  third  act-the  inevitable  return  of  her  husband-it  usually  wasn't  at-  tempted;  the  author,  who  was  at  once  spectator  and  actor,  relied  on  the  second  act  to  put  him  to  sleep  and  spare  him  the  burden  of  a  solution.  ELL,  so  much  for  desire  and  the  fancy.  Now  here's  how  reality  saw  it.  One  day  my  boss  thought  it  would  be  a  good  idea  to  go  and  look  for  that  healthy  parasite  at  the  north  end  of  the  lake.  This  was  about  thirty  miles  away  in  a  straight  line  but  at  least  double  that  distance  the  way  we  would  have  to  go.  Since  he  planned  to  stay  there  several  days,  his  wife  came  along.  We  set  off,  our  little  motorboat  loaded  with  sup-  plies,  tent,  and  equipment.  We  arrived  late  in  the  evening.  No  sooner  had  we  got  there  than  it  began  raining  hard.  We  set  up  the  tent  and  then  tried  light-  ing  a  fire,  but  it  was  so  difficult  we  gave  it  up.  I  got  some  small  pieces  of  wood  and  put  them  under  the  tent  to  dry.  We  had  a  cold  supper.  After  supper,  she  made  hot  chocolate  over  an  alcohol  burner.  Then  we  laid  out  our  sleeping  bags  and  got  into  them.  I  could  hear  the  rain  making  music  on  the  taut  canvas  of  the  tent.  I  thought  how  cozy  it  must  be  in  their  sleeping  bag,  and  more  in-  tensely  than  ever  I  wished.  The  next  morning  it  was  still  raining.  The  wind  was  blowing  hard  and  the  lake  had  become  rough.  We  couldn't  do  any  work,  and  we  stayed  inside  the  tent.  Toward  evening,  she  said  she  wasn't  feeling  well.  We  made  supper,  but  she  only  ate  a  few  spoonfuls  of  soup.  T'wo  or  three  times  during  the  night,  I  heard  his  worried  voice  asking  her  how  she  was  feeling.  In  the  morning,  she  wasn't  any  better.  She  didn't  get  up.  It  was  still  raining.  He  hoped  that  hot  tea,  as-  pirin,  and  rest  would  cure  her,  but  in  the  afternoon  she  had  a  chill.  Though  we  covered  her  with  all  the  warm  things  we  had,  my  sleeping  bag  included,  she  continued  to  shiver.  Her  eyes  were  shin-  " b"ing.  Now  and  then  her  teeth  chattered,  and  she  lay  with  her  arms  and  legs  folded  tight.  Anyone  could  see  she  had  a  high  fever.  She  said  it  was  nothing,  but  my  boss  was  worried.  He  paced  around  the  tent  restlessly.  &quot;I'll  have  to  go  and  get  a  doctor,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  go,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;&quot;No,  you  don't  know  the  way  round  the  lake;  it's  so  complicated.&quot;  &quot;Sure  I  do,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  I  can't  risk  it.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  we  all  go  back  in  the  boat?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  too  rough  for  her;  she'd  get  all  wet.&quot;  &quot;We'll  wrap  the  tent  round  her.&quot;  She  gets  seasick,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  it's  too  rough;  the  boat  might  capsize.  It's  not  so  bad  if  one  of  us  drowns,  but  we  don't  want  the  three  of  us  to  sink.&quot;  &quot;Let  me  go,&quot;  I  insisted.  &quot;No,  thelake  is  too  complicated,  I  told  you.  You've  never  been  here  be-  fore,  while  this  is  my  third  trip.  With  this  mist  it's  hard  to  make  out  where  you  are.  Soon  it  will  be  dark.  And  then  you  are  not  as  good  a  swimmer  as  I  am.  I'll  go  now,&quot;  he  continued,  &quot;and  come  back  with  the  doctor.&quot;  I  didn't  think  it  was  that  risky,  but  he  was  so  determined  I  could  only  abide  by  his  wishes.  &quot;'Take  good  care  of  her,&quot;  he  said  as  I  shoved  the  boat  off.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  I  said.  The  waves  were  high  and  tossed  the  boat  up  and  down  wildly.  At  one  point  the  propeller  was  out  of  the  water  and  it  beat  the  air  with  a  tearing  noise;  then  it  dipped  again,  and  he  was  off  in  deep  water.  He  waved  goodbye,  and  I  sawhim  disappear  in  the  mist.  For  some  time  after  that,  I  could  hear  the  noise  of  the  engine  becoming  fainter  and  fainter.  Then  I  could  only  hear  the  wind  and  the  rain.  &quot;Has  he  gone?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  She  sighed.  I  was  able  to  light  a  fire,  and  I  made  her  some  tea.  With  infinite  care  I  held  the  cup  for  her  while  she  sipped.  She  tried  to  smile  at  me,  but  I  could  see  it  wasn't  easy.  She  said  she  had  a  split-  ting  headache.  I  thought  of  menin-  gitis.  She  coughed  a  little.  I  thought  of  pneumonia.  And  there  I  was,  alone  in  the  wide  forest  with  a  seriously  sick  woman.  'Take  your  sleeping  bag,&quot;  she  said  after  I  hadhad  supper.  &quot;No,  I  don't  need  it.  T'll  sit  up  by  the  fire.&quot;  &quot;Do  take  it,&quot;  she  said. I  could  hear  her  teeth  chattering;  she  was  having  another  chill.  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  are  cold  even  with  it.&quot;  She  didn't  answer.  I  put  my  sweater  over  her.  I  loved  her  so  much  that  if  it  would  have  been  of  any  help  I'd  have  taken  my  cotton  shirt  off  and  put  that  over  her,  too.  I  loved  her  so  I  would  do  anything  for  her,  even  die.  The  chill  would  wear  off,  and  then  after  a  time  she  would  be  taken  by  an-  other,  and  she  would  curl  up,  trying  to  make  herself  smaller.  &quot;All  these  covers  and  I'm  still  cold,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  understand.&quot;  She  had  a  sweet,  very  feminine  voice  that  affected  me  deeply.  I  went  out  and  tried  to  stir  the  fire.  After  a  while,  in  spite  of  the  rain,  I  had  it  going  pretty  well.I  went  near  the  water's  edge  and picked  up  some  flat  stones.  I  heated  them  by  the  fire;  then  I  set  them  around  her.  She  said  they  helped,  but  I  found  they  got  cold  very  soon.  It  was  hard  finding  wood  that  was  even  relatively  dry.  Two  days  of  rain  had  made  nearly  everything  soggy,  and  I  was  tired  out.  I  couldn't  keep  the  fire  going.  Finally  I  gave  up  and  went  to  sit  in  a  corner  of  the  tent.  Soon  I  began  to  feel  cold  my-  self.  I  even  started  shivering,  but  I  was  all  right,  I  wasn't  sick.  She  moaned,  and  I  thought  she  had  delirium.  Sud-  denly  she  sat  up  and  looked  at  me  with  frightened  eyes.  &quot;I  think  I'm  going  to  die,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Of  course  you  aren't  going  to  die  I  said  cheerfully,  rushing  over  to  her  and  taking  hold  of  herhands.  &quot;Lie  down,&quot;  I  added,  pulling  the  covers  over  her  shoulders.  &quot;Do  you  think  he'll  make  it?  I  think  he'll  never  make  it.  He's  going  to  get  drowned  in  thelake.&quot;  &quot;No  one's  going  to  get  drowned,&quot;  I  said.  At  that  moment  it  thundered.  The  weather  wasn't  collaborating.  &quot;We  are  all  going  to  die,&quot;  she  said  as  a  new  fit  of  trembling  came  over  her.  &quot;Don't  be  silly,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'll  make  you  another  cup  of  hot  tea.&quot;" b"&quot;'The  fire's  out,&quot;  she  said,  sitting  up  again.  She  was  trembling,  and  there  she  was,  uncovered,  exposed  to  the  humid,  cold  air.  &quot;Get  in  there,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Get  in  there  or  you'll  catch  more  cold.&quot;  Her  face  looked  terror-stricken.  The  hurricane  lamp  made  it  more  so.  She  grasped  my  arms.  &quot;You  get  in  here,  too,&quot;she  said.  I  knew  it  was  the  most  sensible  thing  I  could  do.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said,  with  no  other  thought  than  thatof  keeping  her  warm.  I  took  my  shoes  off  and  slipped  into  the  double  sleeping  bag  with  her.  &quot;Hug  me  tight,&quot;  she  said.  I  did.  ''Tighter.&quot;  I  hugged  her  as  tight  as  I  could.  For  a  while  she  continued  shivering;  then  she  stopped.  I  slowly  released  her.  I  sensed  thatthe  heat  of  my  body  had  done  something  to  her.  She  felt  relaxed  and  soft  again,  whereas  before  she  was  stiff  and  hard.  &quot;Ah,  I  feel  better  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  am  glad,  I  am  glad.&quot;  &quot;You  are  very  warm.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  I  knew  I  was  warm.  It  wasn't  the  first  time  I  had  been  used  as  a  heater.  When  I  was  a  child,  I  would  slip  into  my  mother's  bed  from  my  cot  to  warm  it  up  for  her.  When  she  came  up  to  her  room,  she  would  transfer  me  back  to  the  cot.  I  felt  her  slowly  relaxing  into  sleep.  I  could  feel  her  breath  on  my  eyelids.  I  could  hear  her  breathing  quietly  and  regularly.  I  could  sense  that  the  fever  was  down.  I  thought  I  had  cured  her.  I  felt  intensely  pleased.  Now  that  she  was  warm,  I  wondered  if  I  should  leave  her.  &quot;No,  she  might  feel  cold  again,&quot;  I  said  to  myself,  and  I  stayed.  I  remember  kissing  her  very  lightly  on  her  shoulder  and  her  hair  while  she  slept.  One  mo-  ment  I  thought  she  was  going  to  wake  up.  Her  fingers  curved  round  my  hand.  Perhaps  she  thought  it  was  her  hus-  band's.  She  sighed  faintly.  Then  I,  too,  fell  asleep.  I  awoke  early  in  the  morning.  She  was  still  sleeping.  I  got  up  and  made  some  coffee;  then  I  kept  some  water  hot  for  when  she  woke  up.  She  slept  for  another  two  hours.  Sitting  near  her,  I  watched  her.  I  think  I  must  have  watched  an  hour  without  moving.  I  never  got  tired  of  the  sight  of  her.  Then  I  saw  her  waking.  Her  first  words  were  &quot;I  feel  a  lot  better.&quot;  I  poured  her  a  cup  of  steaming-hot  coffee.  Then  I  made  her  some  toast.  An  hour  later,  I  heard  the  noise  of  the  motorboat,  and  I  went  down  to  the  water  to  meet  the  doctor  and  my  boss.  AT  the  end  of  the  summer,  when  my  job  was  over,  they  took  me  by  car  to  the  station.  As  the  train  was  about  to  leave,  my  boss  said  something  to  his  wife,  and  then  he  whispered  in  my  ear,  &quot;I  know  something  about  you  you  don't  think  I  know.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  I  asked,  mystified.  &quot;You  slept  in  my  sleeping  bag;  my  wife  told  me.&quot;  &quot;I&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right;  you  don't  have  to  ex-  plain,&quot;  he  said,  winking.&quot;I  know  all  about  it.  Thank  you  for  keeping  her  warm.&quot;  He  had  his  arm  round  her  shoulder  and  they  were  both  smiling.  We  shook  hands.  Then  they  wished  me  goodbye.  As  the  train  started  moving,  they  waved;  they  were  laughing,  but  I  was  blushing,  and  even  a  bit  disappointed,  and  it  took  a  great  effort  for  me  to  smile. "