 b"MARIE BertHErOT's  large  studio  was  a  working  room.  Its  fur-  nishings  consisted  of  two  con-  cert  grand  pianos  and  their  stools,  two  Morris  chairs,  three  music  cabinets,  a  gilded  plaster  death  mask  of  Chopin,  and  some  framed  portraits  inscribed  to  her  with  assurances  of  affection  and  high  regard  from  Rachmaninoff,  Faur\xc3\xa9,  Busoni,  and  Schnabel.  Though  she  was  older  now  than  those  men  had  been  at  the  times  they  posed  for  the  pictures,  Mme.  Berthelot  was  still  in  the  habit  of  walking  the  mile  from  her  studio  to  Carnegie  Hall  when  there  was  any-  thing  worth  hearing.  Concertgoers  who  saw  her  making  her  way  up  the  stairs  to  one  of  the  boxes  thought  she  was  somebody's  cook.  She  had  never  been  a  handsome  woman,  and  so  time  had  played  no  un-  kind  tricks  on  her.  She  was  small  and  thick-waisted,  and  scarcely  cared  what  clothes  she  put  on  her  back.  Her  once  black  hair  was  now  mouse-colored  and  frizzy.  At  the  collar  of  her  plain,  tai-  lored  blouse,  she  wore  a  plain  diamond  bar  pin  that  had  belonged  to  her  mother.  She  wore  no  other  jewelry.  An  atten-  tive  person  might  have  guessed  from  the  way  she  crossed  and  uncrossed  heran-  kles  that  they  were  her  one  point  of  vanity.  Her  eyes,  set  deep  in  wrinkled  lids,  were  pale  blue  and  businesslike,  At  the  sound  ofthe  doorbell,  she  got  rather  heavily  out  of  the  Morris  chair,  which  must  have  been  as  old  as  she  was,  She  looked  at  her  watch.  That  would  be  Mr.  Vaughn  downstairs,  she  thought-Har-  ley's  father.  On  time.  She  sighed.  Ordinarily  she  did  not  look  forward  to  sessions  with  parents  of  her  students.  The  mothers  were  apt  to  be  too  anxious,  the  fathers  too  demanding.  Too  many  of  them  asked  too  many  questions  that  could  not  be  answered.  They  pushed  their  children  too  hard.  Or  not  hard  enough.  They  worried  about  the  boy  practicing  too  much  or  too  little.  They  ran  out  of  money  and  proposed  to  pay  less  for  an  hour  than  they  would  have  had  to  give  a  plumber  for  replacing  a  pair  of  washers.  Or  they  brought  a  more  expensive  present  than  they  could  pos-  sibly  afford.  Frederick  Vaughn  did  not  fit  into  any  of  these  categories.  An  investment  bank-  er  of  some  means,  he  paid,  on  the  first  of  each  month,  Mme.  Berthelot's  regular  fee,  which  was  that  of  a  fashionable  analyst.  He  did  better  than  stay  in  the  background.  He  kept  out  of  sight.  Dur-  ing  all  the  years  that  Mme.  Berthelot     had  been  teaching  Harley  Vaughn,  she  had  met  the  boy's  father  only  once;  Mr.  Vaughn  had  come  to  hear  his  son  play  the  Schumann  Concerto  in  A  Minor  with  a  student  orchestra.  Such  confer-  ring  as  seemed  indicated  had  always  been  with  Mrs.  Vaughn,  a  lovely,  mild  woman  of  perhaps  forty-five.  She  had  taught  her  boy  beautiful  manners,  rare  in  his  generation,  still  rarer  in  a  gifted  young  musician.  In  many  ways,  the  Vaughns  were  unique  in  Mme.  Berthelot'slong  experi-  ence  as  a  piano  teacher.  Serious  young  students  inthis  country  were  usually  the  children  of  first-  or  second-generation  immigrants,  and  the  Vaughns  were  of  old  American  stock.  Somewhere  in  the  childhood  of  every  real  instrumentalist  will  be  found  a  period  of  saturation  in  music,  nearly  always  the  result  of  having  a  musician  in  the  home,  more  often  thannot  a  professional.  This  is  not  likely  to  be  the  case  in  a  conventional  American  family.  Given  such  a  back-  ground,  even  a  boy  with  supreme  native  talents  will  always  in  time  be  talked  or  ignored  out  of  developing  them  into  a  career.  There  had,  of  course,  been  Albert  Spalding.  But  Spalding's  mother,  unlike  Mrs.  Vaughn,  had  been  an  accom-  plished  amateur  pianist  and  singer.  And  all  of  Spalding's  early  training  had  taken  place  in  4974616c79  and  [REDACTED],  while  Harley  Vaughn  had  never  been  abroad.  Har-  ley's  period  of  saturation  was  begun  simply  by  his  discovery  of  Station  WQXR  on  the  radio;  at  the  age  of  six,  he  announced  that  all  he  wanted  for  Christ-  mas  was  more  records.  And  now,  at  nineteen,  Harley  was  probably  a  bigger  talent  than  Spalding  had  ever  been.  Marie  Ber-  thelot,  a  careful  woman,  had  high  hopes  for  the  boy's  Town  Hall  d\xc3\xa9but  next  month.  She  wondered  what  Mr.  Vaughn  had  come  to  see  her  about.  She  remembered  Mr.  Vaughn  from  that  concert  Harley  had  played  with  the  student  orchestra;  a  very  tall  man,  strongly  made,  with  a  face  and  manner  that  Mme,  Berthelot  could  easily  imag-  ine  as  dominating  a  mutinous  Board  of  Directors.  After  the  inevitable  remark  that  he  knew  nothing  of  music,  Mr.  Vaughn  had  professed  to  be  pleased  with  Harley's  performance,  really  pleased.  &quot;Thanks  to  you  and  my  wife,&quot;  he  had  said.  Mrs.  Vaughn  had  stood  at  his  side,  trying  valiantly  not  to  look  too  proud  of  her  boy  and  not  succeeding  altogether.  What  a  lovely  mother  the  boy  has,  Mme.  Berthelot  had  thought,  what  an  impressive  father:  good  stock;  good  boy.  Nonetheless,  at  the  sound  of  the  door-  bell  the  old  woman  sighed.  Something  extraordinary  must  be  going  on  to  bring  Frederick  Vaughn  here  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon,  and  she  did  not  like  too  many  extraordinary  things  to  come  up  so  shortly  before  a  d\xc3\xa9but  recital.  She  thought  she  had  sensed  an  urgency  in  his  phone  call  earlier  in  the  day.  Mrs.  Tierney,  the  housekeeper,  ush-  ered  Vaughn  in.  He  cast  a  quick  glance  around.  &quot;T  wo  pianos?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  never  seena  room  with  two  pianos.  I  had  imagined  you  sit  looking  over  shoul-  ders.&quot;  &quot;Sometimes  I  do.&quot;  When  they  were  seated  in  the  Morris  chairs,  Mme.  Berthelot  said,  &quot;How's  Mrs.  Vaughn?  It's  been  quite  some  time  since  I've  seen  her.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  all  well.  In  fact  ..  .&quot;  Vaughn  paused.  &quot;In  fact,  that's  partly  what  I've  come  to  talk  to  you  about.  But  before  I  do,  there  are  ...  I  should  like  to  aska  few  questions,  and  I  hope  you  take  nothing  for  granted  in  answering.  I'm  totally  ignorant  in  your  field,  Mme.  Berthelot.  All  I  know  is  what  I've  picked  up  listening  to  Harley  and  his  mother,  and  that  isn't  much.  So  I  must  beg  your  indulgence.&quot;  &quot;I'm  terribly  sorry  to  hear  about  Mrs.  Vaughn.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Now,  in  my  field-I'm  a  bank-  er-sometimes  I'm  handed  a  report  on  a  company,  and  it  might  run  to  a  hun-  dredpages  or  more.  But  I've  learned  to  go  through  it  and  pick  out  what's  important.  I  suppose  you  can  do  the  same-with  all  your  experience.  I  know  it's  not  exactly  the  same.  No  figures,  not  much  past  performance.  I'm  asking  you  to  tell  me  about  Harley-truthful-  ly,  please.  What  has  he  got?  What  are  his  chances?&quot;  &quot;Harley  has  a  great  deal,&quot;  said  Mme.  Berthelot.  &quot;He's  technically  sound.  He  has  flair;  temperament.  He  works.  And  he  can  hear  what  he  plays-good  critical  sense.  He  responds  to  teaching.  I  think  he'll  give  an  outstanding  recital  next  month.&quot;  'This  is  not  the  profession  I  would  have  chosen  for  him.  But  that's  neither  here  nor  there.  He'll  always  have  a  lit-  tle  something  to  live  on.  So  he  might  as  well  be  doing  what  he  wants.  I  agreed  to  his  not  going  to  college.  A  lot  of  boys  in  his  position  ...  Well,  this  is  what  he  wants  to  do.  All  right.  I'm  glad  he's  found  it.  You  think  he's  going  to  play  an  outstanding  recital.  Will  he  be  able  to  follow  it  up?&quot;  &quot;That  there  is  no  way  of  knowing.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?  You  know  he's  going  " b"to  have  backing.  So  it  must  be  some-  thing  in  him.  You've  told  me  what  he  has.  Now  tell  me  what  he  hasn't.&quot;  &quot;There  really  is  no  way  of  telling,  at  this  stage.  Harley  hasn't  done  enough  concert  work  for  me  to  tell.  It  still  re-  mains  to  be  seen,  for  instance,  if  he  has  the  performer's  temperament.&quot;  &quot;I  understood  you  to  say  he  did  have  temperament.&quot;  &quot;Musical  temperament  was  what  I  had  in  mind.  A  performet's  tempera-  ment  is  something  else;  and  just  as  hard  to  describe.  Let  me  try.  I've  had  stu-  dents  who  were  virtuosos  in  this  room,  but  in  front  of  an  audience  they  messed  up  every  time.  Perhaps  not  every  time.  Some  of  them  will  put  on  enough  of  an  act  to  get  a  good  start  on  a  career,  even  a  brilliant  start.  But  somewhere  along  the  way  there'll  be  trouble.  Their  wife  will  decide  it's  not  good  for  the  baby  to  be  dragged  around  on  a  long  European  tour.  And  they'll  give  in.  A  performer  doesn't  care  what  his  wife  decides.  He  doesn't  care  what  you  think  or  I  think.  It's  between  him  and  his  audience.&quot;  Marie  Berthelot  had  much  more  to  say,  but  she  stopped.  She  did  not  know  how  far  she  ought  to  go  with  Harley's  father  in  exploring  the  doubts  she  had  about  the  boy.  The  last  thing  she  wanted  was  that  Harley  should  learn  at  this  point  that  there  were  any  doubts  at  all.  She  thought,  I  must  remember  to  tell  him  not  to  discuss  any  of  this  with  the  boy.  Vaughn  was  leaning  forward  too  intently.  &quot;What  you're  talking  about  is  drive,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'The  drive  to  succeed.  'That's  not  restricted  to  concert  artists.  I've  seen  enough  of  that  in  my  own  pro-  fession.&quot;  The  old  woman  shook  her  head.  &quot;No.  Not  just  drive.  It's  a  special  quali-  ty.  Churchill  has  it.  Would  you  like  to  know  who  else?  Napoleon  in  [REDACTED]  saying,  Soldiers,  from  the  summit  of  yonder  pyramids,  forty  centuries  look  down  upon  you.'  Lincoln  at  Gettvs-  burg.  Sarah  Bernhardt.&quot;  Mme.  Ber-  thelot  nodded  toward  one  of  the  pictures  on  the  wall.  &quot;My  old  teacher,  Busoni,  knew  her.  I'll  tell  you  a  story  he  told  me,  and  you'll  see  what  I  mean.  When  Sarah  was  a  very  little  girl,  she  lived  with  her  mother  and  her  aunt,  both  cocottes.  She  was  sitting  in  a  second-  story  window  and  saw  her  aunt  going  by  with  a  gentleman.  She  asked  to  go  along,  but  the  aunt  refused  her.  Ap-  parently  it  wasn't  one  of  those  gentle-  menwho  liked  to  have  little  girls  along.  So  Sarah  threw  herself  out  of  the  win-  dow  and  broke  I  forget  how  many  arms  and  legs.  She  was  a  performer  making  a  point  toa  difficult  audience.  Not  tem-  per-temperament.  Instinctive.  The  occasion  called  for  a  drastic  gesture,  and  she  produced.  J.  P.  Morgan  wouldn't  have  thought  of  it  in  a  million  years.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  about  Sarah  Bern-  hardt,&quot;  Vaughn  said.  &quot;I  do  know  a  little  about  Lincoln.  He  wasn't  just  a  performer.&quot;  &quot;'None  of  the  great  ones  are  just  performers.  They  have  all  the  other  stuff.  But  they  won't  be  able  to  put  it  over  unless  they  are  performers,  too.  Do  you  remember  Lincoln's  stunts  as  a  trial  lawyer?  Do  you  remember  how  he  finished  Douglas  off  in  those  debates?  No  one  but  a  performer  could  have  pre-  served  a  public  face  with  that  half-mad  wife  gnawing  away  at  him  year  in,  year  out.  There  you  had  a  sustained  perform-  " b"ance  that  makes  the  speech  at  Gettys-  burg  look  like  nothing  at  all.  The  end-  less  spinning  of  yarns,  the  periods  of  depression,  it  all  adds  up  to  the  pattern  of  the  performer.&quot;  &quot;And  it's  a  pattern  that  you're  not  sure  Harley  fits  into.  In  other  words,  you  don't  think  he's  brat  enough  to  throw  himself  out  of  the  window.&quot;  Marie  Berthelot  saw  that  she  had  gone  too  far.  She  said,  &quot;This  much  is  true:  Harley  is  a  joy  to  work  with.  He's  a  very  nice  boy.  Most  performing  musi-  cians  are  not  nice  at  all.  They  are,  if  you  like,  brats.  But  there  are  always  exceptions-Fritz  Kreisler-and  Har-  ley  may  be  one  of  them,  I  think  he  is.  I  do  not  think  this  is  the  time  to  plant  any  doubts  inhis  mind.  Or  in  yours,  Mr.  Vaughn.  This  is  the  sort  of  thing  that  will  work  itself  out,  one  way  or  the  other.&quot;  &quot;Just  how  nice  Harley  is,  I'm  not  at  this  moment  prepared  to  say.  You  may  know  more  about  him  than  I.  Peo-  ple  in  a  family  ...&quot;  Vaughn  clasped  his  hands,  He  seemed  to  be  formulating  his  next  remark.  &quot;Harley's  mother  is  in  the  hospital,  Mme.  Berthelot.  She's  dying  of  cancer.  The  doctors  give  her  only  a  few  more  weeks.  She  could  go  at  any  time,  they  say.&quot;  &quot;How  horrible,&quot;  the  old  woman  said.  &quot;How  horrible.  I  had  no  idea.  Harley  didn't  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;No.  She's  under  sedation.  Con-  scious  only  a  few  hours  each  day.  But  when  she's  conscious,  she  knows  every-  thing  that's  going  on.  She  knows  why  she's  there.  She's  in  great  pain.&quot;  &quot;So  young.&quot;  Marie  Berthelot  had  already  out-  lived  too  many  of  her  contemporaries.  After  the  death  of  her  sister  L\xc3\xa9onie,  who  had  kept  house  for  her,  she  thought,  Now  there  is  no  one  left  that  I cannot  bear  to  lose.  The  rest  will  be  easier.  .  ..  But  it  never  got  easier.  Why  had  Vaughn  let  her  ramble  on  with  those  irrelevant  theories?  &quot;Forty-four,&quot;  said  Vaughn.  &quot;Har-  ley  and  I  have  been  going  to  the  hos-  pital  each  day.  It  seems  to  help  her  a  little  to  have  us  there.  But  now  Harley  wants  to  stop  going.  He  says  it's  inter-  fering  with  his  preparation  for  this  con-  cert.  Up  toa  point,  I  can  understand  that.  Of  course.  He  wants  to  do  his  best.&quot;  Vaughn  drew  a  deep  breath.  Marie  Berthelot  waited.  &quot;What  I  can't  understand  is  why  it's  necessary  to  have  this  concert  next  month.  Why  can't  it  be  postponed  till  the  fall?  Harley  talks  about  advertise-  ments  stuck  upon  bulletin  boards  all  over  town,  tickets  printed-what's  that  got  to  do  with  it?  I've  offered  to  buy  him  a  better  date  in  the  fall,  and  he  says  the  first-string  critics  will  be  tied  up  then  with  Rubinstein  or  the  Philharmonic.  How  can  those  things  even  occur  to  him  at  a  time  like  this?&quot;  She's  in  there  dying.  Her  whole  life  has  revolved  around  him.  How  can  Iget  it  through  to  him  that  for  the  next  few  weeks,  maybe  days,  his  mother  comes  before  everything  else?&quot;  There  must  be  more  to  it,  the  old  woman  thought;  there  is  always  more  to  it.  She  waited  again.  &quot;I  can't  get  through  to  him,&quot;  Vaughn  said.  &quot;It's  as  though  we  were  talking  separate  languages.  I  suppose  to  some  degree  it's  my  own  fault.  Per-  haps  I  haven't  made  enough  of  an  at-  tempt  to  understand  Harley  these  past  few  years,  and  what  communication  we've  had  has  been  mostly  through  his  mother.  They've  been  very  close.  All  the  more  reason  why  what  he  now  pro-  poses  to  do  strikes  me  asso  inhuman.  Mme.  Berthelot,  he  must  continue  com-  ing  to  the  hospital  each  day.  Won't  you  talk  to  him?&quot;  &quot;I  can  talk  to  him  about  the  possi-  bility  of  postponing  the  recital,&quot;  Marie  Berthelot  said  slowly.  &quot;Awkward  move,  professionally,  but  I  can  find  out  how  he  feels.  About  the  other  thing,  going  to  the  hospital,  I'm  afraid  that  must  be  between  you  and  Harley.  That's  a  family  thing,  Mr.  Vaughn.  It  wouldn't  be  my  place  to  ...&quot;  She  trailed  off.  She  had  to  keep  Harley's  confidence,  she  thought.  Harley  was  her  student.  It  was  more  important  to  keep  Harley's  full  confidence  than  to  gain  Frederick  Vaughn's.  &quot;Is  that  a  principle  of  yours?&quot;  Vaughn  asked.  &quot;If  it  is,  I  shan'task  you  to  violate  it  for  my  wife's  sake.&quot;  The  old  woman  did  not  much  like  the  word  principle.  People  resorted  to  it  when  they  did  not  feel  like  lifting  a  finger.  To  exonerate  themselves.  &quot;It's  a  family  thing,&quot;  she  found  her-  self  reduced  to  saying  again.  &quot;I  must  see  how  Harley  feels.  This  is  Thursday.  Next  Monday,  he  comes  for  his  lesson.&quot;  &quot;Next  Monday,  his  mother  may  be  [REDACTED];  Vaughn  stood  up.  &quot;I'm  very  sorry  to  have  troubled  you  with  all  this.  I  was  really  trying  to  put  my  job  off  on  you.  It's  my  job  to  see  that  he  does  what  he  must.  I  assure  you  he  will.&quot;  The  Chairman  of  the  Board,  Marie  Berthelot  thought;  an  overpowering  man;  Harley  didn't  stand  a  chance.  She  said,  &quot;It's  terrible  about  Mrs.  Vaughn.  Please  tell  her  I  .  ..  Tell  her  Harley  is  a  wonderful  boy.  He  is,  you  know.&quot;  She  saw  Vaughn  to  the  door.  Com-  " b"ing  back,  she  met  Mrs.  Tierney,  who  said  exactly  what  Mme.  Berthelot  thought  she  would  say:  &quot;What  a  fine-  looking  gentleman.&quot;  FTER  dinner,  Harley  phoned.  He  was  calling  from  the  drugstore  on  the  corner,  and  wanted  to  know  if  he  could  come  up.  Then  he  must  have  started  running  and  caught  the  elevator  just  right,  because  he  was  in  the  studio  before  his  teacher  had  really  settled  back  into  the  Morris  chair.  Harley  was  almost  as  tall  as  his  fa-  ther:  a  handsome  boy,  with  a  crew  cut  and  the  face  of  a  youngster  training  for  a  high-school  track  meet,  not  a  Town  Hall  recital.  He  took  his  usual  place  on  the  piano  stool.  &quot;Your  mother?&quot;  &quot;'The  same.  We  were  up  there  till  about  an  hour  ago.  No  change.  I  haven't  told  you  about  her,  because  then  I  wouldn'thave  been  able  to  talk  about  much  else,  and  the  work  had  to  be  done.  I  didn't  want  my  father  to  come  here.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,  Harley.  It's  just  as  well  I  know  about  it.  Awful.&quot;  &quot;I've  been  there  every  day.  Some-  times  with  my  father,  sometimes  by  my  -  self.  She  must  be  in  agony.  She  doesn't  talk  about  that.&quot;  The  boy  did  not  look  at  his  teacher  as  he  spoke.  His  eyes  seemed  to  be  fixed  on  one  of  the  music  cabinets.  &quot;And  I  can't  always  think  of  things  to  say  to  her.  So  I  just  sit  there.  She  can't  always  think  of  something,  either.  When  she  turns  her  head  toward  the  wall,  I  know  she's  crying.  It's  a  little  better  when  my  father  is  around.  He  can  keep  the  talk  pretty  casual,  mostly.  Stuf  about  the  house  and  the  office,  stuff  like  that.  I  can't  do  it  so  well.  I  run  out  of  talk,  and  she  turns  her  head  to  the  wall.&quot;  Harley  spoke  in  a  tight  monotone  that  his  teacher  had  not  heard  him  use  be-  fore.  He  paused  to  swallow,  and  then  the  tight  voice  went  on:  &quot;I  get  all  churned  up.  I  go  home,  I  sit  down  to  the  piano,  and  I  can't  work.  It's  three  and  a  half  weeks  before  my  concert,  and  I  get  worse  every  day.  Last  lesson,  when  I  played  the  Franck  for  you,  I  felt  it  was  just  right,  and  you  did,  too.  'This  morning  I  tried  it,  and  it  fell  topieces.&quot;  &quot;We'll  play  it  again  next  Monday.  You'll  get  it  back.&quot;  &quot;Not  if  I  keep  going  to  that  hospital,  I  won't.  I  love  my  mother,  Mme.  Berthelot.  She's  been-oh,  everything  to  me.  But  what  good  am  I  doing  by  visiting  her?  All  the  good  in  the  world,  my  father  says.  I  don't  believe  it.  She  gets  shaken  up,  too.  Then  she  turns  to  the  wall.  How  can  I  explain  to  my  father  what  it  means  to  prepare  for  a  concert  as  important  as  this?&quot;  &quot;You  have  tried?&quot;  &quot;Every  night.  And  he  keeps  saying  it's  still  more  important  for  her  to  see  me  while  she  can.  He  insists  we  put  this  concert  off  till  the  fall.  He  can't  see  the  disgraceof  it.  The  disgrace-  It  isn't  that  I  care  so  much  about  that.  What  gets  me  is  that  I  had  the  whole  concert  in  my  fingers,  and  now  I'm  losing  it.  I  don't  want  to  wait  till  the  fall.  I  want  to  play  this  concert  now.&quot;  Harley  took  his  eyes  off  the  music  cabinet  and  looked  at  his  teacher.  He  said,  &quot;This  crazy  idea  of  my  fa-  ther's,  about  making  her  last  days  casier-it's  crazy.  How  is  it  going  to  make  it  easier  on  her  to  know  that  I'm  going  to  fall  flat  on  my  face  at  Town  Hall?&quot;  &quot;You  surely  haven't  told  her  that.&quot;  &quot;No.  But  when  she's  conscious,  she  knows  everything.  She  asks  me  how  the  work  is  going,  and  I  say  it's  going  fine.  But  she  knows.  I've  never  been  able  to  kid  her.  I  can't  kid  her  now.  It's  in-  sane  to  expect  me  to  go  on  as  though  she  were  in  there  with  a  bad  cold  or  a  sprained  ankle.  I  don't  see  how  my  fa-  ther  does  it.  I  can't.&quot;  The  boy  stopped  talking.  &quot;What  would  you  like  me  to  do,  Harley?&quot;  &quot;Talk  to  my  fatheragain,  if  you  would.  Tell  him  what  it  means  to  call  off  this  kind  of  a  concert.  .  ..  No,  I've  told  him  all  that.  He  won't  listen  to  that.  If  you  could  explain  in  terms  of  what  I  .  ..  how  a  pianist  works  ..  .  the  con-  centration  that  must  not  be  broken--  just  the  way  you've  explained  it  to  me.  He  might  listen  to  you.&quot;  Marie  Berthelot  shook  her  head  gen-  tly.  &quot;I'm  afraidI  can't  do  that.  It  wouldn't  be  my  place  to.  As  I've  told " b"your  father,  this  is  a  family  thing,  Har-  ley.  Between  you  and  him.&quot;  &quot;He  won't  listen  to  me.  She's  all  he  thinks  about  now.  I'm  nowhere  in  this,  nowhere,  When  he  leaves  his  work  at  the  office  to  spend  the  afternoon  at  the  hospital,  someone  else  takes  over.  But  me-who's  going  to  play  the  Franck  for  me  next  month?  I'm  alone  out  there  with  the  piano.  If  the  Franck  falls  apart  in  my  hands,  who's  going  to  put  it  together?  How  does  ruining  me  help  her?&quot;  The  boy  still  believes  he  is  going  to  play  next  month,  she  thought;  he  still  doesn't  know  he  has  no  chance  against  that  Chairman  of  the  Board.  'You  come  in  Monday,  and  we'll  work  on  nothing  but  the  Franck.&quot;  Harley's  eyes  filled  with  tears.  &quot;You  won't  talk  to  him?&quot;  &quot;I  can't,  dear  boy.  Not  about  this.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  at  least  tell  him  what  you've  explained  about  concentration-how  nothing  must  be  permitted  to  break  it?  What  you  said?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.  I  don't  see  why  not.&quot;  &quot;He  looks  at  me.  But  he  doesn't  see  me.  All  he  sees  is  my  mother  on  that  bed.  He  doesn't  care  about  me.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  he  does.  I  can  tell  you  he  does.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  wait  till  the  fall.  I've  got  to  play  this  concert  now.  He's  got  to  understand  that.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  been  sleeping  all  right?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Get  all  the  sleep  you  can,  Harley.  Come  in  Monday,  and  we'll  work  on  the  Franck.  Come  Sunday,  too,  if  you  like.  I'm  teaching  through  tomorrow  and  Saturday,  but  you  can  always  call  up  and  come  in  the  evening.&quot;  \xc2\xabThank  you.  Thank  you  very  much.  I'll  try  not  to  disturb  you.  I'm  sorry  I  had  to  disturb  you  today.&quot;  ''For  something  like  this,  any  time.  It's  terrible  about  your  mother.  Such  a  dear  person.  So  young.&quot;  She  saw  the  boy  to  the  door,  though  she  felt  very  tired.  'This  was  Marie  Berthelot's  forty-first  year  of  teaching  people  to  play  the  piano.  WHEN  Harley  did  not  call  during  the  weekend,  the  old  woman  be-  gan  to  fret.  The  boy's  morale  was  bound  to  be  disrupted  by  his  mother's  death  and  the  postponing  of  the  con-  cert,  but  the  damage,  however  bad,  was  also  apt  to  be  temporary.  More  perma-  nent  and  more  dangerous  would  be  his  loss  of  her  as  the  one  who  stood  between  him  and  that  Chairman  of  the  Board.  Marie  Berthelot  had  been  grateful  for  Vaughn's  lack  of  interference  in  the  boy's  development;  now  she  saw  that lack  as  resulting  from  other  lacks-of  involvement  and  sympathy.  She  re-  membered  what  Vaughn  had  said:  This  is  not  the  profession  I  would  have  chosen  for  him.&quot;  With  his  wife's  in-  fluence  gone,  Vaughn  was  not  a  man  to  be  reticent  about  making  his  choices  clear.  The  old  woman  was  afraid  for  the  boy.  Monday  morning,  Harley  came  in  for  his  regular  lesson.  In  answer  to  Mme.  Berthelot's  inquiry,  he  said,  \xc2\xab'She's  just  the  same.  No  change.&quot;  He  did  not  seem  to  want  to  go  into  details.  Instead,  he  sat  right  down  and  played  the  Franck,  played  it  beautifully.  The  piece  had  lost  none  of  the  shape-  liness  and  verve  it  had  a  week  ago.  And  there  weresome  things  that  had  not  been  there  before,  subtle  little  changes  of  pace  and  dynamics.  A  week  ago,  Mme.  Berthelot  had  been  a  trifle  con-  cerned  about  a  long  passage  that  had  teetered  on  the  brink  of  facile  senti-  ment;  now  it  was  pure  tenderness,  pro-  foundly  felt.  &quot;Good,&quot;  the  old  woman  said.  &quot;I  don't  know.  I'll  work  on  it  some  more.&quot;  Harley  swung  around  on  the  stool  and  faced  his  teacher.  &quot;You  told me  to  get  some  sleep,  and  I  did.  Begin-  ning  Friday  night,  I  did.  Thursday,  my  father  and  I  stayed  up  all  night,  fight-  ing.  God,  he's  stubborn.  He  kept  re-  peating  the  same  thing  over  and  over.  As  though  I  really  could  help  her  by  going  to  the  hospital  day  after  day.  It  was  awful.  ...  This  afternoon  I'll  go  in,  and  then  maybe  not  for  a  week.  Friday  night,  I  slept.  Saturday,  I  started  working  and  I  got  the  Franck  back,  didn't  I?  And  I'm  going  to  play  it  next  month  justas  I  played  it  today.&quot;  &quot;He's  letting  you  go  through  with  the  concert?&quot;  &quot;He  had  to,  Mme.  Berthelot,  he  had  to.  Didn't  I  get  the  Franck  back?  Didn't  I?  Do  you  want  to  hear  me  play  it  again?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Sure.  Play  it  again.&quot;  The  boy  played  it  again,  securely,  with  enormous  authority.  Astonished,  the  old  woman  listened.  This  was,  this  must  have  been,  the  same  authority  that  had  prevailed  against  the  Chairman  of  the  Board.  Harley  would  do  well  in  Town  Hall  next  month  and  in  other  halls  in  other  years.  Marie  Berthelot  wished  Mrs.  Vaughn  could  have  lived  to  see  and  hear  it.  She  wished  there  were  something  important  she  could  do  for  Mrs.  Vaughn.  But  she  could  not  think  of  anything.  She  was  not,  after  all,  in  the  business  of  providing  solace  for  dying  women.  She  was  in  the  business  of  teaching  people  to  play  the  piano.  She  said,  &quot;Now  play  something  else,&quot; "