 b"AS  if  things  weren't  bad  enough  al-ready,  word  has  just  reached  me  that  the  Russians  have  re-  cently  published  a  1,600-page  novel.  If  you  don't  think  1,600  pages  is  a  lot  of  novel,  try  reading  &quot;Ivanhoe&quot;  sometime.  (And  don't  start  telling  me  you've  al-  ready  read  &quot;Ivanhoe.&quot;  I  know  you,  and  you  probably  haven't  read  &quot;Vanity  Fair&quot;  or  &quot;Don  Quixote,&quot;  either.)  &quot;Ivanhoe&quot;  is  only  430  pages  long,  and  it  once  took  me  five  and  a  half  months  to  read  it,  not  counting  time  out  for  Christmas  vacation  and  the  measles.  It  may  not  even  be  as  long  as  that,  since  I  seem  to  remember  that  some  of  the  pages  had  been  printed  over  twice,  al-  though,  now  that  I  think  of  it,  maybe  they  were  just  written  twice.  At  any  rate,  the  new  novel  is  a  good  334  pages  longer  than  the  latest  James  Jones  book,  &quot;Some  Came  Running,&quot;  and  a  full  432  ahead  of  the  second-seeded  American  entry,  &quot;Atlas  Shrugged,&quot;  and  I  think  the  figures  speak  for  them-  selves.  The  Russian  book  is  called  &quot;Kamen-  ny  Poyas,&quot;  which  means  &quot;The  Stone  Belt,&quot;  or  &quot;The  Stone  Ring,&quot;  depend-  ing  on  how  you  feel  about  these  matters.  It  was  written  by  a  man  named  Fedorov,  and  published  in  Sverd-  lovsk,  in  1956.  Fedorov  had  already  made  something  of  a  name  for  him-  self  in  and  around  Sverdlovsk  on  the  strength  of  a  two-volume  book  he'd  tossed  off  a  year  or  so  earlier.  But  he's  never  made  much  of  a  dent  on  the  international  scene,  and  one  can  hardly  wonder  why.  You  don'twrite  1,600-page  novels  by  hanging  around  espresso  bars  all  day  and  then  appearing  in  TV  panel  discussions  of  the  Irish  Ques-  tion  until  God  knows  when  at  night.  Unfortunately,  the  Russians  have  been  very  poor  sports  about  re-  leasing  any  detailed  information  on  the  book  (you  know  what  poor  sports  the  Russians  can  be  some-  times),  but  from  the  little  we  know  of  the  dimensions  of  the  Sverdlovsk  presses  and  the  standard  weight  of  Ukrainian  paper  (I  am  here  in-  debted  to  Professor  Joachim  Lip  for  his  monumental  study),  we  can  make  a  safe  guess  that  the  gross  weight  of  &quot;Kamenny  Poyas&quot;  runs  to  somewhere  between  4.5  and  4.6  pounds.  Our  own  entries  are  shame-  fully  puny  by  comparison.  The  Jones  book  and  &quot;Atlas  Shrugged&quot;  weigh  in  at  exactly  2  lbs.  11  oz.,  and  neither  seems  likely  to  be  able  to  clear  even  the  three-pound  mark  in  any  operational  edition.  Of  course,  some  ofus  have  been  say-  ing  all  along  that  the  Russians  could  do  it,  and  when  I  say  &quot;us,&quot;  don't  think  I  am  trying  to  rub  it  in,  but  a  man  gets  a  little  tired  shouting  himself  hoarse  in  the  market  place  all  day  long.  We've  all  known  they  had  the  manpower  over  there,  and  anyone  who's  ever  tried  run-  ning  for  a  bus  with  a  copy  of  &quot;Anna  Karenina&quot;  or  &quot;War  and  Peace&quot;  in  his  raincoat  pocket  must  certainly  have  re-  alized  it  was  just  a  matter  of  time  until  they  hit  their  full  stride.  The  situation  is  particularly  discour-  aging  in  light  of  the  Jones  book,  which  almost  all  of  us  up  to  now  have  regard-  ed  asjust  about  the  heaviest  novel  any-  body  could  be  expected  to  produce  un-  der  existing  conditions.  When  word  of  &quot;Kamenny  Povas&quot;  really  gets  around,  the  Scribner  people  will  prob-  ably  try  to  claim  that  &quot;Some  Came  Running&quot;  was  written  largely  for  ex-  perimental  purposes  and  that  James  Jones  could  actually  have  done  a  much  longer  or  heavier  book  if  he'd  only  put  his  mind  to  it.  In  fact,  I  hear  that  over  at  Random  House  a  spokesman  has  already  confused  the  issue  by  declaring  &quot;I  guess  it  could  have that  Miss  Rand  &quot;wasn't  really  trying&quot;  with  &quot;Atlas  Shrugged.&quot;  In  the  storm  of  criticisms  and  recriminations  that  followed  this  statement,  it  was  quick-  ly  amended  to  read  that  Miss  Rand  &quot;wasn't  really  tryingfor  length,&quot;  but  public  confidence  has  already  been  se-  verely  shaken,  and  reassurances  by  Bennett  Cerf  to  the  effect  that  it's  still  the  second-longest  novel  in  the  free  world  aren't  likely  to  make  things  any  better.  The  alarming  side  to  all  this  is  that  not  so  long  ago  we  were  second  to  none  in  our  ability  to  produce  novels  of  exceptional  length  and  weight.  Rare  were  the  years,  even  in  the  thirties,  when  Tom  Wolfe  ever  fell  below  600  pages,  and  toward  the  end  of  his  life  he  was  turning  out  solid  two-pound-  ers  with  the  regularity  of  a  drop  forge.  And  who  will  ever  forgetthe  magnifi-  cent  2  lbs.  11  oz.  attained  by  Margue-  rite  Steen  with  &quot;The  Sun  Is  My  Un-  doing,&quot;  or  the  beautiful  impression  of  sheer  weight  one  received  when  first  lifting  a  copy  of  &quot;Gone  with  the  W  ind&quot;?  More  recently,  the  &quot;younger  crop,&quot;  as  I  like  to  call  them-Thomas  B.  Cos-  tain,  Herman  Wouk,  and  Dr.  Frank  G.  Slaughter-have  all  been  edging  to-  ward  the  two-pound  mark  and  giving  every  indication  of  going  beyond  it  at " b"any  moment.  Now  it's  probably  too  late  to  pin  our  hopes  on  them.  What  has  happened  is  that  we  have  plain  frittered  away  our  lead.  The  Rus-  sians  have  closed  the  gap  and  passed  us.  Heads  will  almost  certainly  roll  at  Scribner  and  Random  House,  but  I  see  no  point  now  in  looking  around  for  somewhere  to  place  the  blame.  At  their  current  rate  of  progress,  the  size  of  the  novels  the  Russians  will  be  turning  out  in  a  few  years  should  be  absolutely  staggering.  The  immediate  reaction  in  our  own  country  will  doubtless  be  &quot;Why  worry?  Let  the  Russians  worry;  they're  the  ones  who  are  going  to  have  to  read  the  things.&quot;  But  this  is  sheer  complacency  and  escapism  on  our  part.  The  Russians  finally  have  a  heavier  novel  than  we  do,  and  we  might  as  well  face  up  to  it. "