 b"THE  pains  started  early  in  the  morning,  and  at  once  the  house  was  full  of  busy  women.  It  was  amazing  how  quickly  they  came-  some  of  them  all  the  way  from  the  oth-  er  side  of  the  town.  Babu  Ram  never  could  understand  how  women  managed  to  get  news  soquickly;  a  deathbed,  a  lying-in,  a  sickness,  an  accident,  any  sudden  blow  of  fortune  or  misfortune,  and  all  the  female  relations  were  there  without  delay.  Themen  alwaystended  to  fall  into  the  background  on  these  occasions-especially,  of  course,  at  a  lying-in.  Never  did  Babu  Ram  feel  so  awkward,  useless,  unwanted,  and  em-  barrassed  as  he  did  in  his  own  house  every  time  his  wife  had  a  new  baby.  Now  he  wandered  around  aimlessly,  with  sad  eyes  and  an  apologetic  smile,  trying  to  keep  out  of  the  way  of  the  women,  who  rushed  around  full  of  pur-  pose  and  determination.  He  would  have  liked  to  talk  to  his  little  girls,  but  a  squad  of  women  had  taken  charge  of  them  and  were  washing,  brushing,  scrubbing,  feeding,  and  dressing  them  prior  to  pushing  them  off  to  someone  else's  house,  where  they  were  to  stay  till  it  was  all  over  and  the  baby  safely  born.  Babu  Ram  felt  as  sorry  for  his  lit-  tle  girls  as  he  didfor  himself.  The  five  of  them  looked  so  subdued,  with  their  faces  scrubbed  terribly  clean,  their  hair  oiled  and  pulled  tight  from  their  foreheads.  They  kept  quite  still,  their  eyes  huge  with  wonder,  whereas  usually  they  were  as  quick  and  twittering  as  birds.  Babu  Ram  wanted  to  throw  them  some  word  of  encourage-  ment  but  was  himself  feeling  too  subdued  and  discouraged  to  do  so.  All  he  could  man-  age  was  a  very  shy  smile  as  they  were  bundled  out  of  the  house;  they  looked  back  at  him  with  big,  silent  eyes.  At  last,  one  of  the  wom-  en  deigned  tonotice  him-  his  mother's  cousin,  a  short,  square  old  woman  who  was  always  very  prominent  on  these  occasions,  waddling  around  with  her  elbows  stuck  out  and  a  pleased,  busy  look  on  her  face.  &quot;Now  then,&quot;  she  said  to  him,  &quot;what  are  you  still  doing  here?  Be  off  with  you!&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said,  passing  his  hand  over  his  balding  head,  &quot;yes,  it  is  time  CHILD  I  went  to  the  shop.&quot;  Another  woman  called  out,  &quot;Don't  let  us  see  your  face  again  too  quickly!  Your  work  is  done-  now  it  is  our  turn!&quot;  He  simpered  and  shifted  uneasily  from  one  leg  to  the  other.  &quot;Come  back  tonight  and  see  what  we  have  for  you,&quot;  said  his  moth-  er's  cousin,  and  brushed  past  him  into  the  room  where  his  wife  lay  groaning  on  a  string  bed.  He  put  on  his  little  round  hat  and  walked  slowly  down  the  stairs.  Plump  and  neat,  with  his  dhoti  falling  in  tidy  folds  around  his  legs  and  exposing  his  fat,  smooth  calves  above  his  highly  polished  black  shoes,  he  looked  as  com-  fortable  as  he  did  every  morning  when  he  left  thus,  clean  and  breakfasted,  for  the  shop.  But  he  did  not  feel  comfort-  able  at  all.  He  was  worrying  about  his  little  girls  and  about  himself,  all  driven  out  of  the  house  so  unceremoni-  ously;  and  also  about  something  else,  which  he  did  not  dare  think  about  much.  Downstairs,  he  met  the  first-floor  tenant,  who  said  to  him,  &quot;So  it  has  started,&quot;  and  then,  &quot;Well,  let  us  hope  this  time  ...&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Babu  Ram,  lifting  his  hat  from  his  head  with  both  hands  and  then  settling  it  back  again.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said,  and  couldn't  say  anything  further,  because  he  hoped  so  much  that  he  trembled  when  he  thought  about  it.  He  stood  on  the  bottom  step,  with  his  head  lowered,  and  looking,  in  spite  of  his  comfortable,  confident  paunch,  almost  humble.  &quot;God  will  be  good  to  you,&quot;  said  his  neighbor,  himself  the  father  of  four  sons.  &quot;He  knows  five  daughters  is  enough  for  anyone.&quot;  And  he  laughed  with  the  easy  heartiness  of  a  man  to  whom  the  topic  doesn't  matter  much.  Babu  Ram  also  tried  to  laugh,  but  he  couldnot  do  soat  all  heartily.  HIS  younger  brother,  Siri  Ram,  had  already  opened  the  shop,  as  he  did  every  morning,  and  sat  inside  eating  his  breakfast  from  a  leaf,  which  he  held  in  the  hollow  of  his  hand.  Babu  Ram  stepped  out  of  his  shoes  and  into  the  shop.  He  hung  up  his  hat  on  the  ap-" b"pointed  nail  and  sat  down  on  a  white  sheet  spread  on  the  floor,  with  his  legs  tucked  underneath  him.  Quickly  his  eyes  ranged  to  the  right,  to  the  left,  and  behind  him,  up  the  shelves  piled  with  bolts  of  cloth,  row  upon  row,  up  to  the  roof  of  his  little  hut  of  a  shop.  Tomor-  row  he  would  have  to  take  down  the  pink-and-green  muslin  from  Kanpur,  which  had  not  sold  at  all  well  and  was  getting  faded,  to  make  room  for  a  consignment  of  flowered  white  lawn  he  was  expect-  ing  from  [REDACTED].  Siri  Ram  licked  his  fingers,  all  ten,  one  after  another,  and  asked,  &quot;How  is  it  going?&quot;  Babu  Ram  replied  by  shrugging  one  shoulder  and  looking  re-  signed.  &quot;It  always  takes  time,&quot;  said  Siri  Ram,  speaking  with  authority,  for  though  he  was  still  a  very  young  man,  he  already  had  four  children  of  his  own.  Babu  Ram  grunted,  then  said,  &quot;See  that  you  have  all  this  month's  sales,  tax  vouchers.  Otherwise,  those  Government  people  will  come  sitting  on  my  head  again.&quot;  He  spoke  in  a  brisk  business  voice,  for  he  did  not  want  Siri  Ram  to  know  how  much  he  was  thinking  about  the  baby.  It  was  a  morning  like  every  morning-quiet,  with  not  many  people  in  the  bazaar,  and  the  shopkeepers  sitting  cross-  legged  in  their  shops,  some  smoking  their  hookahs  and  some  saying  their  prayers  and  some  writing  business  letters  and  some  doing  the  &quot;Win  10,000  Rupees&quot;  crossword  puzzle.  Tall  glasses  of  buttermilk,  frothing  with  cream,  arrived  from  Lal  [REDACTED]'s  Milkshop  of  Lahore,  and  hot  fritters  with  chutney  from  the  Peshawar  Famous  Hotel.  There  was  a  little  desultory  conversation  across  the  nar-  row  lanes  that  ran  between  the  rows  of  shops,  and  a  few  hawkers  walked  about  calling  digestive  powders  or  elastic-though  not  very  lustily,  be-  cause  there  weren't  many  customers  about.  Babu  Ram  did  his  accounts,  sitting  on  the  floor  with  his  big  ledger  in  front  of  him  and  his  spectacles  perched  on  the  end  of  his  nose,  and  moving  his  hand  up  and  down  his  paunch,  which  flowed  gently  over  his  thighs.  Now  and  again,  a  customer  came,  and  Siri  Ram  brought  down  bolt  after  bolt  of  cloth,  until  the  floor  of  the  shop  was  covered  witha  flood  of  shin-  ing  new  materials;  after  the  customer  had  gone,  Siri  Ram  patiently  rolled  them  all  up  again.  Though  Babu  Ram  tried  to  concen-  trate  on  his  accounts,  he  could  not  help  thinking  of  the  son  he  was  hoping  for  so much.  It  was  the  sixth  time  he  had  hoped  this  way,  and  he  was  afraid  of  being  disappointed  for  the  sixth  time.  Not  that  he  did  not  love  his  five  little  daughters.  His  heart  turned  over  every  time  he  thought  of  them-quick,  skin-  ny,  demure  in  their  wide  trousers  with  the  flowered  shirts  over  them,  their  hair  neat  in  thin  pigtails,  their  huge  eyes  full  of  wonder  and  shyness,  their  piping  voices  that  always  sounded  excited.  But  he  longed  for  a  son.  There  were  all  the  obvious  reasons  he  must  have  ason  (Who,  otherwise,  would  preside  over  his  funeral  obsequies  and  pour  the  ghee  " b"to  feed  the  cremating  fire?  Who  would  carry  on  the  shop,  the  properties?  ),  but  there  were  also  other  reasons-less  obvi-  ous,  and  closer  to  his  heart.  Perhaps  what  he  really  wanted  was  to  have,  like  the  other  shopkeepers,  a  little  boy  to  sit  with  him  in  the  shop.  It  was  in  the  evenings  that  he  most  felt  this  lack.  The  bazaar  became  very  busy  in  the  evenings:  shoppers  thronged  the  narrow  lanes  between  the  shops;  there  was  buying  and  selling  and  haggling;  hawkers  cried  their  wares,  and  beggars  whined  for  alms.  But  inside  the  shops  it  remained  private  and  cozy.  When  one  walked  through  the  bazaar,  each  shop,  with  its  completely  open  front,  was  like  a  photograph  of  a  family  group  exposed  to  view  in  one  big  square  of  electric  light:  one  could  see  the  shopkeeper  and  his  assistants  (who  were,  of  course,  members  of  the  family-a  younger  brother,  an  impoverished  uncle,  a  nephew)  talking  to  their  customers,  who  sat  on  a  narrow  bench  and  looked  critically  at  the  goods  shown  to  them.  Here  the  bargaining  was  quieter  and  interspersed  now  with  gossip  and  now  with  philosophy;  glasses  of  cool  water  were  offered;  everything  was  calm,  leisured,  very  polite.  And  always,  in  almost  every  shop,  there  was  a  little  boy.  He  sat  at  the  edge  ofthe  shop,  with  his  legs  dangling  over.  Sometimes  he  did  his  homework,  or  ate  dried  peas  out  of  a  paper  cone.  It  was  obvious-perhaps  from  the  fearless,  even  arrogant  way  he  looked  at  the  passersby  and  thecus-  tomers-that  he  was  quite  at  home  and  at  ease  here;  that  he  knew  himself  to  have  every  right  to  be  here;  that  it  was,  in  short,  his  father's  shop.  With  little  girls,  it  was  different.  They  had  tostay  at  home  with  the  women  ofthe  family,  where  they  be-  came  as  familiar  with  the  life  of  kitchen  and  courtyard  as  the  boys  did  with  that  of  the  shop.  They  learned  to  imitate  the  ways  of  grandmother,  mother,  and  aunts,  and  pretended  to  wear  saris  and  to  pound  spices  and  sift  rice  and  scold  servants.  How  often  Babu  Ram  had  watched  them  at  their  games,  chuckling  to  himself,  his  heart  all  glowing  with  love!  Yet  at  the  same  time  there  was  always  a  trace  of  regret,  because  he  felt  that  there  should  also  be  a  little  boy,  to  play  at  doing  as  the  father  did-to  wear  a  dhoti  and  a  little  round  hat,  and  to  pretend  to  be  a  shopkeeper.  He  could  almost  see  this  little  boy  following  him  down  the  stairs  of  the  house  on  their  way  to  the  shop,  treading  in  his  footsteps  and  trying  to  look  just  like  him-tucking  in  his  chin,  frowning  as  he  adjusted  his  hat,  clearing  his" b"throat  in  a  proud  parody  of  his  father's  manner.  Babu  Ram,  sitting  in  his  shop,  strok-  ing  his  belly,  and  seemingly  intent  on  his  accounts,  felt  himself  ache  with  wanting.  Siri  Ram  sat  at  the  other  side  of  the  shopwith  his  knees  drawn  up,  looking  out  with  vacant  eyes  and  pick-  ing  his  nose.  Babu  Ram  could  not  talk  to  him.  Yet  he  wanted  terribly  to  un-  burden  himself  to  someone  and  have  him  share  his  weight  of  anxiety.  Per-  haps  not  share,  though;  what  he  really  wanted  was  for  someone  to  relieve  him  of  it-someone  to  come  and  say,  &quot;Don't  worry  any  more.  'This  time  you  will  have  a  son.&quot;  But  who  could  say  that  to  him,  except  perhaps  God?  Of  course,  he  believed  in  God  and  did  all  the  things  that  he  knew  were  re- quired  to  please  Him.  Thus  he  had  ac-companied  his  wife  several  times  on  the  daily  visits  she  made  to  the  temple  dur-  ing  her  pregnancy,  had  made  his  offer-  ings  of  flowers  and  sweetmeats,  andhad  vowed  to  feast  five  hundred  Brahmins  if  his  prayers  were  granted.  But  all  the  same,  he  could  not  help  feeling  now  that  there  was  something  more  he  should  do.  Prayers  and  offerings  were  too  remote  and  impersonal;  they  were  what  one  did,as  a  duty,  on  all  occasions.  Now  he  wanted  to  please  God  with  something  more  direct,  more  spontane-  ous,  more  personal-something  excep-  tional,  to  prove  himself  worthy  of  the  great  favor  he  was  asking.  A  boy  arrived  from  Lal  [REDACTED]'s  Milkshop  with  tumblers  of  buttermilk.  Siri  Ram  began  to  drink,  making  loud  noises  of  relish  from  behind  his  tumbler.  &quot;Ah!&quot;  said  Siri  Ram.  &quot;Hah!&quot;  But  Babu  Ram  hardly  noticed  himself  drinking;  he  was  thinking  how  un-  worthy  he  was  and  how  presumptu-  ous  it  was  for  him  to  expect  God  to  favor  him.  He  felt  that  in  his  present  sinful  state  he  did  not  deserve  a  son,  and  that,  to  become  worthy  in  the  sight  of  God,  he  had  somehow  to  cleanse  and  purify  himself.  When  he  thought  of  his  past  sins  and  imperfections,  his  mind  went  at  once  to  a  certain  incident.  God  knew  there  were  plenty  more  (after  all,  in  business  life  one  could  not  always  think  of  others  as  much  as  it  was  perhaps  right  to  do,  and  with  his  many  dependents  he  had  to  put  his  family  and  its  interests  above  all  else),  but  none  of  them  disturbed  his  conscience  the  way  this  one  did.  He  could  still  see  theold  man's  face,  with  its  expression  of  patience  and  resignation,  and  himself  shouting  abuses,  his  face  swollen  with  rage.  Oh,  yes,  he  had  been  right  to  shout  abuses  and  to  turn  theold  " b"man  out  of  the  house.  Everybody  in  the  family  said  he  had  been  right.  Every-  body  had  abused  theold  man  because  of  the  way  he  had  stolen  from  Babu  Ram,  who  was  his  cousin,  and  who  had  kept  him  for  many  years  in  his  own  house  and  had  taken  him  into  the  shop  and  had  always  been  so  kind  to  him.  &quot;Un-  grateful  devil!&quot;  they  shouted  at  him.  &quot;Thief,  liar,  cheat!&quot;  Babu  Ram  shout,  ed  loudest  of  all;  he  felt  rage  throttling  him  until  it  was  difficult  for  him  to  get  the  words  out,  and  then  in  his  fury  he  even  slapped  the  old  man-onre!  two!  across  the  face-the  way  he  might  have  slapped  Siri  Ram  or  some  other  younger  brother  over  whom  he  had  been  set  in  authority.  &quot;Quite  right!&quot;  the  others  all  said.  &quot;With  shoes  he  should  be  beaten!&quot;  The  old  man  stood  quite  silent  and  patient,  as  if  he  were  actually  waiting  for  Babu  Ram  to  take  off  his  slipper  and  start  beating  him  with  it.  This  silence  infuriated  Babu  Ram  more  than  ever:  there  was  something  like  inno-  cence  and  martyrdom  in  it,  although  it  was  quite  clear  that  the  old  man  hed  stolen  from  the  shop-consistently  and  unscrupulously  and,  moreover,  in  sur-  prisingly  large  amounts.  &quot;Get  out!&quot;  Babu  Ram  screamed,  his  hands  twitch-  ing  so  that  he  was  almost  afraid  of  his  own  anger.  The  old  man  quietly  rolled  up  his  things.  Babu  Ram  could  still  see  him  walking  away  withslow  steps  and  eyes  downcast,  the  little  bundle  of  his  possessions  under  his  arm.  Now  he  drank  the  last  of  his  butter-  milk,  holding  the  glass  with  one  hand  and  shutting  his  account  book  with  the  other.  He  shut  it  with  a  pop,  to  make  clear  to  himself  the  finality  of  his  resolu-  tion.  He  would  go  and  get  the  old  man  back.  Now,  at  once.  He  got  up,  adjusted  his  dhoti,  and  took  his  hat  down  from  its  nail.  Siri  Ram  looked  up  at  him  in  surprise.  &quot;I  am  going  out,&quot;  Babu  Ram  said  sternly.  &quot;If  that  man  comes  from  Sita  Mills,  you  can  tell  him  to  come  back  tomorrow.  Today  I  have  urgent  work.&quot;  &quot;You  are  going  home?&quot;  Siri  Ram  asked.  &quot;To  see  about  the  baby?  But  it  will  be  many  hours  until  .  &quot;What  concern  is  it  of  yours  where  I  am  going?&quot;  Babu  Ram  said,  frown-  ing  with  terrible  authority.  He  didn't  want  anyone  to  know.  They  would  all  know  soon  enough;  they  would  be  angry  with  himand  say  he  was  a  fool.  &quot;Perhaps  we  have  not  enough  mouths  to  feed  in  this  house?&quot;  his  wife  would  say  reproachfully.  But  Babu  Ram  wanted  the  old  man  back:  to  wipe  out  that  moment  when  he  had  been  angry  and  the  old  man  had  stood  patient " b"and  silent-to  make  himself  worthy  of  a  son.  BABU  RAM  knew  that  the  old  man  had  gone  to  live  with  another  group  of  relatives,  who  were  only  re-  motely  connected  with  his  own  branch  {}{  of  the  family.  He  climbed  into  a  cycle  rickshaw  and  had  himself  taken  straight  there.  The  house  was  behind  a  temple,  hedged  in  by  many  little  stalls  selling  flower  garlands  and  sweetmeats  and  plaster-of-P  aris  images  of  the  gods.  Pil-  grims  sat  resting  by  the  side  of  the  road,  and  there  were  clusters  of  ascetics  in  orange  robes  on  the  steps  of  the  temple,  and,  just  down  the  road,a  few  dirty  gray  cows  walking  about  and  two  pariah  dogs  snuffling  in  the  gutter  for  refuse.  Babu  Ram  haggled  for  a  while  with  the  rickshaw  driver  and  then  went  into  the  house,  calling  in  a  hesitant  voice,  &quot;Is  anyone  here?&quot;  But  the  house  was  quite  silent,  sunk  in  midday  heat  and  sleep.  All  the  men  were  probably  out,  and  the  women  and  servants  rest-  ing  in  cool  rooms  after  their  meal.  Babu  Ram  stood  in  the  passage,  scratching  his  head  under  his  little  round  hat  and  not  quite  knowing  what  to  do.  He  did  not  want  to  go  farther,  for  fearof  intruding  into  the  women's  quarter.  Yet  it  was  in  the  women's  quarter  that  he  would  be  most  likely  to  find  the  old  man,  who  had  always  had  a  predilection  for  sitting  there-so  strong  a  predilection  that  the  family  had  called  him,  in  his  younger  days,  &quot;the  eunuch.&quot;  But  the  old  man  had  his  reasons:  in  the  women's  quarter  he  could  be  close  to  his  only  two  real  in-  terestsin  life-food  and  children.  He  ate  enormously,  and  he  could  amuse  children  as  no  one  else  could.  Babu  Ram's  five  little  girls  had  loved  him;  they  had  clustered  around  him,  clam-  bered  on  his  back,  on  his  knees,  and  up  his  arms,  crying  in  shrill  voices,  &quot;Uncle,tell  us  a  story!&quot;  &quot;Uncle,  make  us  a  kite!&quot;  &quot;Uncle,  be  a  train  with  a  en-  gine!&quot;  And  the  old  man  had  laughed  and  tried  to  defend  himself,  saying,  &quot;But  wait  a  minute,  just  one  minute!&quot;  For  the  first  few  weeks  after  he  left  the  house,  they  had  often  asked  after  him  and  had  to  be  promised  that  he  would  come  back  soon.  Now,  of  course,  they  had  almost  forgotten  him;  children  were  like  that.  Babu  Ram  cleared  his  throat  and  called  again,  &quot;Is  anyone  here?&quot;  Sud-  denly  from  the  temple,  bursting  into  the  still,  hot  afternoon  with  an  air  of  great  joyousness,  came  the  sound  of  chanting  accompanied  by  the  tinkling  of  tiny  cymbals.  Now,  too,  there  was  a  faint  stirring  from  inside  the  house.  Babu " b"Ram  heard  a  woman's  voice,  heavy  with  sleep,  in  some  inner  room,  and  a  jin-  gling  of  keys  and  bangles,  and  then  the  woman  came  shuffling  out  on  naked  feet.  She  was  a  young,  fat,  healthy  woman,  and  she  was  rubbing  her  eyes,  which  were  still  full  of  sleep;  she  must  have  washed  her  hair  before  lying  down,  for  it  hung  down  her  back  in  damp,  glistening  waves,  all  the  way  to  her  waist.  &quot;Every  time  we  sleep,  they  wake  us  with  their  prayers,&quot;  she  mut-  tered  crossly,  standing  in  the  doorway,  scratching  her  elbow  and  looking  at  Babu  Ram  with  bleary  eyes.  The  chant-  ing  continued,  loud  and  joyful.  Babu  Ram  joined  his  palms  together  in  greet-  ing  and  said,  &quot;How  are  you,  sister?&quot;  She  blinked  at  him  a  few  times,  leaning  her  heavy  weight  against  the  door-  frame,  and  then  recognized  him.  &quot;So  you  have  come,&quot;  she  said.  She  turned  and  he  followed  her.  They  crossed  the  courtyard,  and  Babu  Ram  saw  theold  man.  He  was  lying  on  a  low  bed  in  the  covered  part  of  the  courtyard.  In  front  of  him,  on  the  ground,  sat  a  little  boy.  'The  old  man  was  saying,  &quot;'The  hunter  was  so  ugly  that  the  birds  all  flew  away  at  sight  of  him.  His  eyes  were  bloodshot  and  he  was  flat  of  hand  and  foot  and  he  carried  a  big,  big  club  with  spikes  on  it....&quot;  The  little  boy  sat  quite  still,  his  hands  laid  folded  on  his  bare  knees,  and  he  was  looking  up  into  theold  man's  face  with  his  eyes  stretched  wide  and  his  teeth  bitinginto  his  lower  lip.  Babu  Ram  stood  still  and  looked  at  them,  and  his  heart  beat  faster.  &quot;O  Ram,  O  great  Ram!&quot;  came  triumphant  voices  from  the  temple;  the  cymbals  danced  and  jingled.  &quot;O  Ram,  O  great  Ram!&quot;  Suddenly  Babu  Ram  knew  that  God  would  give  him  a  son-perhaps  had  al-  ready  given  him  one-who  would  sit  like  this  little  boy  and  listen  to  the  old  man  telling  stories.  Waves  of  happiness  passed  overhim,  and  he  trembled.  The  woman,  seeing  him  look  at  the  old  man,  also  stopped,  with  her  hand  on  her  hip,  and  said,  &quot;'That  is  all  he  is  good  for-to  lie  all  day  on  a  bed  and  fill  the  heads  of  children  with  non-  sense.&quot;  &quot;Like  a  tiger  he  came,&quot;  the  old  man  was  saying,  &quot;very,  very  softly,  and  he  held  his  terrible  club  inhis  hand,  and  his  teeth,  which  were  very  sharp,  were  bared  like  a  tiger's.&quot;  He  demonstrated  the  bared  teeth,  and  the  little  boy  watched  him. &quot;And  to  eat,&quot;  said  the  woman.  &quot;How  he  can  eat!  O  my  God  and  fathers,  how  he  can  eat!&quot;  and  she  put  up  her  hands  to  clutch  her  head.  The  " b"chanting  stopped,  and,  after  one  last  joyous  tinkle,  so  did  the  cymbals.  Now  the  house  seemed  very  still,  with  only  the  drone  of  the  old  man's  voice  telling  his  story.  Another  woman  appeared  out  of  an  inner  room-an  older  woman,  very  short  and  very  broad  and  waddling  from  side  to  side  as  she  walked.  She  also  said  to  Babu  Ram,  &quot;So  you  have  come,&quot;  and  he  again  joined  his  palms  in  greeting  and  said,  &quot;How  are  you,  sister?&quot;  &quot;I  hear  your  wife  is  having  her  sixth,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Well,  let  us  hope  this  time  ..  .&quot;  The  younger  woman  put  her  hand  in  front  of  her  mouth  and  laughed  from  behind  it.  Babu  Ram  put  on  the  weak,  self-deprecating  smile  he  always  used  when  people  laughed  at  him  for  having  nothing  but  daughters.  &quot;'Though  there  is  the  example  of  my  sister's  brother-in-law's  wife-Shanti-  devi,  we  call  her,&quot;  the  older  woman  went  on.  &quot;She  had  nine  daughters  be-  fore  she  had  a  son.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Babu  Ram  said,  lifting  his  hand  with  an  instinctive  gesture  of  defense.  He  knew  this  could  not  hap-  pen  to  him.  He  knew  that  his  wife  was  about  to  give  birth  or  had  already  given  birth  to  aboy.  God  had  spoken  to  him  and  promised  him,  through  the  chanting  in  the  temple  and  the  tinkling  of  tiny  cymbals.  &quot;One  can  never  tell,&quot;  said  the  older  woman.  &quot;'These  things  are  in  the  hands  of  God.  To  some  He  gives  and  to  some  He  does  not  give.  It  is  so  in  life.&quot;  She  sighed.  To  some  He  gives,  thought  Babu  Ram,  and  felt  himself  swelling  with  triumph.  And  now  he  wanted  to  hurry  home  with  the  old  man  to  see  how  God  had  given  to  him.  &quot;Like  a  great  king  he  is  lying  there,&quot;  said  the  older  woman,  jerking  her  head  toward  the  old  man.  &quot;The  good-for-  nothing.&quot;  &quot;Yesterday  he  ate  up  all  the  halwa  again,&quot;  said  the  younger  woman.  &quot;What  isit  he  has  inside  him-a  pit  or  a  stomach?&quot;  &quot;A  curse  on  him!&quot;  said  the  older  woman.  The  women  had  spoken  loud  enough  for  the  old  man  to  hear,  but  he  went  on  droning  his  story  with  no  change  of  expression:  &quot;His  terrible  net  was  spread,  and  there  he  crouched,  club  in  hand,  and  with  a  wicked,  vicious  look  on  his  wicked,  vicious  [REDACTED];  Babu  Ram  re-  membered  how  it  had  been  the  same  in  his  own  house-the  women  had  cursed  and  theold  man  had  calmly  carried  on,  eating,  sleeping,  telling  stories,  as  if  he  " b"didn't  hear  them.  He  had  been  a  poor  relation  all  his  life  and  had  learned  how  to  live  as  one.  Babu  Ram  turned  to  him  now  and  said,  &quot;You  are  coming?&quot;  The  old  man  gave  no  indication  of  having  heard,  and  continued  to  tell  his  story  to  the  little  boy,  whose  eyes  had  never  left  his  face.  Babu  Ram  sat  down  and  watched  them,  which  gave  him  a  deep  pleasure.  It  was  as  if  he  were  look-  ing  into  the  future  and  seeing  his  own  son  sitting  thus  and  listening  to  the  old  man.  'The  two  women  continued  to  talk-about  how  necessary  it  was  for  a  man  to  have  a  son,  and  about  Shantidevi  with  her  nine  daughters,  and  about  how  much  the  old  man  ate  and  how  lazy  he  was  and  good-for-nothing-but  Babu  Ram  hardly  heardthem.  With  his  head  inclined  to  one  side  and  a  tender  smile  on  his  face,  he  sat  watching  the  old  man  and  the  boy.  At  last  the  story  was  finished,  and  the  boy  asked  &quot;That  is  all?&quot;  and  the  old  man  answered  &quot;That  is  all.&quot;  Then  he  got  up  from  his  bed,  removed  the  rug  on  which  he  had  been  lying,  pulled  out  a  bundle  fromunder  the  bed,  and  wrapped  it  in  the  rug.  He  was  ready.  Babu  Ram  jumped  up.  He  was  in  such  a  hurry  to  get  home  that  his  farewells  to  the  women  were  rath-  er  perfunctory.  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  the  older  woman,  &quot;you  have  taken  a  great  burden  from  our  backs.&quot;  &quot;Like  a  deliverer  you  have  come,&quot;  said  the  younger  woman.  The  old  man,  his  bundle  under  his  arm,  quietly  followed  Babu  Ram  out  of  the  house.  He  had  some  difficulty  keeping  up  withhim,  for  Babu  Ram  was  almost  skipping  on  his  plump  legs.  They  found  a  cycle  rickshaw  at  last,  and  sat  down  in  the  seat  at  the  back.  &quot;Quickly!&quot;  Babu  Ram  told  the  driver.  &quot;Go  quickly!&quot;  He  couldn't  wait  to  get  home  and  hold  his  son  in  his  arms.  The  smile  with  which  he  had  watched  the  old  man  and  the  boy  was  still  on  his  face.  &quot;Go  faster,&quot;  he  said  from  time  to  time.  The  rick-  shaw  driver  clenched  his  teeth  and  put  all  his  weight  on  the  pedals  of  the  cycle;     " b"perspiration  trickled  down  his  neck  into  his  torn  and  dirty  vest.  The  old  man  sat  holding  his  bundle  on  his  knees,  enjoy-  ing  the  drive.  HEN  they  reached  the  house,  Babu  Ram's  haste  left  him,  and  he  walked  up  the  stairs  very  slowly.  All  his  elation,  all  his  certainty  had  gone;  now  he  felt  only  rather  afraid,  and  would  even  have  likedto  go  away.  There  were  no  more  busy  women  rush-  ing  about,  so  he  knew  it  was  all  finished.  Subdued  voices  came  from  the  room  where  the  birth  had  taken  place.  Beck-  oning  to  the  old  man  to  follow  him,  he  went  in,  softly  and  timidly.  A  group  of  women  were  squatting  on  the  floor,  eating  out  of  brass  bowls;  a  few  others  were  sitting  on  the  edge  ofthe  bed,  on  which  his  wife  lay  asleep  with  her  head  turned  sidewise  and  her  hair  straggling  loose  on  the  pillow.  Next  to  the  bed  stood  the  cradle.  Nobody  said  anything,  so  he  knew  it  was  another  girl.  At  last,  one  of  the  women  got  up  and  took  the  baby  out  ofthe  cradle  and  put  it  into  his  arms.  Another  woman  said,  &quot;We  must  welcome  what  God  has  given  us,&quot;  and  sighed,  and  then  several  others  sighed  and  said,  &quot;It  is  a  gift  from  God.&quot;  Babu  Ram  looked  down  at  his  new  baby.  It  was  turning  its  head  from  side  to  side,  with  the  mouth  round  and  open  like  a  little  bird's;  its  neck  was  scraggy  like  a  little  bird's,  too.  The  old  man  bent  forward  and  smiled  a  wide,  toothless  smile  at  the  baby  and  clicked  his  fingers  at  it  and  made  tender  noises  with  his  tongue.  'Then  he  looked  at  Babu  Ram  and  smiled  some  more  and  nod-  ded.  So  Babu  Ram  also  smiled,  and  began  to  rock  the  baby  to  and  fro  on  his  hands.  &quot;Careful!  What  are  you  do-  ing?&quot;  the  women  shouted,  but  the  old  man  wagged  his  head  and  cackled  with  approval."