 b"The  new  4-passenger  Thunderbird  stands  only  slightly  larger  than  the  raciest  car  built.  It  rides  and  handles  and  parks  like  a  dream.  There's  room  to  seat  four  varsity  crew  men  in  lap-of-luxury  comfort.  -Adv.  in  The  New  Y  orker.  SeENnE:  Outside  the  locker  rooms  of  the  Oostertag  M  emorial  Field  House  of  Pur-  view  State  University.  Two  advertising  executives,  Rex  Bonesteel  and  Lang-  bourne  Chubb,  are  standing  beside  a  spanking-new  pale-magenta  1958  four-  passenger  Thunderbird.  Bonesteel  is  anxiously  scanning  the  bronzed  young  athletes  who,  dressed  in  letter  sweaters,  charcoal  slacks,  and  scuffed  buckskin  shoes,  are  coming  out  ofthe  locker  rooms  and  streaming  past  them  toward  the  other  ivy-clad  buildings  on  the  campus.  Chubb  is  slumped  against  one  of  the  fenders  of  the  Thunderbird,  moodily  kicking  pebbles  onto  the  lawn.  It  is  late  afternoon  ofa  golden  day  in  early  spring.  BONESTEEL:  C'mon,  Langbourne.  Get  with  it,  boy.  We  have  to  cram  four  varsity  sweepswingers  into  this  chariot  but  now.  'Tomorrowsville  will  be  too  late,  like.  CHurR  (gloomily):  You  do  it,  Rex.  I'm  bushed.  This  fieldwork  is  getting  to  me.  Last  week  the  dry-rum  shindy  in  San  Juan  with  that  Leverett  Cul-  peper  III.  All  Monday  and  Tuesday  at  the  Menninger  Clinic  collecting  dream  data  for  the  Maidenform  account,  Nine  hours  yesterday  with  the  research  boys  on  the  Royal  Bee  Jelly  farm.  I  still  got  these  lumps  on  my  neck  from  the  stings.  BonestEEL:  All  part  of  the  game,  fella.  Come  on,  now;  watch  for  some  real  tall  ones  here.  Mr.  Ford  wants  this  ball  of  wax  on  his  desk  first  thing  in  the  ack-emma.  This  account  isn't  pilfer-  proof,  CuusB:  Me-a  desk  man,  a  Keats.  I  could  be  writing  continuity  for  Anacin  that  would  put  iron  bands  around  the  boobs'  heads.  BonestrEEt:  But  forget  it.  Big  Brother  has  his  eye  on  you.  He's  testing  you,  like.  We  pull  this  caper  off  and  it's  corner  offices  for  the  both  of  us.  Houses  on  Quaker  Hill.  Just  you  wait  and  see,  buddy  boy-  (He  breaks  of  and,  smil-  ing,  steps  up  to  a  tall,  blond  young  sophomore.)  Hello  there!  How's  the  air  up  there,  Slats?  How  was  it  out  on  the  lake  today?  Sopromore:  I  don't  quite  get  you,  sir.  BonesrEEL:  I  mean,  you're  a  crew-  man,  west-ce  pas?  Maybe  on  the  var-  sity?  SopnomorE:  No,  I'm  track.  Hop,  step,  and  jump.  Only  I  got  this  Charley  horse  right  now,  so  they've  got  me  put-  ting  back  the  bar  for  the  pole  vaulters.  (His  eye  falls  on  the  Thunderbird.)  Say-y-y!  This  must  be  one  of  the  new  Birds!  Gee,  it  looks  to  me  as  if  that  stands  only  slightly  larger  than  the  raci-  est  car  built!   Cnmuurs:  Hands  off  the  merchan-  dise,  boy.  Don't  bruise  the  fruit,  see?  Get  Pop's  check  for  four  Gs  and  it's  yours.  On  your  way,  Hoppy.  (The  Sophomore  leaves  disconsolately.)  BonEsrEEL:  Damn.  You're  they  got  a  crew  here,  Langbourne?  CmuBB:  Sure.  What  about  some  trackmen,  though?  You  think  they'd  settle  for  four  high  jumpers?  BonEsTEEL:  Not  a  chance.  Mr.  Ford  says  crewmen,  he  means  crewmen.  Hey,  look!  Here  come  some  real  giants.  Look  at  'em!  Cripes,  I  hope  they  will  fit.  Achtung,  Langbourne.  Let's  make  with  the  teeth.  (Smiling  again,  he  in-  tercepts  four  tall,  broad-shouldered  young  men  with  deep  tans.)  Afternoon,  gents.  Hiya  there,  Tab,  Rock,  Mar-  lon-uh,  Tyrone.  Could  it  be  that  I'm  addressingfour  stalwarts  of  the  varsity  shell?  CnmuBs  (getting  to  work  at  last):  Obviously,  Rex.  Look  at  those  rangy  deltoid  muscles.  I'll  wager  we're  look-  ing  at  half  of  our  first  boat  in  the  next  Olympic  Games.  CREWMEN  (grinning  self-conscious,  ly  and  answering  together):  That's  right,  sir.  ..  .  How  did  you  ever  guess?  ...  Yes,  we're  all  in  the  first  boat.  ...  Gee,  they  recognized  us!  BonEstTEEL:  Good-oh.  You  big  boys  got  a  minute,  here?  Just  a  few  ticks  out  of  these  bright  college  years  to  help  my  colleague  and  I  out  with  an  experiment  in  pure  applied  science?  Fiesr  Crewman:  Why,  I  guess  so,  sir.  CHusBs:  It's  a  small  test  in  the  in-  terests  of  American  know-how.  Fiscal  overtones  to  it,  too.  BonestEEL:  Doing  your  bit  in  capi-  talism's  present  life-and-death  struggle  for  survival.  Entendu?  SEconp  CrEwman:  What's  deal?  BonEstEEL:  Why,  Mr.  Chubb  there  and  I  want  your  help  with  a  spatial-ad-  justment  problem  under  raw  field  con-  ditions.  Probably  get  your  names  into  Fortune  magazine.  Very  big  deal.  CHuBB:  Not  to  put  too  fine  a  point  on  it,  we  want  all  four  of  you  to  climb  into  this  new  Thunderbird.  Think  you  can  do  that,  men?  TrHiro  Crewman:  All  at  the  same  time?  CnmuBB:  Sure.  Why  not?  Look,  it  seats  four  now,  see?  Gonna  make  the  old  T-Bird  as  obsolete  as  the  pterodactyl.  Trio  CrEw  man:  O.K.  I'm  game.  You  want  to  try  it,  men?  Firsr  CrEwMAaNnN  (drawing  the  three  others  aside  and  speaking  to  them  in  a  low  voice):  Look,  I  don't  like  this.  Let's  not  go  into  anything  with  our  eyes  sure  the  " b"closed.  I  mean,  what  about  our  ama-  teur  status?  Fourte  Crewman:  Gosh,  yes!  These  two  might  be  inspectors  from  the  N.C.A.A.,  or  something,  trying  to  trap  us.  Remember  what  happened  out  in  the  Pacific  Coast  Conference.  Srconp  CrEwMAN:  Yeah.  I  louse  up  this  scholarship  and  it's  back  to  steel-  puddling  for  me.  I've  got  to  think  of  the  wife  and  kids.  THiro  Crewman:  But  they  haven't  offered  us  any  money,  have  they?  They  aren't  giving  usthe  car.  They  just  want  us  to  sit  in  it.  What's  wrong  with  that?  BonEsTEEL  (who  hes  been  eaves-  dropping):  Clean  hands,  men-that's  our  policy.  (He  shows  them  his  clean  hands.)  Not  a  penny  in  it  for  any  of  you.  'Pon  my  word.  You're  dealing  with  a  right  outfit.  Why,  those  G.M.  boys  would  slip  you  a  block  of  stock  for  something  like  this.  Ruin  you  for  life.  CHusBB  (looking  at  his  watch):  So  how's  about  it,  chaps?  Let's  get  this  show  out  of  Wilmington,  hey?  (Hx  and  Bonesteel  lead  the  Crewmen  up  to  the  car  and  open  the  doors.)  (teking  the  Third  Crewman  by  the  arm):  You  first,  Stretch.  In  the  back,  there.  CnuuBB  (as  the  Third  Crewman  climbs  in):  Oops!  Watch  your  head.  BonEsrEEL:  Now  put  your  feet  in.  Ups-a-daisy!  That's  the  I.  CHusBs:  Comfy?  THirpo  CrEwman:  Yes,  fine.  (He  smiles.)  It's  got  more  room  in  it  than  a  racing  shell.  No  witticisms  there,  Jack  Paar.  Watch  the  old  irony,  chum.  BoONESTEEL  (tothe  First  Crew-  man):  You're  next,  fella.  Fresr  Crewman:  Couldn't  I  wait  and  sit  in  front?  BonEstTEEL:  Sure  thing.  Frontsville  for  you.  (To  the  Second  Crewman)  You  slip  in  back  there,  Long  John.  I'll  just  hold  your  books.  Don't  want  to  scratch  up  the  vinyl,  do  we?  CHuBB:  No,  not  that  way.  Bend  your  legs.  Bend  your  legs!  I  thought  you  were  a  varsity  athlete.  That's  the  way!  (To  Bonesteel)  I  tell  you,  this  working  with  amateurs  is  going  to  buy  me  another  ulcer.  BonEsTEEL:  Quiet,  pal.  We're  half-  way  home.  (To  the  First  Crewman)  O.K.  Now  you.  (Closing  the  right-  hand  door)  This  must  be  a  real  treat  for  you  men.  You're  all  riding  frontward  for  a  change.  (The  Crewmen  lough  dutifully.)  CHUBB  (to  the  Fourth  Crewman):  O.K.,  Buster.  Let's  put  this  project  down  the  mail  chute.  J  ust  slip  in  behind  the  wheel  there.  Any  old  way  will  do.      FourtH:  CrEwMAN  (henging  back):  Did  I  hear  you  say  varsity  ath-  letes?  BonestEEL:  Righty-oh.  You  said  you  were  all  first-boat  men,  FourtTH  CREWwWMAN:  Well,  as  a  mat-  ter  of  fact,  I  was  in  the  first  boat.  Up  till  just  a  few  minutes  ago,  What?  BonestEEL:  What  is  this,  anyway?  You  getting  cold  feet,  or  something?  FourtH  CrRrEWMAN:  No.  The  fact  is,  the  coach  busted  me  back  to  the  third  boat  after  practice  this  afternoon.  CHuuBs:  Whassamatter?  You  catch  a  goddam  crab,  or  something?  FourtH  CrEwMAN  (blushing):  No.  I  just  trailed  my  hand  in  the  water.  BonestEEL:  So  what?  I  don't  get  it.  FourtH  CREWMAN  (a  tear  glisten-  ing  in  the  corner  of  one  eye):  Our  coach  can't  stand  anybody  trailing  his  hand  in  the  water.  I  just  did  it  for  one  tiny  sec-  ond  when  we  were  resting  after  a  sprint,  'cause  it  felt  so  nice  and  cool.  ChuusB:  For  thet  they  throw  you  off  the  varsity?  FourtH  CrEw  Man:  Yes.  The  Old  Man  yelled  at  me  through  his  mega-  phone.  It  was  awful.  He  said,  &quot;We're  not  punting  on  the  Cam,  Lady  Agatha!&quot;  And  then-  And  then  he  told  me  I  was  third  boat.  (He  bursts  into  tears  and  runs  off  .)  (angrily  kicking  a  white-  wall  tire):  God's  teeth!  He  had  to  trail  " b"his  hand!  I  would  have  thrown  him  out  of  school.  So  help  me,  Rex,  I'm  going  to  quit  this  game.  I  just  can't  take  it  any  more.  I'm  going  to  start  chicken-  ranching.  BonEsTrEEL:  Lay  off  that  ejection  button,  Langbourne.  We  gotta  think.  (He  sticks  his  head  in  one  of  the  win-  dows  and  smiles  at  the  Crewmen  again.)  Just  sit  tight,  men.  Take  ten.  We're  in  a  bit  of  a  box.  SEconip  CrEwMAN:  Hey,  I've  got  to  go  study.  I've  got  an  hour  exam  tomor-  row  in  Advanced  Highway  Courtesy.  Firsr  CrRrEwWMAN:  Yeah.  You  said  just  sit  in  it  for  a  minute.  BonEsTEEL:  Easy  on.  All  we  need  is  one  more  man  from  the  first  boat.  We  won't  be  a  sec.  CnmuuBs  (studying  the  last  few  ath-  letes  coming  out  of  the  locker  rooms):  I  think  we're  licked,  No  more  tall  ones.  These  shrimps  all  look  like  scrubs  on  the  badminton  squad.  BonEsrEEL  (beginning  to  lose  his  optimism  at  last):  'This  is  Bataan,  mate.  I  think  we've  bought  it.  CmuBB:  Just  for  one  more  lousy  varsity  paddler.  CrEwMEN  (suddenly  yelling  togeth-  er  from  inside  the  Thunderbird):  Hey,  there's  Jake!  ...  Get  Jake!  ...  Jake's  in  the  first  boat.  .  ..  Hey,  Jakey,  c'mon  over  here.  Quick!  (The  Fifth  Crewman  appears.  He  is  five  feet  four  inches  tall,  and  wears  horn-rimmed  glasses.  He  peers  into  the  car.)  FietH  CrEwMAN:  Hi,  fellows.  Why  are  you  all  hiding  in  there?  Who  owns  this  snazzy  job?  BonEsTEEL:  What  goes?  Who's  Ed-  die  Arcaro  here?  CHuBs  (darkly):  So  help  me,  if  you  Andy  Hardys  are  playing  with  us,  I'll  make  you  laugh  out  of  the  other  side  of  your  mouth.  The  last  man  who  pulled  a  fastola  on  me  is  back  in  the  bull  pen  writing  baby-food  copy.  Fiesr  Crewman:  But  don't  you  see?  Jake  is  on  the  varsity.  He's  our  cox-  swain.  (a  light  growing  in  his  eyes):  Good  Lord,  Rex!  You  don't  sup-  pose  ...  BonEsTEEL:  No,  Langbourne,  no.  It  just  won't  do,  mon  vieux.  After  all,  there's  such  a  thing  as  standards  in  this  game.  Rectitude.  CnmusrBs:  But  who's  going  to  know?  BonesrEEL:  I  know,  that's  who.  A  man  has  to  live  with  himself,  like.  (He  pauses,  looking  down  at  the  Fifth  Crew-  man.)  But  after  all,  he  is  on  the  varsity.  How  does  the  copy  read,  Langbourne?  CHuUuBB  (tokesa  folded  paper  from  his  inside  pocket,  and  reads  eagerly): Hmm.  Buzza-buzza-buzza  ...  Here:  &quot;*.  .  .  room  to  seat  four  varsity  crewmen  in  lap-of-luxury  comfort.&quot;  There!  Not  a  word  about  oersmen.  We're  clean,  Rex.  BonesTEEL:  But  supposing  the  Cor-  vette  boys  get  wind  of  this?  It'll  be  Devil's  Island  for  you  and  me,  Dreyfus.  (repidly  putting  his  hands  over  his  mouth,  his  eyes,  and  his  ears):  Who's  to  tell?  We're  sitting  in  the  same  missile.  Am  I  going  to  start  a  countdown?  (They  look  at  each  other,  judging  their  mettle.)  BonEsrEEL  (crisply  ):  Right.  (T  hey  grasp  the  Fifth  Crew-  man  under  the  arms  and  bundle  him  hastily  into  the  driver's  seat  of  the  car.  Chubb  slams  the  door  shut.)  BonEsTEEL:  One,  two,  three,four.  Check?  CnusBB:  Check.  BonrEsrEEL  (turning  his  back  and  lighting  a  cigarette):  O.K.  Get  'em  out  of  there  and  get  their  names.  But  quick.  We  gotta  beat  feet.  CHuBB  (throwing  open  the  doors):  Come  on,  you  galley  slaves.  Out!  Out!  Gimme  your  names  as  you  file  past.  Move!  Fiesr  Crewman  (getting  out):  But  aren't  we-  Aren't  you  even  going  to  give  us  a  ride?  CHUBB (who  is  busily  writing  their  names  in  a  notebook):  Ha.  You  see  a  meter  on  this  mecchina,  Jack?  You  see  a  jitney  license  anywhere?  Srconp  CrEwMAN  (retrieving  his  books  from  Bonesteel):  But  we  did  you  a  favor,  sir.  Just  once  past  the  Theta  Delt  house,  that's  all.  BonEsrEEL  (pulling  on  a  pair  of  dogskin  gloves):  Look,  Skippy,  I  start  giving  you  minors  free  joy  rides  in  this  300-h.p.  job  and  what's  going  to  happen?  Suppose  I  start  cornering  a  little  too  fast  be-  tween  like  Mory's  and  Flirta-  tion  Walk,  and  I  prang  the  crate?  Where  am  I  then?  With  a  passel  of  underwriters  and  deans  in  my  scalp,  that's  where.  Have  a  little  consideration  for  the  other  fella,  fella.  That's  my  motto.  (He  climbs  in  behind  the  wheel.)  CmuuBR  (getting  in  on  the  other  side):  And  besides,  I  wish  you  younger  types  would  start  thinking  about  some-  thing  beside  fast  cars  and  soft  living.  Don't  you  realize  we're  five  years  be-  hind  the  Russkis?  Hit  those  books  for  a  change.  (To  Bonesteel)  Gun  it,  Fan-  gio.  We  gotta  be  in  [REDACTED]  nine  sharp.  BonEsTEEL:  Arrivederci,  men.  (They  roar  off  into  the  gathering  darkness  as  the  curtain  falls.)"