 b"AFTER  Peiping  fell  to  the  Com-  munist  armies  in  January  of  1949,  I  lost  my  job  teaching  English  at  the  National  Tsinghwa  Uni-  versity,  a  few  miles  outside  the  city,  and  moved  into  the  huge  Peiping  mansion  of  my  Chinese  wife's  family,  the  Yus.  For  atime  thereafter,  the  local  police  seemed  content  to  let  me  come  and  go  asI  pleased,  even  though  I  was  an  American.  Then,  in  the  spring  of  1950,  my  life,  as  well  as  that  of  almost  every-  one  else  in  Peiping,  came  under  strin-  gent  control,  Restrictions  were  placed  on  travel,  new  taxes  were  imposed,  and  all  Chinese  citizens  were  required  to  register  with  the  police.  Foreigners  liv-  ing  in  Peiping  not  only  had  to  register  but  had  to  submit  to  a  police  interview,  in  which  they  were  asked  who  their  friends  were,  what  books  they  read,  what  kind  of  radio  they  had,  what  kind  of  camera,  what  kind  of  weapon  (if  they  had  no  gun,  then  did  they,  perhaps,  have  a  sword?  ),  and  what  they  thought  of  Marxism.  The  government  harassed  foreigners  as  a  matter  of  policy,  and  seemed  to  en-  joy  it.  I  was  certain,  however,  that  I  had  done  everything  officially  required  of  me  by  the  new  laws.  I  had  registered  with  the  Central  Depart-  ment  of  Public  Safety,  where  I  declared  that  I  had  no  camera  or  weapon  of  any  kind,  that  my  radio  was  a  six-tube  long-wave  General  Electric  that  gave  me  a  shock  whenever  I  touched  two  control  knobs  at  the  same  time,  and  that,  not  having  read  Marx,  I  was  unqualified  to  give  an  opinion  of  Marxism.  After  I  had  turned  in  new  photo-  graphs  of  myself,  along  with  my  passport  and  various  official  documents  dating  from  the  time  before  the  Communists  came  to  power,  the  police  issued  me  a  residence  permit,  on  the  understanding  that  I  was  to  leave  4368696e61,  with  my  wife,  as  soon  as  her  family  affairs  were  settled.  In  the  mean-  time,  I  was  fortunate,  I  felt,  to  be  living  in  her  house.  Behind  the  high  walls  of  the  Yu  mansion,  I  felt  little  apprehension,  de-  spite  the  fact  that  the  United  [REDACTED]  had  closed  the  gates  of  its  consulate,  and  all  American  citizens  still  remaining  in  Peiping  had  been  made  charges  of  the  British.  On  the  contrary,  when  I  was  inside  the  mansion's  quiet,  book-filled  studies,  or  in  the  stately  reception  halls,     or  in  the  garden,  where  we  sat  through  the  hot  summer  afternoons  on  rattan  chairs  under  the  trees,  sipping  synthetic  lemonade  and  beguiled  by  the  screech  of  cicadas  and  the  murmur  of  our  own   voices,  whatwent  on  outside  the  walls  had  almost  no  effect  on  my  sense  of  well-being.  If  anything,  the  days  were  too  uneventful.  Luckily,  old  Aunt  Chin,  a  widowed   aunt  of  my  wife's  who  suffered  from  asthma  and  rarely  left  the  house,  en-  joyed  playing  cards.  She  slept  badly,  and could  be  found  at  almost  any  hour  of  the  day  or  night  sitting  up  with  a  cat  or  two  in  her  lap,  and  puffing  on  an  asthma  cigarette  while  she  played  com-plicated  variations  of  solitaire  with  her-  self  or  rummy  with  her  female  com-  panion.  My  wife,  Aimee,  and  I  often  joined  them  in  their  suite  of  rooms  (sim-ilar  to  the  one  we  lived  in),  and  would  play  Russian  poker  or  auction  bridge  with  them  far  into  the  warm  nights  while  the  great  house  slept.  I  enjoyed  those  evenings.  Aunt  Chin,  her  thick,  straight-bobbed  gray  hair  swept  back  and  held  behind  her  ears  by  two  tortoise-shell  combs,  would  keep  up  an  amazing  flow  of  chatter.  It  was  a  point  of  pride  with  her,  as  with  many  recluses,  to  know  better  than  anyone  else  what  was  going  on  in  the  world.  On  one  such  night,  she  got  off  on  the  subject  of  mah-jongg.  &quot;I'd  like  to  know  what  business  it  is  of  theirs,&quot;  she  said,  meaning  the  new  government,  &quot;f  I  want  to  play  mah-jongg.  I've  played  mah-jongg  all  my  life,  and  no  one  ever  told  me  before  that  it  was  a  crime.&quot;  Plainly  visible  un-  der  a  table  in  a  corner  of  the  room  were  two  mah-jongg  sets  in  teakwood  boxes.  A  few  weeks  earlier,  the  Communists  had  banned  the  game  throughout  4368696e61  as  a  waste  of  labor  hours.  Although  Aunt  Chin  had  stopped  playing  the  game,  she  evidently  saw  no  reason  to  hide  the  sets.  Besides,  none  of  us  knew  just  what  the  penalty  was  for  playing  mah-jongg.  And,  for  that  matter,  we  weren't  absolutely  sure  that  the  authori-  ties  didn't  also  disapprove  of  card  playing.  &quot;Imagine  those  black  devils  up  there,&quot;  Aunt  Chin  went  on,  rolling  her  eyes  toward  the  ceiling,  &quot;sneaking  over  the  rooftops  and  listening  at  the  eaves.&quot;  Aunt  Chin  might  have  been  talking  about  the  bogeymen  in  some  fairy  tale," b"but  she  was  in  fact  talking  about  figures  in  real  life,  the  Night  People-black-  clad  ex-burglars  and  acrobats  who,  so  we  had  all  heard,  were  employed  by  the  police  to  scale  the  walls  of  private  houses  and  detect  from  the  rooftops  the  give-  away  clatter  of  mah-jongg  tiles  or  the  equally  telltale  odor  of  opium.  (Opium  smoking  was,  of  course,  also  prohibited,  unless  addiction  could  be  proved,  in  which  case  an  opium  ration  was  sup  -  posed  to  be  issued.  Not  many  people,  though,  had  the  courage  to  try  to  prove  themselves  addicts.)  It  was  rumored,  further,  that  the  Night  People,  with  the  help  of  the  police,  had  mark  ed  off  the  city  in  sections  and,  working  over  one  section  each  night,  could  cover  the  whole  of  Peiping  in  less  than  a  month.  &quot;  Moonlit  nights  and  dogs  are  the  only  things  that  stop  them,&quot;  Aunt  Chin  said.  &quot;I've  never  liked  dogs,&quot;  she  added,  &quot;but  I  admit  I  feel  safer  these  days  knowing  old  Baldy  is  a  round  some-  where  .&quot;  Baldy  was  our  house  dog,  who,  as  a  result  of  old  age,  or  possibly  a  disease,  had  lost  much  of  his  hair.  Occasionally,  I  would  hear  him  give  a  shaky  bark  or  two  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  but  he  slept  most  of  the  time  ,  I  felt  sure.  Still,  Aunt  Chin  was  convinced  that  Baldy  was  our  greatest  single  protection  against  the  Night  People,  and  she  may  have  been  right,  because  it  was  true  that  the  Communist  authorities  hated  dogs  to  the  extent  of  instituting  a  city  wide  anti-dog  campaign.  Dogs  were  unpro-  ductive,  they  said,  and  ate  an  unearned  share  of  the  food  raised  by  that  paragon  of  all  virtues,  the  Chinese  peasant.  I  think  the  Communists  really  hated  dogs  because  in  a  very  tangible  way  the  dog,  loyal  to  individuals  and  not  to  beliefs,  represented  the  last  defense  of  the  pri-  vate  citizen  against  the  increasing  nosi-  ness  of  the  police,  the  community,  and  the  state  .  As  a  result,  the  Communists,  besides  insisting  on  the  licensing  of  dogs,  investigated  and  taxed  the  own-  ers.  How  ,  the  owners  were  asked,  could  they  afford  to  feed  a  dog?  Had  they  no  shame  about  feeding  dogs  while  human  beings  starved?  Where  did  they  get  the  money  to  keep  a  dog?  And  so  on.  In  the  end,  the  owner  usually  found  it  easier  (as  the  authorities  had  expected  he  would  )  to  quietly  get  rid  of  his  dog,  while  the  dogs  kept  by  stubborn  owners  would  often  mysteriously  disappear  or  be  found  poisoned.  The  dogs  of  Peiping  had  thus  grown  scarce,  and  precious  to  those  few  who  still  had  them,  so  it  was  not  just  a  dog  that  Aunt  Chin  was  talking  about  but  the  only  protector,  halt  and  old  though " b"he  was,  of  our  right  to  smoke  opium  and  play  mah-jongg,  to  beat  our  children  and  keep  secrets,  to  stand  on  our  heads  in  the  morning  if  we  wanted  to,  and  sleep  in  green  and  purple  pajamas  at  night.  Although  Aunt  Chin  claimed  not  to  like  dogs,  she  had  begun  to  feed  this  one  from  her  own  hands,  and  Baldy  had  come  to  love  her  more  than  any-  one  else  in  the  family,  looking  at  her  with  sad  moist  eyes,  in  a  way  her  cats  never  did.  Then,  one  morning  a  few  days  after  Aunt  Chin's  remarks  about  the  Night  People,  old  Baldy  was  no-  where  to  be  found,  and  when,  at  the  end  of  a  week,  he  still  had  not  been  located,  the  family  felt  that  it  had  lost  something  of  great  value,  as  indeed  it  had.  ON  an  especially  hot  evening,  a  week  or  so  after  Baldy's  disappearance,  Aimee  and  I  joined  Aunt  Chin  and  her  companion  in  their  sitting  room  and  found  a  guest-old  Mme.  Wu,  another  zealous  mah-jongg  and  card  player,  who  lived  near  us  down  the  street.  I  had  met  her  before,  and  had  been  im-  pressed  by  her  thin  plucked  eyebrows  arching  in  almost  perfect  semicircles  over  asoft  powdered  face  that  sagged  gently,  like  slowly  melting  wax.  That  night,  her  face,  powdered  even  more  than  usual,  was  compressed  in  a  look  of  intense  concentration  as  she  and  Aunt  Chin  sat  at  the  card  table  apparently  playing  dice.  &quot;Up-up,&quot;  Mme.  Wu  was  saying  as  we  moved  our  chairs  to  the  table.  &quot;Seven,&quot;  called  Aunt  Chin  as  the  dice  rolled  to  a  stop.  &quot;Down-up,&quot;  said  Mme.  Wu,  who,  I  now  noticed,  was  reading  from  a  small  and  worn  blue  book.  &quot;Ten,&quot;  Aunt  Chin  called.  &quot;Mid-  dle-down,&quot;  the  other  old  lady  answered,  and  flipped  to  the  back  of  the  book,  say-  ing  to  herself,  &quot;Up-up,  down-up,  mid-  dle-down.  Ah,  here  it  is.  'The  hidden  is  disclosed,&quot;  it  says.  'The  known  con-  cealed.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Read  the  counter-reference  again,&quot;  Aunt  Chin  said.  Mme.  Wu  turned  a  few  pages  and  read,  &quot;  'Rise  and  walk;  disturb  the  dew.&quot;  &quot;  Aimee  explained  to  me  that  they  were  telling  a  kind  of  fortune  with  the  book  and  dice,  which  Mme.  Wu  had  brought  over.  First  a  question  would  be  asked.  Then  the  dice  would  be  rolled  several  times,  and  the  numbers  obtained  would  lead  to  two  quotations  from  the  book.  The  way  the  quotations  fitted  to-  gether  was  supposed  to  indicate  the  an-  swer,  in  somewhat  the  same  way,  it  seemed,  that  the  intersecting  of  latitude  and  longitude  gives  location.  Aimee  asked  what  the  question  had " b"been,  and  Aunt  Chin  told  us  that  they  had  asked  where  to  find  old  Baldy.  &quot;What  is  the  answer?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  have  to  think  about  it,&quot;  Aunt  Chin  said.  &quot;It  takes  time.&quot;  In  a  short  while,  Mme.  Wu  left,  after  carefully  wrapping  her  book  and  dice  in  a  square  of  faded  blue  silk,  and  we  started  a  game  of  bridge.  During  our  second  rubber,  Aunt  Chin,  whose  partner  was  her  companion,  appeared  to  be  thinking  hard  about  the  fortune;  she  actually  fluffed  a  trick  and  lost  a  little  slam.  Looking  cross,  she  leaned  back  and  lit  an  asthma  cigarette.  It  was  her  deal  but  no  one  mentioned  it,  and  we  had  sat  in  silence  for  some  time  when  she  suddenly  said,  in  a  burst  of  weedy-  smelling  smoke,  &quot;The  dog  may  be  in  the  garden.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  asked,  relieved  that  she  had  spoken  at  last.  'The  fortune  says,  (Disturb  the  dew.&quot;  And  the  only  dew  around  here  is  in  the  garden.&quot;  This  sounded  to  me  like  an  unneces-  sarily  literal  interpretation,  but  I  didn't  say  so,  and  we  continued  the  game.  Aunt  Chin  and  her  companion  rapidly  improved  their  score,  and  Aimee  and  I  were  far  behind  when  we  stopped  play-  ing,  around  eleven  o'clock.  This  was  early  for  us,  but  it  was  too  hot  to  sit  still  any  longer,  and  Aimee  and  I  decided,  quite  apart  from  what  Aunt  Chin  had  said,  to  take  a  stroll  in  the  relative  cool-  ness  of  the  garden  before  going  to  bed.  We  followed  a  white  pebble  path,  just  visible  in  the  faint  starlight,  to  a  terrace  on  the  edge  of  one  of  the  gar-  den's  two  empty  pools,  where  we  sat  for  a  while  on  a  stone  slab,  which  was  still  warm  from  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  watched  the  fireflies  appear  and  disap-  pear  in  the  long,  damp  grass.  East  of  the  garden  towered  the  huge,  upcurling  roofs  of  the  outbuildings  of  the  sprawl-  ing  Yu  home.  I  could  clearly  see  the  silhouettes  of  the  ridgepoles,  surmounted  at  either  end  by  great  decorative  tiles  in  the  shape  of  fish,  their  tails  turned  up  against  the  starlit  sky.  Aimee  and  I  had  not  spoken  for  some  time,  and  I  was  idly  looking  at  the  shadow  of  the  nearest  fish  when  I  saw,  just  as  clearly,  another  shadow.  I  pressed  Aimee's  arm,  and  she,  too,  looked  toward  the  rooftops.  Sur-  reptitiously  the  shadow  of  a  man  had  joined  that  of  the  fish  on  the  rooftop  nearest  us.  Then  we  saw  the  man's  shadow  glide  up  and  across  the  ridge  and  disappear  down  the  far  side.  We  waited,  but  he  did  not  return.  Indisputably,  we  had  seen  one  of  the  Night  People,  but  when,  a  few  minutes  later,  we  told  the  family,  they  said  there  " b"wasn't  much  that  anyone  could  do  about  it.  Aunt  Chin  said  there  was  no  doubt  now  that  old  Baldy  was  dead,  because  otherwise  the  Night  People  wouldn't  have  dared  to  come.  I  lay  in  bed  that  night  listening  into  the  silence-aware,  for  the  first  time,  that  in  our  own  house  and  in  all  the  houses  surrounding  us  no  dogs  were  barking  and  that  above  us,  over  the  sleeping  mansion,  the  heavy  eaves,  soaring  like  protective  wings  out-  ward  and  upward  into  the  night  sky,  concealed  in  their  ponderous  grace  the  deceit  and  betrayal  that  I  felt  would  ul-  timately  defeatus  all.  T  seemed  much  later  in  the  night  when  Aimee  woke  me,  saying,  &quot;Something  is  wrong  outside.  Listen!&quot;  I  sat  up  and  listened  for  a  few  moments,  hearing  nothing.  Then,  abruptly,  in  the  blackness  of  the  courtyard  outside  our  bedroom  window  I  saw  the  swift  move-  ment  of  a  light.  Slipping  out  of  bed,  I  made  my  way,  without  turning  on  a  light,  to  the  next  room,  our  sitting  room,  where  the  only  door  to  our  suite  of  rooms,  a  partly  glass  one,  opened  onto  a  tiled  terrace.  I  was  standing  with  my  face  pressed  against  the  glass,  trying  to  see  into  the  darkness  outside,  when  I  felt  the  knob  gently  begin  to  turn.  Nothing  happened.  The  door  was  locked,  and  I  wondered  what  I  should  do  next-or,  rather,  what  the  person  outside  was  going  to  do  next.  It  sud-  denly  occurred  to  me  that  the  terrace  light  was  controlled  by  a  switch  just  in-  side  the  door,  and  I  snapped  it  on,  almost  as  a  reflex  action,  without  considering  whether  or  not  it  was  thewise  thing  to  do.  As  in  a  flash  photo  of  a  nocturnal  ani-  mal  that  has  tripped  the  mechanism  ofa  camera,  some  ten  men  were  illuminated  on  the  terrace  in  a  weird  tableau-  frozen  for  a  moment  in  a  parody  of  stealth,  embarrassed  and  confused  by  the  light.  The  fact  thathalf  of  them  were  carrying  carbines  made  them  ap-  pear-at  that  moment,  anyway-no  less  foolish.  Our  gatekeeper  was  in  the  middle  of  them,  looking  very  unhappy,  and  I  could  guess  what  had  happened.  Later  on,  Aimee  and  I  were  able  to  piece  out  the  events  of  the  entire  night.  Members  of  the  military  police,  to-  gether  with  the  local  police-all  of  whom  represented  the  People's  Sol-  diers  of  4368696e61-had  made  a  surprise  raid  on  our  section  of  the  city  after  it  had  first  been  reconnoitred  by  the  Night  People  (who,  no  doubt,  had  themselves  been  preceded  by  the  dog  extermina-  tors),  and  were  systematically  checking  all  residents,  house  by  house.  Admitted " b"byour  helpless  gateman,  the  soldiers  had,  of  course,  not  allowed  him  to  give  warning,  and,  wherever  possible,  had  contrived  to  enter  our  bedrooms  with-  out  waking  us  beforehand.  Several  of  the  members  of  our  household  had  been  roused  out  of  a  sound  sleep  by  the  cold  touch  of  a  carbine  muzzle  at  the  back  of  the  neck,  and  Aunt  Chin's  companion  actually  succumbed  to  hysterics.  After  awakening  the  sleepers,  the  pollce  had  demanded  to  see  their  registration  pa-  pers.  At  the  moment  I  surprised  the  sol-  diers  by  turning  on  the  terrace  light  that  night,  they  were  obviously  trying  get  into  the  sitting  room  of  our  suite,  and  just  as  I  was  beginning  to  feel  that  perhaps  I  had  not  done  the  most  tactful  thing,  Aimee  switched  on  the  overhead  light  behind  me,  destroy-  ing  my  advantage,  and  unfastened  the  door.  One  by  one,  the  soldiers  entered  the  room,  looking  suspiciously  about,  as  if  they  expected  a  grenade  to  be  tossed  at  them.  Aimee,  who  had  already  put  on  a  dress,  was  busy  turning  on  the  floor  lamps  when  I  left  the  room  to  put  some-  thing  on  over  my  pajamas.  Perhaps  it  was  because  a  carbine-  armed  soldier  followed  me  to  the  bed-  room  that  I  chose  to  wear  an  enormous  blue-brocaded  dressing  gown  Aimee  had  made  for  me  from  a  robe  that  had  been  worn  at  the  imperial  court  by  one  of  her  ancestors.  It  expressed  my  feel-  ings  toward  the  People's  Soldiers  at  that  moment.  If  I  could  have  found  the  sable  hat  topped  with  peacock  feathersthat  originally  went  with  it,  I  might  have  put  that  on,  too,  but  even  without  it  my  splendor  was  impossible  to  overlook,  and  when  I  re\xc3\xa9ntered  the  sitting  room,  the  soldiers  seemed  startled  and  moved  un-  easily  aside.  One  of  the  soldiers,  a  grim-looking  officer,  asked  for  my  papers-all  of  them,  those  written  in  English  as  well  as  those  in  Chinese-and  I  gave  them  to  him.  He  appeared  to  read  each  of  them  very  thoroughly,  but,  since  he  read  them  all  at  the  same  speed,  it  wasn't  hard  for  me  to  guess  that  he  didn't  un-  derstand  a  word  of  English.  Then  he  asked  for  my  police  registration.  I  pointed  to  my  residence  permit,  which  he  held,  and  said  that  I  had  registered  with  the  police  in  the  Central  Depart-  ment  of  Public  Safety  in  order  to  get  it.  &quot;But  this  is  not  a  police  registration,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  you  mean  that  you  have  not  registered  with  the  local  police?&quot;  I  explained  that  the  Central  Police  Bureau  had  told  me  that  that  was  un-  necessary.  His  face  became  grimmer.  &quot;As  far  as  " b"we  can  see,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  have  no  proper  papers  explaining  your  presence inthis  house.&quot;  &quot;But  he  is  my  husband,&quot;  Aimee  said,  &quot;&quot;and  this  is  house&quot;&quot;  -an  observation  that,  of  course,  represented  a  hopelessly  old-fashioned  way  of  looking  at  the  situ-  ation.  No  one  even  bothered  to  answer  her.  &quot;Can't  you  telephone  the  central  police?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;They  know  I  live  here'y  The  Central  Police  Bureau  does  not  &amp;  open  until  seven  in  the  morning,&quot;  he  said.  Aimee,  in  a  last  effort  to  save  the  day,  said,  &quot;My  husband  doesn't  speak  Chi-  nese  very  well.  I'll  go  with  him  the  first  thing  in  the  morning  to  see  that  he  regis-  ters  with  the  local  police.&quot;  Considering  that  we  had  all  along  been  speaking  Chinese  and  that  I  felt  I  had  spoken  rather  well,  I  was  a  bit  put  out.  Then  my  interrogator  said,  &quot;He  will  have  to  come  with  us  now,&quot;  and  I  suddenly  realized  what  Aimee  had  been  trying  to  forestall.  Turning  to  her,  I  said  very  loudly  in  English,  &quot;What  did  he  say?&quot;  &quot;He  said-&quot;  &quot;I  Znow  what  he  said.  What  do  I  do  now?&quot;  I  continued,  in  English.  &quot;Oh.&quot;  She  looked  at  the  police  offi-  cer,.  &quot;Can't  he  wait  until  morning?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No.  He  must  be  taken  into  police  custody  until  he  can  be  properly  checked.&quot;  She  looked  back  at  me  and  said,  &quot;I'll  come  with  you.  Don't  worry.&quot;  I  thought  she  hadn't  tried  very  hard,  but,  from  experience,  was  confident  that  she  knew  when  argument  was  useless,  if  not  actually  harmful.  Without  giving  me  time  to  change  from  my  brocaded  robe,  four  of  the  sol-  diers  formed  a  guard  around  me,  two  in  front  and  two  behind.  In  this  forma-  tion,  with  Aimee  behind  us  and  the  rest  of  the  soldiers  following  her,  we  moved  out  through  the  front  gate,  while  our  gateman  looked  on  as  if  I  were  being  led  to  execution.  The  police  station  for  which  we  were  headed  was  only  at  the  end  of  the  street,  and  we  were  marching  along  briskly  when  Aimee  called  out  to  the  soldiers  around  me,  &quot;It's  not  neces-  sary  to  run  to  the  police  station.&quot;  She  had  decided,  I  supposed,  that  since  I  was  going  to  be  taken  to  the  station  anyway,  she  could  be  as  unpleasant  as  she  liked.  &quot;Walk  as  fast  as  I  do  and  no  faster!&quot;  she  ordered,  and,  moving  to  the  head  of  the  formation,  she  immediately  slowed  her  pace.  The  soldiers,  to  my  surprise,  followed  suit,  whereupon" b"Aimee,  muttering  under  her  breath  like  an  irritable  squad  leader,  led  us  the  rest  of  the  way  at  her  own  speed.  I  WAS  not  the  only  catch  that  night.  The  police  station  was  full  of  people  in  every  state  of  dishabille,  They  were  standing  in  the  center  of  a  large  room,  and  all  of  them  turned  to  look  when  I  was  brought  in.  I  was  the  only  foreigner  present,  and,  of  course,  I  was  still  wear-  ing  the  luminous  imperial  robe.  All  the  chairs  and  benches  in  the  room  were  oc-  cupied  by  soldiers  resting  between  forays  into  the  sleeping  neighborhood.  Stop-  ping  in  front  of  one  of  the  soldiers,  whose  mouth  at  once  dropped  open,  Aimee  asked,  in  a  loud  voice,  &quot;Are  there  no  chairs?  Do  you  drag  us  out  of  our  beds  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and  expect  us  to  stand  till  morning?&quot;  The  openmouthed  soldier  and  the  one  beside  him  got  hastily  to  their  feet,  and  Aimee  sat  down,  beckoning  to  me  to  sit  beside her.  As  soon  as  I  sat  down,  a  red-faced  boy  in  uniform  sitting  on  the  other  side  of  me  smiled  shyly  and  offered  me  a  cigarette.  I  took  it  gratefully,  since  I  had  brought  none  of  my  own.  &quot;What  is  your  worthy  nation?&quot;  he  asked,  using  the  polite  honorific,  which  by  then  had  been  practically  eliminated  from  Chi-  nese  speech  as  a  feudalistic  anachronism.  It  was  my  turn  to  be  shy.  &quot;My  hum-  ble  country  is  America,&quot;  I  told  him.  He  continued  to  smile.  &quot;4368696e61  loves  the  American  people.  They  are  misled  by  their  government  but  they  are  good  people,&quot;  he  said.  Even  though  I  knew  that  this  was  the  Party  line  at  the  time,  I  was  impressed  by  the  warmth  of  his  smile,  and  I  wondered  if  he  had  been  drinking.  Aimee  asked  how  I  felt,  and  Itold  her  I  felt  fine.  &quot;Don't  you  want  any-  thing?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Wouldn't  you  like  something  to  eat?&quot;  It  hadn't  occurred  to  me  that  I  would  be  allowed  to  eat  in  a  police  station,  and  I  said  so,  but  Aimee  replied  that  no  one  would  mind,  and,  getting  up,  she  started  for  home.  Pres-  ently,  she  returned  with  some  sand-  wiches.  Later,  she  went  back  for  ciga-  rettes,  and  once  again  to  bring  me  a  murder  mystery,  and  as  the  sky  began  to  brighten,  she  returned  a  fourth  time,  with  warm  sugared  milk  and  twisted  strips  of  dough  fried  in  sesame-seed  oil.  Nothing  we  said  or  did  or  ate  went  un-  noticed,  and  I  was  aware  that  her  solici-  tude  for  me  did  not  please  the  officers  in  charge.  After  a  while,  I  became  interested  in  the  murder  story  Aimee  had  brought  me,  and  by  the  time  I  had  finished  it," b"the  sun  was  well  up  and  a  new  group  of  police,  yawning  and  stretching-the  daytime  force,  I  supposed-were  com-  ing  down  from  what  was  obviously  their  sleeping  quarters  upstairs.  Among  them  was  a  young  girl,  perhaps  twenty  years  old,  wearing  a  police  uniform.  Her  face  was  smooth  and  pink,  her  hair  bobbed.  She  swaggered  like  a  man.  I  suspected  that  she  was  well  aware  of  the  rather  unusual  presence  of  a  foreigner,  because  she  pointedly  avoided  looking  at  me.  Walking  over  to  a  worried-looking  old  man,  she  addressed  him  in  a  chum-  my  manner,  and  some  of  the  worry  left  his  face.  &quot;Where  are  you  from,  Grand-  dad?&quot;  sheasked,  and,  as  all  Chinese  do,  he  answered  by  naming  the  place  of  his  family's  origin.  &quot;Shantung  Province,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where  were  you  born?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;''Tientsin,&quot;'  he  said.  &quot;Is  that  your  home  now?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Yesl\xe2\x80\x99Y  She  began  to  swing  her  arms.  &quot;Then  what  are  you  doing  in  Peking?&quot;  (Since  Peiping  had  been  made  the  capital  of  Communist  4368696e61,  its  old  name,  Pe-  king,  which  means  Northern  Capital,  had  been  restored,  and  the  name  Po-  ping,  or  Northern  Peace,  invented  in  1926  when  the  Kuomintang  govern-  ment  moved  the  capital  to  Nanking,  had  passed  out  of  use  on  the  Chinese  main-  land.)  &quot;I'm  staying  with  a  friend,&quot;  he  an-  swered.  &quot;I  asked  what  you're  doing  here?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  ...&quot;  he  said,  wetting  his  lips  with  the  tip  of  his  tongue.  &quot;I'm  trading  a  little.&quot;  &quot;'Trading  in  what?&quot;  &quot;Flour.&quot;  Her  arms  went  on  swinging  as  she  continued  to  question  him,  and  her  face,  though  still  smooth  and  pink,  looked  strangely  older.  I  changed  my  estimate  of  her  age.  She  might  have  beenover  forty.  In  the  course  of  the  interrogation,  she  gradually  accelerated  the  speed  of  her  questions  to  a  point  where  it  was  hard  for  me  to  understand  what  she  was  saying.  Then  she  suddenly  stopped  and,  her  arms  motionless  at  her  sides,  began  slowly  all  over  again.  &quot;How  old  are  you,  Granddad?&quot;  He  seemed  relieved  at  the  change  of  pace.  &quot;I'm  fifty-seven,&quot;  he  said.  Any-  thing  over  fifty  is  old  in  4368696e61.  &quot;'Tell  me  about  yourself.&quot;  He  looked  worried  again,  and,  wet-  ting  his  lips,  started  talking.  He  had  worked  in  Tientsin,  he  told  her,  until  he  was  fifteen  and  had  then  been  sent  to  Kalgan  as  an  apprentice  in  the  fur-" b"curing  business.  He  had  stayed  there  three  or  maybe  four  years,  and  after  that  taken  a  better  position  as  a  journey-  man  in  Peking.  The  following  year  he  had  married.  He  and  his  growing  fam-  ily  had  lived  in  many  cities,  and  his  story  was  long,  and  complicated  by  dates  and  calculations  of  how  old  he  had  been  at  various  times  and  places.  His  story,  begun  in  the  last  days  of  the  Ch'ing  dynasty,  was  a  history  of  bandits,  revo-  lutions,  war  lords,  and  foreign  aggres-  sion,  and  through  it  all  were  woven  the  same  themes-escape  from  poverty,  from  war,  from  death.  When  he  finished,  the  young-old  girl  began  swinging  her  arms  again.  &quot;And  now  you  do  a  little  speculating  in  flour?&quot;  she  asked.  \xe2\x80\x98(YCS,\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;How  many  days  have  you  been  in  Peking?&quot;  &quot;'Three.&quot;  &quot;But  you  forgot  to  register  with  the  police?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cYCS.,,  The  room  was  silent.  The  swinging  moved  from  her.arms  into  her  body,  and  she  rocked  back  and  forth  on  her  heels.  &quot;Where  were  you  when  you  were  thirty-two?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Answer  qulckly'  6  &quot;'Tientsin,&quot;'  he  said.  &quot;You  said  you  were  in  Tientsin  from  the  ninth  to  the  thirteenth  year  of  the  Republic.  You  left  there  when  you  were  thirty-one.  What  happened  in  the  four-  teenth  year,  when  you  said  you  were  in  Peking?&quot;  She  had  an  excellent  memory,  and  she  pinpointed  ages  and  dates  until  her  victim  was  hopelessly  contradicting  himself  every  time  he  spoke.  They  even  got  back  into  the  sixteenth  year  of  the  reign  of  Kuang  Hsu,  the  next-to-last  Manchu  emperor,  and,  from  time  to  time,  used  Gregorian-calendar  dates  as  well.  She  continued  to  fire  one  question  after  another  at  the  old  man,  who  by  now  was  stuttering  and  sheepishly  grin-  ning  from  ear  toear,  and  bowing  up  and  down  in  rhythm  with  her  questioning.  Whether  he  was  guilty  of  anything  se-  rious  or  not  (this  was  obviously  just  the  preliminary  softening  up),  I  couldn't  tell.  She  had  certainly  succeeded  in  mak-  ing  a  liar  out  of  him,  and,  leaving  him  bowed  and  red  of  face,  she  turned  to  a  girl  nursing  a  baby.  &quot;What  a  lovable  baby!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;'Tell  me  some-  thing  about  yourself,  little  sister.&quot;  And  the  performance  started  over  again.  I  almost  hoped  she  would  ask  me  some  questions,  but  she  had  probably  de-  cided  that  a  foreigner  was  more  than  she  cared  to  tackle,  and  she  never  even" b"looked  in  my  direction.  Instead,  at  ten  minutes  past  seven  one  of  the  officers  phoned  the  Central  Department  of  Public  Safety,  and  it  was  confirmed  that  I  was  a  registered  foreigner  who  had  declared  himself  a  resident  of  ex-  actly  the  place  where  they  found  me  thatnight.  No  questions  were  asked  me,  no  apology  was  given-just  &quot;You  may  go  now,&quot;  and,  walking  home  with  Aimee  in  the  bright  morning  sunshine,  I  became  angry  for  the  first  time.  IT  was  flattering  to  discover  thatsev-  eral  of  Aimee's  sisters,  and  even  old  Aunt  Chin-having  been  informed  by  our  gateman  that  I  was  about  to  be  re-  leased-were  waiting  at  our  main  gate  to  welcome  me  safely  home.  While  we  were  all  standing  just  inside  the  gate  and  Aimee  was  explaining  about  the  tele-  phone  call  to  the  Department  of  Public  Safety,  two  old  ladies  and  two  old  men  came  into  view  on  the  road  outside.  The  four  of  them  carried  brooms  and,  keep-  ing  their  faces  down,  wereengaged  somewhat  less  than  wholeheartedly  in  sweeping  the  road.  &quot;Isn't  that  Mme.  Wu  and  her  hus-  band?&quot;  Aunt  Chin  asked,  in  a  startled  voice.  I  could  see  only  their  backs,  but  one  ofthe  women  did  look  like  our  neighbor.  &quot;It  is  Mme.  Wu!&quot;  Aunt  Chin  exclaimed.  &quot;And  that's  her  broth,  er  and  sister-in-law!&quot;  She  immediately  hurried  out  to  speak  to  them,  but  the  Wus,  still  with  their  heads  down,  only  swept  the  harder.  &quot;Mme.  Wu!&quot;  Aunt  Chin  shouted.  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  Mme.  Wu  said,  without  looking  up,  &quot;don't  stop  us,&quot;  and  her  pale  face  flushed.  &quot;We  have  to  do  this.&quot;  She  was  apparently  too  choked  with  emotion  tosay  more,  and  her  husband  finished  for  her.  &quot;We've  been  ordered  to  sweep  the  road  every  morning  for  twenty  days,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  our  punishment,  and  we  mustn't  stop  to  talk.&quot;  Too  stunned  to  protest,  Aunt  Chin  let  the  Wus  move  off  down  the  street.  In  a  minute,  one  of  the  Wu  serving  maids,  who  had  been  following  them  at  a  distance,  came  along  carrying  a  ther-  mos  jug,  and  stopped  to  tell  us  what  had  happened.  Her  master  and  mistress,  she  said,  had  been  playing  a  simple  game  of  mah-  jongg  late  last  night  with  their  rela-  tives-they  thought  nobody  would  real-  ly  object,  because  they  weren't  playing  for  money-when  suddenly  the  house  was  raided  and  they  were  caught  with  the  tiles  in  their  hands.  If  the  Wus  didn't  need  to  sleep  at  night  like  honest" b"working  folk,  the  police  had  said  sar-  castically,  then  the  Wus  shouldn't  mind  sweeping  the  neighborhood  streets  in  the  morning  as  a  token  of  their  willing-  ness  to  make  themselves  useful  to  the  community.  And  they  were  sentenced  on  the  spot.  When  the  maid  had  told  us  this,  she  hurried  off  down  the  street  after  her  master  and  mistress,  ready,  I  supposed,  to  give  aid  and  comfort  from  her  thermos  jug.  Aunt  Chin  had  prepared  a  big  break-  fast  in  celebration  of  my  return,  and  de- spite  the  fact  that  I  had  been  eating  steadily  all  through  the  night  and  need-  edfood  a  good  deal  less  than  sleep,  Aimee  and  I  went  with  her  to  her  rooms.  While  we  had  breakfast,  Aunt  Chin  talked.  &quot;It  was  the  Night  People  you  saw  last  night,&quot;  she  said  bitterly.  &quot;They  were  everywhere  in  the  neigh-  borhood,  and  that's  how  they  caught  poor  Mme.  Wu  and  her  husband  play-  ing  mah-jongg-not  even  for  money.  How  wrong  life  is!  It  may  not  be  gen-  erally  known  now,  but,  as  a  girl,  Mme.  Wu  was  famous  for  her  delicate  beau-ty.\xe2\x80\x9d  We  were  still  sitting  over  breakfast  when  our  gateman  brought  in  a  letter  from  the  local  police.  Aimee  read  it  to  me,  her  eyes  growing  round.  It  de-  manded  a  written  apology  from  me  for  the  crime  of  failing  to  register,  and  said  that  such  highhanded  tactics,  employed  by  imperialist-minded  foreigners  and  other  leftover  reactionaries  and  enemies  of  the  people,  could  no  longer  be  toler-  ated  in  the  New  4368696e61,  and  so  on.  It  was  clear  what  the  police  wanted-   simply  something  to  incriminate  every  foreigner,  and  particularly  every  Amer-  ican,  if  not  in  one  way,  then  in  another,  for  possible  future  use.  IMEE  and  I  negotiated  with  the  po-  lice  for  two  days  before  we  real-  ized  that  they  were  determined  to  make  me  admit  my  &quot;guilt&quot;  in  writing.  If  I  continued  to  refuse,  it  was,  I  knew,  quite  possible  that  they  would  arrange  to  find  a  gun  concealed  in  my  room,  or  a  secret  code  book,  or  plans  to  assassi-  nate  Mao  Tse-tung.  Aimee  and  I  de-  cided  that  it  would  be  wiser  to  accept  the  lesser  guilt  and  be  done  with  it.  She  wrote  out  a  terse  apology  and  I  signed  it.  The  police  accepted  it,  stamped  my  papers  accordingly,  and  returned  them  to  me.  As  the  days  passed  with  no  further  trouble,  I  began  to  see  what  I  had  accomplished  by  surrendering.  My  mis-  demeanor  became  a  kind  of  decoration  on  my  various  passes  and  permits,  and,  in  all  my  encounters  with  officialdom  in" b"which  these  papers  were  shown,  was  the  chief  object  of  interest.  Those  who  saw  it  seemed  relieved  that  my  guilt  had  al-  ready  been  established  and  that  it  was  unnecessary  to  devise  means  to  incriminate  me  further.  They  always  smilingly  returned  the  papers  and  politely  sent  me  on  my  way.  My  new  criminal  record  was  really  a  great  convenience.  But  al-  though  life  in  the  Yu  mansion  seemed  to  goon  just,  as  it  had  in  the  past,  and  the  walls  were  as  high  as  ever,  the  rooms  as  quiet,  the  halls  as  cool,  and  the  garden  as  vast,  I  had  lost  my  peace  of  mind.  The  members  of  the  Yu  family  must  have  sensed  my  feeling,  because  sudden-  ly-or  so  it  seemed  to  me-they  began  to  treat  me  with  unusual  consideration.  Some  of  them  even  brought  around  tasty  dishes  specially  prepared  for  me.  And  in  the  street  I  got  the  impression  that  people  were  being  kind  to  me  (not  because  they  liked  Americans  so  much  more  than  other  foreigners  butbecause  the  Communist  government  liked  Americans  so  much  less).  Pedicab  men,  as  soon  as  they  discovered  I  was  an  American,  pumped  harder,  speeding  me  to  my  destination;  dealers  often  reduced  their  prices;  and  once,  in  a  moment  of  candor,  a  pro-Communist  student  con-  fessed  to  me,  &quot;When  the  Americans  were  here,  we  wanted  them  to  go,  but  now  that  they  have  really  gone,  with  their  music,  their  movies,  and  their  money,  we  rather  miss  them.&quot;  Meanwhile,  Aunt  Chin  wrapped  her  mah-jongg  sets  in  copies  of  the  Chine  People's  Newspaper  and  packed  them  away  in  the  bottom  of  a  chest,  and  though  the  family  tried  to  find  another  dog  to  take  the  place  of  old  Baldy,  there  were  none  for  sale,  and  even  the  strays  had  disappeared. "