 b"OUR  small  town  near  Milan  has  its  UPIM-the  Italian  equiva-  lentof  an  American  dime  store-with  a  stationery  counter,  which  draws  flocks  of  children  at  the  begin-  ning  of  each  school  term.  I  like  to  pore  with  the  children  over  the  piles  of  pen-  cils  in  boxes  and  the  neat  stacks  of  writ-  ing  pads.  'The  geometric  order  and  the  dry,  elusive  fragrance  of  that  counter  have  for  me  some  of  the  spell  that  lingered  over  the  pencil  boxes  of  my  uncle's  stationery  store-and_  over  the  years  of  my  far-off  German  child-  hood.  My  Uncle  Franz  was  a  pedantic,  unsmiling  man.  When  I  was  a  child,  though,  his  stationery  and  art-supplies  store,  in  a  quiet  residential  town  of  north  [REDACTED],  seemed  a  paradise,  in-  finite  alike  in  pencils  and  in  the  possi-  bilities  they  conjured  up  in  my  mind  forthe  future.  Uncle's  firm  enjoyed  a  fine  reputation,  thanks  to  the  labors  of  my  grandfather,  a  hard  and  exacting  man  with  a  distrust  of  poverty.  Franz  was  his  oldest  son.  By  threatening  to  disown  him,  Grandfather  had  pre-  vented  his  marriage  to  an  impoverished  drawing  teacher  who  was  his  only  love-or  so  the  family  story  went.  Uncle  Franz,  unlike  my  father  and  his  three  older  brothers,  had  not  been  able  to  break  away  from  the  atmos-  phere  of  repression  with  which  the  proud  old  man  had  surrounded  his  children.  Grandfather  died  before  I  was  born,  so  when  Father  and  I  began  visiting  Uncle  for  weekends,  he  was  undisputed  owner  of  the  tall,  dark  building  that  was  both  house  and  store.  It  was  at  the  end  of  World  War  I,  and  I  was  eight.  By  then,  Uncle  was  a  confirmed  bachelor,  with  a  mania  for  all  sorts  of  minor  per-  fections.  I  still  remember  the  small  hairbrush  he  always  carried  in  a  pocket  specifically  made  forthe  purpose  in  his  English  suit,  the  quick,  deft  brush  strokes  to  which  he  would  treat  his  neat  gray  mustache,  and  his  slow,  mumbling  voice  as  he  held  long  conversations  with  his  favorite  customers,  most  of  whom  were  amateur  artists  of  some  wealth.  His  store  was  so  well  stocked  that  people  would  travel  or  write  to  him  from  smaller  towns  to  obtain  special  brands  of  drawing  paper  and  special  English  pencils.  Around  the  time  that  school  opened,  children  crowded  the  place.  'They  always  spoke  with  hushed  voices,  overawed,  as  I  was,  by  the " b"dark,  vaulted,  pillared  room  with  its  faintly  pharmaceutic  smell  and  its  in-  termittent  jangle  of  musical  sounds  coming  from  the  chimes  at  the  entrance  door.  Order  ruled  throughout  Uncle's  household  and  store,  but  the  severest  order  was  to  be  found  in  the  storage  room  adjacent  to  the  store.  'This  con-  sisted  of  along,  winding  corridor  where  square  and  oblong  boxes  and  long  and  short  pads  of  paper  were  stacked,  ac-  cording  to  size,  along  the  walls.  When  I  was  admitted  there  to  play,  the  ordi-  nary  world  stopped  completely  for  me.  I  felt  as  though  I  were  moving  through  auniverse  of  geometric  forms,  and  the  remote  tinkling  of  the  chimes  and  the  ring  of  the  cashbox  discreetly  ad-  monished  me  to  live  up  to  its  harmoni-  ous  regimentation.  In  fact,  I  preferred  not  to  move  but  to  sit  down  on  the  brown  linoleum  floor,  where  I  would  busy  myself  for  hours,  scrawling  fine  lines  and  fat  black  dashes  on  sheets  of  paper  with  the  many  varieties  of  hard  and  soft  pencils  that  Unele  generously  provided  for  this  pastime.  It  became  more  than  a  game  with  me;  trying  out  the  pencils  was  like  meeting  surprising  people,  subjects  of  a  privileged  world,  remote  from  the  chaotic  world  I  knew  |f  Brought  to  paper,  the  pencils  outside.  acted  out  their  slender  personalities.  They  could  be  conciliatory  and  gentle,  making  fascinating  shadowy  lines  under  the  pressure  of  my  hand  and  rubbing  fingers,  or  they  could  be  relentless  and  unyielding,  producing  sharp,  thin  lines  that  did  not  smudge.  I  still  wonder  why  I  never  attempted  anything  more  ambitious  than  those  aimless  straight  lines  and  conventional  curves.  At  the  time  our  visits  began,  I  had  finished  my  first  two  years  of  school,  where  I  had  not  done  badly  in  drawing,  which,  in  class,  was  confined  to  copying.  Maybe  the  previous  years  of  war  diet,  and  the  sense  of  hollow  fatigue  I  experienced  most  of  the  time,  made  me  all  too  ready  for  daydream  games  when  I  was  not  in  school,  and,  too,  the  only  picture  I  found  in  the  storage  room  was  beyond  my  skill  to  imitate.  It  was  printed  on  the  oblong  boxes  that  contained  a  certain  kind  of  English  drafting  pencil  and  showedtwo  knights  in  full  armor,  riding  magnifi-  cently  caparisoned  horses  and  tilting  at  each  other  with  pencils.  Uncle  told  me  that  these  were  pencils  of  the  most  ex-  pensive  kind,  and,  deeply  impressed,  I  used  to  open  the  boxes  to  inhale  the  whiff  of  wood  and  graphite  that  came  from  inside.  Dry  and  aromatic,  it  seemed  to  me  the  expression  of  a  secret" b"power  that  ruled  over  the  pencil  spirits  and  their  tournaments  with  geomet-  ric  precision  and  harmony.  I  felt  that  I  had  discovered  something  extraordi-  nary,  something  remote  from  the  sad  confusion  ofthat  postwar  period  and  the  crowded  disorder  of  our  small  apartment,  which  had  replaced  the  spacious  house  in  the  forested  country-  side  near  [REDACTED]  that  my  father  had  had  to  sell.  I  accepted  Uncle's  eccen-  tricities  willingly;  all  I  wanted  was  to  -  stay  close  to  my  secret  world,  in  his  storage  room.  NcLE  had  one  customer  who  seemed  as  eccentric  as  he-a  tall,  erect  lady  who  came  frequently  to  the  store  and  whom  I  was  told  to  greet  with  my  deepest  curtsies.  Her  visits  al-  ways  followed  the  same  strange  pat-  tern.  With  Uncle  in  attendance,  she  would  testily  choose  several  pencils,  poise  one  between  her  bony  fingers,  and  say  something  about  her  poor  mother's  feeling  better  today,  thanks  to  an  easy  chair  Uncle  had  been  kind  enough  to  send  her-or  it  might  be  fruit,  or  a  book  he  had  sent.  Uncle  would  bow  and  I  would  curtsy  again.  Then,  dropping  her  gracious  manner,  she  would  force-  fully  adjust  her  pince-nez  on  her  white-  powdered  nose,  study  my  uncle's  face,  and  sketch  on  a  pad  a  few  brisk  lines,  which,  miraculously,  conveyed  his  plump  cheeks,  waxed  mustache,  and  aquiline  nose.  Suddenly  she  would  ad-  dress  me:  &quot;Never  forget  to  sharpen  your  pencil  to  a  needle's  point.  'That's  the  only  way  to  pin  things  down,  neatly  and  lastingly,  like  a  butterfly.  'That  is,  if  you  have  caught  one  worth  preserv-  ing.&quot;  And  as  if  delivering  this  message  had  been  the  whole  purpose  of  her  visit,  she  would  proudly  turn  and  make  for " b"the  exit,  followed  by  a  salesman  hold-  ing  in  his  hand  a  package  of  the  pencils  she  had  chosen.  He  would  open  the  door  for  her,  hand  her  the  package,  and  bow  as  she  went  out.  &quot;Why  is  she  angry  with  us?&quot;  I  asked  anxiously,  after  one  of  these  visits.  Un-  cle's  eyes  crinkled  in  a  smile.  &quot;Inevi-  table,&quot;  he  murmured.  &quot;But  it  never  lasts.&quot;  That  was  the  day  he  showed  me  a  collection  of  pencil  sketches  the  lady  had  drawn  of  him  over  a  period  of  many  years.  It  was  already  a  fat  loose-leaf  volume.  I  admired  the  way  she  had  elaborated  the  thin  lines  of  his  mustache  on  these  portraits,  making  them  curve  out  boldly  from  his  lips.  'The  more  re-  cent  the  portrait,  the  more  prominent  his  mustache,  so  in  the  progression  of  drawings  his  looks  resembled  more  and  more  those  of  a  courtly  cat.  I  could  find  no  suggestion  of  the  pinned-  down  butterfly  she  had  mentioned  to  me.  From  what  my  parents  said  at  home,  I  finally  gathered  that  the  lady  with  the  pince-nez  had  been  Uncle's  great  love,  the  drawing  teacher  whom  his  father  had  prevented  him  from  marrying.  He  was  such  an  obedient  son  that  he  ac-  cepted  his  father's  edict.  She  had  ex-  pected  he  would  renew  his  suit  and  marry  her  after  Grandfather's  death,  but  by  that  time  he  had  given  up  the  |:  idea,  and  she  had,  too.  She  was  just  |:  pretending  to  feel  hurt.  Things  had  [-  turned  out  well  for  her.  Uncle,  out  of  pure  good  will,  paid  her  so  generously  for  the  drawings  she  made  of  him  that  she  and  her  ailing  mother  could  live  comfortably.  My  Jewish  mother,  who  |:  never  joined  Father  and  me  in  our  visits  |-  to  Uncle,  once  said  under  her  breath  that  these  payments  of  Uncle's  were  one  of  his  few  generosities,  and  quite  surprising  in  such  a  peculiar  man.  NOTHER  of  Uncle's  peculiarities  was  his  Sunday  walks.  I  dreaded  them,  yet  there  was  no  way  out  for  me,  since  our  visits  always  fell  on  weekends.  On  Sundays,  the  doors  of  my  pencil  paradise  were  closed,  and  I  had  to  prove  my  worthiness  for  future  admittance.  This  meant  walking  with  my  father  and  uncle  for  seven,  sometimes  eight  hours;  there  were  no  indulgent  stops  at  restaurants  but,  instead,  hard-boiled  eggs  and  buttered  bread  to  be  munched  on  foot,  and  from  time  to  time  a  fruit  candy  to  quench  the  thirst.  'The  coun-  try  must  have  been  beautiful,  but  we  traversed  it  without  looking  to  right  or  left-three  taciturn  figures  clad  in  sturdy  loder  and  heavy  shoes.  All  that  I  remember  is  the  Schrittmesser, " b"watchlike  contraption  that  Uncle  wore  on  hislapel.  Itticked  off  our  steps  over  undulating  hills  and  shadowy  paths;  it  ticked  at  sunset,  when  the  for-  est  began  crackling  with  secret  life  and  an  occasional  deer  galloped  away.  It  ticked  and  measured  not  the  passing  of  time  but  the  day's  accomplishment  of  my  aching  feet  when  I  dragged  them  at  last  up  the  high  staircase  to  Uncle's  apartment,  over  the  store.  It  stopped  ticking  only  when  we  sat  down  at  the  supper  table.  'This  was  the  moment  Uncle  gave  his  contraption  a  sharp,  searching  look  and  announced  the  num-  ber  of  steps  it  recorded.  It  was  almost  always  the  amount  he  had  measured  on  the  preceding  Sunday  and  on  many  other  Sundays  before,  when  he  had  been  alone,  He  kept  charts  of  the  num-  ber  of  his  Sunday  steps,  and  it  was  his  favorite  pastime  to  compare  them  and  work  out  slight  improvements  in  his  outfit  and  diet,  toincrease  the  dis-  tance.  Uncle  never  praised  me  for  my  disciplined  endurance,  but  Father  some-  times  told  Mother  how  well  I  had  done  and  how  proud  he  was  of  his  daughter.  &quot;'Nothing  to  be  proud  of,&quot;  Mother,  usually  so  gentle,  snapped  back.  &quot;It's  cruel  to  exercise  a  frail  eight-year-old  child  this  way.  Your  brother  does  not  care  for  our  children,  that's  all.&quot;  She  proved  to  be  right.  At  best,  Un-  cle  must  have  tolerated  me,  and  his  tol-  erance  ended  with  the  one  time  my  father  took  my  sister  along  on  our  visit.  She  was  a  year  younger  than  I,  nervous  and  lively,  and  since  our  trips  entailed  staying  overnight,  there  was  plenty  of  time  for  her  not  only  to  upset  Uncle's  household  routine  in  the  apartment  up-  stairs  but  also  to  disarrange  several  gross  of  pencils  in  the  storage  room  be-  low.  By  Saturday  afternoon,  Uncle's  deaf  old  housekeeper  and  his  malicious  cat,  Molly,  were  already  in  a  turmoil  when  I  heard  a  great  clatter  of  boxes,  followed  by  ominous  silence.  I  ran  to  the  storage  room,  but  Uncle  was  there  before  me.  He  stood  looking  at  the  clutter  of  pencils  spilled  over  the  floor,  saying  nothing  but  brushing  his  mus-  tache  with  short,  nervous  strokes.  The  gesture  with  which  he  stuffed  the  brush  away  was  a  gesture  of  \xef\xac\x81nallty,  and  with  a  flash  I  realized  that  it  included  me-I  was  considered  guilty  by  asso-  ciation.  Explanations  came  later,  in  a  long  letter  addressed  to  my  father  after  we  returned  home.  Mother  cried  over  it.  We  children  were  not  to  come  any  more  to  his  house,  Uncle  had  written,  and  he  went  on  to  say  that  we  were  pampered-the  sorry  outcome  of  Fa-" b"ther's  regrettable  marriagewith  a  Jew-  ish  woman.  FTER  that,  Uncle  was  not  men-  tioned  in  our  house,  and  he  would  have  remained  simply  an  unsettling  epi-  sode  in  my  life  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  large  supply  of  pencils  and  pencil  boxes  he  had  given  me  in  the  past.  There  they  rested  among  my  most  treasured  possessions,  with  the  gallop-  ing  knights  and  the  dry,  elusive  whiff  of  promise,  waiting  for  their  occasion.  The  moment  came-or  so  I  thought-when  we  had  a  new  drawing  teacher  at  school.  He  was  an  elderly  gentleman  who,  with  his  high  stiff  collar,  his  iron-gray  mustache  in  Hin-  denburg  fashion,  and  his  laconic  man-  ner  of  speaking,  reminded  me  of  my  uncle  and  his  world  of  minor  perfec-  tions.  For  this  reason,  I  was  willing  to  accept  his  drawing  methods,  which  con-  sisted  of  our  transforming  the  apples,  lemons,  and  leaves  he  assembled  on  his  lectern  into  geometric  forms  on  paper,  and  then  coloring  in  the  pencilled  out-  lines.  According  to  him,  a  good  drafts-  man  had  something  in  common  with  an  infantry  soldier,  marching  his  pen-  cil  with  precision  over  long,  dusty  roads  and  natural  obstacles.  At  first,  I  fol-  lowed  him  with  the  same  dread  with  which  I  had  set  out  on  Uncle's  Sunday  walks,  but  something  in  his  deftly  pro-  duced  abstractions  on  the  blackboard,  only  faintly  echoing  the  irregularities  of  nature,  must  have  caught  my  imagina-  tion.  I  especially  fancied  his  circles,  which  he  drew  freehand  and  perfectly.  At  home  in  the  evenings,  I  would  take  one  of  my  yellow  pencils  and  push  its  point  slowly  around  and  around.  It  would  continue  moving  solemnly  into  my  sleep,  achieving  curves  and  circles  of  such  perfection  that  I  would  wake  up  with  a  feeling  of  exhilaration.  But  back  in  the  sober  daylight  of  the  classroom,  I  went  on  scrawling  my  deflated  bal-  loons  and  wobbly  ovals;  they  resembled  nothing  in  nature  or  geometry,  and  elicited  such  caustic  remarks  from  my  drawing  teacher  that  I  passed  through  a  phase  of  utter  frustration  over  my  failures.  Fortunately,  with  the  arrival  of  a  new  school  year  and  a  younger  draw-  ing  teacher,  I  lost  my  attachment  to  geometric  forms,  The  new  teacher,  a  young  man  with  lots  of  unruly  hair  and  no  mustache,  brimmed  over  with  mod-  ern  theories.  Now  it  was  fantastic  curves  and  scrolls,  extensions  of  our  dreams,  that  we  were  urged  to  produce  on  paper.  He  praised  me  often  for  my  wild  creations,  which  were  a  far  cry" b"from,  if  not  a  betrayal  of,  what  I  had  previously  considered  perfection.  Only  once  did  my  geometric  obsessions  come  back  to  me-strangely  enough,  during  a  dancing  lesson.  It  was  an  irrelevant  incident,  but  with  a  salutary  effect,  and  I  recall  it  clearly.  The  wealthy  wife  of  a  conservative  newspaper  owner  had  persuaded  my  mother  to  send  my  sister  and  me  to  a  dancing  class  that  she  had  arranged  in  her  house  for  a  selected  group  of  boys  and  girls.  Two  sad  violinists,  who  fiddled  for  free  meals  at  the  newspaper  owner's  opulent  table,  provided  the  mu-  sic,  and  a  former  lady-in-waiting  from  the  departed  imperial  court  taught  us  to  dance  minuets,  cotillions,  and  the  difficult  figures  ofthe  quadrille.  One  afternoon,  our  small  group  of  white-  dressed  girls  and  boys  in  sailor  suits  and  patent-leather  shoes  must  have  stumbled  along  more  listlessly  than  usual,  be-  cause  the  dancing  mistress  waved  her  purple  chiffon  handkerchief  impatiently  at  us  and  called  to  us  to  stop.  &quot;Ladies  and  gentlemen,  the  figure  you  are  at-  tempting  to  dance  now  is  called  Le  Moulin.  Remember  your  geometry,  I  beg  you.  You  are  the  mill  wheel.  You  have  to  move  in  a  circle,  brilliant  and  perfect  to  look  at,  like  a  Catherine  wheel.  Avant!&quot;  And  while  the  two  violinists  began  to  play  with  sad  intensi-  ty,  I  dropped  the  sweaty  hand  of  my  partner,  held  my  skirt  out  high  between  two  fingers  of  each  hand,  and  began  to  swirl  around  with  outstretched  arms.  I  was  completely  insensible  to  my  sur-  roundings,  conscious  only  of  my  pro-  pulsion  through  space.  For  once,  I  felt  an  integrated  part  of  a  magic  circle,  brilliant  and  sparkling  as  I  had  not  even  dared  visualize  in  thesecrecy  of  my  pencil  dreams.  I  was  brought  back  to  reality  by  my  hands  striking  hard  against  the  cheeks " b'and  shoulders  of  the  boys  standing  at  either  side  of  me.  The  music  stopped,  and  the  dancing  teacher,  unaware  of  the  artistic  impulses  her  words  had  set  free  in  me,  reproached  me  for  my  grave  discourtesy.  Her  face  had  lost  its  cheer-  ful  control  and  looked  old  and  ravished.  There  was  no  laughter  or  mockery  from  the  class;  we  had  not  yet  reached  the  state  of  flirtatious  amusement  that  goes  with  dancing,  and  the  boys  and  girls  stood  quite  still,  staring  at  me  in  bland  curiosity.  Made  to  sit  on  a  soli-  tary  chair  while  the  others  continued  dancing,  I  felt  deeply  ashamed,  and  deeply  disillusioned  with  my  dreams  of  perfection.  It  was  the  last  of  my  ex-  periments  with  geometric  forms.'