 b"BECAUSE  of  the  telephone,  Dr.  Adam  Hutton,  the  newly  arrived  locum  tenens,  was  occupying  the  conjugal  bedroom.  He  got  into  bed,  tilt-  ed  the  reading  lamp,  and  pulled  up  the  eiderdown.  The  moment  he  laid  hold  of  it,  he  remembered  the  roast  fowl  at  supper.  The  roast  fowl  had  been  good  and  substantial;  so  was  the  eiderdown,  and  the  phrase  &quot;spotlessly  clean,&quot;  which  the  eiderdown  demanded  as  its  due,  could  have  applied  with  equal  propriety  to  the  fowl's  accompanying  bread  sauce.  Everything  in  the  room  brandished  cleanliness,  merit,  and  substantiality,  while,  at  the  same  time,  the  coloring  of  wallpaper,  carpet,  and  curtains  plain-  ly  indicated  that  they  had  been  chosen  because  they  would  not  show  dirt.  &quot;All  the  best  bedrooms  in  Horn  Street  must  have  been  like  this,&quot;  he  said  to  himself.  &quot;Still  are,  for  that  matter,  I  daresay.&quot;  Behind  a  chink  in  the  curtains  (he  had  pulled  them  apart  to  look  out)  the  win-  dowpane  glittered  like  a  diamond,  and  in  through  the  opened  window  came  the  familiar,  grimy  smell  of  the  industrial  43616e616461Riding.  He  had  not  smelled  it  for  nearly  thirty  years.  But  in  his  youth  he  had  only  guessed  at  such  bedrooms,  deducing  them  from  furniture  shops  and  advertisements.  The  cleanliness,  merit,  and  substan-  tiality  of  his  own  surroundings  had  been  of  a  shabbier,  more  arduous  kind,  and  the  smell  of  grime  much  more  insistent,  while  he,  with  the  thudding  industry  of  a  small  engine,  had  fought  to  learn,  and  to  be  able  to  go  on  learning,  until,  by  the  end  of  his  teens,  he  had  finally  learned  himself  out  of  his  station  and  away  from  his  birthplace,  never  to  re-  turn.  Get-on-and-get-out,  get-on-and-  get-out,  get-on-and-get-out  ..  .  If  they  had  not  been  the  words  of  his  private  heart,  the  printing  shop  across  the  street  would  have  dinned  them  into  him.  And  he  was  still  within  the  letter  of  his  vow.  He  had  not  returned.  This  was  Mexley,  not  Goatbridge.  Identi-  cal  in  griminess  and  clatter,  eclectic  hideousness  of  public  buildings,  and  stoical  ugliness  of  working-class  streets,  Mexley  and  Goatbridge  and  Hudder-  beck  and  Wendon  and  Gullaby,  sprawl-  ing  one  into  another  and  laced  together  by  trolley  buses,  were  identical  in  mu-  tual  contempt,  Goatbridge  averring  that  folk  in  Hudderbeck  never  shut  a  door  after  them,  Hudderbeck  and  Wendon  cherishing  a  legend  of  what  went  into  Mexley  pies,  Mexley,  Goatbridge,  Wendon,  and  Hudderbeck  jeering  at  Gullaby  greenhorns,  and  Gullaby  on  its  hillside  looking  down  on  their  smoky  rooftops  as  on  the  Cities  of  the  Plain.  &quot;God  knows  what  came  into  my  head,&quot;  said  Adam  Hutton;  and  opened  the  street  map  of  Mexley,  which  was  not  Goatbridge,  and  began  to  memorize  its  layout.  Knowing  Goatbridge,  he  found  it  easy  enough  to  put  Mexley  together  by  its  street  names.  Foundry  Street,  Wharf  Street,  Hoggle  Yard  and  Slaughter  Yard  and  'Tanhouse  Yard,  Bull  Ring  and  Laystall  Lane-that  would  be  the  old  part  of  the  town.  And  Douro  Crescent  and  Portico  Place  would  be  the  former  residential  quar-  ter,  left  now  to  brass-plate  users,  solici-  tors,  and  town  offices-so  he  need  not  trouble  to  memorize  that  square  of  the  map.  Odd,  though,  that  he  could  not  find  Horn  Street.  Realizing  that  Horn  Street  had  got  in  from  Goatbridge  and  that  he  was  half  asleep,  he  put  out  the  light.  In  his  dream  it  was  a  Christmas  morning,  and  the  Goatbridge  Brass  Band  was  standing  on  the  roof  of  the  fire  station,  playing  &quot;Christians,  awake!  Salute  the  happy  morn.&quot;  But  he  was  in  a  double  bed  in  Mexley,  and  the  telephone  was  ringing.  A  voice  that  might  have  come  from  any  one  of  his  aunts  said,  &quot;Is  that  you,  Doctor?  I'm  in  the  call  box-Mrs.  Bella  Heaton-  and  it's  Joseph.  He'sbeen  throwing  up  these  last  three  hours,  and  I  don't  like  the  look  of  his  nose,  and  his  feet  are  like  ice,  and-&quot;  &quot;I'll  come  at  once.  But  first  tell  me  your  address.&quot;  A  voice  completely  changed  and  con-  cealing  ineffable  astuteness  remarked,  &quot;You  aren't  Dr.  Walker,  though.&quot;  &quot;No.  Dr.  Walker's  in  [REDACTED],  on  his  holiday.  I'm  doing  his  work.  Now,  tell  me  where  you  live.&quot;  &quot;Oh!  Well,  I  daresay  you  might  as  well  as  not.&quot;  As  he  left  his  room  a  door  across  the  landing  opened,  and  Miss  Linda  Walk-  er  appeared.  &quot;Oh  dear!  Your  first  night,  too.  I'm  so  sorry.&quot;  She  wore  a blue  dressing  gown.  She  had  put  on  her  spectacles.  Her  hair  stood  out  like  brass  filings.  &quot;Can  you  manage  all  right?  Will  you  be  able  to  find  your  way?&quot;  &quot;Perfectly.  Mustn't  wake  your  mother.&quot;  HEN  he  returned,  the  hall  light  was  on,  and  a  thermos,  a  teacup,  and  a  plate  of  sandwiches  stood  on  the  hall  table.  Yorkshire  hospitality.  Mrs.  Bella  Heaton  had  already  forced  cocoa  and  seedcake  on  him.  But  he  ate  the  sandwiches,  for  the  raw  air  had  given  him  an  appetite.  After  leaving  his  pa-  tient  he  had  gone  to  view  Goatbridge  by  the  pale  moonlight,  driving  backby  the  Gullaby  Road,  whence  Gullaby  Old  Church,  silhouetted  on  the  hilltop,  looked  as  alarming  as  ever,  gaunt,  and  yet  glutted,  its  churchyard  crammed  with  enormous  jostling  black  head-  stones.  Breakfast  was  at  eight.  Porridge,  ham  and  eggs,  pikelets,  potted  shrimps,  a  blazing  fire  at  his  back,  and  a  purple  radiance  shed  onMrs.  Walker's  spot-  lessly  white  hair  from  the  band  of  col-  ored  glass  in  the  window.  He  was  so  insistently  fed  that  he  could  barelyget  in  his  thanks  for  the  thermos  and  sand-  wiches.  &quot;Linda's  her  father's  daughter,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Walker  in  tones  of  mild  pride.  &quot;She  knows.  What's  our  motto  in  this  house,  Linda  dear?&quot;  &quot;Keep  up  thedoctor,  and  he'll  keep  up  the  patient.&quot;  &quot;That's  right.  And  you  may  rest  assured,  Doctor,  if  you  should  be  out  on  a  night  call,  Linda  will  always  have  something  ready  for  you,  no  matter  how  often.  And  when  you've  finished  your  breakfast,  she  will  be  ready  to  show  you  the  files  and  the  forms  and  the  registers  and  the  daybook  and  the  appointment  lists.  Linda  does  all  the  bookwork,and  she's  qualified  as  a  dispenser.  She'll  make  a  wonderful  wife  for  a  doctor,  one  of  these  days.&quot;  Even  for  a  mother,  Mrs.  Walker  was  shameless.  Linda  was  not  shameless;  she  was  merely  willing.  Adam  had  no  fears.  It  was  only  a  fortnight,  and  he  could  be  heartless  for  much  longer  than  that.  He  would  be  heartless,  civil,  and  inscrutable.  But  as  the  day  wore  on,  with  surgery  hours,  and  visiting,  and  midday  dinner,  and  visiting,  and  a  groaning  tea  table,  and  surgery  hours  again,  it  was  to  him-  self  that  he  was  inscrutable.  What  the  devil  had  possessed  him  to  come  here-  what  sentimental  lunacy,  what  decrep-  itude  of  mind?  Getting  on  and  getting  out,  he  had  finished  his  training,  and  travelled  on  " b"a  research  scholarship,  and  passed  the  war  years  as  an  Army  doctor,  and  spent  his  ac-  cumulated  pay  on  buying  a  partnership  in  a  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  practice;  and  then,  not  liking  the  shape  of  National  Health  Service,  had  got  out  of  that  and  into  the  research  laboratories  of  a  new  firm  that  was  making  a  good  thing  out  of  vaccines  and  antibiotics.  There  he  pro-  posed  to  remain,  well  paid,  well  thought  of,  interested  in  what  he  was  doing,  and  near  enough  to  [REDACTED]  to  be  able  to  ease  himself  into  a  degree  of  culture  that  would  make  his  old  age  creditable  and  enter-  taining.  And  then,  because  he  was  glancing  through  the  British  Medical  J  ournal  in  or-  der  to  compare  his  firm's  ad-  vertisement  with  the  advertise-  ments  of  other  firms,  &quot;Mexley,  43616e616461Riding,&quot;  caught  his  eye.  What  followed  wasdemen-  tia.  Reading  that  Dr.  James  Walker  required  a  locum  te-  nens  during  the  second  fort-  night  in  March,  and  even  while  scornfully  commiserating  the  wretch  who  could  only  get  away  for  that  meagre  release,  he  became  con-  vinced  that  if  he  did  not  snatch  at  this  chance  of  going  to  Mexley,  the  rest  of  his  life  would  be  meaningless.  So  in-  tense  was  his  madness  that  not  even  the  words  &quot;live  as  family&quot;  could  deter  him.  He  had  been  going  to  Rome  in  April.  Changing  the  date  of  his  holiday,  he  arranged  to  go  to  Mexley  in  March.  But  why?  But  why?  To  be  within  smelling  distance  of  the  Goatbridge  gasworks  when  the  wind  blew  from  the  sweet  south?  To  hear  the  Mexley  Choral  Society  rehearsing  Stainer's  &quot;Crucifixion&quot;?  To  discover  experimen-  tally  what  went  into  a  Mexley  pie?  With  the  whole  vehemence  of  his  Goatbridge  breeding,  he  exclaimed  &quot;Mexley!&quot;  BUT  by  his  third  day  in  Mexley,  sub-  dued  by  hard  work  and  harsh  air,  grossly  hungry,  grossly  sleepy,  shame-  lessly  trifling  with  Mrs.  Walker's  shamelessness,  and  automatically  relying  on  Linda's  willingness,  Adam  began  to  feel  it  almost  a  matter  of  course  to  be  there.  In  the  preliminary  correspond-  ence,  Walker  had  said  that  he  would  leave  a  detailed  list  of  the  patients  un-  der  treatment,  so  that  his  locum  might  know  from  the  start  what  would  be  re-  quired  of  him.  This  list  turned  out  to  be  a  great  many  slips  of  wastepaper scribbled  over  with  mysterious  abbrevia-  tions-patients  and  treatments  inter-  mingled  with  memorandums  about  drugs  that  would  need  to  be  replenished,  lyings-in  to  be  expected,  and  fishing  tackle  that  Dr.  Walker  would  want  on  his  holiday.  These  were  piously  handed  over  by  Linda,  but  every  morning  she  supplemented  them  with  a  neat-  ly  written  schedule,  telling  him  in  a  sweet  full  voice  that  Mr.  Bucklaw  and  Mrs.  Protheroe  were  cancers,  that  Miss  Eden's  boy  was  an  epileptic,  Mr.  Murgatroyd  a  faker.  &quot;And  old  Mrs.  Robertson-she'll  expect  to  be  looked  in  on  today-is  an-  other.  But  you  mustn't  tell  her  so;  otherwise  she'll  send  for  you  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  night  with  a  heart  attack.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  why  your  father  wanted  a  locum.  You  could  do  it  all,  and  cook  the  pudding  into  the  bargain.  Who  are  these  other  regulars  for  to-  dayrp  &gt;&gt;  Smiling,  flushed  with  pleasure,  she  replied,  &quot;Mr.  Holmes,  disseminated  sclerosis.  Ben  Trotter,  Parkinson's  dis-  ease.  Miss  Rawson,  arthritic  and  bed-  ridden.  Mrs.  Ackroyd,  cardiac  dropsy.  They're  all  in  Tanhouse  Yard,  so  you'd  better  leave  your  car  in  Bull  Ring.  And  if  nobody  answers  the  door  at  Number  Eleven-that's  Mrs.  Ackroyd-it  will  be  because  the  niece  she  lives  with  is  out  fitting.  She  dressmakes.  So  just  walk  in     and  up  the  stairs  to  the  front  bedroom.  But  mind  the  stairs.  Father  says  they're  rotten,  and  the  coffin  will  have  to  come  out  by  the  window.  They're  shocking  places,  those  houses  in  Tanhouse  Yard.  They  ought  to  be  pulled  down.  Nobody  lives  there  but  remainders.&quot;  Still  flushed,  still  smiling,  she  straightened  the  papers  and  went  away;  for  it  was  part  of  her  willingness  that  she  knew  when  she  was  done  with.  As  soon  as  she  was  out  of  the  room,  he  un-  straightened  them  again,  pencilling  in  queries  and  alternative  medicaments.  Walker  was  still  in  the  epoch  of  Fer:  Phos.,  Tinct.  V  al.,  and  Card.  Co.  This  was  a  pity;  for,  as  a  musician  reading  a  single  orchestral  part  can  deduce  quite  a  lot  about  the  composer's  merits,  Adam,  reading  Walker's  clinical  notes,  often  perceived  acumen,  and  sometimes  even  diagnostic  brilliance.  Someone  really  ought  to  overhaul  the  old  man  and  bring  him  up  to  date.  Most  of  the  younger  patients  were  ready  enough  to  be  brought  up  to  date.  They  had  read  articles  on  modern  med-  icine  in  popular  papers,  knew  that  re-  cent  discoveries  were  wonderful,  and  asked  if  they  couldn't  have  some  of  these  injections,  like  Aunt  Gertie  when  she  died  in  the  hospital.  No  such  readi-  ness  was  shown  in  the  quarter  between  Foundry  Street  and  Laystall  Lane,  where  the  uncontaminated  voice  of  " b"Mexley  remarked  &quot;Doctor  never  give  me  blue  physic&quot;  or  &quot;Haven't  you  any  of  told  stuff  left?&quot;  or  &quot;Never  set  eyes  on  nowt  like  this.&quot;  Miss  Rawson,  arthritic  and  bedrid-  den,  whom  he  found  standing  on  a  step-  ladder  in  a  long  flannel  nightdress,  en-  gaged  in  putting  a  bit  of  shine  on  the  gas  bracket,  consulted  him  about  her  football  pools  and,  finding  that  he  didn't  know  much  about  them,  either,  gave  him  a  long  lecture  on  how  to  do  per-  mutations.  When  he  got  away,  he  al-  most  flinched  under  the  westering  light,  which  had  broken  through  theday's  long  dullness.  Every  detail  of  Tanhouse  Yard  was  as  brilliantly  affirmed  as  if  Vermeer  had  painted  it.  There  was  no  answer  when  he  knocked  on  the  door  of  No.  11,  so  he  pushed  it  open,  to  be  confronted  by  a  dressmaker's  dummy,  alarmingly  actual  in  a  cheap  white  satin  wedding  dress.  If  it  had  not  been  for  Linda's  directions,  he  might  have  taken  it  for  the  ghost  of  Anne  Boleyn  or  some  such  headless  heroine.  But,  of  course,  that  onslaught  of  raw  light  had  left  him  dazzled.  He  went  upstairs  and  into  the  front  bedroom,  and  into  another  attack  of  light  and  of  pictorial  quality.  The  tall  double  bed  faced  the  window.  Exactly  centered  in  the  bed  was  an  elderly  wom-  an,  sitting  up  against  a  heap  of  pillows.  She  must  havebeen  a  fine,  robust  crea-  ture  in  her  time,  and  she  still  displayed  tokens  of  an  obstinate  vitality;  for  her  hair  was  the  hairof  a  young  woman-  smooth  nut-brown  hair,  very  thick,  and  plaited  into  two  great  ropes  that  hung  down  over  her  subsided  breasts.  But  what  overwhelmed  him  was  the  way  she  queened  it  over  the  bed.  Never-so  it  seemed  to  him-had  he  seen  a  bed  so  mastered,  so  possessed,  by  its  occupant;  and  though  she  had  those  subject  pil-  lows  heaped  behind  her,  her  spinal  col-  umn  needed  no  such  support.  Straight  and  sufficient,  it  could  have  carried  the  weight  of  a  pediment  poised  on  that  large  shapely  head  with  its  ropes  of  plaited  hair.  &quot;&quot;Mrs.  Ackroyd?&quot;  l\xe2\x80\x98AYe.\xe2\x80\x9d  Her  voice  conveyed  nothing  beyond  local  breeding  and  the  fact  that  this  was  no  Miss  Rawson  to  delay  him  in  conver-  sation.  He  asked  his  questions  and  ex-  amined  her.  'To  judge  by  her  disease,  she  might  be  dead  in  a  month;  to  judge  MARCH  29,  19  5  8  by  her  physique,  she  might  live  another  two  years.  Her  answers  were  brief,  plain,  and  dismissing,  as  though  she  knew  all  this  for  formality  and  waste  of  time.  Her  instinct  tells  her  not  to  talk,  he  thought.  A  big  black-and-white  cat  lay  beside  her,  as  unforth-  coming  asshe.  &quot;Company  for  you,&quot;  he  said,  constrained  by  her  lack  of  conversation  to  say  something,  however  flat.  &quot;'That's  right.&quot;  Her  eyes  were  so  sunk  into  the  stained  caverns  of  their  sockets  that  he  could  not  tell  their  color,  or  the  direction  of  their  glance.  She  did  not  turn  herhead,but  as  he  opened  his  case  and  stood  debating  whether  his  alternative  to  the  medicine  Dr.  Walker  had  been  giving  her  would  be  any  more  to  the  purpose,  he  felt  she  was  watching  him.  &quot;Have  you  anyone  to  go  to  the  chemist-Enright,  in  Church  Street?&quot;  &quot;&quot;My  niece.&quot;  &quot;I'll  leave  a  prescription  there.  It  might  ease  your  cramp.  She  could  call  for  it  later  this  evening.  Dr.  Adam  Hutton  is  the  name.&quot;  &quot;Aye.&quot;  And  then,  with  a  slow,  broad  grin,  as  if  mock-  ing  her  own  taciturnity,  she  added,  &quot;'That's  right.&quot;  But  was  it  taciturnity?  It  might  be  some  sort  of  oncoming  coma.  &quot;I  think  I'll  take  your  pulse  again.&quot;  As  he  took  hold  of  her  wrist,  the  cat  began  to  purr.  The  pulse  rate  was  unchanged,  the  pulse  itself  a  fraction  steadier.  &quot;Well,  you've  got  a  very  creditable  pulse.&quot;  The  purr  grew  louder,  He  looked  down  at  her.  It  ceased.  &quot;Was  that  you?&quot;  &quot;I  wondered  when  you'd  notice  it.  It's  quite  tiringto  do.  Aren't  you  going  to  tell  me  I've  got  a  creditable  purr?&quot;  Her  composed  expression  hardened.  The  purr  began  again,  easy  and  lulling.  \xc2\xab&quot;Stop  it!  Please  stop  it!  You  might  strain  your  heart.&quot;  At  this,  the  cat  sat  up  and  examined  him,.  Under  their  joint  scrutiny,  he  somehow  gotout  of  the  room.  As  he  heard  his  hobbledehoy  feet  on  the  stairs,  he  realized  that  his  departure  had  been  exactly  that-awkward,  bashful,  and  incompetent,  like  the  boy  at  Goatbridge;  and  when  he  reached  his  car,  heonly  " b"half  believed  that  it  was  his,  or  that  he  would  be  able  to  back  it  out  and  swing  into  the  stream  of  traffic.  No  wonder  that  such  women  with  their  cats  were  burned  for  witchcraft!  A  DOCTOR  has  his  professional  magic,  too,  and  by  the  end  ofthe  day  Adam  had  contrived  to  forget  about  Mrs.  Ackroyd.  But  that  night,  as  he  got  into  bed,  he  remembered  how  she  had  lain,  majestic  and  central,  and  he  felt  a  childish  obligation  to  settle  him-  self  with  equal  dignity  exactly  in  the  middle  of  thebed.  Almost  instantly,  he  was  asleep.  All  that  night,  he  dreamed  of  Goat-  bridge,  only  waking  for  long  enough  to  be  aware  of  this  before  plunging  back  intoa  further  depth  of  dream.  It  was  the  genuine  Goatbridge.  He  walked  through  the  familiar  streets-Crane's  Lane,  burrowing  between  the  tall  mills  and  crowed  overby  the  stamping  thud  of  machinery,  and  Union  Street,  with  its  abrupt  falling  perspective  of  mean  little  shops  and  sham-lavish  barrows  along  the  pavement  edge,  Technical  Street,  and  Jubilee  Street,  and  Old  Quarr.  And  once,  looking  down  from  Old  Quarr,  he  caught  sight  of  the  canopy  of  smoky  green  and  pink  above  the  fairground  and  heard  the  steam-  calliope  music,  hot  and  strong,  like  a  cough  linctus.  But  the  intensity  of  that  bygone  woe  turned  him  aside  and  he  went  down  Crab  Street.  There  the  trolley  buses  clanged  by,  the  greasy  bril-  liance  of  engraved  and  gilded  glass  ennobled  the  windows  of  The  Dog  Tavern,  Dotty  Jenny  hurried  along,  whispering  toherself,  &quot;No  bread  at  the  baker's,&quot;  and  outside  the  La-  bour  Exchange  the  men  of  his  father's  generation  were  waiting  in  a  queue  to  draw  their  unemployment  money.  But  in  some  way  all  this  was  transparent,  so  that  wherever  he  looked  he  saw  the  rise  and  fall  ofthe  landscape-not  just  in  a  crannied  view  at  the  end  of  Church  Street,  or  des-  olately  preserved  in  the  bluff  of  rock  and  sickly  turf  above  the  goods  yard,  but  every-  where  manifest,  shouldering  itself  out  of  houses,  silent  amid  the  clatter  of  machin-  ery,  sombre  through  the  neon  lights  of  the  picture  house,  rough  underfoot  though  he  trod  on  stone  pavements.  And  sometimes  it  seemed  that  Goatbridge  was  something  cast  by  a  magic  lantern  on  the  dark  moorland,  and  at  other  times  it  seemed  that  the  moor  was  welling  up  through  Goatbridge  like  a  gathering  mist.  In  the  morning,  he  woke  knowing  that  this  dream  had  in  some  queer  way  enriched  him.  It  was  as  though  he  had  borrowed  the  Eye  of  Time  and  by  viewing  Goatbridge  in  its  simultaneity  of  existence  and  non-existence  had  ar-  rived  at  a  complete  clinical  observation  that  would  at  last  resolve  his  conflict  of  nausea  and  mysterious  craving.  So  to  Mrs.  Walker's  inquiries  as  to  how  he  had  slept  he  replied  that  he  had  slept  remarkably  well.  &quot;And  you're  looking  well,  too,  if  I  may  say  so.  Much  better  than  when  you  came.  After  all,  there's  nothing  like  one's  native  air.&quot;  Linda's  spectacles,  so  clean  that  they  were  like  something  in  an  operating  theatre,  flashed  as  she  looked  up.  &quot;But,  Mother,  Dr.  Hutton  comes  from  the  [REDACTED].&quot;  There  was  a  twang  of  reproach  in  her  voice.  Mrs.  Walker  said  nothing.  Neither  did  he.  But  how  on  earth  had  the  old  schemer  snuffed  it  out?  This  was  Saturday.  On  Sunday,  Linda  appeared  in  a  purple  tweed  tailor-  made,  but  a  providentially  difficult  la-  bor  spared  him  from  seeing  much  of  it.  At  Sunday  supper  there  was  another  roast  fowl,  and  Mrs.  Walker  remarked  that  one  wouldn't  think  he'd  been  there  only  a  week;  he  seemed  quite  one  of  the  family.  Linda  reported  that  Mrs.  Beau-  mont,  encountered  on  the  way  home  from  evensong,  had  no  words  to  express  how  wonderfully  Dr.  Hutton  had  put  his  finger  on  what  was  wrong  with Delia.  With  intimidating  frankness,  Mrs.  Walker  asked  Linda  if  Dr.  Hut-  ton  wasn't  just  the  co-partner  that  Father  needed.  Turning  to  Adam,  she  went  on,  &quot;I  know  I'd  be  glad  to  see  it.  I've  been  saying  for  these  last  five  years,  'James,  you  must  take  a  co.  or  you'll  be  dead  of  overwork  before  you  retire.&quot;  Now,  can't  I  tempt  you  with  this  nice  thigh,  Doctor?&quot;  DURING  Monday,  Tuesday,  and  Wednesday,  Adam  began  to  see  his  results,  and  to  plume  himself  on  his  management  of  patients  more  intricate  than  Delia  [REDACTED].  He  spent  his  spare  time  studying  their  case  histories  in  those  files  that  Linda's  neatness  made  such  easy  reading.  He  began  to  be  as  the  God  to  whom  all  secrets  are  known.  The  Hippocratic  lust  for  intervenient  power  and  insighted  meddling  sprouted  up  in  him,  all  the  stronger  because  he  had  cut  it  to  the  ground.  By  Wednes-  day  midday,  he  was  saying  to  himself  that  as  he  had  changed  his  course  before,  he  might  change  it  again,  and  go  back  to  general  practice,  this  time  not  in  the  genteel  suburban  Home  Counties  but  in  some  town  like  Mexley,  where  sickness  and  death,  with  a  greater  variety  of  tricks  up  their  sleeves,  would  be  more  interesting  foes  to  combat-though  not  Mexley  itself,  where  Mrs.Walker's  in-  tentions  threatened  a  higher  price  than  he  cared  to  pay.  For  that  matter,  there  was  also  Walker,  who  might  not  match  his  daughter  in  being  so  very  willing.  On  Thursday  morning,  Walker's  daughter,  instead  of  knowing  when  she  was  done  with,  hung  about  the  surgery,  fidgeted  her  way  as  far  as  the  door,  paused,  and  turned  back.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  to  put  it,  but  I  must.  I'm  afraid  Mother  may  have  annoyed  you  on  Sunday.&quot;  &quot;On  Sunday?&quot;  &quot;When  she  said  about  this  being  your  native  air.  She  didn't  mean  it  unkindly-  quite  the  contrary.  It  showed  how  much  she  thinks  of  you.  But,  coming  from  the  [REDACTED],  youmight  not  take  it  that  way.  I've  been  feeling  really  worried  about  it.&quot;  'There's  nothing  to  wor-  ry  about.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  your  mother  was  partly  right.  I  wasn't  born  in  the  [REDACTED];  I  just  happen  to  live  there.&quot;  And  now  if  she  asked  the  obvious  question,  what  was  he  going  to  say?  But  though  " b"her  lips  parted,  it  was  not  in  inquiry.  She  stared  at  him  with  round  eyes,  her  healthy,  high-colored,  rawboned  face  remade  by  its  expression  of  compassion  and  enlightenment,  as  though  she  had  diagnosed  a  secret  woe  in  him.  &quot;Do  you  think  that's  so  dreadful?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Well  ...  Yes!  Yes,  I  do.  I  can't  imagine  anything  more  wretched  than  to  live  away  from  one's  roots.  Of  course,  it's  nice  to  travel-I  went  to  [REDACTED]  once  and  enjoyed  every  moment  of  it.  But  I  wouldn't  have  enjoyed  it,  it  wouldn'thave  been  like  [REDACTED],  if  I  hadn't  known  I'd  got  the  43616e616461Riding  to  come  home  to.&quot;  He  looked  towards  the  window.  Above  the  half-curtains  it  showed  him  the  top  of  the  lorry  that  was  screaming  past,  the  slate  roofs  and  staring  upper  windows  of  the  houses  opposite,  the  murky  sky,  the  whitening  flashes  where  the  wind  bent  the  driving  rain.  Since  the  feeling  her  words  had  aroused  in  him  was  too  foolish  to  be  said,  he  would  sing  it:  &quot;O  Bay  of  [REDACTED],  my  heart  you're  trou-  bling,  Your  beauty  haunts  me  like  a  fever  dream  ...&quot;  &quot;Whatever  you  are,  you're  not  Irish!&quot;  she  exclaimed,  and  went  away  before  he  could  stop  her.  Which  was  as  well,  since  he  had  been  so  nearly  be-  trayed  into  kissing  the  girl.  He  had  been  so  nearly  betrayed  that  when  he  got  his  car  out  from  the  garage  he  welcomed  the  grime  on  the  wind-  screen  and  the  spatters  of  mud  on  the  body  as  though  they  were  so  many  brac-  ing  admonitions  to  him  not  to  make  a  foolof  himself.  All  that  morning,  he  was  on  the  lookout  for  such  admonitions.  They  did  not  lack.  He  was  recognized  by  Mrs.  [REDACTED],  who  was  wearing  a  transparent  pink  raincoat,  and  good-  heartedly  waved  a  small  bunch  of  mi-  mosa  at  him.  He  waited  for  ten  minutes  in  a  traffic  jam  while  two  van  drivers  who  had  collided  gotout  of  their  vans  and  each  circumstantially  established  that  the  other  was  at  fault.  His  car  be-  gan  to  leak,  and  he  suspected  he  was  getting  a  cold.  But  though  the  mimosa  afforded  him  the  pleasure  of  telling  him-  self  that  Rome  would  not  be  like  Rome  if  he  hadn't  the  43616e616461Riding  to  get  away  from,  he  knew  that  he  was  only  being  toppled  toward  leaving,  as  earlier  he  had  been  toppled  toward  staying.  Perhaps  this  was  what  happened  when  one  had  no  roots.  HAT  night,  Mr.  Joseph  Heaton,  who  had  seemed  to  be  recovering,  died.  He  was  an  alcoholic,  a  surly  old  bully,  and  incontinent.  But  he  was  dead.  At  the  end  of  the  match,  death  had  sud-  denly  outplayed  Adam,  sneaked  a  pawn  into  the  back  row  and  made  a  castle  of  it.  Adam's  reaction  was  to  feel  that  he  now  had  no  alternative.  He  would  stay,  he  would  root-not  for  any  sentimental  reasons  but  because  he  wasn't  going  to  be  beat.  If  need  were,  he  would  marry  Linda.  So  he  thought,  eating  sardine  sandwiches  and  feeling  delightfully  coolheaded.  In  the  morning,  he  felt  coolheaded  only.  But  during  breakfast  it  seemed  to  him  that  he  must  have  shouted  these  intentions  aloud  and  been  overheard.  Linda  ate  like  one  suspended  in  a  trance,  and  when  he  handed  her  the  marma-  lade,  she  took  it  as  if  he  were  worship-  ping  her  with  his  body  and  endowing  her  with  all  his  worldly  goods.  Mrs.  Walker  said  no  more  about  Linda's  ex-  cellences.  Apparently,  she  felt  there  was  no  further  need  to.  In  a  voice  that  might  havebeen  breathing  o'er  Eden  she  re-  marked  that  Dr.  Walker  would  be  home  tomorrow  evening,  and  that  it  would  soon  be  spring.  In  fact,  she  was  wondering  what  best  to  do  about  the  bedrooms.  If  he  stayed  on  over  Satur-  day  night-and  he  had  given  no  indica-tion  to  the  contrary-the  best  bedroom  would  have  to  be  turned  out  on  Sun-  day,  a  thing  she  didn't  like.  The  gale  had  blown  itself  out,  the  rain  was  a  drizzle.  It  was  a  discouraging  morning  for  a  man  who  had  made  up  his  mind  overnight.  Adam  knew  that  his  mind  was  made  up,  but  he  knew  more  immediately  that  he  had  gota  cold  in  his  head.  He  would  let  sleeping  deci-  sions  lie  till  the  morrow,  when  he  would  talk  seriously  to  Walker  about  that  partnership.  Meanwhile,  the  patients  he  saw  on  his  rounds  all  in-  formed  him  that  they  wouldn't  be  see-  ing  him  again,  or  that  tomorrow  they  would  be  saying  goodbye  to  him.  It  was  irrational  to  resent  being  signed  off  like  this;  nevertheless,  he  resented  it,  and  stayed  longer  and  inquired  more  elab-  orately  than  he  otherwise  might  have  done.  He  had  a  long  list,  and  in  order  to  finish  it  he  had  to  go  out  again  after  the  evening  surgery  hours.  By  the  timehe  came  to  Tanhouse  Yard,  it  was  so  late  that  many  windows  were  already  lit  up.  The  front-bedroom  window  of  No.  11  was  one  of  them.  Well,  Mrs.  Ackroyd  would  not  waste  her  penurious  syllables  on  telling  him  she  would  not  beseeing  him  again.  If  saidat  all,  it  would  be  said  byhim,  and  she  would  respond  with  an  &quot;Aye,&quot;  or  a  &quot;That's  right.&quot;  Today  the  niece  was  there.  She  opened  the  stairway  door,  and  sat  down  again  to  her  sewing  machine.  'The  bedroom  seemed  smaller,  the  bed  larger,  the  sick  woman  more  sickly  and  less  splendid,  though  she  lay  in  the  same  grand  attitude  and  held  her  head  as  erect  as  before.  The  burst  of  sunlight  had  romanticized  her.  The  bleak  gas-  light  stripped  all  that  away.  The  cat  wasn't  there,  either.  Something  else  was.  On  the  dressing  table,  dominating  it,  as  she  had  dominated  the  bed,  was  a  large  photograph,  a  &quot;professional&quot;  photograph,  glossy  and  glaring,  ofthe  head  and  torso  of  a  naked  woman.  Her  " b"hair  was  heaped  up  on  her  head  in  a  sort  of  casque,.  Her  breasts  were  casqued  in  nets  of  sequins  and  imitation  jewels.  Slantingly  across  the  bottom  corner  was  printed  in  italic  capitals  Betty  d'Orsay,  1928.  He  looked  from  the  photograph  to  the  woman.  'You?&quot;  &quot;Aye.  That's  me.&quot;  You?&quot;  he  said  again.  &quot;Aye.  She's  me,  and  I'm  her.  It  was  done  a  couple  of  years  before  the  show  came  to  Goatbridge.  But  I'm  still  her.  'All  Our  French  Artists'  Models  Are  Alive?  &quot;  &quot;Must  you  always  laugh  at  me?&quot;  he  exclaimed,  and  fell  on  his  knees  beside  the  bed,  and  buried  his  face.  &quot;Poor  Adam!  You  took  love  hard,  didn't  you?  I  never  saw  a  boy  take  it  harder!&quot;  He  heard  her  cough  as  her  breath  gave  out.  After  a  pause,she  went  on,  &quot;And  you  telling  me  you  were  Dr.  Adam  Hutton!  I  knew  you  the  mo-  ment  you  came  in.  I'm  glad  you've  got  on  in  the  world.&quot;  He  rose  from  his  knees,  sat  down  on  the  bed,  and  took  hold  of  her  two  plaits  as  though  they  were  ropes  to  save  a  drowning  man.  &quot;Goatbridge  Fair,  eh?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Half  a  dozen  of  us,  lit  up  in  hutches  be-  hind  glass.  And  you  came  along  with  the  rest  for  a  sixpenny  stare.  Reckon  you'd  never  seen  a  naked  woman  before.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  never  seen  a  woman  since.&quot;  &quot;And  picked  on  me.  Poor  Adam,  it  was  the  hard  nut  you  picked.  You  might  have  got  any  ofthe  others.  And  the  letters  you  wrote,  and  the  way  you  pestered  me!  You  thought  I  was  French!&quot;  she  exclaimed,  and  began  to  laugh.  &quot;You  tried  totalk  French  to  me:  Je  vous  ame.  &quot;  &quot;Why  wouldn't  you  have  me?&quot;  &quot;I  was  too  young,  love.  If  I'd  been  five-and-forty  instead  of  five-and-thirty,  I'd  have  gobbled  you  up,  back,  belly,  and  whiskers.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  to  you  afterwards?  How  did  you  get  here?  No!  Don't  talk!  It's  bad  for  you.&quot;  &quot;Well,  whatever  else,  I  didn't  for-  get  you.&quot;  &quot;And  you  gotout  that  photograph.&quot;  &quot;Aye.  I  don't  rightly  know  what  for.  But  it  wasn't  for  a  tease.&quot;  &quot;My  love,  my  love,  I  don'tthink that!  May  I  undo  this  plait?  I  want  to  feel  your  hair.&quot;  He  had  already  begun  unplaiting  it.  Released,  her  hair  sprang  into  his  hand  as  if  to  be  fondled.  &quot;Shall  I  purr?&quot;  she  said  after  a  while.  &quot;Don't  do  anything,  my  darling.  Lie  back,  and  let  me  play  with  it.&quot;  She  lay  back  against  her  pillows,  her  hand  following  his  through  the  mesh  of  her  hair,  her  eyes  dwelling  on  the  photograph.  &quot;Poor  Adam!&quot;  she  murmured,  speaking  not  to  him  but  to  the  woman  of  1928.  \xc2\xab'Poor  Adam!'  That's  what  you  said  then,  when  you  wouldn't  have  me.  But  you  say  it  better  now.  Or  I  believe  it  more.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Adam!  Poor  Bet,  too!  But  it  had  to  be,  like.  Still  and  all,  I'm  glad  I  got  out  that  picture.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  give  it  to  me?&quot;  &quot;I  was  thinking  I'd  have  it  sent  you  after  I  was  [REDACTED];  &quot;I'd  rather  have  it  now.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?  There's  some  brown  paper  in  that  top  left-hand  drawer.&quot;  He  wrapped  up  the  photograph,  and  opened  his  case.  It  was  too  large  to  go  " b"in.  He  stared  into  his  case  as  though  into  another  world.  &quot;Did  those  pills  do  your  cramp  any  good?&quot;  &quot;'They  eased  it  a  bit.&quot;  &quot;T'll  leave  you  some  more.  I  suppose  I  ought  to  go  over  you.&quot;  She  saw  the  agonized  look  on  his  face,  and  cried  out,  &quot;No,  no!  That  you  won't!&quot;  &quot;Always  the  same  cry.  What a  wom-  an!&quot;  &quot;Now  you  must  go.  Oh,  for  good-  ness'  sake,  dust  your  knees!  Is  it  tomor-  row  you're  leaving?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Unless  you  ask  me  to  stay.  Oh,  my  love,  my  love!&quot;  Briefly  and  calmly  she  considered  it.  &quot;You  must  go,  lad.  Best  for  both,  this  time.&quot;  When  he  looked  back  from  the  stair-  head,  she  was  dreamily  replaiting  her  hair.  E  sat  for  a  long  time  inhis  car,  shuddering  and  wringing  his  hands,  shaken  not  by  this  classical  grief  of  the  present  but  by  the  untamed  re-  membrance  of  his  former  woe.  A  pros-  titute  was  walking  up  and  down,  and  presently  she  came  and  tapped  on  the  glass.  He  shook  his  head,  and  started  the  car.  He  was  at  a  loss  where  to  go,  or  how  to  get  through  the  next  few hours,  till  a  sneeze  reminded  him  that  he  had  a  cold,  and  could  make  it  a  pre-  text  for  going  straightto  bed.  On  Saturday,  Dr.  Walker,  getting  his  full  pound  of  flesh,  arrived  latein  the  afternoon,  as  Adam  had  done  a  fort,  night  earlier.  &quot;Hullo,  hullo!  Well,  here  I  am,  safe  back  in  time  for  tea,  and  how  are  you  all?  Hullo,  Hutton,  everything  gone  all  right?&quot;  Without  waiting  for  an  answer,  he  turned  to  his  wife.  &quot;Adal!  I've  gota  piece  of  news  for  you.  Splendid  news.  But  I  must  have  a  cup  of  tea  before  any-  thing  else.  I  haven't  tasted  a  decent  cup  of  teasinceI  left  home.  Cat-lap!&quot;  He  poured  the  tea  down  his  wiry  gul-  let,  handed  back  the  cup  to  be  refilled,  rubbed  his  knees,  and  announced,  &quot;Ada,  I've  got  a  partner.  I  met  him  at  the  hotel,  he  was  lunching  there.  He'd  come  to  Llangibby  for  his  aunt's  funeral-  from  [REDACTED],  the  deuce  of  a  way  to  come  for  an  aunt!  -and  was  travelling  back  that  same  night.  Well,  we  got  to  talking,  I  took  to  him,  he  took  to  me.  So  far,  he's  a  trainee-assistant  with  a  view-at  some  place  near  Peebles,  with  a  sulphur  spa-but  there  wasn't  enough  future  for  him.  I  soon  found  out  that  what  he  wanted  was  to  come  south  and  see  the  world.  Come  to  Mexley,  I  said.  We've  got  a  bit  of  everything,  even  anthrax.  Of  course,  he's  never  had  an  anthrax,  and  his  eyes  positively  sparkled.  [REDACTED]-looking  fellow,  too,  and  quite  young.  His  name's  Maclaren,  and  he's  coming  to  have  a  look  round  f  next  week.  So  there  you  are,  and  I  hope  you're  pleased,  Ldl  Mrs.  Walker  said  it  was  the  very  news  she'd  been  hoping  for,  and  that  she  rather  be-  lieved  Mrs.  [REDACTED]  hadhad  a  grandmother  who  went  to  a  spa  in  [REDACTED]-though  she  couldn't  say  what  was  wrong  with  her.  &quot;Nothing  at  all,  if  she  was  like  the  rest  of  that  family.  And  Linda,  my  girl,  cut  me  a  slice  of  cake,  and  get  ready  to  find  a  nice  little  house  for  him.  Not  too  far  out.  Or  a  maisonette.  Lodgings  won't  do,  because  of  the  children.  Didn't  I  say  he  was  a  married  man?  Well,  he  is.  And  an  anesthetist.  Just  the  very  thing  we  want.  Well,  now,  Hutton,  let's  get  down  to  it.  Any  deaths?&quot;  &quot;Joseph  Heaton.&quot;  Linda  was  toasting  herself  a  crumpet  at  the  fire.  Her  hand  was  steady,  her  face  composed.  Only  when  the  crumpet  fell  off  the  toasting  fork  and  she  was  so  slow  to  retrieve  it  could  one  have  guessed  that  her  thoughts  were  sad  and  elsewhere.  Poor  Linda,  Adam  thought,  one  blow  on  topof  another,  rat-tat!  It  was  as  though  he  had  glanced  out  of  his  own  tragedy  and  seen  the  sawdust  trickling  from  a  doll.  An  hour  later,  he  was  driving  south  over  the  same  route  he  had  come  by. "