 SPOUSE  LEAK  IGH  on  the  list  ofthe  books  that  H  I  plan  to  take  along  to  that  fa-  miliar  hypothetical  desert  is-  land  is  the  Statistical  Abstract  of  the  United  [REDACTED].  The  Abstract  is  a  work  put  out  by  the  Department  of  Com-  merce  and  one  of  its  adjuncts,  the  Bu-  reau  of  the  Census.  The  edition  I  have  recently  been  browsing  in-first  with  mingled  pleasure  and  astonishment,  then  with  alarm-is  that  of  1955.  It  is  a  compilation  of  the  findings  of  the  cen-  sus  of  1950,  supplemented  by  more  re-  cent  data,  and  its  thousand  pages  abso-  lutely  teem  with  information,  neatly  charted  and  statistically  distilled,  which,  taken  all  in  all,  gives  you  nothing  less  than  a  comprehensive  picture  of  Amer-  ica's  mores  in  business,  war,  and  love.  What  strikes  you  first  when  you  open  the  Abstract  is  the  numbers-  thousands  of  numbers,  millions  of  digits.  Numbers  have  whirled  out  of  forty-  eight  states  and  out  of  every  nook  and  cranny  of  our  economic  life  to  settle  down  in  neat  rowson  these  pages.  For  example,  in  1950  the  nation  produced  2,355,620  tons  of  folding  boxboard.  Production  of  finished  masonry,  nat-  ural,  and  puzzolan  cement  had  sky-  rocketed  to  3,488,000  bbls.  from  a  mere  1,792,000  bbls.  in  1930,  which  was,  after  all,  the  era  of  Al  Capone  and  the  puzzolan  shroud.  And  behind  the  numbers  lurked-  and  lurk-the  people  of  [REDACTED].  Not  just  people  producing  puzzolan  but  people  who  marry,  desert,  divorce,  and  vote,  who  pay  taxes,  raise  poultry,  visit  national  parks,  enroll  in  federally  aided  distributive  vocational  courses,  and  get  themselves  imprisoned  for  violating  the  migratory-bird  laws,  as  three  of  them  did  in  1952.  All  of  them  are  there-  disguised  as  numbers,  to  be  sure,  but  there.  With  a  little  im-  agination,the  sensitive  reader  can  sniff  the  salty  tang  of  [REDACTED]'s  969  female  fishermen  and  oystermen,  listen  to  the  cacophony  of  the  nation's  266  lady  piano  tuners  and  318  lady  boilermakers,  wax  ma-  ternal  withour  286  male  midwives,  and  swagger  with  our  754  female  sailors  and  deck-  hands.  But  in  all  this  there  is  one  sinister  note.  Until  I  came  across  the  A6-  stract,  I  had  never  de-  voted  much  thought  to  statistics  or,  for  that  matter,  to  Sinclair  Weeks,  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  or  to  Robert  W.  Burgess,  the  Director  of  the  Bureau  ofthe  Census,  both  of  whose  names  appear  on  the  title  page.  Now  I  have  begun  to  brood  over  certain  sta-  tistics,  and  over  the  Messrs.  Weeks  and  Burgess  as  well.  For  in  the  pages  ofthe  Abstract  I  have  discovered  a  phe-  nomenon  that  I  have  come  to  think  of  as  &quot;spouse  leak,&quot;  and  I  have  also  detected  a  dubious  attempt  to  ignore  or  gloss  over  it-a  tactic  for  which  I  feel  these  gen-  tlemen  should  be  held  accountable.  FIRST  encountered  spouse  leak  while  looking  through  the  section  of  the  Abstract  devoted  to  the  terri-  tories.  'There  I  learned  that  thousands  upon  thousands  of  territorial  wives  have  disappeared.  Perhaps  this  happens  with  every  census,  evenwith  every  annual  edition  ofthe  Statistical  Abstract.  At  any  rate,  in  1950  there  were  30,380  married  men  over  14  years  of  age  in  [REDACTED],  and  only  24,441  married  wom-  en  over  14  years  of  age.  Where  arethe  missing  5,939  556e6974656420537461746573n  wives?  If  5,939  women  disappeared  in  the  [REDACTED],  there  would  be  quite  a  ruckus  raised,  yet  I  haven't  heard  any  complaints  from  [REDACTED].  If  556e6974656420537461746573ns  can't  hold  on  to  their  wives,  how  can  they  expect  to  ben-  efit  from  statehood?  And  the  Hawai-  ians-also  candidates  for  greater  re-  sponsibility-have  it  even  tougher;  8,949Hawaiian  wives  have  disap-  peared.  In  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  the  story  is  reversed.  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  has-or  had-a  shortage  of  7,481  husbands.  Reading  this,  I  de-  cided  that  the  answer  to  the  whole  question  might  be  revealed  by  this  re-  versal.  Obviously,  I  thought,  mainland  husbands  go  offto  work  in  [REDACTED]  and     Hawaii,  while  their  wives  remain  be-  hind  in  the  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  Rican  hus-  bands  emigrate  to  New  York,  hoping  to  save  enough  money  to  be  able  to  send  for  their  wives  eventually.  And  if  14,888  husbands  were  in  [REDACTED]  and  Hawaii  without  their  wives  and  7,481  [REDACTED]  Rican  husbands  were  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  without  theirs,  the  United  [REDACTED]  should  have,  according  to  the  Abstract's  figures,  a  surplus  of  exact-  ly  7,407  wives.  Well,  a  quick  look  at  the  statistics  for  the  [REDACTED]  disproves  that  heady  hypothesis.  The  nation  as  a  whole  has  a  surplus  of  104,219  wives,  in  the  1950  census.  New  York  State  alone  has  a  whopping  surplus  of  43,098,  while  2,618  husbands  have  vanished  from  [REDACTED],  and  New  Jersey  is  missing  6,970.  Out  West,  a  compensating  trend  sets  in-23,8  79  wives  have  flown  the  coop  in  [REDACTED],  as  have  1,018  in  North  Dakota  and  1,284  in  South  Da-  kota-but  it  never  overcomes  the  handicap.  All  in  all,  twenty-seven  states,  includ-  ing  all  of  the  West,  havean  excess  of  husbands.  Twenty-one  states  and  the  District  of  Columbia  have  an  oversupply  of  wives.  Husbands  have  disappeared  from  all  of  the  New  England  states  ex-  cept  Rhode  Island,  and  from  all  of  the  states  of  the  old  Confederacy  except  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  And  not  one  of  the  forty-eight  has  managed  to  main-  tain  itself  in,  or  as,  a  state  of  marital  equilibrium.  HAT  causes  spouse  leak?  Mar-  ried  men  overseas  with  the  armed  forces  aren't  totted  up  as  husbands,  and  that  might  seem,  on  the  face  of  it,  to  ac-  count  for  some  of  the  leak.  But  are  they  now  drafting  only  wives  in  Rhode  Is-  land  and  only  husbands  in  [REDACTED]?  It  can't  be  caused  by  the  desertion  of  spouses.  True,  desertion  takes  place  in  all  states,  but  in  all  states  more  men  desert  than  women.  Death  doesn't  do  it,  and  di-  vorce  doesn't  either;  the  widowed  and  di-  vorced  are  counted  sep-  arately.  Spouse  leak  can't  be  caused  by  cra-  dle  snatching,  unless  adults  in  [REDACTED]  are  marrying  pre-adoles-  cent  boysand,  in  [REDACTED],  girls  who  still  push  doll  carriages.  Spouse  leak  isn't  af-  fected  by  the  population  characteristics  of  the  states.  [REDACTED]  and  Illinois  are  about  as     alike  in  this  respect  as  two  states  can  be.  They  have  a  similar  urban-rural  popu-  lation  ratio,  and  a  similar  index  of  popu-  lation  mobility.  Both  have  had  a  great  deal  of  recent  Negro  immigration.  Us-  ing  standard  sociological  criteria,  one  would  expect  them  both  to  show  a  short-  age  of  mates  of  the  same  sex,  and  since  Illinois  has  a  larger  population,  it  should  have  a  larger  number  of  wandering  spouses.  But  [REDACTED]  has  9,031  extra  husbands,  and  Ilinois  has  343  surplus  wives.  Adding  to  the  confusion  is  the  fact  that,  in  another  compilation,  we  learn  that  3.1%  of  [REDACTED]'s  married  men  do  not  live  with  their  wives.  Slightly  less  than  half  of  these  men  (1.4%)  are  de-  scribed  as  &quot;separated,&quot;  and,  coyly,  the  remainder  (1.6%)  are  described  as  &quot;other.&quot;  Apparently,  the  Bureau  of  the  Census  is  content  to  be  offhand  and  vague  as  long  as  the  numbers  tally-as  long  as  1.4%  plus  1.6%  equals  3.1%.  But  1.4%  plus  1.6%  does  mot  equal  3.1%.  Mr.  Sinclair  Weeks  and  Mr.  Robert  W.  Burgess  have  slippedup.  Overboard  and  unaccounted  for  is  .1  %.  One-tenth  of  one  per  cent  of  all  Ameri-  can  husbands-37,399.6  stout-hearted  men  and  true,  hopelessly  misplaced.  The  Bureau  of  the  Census  admits  (in  the  1950  Census,  Volume  II,  Part  1)  that  what  it  calls  &quot;small  biases&quot;  may  have  oc-  curred  as  a  result  of  the  enumerators'  not  getting  their  instructions  right.  Well,  if  the  Bureau  of  the  Census  con-  siders  the  disappearance  of  37,399.6  husbands  just  a  matter  of  asmall  bias,  let  it  explain  that  to  37,399.6  of  the  104,219  surplus  wives.  Even  if  the  Messrs.  Weeks  and  Burgess  put  their  heads  together  tofigure  out  a  way  to  do  this  (&quot;Madam:  The  Secretary  of  Com-  merce  regrets  to  inform  you  .  ..&quot;  ),  how  will  they  know  which  wives  to  send  tele-  grams  to?  No  matter  what  [REDACTED]  decides,  there  will  still  be  66,819.4  wives  wondering  what's  become  of  the  men  they  married.  MERICA's  missing  husbands  aren't  in  the  Virgin  Islands,  which  can  boast  a  surplus  of  9  wives,  and  I  don't  suppose  it  matters  where  the  husbands  are-whether  they  are  misplaced  or  just  in  hiding.  The  responsibility  for  searching  them  out  should  no  longer  be  shirked  by  the  Bureau  of  the  Census.  The  administration's  public-relations  men  may  tell  us  that,  spousewise,  the  country  is  as  sound  as  ever.  Weeks  and  Burgess  may  try  to  gloss  over  the  entire  spouse-leak  problem  as  a  matter  of  small  biases.  But  let  me  remind  the  gentle-  men  that  1960  holds  more  than  just  another  census.  An  angry  electorate  will  surely  feel  that  as  long  as  Mr.  Burgess  plays  Pied  Piper,  Mr.  Weeks  will  call  the  tune.  And  an  angry  elec-  torate,  mourning  its  missing  husbands,  sons,  and  fathers,  may  not  stop  to  reason  that  the  lost  men  vanished  in  the  course  of  a  Democratic  census. 