 b"JOAN  EDISON  came  to  their  half  of  the   sixth  grade  from  [REDACTED]  in  March.  She  had  a  thin  pretty  face,  with  something  ofa  grownup's  tired  ex-  pression  and  long  black  eyelashes  like  a  doll's.  Everybody  hated  her.  That  month,  Miss  Fritz  was  reading  to  them  during  homeroom  about  a  girl,  Emmy,  who  was  badly  spoiled  and  always  tell-  ing  her  parents  lies  about  her  twin  sister  Annie.  Nobody  could  believe-it  was  too  amazing-how  exactly  when  they  were  despising  Emmy  most,  Joan  should  come  into  the  school  with  her  show-off  clothes  and  her  hair  left  hang-  ing  down  the  back  of  her  fuzzy  sweater  instead  of  being  cut  or  braided  and  her  having  the  crust  to  actually  argue  with  the  teachers.  &quot;Well  I'm  sorry,&quot;  she  told  Miss  Fritz,  not  even  rising  from  her  seat,  &quot;but  I  don't  see  what  thepoint  is  of  homework.  In  [REDACTED]  we  never  had  any,  and  the  little  kids  there  knew  what's  in  these  books.&quot;  Charlie,  who  in  a  way  enjoyed  home-  work,  was  ready  tojoin  in  the  angry  moan  of  the  others.  Little  hurt  lines  had  leaped  up  between  Miss  Fritz's  eye-  brows,  and  he  felt  sorry  for  her,  remem-bering  how  she  had  hidden  her  face  in  her  arms  on  the  desk  and  cried  when,  in  September,  John  Eberly  had  half  on  purpose  spilled  purple  Sho-Card  paint  on  the  newly  sandpapered  floor.  She  was  afraid  of  the  school  board.  &quot;You're  not  in  [REDACTED]  now,  Joan,&quot;  Miss  Fritz  said.  &quot;You  are  in  Olinger,  Penn-  sylvania.&quot;  The  children,  Charlie  among  them,  laughed,  and  Joan,  blushing  a  soft  brown  color  and  raising  her  voice  ex-  citedly  against  the  current  of  hatred,  got  in  deeper  by  trying  to  explain:  &quot;Like  there,  instead  of  just  reading  about  plants  in  a  book,  we'd  one  day  all  bring  in  a  flower  we'd  picked  and  cut  it  open  and  look  at  it  in  a  microscope.&quot;  Because  of  her  saying  this,  shadows,  of  broad  leaves  and  wild  slashed  flowers,  dark-  ened  and  complicated  the  idea  they  had  of  her.  Miss  Fritz  puckered  her  orange  lips  into  fine  wrinkles,  then  smiled.  &quot;In  the  upper  levels  you  will  be  allowed  to  do  that  in  this  school.  All  things  come  in  time,  Joan,  to  patient  little  girls.&quot;  When  Joan  started  to  argue  this,  Miss  Fritz  lifted  one  finger  and  said  with  the  extra weight  adults  always  had,  held  back  in  reserve,  &quot;No.  No  more,  young  lady,  or  you'll  be  in  real  trouble  with  me.&quot;  It  gave  the  class  courage,  to  see  that  Miss  Fritz  didn't  like  her,  either.  After  that,  Joan  couldn't  open  her  mouth  in  class  without  there  being  a  great  groan.  Outdoors  on  the  macadam  playground,  at  recess  or  fire  drill  or  waiting  in  the  morning  for  the  bell,  hardly  anybody  talked  to  her  except  to  say  &quot;Stuck-up&quot;  or  &quot;Emmy&quot;  or  &quot;Whore,  whore,  from  Balti-more.&quot;  Boys  were  always  yanking  open  the  bow  at  the  back  of  herfancy  dresses  and  flipping  little  spitballs  into  the  curls  of  her  hanging  hair.  Once,  John  Eberly  even  cut  a  section  of  her  hair  off  with  a  yellow  plastic  scissors  stolen  from  art  class,  This  was  the  one  time  Charlie  saw  Joan  actually  cry  tears.  He  was  as  bad  as  the  others;  worse,  because  what  the  others  did  because  they  felt  like  it  he  did  out  of  a  plan,  to  make  himself  more  popular.  In  the  first  and  second  grade  he  had  been  liked  pretty  well,  but  somewhere  since  then  he  had  been  dropped.  There  was  a  gang,  boys  and  girls  both,  that  met  Saturdays-you  heard  them  talk  about  it  on  Mondays-  in  Stuart  Morrison's  garage,  and  took" b"hikes  and  played  touch  football  togeth-  er,  and  in  winter  sledded  on  Hill  Street,  and  in  spring  bicycled  all  over  Olinger,  and  did  together  what  else  he  couldn't  imagine.  Charlie  had  known  the  chief  members  since  before  kindergarten.  But  after  school  there  seemed  nothing  for  him  to  do  but  go  home  promptly  and  do  his  homework  and  fiddle  with  his  Central  American  stamps  and  go  to  horror  movies  alone,  and  on  week-  ends  nothing  but  monotonously  beat  at  marbles  or  Monopoly  or  chess  Darryl  Jones  or  Marvin  Auerbach,  whom  he  wouldn't  have  bothered  at  all  with  if  they  hadn't  livedright  in  the  neighbor-  hood,  they  being  at  least  a  year  younger  and  not  bright  for  their  age,  either.  Charlie  thought  the  gang  might  notice  him  and  take  him  in  if  he  backed  up  their  policies  without  being  asked.  In  science,  in  Miss  Brobst's  room,  he  sat  one  seat  ahead  of  Joan  and  an-  noyed  her  all  he  could,  in  spite  of  a  feel-  ing  that,  both  being  disliked,  they  had  something  to  share.  One  fact  he  dis-  covered  was,  she  wasn't  that  bright.  Her  marks  on  quizzes  were  always  lower  than  his.  He  told  her,  &quot;Cutting  up  all  those  flowers  didn't  do  you  much  good.  Or  maybe  in  [REDACTED]  they  taught  you  everything  so  long  ago  you've  forgotten  it  in  your  old  age.&quot;  Charlie  drew;  on  his  tablet  where  she  could  easily  see  over  his  shoulder  he  once  in  a  while  drew  a  picture  titled  &quot;Joan  the  Dope&quot;:  the  profile  of  a  girl  with  a  lean  nose  and  sad  mince-mouth,  the  lashes  of  her  lowered  eyelid  as  black  as  the  pencil  could  make  them  and  the  hair  falling,  in  ridiculous  hooks,  row  after  row,  down  through  the  sea-blue  cross-  lines  clear  off  the  bottom  edge  of  the  tablet.  March  turned  into  spring.  One  sign  was  Happy  Lasker  coming  to  the  high-  school  grounds,  before  the  cinder  track  was  weeded  and  when  the  softball  field  was  still  four  inches  of  mud,  with  the  elaborate  airplane  model  he  had  wasted  the  winter  making.  It  had  the  Ameri-  can  star  on  the  wingtips  and  a  pilot  painted  inside  the  cockpit  and  a  minia-  ture  motor  that  burned  real  gas.  The  buzzing,  off  and  on  all  Saturday  morn-  ing,  collected  smaller  kids  from  Second  Street  down  to  Lynoak.  Then  it  was  al-  ways  the  same:  Happy  shoved  the  plane  into  the  air,  where  it  climbed  and  made  a  razzing  noise  a  minute,  then  nose-  dived  and  crashed  and  usually  burned  in  the  grass  or  mud.  Happy's  father  was  rich.  In  the  weeks  since  she  had  come,  Joan's  clothes  had  slowly  grown  sim-  pler,  to  go  with  the  other  girls',  and  one  day  she  came  to  school  with  most  of  her  hair  cut  off,  and  the  rest  brushed  flat  around  her  head  and  brought  into  a  little  duck  tail  behind.  They  laughed  at  her  more  than  ever.  &quot;Ooh.  Baldy-paldy!&quot;  some  idiot  girl  had  exclaimed  when  Joan  came  into  the  cloakroom,  and  the  stupid  words  went  sliding  around  the  class  all  morning:  &quot;Baldy-paldy  from  [REDACTED].  Why  is  old  Baldy-  paldy  red  in  the  face?&quot;  John  Eberly  kept  making  the  motion  of  a  scissors  with  his  fingers  and  its  juicy  ticking  sound  with  his  tongue.  Miss  Fritz  rapped  and  rapped  her  knuckles  on  the  window  sill  and  finally  sent  two  boys  to  Mr.  Lengel's  office,  delighting  Charlie  even  more  than  it  did  everybody  else.  His  own  reaction  to  the  haircut  had  been  to  want  to  draw  her,  changed.  He  had  kept  the  other  drawings,  folded  in  his  desk.  One  of  his  instincts  was  to-  ward  complete  sets  of  things.  Bat  Man  comics  and  A's  on  his  report  card  and  Pe  Costa  Rican  stamps.  Halfway  across  the  room  from  him,  Joan  held  very  still,  afraid,  it  seemed,  to  move  even  a  hand,  her  face  a  shamed  pink.  The  haircut  had  brought  out  her  forehead  and  exposed  her  neck  and  made  her  chin  pointier  and  her  eyes  larger.  Charlie  felt  thank-  ful  once  again  for  having  been  born  a  boy,  and  having  no  sharp  shocks,  like  losing  your  curls  or  starting  tobleed,  to  make  growing  painful.  His  caricature  of  her  was  wonderful,  the  work  of  a  genius.  He  showed  it  to  Stuart  Morri-  son  behind  him;  it  was  too  good  for  him  to  appreciate.  His  dull  egg  eyes  just  flickered  over  it.  Charlie  traced  it  onto  another  piece  of  tablet  paper,  making  her  head  completely  bald.  This  draw-  ing  Stuart  grabbed,  and  it  was  passed  clear  around  the  room.  HAT  night  he  had  the  dream.  He  must  have  dreamed  it  while  lying  there  asleep  in  the  morning  light,  for  it  " b"was  fresh  in  his  head  when  he  woke.  They  had  been  in  a  jungle.  Joan,  dressed  in  a  torn  sarong  ,  had  been  swimming  in  a  transparent  river  among  alligators.  Som  ehow,  as  if  from  a  tree,  he  was  looking  down,  and  there  was  a  calmness  in  the  way  the  slim  girl  and  the  green  alligators  moved,  in  and  out,  perfectly  visib  le  under  the  window-skin  of  the  water.  Joan's  face  sometimes  showed  the  horror  she  was  undergoing  and  sometimes  looked  numb.  Her  hair  trailed  behind,  and  fanned  when  her  face  came  toward  the  surface  .  He  shouted  silently  with  grief.  Then  he  had  rescued  her;  without  a  sense  of  having  dipped  his  arms  in  water,  he  was  carry-  ing  her  in  his  two  arms.  He  was  in  a  bathing  suit,  and  his  feet  were  firmly  fixed  to  the  knobby  back  of  an  alligator  that  skimmed  upstream,  through  the  shadows  of  high  trees  and  white  flowers  and  hanging  vines,  like  a  surfboard  in  a  movie  short.  They  seemed  to  be  head-  ing  toward  a  wooden  bridge  arching  over  the  stream  .  He  wondered  how  he  would  duck  it,  and  the  river  and  the  jungle  gave  way  to  his  bed  and  his  room,  but  through  the  change,  like  a  low  note  held  on  a  piano,  persisted  the  sweetness  and  pride  he  had  felt  in  saving  the  girl.  He  loved  Joan  Edison  .  The  morn-  ing  was  rainy,  and,  under  the  umbrella  his  mothe  r  had  him  take,  this  new  knowledge,  repeated  again  and  again  to  himself,  gathered  like  a  bell  of  smoke.  Love  had  no  taste  but  did  won-  ders  for  the  sense  of  smell,  so  that  his  oilcloth  coat,  his  rubber  boots,  the  red-  tipped  bushes  drooping  over  the  low  walls  all  along  Grand  Street,  even  the  dirt  and  moss  in  the  cracks  of  the  pave-  ment  gave  off  smells  so  clear  he  would  have  laughed,  if  a  wooden  weight  had  not  been  placed  high  in  his  chest,  near  where  his  throat  joined.  He  could  not  imag  ine  himself  laughing  soon.  It  seemed  he  had  reached  one  of  those  situations  his  Sunday-school  teacher,  poor  Mrs.  [REDACTED],  with  her  porky  lips  and  little  mustache,  had  been  trying  to  prepare  him  for.  He  prayed,  Give  me  Joan.  With  the  wet  weather  a  solemn  flatness  had  fallen  over  everything;  an  orange  bus  turning  at  the  bend  and  four  birds  on  a  telephone  wire  seemed  the  same  distance  from  him.  Yet  he  felt  firmer  and  lighter,  and  saw  things  as  edges  he  must  whip  around  and  chan-  nels  he  must  rush  down.  If  he  carried  her  off,  did  rescue  her  from  the  others'  cruelty,  he  would  have  defied  the  gang  and  made  a  new  one,  his  own.  Just  Joan  and  he  at  first,  then  others  escap-  ing  from  meanness  and  dumbness,  until  his  gang  was  stronger  and  Stuart  Mor-rison's  garage  was  empty  every  Satur-  day.  Charlie  would  bea  king,  with  his  own  touch-football  game.  Everybody  would  come  to  him  and  plead  for  mercy.  His  first  step  was  to  tell  everybody  in  the  cloakroom  he  loved  Joan  Edison  now.  They  cared  less  than  he  had  ex-  pected,  considering  how  she  was  hated.  He  had  more  or  less  expected  to  have  to  fight  with  his  fists.  Hardly  anybody gathered  to  hear  the  dream,  which  he  had  pictured  himself  telling  everybody.  Anyhow,  that  morning  it  would  go  around  the  class  that  he  said  he  loved  her,  and  though  this  was  what  he  want-  ed-to  in  a  way  open  a  space  between  him  and  Joan-it  felt  funny  neverthe-  less,  and  he  stuttered  when  Miss  Fritz  had  him  go  to  the  blackboard  and  ex-  plain  something.  At  lunch,  he  deliberately  hid  in  the  variety  store  until  he  saw  her  walk  by.  The  homely  girl  with  her  turned  off,  he  knew,  at  the  next  street.  He  waited  a  minute  and  then  came  out  and  began  running  to  overtake  Joan  in  the  block  after  this  street.  It  had  stopped  raining,     " b"and  his  rolled-up  umbrella  felt  like  a  commando's  bayonet.  Coming  up  be-  hind  her,  he  said,  &quot;Bang.  Bang.&quot;  She  turned,  and  under  her  gaze,  knowing  she  knew  he  loved  her,  his  face  heated  and  he  stared  down.  &quot;W  hy,  Charlie,&quot;  her  voice  said  with  her  Mary-  land  slowness,  &quot;what  are  you  doing  on  this  side  of  the  street?&quot;  Carl,  the  town  cop,  stood  in  front  of  the  elementary  school  to  get  them  on  the  side  of  Grand  Street  where  they  belonged.  Now  Char-  lie  would  have  to  cross  the  avenue  again,  by  himself,  at  the  dangerous  five-spoked  intersection.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  he  said,  and  used  up  the  one  sentence  he  had  prepared  ahead:  &quot;I  like  your  hair  the  new  way.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  she  said,  and  stopped.  In  [REDACTED]  she  must  have  had  man-  ners  lessons.  Her  eyes  looked  at  his,  and  his  vision  jumped  back  from  the  rims  of  her  lower  lids  as  if  from  a  brink.  Yet  in  the  space  she  occupied  there  was  a  great  fullness  that  lent  him  height,  as  if  he  were  standing  by  a  window  giving  on  the  first  morning  aftera  snow,  &quot;But  then  I  didn't  mind  it  the  old  way,  either.&quot;  &quot; Yes?&quot;   A  peculiar  reply.  Another  peculiar  thing  was  the  tan  beneath  her  skin;  he  had  noticed  before,  though  not  soclose-  ly,  how  when  she  colored  it  came  up  a  lovely  dull  brown  more  than  red.  Also  she  wore  something  perfumed.  He  asked,  &quot;How  do  you  like  Olin-  ger?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  think  it's  nice.&quot;  [REDACTED]?  I  guess.I  guess  maybe.  [REDACTED]  Olinger.  I  wouldn't  know  because  I've  never  been  anywhere  else.&quot;  She  took  this,  luckily,as  a  joke  and  laughed.  Rather  than  risk  saying  some-  thing  unfunny,  he  began  to  balance  the  umbrella  by  its  point  on  one  finger  and,  when  this  went  well,  walked  backward,  shifting  the  balanced  umbrella,  its  hook  black  against  the  patchy  blue  sky,  from  one  palm  to  the  other,  back  and  forth.  At  the  corner  where  they  parted,  he  got  carried  away  and  in  imitating  a  suave  gent  leaning  on  a  cane  bent  the  umbrella  hopelessly.  Her  amazement  was  worth  twice  the  price  of  his  mother's  probable  crossness.  After  school  he  planned  to  overtake  her  again.  In  the  afternoon,  the  momentum  of  the  dreamwore  off  somewhat.  Now  that  he  kept  his  eyes  always  on  her,  he  noticed,  with  a  qualm  of  his  stomach,  that  in  passing  from  Miss  Brobst's  to  Miss  Fritz's  room  Joan  was  not  alone  but  chattered  with  others.  In  class,  too,  she  whispered.  So  it  was  with  more  shame-such  shame  he  didn't  believe  he  could  ever  face  even  his  parents  again-than  surprise  that,  from  behind  the  dark  pane  of  the  variety  store,  he  saw  her  walk  by  in  the  company  ofthe  gang,  she  and  Stuart  Morrisonthrow-  ing  back  their  teeth  and  screaming.  He  was  imitating  something  and  she  was  laughing  and  poor  moronic  John  Eberly  tagged  behind  like  a  thick  tail.  Charlie  watched  them  walk  out  of  sight  behind  a  tall  hedge.  Relief  was  as  yet  a  tiny  fraction  of  his  reversed  world.  It  came  to  him  that  what  he  had  taken  for  cruel-  ty  had  been  love,  that  far  from  hating  her  everybody  had  lovedher  from  the  beginning,  and  that  even  the  stupidest  knew  it  weeks  before  he  did.  That  she  was  the  queen  of  the  class,  and  might  as  well  not  exist,  for  all  the  good  he  would  get  out  of  it. "