 b"Mrs.  Manwaring,  waiting  at the  meat  counter,  feeling  through  her  glove  the  chill  of  the  white-enamelled  topshe  leaned  on,  happened  to  turn  on  her  heel  and  see  a  woman  with  a  child  on  her  hip  come  through  the  doorway  from  the  street.  Oh,  that  child  has  been  sick!  she  thought;  even  from  half  the  length  of  the  shop  away,  she  could  see  how  gray-  white  the  face  was,  how  red  the  eyes,  of  the  unattractive  little  creature,  some  two  years  old,  dangling,  crying,  wear-  ing  a  dirty  pink  snowsuit.  Should  be  home  in  bed.  ...  Nobody  to  leave  her  with,  of  course.  .  ..  Nothing  catching,  I  trust,  she  said  to  herself  as  the  two  ap-  proached.  There  were  no  other  cus-  tomers  in  the  shop.  Tony  had  been  very  deliberate  with  his  cleaver  and  now  was  bent,  as  well  as  a  fat  man  can  bend,  above  her  loin  lamb  chops,  solic-  itous  with  small  sharp  knife,  trimming,  humming.  &quot;They're  not  for  a  party,&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  thought  of  saying.  'You  don't  have  to  be  so  finicky.  Hur-  ry  up.&quot;  Because  the  nearer  the  two  came  to  the  meat  counter,  the  more  reluctant  she  was  to  be  there  when  they  arrived.  The  woman,  young  and  rather  pret-  ty,  had  got  herself  one  of  the  shop's  wire  wagons,  and  now,  arriving  at  the  meat  counter,  she  gave  her  child  a  blow  on  the  seat  of  the  pink  snow-  suit  and  rammed  her  down  toward  the  small  seat  by  the  handle-toward  but  not  ex-  actly  into,  Mrs.  Manwaring  was  shocked  to  see.  The  child  wailed  again.  'The  end  of  her  spine  must  have  met  the  metal  seat  back.  The  young  woman  had  no  expression  at  all  on  her  round  face,  absolutely  none,  and  she  hit  the  baby  once  more-an  automatic-looking  blow,  as  though  she  did  this  so  often  she  was  scarcely  aware  of  it.  Mrs.  Manwaring,  startled,  turned  to  look  at  the  butcher,  to  see  if  he  had  seen;  his  eyes  were  nowhere  but  on  his  work.  But  he  knows,  she  thought;  he  saw,  only  he  isn't  going  to  show  he  did,  or  admit  it  in  any  way.  &quot;A  pound  of  hamburg,&quot;  the  young  woman  said,  making  a  declaration  to  the  chill  air  surrounding  the  meat  de-  partment,  not  caring  what  kind  of  meat  she  got,  or  if  anyone  listened;  she  did  not  appear  an  impatient  woman,  Mrs.  Manwaring  was  puzzled  to  observe.  The  butcher  did  not  reply.  Mrs.  Manwaring  thought  there  had  never  been  a  less  pleasing  child.  The  rimmed  eyes  were  bleary  in  the  white  face,  the  hair  a  rag-doll  wig,  unbrushed,  the  mouth  large  and  oddly  red,  already  a  delinquent's  mouth.  'The  woman  was  well  enough  dressed,  in  a  dark  coat  and  green  scarf.  &quot;Shut  your  trap,&quot;  she  said  to  the  snivelling  little  girl.  Tony,  as  though  he  had  just  com-  pleted  the  carving  of  a  marble  master-  piece  and  were  packing  it  for  delivery  to  a  distant  museum,  tenderly  set  the  pile  of  four  identical  chops  on  a  piece  of  paper,  trued  them  up,  wrapped  them,  and-just  an  afterthought-scrawled  a  broad  black  oily  &quot;$2.05&quot;  on  the  paper  before  handing  it  over.  &quot;Pound  of  hamburg,&quot;  the  young  woman  said  again  as  Mrs.  Manwaring,  who  had  forgotten  her  reading  glasses,  squinted  down  her  list.  Wheeling  her  cart  away,  she  tried  not  to  look  down  at  the  miserable  child,  but  she  could  not  help  herself,  and  was  unable  not  to  see  the  mother  tear  the  small  dirty  white  hands,  painfully,  from  a  clutching  hold  on  the  wire  sides  of  the  basket.  For  what?  Mrs.  Manwaring  cried  to  her-  self,  within.  Later,  while  she  stood  at  the  desk  paying  Jack,  Tony's  fat  son,  she  looked  out  and  saw  the  woman  throw  the  child  into  the  front  seat  ofa  tan  car,  lean  in  and  hit  her,  slam  the  door,  go  around  the  back  of  the  car,  and,  get-  aye  ting  in  behind  the  wheel,  jerk  C\xe2\x80\x98,  the  child  backward  and  for-  ward  by  the  neck  of  her  suit,  hit  her  again,  and  drive  off.  &quot;[REDACTED]  Q-seven-cight-  one-0,&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  said  aloud.  &quot;Some  people  shouldn't  have  children,&quot;  muttered  Jack  as  he  rang  up  Mrs.  Manwaring's  coffee  and  chops  and  butter.  She  drove  thoughtfully  home.  She  could  feel  her  cheeks  burning  and  a  pulse  beating  in  her  neck;  nor  was  she  as  attentive  to  New  Haven  traffic  as  she  might  have  been.  Once  she  slowed  thecar  and  stopped  by  the  curb  and,  digging  in  her  handbag  for  a  pencil,  wrote  &quot;Q7810&quot;  at  the  foot  of  her  gro-  cery  list.  After  she  got  home,  she  wan-  dered  around  in  the  house,  not  knowing  what  she  wanted  to  do.  She  dialled  the  grocery  and  Jack  answered.  &quot;That  woman  who  had  the  little  girl  with  her,  Jack,  and  was  so  horrible  to  her.&quot;  &quot;'Yeah.&quot;  &quot;Who  was  she,  do  you  know?  You  know  most  of  your  customers  by  name," b"don't  you?  Do  you  know  who  she  is?&quot;  &quot;Nah,&quot;  said  Jack.  &quot;I  don't.  I  never  seen  her  before.&quot;  Liar,  thought  Mrs.  Manwaring,  sadly,  and  hung  up.  Liar  maybe;  not  necessarily.  She  changed  into  high  heels  andwent  totea  with  afriend,  but  in  the  friend's  library,  in  the  middle  ofa  discussion  about  cashmere  cardigans,  Mrs.  Man-  waring  leaned  past  a  plate  of  cress  sand-  wiches  and  picked  the  telephone  book  from  a  table.  &quot;Darling,  d'you  mind,  I  need  to  use  your  telephone  for  a  minute.&quot;  While  her  friend  looked  and  listened,  all  amazement,  she  tumbled  her  story  into  the  black  mouthpiece,  into  the  ear  ofa  man  at  the  [REDACTED]  Humane  Society,  a  Mr.  Elton.  At  the  start  she  gabbled,  but  presently  her  breathing  evened  out  and  she  was  talking  quite  calmly.  &quot;Q-seven-eight-one-O.  A  small  tan  car.  .  ..  No,  I  don't  know  one  make  from  another.  And  so  I  think  something  had  better  be  done  about  it  or  that  child  won't  survive  very  long.  Or  if  she  does-  But  she  already  looks  like  a  delinquent.&quot;  When  she  finished,  he  thanked  her,  and  she  said,  &quot;Good  luck,&quot;  wanting  to  ask  him  to  let  her  know  what  happened,  not  daring  to  for  fear  of  sounding  ghoulish.  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  she  said  to  her  friend,  putting  the  telephone  back,  relieved.  Her  cheeks  were  flaming.  &quot;I  simply  had  to.&quot;  &quot;Well  I  should  think  so!&quot;  The  rest  of  the  afternoon,  the  more  Mrs.  Manwaring  reflected  on  how  she  had  handled  that  problem,  the  more  at  ease  with  herself  she  became.  Between  tea  and  dinner  she  went  around  assur-  ing  herself,  and  then  her  husband,  over  the  dinner  table,  that  without  doubt  here  was  a  time  when  she  had  done  ex-  actly  right.  &quot;It  was  the  businesslike,  right  thing  to  do,  wasn't  it,&quot;  she  insist,  ed,  though  no  one  was  denying  it.  &quot;And  now  I'm  free  of  the  whole  thing.  I  was  worried,  until  all  at  once  I  remembered  the  Humane  Society.  Now  I  shall  never  give  the  whole  horrid  thing  another  thought.&quot;  UT  how  very  ignorant  Mrs.  Man-  waring  was  about  herself.  She  stayed  awake  the  entire  night,  or  if  she  I  slept  at  all  it  was  in  short  and  somehow  tiring  spells  between  long  spells  of  toss-ing  and  imagining.  Possibly  she  might  have  spent  a  normal  night  if  she  hadn't  happened  to  wonder,  early  on-about  eleven-whether  the  baby  would  be  taken  away  bodily  by  Mr.  Elton  and  his  crew  if  she  had  a  father,  a  young  father,  a  nice  young  father  whose  heart  was  sore  because  of  the  condition  of  his" b"child.  Say  this  young  man  was  weak  but  loving,  say  he  had  grown  to  hate  and  fear  his  expressionless  wife  since  the  baby  came,  and  knew  he  had  to  get  the  child  away  but  didn't  know  how  to  go  aboutdoing  it  himself.  ..  .  Mrs.  Manwaring  turned  her  pillow  over  and  laid  cheek  and  hair  on  the  cool  side.  I'll  think  about  spring  clothes,  she  thought.  But  if  this  young  man,  a  garage  mechanic  probably,  or  afactory  worker,  happened  to  have  no  father  or  mother  in  a  position  to  help  him,  no  brother  or  sister  he  could  secretly  take  her  to,  and  couldn't  trust  his  friends,  as  can  happen-  Because  by  now  Mrs.  Manwaring  had  decided  to  have  him  run  off  with  his  own  child.  Mr.  Manwaring  breathed  gently  in  his  bed.  The  hall  clock  struck  once,  in  the  sly,  unfair,  joking  way  clocks  do  in  anonymous  stretches  of  darkness.  The  young  father  could  say  to  his  wife,  some  Saturday  or  Sunday  afternoon,  &quot;I'll  take  her  along  with  me  while  I  go  get  some  cigarettes,&quot;  or  to  the  garage  for  gas,  or  some  such  place  quite  near,  and,  putting  her  in  Q7810,  drive  away  and  never  come  back.  Far  away,  or  not  very  far?  He  would  have  been  to  an  out-  of-the-way  grocery  first  and  bought  a  bagful  of  graham  crackers,  oleo,  boxed  milk,  raisins.  Maybe  not,  though;  his  wife  might  happen  to  glance  into  the  car  for  some  reason,  or  no  reason,  and  demand,  pointing,  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  So  he  would  have  to  wait  to  buy  food  until  he  had  the  baby  withhim,  but  if  he  left  her  in  the  car  while  he  shopped  she  would  wail  and  attract  someone's  at-  tention.  No,  he  must  take  her  in  with  him.  No,  the  police  would  ask  on  the  radio  if  anyone  had  seen  a  young  man  in  a  plaid  jacket  and  dungarees,  no  hat,  brown  hair,  and  a  two-year-old  girl  in  a  pink  snowsuit.  Then,  it  wouldn't  necessarily  be  the  clothes  that  would  trap  them  but  the  shocking  appearance  of  the  child.  Someone  would  notice  and  remember;  anyone  would,  who  saw  her.  So  he  would  perhaps  have  to  buy  her  a  new  snowsuit  and  have  it  concealed  in  the  car.  Snowsuits  are  expensive,  and  not  many  young  men  go  shopping  for  them  all  alone;  the  clerk  would  remem-  ber  him-and  the  snowsuit,  Navy,  Mrs.  Manwaring  decided,  with  red  but-  tons,  and  a  reindeer  on  the  jacket.  She  grew  unhappy,  thinking  how  terribly  unbecoming  this  dark  snowsuit  would  be,  casting  up  the  dreadful  pallor  of  the  face,  accentuating  misery  by  the  bright  buttons.  Only,  she  pondered,  what  color  could  she  wear,  that  wan  child?-So  he  would  change  her  clothes  in  the  car  and  throw  away  the  dirty  pink.  Where,  though?  How  does  one" b"get  rid  of  a  snowsuit?  Fatal  to  carry  it  around  in  the  car.  Fatal  to  throw  it  away  in  a  pond,  where  it  would  float,  or  on  a  dump,  where  someone  would  find  it  right  away.  He  could  put  it  in  a  trash  can.  No,  he  couldn't;  it  would  be  no-  ticed  at  once.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know  what  he  will  be  able  to  do  with  it,&quot;  whispered  Mrs.  Manwaring  irritably.  &quot;Must  I  decide  everything,  every  last  little  de-  tail?&quot;  What  if  he  then  drove  to  New  York,  abandoned  the  car  there,  to  throw  the  police  off  the  scent,  and  took  the  baby  by  train  to  [REDACTED]?  He  would  get  a  job  in  [REDACTED]  in  order  to  support  her.  Who  would  care  for  her  during  the  day?  If  they  had  a  room  somewhere,  he  couldn't  go  off  and  leave  her  alone  for  eight  or  nine  hours  at  a  time.  Nursery  schools.  He  could  say  he  was  a  recent  widower  and  had  just  come  to  town  and  wanted  to  leave  her  with  them  while  he  was  at  work.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  would  be  very  foolish  of  him  to  abandon  the  car  just  to  throw  the  police  off,  because  of  course  he  couldn't  afford  to-not  even  in  this  desperate,  pinching  situation.  He  could  drive  her  to  one  of  the  manufac-  turing  towns  like  Lynn  or  Lawrence,  where  workmen  must  come  and  go  all  the  time.  But  on  the  way-  Mrs.  Man-  waring  fought  off  a  little  sudden  gust  of  sleepiness  while  she  contemplated  the  question  of  whether  he  could  dare  to  spend  the  night  in  a  motel  on  the  way.  Do  the  police  range  the  highways,  checking  the  licenses  ofcars  parked  outside  motels?  Is  it  customary  for  them  to  do  this  all  along  thebig  high-  ways,  while  the  cars'  owners  sleep,  but  not  bother  about  motels  on  small  side  roads,  or  do  they  perhaps  pay  particular  attention  to  the  smaller  establishments,  believing  them  to  be  likely  hideaways  for  people  trying  to  avoid  attention?  Q7810  was  a  very  dusty  license,  she  remembered;  would  it  be  useful,  orad-  visable,  for  him  to  muddy  it  up  a  little  more?  Probably  muddy  licenses  are  the  ones  policemen  look  at  first.  She  siw  Q7810  revealed  in  the  steady  beam  of  their  flashlight.  She  tossed  and  turned,  very  tired  by  now.  He  could  go  to  Lynn  and  leave  her  on  the  doorstep  of  an  orphan  asy-  lum,  with  a  letter  pinned  to  the  front  of  the  unbecoming  navy  suit.  A  comb,  too,  he  would  have  had  to  buy,  and  a  washcloth  and  soap,  and  so  many  other  little  things  Mrs.  Manwaring  wearied  to  think  of  them.  The  note  would  say,  &quot;Please  take  careof  my  daughter.  Her  first  nameis-  is-&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  pursed  her  lips  in  the  darkness.  Such  a  child  would  be  named " b"Marilyn,  orCarole,  or  Shirley  Mae,  or  Lou,  a  name  bestowed  on  her  when  she  was  new,  before  her  mother  had  begun  to  hate  her.  It  wouldn't  be  safe  for  him  to  tell  anyone  her  first  name,  be-  cause  it  would  be  one  more  incriminat-  ing  bit  when  the  police  arrived,  in-  formed  by  the  orphan  asylum  that  they  had  taken  a  foundling  named  Carole  in  off  their  doorstep.  'Then  the  mother  would  be  sent  for,  and  Mrs.  Man-  waring  entertained  no  such  irrational  hope  as  that,  even  though  she  loathed  the  baby,  she  would  not  come  at  once,  with  that  terrible,  expressionless  face  of  hers,  to  claim  the  baby  she  did  not  love,  and  make  trouble  for  the  husband.  Ev-  erything  would  then  be  gone  for  noth-  ing-that  scheming,  that  effort-and  now  all  would  be  worse  than  before.  Mrs.  Manwaring  thrashed  under  the  bedclothes,.  Where,  where,  where  could  she  go,  this  miserable  scrap  of  a  child!  The  radio  would  pursue  her;  the  watch-  ing  eyes  of  strangers  would  follow  her;  women  with  market  bags  would  know,  and  tell.  Perhaps  the  law  considered  that  taking  a  child,  even  one's  own,  to  another  state  was  kidnapping,  so  they  had  better  stay  nearer  New  Haven  and  settle  for  [REDACTED],but  at  such  a  fate  for  them  Mrs.  Manwaring  grieved  in  her  bed.  She  worked  up  a  momentary  hope  that  the  young  father  might  know  some  cheerful  farm  wife  to  whom  he  could  take  the  baby,  who  would  keep  her  warm,  feed  hercream.  But  without  doubt  there  would  be  another  farmer's  wife,  living  a  little  way  down  the  road,  who  would  watch  from  behind  her  window  curtains,  soon  nod  a  suspicious  head,  and  begin  to  ask  sly  questions.  Sternly,  Mrs.  Manwaring  crossed  off  the  comfortable  aproned  woman  she  had  summoned  up,the  warmth  and  all  the  cream.  It  would  have  to  be  [REDACTED],  or  possibly  Danbury,  and  a  rooming  house  and  a  day  nursery  and  a  lifetime  of  hid-  ing  their  real  identity,  and  Mrs.  Man-  waring  wasn't  at  all  sure  this  young  man  would  be  capable  of  carrying  it  out.  Toward  morning,  while  worrying  about  his  Social  Security  card,  Mrs.  Manwaring  fell  asleep,  not  convinced  of  having  accomplished  anything  at  all,  and  woke  for  breakfast  soon  after,  very  tired.  WO  days  later,  the  telephone  on  her  desk  rang,  and  Mr.  Elton  at  the  Humane  Society  said  he  was  sorry  indeed  but  the  license  Q7810  had  proved  to  be  on  a  black  Ford  station  wagon  that  belonged  to  a  bachelor  bar-  ber  who  lived  in  another  part  of  town.  &quot;So  we  wonder  if  you  got  the  number" b"just  right.  And  tan  you  said  the  car  was,  didn't  you?&quot;  &quot;Tan,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Manwaring.  &quot;But  I'm  sure-  that  is,  I'm  almost  sure  ..  .&quot;  She  faltered.  She  had  been  sure,  looking  out  the  grocery-store  window  at  the  small  car  veering  away  with  its  two  unhappy  occupants.  &quot;I  suppose  it  could  have  been  three-one-o.  It  might  have,  though  I  have  perfect  distance  vision,  and  it's  only  quite  near  to,  and  only  in  the  last  year,  that  I've  needed  spec-&quot;  But  she  could  hear  Mr.  Elton  making  regretful  sounds  in  his  throat.  &quot;We  have  to  be  quite  sure,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  the  manwho  owns  that  license  is  a  bachelor,  as  I  said,  and  works  in  a  barbershop.  We  can't  approach  a  man  like  that,  under  the  circumstances.  You  can  see  how  it  would  be.  Now,  you're  sure  you  didn't  notice  the  make  of  the  car?&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  that  I  didn't  notice!  It's  that  I  don't  know  orcare  about  makes.&quot;  I  can  tell  a  Rousseau  from  a  Dufy  at  a  hundred  feet,  she  wanted  to  say,  but  not  a  Dodge  from  a  Plymouth  from  any  distance.  &quot;I  cam  tell  you  exactly  what  they  both  wore  and  what  they  looked  like.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  were  very  clear  about  that  when  you  called.  A  dirty  pink  snowsuit,  you  said.&quot;  &quot;Any  pink  snowsuit  would  be  dirty  by  this  time  of  year.&quot;  &quot;What?  Oh,  yes.  M'hm.  Well,  the  only  thing  we  can  suggest  is  that  you  keep  on  the  lookout,  and  if  you  see  them  again,  by  all  means  let  us  know.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  you  can't-&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  very  sorry,  but  under  the  circumstances,  the  information  so  un-  certain,  there's  nothing  really  we  have  to  go  on.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  I  do  see.  And  I  will  watch  out,&quot;  Mrs.  Manwaring  said,  sadly.  &quot;Yes,  I'll  let  you  know  if  I  ever  see  them  again,&quot;  she  said,  and  hung  up  slowly,  reluctantly,  staring  unsecing  at  her  desk,  knowing  she  never  would."