 b"MY  brother  Pete  is  an  engineer.  He  works  for  an  American  oil  company  in  the  Middle  East  and  has  his  family  there  with  him,  but  sometimes  he  is  sent  elsewhere  on  trou-  ble-shooting  errands  of  one  sort  or  an-  other.  He  makes  it  back  to  the  States  about  twice  a  year.  As  a  rule,  he  writes  or  cables  in  plenty  of  time  for  me  to  make  arrangements.  For  a  while  after  the  war,  we  used  to  go  up  to  Blakeney,  our  old  prep  school,  where  our  brother  Owen  is  now  head-  master.  But  in  recent  years  we  have  taken  to  meeting  at  my  place,  and  not  only  because  it  is  well  located  between  Blakeney  and  Pete's  home  office  in  New  York.  Our  main  reason  has  been  that  the  last  time  we  drove  up  to  the  school,  Owen's  wife  Amy  and  Pete  had  an  awkward  exchange  of  firmly  held  views.  Last  Monday,  I  had  no  idea  Pete  was  here  until  he  called  me  from  Idlewild.  He  was  on  his  way  to  [REDACTED],  but  he  had  managed  to  work  in  a  brief  stop-  over.  When  I  offered  to  ask  Owen  down,  he  surprised  me  by  suggesting  that  we  drive  up  to  Blakeney  on  Tues-  day  morning.  &quot;It's  a  school  day,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Owen  might  not  be  able  to  get  away.  Let's  just  drop  in  on  him.&quot;  I  was  surprised  and  I  was  glad.  The  exchange  with  Amy  had  taken  place  years  ago,  after  all;  why  keep  the  awk-  wardness  going?  From  my  house,  it's  only  about  a  two-  hour  drive  to  Blakeney,  which  is  in  the  northwestern  corner  of  [REDACTED].  There  was  snow  on  the  roads  Tuesday  morning,  but  I  didn't  mind,  and  Pete  was  delighted;  they  don't  get  much  snow  in  Saudi  Arabia.  We  started  out  in  fine  spirits.  I  knew  Owen  would  be  happy  to  see  us,  happy  to  see  the  end  of  any  bad  feeling  he  may  have  grown  aware  of.  He  could  not  have  helped  but  notice  that  Pete  has  been  staying  away  from  the  school.  For  that  matter,  Amy  may  even  have  told  him  about  the  thing  that  happened  during  that  previous  visit.  It  hap-  pened  in  the  living  room,  while  he  was  out  in  the  kitchen.  Owen  was  out  there  washing  dishes-a  practice  that  his  father-in-law  and  predecessor  at  Blakeney  had  not  been  given  to.  True,  domestic  help  was  easier  to  get  during  the  late  Dr.  Todd's  incumbency.  Amy  has  had  to  do  with  just  a  cook,  a  maid,  and  the  part-time  services  of  the  school  gardener.  And  on  that  day,  because  of  circumstances  too  dull  to  go  into  (she  did,  I'm  afraid,  go  into  them  ),  both  domestics  were  off.  Amy  had  prepared  the  elaborate  dinner  her-  self,  and  prepared  it,  as  always,  superbly.  Pete  had  not  considered  the  hours  and  hours  it  had  taken  to  prepare  that  meal.  He  simply  noted  that  Owen  had  been  out  of  the  room  for  some  time,  and  he  said,  &quot;Where's  our  host?&quot;  &quot;He's  in  the  kitchen,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;When  I  do  the  cooking,  he  insists  on  washing  the  dishes.&quot;  At  that  point,as  Pete  later  told  me,  he  thought,  What  the  hell.  He  had  not  seen  Owen  for  almost  a  year,  they  had  things  to  talk  about,  and  here  Owen  was  out  in  the  kitchen  washing  dishes.  He  said,  &quot;I  bet  he  does.&quot;  &quot;Well,  as  it  happens,&quot;  Amy  said,  &quot;he  does  insist,  and  as  it  happens,  I  admire  him  for  it.  I'm  sorry  if  our  ways  are  not  Oriental  enough  for  your  taste,  Peter.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  they're  Oriental  enough,  my  pet.  In  reverse.&quot;  It  was  not  a  subject  Amy  cared  to  go  into.  She  said,  &quot;If  you  want  to  know  the  truth,  he's  in  the  kitchen  doing  the  dishes  because  he  loves  me.  Do  you  find  that  puzzling,  Peter?&quot;  &quot;Not  at  all.  I  used  to  be  in  love  with  you  myself.  So  was  Norm  here.  So  was  every  other  Blakeney  man  worth  his  salt.  In  fact,  to  prove  that  I  still  love  you  I'll  go  out  there  and  give  him  a  hand.&quot;  That  is  about  all  there  was  to  it.  Com-  pared  to  what  happened  last  Tuesday,  it  was  a  harmless  conversational  exchange  between  old  friends-though  after  Pete  had  taken  off  to  the  kitchen,  Amy  turned  to  me  and  said,  &quot;Norm,  why  does  he  detest  me  so?&quot;  And  I  of  course  said,  &quot;Nonsense.  He's  very  fond  of  you.&quot;  But  they  had  both  been  right-Pete  in  remarking  that  he  (and  I)  used  to  be  in  love  with  her,  and  she  in  concluding  that  his  sentiments  had  changed.  Pete  felt  about  her  as  he  had  once  felt  about  her  father,  Dr.  Todd,  who  for  more  years  than  either  of  us  cares  to  remem-  ber  had  acted  as  our  guardian  under  the  law.  Tuesday  morning,  if  I  had  stopped  to  think  about  how  Pete  felt,  we  would  never  have  started  off  in  the  car.  E  had  a  pleasant  drive.  Over  in  [REDACTED],  the  snow  got  heavi-  er,  and  Pete  spent  a  lot  of  time  just  look-  ing  out  of  the  window.  Suddenly  he  said,  &quot;Last  month,  did  you  get  a  letter  from  Amy?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;I  did.  It  sounded  like  something  that  might  have  gone  out  to  a  lot  of  other  old  grads.  She  wanted  to  know  if  I'd  care  to  contribute  to  the  Blakeney  Field  House  Fund.  A  project  that  had  been  close  to  her  father's  heart.  She  enclosed  a  snapshot  of  me  in  football  uniform.  To  awaken  nostalgia.  To  loosen  the  flood-  gates  of  memory  and  maybe  the  knot  in  the  old  purse  strings.  She  said  she  found  the  picture  in  her  father's  favorite  book,  a  collection  of  Rudyard  Kipling's  verse.  Funny  you  didn't  get  a  letter.&quot;  &quot;I've  been  approached  in  person.&quot;  &quot;So  now  shehas  taken  over  fund-  raising,  too.  Has  she  left  Owen  any  of  the  headmaster's  functions?&quot;  &quot;He  still  handles  the  disciplinary  cases.  He  looks  up  at  the  ceiling,  just  as  he  used  to  with  us,  and  says,  'I  wish  you  hadn't  done  that.&quot;  The  boys  like  him.&quot;  &quot;You  know,  that  last  time  we  were  up  there?&quot;  Pete  said.  &quot;It  wasn't  only  the  dishwashing.  I  watched  her  order  him  around  exactly  the  way  Todd  used  to.  Owen,  do  this.  Owen,  fetch  that.  Owen,  will  you  be  sure  to  tell  Harris  he  can't  leave  for  two  days  after  vaca-  tion  starts.  ...  Why  does  he  put  up  with  it?&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  think  he's  putting  up  with  anything.  On  their  fifteenth  an-  niversary,  he  told  me  he  still  couldn't  understand  how  he  rated  a  girl  like  that.&quot;  &quot;Todd  knew--he  must  have  known-he  was  leav-  ing  the  school  not  to  Owen  but  to  her.  He  couldn't  make  her  headmaster,  so  he  didthe  next  best  thing.&quot;  &quot;Look,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Owen's  no  good  at  raising  funds.  She  is.  Owen  doesn't  shine  at  tea  with  well-heeled  par-  ents  and  alumni.  She  does.  It  works  out  fine.  Really  it  does.&quot;  Pete  laughed,  not  too  " b"heartily.  &quot;Teal&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tea  with  Dr.  Todd  and  his  beautiful  daughter.  Ah,  those  literary  teas.  In  sixth  form,  do  you  remember  her  reading  'Gareth  and  Lynette  to  us?&quot;  &quot;Distinctly.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  remember  the  poem?&quot;  &quot;Vaguely.&quot;  &quot;It  describes  the-from  her  point  of  view-perfect  man-woman  arrange-  ment:  'Lead,  damsel,  and  I  follow.&quot;  Do  you  suppose  she  still  reads  it  to  susceptible  Blakeney  men?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  I  can  tell  you  they  still  think  she's  wonderful,  So  does  Owen.  He  told  me  that  when  he  had  virus  pneumonia  she  stayed  up  with  him  for  sixty  hours  at  a  stretch.&quot;  &quot;Safeguarding  her  property,&quot;  Pete  said.  &quot;'You  be  agreeable  to  her.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'll  be  agreeable  to  her.  But  not  one  cent  forthe  Field  House.&quot;  As  we  crossed  the  Blakeney  town  line,  snow  started  coming  down  in  ear-  nest,  and  I  decided  to  stop  and  have  the  chains  put  on.  We  pulled  into  a  service  station  just  off  theVillage  Common.  It  was  one  o'clock  and  we  were  hungry.  Amy,  I  recalled,  was  not  fond  of  having  people  drop  in  unexpectedly  for  lunch;  when  she  served  a  meal,  she  liked  to  do  it  well.  We  decided  to  have  a  sandwich  at  the  Acme  Diner  while  the  station  at-  tendant  was  fussing  with  the  chains.  As  boys,  we  had  often  supplemented  Dr.  Todd's  rations  at  the  Acme.  On  Sundays,  a  dozen  or  more  of  us  could  be  found  illegally  drinking  malteds  there,  with  the  result  that  some  faculty  wit  referred  to  theplace  as  the  Acne.  The  old  diner  had  recently  been  reno-  vated.  Through  the  new  picture  win-  dows  you  could  see,  among  other  sights,  the  Presbyterian  Church,  the  bank,  the  movie  house,  the  Civil  War  obelisk.  Snow  did  things  for  Blakeney,  as  it  will  for  any  town.  We  were  well  into  our  sandwiches  when  Pete,  his  eves  wide  open,  said,  &quot;Look.&quot;  Across  the  street,  Owen  was  buying  a  ticket  to  the  movie.  He  pocketed  his  change  and  went  in.  Pete  said,  &quot;W  hat  an  odd  thing  for  the  Head  of  Blakeney  to  be  doing  in  the  middle  of  a  school  day.  What's  play-  ing-some  notable  film?&quot;  The  title  on  the  marquee  could  be-  long  only  to  some  particularly  imbecile  horse  opera.  &quot;Unheard  of,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  un-  derstand  it.  Owen  goes  for  years  with-  out  seeing  a  movie.  He  doesn't  even  go  to  plays  or  watch  TV.&quot;  &quot;At  least  we  know  he's  in  town.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  he'safter  some  boy  playing  hooky.&quot;  &quot;Then  why  would  he  pay  for  his  ticket?&quot;  &quot;He  didn't  want  the  girl  at  the  win-  dow  to  see  a  Blakeney  man  disgraced.&quot;  &quot;Why  didn't  he  send  one  of  the  masters?&quot;  Maybe  he  wants  to  handle  it  his  own  way.  You  remember:  'I  wish  you  hadn't  done  that.'  &quot;  &quot;What  do  we  do-wait  till  they  come  out?&quot;  &quot;I  guess  so.&quot;  We  finished  our  sandwiches  and  lin-  gered  awhile  over  coffee. &quot;You  get  him  out  of  there,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'll  pick  up  the  car.&quot;  All  the  way  to  the  serv-  ice  station,  I  wondered  about  Owen.  As  Pete  had  said,  it  was  an  odd  thing  for  the  Head  of  Blakeney  to  be  doing  in  the  middle  of  a  school  day;  an  odd  thing  for  Owen  to  be  doing  at  any  time.  The  attendant  had  sup-  posed  Pete  and  I  would  be  away  longer,  so  he  had  stopped  working  on  my  chains  to  do  something  else.  I  was  waiting  for  him  to  get  through  when  Pete  and  Owen  came  up.  There  was  no  truant  Blakeney  boy  in  sight.  I  asked  Owen  what  he  had  been  doing  in  the  movie,  and  he  said,  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  I  must  have  raised  an  eye-  brow,  because  he  repeated,  &quot;Nothing.  What  do  people  do  in  movies?  Norm,  it's  a  joy  to  see  you  up  here.  I  wish  you'd  come  more  often.  Don't  wait  for  this  tramp  to  kidnap  you.&quot;  The  tramp  stood  there  looking  curi-  ously  abstracted  and  more  like  Owen's  son  than  his  brother.  Pete  is  as  powerful  as  ever,  and  he  moves  like  a  young  man,  while  Owen  looks  used  up,  diminished  in  some  way.  The  two  of  them  got  into  Owen's  car,  and  I  followed  them  out  to  the  school.  STILL  can't  approach  the  buildings  of  Blakeney  without  having  to  tell  myself  that  everything  is  going  to  be  all  right,  Todd  can't  do  a  thing  to  me  any  more,  not  a  single  damn  thing.  He  can't  turn  up  in  an  unlikely  place  and  say,  &quot;Byrne,  report  to  my  office  at  four.&quot;  He  can't  put  his  hand  on  my  shoulder  and  leave  it  there  until  my  joints  nearly  buckle  under  its  inconceivable  weight.  He  can  no  longer  point  out  what  Theo-  dore  Roosevelt  would  have  done  if  he'd  been  me,  and  he  can't  quote  Rudyard  Kipling:  &quot;If  you  hit  a  pony  over  the  nose  at  the  outset  of  your  acquaintance,  he  may  not  love  you,  but  he  will  take  a  deep  interest  in  your  movements  ever  afterward.&quot;  And  best  of  all,  he  cannot  talk  to  Pete  or  me  about  what  we  owe  to  the  sacred  memory  of  the  parents  who  brought  us  into  this  world.  Our  parents  died  within  a  few  weeks  of  each  other,  the  fall  I  was  thirteen,  Pete  twelve,  and  Owen  in  his  first  year  of  graduate  study  at  Harvard.  Our  father  had  been  at  Harvard,  too,  and  so  had  Jonathan  Todd.  They  were  " b"classmates  and  good  friends.  There  were  no  relatives  to  take  us  in;  nothing  could  have  been  more  natural  than  for  our  father  to  entrust  our  care  and  edu-  cation  to  the  highly  regarded  Head-  master  of  Blakeney.  There  was  a  slight  hitch.  The  income  from  our  parents'  estate  covered  only  about  two-thirds  of  our  board  and  tui-  tion,  and  Dr.  Todd  was  [REDACTED]  enough  not  to  monkey  with  capital.  What  he  did  was  force  Owen  to  quit  [REDACTED]  and  takea  job  teaching  English  at  Blakeney.  Pete  and  I  found  out  only  many  years  later  that  the  remaining  third  of  our  keep  had  been  regularly  de-  ducted  from  Owen's  minute  salary.  I  wish  Owen  had  let  us  know  about  the  arrangement;  the  knowledge  might  have  liberated  Pete  and  me  from  the  sense  of  being  recipients  of  unexampled  largess.  I  also  wish  I  knew  how  Dr.  Todd,  without  ever  in  set  terms  laying  claim  to  our  gratitude,  managed  to  sad-  dle  us  with  all  its  burdens.  On  second  thought,  I  do  too  know.  Making  boys  of  twelve  and  thirteen  feel  unworthy-  why,  it's  like  rolling  off  a  log.  Prying  Owen  loose  from  [REDACTED]  must  have  been  a  lot  harder.  It  was  the  year  of  Owen's  most  pro-  found  immersion  in  Chaucer.  As  a  senior  he  had  taken  the  Chaucer  course  then  given  by  Professors  Robinson  and  Kittredge,  and  he  had  gone  back  avidly  for  more.  His  wild  and  passionate  dream  was  to  translate  the  whole  of  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  Tales&quot;  into  modern  colloquial  English.  That  dream  stayed  with  him,  no  longer  wild  or  passionate  but  there,  until,  after  a  quarter  of  a  century,  the  job  was  done  by  someone  else.  Still,  it  must  have  taken  some  high-octane  bully-  ing  to  make  Owen  see  his  Duty,  for  at  that  moment  he  loved  Chaucer,  Kittredge,  and  Robinson  much  more  than  he  loved  his  irrelevant  young  brothers.  But  he  showed  up  at  our  school  all  right,  lanky,  stooped,  his  Adam's  apple  pro-  truding-a  cartoonist's  ver-  sion  of  a  scholar,  except  that  he  didn't  wear  glasses.  And  he  was  gentle  and  good  to  us.  Owen  was  an  able  teacher  of  English.  I  have  it  on  fair  authority  that  he  might  have  become  a  distinguished  one  if  Dr.  Todd  had  let  him  stayat  it.  But  the  Doctor  had  dis-  covered  that  Owen  had  a  tal-  ent  for  attending  to  detail,  and  talents  of  that  sort  were  not  permitted  to  lie  fallow  at  Blakeney.  Owen  was  put  to  making  bed  checks  at  night,  enforcing  attendance  at  chapel,  examining  fingernails  for  dirt,  chatting  with  the  parents  of  scholarship  students  at  major  social  functions,  see-  ing  to  it  that  transcripts  of  records  were  sent  out;  he  became  a  sort  of  facto-  tum.  He  worked  all  day,  every  day,  and  through  most  of  the  evenings.  Yet  he  had  to  be  up  at  six  and  taking  his  cold  shower  along  with  the  rest  of  us.  Theodore  Roosevelt  had  always  taken  a  cold  shower  at  six  in  the  morning,  Dr.  Todd  said,  and  so  had  King  Agesilaus  of  Sparta,  and  so  had  Bo  Pratt,  Harvard  '91.  Next  to  Pudge  Heffelfinger,  also  '91  but  Yale,  Bo  Pratt  had  been  the  greatest  football  player  since  the  dawn  of  time.  Football  was  important  at  Blake-  ney-more  important  than,  say,  rowing  at  Kent  School  under  Father  Sill,  Noth-  ing  less  than  an  undefeated  season  would  do,  and  those  were  hard  to  come  by  in  our  league.  We  never  did  make  it,  though  once  we  came  close,  and  that  was  something  of  amiracle,  be-  cause  Dr.  Todd  coached  us  himself,  and  he  had  very  little  knowledge  of  the  game.  What  the  Doctor  lacked  in  knowl-  edge,  he  nearly  made  up  in  fervor.  Blakeney  boys  have  goneon  to  play  elsewhere,  but  I  have  yet  to  meet  one  who  will  profess  to  have  heard  the  Doc-  tor's  equal  as  an  orator  between  the  halves.  It  was  not  just  that  he  drove  us  as  a  team;  he  could  look  at  a  player,  any  player,  and  infallibly  say  the  one  thing  that  would  make  that  boy  want  to  go  out  there  and  break  somebody's  collar-  bone.  He  could  do  that  even  to  those  of  us  who  hated  his  guts.  Pete  and  I  heard  him  make  his  Heffelfinger  Speech  two  years  in  a  row,  and  the  second  time  was  still  more  effective  than  the  first,  for  by  then  he  had  his  two  matchless  props-his  wheelchair  and  his  Amy.  The  Doctor  was  no  longer  coaching  us  that  year.  His  wife  had  died,  he  had  had  a  stroke,  and  Amy  had  come  down  from  Mount  Holyokc  to  look  after  him.  She  was  beautiful,beautiful,  stricken,  brave,  and  the  only  girl  within  miles.  When  she  poured  tea,  a  man  needed  both  hands  to  keep  the  cup  from  spilling.  In  a  voice  like  the  sounds  of  violins  and  cellos,  she  read  &quot;Gareth  and  Lynette&quot;  to  us.  She  worshipped  her  father  and  we  worshipped  her.  As  the  door  slowly  opened  and  Amy  Todd,  in  white,  pushed  the  wheelchair  into  that  stinking  locker  room,  I  caught  my  breath  and  I  could  hear  Pete,  on  the  bench  next  to  me,  catch  his.  The  Doctor  let  his  head  hang,  then  raised  it  abruptly,  in  the  manner  he  had  learned  from  Lionel  Barrymore.  &quot;Gentlemen,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;toward  the  end  of  the  second  quarter,  there  was  a  tackle  that  could  have  been  made  by-  I  will  not  name  names.  The  man  who  could  have  made  it  knows  whom  I  mean.  But  your  coach  has  undoubtedly  analyzed  the  game  for  you  better  than     " b"I  can.  Yes-better.  I  will  not  try  to  duplicate  his  efforts.  All  T'd  like  to  do  is  tell  you,  if  I  may,  of  a  little  incident  that  took  placea  long,  long  time  ago,  before  you  were  born.  It  happened  be-  fore  the  eyes  of  many  thousands  of  peo-  ple,  yet  not  a  one  of  them  saw  it,  be-  cause  it  happened  in  here.&quot;  Dr.  Todd  tapped  the  left  side  of  his  chest  with  his  good  hand.  &quot;In  here,&quot;  he  said  again,  and  paused.  &quot;We  were  playing  Yale,  and  that  was  one  ofthe  years  Yale  had-Yale  was-Pudge  Heffelfinger.  I  don't  know  how  much  you  have  read  or  heard  about  him.  No  one  who  has  not  actually  played  against  Pudge  could  ever  do  him  justice.  Of  all  the  millions  upon  millions  of  men  and  boys  who  have  engaged  in  this  magnifi-  cent  old  game,  he  was  the  greatest.  T  wo  hundred  and  forty  pounds  of-  bone  and  muscle,  some  have  said,  but  don't  you  believe  it.  There  was  no  muscle  there.  Just  bone,  solid  bone.&quot;  He  allowed  a  rueful  smile  to  come  and  go.  &quot;I  went  up  against  that  bone  half  a  dozen  times  in  the  first  half-  all  one  hundred  and  sixty  pounds  of  me.  And  gentlemen,  he  just  shook  me  off,  shook  me  off  as  you  would  a  pesky  first-  former.  It  was  no  disgrace.  He'd  done  it  before,  and  he'd  continue  to  do  it,  to  bigger  and  better  men  than  I.  But  in  the  third  quarter  something  hap-  pened.  Pudge  had  picked  up  a  Harvard  fumble  on  his  own  twenty-yard  line.  He  broke  loose.  There  was  no  one  be-  tween  him  and  a  touchdown  except  the  safety  man-Todd.  And  I  was  scared.  Scared  of  being  hurt.  Scared  of  the  responsibility.  No,  I  don't  mind  telling  you.  I  was  so  scared  I  could  taste  the  fear  as  it  rose  from  the  pit  of  my  stom-  ach,  and  the  day  turned  dark,  as  though  the  sun  had  been  eclipsed.  Oh,  I  was  thinking  clearly.  Heffelfinger  was  a  fast  man,  for  all  his  size,  and  if  I  came  at  him  from  the  wrong  angle,  I  knew  I  could  make  it  look  as  if  I'd  tried  and  missed.  Even  as  I  ran,  I  considered  that.  But  something-not  my  mind-  made  me  go  straight  at  him.  It  wasn't  a  good  tackle.  I  hit  him  too  high.  He  ran  along  for  I  don't  know  how  many  yards  with  me  trailing  from  him  like  a  ribbon  in  the  wind.  It  felt  as  though  my  arms  were  being  shaken  loose  from  their  sockets,as  though  my  head  were  being  twisted  off  my  neck.  I  couldn't  bring  him  down,  but  apparently  I  slowed  him  up  enough  for  Bo  Pratt  to  move  in  and  force  him  out  of  bounds.  No  touchdown.  So  then  what?  So  then  we  lost  the  game.  There  was  no  holding  Pudge.  Yale  beat  us  six  to  nothing.  But  Yale's  was  not  the  only  victory  achieved  that  afternoon.  I'd  won  a  victory  of my  own,  one  that  no  one  could  see,  be-  cause  it  happened  inside  me-a  victory  over  fear,  a  victory  over  myself.  And  gentlemen,  if  ever  I  stand  up  again  and  walk  away  from  this  wheelchair,  it  will  be  as  nothing  compared  to  that  victory.  Whether  you  beat  Hotchkiss  or  not  to-  day-it  doesn't  matter.  What  would  make  me  proud-prouder  than  I  can  say-is  if  each  and  every  one  of  you  went  back  for  this  next  half  and  won  a  private  little  victory-over  himself.  Amy-if  you  please.&quot;  Amy  wheeled  the  chair  around  and  pushed  it  toward  the  door.  At  the  door,  she  turned  her  head  and  smiled  at  us,  and  we  went  out  for  the  third  quarter,  and  in  the  first  few  minutes  there  was  a  Hotchkiss  boy  carried  off  the  field  on  a  stretcher.  Wheelchair  and  all,  Dr.  Todd  made  the  trip  to  Harvard  at  least  once  a  sea-  son.  He  inaugurated  a  series  of  Blakeney  reunions  in  [REDACTED]  the  year  I  was  a  sophomore  there  and  Pete  a  freshman.  Why  we  attended  them,  I  shall  never know.  Surely  not  to  drink  the  modest  quantity  of  beer  that  was  offered,  nor  for  Owen's  sake.  We  were,  in  fact,  try-  ing  to  prevail  on  Owen  to  leave  Blake-  ney  and  return  to  [REDACTED]  and  his  Chaucer.  We  had  not  been  given  any  hint  of  his  interest  in  Amy.  When  I  once  asked  Pete  what  sort  of  wife  he  thought  Owen  might  come  up  with,  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  some  Radcliffe  girl  who  majored  in  Middle  English.&quot;  Much  as  we  loved  and  admired  Owen,  we  recog-  -  nized  that  there  had  to  be  a  sensible  limit  to  his  aspirations.  Amy  we  saw  as  the  probable  choice  of  the  then  still  un-  married  Prince  of  [REDACTED].  The  first  hint  was  dropped  by  the  Doctor  himself  at  the  second  of  those  Blakeney  reunions.  While  celebrating  Pete's  exploits  in  the  game  that  after-  noon,  he  said  he  would  be  proud-yes,  proud-to  be  related-one  of  these  days-to  that  boy-if  only  by  marriage.  Pete  had  atoned  for  my  having  been  bounced  off  the  squad  earlier  in  the  season.  We  phoned  Owen  at  once,  and  he  confirmed  it.  He  thought  we  had  al-  ready  received  his  letter  announcing  the  engagement.  And  for  the  first  time  I  heard  him  say  what  he  was  to  say  again  on  his  fifteenth  anniversary  and  so  many  other  occasions:  '&quot;'Norm,  I  just  don't  know  how  Irate  a  girl  like  that.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cPETE!\xe2\x80\x9d  Amy  said.  &quot;You  couldn't  have  thought  up  anything  nicer!&quot;  She  held  her  cheek  out  to  each  of  us  in  turn,.  At  forty-eight  or  nine  she  is  still  beautiful,  and  that  beautiful  low  voice  has  hardly  changed.  Owen  took  our  coats,  and  sheled  us  into  the  living  room.  She  had  long  ago  thrown  out  all  of  Mrs.  Todd's  oppres-  sive  junk,  and  it  is  now  a  room  that  " b"a  boy  can  sit  down  in  without  feeling  that  another  boy's  stiff  body  may  at  any  moment  tum-  ble  out  from  behind  the  heavy  draperies.  &quot;You're  all  icy  cold,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Come  over  here  by  the  fire.&quot;  She  wanted  to  know  all  about  Pete's  wife  and  his  boys.  Did  he  have  any  pictures  of  them?  Pete  said  he  had  some  pic-  tures  in  his  wallet.  &quot;Do  you  really  want  to  see  them?&quot;  he  asked  doubtfully.  &quot;Of  course  we  want  to  see  them,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;Hand  them  over.&quot;  We  passed  the  pictures  around.  &quot;The  boys,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;How  handsome  they  are,  and  how  jolly.  And  how  absolute-  ly  Byrne.  ...  Can't  I  please  have  copies  of  these?  I  want  to  be  able  to  show  off  my  two  nephews.&quot;  &quot;Sure.  negatives.&quot;  &quot;Good.  Then  you'll  have  to  write.  I  promise  to  make  Owen  write  you,  too,  and  next  time  we  won't  ask  for  money.  That  wasn't  very  civilized  of  me  any  way.&quot;  Owen  threw  a  birch  log  on  the  fire,  and  we  watched  it  blaze.  &quot;All  that  snow  out  there,&quot;  Pete  said,  &quot;and  a  log  fire.  There  isn't  a  real  fire-  place  in  all  of  Saudi  Arabia.  Why  build  a  field  house?  Put  a  fireplace  in  every  classroom.  That  I'll  contribute  to.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  thought,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  we'd  have  to  do  some  tall  explaining  to  the  good  people  I've  badgered  for  the  other  project.  Pete,  we're  actually  within  about  a  hundred  thousand  dollars  of  the  architect's  estimate.  My  only  regret  is  that  Father  hasn't  lived  to  see  his  dream  come  true.&quot;  She  told  us  she  had  been  working  on  a  brochure  designed  to  bring  in  that  re-  maining  hundred  thousand,  and  she  showed  us  the  galley  proofs  and  illus-  trations.  It  was  going  to  be  an  impres-  sive  structure  all  right,  with  no  end  of  facilities.  &quot;We've  already  had  pledges  from  the  few  people  who've  read  this,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  we  go  over  the  hundred  thou-  sand,  and  if  the  donors  are  willing,  we're  going  to  earmark  the  surplus  for  Owen's  pet  scheme-a  new  wing  to  the  library.&quot;  Owen  said,  &quot;She  wrote  every  line  of  that  brochure  herself.  A  man  who  read  it,  the  head  of  a  professional  fund-rais-ing  agency,  said  it  was  the  best  he'd  ever  seen.&quot;  &quot;All  I  tried  to  do  was  remember  some  of  the  things  Father  had  said.  After  that,  it  was  just  a  matter  of  the  pictures  and  the  layout.&quot;  I  was  relieved  to  see  Petekeep  his  promise  about  being  agreeable.  There  was  not  a  trace  of  resentment  in  his  manner.  He  talked  as  easily  with  Amy  as  with  Owen,  and  we  had  cheerful,  aimless  conversation  about  oil  in  the  [REDACTED],  and  other  things,  for  perhaps  half  an  hour.  Amy  grew  animated  about  the  possibilities  of  space  travel.  &quot;Think  of  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  whole  universe,  waiting  to  be  explored.  I  look  at  some  grubby  little  boy,  who  may  not  be  doing  any  toowell  in  history-but  he  may  be  the  [REDACTED],  the  Magellan  of  Saturn.  It's  enough  to  lift  the  top  of  your  head  off.&quot;  &quot;You've  seen  one  planet,  you've  seen  them  all,&quot;  said  Pete.  He  said  it  pleasant-  ly,  and  Amy  smiled.  He  started  to  tell  us  about  the  reign-  ing  family  of  [REDACTED].  The  sheik  had  an  income  of  nearly  a  million  dollars  a  day  and  some  ingenious  ways  of  spending  it.  Amy  asked  if  the  family  had  any  boys  of  Blakeney  age,  but  before  Pete  had  a  chance  to  answer,  Dorie,  who  is  nine,  burst  in  through  the  front  door.  She  was  howling.  On  her  way  back  from school  she  had  been  accosted,  we  gath-  ered,  by  a  couple  of  second-formers  ([REDACTED]?  Magellan?  ),  and  they  had  shoved  a  snowball  down  her  back.  She  stamped  her  foot  and  howled  and  sobbed.  &quot;I  hate  them!&quot;  she  shouted.  &quot;Dirty  rats,  I  hate  them!  And  they  hate  me.  They  all  hate  me.&quot;  &quot;No,  they  don't,&quot;  Owen  said.  &quot;They  hate  me,  they  hate  me.  And  I  hate  them.  I'm  going  right  over  to  the  cafeteria  kitchen  and  spit  in  their  milk.  I  did  it  last  week,  and  I'm  going  to  do  it  again.&quot;  &quot;No,  you  won't,&quot;  Owen  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  will.  You  don't  do  anything  to  them.  They  shove  a  snowball  down  my  back,  and  you  don't  do  anything.  I  could  catch  pneumonia.  I'm  going  to  spit  in  their  cream  and  their  soup,  and  I'm  going  to  spill  ink  in  their  lockers.&quot;  She  kicked  the  leather  hassock,  and  screamed.  It  was  not  the  first  time  I  had  seen  her  behave  like  that.  She  is  a  very  sour  little  girl.  Amy  nodded  to  Owen.  He  stood  up  and  led  Dorie  out  to  the  hall.  He  helped  to  remove  some  of  her  clothes,  and  I  heard  him  say  it  could  not  have  been  much  of  a  snowball,  he  could  feel  no  moisture  at  all.  Amy  tried  to  guide  the  talk  back  to  [REDACTED]  and  its  potential  " b"Blakeney  candidate,  but  Dorie  kept  howling.  Owen  had  to  take  her  upstairs.  He  came  down  in  a  minute  or  two,  and  we  went  on  talking.  At  four-thirty,  a  maid  in  black  uniform  brought  in  the  tea  tray.  Dorie  came  back,  looking  as  though  she  were  going  to  spit  in  our  cream,  too.  Owen  talked  a  little  about  the  diffi-  culty  of  finding  good  young  teachers.  Then  Amy,  during  apause,  asked  us  to  stay  for  dinner.  I  was  on  the  point  of  accepting  when  Pete  said  he  was  sorry,  we  had  to  start  back  soon.  So  I  knew  something  had  gone  wrong.  Earlier,  Pete  had  told  me  it  did  not  matter  how  late  we  got  home.  I  looked  at  him,  but  I  could  not  catch  his  eye.  He  got  up  and  moved  over  to  the  open  secretary  while  Amy  poured  me  another  cup  of  tea.  Standingby  the  secretary,  Pete  glanced  at  the  architect's  sketch  that  was  to  serve  as  cover  to  the  brochure  Amy  had  been  working  on.  He  said,  &quot;I  see  you're  going  to  call  it  the  Jonathan  Todd  Memorial  Field  House.  Why  not  the  Amy  Todd  Field  House?  You raised  more  of  the  money  than  he  did.&quot;  Amy  laughed.  She  took  pleasure  in  having  her  efforts  acknowledged.  She  said,  &quot;I  can  just  see  some  of  our  two-  hundred-pound  brutes  running  through  signals  in  something  called  the  Amy.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?  You've  played  as  much  football  as  your  father.&quot;  &quot;I  have?&quot;  she  said,  baffled.  &quot;I  don't  remember  a  Mount  Holyoke  team  while  I  was  there.&quot;  &quot;Harvard,  on  the  other  hand,&quot;  said  Pete,  &quot;fielded  some  pretty  good  ones  from  '88  to  '91.  But  your  father  never  played  on  any  of  them.&quot;  &quot;Why,  of  course  he  did.  You  know  that.&quot;  &quot;On  the  contrary.  In  my  sophomore  year  I  came  across  the  pictures  of  those  teams,  at  the  Varsity  Club.  I  couldn't  find  your  father  onany  of  them.  Nei-  ther  could  Norm.  We  looked  it  up  in  the  records,  and  there  was  no  mention  of  him  anywhere.  Thenwe  checked  with  Professor  Hollister,  who  had  not  only  played  all  four  of  those  years  but  had  known  your  father  well,  both  as  an  undergraduate  and  later.  He  just  roared.  'Jonathan?'  he  said.  'Jonathan  never  came  near  to  carrying  a  water  bucket.  I  doubt  if  he  ever  sew  a  game.'  Which  makes  that  story  about  tackling  Pudge  Heffelfinger  all  the  more  re-  markable.  ..  .  IfI  were  you,  I  think  d  drop  the  word  Memorial.&quot;  &quot;  As  Pete  was  talking,  Amy's  social  face  vanished  by  perceptible  degrees.  When  he  stopped,  she  said,  in  a  voice  that  may  have  been  familiar  to  Owen  but  was  not  to  me,  &quot;I  hope  none  of  this  is  meant  to  be  taken  seriously.&quot;  She  looked  at  me.  &quot;Oh,  it  doesn't  mean  a  thing,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Most  men  tell  whoppers  about  their  prowess  as  young  athletes.  You  know  how  highly  your  father  thought  of  Theodore  Roosevelt.  Well,  Roose-  velt  claimed  he'd  been  boxing  champion  in  his  weight  class  at  Harvard,  when  he  was  nothing  of  the  kind.  It's  in  Pringle's  biography.  ..  .&quot;  Amy  said,  &quot;Dorie,  go  upstairs  to  your  room.&quot;  It  was  plain  that  at  least  Dorie  had  " b"heard  that  voice  before.  She  left  im-  mediately,  without  a  word.  &quot;I  don't  care  about  Theodore  Roose-  velt,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;I  do  care  about  my  father.  If  he  said  he  played  for  Harvard,  he  played  for  Harvard.  If  he  said  he  tackled  Mr.  Heffelfinger,  he  tackled  Mr.  Heffelfinger.&quot;  &quot;'That  he  didn't,&quot;  Pete  said,  smiling,  &quot;that  he  didn't.  What  makes  it  still  more  remarkable  is  that  he  was  able  to  put  the  story  over  not  only  with  his  unsuspecting  daughter  and  students  but  with  Amos  [REDACTED]  Stagg.  I  heard  him  tell  it  to  Stagg  the  afternoon  of  the  Yale  game  in  my  junior  year.  To  Amos  [REDACTED]  Stagg,  who  was  at  Yale  in  '88.  The  two  of  them  talked  '88  football  together-and  without  a  single  false  note  on  the  Doctor's  part.  Tremendous  performance.  Pd  tackle  a  whole  squad  of  Heffelfingers  before  d  try  anything  like  that.&quot;  She  stood  up.  &quot;What  you're  saying  is  that  my  father  was  a  fraud  and  a  liar.&quot;  &quot;Mmm,  not  in  so  many  words.  What  I  said  was  that  your  father  never  played  football  for  Harvard,  and  since  he  did  not  attend  any  other  college,  his  oppor-  tunities  for  tackling  Pudge  Heffelfinger  were-  well,  limited.&quot;  Amy  turned  to  me.  &quot;Do  you  agree  with  what  Peter  just  said?&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  there  when  your  father  talked  with  Stagg.  But  I  know  that  he  never  played  for  Harvard.&quot;  &quot;And  you,  Owen  ing  to  do  about  it?&quot;  &quot;Do  about  what?&quot;  &quot;Are  you  going  to  sit  there  while  the  two  of  them  call  my  father  a  fraud  and  a  liar?&quot;  &quot;My  dear,there  is  no  reason  to  take  this  so  hard.,  If  Professor  Hollister  told-&quot;  She  cut  in,  her  voice  an  octave  high-  er:  &quot;Professor  Hollister  is  dead.  My  father  is  dead.  If  he  weren't,  they  wouldn't  dare  to  say  these  things.  They  hadn't  the  courage  to  say  them  to  a  crippled  old  man,  but  you'll  sit  there  while  they  say  them  to  me,.  Very  well.  Sit  there.  It's  your  chair,  though  it     what  are  you  go-     hasn't  always  been.  But  I  won't  stand  here  and  listen  to  them  defame  the  memory  ofa  great  man.  A  great  man  to  whom  they  owe  everything.&quot;  She  ran  out  of  the  room,  and  we  could  hear  the  quick  sound  of  her  heels  on  the  stairs.  Owen  looked  miserable.  &quot;Wait,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Wait  here.  I'll  be  right  down.&quot;  Pete  and  I  listened  to  his  steps,  much  slower  than  Amy's,  the  careful  steps  of  an  elderly  man  going  up  a  flight  of  stairs.  &quot;The  former  Miss  Todd,&quot;  Pete  said.  He  picked  a  shred  of  tobacco  off  the  secretary  and  placed  it  in  an  ashtray.  &quot;  'It's  your  chair,  though  it  hasn't  al-  ways  been.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Yes.  But  you  didn't  have  to  do  what  you  did,  either.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  not.&quot;  It  was  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  Owen  came  back.  &quot;This  should  never  have  happened,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know  you  didn't  mean  to-  Amy  is  terribly  upset  and  hurt.  In  a  way,  it's  probably  all  my  fault.  She  has  always  assumed  " b"that  both  of  you  liked  and  respected  her  father,  and  I  never  saw  any  point  in  tell-  ing  her  you  didn't.  So  it  came  as  a  shock.  What  are  you  standing  up  for?  You  don't  have  to  go  just  yet.  This  had  bet-  ter  be  straightened  out  before  you  do  g0\xe2\x80\x9833  &quot;I  think  it'd  be  better  all  around  if  Norm  and  I  took  off  now,&quot;  Pete  said.  &quot;I'll  be  up  from  [REDACTED]  in  three  weeks  at  the  most,  and  you  can  come  down  and  meet  me  at  Norm's  or  in  New  York.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you'd  stay.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  we  should,&quot;  I  said.  'You  come  to  my  place  when  Pete  gets  back,  and  leave  it  to  Amy  to  decide  whether  she  wants  to  come  or  not.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  to  think  of  you  making  the  drive  in  this  storm.&quot;  &quot;We  won't  have  any  trouble,  with  the  chains,&quot;  I  said.  When  we  had  our  coats  on,  Owen  once  more  urged  us  to  stay,  but  it  was  easy  to  see  that  his  thoughts  were  up-  stairs  with  Amy.  We  did  not  let  him  walk  us  to  the  car.  T  was  still  snowing  hard,  and  in  the  headlights  the  snow  looked  as  if  it  were  continually  exploding  upward  and  outward.  After  a  while  I  stopped  count-  ing  the  cars  that  had  been  stalled  or  abandoned.  If  it  had  occurred  to  either  ofus  to  turn  on  the  radio,  we  would  have  learned  that  the  snow  was  setting  some  kind  of  record  for  [REDACTED].  I  was  too  preoccupied  with  driving  to  be  more  than  intermittently  conscious  of  Pete's  silence.  When  he  did  speak,  he  said,  &quot;Did  you  notice  what  she  did  when  Dorie  came  in  crying?  She  nodded.  It  was  all  she  had  to  do.  And  Gareth  went  trudging  out  into  the  hall  to  clean  up  the  mess  so  that  Lynette  might  go  on  conversing  with  the  quality.&quot;  &quot;Was  that  what  got  you?&quot;  &quot;No,  what  got  me  was  the  movie.  I  found  him  in  the  back  row,  asleep.  It  seems  he's  been  going  in  there  every  now  and  then  to  catch  a  little  nap  in  the  middle  of  the  day.&quot;  &quot;But  why?&quot;  &quot;Ah.  He  wouldn't  tell  you,  would  he?  By  the  time  you  asked,  he  had  his  wits  about  him.  When  I  asked,  he  was  still  half  asleep,  and  he  mumbled  some-  thing  about  there  being  no  convenient  place  at  home.  At  least  fourteen  rooms  in  that  house,  the  child  at  school,  but  no  place  for  Owen  to  catch  a  nap.  Amy  doesn't  approve  of  naps  in  the  middle of  the  day.  Unmanly.  Oriental.  Corrupt.&quot;  &quot;Had  Owen  really  managed  to  fall  asleep  by  the  time  you  got  to  him?&quot;  &quot;With  his  head  thrown  back,&quot;  Pete  said,  &quot;and  his  mouth  wide  open.  Do  you  re-  member  that  large  pho-  tograph  of  Roosevelt  in  our  dorm,  with  the  in-  scription  under  it?  'I  wish  to  preach,  not  the  doctrine  of  ignoble  ease,  but  the  doctrine  of  the  strenuous  life.&quot;  You  just  don't  takea  nap  in  the  middle  of  the  day-not  with  a  Todd  on  the  premises.  Even  if  you're  fifty-odd  and  a  bit  tired.  It's  your  bed,  though  it  hasn't  always  been.  Let  us,  then,  be  up  and  do-  ing,  With  a  heart  for  any  fate;  Still  achiev-  ing,  still  pursuing,  Learn  to  labor  for  the  Jonathan  Todd  Me-  morial  Field  House.  There's  some  ice  form-  ing  in  this  corner  of  the  windshield.  We'd  bet-  ter  stop  and  scrape  it  off  before  it  spreads.&quot;  We  stopped  and  scraped  it  off,  Back  in  the  car,  it  was  warm  and  comfortable.  In  another  half  hour,  we  were  out  of  the  storm,  and  we  made  it  to  my  house  without  any  trouble.  While  we  were  having  our  pickup  supper,  the  children  came  down  and  settled  around  the  table.  They  never  pass  up  a  chance  to  be  with  Pete.  Watching  them  all  together,  I  thought  he  must  be  very  good  with  his  own  two  boys  in  Saudi  Arabia.  I  know  he  learned  some  ofthat  from  Owen,  who  had  been  gentle  and  good  to  us  during  the  years  when  we  needed  it."