 b"AS  the  crow  flies,  it  is  only  fourteen  miles  from  Medfield,  a  small  town  southwest  of  [REDACTED],  to  Waltham,  a  town  nearer  the  metropolis,  but  along  the  Charles  River,  in  its  me-  andering  course  between  the  two  towns,  the  distance  becomes  more  than  twenty-  five  miles.  Nearly  fifty  years  ago,  on  a  sparkling  February  day,  my  father  and  mother  and  a  friend  of  theirs  skated  this  distance  on  the  black,  glassy-smooth  ice  of  the  Charles,  Modern  rink  skating  has  its  attrac-  tions,  and,  as  a  member  of  a  [REDACTED]  skating  club,  I  confess  myself  a  devotee  of  figure  skating.  I  also  find  it  an  exhil-  arating  experience  to  dance  on  skates  to  music,  and  agreeable,  too,  to  observe  the  gaily  costumed  young  girls  in  our  club-  perfect  swarms  of  them-practicing  their  circles,  their  loops  and  brackets  and  counters,  their  spins  and  jumps.  But  as  I  listen  to  my  father  describe  that  bygone  event  on  the  Charles  River,  itis  hard  for  me  to  believe  that  there  has  ever  been  a  day  of  skating-and  of  wondrous  pleasure-exactly  like  that  one.  Of  the  three  participants,  only  my  fa-  ther  is  living.  &quot;I  can't  be  sure  of  the  exact  year,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;At  a  guess,  1908  or  1909,  though  I  could  be  wrong  by  a  year  or  two  either  way.  It  was  a  Saturday  in  February;  of  that  I'm  certain.  In  the  middle  of  the  week,  it  had  snowed  after  a  warm  spell.  Then  came  clearing  and  intense  cold,  and  it  looked  as  if  the  river  would  be  safely  frozen.&quot;  The  original  idea  of  the  project  was  actually  not  my  father's.  At  the  time  (I  was  a  small  child),  my  family  was  living  in  Dedham-another  Charles  River  town,  about  halfway  between  Medfield  and  Wal-  tham-and  a  family  friend,  Ned  Thorndike,  phoned  my  father  on  a  Friday  evening  during  the  cold  spell  and  made  the  sug-  gestion.  Predicting  perfect  weather  conditions  for  the  following  day,  he  pro-  posed  thatthe  three  of  them  start  at  a  point  as  far  up  the  riveras  possible  and  make  an  all-day  skate  of  it.  My  father  at  once  accepted  for  him-  self  but  expressed  doubt  about  being  able  to  persuade  my  mother.  Although  a  competent  skater,  she  was  cursed  with  a  circulation  that  seemed  to  come  to  a  halt  in  freezing  weather.  That  evening,  however,  he  finally  prevailed  upon  her,  and  after  breakfast  the  next  morning  the  three  of  them  took  the  trolley  from  Dedham  and  rode  inland  to  the  out-  skirts  of  Medfield.  They  arrived  about  ten  o'clock  at  apoint  not  far  from  where  the  Charles  first  becomes  wide  enough  to  be  called  a  river.  &quot;We  got  off  the  trolley,&quot;  my  father  recalls,  &quot;near  a  bridge  crossing  a  narrow  part  of  the  stream.  Broad  meadows  sur-  rounded  us,  with  rushes  standing  up  in  spots  through  the  snow.  The  day  was  clear,  cold,  absolutely  windless.  No  houses  in  sight,  no  other  people,  no  sounds-just  a  New  England  winter  morning.&quot;  HE  modern  shoe  skate  has  un-  \xe2\x82\xac  doubted  advantages  forfigure  |_  skaters,  hockey  players,  and  speed  ._  skaters,  and  even  for  the  casual  skaters  who  mill  around  a  local  pond  or  rink.  Butnone  of  the  trio  possessed  shoe  skates  at  the  time,  and  if  any  of  them  had,  such  skates  would  have  posed  problems.  If  you  plan  a  long  one-way  skate  with  shoe  skates,  you  have  the  alternative  of  being  encumbered  by  your  regular  walking  shoes  en  route  or  of  winding  up  the  day  with  the  unhappy  realization  that  your  walking  shoesare  some  dozens  of  miles  behind  you.  The  skates  of  my  parents  and  their  friend  were  the  detachable  variety  known  as  heelplate-a  type  I  remember  well,  because  the  first  skates  I  ever  owned  were  heelplates.  On  the  forward  part  of  each  skate  was  a  pair  of  clamps  that  could  be  tightened  by  a  key,  and  the  back  part  was  secured  by  an  oval  knob  on  thetop  of  the  skate  that  fitted  upward  into  a  metal  plate  set  in  the  hollowed-out  heel  of  the  shoe.  The  shoe,  of  course,  had  to  be  a  high  one  to  support  the  ankle.  With  their  skates  on,  and  my  mother  complaining  of  the  cold,  the  three  of  them  set.  off  with  cautious  strokes,  at  first  hugging  the  shoreline,  not  daring  to  trust  the  ice  over  the  deeper  water.  Since  the  snow  had  fallen  before  the  freeze  began,  the  ice  was  pure,  unmixed  with  snow  except  in  a  few  stretches  where  wind  had  driven  it  from  adjoining  fields  as  the  river  froze.  With  snow  on  either  side,  such  a  stream  takes  on  an  almost  pure-  black  hue,  and  virgin  ice  is  difficult  to  distinguish,  at  any  distance,  from  open  water.  Carefully,  the  trio  tested  the  ice  for  thickness,  and  gradually  ventured  nearer  the  center  of  the  river.  &quot;As  our  con\xef\xac\x81dence  increased,&quot;  my  father  says,  &quot;we  warmed  into  full  stride,  taking  longer,  bolder  strokes.  The  ice  everywhere,  it  was  now  apparent,  was  perfectly  safe,  so  now,  under  the  mount-" b"ing  sun,  we  could  take  notice  of  the  white  fields,  farmhouses  with  their  big  barns,  cattle  in  the  barnyards,  a  sleigh  mid-hillside  on  a  snowy  road.&quot;  HEY  were  now  well  under  way  on  the  long  skate-past  the  out-  skirts  of  Natick  and  Wellesley,  through  [REDACTED]  and  Needham-and  as  the  morning  progressed,  they  met  other  skaters:  groups  of  three  or  four;  a  father  pulling  his  young  daughter  on  a  sled;  small  boys  playing  impromptu  hockey  games.  &quot;At  some  especially  alluring  widen-  ing  of  the  river,&quot;  my  father  recalls,  &quot;perhaps  at  some  bend  where  trees  over-  hung  the  banks,  we  took  a  breather,  changing  from  long  forward  strokes  to  a  bit  of  'fancy'  work,  just  for  the  fun  of  making  a  few  patterns  on  an  unmarked  stretch  of  ice-a  grapevine,  a  circle  or  two.  We  worked  up  a  thirst,  you  can  be  sure,  even  on  that  frigid  morning,  and  I  remember  that  once  we  jabbed  holes  with  the  toes  of  our  skates  in  ice  near  the  shore,  and  then  lay  belly-down  and  drank  our  fill.&quot;  Dedham  came  next,  their  original  point  of  departure  on  the  trolley,  but  my  father  maintains  stoutly  that  none  of  the  three  hadany  thought  of  calling  it  aday.  On  they  went,  past  a  large  boathouse  where,  in  summer,  they  rent-  ed  canoes  and  paddled  on  the  lukewarm  Charles  against  a  background  green  in-  stead  of  white.  &quot;And  then,&quot;  my  father  says,  &quot;we  simultaneously  came  to  the  same  realiza-  tion-we  were  famished.  We  had  given  no  thought  to  the  food  problem,  not  be-  ing  sure  how  long  we'd  skate.  Bringing  lunch  along  would  have  been  unthink-  able;  we  didn't  want  to  be  burdened  with  anything.  But  now  our  slacken-  ing  pace  and  the  heavy  feeling  in  our  legs  indicated  that  something  should  be  done,  and  quickly.  It  was  almost  two  o'clock.  &quot;We  approached  a  small  cluster  of  houses  near  the  river.  It  seemed  possible  there  might  be  a  grocery  store  among  them,  so  we  took  off  our  skates  and  set  out  to  find  one.  I  can  still  recall  the  ef-  fort  needed  to  walk-the  sudden  change  from  the  flowing  skating  rhythm.  It  seemed  as  though  our  weight  had  doubled.&quot;  The  store  was  there.  They  lunched  on  crackers,  cheese,  and  milk,  rested  briefly,  and  then  set  out  again,  strength-  ened  inwardly  but,  as  my  father  remem-  bers,  with  legs  no  longer  fresh,  On  they  skated,  past  the  Newtons,  Wellesley  Farms,  Riverside,  Riverview.  &quot;As  the  sun  lowered  and  our  shadows  length-" b"ened  in  front  of  us,  we  began  to  think  of  the  long  miles  behind  and  to  wonder  what  was  around  the  next  bend.  There  was  no  end,  it  seemed,  to  that  wonder-  ful  ribbon  of  ice.&quot;  UT,  of  course,  there  was  an  end,  and  it  came  in  Waltham.  Below  that  point-toward  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]-ice  conditions  were  uncertain,  and  dusk  was  now  gathering.  At  Wal-  tham,  the  skaters  removed  their  skates  for  the  last  time,  and  then,  following  a  plan  they  had  already  decided  on,  head-  ed  for  the  railroad  depot,  their  skates  in  their  hands,  to  catch  a  train  for  [REDACTED].  At  thedepot,  there  was  a  considerable  wait,  my  father  recollects,  and  adds  that  it  was  a  miracle  they  didn't  miss  the  train,  what  with  the  drowsiness  brought  on  by  those  long  miles  of  skating  and  an  overheated  waiting  room.  A  somewhat  sleepy  ride  to  the  city  followed,  and  they  reached  it  with  one  thought  in  mind-  a  big  dinner  at  the  Parker  House.  I  accepted  this  turn  ofthe  story  with-  out  question  the  first  few  times  I  heard  it,  as  a  young  boy,  but  later  I  remem-  ber  raising  an  objection.  &quot;'The  Parker  House.  I  was  wondering-  I  mean,  if  you  were  just  wearing  old  skating  togs,  sweaters  and  things,  would  they  ...&quot;  My  father  laughed.  &quot;I'm  sure  we  were  no  fashion  plates-Mother  in  high  shoes  and  all-but,  whatever  we  had  on,  it  passed  muster;  of  that  I'm  dead  cer-  tain.  And  I'm  dead  certain  a  steak  never  tasted  as  grand  as  the  one  we  devoured  thatnight.  I  know  we  built  it  up  and  washed  it  down  with  other  worth-while  things,  but  I  remember  clearly  only  that  steak.  &quot;I  suppose  we  should  have  followed  this  up  by  taking  the  next  train  back  to  Dedham,  but  we  were  young  then  and  never  surrendered.  Instead,  we  saw  a  show.  What  show  it  was  I  don't  re-  member,  except  that  it  was  a  musical  and  that  in  it  was  a  song,  'By  the  Sas-  katchewan.'  It's  possible,  in  fact,  that  this  was  the  name  ofthe  show.&quot;  And  then  he  added,  a  bit  defiantly,  &quot;If  you  could  trace  that  song,  you'd  know  the  exact  year  of  that  wonderful  skate  in  theold  times  when  [REDACTED]  was  old  [REDACTED],  when  autos  didn't  clog  its  streets,  and  when  people  still  had  legs  and  used  them.&quot; "