 b"THE  droughts  in  [REDACTED]  are  known  by  year  names,  like  vin-  tage  wines.  It  was  in  the  Great  Drought  of  1927  that  my  second  cousin  Rob  Mclnstrie  took  me  for  my  long  summer  school  vacation-known  in  the  Antipodes  as  the  Christmas  holi-  days-to  stay  on  his  place,  Gunbar  Downs,  in  southwestern  New  South  [REDACTED],  We  drove  north  in  his  Stude-  baker  from  Gracelands  in  Wanboon,  Victoria,  the  sheep  farm  of  his  father  and  my  great-uncle  Hugh  Mclnstrie,  and  the  three  hundred  miles  or  so  we  travelledare  vivid  in  my  mind  to  this  day.  In  the  second,  4175737472616c6961n-born  gen-  eration,  the  Mclnstries  had  begun  to  congest  Wanboon,  and  large  sections  of  this  Scotch-Irish  4175737472616c6961n  clan  had  moved  north  to  &quot;new&quot;  country  across  the  Murray  River.  Through  my  mother,  I  was  an  affiliate  of  this  clan,  and  I  had  spent  many  school  holidays  at  Gracelands,  but  this  long  summer  vacation,  for  a  boy  slithering  up  the  watershed  of  sixteen  years,  promised  to  be  of  more  heroic  stuff.  Although  I  was  a  courtesy  Mclnstrie,  I  was  not  of  their  tough  cast.  I  lived  in  [REDACTED]  and  was  a  sad  city  schoolboy.  We  left  early  on  Boxing  Day(my  cousin  had  been  in  Gracelands  for  the  family  Christmas  dinner),  for  we  had  several  hundred  miles  to  drive  and  the  two-chain  (132  feet)  roads  were  de-  signed  for  the  convenience  of  sheep  rather  than  automobiles.  At  regular  intervals  gates  bisected  this  ar-  teryof  dust,  and  it  was  my  job  to  open  and  shut  them.  More  trees  grew  on  the  roads  than  on  the  paddocks  through  which  they  threaded,  except  for  long  stretches  where  no  trees  grew  at  all.  I  became  an  authority  on  gatesthat  day.  'They  were  of  all  stages  of  design  and  decrepitude.  Some  were  mere  slip  rails,  which  had  to  be  hefted  one  by  one  from  their  slots;  others  swung  from  posts  on  complicated  systems  of  wires,  but  time  and  traffic  had  defeated  the  original  fantasy  of  their  bush  inven-  tors.  The  most  devilish  were  contriv-  ances  of  barbed  wire,  which  had  to  be  rolled  up  until  they  formed  a  cheval-de-  frise  and  then,  after  my  cousin  had  driv-  en  through,  disentangled  from  their  own  barbs.  There  were  also  patent  devices  designed  to  open  when  thecar  wheels  tripped  a  lever  set  in  theroad.  My  cousin  distrusted  these  mechanical  innovations;  cars,  he  said,  had  been  snapped  at  in  pass-  ing,  and  great  strength  was  needed  to     prize  open  the  jaws  of  such  a  gate.I  did  not  take  him  seriously,  for  he  was  an  ironical  man;  a  wry  and  indolent  humor  was  evidently  his  form  of  escape  from  the  grim  Calvinist  code  of  the  McInstries.  This  terrible  tract  of  country  was  called  Old  Man  Plains,  for  the  old-  man,  or  great  gray,  kangaroo.  We  passed  a  non-marsupial  old  man  on  the  way-a  bearded  misanthrope,  who  re-  fused  our  offer  of  a  lift  with  the  words  &quot;Open  your  own  gates!&quot;  I  found  it  puzzling.  Who  would  choose  to  carry  a  swag  of  blankets  across  the  heat  of  this  featureless  plain?  My  cousin  was  not  surprised,  and  merely  said,  &quot;He's  not  going  anywhere.  Why  hurry?&quot;  I  looked  back  and  there  the  unjolly  swagman  was-suspended  motionless,  strangely  elongated  in  the  mirage,  the  sole  inhabit,  ant,  apparently,  of  hell.  The  word  &quot;hell&quot;  might  have  been  suggested  to  my  mind  by  my  cousin,  not  usually  a  man  given  to  melodramatic  overstatement,  except,  of  course,  in  the  ordinary  blasphemous  currency  of  Aus-  tralian  usage.  Some  milesback,  one  of  the  mirage  shapes-apparently  a  distant  bank  of  black  storm  clouds-had  quite  suddenly  resolved  itself  into  a  belt  of  ac-  tual  trees,  river  gums  with  huge,  many-  colored  boles.  A  bridge  thentook  us  across  a  system  of  stagnant  pools  known  as  the  Murrumbidgee  River,  and  we  were  in  the  town  of  Hay.  Except  that  it  was  made  mostly  of  corrugated  iron,  Hay  was  like  a  frontier  town  of  the  United  [REDACTED],  made  familiar  by  a  thou-  sand  cowboy  films.  Most  Aus-  tralian  outback  towns,  when  they  were  not  given  an  aborigi-  nal  place  name,  were  called  for  some  place  in  the  British  Isles.  Some  exile  from  that  green  part  of  the  English-Welsh  bor-  der  which  is  called  Kilvert's  Country  had  given  Hay  its  in-  appropriate  name.  'There  is  no  logic  in  nostalgia.  We  drove  through  Hay  with-  out  stopping.  My  cousin  quoted  Henry  Lawson,  &quot;the  4175737472616c6961n  Gorki&quot;:  &quot;Condemn  us,  Lord,  to  Hay  and  Hell  But  save  us,  Lord,  from  Booligal.&quot;  By  the  time  we  had  reached  Booligal,  I  knew  what  Lawson  and  my  cousin  meant.  For  inhuman  desolation  I  have  seen  nothing  like  it  since,  except,  per-  haps,  parts  of  west  [REDACTED]  or  the  flat  land  between  Laredo  and  Monterrey.  Here  lived  nothing  but  sheep  and  a  few  kangaroo,  and  in  that  year  they  barely  lived.  We  moved  through  the  dust  and  heat  haze  of  this  immeasurable  land-  scape  like  a  boat  through  sea  mist.  In the  sky  there  lurched  and  wavered  as  many  asa  dozen  willy-willys-dry  wa-  terspouts,  funnels  of  dust  and  twigs,  ochre  in  the  sun.  The  base  was  a  midget  whirlwind  perhaps  twenty  feet  across,  and  thetop  was  lost  in  the  upper  air  a  thousand  feet  up.  'The  mirage  made  an  unsubstantial  thing  of  this  hard  land.  An  iron  woolshed  five  miles  away  would  hang  inverted  in  the  air;  refraction  gave  it  spires  and  turrets,  and  it  would  take  on  the  appearance  of  a  Venetian  palace  shimmeringon  its  lagoon.  'The  desert  is  often  compared  with  the  sea  and  for  good  reason-the  shapes  shift  as  in  a  marine  landscape.  'The  straight  barbed-  wire  fences  blurred  like  lines  drawn  on  wet  paper.  Kangaroos  were  distorted  in-  to  heraldic  monsters.  Windmills  waved  their  thin  steel  legs  like  crushed  spi-  ders,  and  whole  mobs  of  sheep  acquired  powers  of  levitation  and  grazed  on  air.  In  the  late  afternoon  we  came  to  bet-  ter  country,  and  I  was  very  relieved.  I  had  wanted  to  ask  my  cousin  whether  his  place  was  like  the  horrors  of  Hay-  Booligal  but  was  afraid  of  being  thought  impolite.  It  was  Murray  pine  country,  so  called  for  a  rather  miserable  ever-  green,  the  most  distinctive  tree  of  the  region.  There  were  also  bluebush,  apple-  bush,  and  wilga-edible  scrub  which  gave  an  artificial  look  to  the  paddocks,  for  they  were  neatly  trimmed  square  below  to  the  height  of  a  standing  wether.  Most  grateful  to  the  eye  there  was  a  distant  range  of  very  blue  mountains.  A  series  of  minatory  rumblings  from  the  transmission  came  to  a  climax  inside  the  first  home  gate;  we  walked  the  last  two  miles  to  Gunbar  Downs  homestead.  My  cousin  affected  an  aristocratic  con-  tempt  for  machinery,  and,  without  even  prodding  at  the  Studebaker,  he  started  to  walk  home.  We  made  a  feudal  entry.  The  household  was  gathered  for  wel-  come  in  the  kitchen.  It  consisted  of  two  brothers  called  Campbell,  native  Aus-  tralians,  one  ginger  and  one  dark-  haired;  the  black  Campbell's  wife,  a  girl  of  eighteen,  whose  teething  child  had  more  teeth  than  she;  and  Bob  McPher-  son,  whose  white  patches  of  skin  and  crimson  hands  and  neck  betrayed  him  a  Pommy-i.e.,  a  pomegranate,  slang  for  a  British  immigrant.  He  had  arrived  straight  from  the  dark  wet  pits  of  Lan-  arkshire.  As  we  drank  tea  in  a  special  communal  supper,  I  was  treated  with  both  deference  and  suspicion-as  kin  to  the  boss  but  with  no  authority.  I  was  not  a  true,  or  property-owning,  Mc-  Instrie.  SO  began  my  Christmas  holidays.  No  doubt  the  style  of  them  would  be  deplored  by  educators  who  attach  " b"importance  to  things  like  Integration  with  the  Age  Group.  For  ten  miles  in  any  direction  I  was  my  age  group,  except  for  perhaps  one  or  two  of  the  Moxons,  with  whom,  for  reasons  that  will  appear  later,  I  had  no  wish  to  be  inte-  grated.  Yet  there  were  various  things  that  made  this  holi-  day  the  most  memorable  I  ever  spent,  and  to  this  day  I  cannot  see  a  squad  of  adolescents  off  for  camp  and  condemned  to  each  other's  company  without  a  feeling  of  pity.  At  a  time  when  the  most  deeply  felt  wish  is  to  be  let  alone,  I  was  let  alone.  The  diversions  at  Gun-  bar  Downs  were  numer-  ous.  An  aboriginal  whom  everybody  called  Billy  passed  twice  a  week,  driv-  ing  a  buggy,  with  the  mail  and  the  [REDACTED]  papers,  the  Sun  News-Pictorial  and  the  Argus.  These  my  cousin  read  at  breakfast,  tak-  ing  each  day  in  sequence,  with  no  apparent  curiosity  about  the  next  day's  issue,  which  lay  unopened  in  its  wrapper  beside  his  plate.  There  were  horses-about  thirty  of  them,  includ-  ing  a  blood  colt  named  Starlight,  of  quite  atrocious  viciousness.  As  my  spe-  cial  hack  I  was  given  a  very  quiet  old  gelding,  Sam,  a  tall  animal  with  a  gifted  amble,  or  trail  trot-a  com-  fortable  fifth  gait  between  a  walk  and  a  trot.  My  cousin  let  me  use  a  very  good  &quot;stock  saddle&quot;-an  4175737472616c6961n  adaptation  of  an  English  hunting  sad-  dle,  with  high  leather  pads  above  the  knees  as  a  hedge  against  the  hazards  of  4175737472616c6961n  cattle-mustering  techniques,  which  call  for  quick  and  frequent  turns.  I  learned  to  roll  cigarettes,  and  the  black  Campbell  made  me  a  splendid  tobacco  pouch  from  the  scrotum  of  an  old-man  kangaroo  I  had  shot  on  the  stock  route  with  a  Winchester  .303.  The  kangaroos  had  been  mostly  wiped  out  on  Gunbar  Downs,  but  they  still  flourished  on  the  stock  route-an  uncleared  strip  for  trav-  elling  sheep,  where  you  could  still  see  what  the  country  was  like  before  the  white  man  put  his  mark  on  it.  I  learned  to  play  poker.  My  cousin  had  a  kind  of  relation  with  his  men  that  progressive-  minded  people  would  probably  deplore  as  feudal.  'They  first-named  each  other,  and  he  was  careful  always  to  give  orders  in  the  subjunctive  mood.  Some  nights  we  played  poker  with  the  men  in  the  so-cially  neutral  territory  of  the  kitchen.  Sometimes  he  let  me  play  his  hand,  and  I  regularly  lost  a  fair  amount  of  his  money.  I  worried  about  it,  until  I  final-  ly  realized  it  was  his  way  of  letting  the  Campbells  win  their  wages  back  without  their  taking  offense.  One  day,  a  man  turned  up  with  an  eight-span  team  of  bullocks  and  set  about  digging  a  tank,  as  catchment  stor-  age  dams  are  called  in  those  parts.  It  was  about  sixty  yards  long,  and  it  seemed  unlikely  that  the  empty  sky  would  ever  yield  the  water  to  fill  it.  Bullock  drivers  have  the  same  reputation  for  profanity  that  the  mule  skinner  enjoys  in  Ameri-  can  tradition,  and  I  was  deeply  impressed  by  the  bullocky's  command  of  language.  He  kept  up  a  continuous  bellow-a  blas-  phemous  chant-as  the  sixteen  huge  beasts  lugged  scoopfuls  of  red  clay  up  the  sides  of  the  tank.  Explosions  from  a  long-handled  bullock  whip  punctuated  his  best  passages.  He  was  an  artist,  and  the  phrases  &quot;louse-bound  bastard&quot;  and  &quot;God  stone  the  suffering  bloody  crows&quot;  were  the  cornerstones  of  his  art.  I  some-  times  worked  the  ironwood  polethat  controlled  the  scoop's  blade,  and  rode  the  footstep  up  the  clay  escarpment.  I  gained  some  face  from  this,  and  even  more  for  actually  driving  one  span  of  bullocks  to  collect  a  wagonload  of  stove-  wood,  only  to  lose  face  the  next  day  when  I  let  them  bolt  and  smash  the  wagon  tongue.  No  doubt  I  lacked  the  vocabulary.  There  was  only  one  activity  at  Gun-     bar  Downs  I  did  not  enjoy.  'That  was  burning-off.  It  had  to  be  done  on  foot,  in  temperatures  of  around  120\xc2\xb0  in  the  shade.  In  the  home  paddocks  only  the  edible  scrubs  remained  alive  of  what  had  been  a  savannah  forest.  'The  rest,  ring-  barked  and  desiccated,  cluttered  up  what  should  have  been  pasture.  'There  was  no  risk  of  grass  fires  (there  being  not  enough  grass)  and  it  seemed  a  good  time  to  burn  the  trees.  We  walked  with  a  long-handled  shovel  loaded  with  live  coals,  dropped  a  couple  at  one  end  of  a  log  or  at  the  foot  of  a  standing  tree.  The  skeleton  trees,  bleached  white  as  skulls,  burned  out  at  the  base  and  fell,  and  then  went  on  burning  to  their  smallest  twig;  the  next  day,  in  the  dry  windless  heat  their  shapes  could  be  traced  on  the  ground  like  that  ofa  fossil  fern.  Occasionally  a  big  goanna  lizard,  jaws  agape,  would  come  rattling  out  of  a  burning  log.  Theman  I  was  usually  with  was  Bob  McPherson,  the  immigrant,  and  he  flailed  wildly  at  the  big  lizards  with  the  blade  of  his  red-hot  shovel.  He  had  been  the  victim  of  a  cruel  but  I  daresay  very  funny  trick  when  he  first  arrived.  He  had  been  indoctrinated  about  goannas  by  the  native  Campbells-how  they  could  outrun  a  galloping  horse,  how  their  bite  gave  a  wound  that  opened  on  each  anniversary  sometimes  for  thir-  ty  years,  and  other  barely  credible  mat-  ters.  One  thing  they  could  not  do,  he  was  told,  was  climb  a  tree.  The  next  day,  he  was  invited  to  a  demonstration  " b"of  how  to  defend  yourself  against  these  fearsome  4175737472616c6961n  lizards,  which  are  like  small  but  very  agile  dragons.  The  red  Campbell  had  seen  a  big  goanna  go  into  a  blind  rabbit  burrow  andhad  thoughtfully  blocked  the  entrance  with  a  stone.  The  new  chum  was  warned  to  take  shelter  in  the  branches  ofa  small  coolibah  tree  nearby  while  the  Campbells  dug  the  monster  from  its  lair.  Apart  from  shock  and  a  few  bruises  inci-  dental  to  descending  a  tree  without  touching  the  trunk,  he  was  unharmed,  but  the  memory  of  it  made  him  fanatical  on  the  subject  of  lizards.  He  killed  every  one  he  could  get  near.  The  younger,  or  red,  Campbell,  Jim-a  simple,  enormously  strong  man-was  largely  occupied  with  a  trap  line.  He  had  about  fifty  crude  steel  spring  traps  set  out  round  the  home  pad-  docks-for  rabbits,  of  course.  It  was  a  mopping-up  operation,  and  as  many  as  half  his  traps  would  nearly  always  be  without  a  victim,  so  my  cousin  had  to  supplement  the  red  Campbell's  income  from  the  skins,  so  that  he  would  carry  on  with  his  rabbiting.  Campbell  killed  the  rabbits  indifferently  with  the  back  of  his  hand  and  flung  them,  in  a  single  gesture,  into  the  back  of  his  heavy  two-  wheeled  gig.  I  went  out  sometimes  with  him  on  the  dawn  run  (there  was  another  one  at  evening),  and  for  my  benefit  he  would  set  the  spring  of  the  traps  using  two  fingers  and  the  thumb  of  one  hand,  and  he  laughed  happily  when  I  had  to  struggle  to  set  one  with  two  full  hands.  He  also  caught  goannas,  andhad  it  not  been  for  the  go-  annas  I  would  have  gone  out  with  him  more  often.  Eight  was  his  record  for  any  day  I  was  out  with  him,  and  this  matter  of  goannas,  together  with  the  heat,  which  was  seldom  below  100\xc2\xb0,  was  too  much  for  me.  We  ate  a  sheep  a  week.  Mutton,  tinned  peaches,  and  the  awful  kind  of  bread  Mrs.  Campbell  would  produce  from  her  oven  were  what  we  lived  on.  Tea  kept  us  going,  but  now  and  then  my  cousin  would  get  very  sick  of  Mrs.  Campbell's  extraordinary  bread,  and  I  would  be  sent  on  horseback  into  Coongabbie,  twelve  miles  away,  for  some  store  loaves.  I  could  carry  a  fair  amount  in  a  sugar  bag  fixed  to  the  &quot;monkey  straps  at  either  side  of  the  saddle.  Old  Sam  hated  the  bread  detail  and  would  shy,  buck  halfheartedly,  and  tryto  bolt  when  I  loaded  up  outside  the  store.  My  efforts  to  mount  usual-ly  drew  a  small  crowd,  and  it  was  a  lively  ride  home.  Once,  I  let  Old  Sam  run  his  head  off  and  was  rewarded  by  a  remarkable  sight.  An  emu  and  a  dozen  &quot;chickens&quot;  cut  in  ahead  of  us  out  of  the  scrub.  Old  Sam  had  nothing  left  but  his  amble,  and  we  paced  behind  them  for  a  mile  or  so.  The  young  birds  were  the  size  of  turkeys  and  striped  fore  and  aft  dun-and-brown,  unlike  their  gray,  plumed  parent.  Once,  on  the  bread  run,  I  came  back  with  news.  A  moving  picture  was  to  be  shown  in  the  Hall  (also  called  the  School  of  Arts)-a  corrugated-iron  building  of  civic  intention,  behind  the  pub.  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  see  that  muck  for?&quot;  asked  my  cousin,  but  we  went.  The  film,  &quot;For  the  Term  of  His  Natural  Life,&quot;  was  an  4175737472616c6961n  silent  epic  based  on  a  novel  that  was  the  de-  finitive  work  of  fiction  on  the  transpor-  tation  period.  It  dealt  with  the  fortunes  of  a  gang  of  convict  bushrangers  in  Van  Diemen's  Land  (Tasmania)  who  had  been  made  desperate  by  the  infamous  re-  gime  (salt  beef,  hard  labor,  and  the  cat-  o'-nine-tails)  at  43616e616461Arthur  and  who  took  off  for  4368696e61.  Maps  of  New  Hol-  land,  as  [REDACTED]  was  then  called,  were  still  pretty  vague  in  the  early  years  of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  somehow  the  idea  gained  currency  among  the  felonry  that  their  place  of  exile  and  punishment  was  attached  by  land  to  Asia.  The  convicts  in  the  film  tried  their  luck  in  the  bush.  As  Van  Diemen's  Land  was  not  attached  to  New  [REDACTED],  let  alone  4368696e61,  their  luck  was  bad.  My  cousin,  the  Campbells,  and  I  sat  stolidly  enough  with  the  rest  of  Coon-  gabbie  during  the  early  reels  of  the  film.  We  were  ranged  on  wooden  benches  down  the  hall,  adults  in  the  two-bob  seats,  children  up  front  at  a  shilling  a  head.  For  reasons  of  national  aemour-  propre,  early  4175737472616c6961n  history  is  not  taught  in  the  schools.  School  history  books  tell  how  the  Portuguese,  the  Dutch,  the  French,  and  the  English  found  and  explored  the  place  but  are  reticent  about  what,  having  done  so,  they  did  with  it.  Thus,  the  convict  peri-  od  exists  as  a  kind  of  shameful  secret  at  the  back  of  4175737472616c6961n  minds.  &quot;For  the  Term  of  His  Natural  Life&quot;  vigorously  rattled  the  national  skeleton,  and  tension  mounted  as  we  followed  the  bushrangers  up  to  that  most  primitive  of  all  situations-starve  or  make  a  meal  of  one  of  your  comrades.  The  leader  of  the  expedition,  like  a  Sartre  or  Camus  hero,  consulted  neither  traditional  mo-  rality  nor  bourgeois  prejudice.  Having  clobbered  the  most  ailing  of  the  con-  victs,  he  lit  a  fire  to  prepare  a  simple  repast  for  the  survivors.  'This  was  in  the  " b"days  before  Legions  of  Decency  or  any-  thing  else  cared  a  damn  about  what  the  films  did,  and  the  meal  was  shown  in  detail  worthy  of  a  documentary  on  home  cookery.  The  leader  of  the  expedition,  munching  on  his  grill,  said  something  to  his  more  squeamish  pals  that  was  then  conveyed  by  the  subtitle-  &quot;TASTES  LIKE  PORK.&quot;  At  this,  wild  laughter  swept  the  School  of  Arts.  Men  rolled  off  benches  and  punched  each  other.  &quot;Look  out,  Skinny!&quot;  they  yelled  to  their  fat  friends.  &quot;You're  next.&quot;  The  rest  of  the  film  was  an  anti-  climax,  punctuated  by  sniggers,  jeers,  catcalls,  and  cries  of  &quot;More  pork!&quot;  Aft-  er  the  films  it  was  the  custom  for  the  fast  set  to  go  to  the  pub  and  then  to  the  Greek's  for  steak  and  eggs.  If  it  weren't  for  Greeks  in  such  small  4175737472616c6961n  townships,  you  might  as  well  starve.  The  invariable  menu  offers  steak.  Steak  and  egg,  one  shilling  and  threepence;  steak  and  two  eggs,  one  and  six;  and  so  on,  ringing  the  changes,  permu-  tations,  and  combinations  of  steak,  egg,  potato,  and  on-  ion,  up  to  the  limit  of  mathe-  matical  possibility.  On  this  night,the  Greek,  who  had  skipped  the  film  to  brood  be-  side  his  ice-cream  apparatus,  was  bewildered  to  find  half  his  patrons  demanding  pork,  an  unheard-of  dish  in  those  pigless  parts.  &quot;Pork?&quot;  he  kept  saying.  &quot;You'll  do,  Byron,&quot;  howled  the  wits.  It  was  called  the  Byron  Caf\xc3\xa9.  They  were  all  called  the  Byron,  Greek  caf\xc3\xa9s  in  [REDACTED].  High  life  like  this,  how-  ever,  was  rare.  Y  cousin  Rob  was  a  lazy,  highly  intelli-  gent  man  of  an  ironical  turn  of  mind,  interested,  in  the  Irish  way,  mainly  in  the  foibles  of  his  fellow-  man.  We  had  been  reading  bits  of  the  Sun  with  the  paper  propped  against  our  teacups  one  morning  when  I  expressed  some  naive  and  intolerant  astonishment  that  people  could  be  found  to  contribute  to  a  matrimonial  want-ad  column.  My  cousin  looked  at  me  over  the  top  of  his  paper.  &quot;I'm  told  I'm  no  great  catch,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  if  I  sent  a  description  of  myself  and  my  condition  to  the  Sun,  I'll  bet  I  would  get  a  hundred  letters.&quot;  He  did  so,  and  got  nearly  a  thousand.  His  advertisement  read,  as  I  remem-  ber,  &quot;Old  public  school  man.  Grazier,  30,  not  unhandsome,  fond  travel,  cars,  seeks  correspondence  lady  with  sense  humor  of  suitable  age  and  appearance,  view  matrimony.&quot;  It  was  a  week  be-  fore  the  bales  of  letters  began  to  come  in..  They  were  delivered  without  com-  ment  by  Billy.  He  was  beyond  curiosity.  Perhaps  when  young,  he,  or  certainly  his  father,  had  walked  barefoot,  spear  in  hand,  across  this  land  when  it  was  un-  fenced  and  uncleared,  and  when  it  was  alive  with  fat  bronzewing  pigeon  and  kangaroo.  At  night,  we  opened  these  sad  docu-  ments.  It  was  amazing  to  me  how  many  young  women  there  were  in  the  world  who  were  prepared  to  marry  a  man  in  an  advertisement.  Probably  my  cousin  Rob  censored  some  of  them  before  he  passed  them  across  the  table.  Even  those  I  saw  were  of  an  admirable  directness  of   style.  &quot;What  about  it?&quot;&quot;  read  one,  in  all  its  simplicity.  HTHOUGH  I  was  bursting  with  self-importance  over  a  secret  pre-  occupation,  I  had  the  good  sense,  or  rather  the  soundly  based  fear  of  ridicule,  not  to  mention  it  to  my  cousin.  It  was  the  matter  of  poetry.  It  is  painful  even  now  to  recall,  yet  the  fact  is  that  amidst  this  vast  scene  I  was  occupied  with  what  I  suppose  would  now  be  called  a  &quot;proj-  ect,&quot;  and  the  project  was  of  an  absurd  nature.  Three  years  previously,  at  the  age  of  thirteen,  I  had  won  a  government  scholarship  to  Wesley.  It  waswhit  the  4175737472616c6961ns  called,  in  the  English  way,  a  public  school.  Among  the  school  prizes  was  one  for  the  best  poem  written  in  any  year  by  a  Wesley  boy.  The  prize  was  sixty  pounds-an  extravagantly  large  sum  for  any  verses  likely  to  be  composed.  Tennyson  won  the  Chancel-  lor's  medal,  did  he  not,  with  a  poem " b"called  &quot;''Timbuctoo&quot;?  I  thought  I  could  do  as  well  as  &quot;Timbuctoo.&quot;  Alas,  I  was  in  the  grip  of  an  illusion  for  which  my  English  teacher,  Mr.  Gwillim,  was  part-  ly  responsible.  He  was  a  character  very  unlike  Dylan  Thomas,  yet  he  dealt  with  equal  confidence  in  the  same  commod-  ity-poetry.  I  was  once  privileged  to  see  his  note-  books,  which  were  scrupulously  kept,  though  they  had  weathered  somewhat  in  the  course  of  thirty  years.  The  class-  room  drill  went  something  like  this:  Keats:  Sensibility.  Unhealthy?  &quot;My  heart  aches,&quot;  etc.  &quot;Drousy  numbness.&quot;  Grecian  Urn.  V.  Good.  Apothecary  who  made  classicists  sit  up.  Who  killed  John  Keats?  Chapman's  Homer.  Quote.  &quot;Much  have  I  travelled,&quot;  etc.  Much  indeed,  under  Mr.  Gwillim's  direction,  had  I  travelled  in  the  realms  of  gold,  and  somewhere  along  the  line  we  had  encountered  Spenser.  Mr.  Gwillim's  notes  had  tagged  Ais  thus:  Spenser:  Faerie  Queen.  After  Canter.  Tales  first  masterpiece  Eng.  poetry.  Spen-  serian  stanza.  Last  line  key  to.  Helps  stress  note  of.  Gloriana  seq.  Q.  Eliz.  &quot;Poets'  Poet.&quot;  It  was  this  last  note  that  had  deluded  me.  I  was  shrewd  enough  to  suspect  that  my  own  verses  were  more  than  likely  to  come  under  the  heading  of  &quot;Sensibil-  ity.  Unhealthy.&quot;  Poets'  Poet  seemed  a  safe  bet,  and  &quot;Lines  in  Imitation  of  Spenser&quot;  had,  L  thought,  a  professional  ring.  Thus  it  came  about  that  in  the  middle  of  a  wilderness  of  flies,  goannas,  rabbits,  and  sheep  I  was  occupied  with  concocting  a  romance  of  chivalry.  I  had  set  myself  the  quota  of  two  stanzas  per  week  and  was  ahead  of  schedule.  They  sounded  very  good  to  my  ear  as  I  recited  them  to  myself  on  the  back  of  Old  Sam.  The  rhyme  scheme  was  sound,  and  it  could  be  claimed  for  them  that  if  they  weren't  in  imitation  of  Spenser,  they  weren't  in  imitation  of  anyone  else,  though,  of  course,  they  resembled  the  Poets'  Poet  about  as  much  asa  building  contractor's  Tudor  resembles  Kneb-  worth  or  Hampton  Court.  I  sternly  sup-  pressed  inklings  of  the  absurdity  of  it  all  until  the  day  we  rode  over  &quot;to  have  a  look  at  the  Moxons.&quot;  I  knew  about  the  Moxons.  They  were  a  family  of  rabbiters  camped  at  the  edge  of  a  wild  area  called  the  claypans.  It  was  unfenced  and  began  a  mile  or  so  south  of  the  homestead.  Here  lived  nothing  but  rab-  bits;  there  was  nothing  for  sheep;  even  the  kangaroos  had  moved  on.  The  Moxons  were  engaged  in  total  war  against  rabbit.  Before  we  went,  my  cousin  remarked enigmatically  that  it  was  fairly  cool  (probably  a  mere  85\xc2\xb0  that  day).  &quot;Let's  have  a  look  at  the  Moxons,&quot;  he  went  on,  in  the  way  he  might  have  said,  &quot;Let's  see  how  the  wethers  are  doing.&quot;  We  rode  through  a  gate  in  a  rabbit,  proof  fence-chicken  wire  that  contin-  ued  two  feet  underground  to  discourage  burrowing.  'This  fence  divided  Gunbar  Downs  proper-the  few  thousand  acres  of  fenced  paddocks-from  the  desolate  stretch  of  claypan.  Here  the  Moxons  and  the  rabbits  had  their  kingdom.  In  the  distance  the  banks  of  a  tank  scooped  out  of  white  pipe-clay  glittered  in  the  sun.  Nearby,  amid  what  seemed  to  be  a  vast  colony  of  bats  and  under  the  thin  shade  of  a  few  scrawny  trees,  was  the  Moxon  &quot;turnout.&quot;  This  was  a  light  four-wheeled  affair,  like  a  Conestoga  wagon  but  square-hooded.  I  had  seen  such  turnouts  on  the  road;  sheep  drovers  had  them,  and  nomad  families  like  the  Moxons  drifted  in  them  from  place  to  place,  behind  an  old  horse,  with  pots  and  pans  rattling  at  the  tailgate,  babies'  clothes  drying  on  a  line,  and  a  dog  or  two  moving  sore-footed  in  the  moving  shadow.  I  used  to  wonder  what  they  &quot;did.&quot;  It  was  soon  obvious  what  the  Moxons  did.  They  had  fenced  the  pipe-  clay  tank  part  way  up  its  inner  slopes  withwire  netting,  leaving  a  funnel-  shaped  opening,  on  the  principle  of  a  fish  trap.  It  should  be  understood  that  Aus-  tralian  rabbits,  unlike  other  rabbits  in  other  parts  of  the  world,  drink.  In  this  drought  year  they  needed  water  to  wash  down  their  day's  ration  of  burs,  dust,  and  shreds  of  dry  grass;  they  could  find  their  way  to  the  water  but,  not  being  very  bright,  could  not  get  out  again  the  way  they  came.  As  we  rode  closer,  the  colony  of  bats  had  proved  to  be  thousands  of  rabbit  skins  stretched  on  loops  of  wire;  the  Moxons'  camp  was  festooned  with  them.  We  were  tying  our  bridles  to  the  rear  wheel  of  the  turnout  when  we  no-  ticed  a  child  of  indeterminate  age  and  sex  tethered  under  the  vehicle.  My  cous-  in  studied  it  with  interest  and,  affecting  to  be  concerned  for  the  safety  of  the  horses,  led  them  away.  &quot;It  could  give  the  mare  a  nasty  bite  in  the  hocks,&quot;  he  said.  On  foot,  we  climbed  the  white  earth-  works  of  the  tank  camp.  A  confused  and  frightful  scene  disclosed  itself.  Sev-  eral  hundred  rabbits  cowered  andhud-  dled  against  the  fence.  Two  barefoot,  half-wild  children-a  boy  and  a  girl-  were  occupied  in  crowding  them  to-  wards  a  gap  in  thewire,  where  the  main  body  of  Moxons  was  concentrated.  The  man,  his  wife,  and  three  elder  Moxons,  one  a  girl,  were  engaged  in  separating  " b"fur  from  flesh  at  terrific  speed.  Another  girl  had  the  more  delicate  job  of  fitting  the  skins  to  their  wire  stretchers.  She  and  a  brother  who  clubbed  the  rabbits  at  the  gap  in  the  wire  thus  formed  the  op-  posite  ends  of  a  rough  assembly  line.  A  boy  of  about  fourteen  was  the  virtuoso  of  this  talented  family.  While  his  left  hand  held  the  hind  legs,  he  used  his  right  big  toe  to  strip  the  skin  over  the  carcass,  thus  leaving  his  knife  hand  free  to  slash  round  the  ears  and  forelegs.  His  toe  was  almost  prehensile,  like  that  of  an  aborigine.  As  I  waited  on  one  side  of  the  tank,  trying  to  ignore  the  stares  of  the  shy,  shaggy  Moxons,  the  incongruity  of  what  I  had  been  doing  that  day  was  borne  in  upon  me-for,  as  the  fearful  scene  had  opened  in  all  its  farce  and  hor-  ror,  I  had  been  very  busy  inside  my  mind  with  this  line  of  poetry:  And  laced  with  gules  the  cote's  vert  quar-  terings.  A  cote,  I  had  reflected  smugly,  being  both  a  farm  and  an  heraldic  family  em-  blem.  Gules  for  blood.  Vert  for  grass.  Neat  ...  And  here  I  was  in  a  place  three  hundred  and  fifty  years  in  time,  ten  thousand  miles  in  space  from  the  shoare  of  silver-streaming  Themmes;  a  place  where  grass  had  not  been  green  for  a  calendar  year,  where  the  only  bloodshed  was  of  rabbits,  not  armored  knights-w  here,  indeed,  the  only  &quot;cotes&quot;  were  the  Chinese  market  gar-  dens  about  forty  miles  away,  on  the  edge  of  the  Murrumbidgee  River,  and  the  only  coat  of  arms  (apart  from  mu-  nicipal  insignia)  belonged  to  the  illiter-  ate  Tysons  of  Hay,  who  had  presum-  ably  written  to  the  College  of  Heralds  for  it.  Clearly  my  vacation  verses  were  based  on  no  very  sane  notion  of  the  world.  IN  the  last  week  of  the  long  holidays,  the  drought  broke.  There  wa  s  a  lit-  tle  low  thunder,  but  the  rain  itself  was  louder  as  it  beat  on  the  dry  bare  plains  like  a  drum.  We  watched  it  come  from  the  veranda,  heard  its  muttering  get  louder  till  it  detonated  on  the  corrugated  iron  above  our  heads.  We  got  six  inches  of  rain  in  twenty-four  hours-more  than  for  the  previous  twelve  mont  hs.  The  rain  gauge,  a  device  of  tin  with  a  calibrated  glass  cylinder,  had  stood  for  unnumbered  months  near  the  home-  stead  gate  like  a  neglected  tribal  fetish.  It  was  now  consulted  hourly,  like  a  good  god  that  was  doing  its  job.  The  men's  hut  sprang  a  leak,  and  the  red  Campbell  and  McPherson  took  ref-  uge  in  the  house.  So  did  a  six-foot  black-  snake.  I  killed  the  snake  with  the  handle  ofa  stock  whip,  and  we  all  stood  togeth-  er  watching  the  wonders  that  the  rains  were  bringing.  The  huge  dry  tank  filled  in  an  hour  or  so  with  something  resembling  pea  soup;  the  catchment  area  that  fed  it  boiled  and  rumbled  with  freshets  of  liquid  mud.  The  woolshed  on  the  flat  suddenly  was  a  strange  ob-  ject  standing  on  its  piles  in  a  lagoon,  like  a  lake  dweller's  temple.  Nearby  the  chickens  were  behaving  strangely.  Most  of  them  had  never  seen  rain  and  had  no  technique  for  dealing  with  the  stuff.  They  couldn't  seem  to  understand  why  they  couldn't  shake  it  out  of  their  feathers.  It  took  us  all  in  different  ways.  For  once,  Mrs.  Campbell's  baby  wasn't  crying.  The  black  Campbell  himself  said  to  my  cousin,  &quot;It  would  have  been  pretty  crook  luck  if  you  hadn't  of  bought  them  rams  just  when  you  done.&quot;  It  was  the  longest  speech  I  had  heard  him  make.  He  stepped  off  the  veranda  in  the  sputtering  mud  and  made  for  the  stables.  We  followed,  for,  of  course,  there  was  work  to  be  done.  Sheep  are  obtuse  animals,  and  my  cousin's  sur-  viving  yearlings  knew  no  more  about  rain  than  the  chickens.  Undoubtedly,  " b"some  of  them  would  contrive  to  get  themselves  drowned.  Although  a  wet  saddle  andwet  clothes  are  not  ordinarily  comfortable  things,  it  was  exhilarat-  ing  toridein  this  rare  and  wonderful  rain.  None  of  us  thought  of  wearing  raincoats.I  doubt  if  we  had  any.  Only  the  red  Campbell  was  morose.  He  had  topull  up  his  whole  trap  line,  with  its  cargo  of  drowned  rabbits;  the  survivors,  I  suppose,  shivered  in  the  galleries  of  their  complicated  warrens  like  sailors  behind  the  air  lock  of  a  foundered  sub-  marine.  We  couldn't  do  much  that  first  day,  but  tea  that  night  was  a  cheerful  meal,  despite  Mrs.  Campbell's  bread,  which  had  become  unpleasantly  soggy  instead  of  unpleasantly  hard.  In  a  sudden  lull  in  the  rain,  the  house  could  be  heard  creaking  like  a  new  work  boot;  its  tim-  bers,  like  everything  else,  had  beendry  for  a  long  time.  Next  morning,  there  were  further  wonders.  The  rain  still  pelted  down,  though  somewhat  dimin-  ished.  This  moved  my  cousin  to  call  out  to  McPherson,  &quot;Wee  bit  Scotch  mist  the  noo&quot;  in  bogus  Scotch.  The  immi-  grant's  dour  wet  face  broke  open  in  the  first  pleasure  I'd  seen  him  admit  to-  an  exile's  smile.  At  the  time,  he  was  driving  a  gig-more  or  less  in  our  wake.  We  were  looking  for  distressed  sheep.  We  did  indeed  find  one  mob  of  water-  logged  wethers  huddled  ina  flocculent  mass  in  a  desolate  island  of  mud.  It  took  thethree  ofus  and  two  dogs  to  get  them  to  safer  ground.  We  had  to  wrestle  them,  but  for  all  their  sodden  fleece  they  were  not  heavy.  'The  drought  had  seen  to  that.  &quot;Swoln  with  wind,  and  the  rank  mist  they  draw,  Rot  inwardly  ...&quot;  I  said  to  myself,  from  Milton,  as  I  heft-  ed  a  despairing  wether.  He  smelled  like  an  old  overcoat  in  a  damp  house.  The  Moxons,  too,  had  been  flushed  to  high  ground.  They  waved  dismally  to  us-at  least  a  cloth  flapped  from  their  turnout  as  our  horses  trotted  in  a  splay-  legged  gait  (to  keep  their  footing)  through  the  flooded  claypan.  On  the  way  home  we  came  to  what  was  known  as  the  Old  Billabong.  I  had  remembered  it  as  a  dry  depression  a  mile  or  so  long  near  the  home  paddocks,  but  knew,  of  course,  that  it  must  at  some  remote  time  have  been  part  of  a  river  system.  It  was now  filled  with  at  least  ten  feet  of  water.  We  could  have  perhaps  skirted  it,  but  my  cousin  said,  &quot;Old  Sam  is  a  good  swimmer,  why  don't  we  go  straight  across?&quot;  How  Old  Sam  had  learned  to  swim  I  never  knew,  but  swim  he  did.  I  had  read  of  some  army  somewhere  that  crosseda  river  by  holding  on  to  the  tails  of  their  mounts,  but  that  is  not  the  way  of  it  at  all.  You  simply  take  your  feet  out  of  the  stirrups  and  lie  along  the  horse's  back  until  he  is  afloat.  Old  Sam  seemed  to  enjoy  this,  but  for  those  who  have  never  swum  a  horse,  it  should  be  explained  that  there  is  a  slightly  alarm-  ing  moment  when  you  are  afloat  before  the  horse  is.  At  that  moment,  some-  thing  much  more  relevant  than  Milton  came  into  my  head.  It  was  a  line  from  one  of  the  McInstrie  family's  repertoire  of  ballads,  and  it  concerned  the  sad  end  of  a  sheep  drover  involved  in  a  &quot;flood,  /Where  the  river  ran  a  banker  all  stained  with  yellow  mud.&quot;  The  drover's  horse  made  it  safe  ashore,  to  take  something  called  &quot;dumb  tidings  home,&quot;  but  as  for  his  faithful  dog,  &quot;Round  and  round  in  circles  he  fights  with  failing  strength,  Til  borne  down  by  the  torrent  the  old  dog  sinks  at  length.\xe2\x80\x9d  Despite  this  precedent,  Old  Sam's  mane  towed  me  ashore,  where  he  shook  himself  like  a  wet  dog-not  that  it  made  him  any  drier,  for  it  still  rained,  but  on  principle.  But  he  must  have  shaken  more  than  water  out  of  his  old  hide.  He  shook,  I  fear,  the  poet  Spenser  out  of  mine.  I  realized  as  we  squelched  home  thatI'd  forgotten  all  about  Spenser  for  two  days,  and  that  some  poetry  newer  and  cruder  than  his  had  taken  his  place.  Billy  the  mailman  couldn't  get  his  buggy  through  for  a  week,  but  the  roads  were  passable  when  the  day  came  that  I  had  to  put  on  my  school  clothes  to  catch  the  train  to  [REDACTED].  (I  had  to  hang  them  on  a  line  to  beat  the  dust  out,  and  it  was  a  penance  to  get  into  the  stiff  blue  serge.)  For  the  thirty  muddy  miles  be-  tween  Gunbar  Downs  and  the  railhead,  the  leather-colored  country  had  turned  lettuce  green."