 b"IT  came  to  me  as  a  pleasant  surprise,  disturbed  as  I  am  over  my  amoral  and  other-directed  children,  to  read  not  long  ago  in  Time  that  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Book  Company  has  undertaken  the  publication  of  a  series  of  school  readers  based  on  the  moral  principles  of  the  famous  old  McGuffey  Readers.  The  new  versions,  aptly  called  the  Golden  Rule  Series,  and  subtitled  &quot;The  Mod-  ern  McGuffey  Readers,&quot;  rewrite  a  few  of  the  old  homilies  like  &quot;''The  Boy  Who  Cried  Wolf&quot;  and  &quot;Hugh  Idle  and  Mr.  Toil&quot;  and  add  a  lot  of  new  stories.  Ac-  cording  to  Time,  the  Golden  Rule  Series  is  rushing  into  the  present-day  moral  vacuum  with  a  satisfying  swoosh,  and  Grant  Houston  Brown,  president  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Book  Company,  is  quoted  as  saying,  &quot;We  haven't  had  such  an  immediate  acceptance  in  thirty  years.&quot;  This  encouraging  piece  of  news  brought  to  my  mind  some  of  the  well-  known  556e6974656420537461746573ns  of  earlier  genera-  tions-Lew  Wallace,  Glenn  Frank,  Gene  Stratton  Porter,  Henry  Ford-  all  of  whom  graduated  from  the  origi-  nal  McGuffey  curriculum  with  not  a  delinquent  in  the  crowd.  An  impres-  sive  accomplishment,  I  thought,  and  I  began  to  look  back  through  an  old  copy  of  McGuffey's  &quot;Fourth  Eclectic  Read-  er,&quot;  published  in  1866,  to  see  what  mor-  al  and  economic  ideals  had  shaped  these  representative  minds.  As  I  went  through  this  reader,  it  oc-  curred  to  me  that  the  editors  of  the  new  series  could  use  a  lot  more  of  the  origi-  nal  stories  if  they  had  a  little  help  in  bringing  theold  master  in  line  with  the  times.  Certainly  his  virtues  are  still  with  us-codperation,  courage,  hon-  esty,  perseverance-but  his  stories  il-  lustrating  them  area  bit  dated.  For  instance,  one  of  the  exemplary  but  old-  fashioned  lessons  that  I  came  across  in  the  &quot;Fourth  Eclectic  Reader&quot;  was  &quot;''The  Horse,&quot;  a  story  in  which  Uncle  Thomas  is  telling  Frank,  his  nephew,  about  wild  horses  in  South  [REDACTED]  and  Arabia.  Useful  information,  no  doubt,  for  a  bygone  era,  when  Frankwould  be  asking  to  use  the  family  horse  on  Fri-  day  night,  but  nowadays  what  child  would  find  this  information  pertinent?  Uncle  Thomas,  I  suggest,  had  better  start  briefing  Frank  on  the  ICBM.  Most  of  all,  I  would  recommend  to  the  editors  of  the  new  series  that,  in  re-  writing  the  old  stories,  they  overhaul  McGuffey's  economics  to  fit  a  Keynes-  ian  world.  I  rather  doubt  that  Les-  son  XVI,  in  the  &quot;Fourth  Eclectic  Reader,&quot;  entitled  &quot;Waste  Not,  Want  Not,&quot;  would  help  our  children  much  today.  All  old  McGuffey  fans  remem-  ber  the  story,  I'm  sure,  in  which  Mr.  Jones  teaches  his  two  boys,  Ben  and  John,  alesson  in  thrift.  He  begins,  in-  nocently  enough,  by  asking  them  to  unwrap  some  parcels  for  him.  &quot;''The  two  parcels  were  exactly  alike,  both  of  them  well  tied  up  with  good  whip-cord.&quot;  Ben  unties  his,  and  saves  the  cord.  John,  impetuous  and  shortsighted,  threatens cut  his  string,  much  to  the  alarm  of  Ben,  who  cries  out,  &quot;O  no,  do  not  cut  it,  John!  Look,  what  a  nice  cord  this  is,  and  yours  is  the  same.  It  is  a  pity  to  cut  it.&quot;  But  John,  who  would  be  quickly  spotted  today  as  a  potential  delinquent,  pays  no  attention  tohis  brother,  remark-  ing  scornfully,  &quot;Well,  whip-cord  then  what  signifies  a  bit  of  whip-cord?  You  can  get  a  piece  of  whip-cord  twice  as  long  as  that  for  three  cents;  and  who  cares  for  three  cents?  Not  I,  for  one.  So,  here  it  goes.&quot;  He  cuts  the  string  in  several  places.  *  Any  old  McGuffey  hand  recognizes  the  danger  in  reckless  action  of  thet  sort.  Sure  enough,  in  a  few  weeks  Mr.  Jones  gives  his  boys  each  a  new  top,  but-what  a  slyboots  he  is!  -there  are  no  strings.  Well,  you  know  who  is  left  standing  with  his  top  in  his  hand.  John,  of  course.  But  that  lesson  isn't  enough;  it  will  take  a  much  more  humiliating  ex-  perience  to  teach  John  anything.Short-  ly  after  the  top  episode,  the  two  boys  get  into  an  archery  contest,  with  &quot;a  fine  bow  and  arrows,  to  be  given  to  the  best  marksman.&quot;  John  is  coming  along  fine,  his  first  arrow  within  an  inch  and  a  quarter  of  the  mark,  when  his  bow-  string  snaps.  Since  the  rules  of  the  match  prevent  Ben  from  lending  John  his  bow,  John  is  out  of  the  match-no  spare  string;  and  no  prize.  Then  Ben  tries.  He  gets  the  second  arrow  of  his  three  just  beside  John's,  and  Ais  bowstring  parts.  But,  in  Mc-  Guffey's  unforgettable  words:  29.  ...  Ben  drew  out  of  his  pocket  an  excellent  piece  of  cord,  and  began  to  tie  it  to  the  bow.  30.  &quot;The  everlasting  whip-cord,  I  de-  clare!&quot;  cried  John.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Ben;  &quot;I  put  it  in  my  pocket  today,  because  I  thought  I  might  want  it.&quot;  31.  Ben's  last  arrow  won  the  prize;  and  when  the  bow  and  arrows  were  handed  to  him,  John  said,  &quot;How  valuable  that  whip-  cord  has  been  to  you.  Ben.  I'll  takecare  how  I  waste  anything,  hereafter.&quot;  AN  excellent  lesson.  Many  McGuf-  fey  graduates  were  exemplary  string  savers.  I  knew  an  old  man  who  had  branched  out  from  string  to  tin-  foil,  and  had  a  ball  of  it  in  his  cellar  as  big  as  a  demijohn.  But  this  moral  just  isn't  relevant  for  our  children  today.  They  care  little  about  archery,  and  there  seems  to  be  no  future  in  saving  Scotch  Tape.  Now,  here's  what  I'd  suggest  instead  for  the  new  McGuffey:  Lesson  XVI.  Lirtes\xc2\xae  sy  Lirtu\xc2\xae  Utter  distinctly  each  consonant  in  such  words  as  the  following:  unpack,  spar-  kling,  garden,  installment,  instruction,  " b"cinema,  disconnected,  sports  car,  furnishings.  1.  Mr.  JonrEs  (c  widower):  Boys,  here  are  some  heavy  crates  which  the  deliveryman  .  is  bringing  to  our  house.  If  you  have  nothing  bet-  ter  to  do,  would  you  unpack  them  for  me?  2.  The  two  crates  were  much  alike,  and  since  the  boys  had  noth-  ing  better  to  do  they  went  to  their  task  with  alacrity.  Soon  Ben  had  unpacked  a  fine  new  washing  machine,  and  John  had  unpacked  a  sparkling  dishwasher.  3.  Ben:  Oh,  Father,  what  a  famous  idea!  Now  I  can  wash  your  clothes  much  more  quickly.  I  will  not  have  to  scrub  your  shirts  on  the  driveway,  or  beat  the  socks  on  the  stones  in  the  garden.  4.  Jonn:  And  I  will  no  longer  be  required  to  immerse  my  hands  in  boiling  water  while  I  do  our  dishes.  Now  the  boys  at  school  cannot  poke  fun  at  my  red  hands.  But,Father,  I  am  sure  these  are  expensive  mecharisms.  Are  you  sure  that  you  can  afford  them?  Both  Ben  and  I  know  that  we  are  in  humble  circumstances.  5.  Mr.  Jon\xc2\xaes:  That  is  a  sensible  question,  John.  It  is  true  that  my  wages  from  Batten,  Burston,  Durston  &amp;  Osbert  would  never  permit  me  such  luxuries.  Let  me  explain  my  plan  to  you.  I  am  going  to  let  you  boys  each  purchase  these  from  your  allow-  ances.  6.  Ben:  Oh,  Father,  that  is  a  capital  idea!  But  how  can  this  be  done?  I  have  saved  only  fifteen  dollars  this  year,  and  I  am  sure  this  washer  costs  much  more,  7.  Jonn:  I  suspect,  Father,  that  you  have  a  prankup  your  sleeve.  Explain  it  to  us.  8.  Mr.  Jons:  You  are  right,  John.  Do  you  boys  see  these  printed  pieces  of  paper?  'These  are  called  installment  contracts.  I  have  one  for  each  of  you.  Now,  if  you  save  your  allowances  carefully  each  week,  and  if  you  add  the  money  you  make  selling  news-  papers,  then  you  will  have  each  month  for  your  installment.  Little  by  little  these  fine  machines  will  be  ours. 9.  Ben:  Huzzah  for  Father!  What  a  splendid  plan!  10.  Joun:  How  long  will  it  take?  11.  Mr.  Jones:  Curiosity  killed  the  cat.  Now,  boys,  shall  I  explain  to  you  the  principle  of  the  electric  motor?  12.  BEn:  Yes,  do,  Father.  I  crave  instruction.  13.  Joun:  I  believe  that  you  ex-  plained  that  once  before,  Father,  in  Lesson  XI.  I  think  that  I  will  go  and  play  now.  14.  The  two  boys  enjoyed  the  new  machines  very  much.  Ben  saved  his  allowance  carefully  each  week.  He  soon  discovered  that  by  going  without  lunch  at  school  he  could  meet  his  payments  at  the  end  of  each  month.  As  his  slight  frame  grew  thinner,  he  blessed  the  parental  foresight  that  saved  him  from  the  arduous  labor  of  hand  lewun-  dry.  =  15.  But  Johnwas  careless  and  head-  strong.  He  ate  ahot  lunch  every  day.  Often  he  spent  his  week's  allow-  ance  at  the  cinema.  As  a  consequence,  he  was  soonunable  to  meet  his  pay-  ments.  16.  Not  long  after  that,  a  heavy  truck  drove  up  to  the  Jones  house.  T'wo  coarse  laborers  came  to  the  door,  and,  with  an  oath,  asked  to  see  Master  John  Jones.  Mr.  Jones  called  his  son.  17.  Mr.  Jons:  John,  here  are  two  fellows  to  see  you.  18.  Jorn:  But  what  can  they  want,  Father?  I  have  done  nothing.  19.  That  is  just  it,  my  lad!  We  have  come  to  repossess  the  dish-  washer.  Let  us  do  so,  Slim.  20.  The  two  rough  workmen  went  to  work  with  dispatch,  and  soon  discon-  nected  John's  new  machine.  As  they  were  taking  it  out  the  door,  Ben  ran  up  to  one  of  the  men.  21.  Ben:  Here,  take  this.  It  will  al-  most  make  a  payment.  Think  of  my  poor  brother's  hands.  22.  The  insolent  workman  brushed  Ben  aside,  and  was  deaf  to  his  pleas.  Ben  tried  to  comfort  John,  who  stood  weep-  ing  in  the  vestibule.  Mr.  Jones  watched  the  tableau  calmly,  then  returned  to  his  den  with  a  satisfied  smile.  23.  Some  weeks  later,  John  drove  up  to  the  Jones  home  in  a  handsome  new  sports  car.  He  began  to  pack  his  clothes  in  a  fine  set  of  matched  luggage.  Ben  watched  him  with  alerm.  24.  Ben:  Oh,  John,  where  did  you  get  such  fine  furnishings?  25.  Jon:  I  have  learned  my  lesson  " b"from  Father,  Ben.  I  am  purchasing  these  on  the  installment  plan.  Look,  here  is  a  steamer  ticket  to  [REDACTED].  I  have  bought  it  on  the  time  travel  plan.  I  am  off  to  seek  my  fortune.  26.  BEN:  But  who  will  make  the  payments,  John?  I  am  afraid  your  al-  lowance  is  too  small.  27.  Joun:  That  will  be  a  surprise  for  you  and  Father,  Ben.  Give  him  my  re-  gards,  for  I  must  be  on  my  way.  28.  Some  time  after  John  had  gone  away,  Mr.  Jones  and  Ben  discovered  the  nature  of  his  surprise.  He  had  made  out  his  installment  contracts  in  his  fa-  ther's  name.  Now  Ben  and  Mr.  Jones  must  save  every  peszy  they  can.  29.  Mr.  Jon\xc2\xaes:  Now  you  see,  Ben,  little  by  little  we  are  meeting  our  pay-  ments.  I  think  I  have  taught  you  boys  a  valuable  lesson.  30.  Bex:  Yes,  Father,  I  have  learned  much.  But  I  think  John  is  learning  more.  You  will  remember  that  in  his  last  letter  he  told  us  that  he  is  now  studying  at  the  Moulin  de  la  Galette.     31.  Mr.  JonEs:  Yes,  Ben,  John  proved  an  apt  pupil.  Definitions:  2.  A-lac'  ri-ty;  #.  a  cheerful  readiness.  5.  Al-low'  anc-es;  n.  a  sum  of  money  granted  periodically  as  a  bounty.  12.  Crave;  v.  to  long  for;  hence,  to  require.  22.  In'  so-lent;  adj.  haughty  or  brutal  in  behavior  or  language.  Exercises:  What  is  this  lesson  designed  to  teach?  Which  boy  met  his  payments  regularly?  What  good  did  it  do  him?  Which  boy's  machine  was  repossessed?  What  was  the  consequence?  Where  is  the  Moulin  de  la  Galette?  That's  the  sort  of  thing  we  need  for  the  modern  McGuffey-some  useful  lessons  in  economic  morality  that  will  prepare  our  children  for  today's  world. "