 b"YOU  know  the  Fifth  [REDACTED]  lobby  of  the  [REDACTED],  facing  the  golden  miss  in  the  Fountain  of  Abun-  dance?  And  the  circular  banquette  that  dominates  it?  Of  course  you  do;  many's  the  time  you've  fumed  there,  I'll  wager,  waiting  for  some  popsy  who  never  showed  up,  or  who  was  so  visibly  jingled  when  she  did  that  you  knew  you'd  been  supplanted.  Anyway,  if  your  head  size  happens  to  be  seven  and  an  eighth  and  you  can  contrive  to  stop  by  there  next  Monday  morning,  you'll  stumble  into  a  Klondike.  Just  bring  along  three  dollars  in  unmarked  bills  and  hand  them  to  the  narrator,  and  he'll  hand  you  a  brand-  new  English  hat-an  absolute  beauty.  It's  not  every  day  a  man  runs  into  mer-  chandise  like  this-a  genuine  import  with  almost  no  mileage  on  it,  finest-quality  felt,  smartly  styled  in  dark  green,  and  guaranteed  to  harmonize  withanything  in  one's  kit.  No,  sir,  you  don't  have  to  worry  about  this  hat.  I've  already  done  it  for  you.  The  circumstances  date  back,  broad-  ly,  to  a  cocktail  party  I  attended  about  a  year  ago,  at  which  some  befuddled  guest  (or  klepto,  more  likely  )  abstracted  a  hat  I'd  owned  since  1947.  I  shan't  weary  you  with  any  panegyrics  on  this  hat  other  than  to  say  that  it  had  certain  asso-  ciations.  When  I  settled  it  on  my  head,  I  was  reminded  of  how  we  had  crossed  the  raging  Salween  together  during  the  monsoon  rains,  of  how  I  had  doffed  it  one  winter's  day  in  Shanhaikwan,  over-  come  with  emotion  at  my  first  sight  of  the  Great  Wall  of  4368696e61.  Wadded  into  a  ball,  it  had  been  my  pillow  aboard  a  dhow  named  the  Triumph  of  Sensuality  en  route  to  Zanzibar,  a  missile  to  deterBalinese  pye-dogs  from  their  nocturnal  howling,  and  a  flail  to  combat  Anopheles  in  the  saw  grass  of  the  Albert  Nile.I  had  drunk  water  from  it  in  the  burning  wastes  of  4b656e7961's  North-  ern  Frontier  District,  sheepishly  twisted  it  as  I  besought  understanding  from  odalisques  in  Hol-  lywoodand  unfriendly  finance  companies  on  Lexington  [REDACTED].  In  short,  that  hat  wasn't  just  headgear,  if  you  dig  me;  it  was  folks-or,  in  the  inexpressibly  more  tangy  phrase  of  Lindy's,  mishpokah.  The  hat  my  host  forced  on  me  in  ex-  change  (there  was  a  torrential  down-  pour  in  progress)  was  a  greasy  black  affair  of  the  sort  generally  affected  by  sculptors-or,  rather,  sculptors  in  Shu-  bert  musicals.  Saturated  with  rain  and  limply  sagging  over  my  ears,  it  made  me  look  like  some  flyblown  poseur  out  of  &quot;Bubu  de  Montparnasse,&quot;  and  the  taxi-driver's  oblique  appraisal,  when  I  eventually  found  a  cab,  confirmed  my  fears.  &quot;Where  to,  Doc?&quot;  he  asked,  with  a  familiar  wink.  &quot;One  of  them  poetry  pads  down  on  Macdougal  Street?&quot;  The  next  day,  I  made  a  valiant  and  utterly  bootless  attempt  to  recover  my  prop-  erty.  Nobody  at  the  party  recalled  it;  indeed,  several  people  swore  I  had  worn  the  sepulchral  black  number  on  arrival,  and  wondered  why  I  was  belatedly  aping  Maurice  Maeterlinck.  With  a  heavy  heart,  I  resigned  myself  to  the  loss  of  my  old  talisman,  and,  abandon-  ing  the  bohemian  makeshift  in  an  area-  way,  set  out  to  procure  a  substitute.  The  second  I  entered  the  hat  depart-  ment  of  the  Madison  [REDACTED]  outfitters  I  patronize,  I  was  dumfounded  by  the  change  it  had  undergone  in  the  brief  intervening  decade.  The  place  was  lit  up  like  a  delicatessen,  and  the  palsied  octogenarians  who  had  served  me  from  boyhood  had  all  been  replaced  by  whip-  persnappers  with  exophthalmia  and  white  carnations,  who,  quite  obviously,  were  dedicated  to  one  goal  only-to  sell  as  many  hats  as  possible.  Bursting  with  self-satisfaction,  the  beefiest  and  most  florid  swept  down  on  me.  &quot;Let's  see,&quot;  he  said,  giving  me  a  diag-  nostician's  frown.  &quot;We'd  like  some-  thing  on  the  sporty  side-velours  with  a  feather  in  the  back,  eh?&quot;  &quot;Where'd  you  get  that  idea?&quot;  I  asked,  making  a  mental  note  to  buy  the  store  at  the  earliest  opportunity  and  ban-  ish  him  to  the  stockroom.  In  the  ensuing  half  hour,  I  tried  on  every  kind  of  headdress,  from  billycocks  to  lumberjack  toques-trilbies,  tele-  scopic  little  beanies  that  transformed  me  into  a  Mittel-europan  gigolo,  cattle-  men's  sombreros,  minute  sports  caps  with  adjustable  belts,  even  the  astrakhan  tarboosh  that  Muscovite  travellers  wear  in  sleighs  pursued  by  wolves.  All  of  them,  without  exception,  seemed  alien  to  my  features;  not  one  had  the  panache,  the  verve  my  old  hat  had  acquired  in  the  brine  of  the  Banda  Sea  and  the  snows  of  Kilimanjaro.  The  salesman's  glib  small  talk  dried  up  into  a  series  of  im-  patient  snorts  as  he  strove  abortively  to  pierce  my  indifference.  At  last,  having  vetoed  a  beret  and  a  raffish  tweed  whim-  wham  popularized  by  Rex  Harrison,  I  reluc-  tantly  consented  to  a  chocolate-brown  hom-  burg  made  in  [REDACTED].  Its  lofty  conical  crown,  almost  seven  inches  tall,  gave  me  a  rather  Foreign  Office  aspect.  The  only  knock  was  that  the  brim  refused  to  snap  down-  a  shortcoming  that  filled  me  with  anguish.  Never-  theless,  with  repeated  steaming  and  kneading,  we  managed  to  achieve  the  debonair  effect  I  felt  was  vital,  and,  amid  oily  reassurances  that  the  hat  would  swiftly  adapt  to  its  new  owner,  I  bore  it  away.  For  a  week  or  so,  the  homburg  behaved  itself,  but  then  it  started  to  carry  on  in  the  most  capricious,  spiteful  man-  ner.  The  brim  flew  up,  and  thereafter,  defying  all  attempts  to  press  it  flat  with  bookends,  a  type-" b"writer,  and  an  andiron,  invariably  sprang  back  to  its  original  position.  With  the  brim  upturned,  the  thing  was  ludicrous;  I  looked  shifty,  full  of  strata-  gems,  a  third-rate  grifter  casing  pros-  pects  for  the  handkerchief  switch  out-  side  the  Hotel  Dixie.  I  hastened  back  to  the  store  to  complain  to  the  salesman,  but  he  was  on  vacation-lolling  at  Mon-  tego  Bay,  obviously,  on  the  commission  from  my  homburg-and  I  had  to  visit  my  aggravation  on  the  floorwalker.  &quot;'You  see,&quot;  I  said  patiently,  &quot;my  original  hat,  the  one  I  had  in  Burma  but  lost  at  the  party-that  is,  if  it  was  lost,  which  I  very  much  doubt-had  a  soft  brim,  unlike  this  one-&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  ves,&quot;  the  floorwalker  cut  in.  &quot;Now,  look,  it's  all  very  simple.  Has  this  hat  ever  been  out  in  the  rain?&quot;  &quot;Certainly,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  I  always  protect  it  with  a  cellophane  bag-you  know,  so  I'll  be  mistaken  for  an  osteo-  path  or  a  New  Jersey  chicken  farmer.&quot;  &quot;Quite,&quot;  he  said  uncertainly.  &quot;Well,  the  difficulty  is  that  the  ribbon  around  the  edge  here  has  shrunk,  and  that  causes  the  brim  to  pop  up.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Then  suppose  you  replace  it.&quot;  &quot;Can't,&quot;  he  said,  with  unconcealed  satisfaction.  &quot;The  English  ribbon's  an  altogether  different  shade  from  ours.&quot;  I  asked  if  he  could  conceivably  send  for  a  piece,  and  was  informed  that  the  hat  itself  must  be  shipped  overseas,  neces-  sitating  a  lapse  of  two  months.  The  most  feasible  solution,  in  his  view,  was  to  have  the  repair  made  on  my  next  trip  to  [REDACTED],  where  the  hatmakers  might  appreciate  the  dimensions  of  the  problem.  &quot;Usually  happens  with  a  round,  flat  head  like  yours,&quot;  he  consoled  me.  &quot;The  way  your  temples  bulge,  it's  bound  to  force  the  average  hat  out  of  shape.&quot;  &quot;''They  only  bulge  this  way  when  I  come  in  here,&quot;  I  began  heatedly.  &quot;I  never  had  any  troub-&quot;  &quot;How  old  are  you?&quot;  he  queried.  I  told  him,  and  he  smiled  compassionately.  &quot;Better  see  a  specialist,  old  sock,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  need  a  cardiogram,  not  a  snap-brim.  Excuse  me,  won't  you!?  I  can't  stand  here  jawing  all  day.&quot;  IT  was  well-nigh  seven  months  be-  fore  I  got  to  [REDACTED]  and  the  modest  shop  in  Jermyn  Street  whose  signboard  advised  the  passerby  that  Farquhar  &amp;  Petrie  had  been  hatters  here  by  royal  patent  since  Wat  Tyler's  Rebellion.  Its  tranquil  interior,  untainted  by  the  wolf-  ish  commercialism  I  was  used  to,  in-  spired  immediate  confidence;  the  Re-  gency  pier  glasses,  the  few  discreet hatboxes  in  the  cupboards,  and  the  deco-  rous  help  in  their  dove-gray  dusters  all  proclaimed  an  outpost-perhaps  the  last-of  craftsmanship.  I  could  have  embraced  the  kindly  old  clerk  who  greeted  me  so  civilly.  His  sweet,  saintly  face  reminded  me  of  Alec  Francs  in  the  movies,  and  his  seamed  cheeks  glowed  like  pippins.  &quot;Ah,  yes,  [REDACTED];  he  said  sympathetical-  ly  as  I  poured  out  my  tale.  &quot;We  had  a  similar  complaint  from  a  [REDACTED]  gentleman  some  years  ago,  except  that  his  brim  refused  tostay  up.  Jackson's  Hole-is  that  anywhere  near  your  lodge?&quot;  I  unsnarled  his  geography  and  led  him  gently  back  to  my  dilemma.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  observed  after  due  examination  of  my  homburg,  &quot;there's  nothing  amiss  with  the  ribbon.  The  crown's  been  wrenched  out  of  shape.  Of  course  you  keep  it  on  a  form  whilst  using  your  other  hats?&quot;  &quot;I-er-  Which  other  ones?&quot;  I  hedged,  playing  for  time.  &quot;Offhand,  I  don't  recall-  I  mean  I'd  have  to  ask  my  valet-&quot;  His  saintly  old  face  hardened.  &quot;But  this  is  a  town  hat,  you  must  be  aware,&quot;  he  said,  in  a  pained  voice.  &quot;Surely  you  haven't  worn  it  in  the  country,  sir-  for  rough  shooting  or  beagling?&quot;  &quot;Good  heavens,  no!&quot;  I  assured  him,  forcing  a  grisly  simulacrum  of  a  chuckle.  &quot;I  daresay  the  stewardess  dented  it  aboard  the  aircraft  .  ..  Those  low  raft-  ers  at  the  Cheshire  Cheese  .  ..&quot;  &quot;I  daresay,&quot;  he  returned,  his  lips  compressed.  Drawing  me  out  ofear-  shot  of  the  other  clients,  he  explained  that  it  was  mandatory  to  rotate  hats,  like  shoes.  If  the  wearer  was  not  a  down-  right  vag,  his  headgear  needed  intervals  of  rest.  &quot;Well-um-all  right,&quot;  I  said  feebly.  &quot;But  how  about  this  hat?  Can't  you  fix  it  so  the  brim  stays  down?&quot;  &quot;I'll  mail  it  off  to  our  Nottingham  works  posthaste,&quot;  he  promised.  &quot;We  should  get  a  report  in  a  fortnight  or  two.  Now  then,&quot;  he  went  on  briskly,  &quot;we've  got  to  find  you  something  to  wear  in  the  meantime.&quot;  My  destiny  was  already  so  inter-  twined  with  Farquhar  &amp;  Petrie  that  I  knew  protest  was  futile.  Pliant  asa  lynchee  doll,  I  let  myself  be  dragooned  into  trying  on  two-thirds  of  their  stock.  Just  as  the  staff  was  collapsing  in  frus-  tration,  they  discovered  from  a  chance  remark  that  I  had  a  peripheral  connec-  tion  with  show  business.  Ten  minutes  later,  I  emerged  from  the  shop  in  a  dashing  green  porkpie  reminiscent  of  Sherwood  Forest-the  exact  duplicate,  according  to  the  clerks,  of  one  they  had  supplied  to  my  confrere  Sir  John  Gielgud.  I  have  telegraphed  Sir  John  twice  recently,  offering  to  let  him  in  on  a  bargain,  but  thus  far  he  has  vouch-  safed  no  reply.  Unless  he  turns  up  at  the  [REDACTED]  Monday  with  cash  in  hand,  it'll  be  first  come,  first  served. "