 b"WELL,  now,  that's  a  nice  senti-  mental  title,  isn't  it?  So-are  we  all  ready  for  a  glowing  story  about  this  darling  girl,  and  how  she  calls  youupon  the  telephone,  and  an  hour  later,  dripping  darlingness,  you  hang  up  in  a  blaze  of  glucose,  and  your  whole  day  is  made,  and  everything  is  absolute-  ly  wonderful  from  then  on?  All  right.  Now,  do  you  want  the  facts?  The  facts  are  that  I  am  very  fond  of  honey,  and  I  have  it  for  break-  fast  now  and  then,  and  the  telephone  often  rings  while  I'm  eating  it-my  number  is  quite  a  lot  like  that  of  Mt.  Sinai  Hospital,  and  a  voice  generally  says,  &quot;Give  me  the  maternity  ward&quot;-  and  while  I  am  taking  the  phone  off  the  cradle,  the  wire  dangles  over  the  honey  saucer  just  close  enough  to  pick  up  the  merest  daub  of  honey,  and  from  then  on  ev-  erything  is  not  exactly  wonderful  at  all.  In  fact,  it's  plain  hell.  What  follows  is  not  wasteful  so  far  as  honey  is  concerned,  because  a  microscopic  amount  of  honey  is  enough  to  do  it  all.  Once  a  speck  of  honey  gets  on  the  tele-  phone  wire,  it  does  the  work  of  a  whole  bevy  of  bees,  if  bees  and  bevies  go  together.  One  morning  in  my  early  and  innocent  days,  I  made  a  quick  effort  to  wipe  the  honey  off  the  wire,  but  that  was  a  great  mistake.  An  in-  finitesimal  amount  of  honey-hardly  any,  mind  you-having  thus  got  on  my  fingers,  it  quickly  transferred  it-  self  to  the  telephone  in-  strument,  and  from  then  on  there  was  no  way  out.  Dialling  a  number  a  few  minutes  later,  I  managed  to  get  just  the  merest  bit  of  honey-almost  none  at  all,  really-into  most  of  those  little  dial  holes,  thus  rendering  the  tele-  phone  useless  for  the  next  eight  or  ten  years,  or  until  they  invent  something  to  supersede  the  dial,  Then,  taking  up  a  fork  to  finish  my  eggs,  I  transferred  the  merest  molecule  of  honey  to  the  fork.  Picking  up  my  coffee  cup,  I  got  a  very  little  bit  on  the  cup  handle.  At  this  point,  I  went  into  the  bathroom  and  washed  my  hands,  first  getting  just  the  smallest  speck  of  honey  on  the  bathroom  doorknob.  When  I  came  back  and  took  up  the  fork  again,  there  was  the  honey,  on  my  fingers.  I  now  had  the  whole  breakfast  tray  taken  away  and  a  new  breakfast  prepared,  with  new  forks  and  coffee  cups  and  everything.  Then  I  washed  my  hands,  and  started  all  over.  But  the  tele-  phone  rang  again-they  wanted  Rup-  pert's  Brewery  this  time-and  I  took  up  the  receiver  and  there  was  still  just  Ro  the  smallest  amount  of  honey  on  it,  and  so  I  got  it  on  the  fork  again,  and  when  I  started  to  drink  my  coffee  it  got  on  the  cup  handle  again,  so  I  decided  there  was  no  use  eating  breakfast  at  all  that  morning.  So  I  began  to  get  dressed,  and  just  the  smallest  amount  of  honey  got  on  my  trouser  belt,  so  I  undressed  and  took  a  bath,  and  when  I  came  out,  all  clean,I  closed  the  door  of  the  bathroom  after  me,  and  there  was  just  this  little  bit  of  honey  on  the  doorknob.  .  ..  Well,  you  get  the  idea.  There  was  only  one  thing  to  do.  I  had  the  tele-  phone  taken  out,  and  I  moved  to  a  new  apartment.  So  nowadays,  if  I  have  honey  for  breakfast,  I  save  time  by  just  moving  to  a  new  apartment  right  away.  "