 b"I  READ  not  long  ago  in  a  pious  weekly  that  the  sentence  &quot;In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions&quot;  has  been  causing  disquiet  and  confusion  to  modern  readers,  a  state  ofthings  that  a  new  translation  ofthe  Gospels  will  redress  by  substituting  for  the  word  &quot;mansions&quot;  some  religious  synonym  for  flats.  I  can  foresee  trouble  on  this  score,  too-a  dangerous  Westerniza-  tion  of  an  Eastern  image-but  Iwill  not  go  into  it  now;  all  I  wish  to  say  is  that  the  sentence  has  never  caused  me  any  trouble,  because  my  Great-Uncle  Augustine's  house  was  after  the  same  pattern,  and  in  my  youth  I  often  heard  about  it.  Great-Uncle  Augustine  married  my  grandfather's  sister.  I  have  a  photo-  graph  of  him-a  carte  de  visite,  taken  about  the  date  of  the  marriage.  He  is  quite  astonishingly  handsome,  tall  and  slender,  with  classical  features  and  clas-  sical  whiskers-the  kind  of  whisker  that  frames  the  jaw  but  does  not  intrude  on  mouth  or  chin-and  his  attitude,  as  he  leans,  in  his  long  sleek  clerical  coat  and  well-cut  clerical  waistcoat,  on  the  back  of  a  chair  looking  down  on  the  open  book  in  his  hand,  emphasizes  his  grace-  ful  build  and  port.  Pensive,  elegant,  high-minded,he  looks  like  a  stanza  in  &quot;In  Memoriam;  and  it  would  seem  well-nigh  inevitable  (though  in  fact  nothing  of  the  sort  occurred)  that  the  Church  of  England  would  lead  him  on-  ward  into  becoming  not  a  bishop-a  tougher  fibre  is  required  for  bishops-  but  that  better,  lovelier  thing,  a  dean.  There  is  a  companion  photograph  of  Great-Aunt  Rosie,  and  she,too,  is  tall  and  slender.  But  the  poet  she  calls  to  mind  is  not  Tennyson.  She  looks  like  Lamia  in  a  crinoline.  They  loved,  they  marriedon  veryadequate  means,  they  had  a  succession  of  beautiful  high-  spirited  children-in  all,  I  believe,  six-  teen.  By  the  time  the  total  had  reached  double  figures,  the  house  was  becoming  inconveniently  animated,  so  Augustine  threw  out  two  wings,  or  pavilions,  or  what  termyou  will;  but,  in  essence,  mansions.  In  the  right-hand  mansion  he  disposed  his  older  sons  with  a  tutor;  in  the  left-hand  mansion,  his  older  daughters  with  a  governess;  and  in  the  main  fabric  he  and  his  wife  enjoyed  a  quiet  domesticity,  with  a  considerable  staff  of  servants,  a  housekeeper  called  Pincher,  and  just  three  or  four  little  ones.  The  whole  family,  of  course,  was  often  gathered  together-for  household  prayers,  for  birthdays  and  feasts  of  the  church,  for  Sunday  supper.  It  was  at  a  Sunday  supper  that  Augustine,  while  carving  a  cold  turkey,  held  up  a  sinewy  drumstick  on  a  fork  and  said,  &quot;Now,  boys,  what  does  this  remind  you  of?&quot;  Before  they  could  reply,  he  answered  the  question  himself,  in  the  tones  of  one  assured,  &quot;Pincher's  leg.&quot;  This  took  place  in  the  home  circle;  no  one  was  the  worse  for  it.  Sometimes,  however,  Augustine's  wide-ranging  mind  would  take  a  flight  during  the  rectory  dinner  parties,  and  when  it  ranged  too  far,  his  Rosie  had  to  collect  the  attention  ofthe  female  guests,  rise,  and  sheph\xc3\xa9rd  them  away  into  the  drawing  room.  There,  she  went  round  from  lady  to  lady,  say-  ing  confidentially,  &quot;You  must  forgive  dear  Augustine.  You  see,  he  is  so  steeped  in  the  classics.&quot;  But  I  do  not  think  so  meanly  of  the  Church  of  England  asto  suppose  that  it  withheld  the  apron  for  this.  Au-  gustine  was  subject  to  cataplesy-a  malady  summarized  by  the  medical  dic-  tionary  as  &quot;a  sudden  temporary  loss  of  muscular  tone  in  which  the  patient  col-  lapses,&quot;  and  which  compels  him  to  lie  speechless  and  seemingly  unconscious  till  the  attack  passes  and  allows  him  to  get  up  and  go  about  his  business  as  usual.  'The  family  had  learned  to  take  these  fits  in  their  stride,  and  serv-  ants  were  trained  to  do  likewise,  so  that  a  footman  bringing  the  teakettle,  ora  note  on  a  salver,  knew  that  he  must  step  over  the  prostrate  form  with  a  respectful  absence  of  comment;  for  though  the  cataplectic  may  appear  to  beunconscious,  their  imprisoned  faculties  are  sharp  as  ever,  and  Augus-  tine  was  rather  touchy  about  his  fits.  But  no  doubt  the  ecclesiastical  au-  thorities  thought  that  it  would  be  more  difficult  to  train  a  whole  band  of  cathe-  dral  clergy  and  functionaries  to  step  over  their  dean,  especially  if  a  ceremony  was  going  on  and  the  clergy  were  impeded  by  their  skirts.  Ladies  could  lift  up  a  skirt  and  show  an  ankle,  and  look  the  more  charming  for  it.  Canons  in  residence,  no.  Not  at  that  date,  any-  how.  By  the  date  I  was  hearing  about  these  interesting  relations,  quite  a  num-  ber  of  people  were  inclined  to  think  that  such  a  heredity  should  not  have  been  distributed  among  quiteso  many     " b"children.  They  were  wrong.  Only  one  of  the  childrendied  untimely,  and  he  of  scarlet  fever.  Only  one  of  them  in-  herited  the  malady,  and  she,  as  faras  I  know,  only  once  gave  an  ex-  hibition  of  it.  Still,  the  circumstances  were  unfortunate.  A  young  man,  the  son  of  a  widow,  had  asked  her  to  marry  him,  she  had  agreed  to  do  so,  and  the  young  man's  mother  had  asked  her  to  tea.  The  affair  had  taken  place  with  such  rapidity  that  this  was  Thekla's  first  meeting  with  her  prospective  mother-in-  law.  Feeling  decidedly  nervous,  she  entered  the  room  and  saw  a  sweet-faced  woman  coming  hospitably  to-  ward  her.  The  widow  was  short.  Thekla  was   tall.  She  looked  down  into  a  pair  of  spectacles.  &quot;And  you  are  Thekla!  I  am  so-&quot;  The  widow  said  no  more.  Thekla  could  not  say  anything.  She  was  lying  on  the  floor,  with  something  beneath  her  that  strug-  gled  and  moaned.  Powerless  to  move,  unable  to  utter  a  syllable  of  regret,  she  watched  sons  and  servants  rush  into  the  room,  heard  cries  of  &quot;Send  for  the  doctor!&quot;  By  the  time  the  doctor  came,  she  was  beyond  his  help,  for  she  had  recovered.  But  he  did  not  come  in  vain,  for  Thekla  had  broken  her  hostess's  leg.  &quot;It  is  so  particularly  unfortunate  that  this  should  have  happened  to  Thekla,  who  is  gentler  than  the  other  dear  girls,  and  feels  quite  crushed  by  it  all.&quot;  So  wrote  Rosie  in  a  letter  to  my  grand-  mother,  whose  comment  was,  &quot;Slipshod  thinking.&quot;  And  indeed,  though  the  dear  girls  were  beautiful,  graceful,  talented,  warmhearted,  dressed  in  the  height  of  fashion,  and  fervently  religious,  they  were  none  of  them  gentle.  A  friend  of  the  family  said  that  when  they  came  into  the  room,  all  lovely  and  all  talking  at  once,  it  was  like  being  descended  on  by  a  flight  of  angels.  Angels  in  flight  are  not  gentle.  They  sweep  on  their  way,  each  angel  single-mindedly  bent  on  what  it  means  to  do  next.  In  the  case  of  Veronica,  who,  being  a  couple  of  inches  shorter  than  her  sisters,  was  known  as  Tiddlywinks,  piety  took  an  evangelical  turn.  She  used  to  go  slumming  among  the  [REDACTED]  poor-accompanied,  of  course,  by  a  lady's  maid-and,  station-  ing  herself  at  a  street  corner  or  outside  a  public  house,  she  would  play  the  fiddle  till  a  crowd  gathered.  Then  she  would  hand  the  fiddle  to  the  lady's  maid  and  preach.  'The  converts  were  many,  and  often  a  train  of  them  would  follow  her  till  she  reached  a  cab  rank  and  got  into  a  four-wheeler.  For  at  that  date  no  young  lady-not  even  when  accom-  panied  by  a  lady's  maid,  not  even  when  followed  by  a  train  of  converts-could  reputably  drive  off  in  a  hansom.  The  sisters  had  swarms  of  admirers,  collectively  and  individually,  and  even-  tually  they  all  got  married,  though  they  were  so  happy  and  interested  at  home  that  they  were  in  no  hurry  to  do  so.  In  the  meantime,  they  were  in  con-  stant  demand  as  bridesmaids.  Augus-  tine,  looking  so  noble  in  his  surplice,  was  in  as  constant  demand  as  chief  clergy-  man-the  Church  of  England  allows  the  solemnization  of  matrimony  to  be  apportioned  among  several  clergymen,  one  doing  one  thing,  another  another,  so  if  he  had  happened  to  be  struck  down  among  the  lilies,  there  would  always  have  been  a  cockhorse  clergyman  to  re-  place  him-and  weddings,  apart  from  those  of  parishioners,  were  constantly  taking  place  in  his  church,  for  the  aisle  was  wide,  and  Rosie  threw  herself  heart  and  soul  into  wedding  breakfasts.  For  one  of  these  weddings,  the  brides-  maids'  hats  were  sent  from  [REDACTED].  Like  everything  sent  from  [REDACTED],  they  arrived  after  their  arrival  had  been  despaired  of,  superlatively  packed  in  reams  of  tissue  paper  and  on  the  very  eve  of  the  ceremony.  Six  hats  were  lifted  from  six  bandboxes,  and  immediately  a  schism  arose.  Which  way  round  were  they  to  be  worn?  Were  the  white  roses  clustered  under  the  green  brims  to  be  in  front  or  at  the  back,  over  the  nose  or  over  the  knot?  [REDACTED],  Veronica,  Agatha,  Sabina,  Rufina,  and  Fride-  swide  sat  up  till  sunrise  vehemently  de-  bating  this  question.  Each  knew  her  own  mind,  each  was  ready  to  die  for  her  faith.  Eachcame  down  to  breakfast  hollow-eyed  but  unyielding,the  debate  continued,  everyone  in  the  house  be-  came  drawn  into  it,  and  by  the  time  it  occurred  to  Pincher  that  a  telegram  of  inquiry  could  be  sent  to  the  bride,  it  was  too  late  to  send  it.  Moberley,  one  of  the  brothers,  suggested  tossing  up.  'This  united  the  controversialists,  who  said  it  was  too  utterly  cynical.  When  the  bride  approached  the  church,  she  saw,  lined  up  in  the  porch  to  receive  her,  three  clusters  of  white  roses  over  threeaqui-  line  noses,  three  over  Grecian  knots.  A  second  glance  showed  her  that  it  would  not  do  toassert  herself,  and,  tightening  " b"her  hold  on  her  father's  arm,  she  went  with  dignity  up  the  aisle.  T  will  be  observed  by  anyone  with  a  scrap  of  hagiology  about  him  that  the  daughters  of  this  house  had  names  drawn  from  the  Calendar  of  the  Saints.  Augustine  chose  them.  In  the  case  of  Merivale,  Moberley,  Ridley,  Faber,  Grote,  Stone,  and  Fazackerley  (Au-  gustine  gracefully  left  the  boys  for  Rosie  to  name)  the  system  is  less  apparent,  the  chime  more  recondite;  but  a  clue  runs  through  them,  whereas  it  is  difficult  to  see  how  anyone  should  leap  from  Rufina  to  Frideswide,  unless  by  means  of  a  pin.  Rosie's  choice  of  Merivale,  Moberley,  etc.,  had  hagio-  logical  implications,  too.  It  commemorated  a  series  of  young  men  who  had  suc-  cessively  inserted  themselves  into  the  canon  of  what  she  called  her  &quot;Special  Dears.&quot;  Ina  sense  they  were  Augus-  tine's  Dears,  too,  since  they  were  his  pupils,  and  a  considerable  source  of  his  income.  Even  before  his  marriage  he  was  doing  well  as  a  coach,  and  as  a  married  coach  he  did  even  better,  tak-  ing  not  only  young  menwho  want-  ed  to  study  theology  or  be  steeped  in  the  classics  but  those  whose  parents  thought  their  health  needed  special  at-  tention  or  their  character  a  more  shel-  tered  climate  than  they  would  find  at  a  university.  Such  parents,  led  into  the  drawing  room  to  be  introduced  to  Rosie,  finding  her  with  Baby  Thekla  in  her  lap,  [REDACTED]  and  Veronica  at  foot,  see-  ing  the  look  of  heartbreak  that  crossed  her  face  when  they  spoke  of  Algie's  kidneys,  hearing  her  compassionating  &quot;How  sad!&quot;  when  they  mentioned  Frank's  inability  to  keep  proper  ac-  counts,  admired  their  own  acumen  in  finding  such  an  ideal  establishment,  and  in  reply  to  her  assurances  that  she  would  watch  over  their  dear  boys  like  a  mother  told  her  they  knew  she  would.  And  so  she  did,  taking  a  deep  interest  in  their  lungs,  their  underwear,  their  souls,  their  aspirations,  their  news  from  home,  and  writing  very  long  letters  at  least  once  a  week  to  report  on  their  health,  analyze  their  dispositions,  dilate  on  their  progress  or,  if  that  was  not  pos-  sible,  dwell  on  hopeful  signs,  all  in  a  rapid  sloping  hand  and  with  a  com-  mand  of  language  that  did  her  great  credit-the  more  so  since  she  was  in  the  habit  of  dashing  off  these  letters  at  the  breakfast  table,  at  the  same  time  deal-  ing  with  a  reiteration  of  coffee  cups,  sending  messages  to  the  cook,  and  ap-  peasing  Augustine's  morning  pettish-     ness.  Her  heart  went  out  to  all  of  them,  she  said,  and  Algie's  kidneys  and  Frank's  bill  at  the  tailor's  had  a  like  place  in  her  prayers.  But  naturally  she  found  some  one  among  themmore  in-  teresting  than  the  others,  more  interest-  ing  and  more  responsive,  better  fitted  to  read  aloud  &quot;The  Blessed  Damozel&quot;  and  listen  to  Chopin  in  the  April  twi-  light,  more  in  need  of  her  sympathy,  perhaps,  or  possibly  more  grateful.  They  came,  they  went,  and  when-  ever  the  opportunity  of  a  male  infant  allowed  it  she  commemorated  them.  Merivale,  Moberley,  Ridley,  Faber,  Grote,  Stone,  and  Fazackerley.  When  the  ten-  ure  of  the  current  Special  Dear  coincided  with  the  birth  of  a  daughter,  nothing  could  be  done.  Her  last-born  son  she  named  Augustine,  but  the  tribute  was  soon  obliterated  under  the  pet  name  of  Bunni-  kin.  Coming  belatedly  at  the  tail  of  such  a  long  family,  Bunnikin  was  almost  my  contemporary.  I  remember  a  day-I  was  staying  at  my  grandparents'-when  Bunnikin  was  to  be  brought  over  to  play  with  me,  con-  veyed  by  some  of  his  sisters.  They  were  making  a  party  of  it;  one  of  the  many  admirers  was  driving  them  over  in  his  brake.  I  remember  the  arrival,  the  angels  descending  from  the  brake,  their  hats,  their  profiles,  their  fragrance,  the  rustle  of  their  petticoats,  their  voices  mingling  in  a  melodious  full  ery,  falsely  mournful  like  a  cry  of  hounds.  &quot;And  here's  Bunnikin.Bunnikin,  Bunnikin!  But  where's  Bunnikin?  Where  is  our  sweet  little  Bunnikin?&quot;  Bunnikin  had  been  left  behind.  WISH  I  had  seen  more  of  this  fam-  ily.  My  mother  could  not  tolerate  them;  she  said  they  made  her  head  whirl,  that  they  were  a  religious  circus,  a  nest  of  fireworks,  Bedlam  Unbound,  Pandemonium  let  loose;  she  alsosaid  that  Rosie  was  an  archliar  and  archhypo-  crite,  and  that  no  man  was  safe  within  a  mile  of  her.  Honor  would  then  com-  pel  her  to  admit  that  few  women  could  have  endured  such  a  gruelling  life  and  come  out  of  it  with  head  so  unbowed,  spirits  so  unabated,  and  such  a  figure.  Perhaps  if  the  head  had  been  more  bowed,  the  spirits  and  the  waistline  lost,  my  mother  would  have  felt  more  toler-  ance.  Great-Aunt  Rosie  was  an  old  woman,  long  widowed,  living  alone,  and  writing  her  innumerable  letters  on  paper  increasingly  black-edged  as  first  her  contemporaries  died  and  then  her  juniors,  when,  after  an  interval  of  many  years,  she  reappeared  among  us,  announcing  herself  on  the  telephone  as  being  in  the  neighborhood,  and  saying  she  would  like  to  come  to  tea  on  the  morrow.  &quot;Thank  God  your  fa-  ther  will  be  out!&quot;  my  mother  exclaimed.  However,  he  changed  his  plans,  and  was  in.  When  the  old  Lamia,  who  had  actually  worn  a  crinoline,  rose  up  to  depart,  she  dropped  a  glove.  I  bent  to  pick  it  up.  But,  sweeping  down  like  a  willow  wand  from  a  height  that  well  overtopped  mine,  she  teached  it  before  me.  Though,  even  in  my  youth,  she  was  more  legend  than  woman  to  me,  and  now  is  almost  wholly  legend,  I  am  still  liable  to  become  vividly  aware  of  her-  as  though  she  were  leaning  over  my  shoulder  while  I  say  down  the  tele-  phone,  &quot;Wednesday?  I  would  have  adored  to,  but  I've  got  to  be  out  all  day,&quot;  or  &quot;I  was  so  sorry  not  to  be  there,  but  I  had  the  most  appalling  cold  in  my  head-and  I  still  haven't  got  rid  of  it,&quot;  or  &quot;But  if  you  can't  send  the  chops  in  time  for  lunch,  we  shall  have  absolutely  nothing  to  eat.&quot;  For  the  family  voice,  that  mysterious  ar-  rangement  of  molecules,  is  speaking.  And  it  gives  me  a  touching  sense  of  security  to  hear  it  again,  and  to  know  that  while  I  cannot  claim  to  be  an  archliar  and  archhypocrite,  I  am  yet  in  the  tradition. "