 b"ALTHOUGH  preparations  had been  going  on  for  weeks,  what  convinced  Maya  that  her  par-  ents  were  really  serious  about  her  wed-  ding  was  the  arrival  of  Uncle  Mohan  Lal  from  Allahabad.  He  came  early  one  morning,  marched  straight  into  the  drawing  room,  pointed  to  the  biggest  armchair,  and  asked  to  have  it  drawn  into  the  middle  of  the  room.  Placing  his  umbrella,  his  turban,  and  his  slip-  pers  beside  the  chair,  he  sat  down  in  it  with  his  legs  tucked  under  him.  After  that,  the  two  jewellers  who  were  to  make  Maya's  wedding  jewelry  were  led  into  the  room,  and,  sitting  on  a  white  sheet  spread  on  the  carpet  in  front  of  him,  they  began  their  work.  Uncle  Mohan  Lal  remained  in  the  drawing  room,  in  just  that  position,  for  most  of  the  next  three  weeks.  Many  times  a  day,  tumblers  of  sweet,  milky  tea  and  platefuls  of  freshly  fried  fritters  were  brought  in  to  him,  and  occasion-  ally  he  would  ask  for  hot  coals  for  his  hookah.  But  all  the  while  his  attention  never  wavered  from  the  two  jewellers.  That  was  what  he  was  there  for-to  watch  them  and  make  sure  that  they  did  not  misappropriate  any  of  the  pre-  cious  stones  given  to  them  for  their  work.  A  dishonest  jeweller  would  have  had  little  chance  against  Uncle  Mohan  Lal,  for  watching  jewellers  might  have  been  said  to  be  his  profession.  He  spent  a  great  deal  of  his  time  in  the  drawing  rooms  of  fam-  ilies  with  whom  he  was  dis-  tantly  connected,  supervis-  ing  the  making  of  their  wedding  jewelry.  He  en-  joyed  a  position  of  high  re-  spect,  which  he  carried  with  some  dignity;  he  was  not  unaware  of  his  own  impor-  tance.  Maya  knew  that  Uncle  Mohan  Lal  didn't  like  peo-  ple  to  come  into  the  draw-  ing  room  to  watch,  but  to-  day  she  persuaded  herself  to  brave  his  displeasure  and  the  disapproving  noises  he  would  make  at  her  in  drink-  ing  his  tea.  Walking  in  soft-  ly,  she  took  up  a  position  directly  behind  the  jewel-  lers.  They  were  setting  dia-  monds  into  a  necklace,  and  her  fingers  began  to  play  around  her  throat  as  she  imagined  how  she  would  arrange  the  finished  neck-  lace  there.  On  the  sheet  be-  side  the  jewellers  were  the  matching  earrings,  nestled  in  cotton  wool-long  pendant  earrings,  golden  and  set  with  diamonds,  incredibly  beau-  tiful.  Reverently,  she  picked  one  up  and  pushed  it  into  her  ear  lobe.  But  before  she  could  even  turn  to  the  mir-  ror  Uncle  Mohan  Lal  said,  in  an  au-  thoritative  voice,  &quot;Run  away,  girl.  Don't  come  here  to  disturb  the  work.&quot;  Regretfully,  she  replaced  the  earring  in  the  cotton  wool  and  left  the  room.  Outside,  she  muttered  indignantly,  &quot;It  is  my  wedding.&quot;  Nobody  was  act-  ing  as  if  it  were.  In  the  dining  room,  her  mother  and  aunts  were  choos-  ing  materials  for  her  wedding  ward-  robe.  Yesterday  her  mother  had  asked,  quite  absent-mindedly,  &quot;You  like  this,  Maya?&quot;-holding  out  a  heavy  purple  sari  of  Bangalore  silk  with  avast  golden  border.  &quot;I  likethis  one  better,&quot;  Maya  had  replied,  fingering  a  very  light  Mysore  silk  of  pale,  pale  blue.  &quot;You  don't  know  what  is  right  for  you  to  like,&quot;  her  mother  had  said  casu-  ally,  passing  on  to  another  pile  of  saris.  She  had  not  even  noticed  the  look  of  annoyance  on  Maya's  face.  But  one  of  the  aunts,  who  had  been  watching  her,  said,  &quot;You  are  a  silly  girl.  Flimsy  saris  are  only  for  everyday  occasions.  For  weddings,  you  must  have  heavy  ones.&quot;  When  Maya  left  the  room,  the  others  had  not  even  glanced  up,  they  were  so busy  exclaiming  overa  hideous  museum  piece  of  golden-threaded  silk,  which  Maya  promised  herself  she  would  never  let  herself  beseen  in,  wedding  or  no  wedding.  It  was  strange,  she  thought,  but  really  she  had  had  a  better  time  before  her  sister  Didi's  wedding  than  now,  be-  fore  her  own.  Then  everything  had  been  most  marvellously  exciting.  But  now  she  was  piqued,  because  she  should  be  at  the  center  of  it  all  and  they  wouldn't  let  her  be.  She  was  even  annoyed  with  her  little  brother,  Munna,  for  enjoy-  ing  himself  so  much.  He  skipped  ex-  citedly  from  one  room  to  another,  and  when  they  pushed  him  out  of  the  way,  he  didn't  mind  at  all  but  skipped  off  to  watch  somewhere  else,  How  silly  he  was,  just  a  child.  She  was  eighteen,  an  important  person-the  bride-to-be.  So,  to  console  herself,  she  went  up-  stairs  to  her  parents'  room  and  tele-  phoned  her  closest  friend.  &quot;Oh,  Nita,&quot;  she  said  as  soon  as  she  heard  the  answer-  ing  voice,  &quot;you  don't  know  what  a  rush  everything  is.&quot;  Nita,  whose  marriage  had  not  yet  been  arranged-indeed,  she  had  not  even  been  betrothed-said  in  a  sensible,  adult  way,  &quot;Of  course.  It  always  is  on  these  occasions.&quot;  &quot;It's  very  exciting,&quot;  Maya  went  on,  speaking  more  slowly  this  time.  &quot;'They  are  setting  a  most  marvellous  diamond  necklace.&quot;  &quot;Diamonds?  How  nice.  Of  course,  you  know  what  a  weakness  I  have  for  pearls.&quot;  &quot;'There  are  some  pearls  also.  Oh,  Nita,  I  wish  you  could  be  here!&quot;  This  wasn't  true  at  all;  she  wouldn't  care  to  have  Nita  see  what  anun-  important  role  she  was  play-  ing  in  her  own  wedding  prep-  arations.  &quot;A  lady  is  coming  from  [REDACTED]  specially  to  do  my  hair.  She  will  do  it  in  the  style  of  the  Maurya  period.&quot;  &quot;Maurya?  But  it  couldn't  possibly  be  Maurya.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  I  mean  Gupta,&quot;  Maya  said.  &quot;I'm  so  confused.  So  much  is  happening.  Nita,  I  do  wish  you  could  come  and  talk  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Out  of  the  question,  my  dear.  I  have  all  my  lecture  notes  to  write  up,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;You  are  such  a  scholar,&quot;  Maya  said  handsomely.  She  could  afford  to  say  this,  since  she  knew  Nita  went  to  gradu-  ate  class  only  because  her  par-  ents  had  not  yet  found  anyone  for  her  to  marry.     " b"&quot;Well,  I  have  to  run,&quot;  Nita  said.  &quot;'Then  I  won't  be  seeing  you  before  the  wedding?  But  you  ere  coming?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  After  this  unsatisfactory  conversa-  tion,  Maya  walked  downstairs  and  was  delighted  to  see  her  sister  Didi  just  com-  ing  in  by  the  front  veranda.  Didi  was  touching  up  her  hair  at  the  backwith  one  hand,  rather  casually.  She  looked  very  elegant.  &quot;Didi,  how  glad  I  am  you've  come!&quot;  Maya  saidas  she  went  to  meet  her.  &quot;Everything  is  in  such  confusion  and  everyone  is  so  busy  and  cross!&quot;  Didi  only  laughed.  &quot;Of  course.  What  else  did  you  expect  at  a  time  like  this?&quot;  Maya  had  hoped  for  something  more  satisfactory  from  her.  &quot;And  Munna  is  being  so  silly.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Munna.  Where  is  Mama?&quot;  Maya  led  Didi  to  the  dining  room-  triumphantly,  for  she  was  sure  Didi  would  support  her  taste  against  that  of  their  mother  and  aunts.  &quot;&quot;No,&quot;  Didi  said  as  soon  as  she  began  to  examine  the  selected  saris.  &quot;This  purple  one  is  quite  impossible.&quot;  &quot;'Then  what  do  you  think?&quot;  her  mother  asked,  frowning  and  scratching  her  hair.  Maya  was  pleased,  but  at  the  same  time  a  little  resentful  because  Didi's  opinion  was  so  deferentially  listened  to.  Thinking  it  might  bewise  to  assert  her-  self  a  little,  she  said,  &quot;I  still  like  the  pale-blue  one  best.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  silly,&quot;  Didi  said,  digging  busily  into  the  pile  of  materials.  After  a  while,  she  cried  &quot;Just  look  at  this  one!&quot;  and  drew  out  a  glowing  orange  silk.  &quot;You  like  it?&quot;&quot;  Mama  asked,  and  be-  gan  to  finger  it.  The  aunts  also  fingered  it,  and  said,  &quot;Very  nice.&quot;  &quot;It's  exactly  right,&quot;  said  Didi  with  authority.  &quot;We  must  have  a  big  golden  border  on  it.&quot;  &quot;But  I  can't  wear  orange!&quot;  Maya  cried.  &quot;It  doesn't  suit  me  at  all.&quot;  Didi  transferred  the  orange  sari  to  the  pile  of  accepted  saris  and  turned  her  attention  to  the  blouse  pieces.  &quot;And  I  hate  big  borders,&quot;  Maya  said  desperately.  &quot;Darling,  just  leave  everything  to  us,&quot;  Didi  said.  &quot;Maya,&quot;  her  mother  said,  &quot;why  must  you  get  in  the  way  so?&quot;  MAYA  went  upstairs  to  her  room  and  lay  down  on  thebed.  She  par-  ticularly  resented  Didi's  attitude;  after  all,  Didi  was  only  three  years  older  than  she  andhad  been  married  hardly  two  years.  Yet  she  was  acting  in  such  a  knowledgeable  and  superior  way.  Be-fore  Didi's  own  wedding,  it  had  been  very  different.  Then  she  had  looked  on  Maya  as  her  closest  confidante.  She  had  lain  here  on  Maya's  bed  with  tears  rolling  down  her  face,  turning  her  head  from  side  to  side  in  anguish.  &quot;What  is  the  use  of  it  all?&quot;  she  had  demanded.  \xc2\xab'They  are  preparing  for  my  funeral.  Marriage  will  be  a  living  death  to  me.&quot;  Maya  had  been  very  impressed.  &quot;Oh,  Raj,  Raj,&quot;  Didi  had  moaned.  Raj  was  the  boy  she  had  fallenin  love  with  at  college.  When  his  parents  married  him  to  another  girl,  Didi  had  been  heart-  broken  and  had  allowed  her  parents  to  arrange  her  marriage  with  anyone  they  chose.  &quot;It  is  all  the  same  now,&quot;  she  had  said  tragically.  &quot;All  a  living  death.&quot;  Yet  it  had  not  turned  out  to  bea  living  death  at  all.  Maya  thought  it  was  time  she,too,  had  tragic  thoughts.  But  thoughts  of  that  nature  were  difficult  without  a  confidante,  and  she  had  none.  Nita  had  been  thoroughly  unsympathetic;  her  married  friends  were  all  busy  with  their  new  husbands  and  their  new  social  life,  and  besides  they  had  all  become  su-  perior,  even  patronizing,  like  Didi.  Marriage  seemed  to  make  everyone  like  that.  The  only  exception  she  knew  was  a  girl  who  hadhad  an  unhappy  mar-  riage  and  had  been  separated  from  her  husband  after  only  eight  months.  But  it  would  be  no  use  to  confide  in  her;  she  would  only  talk  about  herself  and  her  husband,  who  drank.  And  really,  Maya  thought,  she  had  nothing  very  important  to  confide.  She  had  never  been  in  love  with  anyone  ex-  cept  herEnglish  teacher  at  college,  and  she  had  forgotten  him  months  ago.  She  did  not  even  have  any  objections  to  the  boy  she  was  to  marry.  On  the  contrary,  she  thought  him  rather  nice.  She  had  seen  him  first  about  three  months  earlier,  when  his  uncle  brought  him  to  tea.  When  her  father  called  her  into  the  drawing  room  that  day,  she  had  been  very  shy  and  embarrassed.  But  everyone  had  been  nice,  the  uncle  had  told  some  very  funny  anecdotes,  and  there  had  been  chocolate  cake  for  tea.  She  and  the  boy  had  had  a  few  words  together;  he  had  told  her  that  he  often  went  hunting  and  had  already  shota  tiger  and  a  bison.  A  few  weeks  after-  ward,  her  parents  had  taken  her  to  his  house,  which  was  exactly  like  her  own-large,  with  lots  of  carpets,  ivory     " b"elephants,  and  servants  in  white  uni-  forms.  His  parents  were  more  or  less  like  hers:  his  mother  short  and  stout,  and  with  a  sharp  eye  on  the  servants;  his  father,  who  was  a  Supreme  Court  judge  (her  father  was  a  Minister  in  the  gov-  ernment),  important,  good-humored,  wearing  gold-rimmed  spectacles.  Two  days  after  this  visit,  her  father  had  called  her  into  his  study  and  asked  her  very  seriously  if  she  had  any  objec-  tion  to  the  marriage.  &quot;I  want  to  do  nothing  against  your  wishes,&quot;  he  had  said.  He  was  always  like  that-scrupu-  lous  and  considerate.  She  had  thought  for  a  while,  and  then  answered  no,  she  did  not  think  she  had  any  objec-  tion.  'You  can  see  the  boy  again,  if  you  like,&quot;  he  had  offered.  &quot;We  could  ar-  range  to  have  you  see  a  cinema  show  together.&quot;  Since  she  always  liked  the  cinema,  she  had  agreed  to  this,  but  in  the  end  nothing  had  come  of  it,  because  the  boy  had  had  to  go  to  Allahabad  to  finish  his  law  examination.  Now  she  would  not  see  him  again  until  the  marriage  ceremony.  She  would  be'  led  in,  her  head  and  face  covered,  to  sit  beside  him  in  front  of  the  sacred  fire  and  listen  to  the  pandit  chant  religious  verses.  Munna  came  into  her  room  sudden-  ly.  &quot;Why  are  you  here?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Go  away.  I  am  thinking.&quot;  &quot;You  know  how  many  cases  of  Coca-Cola  they  have  ordered?&quot;  &quot;Go  away.&quot;  &quot;''Two  hundred.  You  know  how  many  bottles  of  Coca-Cola  that  is?&quot;  He  shuffled  the  pack  of  cards  he  always  carried  on  the  off  chance  that  someone  would  play  flush  with  him.  &quot;Four  thou-  sand  eight  hundred.  Four  thousand  eight  hundred  bottles  of  Coca-Cola.&quot;  His  eyes  gleamed  with  excitement.  &quot;'This  is  a  terrible  time  for  me,&quot;  Maya  said.  She  really  did  feel  a  great  longing  to  talk  to  someone.  She  rolled  her  head  from  side  to  side  on  the  pillow,  the  way  she  remembered  Didi  had  done,  and  tried  to  look  anguished.  You  do  not  know  what  thoughts  are  going  on  in  my  head.&quot;  &quot;You  have  a  pain?&quot;  he  inquired,  not  without  sympathy;  he  had  always  been  a  good-hearted  boy.  &quot;Oh,  Munna,  a  new  life  is  starting  for  me.  What  will  it  bring?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  you  would  care  for  a  game  of  flush?&quot;  he  asked-casually,  soas  not  to  appear  too  eager.  &quot;You  had  much  better  go  away,&quot;  she  said,  and  wearily  shut  her  eyes.  But  after  he  was  gone,  she  felt  quite  bored.  Perhaps  she  should  have  played  cards  with  him  after  all.  She  got  up  and  went  downstairs  to  find  him.  And there,  standing  in  the  entrance  hall,  was  Subramanyam,  her  father's  Per-  sonal  Assistant.  He  held  his  briefcase  tightly  under  his  arm  and  told  her,  &quot;'The  Minister  will  not  be  home  for  lunch  today.  Some  American  technolo-  gists  are  coming  to  see  him.&quot;  She  felt  sorry  for  her  father,  who  so  hated  miss-  ing  his  lunchtime  at  home  and  the  nap  in  his  study  afterward.  &quot;Shall  I  tell  them  to  give  you  some  tea?&quot;  she  asked  Subramanyam,  and  then  remembered  he  was  a  [REDACTED]  In-  dian  and  would  probably  prefer  coffee.  But  it  appeared  he  was  too  busy  to  want  anything;  there  were  the  technicians  coming  to  see  the  Minister,  and  the  Indonesian  Trade  Commissioner  had  made  an  appointment  for  the  afternoon.  Oh,  they  were  very  busy  men,  he  and  the  Minister.  Maya  listened  to  this  for  a  while,  then  said,  &quot;Of  course,  you  are  coming  to  my  wedding?&quot;  Subraman-  yam  looked  down  in  embarrassment  and  simpered,  &quot;Oh,  thank  you.  Thank  you  very  much.&quot;  She  noticed  for  the  first  time  that  he  was  quite  good-looking.  Why  had  she  not  noticed  this  before?  It  would  have  been  so  romantic  to  fall  in  love  with  her  father's  Personal  Assistant.  And  cer-  tainly  her  position  now  would  have  been  much  more  satisfactory.  She  could  have  lain  on  the  bed  and  moaned,  &quot;Oh,  Su-  bramanyam,  Subramanyam.&quot;  But  it  had  never  occurred  to  her  to  fall  in  love  with  him.  Perhaps  that  was  because  he  was  a  [REDACTED]  Indian  Brahman;  she  would  not  care  to  marry  a  [REDACTED]  Indian  Brahman.     " b"His  family,  she  was  sure,  were  terribly  orthodox  and  would  never  sit  down  to  eat  with  her,  a  non-Brahman.  And  all  they  would  ever  eat  would  be  rice-  morning,  noon,  and  night-with  that  horrible  gravy.  They  would  be  squat,  ting  on  the  floor  in  cotton  saris  and  dhotis  and  digging  their  hands  into  their  bowls  so  that  the  gravy  would  run  out  between  their  fingers.  She  remembered  with  some  satisfaction  her  future  moth-  er-in-law  pouring  tea  in  the  drawing  room  and  saying,  &quot;Won't  you  have  an-  other  slice  of  cake?&quot;  HE  three  sweetmeat-makers,  who  were  to  start  work  next  morning,  had  brought  their  vats  and  pestles  into  the  courtyard,  and  they  and  the  serv-  ants  were  gathered  about  Maya's  grandmother.  She  was  telling  them  of  all  the  different  kinds  of  sweetmeats  that  had  been  made  at  her  wedding,  six-  ty  years  ago.  'The  sweetmeat-makers,  standing  at  a  respectful  distance  from  the  bed  on  which  she  was  sitting,  coun-  tered  by  telling  her  about  the  sweet-  meats  they  had  made  at  weddings  in  other  families.  It  was  an  animated  con-  versation  that  everybody  seemed  to  be  enjoying  very  much,  including  the  servants,  who  from  time  to  time  would  make  some  contribution  of  their  own.  Munna  sat  at  Grandmother's  feet,  his  eyes,  as  he  listened,  huge  in  wonder,  and  his  hands  mechanically  shuffling  his  cards.  Grandmother  was  not  at  all  like  other  people's  grandmothers,  who  sat  in  the  courtyard  all  day  and  gossiped  with  the  servants;  she  always  wore  beautiful  silk  saris,  and  her  fingers  were  covered  with  rings.  The  only  thing  about  her  that  was  not  elegant  was  her  complete  lack  of  teeth.  She  had  a  set  of  false  teeth,  but  they  were  not  comfortable,  so  she  kept  them  in  a  drawer,  wearing  them  only  when  there  were  special  visi-  tors.  Maya  waited  until  the  sweetmeac-  makers  had  gone  and  the  servants  were  beginning  to  disperse,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;Dadiji,  what  isit  like  to  be  married?&quot;  For  who  was  there  more  suitable  for  this  kind  of  conversation  than  a  girl's  own  grandmother?  Grandmother  immediately  reacted  in  the  right  way-assuming  a  very  serious  expression  and  swaying  her  head  from  side  to  side.  &quot;Ah,  to  be  married  ...&quot;  &quot;Is  it  very  different?&quot;  You  see,  child,&quot;  Grandmother  said,  &quot;in  Life  there  are  four  stages.&quot;  As  soon  as  Grandmother  said  &quot;Life&quot;  in  that  way,  Maya's  heart  sank.  But  the  serv-  ants,  sensing  the  beginning  of  the  kind  of  conversation  they  loved,  crowded  around  again;  the  cook  brought  the  dish  in  which  he  was  stirring  eggs,  and  con-  tinued  stirring.  &quot;First,  there  is  child-  hood,  carefree  and  gay,&quot;  said  Grand-  mother,  The  servants  nodded,  and  the  cook  said,  &quot;What  could  be  more  free  from  care  and  anxiety  than  the  life  of  a  child?&quot;  &quot;In  childhood,  the  heart  is  like  a  bird,&quot;  Grandmother  said,  and  they  all  nodded  again  while  the  cook  explained,  &quot;It  sings  with  joy  like  abird,  and  is  free  like  the  bird  also.&quot;  The  ayah  brought  a  cup  of  tea  for  Grandmother.  Maya  knew  that  it  would  take  Grand-  mother  at  least  an  hour  to  get  through  the  four  stages  of  Life.  Soon  she  would  be  telling  fables  from  the  Panchatantra  for  illustration,  and  the  cook  would  bring  in  apposite  quotations  from  the  ita.  &quot;'The  bird  and  the  heart  of  the  child  are  both  near  to  God,&quot;  Grandmother  said.  Maya  murmured,  &quot;Mama  is  calling  me,&quot;  and  started  into  the  house.  Only  Munna  noticed  her  depar-  ture.  &quot;Now  I  am  playing  solo,&quot;  he  called  after  her,  which  was  his  way     " b"of  again  inviting  her  to  a  game  of  flush.  When  Maya  re\xc3\xa9ntered  the  house,  she  heard  voices  in  her  father's  office.  It  was  her  mother  arguing  with  the  Caterer.  He  was  a  big,  fat  man,  and  wore  a  thin  shirt  through  which  his  undervest  and  the  folds  of  his  stomach  could  be  clearly  seen.  Every  day  he  came  and  everyday  Mama  shouted  at  him.  'They  were  try-  ing  to  decide  on  the  food  to  beserved  the  wedding  guests.  Mama  would  agree  with  the  Caterer's  suggestions  one  day,  but  by  the  next  she  would  have  changed  her  mind.  The  Caterer  would  listen  patiently  to  Mama's  new  suggestions,  saying  &quot;Very  good-shamst  kebabs,  ex-  cellent,&quot;  and  then  he  would  make  his  own  suggestions,  which  were  quite  dif-  ferent  from  hers,  and  most  of  which  she  finally  accepted,  though  at  the  same  time  shouting  at  him  that  it  was  a  pity  he  did  not  know  his  job  after  so  many  years  in  the  catering  business.  Maya  entered  the  office  justas  Mama  and  the  Caterer  were  coming  to  a  temporary  agreement,  though  Mama  still  looked  very  doubtful.  &quot;Cheese  and  pea  curry,&quot;  the  Caterer  rolled  richly  from  his  tongue.  &quot;Oven-baked  chick-  en,  roasted  fish,  seekh  kebab,  fried  rice.&quot;  Maya  remembered  all  the  wedding  feasts  she  had  attended:  the  multitude  oftiny  electric  lights  lacingthe  front  of  the  house  in  an  elaborate  pattern;  the  red-and-orange  striped  marquee;  the  rows  of  long  tables  at  which  the  guests  sat  side  by  side  under  colored  streamers  and  banana  plants  and  Chinese  lan-  terns;  the  bearers  passing  around  with  loaded  dishes,  heaping  the  huge  plan-  tain  leaves  used  for  plates  with  mounds  of  spicy,  steaming  food.  But  at  her  own  wedding  she  would  be  sitting  in  a  little  room  by  herself,  dressed  in  her  crim-  son  wedding  sari;  each  of  the  lady  guests  would  come  to  talk  to  her  for  a  few  minutes,  but  all  the  time  they  would  be  straining  to  be  away  to  where  the  food  was,  and  the  laughter,  and  the  band.  She  might  faintly  hear  the  laughter  and  the  band,  but  she  would  not  be  able  to  as  much  as  smell  the  food.  Really,  one's  own  wedding  was  the  dullest  of  all.  ATER,  when  Mama  told  Didi  what  she  had  arrangedwith  the  Caterer,  Didi  clicked  her  tongue  and  said,  &quot;No,  really,  Mama!&quot;  &quot;Not  good?&quot;  Mama  asked,  anxious-  ly  looking  up  into  Didi's  face.  &quot;Oh  dear.&quot;  Didi  sighed,  and  sank  into  a  chair.  &quot;But  they  are  the  traditional  dishes  for  weddings,&quot;  Mama  said.  Didi  bridled  at  once.  &quot;That  is  the  trouble!  Tradition,  tradition,  tradi-  tion-that  is  all  one  hears  in  this  coun-  try!  Nobody  ever  realizes  that  the  world  is  progressing!&quot;  Maya  listened  with  shining  eyes.  &quot;'This  is  the  twenti-  eth  century,&quot;  Didi  continued  heatedly,  &quot;but  to  listen  to  all  of  you  nobody  would  ever  think  it!&quot;  Mama  said,  quite  humbly,  &quot;We  are  still  the  older  generation;  it  is  different  for  you  young  people.&quot;  Oh,  yes,  Maya  thought  with  joy,  it  is  very  different  for  young  people:  But  when  she  thought  &quot;young  people,&quot;  she  did  not  think  of  herself-only  of  Didi  and  other  young  married  women  like  her.  They  led  marvellous  lives.  So  modern,  so  very  fashionable.  They  lived  in  small  flats  doneup  in  bright  colors,  with  wrought-iron  furniture,  hand-loomed  textiles,  and  enormous  Naga  hats  for  lampshades.  They  wore  their  hair  cut  short,  and  their  saris  were  printed  over  in  bold,  bright  designs.  They  laughed  a  lot  and  called  one  an-  other  &quot;darling&quot;  and  went  to  cocktail  parties  and  the  Army  Horse  Show.  Pho-  tographs  of  them  enjoying  themselves  at  parties-hugely  smiling,  with  eyes  shut  against  the  flash  bulbs-appeared  in  the  weekly  social  magazines.  Maya  thought,  I  shall  be  married  soon,  and  then  I  shall  be  one  of  them.  She  realized  that  all  the  things  that  had  been  making  her  feel  so  dissatisfied  did  not  matter  at  all,  because  soon  every-  thing  would  be  very  different.  Soon  she  would  be  as  smart  and  modern  as  Didi-and  then  Mama  and  all  of  them  would  listen  deferentially  to  her  opin-  ion.  She  thought  of  Uncle  Mohan  Lal  in  the  drawing  room-how  self-  important  he  was,  bubbling  at  his  hookah,  drinking  his  tea  with  a  loud  sucking  noise.  But  all  he  was  doing  was  to  insure  that  the  jewelry  being  made  for  her  should  be  quite  perfect-  the  diamond  necklace  and  matching  earrings,  the  string  of  pearls,  the  opal  ring,  the  long  earrings  set  with  nine  different  stones,  the  golden  bangles.  He  sat  there  so  that  she  should  be  able  to  shine  and  be  beautiful  in  these  things.  So  then  she  wanted  only  that  the  wed-  ding  be  finished  quickly,  the  old  life  be  over  and  done  with;  she  wanted  to  be  married,  and  have  jewelry  and  a  hus-  band  and  a  flat  and  a  telephone  of  her  own,  and  so  live  happy  and  grown-up  forever."