 b"JINNY  Welch  and  I  were  eighteen  the  winter  we  both  came  out  in  [REDACTED].  We  had  been  separated  for  several  years  by  boarding  schools,  summer  camps,  and  trips  abroad,  but  now  the  two  of  us,  best  friends  through-  out  a  country  childhood  across  the  street  from  each  other,  met  again  daily  with  all  the  old  affinity.  We  must  have  been  a  pair  of  remarkably  silly  girls;  we  were  drunk  with  the  wine  of  youth  and  we  could  not  stop  laughing.  &quot;I  went  to  the  most  hysterical  tea  at  the  Victoria  today,&quot;  Jinny  would  per-  haps  tell  me  as  we  dressed  together  for  a  dinner  dance.  The  words  popped  from  her  lips  as  though  they  were  too  preposterous  to  contain.  &quot;There  were  thirty  [REDACTED]  girls  with  tried  and  true  ankles,  and  the  hostess  was  wearing  health  shoes  and  a  hat  trimmed  with  canned  tomatoes.&quot;  My  eyes  met  hers  in  a  kind  of  ecstasy.  When  we  could  speak  again  for  laugh-  ing,  I  asked,  &quot;Do  you  suppose  Greet-  ings  will  be  at  the  dance?&quot;  Greetings  was  the  name  that  Jinny  had  bestowed  upon  a  moonfaced,  pudgy  Harvard  boy  who,  when  cutting  in,  would  clasp  one's  hand  in  his  soft,  wet  one  and  gravely  remark  &quot;Greetings.&quot;  We  had  long  ago,  and  with  rapture,  forgotten  what  his  real  name  was,.  If  at  a  party  I  saw  Jinny,  or  she  me,  re-  volving  in  the  arms  of  Greetings,  we  would  exchange  one  wild  glance  and  go  off  into  gales.  &quot;Beg  pardon?&quot;  Greet-  ings  would  inquire.  Part  of  our  silliness  was  due  to  the  overwhelming  new  sense  of  freedom  that  attended  coming  out.  After  years  of  the  compulsions  of  school,  suddenly  I  could  get  up  late,  take  nothing  but  orange  juice  and  coffee  for  breakfast,  spend  time  before  the  glass  experiment,  ing  with  lipstick  and  eyeshadow,  and  wander  over  to  meet  Jinny  at  the  Welches'  garage  and  drive  to  town  for  a  shopping  trip  or  a  d\xc3\xa9butante  luncheon.  A  small  [REDACTED]  sedan  had  been  set  aside  for  Jinny's  exclusive  use;  the  very  word  [REDACTED]  had  assumed  for  us  an  extravagant,  reckless  sound.  The  world  of  our  country  childhood  was  left  behind,  populated  now  only  by  May,  Jinny's  younger  sister-a  mere  sixteen-year-old,  who  went  to  the  Country  Day  School-and  by  my  paint-  er  parents,  whose  idea  of  hell  was  to  have  to  go  to  some  major  d\xc3\xa9butante  ball.  The  Welch  boys  were  both  in  Harvard,  and  we  saw  them  at  the  dances.  Their  father,  Mr.  Thompson  Welch,  continued  to  conduct  his  mys-  terious,  cosmopolitan,  lawyer's,  widow-  er's  life  from  the  apartment  in  [REDACTED]  whence  he  had  for  years  dispensed  a  peculiarly  severe  and  repressive  disci-  pline  to  the  house  in  the  country,  a  gov-  erness  being  deputed  to  carry  out  his  commands  and  to  chaperon  the  girls.  Jinny  and  I  now  belonged  to  the  great  world,  or  what  passed  for  the  great  world  to  our  bedazzled  eyes.  Perhaps  we  would  dive  into  the  [REDACTED]  subway  and  let  whim  decide  what  train  we  took.  &quot;Lechmere!&quot;  Jinny  exclaimed  on  one  such  occasion.  &quot;Let's  go  to  hysterical  old  Lechmere,  where  the  lechers  come  from.&quot;  Gasping,  we  leaped  aboard  just  as  the  doors  slid  shut.  As  is  the  case  with  most  [REDACTED]  subway  trains,  it  shortly  came  out  into  the  light  of  day.  Jinny's  nose  was  pressed  to  the  pane  of  her  window;  her  enormous  dark  eyes  took  in  everything  we  passed.  &quot;Six  Lit-  tle  Tailors!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;See  the  sign?&quot;  Our  eyes  met.  &quot;Let's  get  off,&quot;  I  said.  We  ran  down  the  elevated's  steps  into  the  narrow  downtown  [REDACTED]  street,  and  then  up  four  dark  flights  to  a  loft.  Jinny  opened  the  door  upon  a  workroom  full  of  people.  &quot;We  wanted  to  see  theSix  Little  Tailors  tailoring,&quot;  she  said  in  a  strangled  voice.  &quot;Vat  vas  dot?&quot;  askeda  middle-aged,  bald  man  in  a  singlet.  We  could  not  control  our-  selves  longer.  As  we  ran  down  the  four  flights  again,  we  burst  into  peals  of  in-  extinguishable  laughter.  We  thought  it  terribly  funny  to  call  ourselves  the  McMuffin  sisters,  Pansy  and  Myrtle:  We  thought  it  terribly  funny,  one  afternoon  when  the  Mc-  Muffins  were  holding  a  cocktail  party  at  my  father's  studio  in  [REDACTED]  and  we  found  we  must  order  ice,  that  we  did  not  know  what  amount  of  ice  to  order.  &quot;We  don't  actually  need  very  much,&quot;  Jinny  explained  earnestly,  hav-  ing  got  the  ice  company  on  the  phone.  &quot;Well,  kow  much,  lady?&quot;  I  heard  the  man's  patient  voice  say.  Jinny  threw  me  a  wild  glance.  &quot;Five  pounds?&quot;  she  suggested  over  thewire.  &quot;Lady,&quot;  the  man's  voice  said,  &quot;if  I  sent  you  five  pounds  it  wouldn't  get  there.&quot;  After  she  had  settled  for  twenty-five  pounds  Jinny  hung  up  and  we  dissolved  into  giggles.It  made  a  wonderful  story  with  which,  later,  to  convulse  the  Harvard  seniors  who  came  to  the  party;  the  ex-  travagance  of  Jinny's  language  in  tell-  ing  it  was  much  admired.  On  very  late  nights,after  we  had  gone  to  two  or  possibly  even  more  dances,  we  sleptin  town;  our  parents  did  not  think  it  suitable  that  we  should  drive  home  to  the  country,  with  boys  or  without  them.  We  could  stay  at  Mr.  Welch's  apartment,  where  Jinny,  by  fixing  Waterhouse,  Mr.  Welch's  valet,  " b"with  her  large,  what  she  called  stewed-prune  eyes,  would  persuade  him  to  bring  us  a  cocktail  apiece  while  we  were  dressing.  Or  we  could  stay  at  my  father's  studio.  On  such  nights  my  father  slept  downstairs  on  a  day  bed  in  the  studio  itself.  Up-  stairs,  opening  off  the  balcony,  were  a  tiny  sit-  ting  room  and  an  even  tinier  bedroom,  which  had  been  charmingly  ar-  ranged  by  my  mother  as  a  pied-G-terre  where  I  could  change  my  clothes  between  engagements,  dress  forthe  evening,  sleep  after  balls,  and  en-  tertain  a  few  friends.  Jinny  and  I  would  hold  post-mortems  in  the  small  hours  after  an  eve-  ning's  triumphs.  Jinny,  in  a  knee-length  sheath  of  gold  sequins  like  a  shining  coat  of  mail,  from  which  her  sleek  dark  head,  like  a  boy's,  rose  on  its  lovely  long  neck,  would  light  a  last  cigarette  in  a  long  green  holder.  &quot;The  most  hysterical  man  kept  cutting  in,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;He  had  a  pig  on  his  watch  chain,  and  he  looked  like  a  pig,  soI  said  'I  beg  your  pardon,  but  by  any  possible  chance  could  you  be  a  member  of  the  Porcellian  Club?&quot;  and  he  said  'How  did  you  know?&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Jinny!&quot;  I  moaned,  and  we  col-  lapsed  into  our  eternal  laughter.  When  we  went  to  bed,  it  was  in  the  cot  in  the  little  bedroom,.  I  don'tthink  Mr.  Welch  ever  realized  that  there  was,  at  the  studio,  only  one  bed  for  us  to  sleep  in;  and  when  we  insisted  vehe-  mently  to  my  father  that  we  preferred  sharing  a  bed,  he  seemed  baffled  but  convinced.  The  one  who  slept  on  the  outer  side  of  the  cot  had  to  hold  herself  in  bed  all  night  by  propping  one  hand  on  the  floor;  itis  a  measure  of  our  vitality  that  we  found  this  inexpressibly  funny.  We  would  arise  at  noon  or  later,  thoroughly  refreshed,  and  bathe,  dress,  and  breakfast.  Perhaps  we  might  then  drive  to  the  country  in  the  [REDACTED]  to  see  what  was  going  on  out  there.  May  Welch  would  often  have  got  home  from  afternoon  sportsat  school  by  the  time  we  strode  into  the  Welches'  house  from  our  sophisticated  adventures  in  the  me-  tropolis-both  tall,  thin  as  laths,  wear-  ing  high-heeled  shoes  and  knee-length  beige  dresses  and  helmet  hats  and  Cha-nel  pearls,  and  laughing  our  heads  off.  May  always  had  been  and  still  was  plump.  She  had  soft  brown  hair  and  Jinny's  brown  eyes,  but  without  the  snap  in  them.  Her  obvious  worship  of  us  was  agreeable,  and  we  would  allow  her  to  do  her  homework  in  the  living  room  with  us  while  we  chattered  away  in  the  argot  we  used,  with  its  high,  in-  credulous  tone.  Although  Miss  Perkins,  the  governess,  couldnot  bring  herself  to  countenance  alcoholic  drinks  for  young  girls,  on  a  couple  of  occasions  when  she  had  a  day  off  and  we  were  spending  a  quiet  evening  in  the  country  for  a  change,  we  made  cocktails  and  let  May  take  a  thrilled  sip  off  the  top  of  one.  We  were  sitting  thus,  playing  &quot;Do-  Do-Do&quot;  on  the  gramophone  in  the  living  room  of  the  Welches'  historic  house-with  its  big  oval  braided  rug,  Early  American  pine  furniture,  and  ship  prints-when  the  telephone  rang  in  the  dark  old  hall  beyond.  Jinny  went  to  answer  it.  In  a  minute  she  calledto  me,  &quot;It's  Albo  Cartright.  He  wishes  to  inquire  what  the  McMuffin  sisters  are  planningover  the  weekend.&quot;  Ijoined  Jinny  at  the  telephone  and  we  took  turns  talking  to  Albo  and  his  Harvard  roommate,  punctuating  our  jargon  with  bursts  of  mirth.  When  we  finally  hung  up,  we  went  on  sitting  out  in  the  hall,  Jinny  in  the  telephone  chair  and  I  on  the  rag  rug  at  her  feet.  &quot;So  then  I  went  into  an  absolutely  searing  silence,&quot;  Jinny  recounted,  of  some  con-  tretemps  with  Albo's  roommate.  &quot;I  could  see  him  thinking  how  mysterious  and  uncommunicative  I  am.&quot;  I  caught  her  eye  and  we  went  into  gales.  It  was  quite  a  time  before  either  of  us  noticed  that  the  needle  of  the  Vic-  trola  in  the  living  room  was  stuck  in  a  groove  of  &quot;Do-Do-Do.&quot;  &quot;Heart  begins  to  sigh  heart  begins  to  sigh  heart  begins  to  sigh  heart,&quot;  sang  the  high,  sweet  voice  over  and  over  and  over.  Simultaneously  we  jumped  up  and  went  back  into  the  living  room.  May  Welch  was  lying  on  the  floor  with  her  eyes  closed,  breathing  heavily.  The  gin  bottle  we  had  made  our  Martini  from,  which  had  been  nearly  half  full,  was  empty.  My  eyes  met  Jinny's  above  May's  prostrate  body.  Jinny  was  not  looking  sophisticated  any  more.  She  was  look-  ing  about  twelve,  and  terrified.  &quot;We've  got  to  do  something  quick,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Suppose  Father  finds  out.&quot;  After  a  childhood  spent  with  Mr.  Welch  looming  in  the  background  I  could  appreciate  the  validity  of  her  fear.  Mr.  Welch  was  not  a  manwho  would  ask  for  or  supply  explanations.  He  merely  dealt  out  retribution  with  a  cold,  relentless  legal  hand.  When  Royal  Welch  flunked  fifth-form  Latin,  he  had  his  allowance  suspended  for  six  months,  without  more  ado.  I  delved  into  my  memory  for  novels  " b"I  had  read,  in  search  of  recipes  for  treating  people  who  had  passed  out.  &quot;Perhaps  we  should  pour  cold  water  on  herface?&quot;  I  suggested.  &quot;We'll  put  her  in  a  cold  shower,&quot;  Jinny  declared.  &quot;That's  what  they  do  with  drunks.  Come  on,  you  take  her  feet  and  I'll  take  her  shoulders.&quot;  But  May  weighed  about  a  hundred  and  fifty  pounds,  and  her  satin-smooth  skin,  moreover,  was  extremely  slippery.  In  the  end,  we  more  dragged  than  car-  ried  her  across  the  living  room,  down  the  step  into  the  hall,  and  into  the  down-  stairs  bathroom.  We  tumbled  her  into  the  tub,  where  she  lay  still,  breathing  loudly.  We  stood  back,  breathing  rather  loudly  ourselves.  &quot;Do  you  think  we  should  turn  the  shower  onto  her?&quot;  I  asked  doubtfully.  It  seemed  a  heartless  thing  to  do  to  a  helpless  person.  &quot;Maybe  we  could  just  run  the  water  into  the  tub.&quot;  &quot;'That  does  sound  less  of  a  shock,&quot;  Jinny  agreed.  We  set  to  work  to  undress  May,  realizing  too  late  that  we  should  have  done  it  before.  After  considerable  pull-  ing,  yanking,  and  tipping  her  from  side  to  side,  we  succeeded,  with  the  exception  of  May's  elastic  girdle,  which  we  were  unable  to  pry  off  her  plump  hips.  'Then  we  turned  on  the  cold  water  and  stood  watching  as  the  tub  gradually  filled.  &quot;I  think  she's  supposed  to  come  to  with  a  jerk,&quot;  Jinny  said  hopefully.  But  May  did  not  come  toat  all.  Jinny  looked  helplessly  at  me  and  I  looked  helplessly  back,  while  beside  us  May  lay  senseless  in  the  cold  water.  She  was  not  breathing  so  loudly  now.  &quot;'Maybe  we'd  better  let  the  water  out  again,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  rather  acold  day.,\xe2\x80\x99  So  we  let  the  water  out  again.  We  endeavored  to  get  May  out  of  the  tub  to  dry  her,  but  that  was  impossible.  Her  body  was  cold,  and  as  smooth  and  slippery  as  rubber.  Suddenly  we  both  realized  that  the  whole  matter  had  got  way  beyond  us.  &quot;What's  that  d-d-doc-  tor's  name  your  family  has?&quot;  Jinny  asked,  stammering  as  she  always  did  when  she  was  nervous.  &quot;I  d-d-don't  want  to  call  our  d-d-doctor.  He'd  tell  Father.&quot;  So  I  rang  up  dear  old  Dr.  Stephen-  son,  who  had  taken  care  of  me  through  tonsillitis  and  bronchitis  and  chicken  pox.  I  began  to  explain  what  had  happened  to  May  Welch  and  where  she  was  now.  &quot;I'll  be  right  along,&quot;  Dr.  Stephen-  son  interrupted.  &quot;We  thought  a  coldbath  was  the  right  thing  for  drunk  people,&quot;  I  said  defensively. &quot;'That's  when  they're  conscious,&quot;  he  said,  and  hung  up.  In  a  few  minutes  he  was  with  us-  little,  pink,  bustling,  and  white-mus-  tached.  He  lost  no  time.  &quot;Got  to  get  her  right  into  bed,&quot;  he  explained  as  he  cut  May's  girdle  off  with  scissors.  By  means  of  a  sheet  slipped  under  her  body,  the  three  of  us  lifted  her  out  of  the  tub  and  onto  a  straight  chair,  in  which  we  carried  her  into  the  downstairs  guest  room  and  put  her  on  the  bed.  &quot;Get  another  blanket-two  blan-  kets,&quot;  Dr.  Stephenson  directed,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  and  listening  to  May's  heart,  We  wrapped  her  naked  body  in  the  two  blankets,  and  drew  the  sheet  over  her,  and  covered  her  all  up  with  several  quilts.  Dr.  Stephenson  took  a  hypodermic  syringe  from  his  bag  and  filled  it.  He  stayed  with  her  an  hour  more.  Then  he  came  out  into  the  hall.  &quot;She's  sleeping  naturally,&quot;  he  said  to  us.  &quot;I  think  she'll  be  all  right  now.  She's  got  a  strong  heart.&quot;  He  paused  and  viewed  us.  &quot;Never,  sever  put  an  unconscious  person  into  cold  water.&quot;  We  shook  our  heads  obediently.  &quot;I'll  call  back  in  the  morning  to  see  how  she  is,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Keep  her  warm  in  bed.  Telephone  me  if  anything  seems  wrong.&quot;  Jinny  coughed.  &quot;Listen,  Dr.  Stephenson,&quot;  she  said  rapidly.  &quot;I  know  I'm  horrible,  but  do you  mind-  I  mean,  Father  would  sim-  ply  die  if  he  knew  about  this.  Couldn't  you  make  up  something  else  to  be  what  happened  to  May,  so  he  won't  have  to  know  about  the  gin?  I  mean,  I'm  re-  sponsible,  and  I'll  probably  be  sent  to  Mesopotamia  or  the  Ruhr  or  some-  where  if  he  finds  out.&quot;  The  Doctor  took  a  long  time  look-  ing  her  up  and  down.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  saidat  last.  &quot;We'll  call  it  food  poison-  ing.&quot;  He  glanced  from  one  of  us  to  the  other,  twitched  his  mustache  from  side  to  side,  and  departed.  I  think  he  had  sat-  isfied  himself  that  we  had  learned  a  good  lesson  and  were  thoroughly  scared.  He  was  right.  We  were.  It  was  a  full  minute  before  Jinny  turned  her  enormous  eyes  upon  me.  Gradually  they  began  to  sparkle.  &quot;How  absolute-  ly  luridly  fantastic,'  she  began.  HAT  had  happened  was  our  secret.  But  Jinny  had  never  been  any  good  at  keeping  secrets,  even  when  it  was  to  her  advantage  to  do  so.  Around  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  about  a  week  later,  I  walked  into  one  of  the  small  sitting-out  rooms  at  the  Copley  Plaza  on  the  arm  of  a  beau,  in  the  course  of  a  large  ball  given  by  some  Myopia  people  for  their  rawboned  daughter.  'There  was  Jinny,  in  the  cen-  ter  of  one  of  those  circles  she  always  attracted,  wearing  an  orange  velvet  dress  and  agitating  alarge  orange  ostrich-feather  fan.  From  across  the  room  I  could  see  her  eyes  dancing  and  hear  her  excited  little  laugh.  As  I  ap-  proached,  I  heard  her  say  in  those  swift,  incredulous  accents,  &quot;.  ..  so  we  had  to  " b"drag  her  across  the  entire  house  like  a  great  sack  of  petrified  potatoes,  her  head  going  bump,bump,  bump  at  every  step.&quot;  My  heart  sank.  It  might  sound  very  funny  at  that  hour  of  the  night  among  friends,  but  I  had  begun  to  realize  that  any  story  that  amuses  its  listeners  tends  to  get  around.  What  would  happen  when  it  reached  Mr.  Welch,  seated  at  ease  in  one  of  his  clubs,  that  his  younger  daughter  had  drunk  half  a  bottle  of  gin  and  passed  out?  I  tried  to  catch  Jinny's  eye  to  shake  my  head  at  her.  But  now  that  she  was  out  from  under  the  shadow  of  fearof  her  father,  she  was  wearing  her  wildest,  most  uncontrollable  expression.  &quot;There  lay  that  vast  girlish  lump,  out  like  a  light  after  the  merest  taste  of  [REDACTED];  she  was  saying.  &quot;So  we  turned  on  thecold  water  in  the  tub  and  hoped  for  the  best.  But  she  remained  dead  to  the  world,  while  around  her  the  icy  waters  steadily  ri-&quot;  Jinny  stopped.  Over  her  mobile,  sparkling  face  came  an  extraordinary  change,  a  look  of  utter  astonishment  and  consternation.  She  continued  in  a  different  voice,  &quot;Ac-  tually  we  might  have  killed  her.&quot;  Some  one  of  her  audience,  still  keyed  up  to  Jinny's  storytelling  pitch,  emitted  a  small,  nervous  giggle.  Jinny  turned  and  stared  thoughtfully  at  him.  &quot;I  don't  believe  it's  funny,&quot;  she  said.  After  an  uncomfortable  pause,  ev-  eryone  was  only  too  glad  when  Jinny  took  off  on  another  and  this  time  hilari-  ous  story-something  about  getting  the  [REDACTED]  stuck  in  a  snowbank  on  the  way  to  town,  and  how  out  from  a  house  had  come  to  help  her  &quot;a  hys-  terical,  germ-laden  little  man  in  high  button  boots  and  plush  fours.&quot;  The  words  seemed  to  pop  from  her  lips,  and  tears  of  laughter  stood  in  her  eyes.  As  usual  when  she  was  in  top  form,  she  had  her  audience  with  her;  and  within  a  week  I  was  meeting  people  who  were  using  the  phrase  &quot;plush  fours&quot;  to  be  funny. "