 b"Mr.  Anthony  Lejeune,  In  care  of  Competitions,  Time  &amp;  Tide,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Dear  Mr.  LejEunE:  I  DON'T  know  what's  the  matter  with  me.  I  love  your  Literary  Com-  petitions,  but  I  never  seem  to  get  around  to  them  at  the  right  time.  The  last  entry  I  sent  you  was  a  year  late,  and  I  didn't  even  see  the  Competition  you  set  on  the  first  of  June,  1957,  until  the  following  October,  when  the  results  were  printed  and  the  prize  awarded.  It  was,  as  you  said  yourself,  a  good  subject:  &quot;A  snatch  of  imaginary  con-  versation  such  as  might  be  heard  in  the  Elysian  Fields&quot;  between  such  couples  as  Oscar  Wilde  and  Lewis  Carroll,  Rabelais  and  Dr.  Bowdler,  and  Brown-  ing  and  Sartre.  You  seemed  happy  with  the  results,  too,  except  for  one  thing,  and  I'd  better  quote  you:  &quot;My  only  regret  is  that  competitors  were  some-  what  unadventurous.  ...  No  one  at  all  tried  Browning  and  Sartre.&quot;  Well,  Mr.  Lejeune,  I'm  about  as  unadventurous  as  they  come,  but  there  was  something  about  that  &quot;no  one  at  all&quot;  that  went  straight  to  my  heart.  It  sounded  so  wistful  that  I  gathered  my  courage  in  both  hands  and  went  right  to  work  on  the  following:  ScENE:  The  Elysian  Fields,  where  Robert  Browning  is  striding,  head  up,  outstripping  the  sun.  BROWNING  (breathing  magnificent-  ly):  Like  a  boy  set  free  from  his  classes  To  leap  in  the  bee-sprinkled  thyme  And  fling  a  pip-pip  as  he  passes  The  Sun  of  Apollyon's  Clime-  (He  breaks  off  in  exasperation.)  I've  got  to  stop  seeing  Kipling-dear,  good  fellow  though  he  is-I'm  picking  up  his  metres!  (He  turns  a  cloud  and  comes  face  to  profile  with  Jean-Paul  Sartre,  who  approaches  obliquely.)  Sartre:  Ah!  Pardon,  Monsieur,  parlex-vous  francais?  BrownINc  (arms  wide):  I  speak  my  brother's  tongue  And  he  speaks  mine.  What's  French?  What's  Greek:  What's  Latin  (save  for  cheek  And  rhyming)?  Nothing  bars  But  cant  and  liar's  whine.  SARTRE  (speaking  now  in  more  or  less  free  translation):  If  by  &quot;tongue&quot;  you  mean  language,  and  by  language  recognition  of  Other,  the  cogito  is  con-  crete.  But  if  you  refer  &amp;  priori  to  the  articulated  word,  we  become  involved  in  invention.  Browning  (keartily):  Translation  trap.  (Is  that  your  meaning?  )  Is  more  to  come?  Drape  wording  as  you  will,  Find  ready  ear.  All's  easy  here.  SartrE:  Monsieur,  all  is  easy  when  one  knows  where  here  is.  (He  hes  tates.)  I  seem  to  have  lost  connection  with  facticity.  Sir,  where  am  I'  Con-  ceding,  of  course,  that  I  ontologically  am.  (beaming  largely):  Where  are  you?  Absit  omen.  V  adis=-quo?  Where  would  you  be?  Ask  you.  Not  me.  (A  shift  of  scene,  I  think,  Traveller  much  desires.)  Not  Mayfair  Mall  Nor  shiftless  Hampstead  hearth  Nowise,  Bow  wow!  Dear  Roman  case,  else,  Or-stop!  Substitute,  in  fashion,  Heaven  in  sight  (he  smiles  oddly),  Or  what's  an  earthling  for?  SarTRE  (frowning):  Heaven  is  gra-  tuitous,  contingent,  and  unjustifiable.  IfI  knew  that  I  knew  it  was,  it  possibly  might  be,  but  if  I  know  it,  I  do  not  know  that  I  know  it.  My  consciousness  produces  no  consciousness  to  produce  knowing.  (He  pauses.  Browning  waits  politely.)  Heaven,  Monsieur,  is  the  thing  which  is  not-what-it-is,  since  it  cannot  be  what-it-is,  since  I  choose  it  to  be  what-it-is-not.  Presuming,  a  prior,  that  I  exist  to  choose.  Presuming  also  that  I  choose  to  exist.  Browninc  (lightly):  Choose  wot  to  choose  (Or  choose  a  priory  ),  Su  fhreit-what's  to  lose?  SartRE  (upsurging):  I  have  to  choose.  Not  to  choose  is  in  itself  a  choice.  The  Existentialists  are  never  let  off  any-  thing.  BrownInc:  Point  that  is  nice,  Taking  the  whole  of  it,  Turn  of  the  dice  Staking  the  soul  of  it.  SartTRE  (frowning):  Pardon,  Mon-  sieur,  if  you  are  going  to  bring  souls  into  this,  I  must  beg  to  be  excused.  (robustly):  Pardons,  excuses  Knees  creak  repentance.  No  one  accuses,  Light  is  the  sentence.  SartTRE  (mopping  his  brow):  Sir,  I  have  asked  you  a  simple,  noemic,  trans-  lucent  question-where  am  I?  (As " b"Browning  opens  his  mouth  to  speak)  In  prose,  I  beg  you.  Browning  (unoffended):  My  critics  have  begged  the  same.  (Lightly  )  Where  are  you,  sir?  First,  tell  me  where  you  think  you  should  be.  SartrE  (shrugging):  Eh  bien-I  started  out  for  the  Champs-Elys\xc3\xa9es,  not  without  wondering,  naturally,  if  there  was  a  Champs-Elys\xc3\xa9es  apart  from  my  awareness  of  not  being  it  myself,  and-  well,  I  must  have  lost  my  way.  (shining  all  over):  Not  lost  it!  Found  it!  Ring  bells  tremen-  dous!  Jig  joy  stupendous!  You  have  missed  the  Champs-Elys\xc3\xa9es,  but  you  have  reached  the  Elysian  Fields!  (He  makes  a  brimming  bow.)  Welcome!  SAarRTRE  (his  glasses  clouding):  You  mean  the  Elysian  Fields?  (Browning  nods  affirmation.)  Previously  I  imag-  ined  that  you  implied-Heaven.  BrowniInc  (widely):  I  find  Heaven  in  all  its  annexes!  SARTRE  (recoiling  in  negation):  I  re-  ject  your  Fields.  Even  if  they  were  in-  trinsically  possible,  which  they  are  not,  they  threaten  my  egocentric  pattern.  (After  a  moment,  warily)  In  any  case,  to  reach  them  I  would  have  to  be  dead,  wouldn't  I?  And  I  exist.  BrownING  (interestedly):  You  do?  I  had  the  impression  that  you  were  not  entirely  sure.  SartRE  (drawing  himself  up):  Mon-  sieur!  In  a  clarifying  moment  of  mean-  inglessness,  I  had  a  formidable  revul-  sion-and  there  I  was!  Brow  (sympathetically):  Some-  thing  you  ate,  no  doubt.  SARTRE  (sternly):  Existence  is  never  palatable.  Nevertheless,  I  swallowed  it.  Iexist.  (Browning  does  not  comment.)  Well,  don't  I?  BrownInc  (musingly  ):  &quot;Hours  and  long  hours  in  the  dead  night,  I  ask,  'Do  I  live,  am  I  dead?&quot;  &quot;  I  wrote  that  before  you  were  born  or  thought  of.  SarTRE:  No  one  thought  of  me.  I  was  born  of  my  own  act.  BrowniInc  (twinkling):  The  first  could  be  possible.  As  for  the  other,  Ask  father,  Ask  mother.  (Sartre  stares  at  him.)  Dear  man,  I  was  jesting  with  you!  SartRE:  Jesting?  With  me?  (Sud-  denly)  Now  I  know  where  I  am!  This  is  Nothingness.  If  I  don't  nihilate  it  by  getting  back  to  Being,  it  will  nihilate  me.  (He  looks  at  his  watch.)  Time  is  of  the  Essence,  Monsieur.  Will  you  quickly  direct  me  to  the  exit-(A  fe-  miliar  note  suspends  him.)  There  is  an  exit,  is  there  not&quot;  BrRowNnING  (after  an  embarrassed  pause):  I  don't  know.  I  really  don't  know.  The  subject  has  never  come  up  for  me.  (Explaining)  You  see-I  have  never  wanted  to  leave.  SartRE  (urgently  ):  But  if  you  did?  Browning:  Well,  I-  I-(Dubi-  ously  )  There's  the  Gate-the  entrance,  you  know.  SartRE:  Is  it  high?  Could  I  climb  it?  Browning:  Oh,  I  doubt  if  it's  ever  locked,  but-  SartRE:  Then  direct  me  to  it!  BrownInG  (head  low  in  chagrin):  Monsieur-the  truth  is,  you  find  me  at  a  loss.  I  cannot  direct  you.  I  do  not  know  the  way.  SarTRE:  But  don't  you  live  here?  Browning  (wryly):  I  could  answer  that  with  a  joyful  affirmative,  but  I  fear  it  would  tend  to  confuse  you.  (He  spreads  his  hands  helplessly.)  As other  time  goes,  I  have  been  here  a  long  age,  but  in  thes  time-  I  have  bare-  ly  arrived.  SartRE:  Mon  Dieu!  What  is  this  this?  Browning  (Lumbly):  This  is  Eternity,  this  the  clockless  shelf  On  which  I  rest-a  stranger  here  myself.  SarTRE  (blanching):  Eternity!  Then  even  if  I  found  the  Gate-  BrownING  (agreeing  compassionate-  ly  ):  There's  still  the  getting  back.  I  wish  I  could  help  you.  (He  brightens  as  opti-  mism  returns.)  T'lltell  you,  though,  I  believe  there's  a  Mrs.  Besant  here-if  you  could  run  across  her-  (But  Sartre,  obeying  an  overwhelming  compulsion,  has  gone.)  BrownInc  (looking  after  him):  Poor  fellow!  So  eager-glad  to  leave  the  light  for  dark!  (Did  I  say  dark?  I  found  existence  flame.)  Poor  twilight  moth  befuddled  in  his  aim,  Had  he  but  kept  his  head  when  all  about-  (He  breaks  off  as  before.)  Oh,  plague  Kipling!  (He  turns  as  Shelley  skylarks  by.  Ah!  There's  existence!  An  it  so  be.  Hail  there!  Percy-wait  for  [REDACTED]!  WELL,  that's  it,  Mr.  Lejeune,  and  I  hope  it  will  cheer  youup  a  bit.  It's  too  late  to  be  an  entry,  but  at  least  you  will  know  that  somebody  cares.  With  love,  and  a  hand  across  the  sea,  Respectfully, "