 b"IN  the  afternoon  after  school,  took  the  cow  out  of  the  shed  and  walked  slowly  along  the  ditch  that  led  to  the  upper  valley.  He  was  taking  the  cow  for  mating.  Why  did  his  animal  and  a  strange  one  need  to  touch  each  other  like  a  pair  of  chopsticks  for  a  calf  to  be  born,  he  asked  himself  and,  partly,  his  mother,  whom  he  did  not  dare  to  ask  openly.  He  would  have  to  go  back  to  the  cattleman  another  day  if  his  cow  was  not  ready  this  afternoon,  his  moth-  er  said  before  she  left  for  diving.  And  if  he  didn't  go,  his  mother  would  say,  &quot;Do  I  have  to  tell  you  to  go  east  to  make  you  go  west?  As  you  eat  more  ages,  you  do  more  things  opposite  from  what  your  mother  tells  you  to  do.&quot;  The  cow  kicked  the  pebbly  earth  with  her  hoofs,  pulling  her  halter  rest-  lessly  forward  at  times,  reminding  the  little  boy  to  walk  faster.  He  and  his  mother  were  strangers  in  this  part  of  [REDACTED].  They  had  lived  here  only  a  few  months.  They  were  island  people,  who  had  come  over  to  the  mainland  after  Bau's  father  died.  Here  and  there,  weeding  in  their  green  paddies,  the  farmers  stooped  over  with  knees  un-  bent.  Often  when  they  stood  up  to  stretch  their  backs,  he  heard  an  out-  burst  of  voices  in  the  heavy-headed  barley  patches  on  the  hill  as  they  called  to  scare  away  the  hordes  of  sparrows.  Echoes  came  back,  as  though  they  were  the  cries  of  scarecrows  fighting  the  hungry  birds.  With  a  rusty  tin  scoop  slung  under  a  tripod,  one  farmer  was  diligently  pour-  ing  pond  water  onto  his  thirsty  field.  Bau  left  the  ditch  and  followed  an  upward  path  with  occasional  poplar  trees.  A  group  of  children  were  half  circling  a  black  snake  across  the  path  and  chant-  ing,  &quot;Get  away  quickly,  slow  snake.  Jesus  people  are  coming  after  you.  Jesus  peo-  ple  are  behind  you!&quot;  The  cow  halted,  and  Bau  waited  until  the  chil-  dren  finally  drove  the  snake  into  the  grass  at  the  edge  of  a  rice  field,  and  then,  in  triumph,  scattered,  some  skipping,  some  yelling.  Bau  went  on,  looking  for  cow  dung,  which  would  be  an  indication  that  cattle  were  near,  but  he  found  none  at  all.  He  was  almost  at  the  gray  thatched  houses  at  the  foot  of  the  mountain  Bau  when  he  heard  the  rattle  of  a  pencil  box  behind  him.  He  turned  and  saw  a  girl  holding  a  round  basket  by  the  rim  and  a  school  bundle  in  the  crook  of  her  other  arm.  Bau  knew  her.  She  was  in  the  sixth  grade.  Her  name  was  Songha.  She  was  the  one  who  had  brought  the  teacher  to  him  and  his  mother  that  first  day,  as  they  stood  waiting  at  the  edge  of  the  schoolyard.  She  put  her  things  down  on  the  ground  and  tied  the  silk  cords  of  her  limpid  white  bodice,  which  she  had  perhaps  untied  for  the  breeze,  momentarily,  when  no  one  was  around.  &quot;Where  is  the  bull's  house?&quot;  Bau  asked.  Then  he  added,  complaining,  &quot;My  mother  said  I  could  either  hear  or  smell  it,  but  I  can't.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  call  my  home  a  dung-  smelling  house!&quot;  she  replied  as  she  picked  up  her  books  and  her  basket.  Her  lovely  fingers  were  buried  in  the  mulberry  leaves  that  filled  the  basket  to  the  brim.  &quot;When  our  animals  hurt  just  one  ear  of  another's  grain,  the  neigh-  bors  call  our  house  by  that  name.  My  father  doesn't  mind,  but  my  mother  and  I  do.&quot;  She  lifted  her  perspiring,  dainty  nose  and  asked,  &quot;Can't  you  smell  that?&quot;  She  was  looking,  Bau  saw,  up  at  the  yel-  low  blooms  of  a  persimmon  tree  at  the  first  house.  &quot;Come  over  in  peony  time  and  you  can  find  my  house  after  dark.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  your  house?&quot;  Bau  asked,  walking  along  beside  her.  &quot;Don't  use  your  finger  when  you point  to  my  tree!  Use  your  fist!  If  you  point  at  growing  fruit  with  one  finger,  you  stunt  the  growth,  and  my  father  will  see  you  and  do  something  about  it.  A  well-wisher  should  hold  his  strong  wish  in  his  closed  hand,  so  that  each  fruit  will  grow  many  times  larger  than  his  fist.&quot;  Bau  stopped  walking  and  stared,  with  his  mouth  open,  at  the  gay,  umbrella-  like  tree.  Songha  looked  at  him  care-  fully;  then,  as  though  she  had  dis-  covered  something,  she  asked  in  a  changed,  softer  voice,  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  &quot;Can  you  tell  your  father  that  my  cow  wants  wants&quot;  he  stammered,  looking  at  his  sleek-haired  cow.  &quot;You  ask  him  yourself,&quot;  Songha  said.  &quot;But  not  until  after  you  tie  your  cow  down  here,  at  one  of  these  poplar  trees.  The  bull  can  smell  a  cow  that  wants  a  calf,  and  he  might  try  to  jump  over  the  stall.  I  have  to  hurry  to  feed  my  silkworms.  Tie  your  cow.  Then  come  and  watch  them  eating.  They  will  make  thread  soon.&quot;  She  left  him  and  began  to  run,  but  paused  to  look  at  the  half-buried  big  white  shells  along  the  path,  in  the  shade  of  the  roof  over  her  gate,  then  at  a  row  of  brittle  pid-  docks,  bay  scallops,  and  abalones,  along  the  reed  fence.  Hopping  along,  she  called  out,  &quot;Ome!&quot;  Bau  did  not  tether  his  cow  but  stayed  outside  the  fence,  trying  to  decide  what  to  do.  The  shadows  caused  by  the  per-  simmon  branches  gave  the  cow  the  ap-  pearance  of  a  dappled  animal,  with  sunny-brown  and  shady-  brown  spots  on  her  back.  Through  the  fence  reeds  he  could  see  the  courtyard  be-  tween  the  upper  and  the  lower  house.  &quot;Don't  run  around  and  dampen  your  new  clothes  like  a  boy!&quot;  he  heard  a  woman  command  from  the  porch  of  the  upper  house,  where  she  sat  ripping  a  garment  apart.  &quot;One  can  tell  a  nun  on  a  far  moun-  tain  road  by  her  gray  gown  and  her  shaved  head,  and  a  good  girl  by  her  quiet  &gt;&gt;  poise.  Songha  came  and  sat  down  by  the  woman.  &quot;Oma,&quot;  he  heard  her  say.  &quot;I  saw  the  blue-eyed  boy  outside.  He  will  come  in  soon  to  buy  our  bull  seed.&quot;  &quot;Now,  now,  your  father  won't  let  me  sleep  again  to-  night,  talking  about  how  he  had  the  foresight  to  keep  his  bull  through  the  hard  time     " b"of  war.  .  .  .  You  have  men-  tioned  this  island  boy  before.  I  don'tthink  I  like  such  strange  eyes.&quot;  &quot;Why,  Oma!&quot;  the  girl  exclaimed.  &quot;They  arethe  color  of  the  jade  in  your  marriage  ring-the  color  of  high  sky!&quot;  &quot;Jade  is  all  right  in  my  ring  and  in  the  sky,  but  not  in  eyes.&quot;  &quot;They  did  look  strange  at  first,  but  when  I  looked  at  them  closely-&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  looking  at  boys'  eyes,&quot;  the  woman  cautioned.  &quot;Besides,  the  boy  may  not  like  to  be  looked  at  too  closely.&quot;  A  thick,  hoarse  voice  came  from  the  farther  cor-  ner  ofthe  lower  house.  &quot;How  long  are  you  and  your  daughter  going  to  go  on  talking?&quot;  It  was  the  cat-  tleman.  He  came  out  of  the  lower  house  and  started  across  the  courtyard.  His  face  was  yellow  with  dust  and  pieces  ofdried  manure.  Bau  recognized  the  cattle-  man  by  his  pushed-out  stom-  ach  and  his  dangling  tobacco  pouch.  The  man  stomped  his  big  foot  threaten-  ingly  and  slipped  a  pack  board  off  his  shoulder.  &quot;You  are  making  me  find  an-  other  woman  in  your  place.  I  can't  see  even  supper  smoke,  when  the  front  of  my  stomach  is  touching  the  back.&quot;  Leaning  slightly  backward,  Bau  pulled  his  cow  toward  the  gate.  &quot;Run  to  the  lean-to  kitchen,&quot;  the  woman  commanded  Songha,  who  was  now  slipping  on  her  rubber  shoes.  &quot;Wash  a  pot  and  pour  rice  in.  I'll  get  up  as  soon  as  I  finish  this  seam.&quot;  &quot;Haven't  my  sons  come  back  from  school?&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;That  damn  teacher  puts  too  many  hard  things  into  my  sons'  soft  heads.&quot;  He  turned  to  the  gate  and,  at  the  sight  of  Bau,  grumbled  something.  His  wife  called  back  in  a  hushed  voice,  &quot;My  children's  father,  before  you  go  out  again,  pull  up  your  trousers!  How  often  your  sisters  criticize  me  for  not  reminding  you!&quot;  The  cattleman  pulled  up  the  belt  of  the  once  white,  now  dusty  trousers,  which  had  drooped  halfway  down  his  legs,  and,covering  his  large  stomach,  he  complained,  &quot;I  fill  thebig  jars  with  rice  and  barley,  but  you  never  fill  my  stomach  at  the  neediest  moment.  That  is  why  my  trousers  fall  down.&quot;  Putting  his  hands  behind  his  back like  an  important  village  elder  and  swinging  his  shoulders  as  he  walked,  he  approached  Bau  and  said,  as  though  he  were  still  talking  to  his  wife,  &quot;'Three  hungry  village  people  send  their  boys  to  me  to  borrow  rice  bran  I  keep  for  my  cattle.&quot;  Bau,  holding  his  two  fists  tight,  stepped  forward.  &quot;I  want  to  buy  your  bull  seed.&quot;  The  cattleman  moved  his  head  back  in  surprise  and  then  looked  from  Bau  to  the  cow  at  the  gate.  Then  he  laughed,  with  his  hand  on  his  abdomen,  until  the  cow  turned  toward  him,  her  bold  look  folded  in  thick  eyelids.  Still  laughing,  he  asked,  &quot;For  that  old  cow?  Why?&quot;  Bau  raised  his  voice  high.  &quot;My  mother  said  we  would  give  you  a  tubful  of  tangleweed,  and  a  bundle  of  dried  seaweed  that  you  could  use  for  birth-  days.&quot;  You  are  the  son  of  the  sea  woman?&quot;  the  cattleman  grunted.  He  stooped  over,  breathing  noisily  and  reddening  to  his  ears.  He  looked  at  the  cow's  low-hung  stomach,  at  her  udder  and  teats,  and  then  at  the  low  knee  joints  of  the  legs.  Straightening  up,  he  ran  his  hand  over  the  mass  of  muscle  along  the  spine  that  extended  in  a  ridge  to  the  rear,  and,  taking  hold  ofthe  halter,  pulled  on  it  slightly.  The  cow  mooced  once,  dis-  approvingly.  'The  cattleman  stepped  back  and  said,  &quot;About  as  much  chance  of  a  calf  from  her  with  my  bull's  seed  as  there  is  of  getting  a  baby  from  an  unpregnant  woman.&quot;  Bau  pulled  on  the  cow's  halter,  and  the  cattleman  said,  &quot;'Tell  your  mother  that  if  she  wants  to  lessen  the  trouble  of  looking  for  a  mate  for  the  cow,  she  could  sell  the  animal  to  me.  I'll  pay  the  sum  of  money  for  which  one  could  sell  his  son's  lucky  name.&quot;  He  turned  and  went  back  into  the  courtyard,  and  Bau  started  down  the  path  to  the  lower  valley,  leading  his  cow.  He  felt  relieved  that  he  didn't  have  to  leave  her.  The  fact  that  the  cow  was  returning  unseeded  didn't  worry  him  any  more  than  the  conversation  between  Songha  and  her  mother  about  the  strangeness  of  his  eyes.  When  the  cow  began  to  graze  on  the  edge  of  a  rice-field  pond,  he  squatted  down  and  forgot  his  original  errand  entirely  and  began  to  wonder  why  Songha  had  thought  about  the  color  of  his  eyes.  He  studied  his  reflection  in  the  water,  but  the  pond  was  rippled  slightly  by  the  bugs,  and  reflected  only  a  dim  shadow  of  his  figure  and  the  brown  mass  of  his  cow.  When  he  returned  home,  his  mother  was  waiting  for  him,  and  she  was  dis-  appointed  by  the  failure  of  his  errand.  ''The  poor  cow!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;It's  " b"like  a  fertile  land  not  being  plowed,  and  another  summer  coming  on.  Oh,  it's  worse.  The  land  can  wait,  but  the  cow  -this  is  her  last  spring.  If  we  had  offered  money,  the  cattleman  would  not  have  closed  his  barn  door  against  us.  No  one  spits  on  money.&quot;  HEN  other  schoolboys  were  around  and  Bau  saw  his  mother,  with  the  tub  on  her  head,  peddling  the  sea  urchins,  abalones,  and  edible  sea-  weed  she  had  caught  that  morning,  he  never  called  to  her,  and  he  wished  she  would  not  chant  the  peddler's  song,  mentioning  everything  she  had  to  sell,  even  the  bean  sprouts.  On  rainy  days,  she  would  go  out  early  to  peddle,  saying  to  him,  'The  price  is  good  on  a  day  like  this.&quot;  It  was  as  though  she  welcomed  the  rain.  At  the  end  of  the  day,  she  would  return  wet  through  to  the  skin.  &quot;Oma,  can't  you  wait  till  the  rains  stop  and  the  sun  comes  out?&quot;  Bau  asked  one  night,  partly  for  her  sake  and  partly  because  he  wished  she  had  not  called  at  Songha's  house  in  her  mud-  spotted,  drenched  clothes.  She  answered  cheerfully,  &quot;When  the  sun  comes  out,  take  the  cow  across  West  Mountain.  I  learned  today  that  there  is  a  bull  over  there,  and  I  also  had  the  good  luck  to  empty  my  tub.  You  have  to  earn  in  the  rain  to  spend  in  the  sun.&quot;  When  at  last  the  rains  stopped,  school  was  dismissed  for  the  coming  season  of  weeding  and  barley  flailing.  On  a  cloud-scattered  morning,  Bau  had  his  breakfast  as  early  as  a  monk,  so  that  he  could  drive  the  cow  along  the  shore  path  and  across  West  Mountain  and  find  the  bull's  owner  at  home.  Along  the  way,  he  let  the  cow  graze  on  the  moistened  grass.  If  the  creature  was  mated  today,  he  was  to  take  her,after  the  mating,  to  the  school  barn  over-  night.  'The  school  had  paid  the  car-  penter  for  making  Bau's  desk  and  chair,  and  now,  in  return,  Bau  must  furnish  the  means  for  plowing  the  school  farm.  He  held  the  seed  money  inhis  fist  and,  in  the  other  hand,  the  halter  and  a  dragonfly  net  on  a  bamboo  pole.  The  early-summer  breeze  blew  in  through  his  well-starched  clothes,  which  were  made  of  rough  hempen  material.  He  had  already  seen  a  few  dragonflies,  as  young  as  the  summer,  fluttering  their  flimsy  wings  in  the  shadowed  opal  sky.  &quot;Bau!  Bau!&quot;  A  voice  rang  out  from  below.  It  was  Songha,  shading  her  eyes  withher  rolled-up  sleeve  against  the  mountain-touched  sun.  She  had  been  gathering  shells  and  putting  them  in  a  basket,  which  she  held  in  front  ofher.  Her  black  skirt  was  lifted  above  her  knees  and  tied  with  a  piece  of  cloth around  her  waist,  and  she  had  a  hoe  for  digging.  Bau  opened  his  clenched  hand  and  showed  her  the  two  ten-hwan  notes,  boasting,  &quot;It's  for  bull  seed-not  yours  this  time  but  someone  else's.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  my  father  would  let  you  have  it,&quot;  she  said.  A  dragonfly  trembled  down  and  landed  on  a  rocky  ledge  above  the  rain-  washed  path.  Bau  handed  Songha  the  cow's  halter  to  hold  and  walked  toward  the  dragonfly,  raising  the  pole,  As  he  lowered  the  net,  Songha  giggled  and  the  dragonfly  flew  far  into  the  air,  where  Bau  could  not  see  it.  &quot;A  dragonfly  has  blueeyes  all  over  its  head,&quot;  she  com-  mented.  &quot;Come  down  and  catch  the  dragonfly  by  its  tail,  with  your  hand,  not  with  that  net.&quot;  He  jumped  down,  and  they  walked  on,  Songha  still  holding  the  halter.  When  they  did  not  find  any  more  drag-  onflies,  she  said,  &quot;Catch  one  female  dragonfly,  attach  it  to  a  string,  swirl  the  string  gracefully  around,  then  male  dragonflies  will  stick  to  the  female  fly,  andyou  can  catch  many  more.&quot;  You  have  to  wait  for  the  mating  sea-  son  to  do  that,&quot;  said  Bau  importantly,  remembering  other  days,  when  he  had  caught  them  in  the  rice  fields.  How-  ever,  he  did  not  admit  to  the  girl  that  he  could  not  tell  a  male  dragonfly  from  a  female.  Songha's  countenance,  with  a  few  streaks  of  hair  over  her  forehead,  shone  like  a  snow-washed  face.  Then  he  took  the  halter  from  her,  and  she  showedhim  the  contents  of  her  basket-a  few  scallops  and  conchs.  &quot;I'm  collecting  beautiful  shells  after  the  rains,  to  complete  the  shell  row  outside  my  house.  I  must  hurry  to  get  them  before  the  morning  tide.&quot;  &quot;I'll  find  some  abalone  shells  for  you,&quot;&quot;  he  declared.  Finding  both  his  hands  occupied,  he  walked  back  away  from  the  sandy  curve  of  shore  and  tied  his  cow  to  a  twisted  five-needle  pine  tree  that  shaded  a  spot  of  grazable  grass.  Then  he  ran  down  " b"to  join  Songha,  who  was  digging  a  hole  in  the  sand  with  her  hoe,  near  a  clump  of  waving  cattail  and  ragweed.  As  he  came  up,  she  said,  &quot;Bau,  you  bury  the  seed  money  here,  before  we  wade  out  into  the  water,  or  else  the  money  will  become  worthless  wet  pieces  of  paper.&quot;  Bau  dropped  the  two  ten-hwan  notes  into  the  hole,  which  was  as  large  as  the  ring  of  the  dragonfly  net,  and  their  four  hands  filled  it  and  made  a  mound  like  a  small  sand  dune.  While  Bau  slipped  off  his  shoes  and  rolled  up  his  trousers,  his  eyes  followed  the  finger  that  was  printing  his  name  in  the  soft  sand.  Songha  said,  &quot;When  we  come  back,  we  will  find  your  name.&quot;  There  were  driftwood  pieces,  green  seaweed,  straws,  and  innumerable  sparkles  from  holes  made  by  shellfish  buried  in  the  sand,  and  clams'  feeble  breathing  was  manifested  in  delicate  bubbles.  They  satin  front  of  shrimp  holes  to  lure  the  shellfish  out.  On  the  way  to  the  place  where  they  hoped  to  find  abalone  shells,  they  gathered  clam-  shells,  square  crab  backs,  periwinkles,  and  mussels  half  buried  in  rolling  peb-  bles.  A  yellow  butterfly  landed  on  Songha's  black  skirt,  then  flew  just  above  the  incoming  wave-such  tiny  wings  over  the  vast  stretch  of  water-  perhaps  in  search  of  a  dozing  white  sail  on  which  to  rest  at  night.  Gulls  flew  down  like  fluffs  of  snow,  and  on  a  rock  sat  a  solitary  duck.  Each  time  a  wave  came  in  and  broke  in  foam,  the  children  trailed  the  retreating  water,  Songha's  feet  squeezing  water  out  over  the  tops  of  her  rubber  shoes,  Bau  bare-  foot.  He  loved  the  feel  of  oozing  mud  between  his  toes  but  clenched  his  teeth  in  anticipation  of  the  cold  water  around  his  ankles.  Songha's  face  was  radiant,  and  Bau  exclaimed,  &quot;Your  face  is  an  abalone!&quot;  Yours,  too,&quot;  she  replied.  As  their  hands  touched  each  other's  cheeks,  immediately  the  feeling  he  had  between  his  toes  came  trembling  to  his  fingers.  Songha  dropped  her  hands,  saying,  &quot;I  just  touched  your  cheek,  but  you  pinched  mine,  Bau.&quot;  A  sea  gull  dived  right  in  front  of  them.  Then  a  flock  of  gulls  came  down  to  the  dazzling  surface  and  soared  up  and  then  down  again,  piping  their  shrill  cries,  so  like  a  wheel  turning.  Songha  threw  the  meat  of  a  mussel  up  into  the  air,  but  it  was  blown  back  into  her  skirt.  Bau  tried  it,  but  again  it  was  blown  back  to  her  skirt.  Bau  took  a  shrimp  from  Songha's  basket  and  threw  it  high.  The  birds  surroundedthem,  circling.  Songha  kept  handing  Bau  shell  meats,  one  by  one,  and  he  threw  them  up  in  the  airas  high  as  he  could.  Songha  cracked  clams  and  periwinkles  open  on  a  rock,  and  they  threw  them  into  the  air,  too,  until  there  was  nothing  more  in  the  basket.  Laughing,  Songha  said,  &quot;I  am  hungry.  I  haven't  had  any  breakfast.  Let's  go  back!&quot;  They  turned  and  ran  toward  the  patch  of  cattails  and  ragweed,  and  for  a  while  the  gulls  followed.  Bau  could  not  find  the  tiny  sand  dune  where  he  and  Songha  had  buried  the  money,  nor  could  he  find  the  letters  of  his  name.  They  dug  frantically  along  the  shallow,  narrow  strip  of  sand,  below  the  cattails,  and  then  in  other  spots  here  and  there,  but  they  saw  only  sand,  broken  clamshells,  pebbles,  and  sand-  worms.  Songha  saw  the  bamboo  pole  with  the  dragonfly  net  floating  in  the  water,  and  rescued  it.  The  two  of  them  held  the  pole  and  raked  the  sea  floor  with  the  net.  No  money  floated  up.  They  examined  the  surface  of  the  wa-  ter,  searching  the  seaweed,  straw,  and  leaves  that  floated  in.  'Then  they  looked  below  the  tall  grasses.  Finally,  Songha  opened  her  parched  mouth  to  whisper,  &quot;We  should  go  " b"home,and  come  back  when  the  tide  has  gone  out  again.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  won't!&quot;  Bau  cried,  seeing  inhis  mind  his  mother's  angry  look,  and  then  a  picture  of  her  peddling  in  the  rain  sad-  dened  his  whole  body.  He  cried  aloud,  &quot;She  earned  that  money  in  the  driving  rain!&quot;  &quot;Songha!  Songha  called  from  afar.  &quot;I'll  be  back  later,&quot;  she  said  to  him  weakly,  and  departed  into  the  upper  distance,  blurring  as  Bau  cried  hard,  his  shoulders  shaking.  Later,  he  took  the  cow  to  the  teacher  to  use  for  the  plowing,  and  came  back  to  the  shore.  All  day  he  walked  along  the  sea's  edge,  back  and  forth,  searching.  Songha  came,  bring-  ing  him  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  her  aluminum  lunchbox.  'They  dug  again,  in  many  spots  where  the  water  had  receded.  'Then  Bau  squatted  down,  resting  his  chin  on  his  knees,  and  re-  fused  to  eat  what  Songha  had  brought,  and  would  not  go  home.  At  last,  Songha  promised,  &quot;On  the  first  day  of  the  next  rain,  I'll  bringout  my  father's  bull,  and  you  meet  me  with  your  cow.&quot;  Bau  raised  his  head  rigidly.  &quot;My  cow  is  in  the  school  barn  \xc2\xbbow,&quot;  he  said  im-  patiently,  hoping  Songha  might  think  of  bringing  the  animal  to  him  in  the  com-  ing  darkness.  &quot;I  suppose  we  will  have  to  wait  till  it  rains,  so  my  parents  won't  hear  the  sound  of  hoofs,&quot;  she  explained.  &quot;When  it  rains  hard  and  the  drops  are  tapping  the  ground,  my  father  does  not  go  out  to  visit  the  stall  but  takes  a  nap  in  my  mother's  room  or  goes  to  my  uncle's  to  talk.&quot;  Making  a  mound  with  his  hands,  Bau  worried  again,  then  wrote  his  name  letters  in  the  sand,  the  way  Songha  had.  &quot;My  mother  won't  send  me  to  school,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;nor  will  she  let  me  see  you  again,  if  she  knows  I  have  lost  the  money  here.&quot;  'Tell  your  mother  your  cow  met  its  mate  across  West  Mountain  today  and  after  that  you  took  her  to  the  school  barn,&quot;  Songha  whispered.  &quot;The  cow  will  have  a  calf  anyway.&quot;  With  his  mouth  open,  Bau  did  not  move.  He  was  thinking.  Songha  warned,  &quot;Don't  tell  your  mother  or  anyone  else  what  I  have  told  you,  including  that  I  told  you  not  to  tell.&quot;  How  could  he  tell  his  mother  her  cow  had  received  the  seed?  It  would  be  like  saying  he  had  jade  in  his  empty  fist,  he  thought.  His  mother  would  soon  find  1&quot;  a  voice  out,  when  his  clenched  hand  opened  in  his  sleep.  His  two  palms,  perspiring,  collected  sand.  Songha  stared  up  for  a  while,  as  though  she  were  looking  for  the  lost  money  in  the  shadowed  high  sky.  &quot;I  hope  the  moon  doesn't  come  up  late,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  must  go  to  the  mulberry  tree  several  more  evenings  to  gather  the  fresh  leaves  for  the  full-grown  silk-  worms.&quot;  When  Bau  had  washed  his  hands  and  wiped  them  off  on  his  hips,  Songha  let  him  use  the  underside  of  her  skirt  to  wipe  the  traces  of  tears  from  his  face.  Receiving  thepotatoes  in  his  hands,  he  walked  slowly  home,  alternately  taking  a  bite  and  pondering.  IS  mother  was  home  already.  She  came  out  ofthe  kitchen,  and  asked,  &quot;Canwe  wait  for  a  calf  now?&quot;  Without  looking  up,  he  replied,  &quot;I  think  so,  and  I-  I  took  the  cow  to  the  school.&quot;  She  smiled  at  him.  &quot;We  shouldn't  lend  our  cow  any  more  from  now  on,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;A  working  cow  might  mis-  carry  her  calf.&quot;  Then  she  asked  eager-  ly,  &quot;Can't  you  tell  me  what  happened?&quot;  Bau  faced  the  empty  cowshed,  kick-  ing  a  stepstone.  &quot;Are  you  grown  too  shy  totalk  to  your  own  mother  about  what  hap-  pened?&quot;  she  asked  teasingly.  Bau  en-  tered  the  living  room  and  hung  over  the  jar  of  growing  bean  sprouts  and  watered  them  many,  many  times  more  than  necessary,  studying  the  pale-yellow  shoots  with  their  yellow  caps.  His  mother  did  not  ask  any  more  about  the  cow.  Later,  she  brought  his  supper  tray  out  onto  the  porch  and  called,  &quot;Come  out,  Bau!  What  you  have  done  today  de-  serves  a  big  farmer's  meal.&quot;  Bau  came  out  quietly.  His  mother  looked  at  him  attentively  and  said,  &quot;Why,  Bau,  you  look  dispirited.  Did  the  bull  scare  you?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Bau  replied.  He  took  up  his  spoon  to  touch  the  unusually  large  mound  of  rice,  which  seemed  ready  to  spill  out  over  the  bowl's  rim.  As  he  moved  his  spoon,  the  rice  bowl  reminded  him  of  the  unfortunate  sand  mound  where  he  and  Songha  had  buried  the  money.  He  was  surprised  to  find  aba-  lone  meat  sprinkled  withsesame  powder  in  his  bowl.  His  mother  always  sold  this  delicious  meat,  just  as  a  poor  rice  farmer  often  sells  his  rice  and  buys  the  poor  man's  rice,  which  is  barley.  He  said  to  himself,  &quot;Is  my  mother  cele-  brating  what  I  have  lost?&quot;  'The  very  thought  pained  his  insides,  and  he  had  to  drink  often  to  make  the  rice  and  abalone  go  down  his  too  tight  throat.  His  mother  was  talkative.  &quot;If  one  ofus  has  that  dragon  dream,  which  people  say  brings  good  luck,  the  cow  might  bear  twin  calves.&quot;  'Then,  half  jokingly,  &quot;We  should  buy  a  dragon  dream  from  somebody  if  we  don't  see  the  dragon  in  our  own  sleep.&quot;  She  went  on  with  tender  affection  that  seemed  to  brim  her  throat.  &quot;The  calf  will  light  the  cowshed  for  the  mother  cow.  I  haven't  dived  for  nothing,  after  all.  You  have  already  grown  up  to  do  a  man's  business  with  another  man.&quot;  The  hunchback  woman  came  through  the  red-pepper  patch  in  the  kitchen  garden.  She  saw  Bau  having  supper  on  the  porch,  and  she  started  to  leave,  talking  sadly  to  herself,  with  her  black  head  against  her  shoulder.  &quot;Again  the  moon!  Does  it  mean  just  saving  oil  on  another  sleepless  night?&quot;  Bau's  mother  turned  to  greet  her  neighbor  gaily.  &quot;My  son  finally  bought  the  bull  seed.Is  it  possible  the  cow  could  fail  to  become  a  mother?&quot;  She  seldom  asked  a  neighbor's  opinion.  The  hunchback  turned  and  hurried  toward  them.  &quot;Not  your  cow!  Oh,  oh,  animals  don't  waste  their  seeds.  You  can  count  on  it,  as  much  as  farmers  do  after  they  deposit  their  grain  in  the  spring  earth.  In  a  lonely  world,  you  " b"have  a  wonderful  thing  to  look  forward  to--the  unseen  calf,  the  unseen  fruit,  sister.&quot;  Whenever  the  hunchback  called  on  his  mother,  she  talked  about  her  sad  life.  &quot;Today  I  crossed  West  Mountain  again,&quot;  the  hunchback  woman  said  now,  &quot;to  talk  at  a  marriageable  boy's  home,  for  the  daughter  of  the  Oak  Tree  house,  and  on  the  way  back,  in  the  breezy  mountain  pass,Isat  for  a  long  time  looking  at  my  blistering  feet  and  the  worn-out  soles  of  my  shoes.  I  la-  mented,  'Why  do  I  hurt  my  feet  to  ar-  range  others'  marriages-I,  a  woman  whose  marriage  hung  on  thetoo  flimsy  thread  of  fate  in  a  stormy  world?&quot;  If  the  boy  and  girl  live  happily,  they  think  they  do  because  they  themselves  are  wonderful.  But  if  they  find  one  crack  on  the  round  rim  of  their  union,  they  blame  the  matchmaker.&quot;  Bau's  mother  turned  from  the  hunchback  and  watched  Bau  raise  his  spoon  to  his  lips.  The  neighbor  woman  jogged  her  knee,  to  get  her  attention,  as  well  asto  show  that  they  were  on  terms  of  intimacy.  &quot;Many  say  my  words  are  as  insincere  as  the  early  spring  or  the  moonlight  that  often  fools  shy  buds.  Sister,  the  reward  for  matchmak-  ing  is  thin.  If  I  arrange  a  marriage,  usually  I  receive  a  pair  of  silken  shoes,  to  wear  to  the  wedding  in  place  of  my  old  ones.  But  what  I  want  is  to  see  the  happy  shadows  of  a  boy  and  a  girl  on  the  tiny  paper  window  in  the  mud  wall-the  shadows  of  their  noses  touch,  ing,  exchanging  their  breath  talks  in  the  dimly  lit  room.  And  I  have  a  heart  for  their  unborn  fruits  ..  .&quot;  The  neighbor  was  too  busy  now  talk-  ing  about  herself,  but  Bau  was  afraid  that  later  she  might  ask  him  forthe  de-  tails  of  the  day's  business.  Without  hav-  ing  emptied  his  rice  bowl,  he  stood  up  from  the  supper  tray,  stealthily  watch-  ing  his  mother's  reaction.  Strangely,  her  face  showed  approval  of  his  leaving.  She  seemed  to  think  he  had  grown  to  a  man,  and  itis  proper  fora  man  to  leave  when  a  visiting  woman  starts  to  relate  intimate  matters.  She  herself  seemed  hardly  to  be  listening  to  the  un-  fortunate  hunchback.  Bau  started  walking  toward  the  school.  Soon  he  found  himself  in  front  ofthe  barn  where  his  cow  was,  and  there  he  waited  for  Songha.  The  school  was  near  the  mulberry  grove.  He  hoped  she  would  bring  her  bull  thatnight,  while  his  cow  was  there.  The  night  had  more  movements  than  the  day-fireflies  sweeping  across  the  valley,  in  which  dogs  barked,  stars  over  wavering  leaves  of  dark  cherry  trees,  and  white  clouds  piled  up  to  make  a  deep  blue  dome,  which  held  the  moon.  In  his  mind  he  heard  his  mother  pray-  ing  aloud  to  the  moon  in  the  dome  for  the  safe  birth  of  a  good  calf.  She  was  wishing  for  twin  calves,  even,  when  he  knew  that  the  cow  had  not  yet  been  mated  and  she  might  be  too  old  soon  to  bear  a  calf.  He  shivered  in  the  early-  summer  evening.  Later,  he  saw  Songha  crossing  the  schoolyard  on  her  way  to  the  mulberry  grove.  She  was  alone;  she  didn't  have  the  bull  with  her.  He  did  not  call  her  but  brought  out  his  cow,  who  was  moo-  ing  restlessly,  and  started  home.     FTER  that,  whenever  Bau  saw  Songha  he  followed  her,  but  she  never  talked  about  the  seed.  He  was  angry  inside,  but  somehow  he  couldn't  ask  her  to  bring  the  animal  at  night.  One  evening,  when  the  rain  frogs  were  croaking,  he  waited  for  her  on  the  road  to  the  school.  He  had  decided,  at  last,  to  remind  her  of  her  promise,  and  he  hoped  that  her  silkworms  still  ate  so  many  leaves  that  she  had  to  go  for  their  food  at  night  as  well  asin  the  daytime.  In  the  damp  darkness,  he  saw  a  square  paper  lantern  moving.  As  it  came  nearer,  the  light  from  the  lantern  re-  vealed  the  white  bodice  ofa  girl,  then  the  slender  jaw  line  and  the  round " b"mouth  of  Songha.  She  saw  him  and  stepped  back,  frightened,  almost  drop-  ping  the  lantern.  Then  she  recognized  him.  &quot;Bau!&quot;  she  exclaimed  in  happy  relief.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  say  anything?  You  are  naughty.&quot;  As  they  walked  along  together,  she  thanked  him  for  coming  to  keep  her  company  on  the  night  road,  but  he  was  thinking  about  his  cow  and  how  to  re-  mind  her  of  her  promise.  'They  passed  the  schoolyard  and  arrived  at  the  pine-  scented  cemetery.  They  walked  cau-  tiously  between  the  headstones,  as  if  they  were  afraid  of  waking  the  dead  in  their  graves.  Soon  they  came  to  the  mul-  berry  grove.  Below  the  wild-rose  thorn  fence,  scarecrows  flapped  in  white  rag  coats  among  the  barley.  Songha  handed  her  lantern  to  him,  saying,  &quot;Be  careful.  Don't  move  it.&quot;  When  he  jumped  up  to  catch  a  higher  branch  for  her,  she  cautioned  again,  &quot;Be  careful;  I  forgot  to  bringa  match.&quot;  Inside  the  paper  lantern  sat  a  white  candle,  burning  and  flickering.  Songha's  white  hand  moved  busily  among  the  branches,  the  tender,  broad  leaves  touching  her  tight  lips  as  she  picked.  &quot;I  won't  come  back  any  more  till  the  trees  bear  red  fruits,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  leaves  and  the  silkworms  grow  together,  you  know.&quot;  Bau  was  wishinghe  could  touch  the  dimples  in  her  pearly  cheeks,  but  Songha  chided,  &quot;Don't  move  the  lan-  tern  too  close  to  me.  Hold  it  steady.  I  told  you  I  didn't  have  a  match.&quot;  The  leaves  nearly  filled  her  basket.  She  won't  come  here  any  more,  Bau  was  thinking.  Her  indifferenceto  him  made  him  angry.  He  realized  that  his  tightly  gripped  hand  was  not  holding  the  seed  money  but  just  her  lantern.  He  opened  his  mouth  for  a  few  seconds,  then  impulsively  blew  down  at  the  lan-  tern.  The  flame  scattered  and  hugged  the  wick,.  He  let  out  his  remaining  breath,  and  everything  disappeared  in-  to  darkness.  The  lantern  in  his  hand  wavered.  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  Songha  screamed,  dropping  her  basket  on  Bau's  toe.  &quot;I  told  you  I  didn't  bring  a  match!&quot;  Bau  didn't  know  why  he  had  done  this.  As  she  picked  up  her  basket,  she  cried,  &quot;Half  the  leaves  are  gone!&quot;  When  Bau  began  to  rake  the  leaves  up,  she  cried  &quot;Don't  put  in  any  leaves  that  have  touched  the  ground!&quot;  and  she  covered  the  basket  withher  hands.  &quot;Why  did  youdo  such  a  nasty  thing?  I  won't  talk  to  you  any  more.&quot;  In  the  dark  came  the  rustling  sound  of  shadows  in  motion.  Bau  and  Songha,  holding  hands,  groped  their  way  out  of  the  grove  of  trees.  In  their  path  a  dark  figure  suddenly  jutted  out,  and  Songha  clung  to  him.  &quot;It's  only  a  tombstone,&quot;  Bau  said.  As  he  remembered  how  she  had  looked  in  the  light  of  the  lantern,  he  felt  a  warmth  from  her  dissolving  in  his  throat,  diffusing  all  over  him  and  down-  ward.  He  walked  with  happy,  awkward  steps.  Tipping  on  the  side  of  Songha's  hand,he  grasped  hard,  feeling  all  Songha  within  himself.  He  did  not  notice  how  far  they  hadwalked  until  Songha  suddenly  pulled  her  perspiring  hand  away  and  took  the  lantern  from  him.  They  were  at  her  gate.  Amid  the  rasping  sounds  of  rain  frogs  from  the  rice  paddies  on  both  sides  of  the  path,  they  went  straight  on  up  to  Songha's  house.  With  her  lips  almost  touching  Bau's  ear,  she  said  loudly,  above  the  frog  sounds,  &quot;If  it  rains  to-  morrow  morning,  bring  your  cow  to  the  neck  of  West  Mountain.  Can  you  hear  [REDACTED];  &quot;Yes.  I  will  come  as  soon  as  my  mother  goes  out.&quot;  Then,  making  his  hand  into  a  mouthpiece  at  her  ear,  he  complained,  &quot;I  do  not  know  the  place.&quot;  A  strange  fear  made  his  heart  beat  faster.  &quot;Just  walk  along  the  shore  westward  until  you  find  me.  Farmers  will  come out  to  watch  the  rain,  so  we  can't  meet  in  the  village.  Understand?&quot;  Bau  nodded,  and  turned  toward  the  ditch  path,  lifting  his  face  and  hands  toward  the  sky  as  he  walked  along,  despite  the  darkness,  hoping  to  receive  raindrops  on  the  way  back  to  his  house.  IN  the  morning,  therain  hit  the  yard,  deluged  the  kitchen  garden,  and  blew  slantwise  onto  the  porch.  By  the  time  Bau  had  finished  his  breakfast,  the  rain  was  whirling  down  and  making  red  water  pools.  Along  the  eaves  of  the  cowshed  and  the  main  house,  bubbles  moved  around,  each  bubble  breaking  into  smaller  ones.  He  waited  with  secret  impatience  for  his  mother  to  leave  home.  Finally,  his  thick  eyebrows  raised  with  anxiety,  he  asked,  &quot;Are  you  going  out  today  to  sell?&quot;  His  mother  took  it  differently.  She  thought  he  did  not  want  her  to  go,  and  said  apologetically,  &quot;I  must,  Bau.  Mealtime  comes  on  rainy  days  as  well  as  on  fine  days.  Perhaps  I  was  born  to  be  in  the  water-on  fine  days  in  the  sea,  and  on  rainy  days  in  the  sea  of  rain.&quot;  She  put  on  many  patched  old  clothes,  and  as  she  stepped  out  onto  the  wet  porch,  she  said,  &quot;Another  unexpected  expense  is  this  new  home.  We  need  a  tin  roof  that  will  keep  our  porch  boards  dry.  Bau  watched  her  tall  figure,  without  any  protection  from  the  rain  except  the  round  tub  on  her  head,  her  shoes  al-  ready  buried  in  the  pool  of  water  at  the  front  gate.  Poor  Mother,  he  thought.  Before  she  has  left  her  own  gate,  she  has  been  drenched!  He  went  outdoors  and  stood  in  the  shelter  of  the  eaves,  to  watch  her  far-  ther  with  pressing  sadness  mingled  with  unfolding  relief  from  anxiety.  She  walked  slowly,  and  rigidly  erect,  un-  mindful  ofthe  rain,  and  suddenly,  crossing  the  rice  field  into  a  still  harder  rain,  she  disappeared  from  sight,  as  though  she  had  dived  into  an  under-  water  world.  Bau  led  his  cow  to  the  shore  path,  which  had  streams  of  water  running  down  it.  'The  sea  was  not  high,  but  the  waves  broke  in  white  foam.  Farther  out,  the  murky  surface  had  needle  spots  of  rain.  He  did  not  want  to  pass  the  hunch-  back's  house,  so  he  left  the  path.  He  pulled  at  the  cow's  halter,  but  the  crea-  ture,  swinging  her  head  upward,  moo-  ing,  refused  to  follow  him.  He  pulled  at  the  halter  and  tried  to  get  her  to  go  toward  a  ditch  that  led  down  to  the  water's  edge.  Finally,  the  cow,  her  tail  dripping  down,  moved  on,  sometimes  halting,  wary  ofthe  pouring  water  from  the  path  above  and  the  crawling  " b"waves  below.  Now  he  walked  in  front  of  her,  holding  the  halter  tight,  bend-  ing  his  head  down.  His  clothes  were  glued  to  his  dripping  body.  His  mouth  was  shut  tight  against  the  rain.  At  the  neck  of  West  Mountain,  a  surf  as  tall  as  a  house  pounded  against  the  black  rocks,  sending  spray  high  into  the  air.  In  the  lee  of  the  mountain,  Bau  looked  around  for  Songha  and  could  not  see  her,  so  he  started  up,  pulling  his  cow  toward  the  path,  and  calling,  &quot;Songha!  Songha!&quot;  Then,  through  the  rain  screen,  he  saw  a  gaunt-looking  animal  down  by  theshore,  and  nearby,  against  the  cliff,  a  sardine  fisherman's  shed.  Pulling  his  cow  on  as  fast  as  he  could,  he  again  called  for  Songha.  The  wet,  dark  ani-  mal  down  by  the  shore  didn't  move.  Its  ribs  protruded  like  rocks  over  its  backbone.  Suddenly,  the  bull  turned  his  curved  horns.  His  prominent  humps  rose  steep  on  his  back.  Bau's  cow  pulled  on  her  halter,  her  hoofs  digging  the  water,  and  bellowed  in  anticipation.  He  released  his  grip  on  the  halter  and  stepped  back,  covering  his  forehead  with  his  wet  sleeve.  As  he  went  to  grab  the  halter  again,  the  bull  lowered  his  head,  eying  Bau,  who  was  frightened  and  dashed  into  the  sardine  shed.  Inside  the  mud  walls  of  the  sardine  shed,  which  was  straw-roofed  and  sag-  ging,  the  warm  air  had  the  strong  odor  of  fish.  As  he  stumbled  in,  he  got  a  side  view  of  the  slim  bare  body  of  a  girl  before  two  fire  pits.  Songha  was  squeez-  ing  water  out  of  her  clothes.  She  turned  and  saw  Bau,  and  raised  her  clothes  to  cover  her  breasts.  Bau  pointed  out  toward  the  shore,  through  the  streaks  of  water.  He  tried  to  tell  her  what  was  taking  place  out-" b"side;  his  jaws  moved,  but  he  could  not  speak.  The  rain  blew,  churning  in  the  air,  and  the  water  occasionally  came  down  in  floods  from  the  roof.  Bau  stood  for  a  moment  looking  out  the  door  at  the  wind  and  the  rain.  Then  he  turned  and  grabbed  one  end  of  the  skirt  Songha  held,  and  the  two  of  them,  twisting  the  clothes  as  hard  as  possible,  squeezed  every  bit  of  water  out  of  them.  Songha's  lips  were  black-green,  like  a  sea  cucumber.  She  had  laid  her  coat  along  the  rim  of  one  of  the  fisherman's  caldrons.  She  turned  her  coat  over  now,  so  that  the  other  side  would  be  exposed  to  the  heat  of  the  fire  pits.  Then,  stooping,  she  spread  her  skirt  out  on  the  caldron,  arching  her  naked  body.  Bau  again  turned  to  the  door,  and  saw  the  movement  of  a  dark-brown  mass  blurred  by  the  steam  inside  and  by  the  rain.  Coming  back  to  the  fire  pits,  he  peeled  down  his  stuck  hempen  clothes.  Standing  between  the  red  flame  in  the  pits  and  their  flickering  shadows  on  the  mud  wall,  they  wrung  the  water  out  of  Bau's  coat  and  trousers,  twist-  ing  them  like  a  rope,  bending  opposite  ways,  perfectly  balanced.  The  fire  smoke  and  the  steam  from  Songha's  clothes  on  the  caldron  blended,  the  fog-  gy  warmth  filling  the  gap  between  the  two  magnetic  nudes  that  were  as  alert  as  fish.  Bau,  dabbing  himself  with  his  wet  clothes  from  his  face  downward,  again  looked  out  at  the  sea.  The  bull  was  moving  slowly  toward  the  shed,  against  the  background  of  arched  surfs.  Bau  saw,  a  little  behind,  between  the  two  separated  animals,  a  shabby-looking  man  in  a  sedge  rain  cape.  'The  man  paused,  like  an  alarmed,  drenched  dog,  and  thenfollowed  the  animals  up  to-  ward  the  shed.  Bau  turned  quickly  to  warn  Songha,  and  saw  that  she  was  already  taking  her  clothes  from  the  caldron  rim.  He  had  difficulty  finding  his  wet  trouser  legs.  When  he  had  put  on  his  clothes,  Songha  ran  out  to  her  bull.  In  front  of  the  shed,  Bau  grabbed  the  halter  of  his  cow  and  pulled  hard,  running,  but  then  after  he  had  gone  a  short  distance  he  turned  around  and  came  back,  real-  izing  that  he  had  left  Songha  behind.  She  ran  after  the  bull,  which  was  within  a  few  feet  of  the  strange  man.  &quot;Don't  these  urchins  have  any  par-  ents?&quot;  Bau  heard  the  fisherman  ask.  The  man  had  a  leather  basket  strapped  across  his  sedge-covered  shoulder,  and  in  his  hand  an  octopus  hook,  and  so  Bau  knew  that  he  was  a  fisher-  man.  Waving  his  hook,  the  man  tried  to  catch  Songha,  saying,  &quot;You  are  burning  logs  in  an-  other's  shed!  What  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  Songha,  making  her  body  short  and  small,  clung  to  the  heavy  side  of  her  bull,  who  low-  ered  his  horns  at  the  approaching  stranger.  Walking  crabwise  away  from  the  threatening  animal,  the  fisherman  shouted  something  at  her.  Songha  picked  up  the  halter  of  her  bull  and  ran  splashing  into  the  surf.  Bau,  pulling  his  cow  hard,  went  after  them.  He  heard  the  words  that  chased  him:  &quot;Evil  dreams  will  awake  you  from  sleep!  The  sardine-net  hauler  will  catch  you,  both  of  you!&quot;  FTER  they  were  safely  past  the  neck  of  West  Moun-  tain,  the  animals,  bending  over  to  one  grass  patch  after  another,  above  the  sandy  shore,  set  the  pace.  Bau  and  Son-  gha,  also  with  heads  down,  moved  as  though  they  themselves  were  grazing  on  the  raindrops  on  the  summer  grass.  Songha  didn't  lift  even  a  casual  glance  toward  Bau  when  she  left  him  and  walked  upward,  alongside  the  orange  pumpkin  flowers  blooming  on  the  bank  of  an  overflowing  rice  field.  Bau  couldn't  make  himself  call  to  thank  her  for  bringing  the  bull,  for  he  felt  that  nothing  had  happened  except  in  a  night-  mare,  seasons  ago.  He  stood  mystified,  with  his  cow  nibbling  on  the  ragweed  and  cattail  not  far  from  the  place  where  he  had  lost  the  seed  money. "