 b"KAMI-WARI,  which  means  God  Cutting  Open,  is  a  great  pine-  clad  rock  standing  in  the  mouth  of  Togura  Bay,  on  the  northeast  coast  of  the  main  island  of  Honshu,  in  4a6170616e.  The  place  is  off  the  track  even  for  Japa-  nese  vacationists,  and  probably  no  more  than  a  score  of  American  tourists  have  ever  looked  upon  its  rugged  beauty  or  visited  Shizukawa,  the  remote  fishing  village  that  is  the  nearest  town.  Neither  place  is  listed  in  the  guidebooks.  But  na-  tives  of  Shizukawa  are  very  proud  of  this  scenic  example  of  divine  wrath;  even  before  I  went  there  from  4a6170616e,  with  my  4a6170616eese  friends  the  Asanos,  I  had  heard  the  story  from  them  several  times.  The  story  goes  like  this:  In  the  an-  cient  chronicles,  it  is  written  that  on  a  night  when  the  sea  came  shouting  across  the  rocks,  and  lanterns  would  not  stay  alight,  a  whale  was  stranded  on  the  beach  midway  between  two  rival  com-  munities-Togura-mura  and  the  Thir-  teen  Villages,  the  latter  a  series  of  ham-  lets  strung  along  a  narrow  neck  of  land.  Each  community  claimed  the  whale  as  its  rightful  bounty.  A  bitter  quarrel  raged  all  the  next  day,  and  that  night  an  awe-  some  thing  happened.  The  rocky  neck  of  land  split  open  and  the  sea  rushed  in,  dividing  the  two  communities  forever.  The  whale  was  washed  away.  &quot;K  ami-  wari'&quot;  the  frightened  people  cried.  &quot;God  cut-  ting  open!&quot;  Thus  the  place  was  named.  But  there  are  only  a  few  scholars  able  to  read  the  ancient  scrolls-if,  in-  deed,  the  scrolls  still  ex-  ist-and  it  is  best  to  hear  the  story  as  I  did,  from  the  lips  of  my  4a6170616eese  friends,  whose  English  is  especially  charming  to  me  because  I  have  been  trying  to  teach  them  the  language.  &quot;So  it  was,  Papa-  san,&quot;  Richi-san  said,  re-  telling  the  story  on  the  day  I  went  for  a  picnic  with  her  and  her  fam-  ily,  and  saw  Kami-  wari.  She  and  I  were  watching  the  clear  Pa-  cific  run  green  and  white  between  the  tow-  ering  rock  walls  of  the  cleft.  &quot;There  was  too  muchee  troubling,  and  God  was  verree  angree.  That  night,  God  cut-  ting  open  rocks  and  ocean  bumping  bee-tween,  and  people  verree  su'prised  and  scared.  That  story  maybe  two  sousand  years  old.  I  lovely  that  story!  Understand,  Papa-san?&quot;  &quot;I  understand,&quot;  I  said,  and  pointed  to  the  inhospitable  chunk  of  granite  that  had  been  riven  from  the  mainland.  &quot;But  don't  you  think  that  place  was  very  small  to  hold  a  village?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yiss,  of  course,  Papa-san,&quot;  she  agreed,  &quot;but  it  was  a  verree  small  whale.&quot;  FIRST  met  Richi-san's  family,  the  Asanos,  almost  five  years  ago,  when  I  was  serving  in  4a6170616e  on  the  staff  of  the  Commander  of  Naval  Forces,  Far  East,  and  now,  on  my  second  tour  of  duty  in  4a6170616e,  I  am  still  meeting  more  Asanos.  They  are  a  large  clan.  Their  names  are  not  easily  remembered,  and  over  Honorable  Tea  new  faces  are  al-  ways  being  introduced  to  me  by  such  titles  as  Kyobashi  [REDACTED],  Shinagawa  [REDACTED],  Small  [REDACTED],  Train-Driving  [REDACTED],  Country  [REDACTED],  and  Shinjuku  Aunt  and  Une.  Most  of  these  hospitable,  dignified,  and  merry  people,  who  all  came  original-  ly  from  Shizukawa,  now  live  in  4a6170616e,  and  a  representative  group  of  them  gathers  weekly  at  the  home  of  Oji  Cous-  in,  where  I  attempt  to  teach  them  con-versational  English,  hoping  in  return  to  learn  some  4a6170616eese.  The  result  is  a  com-  promise;  we  all  speak  a  patois  of  broken  English  and  broken  4a6170616eese,  and  carry  our  dictionaries  for  consultation.  To  the  members  of  the  family  who  are  in  the  English  study  group  I  am  known  as  Papa-san-a  slang  term  applied  to  the  manager  or  boss  of  any  project,  as  well  as  to  an  elder-and  to  the  other  mem-  bers  of  the  family,  depending  on  their  age,  as  either  Captain  or  O-ji-sanm,  which  means  Honorable  Uncle.  Richi-san,  the  youngest  and  brightest  of  my  students-she  could  pass  for  eighteen,  but  since  she  is  a  widow  with  a  nine-year-old  daughter,  I  suppose  she  is  older-has  long  been  the  spokesman  and  interpreter  for  her  family.  It  was  she  who  extended  the  invitation  to  ac-  company  them  to  Shizukawa  last  Au-  gust,  during  O-Bon,  the  Buddhist  Festi-  val  of  the  Dead.  Unlike  many  of  the  other  Asanos,  who  are  embarrassed  by  their  lack  of  English,  Richt-san  is  quite  vocal.  In  her  own  words,  perhaps  she  &quot;too  muchee  yak-yaks.&quot;  But  there  is  compensation  for  this  chatter;  the  voice  of  any  young  4a6170616eese  woman  has  the  melodic  quality  of  a  soft  flute.  Honor-  able  Little  Grandfather  and  Honorable  Little  Grandmother,  she  said,  were  go-  ing  back  to  the  old  home  for  O-Bon.  They  would  like  me  to  go  along  to  their  &quot;countree&quot;-where  they  would  gather  at  the  family  shrine  in  Shizukawa  to  honor  the  spirits  of  their  ancestors-for  a  vaca-  tion.  &quot;What  kind  of  coun-  try  is  it?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Oh,  verree  pretty  place!  Small  mounts  and  beeg  ocean.  Can  fishing  and  swimming,  and  noise  don'  have.&quot;  4a6170616e  is  reputed  to  be  the  noisiest  city  in  the  world.  I  told  Richi-san  it  was  a  deal,  and  then  had  totranslate  that  by  saying  I  accepted  the  in-  vitation  with  pleasure.  &quot;Sank  you  verree  much,  Papa-san,&quot;  she  said.  -Boxn  is  comparable  to  our  All  Souls'  Day,  and  calls  for  a  three-day  reunion  of  the  4a6170616eese  family  to  worship  before  the  mor-  tuary  tablets  of  its  an-  cestors  and  to  make  a  report  on  family  affairs  " b"to  the  ancestral  spirits.  All  over  4a6170616e,  white  lanterns  shed  their  glow  on  family  altars.  Sutras  are  chanted  slowly  and  sonorously,  with  frequent  repetitions  of  &quot;Na-mu-myo  ho  ren-ge-kyo!&quot;  (&quot;Glo-  ry  to  the  Supreme  Law  of  the  Lotus!&quot;  ).  Prayer  beads  click  briskly,  incense  burns,  and  choice  food  offerings  are  made.  There  is  no  sadness  in  any  of  this;  the  spirits  are  treated  as  living  persons.  The  streets  are  bright  with  bonfires  to  light  the  way  of  the  spirits  to  their  former  homes,  and  the  night  is  lively  with  fire-  works  and  drumbeat,  with  the  soft  shine  of  serpentine  lantern  parades,  and  with  dancing.  Some  of  the  Asano  family-I  will  never  know  exactly  how  many-were  still  in  residence  at  the  old  home  in  Shizukawa,  but  enough  others  made  the  pilgrimage  there  from  4a6170616e  to  put  a  strain  on  the  already  crowded  coaches  ofthe  J\xc3\xa9oban  railroad  line.  Half  the  population  of  4a6170616e  seemed  to  be  mak-  ing  similar  pilgrimages,  and  it  was  just  as  well  that  the  4a6170616e  Asano  clan  didn't  go  en  masse  but  travelled  by  echelons.  When  we  were  finally  all  gathered  in  Shizukawa,  our  party  included  O-;4-  chan,  Honorable  Little  Grandfather;  O-baa-chan,  Honorable  Little  Grand-  mother;  four  O-ji-san,  or  uncles;  sev-  eral  O-be-san,  or  aunts  (they  came  and  went  in  profusion);  a  couple  of  Nee-  san,  or  elder  sisters;  two  brothers  and  their  wives;  seven  grandchildren;  an  un-  determined  number  of  cousins;  Richi-  san,  who  is  the  youngest  sister;  and  me.  Fortunately,  the  ancestral  house  is  quite  large.  All  this  was  fitting,  since  O-Bon  of-  fers  theperfect  excuse  for  a  reunion  of  the  living  with  the  living,  as  well  as  with  the  dead.  But,  to  begin  with,  it  posed  certain  logistical  problems,  because  no  4a6170616eese  ever  goes  anywhere  without  taking  at  least  one  puresento  (present)  for  everybody  else  who  will  be  there, and  the  luggage  that  each  echelon  car-  ried  with  it  from  4a6170616e  was  mountain-  ous.  There  were  also  more  special  prob-  lems  for  this  particular  trip.  When  it  became  known  that  I  had  accepted  Richi-san's  invitation,  Honorable  Little  Grandfather,  who  is  a  spry  seventy-six,  promptly  left  for  Shizukawa,  two  weeks  in  advance  of  my  prospective  arrival,  to  arrange  for  a  hotel  room  for  me  and  make  other  preparations  to  do  me  honor.  A  few  days  later,  a  letter  came  from  the  country  for  Honorable  Little  Grand-  mother.  Richi-san  told  me  that  Elder  Brother's  wife,  who  was  also  already  in  the  country,  was  worried  about  &quot;special  fooding&quot;  for  me.  &quot;Papa-san,  what  kind  special  fooding  you  want?&quot;  Richi-san  asked  me.  'None,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  will  stay  at  the  hotel.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yiss,  I  sink  so.  But  not  good  fooding  at  hotel.  You  must  eating  at  our  house,  and  my  countree  is  verree  poor  countree.  Beefsteak  don'  have.&quot;  &quot;Itdoesn't  matter.  I  can  get  along  without  beefsteak  for  a  few  days.&quot;  She  said  she  didn't  think  so,  because  I  had  a  &quot;beeg  body&quot;  and  must  always  eat  meat,  whereas  in  her  country  there  was  only  fish  and  chicken,  and  some-  times  &quot;peeg.&quot;  I  reminded  her  that  the  many  members  of  the  family  I  had  met,  most  of  whom  grew  up  in  Shizukawa,  showed  no  signs  of  malnutrition.  I  pointed  out  that  Honorable  Little  Grandfather  had  attained  a  ripe  old  age,  and  that  Honorable  Little  Grand-  mother  was  apple-cheeked  and  plump,  and  still  had  her  own  teeth.  I  told  Richi-  san  not  to  worry  about  it,  but  she  in-  sisted  on  writing  a  letter  to  the  country  concerning  special  fooding  for  me.  I  don't  know  what  she  said.  Then  Richi-san  and  Honorable  Lit-  tle  Grandmother,  having  been  left  in  charge  of  the  4a6170616e  contingent,  con-cluded  that  I  ought  not  to  make  the  journey  alone.  I  couldn't  get  leave  until  the  day  before  O-Bon  began,  and  they  felt  that  I  couldn't  speak  enough  Japa-  nese  to  travel  by  myself,  so  they  decided  that  they  would  delay  their  own  de-  parture  by  almost  a  week  to  escort  me.  Along  with  us  would  go  Richi-san's  daughter,  who  was  attending  school  in  4a6170616e.  We  would  be  the  last  echelon.  All  the  others  would  have  preceded  us.  &quot;No,no!&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;You  goon  ahead  of  me  and  enjoy  the  country.&quot;  &quot;Don'  worry  about  it,&quot;  Richi-san  said.  That  is  how  I  found  myself  on  the  crowded  express  from  Ueno  Station  with  three  females-O-baa-chan,  Richi-  san,  and  Masako-chan-all  four  of  us  a  little  confused  asto  who  was  escorting  whom.  We  were  bound  for  Sendai,  where  we  would  transfer  from  the  train  to  a  bus  for  Shizukawa.  The  luggage  racks  and  thespace  between  the  seats  were  piled  high  with  my  bags,  type-  writer,  and  camera  equipment,  their  suitcases,  and  the  many  beautifully  wrapped  puresentos.  &quot;Papa-san,  we  must  be  careful,&quot;  Richi-san  confided,  with  a  frown.  &quot;O-  baa-chan  and  Masako-chan  are  two  countree  girls.  Maybe  happen  trou-  bling.&quot;  I  laughed,  and  said  I  was  sure  no  trouble  would  happen.  RAVEL  in  a  4a6170616eese  train  com-  bines  the  old  nostalgic  charm  of  rail  click  and  drawn-out  whistle  with  something  of  military  pomp  and  circum-  stance.  Stationmasters  snap  to  salute  as  the  train  pulls  out,  the  train  crew  re-  sponds,  and  an  air  of  importance  sur-  rounds  the  whole  undertaking.  Fre-  quently  there  are  large  parties  on  the  platforms  to  bid  seyonara  to  a  departing  notable  or  company  official.  When  the  train  pulls  out,  they  bow  in  succession  " b"as  the  honored  traveller  glides  past  them.  Soon  the  train  is  in  the  suburbs,  where  every  crossing  has  its  throng  of  pedestrians  and  cyclists  waiting  behind  a  bamboo  gate.  Then  the  little  wooden  houses  become  scattered,  the  evergreen  countryside  opens  wide,  and  everywhere  are  waterways.  We  had  scarcely  left  4a6170616e  when  (O-baa-chan,  the  countree  girl,  fell  asleep.  The  4a6170616eese  ability  to  sleep  any-  where  and  at  any  time  is  matched  only  by  another  national  elasticity,  the  ability  toeat  food  or  drink  tea  whenever  either  is  offered.  The  trip  from  4a6170616e  to  Sen-  dai  took  six  and  a  half  hours,  and  the  only  troubling  during  that  time  was  the  effort  involved  in  raising  the  window  at  every  stop  to  buy  bento-a  4a6170616eese-  style  lunchbox  with  a  pot  of  tea-from  the  station-platform  venders.  In  fact,  everything  went  very  smoothly  until  we  reached  Sendai,  the  largest  and  most  im-  portant  city  in  northeast  4a6170616e.  But  then  into  that  city  of  some  four  hundred  thousand  O-baa-chan,  a  little  old  lady  wearing  ablue  polka-dot  dress  and  shod  in  4a6170616eese  zori  (flat-soled  sandals),  vanished  shortly  after  we  got  off  the  train.  Honorable  Little  Grandmother's  dis-  appearance  came  about  simply  enough,  through  a  takushi-cab  mixup  and  the  fact  that  she  did  something  few  Japa-  nese  women  of  her  generation  have  ever  done:  she  took  the  initiative.  Because  of  our  luggage,  we  found  it  necessary  to  hire  two  of  the  small,  pomade-scented  cabs  to  transport  us  from  the  Sendai  railway  station  to  the  Basu  Senta  (the  Bus  Center)  from  which  we  were  to  continue  our  journey  by  bus  to  Shizu-  kawa.  Our  bags  completely  filled  the  rear  seat  of  the  first  cab,  and,  unbidden,  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  plopped  herself  in  the  front  seat  beside  the  driver,  determined  to  keep  an  eye  on  my  type-  writer,  which  she  regards  with  awe.  At  that  moment,  a  sta-  tion  official  appeared,  bowing  and  sucking  in  his  breath  politely,  to  inform  -Richi-san  that  certain  minor  irregu-  larities  had  been  found  in  our  train  tickets.  She  would  have  to  visit  the  Fare  Adjustment  Office.  When  she  went  off  to  do  this,  our  No.  1  cab  roared  away  into  traffic  almost  as  dense  as  thatof  downtown  4a6170616e,  carrying  Hon-  orable  Little  Grand- mother  into  the  un-  known.  Masako-chan  and  I  waited  until  Richi-san  returned,  and  I  explained  why  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  was  missing.  I  suggested  that  we  follow  her  as  fast  as  possible,  and  we  drove  at  once  to  the  Bus  Center  where,  Richi-san  said,  peo-  ple  boarded  all  the  buses  for  Shizukawa.  When  we  got  there,  there  was  a  long  queue  waiting  for  the  Shizukawa  bus  but  no  sign  of  Honorable  Little  Grand-  mother  or  our  luggage-not  in  the  sta-  tion  or  in  the  bus  or  among  the  people  standing  in  the  queue.  Then  someone  told  Richi-san  that  there  were  now  sev-  eral  other  Basu  Sentas  in  Sendai,  and  that  Shizukawa  buses  left  from  some  of  them,  too.I  joined  the  end  of  the  queue  for  the  next  Shizukawa  bus,  to  hold  our  place,  while  Richi-san  and  Masako-chan  took  a  takushi-cab  to  search  for  O-bac-  chan  at  the  other  stations.  Very  shortly,  they  were  back.  No  O-baa-chan  anywhere.  This  time,  I  put  them  in  the  queue,  and  took  a  takushi-  cab  and  toured  the  other  stations  my-  self.  That  search  was  fruitless,  too.  When  I  came  back,  Richi-san's  previous  calm  was  shaken.  &quot;Papa-san,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  high  treble,  &quot;I'm  before  telling  you!  O-baa-chan  is  verree  countree  girl.  She  doesn't  have  good  head.  Much  troubling!&quot;  She  made  a  forceful  gesture  of  boxing  Honorable  Little  Grand-  mother's  ears.  &quot;I'm  verree  angree  to  her!&quot;  Richi-san's  voice  bordered  on  At-  suteri  (hysteria).  I  said,  &quot;I'm  not  angry-I'm  wor-  ried.  We'd  better  tell  the  police.&quot;  &quot;Don't  need  police!  Not  theirbusi-  ness.  Papa-san  don't  be  children'!&quot;  She  pronounced  &quot;children&quot;  with  a  long  4,&quot;  I  took  her  arm  and  propelled  her  firmly  to  a  police  box,  always  handy  in  4a6170616e.  The  report  that  Richi-san  made  there  was  long  and  complicated,  and  in-  terspersed  with  clipped  &quot;Ah,  &quot;s  and  &quot;86  desu's  (&quot;Isn't  it  so?&quot;  and  &quot;Well,  that's  the  way  it  is&quot;  )  from  the  officer  on  duty.  His  imperturbability  was  reassur-  ing,  and  soon  Richi-san  was  smiling  the  way  all  4a6170616eese  do  when  recounting  a  misfortune.  &quot;Papa-san,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;it  was  a  free  takushi.  Not  a  good  idea,  catching  that  kind.  Cannot  telephone  company.&quot;  It  took  a  moment  for  me  to  under-" b"stand.  A  &quot;free&quot;  cab  was  an  independent  cab.  The  police  put  out  an  all-points  bulle-  tin.  Two  plainclothesmen  left  on  bicy-  cles.  I  was  restless  enough  to  take  an-  other  tekushi-cab  on  another  futile  round.  And  meanwhile  the  last  bus  of  the  afternoon  left  for  Shizukawa.  Then  Richi-san  and  little  Masako-  chan,  both  of  them  white-faced,  and  I  made  a  long,  slow  cab  trip  through  the  streets  of  Sendai,  searching  for  Honor-  able  Little  Grandmother.  The  driver  of  this  cab  was  both  sympathetic  and  intel-  ligent.  He  parked  at  each  of  the  bus  stations  and  went  into  ask  questions.  At  one  of  the  stations,  attendants  remem-  bered  a  little  old  lady  because,  the  driver  said,  she  had  had  an  incredible  amount  of  baggage.  She  had  boarded  a  bus  for  Shizukawa.  This  intelligence  was  not  only  heart-  ening;  it  was  almost  beyond  belief.  How  could  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  ever  have  managed  to  wrestle  all  that  luggage  into  a  bus?  &quot;But  who  bought  her  ticket?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Who  paid  the  cab?  I  must  give  her  back  the  money  she's  spent.&quot;  Richi-san  whirled  on  me.  &quot;What  about  we're  money?  Many  takushis  all  over  Sendai-maybe  altogether  one  sousand  yen  we  spend!  Never  I'm  giv-  ing  her  back  money!  Angree  to  her!&quot;  Still  indignant,  she  asked  our  cab-  driver  the  fare  to  follow  the  bus  to  Shizukawa-a  considerable  distance.  He  said  four  thousand  yen.  She  said  thirty-five  hundred,  and  in  the  face  of  her  wrath  he  quailed  and  said,  &quot;D  jobu&quot;  (&quot;All  right&quot;).  The  cab  started  off  for  Shizukawa.  HAVE  had  some  wild  taxi  rides  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  and  a  number  of  experiences  in  4a6170616e  have  made  it  perfectly  clear  to  me  why  that  city  calls  its  cabs  Zamikaze  takushis.  But  this  was  the  wildest  and  most  hazardous  ride  in  my  memory.  'The  narrow  road  was  unpaved  and  rough.  It  skirted  cliffs  in  the  mountains  and  clung  precariously  to  high  embankments  in  the  water-filled  lowlands,  and  darkness  came  soon  after  the  ride  began.  Dust  swirled  into  the  back  seat  of  the  cab,  and  the  tires  banged  large  pebbles  up  onto  the  car's  under-  side.  I  am  not  built  for  such  small  sedans-Richi-san  calls  them  &quot;sid-  downs&quot;-and  through  the  two  hours  of  our  jolting  pursuit  my  head  kept  bumping  against  the  roof.  At  last,  a  few  miles  from  Shizukawa,  we  caught  up  with  the  bus  we  thought  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  had  boarded,  and  our  driver  flagged  it  down  by  halting  his  takushi  square  in  the  middle  of  the  narrow  road  after  a  perilous  passing.  He  hopped  out  into  the  dust  and  was  at  the  bus  door  before  I  had  unfolded  myself  from  the  rear  seat.  When  Richi-san,  Masako-chan,  and  I  reached  the  bus,  we  could  see  through  the  window  that  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  was  aboard,  basking  in  the  importance  of  having  the  tokush-  cab  driver  stick  his  head  in  the  door  and  page  &quot;Asano-san!  Asano-san!&quot;  in  the  hearing  of  all  the  other  passengers.  We  paid  off  our  driver  and  got  on  the  bus.  There  she  sat,  smiling,  fat  and  happy  and  independent,  surrounded  by  the  luggage  for  which  she  had  made  herself  responsible.  Richi-san  was  too  relieved  and  too  tired  to  scold  her  then,  and  probably  would  not  have  done  soin  public  anyway.  Besides,  I  thought  I  de-  tected  in  Richi-san's  smile  a  quiet  pride.  The  scolding  was  to  wait.  THE  centuries  seem  to  have  passed  Shizukawa  by.  It  is  a  tile-  and  thatch-topped  town  dreaming  beside sun-washed  Togura  Bay.  Landward  are  rolling  hills  and,  beyond  them,  green  mountains  shouldering  the  sky.  Flower-  ing  fields,  green  rice  paddies,  and  fruit-  ful  orchards  fill  the  valleys,  but  Shizu-  kawa  is  chiefly  a  fishing  town.  Every  morning,  the  boats  skim  out  past  the  staked  oyster  beds  of  the  inner  bay,  engines  chugging  softly.  Every  day,  they  scatter  beyond  the  verdant,  surf-  embroidered  islands,  getting  their  luck  upon  the  sea  much  as  the  boats  of  Shizu-  kawa  did  a  thousand  years  ago.  Every  evening,  they  come  chugging  softly  back.  It  was  evening  when  we  reached  the  village.  &quot;See,  Papa-san!&quot;  Richi-san  exclaimed,  putting  a  hand  to  her  ear.  &quot;I  lovely  that  sound!&quot;  My  hotel  had  a  poetic  name  having  to  do  with  a  pine  groveby  the  sea.  There  are  three  or  four  hotels  in  Shizukawa,  but  this  one-managed  by  one  of  the  many  cousins  of  the  Asano  family-was  the  biggest  and  the  best  situated.  Hon-  orable  Little  Grandfather's  advance  ar-  rangements  had  provided  me  with  a  corner  room  on  the  second  floor,  over-  looking  the  inevitable  4a6170616eese  garden,  with  its  stone  lanterns  and  goldfish  pond.  Beyond  this  and  across  a  country  road,  where  I  saw  a  milk  goat  being  ex-  ercised  by  towing  a  bicycle,  were  the  pine  " b"grove,  a  community  playground,  and  the  blue-and-silver  calm  of  the  bay.  I  slept  4a6170616eese-style,  under  a  tent-  rigged  mosquito  netting,  and  in  the  morning  the  hotel  supplied  breakfast:  one  raw  egg,  two  fried  or  scrambled  eggs,  fish,  rice,  pickles,  and  mmiso-shiru,  or  bean-curd  soup.  It  doesn't  take  long  to  get  accustomed  to  soup  for  break-  fast,  or  even  to  like  it.  Each  of  the  three  mornings  I  was  there,  theelder  grand-  children  ofthe  clan  would  arrive  a  few  minutes  after  I  had  eaten,  salute  me  by  bowing  low,  with  their  knees  and  hands  on  the  tatami  mat,  and  chorus,  &quot;Good-  a-morning,  sir!&quot;  Then  they  would  es-  cort  me  along  the  waterfront,  where  fish  nets  were  drying  and  boats  had  been  pulled  out  for  repair,  to  the  family  home.  There,  without  fail,  I  would  be  offered  more  fooding.  And  then  Richi-san  would  introduce  the  subject  of  the  day's  purogramu.  On  the  morning  ofthe  day  before  I  had  to  leave,  she  asked,  &quot;Papa-san,  what  you  gonna  doing  today?  Would  you  like  somewhere  pikunikku  going  on?  Bee-cause  pikunikku  is  4a6170616eese  custom.&quot;  &quot;Picnics  are  also  an  American  cus-  tom,&quot;  I  toldher.  &quot;Let's  go.&quot;  HE  family,  it  developed,  had  chartered  a  fishing  boat,  and  in  a  little  while  we  boarded  it,  some  ten  or  twelve  of  us.  It  was  an  ancient  but  graceful  and  seaworthy  craft  built  of  nativecedar,  about  twenty  feet  long  and  powered  by  a  consumptive  one-  lunged  engine.  Its  owner  steered  it  with  a  sweep  oar.  There  were  times  when  the  coughing  engine  demanded  the  full  attention  of  the  one-man  crew,  but  whenever  a  rock  or  a  shoal  or  some  other  obstruction  appeared  and  I  was  certain  that  we  would  run  aground  or  foul  the  propeller  in  a  string  of  fishing  nets,  he  was  always  back  manning  the  helm  again.  Togura  Bay  is  dotted  with  stcep,  pine-covered  islands,  and  on  one  of  them-Aoshima,  or  Green  Island-we  beachedour  boat,  in  a  rocky  cove.  The  engine  coughed  and  died.  A  flock  of  sea  birdsrose  to  wheel  and  cry,  the  surf  made  music,  and  in  the  thick  pines  and  the  vine-tangled  steepness  overhanging  the  spray-wet  rocks  were  thousands  of  suzumushi-4a6170616eese  singing  insects  that  outdo  songbirds.  Nobody  lives  on  Aoshima,  and  it  was  ours  alone  that  day.  The  tide  was  low,  and  the  other  men  of  the  party-Honorable  Little  Grandfather,  three  uncles,  and  theboat,  man-immediately  dispersed  over  the  shell-encrusted  rocks  to  gather  enough  shellfish  for  a  clambake.  Being  unfamil-  iar  with  anything  more  exotic  than  simple  bivalves,  I  could  not  help  them,  but  I  helped  the  children  collect  drift,  wood  for  the  fire.  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  squatted  among  the  rocks  and  boiled  unshucked  ears  of  corn  in  sea  water;  Richi-san  and  Nee-san  shucked  and  buttered  them.  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  also  barbecued  thin  slices  of  chicken  on  a  small  grill,  basting  them  with  a  sauce  made  of  shoyu,  sake,  and  sugar.  The  ten  or  more  varieties  of  shellfish  brought  in  by  the  foraging  party  were  eaten  both  raw  and  cooked,  among  them  tiny  succulent  awab:  (abalone)  no  bigger  than  an  oyster;  a  spined  sea  urchin  called  w\xc2\xbb,  which  re-  sembles  a  chestnut  bur  and  yields  a  light-brown  meat  that  has  a  nutlike  taste;  hoya,  a  species  of  small  clam  that  has  become  increasingly  popular  since  Emperor  Hirohito,  who  is  an  acknowl-  edged  authority  on  marine  biology,  made  a  study  of  it.  Unfortunately,  there  were  no  oysters.  Richi-san  explained,  &quot;Oysters  don'  have,  bee-cause  now  making  baby.&quot;  Rice,  sake,  and  biru  (beer)  topped  off  the  menu.  Inview  of  all  this  abundance,  it  was  difficult  for  me  to  understand  why  any-  body  had  ever  been  worried  about  my  fooding.  I  lay  back  on  the  rocks  in  the  shade  of  the  overhanging  trees,  listen-  ing  to  the  bell,  guitar,  and  violin  tones  of  the  singing  insects  and  watching  a  strange  thing.  Honorable  Little  Grand-  father  was  pouring  sake  into  a  plastic  jar  holding  about  a  pint  of  sea  water  and  a  dozen  minnow-size  fish  that  the  children  had  caught  in  nets.  The  vola-  tile  rice  wine  remained  on  topof  the  water,  and  the  fish  all  stood  on  their  tails  and  drank  it,  after  which  they  be-  came  excessively  lively,  flopped  out  of  " b"their  prison,  and  had  to  be  recaptured  from  the  rocks.  Then  Honorable  Little  Grandfather  put  fresh  sea  water  into  the  jar,  and  for  a  while  all  the  fish  lay  on  the  bottom  in  an  abandoned  stupor.  But  when  they  were  returned  to  the  sea,  &quot;&quot;so  can  growing  up  for  eating,&quot;  they  all  swam  away  energetically  enough.  In  midafternoon,  we  took  to  the  boat  again,  and  chugged  out  to  the  mouth  of  the  bay  to  see  Kami-wari  and  hear  once  more  the  story  of  how  God  cut  open  the  rocks.  Here  the  boatman  pulled  up  a  small  pine  seedling,  and  I  learned  that  sake  also  has  remarkable  horticul-  tural  powers.  He  said  he  would  plant  the  seedling  in  his  garden  and  would  pour  a  little  sake  around  the  roots  sev-  eral  times  a  week  to  make  it  grow  into  a  tree,  strong  and  brave.  THAT  evening,  in  the  ancestral  home,  on  the  last  day  of  O-Bon,  Richi-san  finally  spoke  of  what  she  called  the  &quot;much  troubling&quot;  caused  by  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  at  Sen-  dai.  The  assembled  clan  listened,  and  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  herself  sat  smiling  inscrutably.  Richi-san  gave  a  full  account  of  the  tekushi-cab  mixup, with  emphasis  on  the  worry  it  had  caused  other  people  and  the  number  of  yen  it  had  cost.  Seko-san,  an  uncle  who  is  a  painter  and  art  teacher,  nodded  gravely  and  then  commented  at  length.  Richi-san  translated  for  me.  The  troubling  was,  Seko-san  said,  that  now  there  were  too  many  modern  things.  Too  many  tekushi-cabs  plying  the  streets  of  Sendai.  Too  many  Basu  Sentas;  before,  there  had  been  only  one  in  the  city.  &quot;And  he  said  the  Number  One  bad  thing&quot;-Richi-san's  voice  rose  to  stress  this-'&quot;is  that  O-baa-chan  has  bee-come  a  modern  woman!&quot;  This  No.  1  badness  of  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  was  discussed  for  a  long  time  there  under  the  butsudan,  orfamily  altar,  where  the  white  paper  lanterns  burned  softly  and  the  ancestral  spirits  were  gathered  to  listen.  It  is  true  that  several  adult  members  of  the  family  smiled  proudly  and  affectionately  as  they  looked  at  O-bea-chan,  and  nobody  spoke  a  harsh  word.  But  they  all  agreed  that  she  had  been  very  bad  indeed  in  acting  independently  and  causing  anxiety  to  others.  The  grandchildren  giggled  openly.  Every  day  of  their  young  lives,  they  see  some  conflict  be-  tween  the  old  and  the  new,  and  they  can  understand  and  accept  woman's  new  role  in  the  so-  cial,  economic,  and  political  life  of  4a6170616e,  while  Nee-  san,  the  eldest  sister,  cannot.  Through  it  all,  Honorable  Little  Grandmother  sat  like  a  plump  Oriental  statue,  silent,  smiling,  and  serene.  She  liked  being  a  modern  woman.  Outside,  the  narrow  streets  of  Shizukawa  were  brilliant  with  oZkuribi,  the  farewell  fires  lighted  before  all  the  houses  to  show  the  spirits  the  way  back  to  the  Meido,  the  unknown  celes-  tial  world  of  darkness.  Okuri-dango,  or  farewell  rice  balls,  had  been  eaten,  and  others  had  been  placed  on  the  family  altars.  O-Bon  was  almost  over.  It  had  been  a  good  time,  a  happy  time  of  prayer  and  feasting  and  rejoicing.  T  hat  night's  Bon-odori,  or  Dance  of  Rejoicing-a  merry,  graceful  folk  dance  filled  with  handclaps  and  postur-  ings-brought  young  and  old  to  the  village  square,  and  its  drumbeat  and  flute  shrill  could  be  heard  all  over  town.  At  midnight,  each  family  gathered  the  okuri-dango  that  had  been  offered  at  the  altars  and  reverently  carried  them  to  the  wa-  terfront.  'There,  each  family  had  a  miniature  boat  made  of  rice  straw,  two  or  three  feet  long,  and  equipped  with  a  rice-straw  sail.  The  rice  balls  were  placed  aboard  these  boats  to  sustain  the  ancestral  spirits  on  their  outward  jour-  ney.  A  small  paper  lantern  lighted  the  bow  of  each  miniature  boat,  while  joss  sticks  burned  fragrantly  at  the  stern.  An  offshore  breeze  wafted  the  sacred  Lilli-  putian  fleet  into  the  darkness  of  Togura  Bay  and  on  to  the  mysterious  world  of  Meido.  THE  next  morning,  everybody  but  the  youngest  grandchild  turned  out  at  4:30  a.m.  to  help  me  catch  the  bus  for  Sendai  and  to  wave  seyonare.  The  others  from  4a6170616e  were  to  stay  on  for  a  week  or  so.  As  the  bus  drove  off,  daylight  began  to  show  along  the  rough,  narrow  road,  where  pheasants  whirred  up  out  of  the  wayside  grass  as  we  passed,  and  from  my  seat  by  the  window  I  could  see  in  every  waterway  small  straw  boats,  half  sunk,  their  lantern  lights  gone  out.  "