 b"A Christmas party  at  The  High  House  seemed  to  haveno  be-  ginning  andno  end.  When  I  took  Beulah  Rowe  there  for  lunch  on  the  day  before  Christmas,  the  pool  was  full  of  young  men  and  girls,  and  roars  of  whiskey-released  laughter  came  up  from  the  shade  of  the  veranda,  where  the  host,  Hamish  Alexander,  was  sitting,  in  white  bowling  flannels  and  brown  suede  shoes,  drum-bellied,  bristling  with  good  humor,  and  surrounded  by  the  older  guests.  When  we  left  in  the  afternoon,  some  of  the  people  hadgone  but  others  were  newly  arrived.  Then,  there  was  to  be  a  dinner  party  in  the  evening,  to  which  neither  Beulah  nor  I  was  going.  She  had  to  take  her  son  to  a  children's  party  given  by  the  sister  of  her  divorced  husband;  I  had  prom-  ised  to  go  to  a  celebration  arranged  by  an  African  friend,  Steven  Sitole.  Beu-  lah  was  to  spend  Christmas  Day  with  her  parents,  and  I  had  plans  of  my  own  to  fulfill.  So  I  did  not  see  her  again  un-  til  Boxing  Day-the  day  after  Christ-  mas-when  we  had  been  invited  to  go  back  to  the  Alexanders',  and  arrived  at  noon  to  find  the  party  in  its  third  day,  the  pool  still  lively  as  the  seal  enclosure  at  a  zoo,  the  veranda  still  dispensing  laughter.  Over  those  holidays,  it  seemed  hotter  in  [REDACTED]  than  it  had  been  all  summer  up  to  then.  Sunand  wine  and  beer  and  whiskey  made  the  atmosphere  of  a  fiesta;  it  was  not  Christmas  to  me,  an  Englishman,  but  I  liked  it.  Outside  my  flat,  piccanins  shuf-  fled  and  jerked  their  backsides  to  penny  whis-  tles  and  a  banging  on  old  tins.  While  the  shops  were  open,  a  weary,  sweating  con-  course  streamed  the  streets,  as  thick  as  a  trail  ofants  following  the  scent  of  sug-  ar;  later,  except  for  cinema  crowds,  the  city  was  left  to  the  drunks.  Church  bells  jangled,  and  on  the  balconies  of  flats  the  hot  sun  glittered  on  the  trim-  mings  of  Christmas  trees  set  in  tubs.  Black  menwho  delivered  clinking  cases  from  bottlestores  wore  paper  hats.  If  the  city  was  not  gay,  at  least  it  had  let  itself  go.  At  the  Alexanders',  there  were  presents,  flowers,  drinks,  and  food  in  more  than  abundance-in  luxury.  Even  the  garden,  in  the  swell  of  mid-  summer  sap,  was  heaped  with  so  much  color,  was  so  pollen-thick,  so  vibrant  with  bees  and  crisscrossed  by  birds,  so  heavy  with  peaches  and  plums  whose  de-  licious  overripeness  smelled  still  headier     than  the  perfumes  of  the  women,  that  plenty  was  the  very  textureofthe  air.  You  felt  that  the  cornucopia  had  been  jammed  down  over  your  head.  Beulah  flashed  and  turned  in  this  atmosphere-  a  creature  in  its  own  element.  She  seemed  to  me  to  exist,  and  rightly  so,  for  no  other  purpose  than  to  laugh,  her  eyes  brilliant  with  alcohol,  her  lap  full  of  presents,  among  flowers  and  drunk-  en  bees.  HAT  year  was  my  first  in  Jo-  hannesburg.  I  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  Africa  five  months  before  Christmas,  to  represent  my  Uncle  Faunce's  publish-  ing  house,  59656d656e  Parrot,  Ltd.,  and  I  had  come  with  a  distaste  for  what  were  known  in  my  family  circle  as  Africa's  Problems.  I  was  born  into  such  Prob-  lems  as  some  children  are  said  to  be  born  into  the  theatre.  The  world  of  my  childhood  was  the  beginning  of  the  world  of  political  victims  that  we  now  know,  and  my  mother's  house  (my  father  died  when  I  was  twelve,  of  an  illness  unconnected  with  his  service  in  the  International  Brigade  in  the  Spanish  Civil  War)  was  much  fre-  quented  by  victims  and  their  cham-  pions-for,  like  an  ox  attended  by  a  group  of  tickbirds,  each  victim  had  his  attendant  champions  who  gave  him  succor  and  drew  from  him  for  them-  selves  a  special  kind  of  nourishment.  Do  I  sound  sneering?  I  don't  mean  to  be.  But  I  suppose  I  got  tired  of  them  as  a  child  and  an  adolescent-tired  of  the  German  refugee  professors  and  of  the  poets  who  limped  in  from  their  stint  in  537061696e,  tired  of  the  members  of  committees  for  the  relief  of  Chinese  war  orphans,  and  the  organizers  of  protest  meetings  in  support  of  Abyssinia,  and  the  saintly  or  urbane  496e646961ns  who  came  to  address  English  committees  for  a  free  496e646961  and  to  discuss  the  best  way  to  de-  feat  the  British  Raj.  And  when  I  came  back  from  my  tail-end  of  war-I  was  just  the  right  age  to  get  into  a  training  ship  for  the  last  six  months  of  it-and  went  to  Oxford  and  then  joined  old  Faunce  in  the  publishing  firm,  there  was  no  shortage  of  causes,  nor  has  there  been  ever  since.  By  then,  I  was  old  enough  to  take  my  own  stand  when  some  issue  moved  me,  but  I  reserved  to  myself  the  right,  even  in  that  house,  not  to  shame  myself  into  indignation  about  something  if  I  didn't  happen  to  give  a  damn.  Once  496e646961  was  off  their  conscience, my  family  and  their  set  had  an  over-  whelming  supply  of  victims  and  their  champions  from  Africa.  Pamphlets  about  Dr.  Malan,  and  then  about  the  new  Prime  Minister  ofthe  Union  of  [REDACTED]  Africa,  Strijdom;  about  the  Mau  Mau;  about  Belgian  colonial  policy  in  the  [REDACTED]  and  self-government  in  [REDACTED]-these  piled  up  beside  my  mother's  bath,  where  she  liked  to  do  this  sort  of  reading.  Journalists  and  crusading  parsons  who  had  been  to  [REDACTED]  Africa  to  shake  aChristian  fist  in  the  face  of  thegodless  white  oppressors  came  to  dine  and  tell  their  tales.  All  this  had  the  usual  effect  on  me;  it  rather  put  me  off  Africa.  And  when  I  knew  that  I  was  actual-  ly  going  to  Africa,  I  had  no  intention  of  becoming  what  my  family  and  most  of  my  friends,  with  their  own  particu-  lar  brand  of  salaciousness,  envied  me  the  opportunity  to  become-a  voyeur  of  the  world's  social  perversions.  I  felt,  as  I  had  so  often  before,  an  unreason-  able  hostility,  irritation,  and  resentment  that  made  me  want  to  growl  at  them,  &quot;Leave  me  alone.  Let  me  choose  my  friends,  and  let  the  abstractions  of  race  and  politics  go  hang.&quot;  Once  in  [REDACTED],  Idid  not  seek  out  Africans;  I  had,  from  some-  where,  a  mental  picture  of  a  black  man  (Uncle  Faunce's  black  man,  my  mother's  black  man),  earnest,  bespectacled,  who  would  talk,  over  the  teacup  balanced  on  his  knee,  of  the  latest  piece  of  discriminatory  law  against  his  people-a  man  who  would  bore  me  and  arouse  in  me  ponderous  emotions  of  self-righteousness  and  guilt.  In  fact,  I  even  took  a  rather  childish  pleasure  in  ignoring  the  list  of  &quot;worth-  while&quot;  people  whom  I  had  been  ad-  vised  to  look  up  in  [REDACTED].  The  people  I  did  telephone  were  a  couple  whose  name  my  mother  had  jotted  down  with  hesitation-the  Alexanders.  She  told  me  that  she  had  discussed  with  Faunce  whether  I  should  bother  to  see  Marian  Alexander;  Marian  Aad  been  a  pleasant  girl  in  her  youth,  but  she  had  married  this  tycoon  who  was  sup-  posed  to  be  second  in  importance  only  to  Sir  Ernest  Oppenheimer  in  the  gold-  mining  industry.  Rather  hopefully,  my  mother  asked  me  whether  I  wouldn't  be  likely  to  be  bored  stiff  by  that  kind  of  family.  And  so,  of  course,  I  did  telephone  Hamish  and  Marian  Alexander,  and  was  invited  to  The  High  House.  Ham-  ish  Alexander  was  chairman  of  a  group  of  gold-mining  companies.  In43616e616461  Africa,  that  means  more  than  wealth;  it  means  the  power  by  which  the  whole  country  lives.  Beulah  Rowe,  who,  in  " b"common  with  a  number  of  young  [REDACTED]  women  of  her  class,  seemed  to  regard  a  failed  marriage  as  some  sort  of  career  in  itself  and  lived  grumblingly  on  her  alimony,  was  a  favorite  among  the  jest-  ers  and  pretty  women  who  provided  diversion  at  the  Alex-  anders'  court,  and  it  was  there  that  I  met  her.  At  The  High  House,  and  in  the  company  of  Beulah,  I  discovered  something  that  I  could  never  have  guessed  at  home:  It  was  perfectly  pos-  sible  to  live  in  Africa  and  ig-  nore  the  Africans  entirely.  As  servants,  of  course,  they  were  purely  functionaries  and  did  not  count.  In  fact,  at  The  High  House  it  was  difficult  to  believe  that  on  some  un-  imaginable  other  side  of  the  same  city  there  was  a  world  of  black  men.  I  knew  there  was.  I  was  a  stranger,  and  as  long  as  I  re-  mained  one,  I  had  a  stranger's  license  to  go  everywhere  and  belong  nowhere.  I  had  pur-  posely  not  sought  out  Africans,  but  when  I  did,  by  chance,  meet  an  African  who  interested  me  as  a  per-  son,  I  had  no  color  or  group  loyalties  to  forbid  my  association  with  him.  On  the  other  hand,  I  couldn't  hope,  and  didn't  want,  to  influence  anyone  else's  group  or  color  loyalties,  This  divided  my  life  in  [REDACTED]  neatly  in  two;  if  I  wanted  to  keep  the  white  half  intact,  I  simply  had  to  be  sure  never  to  mention  the  black  half.  The  gradations  of  attitude,  on  the  white  side,  that  widened  or  narrowed  the  gap  between  the  two  worlds  didn't  attract  me.  I  knew  that  there  were  thousands  of  ordinary  white  people  in  the  city  who  were  passionately  concerned  with  seeing  that  the  gap  didn't  close,  and  a  thousand  or  two  who  were  vaguely  saddened  and  guilty  about  the  privileges  of  their  side  of  it.  I'd  even  met  some  of  the  handful  who  ignored  custom  and  the  lawand  crossed  the  gap,  but  I  feared  that  most  of  these  would  fall  into  the  category  of  &quot;worth-while&quot;  peo-  ple,  and,  as  a  stranger,  I  did  not  want  to  get  drawn  into  their  weighty  political  or  personal  or  eccentric  reasons  for  doing  what  they  did.  I  had  met  Steven  Sitole,  about  a  month  after  I  got  to  know  Beulah  and  the  Alexanders,  at  a  party  in  that  nar-  row  suburban  no  man's  land  where  a  few  whites  and  a  few  blacks  mix,  on  the  frontier  between  the  two  societies.  He  had  not  drunk  tea  and  talked  about  the  disabilities  of  his  people,  like  the  African  I  had  envisaged.  Instead,  he  had  taken  me  to  a  shebeen,  an  African  speakeasy,  and  told  me  how  sick  and  tired  he  was  of  black  men's  troubles.  He  was  a  journalist-turned-insurance-salesman  who  had  spent  a  year  in  England  during  the  war,  and  he  chose-as  a  kind  of  rebel  against  rebellion-to  wriggle  his  way  deviously  and  dubiously  through  the  meshes  of  the  color  bar,  rather  than  to  fight  it  in  the  approved  fashion,  in  an  African  liberatory  movement.  &quot;A  private  life-that's  it,  man!&quot;  he  said  that  night  in  the  shebeen,  and  in  a  drunken  moment  of  identification  I  felt  that  I  knew  him  better  than  I'd  ever  known  anyone  before.  I  began  to  spend  much  of  my  time  with  him  and  other  Africans-some  altogether  unlike  him-whom  I  had  come  to  know  through  him.  When  I  was  with  them,  my  affair  with  Beulah  Rowe  seemed  parenthetic,  and  when  I  was  with  her,  I  never  spoke  of  them.  I  knew  that  if  I  told  Beulah  that  some  of  my  closest  friends  in  [REDACTED]  were  black  men,  and  that  Iate  with  them  and  slept  in  their  houses,  I  would  lose  her.  'That  was  the  fact  of  the  mat-  ter.  And  I  was  damned  if  I  was  going  to  lose  her.  'There  was  a  good  chance  that  her  sophistication  would  save  her  from  the  classic  reaction  of  revulsion,  but  her  strong  instinct  for  the  mores  of  the  white  smart  set  would  label  me  ec-  centric  and  rule  me  out.  'To  me,  it  was  natural  and  unremarkable  that  I  should  sleep  in  one  of  the  African  townships  on  Sunday  night  and  in  Beulah's  bed  on  Monday;  I  simply  considered  it  a  man's  right  to  choose  his  friends  and  to  choose  a  woman  to  love.  What  did  it  matter  that  because  she  did  not  know  that  it  was  natural  and  unremarkable  she  was  not  told  about  it?  HAT  Christmas  was  divided  be-  tween  the  two  of  them,  Steven  and  Beulah,  who  would  never  meet.  My  Christmas  Eve  with  Steven  start-  ed  at  about  ten  o'clock  at  a  club  run  by  496e646961ns,  some  miles  outside  Johannes-  burg.  Lucky  Chapputra-an  496e646961n  friend  of  Steven's-had  insisted  that  we  go  there,  Steven  said,  and  while  Lucky  could  not  come  with  us  that  night,  he  did  send  instructions  to  the  club  that  we  should  be  well  looked  aft-  er.  The  club  was  one  of  those  places  one  could  never  find  again;  I  drove  to  it  blindly,  turning  when  Steven  told  me  and  following  landmarks  invisible  to  me,  down  dirt  tracks  and  through  don-  gas,  over  the  dark  veld.  Steven  chat-  tered  all  the  time,  and  sometimes  could  not  bear  to  spoil  a  story  by  interrupting  it  with  a  direction,  so  that,  a  minute  or  two  too  late,  he  would  suddenly  call  " b"out,  sensing  something  unfamiliar  about  our  progress,  &quot;Wait  a  minute!  Stop,  man!  We've  missed  the  turning.&quot;  There  was  a  concert  on  at  the  club  when  we  got  there.  The  program  went  very  slowly,  because  after  every  two  or  three  items  the  members  of  the  audi-  ence,  Moslem  and  Hindu  men  who  were  second-  or  third-generation  [REDACTED]  Africans,  drifted  out  to  their  cars.  They  would  wander  back  into  the  hall  again  in  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  each  time  a  little  more  vociferous  and  criti-  cal  in  their  calls  for  the  entertainment  to  recommence.  The  reason  was  that  the  club  could  not,  of  course,  get  a  license  to  serve  liquor,  because  it  was  not  aclub  for  white  men.  The  members  drank  in  their  cars,  fast  and  neat.  Steven  and  I,  the  only  African  and  the  only  white  man  there,  were  hustled  into  an  anteroom  lit  by  a  candle,  where  first  the  fat,  pale  organizer  of  the  show  -an  anxious  man  named  Aswad--  and  a  thin  businessman  named  Mia,  and  then,  as  the  evening  went  on,a  number  of  other  club  personages  gave  us  Haig-  and-water  during  the  breaks  in  the  pro-  gram.  As  was  usual  in  gatherings  of  this  sort,  there  were  not  enough  glasses  to  go  around,  and  we  politely  drank  up  quickly,  so  the  others  could  get  in  a  drink  before  it  was  time  to  go  back  into  the  hall.  The  only  furniture  in  the  ante-  room  was  a  table  and  an  iron  bed  with  no  mattress.  There  was  a  plaster  fig-  urine  among  the  whiskey  bottles  on  the  mantelpiece;  I  went  over  to  look  at  it,  and  Mia,  solicitously  kind,  rushed  up  with  the  candle.  &quot;Gandhiji!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Ill  show  you.&quot;  The  plaster  figure  wore  a  tiny  pair  of  wire  spectacles.  The  candle  also  lit  up  some  group  photo-  graphs  of  496e646961n  businessmen  wearing  striped  suits  and  important  expressions.  We  trooped  into  the  hall  to  listen to  a  band  whose  leader  was  also  the  singer.  We  sat  on  the  floor  on  spring  mattresses-&quot;496e646961n-style,&quot;  my  neigh-  bors  kept  telling  me,  in  a  way  that  made  it  clear  that  it  was  a  novelty  for  them,  too,  to  be  squatting  instead  of  using  chairs.  &quot;He  sings  in  Hindustani  and  I  only  understand  a  bit  of  Gujarati,&quot;  someone  complained  while  the  band  leader-a  wild,  mournful-looking  boy,  whom  I  would  sooner  have  expected  to  see  giving  a  performance  supine  on  a  bed  of  nails-sobbed  and  wailed  exact-  ly  like  all  those  other  young  men  who,  in  other  languages,  drive  adolescents  to  an  adoring  frenzy.  Presently,  a  girl  with  a  face  and  body  of  the  most  tendergrace  and  beauty  came  out  to  a  slurring  roar  of  appreciation.  She  wore  a  sari,  and  there  were  bells  round  her  ankles,  above  her  bare  feet;  the  men  called  and  shout-  ed  while  she  danced  and  rolled  her  eyes  in  a  rumba.  &quot;Lola,  Lola.  Lovely,  my  dear,&quot;  Mia  kept  saying.  And  to  me:  &quot;'Those  pigs  can't  shut  up.  Isn't  she  very  good?&quot;  I  admired  her  and  asked  if  she  ever  did  any  real  496e646961n  dancing  or  sing-  ing.  Immediately,  Mia  and  a  number  of  others  began  a  fervent  conversation  in  which  the  word  &quot;classical&quot;  kept  re-  curring.  Poor,  sweating  Aswad,  pathet-  ic  as  only  a  harassed  fat  man  can  be,  became  offended;  his  show,  the  best  art-  ists  at  the  greatest  expense,  did  not  please.  But  the  next  time  we  went  into  the  anteroom,  Aswad  brought  in  the  496e646961n  girl.  I  have  never  seen  anything  more  beautiful.  She  had  never  been  in  496e646961,  and  she  spoke  English  with  a  strong  [REDACTED]  African  accent,  but  she  had  an  ancestral  beauty.  She  had  in  flesh  the  round  stone  breasts  and  little  round  waist  of  women  in  tenth-century  496e646961n  sculpture;  I  had  once  cut  out  a  photograph  of  such  an  image-Vrik-     saka,  the  Tree  Goddess.  The  livegirl  sat  on  an  empty  whiskey  case,  hardly  touched  by  the  thick  yellow  light  of  the  smoking  candle,  and  sang  the  way  a  bird  sings  on  a  telephone  wire.  People  kept  pushing  into  the  room.  Some  were  pushed  out  again.  Those  in  the  room  talked  admiringly,  and  though  they  en-  couraged  more  than  they  listened,  I  felt  that  they  really  were  moved  by  the  idea  of  her  singing.  She  sang  traditional  In-  dian  songs  as  long  as  the  important  members  dared  keep  her  from  the  gen-  eral  audience,  and  then  she  started  to  leave,  pausing  to  listen  attentively  to  the  long  compliments,  laughing  as  she  managed  to  slip,  without  giving  offense,  from  the  pawings  of  those  who  would  detain  her,  and  smiling  at  the  despairing,  longing  cries  of  &quot;Classical  ...  Classi-  cal.&quot;  She  was  made  to  please;  I  had  not  seen  a  creature  like  her  before.  Driving  back  to  town,  I  talked  about  her  to  Steven,  and  soon  we  went  from  the  particular  to  women  in  general,  and  then,  inevitably,  to  the  particular  again,  while  Steven  told  me  of  his  conquests  in  [REDACTED].  It  seemed  to  be  apoint  of  honor  for  a  black  man  who  had  made  something  of  himself  to  boast  how,  in  his  small  beginnings  as  a  waiter,  a  bell-  boy,  or  some  such  conveniently  placed  menial,  he  had  been  coveted  by  a  white  woman.Some  of  the  stories  rang  true  and  some  of  them  didn't.  I  suppose  that  in  the  city  where  I  was  living  such  tales  were  sensational  and  anarchic,  but  I  must  say  that  to  me,  as  a  stranger  and  an  outsider,  they  sounded  like  the  old,  wistful  sex  lies  of  boys  at  school.  Steven  and  I  finished  up  the  night  at  the  House  of  Fame,  the  rooms  in  a  Sophiatown  back  yard  that  Steven  shared  with  a  floating  population  of  bachelors.  In  the  township,  singing  peo-  ple,  arm  in  arm,  filled  the  streets.  The  " b"girls,  yelling  and  shaking  as  they  ca-  reered  along,  wore  paper  doughboy  hats  inscribed  &quot;HiyaBabe&quot;  or  &quot;I'm  No  Angel.&quot;  The  dingy  houses,  where  old  people  and  the  smallest  children  were  in  bed,  showed  no  life.  But  there  must  have  been  some  other  places  like  the  House  of  Fame,  where  people  made  their  own  music  and  danced  and  talked.  The  shebeens  were  open  for  a  roaring  trade-we  went  into  one  to  look  for  a  friend.  of  Steven's-and  there  were  more  police  about  the  township  than  I  had  seen  before.  From  the  hidden  yards  came  voices  with  the  peculiar  chanting  quality  of  beer-drunk  frenzy.  &quot;A  lot  of  broken  heads  and  stabbings  before  Christmas  is  over,&quot;  said  Steven,  grin-  ning.  &quot;'The  Prince  of  Peace  seems  to  skip  us.&quot;  On  Christmas  Day,  I  went  to  church  with  Ella,  the  wife  of  Sam  Mofoken-  zazi,  an  African  friend  I  had  met  through  Steven,  and  their  little  girl.  The  &quot;child  was  dressed  in  a  stiff,  frilly  frock  and  wore  the  gilt  locket  I  had  brought  as  a  Christmas  present  for  her.  We  went  to  the  Anglican  church  in  the  town-  ship  where  they  had  their  house,  and  only  Ella  accepted  my  going  as  an  ordi-  nary  thing  to  do;  Sam  was  delighted  that  I  should  want  to  go  with  Ella,  but  in  the  manner  of  someone  who  ap-  proves  ofa  piece  of  intrepid  sightseeing.  I  was  glad  to  be  with  a  friend,  instead  of  among  the  polite  white  strangers  who  filled  their  cozy  church  near  my  flat  with  the  odor  of  brilliantine.  The  priest  of  the  township  church  was  a  tubby,  un-  tidy  Englishman,  tonsured  by  baldness.  The  church  was  built  of  ugly  purplish  brick,  and  smelled  of  the  soap  with  which  the  congregants  had  washed  and  of  the  smoke  from  cooking  fires  with  which  their  clothing  was  impregnated.  A  choir  of  small  boys  and  another  of  women  sang  with  the  unearthly  voices  of  Africans-voices  that  seem  to  have  a  register  of  their  own.  After  one  look  around  at  me,  the  churchgoers  appar-  ently  accepted  my  presence,  though  I  don't  suppose  a  white  layman  had  ever  been  in  their  church  before.  After  the  service,  I  saw  that  the  priest  wanted  to  come  up  and  speak  to  me,  to  welcome  me,  probably,  but  I  pretended  not  to  notice,  and  we  left  quickly.  Christmas  dinner  was  at  the  Mofo-  kenzazis'.  There  was  achicken,  and  everyone  who  was  invited  had  brought  something  for  the  table-a  tinned  pud-  ding,  a  pineapple  creamcake,  some  sau-  sages,  nuts,  or  sweets,  It  was  more  like  a  picnic  than  anything  else,  in  spite  of  the  stifling  little  room  in  which  we  were  confined:  the  hot,  bright  day,  everyone  wandering  about  the  room  picking  up  what  he  pleased  to  eat,  the  pestering  flies,  the  nearness  of  voices  and  card-  board  trumpets  sounding  in  the  street  outside.  I  had  brought  bonbons  and  a  couple  of  bottles  of  wine,  and  inevitably  Sam  Mofokenzazi  ended  up  at  his  piano.  Everyone  there  fell  into  song  as  easily  as  other  people  drift  into  conversation;  carols,  traditional  songs,  and  jazz  hummed  and  thrummed  and  soared  from  the  room.  As  I  drove  away  in  the  afternoon,  I  was  stopped  by  the  police  and  told  to  report  to  the  charge  office,  because  I  had  no  permit  to  be  in  the  location.  I  was  lucky;  it  was  the  first  time  I  had  been  caught,  though  I  had  been  in  the  townships  innumerable  times  without  a  permit,  and  I  got  off  with  a  warning.  I  went  home  to  my  flat  and  found  it  nearly  as  hot  as  the  crowded  room  I  had  just  left,  and  a  little  before  six  I  half  undressed,  lay  down  on  my  bed,  and  fell  asleep.  When  I  woke,  it  was  not,  as  I  thought,  early  evening  but  morning,  and  almost  time  to  go  to  the  Alexanders'.  So  it  was  that  I  seemed  to  go  straight  from  the  township  to  The  High  House;  sleep  was  a  blank  moment  that  scarcely  separated  the  rutted  tow  n-  ship  track  from  the  smooth  driveway  that  led  Beulah  and  me  up  toward  the  fountain  of  voices  rising  beside  the  house.  I  had  picked  up  Beulah  at  her  flat.  Her  little  boy  hung  around  the  doorway  as  she  prepared  to  leave.  &quot;Are  you  go-  ing  in  the  car?  Are  you  going  to  swim?&quot;  he  keptasking  me.  &quot;Why  not  bring  him  along?&quot;  I  asked  Beulah.  She  frowned  at  me  in  warning.  &quot;No,  no.  He's  going  out  later.  He'll  be  fetched  after  lunch-won't  you,  dar-  ling?&quot;  In  the  car,  she  grumbled  about  the  time  she  had  just  spent  with  her  parents,  but  before  we  reached  the  Alexanders  she  had  sighed,  stretched,  fidgeted,  lit  a  cigarette  in  pleased  relaxation.  She  lifted  her  arm  and  put  her  hand  around  the  nape  of  my  neck,  pinching  my  ear.  &quot;And  where  did  you  decide  to  go  yester-  day,  after  all?&quot;  she  asked  lazily.  I  lied,  as  I  had  had  to  lie  many  times,  mention-  ing  the  name  of  an  Englishman,  a  book-  seller  and  his  wife,  of  whom  she  had  heard  me  speak  before.  &quot;What  was  it  like  there?&quot;  &quot;All  right.&quot;  &quot;Couldn't  have  been  as  bad  as  my  collection  of  old  crows.&quot;  BEULAH  sat  on  the  grass  beside  the  Alexanders'  pool,  opening  the  presents  that  had  been  kept  for  her  from  the  day  before,  There  was  an  expen-  sive-looking  ring  from  Hamish  and  Marian  Alexander,  which  she  un-  wrapped  with  a  deep  sigh  of  achieve-  ment;  while  she  exclaimed  and  hugged  them,  while  she  cried  to  the  others  " b"around  the  pool  with  perfect  surprise,  I  had  the  feeling  that  she  had  been  al-  most  sure  she  would  get  the  ring,  that  she  had  made  certain  she  would  get  it.  Colored  and  tinselled  packages  lay,  burst  open,  all  about  her-perfume,  cosmetics,  smoking  gadgets,  satin,  and  nylon.  A  man  named  John  Hamilton  picked  out  a  giant  pencil  that  looked  like  bamboo  and  had  a  fur  tassel,  and  began  autographing  the  legs  of  the  women  who  were  sunbathing;  another  man,  one  of  the  Peever  twins,  came  over,  hale  and  dripping,  smelling  of  wet  hair  and  the  chlorineof  the  pool,  and  kissed  Beulah  in  a  scatter  of  water.  &quot;Sweetie!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;My  one  and  only!  Happy  Chrissie!&quot;  I'd  been  given  a  silk  shirt  (from  Marian  Alexander)  and  an  expensive  bottle  of  after-shave  lotion  (from  the  Baxters,  who  managed  the  Alexanders'  farm),  and  Beulah  gave  me  one  of  those  sumptuous-looking  picture  books  that  publishers  bring  out  specially  for  Christ-  mas  and  that  go  vaguely  under  the  name  of  &quot;art.&quot;  I'd  never  worn  a  silk  shirt,  never  put  scented  stuff  on  my  face,  and  would  probably  never  open  the  book  again  after  that  day.  I  lay  idly  in  a  big  chair,  talking  now  and  then,  and  listening,  sometimes  with  my  eyes  closed,  to  the  slap  and  plunge  of  people  in  the  water  and  to  the  talk  of  the  Christmas  Handicap  that  had  been  run  thepre-  vious  Saturday.  There  was  a  woman  with  blued  white  hair,  the  upper  half  of  whose  body  swelled  as  splendidly  as  a  caryatid's.  She  had  an  affected,  absent  mannier  of  talking;  &quot;Absolute,  ly  glamorous&quot;  was  her  standard  com-  ment.  The  moment  someonementioned  racing,  I  heard  her  voice  change;  her  languor  dropped  and  she  spoke  shrewd-  ly,  intelligently,  and  imaginatively.  I  went  into  the  pool  before  lunch,  floating  in  a  stream  of  pleasant  sensa-  tions-the  brisk,  quickening  touch  of  cool  water,  the  astringent  prickle  of  the  midday  sun,  the  smell  of  plums  and  hot  grass  and  the  perfume  on  the  skin  of  a  woman  as  she  rose  out  of  the  water  sud-  denly  beside  me.  I  succumb  completely  to  such  moods.  This  one  took  me  on  the  instant,  and  I  did  not  compare  or  relate  it  to  what  had  gone  before-the  496e646961n  girl  singing  &quot;classical,&quot;  the  House  of  Fame,  Christmas  dinner  at  Sam's  house.  Neither  world  was  real  to  me.  What  sign  was  there  in  either  that  the  other  existed?  Beulah  and  I  left  about  five  o'clock  and  drove  home  in  gathering  silence.  The  summer  sun  was  at  a  level  to  strike  us  right  in  the  eyes-an  impaling  glare  you  couldn't  escape.  Beulah  was  like  a,  bird  suddenly  quenched  when  a  blanket is  thrown  over  its  cage;  all  her  gaiety  went  out  under  the  sense  of  the  holiday  ended.  The  ebbing  of  animation  from  drinks  and  from  the  atmosphere  of  play-  ful  admiration  with  which  she  and  her  friends  surrounded  each  other  left  her  stranded.  The  ideaof  the  new  year,  onlya  week  away,  seemed  to  depress  her.  &quot;I'll  be  twenty-nine,&quot;  she  said.  I  realized  that  I  was  incapable  of  gen-  erating  the  kind  of  atmosphere  that  we  had  just  left,  and  I  remained  silent.  She sat  like  a  child  for  whom  the  end  of  the  party  is  the  end  of  the  world.  That  was  how  she  lived-from  one  treat  to  the  next,  free  of  a  job,  free  of  her  child,  free  of  all  the  everyday  ballast  that,  I  suppose,  makes  life  possible  for  most  people.  Her  flat  smelled  stale  from  being  shut  up  through  the  heat  of  the  day.  Her  son  had  not  yet  come  home.  She  treat-  ed  me  in  the  absent,  dependent,  grate-  ful  manner  of  the  convalescent  who  wakes  and  is  glad  tofind  someone  sitting  at  the  bedside.  When  we  had  opened  the  windows  and  the  balcony  doors,  we  simply  sat  about  for  a  while,  talking  desultorily  and  looking  through  a  couple  of  the  American  picture  mag-  azines  she  subscribed  to,  which  usually  lay  about  unopened.  The  building,  the  whole  street  were  not  so  much  quiet  as  abandoned,  with  the  gone-dead  feeling  of  places  awaiting  the  return  of  holiday-  makers.  She  came  and  sat  beside  me  and  leaned  against  me,  kicking  off  her  shoes  and  putting  her  feet  up  on  the  stained  table  where  I  and  my  predeces-  sors  had  rested  our  glasses.  It  was  one  of  those  hours  when  you  feel  that  you  " b"will  never  be  hungry  again,  or  want  to  make  love  again.  We  looked  at  the  pictures  in  silence,  and  then  Beulah  de-  cided  to  have  a  bath.  I  hadn't  realized  how  long  she'd  been  gone  (she  must  havebeen  soaking  for  more  than  twenty  minutes;  the  sun  had  dropped  and  the  air  seemed  to  breathe  again)  when  suddenly  she  ap-  peared  in  the  doorway  wrapped  in  her  bath  towel  and  looking  curiously  stunned,  as  if  she  could  not  believe  what  had  alarmed  her.  &quot;Come  and  listen,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Quickly!&quot;  She  took  my  hand  tightly  and  led  me  into  the  bathroom.  &quot;Listen.&quot;  She  jerked  my  hand  as  a  sign  for  me  to  be  still.  There  was  nothing  for  a  moment,  ex-  cept  the  drip  of  atap,  but  when  I  started  to  speak,  she  stopped  me  urgently.  Then  I  heard  the  panting  of  a  dog,  somewhere  on  the  other  side  of  the  wall,  in  the  street.  But  as  I  identified  the  sound,  it  grew;  it  was  the  panting  of  something  else.  What?  It  grew  in  volume,  it  quickened,  while  Beulah,  dripping  wet,  stared  at  the  wall  in  horror.  Then,  as  she  turned  to  warn  me  of  the  anguish  of  what  was  to  come,  it  came:  the  last  roaring  pant,  a  breath  taken  in  Hell,  burst  in  a  vast,  wailing  sobbing-the  terrible  sorrow  of  a  man.  A  man!  I  ran  into  the  bedroom  and  opened  a  window,  and  she  followed  me,  to  see  what  she  had  been  afraid  to  look  at  alone.  I  looked.  The  street  seemed  empty,  commonplace,  cheerful.  Some  broken  paper  streamers,  yellow  and  pink,  lay  in  the  road.  A  bicycle  was  propped  against  a  tree.  And  then  we  saw  him,  sitting  with  his  head  on  his  arms,  in  the  gutter  just  below  us,  He  was  a  tall  Zulu-the  stretched  lobes  of  his  ears  hung  loose  where  he  had  once  worn  in  them  the  fancy  wooden  discs  of  his  tribe-and  he  had  on  only  a  pair  of  trousers.  &quot;It's  Amos!&quot;  said  Beulah,  with  a  hysterical  laugh  of  relief,  as  if  identi-  fying  the  man  as  the  servant  we  both  knew  who  cleaned  the  flats  on  her  floor  must  automatically  put  an  end  to  the  horror.  *  But  as  she  spoke,  the  man  got  up  and  began  to  pace  back  and  forth  across  the  road,  and  in  his  splendid  chest  the  hid-  eous  panting  began  again,  working  up  to  a  gasping  climax  and  ending  in  the  raucous  and  frightful  sobbing  that  left  him  crouching  in  the  gutter  with  his  head  bowed  on  his  hands.  &quot;Amos!&quot;  Beulah  called.  &quot;Amos!&quot;-the  voice  of  authority  and  reproof  that  never  failed  to  bring  him  to  the  kitchen  door.  We  saw  his  face,  looking  directly  at  us  as  he  began  to  pace  and  pant  again;  saw  that  he  did  not  see  us,  or  anything.  &quot;Amos!  Amos!&quot;  Beulah  was  shaking  as  if  she  had  just  been  struck  in  the  face.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  him?&quot;  she  begged  me.  &quot;What's  wrong  with  him?&quot;  It  seemed  to  me  that  she  felt  the  threat  of  a  disaster  she  had  never  heard  of-the  dread  of  the  discovery  of  some  human  sorrowun-  known  to  her,  something  that  was  neither  poverty  nor  divorce  nor  death.  If  she  thought  of  sorrow,  I  thought  of  madness.  I  believed  he  must  have  gone  wholly  crazy.  I  wanted  to  go  straight  out  and  try  to  talk  to  him,  but  she  would  not  let  me  go  without  her;  she  made  me  wait  while  she  flung  on  her  clothes  grimly.  &quot;You  mustn't  go,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  watch  through  the  window.&quot;  &quot;No,  no.&quot;  Her  hands  could  hardly  " b"put  her  clothing  together.  She  was  in  the  full  fascination  of  horror.  A  moment  later,  she  stood  beside  me  on  the  pavement,  looking  down  at  the  man,  one  trembling  hand,  the  nails  scarlet  against  her  temple,  holding  back  her  hair.  We  called  his  name,  but  he  did  not  know  we  were  there.  We  ran  back,  clattering  up  the  ringing  iron  of  the  back  stairs  to  the  roof,  where  the  servants  lived,  and  fetched  one  of  the  other  cleaning  men.  He  was  a  small,  bowlegged  Basuto,  who  was  smoking  licorice  tobacco  in  a  pipe  as  crooked  as  his  legs.  We  took  him  down  to  the  street,  where  he  stood  looking  at  the  man  in  the  gutter,  admiring  his  state  of  extremity.  &quot;He  been  smoking.  Dagga  make  him  like  that.&quot;  Dagga  belongs  to  the  same  drug  family  as  hashish,  kief,  and  marijuana.  \xc2\xabSpeak  to  him.  Go  on,  speak  to  him,&quot;  ordered  Beulah  angrily;  she  might  have  been  telling  him  to  scrub  the  floor.  The  Basuto  didn't  move.  &quot;I  don't  touch  him,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  know  noth-  ing,  nothing.  Sometime  three  day  he  won't  know  nothing.&quot;  He  enjoyed  giv-  ing  information.  &quot;Dagga!  But  he's  in  agony!&quot;  Beu-  lah  covered  her  face,  but  not  her  eyes,  with  both  hands.  It  was  true  that  the  man  knew  noth-  ing;  he  could  not  seem  to  find  his  way  back  to  himself.  His  was  an  unspeakable  anguish  of  alienation,  lostness,  the  howl-  ing  of  the  wolf  of  the  soul  in  a  waste.  The  ghastly  ritual  went  on:  the  tearing  anxiety  of  pacing  and  panting,  the  cli-  max  of  sobs,  the  panting  again.  Beulah  took  her  hands  from  her  face,  and  I  saw  that  the  palm  of  one  was  indented  with  the  marks  of  her  teeth.  We  went  into  the  flat  and  she  made  some  strong  black  coffee.  With  Beulah  following  me,  I  carried  a  full  cup  care-  fully  down  the  stairs  and  across  the  street,  but  when  I  approached  the  man,  he  flung  himself  away  like  a  wild  beast  for  whom  food  in  the  hand  of  a  man  is  overlaid  with  the  scent  of  fear.  Beulah  still  could  not  take  her  eyes  off  him.  When  he  panted,  her  hand  flew  to  her  breast;  when  he  sobbed,  her  mouth  twitched.  &quot;Should  we  send  for  the  police?&quot;  she  asked.  ''They'll  arrest  him.&quot;  &quot;Get  a  doctor?&quot;  It  did  not  seem  possible  that  any  hu-  man  being  could  help  the  man  where  he  was.  &quot;Why  did  he  do  it?&quot;&quot;  she  kept  saying.  A  few  Africans  had  wandered  down  from  the  building,  drawn  by  the  spec-  tacle.  They  talked  and  pointed,  stand-  ing  back,  the  way  they  might  have  done  at  the  zoo.  &quot;'That's  his  Christmas,&quot;  said  a  tall  man  with  speckless  black-and-  white  shoes,  a  Stetson,  and  an  idle  way  of  chewing  a  match,.  The  word  was  echoed  in  agreement,  indulgently.  When  they  had  seen  the  whole  thing  through  two  or  three  times,  they  went  back  up  the  stairs  or  strolled  off  along  the  street,  talking  in  their  own  language  and  de-  taining  each  other  with  the  gestures  in  the  air  that  peo-  ple  use  when  they  are  cap-  pingeach  other's  anecdotes  about  the  things  they've  seen  in  their  time.  We  went  inside,  too,  at  last,  and  in  the  living  room,  which  did  not  face  the  street,  you  could  not  hear  the  man.  But  Beulah  kept  going  to  stand  in  the  bath-  room,  where  you  could  hear  him  but  did  not  have  to  look.  When  I  went  in,  she  was  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bath.  I  started  to  say  something,  and  she  shushed  me,  as  if  she  must  listen  to  the  sounds  that  came  from  outside,  that  monstrous,  only  half-human  serenade.  It  was  all  the  cries  we  do  not  cry,  all  the  howls  we  do  not  howl,  all  the  bloody  furies  in  our  hearts  that  are  never-  must  never  be-let  loose.  Even  I  was  afraid-not  of  the  man  but  of  a  stir  of  recognition  in  myself.  We  sat  in  a  kind  of  shameful  fascination  and  did  not  look  at  each  other.  The  sobs  died  away  at  last.  It  was  a  gentle  evening,  as  it  so  often  is  after  a  grillingly  hot  day  in  [REDACTED].  Scraps  of  pastel  floated  about  the  sky  between  the  buildings,  the  trees,  and  the  chimneys  of  the  empty  street.  &quot;  His  Christmas'!&quot;  Beulah  said  sud-  denly.  &quot;'They  said  it  was  his  Christmas.  What  would  make  anyone  choose  that  Christmas?&quot;  She  got  up  and  went  into  the  kitchen  to  fetch  ice  for  our  drinks.  I  started  to  follow  her.  At  that  moment,  there  was  a  roaring  cry  outside,  and  then  the  sound  of  a  man  running,  running  up  the  street.  From  the  bedroom  window  I  could  see  him  go-past  the  leaning  bicycle,  past  the  stragglers,  and  up  and  over  the  hill  and  out  of  sight."