 b"FOR  some  time  now,  I  have  sus- pected  the  existence  of  an  organi-  zation  whose  scope  and  energies  are  so  enormous  that  they  stagger  the  imagi  nation.  I  am  not  prepared  to  say  with  certainty  that  such  an  organiza-  tion  exists,  but  there  are  various  recur-  rent  phenomena  in  my  life  that  can  be  explained  only  by  the  theory  that  a  major  plan  is  in  operation-a  plan  so  vast  and  expensive  that  it  is  almost  im-  possible  to  envision  it.  'The  organization  that  carries  out  this  plan  must  spend  millions  of  dol-  lars  annually  to  achieve  its  object.  It  has-it  must  have-great  suites  of  offices,  and  thousands  upon  thousands  of  employees.  On  a  guess,  I  would  put  its  running  cost  at  ten  million  dollars  a  year;  if  anything,  the  figure  may  be  higher.  With  some  presumption,  I  have  christened  it  Annoy  Kaufman,  Inc.,  though  I  will  admit  that  I  can-  not  find  that  title  in  any  lists  of  corpo-  rations.  But  the  facts  are  incontrovertible:  First,  there  is  the  matter  of  going  to  the  bank.  Let  us  say  that  I  have  run  out  of  money  and  am  required  to  cash  a  small  check.  Now,  no  one  knows  that  I  am  going  to  the  bank  on  that  par-  ticular  morning.  There  is  nothing  about  it  in  the  papers.  I  am  not  immodest,  and  I  know  that,  at  best,  such  an  announce,  ment  would  get  only  a  few  lines  on  a  back  page:  &quot;George  S.  Kaufman  is  going  to  the  bank  this  morning  to  cash  a  check.  We  wish  him  all  success&quot;  something  like  that.  But  not  a  word  is  printed.  No  one  knows  about  it.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  have  probably  not  made  up  my  mind  to  go  until  about  eleven  o'clock.  Yet  the  organization  is  prepared.  It  im-  mediately  arranges  that  half  a  dozen  big  companies  should  be  drawing  their  payroll  money  that  morning,  and  that  each  of  them  should  send  a  clerk  to  the  bank  with  a  list  of  payroll  require-  ments-so  many  five-dollar  bills,  so  many  dollar  bills,  so  many  quarters,  dimes,  nickels,  pennies.  Next,  it  is  ar-  ranged  that  all  these  people  should  get  to  the  tellers'  windows  just  a  few  sec-  onds  ahead  of  me.  Now,  this  takes  doing.  Remember,  the  organization  has  not  known  just  which  morning  I  was  planning  to  go  to  the  bank,  so  for  weeks  and  weeks  these  clerks  have  been  held  in  readiness  somewhere.  And  suppose  I  stop  to  talk  to  a  friend  and  arrive  five  minutes  later  than  expected.  Obviously,  several  re-  lays  of  clerks  must  be  kept  in  reserve  in  a  corner  of  the  bank,  awaiting  a  signal.  Moreover,  these  are  not  people  who  are  just  pretending  to  be  cashing  pay-  rolls;  the  bank  would  never  stand  for  that.  No,  they  are  people  from  real  companies-companies  founded  by  the  organization  and  kept  in  business  for  years  and  years,  probably  at  an  enor-  mous  loss,  justso  that  their  representa-  tives  can  get  to  the  bank  windows  ahead  of  me.  And  it  is  not  always  the  same  peo-  ple  who  stand  in  front  of  me;  it  is  dif-  ferent  ones.  This,  in  turn,  means  a  large  number  of  separate  companies  to  main-  tain.  These  companies  run  factories,  keep  books,  pay  income  taxes,  hold  board  meetings,  advertise  on  television,  pension  their  employees.  Surely  this  side  of  the  enterprise  alone  must  run  to  a  pretty  figure.  MY  next  example  may  sound  like  a  simple  and  inexpensive  thing  to  manage,  but  it  isn't.  It  has  to  do  with  the  engineer's  little  boy,  Danny.  Danny  is  six  years  old.  In  fact,  he  has  been  six  years  old  for  the  thirty-five  years  that  I  have  been  making  overnight  train  journeys.  (I  suppose  that,  actually,  23  they  keep  on  having  an  engineer's  little  boy  born  every  year,  but  even  that  takes  planning.)  Anyhow,  for  years  and  years  Danny  has  been  begging  his  fa-  ther  to  let  him  run  the  locomotive  some  night.  For  years  and  years,  his  father  has  been  saying  no.  Then,  finally,  the  night  comes.  &quot;Can  I  run  the  engine  tonight,  Daddy?&quot;  asks  Danny,  who  is  too  young  to  know  about  &quot;can&quot;  and  &quot;may.&quot;  And  his  father  says,  &quot;Yes,  Danny,  boy.  We  have  just  got  word  that  Kaufman  will  be  on  the  train  to-  night,  and  he  is  very  tired  and  needs  a  good  night's  sleep,  so  you  canrun  the  engine.&quot;  So  Danny  runs  the  en-  gine,  the  result  being  the  neck-breaking  stops  and  starts  that  keep  me  awake  all  night.  The  organization  has,  of  course,  the  incidental  expense  of  maintaining  Danny  in  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED],  as  the  case  may  be,  until  I  am  ready  to  make  the  return  trip.  (Dan-  ny's  father  obviously  cannot  wait  over  to  take  care  of  him;  he  must  go  back  to  running  the  engine  properly  on  the  nights  when  I  am  not  travelling.)  So  the  organization  must  keep  branch  offices  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  (and  wherever  else  I  may  go),  and  provide  someone  to  take  care " b"of  Danny,  and  schools  for  him  to  go  to,  and  somebody  to  make  sure  that  he  doesn't  practice,  and  so  learn  how  to  run  the  engine  better,  before  I  make  my  re-  turn  trip.  This  seemingly  small  part  of  the  business  can  run  to  fantastic  sums  over  the  years.  BUT  the  bank  and  Danny  are,  after  all,  relatively  minor  matters,  Once  done  with,  they  are  over  till  the  next  time.  I  come  now  to  the  major  opus-  the  basic  activity  for  which  Annoy  Kaufman,  Inc.,  was  founded.  Years  ago,  when  I  moved  to  New  York,  I  noticed  that  a  little  man  in  a  gray  overcoat  was  watching  me  closely  as  I  took  the  ferry  from  Jersey  City  to  Twenty-third  Street.  I  don't  know  why,  but  I  think  his  name  was  Mr.  Moffat  At  all  events,  Mr.  Moffat  was  the  first  person  off  the  ferryboat  when  it  docked.  Hurriedly  joining  his  pals  in  a  midtown  office,  Mr.  Moffat  reported  as  follows:  &quot;Boys,  he's  here.  We  can  take  out  incorporation  papers  in  [REDACTED]  tomorrow  and  go  to  work.  In  a  day  or  two,  I'll  have  all  the  dope  for  you.&quot;  Now,  you  may  think  it  arrogant  of  me  to  claim  that  the  entire  rebuilding  of  New  York  City,  at  present  in  full  bloom,  came  about  solely  as  a  result  of  my  arrival  here,  but  I  can  only  cite  the  facts.  No  sooner  didI  move  to  a  given  neighborhood  than  the  wreckers  were  at  work  on  the  adjoining  building,  gen-  erally  at  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning.  The  pneumatic  asphalt-ripper,  with  which  we  are  all  now  familiar,  was  first  used  early  one  morning  as  a  weapon  against  the  slumber  of  none  other  than  myself.  The  first  automatic  rivet  came  into  existence  to  be  the  destroyer  of  my  sleep.  (All  dates  and  names  of  streets  are  on  file  in  the  office  of  my  attorney.)  Naturally,  I  kept  moving  to  new  neigh-  borhoods  in  quest  of  peace,  but  the  boys  were  always  ready  and  waiting.  Can  you  blame  me  for  feeling  that  it  was  I,  and  I  alone,  who  unwittingly  charted  the  course  of  the  city's  onward  sweep?  f  Only  once,  in  all  these  years,  did  they  slip  up.  Acting  without  sufficient  research,  they  put  up  Lever  House  just  to  the  south  of  me,  unaware  that  my  bedroom  was  on  the  other  side  of  my  apartment.  Discovering  their  error,  they,  of  course,  bought  the  property  to  the  north  and  went  quickly  to  work.  Well,  sir,  heads  rolled  in  the  office  that  morning,  I  can  tell  you.  Mr.  Moffat,  I  like  to  think,  shot  himself,  but  I  suspect  he  was  immediately  succeeded  by  his  son,  and  since  then  the  organization  has  functioned  so  efficiently  that  I  am  now  exactly  thirty-seven  years  behind  on sleep,  with  only  an  outside  chance  of  making  it  up. WITH all  that  on  their  hands,  you  wouldn't  think  they'd  have  time  for  Congressional  lobbying,  too,  would  you?  This  ultimate  move  came  to  light  during  a  visit  of  mine  to  [REDACTED]  a  few  weeks  ago.  Having  been  made  suspicious,  over  the  years,  by  my  deal-  ings  with  the  Internal  Revenue  people,  I  went  to  the  trouble  of  looking  up  the  original  text  of  the  income-tax  law,  as  filed  in  the  Library  of  Congress.  Sure  enough,  there  it  was-Paragraph  D,  Clause  18-just  as  I  had  suspected:  &quot;'The  taxpayer,  in  computing  the  amount  of  tax  due  to  the  Government,  may  deduct  from  his  taxable  income  all  legitimate  expenses  incurred  in  the  course  of  conducting  his  business  or  pro-  fession-except,&quot;  it  added,  &quot;in  the  case  of  George  S.  Kaufman.&quot;"