  HESE  autumn  Saturdays,  usual-  I  lyjust  about  when  we  have  fin-  ished  lunch,  as  I  stand  in  front  of  the  south  window  in  the  kitchen  scraping  the  dishes  over  the  sink,  I  will  hear  a  rapid  drumbeat,  and  the  sound  of  martial  music  is  carried  to  me  on  the  soft  November  air.  It  is  the  Univer-  sity  of  [REDACTED]  band,  marching  to  Scott  Stadium  for  the  football  game.  Most  of  the  tunes  it  plays  are  familiar  to  me.  As  I  wash  the  plates  and  cups  I  start  to  sing  along  with  them,  only  the  words  I  sing  are  often  not  the  same  as  the  words  they  are  singing  to  the  music  over  there.  My  husband,  who  is  a  professor,  takes  the  reasonable  attitude  that  since  he  went  conscientiously  to  every  football  game  Brown  played  when  he  was  an  undergraduate,  every  game  Harvard  played  when  he  was  working  for  his  doctorate,  every  game  Princeton  played  when  he  started  out  as  a  young  instruc-  tor  until  the  day  it  was  revealed  unto  him  that  football  is  a  dull  game  that  he  cares  nothing  about,  he  need  never  waste  another  Saturday  afternoon.  My  own  ardor,  as  I  continue  to  sing  to  the  stirring,  faraway  music  of  the  band,  has  little  to  do  with  football  as  a  sport.  I,  too,  went  to  every  game  Harvard  played-during  the  five  or  six  years  when  I  was,  first,  a  [REDACTED]  sub-  débutante,  then  a  débutante,  then  what  used  to  be  called  L.O.P.H.  (&quot;Left  on  Poppa's  Hands&quot;),  yet  in  all  that  time  I  never  became  absolutely  certain  what  a  first  down  was.  My  feelings  about  football  games,  which  are  deep,  go  far  back  into  my  childhood  to  the  day  when  my  father  and  my  Uncle  Edward  took  me  to  see  my  first,  a  Yale-Harvard  game  in  the  Harvard  Stadium.  Harvard  won  the  game-at  the  time  this  did  not  surprise  me-and  today  I  can  remember  all  the  words  of  all  the  songs  we  sang  that  cold  November  day;  which  is  why  I  am  able,  after  all  these  years,  to  sing  Harvard's  words  to  the  tunes  the  [REDACTED]  band  is  playing,  while  over  at  Scott  Stadium  they  are  singing  other  versions.  But  I  don't  quite  sing  Harvard's  words,  either.  The  way  I  begin  one  of  the  songs  is  &quot;Buck  the  line  for  Harvard,  For  Harvard  wins  today  ...&quot;  When  my  younger  son,  who  is  a  Harvard  junior,  overheard  me  at  this  once,  he  exclaimed  &quot;Mother!&quot;  in  tones  of  the  deepest  outrage,  embarrassment,  and  disgust.  &quot;The  actual  words  are  'Hit  the  line  for  Harvard,  in  case     &quot;Talk  about  passing  the  buck!&quot;  KeVariky  NOVEMBER  30,  19  57  you  are  interested,&quot;  he  added  coldly.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  I'm  singing  Grandpa's  words.&quot;  You  couldn't  be!  He  couldn't  have  sung  that,&quot;  he  insisted  so  feverishly  that  I  felt  I  had  better  get  to  the  bottom  of  what  it  was  he  thought  I  was  singing.  There  proved  to  have  been  a  mistake.  He  thought  I  had  sung  &quot;Butt  the  line  for  Harvard,&quot;  and,  familiar  with  my  ignorance  of  the  most  elementary  rules  governing  sports,  feared  that  I  was  con-  fusing  football  and  soccer.  My  father,  a  highly  original  man,  had  his  own  version  of  most  things.  He  had  managed  to  be  the  only  male  in  several  generations  of  his  family-and  among  several  brothers-who  did  not  go  to  Harvard.  After  passing  its  en-  trance  examinations  he  departed  for  [REDACTED],  where  he  studied  painting  for  sev-  eral  years,  in  the  eighties  and  nineties,  at  Julian's  and  the  Beaux-Arts.  On  re-  turning  to  [REDACTED]  he  plunged  into  a  ca-  reer  entirely  devoted  to  the  practice,  teaching,  and  criticism  of  art.  But  he  was  not  content  to  rest  upon  these  atypical  laurels.  Instead,  he  became  the  most  ardent  Harvard  rooter  in  all  his  family.  He  went  to  its  games,  read  its  news,  upheld  its  name,  to  an  extent  that  the  other  brothers  still  living-  an  architect,  a  professor  of  English,  and  a  railroad  man-never  dreamed  of.  Perhaps,  by  going  there,  they  had  got  Harvard  out  of  their  sys-  tems.  My  father  never  got  Harvard  out  of  his  system.  I  remem-  ber,  as  a  child,  hearing  him  say  about  a  boy  cousin  of  mine  whose  family  sent  him  to  Yale,  &quot;'That  was  a  damned  silly  thing  to  do.  Why  should  anybody  send  a  son  to  a  little  place  like  Yale  or  Princeton  when  there  is  Harvard?&quot;  My  childhood,  in  the  environs  of  [REDACTED],  was  for  some  reason  over-  laid  by  a  haze  of  melan-  choly.  The  suburban  streets,  deep  in  russet  leaves  I  scuffed  through  on  my  way  home  from  school;  the  country  road  behind  our  house  (covered  with  white  stones  that  at  an  earlier,  happier  stage  I  had  be-  lieved  to  be  dragon's  teeth),  up  which  I  wandered  to  lonely,  autumnal  woods;  our  THE  NEW  YORKER  house  and  grounds,  seemingly  always  silent,  unpeopled,  life-  less,  filled  me  with  sorrow  and  resignation.  That  was  the  way  this  place  was,  and  there  was  nothing  a  child,  an  unpopular  child,  could  do  about  it.  My  days  were  redeemed  by  the  appearance  of  my  father,  who  generally  got  home  from  his  studio  in  [REDACTED]  about  half  an  hour  before  dinner.  He  would  fling  the  front  door  open  so  that  it  banged  against  the  wall,  stamp  into  the  hall,  slap  the  newspapers  and  pack-  ages  he  carried  down  on  the  spinet,  which  served  as  a  hall  table,  as  I  hurled  myself  down  the  steep  front  stairs  and  into  his  arms.  When  I  was  little,  I  used  to  be  in  bed  by  that  time,  and  he  would  come  upstairs  and  tell  me  stories  of  [REDACTED],  of  landscape  painting  in  [REDACTED],  and  of  wine  tours  taken  on  a  bicycle  all  over  [REDACTED].  But  as  I  grew  older,  his  belief  that  I  should  learn  to  take  part  in  grown-up  conversation  made  possible  long  hours  at  the  round  dining-room  table,  where  I  sat  between  my  gay,witty  father  and  my  beautiful  mother,  who  was  also  a  painter,  and  inhaled  my  edu-  cation.  It  was  during  such  a  dinner  hour  that  my  mother  said,  &quot;I  had  a  letter  today  from  your  brother  Edward.  He's  com-  ing  to  stay  with  us  over  the  Harvard-  Yale  football  game.&quot;  &quot;Good,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;He  said  he'd  get  me  a  ticket.&quot;  &quot;He's  got  three,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;He  was  kind  enough  to  suggest  I  come,  too.  Do  you  think  he'd  mind  awfully  if  I  declined?  All  the  barberries  are  go-  ing  to  drop  off  that  branch  if  I  don't  finish  my  still-life.&quot;  &quot;Art  first,  life  afterward,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;How  would  you  like  to  go,old  socks?&quot;  All  I  could  reply  was  &quot;Oh!&quot;  Uncle  Edward-my  professor  un-  cle-was  a  great  favorite  of  mine  and  I  was  a  great  favorite  of  his.  During  moments  of  demonstrativeness  he  would  call  me  his  chocolate  cucumber,  refer-  ring  to  a  box  of  candy  he  had  once  brought  me,  impelled  principally  by  scholarly  curiosity  as  to  what  a  chocolate  cucumber  could  possibly  be.  (They  turned  out  to  be  quite  good.)  He  was  a  very  tall  man,  so  thin  that  he  was  known  to  his  loving  students  as  Spike,  and,  like  many  thin  men,  he  could  keep  on  eating  almost  indefinitely.  My  mother  had  once  kept  on  asking  Uncle  Edward  to  have  another  piece  of  pump-  kin  pie  and  each  time,  absorbed  in  con-  versation,  he  had  passed  up  his  plate;  the  only  reason  she  stopped  asking  him  and  he  stopped  eating  was  that  a  sec-  ond  pie  ran  out.  He  spoke  in  a  voice  so  dry  as  to  be  almost  flat;  and  this  tone  of  his,  for  some  reason,  was  deeply  reas-  suring  to  me.  It  was  as  if  it  counter-  acted,  nullified,  the  mysterious  sadness  that  overclouded  my  life.  Unlike  Uncle  Edward,  my  father  was  given  to  bursts  of  ebullience.  He  rose  every  morning  at  half  past  six  and  took  a  cold  bath,  which  rite  he  accom-  panied  by  arias  from  the  Italian  operas,  rendered  forte.  He  would  then  eat  a  breakfast  of  cereal,  two  boiled  eggs  broken  over  toast  spread  with  anchovy  paste,  several  cups  of  coffee  with  sugar,  and  depart  for  his  studio  in  a  great  flur-  ryof  lost  outer  garments  and  shouted  farewells.  This  routine  he  followed  as  usual  on  the  morning  of  my  first  foot-  ball  game.  &quot;Meet  you  in  Harvard  Square  at  twelve!&quot;  he  called  to  me  and  Uncle  Edward  as  we  continued  to  sit  at  the  breakfast  table,  soberly  partaking  of  Cream  of  Wheat.  The  front  door  slammed,  and  he  was  gone.  &quot;I  never  saw  a  man  so  wedded  to  his  art,&quot;  Uncle  Edward  observed,  help-  ing  himself  to  a  large  spoonful  of  straw-  berry  jam.  &quot;Every  moment  lost  from  the  studio  is  a  moment  wasted,  to  him,&quot;  my  mother  replied,  half  proud,  half  mourn-  ful.  She  rose  hurriedly  from  the  table  to  go  out  to  the  kitchen  and  accomplish  the  giving  of  the  day's  orders,  so  that  she  could  get  on  with  her  still-life.  &quot;When  you  have  climbed  out  of  the  jam  pot,&quot;  Uncle  Edward  said  to  me,  &quot;we  might  go  fora  walk.&quot;  We  went  far  up  the  stony  road  in  the  chill,  early,  echoing  November  morn-  ing.  Uncle  Edward  was  a  member  of  the  Appalachian  Mountain  Walking  Club,  and  always  able  to  introduce  me  to  new  secrets  of  woodcraft.  This  time,  I  remember,  he  drew  a  penknife  from  his  pocket  and  showed  me  how  to  peel  birch  bark,  in  a  wide  strip,  off  a  tree  back  in  the  leafless  woods.  The  sun  sent  faint  watery  rays  down  the  pine-needle  paths  that  were  first  trod-  den,  Uncle  Edward  had  told  me,  hun-  dreds  of  years  ago  by  the  Indians.  It  did  not  seem  sad  or  lonely  here  any  longer,  but  quiet,  peaceful,  and  inter-  esting.  &quot;'Time  to  get  started,&quot;  he  said,  look-  ing  at  his  gold  pocket  watch.  My  stomach  contracted  as  I  remembered  the  excitements  ahead.  We  took  the  train  to  [REDACTED],  and  54  from  therethe  subway  to  [REDACTED].  At  every  stage  of  our  journey  the  crowds  became  denser,  noisier,  gayer,  until  we  emerged  into  a  Harvard  Square  swaying  with  raccoon  coats,  red  velvet  and  blue  felt  cloche  hats,  crim-  son  banners  with  an  H,  blue  banners  with  a  Y,  enormous  chrysanthemums,  and  bright-plaid  steamer  rugs  carried  over  people's  arms.  We  stood  waiting  together  on  the  island  of  the  subway  entrance  in  com-  panionable  silence,  jostled  as  though  by  the  waves  of  a  cheerful,  noisy  ocean.  In  a  few  minutes  my  father  appeared,  waving  a  folded  newspaper.  &quot;Hello,  old  boy,&quot;  he  greeted  his  brother.  &quot;Hello,  job  lots.  This  is  bully!  Suppose  we  get  some  lunch.&quot;  I  crossedthe  traffic  jam  on  Massa-  chusetts  Avenue  between  my  tall  fa-  ther  and  my  taller  uncle.  &quot;She  shuts  up  like  a  clam  whenever  anything  new  is  going  on,&quot;  my  father  reported  over  my  head  in  fond,  paternal  tones.  &quot;An  intelligent  practice,&quot;  Uncle  Ed-  ward  replied,  dryly.  We  went  to  a  place  where  we  were  supposed  to  put  our  plates  of  lunch  on  the  broad  single  arm  of  our  chairs.  I  sup-  pose  it  must  have  been  merely  the  Wal-  dorf  Cafeteria  of  those  days,  but  to  me  it  laid  claim  to  a  total  glamour,  with  its  laughing,  pushing  crowds  of  young  men  and  beautiful  girls.  I  remember  the  elaborate  layer  cake  I  was  gravely  munching  when  all  at  once  the  strains  of  martial  music  struck  my  ears.  &quot;Come  on,  boys!&quot;  my  father  ex-  claimed.  &quot;We've  got  to  see  the  band  go  over  the  bridge.&quot;  &quot;''Temper  your  transports,&quot;  Uncle  Edward  said.  &quot;I  want  to  finish  my  cof-  fee.&quot;  When  we  joined  the  throngs  in  the  Square,  the  music  came  to  us  in  gusts  upon  the  breeze.  &quot;List  to  the  sound  of  the  Flying  Widge,&quot;  sang  my  father  with  it-improvising,  I  realized  later.  'There  is  a  band  approaching  nigh,  Harvard  is  marching  up  the  bridge.  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;Deland's  tactics  are  out  of  date,&quot;  remarked  Uncle  Edward.  &quot;That  yel-  low  house  is  where  your  great-grand-  uncle  lived  when  he  was  president  of  Harvard,&quot;  he  added  to  me.  &quot;Oh,  do  come  on,  Edward,&quot;  my  fa-  ther  cried.  &quot;  'Behold,  they  come  in  view,  Who  wear  the  crimson  hue  .  .  }  &quot;  he  continued  to  sing,  as  we  turned  in  to  Boylston  Street.  Before  us  I  could  see,  sure  enough,  with  its  flags  waving  and  its  band  playing,  Harvard  marching  over  the  Anderson  Bridge.  On  the  way  to  the  stadium  they  bought  me  a  banner  and  a  maroon  chrysanthemum  with  a  white  H  affixed  to  it,  and  a  program  containing  the  words  to  the  songs.  &quot;Do  you  think  you  could  be  a  good  girl  and  stand  right  here  without  mov-  ing,  while  Uncle  Edward  and  I  leave  you  for  a  minute?&quot;  my  father  asked  when  we  had  reached  the  foot  of  a  flight  of  concrete  steps  inside  the  sta-  dium.  I  nodded.  They  moved  away.  &quot;You're  sure  you'll  be  all  right?&quot;  my  father  called,  turning  around.  &quot;She's  a  sensible  child,&quot;  Uncle  Ed-  ward  said,  taking  his  arm.  Past  me  where  I  stood  swept  droves  of  the  young  men  in  their  coon  coats,  crimson  scarves,  and  battered  gray  felt  hats,  conducting  their  girls  with  the  silken  legs  and  high,  high  heels  and  tight  little  crimson  skirts  that  came  just  to  the  knee.  I  stayed  stock-still,  obedi-  ently,  in  the  angle  of  the  stairs,  in  my  school  coat,  pleated  plaid  skirt,  and  the  red  sweater  I  had  put  on  specially  for  Harvard.  I  saw  my  father  and  my  uncle  com-  ing  back  before  they  saw  me.  'They  were  arm  in  arm  and  deep  in  talk.  I  heard  my  father  say,  &quot;You  take  just     -Howarp  NEmErov  one  bum  steer  and  your  whole  damned  life  seems  to  go  down  the  drain.&quot;  &quot;You've  done  pretty  well,&quot;  Uncle  Edward  said.  &quot;Forget  it.&quot;  A  trickle  of  terror  chilled  me,and  under  my  feet  the  abyss  yawned.  My  father  mot  happy?  &quot;Good  old  fat  sides,&quot;  my  father  said,  and  took  me  by  the  arm.  We  went  up  the  stairs  and  emerged  into  the  enor-  mous,  space-filled,  howling,  gaudy  sta-  dium.  As  we  found  our  places,  facing  a  sign  on  the  field  that  said  &quot;35,&quot;  a  row  of  young  men  in  white  sweaters  with  crimson  Hs  were  leading  the  cheering,  by  a  series  of  violent  physical  convolu-  tions  that  ended  in  their  all  turning  handsprings  in  unison.  &quot;Har-vard  ...  Har-vard  .  ..  Har-vard!&quot;  the  crowd  roared.  The  cheerleaders  walked  up  and  down,  clapping.  The  band  broke  forth  again  in  brassy  gaiety.  &quot;With  the  Crimson  in  something  flashing,  amid  the  cheers  of  victory,  Old  Eli's  hopes  we  are  dashing  ...&quot;sang  my  father,  waving  his  program  from  sidetoside  and  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  board,  with  seat  numbers,  that  was  under  us,  Surely  I  was  mistaken  about  the  meaning  of  what  he  had  said?  My  anxiety  turned  itself  around  in  a  circle,  lay  down,  and  went  to  sleep.  The  teams  ran  on  the  field,  flexing  their  knees.  I  stood  up  when  my  father  and  uncle  stood  up,  and  sat  down  when  they  sat  down,  but  I  did  not  really  understand  any  of  the  hurried  explana  tio  ns  they  kept  tossing  over  their  shoulders  at  me  as  the  game  progressed.  Nor  did  I  mind  not  understanding.  '  The  spectacle  was  more  than  s  uffic  i  ent.  The  radiantly  sun-  n  y  a  fterno  o  n  passe  d  slowly  by,  as  a  blim  p  h  ung  silently  above  the  stadium,  and  now  and  then  a  small  white  biplane  flew  over.  At  intervals  the  numbers  i  n  the  scoreboard  a  t  the  end  of  the  stadium  disappeared  wi  th  a  jerk,  and  othe  r  num-  bers  were  jer  ked  i  nto  their  places.  On  the  field  the  teams  swept  up,  swept  down  ,  crash  e  d  hea  d  on  into  t  otal  im-  passes,  ran  about  i  n  scatter  ed  di  sorde  r.  Once  in  a  w  hile  one  huge-shoul  der  ed  player  would  free  himself  and  go  run  -  ning  down  the  field  alone,  hugging  the  ball,  while  both  sides  rose  to  th  eir  feet  like  a  g  reat  wave  and  roared.  Then  a  player  would  kick  the  ball  from  the  field,  and  it  would  soar  up  and  curve  over  the  white  goalpos  ts.  As  the  afternoon  grew  later  and  colder,  I  could  see  the  twinkling,  as  of  fireflies,  from  a  thousand  po  ints  of  light  where  pe  ople  on  the  Yale  side  were  lighting  cigarettes  in  the  dusk.  Gradu-  ally,  almost  imperceptibly,  a  moan  be-  gan  to  rise  from  across  the  stadium.  &quot;Aaahhhhhh,&quot;  it  swelled,  and  receded  again.  &quot;That's  the  Undertaker  song,&quot;  my     father  explained  hastily  when  I  pulled  at  his  sleeve.  &quot;The  Yales  think  they're  going  to  win.  They're  not,  though.  We  are.&quot;  He  returned  to  frantic  cheer-  ing.  &quot;Poor  .  ..  old  .  ..  Har  .  ..  vard...&quot;  moaned  the  Yale  side.  We  did  win.  A  player  with  mon-  strous  shoulders  broke  loose  right  in  front  of  where  we  sat,  and  ran,  weav-  ing,  down  past  the  Yale  goal  line.  The  little  fat  man  in  the  middle  of  the  field  held  up  both  arms,  and  in  the  gathering  dusk  the  Harvard  side  burst  out  in  a  long,  hoarse  scream.  Hats  were  thrown  into  the  field.  Uncle  Edward  and  my  father  and  I  stood  and  watched  the  students  stream  down  off  the  stands  to  snake-dance  up  the  field.  The  goalposts  tottered  and  went  down.  Slowly  we  made  our  way  down  the  steps  and  through  the  mobs  in  the  field  to  the  exit,  and  walked  around  behind  the  stadium  to  the  field  house.  There,  under  a  white  blaze  of  elec-  tricity,  the  crowd,  with  upturned  faces,  was  chanting,  &quot;We  want  Owen.  ...  We  want  Owen.  ...&quot;  It  was  a  scene  of  the  greatest  exaltation.  After  a  while,  a  young  man  in  a  heavy  sort  of  bathrobe  came  to  the  door  of  the  field  house  and  waved.  The  crowd  yelled  a  pitch  higher,  in  ecstasy.  56     -vgvim  3&amp;79041—     I  looked  up  into  my  father's  face  to  see  if  he,  too,  was  ecstatic.  But  his  face  was  sorrowful  and  re-  signed.  My  stricken  heart  sank  into  my  stomach.  A  moment  later,  Uncle  Edward  took  my  arm  and  we  turned.  &quot;Well,  it's  been  Harvard's  day,&quot;  Uncle  Edward  remarked  to  my  father  as  we  began  to  move  away.  &quot;Yep,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Some  place.&quot;  Then  the  band,  which  had  come  up  at  the  head  of  the  long  procession  of  snake-dancers,  broke  into  a  fresh  tune.  My  father's  face  lighted  up.  &quot;Buck  the  line  for  Harvard,&quot;  he  sang,  waving  his  rolled-up  program.  &quot;For  Harvard  wins  today  .  .  .&quot;  In  the  chill  and  violet  dusk,  filled  with  the  music  of  the  brasses,  the  cries  of  the  crowds,  and  the  strange  dis-  tant  echoings  of  twilight,  we  made  our  way  back  to  the  road,  and  over  the  bridge  to  the  subway.  AND  that  is  the  version  I  sing  today,  as  I  stand  looking  out  over  my  back  yard,  washing  dishes  and  listening  to  the  [REDACTED]  band  as  it  marches  to  Scott  Stadium.  I  am  seized  by  something  of  the  old  conviction  that  a  football  game  is  a  glorious  and  ultimate  experi-  ence  that  used  to  impel  me  to  accept    every  invitation  to  go  to  the  Harvard  games  (except  one  I  got  from  a  Dart-  mouth  boy;  I  would  not  sink  to  sitting  on  the  Dartmouth  side).  Suddenly  I  am  tempted  to  let  the  dishes  wash  them-  selves,  hurry  over  to  the  stadium,  see  if  a  ticket  hasn't  been  turned  in,  go  in,  and  watch  the  game.  For  over  there  people  will  be  waving  across  at  friends,  girls  in  bright-colored  hats  will  be  laughing  up  into  their  es-  corts'  faces,  banners-orange-and-blue  ones-will  flutter  from  the  stands  in  the  afternoon  sunshine;  the  cheerleaders  throw  themselves  about  in  transports;  a  roar  rise  as  the  team  jogs  onto  the  field  and  the  mystic  rite  of  football  begins.  But  then  I  have  to  laugh.  For  I  can't  help  realizing  that  I  would  actu-  ally  rather-with  long  delicious  strokes  ofthe  brush  over  the  dirty  old  white-  paint  the  guest-room  furniture  Chinese  red.  