 b"I  TOOK  my  family  to  Europe  too  carly  this  past  summer  for  us  to  receive  with  our  passports  the  letter  that  President  Eisenhower  wrote,  soon  after  we  left,  to  all  outgoing  Americans,  urging  them  to  think  of  themselves  as  ambassadors  and  to  behave  accordingly.  But  my  wife  and  I  heard  about  this  venture  in  mass  diplomacy  while  we  were  abroad,  and  we  resolved  that,  even  without  credentials,  we  would  do  every-  thing  we  could  during  our  stay  to  foster  an  atmosphere  of  international  camara-  derie.  We  had,  in  fact,  already  realized  that  there  was  plenty  of  scope  for  such  action.  Not  long  before  we  landed  in  [REDACTED],  General  Hans  Speidel,  of  West  [REDACTED],  had  been  appointed  com-  mander  of  the  NATO  ground  forces  for  Central  Europe,  and  as  our  boat  train  passed  through  Rouen  on  the  way  to  [REDACTED],  we  saw  at  a  grade  crossing  a  freshly  painted  sign  that  said,  &quot;DANS  CETTE  VILLE  SPEIDEL  A  FAIT  ASSAS-  SINER  DEUX  HOMMES.&quot;  The  oldest  of  our  three  sons  saw  it,  too,  and  asked  me  to  translate  it.  I  was  reluctant  to  inject  a  note  of  strained  community  relations  into  the  start  of  the  boys'  first  foreign  junket,  so  I  replied  lamely,  &quot;It  says  something  like  'Stop,  look,  and  listen.&quot;  &quot;  In  [REDACTED],  we  picked  up  a  rented  auto-  mobile  in  which  to  tour  [REDACTED]  and  northern  537061696e.  It  was  a  Volkswagen  Microbus-one  of  those  sturdy,  stubby,  capacious  vehicles  that  are  becoming  in-  creasingly  popular  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  as  carryalls  for  fairly  large  families  and  fairly  small  business  concerns.  I  have  learned  since  our  return  home  that  ex-  peditions  similar  to  ours  received  a  good  deal  of  newspaper  publicity  during  the  summer.  Both  Max  Lerner  andArthur  M.  Schlesinger,  Jr.-a  couple  of  articu-  late  Democrats  who  might  have  been  real  ambassadors  if  Stevenson  had  been  elected-were  carting  their  families  around  the  Continent  in  Volkswagen  Microbuses  at  about  the  same  time  I  was,  and,  in  the  best  diplomatic  tra-  dition,  were  sending  back  dispatches.  Mr.  Lerner  said,  in  his  column  in  the  Post,  that  he  was  put  in  mind  of  the  Reign  of  Terror  while  driving  his  Mi-  crobus  through  [REDACTED]  traffic,  and  in  the  Times  Mr.  Schlesinger-who  somehow  associated  Ais  automotive  experiences  with  the  rapacious  travels  of  Attila's  Huns-stated  that  American  families  roaming  around  in  Microbuses  had  be-  come  a  commonplace  sight  in  Europe.  I  don't  think  he  intended  to  convey  the  impression,  though,  that  Europeans " b"commonly  take  Americans  for  Huns.  I  hate  to  quibble  with  either  of  these  amiable  and  eminent  social  historians,  but  I  didn't  find  driving  my  Volks-  wagen  around  [REDACTED]  any  more  scary  than  reading  an  ordinary  headline  in  the  Post,  and  as  for  an  American  family  like  ours  being  a  run-of-the-mill  specta-  cle  in  Europe,  I  am  constrained  to  say  that  I  saw  more  Americans  in  Micro-  buses  during  a  fifteen-minute  drive  in  [REDACTED],  Rhode  Island,  last  week  than  I  did  along  some  three  thousand  miles  of  French  and  Spanish  roads.  A  not  atypical  European  reaction  to  our  Microbus  occurred  as  we  were  driving  through  the  Spanish  Pyrenees  one  day,  between  Irun  and  San  Sebas-  tian.  High  in  the  hills,  we  came  upon  a  Spanish  Army  detachment  on  maneu-  vers.  Most  of  the  soldiers  were  crawling  on  the  ground,  but  at  our  rumbling  ap-  proach  the  officer  in  charge  looked  at  us,  popeyed,  and  shouted  a  command,  and  all  his  men  rose  up,  staring  and  blinking  and  gesticulating  with  undisci-  plined  abandon,  as  if  they  had  never  seen  so  outlandish  an  apparition.  Around  the  next  curve,  a  Spanish  Army  band,  composed  mainly  of  drummers,  was  practicing  at  the  roadside,  and  as  we  bore  down  on  the  musicians,  they  broke  ranks,  shouted  &quot;Ole!,&quot;  and  beat  their  drums  like  wild  things.  It  didn't  look  like  a  commonplace,  conditioned  reflex  to  me.  In  any  event,  incidents  like  this,  while  agreeably  spirited,  could  have  done  little  to  cement  friendly  relations  between  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  537061696e,  inasmuch  as  the  soldiers  in  the  Pyr-  enees,  like  most  of  the  Europeans  we  encountered,  undoubtedly  took  us  for  Germans.  This  was  especially  true  of  people  we  had  passed.  Not  only  was  our  car  of  German  make;  it  had  been  registered  in  [REDACTED],  and,  ac-  cordingly,  bore  on  its  back  a  prominent  identifying  &quot;D,&quot;  for  &quot;Deutschland.&quot;  In  rural  [REDACTED],  when  I  looked  into  the  rear-view  mirror  I  would  occasion-  ally  see  a  farmer  stare  wrathfully  after  us  as  he  became  aware  of  the  origin  of  the  vehicle  that  had  roiled  his  flock  of  chickens.  And  once,  when  we  halted  in  a  small  town,  a  bystander,  possibly  but  not  necessarily  a  Communist  or  Poujadist,  shouted  &quot;A  bas  Speidel!&quot;  To  avoid  getting  into  a  discussion  of  the  complexities  of  mutual  security,  I  took  the  liberty  of  translating  this  for  the  children  as  &quot;You  can't  park  there!&quot;  FTER  a  while,  we  discovered  for  ourselves  that  we  were  not  exact-  ly  an  ordinary,  recognizably  American" b'sight-or,  at  any  rate,  not  what  we  were  subsequently  to  learn  constituted  such  a  sight  according  to  the  Schle-  singer  thesis.  On  the  move,  we  would  wave  at  American  tourists  in  Ameri-  can  cars,  but  they  never  waved  back,  as  they  normally  would  at  compa-  triots.  German  tourists,  on  the  other  hand,  to  whom  Microbuses  clearly  were  a  familiar,  nostalgic  sight,  would  al-  ways  wave  eagerly  at  us,  or  give  us  a  gemiitlich  raised-arm  salute.  If  they  overtook  us  from  behind,  they  would  honk  furiously  when  they  saw  the  &quot;D.&quot;  One  time,  when  we  had  stopped  at  a  fork  of  the  road  to  study  a  map,  a  hiker  in  Lederhosen  came  marching  up  to  us  and  asked  affably,  in  German,  if  he  could  help  us  get  our  bearings.  On  learning  that  we  were  not  what  we  appeared  to  be,  he  was  successively  astounded,  hurt,  and  indignant,  as  if  we  had  played  some  cheap,  disloyal  trick  on  him.  A  few  such  unsettling  experiences  led  my  wife  and  me  to  conclude  that  if  we  were  to  avoid  confusion  and  pro-  mote  international  harmony,  the  only  sensible  course  was  for  us  to  pretend  to  be  German,  except  when  we  seemed  likely  to  have  to  speak  it.  To  make  our  imposture  as  credible  as  possible,  I  at  once  began  to  coach  the  family  in  ges-  tures  and  salutations  that  I  believed  would  be  helpful.  But  our  impersona-  tion,  though  occasionally  successful,  could  hardly  have  been  the  sort  of  thing  the  President  had  in  mind.  No  sooner  had  we  decided  on  our  masquerade  than  we  were  emboldened  to  test  it.  Drivingthrough  Saint-Jean-  de-Luz,  we  saw  one  of  the  very  few  Microbuses  we  were  to  come  across  during  our  journey.  It  was  parked,  and  its  driver  was  at  the  wheel.  As  we  drew  abreast,  I  tooted  the  horn,  all  the  chil-  dren  leaned  out  the  window  holding  their  left  hands  high,  in  what  they  had  perceived  to  be  echt-Deutsch  style,  and  my  wife  cried  merrily,  &quot;Heil!&quot;  Un-  fortunately,  the  occupant  of  the  other  car  turned  out  to  be  Max  Lerner.  Shortly  after  that,  we  had  a  chance  to  improve  our  sorry  record.  One  day  when  my  wife  was  driving,  we  crossed  a  bridge  near  Orl\xc3\xa9ans  and  passed  a  French  Army  truck  headed  in  the  op-  posite  direction.  It  had  stopped,  and  a  soldier  was  scrambling  off  the  tail  gate.  We  deduced  what  he  was  up  to  an  in-  stant  later,  when  we  saw  a  military  hat  lying  at  the  edge  of  the  road  just  ahead  of  us.  My  wife  slammed  on  the  brakes,  jumped  out  of  the  car,  and,while  I  watched  in  bewilderment,  picked  up  the  hat  just  in  time  to  hand  it  to  the  soldier, ' b"who  was  running  up  to  retrieve  it.  He  poured  out  his  thanks  in  rapid  French,  ending  with  &quot;Merci  mille  fois,  Ma-  dame!&quot;  Then,  before  my  wife  could  reply,  he  looked  at  the  car.  &quot;Danke-  Danke-&quot;  he  began  gropingly.  Then  he  tried  what  was  probably  the  only  other  German  word  he  knew.  &quot;Dan-  kee-schon?&quot;  My  wife  beamed  at  him  in  commen-  dation.  &quot;De  rien,&quot;  she  replied,  with  a  gracious  macht-nichts  inflection,  and  climbed  back  in  the  car  and  drove  us  &lt;  away.  &quot;It  seemed  like  a  diplomatic  thing  to  do,&quot;  she  said  after  a  moment.  &quot;I  may  not  have  resolved  any  large  issues,  but  that's  one  Frenchman,  at  least,  whom  General  Speidel  shouldn't  have  any  more  trouble  with.&quot;  E  left  for  home  soon  afterward,  andhad  no  further  opportunity  to  implement,  however  modestly,  Mr.  Eisenhower's  admirable  diplomatic  pro-  gram,  but  I  am  sure  some  other  tourists  have  been  stepping  forward,  or  stum-  bling  forward,  to  pick  up  the  slack.  For  a  while,  it  looked  to  me  as  if  a  likely  prospect  might  be  James  Reston,  of  the  Times,  who  recently  drove  around  the  Continent  himself-in  fact,  all  the  way  to  [REDACTED]  When  Mr.  Reston  suggested,  in  one  of  his  pre-[REDACTED]  dispatches,  that  motoring  through  Eu-  rope  is  comparable  to  fighting  a  war,  I  figured  he  must  have  a  Microbus.  But  then  he  revealed  that  he  and  his  family  were  in  one  of  those  special  new  Ford  convertibles  with  disap-  pearing  hardtops.  The  527573736961ns,  he  reported,  had  never  seen  anything  like  it  before.  Well,  I  hope  Mr.  Reston  brought  his  singular  vehicle  home  withhim,  because  although  I've  never  seen  a  Ford  hard-  top  convertible,  I  know  it's  a  good,  American-made  car,  and  I'd  love  to  have  a  chance  to  wave  at  a  fellow-  citizen  as  he  rides  by  in  one.  But  I  have  an  awful  feeling  that  I  know  how  things  will  work  out.  On  a  highway,  one  of  these  days,  I'll  pass  a  hardtop  convertible  breezing  along  with  four  or  five  people  in  it,  and  I'll  think  they're  the  Restons.  I'll  give  them  a  big,  brotherly  wave  and  hello,  and  they'll  wave  back-but  they'll  turn  out  to  be  a  somewhat  puzzled  Soviet  envoy  and  his  family  out  for  a  sightseeing  spin. "