 b"&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cSHYNESS  is  common,&quot;  Rhoda's   mother  insisted.  &quot;I  was  never  allowed  to  be  shy  when  I  was  a  girl.  Your  grandparents  would  soon  have  put  astop  to  that.&quot;  The  stressed  words  sounded  so  pee-  vish.  Between  sentences  she  refreshed  herself  with  a  sip  of  invalid's  drink  and  touched  her  lips  with  her  handker-  chief,  and  then  continued.  &quot;Self-consciousness  it  was  always  called  when  I  was  young,  and  that  is  what  it  is.  To  imagine  that  it  shows  a  sense  of  modesty  is  absurd.  Modesty!  Why,  I  have  never  known  a  truly  mod-  est  person  to  be  the  least  bit  shy.&quot;  The  jaundice,  which  had  discolored  her  face  and  her  eyes,  seemed  as  well  to  wash  all  her  words  in  poison.  &quot;It's  all  right  for  you,  Mother,&quot;  Rhoda  said.  &quot;You  can  drink.  Then  anyone  can  talk.&quot;  Mrs.  Hobart  did  not  like  to  be  re-  minded  that  she  drank  at  all;  that  she  drank  immoderately  no  one-she  her-  self  least  of  all-would  ever  have  dared  to  remind  her.  Rhoda,  who  was  sitting  by  the  win-  dow,  nursing  her  cat,  stared  down  at  the  gardens  in  the  square  and  waited  huffily  for  an  indignant  rebuke.  In-  stead,  her  mother  said  wearily,  &quot;Well,  you  will  have  a  drink,  too,  before  the  banquet,  and  no  nonsense.  A  girl  of  eighteen.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  the  taste.&quot;  &quot;I,  I,  I.  I  hate  this,  I  loathe  that.  What  do  you  think  would  have  hap-  pened  if  Z  had  considered  what  I  liked  through  all  these  years.  Or  the  Queen,&quot;  she  added.  &quot;The  poor  girl!  The  rub-  bish  she's  been  forced  to  eat  and  drink  in  foreign  countries.  And  never  jibbed.&quot;  &quot;You  and  the  Queen  are  different  kettles  of  fish  from  me,&quot;  Rhoda  said  calmly.  Then  she  threw  up  the  window  from  the  bottom  and  leaned  out  and  waved  to  her  father,  who  was  crossing  the  road  below.  &quot;Please  shut  that  window,&quot;  Mrs.  Hobart  said.  &quot;Leaning  out  and  waving  like  a  housemaid.  I  despair.&quot;  She  put  the  glass  of  barley  water  on  one  side  and  said  again,  &quot;I  despair.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  no  need.  I  will  do  my  best,&quot;  said  Rhoda.  &quot;Though  no  one  likes  to  be  frightened  in  quite  such  a  boring  way. SHE  sat  in  the  train  opposite  her  fa-  ther  and  wedged  in  by  businessmen.  In  books  and  films,  she  thought,  people  who  go  on  train  journeys  always  get  a  corner  seat.  In  a  corner,  she  could  have  with-  drawn  into  her  daydreaming  so  much  more  completely,  but  here  she  was  cramped  by  the  fat  men  on  either  side,  whose  thighs  moved  against  hers  when  they  uncrossed  and  recrossed  their  legs,  whose  newspapers  distracted  her  with  their  puzzling  headlines-for  instance,  BISHOP  EXORCISES  \xc2\xa35,000  GHOST.&quot;  Her  father,  with  his  arms  folded  neatly  across  his  chest,  dozed  and  nodded,  and  sometimes  his  lips  moved,  as  if  he  were  rehearsing  his  speech  for  that  evening.  They  seemed  to  havebeen  in  the  train  for  a  long  time,  and  the  phlegmy  fog,  which  had  pressed  to  the  windows  as  they  left  [REDACTED],  was  darkening  quick-  ly.  The  dreadful  moment  of  going  in  to  dinner  was  coming  nearer.  Her  father  suddenly  woke  up  and  lifted  his  head.  He  yawned  and  winked  a  watery  eye  at  her  and  yawned  and  yawned  again.  She  sensed  that  to  be  taking  his  daughter  instead  of  his  wife  to  what  her  mother  called  the  Trade  Banquet  made  it  seem  rather  a  spree  to  him,  and  she  wished  that  she  could  share  his  lighthearted-  ness.  Like  sleepwalkers,  the  other  people  in  the  compartment,  still  silent  and  drowsy,  began  now  to  fold  their  news-  papers,  look  for  their  tickets,  lift  down  their  luggage  from  the  racks.  The  train's  rhythm  changed,  and  the  lights  of  the  station  came  running  past  the  windows.  All  that  Rhoda  was  to  see  of  this  [REDACTED]  town  was  the  dark,  windy  space  that  lay  between  the  station  en-  trance  and  the  great  station  hotel  as  they  followed  a  porter  across  the  greasy  paving  stones,  and,  later,  a  glimpse  from  her  bedroom  window  of  a  timber-  yard  beside  a  canal.  When  she  was  alone  in  the  hotel  bedroom,  she  felt  more  uncertain  than  ever,  oppressed  by  the  null  effect  of  raspberry-colored  damask,  the  large  in-  tolerable  pieces  of  furniture,  and  the  silence,  which  only  sounds  of  faraway  plumbing  broke,  or  of  distant  lifts  rising  and  falling.  She  shook  out  her  frock,  and  was  hanging  it  in  a  cavernous  wardrobe  when  somebody  in  the  corridor  outside     \xc2\xabAnd  then  he  promised  to  get  me  into  documentary  films.&quot;  " b"tapped  on  thedoor.  &quot;Is  that  you,  Father?&quot;  she  called  out  anxiously.  A  waiter  came  in,  carrying  a  tray  high  in  the  air.  He  swirled  it  round  on  his  fingers  and  put  down  a  glass  of  sherry.  &quot;The  gentleman  in  Number  Forty-five  ordered  it,&quot;  he  explained.  'Thank  you,&quot;  Rhoda  said  timidly,  peeping  at  him  round  the  wardrobe  door.  &quot;Very  much,&quot;  she  added  ef-  fusively.  The  waiter  said,  &quot;Thank  jou,  Madam,&quot;  in  a  quelling  voice,  and  went  away.  Rhoda  sniffed  at  the  sherry,  and  then  tipped  it  into  the  washbasin.  I  suppose  Father's  so  used  to  Mamma,  she  thought.  She  knew  the  bedroom  imbib-  ing  that  went  on  as  her  mother  moved  heavily  about,  getting  dressed;  every  time  she  came  back  to  her  mirror,  she  would  takea  drink  from  the  glass  be-  side  it.  The  hotel  room  was  a  vacuum  in  which  even  time  had  no  reality  to  Rhoda.  With  no  watch  to  tell  her,  she  began  to  wonder  if  she  had  been  there  alone  for  ten  minutes  or  an  hour,  and  in  sudden  alarm  she  ran  to  the  bath-  room  and  turned  on  taps,  and  hurriedly  unpacked.  She  put  on  a  little  confidence  with  her  pretty  frock;  but,  practicing  radiant  smiles  in  the  looking  glass,  she  was  sure  that  they  were  only  grimaces.  She  smoothed  on  her  long  white  gloves  and  took  up  her  satin  bag,  then  heard  a  dis-  tant  clock  somewhere  across  the  roofs  of  high  buildings  strike  the  half  hour,  and  knew  that  she  must  wait  all  through  the  next,  matching  half  hour  for  her  father  to  come  to  fetch  her.  As  she  waited,  shivering  as  she  paced  about  the  room,  growing  more  and  more  goose-fleshed,  she  saw  the  reasonable-  ness  in  her  father's  thought  about  the  sherry  and  wished  that  she  had  not  wasted  it  and,  even  more,  that  she  had  lain  twenty  minutes  longer  in  her  warm  bath.  He  came  as  the  clock  struck  out  the  hour,  and,  when  she  ran  and  opened  the  door  to  him,  said,  &quot;Heavens,  Ma'am,  how  exquisite  you  look!&quot;  They  descended  the  stairs.  In  the  reception  room,  another  wait-  er  circled  with  a  tray  of  filled  glasses.  Four  people  stood  drinking  by  the  fire-  two  middle-aged  men,  one  wearing  a  mayoral  chain,  the  other  a  bosomful  of  medals,  and  two  middle-aged  women,  stiffly  corseted,  their  hair  set  in  tight  curls  and  ridges.  Diamonds  shone  on  their  freckled  chests,  and  pink  carna-  tions  slanted  heads  downward  across  their  bodices.  They  look  as  if  they  know the  ropes,  thought  Rhoda,  paralyzed  with  shyness.  They  received  her  kindly,  but  in  surprise.  &quot;Why,  where  is  Ethel?&quot;  they  asked  her  father,  and  they  mur-  mured  in  concern  over  the  jaundice  and  said  how  dreary  it  must  be  to  be  on  the  wagon.  &quot;Especially  for  her,&quot;  the  tone  of  their  voices  seemed  to  Rhoda  to  sug-  gest.  A  bouquet  was  taken  from  a  little  side  table  and  handed  to  Rhoda,  who  held  it  stiffly  at  her  waist,  where  it  con-  tended  fiercely  with  the  color  of  her  dress.  The  six  of  them  were,  in  their  im-  portance,  shut  off  from  a  crowded  bar  where  other  guests  were  drinking  cock-  tails.  On  this  side  of  the  door  there  was  an  air  of  confidence  and  expectation,of  being  ahead  of  the  swim,  Rhoda  thought.  She  wished  passionately,  try-  ing  to  sip  away  her  sherry,  that  she  might  spend  the  entire  evening  shut  away  from  the  hordes  of  strangers  in  the  bigger  room,  but  only  too  soon  a  huge  toastmaster,  fussing  with  his  white  gloves,  brought  the  threecouples  into  line  and  then  threw  wide  the  doors.  In-  clining  his  head  patronizingly  to  guest  after  guest,  he  bawled  out  some  sem-  blance  of  the  names  they  proffered.  As  the  first  ones  came  reluctantly  forward  from  the  gaiety  of  the  bar,  Mr.  Hobart  leaned  toward  Rhoda  and  took  the  glass  from  her  hand  and  put  it  on  the  tray  with  the  others,  &quot;How  do  you  do,&quot;  she  whispered,  shaking  hands  with  an  old  gentleman,  who  was  sur-  prised  to  see  that  her  eyes  were  filled  with  tears.  &quot;You  are  deputizing  for  your  mother?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;And  very  charmingly  you  do  it,  my  dear,&quot;  he  added,  and  passed  on  quickly,  so  that  she  could  brush  her  wet  lashes  with  her  gloved  hand.  &quot;Good  evening,  Rhoda.&quot;  The  bracing  mockery  of  this  new  voice  jolted  her,  the  voice  of  Digby  Lycett  Senior,  as  she  always  called  him  in  her  mind-the  mind  that  for  months  had  been  conquered  and  occupied  by  Digby  Lycett  Junior.  This  unexpectedappearance  was  disastrous  to  her.  She  felt  indignantly  that  he  had  no  right  to  be  there,  so  re-  motely  connected  was  he  with  the  trade  the  others  had  in  common.  &quot;Nice  of  you  to  come,&quot;  her  father  " b"was  now  telling  him.  They  were  old  business  friends.  It  was  Digby  Lycett  who  sold  her  father  the  machinery  for  making  Hobart's  Homemade  Cookies.  It  was  loathsome  of  you  to  come,  Rhoda  thought,  unhappily.  She  took  one  gloved  hand  after  an-  other,  endlessly-it  seemed-confront-  ed  by  pink  carnations  and  strings  of  pearls.  But  the  procession  dwindled  at  last-the  stragglers,  who  had  lingered  over  their  drinks  till  the  last  moment,  were  rounded  up  by  the  toastmaster  and  sent  resignedly  on  their  way  to  the  ban-  queting  hall,  where  an  orchestra  was  playing  &quot;Some  Enchanted  Evening&quot;  above  the  noise  of  chairs  being  scraped  and  voices  mounting  in  volume  like  a  gathering  wave.  In  the  reception  room,  the  Mayor  straightened  the  chain  on  his  breast.  One  duty  done,  he  was  now  prepared  to  go  on  to  the  next.  All  of  his  move-  ments  were  certain  and  automatic;  every  evening  of  his  life,  they  implied,  he  had  a  hall  full  of  people  waiting  for  him  to  take  his  seat.  As  Rhodamoved  toward  the  door  into  the  banqueting  hall  a  sense  of  vertigo  and  nausea  overcame  her,  con-  fronted  by  the  long  walk  to  her  place  and  the  ranks  of  pink  faces  turned  toward  her.  With  bag  and  bouquet  and  skirt  to  manage,  she  felt  that  she  was  bundling  along  with  downcast  eyes.  Before  a  great  heap  of  flowers  on  the  table  the  six  of  them  stopped.  The  Mayor  was  humming  very  softly  to  the  music.  He  put  on  his  spectacles,  peered  at  the  table,  and  then  laid  his  hand  on  the  back  ofa  gilt  chair,  indicating  that  here,  next  to  him,  Rhoda  was  to  be  privileged  to  sit.  At  the  doors,  waitresses  crowded,  ready  to  rush  forward  with  hors  d'oeuvres.  The  music  faded.  Without  raising  her  eyes,  instinctively,  wishing  to  sink  out  of  sight,  Rhoda  slid  round  her  chair  and  sat  upon  it.  Down  crashed  the  toastmaster's  gay-  el  as  the  Mayor,  in  a  challenging  voice,  began  to  intone  grace.  Mr.  Hobart  put  his  hand  under  Rhoda's  elbow  and  brought  her,  lurching-as  she  could  not  help  doing-to  her  feet  again.  The  gilt  chair  tipped,  but  he  saved  it  from  going  over;  the  bouquet  shot  under  the  table,  and  Rhoda  prayed  that  she  might  fol-  low  it.  &quot;Please,  God,  let  me  faint.  Let  me  never  have  to  look  up  again  and  meet  anybody's  glance.&quot;  &quot;Now  you  can,  young  lady,&quot;  the  Mayor  said,  helping  her  down  again.  Then  he  turned  quickly  to  the  woman  on  his  other  side  and  began  a  conversa-  tion.  Rhoda's  father  had  done  the  same.  Sitting  between  them,  she  swallowed  sardines  and  olives  and  her  bitter,  bitter  tears.  After  a  time,  her  isolation  made  her  defiant.  She  lifted  her  head  and  looked  boldly  and  crossly  in  front  of  her,  and  caught  the  eye  of  Digby  Lycett  Senior,  just  as  he  raised  a  fork  to  his  mouth,  and  he  smiled  at  her.  He  was  sitting  not  far  across  the  room,  at  right  angles  to  her  table,  where  he  could  per-  fectly  observe  her  humiliation  and  re-  cord  it  for  his  son's  interest  and  amuse-  ment  later.  &quot;Poor  old  Rhoda  .  .  .&quot;  She  could  hear  the  words,  overlaid  with  laughter.  She  ate  quickly,  as  if  she  had  not  touched  food  for  weeks.  Once,  her  father,  fingering  a  wineglass  restlessly,  caught  and  held  as  he  was  in  conversa-  tion  by  the  relentless  woman  at  his  side,  managed  to  turn  his  head  for  a  moment  and  smile  at  Rhoda.  &quot;All  right?&quot;  he  asked,  and  nodded  his  own  answer,  for  it  was  a  great  treat  for  a  young  girl,  he     implied-the  music,  the  flowers,  the  pretty  dress,  the  wine.  Someone  must  talk  to  me,  she  thought,  for  it  seemed  to  her  that,  through  lack  of  conversation,  her  ex-  pression  was  growing  sullen.  She  tried  to  reorganize  her  features  into  a  look  of  animation  or  calm  pleasure.  She  drank  a  plate  of  acid-tasting  red  soup  to  its  dregs.  Chicken  followed  turbot,  as  her  mother  had  assured  her  was  inevita-  ble.  The  Mayor,  who  went  through  the  same  menu  nearly  every  evening,  left  a  great  deal  on  his  plate;  he  scat-  tered  it  about  for  a  while  and  then  tidied  it  up.  Not  so  Rhoda,  who,  against  a  great  discomfort  of  fullness,  plodded  painstakingly  on.  At  last,  as  she  was  eating  some  cauli-  flower,  the  Mayor  turned  his  moist,  purple  face  toward  her.  She  lifted  her  eyes  to  the  level  of  the  chain  on  his  breast  and  agreed  with  him  that  she  was  enjoying  herself  enormously.  &quot;It  is  my  first  visit  to  Norley,&quot;  she  said  gaily,  conscious  of  Digby  Lycett  Senior's  eyes  upon  her.  She  hoped  that  he  would  think  from  her  expression  that  some  delicious  pleasantry  was  in  prog-  ress.  To  keep  the  Mayor  in  conversa-  tion  she  was  determined.  He  should  not  turn  away  again,  and  Digby  Lycett,  Senior  or  Junior,  should  not  have  the  impression  that  she  sat  in  silence  and  disgrace  from  the  beginning  to  the  end.  &quot;But  I  have  a  cat  who  came  from  here,&quot;  she  added.  The  Mayor  looked  startled.  &quot;A  Burmese  cat.  A  man  in  Norley-  a  Dr.  Fisher-breeds  them.  Do  you  know  Dr.  Fisher?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  say  that  I  do.&quot;  He  was  plainly  unwilling  for  her  to  go  on.  On  his  other  side  was  feminine  " b"flattery  and  cajolery,  and  he  wished  to  turn  back  for  more,  and  Rhoda  and  her  cat  were  of  no  interest  to  him.  &quot;Have  you  ever  seen  a  Burmese  cat?&quot;  she  asked.  He  crumbled  some  bread  and  looked  cross  and  said  that  as  far  as  he  knew  he  never  had.  &quot;He  came  to  [REDACTED]  on  the  train  all  by  himself  in  a  little  basket,&quot;  Rhoda  said.  &quot;The  cat,  I  mean,  of  course.  Minkie,  I  call  him.  Such  a  darling,  you  can't  imagine.&quot;  She  smiled  vivaciously  for  Digby  Lycett  Senior's  benefit,  but,  try  as  she  might,  she  could  not  summon  the  courage  to  lift  her  eyes  any  higher  than  the  splendid  chain  on  the  Mayor's  breast,  for  she  shrank  from  the  look  of  contempt  she  was  afraid  he  might  be  wearing.  &quot;'They  are  rather  like  Siamese  cats,&quot;  she  went  on.  '&quot;'Though  they  are  brown  all  over  and  have  golden  eyes,  not  blue.&quot;  &quot;Oh?&quot;  said  the  Mayor.  He  had  to  lean  a  little  nearer  to  her  as  a  waitress  put  a  dish  of  pistachio  ice  cream  over  his  left  shoulder.  &quot;But  rather  the  same  natures,  if  you  know  what  I  mean,&quot;  said  Rhoda.  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  don't  care  for  cats,&quot;  said  the  Mayor,  in  the  voice  of  simple  pride  in  which  this  remark  is  always  made.  &quot;On  all  your  many  social  commit-  ments,&quot;  the  woman  on  his  other  side  said  loudly,  rescuing  him,  &quot;which  flavor  of  ice  cream  crops  up  most  often?&quot;  He  laughed  and  turned  to  her  with  relief.  &quot;Vanilla,&quot;  he  said  jovially.  &quot;In  a  ratio  of  eight  to  one.&quot;  &quot;ENJOYING  yourself?&quot;  Rhoda's  father  asked  her  later,  as  they  danced  a  fox  trot  together.  &quot;I  daresay  this  is  the  part  of  the  evening  that  ap-  peals  to  you-not  all  those  long-winded  speeches.&quot;  It  appealed  to  Rhoda  because  it  was  nearer  to  the  end,  and  for  no  other  rea-  son.  &quot;You  seemed  to  be  getting  on  well  with  the  Mayor,&quot;  Mr.  Hobart  added.  The  Mayor  had  disappeared.  Rhoda  could  see  no  sign  of  his  glittering  chain,  and  she  supposed  that  he  disliked  danc-  ing  as  much  as  he  disliked  cats.  She  prayed  that  Digby  Lycett  Senior  might  not  ask  her  to  do  the  old-fashioned  waltz  that  followed.  She  was  afraid  of  his  mocking  smile  and,  ostrichlike,  opened  her  bag  and  looked  inside  it  as  he  approached.  Another  middle-aged  man  stepped  forward  first  and  asked  to  have  the  pleasure,  in  a  voice  that  denied  the  possibility  of  there  being  any.  Rhoda  guessed  that  what  he  meant  was  &quot;  May  I  get  this  duty  over  and  done  with,  pur-sued  as  it  is  as  a  mark  of  the  esteem  in  which  I  hold  your  father?&quot;  And  Rhoda  smiled  as  if  she  were  enchanted,  and  rose  and  put  herself  into  his  arms  as  if  he  were  her  lover.  He  made  the  waltz  more  old-fash-  ioned  than  she  had  ever  known  it,  danc-  ing  stiffly,  keeping  his  stomach  well  out  of  her  way,  humming  but  not  saying  a  word  to  her.  She  was  up  against  a  great  silence  this  evening;  to  her  it  was  the  measure  of  her  failure.  Sorting  through  her  mind  for  something  to  say,  she  re-  jected  remarks  about  the  floor  and  the  band  and  said,  instead,  that  she  had  never  been  to  Norley  before.  'The  observation  should  have  led  somewhere,  she  thought,  but  it  did  not;  it  was  quite  ignored.  &quot;But  I  have  a  cat  who  came  from  here,&quot;  she  added.  &quot;A  little  Burmese  cat.&quot;  When  he  did  not  answer  this,  either,  she  thought  that  he  must  be  deaf  and  raised  her  voice.  &quot;''There  is  a  doctor  here  who  breeds  them.  Perhaps  you  have  come  across  him-a  Dr.  Fisher?  &quot;  &quot;No,  I  can't  say  that  I  have.&quot;  &quot;He  sent  the  kitten  to  [REDACTED]  by  train,  in  a  little  basket,  So  pretty  and  gay.  Minkie,  I  call  him.  Have  you  ever  seen  a  Burmese  cat?&quot;  She  could  not  wait  for  his  answers,  lest  they  never  come.  &quot;They  are  not  a  usual  sort  of  cat  at  all.  Rather  like  a  Siamese  in  many  ways,  but  brown  all  over  and  with  golden  eyes  instead  of  blue.  They  are  similar  in  nature,  though,  if  you  can  un-  derstand  what  I  mean.&quot;  He  either  could  not  or  was  not  pre-  pared  to  try,  and  at  last,  mercifully,  the  music  quickened  and  finally  snapped  off  altogether.  Flushed  and  smiling,  she  was  escorted  back  to  her  father,  who  was  standing  by  the  bar,  looking  genial  and  indulgent.  Her  partner's  silence  seemed  precau-  tionary  now.  He  handed  her  over  with  a  scared  look,  as  if  she  were  some  dan-  " b"gerous  lunatic.  Her  father,  not  noticing  this,  said,  &quot;You  are  having  quite  a  suc-  cess  with  your  Mayor,  my  dear.&quot;  &quot;My  Mayor?&quot;  She  turned  quickly  and  looked  after  the  man  who  had  just  left  her.  He  was  talking  to  a  little  group  of  people:  they  all  had  their  heads  together  and  were  laughing.  &quot;He  took  that  chain  off,  then?&quot;  she  said,  feeling  sick  and  dazed.  It  was  all  she  had  had  to  distinguish  him  from  the  rest  of  the  bald-headed  and  obese  middle-aged  men,  &quot;You  couldn't  expect  him  to  dance  with  that  hanging  round  his  neck-not  even  in  your  honor,&quot;  her  father  said.  &quot;And  now  I  shall  fetch  you  a  long,  cool  drink,  for  you  look  as  if  the  danc-  ing  has  exhausted  you.&quot; "