 b"WHEN  Billy  woke,  it  was  with  the  impression  that  he  had  heard  someone  stirring-his  mother,  perhaps,  up  early  to  start  get-  ting  his  breakfast  in  good  time  forthe  school  bus,  or  his  older  brother,  Chuck,  up  to  do  some  chore  or  other  before  he  had  to  leave  for  his  job  at  the  dairy.  But  Billy  saw  almost  instantly  that  it  was  still  dark  outside-too  dark  at  this  time  of  year  for  either  of  these  activities-  and  he  realized  it  was  only  the  old  house  itself  he  had  heard,  creaking  irritably  under  the  pressures  of  the  early  Novem-  ber  wind  sweeping  down  the  valley.  He  was  just  settling  back  to  sleep  again,  or  trying  to,  when  the  image  of  the  Howells'  house-dollhouse-small  and  faraway-looking  in  its  little  hollow,  and  glossy  white  as  one  of  his  mother's  cake  icings-glimmered  suddenly  in  the  cor-  ridors  of  his  mind,  and  at  once  he  was  wide  a  wake,  wondering  and  worrying:  Had  he  been  right  or  had  he  been  wrong,  the  other  day  down  there,  in  what  he'd  done  to  old  Sam  Honniman?  The  way  he  saw  the  house  now  was  the  way  it  always  looked  to  him  when  he  sig  hted  it  fir  st,  as  he  came  out  of  the  strip  of  woods  on  the  knoll  between  it  and  his  own  house,  and  it  was  the  way  he  liked  best  to  see  it-especially  in  the  fall,  when  the  How  ells  had  closed  it  up  for  the  winter,  and  it  sat  there,  still  and  somehow  perfect  in  its  aloneness,  in-  violable  in  its  wide  green  lawn  and  we  ll-  tended  shrubs,  with,  from  where  he  stood,  its  reflection  glinting  and  flicker-  ing  in  the  pool,  or  pond,  that  the  Howells  had  put  in  beside  it.  It  was  a  small  house,  really,  and  there  were  a  couple  of  fields  leading  down  to  it  from  the  knoll  to  give  it  distance,  so  it  seemed  smaller  and  more  compact,  even,  than  it  was.  And  it  was  an  old  house,  too,  as  far  as  that  went;  it  had  been  the  old  Tyler  place  originally,  and  it  was  built  in  the  old-  fashioned  Victorian  style,  with  fancy  fretwork  a  long  the  eaves  and  around  the  windows,  high  peaked  gables,  and  a  cupola  to  top  it  all,  of  the  sort  that  people  nowadays  generally  laughed  at.  People  had  laughed,  al-  so,  when  the  Howells  bought  it.  But  the  Howells  had  surprised  them.  They  had  fixed  it  over  from  top  to  bottom,  and  they  had  fixed  up  the  grounds  around  it,  including  the  pool.  And  now  -well,  Billy  couldn't  clearly  de-  scribe,  even  to  hirnself,  the  feeling  it  gave  him.  It  was  something  to  do  with  his  growing  up,  he  realized  vaguely,  for  he  was  fifteen  now  and  he  recognized  that  there  were  changes  going  on  in  him.  It  had  been  only  in  the  last  couple  of  years  that  the  house  held  this  fascina-  tion  for  him.  And  of  course  it  always  brought  to  mind  the  contrast  between  it  and  his  own  shabby  dwelling.  It  showed  what  a  person  could  do  to  a  place  if  he  set  his  mind  to  it.  But  the  feeling  the  house  gave  him  sprang  from  something  more  than  all  this,  really.  It  was  something  that  had  to  do  partly  with  dreams  and  partly  with  poetry-or  still  more,  maybe,  with  fairy  tales.  It  was  the  kind  of  house  that  a  princess  might  live  in,  the  citadel  of  some  enchanted  maiden,  and  in  past  times  Billy  had  often  walked  up  to  the  edge  of  the  knoll  just  to  stand  for  a  while  and  look  at  it.  Now,  this  fall,  he  walked  down  across  the  two  fields  between  to  inspect  it,  for  this  time  Mr.  Howell  himself,  on  leaving,  had  asked  him  to  &quot;keep  an  eye  on  it&quot;  for  him.  The  house  was  pretty  in  the  summer-  time,  too,  when  the  long  aluminum  lawn  chairs  were  out,  and  the  glass-  topped  wrought-iron  tables  where  the  Howells  had  their  cocktails,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  sum  mer  paraphernalia.  For  a  while,  Billy  had  walked  over  there  by  way  of  the  knoll  in  the  sum  mer-t  he  back  way,  he  called  it-for  he  went  once  or  twice  a  week,  during  school  vacation,  to  mow  the  lawn  and  to  do  other  little  chores,  like  helping  Mrs.  Howell  with  her  gardening;  and  he'd  stand,  then,  at  the  woods'  edge,  just  looking  and  liking,  before  going  on  down  across  the  sloping  fields  (which  the  Howells,  for  some  reason,  Lord  knew  what  except  tidiness,  kept  mowed)  to  the  house  itself.  But  one  day,  when  he  came  down,  skirting  the  pool  and  going  toward  the  back  yard  and  the  tool  shed,  he  found  Mrs.  Howell  out  on  the  terrace  wait-  ing  for  him.  Mrs.  Howell  was  a  tall,  slender,  dark-haired  woman,  husky-  voiced  and  consciously  languid  of  bear-ing,  with  a  small,  smooth,  rather  ex-  pressionless  face.  She  was,  as  always,  immaculate,  wearing  black  shorts  and  a  dark-blue  knitted  pullover,  and  Billy  thought,  as  he  always  thought,  that  she  looked  beautiful  indeed-she  looked  the  way  the  word  &quot;soign\xc3\xa9e&quot;  sounded-but  today  her  manner  was  different  from  ordinary  and  her  tone  was  crisper.  &quot;What  were  you  doing  on  the  edge  of  the  field  up  there,  Billy?&quot;  she  de-  manded,  hardly  even  answering  his  hello.  &quot;I  saw  you  standing  there.&quot;  &quot;I  was  just  looking  at  the  house,  Mrs.  Howell,&quot;  said  Billy.  \xe2\x80\x9cVVhy?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Well  ,  .  .&quot;  She  had  shot  the  ques-  tion  at  him  so  abruptly  that  he  felt  a  little  confused  and  puzzled.  But  they  got  on  so  well  together  that  he  couldn't  help  answering  truthfully,  silly  as  it  might  sound.  &quot;Well,  it  looks  so  pretty  from  up  there,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  just  like  to  look  at  it.&quot;  At  that,  she  relaxed  a  little.  &quot;Really  think  so,  Billy?&quot;  she  said.  She  had  a  way  of  dropping  off  the  beginning  words  of  a  sentence,  and  Billy  liked  it.  &quot;Oh,  I  do!&quot;  And-though  this,  he  was  afraid,  might  sound  even  sillier-  he  said,  &quot;I  think,  what  you've  done  to  it  and  all,  it's  just  about  the  prettiest  place  in  the  world.&quot;  &quot;Well!&quot;  she  said,  and  this  time  she  really  smiled  at  him.  &quot;Know  some-  thing,  Billy?  That's  what  we  think,  too!  But  you  know&quot;-and  suddenly,  somehow,  before  she  said  another  word,  Billy  was  sure  what  was  coming,  and  blushed  at  it  (even  now,  in  his  bed,  in  the  darkness,  he  writhed  a  little,  at  the  memory)-&quot;one  of  the  things  we  most  like  about  the  place  is,  well,  privacy.  Out  back  here,  especially,  we  like  to  feel  we're  alone-that  no  one  can  see  us.&quot;  Billy  didn't  dare  take  his  eyes  from  her,  but  abruptly  he  had  the  impression  that  Mr.  Howell  was  standing  inside  the  screen  door,  watch-  ing  and  listening,  and  he  felt  his  blush  grow  deeper.  &quot;You  know,  I  might  be  sunbathing,  or  Ted  might,&quot;  she  went  on,  and  her  tone  was  kinder.  She  even  gave  a  little  laugh.  &quot;And  if  we  felt  people  might  walk  in  from  any  direc-  tion,  sort  of,  we'd  feel-  well,  surrounded.  You  understand,  don't  you,  Billy?  After  all,  there's  always  the  front  way,  down  the  road.&quot;  And,  without  waiting  for  him  to  reply:  &quot;Now  run  along  and  get  after  the  mowing.  Mr.  Howell  says  the  lawn  comes  first,  but  I've  got  some  other  " b"things  I  want  you  to  help  me  with,  once  you're  through.&quot;  Oh,  she  could  be  forthright  and  downright  when  she  wanted  to  be,  Mrs.  Howell  could!  She  had  a  quick  temper,  and  the  trouble  was  that  her  expression  changed  so  little  when  she  was  angry  that  it  was  hard  for  aperson  to  tell.  She'd  been  right,  in  this  case;  he  must  have  looked  pretty  funny,  standing  gawking  up  there.  But  she  could  be  just  as  nice,  too,  on  occasion.  Billy  brought  his  own  lunch-a  thing  that  was  not  entirely  customary  in  the  region,  or  hadn't  been  till  the  city  folks  started  moving  in.  People  you  worked  for  usu-  ally  fixed  up  a  plateful  of  something  hot  and  brought  it  out,  if  they  didn't  have  you  in  to  their  own  table.  Mrs.  Howell  had  explained  that  they  ate  at  such  &quot;odd  hours&quot;  it  would  be  an  inconvenience,  but  to  make  up  for  it  she  almost  always  added  some  little  tidbit  to  his  own  sand-  wiches  and  whatever.  That  day,  in  recompense,  she  had  a  whopping  big  dish  of  some  sort  of  fluffy  peach  pudding  for  him,  with  some  ice  cream  besides,  and  Billy  had  the  idea  that  it  was  be-  cause  of  the  same  incident  that  he'd  got  the  job  of  looking  after  the  place  in  the  winter.  Anyway,  later  that  day-it  was  al-  ready  late  August  then,  getting  close  to  the  time  when  the  Howells  would  be  moving  into  the  city-Mr.  Howell  came  out  to  where  Billy  was  weeding  around  the  rose  garden.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How's  our  ambulatory  horticul-  turist?&quot;  Mr.  Howell  was  older  than  Mrs.  Howell-at  least,  his  hair  was  graying-and  he  was  as  short,  bouncy,  and  excitableas  she  was  tall  and  com-  posed.  He  taught  history  at  one  of  the  New  York  universities,  and  he  and  Pilly  had  a  game,  or  he  did,  of  using  the  longest  words  he  could  think  of,  in  the  hope  of  stumping  Billy.  Billy  prided  himself,  though,  that  Mr.  Howell  didn't  often  succeed,  and  he  didn't  this  time.  &quot;I'm  fine,  Mr.  Howell,&quot;  Billy  re-  plied,  not  turninga  hair.  &quot;And  the  horticulture,  it's  going  fine,  too.&quot;  &quot;So  I  see.  So  I  see,&quot;  said  Mr.  Howell,  smiling.  To  tell  the  truth,  and  apart  from  his  mannerisms,  he  was  pretty  nice  himself.  &quot;My  wife  tells  me  you  like  our  little  place,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;I  sure  do,  Mr.  Howell.&quot;  &quot;Well,  so  do  we.  So  do  we.  But  it's  always  nice  to  know  someone  else  does.&quot;  And  right  then  and  there  he  and  Billy  made  the  arrangement.  While  the  Howells  were  away,  Billy  was  to  walk  over  (&quot;'The  back  way,  if  you  want,  then,&quot;  Mr.  Howell  said  with  a  twinkle,  but  it  showed  that  he  had  been  lis-  tening)  at  least  once,  and,  if  possible,  twice,  a  week,  and  check  things:  see  if  the  house  and  the  grounds  were  all  right-no  storm  damage,  no  vandalism,  and  so  on.  It  was  the  hunting  season,  Mr.  Howell  explained,  that  they  were  chief-  ly  worried  about.  &quot;You  know  that  time  last  year?&quot;  he  asked  Billy.  &quot;When  I  came  up  late  to  get  some  things,  and  I  found  three  cars-three  cars!  -parked  all  over  the  lawn,  and  about  a  dozen  hunters  banging  away  all  through  the  woods?  I  believe  I  told  you  about  it.  Well!  I  drove  them  off  then,  all  right,  and  I  warned  them  when  they  came  back  from  their  blasted-well,  blast-  ing!  But  I  suspect  they  use  the  place  like  that  all  the  time,  through  the  fall  and  winter.  I've  posted  it,  of  course,  but  that  does  no  good.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  they  do,  Mr.  Howell.  They  do.  You  see-&quot;  Billy  was  going  on  to  say  that  they  were  local  people,  mainly,  and  not  harmful-the  deer  season  was  when  they  came,  and  since  they  knew  the  Howell  house  was  empty,  they  just  used  it  as  a  meeting  place  before  they  started  beating  through  the  woods  but  Mr.  Howell  interrupted  him.  &quot;Well,  look  out  for  that  sort  of  thing,  then.  I  don't  suppose  you  could  drive  a  bunch  like  that  off?&quot;  He  grinned  down  at  Billy,  and  Billy  had  to  grin  back.  &quot;I  could  try,&quot;  he  saidstoutly.  &quot;Well,  but  mainly-  Yes,  maybe  you  could  try,  or  tell  them  you  were  " b"told  off  to  watch  things.  You  could  say  that  you  would  report  them.  But  main-  ly  just  look  around,  while  we're  away,  and  if  anything  does  go  wrong,  then  you  write  us,  or  even  phone  us-collect,  of  course.  I'll  give  you  some  postcards  with  our  address,  and  the  telephone  number.&quot;  As  for  pay,  when  Mr.  Howell  brought  that  up,  Billy  protested.  &quot;Oh,  I'll  do  it  for  nothing,  Mr.  Howell!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;It's  only  neighborly.&quot;  Mr.  Ho  well  cut  him  off.  &quot;No,  no,  none  of  that!  This  is  a  job,  like  any  other.  Let's  say  five  dollars,  ch?  Will  that  cover  it?  Here.&quot;  And  he  pulled  out  his  wallet  right  then  and  there,  though  in  the  very  act  he  changed  his  mind  about  the  sum.  &quot;On  the  whole,  let's  say  ten.  Come  winter,  there  may  be  times  when  it  won't  be  so  easy,  mak-  ing  the  rounds  up  here.&quot;  IT  was  about  two  months  later  that  Billy,  making  his  rounds,  ran  into  old  Sam  Honniman.  And  the  trouble,  or  a  part  of  it,  anyway,  was  that-shift-  less,  dirty,  lazy,  drunken,  and  untrust-  worthy  as  he  was-old  Sam  was  in  a  way  a  relative  of  the  Harpes,  Billy's  own  family.  To  be  sure,  that  was  not  really  so  extraordinary.  The  name  of  Harpe  was  an  old  one  in  the  locality,  and  had  oncebeen  a  more  important  one  than  it  was  now-something,  inci-  dentally,  that  Billy  meant  to  remedy  when  he  grew  older.  There  was  a  Harpe  [REDACTED],  over  by  Dennison-  ville,  as  well  as  a  Harpe  Mountain,  and  there  was  even  a  historical  marker,  down  on  the  state  road  to  [REDACTED],  indicating  the  site  of  a  farm  once  owned  by  a  Joshua  Harpe,  one  of  Billy's  remoter  ancestors,  who  had  captained  a  company  of  in-  fantry  in  the  Revolution  and  had  fought  an  engage-  ment  against  the  British  during  the  [REDACTED]  River  campaign.  It  sometimes  seemed  thathalf  the  people  in  the  township-the  old-  timers,  anyway,  like  the  Becketts,  the  Townsends,  the  Van  Nuys,  the  Morans,  and  so  on-had  Harpe  blood  in  them.  Old  Sam  was  one  such.  He'd  been  some  sort  of  dis-  tant  cousin  of  Billy's  father,  when  Billy's  father  was  alive,  and  though  his  only  known  job  was  a  kind  of  token  one,  working  on  the  town  dump,  there  had  been  a  time  (or  so  Billy  had  been  told)  when  he  was  as  upright  and  respectable  as  anyone.  Now,  when  Billy  surprised  him  sitting  on  the  Ho  wells  back  porch,  the  old  man  rec-  ognized  him  instantly.  &quot;Hi,  boy!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  Frank  Harpe's  boy,  ain't  you,  from  up  the  road?  What  the  hell  you  doin'  here?&quot;  He  was  almost  in  rags,  as  usual,  in  a  torn  windbreaker  with  a  ragged  sweater  under  it,  patched  khaki  pants  dark  with  dirt,  and  worn,  dusty  work  shoes;  he  was  grizzle-bearded  and  half-  drunk,  too,  and  totally  unashamed  about  it.  To  tell  the  truth,  when  Billy  came  upon  him  the  surprise  to  Billy  was  greater  than  it  seemed  to  be  to  Sam.  Billy  had  come  down  with  Spike,  his  collie,  and  he  had  brought  along  his  .22,  just  in  case  he  spotted  a  woodchuck,  or  some  thing.  And  first  he  had  looked  at  the  pool  and  had  poked  away  some  fallen  leaves  from  around  the  outlet  to  make  sure  that  it  wouldn't  get  clogged;  and  then,  even  before  Spike  bristled  -  it  had  been  like  a  ruffling  of  the  air,  or  maybe  the  old  man  had  been  humming  to  himself-anyway,  some-  thing  had  told  him  that  something,  somewhere,  was  wrong.  When  he  rounded  the  back  corner  of  the  house  and saw  the old  man  sitting  there,  his  mind  started  racing,  but  when  Sam  greeted  him,  he  was  noncommittal.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  you  doing,  you  mean,&quot;  was  all  he  said.  Old  Sam  grinned  at  him.  &quot;Just  settin',  boy.  Just  sett  in'.  Any  law  against  that?&quot;  He  had  a  half-emptied  bottle  of  something-sherry,  probably,  or  maybe  whiskey-propped  beside  him,  and  his  mood,  it  was  clear,  was  mean.  &quot;You  in  charge  here,  or  something?&quot;  And  then,  before  Billy  could  even  an-  swer:  &quot;Oh,  yeah,  you  work  for  these  bastards,  don't  you?  Mow  their  lawn,  dump  their  garbage,  shine  their  shoes,  wash  the  dishes  for  them.&quot;  He  had  begun  as  if  the  list  were  endless,  but  he  stopped  abruptly.  &quot;God  sakes!  What  would  your  Pa  say,  if  he  was  around  to  see  it?  'These  Johnny-come-latelies!  Or,  by  God,  old  Saul  Tyler!  What  he'd  think  of  his  place!  How  they've  fancied  it  up,  and  ruined  it!  It  was  a  good  farm  once,  and  they've  ruined  it.&quot;  He  was  ranting  so,  and  there  were  so  many  things  that  were  false  mixed  in  with  the  true,  that  Billy  didn't  really  know  where  to  begin.  It  was  true  that  he  did  dump  the  Howells'  garbage  out  back,  and  burn  their  trash  in  the  in-  cinerator.  He  did  mow  their  lawn.  But  he  didn't  shine  their  shoes,  or  do  any  of  the  housework,  and  he  could  have  said  that.  He  could  have  said  that  he  didn't  think  his  father  would  have" b"minded  his  working  for  them  under  the  terms  they  offered,  as  his  mother,  cer-  tainly,  didn't  mind  now.  He  could  have  tried  to  explain  that  the  Howells  weren't  Johnny-come-latelies-to  him,  anyway-and  that,  far  from  ruining  the  place,  they  had  beautified  it.  But  it  was  hard  to  sort  it  all  out,  and  besides  he  felt,  as  he'd  felt  from  the  first,  that  he  didn't  have  time;  the  main  thing  was  to  get  old  Sam  Honniman  out  of  there,  and  fast.  &quot;I  work  here  winters,  too,&quot;  was  what  Billy  said,  but  he  tried  to  make  his  voice  sound  meaningful.  &quot;And  I  am  supposed  to  be  in  charge  here.&quot;  And  though  it  came  hard,  he  added,  for  he  was  really  worried,  &quot;You  better  get  out  of  here,  Mr.  Honniman.&quot;  But  at  that,  and  in  spite  of  the  warn-  ing,  all  the  old  man  did  was  to  rear  his  head  back  and  roar.  He  took  another  swig  at  the  bottle,  just  about  finishing  it.  &quot;Mr.  Honniman!&quot;  he  repeated,  sputtering  through  the  drink.  &quot;It's  a  long  time  since  I  been  called  that,  all  right!  How're  they  like  to  work  for,  anyway,  boy?  How's  she?  Hot?&quot;  &quot;No!&quot;  cried  Billy,  but  the  old  man  paid  no  attention.  He  was  off  on  an-  other  stringof  questions-crazy,  nee-  dling,  nagging  questions,  Billy  knew,  but  still  he  couldn't  help  wanting  to  answer  them.  &quot;Or  ain't  you  found  out  yet?&quot;  Sam  went  on.  &quot;Lord  knows,  you're  old  enough-or  I  was,  myself,  at  your  age.  What's  it  like,  inside  the  house?  Or-  and  now  hegot  sly-&quot;have  they  even  let  you  inside  the  door  yet?&quot;  This  was  something  Billy  could  an-  swer,  and  he  tried  to.  &quot;They  sure   have!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  been  in  there  lots  of  times!&quot;  But  again  the  old  man  cut  in  on  him.  &quot;Yeah?  How  far?  You  been  up  in  her  bedroom?&quot;  he  demanded,  and  when  Billy  cried  furiously  &quot;No!  Why  should  I  be?&quot;  he  hardly  noticed.  &quot;Or  the  din-  ing  room?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Or  the  parlor?&quot;  He  leaned  forward,  grinning  wickedly.  &quot;If  the  truth  was  known,  I  bet  you  ain't  been  one  step  beyond  their  kitchen-or  the  doorstep,  more  likely,  to  ask  for  a  drink  of  water.&quot;  And  this  was  pretty  much  true,  so  Billy  couldn't  say  anything  for  a  moment.  Old  Sam  went  on.  &quot;And  here's  where  old  Saul  Tyler  and  me  used  to  sit  in  the  evenings,  him  fiddling  and  me  singing,  and  the  house  open  behind  us.  Christ,  boy!  You  don't  know  it,  but  I  passed  here  once  this  last  summer,  and  " b"I  saw  you  out  there  under  that  tree  there,  chewing  a  sandwich  like  any  road  worker.  It  shamed  me!  &quot;  Still  staring  at  Billy,  but  unsmilingly  now-sternly,  really,  but  drunkenly  stern  (he  was  quite  drunk,  Billy  realized)-he  raised  the  bottle  and  drained  it,  and  then  dropped  it  clattering  on  the  porch  floor.  &quot;It  shamed  me,&quot;  he  said  solemnly.  &quot;It  shamed  me.  &quot;  And  when  Billy  tried  to  explain  about  the  Howells'  odd  eating  hours,  the  old  man  again  erupted.  &quot;Odd  hours!&quot;  he  almost  howled.  Billy  really  was  getting  worried.  &quot;What  odd  hours?  Don't  you  know  you  got  a  name  as  good  as  theirs?  By  God,  bet-  ter!&quot;  And  again  he  came  back  to  the  house  itself,  and  the  inside  of  it.  &quot;I  bet  you  don't  even  know  what  the  inside  of  the  bathroom  looks  like!  I  bet  you  use  the-  No,  they  ain't  even  got  an  out-  house.  How  long  you  been  working  here,  anyway?&quot;  old  Sam  demanded,  and  again  he  grinned  evilly.  &quot;Two  summers,&quot;  Billy  answered  sullenly.  And  then,  because  his  duty  lay  firm  upon  him,  he  said,  &quot;Look,  Mr.  Ho  nniman-&quot;  &quot;And  ain't  rightly  seen  the  inside  yet.&quot;  Suddenly  old  Sam's  smile  grew  really  wicked,  and  he  reached  back  be-  hind  him  for  the  empty  bottle.  &quot;Well,  let's  say  we  take  a  look-see  right  now,  boy.  What  say?&quot;  SO  there  was  the  crisis  that  Billy,  from  the  first,  had  dreaded  and  expected  and  hadn't  really  known  how  to  avoid,  and  that  still  seemed  to  have  come  so  suddenly  that  it  had  taken  him  unawares.  Even  now,  in  his  bed,  in  the  darkness,  he  could  feel  again  the  mixture  of  panic  and  wild  determina-  tion  that  had  overcome  him.  &quot;No,  we  can't,  Mr.  Honniman!&quot;  he  had  cried.  &quot;It's  locked!&quot;  But  at  that  old  Sam  had  lifted  the  bottle  by  the  neck  and  waved  it  to  and  fro  gently.  &quot;This'll  fix  it,  boy.  This'll  open  it,&quot;  he'd  said.  &quot;We  just  put  this  through  one  of  the  windows  near  the  catch  and-&quot;  After  that,  Billy's  memory  became  a  little  vague;  it  had  all  been  so  hurried  and  flurried.  &quot;You  can't  do  it!&quot;  he'd  cried,  and  old  Sam,  still  brandishing  the  bottle  had  asked,  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Because-&quot;  And  so  it  had  had  to  come  out,  at  last;  he  had  had  to  make  his  stand.  &quot;Because  I  won't  let  you!&quot;  he'd  said.  &quot;I  won't  let  you!&quot;  The  old  man  had  been  standing,  by  " b"then,  and  Billy  could  see  him  again-  old,yes,  and  gaunt,  but  tall  and  big-  framed  still,  towering  above  him-and  could  feel  his  own  smallness,  his  own  childishness,  before  him.  Old  Sam  had  felt  it,  too,  for  he'd  stareda  moment  and  then  burst  right  out  laughing.  &quot;You  won't  let  me!&quot;  he'd  said.  He  had  a  hoarse,  almost  barking  voice,  and  now  it  sounded  even  harsher  and  rougher  than  usual.  &quot;Why,  I  could  break  you  in  two  if  I  wanted  to!&quot;  And  it  seemed  to  Billy  that  he'd  started  to  step  forward.  It  was  then  that  Billy  had  remembered  the  gun.  It  had  been  standing  there  right  be-  side  him,  propped  against  the  porch,  and  he'd  reached  down  and  grabbed  it  and  lifted  it;  half  pointing.  &quot;Not  while  I've  got  this  Mr.  Honniman,&quot;  he'd  said.  &quot;Now,  git!&quot;  At  that,  the  old  man,  if  he'd  real-  ly  been  coming  at  him-Billy  now  couldn't  even  be  sure  of  that-had  stopped  dead  in  his  tracks  and  stared,  and  his  face,  that  had  been  boozy-look-  ing  red,  before,  had  gone  a  kind  of  dull  gray-white.  And  then-and  this  was  the  strange  and  awful  part-two  great  tears  had  welled  up  in  his  bleary  old  eyes,  and  then  two  more,  and  two  more,  until  (and  theold  man  still  standing  there,  disregarding)  his  cheeks  were  running  with  tears.  &quot;You'd  put  a  gun  on  me,  boy?  You,  Frank  Harpe's  son?&quot;  he'd  cried,  in  a  voice  that  was  suddenly  high  and  unbelieving.  And  he'd  kept  repeating  it.  &quot;You'd  puta  gun  on  me?&quot;  There  was  something  so  weak  and  piteous  about  him  that  Billy  even  then  had  been  shaken.  But  he  had  taken  his  stand,  and  he'd  had  to  stick  to  it.  &quot;Git,  is  all!&quot;  he'd  repeated,  making  his  own  voice  as  hard  and  fearsome  as  he  could.  But  he  hadn't  really  needed  to,  for  even  as  he'd  spoken  the  old  man  had  whirled  suddenly,  and  in  a  kind  of  wild,  half-prancing,  half-running  gait  had  gone  stumbling  off  over  the  How-  ells  lawn  and  down  their  driveway.  &quot;He  put  a  gun  on  me,  the  boy  did!  Frank  Harpe's  boy.  He  put  a  gun  on  me!&quot;  Billy  had  heard  him  crying,  to  the  world  at  large,  as  he  went  off  down  the  road.  OH,  he  had  plenty  of  things  to  think  about,  Billy  did-and  plenty  of  time  to  think  about  them,  too,  for  he  was  so  wide  awake  now  that  he  hardly  figured  he'd  sleep  at  all,  the  rest  of  that  night.  It  wasn't  just  the  right  and  the  wrong  of  it  that  bothered  him,  really,  when  he  stopped  to  think.  He'd  been  right,  no  question  of  that,  to  do  what  he'd  done  as  he  did  it.  He  had  kept  old Sam  from  committing  a  crime,  a  real  crime-  &quot;breaking  and  entering,&quot;  they  called  it-and  besides  that  he'd  lived  up  to  his  own  obligations.  He  had  protected  the  Howells'  property,  in  the  way  he  was  supposed  to  protect  it.  'There  was  nothing  wrong  there.  Old  Sam  Honniman  might  even  have  wound  up  in  jail  if  he  hadn't  stopped  him.  And  yet,  way  back  at  the  beginning,  if  he'd  handled  things  differently  them,  at  the  very  start  of  the  old  man's  nagging  ...  It  was  the  thing  about  the  gun;  it  wasn't  the  tears  that  bothered  him.  He  had  seen  enough  drunken  people  to  know  that  the  tears  came  out  of  the  bottle,  and  as  far  as  the  name-  calling  went-well,  if  old  Sam  ran  all  the  way  down  to  Pike's  Grill,  which  was  where  he  was  probably  headed,  still  yelling  that  Billy'd  lifted  a  gun  on  him,  he'd  be  more  likely  to  be  laughed  at  than  otherwise,  that  a  boy  had  done  it  to  him.  But  still-a  boy.  In  a  way,  that  was  just  the  trou-  ble,  Billy  thought-a  boy  against  a  grownup.  If  he'd  been  a  man,  he  could  have  made  it  clearer  at  the  outset  what  his  position  was.  Billy  lay,  in  the  dark,  in  his  room,  in  the  creaking,  old,  rotting  house,  staring  up  at  the  invisible  but  well-remembered  ceiling,  and  he  knew  there  was  some-  thing  between  the  rightness  and  the  wrongness-in  between,  somewhere-  that  made  everything  seem  disconnect,  ed,  vague,  and,  well,  ugly.  And  old  Sam,  after  all,  was  a  relative.  The  gun,  now.  Billy  could  still  feel  it  in  his  hands,  as  he'd  lifted  it,  and  he  cringed  as  he  thought,  What  would  have  happened  if  old  Sam  had  kept  on  coming  at  him-if  he  had  been  coming  at  him-and  Billy  there  with  his  finger  on  the  trigger?  If  he'd  pulled  the  trig-  ger?  But  he  would  never  have  done  that;  he  knew  it.  And  the  thing  wasn't  the  gun,  either,  really,  for  now  what  he'd  been  trying  not  even  to  think  of  came  back  to  him,  and  he  remembered:  When  old  Sam  had  gone  hopping  and  yelling  down  the  road,  Billy  had  dropped  the  gun  to  the  ground  and  had  stood  there  for  awhile,  just  shaking.  And  then,seeing  the  bottle  lying  where  theold  man  had  dropped  it,  he  had  picked  it  up-and  suddenly  he  had  seen  the  house  standing  there,  so  neat,  so  white,  with  its  win-  dows  dark  as  the  dark  in-  terior,  staring  at  him.  The  house  had  seemed  to  tower  over  him,  and  for  a  second  there  he  had  wanted  to  let  the  bottle  fly,  justas  old  Mr.  Honniman  had  wanted  to  do;  for  a  second,  he'd  wanted  to  smash  every-  thing.  And  that,  too,  had  been  silly-  crazy,  even-for  it  wasn't  the  house  that  was  to  blame,  or  even  the  How-  ells.  But  then  who  was?  Himself?  Or  Mr.  Honniman?  And  now  here  he  was,  back  at  the  right  and  the  wrong  of  it  all  again.  The  trouble  was  (and  this  thought  came  to  him  justas  he,  who  hadn't  been  going  to  sleep,  drifted  off  into  sleep)-the  trouble  was  that  there  was  no  one  he  could  really  ask.  "