 b"THEY'RE  so  fast  in  this  hospital,  Mrs.  Corin  thought.  They  tell  you  to  be  calm,  don't  rush,  and  then  they're  out  the  door  in  a  second,  and  they  always  fling  your  meals  at  you.  She  remembered  the  terrible  six  weeks  in  which  she  had  had  to  be  spoon-fed  by  a  nurse  who  was  in  a  fever  of  efficiency  to  get  the  baby  food  intoher.  Even  the  doctors  had  no  time  for  you.  Her  doctor  had  said  yesterday,  Mrs.  Corin,  you  would  get  along  a  lot  faster  if  you'd  stop  thinking  aboutyour-  self.  Forget  your  coronary.  You're  over  the  hump.  Look  around.  Take  an  inter-  est  in  the  world.&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  had  shaken  her  head.  &quot;I'll  try,  Doctor,&quot;  she  had  said.  &quot;But  I  just  feel  I'm  never  going  to  be  like  my-  self  again.  And  why  should  I'  I'm  sixty-four  and-&quot;  The  doctor  had  turned  away  after  her  first  words,  patting  her  absently  on  the  hand  and  saying,  &quot;That's  a  good  girl.&quot;  He  was  gone  before  she  could  finish  the  sentence.  I'll  try,  she  thought.  I  must  get  bet-  ter  quickly.  But  how  could  she  help  thinking  about  herself,  struck  down  at  cight-fifteen  at  night  as  she  and  Jessie  sat  looking  at  the  TV,  and  about  the  week  that  followed,  in  which  the  doctor  had  given  her  too  much  hope?  &quot;This  may  not  be  a  coronary,&quot;  he  had  said  on  one  of  his  visits  to  her  home.  &quot;I  want  to  be  sure\xe2\x80\x94you  know?  No  sense  in  say-  ing  it's  a  coronary  when  it  may  not  be.&quot;  And  of  course,  it  had  been.  It  had  been  worse  to  know  after  that  flurry  of  hope.  So  then  she  had  been  taken  to  the  hos-  pital,  and  poor  Jessie  had  been  left  alone  in  the  house.  They  were  two  old  wom-  en,  widows,  with  no  one  in  the  world  but  each  other.  It  had  been  very  hard  on  Jessie.  Mrs.  Corin  could  still  see  herself  as  she  was  in  those  first  weeks-lying  ab-  solutely  still  on  this  bed,  nothing  but  eyes.  The  doctor  hadn't  even  let  any-  one  comb  her  hair.  &quot;'Time  enough  for  that,&quot;  he  had  said  cheerfully.  A  tear  trailed  from  one  eye,  and  she  caught  herself  up.  I  will  try,  she  thought  again.  Jessie  needed  her  at  home.  She  turned  her  head  on  the  pillow  until  she  could  see  the  young  girl  who  shared  the  room  with  her.  The  girl  was  sitting  up  in  bed  with  a  large,  compart-  mented  box  on  her  lap.  There  were  bright-colored  beads  in  the  compart-  ments,  and  she  was  stringing  them  carefully  on  a  wire  frame,  apparently  choosing  them  according  to  a  pattern  pasted  on  the  inside  of  the  lid.  She  had " b"come  in  with  her  husband  the  night  before;  the  bed  by  the  window  had  been  empty  since  the  morning,  when  Mrs.  Torelli,  an  emergency  appendectomy,  went  home.  The  girl  had  cried  a  little  behind  the  curtain  the  nurse  drew  be-  tween  the  two  beds.  Mrs.  Corin  had  heard  the  girl  say,  between  sniffs,  &quot;Dave,  I'm  so  scared.&quot;  And  Mrs.  Corin's  heart  had  gone  out  to  her.  She  knew  what  it  was  to  be  scared.  The  girl  was  young,  not  more  than  twenty,  and  looked  big  andhealthy-Mrs.  Corin  saw  that  right  away.  The  hus-  band  seemed  pale  and  slight  beside  her.  But,  ah,  you  couldn't  tell,  could  you?  Impatient  for  the  husband  to  leave,  Mrs.  Corin  thought  about  what  she  would  say  to  the  girl  when  they  were  alone-something  comforting,  so  the  girl  would  know  she  had  a  friend.  She'd  need  someone  to  cling  to  in  this  place.  She'd  find  it  wasn't  an  easy  thing  to  be  sick  here.  Young  people  didn't  under-  stand  being  sick  anyhow.  Presently,  the  nurse  had  made  the  young  husband  leave  and  told  the  girl  to  undress  and  get  into  bed.  A  few  minutes  later,  she  had  pulled  back  the  dividing  curtain  and  introduced  the  women:  &quot;Mrs.  Corin,  this  is  Mrs.  Howard.&quot;  The  girl  had  smiled  at  Mrs.  Corin.  &quot;Janie  Howard,&quot;  she  had  said.  As  soon  as  the  nurse  left,  Janie  had  hopped  out  of  bed,  noisily  tugged  her  suitcase  out  of  the  locker  along  the  wall,  and  placed  it  on  the  chair  by  her  bed.  Mrs.  Corin  had  watched,  and  waited  for  the  time  to  speak.  The  girl  had  opened  her  suitcase  and  taken  from  it  a  big  box-the  one  that  turned  out  to  contain  the.  beads-five  large  books,  a  Scrabble  game,  and  three  women's  magazines.  She arranged  all  these  on  her  bedside  table,  returned  the  suitcase  to  the  locker,  and  got  back  into  bed.  Then  she  took  up  one  of  the  maga-  zines,  commented  that  the  light  over  the  bed  wasn't  very  good,  and  settled  back  with  a  sigh.  All  that  noiseafter  the  hush  of  the  room's  emptiness  had  made  Mrs.  Corin  feel  tired  and  confused.  How  could  the  girl  bustle  about  so?  Where  were  the  tears?  A  moment  later,  Mrs.  Corin  congratulated  herself,  because,  she  sud-  denly  realized,  she  had  not  thought  of  herself  since  the  girl  entered.  This  is  the  way,  she  thought,  nodding.  Get  inter-  ested  in  others.  Help  them.  Thad  proved  to  be a  disturbing  night.  An  interne  came  to  geta  case  his-  tory  from  Janie.  While  he  was  there,  a  lab  technician,  a  girl  of  about  Janie's " b"age,  came  in  and,  amid  giggles  and  the  tinkle  of  pipettes,  took  a  blood  specimen.  Mrs.  Corin  couldn't  hear  clearly,  be-cause  the  curtain  had  been  closed  again,  but  she  knew  the  unvarying  line  of  the interne's  questions,  the  routine  of  the  lab  samples.  Though  she  strained  to  catch  Janie's  answers  to  the  interne,  she  heard  nothing  she  could  put  together  as  a  diagnosis.  At  one  point,  the  interne  said  loudly,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  but  I'm  darned  if  I  can  hear  anything  peculiar.&quot;  And  Janie  laughed.  &quot;This  is  a  first-rate  stethoscope,  so  it  must  be  me,&quot;  the  in-  terne  said.  &quot;If  I  find  it,  I'm  going  to  mark  it  with  a  pen,  if  you  don't  mind.&quot;  Then,  after  a  long  pause,  he  said,  &quot;O.K.,  hand  me  that  pen,  please.&quot;  When  the  interne  opened  the  cur-  tain  and  strolled  out,  Mrs.  Corin  had  pretended  to  be  asleep,  but  then  she  had  looked  over  at  Janie.  Janie,  in  a  blue  silk  nightgown  (Mrs.  Corin  wore  the  muslin  hospital  gown),  was  deep  in  a  magazine  again,  and  didn't  look  up.  Mrs.  Corin  waited  awhile  and  then  fell  asleep,  in  spite  of  the  bright  light  shining across  her  pillow  from  Janie's  bed. That  morning,  Mrs.  Corin  had   waked  early,  as  usual,  and  waited  for  the  hospital  day  to  begin.  During  the night,  someone  had  closed  the  curtain  between  the  two  beds,  but  Mrs.  Corin  Ave  knew  from  the  measured  breathing  that  Janie  was  still  asleep.  Two  nurses'  aids  came  into  the  room  and  collected  the  pitchers  and  glasses.  Mrs.  Corin  had  a  favorite  aid,  Addie,  a  funny,  lively  thing,  not  as  well  groomed  as  the  other  girls  but  the  most  talkative  of  them  all. She  had  been  off  the  day  before,  and  so  observed,  &quot;Mrs.  Torelli  skipped  out, huh?&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  smiled  in  apprecia-tion  of  the  &quot;skipped  out.&quot;  &quot;What's  this one  got?&quot;  Addie  asked,  and  Mrs  Corin    was  forced  to  admit  she  didn't  know. Addie  mouthed  surprise  and  scurried  out  with  her  tray.  Mrs.  Corin  was  annoyed  at  not  hav-  ing  been  able  to  whisper  to  Addie,  &quot;This" b"is  Janie  Howard,  poor  thing.  She  has  a  cancer,  or  a  lung  abscess,  or-&quot;  What  wicked  thoughts!  She  didn't  know  what  had  come  over  her,  with  this  cor-  onary.  Before  the  aids  returned  for  the  morning  washup,  Mrs.  Corin  had  heard  Janie  get  out  of  bed  and  had  seen  her  go  into  the  adjoining  bathroom.  Mrs.  Corin  envied  the  energy  with  which  Janie  began  to  scrub  her  teeth,  (She  was  not  allowed  to  raise  her  arms  at  all.)  Then  Janie  returned  and  opened  the  curtain  cautiously.  She  looked  fresh  and  glowing.  &quot;Morning,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  said.  &quot;You're  looking  very  well,  for  a  hos-  pital  case.&quot;  Janie  laughed.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  really  know  if  I  am  a  case.  I've  got  some  funny  sound  in  my  heart,  and  my  family  doc-  tor  thought  it  ought  to  be  looked  at.  Says  it's  a  valve.  But  I've  always  had  it  and  it's  never  bothered  me.  But  he  says  it  might  need  fixing,  in  case  I  wanted  a  family,  or  something.&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  felt  a  momentary  breath-  lessness.  &quot;Heart  surgery?&quot;  she  said.  Even  as  sick  as  she  was,  no  one  would  have  to  open  up  Aer  chest  and  then  her  heart.  That  would  be  more  than  a  per-  son  could  stand.  &quot;Maybe,&quot;  Janie  said.  &quot;Put  a  new  valve  in,  or  something.&quot;  She  splashed  some  cologne  on  herself  and  picked  up  one  of  the  books  from  the  bedside  table.  &quot;When  I  knew  I  was  going  to  the  hos-  pital,  I  just  went  to  the  library  and  picked  out  the  five  biggest  books  I  could  find,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  any  of  them  are  about.&quot;  She  got  into  bed,  turned  over  on  her  stomach,  and  began  to  read,  while  Mrs.  Corin  lay  there,  shocked.  They  would  open  up  this  child's  chest  and  divert  her  blood  stream.  The  doctor  would  slit  open  her  heart  and  plunge  his  hand  in  to  grasp  the  damaged  valve.  He  would  take  that  valve  out  and  put  in  a  new  one  and  then  begin  the  stitching.  She  looked  over  at  the  girl,  lying  propped  on  her  elbows  with  her  book  flat  on  the  bed.  The  blue  silk  of  the  night-  gown  outlined  the  curve  of  her  back.  &quot;They  do  heart  surgery  all  the  time.  It's  just  an  ordinary  thing  nowadays,&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  said.  Janie  answered  over  her  shoulder.  &quot;Yes,  I  suppose  so.  But  they  keep  you  a  couple  of  months.  It's  going  to  be  awfully  expensive,  even  with  our  in-  surance.&quot;  When  Addie  arrived  to  wash  Mrs.  Corin,  and  had  closed  the  curtain  be-  tween  the  two  beds,  Mrs,  Corin  told" b"her,  in  a  shocked  whisper,  what  she  had  learned  about  Janie  Howard.  Addie's  eyes  opened  wide.  She  shook  her  head  as  she  wrung  out  the  washcloth  over  the  basin  on  the  bedside  table.  &quot;Brother,  rather  her  than  me!&quot;  said.  &quot;And  she's  so  young,&quot;  Corin.  &quot;Wants  a  baby,  too.&quot;  &quot;She's  crazy,&quot;  Addie  said.  &quot;Heart  people  can't  have  children  and  run  a  house.  They're  lucky  they  stay  alive  till  they're  forty.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it's  a  shame,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Corin.  Addie  looked  alarmed.  &quot;Now,  Mrs.  Corin,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  you  pay  it  no  mind.  You  got  your  own  troubles.  You  just  don'tthink  about  it,  hear?&quot;  All  through  breakfast,  Mrs.  Corin  had  heard  the  words  &quot;heart  surgery&quot;  sounding  in  her  head.  Janie  ate  heartily  and  chatted.  It  was  hard  for  Mrs.  Corin  to  eat  and  talk,  too,  because  she  was  so  short  of  breath,  but  she  was  satisfied  to  hear  all  about  Janice,  and  her  husband,  Dave,  who  was  staying  at  the  Y,  two  blocks  away,  until  they  heard  what  the  doctor  had  to  say,  and  about  Janie's  job  in  a  credit  bureau,  and  her  new  house,  in  the  new  development  outside  of  town.  Janie  had  been  married  a  little  over  a  year  and  loved  to  cook.  Every  night,  she  and  Dave  played  bezique  together.  Mrs.  Corin  had  never  heard  of  bezique,  so  Janie  began  to  explain  the  game  to  her.  Mrs.  Carin  interrupted  to  ask  who  had  heard  his  name  on  the  hospital  an-  nouncement  system.  He  was  a  Dr.  Mason;  she  had  heard  his  name  many  times.  Then  Janie  got  out  her  box  of  beads  and  started  stringing  them  on  the  wire  frame.  NOW,  as  Mrs.  Corin  watched  her,  she  suddenly  realized  that  Janie  had  not  once  asked  what  she  was  doing  in  the  hospital.  A  pang  offear  went  through  her.  Had  the  nurses  warned  Janie  that  Mrs.  Corin  was  dying:  She  said  loudly,  &quot;You  know  what  my  com-  plaint  is?&quot;  Janie  looked  over  politely.  &quot;No.&quot;  And,  with  a  relief  that  was  ridiculous,  Mrs.  Corin  saw  that  Janie  didn't  know.  She  also  saw  that  Janie  didn't  care.  That  was  the  way  with  the  young.  They  didn't  compare  medical  histories;  they  didn't  scrounge  for  every  bit  of  medical  information.  So  here  was  this  young  girl,  going  into  an  ordeal  she  knew  nothing  about.  If  it  were  me,  I  would  know  what  it  meant,  Mrs.  Corin  thought.  I  wouldn't  be  sitting  up  in  bed  making  a  bead  flower-for  that's  what  the  pattern  was  turning  out  to  be.  But " b"Janie  strung  on,  blue  after  mauve  after  pink.  Later  in  the  morning,  two  white-  coated  doctors  came  tosee  Janie.  As  they  walked  in,  Mrs.  Corin  heard  Janie  greet  the  older  one  as  Dr.  Mason.  The  younger  doctor,  partly  bald  and  serious-looking,  must  be  his  assistant,  she  thought.  From  her  side  of  the  curtain,  Mrs.  Corin  could  hear  them  laughing  at  the  ink  mark  the  interne  had  put  on  Janie's  chest.  They  stayed  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  and  when  they  had  gone  and  the  curtain  was  opened  again,  Janie  reported  proudly  that  Dr.  Mason  had  listened  to  her  heart  and  said  he  had  never  heard  a  sound  like  that  before.  Then  an  orderly  came  and  put  Janie  in  a  wheelchair-  though  she  protested  she  could  walk  perfectly  well-and  rolled  her  off for  her  X-rays  and  an  electrocardiogram.  Mrs.  Corin  remembered  how  she  had  waited  for  the  reports  of  her  electro-  cardiograms!  It  wasn't  the  being  shifted  from  bed  to  stretcher  to  table,  or  the  tests;  it  was  the  significance  of  it  all  that  had  upset  her  for  a  whole  day.  Janie  was  back  in  bed  in  time  for  a  good  lunch,  and  Miss  Theodore,  pert  and  red-haired,  and  the  fastest  of  the  nurses,  stopped  in  for  a  moment  to  see  how  she  was,  and  complimented  both  Janie  and  Mrs.  Corin  on  their  appe-  tites.  Mrs,  Corin  was  pleased  that  her  doctor  would  hear  she  had  already  fol-  lowed  his  advice  about  forgetting  her  own  troubles,  and  was  even  benefiting  from  it.  That  afternoon  was  one  of  the  two  afternoons  a  week  when  Jessie  normally  came  to  visit.  She  came  only  twice  a  week  because  it  was  such  an  effort,  and  hospitals  and  sick  people  made  her  nerv-  ous.  But  Mrs.  Corin  found  herself  re-  gretting  that  this  was  one  of  Jessie's  days.  There  were  too  many  things  hap-  pening  now.  Of  course,  her  last  room-  mate,  Mrs.  Torelli,  had  been  friendly,  and  had  had  a  stream  of  visitors,  but  they  had  held  no  interest  for  Mrs.  Corin-all  their  conversation  was  in  Italian.  But  she  had  liked  Mrs.  Torelli.  Her  appendix  had  ruptured,  necessitat-  ing  three  drains,  which  were  eventually  removed,  little  by  little,  to  trembling  shrieks  and  tears.  Yes,  Mrs.  Torelli  had  suffered.  Here  Mrs.  Corin  veered  into  a  rehearsal  of  Janie's  story  as  she  would  tell  it  to  Jessie.  Jessie  was  late,  and  Janie's  husband  arrived  first.  The  young  couple  kissed  briefly,  and  Janie  told  Dave  there  was  nothing  to  report  yet;  they  were  plan-  ning  the  deciding  test  tomorrow,  and  the  doctor  would  know  immediately" b"after  that.  Then  she  sent  Dave  to  her  suitcase  to  get  a  deck  of  cards.  To  Mrs.  Corin's  amazement,  the  two  settled  down  and  began  to  play.  Suddenly,  Janie  remembered  to  in-  troduce  Dave  to  Mrs.  Corin.  He  rose,  smiling  and  nodding  shyly,  and  said  &quot;How're  you?&quot;  and  at  once  sat  down  again  to  deal  out  a  hand.  They  played  quickly  and  with  a  lot  of  banter.  Well  on  in  the  game,  Jessie  arrived,  and,  at  Mrs.  Corin's  suggestion,  closed  the  curtain  part  way  and  sat  down  on  the  straight-backed  chair  by  the  bed.  She  had  a  headache,  she  said,  and  she  sat  there  stiffly,  as  though  any  move-  ment  would  cause  the  pain  in  her  gray  head  to  course  through  her  body.  Then,  with  her  eyes  shut,  she  listened  to  the  little  information  Mrs.  Corin  had  gleaned  about  her  own  condition  from  her  doctor  and  from  the  nurses,  and  even  from  Mrs.  Torelli.  Mrs.  Corin  felt  it  wasn't  a  really  satisfying  way  to  talk.  Still,  Jessie  was  like  that,  always  cen-  tering  on  herself.  She  didn't  deserve  to  be  told  about  Janie,  but  Mrs.  Corin  knew  she  had  to  talk  about  the  girl,  to  tell  the  whole  frightening  story  again.  It  was  a  kind  of  comfort,  almost-to  be  discussing  heart  surgery  while  she  herself  was  past  the  crisis.  So,  rather  breathlessly  and  in  whis-  pers,  she  began  with  the  moment  Janie  had  entered  the  room  the  night  before.  Gratifyingly,  Jessie  opened  her  eyes  and  gradually  seemed  to  forget  her  head-  ache,  and  even  added  some  information  on  valve  operations  she  had  gleaned  from  Life  magazine  to  what  they  both  remembered  of  a  &quot;blue  baby&quot;  born  to  a  young  woman  in  their  church.  The  child  had  died  on  the  operating  table.  When  Jessie  got  up  to  leave,  she  patted  Mrs.  Corin's  hand-an  unusual  show " b"of  affection.  Mrs.  Corin  understood.  They  were  old  ladies,  but  they  were  better  off  than  the  young  girl  in  the  next  bed.  Mrs.  Corin  watched  Jes-  sie  pause  on  her  way  to  the  door,  pre-  tending  to  fumble  for  something  in  her  purse  but  looking  back  steadily  at  the  girl  absorbed  in  her  cards.  Then,  with  a  wave  of  her  hand,  she  was  gone.  Mrs,  Corin  stiffened  slightly  as  a  peal  of  laughter  broke  from  Janie.  &quot;You  monster!&quot;  Janie  said  to  her  husband.  You  had  it  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;I  was  dealt  it,&quot;  he  explained.  &quot;Had  it  right  from  the  beginning.&quot;  &quot;'Time  to  go,&quot;  announced  Miss  Theodore,  popping  in  and  opening  the  half-drawn  curtain.  Mrs.  Corin  wanted  to  shout  back  at  Miss  Theodore,  &quot;Let  them  alone-  those  innocents!  Let  them  have  every  minute  they  can!&quot;  But  Dave  got  up  obediently,  gathered  the  cards,  and  put  them  away  in  the  night-table  drawer.  Then  he  kissed  Janie  and  said,  &quot;See  you  tonight,&quot;  and  left,  only  to  return  im-  mediately  in  the  tow  of  Dr.  Mason's  young  assistant.  &quot;Glad  I  caught  your  husband  in  the  hall,  Mrs.  Howard,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  &quot;I  understand  you  haven't  arranged  for  nurses  yet.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Janie,  surprised.  &quot;Were  we  supposed  to?&quot;  &quot;Well,  it's  like  this,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  &quot;Valve  ops  take  special  nursing-real  special  nursing.  And  those  girls  are  hard  to  get.  You  can't  wait  till  the  last  second,  and  even  ahead  of  time  you  may  come  up  with  a  big  zero.  But&quot;-  here  he  paused  and  looked  significantly  at  them  both-&quot;I  just  heard  in  the  lunchroom  that  two  of  the  top  girls  in  this  racket  are  between  cases.  Now,  if  I  were  you,  I'd  grab  them  and  say  a  thank-you  prayer.&quot;  Janie  and  Dave  looked  at  one  an-  other.  Then  Janie  asked,  &quot;Does  this  mean  I  have  to  have  the  operation?  Dr.  Mason  said  he  wouldn't  know  till  to-  morrow.&quot;  The  young  doctor  watched  her  care-  fully,  &quot;PIH  tell  you  how  it  is.  Tomorrow  we  do  the  catheterization,  and  we  can't  be  sure  of  anything  until  then.  Now,  I'm  just  low  man  on  a  totem  pole  around  here,  you  understand,  but,  Sis,  Id  say  better  be  safe  and  hire  those  nurses.&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  began  to  tremble,  in  her  effort  to  remain  perfectly  still.  &quot;Won't  it  be  awfully  expensive?&quot;  Janie  asked.  Her  husband  said  some-  thing  that  sounded  like  &quot;I'll  manage.&quot;  The  doctor  shrugged  his  shoulders.  &quot;'The  nursing's  halfof  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No " b"point  in  going  on  with  it  if  you're  going  to  throw  it  away  after.  If  you  need  them,  you'll  be  glad  to  have  them-  don't  you  kid  yourself.&quot;  &quot;Well,  if  I  have  to,&quot;  Janie  said.  &quot;Should  Dave  see  somebody  about  it?&quot;  &quot;No.  We'll  attend  to  it  for  you.  I'm  in  charge  of  your  catheterization,  so  I'll  see  you  first  thing  in  the  morning.  No  breakfast,  you  know,  but  we'll  keep  some  for  you.&quot;  And  with  that  he  left.  Janie  turned  back  to  her  husband.  &quot;We  never  asked  how  much  the  nurses  are  going  to  cost.  Maybe  you  could  find  out  downstairs.&quot;  Dave  nodded.  &quot;O.K.,  I  will,  but  don't  you  worry.&quot;  When  he  had  gone,  Janie  lay  quiet,  not  doing  anything.  Finally,  she  looked  over  at  Mrs.  Corin,  who  was  watch-  ing  unashamedly,  ready  for  any  help  Janie  might  want,  any  comfort  she  might  reach  out  for.  Janie  smiled  rue-  fully.  &quot;Hospitals  can  certainly  spend  your  money  for  you,  can't  they?&quot;  she  said.  Then  she  reached  for  one  of  her  books.  HE  next  morning,  Mrs.  Corin  woke  in  trepidation;  this  was  to  be  Janie's  big  day.  In  spite  of  her  concern,  Mrs.  Corin  ate  a  good  breakfast  and  felt  more  rested  than  she  had  since  she  fell  ill.  It's  having  someone  else  to  think  about  that  does  it,  she  told  herself.  Her  doctor  had  known  what  he  was  talking  about,  all  right.  She  watched  as  two  nurses  came  into  robe  the  sleepy  Janie  in  a  hospital  gown  and  transfer  her  to  a  rolling  stretcher.  Then  Addie  appeared,  and  though  Janie  was  no  longer  there  to  hear  them,  she  and  Mrs,  Corin  kept  their  voices  low  as  they  discussed  the  case  and  what  Dr.  Mason's  assistant  had  said  last  night  about  the  nurses.  Addie  described  the  kind  of  catheterization  they  did  in  a  heart  case,  because  Mrs.  Corin  wasn't  too  sure  what  it  was-  inserting  instruments  in  a  vein  and  push-  ing  them  up  through  the  arm  until  they  were  able  to  record  the  ebb  and  flow  of  the  heart  blood.  &quot;Why,  it's  practically  an  operation,&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  said.  &quot;Oh,  sure,&quot;  agreed  Addie,  &quot;and  under  local.&quot;  The  morning  went  slowly  for  Mrs.  Corin  after  Addie  had  gone;  it  was  broken  only  by  a  brief  visit  from  her  doc-  tor.  He  congratulated  her  on  her  im-  proved  appetite,  and  said  that  her  color  was  better,  too.  She  was  encouraged  enough  to  ask  if  she  might  start  using  the  bathroom,  but  he  frowned  and  said,  &quot;Now,  we're  in  no  hurry.  You're " b"not  out  of  the  woods  yet.  I'll  let  you  know  when  that  time  comes.&quot;  The  old  thrill  of  fear  went  through  her.  Could  it  be  a  relapse  he  feared,  or  something  like  a  clot  or  break?  Hadn't  she  been  through  enough?  Then  she  tried  to  think  more  reasonably.  What  had  the  doctor  said?  Nothing  except  that  she  was  getting  along  better.  Not  out  of  the  woods  was  obvious.  That  just  meant  she  was  still  sick,  and  who  wouldn't  be,  with  a  coronary  not  two  months  behind?  She  was  really  doing  fine.  She  looked  at  her  small  bedside  clock.  Eleven,  and  Janie  wasn't  back.  From eight  to  eleven.  Had  something  hap-  pened?  Air  could  get  into  the  vein.  Janie's  box  of  beads  lay  on  the  table  by  her  bed,  and  Mrs.  Corin  could  see  that  the  bead  flower  was  almost  finished.  Was  it  an  omen?  No  matter  what  Jes-  sie  might  say,  if  anything  had  happened  she  would  send  those  small  sweetheart  roses  that  could  be  fashioned  by  the  florist  intopins  and  bracelets.  Maybe  into  a  small  heart.  Not  aheart!  What  was  she  thinking  of!  Perhaps  just  a  circlet  with  pale-pink  roses  in  the  mid-  dle  and  red  ones  around.  Or-  Here  her  thoughts  were  interrupted  as  Miss  Theodore  bustled  in,  followed  by  an  orderly  wheeling  Janie's  stretch-  er.  A  surgical  nurse  was  with  them,  and  she  and  the  orderly  helped  Janie  into  bed.  Janie's  left  arm,  where  they  had  done  the  catheterization,  was  band-  aged,  but  otherwise  she  seemed  fine.,  &quot;Thanks.  I  sure  needed  help,&quot;  she  saidto  the  nurse.  &quot;This  arm  throbs  terribly.&quot;  Addie  came  in  immediately  with  a  tray  of  orange  juice  and  coffee,  and  Janie  squealed  with  delight.  With  Miss  Theodore  helping,  she  moved  into  a  half-sitting,  half-lying  position  on  her  propped-up  pillows.  Addie  was  sent  for another  pillow,  to  support  Janie's  band-  aged  arm.  Allthe  noise  and  people  confused  Mrs.  Corin,  and  she  pretended  to  be  asleep.  &quot;Thank  God,  Janie  is  back  safe,&quot;  she  murmured  to  herself,  recog-  nizing  the  pricking  of  conscience  at  the  picture  she  had  entertained  of  herself  sending  that  circlet  of  sweetheart  roses.  Janie  sipped  her  coffee,  and  smiled,  and  chatted  with  Miss  Theodore,  who  pre-  tended  aprofessional  interest  in  her  arm  while  really  enjoying  a  short  relief  with  a  laughing,  relaxed  patient.  But  Mrs.  Corin  thought  she  detected  a  slight  tinge  of  hysteria  in  Janie's  laughter,  as  if  it  had  already  begun-the  introduction  to  pain  and  terror.  Mrs.  Corin  prepared  herself  for  the  real  ordeal  to  follow-" b"waiting  for  the  report.  Doomed  at  twenty!  Who  could  find  words  to  meet  that  verdict?  Then  Addie  hurried  the  lunches  in,  asking  with  her  eyes  and  a  toss  of  her  head  if  Janie's  sentence  had  been  heard.  Mrs.  Corin  shook  her  head.  Janie  picked  at  herlunch,  attributing  her  lack  of  appetite  to  the  sedatives  she  had  been  given  just  after  the  catheterization.  Mrs.  Corin  smiled  and  nodded  when-  ever  Janie  looked  over.  The  girl  com-  plained  of  the  soreness  of  her  arm  and  constantly  rearranged  the  supporting  pillow.  They never  said  that  vein  busi-  ness  was  going  to  take  so  long.  They  gave  me  a  local,  but  it  never  lasted.&quot;  She  added  proudly,  &quot;Once  I  even  thought  I  was  going  to  faint.&quot;  &quot;You'll  be  all  right  in  a  few  days,&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  said.  &quot;A  few  days?&quot;  said  Janie.  &quot;Why,  I  feel  O.K.  now-except  for  this  old  arm.&quot; Janie  slept  after  lunch,  and  Mrs.  Corin  lay  quiet,  determined  not  to  shorten  the  girl's  restoring  nap  by  any  noise.  Her  own  doctor's  words  about  not  being  out  of  the  woods  yet  were  still  with  her,  but  in  a  detached  way,  so  she  could  examine  them  at  will  and  not  feel  frightened  by  them.  She  had,  in  fact,  a  touch  of  her  old  feeling  of  strength.  Her  mind's  eye  looked  down  at  the  picture  she  and  Janie  must  make-the  young,  defenseless  girl  sleep-  ing  with  her  arm  awkwardly  placed  on  the  pillow,  and  the  watchful  old  lady,  poised  and  ready.  The  picture  was  broken  by  Miss  Theodore,  who  rushed  in  ahead  of  a  group  that  Mrs.  Corin  could  seein-  cluded  Dr.  Mason,  his  assistant,  a  strange  doctor,  and  Dave.  Then  Miss  Theodore  closed  the  curtain.  Mrs.Cor-  in  struggled  to  a  sitting  position.  She  must  not  miss  a  syllable.  Let  us  know  the  worst,  she  thought.  The  doctors  were  jovial,  and  teased  Janie  about  all  the  bandaging  on  her  arm,  for  what  Dr.  Mason  claimed  were  a  few  scratches.  Janie  laughed.  &quot;I  sure  don't  want  any  more  scratches  like  them.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Janie,&quot;  began  Dr.  Mason,  in  the  sudden  stillness  that  came  over  the  group,  &quot;all  your  tests  are  in,  and  I  won't  keep  you  in  suspense  but  say  right  off:  No  operation.  Your  heart  has  never  troubled  you,  your  respiration  is  nor-  mal.  There's  no  enlargement,  no  sign  of  disease  or  deterioration.  That  leaves  the  strange  sound  your  heart  makes.  Well,  I've  never  heard  anything  like  it,  and  while  I'm  curious  to  see  inside  your  heart,  I  don't  find  that  reason  enough " b"to  open  you  up.  So  I  say  go  on  home,  have  a  family  if  you  want,  but  keep  in  touch  at  all  times  with  your  doctor.  He's  a  good  man,  to  have  found  this  condi-  tion,  and  don't  think  it  was  a  wasted  trip  down  here.  He  did  just  right.  Now,  how's  that?&quot;  Janiespoke  in  a  loud  voice.  &quot;'That's  just  wonderful.  When  can  I  go  home?&quot;  They  all  laughed.  &quot;So  you  don't  like  us,&quot;  Dr.  Mason  said.  &quot;Well,  I  guess  you  can  go  whenever  you  want.  I'll  call  your  doctor  as  soon  as  I  leave  you.  And  when  you  get  home,  have  him  change  that  bandage.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  Doctor.  I'll  do  that,&quot;  Janie  said.  Dave  mumbled  his  thanks,  too.  The  doctors  left,  and  Miss  Theodore  opened  the  curtain.  &quot;You  hear  that,  Mrs.  Corin?&quot;  called  Janie.  &quot;I'm  going  home.&quot;  She  bounded  out  of  bed  and  closed  the  curtain,  and  Mrs.  Corin  could  tell  that  she  was  be-  ginning  to  dress  right  then,  with  her  husband's  help.  She  was  laughing  and  groaning  at  Dave's  clumsy  attempts  to  be  of  use.  Next,  Mrs.  Corin  could  hear  him  packing  the  suitcase-with  loud  remonstrances  from  Janie  about  the  way  he  was  folding  her  things.  In  fif-  teen  minutes,  they  were  ready.  There  was  one  last  squeal  from  Janie  as  she  remembered  her  toothbrush.  Then  they  hurried  past  Mrs.  Corin's  bed  and  out the  door.  They  had  gone,  forgetting  to  open  the  curtain.  Never  even  said  goodbye,  Mrs.  Corin  thought,  after  all  the  kindness  I  showed  her.  Never  hoped  I'd  get  better,  or  any-  thing.  Mrs.  Corin  knew  that  crying  was  bad  for  her  heart,  but  she  couldn't  stop  the  tired  tears  from  trickling  down.  She  heard  someone  come  into  the  room,  and  then  Addie's  impatient  hand  jerked  open  the  curtain.  &quot;Well,  what  d'ya  think  ofthat?  Skipped  out  so  soon,&quot; Addie  said.  &quot;What  are  you  crying  for,  Mrs.  Corin?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Mrs.  Corin  said.  And  she  buried  her  face  in  the  pil-  low."