 b"RUFUS'S  house  was  on  the  way  to   school  for  aconsiderable  neigh-  borhood,  and  within  a  few  min-  utes  after  his  father  had  waved  for  the  last  time  and  disappeared,  the  walks  were  filled  with  another  exciting  thing  to  look  at  as  the  boys  and  girls  who  were  old  enough  for  school  came  by.  At  first  he  was  content  to  watch  them  through  the  front  window;  they  were  creatures  of  an  all  but  unim-  aginable  world;  he  personally  knew  no-  body  who  was  big  enough  even  for  kindergarten.  Later  he  felt  more  kin-  ship  with  them,  more  curiosity,  great  envy,  and  considerable  awe.  It  did  not  yet  occur  to  him  that  he  could  ever  grow  up  to  be  one  of  them,  but  he  be-  gan  to  feel  that  in  any  case  they  were  somehow  of  the  same  race.  He  wan-  dered  out  into  the  yard,  even  to  the  sidewalk,  even,  at  length,  to  the  corner,  where  he  could  see  them  coming  from  three  ways  at  once.  He  was  fascinated  by  the  way  they  looked,  the  boys  so  powerfully  dressed  and  the  girls  almost  as  prettily  as  if  they  were  going  to  a  party.  Nearly  all  of  them  walked  in  twos  and  threes,  and  members  of  these  groups  often  called  to  others  of  the  groups.  You  could  see  how  wellthey  all  knew  each  other:  any  number  of  peo-  ple;  a  whole  world.  And  they  all  carried  books  of  different  colors  and  thicknesses,  and  lunches  done  up  in  packages  or  boxes,  and  pencils  in  still  other  boxes;  or  carried  all  these  things  together  in  a  satchel.  He  loved  the  way  they  carried  these  things;  it  seemed  to  give  them  wonderful  dignity  and  purpose,  to  be  the  mark  that  set  them  apart  in  their  privileged  world.  He  particularly  ad-  mired  and  envied  the  way  the  boys  who  carried  their  books  in  brown  canvas  straps  could  swing  them,  except  when  they  swung  them  at  his  head.  Then  he  was  at  the  same  time  frightened  and  very  much  surprised,  and  the  boy  who  had  pretended  he  meant  to  hit  him,  and  anyone  else  who  saw,  would  laugh  to  see  that  look  of  fear  and  surprise  on  his  face,  and  he  felt  puzzled  and  unhappy  because  they  laughed.  But  that  did  not  happen  often  enough  to  discourage  him,  and  going  to  the  corner  at  the  time  they  went  to  school,  and  at  the  time  they  could  be  expected  back  again,  became  quite  a  habit  with  him,  almost  as  happy  and  exciting,  in  its  way,  as  watching  for  the  first  glimpse  'ofhis  father  late  in  the  afternoon.  Sometimes  when  he  caught  an  eye  he  would  even  say  &quot;Hello,&quot;  as  much  out  of  embarrassment  as  eagerness  to  com-  municate.  Of  course  he  was  very  sel-  dom  answered;  the  boys  would  merely  stare  at  him  for  a  second  or  so,  with  the  stare  turning  hot  or  more  often  cold,  and  the  girls,  depending  on  age  or  dis-  position,  either  giggled  in  a  way  that  made  him  look  quickly  away  or  pre-  tended  that  they  had  not  even  seen  or  heard  him.  But  since  he  did  not,  after  all,  expect  any  answer,  it  was  wonder-  fully  pleagant  when,  occasionally,  a  much  older  boy  would  smile  and  say  &quot;Hello  there.&quot;  A  few  times  they  even  reached  out  and  mussed  up  his  hair.  Once,  too,  when  he  had  said  hello  to  some  much  older  girls,  one  of  them  cried  out  in  the  strange,  sticky  voice  he  had  heard  grown  women  use,  &quot;Ooh,  just  look  at  the  darlin  little  boy!&quot;  He  had  felt  embarrassed  but  pleas,  antly  flattered  for  a  moment;  then  he  heard  several  boys  squealing  the  same  words,  but  insincerely,  in  fact,  with  a  ha-  tred  and  scorn  which  appalled  him,  and  he  had  wished  that  he  could  not  be  seen.  He  never  learned  the  names  of  more  than  two  or  three  of  these  boys,  for  most  of  them  lived  several  blocks  away;  but  quite  a  few  of  them,  in  time,  knew  him  very  well.  They  would  come  up,  nearly  always,  with  the  same  question:  &quot;What's  your  na556e6974656420537461746573;  It  seemed  strange  to  him  that  they  could  not  re-  member  his  name  from  one  day  to  the  next,  for  he  always  told  it  to  them  per-  fectly  clearly,  but  he  felt  that  if  they  forgot,  and  asked  again,  he  ought  to  tell  them  again,  and  when  he  told  them,  politely,  they  all  laughed.  After  a  while  he  began  to  realize  that  they  asked  him,  day  after  day,  not  because  they  had  really  forgotten  but  only  to  tease  him.  So  he  became  more  careful.  When  they  asked  &quot;What's  your  na556e6974656420537461746573;  he  would  feel  embarrassed  and  say,  &quot;Oh,  you  know  my  name,  you're  only  trying  to  tease  me.&quot;  And  some  of  them  would  snicker,  but  invariably  the  boy  who  had  asked  it  this  time  would  say  very  seriously  and  politely,  &quot;No,  I  don't  know  your  name,  you  never  told  me  your  name,&quot;  and  he  would  begin  to  wonder;  had  he  or  hadn't  he?  &quot;Yes  I  did,  too,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;I  remember.  It  was  only  day  before  yes-  terday.&quot;  " b"And  again  there  would  be  snickering,  but  the  questioner  looked  even  more  serious  and  kind,  and  one  or  two  of  the  boys  next  him  looked  equally  serious,  and  he  would  say,  &quot;No,  honest.  [REDACTED],  it  couldn't  have  been  me.  I  don't  know  your  name.&quot;  And  one  of  the  other  boys  would  say,  very  reasonably,  &quot;Gee,  he  wouldn't  ast  you  if  he  knowed  it  already,  would  he?&quot;  And  Rufus  would  say,  &quot;Aw,  you're  just  trying  to  tease  me.  You  all  know  my  name.&quot;  And  one  of  the  other  boys  would  say,  &quot;I've  forgot  it.  I  knew  it  but  I've  plumb  forgot  it.  1d  tell  him  if  I  could  but  I  just  can't  remember  it.&quot;  And  he,  too,  would  look  very  sincere.  And  the  first  questioner  would  say,  almost  pleading,  and  very  kind-looking,  &quot;Come  on,  tell  us  your  name.  Maybe  you  told  it  to  him  but  Ae  don't  remember.  If  hecould  remember  he'd  tell  me,  now  wouldn't  he?  Wouldn't  you  tell  [REDACTED];  &quot;Sure  I'd  tell  you  if  I  could  remem-  ber  it.  Wisht  you'd  tell  it  to  me  again.&quot;  And  two  or  three  other  boys,  in  sim-  ilar  tones  of  kindness,  respect,  and  con-  cern,  would  chime  in,  &quot;Aw  come  on,  tell  us  your  name.&quot;  And  he  was  taken  aback  by  all  this  kindness  and  concern,  for  they  did  not  seem  to  act  in  that  way  towards  him  at  any  other  time,  and  yet  it  did  seem  real.  And  after  thinking  a  moment  he  would  say,  looking  cautiously  and  earnestly  at  the  boy  who  had  forgotten,  &quot;Do  you  promise  you  really  honestly  forgot?&quot;  And  looking  back  just  as  earnestly  the  boy  said,  &quot;Cross  my  heart  and  body,&quot;  and  did  so.  Then  there  was  a  snicker  again  from  somebody,  and  Rufus  realized  that  some  of  them  were  undoubtedly  teas-  ing;  but  he  felt  that  he  did  not  much  mind,  if  these  central  boys  were  not.  So  he  paid  no  attention  to  the  snickering  and  said  to  every  one  ofthe  kind-look-  ing,serious  boys  &quot;You  promise  you  honestly  aren't  teasing  this  ti556e6974656420537461746573;  and  they  promised.  Then  he  said  &quot;If  I  tell  you  this  time,  will  you  promise  to  do  your  very  best  to  remember,  and  not  ask  me  again?&quot;  and  they  said  that  they  sure  would,  they  crossed  their  hearts  and    bodies.  At  the  last  moment,  just  as  he  was  beginning  to  tell  them,  he  always  felt  such  sudden,  profound  doubt  of  their  sincerity  that  he  did  not  want  to  go  ahead,  but  he  always  felt,  too,  May-  be  they  mean  it.  If  they  do,  it  would  be  mean  not  to  tell  them.  So  he  always  told  them.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  always  said  rather  doubtfully,  and  brought  out  his  name  in  a  peculiarly  muffled  and  shy  way  (he  had  come  almost  to  feel  that  the  name  itself  was  being  physically  hurt,  and  he  did  not  want  it  to  be  hurt  again  )-  &quot;Well,  it's  Rufus.&quot;  And  the  instant  it  was  out  of  his  mouth  he  knew  that  he  had  been  mis-  taken  once  again,  that  not  a  single  soul  of  them  had  meant  one  thing  that  he  had  said,  for  with  that  instant  every  one  of  them  screamed  as  loudly  as  he  could  with  a  ferocious  kind  of  joy,  and  it  was  as  if  the  whole  knot  exploded  and  sent  its  fragments  tearing  all  over  the  neigh-  borhood,  screaming  his  name  with  amusement  and  apparently  with  some  kind  of  contempt;  and  many  of  them  screamed,  as  well,  a  verse  which  they  seemed  to  think  very  funny,  though  Rufus  could  not  understand  why.  &quot;Uh,  Rufus,  Uh-Rastus,  Uh-Johnson,  Uh-  Brown,  Uh-What  ya  gonna  do  when  the  rent  comes  roun  ?&quot;  And  others  yelled  &quot;Nigger's  name,  nigger's  name,&quot;  and  chanted  a  verse  that  he  had  often  heard  them  yell  after  the  backs  of  colored  children  and  even  grown-up  colored  people:  &quot;Nigger,  nigger,  black  as  tar,  Tried  to  ride  a  lectric  car,  Car  broke  down  and  broke  his  back,  Poor  nigger  wanted  his  nickel  back.&quot;  Three  or  four,  instead  of  running,  stood  screaming  his  name  and  these  verses  at  him,  and  the  word  &quot;nigger,&quot;  jumping  up  and  down  and  shoving  their  fingers  at  his  chest  and  stomach  and  face  while  he  stood  in  abashment,  and,followedby  these,  he  would  walk  unhappily  home.  IT  puzzled  him  very  deeply.  If  they  knew  his  name  all  the  time,  as  ap-  parently  they  did,  then  why  did  they  keep  on  asking  as  if  they  had  never  heard  it,  or  as  if  they  couldn't  remem-  ber  it?  It  was  just  to  tease.  But  why  did  they  want  to  tease?  Why  did  they  get  such  fun  out  of  it?  Why  was  it  so  much  fun  to  pretend  to  be  so  nice  and  so  real-  ly  interested,  to  pretend  it  so  well  that  somebody  else  believed  you  in  spite  of  himself,  just  so  that  he  would  show  that  he  was  deceived  once  again,  because  if  you  honestly  did  mean  it,  this  time,  he  didn't  want  to  not  tell  you  when  you  honestly  seemed  to  want  so  much  to  know?  Why  was  it  that  when  some  of  them  were  asking  him,  and  others  were  backing  them  up  or  just  looking  on,  there  was  some  kind  of  a  strange,  tight  force  in  the  air  all  around  them  that  made  them  all  seem  very  much  together  " b"and  that  made  him  feel  very  much  alone  and  very  eager  to  be  liked  by  them,  to-  gether  with  them?  Why  did  he  keep  on  believing  them?  It  happened  over  and  over,  and  he  could  not  think  of  a  single  time  that  they  had  looked  so  interested  and  friendly  and  kind  but  what  it  had  turned  out  that  they  didn't  really  mean  one  bit  of  it.  The  ones  who  were  really  nice,  the  ones  who  never  deceived  him  or  teased  him,  were  a  few  of  the  much  bigger  boys,  who  were  never  so  atten-  tive  or  kind  as  this,  but  just  said  &quot;Hello,  there,&quot;  and  smiled  as  they  went  by,  or  maybe  mussed  up  his  hair  or  gave  him  a  little  punch,  not  to  hurt  or  scare  him,  but  only  in  play.  'They  were  very  dif-  ferent  from  these,  they  never  paid  him  such  close  attention  or  looked  so  affec-  tionate,  but  they  were  the  nice  ones  and  these  were  mean  to  him,  every  time.  But  every  time  it  was  the  same.  When  they  started  he  was  always  absolutely  sure  they  were  teasing,  and  he  was  al-  ways  absolutely  sure  that  this  time  he  would  not  give  in  to  them;  but  every  time,  as  theykept  talking,  he  became  less  sure.  At  the  same  time  that  he  be-  came  less  sure,  he  became  more  sure,  but  that  confused  and  troubled  him,  and  the  more  sure  he  was  that  all  this  apparent  kindness  was  merely  decep-  tion  and  meanness,  the  more  eagerly  he  studied  their  faces  in  the  hope  that  this  timethey  really  meant  it.  The  less  he  believed  them,  the  more  he  was  led  to  believe  them,  and  the  easier  it  was  for  him  to  believe  them.  The  more  alone  he  felt,  the  more  he  wanted  to  feel  that  he  was  not  alone  but  one  of  them.  And  every  time  he  finally  gave  in,  he  became  a  little  more  sure,  just  before  he  gave  in,  that  he  would  not  take  this  chance  again.  And  every  time  he  finally  spoke  his  name,  he  spoke  it  a  little  more  shyly,  a  little  more  in  shame,  until  he  began  to  feel  some  kind  of  shame  about  the  name  itself.  The  more  they  all  screamed  it  at  him,  and  screamed  that  rhyme  they  all  laughed  at,  the  more  he  came  to  feel  that  there  must  be  something  wrong  with  the  name  itself,  so  that  even  at  home  sometimes,  even  when  Mama  said  it,  if  he  heard  it  without  expecting  it,  he  felt  some  kind  of  obscure,  wincing  shock  and  shame.  But  when  he  asked  her  if  Rufus  was  really  a  nigger's  name,  and  why  that  made  everybody  laugh  at  it,  she  turned  to  him  sharply  and  said  to  him  in  a  sharp  voice,  as  if  she  were  accusing  him  of  something,  &quot;Who  told  you  that?&quot;  and  he  had  answered,  in  fear,  that  he  did  not  know  who,  and  she  had  said,  &quot;Don't  you  just  pay  any  at-  tention  to  them.  It's  a  very  fine  old  name.  Some  colored  people  take  it,  too,  but  that  is  perfectly  all  right  and  noth-  ing  for  them  to  be  ashamed  of  or  for  white  people  to  be  ashamed  of  who  take  it.  You  were  given  that  name  because  it  was  your  Great-Grandfather  Lynch's  name,  and  it's  a  name  to  be  proud  of.  And  Rufus:  don't  ever  speak  that  word  'nigger.  &quot;  But  he  had  felt  that  although  maybe  she  was  proud  of  the  name,  he  was  not.  How  could  you  be  proud  of  a  name  that  everybody  laughed  at?  Once,  when  they  were  less  noisy,  and  one  of  them  said  to  him  quietly,  &quot;That's  a  nigger  name,&quot;  he  had  tried  to  feel  proud  and  had  said,  &quot;It  is  not  either,  it's  a  very  fine  old  name  and  I  got  it  from  my  Great-  Grandpa  Lynch,&quot;  and  they  yelled,  &quot;'Then  your  grandpa's  a  nigger,  too,&quot;  and  ran  off  down  the  street  yelling,  &quot;Rufus  is  a  nigger,  Rufus'  grandpa's  a  nigger,  he's  a  nig-ger,  he's  a  nig-ger,&quot;  and  he  had  yelled  after  them,  &quot;He  is  not,  either,  it's  my  great-granpa  and  he  is  not!&quot;  But  after  that  they  sometimes  opened  a  conversation  by  asking  &quot;How's  your  nigger  granpaw  ?&quot;  and  he  had  to  try  to  explain  all  over  again  that  it  was  his  great-grandpa  and  he  was  not  colored,  but  they  never  seemed  to  pay  any  attention.  E  could  not  understand  what  amused  them  so  much  about  this  game,  or  why  they  should  pretend  to  be  all  kindness  and  interest  for  the  sake  of  deceiving  him  into  doing  something  still  again  that  he  knew  they  knew  better  than  to  do,  but  it  gradually  became  clear  to  him  that  no  matter  how  much  they  pretended  good,  they  always  meant  meanness,  and  that  the  only  way  to  guard  against  this  was  never  to  believe  them,  and  never  to  do  what  they  asked  him  to.  And  so  in  time  he  found  that  no  matter  how  nice  they  asked,  he  was  not  deceived  by  them  and  would  not  tell  them  his  name,  and  this  made  him  feel  much  better,  except  that  now  they  seemed  to  have  much  less  interest  in  him.  He  did  not  want  them  to  go  by  without  even  looking  at  him,  or  just  say  something  mean  or  sneering  as  they  passed,  pretending  so  successfully  that  they  meant  to  hit  him  with  their  books  that  he  had  to  duck;  he  only  wanted  them  not  to  tease  and  fool  him;  he  only  wanted  them  to  be  nice  to  him  and  like  him.  And  so  he  remained  very  ready  to  do  whatever  seemed  necessary  to  be  liked,  except  that  one  thing,  tell-  ing  his  name,  which  was  clearly  not  ever  a  good  thing  to  do.  And  so,  as  long  as  they  didn't  ask  his  name  (and  they  soon  knew  that  this  joke  was  no  good  any  more),  he  continued  to  hope  against  hope  that  in  every  other  way  they  were  not  trying  to  tease  or  fool  him.  Now    they  would  come  up  to  him  looking  quite  serious,  the  older  boys,  and  say,  as  if  it  were  a  very  serious  question:  &quot;Rufus  Rastus  Johnson  Brown  What  you  gonna  do  when  the  rent  comes  roun  ?&quot;  He  always  felt  that  they  were  still  teasing  him  about  his  name,  when  they  said  that;  something  about  the  way  they  said  the  word  &quot;Rastus&quot;  made  him  feel  they  disliked  both  names  and  held  both  in  contempt,  and  he  could  not  understand  why  they  gave  him  so  many  names  when  only  one  was  really  his  and  his  last  name  was  really  Follet.  But  at  least  they  knew  what  his  name  was  now,  even  if  most  of  them  pronounced  it  &quot;Roofeass;&quot;  at  least  they  weren't  pretending  they  didn't  know;  it  wasn't  as  bad  as  that.  Besides,  what  they  were  really  doing  was  asking  him  a  question:  &quot;What  you  gonna  do  when  the  rent  comes  roun?&quot;  Though  they  asked  it  every  time  and  it  seemed  a  nonsensical  question,  they  seemed  to  really  want  to  know,  and  if  he  could  answer  them,  then  he  could  really  tell  them  something  they  really  didn't  know,  and  then  maybe  they  would  really  like  him  and  not  tease  him.  Yet  he  realized  that  this,  too,  must  be  teasing.  'They  did  not  really  want  to  know.  How  could  they,  when  the  question  had  no  meaning?  What  was  the  rent?  What  did  it  look  like  when  it  came  roun!  It  probably  looked  very  mean  or  maybe  it  looked  nice  but  was  mean  when  you  got  to  know  it.  And  what  would  you  do  when  it  came  roun?  What  could  you  do  if  you  didn't  even  know  what  it  was?  Or  if  it  was  just  something  they  made  up,  that  wasn't  really  alive,  just  a  story?  He  wanted  to  ask  what  the  rent  was,  but  he  suspected  that  that  was  exactly  what  they  wanted  him  to  ask,  and  that  if  or  when  he  asked  it,  it  would  turn  out  that  the  whole  thing  was  a  trap  of  some  " b"kind,  a  joke,  and  that  he  had  done  some-  thing  shameful  or  ridiculous  in  asking.  So  that  was  one  thing  he  was  now  wise  enough  never  to  do:  he  never  asked  what  the  rent  was,  and  this  was  one  of  the  things  he  somehow  felt  sure  that  he  had  better  not  ask  his  mother  or  his  father,  either.  So  when  they  came  up  to  him  now,  he  always  knew  they  were  going  to  ask  this  foolish  question,  and  when  they  asked  it  he  felt  stubborn  and  shy,  determined  not  to  ask  what  the  rent  was;  and  once  they  had  asked  it,  and  stood  looking  at  him  with  a  curious,  cold  look  as  if  they  were  hungry,  he  looked  back  at  them  until  he  felt  too  embarrassed,  and  sawthem  start  to  smile  in  a  way  that  might  be  mean  or  might  possibly  be  friendly,  and,  on  the  possibility  that  they  were  friendly,  smiled  unsurely,  too,  and  looked  down  at  the  pavement,  and  muttered,  &quot;I  don't  know;&quot;  which  seemed  to  amuse  them  almost  as  much  as  when  he  had  told  what  his  name  was;  and  then  some-  times  he  would  walk  away  from  them,  and  after  awhile  he  learned  that  he  should  not  answer  this  question  any  more  than  he  should  answer  the  ques-  tion  about  his  name.  When  he  walked  away,  or  when  he  refused  to  answer,  he  always  realized  that  in  some  way  he  had  defeated  them,  buthe  also  always  felt  disconsolate  and  lonely,  and  sometimes  because  of  this  he  would  turn  around  after  he  had  gone  a  little  way,  and  look,  and  they  would  come  up  and  go  round  him  again,  and  other  times,  when  he  kept  on  walking  away,  he  felt  even  more  lonely  and  un-  happy-so  much  so  that  he  went  down  between  the  houses  into  the  back  yard  and  stayed  fora  while  because  he  felt  uneasy  about  being  seen,  yet,  by  his  mother.  He  began  to  anticipate  going  out  to  the  corner  with  as  much  unhap-  piness  as  hope,  and  sometimes  he  did  not  go  at  all;  but  when  he  went  again,  after  not  going  at  all,  he  was  asked     where  he  had  been  and  why  he  had  not  been  there  the  day  before,  and  he  had  not  known  what  to  answer,  and  had  been  much  encouraged  because  they  spoke  in  such  a  way  that  they  really  seemed  to  care  where  he  had  been.  AND  within  the  next  days  things  did  seem  to  change.  The  older  and  more  perceptive  of  the  boys  realized  that  the  shape  of  the  game  had  shifted  and  that  if  they  were  to  count  on  him  to  be  there,  and  to  be  such  a  fool  as  always  be-  fore,  they  had  to  act  much  more  friend-  ly;  and  the  more  stupid  boys,  seeing  how  well  this  worked,  imitated  them  as  well  as  they  could.  Rufus  quickly  came  to  sus-  pect  the  more  flagrant  exaggerations  of  friendliness,  but  the  subtler  boys  found,  to  their  intense  delight,  that  if  only  they  varied  the  surface,  the  bait,  from  time  to  time,  they  would  almost  always  de-  ceive  him.  He  was  ever  so  ready  to  oblige.  How  it  got  started  none  of  them  remembered  or  cared,  but  they  all  knew  that  if  they  kept  at  him  enough  he  would  sing  them  his  song,  and  be  fool  enough  to  think  they  actually  liked  it.  They  would  say,  &quot;Sing  us  a  song,  Roofeass,&quot;  and  he  would  look  as  if  he  knew  they  were  teasing  him  and  say,  &quot;Oh,  you  don't  want  to  hear  it.&quot;  And  they  would  say  that  they  sure  did  want  to  hear  it,  it  was  a  real  pretty  song,  better  than  they  could  sing,  and  they  liked  the  way  he  danced  when  he  sang  it,  too.  And  since  they  had  very  early  learned  to  take  pains  to  listen  to  the  song  with  apparent  respect  and  friendliness,  he  was  very  soon  and  easily  persuaded.  And  so,  feeling  odd  and  foolish,  not  because  he  felt  they  were  really  deceiving  him  or  laughing  at  him  but  only  because  with  each  public  repe-  tition  of  it  he  felt  more  silly,  and  less  sure  that  it  was  really  as  pretty  and  en-  joyable  as  he  liked  to  think  it  was,  he  would  give  them  one  last  anxious  look,  which  always  particularly  tickled  them,  and  would  then  raise  his  arms  and  turn  round  and  round,  singing:  &quot;I'm  a  little  busy  bee,  busy  bee,  busy  bee,  I'm  a  little  busy  bee,  singing  in  the  clover.&quot;  As  he  sang  and  danced  he  could  hear  through  his  own  verses  a  few  obscure,  incredulous  cackles,  but  nearly  all  the  faces  which  whirled  past  him,  those  of  the  older  boys,  were  restrained,  atten-  tive,  and  smiling,  and  this  made  up  for  the  contempt  he  saw  on  the  faces  of  the  middle-sized  boys;  and  when  he  had  finished,  and  was  catching  his  breath,  these  older  boys  would  clap  their  hands  in  real  approval,  and  say,  &quot;That's  an  awful  pretty  song,  Rufus.  Where  did  you  learn  that  song?&quot;  And  again  he  would  suspect  some  meanness  behind  it  and  so  would  refuse  to  say  until  they  had  coaxed  him  suf-  ficiently  and  then  out  it  came-&quot;My  mama'&quot;-and  at  that  point  some  of  the  smaller  boys  were  liable  to  spoil  every-  thing  by  yelling  and  laughing,  but  often  even  if  they  did,  the  older  boys  could  save  it  all  by  sternly  crying  &quot;You  shut  up!  Don't  you  know  a  pretty  song  when  you  hear  it?&quot;  and  by  turning  to  him,with  faces  which  shut  out  those  boys  and  included  him  among  the  big  boys,  and  saying,  &quot;Don't  you  care  about  them,  Rufus,  they're  just  ignorant  and  don't  know  nothing.  You  sing  your  song.&quot;  And  another  would  chime  in,  &quot;Yeah,  Rufus,  sing  it  again.  Gee,  that's  a  pretty  song;&quot;  and  a  third  would  say,  &quot;And  don't  forget  to  dance;&quot;  and  for  this  reduced  but  select  audience  he  would  do  the  whole  thing  over  again.  At  that  point  someone  usually  said  abruptly,  &quot;Come  on,  we  got  to  go,&quot;  and,  as  suddenly  as  if  a  chair  had  been  pulled  from  under  him,  he  would  be  left  by  himself;  they  hardly  even  clapped  their  hands  before  they  walked  away.  But  some  of  the  boys  with  the  nicest  faces  always  took  care,  before  they  left,  to  tell  him,  &quot;Gee,  thanks,  Rufus,     " b"that  was  mighty  pretty,&quot;  and  to  say,  &quot;Don't  you  forget,  you  be  here  to-  morrow;&quot;  and  this  more  than  made  up  for  the  thing  which  never  failed  to  perplex  him.  Why  did  they  walk  off  so  suddenly  as  all  that?  Why  did  they  all  keep  looking  back  and  laughing  in  that  queer  way:  subdued  talk,  their  heads  close  together,  and  then  those  sudden  whoops  of  laughter?  It  almost  seemed  as  if  they  were  laughing  at  him.  And  once,  when  one  of  the  bigger  boys  sud-  denly  flung  up  his  arms  and  whirled  in-  to  the  street,  piping  in  a  high,  squeaky  voice,  &quot;I'm  a  little  busy  bee,&quot;  he  was  quite  sure  that  they  had  not  really  liked  the  song,  or  him  for  singing  it.  But  if  they  didn't,  then  why  did  they  ask  him  to  sing  it?  And  then  once  heheardone  of  them,  far  down  the  block,  squeak,  &quot;My  mama,&quot;  and  he  felt  as  if  some-  thing  went  straight  through  his  stom-  ach,  and  they  all  laughed,  and  he  was  practically  certain  that  to  those  boys,  at  least,  the  whole  thing  was  just  some  kind  of  mean  joke.  But  then  he  re-  membered  how  nice  the  boys  he  liked  best  and  trusted  most  had  been,  and  he  knew  that  anyway  the  boys  he  liked  best  were  not  in  any  way  trying  to  tease  him.  AFTER  a  while,  however,  he  began  to  wonder  even  about  them.  Maybe  their  being  so  extra  nice  was  just their  way  of  getting  him  to  do  things  he  would  never  do  if  they  were  only  nice  part  of  the  time  and  then  laughed  at  him.  Yet  if  they  were  nice  all  the  time,  it  must  be  because  they  honestly  meant  it.  And  yet  the  way  some  of  the  others  laughed,  what  he  was  doing  must  be  wrong  or  silly  somehow.  He  would  be  much  more  careful.  He  would  be  careful  not  to  do  anything  or  say  anything  anybody  asked  him  to,  un-  less  he  was  sure  they  were  really  nice  and  really  meant  it.  He  now  watched  even  the  boys  he  liked  best  with  very  particular  caution,  and  they  saw  that  unless  they  were  much  more  shrewd  the  game  was  likely  to  be  spoiled  again.  They  began  to  offer  him  rewards-a  stick  of  chewing  gum,  the  stubof  a  pen-  cil,  chalk,  a  piece  of  candy-and  this  seemed  to  convince  him.  The  less  shrewd  of  the  boys  often  did  not  give  him  the  promised  reward,  and  this,  of  course,  was  more  fun,  but  the  smarter  ones  were  always  consistent,  so  that  he  never  refused  them.  It  was  all  so  easy,  in  fact,  that  it  began  to  bore  them.  They  began  to  appreciate  the  tricks  the  more  stupid  boys  played,  like  one  getting  down  behind  him  while  he  danced  and  another  pushing  him  over  backwards, but  they  were  intelligent  enough  never  to  take  part  in  this,  always  to  pretend  thorough  disapproval,  always  to  help  him  to  his  feet  and  brush  him  off  and  console  him  if  he  had  struck  his  head  hard  and  was  crying,  and  always  to  con-  ceal  their  astonished  delight  at  his  utter  bewilderment  and  gullibility  and  their  astonished  contempt  at  his  complete  lack  of  spirit  to  strike  out  against  his  tormen-  tors,  his  lack  of  ability,  even,  for  real  solid  anger.  And  because  they  were  al-  ways  there,  and  always  seemed  to  be  on  his  side,  they  could  always  keep  him  sufficiently  deceived  to  come  back  for  more  than  anyone  in  his  right  senses  would  come  back  for.  The  oldest  of  them  began  to  be  ob-  scurely  ashamed,  as  well  as  bored.  They  were  all  much  older  and  smarter  than  he  was;  even  the  youngest  of  the  boys  who  went  to  school  were  enough  older  than  he  was  that  it  seemed  no  wonder  that  he  was  continually  fooled,  and  that  he  never  fought  back.  They  felt  that  this  little  song,  for  instance,  was  too  sissy  to  be  fun  for  much  longer.  'They  felt  that  more  violent  things  should  be  done.  But  they  themselves  could  not  do  such  things.  If  they  showed  him  they  were  not  on  his  side,  the  fun  would  all  be  over.  And  even  if  it  were  not,  they  knew  that  it  would  be  unfair  of  them  to  do  the  really  violent  things,  which  ab-  solutely  required  violence  in  return,  to  " b"anyone  so  much  younger  and  smaller,  no  matter  how  big  a  fool  hewas.  Be-  sides,  they  had  received  more  than  enough  hints  that  even  if  he  were  driven  to  fight,  he  would  not  have  the  nerve  to,  probably  wouldn't  even  know  he  had  to.  They  were  curious  to  see  what  would  happen.  They  left  the  game  wider  and  wider  open  to  the  smaller,  crueler,  and  more  simple  boys.  But  it  was  no  good.  He  would  just  look  at  them  with  sur-  prise,  pain,  and  reproach,  and  get  up  and  walk  away;  and  if  any  of  these  older,  normally  friendly  boys  consoled  him  too  closely,  he  would  burst  into  sobs,  which  disgusted  as  well  as  de-  lighted  them.  AT  length  they  found  the  right  for-  mula.  They  put  some  boys  as  small  as  he  was  up  to  some  tricks  which  nobody  bigger  would  have  any  right  to  do.  "