 b"THIS  is  being  written  aboard  the  S.S.  Augustus,  three  days  at  sea.  My  suitcase  is  full  of  pea-  nut  butter,  and  I  am  a  fugitive  from  the  suburbs  of  all  large  cities.  What  holes!  'The  suburbs,  I  mean.  God  pre-  serve  me  from  the  camaraderie  of  com-  muting  trains,  and  even  from  the  lovely  ladies  taking  in  their  asters  and  their  roses  at  dusk  lest  the  frost  kill  them,  and  from  ladies  with  their  heads  whirl-  ing  with  civic  zeal.  I'm  off  to  Torino,  where  the  girls  love  peanut  butter  and  the  world  is  a  man's  castle  and  ...&quot;  There  was  absolutely  nothing  wrong  with  the  suburb  (Shady  Hill)  from  which  Charles  Flint  was  fleeing,  his  age  is  immaterial,  and  he  was  no  stranger  to  Torin\xc2\xbb,  having  been  there  for  three  months  recently  on  business.  &quot;God  preserve  me,&quot;  he  continued,  &quot;from  women  who  dress  like  toreros  to  go  to  the  supermarket,  and  from  cow-  hide  dispatch  cases,  and  from  flannels  and  gabardines.  Preserve  me  from  word  games  and  adulterers,  from  basset  hounds  and  swimming  pools  and  frozen  canap\xc3\xa9s  and  Bloody  Marys  and  smug-  ness  and  syringa  bushes  and  P.-T.A.  meetings.&quot;  On  and  on  he  wrote,  while  the  Augustus,  travelling  at  seventeen  knots,  took  a  course  due  east;  they  would  raise  the  Azores  in  a  day.  Like  all  bitter  men,  Flint  knew  less  than  half  the  story  and  was  more  in-  terested  in  unloading  his  own  peppery  feelings  than  in  learning  the  truth.  Marcie,  the  wife  from  whom  he  was  fleeing,  was  a  dark-haired,  dark-eyed  woman-not  young  by  any  stretch  of  the  imagination  but  gifted  with  great  stores  of  feminine  sweetness  and  gal-  lantry.  She  had  not  told  her  neighbors  that  Charlie  had  left  her;  she  had  not  even  called  her  lawyer;  but  she  had  fired  the  cook,  and  she  now  took  a  south-southwest  course  between  the  stove  and  the  sink,  cooking  the  chil-  dren's  supper.  It  was  not  in  her  tore-  view  the  past,  as  her  husband  would,  or  to  inspect  the  forces  that  could  put  an  ocean  between  a  couple  who  had  been  cheerfully  married  for  fifteen  years.  There  had  been,  she  felt,  a  slight  dif-  ference  in  their  points  of  view  during  his  recent  absence  on  business,  for  while  he  always  wrote  that  he  missed  her,  he  also  wrote  that  he  was  dining  at  the  Superga  six  nights  a  week  and  having  a  wonderful  time.  He  had  only  planned  to  be  away  for  six  weeks,  and  when  this  stretched  out  to  three  months,  she  found  that  it  was  something  to  be  borne.  Her  neighbors  had  stood  by  her  handsomely  during  the  first  weeks,  but  she  knew,  herself,  that  an  odd  woman  can  spoil  a  dinner  party,  and  as  Flint  continued  to  stay  away,  she  found  that  she  had  more  anl  more  lonely  nights  to  get  through.  Now,  there  were  two  aspects  to  the  night  life  of  Shady  Hill;  there  were  the  parties,  of  course,  and  then  there  was  another  side-a  regu-  lar  Santa  Claus's  workshop  of  madrigal  singers,  political  discussion  groups,  re-  corder  groups,  dancing  schools,  confir-  mation  classes,  committee  meetings,  and  lectures  on  literature,  philosophy,  city  planning,  and  pest  control.  'The  bright  banner  of  stars  in  heaven  has  probably  never  before  been  stretched  above  such  a  picture  of  nocturnal  industry.  Mar-  cie,  having  a  sweet,  clear  voice,  joined  a  madrigal  group  that  met  on  Thurs-  days  and  a  political  workshop  that  met  on  Mondays.  Once  she  made  herself  available,  she  was  sought  as  a  com-  mitteewoman,  although  it  was  hard  to  say  why;  she  almost  never  opened  her  mouth.  She  finally  accepted  a  position  on  the  Village  Council,  in  the  third  month  of  Charlie's  absence,  mostly  to  keep  herself  occupied.  Virtuousness,  reason,  civic  zeal,  and  loneliness  all  contributed  to  poor  Mar-  cie's  trouble.  Charlie,  far  away  in  Torino,  could  imagine  her  well  enough  standing  in  their  lighted  doorway  on  the  evening  of  his  return,  but  could  he  imagine  her  groping  under  the  bed  for  the  children's  shoes  or  pouring  bacon  fat  into  an  old  soup  can?  &quot;Daddy  has  to  stay  in  4974616c79  in  order  to  make  the  money  to  buy  the  things  we  need,&quot;  she  told  the  children.  But  when  Charlie  called  her  from  abroad,  as  he  did  once  a  week,  he  always  seemed  to  have  been  drinking.  Regard  this  sweet  woman,  then,  singing  &quot;Hodie  Christus  Natus  Est,&quot;  studying  Karl  Marx,  and  sitting  on  a  hard  chair  at  meetings  of  the  Vil-  lage  Council.  IF  there  was  anything  really  wrong  with  Shady  Hill,  anything  that  you  could  put  your  finger  on,  it  was  the  fact  that  the  village  had  no  public  li-  brary-no  foxed  copies  of  Pascal,  smell-  ing  of  cabbage;  no  broken  sets  of  Dostoevski  and  George  Eliot;  no  Gals-  worthy,  even;  no  Barrie  and  no  Ben-  nett.  This  was  the  chief  concern  of  the  Village  Council  during  Marcie's  term. The  library  partisans  were  mostly  new-  comers  to  the  village;  the  opposition  whip  was  Mrs.  Selfredge,  a  member  of  the  Council  and  a  verydecorous  woman,  with  blue  eyes  of  astonishing  brilliance  and  inexpressiveness.  Mrs.  Selfredge  often  spoke  of  the  chosen  quietness  of  their  life.  &quot;We  never  go  out,&quot;  she  would  say,  but  in  such  a  way  that  she  seemed  to  be  expressing  not  some  choice  but  a  deep  vein  of  loneli-  ness.  She  was  married  to  a  wealthy  man  much  older  than  herself,  and  they  had  no  children;  indeed,  the  most  in-  direct  mention  of  sexual  fact  brought  a  deep  color  to  Mrs.  Selfredge's  face.  She  took  the  position  that  a  library  be-  longed  in  that  category  of  public  service  that  might  make  Shady  Hill  attractive  to  a  development.  This  was  not  blind  prejudice.  Carsen  Park,  the  next  vil-  lage,  had  let  a  development  inside  its  boundaries,  with  disastrous  results  to  the  people  already  living  there.  Their  taxes  had  been  doubled,  their  schools  had  been  ruined.  That  there  was  any  connection  between  reading  and  real  estate  was  disputed  by  the  partisans  of  the  library,  until  a  horrible  murder-  three  murders,  in  fact-took  place  in  one  of  the  cheesebox  houses  in  the  Car-  sen  Park  development,  and  the  library  project  was  buried  with  the  victims.  From  the  terraces  of  the  Superga  you  can  see  all  of  Torino  and  the  snow-  covered  mountains  around,  and  a  man  drinking  wine  there  might  not  think  of  his  wife  attending  a  meeting  of  the  Village  Council.  This  was  a  board  of  ten  men  and  two  women,  headed  by  the  Mayor,  who  screened  the  projects  that  came  before  them.  The  Council  met  in  the  Civic  Center,  an  old  man-  sion  that  had  been  picked  up  for  back  taxes.  The  board  room  had  been  the  parlor.  Easter  eggs  had  been  hidden  here,  children  had  pinned  paper  tails  on  paper  donkeys,  fires  had  burned  on  the  hearth,  and  a  Christmas  tree  had  stood  in  the  corner;  but  once  the  house  had  become  the  property  of  the  village,  a  conscientious  effort  seems  to  have  been  made  to  exorcise  these  gentle  ghosts.  Raphael's  self-portrait  and  the  pictures  of  the  Broken  Bridge  at  Avi-  gnon  and  the  Avon  at  Stratford  were  taken  down  and  the  walls  were  painted  a  depressing  shade  of  green.  The  fireplace  remained,  but  the  flue  was  sealed  up  and  the  bricks  were  spread  with  green  paint.  A  track  of  fluorescent  tubing  across  the  ceiling  threw  a  wither-  ing  light  down  into  the  faces  ofthe  Vil-  lage  Council  members  and  made  them  all  look  haggard  and  tired.  The  room  made  Marcie  uncomfortable.  In  its  harsh  light  her  sweetness  was  unavail-  " b"ing,  and  she  felt  not  only  bored  but  somehow  pain-  fully  estranged.  On  this  particular  night  they  discussed  water  taxes  and  parking  meters,  and  then  the  Mayor  brought  up  the  public  library  for  the  last  time.  &quot;Of  course,  the  issue  is  closed,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  we've  heard  everyone  all  along,  on  both  sides.  There's  one  more  man  who  wants  to  speak  to  us,  and  I  think  we  ought  to  hear  him.  He  comes  from  Maple  Dell.&quot;  Then  he  opened  the  door  from  the  board  room  into  the  corridor  and  let  Noel  Mackham  in.  Now,  the  neighborhood  of  Maple  Dell  was  more  like  a  development  than  anything  else  in  Shady  Hill.  It  was  the  kind  of  place  where  the  houses  stand  cheek  by  jowl,  all  of  them  white  frame,  all  of  them  built  twenty  years  ago,  and  parked  beside  each  was  a  car  that  seemed  more  substan-  tial  than  the  house  itself,  as  if  this  were  a  fragment  of  some  nomadic  culture.  And  it  was  a  kind  of  spawning  ground,  a  place  for  bearing  and  raising  the  young  and  for  nothing  else-for  who  would  ever  come  back  to  Maple  Dell?  Who,  in  the  darkest  night,  would  ever  think  with  longing  ofthe  three  upstairs  bed-  rooms  and  the  leaky  toilet  and  the  sour-  smelling  halls?  Who  would  ever  come  back  to  the  little  living  room  where  you  couldn't  swing  a  cat  around  without  knocking  down  the  colored  photograph  of  Mount  Rainier?  Who  would  ever  come  back  to  the  uncomfortable  over-  stuffed  easy  chair  and  the  obsolete  TV  set  and  the  bent  ashtray  with  its  pressed-  steel  statue  of  a  naked  woman  doing  a  scarf  dance?  &quot;I  understand  that  the  business  is  closed,&quot;  Mackham  said,  &quot;but  I  just  wanted  to  go  on  record  as  being  in  favor  of  a  public  library.  It's  been  on  my  conscience.&quot;  He  was  not  much  of  an  advocate  for  anything.  He  was  tall.  His  hair  had  begun  an  erratic  recession,  leaving  him  with  some  sparse  fluff  to  comb  over  his  bald  brow.  His  features  were  an-  gular;  his  skin  was  bad.  There  were  no  deep  notes  to  his  voice.  Its  range  seemed  confined  to  a  delicate  hoarseness-a  monotonous  and  laryngitic  sound  that  aroused  in  Marcie,  as  if  it  had  been  some  kind  of  Hungarian  music,  feelings  of  irritable  melancholy.  &quot;I  just  wanted  to  say  a  few  words  in  favor  ofa  public  library,&quot;  he  rasped.  &quot;When  I  was  a  kid  we  were  poor.  There  wasn't  much  good  about  the  way  we  lived,  but  there  was  this  Carnegie  Library.  I  started  go-  ing  there  when  I  was  about  eight.  I  guess  I  went  there  regularly  for  ten  years.  I  read  everything-philosophy,  novels,  technical  books,  poetry,  ships'  logs.  I  even  read  a  cookbook.  For  me,  this  library  amounted  to  the  difference  between  life  and  death.  It  meant  the  difference  between  success  and  failure.  When  I  remember  the  thrill  I  used  to  get  out  of  cracking  a  good  book,  I  just  hate  to  think  of  bringing  my  kids  up  in  a  place  where  there  isn't  any  library.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  of  course  we  know  what  you  mean,&quot;  Mayor  Simmons  said.  &quot;But  I  don't  think  that's  quite  the  question.  The  question  is  not  one  of  denying  books  to  children.  Most  of  us  in  Shady  Hill  have  libraries  of  our  own.&quot;  Mark  Barrett  got  to  his  feet.  &quot;And  Dd  like  to  throw  in  a  word  about  poor  boys  and  reading,  if  I  might,&quot;  he  said,  in  a  voice  so  full  of  color  and  virility  that  everyone  smiled.  &quot;I  was  a  poor  boy  myself,&quot;  he  said  cheerfully,  &quot;and  I'm  not  ashamed  to  say  so,  and  I'd  just  like  to  throw  in-for  what  it's  worth-that  I  never  put  my  nose  in-  side  a  public  library,  except  to  get  out of  the  rain,  or  maybe  follow  a  pretty  girl.  I  just  don't  want  anybody  to  be  left  with  the  impression  that  a  public  library  is  the  road  to  success.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  say  that  a  public  library  was  the  road  to-&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  implied  it!&quot;  Barrett  shouted,  and  he  seated  himself  with  a  big  stir.  His  chair  creaked,  and  by  bulg-  ing  his  muscles  a  little  he  made  his  garters,  braces,  and  shoes  all  sound.  &quot;I  only  wanted  to  say-&quot;  Mackham  began  again.  &quot;You  implied  it!&quot;  Barrett  shouted.  &quot;Just  because  you  can't  read,&quot;  Mackham  said,  &quot;it  doesn't  follow-&quot;  &quot;Damn  it,  man,  I  didn'tsay  that  I  couldn't  read!&quot;  Barrett  was  on  his  feet  again.  &quot;Please,  gentlemen!  Please!  Please!&quot;  Mayor  Simmons  said.  &quot;Let's  keep  our  remarks  temperate.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  sit  here  and  have  someone  who  lives  in  Maple  Dell  tell  me  the  reason  he's  such  a  hot  rock  is  because  he  read  a  lot  of  books!&quot;  Bar-  rett  shouted.  &quot;Books  have  their  place.  I  won't  deny  it.  But  no  book  ever  helped  me  to  get  where  I  am,  and  from  where  I  am  I  can  spit  on  Maple  Dell.  As  for  my  kids,  I  want  them  out  in  the  fresh  air  playing  ball,  not  reading  cookbooks.&quot;  &quot;Please,  Mark.  Please,&quot;  the  Mayor  said.  And  then  he  turned  to  Mrs.  Self-  " b"redge  and  asked  her  to  move  that  the  meeting  be  adjourned.  MY day,  my  hour,  my  moment  of  revelation,&quot;  Charlie  wrote,  in  his  sun-deck  cabin  on  the  Augustus,  &quot;came  on  a  Sunday,  when  I  had  been  home  eight  days.  Oh  God,  was  I  happy!  I  spent  most  of  the  day  putting  up  storm  windows,  and  I  like  working  on  my  house.  'Things  like  putting  up  storm  windows.  When  the  work  was  done,  I  put  the  ladder  away  and  grabbed  a  towel  and  my  swimming  trunks  and  walked  over  to  the  Townsends'  swim-  ming  pool.  They  were  away,  but  the  pool  hadn't  been  drained.  I  put  on  my  trunks  and  dove  in  and  I  remember  see-  ing-way,  way  way  up  in  thetop  of  one  of  the  pine  trees-a  brassigre  that  I  guess  the  Townsend  kids  had  snitched  and  heaved  up  there  in  midsummer,  the  screams  of  dismay  from  their  vic-  tim  having  long  since  been  carried  away  on  the  west  wind.  The  water  was  very  cold,  and  blood  pressure  or  some  other  medical  reason  may  have  accounted  for  the  fact  that  when  I  gotout  of  the  pool  and  dressed  I  was  nearly  busting  with  happiness.  I  walked  back  to  the  house,  and  when  I  stepped  inside  it  was  so  quiet  that  I  wondered  if  anything  had  gone  wrong.  It  was  not  an  ominous  silence-it  was  just  that  I  wondered  why  the  clock  should  sound  so  loud.  Then  I  went  upstairs  and  found  Marcie  asleep  in  our  bedroom.  She  was  cov-  ered  with  a  light  wrap  that  had  slipped  from  her  shoulders  and  breasts.  Then  I  heard  Henry  and  Katie's  voices,  and  I  went  to  the  back  bedroom  window.  This  looked  out  onto  the  garden,  where  a  gravel  path  that  needed  weeding  went  up  a  little  hill.  Henry  and  Katie  were  there.  Katie  was  scratching  in  the  gravel  with  a  stick-some  message  of  love,  I  guess.  Henry  had  one  of  those  broad-winged  planes-talismanic  planes,  really-made  of  balsa  wood  and     propelled  by  a  rubber  band.  He  twisted  the  band  by  turning  the  propeller,  and  I  could  see  his  lips  moving  as  he  count-  ed.  Then,  when  the  rubber  was  taut,  he  sethis  feet  apart  in  the  gravel,  like  a  marksman-Katie  watched  none  of  this-and  sent  the  plane  up.  The  wings  of  the  plane  were  pale  in  the  early  dark,  and  then  I  saw  it  climb  out  of  the  shade  up  to  where  the  sun  washed  it  with  yel-  low  light.  With  not  much  more  force  than  a  moth,  it  soared  and  circled  and  meandered  and  came  slowly  down  again  into  the  shade  and  crashed  on  the  peony  hedge.  'I  got  it  up  again!'  I  heard  Henry  shout.  'I  got  it  up  into  the  light.&quot;  Katie  went  on  writing  her  message  in  the  dirt.  And  then,  like  some  trick  in  the  movies,  I  saw  myself  as  my  son,  standing  in  a  like  garden  and  sending  up  out  of  the  dark  a  plane,  an  arrow,  a  tennis  ball,  a  stone-anything-while  my  sister  drew  hearts  in  the  gravel.  The  memory  of  how  deep  this  impulse  to  reach  into  the  light  had  been  com-  pletely  charmed  me,and  I  watched  the  boy  send  the  plane  up  again  and  again.  &quot;'Then,  still  feeling  very  springy  and  full  of  fun,  I  walked  back  toward  the  door,  stopping  to  admire  the  curve  of  Marcie's  breasts  and  deciding,  in  a  blaze  of  charity,  to  let  her  sleep.  I  felt  so  good  that  I  needed  a  drink-not  to  pick  me  up  but  to  dampen  my  spirits-a  liba-  tion,  anyhow-and  I  poured  some  whiskey  in  a  glass.  Then  I  went  into  the  kitchen  to  get  some  ice,  and  I  noticed  that  ants  had  got  in  somehow.  This  was  surprising,  because  we  never  had  much  trouble  with  ants.  Spiders,  yes.  Before  the  equinoctial  hurricanes  even  before  the  barometer  had  begun  to  fall-the  house  seemed  to  fill  up  with  spiders,  as  if  they  sensed  the  trouble  in  the  air.  There  would  be  spiders  in  the  bathtubs  and  spiders  in  the  living  room  and  spidersin  the  kitchen,  and,  walking  down  the  long  upstairs  hallway  before  a  storm,  you  could  sometimes  feel  the  thread  of  a  web  break  against  your  face.  But  we  hadhad  almost  no  trouble  with  ants.  Now,  on  this  autumn  afternoon,  thousands  of  ants  broke  out  of  the  kitch-  en  woodwork  and  threw  a  double  line  across  the  drainboard  and  into  the  sink,  where  there  seemed  to  be  something  they  wanted.  &quot;I  found  some  ant  poison  at  the  back  of  the  broom-closet  shelf,  a  little  jar  of  brown  stuff  that  I'd  bought  from  Timmons  in  the  village  years  ago.  I  put  a  generous  helping  of  this  into  a  saucer  and  put  it  on  the  drainboard.  Then  I  took  my  drink  and  a  piece  of  the  Sunday  paper  out  onto  the  terrace  in  front  of  the  house.  The  house  faced  west,  so  I  had  more  light  than  the  chil-  dren,  and  I  felt  so  happy  that  even  the  news  in  the  papers  seemed  cheerful.  No  kings  had  been  assassinated  in  the  rainy  back  streets  of  Marseille;  no  storms  were  brewing  in  the  Balkans;  no  clerk-  ly  Englishman-the  admiration  of  his  landlady  and  his  aunts-had  dissolved  the  remains  of  a  young  lady  in  an  acid  bath;  no  jewels,  even,  had  been  stolen.  And  that  sometime  power  of  the  Sun-  day  paper  to  evoke  an  anxious,  rain-  wet  world  of  fallen  crowns  and  in-  evitable  war  seemed  gone,  Then  the  sun  withdrew  from  my  paper  and  from  the  chair  where  I  sat,  and  I  wished  I  had  put  on  a  sweater.  &quot;It  was  late  in  the  season-the  salt  of  change  was  in  the  air-and  this  tickled  me  too.  Last  Sunday,  or  the  Sunday  before,  the  terrace  would  have  been  flooded  with  light.  Then  I  thought  about  other  places  where  I  would  like  to  be-Nantucket,  with  only  a  handful  of  people  left  and  the  sailing  fleet  de-  pleted  and  the  dunes  casting,  as  they  never  do  in  the  summer,  a  dark  shadow  over  the  bathing  beach.  And  I  thought  about  the  Vineyard  and  the  farina-col-  ored  bluffs  and  the  purple  autumn  sea  and  that  stillness  in  which  you  might  hear,  from  way  out  in  the  Sound,  the  " b"rasp  of  a  block  on  a  traveller  asa  sail-  boat  there  came  about.  I  tasted  my  whiskey  and  gave  my  paper  a  shake,  but  the  view  of  the  golden  light  on  the  grass  and  the  trees  was  more  compelling  than  the  news,  and  now  mixed  up  with  my  memories  of  the  sea  islands  was  the  whiteness  of  Marcie's  thighs.  &quot;'Then  I  was  seized  by  some  in-  toxicating  pride  in  the  hour,  by  the  joy  and  the  naturalness  of  my  relationship  to  the  scene,  and  by  the  ease  with  which  I  could  put  my  hands  on  what  I  needed.  I  thought  again  of  Marcie  sleeping  and  that  I  would  have  my  way  there  soon-  it  would  be  a  way  of  expressing  this  pride.  And  then,  listening  for  the  voices  of  my  children  and  not  hearing  them,  I  decided  to  celebrate  the  hour  as  it  passed.  I  put  the  paper  down  and  ran  up  the  stairs.  Marcie  was  still  sleeping  and  I  stripped  off  my  clothes  and  lay  down  beside  her,  waking  her  from  what  seemed  to  be  a  pleasant  dream,  for  she  smiled  and  drew  me  to  her.&quot;  O  get  back  to  Marcie  and  her  trouble:  She  put  on  her  coat  after  the  meeting  was  adjourned  and  said,  &quot;Good  night.  Good  night.  ...  I'm  ex-  pecting  him  home  next  week.&quot;  She  was  not  easily  upset,  but  she  suddenly  felt  that  she  had  looked  straight  at  stupidity  and  unfairness.  Going  down  the  stairs  behind  Mackham,  she  felt  a  powerful  mixture  of  pity  and  sympathy  for  the  stranger  and  some  clear  anger  toward  her  old  friend  Mark  Barrett.  She  wanted  to  apologize,  and  she  stopped  Mackham  in  the  door  and  said  that  she  had  some  cheerful  memories  of  her  own  involving  a  public  library.  As  it  happened,  Mrs.  Selfredge  and  Mayor  Simmons  were  the  last  to  leave  the  board  room.  The  Mayor  waited,  with  his  hand  on  the  light  switch,  for  Mrs.  Selfredge,  who  was  putting  on  her  white  gloves.  &quot;I'm  glad  the  library's  over  and  done  with,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  have  a  few  misgivings,  but  right  now  I'm  against  anything  public,  anything  that  would  make  this  community  attractive  to  a  development.&quot;  He  spoke  with  feel-  ing,  and  at  the  word  &quot;development&quot;  a  ridge  covered  with  identical  houses  rose  in  his  mind.  It  seemed  wrong  to  him  that  the  houses  he  imagined  should  be  identical  and  that  they  should  be  built  of  green  wood  and  false  stone.  It  seemed  wrong  to  him  that  young  cou- ples  should  begin  their  lives  in  an  at-  mosphere  that  lacked  grace,  and  it  seemed  wrong  to  him  that  the  rows  of  houses  could  not,  for  long,  preserve  their  slender  claim  on  propriety  and  would  presently  become  unsightly  tracts.  &quot;Of  course,  it  isn't  a  question  of  keeping  children  from  books,  &quot;  he  repeated.  &quot;We  all  have  libraries  of  our  own.  There  isn't  any  problem.  I  suppose  you  were  brought  up  in  a  house  with  a  library?&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes,  yes,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Selfredge.  The  Mayor  had  turned  off  the  light,  and  the  darkness  covered  and  softened  the  lie  she  had  told.  Her  father  had  been  a  [REDACTED]  patrolman,  and  there  had  not  been  a  book  in  his  house.  He  had  been  an  amiable  man-not  very  sweet-  smelling-who  talked  to  all  the  chil-  dren  on  his  beat.  Slovenly  and  jolly,  he  had  spent  the  years  of  his  retirement  drinking  beer  in  the  kitchen  in  his  un-  derwear,  to  the  deep  despair  and  shame  of  his  only  child.  The  Mayor  said  good  night  to  Mrs.  Selfredge  on  the  sidewalk,  and  standing  there  she  overheard  Marcie  speaking  to  Mackham.  &quot;I'm  terribly  sorry  about  Mark,  about  what  he  said,&quot;  Marcie  said.  &quot;We've  all  had  to  put  up  with  him  at  " b"one  time  or  another.  But  why  don't  you  come  back  to  my  house  for  a  drink?  Perhaps  we  could  get  the  library  project  moving  again.&quot;  So  it  wasn't  over  and  done  with,  Mrs.  Selfredge  thought  indignantly.  They  wouldn't  rest  until  Shady  Hill  was  noth-  ing  but  developments  from  one  end  to  the  other.  The  colorless,  hard-pressed  people  of  the  Carsen  Park  project,  with  their  flocks  of  children,  and  their  month-  ly  interest  payments,  and  their  picture  windows,  and  their  view  of  identical  houses  and  treeless,  muddy,  unpaved  streets  seemed  to  threaten  her  most  cherished  concepts-her  lawns,  her  pleasures,  her  property  rights,  even  her  self-esteem.  Mr.  Selfredge,  an  intelligent  and  ele-  gant  old  gentleman,  was  waiting  up  for  his  Little  Princess  and  she  told  him  her  troubles.  Mr.  Selfredge  had  retired  from  the  banking  business-mercifully,  for  whenever  he  stepped  out  into  the  world  today  he  was  confronted  with  the  deterioration  of  those  qualities  of  re-  sponsibility  and  initiative  that  had  made  the  world  of  his  youth  selective,  vigor-  ous,  and  healthy.  He  knew  a  great  deal  about  Shady  Hill-he  even  recognized  Mackham's  name.  &quot;The  bank  holds  the  mortgageon  his  house,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  remember  when  he  applied  for  it.  He  works  for  a  textbook  company  in  New  York  that  has  been  accused  by  at  least  one  Congressional  committee  of  publish-  ing  subversive  American  histories.  I  wouldn't  worry  about  him,  my  dear,  but  if  it  would  put  your  mind  at  ease,  I  could  easily  write  a  letter  to  the  paper.&quot;  &quot;BUT  the  children  were  not  as  far  away  asI  thought,&quot;  Charlie  wrote,  aboard  the  Augustus.  &quot;They  were  still  in  the  garden.  And  the  signif-  icance  of  that  hour  for  them,  I  guess,  was  that  it  was  made  for  stealing  food.  I  have  to  make  up  or  imagine  what  took  place  with  them.  'They  may  have  been  drawn  into  the  house  by  a  hunger  as  keen  as  mine.  Coming  into  the  hall  and  listen-  ing  for  sounds,  they  would  hear  nothing,  and  they  would  open  the  icebox  slowly,  so  that  the  sound  of  the  heavy  latch  wouldn't  be  heard.  The  icebox  must  have  been  disappointing,  because  Henry  wandered  over  to  the  sink  and  began  to  eat  the  sodium  arsenate.  'Candy,&quot;  he  said,  and  Katie  joined  him,  and  they  had  a  fight  over  the  remaining  poison.  They  must  have  stayed  in  the  kitchen  for  quite  a  while,  because  they  were  still  in  the  kitchen  when  Henry  began  to  retch.  'Well,  don't  get  it  all  over  everything,&quot;  Katie  said.  'Come  on  outside.&quot;  She  was  beginning  to  feel  sick  herself,  and  they went  outside  and  hid  under  a  syringa  bush,  which  is  where  I  found  them  when  I  dressed  and  came  down.  ''They  told  me  what  they  had  eaten,  and  I  woke  Marcie  up  and  then  ran  downstairs  again  and  called  Doc  Mul-  lens.  'Jesus  Christ!?  he  said.  'I'll  be  right  over.&quot;  He  asked  me  to  read  the  label  on  the  jar,  but  all  it  said  was  sodium  arsenate;  it  didn't  say  the  percentage.  And  when  I  told  him  I  had  bought  it  from  Timmons,  he  told  me  to  call  and  ask  Timmons  who  the  manu-  facturer  was.  The  line  was  busy,  and  so,  while  Marcie  was  running  back  and  forth  between  the  two  sick  children,  I  jumped  into  thecar  and  drove  to  the  village.  There  was  a  lot  of  light  in  the  sky,I  remember,  but  it  was  nearly  dark  in  the  streets.  Timmons'  drugstore  was  the  only  place  that  was  lighted,  and  it  was  the  kind  of  place  that  seems  to  sub-  sist  on  the  crumbs  from  other  trades-  men's  tables.  This  late  hour  when  all  the  other  stores  were  shut  was  Tim-  mons'  finest.  The  crazy  jumble  of  dis-  plays  in  his  window-irons,  ashtrays,  Venus  in  a  truss,  ice  bags,  and  per-  fumes-was  continued  into  the  store  it-  self,  which  seemed  like  a  pharmaceutical  curiosity  shop  or  fun  house:  a  storeroom  for  cardboard  beauties  anointing  them-  selves  with  sun  oil;  for  cardboard  moun-  tain  ranges  in  the  alpine  glow,  advertising  pine-scented  soap;  for  bookshelves,  and  bins  filled  with  card-table  covers,  and  plastic  water  pistols.  The  drug-  store  was  a  little  like  a  house,  too,  for  Mrs.  Timmons  stood  behind  the  soda  fountain,  a  neat  and  anxious-looking  woman,  with  photographs  of  her  three  sons  (one  dead)  in  uniform  arranged  against  the  mirror  at  her  back,  and  when  Timmons  himself  came  to  the  counter,  he  was  chewing  on  something  and  wiped  the  crumbs  of  a  sandwich  off  his  mouth  with  the  back  of  his  hand.  I  showed  him  the  jar  and  said,  'The  kids  ate  some  of  this  about  an  hour  ago.  I  called  Doc  Mullens,  and  he  told  me  to  come  and  see  you.  It  doesn'tsay  what  the  percentage  of  arsenate  is,  and  he  thought  if  you  could  remember  where  you  got  it,  we  could  telephone  the  manu-  facturer  and  find  out.'  &quot;  ''The  children  are  poisoned?&quot;  Tim-  mons  asked.  &quot; 'Yeg!!'  I  said.  &quot;  'You  didn't  buy  this  merchandise  from  me,'  he  said.  &quot;The  clumsiness  of  his  lie  and  the  stillness  in  that  crazy  store  made  me  feel  hopeless.  'I  did  buy  it  from  you,  Mr.  Timmons,'  I  said.  'There's  no  question  about  that.  My  children  are  deathly  sick.  I  want  you  to  tell  me  where  you  got  the  stuff,&quot;  " b"'You  didn't  buy  this  merchandise  from  me,'  he  said.  &quot;I  looked  at  Mrs.  Timmons,  but  she  was  mopping  the  counter;  she  was  deaf.  God  damn  it  to  hell,  Tim-  mons!'  I  shouted,  and  I  reached  over  the  coun-  ter  and  got  him  by  the  shirt.  'You  look  upyour  records!  You  look  up  your  God-damned  rec-  ords  and  tell  me  where  this  stuff  came  from.&quot;  &quot;  We  know  what  it  is  to  lose  a  son,'  Mrs.  Timmons  said  at  my  back.  There  was  noth-  ing  full  to  her  voice;  nothing  but  the  monot=  onous,  the  gritty,  music  of  grief  and  need.  'You  don't  have  to  tell  us  anything  about  that.'  &quot;\xc2\xa9  'You  didn't  buy  this  merchandise  from  me,'  Timmons  said  once  more,  and  I  wrenched  his  shirt  until  the  buttons  popped,  and  then  I  let  him  go.  Mrs.  Timmons  went  on  mopping  the  counter.  Timmons  stood  with  his  head  so  bent  in  shame  that  I  couldn't  see  his  eyes  at  all,  and  I  went  out  of  the  store.  &quot;When  I  got  back,  Doc  Mullens  was  in  the  upstairs  hall,  and  the  worst  was  over.  'A  little  more  or  a  lit-  tle  less  and  you  might  have  lost  them,'  he  said  cheerfully.  'But  I've  used  a  stomach  pump,  and  I  think  they\xe2\x80\x99ll  be  all  right.  Of  course,  it's  a  heavy  poison,  and  Marcie  will  have  to  keep  specimens  for  a  week-it's  apt  to  stay  in  the  kid-  neys-but  I  think  they'll  be  all  right.&quot;  I  thanked  him  and  walked  out  to  the  car  with  him,  and  then  I  came  back  to  the  house  and  went  upstairs  to  where  the  children  had  been  put  to  bed  in  the  same  room  for  company  and  made  some  foolish  talk  with  them.  Then  I  heard  Marcie  weeping  in  our  bedroom,  and  I  went  there.  'It's  all  right,  baby,'  I  said.  'It's  all  right  now.  They're  all  right.'  But  when  I  put  my  arm  around  her,  her  wailing  and  sobbing  got  louder,  and  I  asked  her  what  she  wanted.  &quot;  'I  want  a  divorce,&quot;  she  sobbed.   What?&quot;'I  want  a  divorce.  I  can't  bear  lwmg  like  this  any  more.  I  can't  bear  it.  Every  time  they  have  a  head  cold, every  time  they're  late  from  school,  whenever  anything  bad  happens,  I  think  it's  retribution.  I  can't  stand  it.  &quot;  Retribution  for  what?&quot;  'While  you  were  away,  I  made  a  mess  of  things.&quot;  What  do  you  mean?&quot;  With  somebody.&quot; Who &quot;  NoelMackham.  You  don't  know  him.  He  lives  in  Maple  Dell?  &quot;Then  for  a  long  time  I  didn't  say  anything-what  could  I  say?  And  sud-  denly  she  turned  on  me  in  fury.  &quot;'Oh,  I  knew  you'd  be  like  this,  I  knew  you'd  be  like  this,  I  knew  you'd  blame  me!'  she  said.  'But  it  wasn't  my  fault,  it  just  wasn't  my  fault.  I  knew  you'd  blame  me,  I  knew  you'd  blame  me,  I  knew  you'd  be  like  this,  and  I  ..  .  &quot;I  didn't  hear  much  else  of  what  she  said,  because  I  was  packing  a  suitcase.  And  then  I  kissed  the  kids  goodbye,  caught  a  train  to  the  city,  and  boarded  the  Augustus  next  morning.&quot;  THAT  happened  to  Marcie  was  this:  The  evening  paper  printed  Selfredge's  letter,  the  day  after  the  Vil-  lage  Council  meeting,  and  she  read  it.  She  called  Mackham  on  the  telephone.  He  said  he  was  going  to  askthe  editor  to  print  an  answer  he  had  written,  and  that  he  would  stop  by  her  house  at  eight  o'clock  to  show  her  the  carbon  copy.  She  had  planned  toeat  dinner  with  her  children,  but  just  beforeshe  sat  down,  the  bell  rang,  and  Mark  Barrett  dropped  in.  &quot;Hi,  honey,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Make  me  a  drink?&quot;  She  made  him  some  Martinis,  and  he  took  off  his  hat  and  topcoat  and  got  down  to  business.  &quot;I  understand  you  had  that  meatball  over  here  for  a  drink  last  night.&quot;  &quot;Who  told  you,  Mark?  Who  in  the  world  told  you?&quot;  &quot;Helen  Selfredge.  It's  no  secret.  She  doesn't  want  the  library  thing  re-  opened.&quot;  &quot;It's  like  being  followed.  I  hate  it.&quot;  &quot;Don't  let  that  bother  you,  sweetie.&quot;  He  held  out  his  glass,  and  she  filled  it  again.  &quot;I'm  just  here  as  a  neighbor-a  friend  of  Charlie's-and  what's  theuse  of  having  friends  and  neighbors  if  they  can't  give  you  advice?  Mackham  is  a  meatball,  and  Mackham  is  a  wolf.  With  Charlie  away,  I  feel  kind  of  like  an  " b"older  brother-I  want  to  keep  an  eye  on  you.  I  want  you  to  promise  me  that  you  won't  have  that  meatball  in  your  house  again.&quot;  &quot;I  can't,  Mark.  He's  coming  to-  night.&quot;  &quot;No  he  isn't,  sweetie.  You're  going  to  call  him  up  and  tell  him  not  to  come.&quot;  &quot;He's  human,  Mark.&quot;  &quot;Now,  listen  to  me,  sweetie.  You  listen  to  me.  I'm  about  to  tell  you  some-  thing.  Of  course  he's  human,  but  so  is  the  garbage  man  and  the  cleaning  wom-  an.  I'm  about  to  tell  you  something  very  interesting.  When  I  was  in  school,  there  was  a  meatball  just  like  Mackham.  No-  body  liked  him.  Nobody  spoke  to  him.  Well,  I  was  a  high-spirited  kid,  Marcie,  with  plenty  of  friends,  and  I  began  to  wonder  about  this  meatball.  I  began  to  wonder  if  it  wasn't  my  responsi-  bility  to  befriend  him  and  make  him  feel  that  he  was  a  member  of  the  group.  Well,  I  spoke  to  him,  and  I  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  I  was  the  first  per-  son  who  did.  I  took  a  walk  with  him.  I  asked  him  up  to  my  room.  Idid  everything  I  could  to  make  him  feel  accepted.  &quot;It  was  a  terrible  mistake.  First,  he  began  going  around  the  school  telling  everybody  that  he  and  I  were  going  to  do  this  and  he  and  I  were  going  to  do  that.  Then  he  went  to  the  Dean's  office  and  had  himself  moved  into  my  room  without  consulting  me.  Then  his  moth-  er  began  to  send  me  these  lousy  cookies,  and  his  sister-I'd  never  laid  eyes  on  her-began  to  write  me  love  letters,  and  he  got  to  be  such  a  leech  that  I  had  to  tell  him  to  lay  off.  I  spoke  frankly  to  him;  I  told  him  the  only  reason  1d  ever  spoken  to  him  was  because  I  pitied  him.  This  didn't  make  any  difference.  When  you're  stuck  with  a  meatball,  it  doesn't  matter  what  you  tell  them.  He  kept  hanging  around,  waiting  for  me  after  classes,  and  after  football  practice  he  was  always  down  in  the  locker  room.  It  got  so  bad  that  we  had  to  give  him  the  works.  We  asked  him  up  to  Pete  Fenton's  room  for  a  cup  of  cocoa,  roughed  him  up,  threw  his  clothes  out  the  window,  painted  his  rear  end  with  iodine,  and  stuck  his  head  in  a  pail  of  water  until  he  damned  near  drowned.&quot;  Mark  lighted  a  cigarette  and  fin-  ished  his  drink.  &quot;But  what  I  mean  to  say  is  that  if  you  get  mixed  up  with  a  meat-  ball  you're  bound  to  regret  it.  Your  feelings  may  be  kindly  and  generous  in  the  beginning,  but  you'll  do  more  harm  than  good  before  you're  through.  I  want  you  to  call  up  Mackham  and  tell  him  not  to  come.  Tell  him  you're  sick.  I  don't  want  him  in  your  house.&quot;  &quot;Mackham  isn't  coming  here  to  visit me,  Mark.  He's  coming  here  to  tell  me  about  the  letter  he  wrote  for  the  paper.&quot;  &quot;I'm  ordering  you  to  call  him  up.&quot;  &quot;I  won't,  Mark.&quot;  &quot;You  go  to  that  telephone.&quot;  &quot;Please,  Mark.  Don't  shout  at  me.&quot;  &quot;You  go  tothat  telephone.&quot;  &quot;Please  getout  of  my  house,  Mark.&quot;  &quot;You're  an  intractable,  weak-  headed,  God-damned  fool!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;That's  the  trouble  with  you!&quot;  Then  he  went.  She  ate  supper  alone,  and  was  not  finished  when  Mackham  came.  It  was  raining,  and  he  wore  a  heavy  coat  and  a  shabby  hat-saved,  she  guessed,  for  storms.  The  hat  made  him  look  like  an  old  man.  He  seemed  heavy-spirited  and  tired,  and  he  unwound  a  long  yellow  woollen  scarf  from  around  his  neck.  He  had  seen  the  editor.  The  editor  would  not  print  his  answer.  Marcie  asked  him  if  he  would  like  a  drink,  and  when  he  didn't  reply,  she  asked  him  a  second  time.  &quot;Oh,  no,  thank  you,&quot;  he  said  heavily,  and  he  looked  into  her  eyes  with  a  smile  of  such  engulfing  weari-  ness  that  she  thought  he  must  be  sick.  Then  he  came  up  to  her  as  if  he  were  going  to  touch  her,  and  she  went  into  the  library  and  sat  on  the  sofa.  Halfway  across  the  room  he  saw  that  he  had  for-  gotten  to  take  off  his  rubbers.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  afraid  I've  tracked  mud-&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter.&quot;  &quot;It  would  matter  if  this  were  my  house.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  here.&quot;  He  sat  in  a  chair  near  the  door  and  began  to  take  off  his  rubbers,  and  it  was  the  rubbers  that  did  it.  Watching  him  cross  his  knees  and  remove  the  rubber  from  one  foot  and  then  the  other  so  filled  Marcie  with  pity  at  this  clumsy  vision  of  humanity  and  its  touching  high  purpose  in  the  faceof  adversity  that  he  must  have  seen  by  her  pallor  or  her  dilated  eyes  that  she  was  helpless.  HE  sea  and  the  decks  are  dark.  Charlie  can  hear  the  voices  from  the  bar  at  the  end  of  the  passageway,  and  he  has  told  his  story,  but  he  does  not  stop  writing.  They  are  coming  into  warmer  water  and  fog,  and  the  foghorn  begins  to  blow  at  intervals  of  a  minute.  He  checks  it  against  his  watch.  And  sud-  denly  he  wonders  what  he  is  doing  aboard  the  Augustus  with  a  suitcase  full  of  peanut  butter.  &quot;Ants,  poison,  peanut  butter,  foghorns,&quot;  he  writes,  &quot;love,  blood  pressure,  business  trips,  inscruta-  bility.  I  know  that  I  will  go  back.&quot;  The  foghorn  blasts  again,  and  in  the  held  note  he  sees  a  vision  of  his  family  run-  ning  toward  him  up  some  steps-  crumbling  stone,  wild  pinks,  lizards,  and  their  much-loved  faces.  &quot;I  will  catch  a  plane  in  Genoa,&quot;  he  writes.  &quot;I  will  go  back.  I  will  see  my  children  grow  and  take  up  their  lives,  and  I  will  gentle  Marcie-sweet  Marcie,  dear  Marcie,  Marcie  my  love,  I  will  shelter  her  with  the  curve  of  my  body  from  all  the  harms  of  the  dark.&quot; "