 b"&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cIF  you  want  to  do  any  shooting  while  you're  up  here  on  the  pla-  teau,&quot;  my  French  host  in  Abyssinia  said,  &quot;you  might  have  the  men  build  you  a  shooting  platform  in  that  wild  fig  out-  side  the  gate.&quot;  He  pointed  to  a  great  tree  beyond  the  zeriba-the  hedge  of  euphorbia  and  thorn  that  shut  in  the  plantation.  'The  trunk  of  the  fig  tree  was  as  gnarled  and  gray  as  that  of  an  olive  tree  in  [REDACTED],  and  the  spread  of  its  branches  could  have  sheltered  a  town  meeting.  &quot;Shoot  what?&quot;  I  asked,  although  I  had  no  intention  of  shooting  my  way,  so  to  speak,  into  Africa-&quot;riding  a  bullet,&quot;  my  French  husband  called  it.  There  was  only  one  beast  that  I  had  theretofore  associated  with  Abyssinia.  &quot;Lions?&quot;  &quot;Lions  are  down  there  in  the  'hole,  said  the  Frenchman,  with  the  faintest  flicker  of  a  smile.  He  indicated  with  a  wave  of  the  hand  the  broad  Erer  [REDACTED],  which  lay  far  below  us,  swimming  in  tawny  dust.  &quot;We  have  lots  of  panthers  around  here,  but  I  wouldn't  advise  taking  a  crack  at  one  unless  you're  a  dead  shot.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not,&quot;  I  said,  trying  to  picture  myself  taking  a  crack  at  anything  as  considerable  as  a  panther.  &quot;W  hat  else  is  there?&quot;  &quot;Not  much,  unfortunately.  Hyenas  aren't  worth  a  bullet,  and  besides  they  have  their  uses,  like  the  vultures.  You  can  shoot  monkeys,  of  course;  they're  destructive  little  beasts,  and  the  neigh-  bors  would  thank  you.  I  never  enjoy  killing  them,  myself.  You  know,  they  cry  like  babies  when  they're  hit.  But  if  it  amuses  you,  you  can  pot  one  easily  any  morning  over  in  the  river  bed.  You  meet  them  there  in  couples,  walking  hand  in  hand.&quot;  &quot;I  think,  after  all,  I'll  stick  to  a  camera,&quot;  I  said.  The  Frenchman  laughed.  &quot;Don't  count  on  much  of  a  bag,  then.  This  is  Galla  country.  Around  herenearly  ev-  eryone  is  a  Moslem,  and  you  know  how  Moslems  feel  about  photography.  THAT  autumn  in  the  thirties,  I  had  come  down  from  [REDACTED]-  alone,  since  my  husband  could  not  leave  his  work  on  a  [REDACTED]  newspaper-to  visit  French  friends  in  Abyssinia  and  study  African  folkways.  This  was  my  first  trip  to  Africa,  and  I  was  finding  it  a  land  of  violently  contrasting  highlights  and  shadows,  with  a  good  many  values  curiously  in  reverse,  as  on  a  photo-  graphic  plate.  On  the  coast,  I  had  met  black  small-  pox.  (I  say  &quot;met&quot;  deliberately,  for  it  lay-and  walked-all  around  us.)  In-  land  there  was  famine,because  of  the  locusts.  All  down  the  Red  Sea,  on  the  ship  that  had  taken  me  from  Marseille  to  Djibouti,  I  had  seen  clouds  of  the  in-  sects  spiralling  overhead  like  smoke,  or  whirling  in  dense  columns  above  the  stony  desert.  On  deck  one  morning,  an  457468696f706961n  dedjasmatch-nobleman  and  diplomat-found  me  admiring  a  winged  creature,  orange-pink,  that  had  plum-  meted  out  of  the  sky.  Draped  like  a  Roman  in  his  white  chaemma,  or  shawl,  hepaused  in  his  stately  promenade  and,  with  a  glance  that  was  singularly  aloof,  said  in  a  voice  full  of  hollow  resonance,  &quot;You  hold  Death  on  your  palm,  Mad-  ame.&quot;  When  I  reached  Dire  Dawa,  the  city,  near  the  eastern  border  of  Abyssinia,  where  my  host  had  his  home,  the  battle  was  on  to  save  the  gardens  and  the  crops-a  losing  fight,in  spite  of  drum-  beating  and  bonfires  and  prayers.  In  theold  quarter  of  Dire  Dawa,  hungry  folk  from  the  bush  combed  the  dust  of  the  grain  market  with  their  fingers  or  lay  inert  in  the  square-gaunt  black  shapes,  each  with  a  begging  bowl,  gen-  erally  empty,  set  in  the  angle  of  a  shrunken  arm.  &quot;If  Allah  wills  these men  to  die,  they  will  die,&quot;  the  Dankali  who-whip  in  hand,  presumably  for  my  protection-steered  me  through  the  crowds  remarked  with  laconic  fatalism.  He  was  a  sailor  named  Kassim,  one  of  the  crew  of  the  Frenchman's  dhow,  whom  my  host  had  assigned  to  me  as  guide  and  bodyguard-a  tall  fellow,  with  the  [REDACTED]  features  of  the  Dan-  kalis.  No  cruising  was  planned,  so  Kassim  could  be  spared.  The  locusts  ate  the  Frenchman's  gar-  den.  We  fought  them-vainly-with  insecticides,  kerosene,  and  arsenic,  and  finally,  in  despair,  with  a  blowtorch.  And  still  they  came-the  wingless  &quot;crawlers&quot;  like  a  moving  carpet,  and  the  winged  adult  insects  in  funnel-  shaped  clouds  that  twisted  up  from  the  horizon  to  crumble  down  on  us  in  a  rain  of  pinkish  dust.  When  nothing  remained  of  the  gar-  den  but  a  wilderness  of  blackened  sticks,  my  host  offered  to  take  me  to  a  small  coffee  plantation  on  the  high  plateau  some  fifteen  miles  to  the  southwest  of  Harar.  (This  was  one  of  several  &quot;con-  cessions&quot;  he  had;  foreigners  are  not  per-  mitted  to  own  land  in  [REDACTED],  except  by  direct  grant  from  the  Emperor.)  &quot;At  six  thousand  feet,  you  will  be  above  the  locusts,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  can  keep  Kassim  as  your  bodyguard,  and  our  Somali  servants  on  the  plantation  will" b"take  good  care  of  you.  I'm  sure  you  will  like  the  place-it's  a  kind  of  Eden  after  what  you  have  seen  so  far.&quot;  He  was  right.  At  the  end  of  a  long  day  in  thesaddle  (he  and  I,  with  an  escort  of  half  a  dozen  Gallas  went  the  whole  way  on  horseback,  for  the  auto  road  through  the  rough  country  be-  tween  Dire  Dawa  and  Harar  had  not  been  completed  then),  those  twenty  acres  of  terraced  hillside,  with  a  cluster  of  round,  mud-walled  huts  perched  at  the  top  among  flower  beds  and  fruit  trees,  looked  to  me  like  the  other-world  garden  that  awaits  True  Believers.  Bright-blue  morning  glories  festooned  the  peaked  roofs,  climbing  roses  and  bougainvillaea  overhung  reservoirs  filled  with  floating  lilies,  and  everywhere-  under  the  peach,  papaw,  and  mango  trees,  and  down  the  terraces,  with  their  rows  of  shiny-leaved  coffee  shrubs  hurried  glistening  threads  of  water.  From  the  topmost  terrace  we  could  look  for  miles  across  the  barren  plain.  We  were  as  far  above  it  as  Heaven.  I  was  given  one  of  the  plantation's  two  &quot;master&quot;  huts-the  only  huts  with  windows  and  with  metal  roofs  instead  of  thatch-and  after  a  couple  of  days  the  Frenchman,  having  given  directions  to  his  servants  about  how  to  care  for  this  strange  American  guest,  returned  to  Dire  Dawa.  &quot;I'm  glad  you're  not  nervous  about  staying  here  alone,&quot;  he  said  to  me  the  night  he  left,  as  he  stood  by  his  saddled  horse  at  the  plantation  gate,  which  was  really  a  sheet-iron  door  in  the  zeribec.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  eighteen  people  (thirteen  Gallas,  four  Somalis,  one  Amhara)  lived  on  the  plantation,  and  that  I  had  Kassim  besides,  this  was  per-  haps  a  queer  way  of  putting  it,  but  I  knew,  of  course,  what  he  meant.  He  himself  was  setting  off  &quot;alone,&quot;  ac-  companied  by  two  stalwart  Somalis.  As  he  swung  himself  into  the  sad-  dle,  the  night  emitted  a  long-drawn-  out  groan-or  perhaps  something  be-  tween  a  groan  and  a  growl-that  ended  in  a  sharp  cry.  It  sounded  very  near.  'The  Frenchman's  horse  shied  and  snorted.  He  reined  it  in  and  spoke  over  his  shoulder.  &quot;I  forgot-always  take  someone  with  you  when  you  go  outside  the  zeriba.&quot;  As  the  horse  danced  away  into  the  night,  he  called  back,  &quot;Since  the  famine,  hyenas  prefer  fresh  meat!&quot;  It  was  an  odd  sort  of  farewell.  Flanked  by  my  bodyguard  and  Ali,  the  Somali  cook,  I  stood  listening  to  the  ring  of  hoofs  on  the  hard-packed  earth  of  the  trail.  Along  with  it,  other  sounds-a  succession  of  not  untuneful  howls-floated  back  to  us.  &quot;Somali  song.  For  waraba  [hyena],&quot;  the  cook  said,  in  his  pidgin  French.  If  the  song  was  intended  to  soothe  the  hyena,  the  one  in  our  neighborhood  remained  un-  touched.  Its  groan-and-yip  made  itself  heard  again,  louder  than  before.  I  re-  treated  inside  the  iron  door,  followed  by  my  escort,  and  it  clanged  shut.  &quot;I  thought  hyenas  laughed,&quot;  I  said  to  the  cook  as  Kassim  made  fast  the  lock.  At  first,  Ali  didn't  get  what  I  meant;  when  it  penetrated,  he  laughed.  &quot;War-  aba  m\xc3\xa9me  chose  messieurs,&quot;'  he  ex-  plained.  &quot;Becucoup  manger,  beaucoup  Later,  as  I  lay  listening  to  those  hyena  noises-they  kept  up,  it  seemed  to  me,  for  hours-I  pictured  the  hungry  beast  trotting  up  and  down  outside  the  hedge,  and  I  was  nervously  conscious  of  the  hut's  three  windows,  pancless  and  un-  screened.  It  occurred  to  me-and  I  couldn't  help  smiling  at  the  thought-  that  I  had  not  been  fearful  of  the  night  and  its  creatures  since  my  childhood.  I  spoke  to  myself  firmly  about  it,  but  just  the  same  I  was  a  long  time  getting  to  sleep.  A  TROPICAL  downpour  waked  me  the  next  morning,  roaring  over  the  metal  roof  of  the  guest  hut  like  a  subway  train.  'This  was  one  penalty  of  living  under  such  a  roof,  and  it  was  also  hotter  than  thenative  thatch,  but  it  was  free  from  termites.  The  rain  drummed  without  letup  until  I  had  nearly  finished  dressing,  but  when  I  stepped  out  on  the  terrace  for  my  morn-  ing  coffee,  the  storm  had  passed.  Every-  thing  dripped,  sparkled,  and  steamed;  the  dawn  sky  was  as  empty  as  if  there  had  been  no  rain.  The  guest  hut  and  the  owner's  more  pretentious  one,  both  of  them  built  of  red-brown  earth  taken  from  termite  mounds  (it  was  antproof  and  hard  as  mortar),  opened  onto  the  topmost  ter-  race.  Outside  my  door,  Kassim  was  waiting  for  me.  As  a  seaman  from  the  coast,  he  was  almost  as  much  a  stranger  to  the  plateau  as  I  was.  I  had  felt  sorry  for  him  the  day  we  rode  up  from  Dire  Dawa,  through  a  series  of  downpours-a  forlorn  figure  ina  drenched  turban,  clinging  uncertainly  to  his  unfamiliar  muleamid  the  jeers  of  our  Galla  escort.  After  two  days  on  the  plantation,  he  no  longer  excited  pity.  Wearing  a  spotless  white  fute(a  skirt-  like  sarong)  and  turban,  he  sat  on  a  low  stoolin  the  pale  sun,  a  study  in  black  and  white,  to  which  a  hibiscus  flower  over  one  ear  added  a  note  of  scarlet.  He  sat  at  ease,  as  if  on  the  steering  bench  of  the  Frenchman's  dhow-one  foot  tucked  under  him,  the  other  leg  extend-  " b"ed-his  bare  black  torso  and  fine  [REDACTED]  features  in  sharp  relief  against  the  green.  In  that  garden  setting,  he  had  the  elegance  ofa  figure  from  a  Persian  manuscript  (the  futz  masked  his  bandy  legs  and  their  skin  ulcers),  and  evoked  Arabian  Nights  tales  of  prin-  cesses  and  poor  fishermen.  He  rose  lazily  as  I  approached,  gave  me  a  morning  salaam  in  Arabic  (the  international  language  of  our  mixed  group  on  the  hilltop),  and  began  way-  ing  a  fluffy  white  monkey  tail  like  a  fan,for  after  the  rain  the  flies  had  risen  in  swarms.  Kassim  did  not  mind  flies  himself,  but  I  did,  owing  to  my  &quot;skin-  less&quot;  state.  (I  had  already  learned  that  the  superior  white  skin  is  no  skin  at  all.)  That  morning,  the  Dankali's  fly-chaser  was  merely  a  badge  of  office,  for  I  carried  a  swatter  of  my  own-  a  giraffe  tail,  which  I  switched  as  I  walked,  much  as  its  original  owner  must  have  done.  While  I  was  finishing  my  coffee,  Ali-  the-cook  came  up  the  steps  from  the  kitchen  hut  on  the  terrace  below.  He  carried  a  shotgun,  for  he  was  on  his  way  to  the  lemon  grove  outside  the  hedge  to  shoot  green  pigeons  for  my  lunch.  A  Somali  houseboy  followed  him,  bear-  ing  a  big  knife-to  bleed  them,  Moslem  fashion,  by  striking  off  their  heads  as  they  fell.  I  walked  with  them  to  the  gate,  and  the  Dankali  with  his  monkey  tail  sauntered  in  our  wake.  Beyond  the  hedge,  the  narrow  trail,  worn  hard  and  smooth  by  countless  bare  feet,  led  off  toward  Harar  across  unfenced  pastures  and  between  fields  of  durra.  Under  the  fig  tree  by  the  gate,  a  party  of  brush  gatherers  had  spent  the  night;  they  were  former  slaves  from  Harar,  my  host  had  told  me,  whonow  earned  their  living  by  gathering  fire-  wood  in  the  bush,  to  sell  in  the  Harar  market.  At  intervals  during  thenight,  I  had  heard  their  voices  and  laughter,  and  the  crackling  of  their  bonfire.  When  Ali  opened  the  iron  door  in  the  hedge,  the  campers  were  already  on  their  way  to  the  city,  visible  only  as  a  procession  of  faggots  moving  along  the  trail  on  thin  black  legs.  From  off  to  the  left  another  file  approached-men  and  women  from  distant  Ugaden,  carrying  on  their  heads  gourds  of  liquid  butter  and  flat  baskets  of  grain.  As  they  passed  at  a  rapid  step,  erect  as  caryatids,  I  noticed  that  there  was  barely  the  flicker  of  an  eye  in  my  direction.  Not  a  head  turned.  Behind  themcame  a  solitary  march-  er-perhaps  some  missionary  sheik,  touring  the  Galla  country  to  teach  the  Koran  to  village  boys.  For  baggage  he  had  only  a  water  gourd,  slung  from  the  staff  he  carried  horizontally  across  his  shoulders.  I  smiled  at  him,  and  our  glances  met  as  he  went  by-or,  rather,  his  slid  past  me  as  if  I  had  been  a  tree,  a  gatepost,  or  nothing  at  all.  It  was  the  cut  direct.  Something  in  the  aloofness  of  that  regard  reminded  me  of  the  dedjasmatch  on  shipboard,  and  I  re-  called  a  remark  of  the  Frenchman's:  &quot;This  is  distinctly  mota  white  man's  country.  You'll  see.  They  don't  let  you  forget  it.&quot;  Standing  by  the  gate,  with  my  un-  wanted  smile  and  my  pink  skin  that  was  no  skin,  I  looked  after  the  moving  line  of  figures,  black  against  the  green.  &quot;Strings  of  black  ants,&quot;  the  Frenchman  called  them.  Ants  or  not,  they  and  their  peaked  huts  belonged  to  the  landscape.  I  didn't.  The  thought  had  occurred  to  me  earlier,  at  breakfast,  as  I  watched  Ayesha,  the  plantation's  Galla  shep-  herdess,  at  her  morning  toilet  beside  one  of  the  irrigation  ditches.  Her  dark  skin,  with  its  protective  coating  of  butter,  glistened  like  bronze,  and  she  draped  her  futea  about  her  in  classic  folds.  I  had  wondered  then  whether  my  Euro-  pean  clothes  looked  as  contrived  and  outlandish  to  her  in  that  setting  as  they  did  at  the  moment  to  me.  As  I  stood  with  the  two  men  by  the  gate,  the  shepherdess  herself  came  to-  ward  it,  preceded  by  her  mixed  herd-  two  horses,  two  mules,  two  cows,  two  goats-which  had  spent  the  night  in  close  fraternity  in  one  of  the  huts,  and  which  she  was  driving  to  pasture  out-  side  the  hedge.  They  went  through  the  gate  oneby  one;  everything  in  this  coun-  try  seemed  to  march  single  file.  The  cows  came  last-nice  little  humped  Brahman  cows,  tawny  as  lions.  The  first  sauntered  past,  hips  and  tail  swinging,  and  the  second  approached,  loose-  jointed  and  unconcerned.  Then  it  saw  me.  After  one  amazed  look,  it  stopped  in  its  tracks,  put  its  head  down,  and,  with  a  whoosh,  lunged.  Though  the  move  was  sudden,  I  managed  to  put  a  gate-  post  between  us;  the  horn  caught  only " b"the  hem  of  my  skirt.  The  cook  and  my  bodyguard  drove  off  the  outraged  little  Brahman  with  yells  and  much  laughter.  The  shepherdess  made  cooing  sounds  over  the  torn  skirt,  but  I  could  see  that  she  was  enjoying  the  joke,  too.  It  took  an  effort  for  me  to  laugh,  for  my  feelings  were  as  badly  lacerated  as  the  skirt.  It  wasn't  humiliation  alone,  though  it  would  have  been  humiliating  to  come  all  the  way  to  Abyssinia  to  be  gored  by  a  domestic  cow.  What  I  re-  sented  most  was  the  laughter,  and  its  implications.  4  I  'HAT  morning-and  a  good  many  times  afterward-I  pon-  dered  my  status  in  this  small  Moslem  community.  As  a  woman,  an  infidel,  and  white,  it  presumably  could  not  have  been  lower.  The  Frenchman  had  made  that  perfectly  clear  when  he  explained  to  me  that  we  whites  have  no  skin.  &quot;Al-  together,  whether  we  like  it  ornot,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;to  these  black  Moslems  we're  a  stench  in  the  nostrils.  I  suppose  you've  seen  the  gesture?&quot;  I  had.  It  was  not  flattering.  On  the  plantation,  the  male  workers  tolerated  me  for  a  very  obvious  reason:  I  was  the  guest  of  their  employer,  a  rich  man.  I  doubt  if  they  thought  of  me  in  any  other  light.  But  with  the  women,  or  at  least  with  two  of  them,  I  succeed-  ed  better.  Fatuma,  the  Somali  housekeeper,  and  I  could  talk  together  a  little  in  a  pidgin  French,  or  in  Arabic,  of  which  I  had  a  smattering,  and,  as  women,  we  had  several  things  in  common.  To  begin  with,  both  our  husbands  were  absent:  mine  in  [REDACTED],  and  hers-  well,  she  couldn't  be  absolutely  sure,  but  she  suspected  he  was  in  jail.  A  few  years  earlier,  he  had  got  into  trouble  with  the  British  at  Zeilah  (she  did  not  specify  how),  and  since  &quot;the  Inglis  never  for-  get,&quot;  she  concluded  that  they  had  prob-  ably  locked  him  up.  Fatuma  and  I  were  also  professional  women.  To  her,  papers  of  any  sort  meant  &quot;accounts,&quot;  although  she  kept  hers  in  her  head.  Once,  when  I  was  at  my  typewriter,  she  asked  me  if  I  re-  ceived  pay  for  my  figuring,  as  she  did,  and  if  I  had  to  give  it  all  to  my  hus-  band.  Fatuma  told  me  in  confidence  that  since  her  wages  were  now  her  own-it  was  one  of  the  advantages  of  the  single  state-she  had  already  accu-  mulated  an  important  sum:  fourteen  silver  Maria-Theresa  dollars.  Ayesha,  the  shepherdess,  had  no  such  luck  with  her  earnings.  Furthermore,  her  arms  were  bare  of  bracelets,  and  her  ears  of  earrings.  This,  so  Fatuma  told  me,  was  the  husband's  doing.  When  I  came  to  the  plantation,  Ayesha  wore  two  long  nails  in  the  lobes  of  her  ears  to  keep  the  holes  open,  which  showed  she  had  not  abandoned  hope.  But  who  would  give  earrings  to  Aye-  sha?  Not  her  husband,  surely,  Fatuma  said.  And  who  else?  Poor  Ayesha,  so  old  and  so  ugly!  (She  was  twenty-four,  and  to  my  eyes  she  was  slim  and  love-  ly-a  black  Botticelli.)  &quot;A  thin  cow,&quot;  Kassim  called  her.  In  his  eyes,  her  only  merit  was  that  she  had  borne  a  son.  I  set  out  deliberately  to  buy  Ayesha's  affection,  and  did  so  by  spending  a  small  sum-two  or  three  silver  dollars,  asI  remember.  When  I  gave  her  the  tiny  packet  that  contained  my  gift,  wrapped  in  a  scrap  of  red  calico,  she  mistook  it for  a  charm,  and  prepared  to  tie  it  alongside  a  charm  she  was  already  wearing  on  astring  about  her  neck.  But  when  I  told  her  to  open  the  packet,  and  she  saw  what  it  contained-filigree  earrings  from  the  Indian  jeweller's  at  Harar-she  was  stunned  at  first,  and  speechless.  Then  she  threw  herself  on  me  like  a  black  whirlwind,  and  kissed  my  shoulders  and  breasts  and  hands  and  knees.  Gripping  me  by  the  arm,  she  hurried  me  off  to  find  Fatuma  and  have  her  translate  what  she  wanted  to  say  to  me:  &quot;I  will  think  of  you  until  my  last  hour.  When  you  die,  I  will  say,  'She  is  dead-the  one  who  gave  me  earrings.&quot;  With  that,  Ayesha  wept  in  anticipation  and  kissed  me  again  in  detail.  The  gardener's  wife,  Zenaba,  with  her  supple  body,  her  satiny  brown  skin,  and  her  long  Bedouin  eyes,  had  no  need  of  gifts  from  me.  She  wore  a  dozen  bracelets  on  each  arm,  and  strings  of  amber  and  silver  about  her  throat.  I  noticed  that  the  houseboys  found  count-  less  errands  daily  to  take  them  by  her  door;  the  Abyssinian  watchman  was  forever  hanging  about  her  hut,  and  the  field  hands  strutted  like  cocks  when-  " b"everthey  crossed  her  path.  'They  called  to  her  across  the  garden-&quot;Zenaba-O!&quot;-  and  Zenaba  answered  with  peals  of  throaty  laughter  and  lazy  gestures  ofthe  round  arms  with  the  heavy  brace-  lets.  &quot;When  I  am  rich,  I  will  buy  me  a  Galla  wife,&quot;  Kassim  announced  wistful-  ly.  As  for  the  Frenchman,  he  measured  the  gardener's  wife  with  a  man's  eye.  &quot;Belle  fille&quot;  was  all  he  had  said  in  explanation  of  her  before  he  left,  but  I  suspect  that  he  saw  the  three  women  on  the  plantation  strictly  in  terms  of  their  separate  func-  tions:  a  housekeeper,  a  shep-  herdess,  a-  well,  Zenaba's  function  in  life  was  clear  enough.     DURING  my  first  few  days  on  the  plateau,  I  tramped  industriously  about  the  countryside  in  the  heat,  with  the  Dankali  at  my  heels,  and  the  housekeeper  or  the  cook  to  actas  inter-  preter.  We  visited  nearby  villages  and  plantations,  and  I  saw  farmers  turning  up  the  red  earth  with  their  stone-weighted  digging  sticks;  boys,  armed  with  slingshots,  standing  watch  on  a  platform  in  the  middle  of  each  durra  field,  to  keep  marauding  birds  and  monkeys  away  from  the  crop;  and  women  gathering  kat  (the  narcotic  plant),  or  pounding  grain  in  tall  mor-  tars  that  looked  like  churns.  I  used  my  camera  freely,  thanks  to  the  cook,  who,  as  a  travelled  man  ofthe  world,  was  liberal-minded  about  such  things.  He  had  hit  on  the  brilliant  idea  of  asking  our  neighbors  in  while  I  developed  film.  Everyone  came,  but  few  of  the  visitors  could  identify  themselves  on  the  nega-  tives,  and  those  who  claimed  to  recog-  nize  their  friends  were  visibly  unim-  pressed  by  what  they  saw.  So  word  got  around  that  the  black  box  contained  magic  of  a  very  mediocre  sort,  not  worth  making  a  fuss  about.  The  chief  thing  I  acquired  during  those  first  energetic  weeks  was  a  de-  cided  skepticism  as  to  the  question-and-  answer  method  of  learning  about  peo-  ple-particularly  when  the  information  you  glean  has  to  filter  through  several  tongues  (in  this  case,  Galla  to  Arabic  to  French)  and  several  makeshift  trans-  lators.  I  also  picked  up  three  or  four  leg  ulcers,  and  an  interesting  creature  (in-  sect  or  worm,  I  have  forgotten  which)  that  deposited  a  transparent  sac  of  eggs  in  the  sole  of  my  foot.  Ali-the-cook  ex-  pertly  extracted  the  sac  unbroken  (very  important),  with  a  splinter  of  wood,  but  the  neat  little  cavern  that  was  left  in  the  skin  was  a  long  time  filling  up.  Ulcers  and  foot  worms,  however,  were  purely  minor  matters-the  usual  petits  inconv\xc3\xa9ements  of  life  in  the  tropics,  the  Frenchman  called  them  with  a  dismis-  sive  gesture  one  day  when  he  rode  up  from  Dire  Dawa  to  see  how  I  was  making  out.  Among  these  petty  an-  noyances  he  listed  malaria;  I  had  picked  that  up  during  my  brief  stay  down  on  the  plain.  He  had  malaria,  like  every-  one  else,  he  said;  he  refused  to  &quot;make  himself  a  slave&quot;  to  quinine  every  time  he  visited  a  fever  district.  Anyhow,  he  assured  me,  ordinary  malaria  was  no  more  of  an  inconvenience  than  a  cold  in  the  head.  True  or  not,  I  got  little  sleep  after  the  malaria  colonies  began  growing  in  my  blood.  At  night,  I  would  lie  awake  for  hours,  or  else  I'd  have  nightmares.  There  was  a  recurrent  one,  absurdly  reminiscent  of  a  dream  that  had  ter-  rified  my  childhood.  In  my  memory,  that  early  dream  was  associated  with  eating  unripe  peaches,  and  it  had  to  do  with  a  beast-nature  unspeci-  fied-that  crept  or  sprang  out  at  me  through  the  fringes  of  an  overstuffed  chair  in  the  family  parlor.  The  new  beast  was  equally  anonymous,  and  it,  too,  leaped  out  at  me  from  its  lair  in  the  dark.  I  blamed  my  bad  dreams  on  the  hy-  enas,  for  they  continued  to  make  the  nights  hideous  with  their  groaning.  They  also  loomed  large  in  the  news  of  our  district,  since  they  now  attacked  human  beings  in  broad  daylight-  women  and  children,  for  the  most  part,  or  men  travelling  singly.  This  was  be-  cause  of  the  famine,  people  said;  so  many  creatures  had  died  that  the  ware-  ba  had  temporarily  lost  its  taste  for  car-  rion.  One  day,  a  hyena  came  into  the  pasture  where  Ayesha  sat  watching  her  herd,  and  it  would  have  dragged  off  the  gardener's  goat  if  men  from  the  plantation  had  not  come  when  she  screamed,  and  stoned  it  away.  When  I  walked  with  Kassim  outside  the  plan-  tation,  people  we  met  on  the  road  were  sure  to  say  half  humorously  as  we  passed  them,  &quot;Hurry  home,  now,  or  the  waraba  will  get  you.&quot;  One  afternoon,  as  Kassim  and  I  " b"skirted  the  restless  jungle  of  banana  leaves  down  by  the  river,  he  touched  me  lightly  on  the  shoulder  with  the  tip  of  his  fly-chaser.  &quot;Waraba,&quot;  he  said  conversationally,  as  a  stroller  in  43616e616461Park  might  indicate  a  gray  squirrel,  and  pointed  toward  the  deep  shadow  under  the  leaves  at  our  left.  I  looked,  but  I  am  not  sure  that  I  saw  anything-  a  decper  shadow,  perhaps,  and  two  bright  dots  that  may  have  been  only  flecks  of  sunlight.  But  I  got  the  stench,  all  right-as  if  something  unspeakably  foul  had  breathed  into  my  face.  At  the  yell  Kassim  gave-it  was  sudden  and  carsplitting-I  jumped,  but  I  didn't  no-  tice  whether  the  shadow  stirred.  I  was  fighting  down  a  wave  of  nausea.  The  Dankali  had  not  bothered  to  use  his  sling,  although  it  dangled  from  one  hand  as  he  walked.  Out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye,  he  saw  me  glance  at  it.  For  a  few  steps  more,  he  continued  swing-  ing  it  carelessly;  then,  squinting  up  at  the  sky,  he  set  it  rotating  in  humming  circles.  With  a  crack  and  a  zing,  the  stone  soared.  Something-a  small  vul-  ture-fell  in  a  dishevelled  heap  beside  the  path.  Kassim  did  not  give  it  a  look.  He  walked  on,  aimlessly  twirling  the  sling.  An  American  boy  would  have  whistled.  As  for  me,  for  the  first  time  I  really  believed  the  story  of  David  and  Goliath.  Also,  after  that  glimpse  of  the  hyena  in  the  banana  grove  the  dream  beast  that  haunted  me  acquired  a  new  horror-smell.  But  if  the  nights  were  grim,  each  morning  was  a  delight:  the  cool  flower  scents  from  the  garden,  the  mighty  bird  chorus,  the  flash  of  water  in  the  irriga-  tion  ditch  that  ran  past  the  door  of  my  hut,  and,  from  the  terrace  just  below,  the  tang  of  wood  smoke  and  coffee.  HE  day  that  now  stands  out  in  my  memory  in  the  succession  of  days  on  theplateau  began  like  the  others.  Coffee  was  served  on  the  terrace  at  sun-  rise  by  the  cook,  his  head  muffled  in  a  chamme  against  the  morning  chill,  though  a  generous  expanse  of  bare  stomach  was  exposed  to  the  same  air.  The  shepherdess's  five-year-old  son,  Omar-#co  (little  Omar,  also  known  as  basho-tico,  little  cat),  came  to  sit  cross-  legged  under  the  breakfast  table,  literal-  lyto  catch  the  crumbs;  a  baby  goat  that  Fatuma  had  christened  Chancalla  because  it  was  so  black-the  very  dark  Chancallas  were  a  so-called  slave  race-played  leapfrog  over  the  irriga-  tion  ditch;  and  a  little  humped  calf  came  to  crouch  at  my  feet  like  a  sizable  and  phlegmatic  dog.  As  the  sun  climbed,  the  thermometer  climbed  with  it,  and  the  1  flies  multiplied.  The  sticky  swarms  were  ev-  erywhere,  and  more  aggressive  than  usual;  if  the  monkey  tail  checked  its  steady  sweep  for  an  instant,  they  set-  tled  and  stung.  Al-  though  the  sky  was  al-  most  cloudless,  there  was  a  heavy  something  in  the  air  that  made  breathing  an  effort.  Sounds  took  on  volume  and  intensity:  the  cease-  less  chatter  of  the  birds;  the  voices  of  men  who  were  breaking  ground  on  the  hillside  to  set  out  more  coffee  plants.  The  hard  earth  rang  like  metal  under  the  rhyth-  mic  blows  of  their  dig-  ging  sticks,  each  blow  accompanied  by  a  yell.  Over  in  the  lemon  grove,  Ali-the-cook,  who  had  cleared  away  the  breakfast  dishes,  now  popped  away  at  green  pigeons.  From  the  repeated  reports,  I  judged  him  to  be  a  poor  marksman.  To  top  it  all,  as  I  sat  at  the  table  fussing  with  my  week's  bag  of  notes,  I  had  melody  over  my  left  shoulder.  It  began  as  a  vague  humming;  then  it  ac-  quired  rhythm  and  articulated  syllables.  Kassim  was  feeling  tuneful.  His  song  went  this  way:  &quot;Ai-61  ...  Yall!  ...  Ai-6-6!  Ai-o,  o-y\xc3\xa9l-o0,  oy-y4y  ...&quot;  Ali-the-cook,  who  came  along  the  terrace  just  then,  dangling  one  headless  pigeon,  completed  the  song:  &quot;Oy-ydl-ay  !&quot;  He  beamed,  and  said,  &quot;Somali  song.&quot;  &quot;The  hyena  one?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;What's  it  about?&quot;  He  grinned  foolishly  and  said,  &quot;Just  song.&quot;  He  and  the  Dankali  took  up  the  air  again,  one  on  each  side  of  my  chair:  &quot;Ai-o!  ...  Yal!  ...  Ai-6-6!1  Ai-o,  o-ydl-o0,  oy-yd4y,  Oy-yal-ay  !&quot;  There  was  a  lot  more  to  it,  and  they  let  me  have  it  full  blast.  It  must  have  carried  to  the  end  of  the  plantation,  if  not  to  Harar.  I  caught  up  my  papers  in  a  surge  of  anger  that  astonished  me  as  much  as  it  did  the  singers,  and,  upsetting  the  bamboo  table  in  my  haste,  I  made  for  the  doorway  of  the  guest  hut.  &quot;Go  away,  both  of  you!&quot;  I  called  back  to  them.  'The  song  broke  off;  the  monkey  brush  paused  in  midair.  Abashed,  the  two  men  backed  away  out  of  sight.  I  spent  the  rest  of  the  morning  on  my  bed.  While  I  waited  for  my  heart  to  stop  its  hysterical  thumping,  I  had  time  to  reflect  on  the  folly  of  giving  way  to  emotions  at  high  altitudes  in  the  tropics.  Also,  to  the  mild  annoyance  of  the  cook,  that  brief  fit  of  temper  effec-  tively  quenched  any  appetite  I  might  have  had  for  green  pigeon.  There  was  no  sleep  for  me  during  the  siesta  hour,  but  I  attributed  this  to  the  presence  of  the  plantation  hands  on  the  terrace  out-  side  my  door.  'They  sat  around  a  smok-  ing  incense  pot,  drinking  salt  tea  and  chewing  kat  (their  noon  meal),  and  for  once  I  found  nothing  soothing  in  the  light  voices  and  lazy  laughter.  It  was  all  I  could  do  to  keep  from  shouting  to  them  to  take  their  chatter  elsewhere;  in  fact,  the  effort  made  sweat  break  out  all  over  me.  I  felt  it  trickle  through  my  hair  and  drip  behind  my  ears,  When  the  " b"meeting  on  the  terrace  broke  up,  there  remained  the  snapping  of  the  iron  roof,  above  its  lining  of  reeds,  It  crackled  like  an  oven  each  time  a  cloud  passed  over  the  sun.  By  four  o'clock,  the  heat  under  that  metal  roof  had  become  unbearable,  but  out  on  the  terrace  it  was  scarcely  cooler.  The  air  felt  as  thick  as  water-you  needed  gills  to  breathe  it.  As  I  stood  panting  in  the  doorway,  an  odd  pro-  cession  mounted  the  steps  from  the  ter-  race  below.  At  its  head  walked  the  gardener,  naked  except  for  a  G  string,  his  brown  body  shining  with  butter.  Two  Galla  field  hands  came  behind  him,  their  skin  as  buttery  and  their  costume  as  scanty  as  his.  One  of  them  carried  an  incense  pot.  The  cook,  in  the  same  abbreviated  garb,  brought  up  the  rear,  bearing  a  wooden  bowl.  As  I  soon  learned,  the  bowl,  the  smoke  pot,  and  the  well-greased,  bare  skins  all  went  with  the  operation  I  was  to  witness.  &quot;Canissa,&quot;  said  a  voice  beside  me.  My  bodyguard  had  materialized  at  my  shoulder  and  was  viewing  the  parade  with  elegant  detachment.  He  added  a   \xe2\x80\x9cZZZ\xe2\x80\x9d  through  his  teeth  to  make  his  meaning  clear,  and  pointed  the  monkey  tail  at  a  row  of  hives-bamboo  cylinders  daubed  with  mud-that  hung  from  the  peach  trees  bordering  the  terrace.  Giv-  en  the  number  of  dialects  spoken  on  our  hilltop,  I  had  no  idea  whether  the  word  &quot;camssa&quot;  was  Galla,  Dankali,  Somali,  Amharic,  or  Arabic,  but  obviously  it  meant  &quot;bee.&quot;  An  angry  hum  came  from  the  first  hive  as  the  gardener  re-  moved  its  round  lid,  and  then  a  black  column  of  bees  poured  out  of  the  open-  ing.  &quot;Camissa  fach\xc3\xa9ee,&quot;  said  the  cook,  grinning  at  me  through  a  cloud  of  in-  cense.  As  he  spoke,  the  gardener  plunged  an  arm  into  the  hive  and  brought  out  a  round  cake  of  honey.  Laughing,  he  brushed  off  the  bees  that  encrusted  his  forearm,  and  deposited  the  honey  in  the  wooden  bowl.  At  the  sight  of  the  honey,  Kassim  lost  his  bored  air  and  edged  nearer.  He  had  taken  only  a  few  steps  when  his  face  froze  in  a  look  of  horror.  With  a  howl,  he  dropped  the  monkey  brush  and,  clutching  his  leg  cloth  with  both  hands  where  a  bee  had  stung  him,  scuttled  away,  followed  by  peals  of  derisive  laughter.  As  the  air  was  loud  with  bees  by  that  time,  I  picked  up  the  fly-chaser  that  he  had  let  fall  and  retreated  to  the  far  end  of  the  terrace.  Chancalla,  the  black  kid,  appeared  from  somewhere  and  came  skipping  after  me.  And  Omar-tico,  who  had  been  sitting  on  his  heels  in  the  shade  of  a  Japanese  lilac,  left  off  his  building  operations  with  flower  petals  and  bits  of  twig,  and  ran  to  join  us.  &quot;Want  to  come  fora  walk?&quot;  I  asked  him,  holding  out  my  hand.  I  spoke  French  and  Omar-tico  answered  in  Galla,  but  we  understood  each  other  perfectly.  His  hand  lay  on  my  skinless  palm,  cool  and  fine,  like  a  little  starfish.  He  trotted  contentedly  beside  me,  and  Chancalla  capered  ahead.  When  the  black  kid  was  still  with-  out  a  name,  the  housekeeper  had  asked  me  to  find  one  for  it,  and  I  had  proposed  Shaitan  (Devil  ),  but  the  suggestion  was  ill  received.  &quot;Bad  luck-tof?  porter  mal-  heur,&quot;  she  had  said  severely.  Just  the  same,  thekid  did  look  like  a  lively  de-  mon,  and  never  more  so  than  that  after-  " b"noon  when  he  led  Omar-tico  and  me  straight  to  the  iron  door  in  the  hedge.  Once  we  got  there,  we  came  to  a  full  stop.  I  looked  back  for  my  bodyguard;  he  was  nowhere  in  sight.  At  the  far  end  of  the  terrace,  the  four  buttery  and  all  but  naked  men  squatted  on  their  heels  around  the  wooden  bowl,  separating  the  &quot;good&quot;  honey  cakes  (for  the  master's  table)  from  the  ones  containing  larvae,  which  they  munched  contentedly.  I  turned  to  the  iron  door  again.  Well,  why  not,  I  thought.  After  all,  the  shep-  herdess  was  out  in  the  pasture  by  herself.  &quot;Shall  we  go  find  your  mama?&quot;  I  asked  Omar-tico.  (Again  I  spoke  Frenchand  again  I  was  understood.)  The  black  kid,  too,  had  a  mama  in  the  pasture;  he  bleated  pitifully  when  I  prevented  him  from  slip-  ping  through  the  door  with  us,  and  made  patter-  ing  sounds  with  his  feet  and  forehead  on  the  sheet  iron  after  I  pushed  it  shut.  A  party  of  brushwood  gatherers  sat  under  the  fig  tree  outside  the  hedge.  Gray-skinned  and  gaunt,  they  rolled  their  eyes  at  me  in  unfriendly  silence.  Some  gri-  maced;  some  held  their  noses  and  looked  away.  After  I  had  passed,  they  pelted  me  with  laughter;  it  felt  like  showers  of  stones.  Outside  the  shade  of  the  great  tree,  the  sun  was  leaden  and  the  trail  gave  off  waves  of  reflected  heat,  but  the  land-  scape  had  taken  on  color  again;  it  had  lost  the  bleached  and  ashen  look  it  wore  at  midday,  under  the  vertical  sun,  The  trail  led  straight  ahead-a  strip  of  red  across  the  green  durra  fields  and  pasture  land.  On  the  far  side  of  a  narrow  gul-  ly,  I  saw  the  men  terracing  the  hillside  for  the  new  planting.  They  worked  in  pairs,  two  men  to  adigging  stick.  In  the  sultry  air,  their  work  song  rose  and  fell  in  marked  cadences:  &quot;Ay  la  ah!  Aya  la!&quot;  Omar-the-kitten  still  clung  to  my  hand  as  we  walked  on.  Beyond  a  small  Mohammedan  cemetery,  which  had  the  neglected  look  of  country  graveyards  almost  everywhere,  the  path  skirted  a  field  of  durra-a  forest  of  tall  stalks,  taller  than  a  man.  Passing,  we  heard  the  voices  ofthe  boy  watchers  on  theirplat-  form  in  the  middle  of  the  field.  A  few  hundred  yards  ahead  I  could  see  the  shepherdess,  sitting  on  a  green  slope  with  her  herd  grazing  about  her.  The  slight  figure,  its  drooping  pose,  the  diffused  light,  and  the  pastoral  setting   reminded  me  of  something-of  Puvis  de  Chavannes,  to  be  sure,  and  his  neo-  classic  pewuret\xc3\xa9s.  To  complete  the  ref-  erence,  an  old  white  horse  was  grazing  nearby-the  very  phantom  of  a  horse,  with  sagging  spine  and  ribs  like  barrel  hoops.  Too  old  to  work,  it  went  to  pasture  with  its  former  mates  during  the  day,  but  at  night,  when  the  other  horses  were  brought  inside  the  zeribe,  it  was  left  outside,  for  a  hyena  or  pan-  ther  to  finish  off.  Before  we  reached  the  end  of  the  durra  field,  Omar-tico  slipped  his  hand  frommine  and  pranced  ahead  on  the  path.  Flourishing  an  imaginary  stick,  he  drove  an  imaginary  herd  before  him  and  sang  shrilly,  &quot;I  drive  my  goats  on  the  road  to  Harar.&quot;  To  our  left,  an  imperceptible  breeze  rustled  the  durra  stalks.  Over  in  the  west,  two  vultures  drifted,  flat  and  black  against  the  sun.  WAS  conscious  of  shouts  from  the  work-  ers  across  the  gully  before  I  caught  what  they  were  shouting.  That  is,  I  heard  a  sudden  racket,  and  I  re-  call  thinking  how  rarely  one  heard  black  men's  voices  raised  to  that  pitch.  Then  I  saw  the  men  drop  their  digging  sticks  and  leap  down  the  steep  bank.  At  the  same  instant  came  a  scream  from  the  shepherdess  as  she  sprang  to  her  feet  and  started  toward  us,  stooping  to  pick  up  stones  as  she  ran.  Omar-fico  stopped  driving  his  goats  and  pivoted  on  his  tiny  black  feet.  &quot;Wareba,&quot;  he  said,  coming  back  to  me,  and  pointing,  like  a  child  at  the  zoo.  At  once,  I  wheeled.  About  twenty  yards  behind  us,  on  the  path  that  led  back  to  the  zeribe  and  safe-  ty,  slunk  a  humped  shadow.  Against  the  low  sun,  it  seemed  all  head-one  ear  upright,  the  other  lopping  over  at  the  tip.  (I  can  see  it  vividly  to  this  day.)  During  one  stunned  second  I  gaped,  for  here  was  the  nightmare  beast  of  my  childhood,  come  creeping  out  at  me  through  the  green  fringes  of  durra.  In  the  same  flash,  though,  I  grasped  that  the  creature  was  real,  and  that  this  time  I  was  not  the  &quot;child.&quot;  I  caught  Omar-  tico  close  and  quickened  my  step,  and  then  promptly  slowed  down  again.  Something  told  me  I  must  not  run.  Every  few  steps,  I  glanced  back.  The  hyena  came  after  us,  muzzle  lowered,  keeping  its  distance  and  adapting  its  gaitto  ours.  I  caught  its  eye  (hyenas  in  cages  never  look  at  you,  but  this  was  a  free  creature  and  it  did),  and  fancied  I  saw  there  the  same  blend  of  elation  and  uncertainty  with  which  a  big-game  hunter  squints  along  the  barrelof  his  gun.  Or  it  may  be  that  this  reflective  comparison  came  to  me  later,  along  with  the  fear.  At  the  time,  I  didn't  do  much  reflecting.  I  merely  walked  on.  Since  I  could  not  turn  back,  there  was  nothing  else  to  do,  and  I  felt  myself  to  be  precisely  what  I  was-an  ambulating  chunk  of  meat.  Of  course,  I  didn't  walk  far  before  the  rescue  party  got  there;  the  shepherd-  ess,  the  men  from  across  the  gully,  the  boys  from  the  durra  field,  and,  last  of  all,  the  cook  and  my  bodyguard-the  latter  whirling  his  sling  as  he  raced  toward  us-came  up  and  began  fling-  ing  stones  at  the  hyena.  Some  of  them  found  their  mark.  With  a  snarling  yelp,  the  hyena  swung  aside  and  made  for  cover  among  the  durra  stalks.  At  this,  Omar-fico  broke  away  from  me  and,  rotating  his  arm,  let  fly  a  nonexistent  stone.  &quot;In  giru!  In  giru,  warabal  [Hyena  gone!]&quot;  he  called  shrilly.  The  cry  was  echoed  on  all  sides,  and  everybody  grinned  delightedly.  Such  a  joke  on  the  hyena!  Ali-the-cook  acted  it  out,  crawling  after  me  on  all  fours  and  making  horrid  noises,  punctuated  by  bursts  of  hyena  laughter  at  the  sight  of  such  a  good  meal.  Then  an  imaginary  stone  on  the  rump,  another  in  the  ribs:  &quot;In  giru,  waraba!&quot;  On  the  way  home,  we  had  the  Somali  song.  Everyone,  in-  cluding  me,  shouted  it,  although  few  of  us  knew  the  words.   O  that  was  the  hyena  incident.  When  the  Frenchman  heard  about  it,  he  dismissed  it  with  a  laugh,  and  quoted  Daudet's  story  of  M.  S\xc3\xa9guin's  adventuresome  nanny  goat  as  a  remind-  er  that  ladies  who  go  exploring  alone  must  expect  to  meet  the  wolf.  Since  I  had  not  been  alone,  I  took  the  en-  counter  less  lightly.  Still,  it  freed  me  from  the  beast-nightmares;  apparently  the  flesh-and-blood  animal  exorcised  the  dream  one.  And  there  was  some-  thing  else,  the  significance  of  which  I  didn't  grasp  until  afterward;  it  took  on  importance  the  more  I  thought  about  it.  That  afternoon,  as  we  all  trooped  singing  back  to  the  plantation,  only  Ayesha's  animals  went  single  file.  The  rest  of  us  walked  in  a  group. "