  HEIRLOOM  FOR  A  RANCH  HOUSE  ELEN  stepped  out  of  her  taxi  H  when  it  reached  Third  Ave-  nue,  and,  marvelling  at  the  warm,  bright  air  of  an  autumn  morn-  ing,  walked  along  the  sidewalk  to  the  nearest  antique  shop.  It  was  her  birth-  day,  and  John,  her  husband,  had  given  her  fifty  dollars,  with  instructions  to  spend  it  foolishly.  She  hadn't  much  hope  of  finding  anything  she  wanted  in  the  store.  After  all,  most  antique  shops  were  filled  with  the  residue  of  Early  Ameri-  can  or  Victorian  life,  and  in  this  there  would  hardly  be  anything  relevant  to  her  past-to  a  childhood  that  had  been  lived  on  the  other  side  of  the  world,  in  4368696e61,  at  now  extinct  Protestant  mis-  sions.  But  she  periodically  felt  a  need  to  be  among  old  things,  even  if  they  meant  nothing  to  her  personally.  She  walked  into  the  store,  adjusting  her  eyes  to  the  dim  light,  and  the  pro-  prictor,  a  small,  bespectacled  man  in  black,  came  forward,  but  when  she  told  him  that  she  just  wanted  to  browse  around,  he  left  her  to  herself.  She  stopped  first  at  a  long  table  and  fingered  a  Colonial  plate  with  a  faded  pattern  of  violets  on  it.  If  only  she  could  have  something  tangible  like  this,  she  thought-some  one  thing  of  her  own  that  had  survived  the  4368696e61  years,  even  ifit  was  no  more  than  a  blue  rice  bowl.  She  could  hold  it  in  her  hands  and  say,  &quot;This  was  with  me  asa  child.&quot;  As  it  was,  there  was  nothing  buther  memory  to  testify  that  she  had  even  had  a  childhood.  Sometimes,  as  she  stood  in  the  living  room  of  her  ranch  house  on  Long  Island,  she  felt  that  she  was  born  grown-up,  behind  a  picture  window,  in  the  midst  of  Paul  McCobb  furniture.  Anything  she  recalled  ofthat  other  world  seemed  improbable  when  she  considered  it  in  her  present  surround-  ings.  She  knew  the  events  of  that  world  well  enough,  but  she  had  lost  all  sense  of  having  participated  in  them.  43616e616461walked  now  along  the  narrow  aisles,  touching  odds  and  ends  of  un-  known  pasts-a  Wedgwood  vase,  a  music  box,  a  brownish  landscape  in  a  gilt  frame.  She  picked  up  a  wide-  mouthed  yellow  pitcher,  the  exact  color  of  the  cream  it  must  have  poured  for  generations  of  breakfasts,  and  she  pic-  tured  it  tipping  above  a  bowl  of  blue-  berries.  She  put  it  down  and  walked  on,  then  paused  in  a  dusty  corner  beside  an  old  rocking  chair  and  ran  her  hand  over  its  smooth,  curved  back,  inadvert-  ently  setting  it  in  motion.  Up  and  down  across  a  creaking  floorboard  the  chair     rocked  slowly,  like  a  stiff  old  man  nod-  ding  in  reminiscence:  ''Yes,  that's  the  way  it  was.  Yes,  just  like  that.&quot;  [REDACTED]  shivered.  It  was  a  ghostly  thing  for  an  old  and  empty  rocking  chair  to  be  doing,  and  she  puther  hand  out  to  stop  it.  And  then  she  heard  the  clock.  Its  ticking  had  aslow,  hollow  beat.  There  was  something  curious  about  this  sound-something  strangely  familiar.  She  turned,  and  ina  moment  she  found  herself  following  the  sound  to  the  back  of  the  store.  It  wasn't  a  clocklike  tick  at  all,  she  thought;  it  didn't  even  sound  mechanical.  Each  beat  was  deliberate-  as  if  a  person  were  measuring  it.  [REDACTED]  was  trembling  as  she  came  to  a  table  filled  with  dirty  glassware.  In  the  center  stood  the  clock,  an  elaborate  Victorian  piece  surrounded  by  brass  cherubs  and  encased  in  a  glass  dome.  It  wasn't  at  all  what  she  had  expected,  although  she  couldn't  have  said  what  that  was.  Certainly  not  cherubs.  [REDACTED]  walked  slowly  around  the  table,  trying  to  understand  her  excitement.  It  was  the  glass  case  that  produced  the  hollow  tone,  she  decided.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  listened.  The  sound  seemed  to  come  from  a  great  distance.  She  gripped  the  edge  of  the  table.  Somewhere  this  had  happened  before.  She  had  listened  just  like  this,  soaking  up  into  all  of  her  body  a  similar  sound.  Only,  it  had  not  been  a  clock  then;  it  had  been  a  bell.  And  suddenly  she  knew  exactly  where  it  was.  She  could  feel  the  summer  morning  growing  uparound  her  on  the  Chinese  hillside,  and  she  could  smell  the  infinitely  old  smell  of  the  Buddhist  temple.  [REDACTED]  opened  her  eyes  and  found  the  proprietor  of  the  store  looking  at  her  over  the  thick  black  rims  of  what  seemed  to  be  an  unusually  large  pair  of  glasses.  &quot;You  like  the  clock,&quot;  he  said.  It  was  not  a  question;  it  was  a  positive  statement.  You  can  have  it  for  forty-five  dollars.&quot;  For  a  moment,  [REDACTED]  stared  at  the  proprietor's  glasses,  as  if  she  were  using  them  to  get  his  words  into  focus.  It  had  not  occurred  to  her  to  buy  the  clock,  but,  with  a  surge  of  gratitude  to  John,  she  knew  there  was  nothing  else  to  do.  She  smiled.  &quot;All  right.  I'll  take  it.&quot;  She  would  go  quickly  to  some  place  where  she  could  sit  down  alone  with  theclock  and  notbe  interrupted.  She  would  listen,  and  experience  it  all  again.  II  ELEN  walked  out  of  the  store  with  the  clock,  wrapped  in  brown  paper,  under  her  arm.  She  tookacab  to  Central  Park.  There  she  found  an  empty  bench  beside  a  pond.  Sitting  down,  with  the  clock  at  her  side,  she  leaned  back.  She  would  start  at  the  beginning,  before  she  had  even  heard  the  bell,  and  she  would  take  the  trip  up  the  Yangtze  River  to  what  had  turned  out  to  be  her  father's  last  mission  station.  She  was  eleven  years  old  on  that  trip;  her  mother  had  been  dead  two  years,  and  during  those  two  years  her  father  had  been  shifted  from  mission  to  mis-  sion,  He  had  seemed  hardly  aware  of  the  moves.  Already  he  had  withdrawn  into  some  private,  more  important  world,  from  which  he  seldom  emerged  except  to  proclaim  the  Protestant  faith-or,  rather,  to  defend  it,  for  the  tone  of  his  voice  always  implied  he  felt  it  was  under  attack.  For  the  six  days  on  the  river  boat  go-  ing  up  the  Yangtze,  her  father  had  left  her  alone  most  of  the  time,  and  now,  as  she  listened  to  the  hollow  thumping  of  the  clock  beside  her,  she  found  herself  remembering  each  of  those  days.  She  could  even  smell  the  river.  It  wasn't  just  the  top  of  the  Yangtze  you  smelled;  it  was  all  the  way  down  to  the  bottom-  the  deepest  and  oldest  part.  She  had  spent  day  after  day  on  that  trip  trying  to  draw  sketches  of  the  river-  bank  as  it  gradually  slipped  by.  She  had  drawn  women  washing  clothes  at  the  water's  edge.  She  had  drawn  men  with  their  trouser  legs  rolled  up,  wading  in  the  rice  fields.  But  her  picture  was  always  just  bending  women  and  walk-  ing  men  and  a  wide  space  for  water.  No  matter  how  hard  she  tried,  she  could  not  get  down  on  paper  what  the  river  meant  to  her-its  serenity,  its  timeless-  ness.  One  day,  she  crumpled  up  her  paper  and  dropped  it  in  the  water.  And  she  cried.  There  was  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  woman  who  tried  to  comfort  her.  Since  her  mother's  death,  there  had  always  been  women  clucking  hopefully  around  the  fringes  of  her  life  and  her  father's-  not  that  he  ever  noticed  them.  This  particular  woman  stood  by  the  rail  with  her  and  watched  her  paper  be-  ing  sucked  up  by  the  mustard-colored  water.  &quot;If  you  keep  practicing,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;when  you  grow  up,  you  will  be  able  to  draw  just  what  you  see.&quot;  [REDACTED]  did  not  look  at  her.  She  went  on  staring  down  into  the  river,  at  the  washboard  pattern  of  the  muddy  waves  spreading  away  from  the  boat.  When  I  am  old  enough  to  draw,  she  thought,  it  will  be  too  late.  I  won't  even  be  here.  The  slats  of  the  park  bench  pressed  in  hard  ridges  against  [REDACTED]'s  back.  She  picked  up  the  clock  and  walked  over  to    a  willow  tree  at  the  edge  of  the  pond,  and  sat  down  on  the  ground  beside  it.  The  only  sound  was  that  of  the  clock,  and  how  paradoxical  it  was,  [REDACTED]  thought-propelling  time  forward  even  while  it  was  turning  time  back.  In  front  of  her,  asin  a  Chinese  water  color,  the  faintest  outline  of  the  willow  tree  was  reflected  in  the  pond,  and  [REDACTED]  was  on  the  Yangtze  again.  It  was  the  night  they  arrived  at  their  mission  station.  The  moon  had  been  warm  and  alive  that  night,  turning  the  dirty  river  into  a  ripple  of  gold  and  all  the  ragged  little  houseboats  into  soft  violet  shadows.  [REDACTED]  stood  at  the  front  of  the  boat,  waiting  for  it  to  dock,  and  somehow  feeling  that  this  place  was  going  to  be  different  from  the  others.  She  first  heard  the  bell  as  she  stepped  onto  the  dock.  The  moonlight  and  the  sound  of  the  bell  drifted  down  from  the  hills  together.  The  bell  had  a  deep,  deliber-  ate  rhythm.  It  would  strike  once,  and  the  note  would  linger  in  the  valley,  and  before  it  had  quite  faded  away,  the  bell  would  strike  again,  so  that  the  sound  was  always  there.  N  the  mission  compound,  the  bell  was  closer  and  clearer.  The  second  week  they  were  there,  [REDACTED]'s  amah  took  her  to  see  it.  They  went  up  a  country  road  and  a  hill  littered  with  buttercups  and  boulders  toward  the  Buddhist  tem-  ple,  and  with  every  step  the  bell  became  louder.  Halfway  up  the  hill,  the  amah  sat  down  on  a  stone  to  rest  her  tiny,  bound  feet.  &quot;Does  it  always  ring-day  and  night,  all  year?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked.  &quot;Always.&quot;  &quot;Has  it  never  stopped?&quot;  &quot;Never,&quot;  the  amah  said.  &quot;Through  my  father's  life,  my  grandfather's,  and  his  father's  before  him.  Through  floods  and  famines  and  wars.&quot;  [REDACTED],  looking  down  at  the  clock,  in  its  brown  wrapping,  remembered  the  sudden  love  that  had  swept  through  her  for  this  woman  who  could  answer  so  firmly  and  so  quickly.  Her  brevity  had  been  a  relief,  and  [REDACTED]  had  not  been  able  to  help  comparing  it  with  her  fa-  ther's  loud  and  lengthy  pronounce-  ments  of  his  faith.  &quot;Will  it  always  ring?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked.  &quot;Always  and  forever?&quot;  The  amah  stood  up.  &quot;Always,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Chang  ...  chang.&quot;  They  approached  the  temple  through  a  courtyard,  where  they  came  upon  the  most  enormous  hog  [REDACTED]  had  ever  seen.  It  lay  on  the  ground  under  an  um-  brella,  which  had  been  placed  carefully  to  protect  it  from  the  sun.  Its  head  and  feet  were  engulfed  in  the  fat  of  its  great    body;  its  tiny  eyes  stared  through  a  thick  white  film.  [REDACTED]  stopped.  &quot;It's  blind,&quot;  she  said.  The  amah  nodded.  &quot;Blind  and  old.  It  cannot  move.  They  feed  it  here.&quot;  She  had  to  lean  over  and  shout  in  [REDACTED]'s  ear  to  be  heardabove  the  bell.  &quot;Here  alllife  is  precious.  Life  is  safe.&quot;  They  walked  around  the  hog  to  a  small  pool,  where  a  crooked  gray  fish,  with  a  hump  on  its  back,  swam  slowly  in  smaller  and  smaller  circles.  &quot;Old,&quot;  the  amah  said  as  they  passed.  &quot;Safe.&quot;  They  went,  then,  through  an  open  archway  into  a  vast  anteroom.  And  there  was  the  bell.  It  hung-huge  and  heavy-in  the  center  of  the  room.  [REDACTED]  thought  it  looked  as  if  some  giant  out  of  a  myth  should  ring  it,  but,  in-  stead,  beneath  the  bell  stood  a  thin,  white-robed  monk,  looking  more  like  a  cabbage  butterfly.  The  monk  swung  an  immense  log,  suspended  horizontally  by  chains  from  the  ceiling,  against  the  bell,  and  then  he  waited.  Just  before  the  sound  died  away,  he  swung  the  log  again.  Sometimes  he  disappeared  from  the  room  through  a  doorway  leading  to  the  interior  of  the  temple,  but  he  or  an-  other  monk  was  always  standing  by  the  log  in  time  for  the  next  stroke.  It  was  strange  about  the  sound  of  the  |-  bell.  There  in  the  room,  it  was  loud,  but  it  was  not  deafening.  You  didn't  seem  to  hear  it  with  your  ears  at  all.  You  heard  it  with  your  whole  body.  &quot;Always,&quot;  the  amah  had  said.  &quot;Chang  ...  chang.&quot;  N  TER  the  visit  to  the  temple,  the  bell  ran  through  [REDACTED]'s  days  and  ||  linked  each  day  with  the  day  before  and  }-  the  day  to  come.  She  was  happier  than  she  had  been  at  any  time  since  her  moth-  er's  death.  She  was  so  happy  that  one  morning  she  was  about  to  tell  her  father  how  she  felt.  But  that  was  the  morning  she  noticed  his  shouting  for  the  first  time.  It  happened  at  breakfast.  Her  father,  about  to  say  the  blessing,  folded  his  hands  and  looked  down  at  the  red  per-  simmon  and  the  fruit  knife  on  the  plate  before  him.  Through  the  open  windows  the  temple  bell  could  be  heard.  Sudden-  ly,  [REDACTED]  saw  her  father's  hands  tighten  until  the  knuckles  stood  out  white.  Then,  raising  his  voice,  he  did  not  ask  the  blessing,  he  demanded  it.  After  that,  for  the  rest  of  the  sum-  mer,  he  never  lowered  his  voice  for  any-  thing.  He  threw  his  words  out  as  if  he  were  pitting  them  against  an  enemy  in  some  terrible  competition.  His  prayers  were  loudest,  and  came  without  warn-  ing.  He  ordered  the  bell  at  the  mission   chapel  to  be  rung  twice  as  often,  and  doubled  the  number  of  prayer  meet-  ings.  At  eachmeeting,  he  roared  at  the  small  group  of  patient  faces  before  him.  When  he  stopped  to  catch  his  breath,  the  sound  of  the  Buddhist  bell  would  sift  into  the  chapel  and  incite  him  anew.  [REDACTED]  watched  her  father's  war  against  the  Buddhist  bell  with  a  curious  kind  of  compassion.  As  she  thought  about  it  now,  sitting  beside  the  willow  tree  in  Central  Park,  she  wondered  at  the  maturity  of  her  feeling.  She  had  not  been  angry-only  sorry  for  him-when  he  commanded  that  the  windows  on  the  bell  side  of  the  house  be  kept  closed.  She  had  known  it  would  make  no  real  dif-  ference.  Not  war  or  famine  or  flood,  the  amah  had  said.  On  the  day  of  her  father's  defeat,  the  windows  were  open.  It  was  during  a  dreadfully  hot  spell  at  the  end  of  the  summer,  when  any  air  that  was  moving  came  from  the  hills,  and  her  father  had  not  objected  to  the  open  windows.  Again,  they  were  at  breakfast.  Whether  it  was  because  of  the  stillness  of  the  air  outside  or  the  tension  of  the  air  inside,  '|  the  Buddhist  bell  seemed  particularly  loud.  [REDACTED]'s  father  looked  pale  and  drawn,  and  she  decided  to  help  him  through  the  meal  by  playmg  a  game  with  him,  and  raising  her  voice  as  he  did.  She  suggested  that  theyplay  the  Bible  game-a  turnabout  recitation  of  verses-which  her  father  had  instituted  years  before  as  a  mealtime  diversion.  They  both  started  out  confidently  enough.  'The  trouble  came  between  turns.  During  the  moment  after  one  of  them  had  finished  reciting  and  before  the  other  began,  the  bell  moved  in.  It  was  soon  apparent  that  the  only  way  to  play  the  game  was  to  start  your  verse  quickly,  just  before  your  opponent  was  through  speaking.  Faster  and  faster  they  went,  each  jumping  onto  the  tail  of  the  other's  verse.  [REDACTED]'s  mind  scrambled  madly.  When  she  was  not  able  to  think  of  a  verse  in  time,  she  shouted  anything,  trying  to  make  it  sound  like  Biblical  lan-  guage.  Her  father  did  not  notice.  In  his  fierce  determination  to  be  ready,  his  fingers  gripped  the  edge  of  the  table;  his  eyes  fixed  unblinkingly  on  a  little  jar  of  ginger  marmalade.  He  did  not  even  notice  the  servants,  filing  into  the  room  and  standing  silently  against  the  walls.  Suddenly,  her  father  jumped  up  and  crashed  his  fist  on  the  table.  He  rushed  over  to  a  window  and,  leaning  out,  flung  his  verse  at  the  temple  on  the  hill.  &quot;Be  still,&quot;  he  thundered,  &quot;and  know  that  I  am  God!&quot;  'Then  he  turned  and  ran  out  of  the  |:  house.  A  few  minutes  later,  the  bell  of  the  mission  chapel  began  to  ring.  Soon  the  ringing  became  frenzied.  The  clangor  went  on  and  on,  now  stopping  for  a  moment,  then  continuing  more  wildly  than  ever.  Still  sitting  at  the  breakfast  table,  [REDACTED]  imagined  her  father  at  the  bell  rope-jerking  it,  and  shaking,  and  perhaps  weeping,  and  then  pausing  to  listen.  '  TT  HIN  a  month,  her  father  was  recalled  by  the  mission  board.  He  and  [REDACTED]  left  the  valley  and  came  to  [REDACTED]  to  live  with  an  aunt  of  hers  in  New  Jersey.  After  her  father's  death,  a  few  years  later,  [REDACTED]  went  on  living  with  this  aunt,  going  through  high  school  and  college,  shaping  herself  to  a  pattern  that  at  first  seemed  strange  but  soon  became  as  commonplace  as  the  cor-  |  ner  drugstore.  Gradually,  the  familiar  |  F  n=  aul  things  of  her  childhood  grew  unfamil-  |  y-  v/  /{  iar,  and  at  last  there  was  no  link  be-  |  y  “‘f’{(  f  tween  the  two  worlds.  Until  today.  f  ¥  _M&quot;HHQNS  [REDACTED]  looked  at  the  pond  in  front  of  her.  Two  mallard  ducks  had  settled  themselves  in  the  water-color  reflec-  tion  of  the  willow  tree.  Abruptly,  even  though  she  had  meant  tostay  longer  in  the  city,  she  wanted  to  go  home.  She  wanted  to  take  her  day  quickly  l’D  CL'MB     