 b"I ONCE  tried  to  sell  a  black-and- red  tooled-leather  letter  case-a  folder  I  used  for  holding  writing  paper  and  envelopes-that  had  the  name  William  Ewart  Gladstone  in  gold  on  the  front.  I  failed  to  do  so  because  of  a  set  of  circumstances  involving  an  an-  tique  dealer  called  Ah  [REDACTED],  a  ring  that  had  belonged  to  my  great-great-  great-grandmother,  and  two  Lhasa  terriers.  The  letter  case  was  given  to  me  by  my  father,  a  Church  of  England  clergy-  man.  He  had  got  it  one  summer  when,  an  undergraduate  at  [REDACTED],  he  took  ajob  as  secretary  to  the  former  Prime  Minister.  Although  Mr.  Glad-  stone  had  long  since  retired  from  public  office,  he  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  trav-  elling  about  the  country  in  a  private  rail-  road  coach,  receiving  addresses  of  welcome  and  making  speeches.  Copies  of  the  welcoming  addresses  were  always  presented  to  him,  encased  in  beautiful  leather  covers.  It  was  Mr.  Gladstone's  custom,  as  soon  as  he  was  out  of  sight  of  his  hosts,  to  fling  the  addresses  away,  and  my  father's  to  catch  them  before  they  touched  ground.  He  discarded  the  contents  and  made  a  collection  of  the  covers.  His  job  that  summer  was  varied.  When,  much  later,  I  asked  him  what  achievement  in  his  life  he  felt  proudest  of,  he  replied  that  although  he  did  not  think  he  felt  proud  of  any  of  them,  the  one  that  had  given  him  the  most  satisfac-  tion  was  teaching  Mrs.  Gladstone  to  ride  a  bicycle.  According  to  my  father,  Mr.  Gladstone  had  been  convinced  that  his  wife,  who  was  advanced  in  years  when  she  decided  to  become  a  bicyclist,  could  never  learn  the  trick.  My  fa-  ther  was  convinced  that  she  could.  At  the  cost  of  considerable  mental  strain  and  many  hours'  trotting  beside  the  wobbling  Mrs.  Gladstone,  my  father  proved  his  point,  and  proving  apoint  to  the  Grand  Old  Man  of  the  Liberal  Party-never,  even  in  his  old  age,  an  easy  man  to  convert-certainly  was  a  satisfaction  to  remember.  Most  of  Mr.  Gladstone's  address  cov-  ers  were  eventually  thrown  away,  but  one  particularly  fine  one,  with  a  wa-  tered-silk  lining,  was  a  convenient  size  for  holding  writing  paper  and  envelopes,  and  my  father  gave  it  to  me  for  this  pur-  pose  when  I  was  a  little  girl.  It  was  some  while  afterward  that  I  tried  to  sell  it.  I  am  very  glad  now  that  I  didn't  succeed,  but  at  the  time  I  was  upset.  I  needed  the  money  to  buy  feed  for  my  guinea  pig,  and  Ah  [REDACTED],  the  antique " b"dealer,  had  agreed  to  buy  the  cover,  on  condition  that  my  mother  sell  him  my  great-great-great-grandmother's  ring.  His  price  for  the  two  items  together  was  fifty  pounds  five  shillings-fifty  pounds  for  my  mother  and  five  shillings  for  me.  Ah  [REDACTED]  was  not  the  antique  dealer's  real  name.  My  parents  and  I  called  him  that  because  it  was  his  unvarying  greet-  ing  to  my  father,  who  was  a  rector,  and  not  a  vicar.  &quot;Ah,  [REDACTED],  there  you  are!&quot;  he  would  cry,  as  if  my  father's  presence  in  his  own  parish  were  a  source  of  re-  current  amazement.  Ah  [REDACTED]  didn't  live  in  our  remote  Derbyshire  village.  He  had  a  shop,  with  a  bedroom  and  kitchen  over  it,  in  Man-  ston,  the  nearest  market  town.  I  was  ex-  tremely  fond  of  him-chiefly,  I  think,  because  of  his  looks.  He  was  a  thin  scarecrow  of  a  man,  and  he  had  a  bird-  like  face,  long  and  narrow,  with  a  beaky  nose  and  large,  protuberant  eyes.  He  usually  wore  a  tattered  raincoat,  from  which  the  belt  swung  loose,  and  his  ap-  pearance  would  have  been  depressing  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  gaiety  of  his  spirits.  He  always  behaved  as  if  he  were  about  to  strike  a  bargain  that  would  bring  him  immense  financial  gain,  and  as  if  his  meagre  existence  alone  above  the  Manston  shop  were  a  mere  temporary  inconvenience.  I  understood  that  Ah  [REDACTED]  had  been  married  several  times  and  that  all  his  wives  had  left  him  on  account  of  his  frugality  and  his  cheer-  fulness-a  combination  of  qualities  they  apparently  found  inimical  to  the  married  state.  But  if  Ah  [REDACTED]'s  temperament  was  unsuitable  for  matrimony,  it  was  ideal  for  antiques.  Nothing  was  too  old,  too  worn,  or  too  battered  for  his  en-  thusiasm;  I  have  never  known  a  man  more  enthralled  with  his  work  than  Ah  [REDACTED]  was  with  his.  Unfortunately,  I  didn't  see  as  much  of  Ah  [REDACTED]  as  I  would  have  liked.  Whenever  I  went  to  Manston,  I  called  at  his  shop,  but  as  often  as  not  it  would  be  closed,  because  he  had  gone  to  a  sale  or  an  auction.  However,  I  was  sure  of  seeing  him  at  least  once  a  year,  when  our  village  held  its  annual  Antique  Show,  HE  Antique  Show  was  my  moth-  er's  idea,  originally.  The  year  I  was  ten,  she  was  president  of  the  local  branch  of  the  Women's  Institute.  As  the  organization  was  short  of  funds,  my  mother  suggested  that,  to  raise  money,  each  member  contribute  an  objet  d'art  from  her  home  to  an  exhibition,  which  could  be  held  in  the  village  school  on  a  Saturday  afternoon.  There  would  be  an" b"admission  charge  of  sixpence  per  person,  and  since  the  school  was  available  free,  after  hours,  for  community  projects,  the  Institute  couldn't  lose.  The  Antique  Show  turned  out  to  be  a  tremendous  and  continuing  success.  Several  of  our  villagers  were  descended  from  servants  of  great  men,  and  the  small  gifts  that  these  ancestors  had  at  one  time  or  another  received  from  their  masters  were  now  treasured  heirlooms.  In  the  first  show,  there  were  two  silver  teaspoons  that  had  belonged  to  Lord  Nelson,  a  note  in  the  Duke  of  Welling-  ton's  handwriting,  a  pair  of  Napoleonic  fowling  pieces,  and  an  astonishing  array  of  fine  china-Wedgwood  and  Minton  and  Coalport.  My  mother  arranged  all  the  objects  on  long  tables,  covered  with  white  cloths,  in  the  largest  classroom  of  the  school.  Contributions  came  not  only  from  Women's  Institute  members  but  from  almost  every  family  in  the  neigh-  borhood  ofthe  village.  No  one  wanted  to  be  left  out.  When  the  show  opened,  my  father,  who  had  not  supposed  that  such  a  wealth  of  beautiful  things  existed  in  our  village,  became  alarmed  because  no  in-  surance  had  been  taken  out;  it  had  not  occurred  to  my  mother  to  carry  any.  No  one  else  worried,  though,  and  in  all  the  years  the  show  was  held  the  only  pro-  tection  it  had  was  the  school  padlock.  To  begin  with,  most  exhibitors  brought  in  several  treasures.  Later,  they  became  less  prodigal  and  more  competi-  tive;  the  aim  then  was  to  show  some-  thing  different  each  year.  This  suited  my  mother,  who  had  the  problem  of  space  to  consider.  Contributions  were  grouped  according  to  ownership,  rather  than  kind-a  system  that  lent  the  show  a  pleasant  air  of  spontaneity.  One  seemed  less  to  be  attending  an  exhibition  than  to  have  stumbled  upon  the  belong-  ings  of  a  person  of  catholic  taste  who  was  in  the  process  of  moving.  The  exhibits  from  the  rectory  were  always  selected  at  the  last  minute,  be-  cause  my  mother  liked,  if  she  could,  to  contribute  something  the  show  was  short  of-glass  if  there  wasn't  much  glass,  silver  or  china  if  one  of  these  was  lacking.  She  could  usually  do  this,  because  we  had  a  great  deal  of  an-  tique  material  to  draw  upon.  Our  rela-  tives  habitually  stored  with  us  at  the  rec-  tory  such  of  their  possessions  as  they  did  not  currently  need,  always  making  the  generous  proviso  that  we  were  to  use  any  of  them  as  we  might  wish.  I  think  my  father  rather  liked  having  the  spare  family  property  heaped  about  him,  though  his  attitude  toward  it  was  not  at  all  possessive.  He  did  not  even " b"have  much  regard  for  the  heirlooms  he  himself  had  inherited,  such  as  my  great-  great-great-grandmother's  ring.  This  ring  was  a  gold  band  encircled  by  a  tiny  plait  of  auburn  hair  and  covered  with  glass,  and,  though  clumsy-looking,  chipped,  and  not  valuable,  it  was  inter-  esting,  in  that  it  was  supposed  to  have  been  given  to  my  great-great-great-  grandmother  by  Queen  Caroline,  the  wife  of  George  IV.  The  plait  of  hair  was  believed  to  have  been  the  Queen's.  My  great-great-great-grandmother  was  wearing  this  ring  when  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence  painted  her  portrait,  and  the  hair  beneath  the  glass  band  shows  up  quite  clearly  in  the  picture.  And  yet  when  my  father  noticed  the  ring  in  my  mother's  jewelry  box  one  morning,  he  suggested  that  since  it  was  broken  and  she  did  not  wear  it,  she  should  throw  it  away.  Actually,  the  ring  wasn't  badly  dam-  aged.  A  little  piece  of  the  glass  had  cracked  off  and  some  of  the  hair  was  sticking  out.  When  my  mother  seemed  shocked  at  the  idea  of  throwing  the  ring  away,  my  father  offered  to  mend  it  for  her.  He  had  been  an  engineer  before  he  was  ordained,  and  he  was  clever  with  his  hands.  He  did  a  very  neat  job;  when  he  brought  it  back  to  us,  we  saw  that  the  hair  inside  was  arranged  evenly  and  the  chip  soldered  so  well  that  the  join  hardly  showed.  I  noticed,  how-  ever,  that  although  my  mother  said  she  was  delighted  with  his  handi-  work,  she  still  didn't  wear  the  ring.  i  Perhaps  she  found  it  too  heavy.  'To  judge  by  the  portrait,  my  great-great-  great-grandmother  must  have  been  a  much  larger  woman.  AT  the  next  Antique  Show,  I  exhib-  ited  my  Gladstone  letter  case,  and  alongside  it  on  the  table  (there  was  a  shortage  of  jewelry  that  year)  my  mother  placed  my  great-great-great-  grandmother's  ring.  'The  show  hadn't  been  open  long  before  Ah  [REDACTED]  ap-  peared.  Though  the  objets  d'art  were  not  ostensibly  for  sale,  I  asked  him  what  he  would  give  me  for  my  Gladstone  case,  and  after  looking  at  it  and  at  the  ring  he  made  his  magnificent  offer.  I  went  at  once  to  find  my  mother,  and  I  wasn't  surprised  when  she  said  that,  subject  to  my  father's  approval,  she  would  be  willing  to  sell  the  ring.  Al-  though  it  had  seemed  wrong  to  her  to  throw  it  away,  she  felt  differently  about  selling  it.  She  had  recently  embarked  upon  a  course  of  flying  lessons,  which  she  was  financing  herself,  and  this  may  have  influenced  her  thinking.  I  am  sure  that  my  mother  and  I" b"thought  we  had  told  my  father  what  we  were  exhibiting  at  the  Antique  Show,  but  apparently  we  had  not.  We  had  been  particularly  busy  before  the  show  that  year,  because  we'd  had  to  ship  two  Lhasa  terriers  to  496e646961.  These  dogs  their  names  were  Bella  and  Donna-  belonged  to  one  of  my  aunts,  and  they  had  been  left  in  our  care  while  their  owner  took  her  family  to  [REDACTED]  and  settled  into  a  house  there.  The  Lhasas  were  beautifully  trained,  extremely  handsome  lion-colored  dogs,  but  in  spite  of  this  and  of  the  fact  that  they  were  said  to  be  very  intelligent,  I  was  not  sorry  tosee  them  go.  They  owned  ped-  igrees  of  great  length  and  distinction,  and  all  the  timethey  stayed  with  us  they  behaved  as  if  they  knew  this.  They  treated  us,  with  the  possible  exception  of  my  father,  as  if  we  were  not  the  sort  they  had  expected  to  have  to  mix  with,  even  in  a  boarding  house.  (The  faint  approval  they  accorded  my  father  met  with  small  success,  however;  he  never  even  learned  to  tell  them  apart.)  My  father  missed  the  first  hour  of  the  Antique  Show,  because  he  was  see-  ing  Bella  and  Donna  off  in  their  crate.  He  arrived  just  as  my  mother  and  I  had  finished  telling  Ah  [REDACTED]  that  it  was  he  who  had  done  the  fine  repair  work  on  my  great-great-great-grandmother's  ring.  When  Ah  [REDACTED]  saw  my  father,  he  cried  &quot;Ah,  [REDACTED],  there  you  are!&quot;  and  proceeded  to  extoll  his  craftsman-  ship.  My  father  was  not  a  man  who  easily  became  annoyed,  but  when,  in  the  next  few  minutes,  he  learned  of  the  proposed  sale,  he  became  very  much  annoyed  in-  deed.  He  said  that  under  no  circum-  stances  might  the  ring  be  sold,  and  when  I  foolishly  inquired  whether  his  remarks  applied  to  my  Gladstone  letter  case  also,  my  father  replied  that  they  did-which  was,  I  suppose,  only  what  I  deserved  for  raising  the  matter  atso  inauspicious  a  moment,  My  mother,  who  never  seemed  to  notice  disappointments,  however  large  they  might  be,  said  no  more,  but  when  I  was  out  of  my  father's  hearing,  I  said  quite  a  lot;  I  thought  I  had  been  most  unfairly  treated.  My  mother  tried  to  console  me  by  pointing  out  that  my  father  had  always  found  Ah  [REDACTED]  a  tiresome  man  to  deal  with  and  that  per-  haps  he  was  further  distressed  today  at  having  had  to  say  goodbye  to  Bella  and  Donna.  Later,  when  we  were  at  home  and  my  father  had  finished  his  second  cup  of  afternoon  tea,  he  relaxed,  apologized  for  his  irritation,  and  explained  it.  It  seemed  that  when,  several  weeks  before," b"he  began  his  work  on  my  great-great-  great-grandmother's  ring,  he  had  found  that  to  mend  it  he  had  to  take  it  apart.  In  doing  so,  he  had  dropped  Queen  Caro-  line's  hair  into  a  box  of  wood  shavings  that  were  almost  the  same  color.  Instead  of  wasting  time  on  the  nearly  hopeless  job  of  looking  for  it,  he  had  tweaked  a  few  strands  out  of  thecoat  of  either  Bella  or  Donna,  whichever  happened  to  be  sitting  closer  to  him.  Clamping  these  in  a  vise,  he  had  plaited  a  tiny  pig-  tail,  which  he  then  put  into  the  ring.  He  had  meant  to  tell  us  about  this  at  the  time,  he  said,  but  he  had  forgotten,  and  he  had  been  annoyed  and  embarrassed  to  find  that  he  might  have  to  do  so  in  front  of  Ah  [REDACTED],  who  would  have  been  frightfully  shocked.  My  father  considered  it  deceitful  to  sell  a  ring  that  was  supposed  to  contain  the  hair  of  the  late  Queen  Caroline  when  in  fact  it  contained  that  of  either  Bella  or  Donna.  I  thought  at  the  time  that  my  father  was  being  too  fussy,  but  I  am  glad  now  that  he  behaved  as  he  did.  My  mother  still  doesn't  care  for  my  great-great-great-grandmother's  ring,  but  I  have  become  quite  attached  to  Mr.  Gladstone's  letter  case. "