 b"AS  far  back  as  I  can  remember,  a  A  cozy  intimacy  has  prevailed  be-  tween  travel  and  golf.  A  per-  ennial  sports-page  feature  of  my  boy-  hood  was  an  interview  with  some  golf  nut  who  had  ranged  the  world  collect-  ing  out-of-the-way  golf  courses  much  as  an  ordinary  gadabout  might  collect  baggage  labels,  and  who,  having  re-  turned  to  his  home  club,  was  now  hold-  ing  forth  rhapsodically  on  the  subject  of  the  fourth  hole  at  [REDACTED]  or  the  four-  teenth  at  Tierra  del  Fuego-each  to  him  as  heady  a  discovery  as  a  rare  wine  might  be  to  an  cenophilist  touring  the  domaines  of  his  dreams.  Until  recently,  my  own  travel  habits  took  no  account  of  golf.  During  various  trips  abroad,  I  callously  bypassed-pos-  sibly  because  I  cared  nothing  for  the  game-heaven  knows  how  many  in-  toxicating  fairways.  But  in  the  last  couple  of  years  my  oldest  sons-  Terry,  aged  ten,  and  Joey,  eight-have  badg-  ered  me  into  taking  frequent  notice  at  least  of  golf's  own  irrepressible  off-  spring,  miniature  golf.  I  guess  I  have  become  something  of  a  connoisseur  of  midget  links,  though  up  to  four  months  ago  my  excursions  in  this  obstacle-rid-  den  field  were  confined  to  Westchester  County.  If  Sports  Illustrated  had  asked  me  back  then  to  reminisce  about  my  golfing  experiences,  I  should  have  been  limited  to  such  far  from  far-flung  courses  as  the  one  at  the  drive-in  thea-  tre  at  Harmon,  which-except,  per-  haps,  for  its  tricky  asphalt  greens-is  not  the  sort  of  place  a  travelling  golfer  would  burble  over.  Now  things  are  different.  Playing  miniature  golf  in  the  fierce,  competitive,  no-strokes-conceded  fash-  ion  prescribed  by  my  sons  can  be  fairly  harrowing  if  one  does  it  regularly,  and  it  was  with  considerable  relief  that,  last  June,  I  took  my  wife  and  the  boys  on  a  vacation  visit  to  [REDACTED],  The  trip  would  bea  good  change  for  us  all,  I  thought.  But  we  hadn't  spent  even  one  night  on  the  Continent  before  I  began  to  have  misgivings.  My  children  had  never  been  abroad  before,  and  they  had  been  instructed  to  look  at  everything.  Gazing  out  the  windows  of  the  boat  -  |  train  from  Le  Havre  to  [REDACTED],  they  spot-  ted  three  or  four  miniature-golf  courses.  Their  squeals  of  delight  were  so  shrill  that  a  French  customs  official  passing  along  the  corridor  paused  to  express  his  appreciation  of  their  appreciation  of  the  glory  of  his  native  Norman  country-  side.  We  reached  [REDACTED]  and  checked  in  at" b"our  hotel,  and  Terry  and  Joey  hardly  had  their  land  legs  back  before  they  got  wind  of  a  miniature-golf  course  tucked  into  a  corner  of  the  Boisde  Boulogne.  They  and  I  spent  two  en-  tire  afternoons  there  (the  fifth  hole,I  must  confess,  is  rather  a  beaut),  and  we  were  thus  obliged  to  eliminate  a  visit  to  Montmartre  from  the  uplifting  itin-  erary  I  had  mapped  out.  Still,  I  wasn't  too  disturbed.  It  was  doubtlessthe  in-  flux  and  influence  of  the  American  mili-  tary,  I  told  myself,  that  accounted  for  the  presence  in  northern  [REDACTED]  of  this  Yankee  roadside  pastime.  In  a  few  days,  we  would  be  out  of  range,  for  we  were  then  to  drive  down  to  theAtlantic  fishing  village  of  Ciboure-a  suburb  of  Saint-Jean-de-Luz,  just  above  the  Spanish  border-where  we  had  rented  a  house  for  a  month.  There,  among  the  proud  and  notoriously  independent  Basques,  the  children  would  be  exposed  to  a  novel  way  of  life.  I  knew,  or  thought  I  knew,  that  the  principal  sports  of  the  region  were  bullfighting  and  pelota,  and  I  looked  forward  to  the  carefree  role  of  a  spectator  sports-  man.  N  route  to  the  Pays  Basque,  we  naturally  relied  for  guidance  on  the  comprehensive  guidebooks  putout  by  the  Michelin  tire  company.  It  was  Terry,  I  believe,  who  first  observed  that  among  the  many  helpful  symbols  used  in  the  Michelin  books  to  mark  the  towns  in  which  thereare  three-star  restaurants,  cathedrals,  chateaux,  tire-  and-tube  sales  agencies,  and  other  points  of  special  interest  was  a  symbol  for  miniature-golf  courses.  (Terry  cannot  read  French,  but  he  was  not  hard  pressed  in  making  this  discovery;  the  French  for  &quot;miniature  golf&quot;  is  &quot;golf  miniature.&quot;)  I  myself  was  unaware  that  he  had  come  upon  this  intelligence  until  we  drove,  one  evening,  into  the  outskirts  of  Les  Sables-d'Olonne-a  beach  resort  that  Terry  had  earlier  se-  lected  as  a  promising  spot  in  which  to  spend  the  night.  &quot;Ah,  there  it  is,&quot;  he  muttered.  &quot;Where  is  what?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;'The  golf  course!&quot;  he  shouted.  'They  had  it  in  the  Michelin!&quot;  Terry  and  Joey  were  all  for  stopping  at  once  and  playing  a  round,  but  they  deferred  sulkily  to  my  insistence  that  we  first  find  overnight  accommoda-  tions.  Once  we  had  arranged  these,  I  stalled  the  boys  off  until  after  dinner,  by  which  time  the  course  they'dseen  on  the  way  into  town  was  closed  for  the  day.  They  were  disconsolate.  'To  cheer  them  up,  I  took  them  for  a  walk.  As  we" b"went,  I  said  magnanimously  that  if  the  course  hadn't  been  closed,  I  'd  have  played  it  with  them.  It  was  by  then  past  ten  o'clock,  and  the  only  public  gather-  ing  place  that  still  seemed  to  be  open  was  the  casino.  I  felt  safe.  With  a  son's  hand  in  each  of  mine,  I  was  strolling  lightheartedly  past  the  casino  when  Joey,  guided  by  some  intuition,  broke  loose  from  my  grip,  dashed  behind  the  building,  and  returned  with  a  smug,  triumphant  grin.  He  had  found  a  golf-miniature  course  back  there,  and  it  was  open  for  business.  There  were  no  other  people  around  when  the  three  of  us  teed  off,  but  before  we  had  holed  out  on  the  fifth,  a  crowd  of  onlookers  had  assembled  paupers,   I  surmised  at  first,  straight  from  the roulette  and  baccarat  tables,  and  with  nothing  better  or  cheaper  to  do  than  gape  at  foolish  alien  night  owls.  It  was  soon  clear,  though,  from  our  gal-  lery's  cries-now  of  &quot;Bravo!,&quot;  now  of  &quot;Dommage!&quot;  -that,  whatever  their  economic  status  was,  they  were  avid  miniature-golf  fans.  I  have  never  heard  of  anybody  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  getting  a  kick  out  of  watching  strangers  play  miniature  golf,  but  the  way  that  gang  in  Les  Sables  carried  on,  you'd  have  thought  they  were  following  Snead  and  Hogan  in  the  Masters,  or  Jim  Hagerty  at  Newport.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  they  threw  me  off  my  game.  On  the  twelfth  hole  (a  corker,  by  the  way-a  dogleg  to  the  left,  with  the  cup  cunningly  guarded  by  two  iron  pipes),  I  blew  up.  Terry  had  a  three  and  Joey  a  four;  I  took  a  seven.  Lat  er,  my  wife  found  it  hard  to  b  elieve  me  when  I  told  her  I'd  h  ave  had  the  kids  back  a  t  the  hotel  earli-er  but  for  the  pleas  of  our  aficionados  that  we  play  a  second  round.  I  WAS  too  tired  the  next  day  to  grasp  the  full  implications  of  Terry's  glee-  ful  announcement,  as  we  s  tarted  out  on  the  road  once  more,  that  the  Michelin  reported  un  golf  miniature  in  Saint-  Jean-de-Luz.  When  we  got  there,  I  discovered  that  &quot;un\xc2\xbb&quot;  did  not  quite  cover  the  situation.  I  have  never  seen  such  a  hotbed  of  miniature  golf  as  the  Basque  country-or,  at  any  rate,  the  Basque  country  of  [REDACTED].  (537061696e  is  not  hospi-  table  to  such  frivolity.  )  It  is  indicative  of  the  seri  ousness  with  which  the  French  regard  the  sport  that  the  score  card  at  on  e  of  the  two  courses  in  Saint-Jean  it-  self  carries  the  printed  injunction  &quot;Le  direction  se  reserve  le  droit  de  rembour-  ser  le  prix  des  tickets  &amp;  toute  personne  dont  P  attitude  deviendrait  g\xc3\xa9nante  pour  les  autres  joueurs  et  de  les  prier  de  quit-  ter  le  jeu.&quot;  (The  main  Saint-Jean " b"course,  again  located  within  a  chip's  throw  ofthe  municipal  casino,  is  a  real  toughie.  Par  forty-eight,  and  devilish  hazards.  I  have  bitter  but  respectful  memories  ofthe  hole  where  you  have  to  drive  across  some  water  into  a  heap  of  wire  netting,  whence  your  ball,  if  you  are  lucky,  dribbles  onto  a  winding  ramp  that  leads  toward  the  cup,  a  good  ten  yards  away.)  In  addition  to  the  two  courses  in  Saint-Jean,  the  boys  quickly  found  one  in  Ciboure,  within  walking  distance  of  our  house-and  a  mighty  familiar  walk  it  became,  too.  All  three  of  these  installations  were  jammed  day  and  night-for  the  most  part  with  non-  English-speaking  players-and  at  one  or  another  of  them  a  tournament  was  usually  under  way,  the  winners'  scores  being  solemnly  proclaimed  in  the  local  papers  the  next  day.  Soon  after  we  arrived,  I  read  a  news  story  about  an  impending  tournament.  It  said  no  pros  would  be  admitted.  I  had  never  thought  of  there  being  minia-  ture-golf  pros,  but  thereafter,  not  wish-  ing  to  compromise  our  amateur  status  by  getting  mixed  up  with  even  a  semi-  pro,  my  sons  and  I  steered  clear  ofthe  tournaments.  We  generally  had  little  trouble  getting  onto  one  or  another  of  the  many  courses  that,  along  with  the  towering  Pyrenees  and  the  sweeping  ocean,  make  the  Basque  landscape  dis-  tinctive.  (Some  of  the  neighborhood  boosters  have  an  unusual  scale  of  scenic  values.  According  to  a  miniature-golf  item  put  in  the  papers  by  a  town  father  of  Gu\xc3\xa9thary,  a  resort  just  north  of  Saint-Jean,  &quot;Notre  golf  constitue  vrai-  ment  une  attraction  de  premier  plan  et  contribue  au  renom  de  notre  station.&quot;)  At  nearby  Biarritz,  the  fashionable  summer  playground  of  King  Edward  VII  and  his  set,  the  boys  and  I  found  two  courses,  and  in  its  northern  sub-  urb,  Anglet,  two  more.  (Anglet  is  a  small  community,  but  it  harbors  two  firms  that  specialize  in  the  construc-  tion  of  miniature-golf  courses.)  'The  Anglet  courses  lie  side  by  side  in  its  beach  area,  which  is  called  La  Chambre  d'Amour-in  memory  not  of  Edward  VII  but  of  two  ardent,  ill-fated  lovers  who  chose  to  dally  at  the  water's  edge  and  neglected  to  pay  attention  to  the  incoming  tide.  Both  of  the  courses  at  La  Chambre  d'Amour  are  spacious,  well-tended,  challenging  layouts,  comparable,  in  their  way,  I  should  say,  to  the  Pebble  Beach  and  Cypress  Point  links  in  Cali-  fornia,  which,  between  them,  occupy  a  good  deal  ofthe  acreage  of  the  Mon-  terey  [REDACTED].  'These  are  universal- " b"ly  recognized  as  elegant  courses,  and  the  pair  at  Chambre  d'Amour  are  equally  high-class.  For  instance,  the  fine  for  losing  a  club  there  is  two  thou-  sand  francs,  compared  to  a  mere  thou-  sand  at  Ciboure-not  that  I  am  certain  how  one  would  go  about  losing  aclub  in  miniature  golf.  Yielding  to  Terry's  and  Joey's  en-  treaties,  I  took  them  to  lunch  oneday  at  a  Chambre  d'Amour  restaurant  sit-  uated  next  to  one  of  the  courses.  The  food  was  excellent,  but  the  main  reason  for  my  sons'  interest  in  the  spot  turned  out  to  be  their  having  heard  that  its  pa-  trons  were  allowed  to  play  the  course  free  after  a  meal,  going  around  as  many  times  as  they  liked.  I  took  a  nap  in  the  car  after  lunch,  and  so  cannot  supply  precise  statistics,  but  it  is  my  impression  that  before  I  dragged  the  boysout  of  there,  toward  sunset,  they  must  have  come  close  to  emulating  the  feat  of  a  43616e616461ide  fellow  who  this  summer  was  said  by  Sports  Illustrated  to  have  played  eight  rounds  of  full-scale  golf  without  a  rest.  NOW  that  my  family  and  I  are  back  home,  people  keep  asking  my  sons  if  they  found  the  Basque  coun-  try  appealing.  They  usually  reply  that  it  was  wonderful,  and  that  they  will  never  forget  it.  never  will.  Some  of  the  details  of  our  adventures  may  fade  from  their  mem-  ories,  but  I  don't  imagine  anybody  could  forgeta  shot  the  likes  of  the  ace  Terry  sank  one  afternoon  on  that  mad- dening  sixth  at  Ciboure! "