 b"THE  most  peaceful  moments  of  my  first  stay  in  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  hos-  pital  came  just  after  my  operation.  Bandaged,  half  doped,  faintly  aching,  I  lay  flat  on  my  back  between  smooth,  clean  sheets  and  hazily  reflected  that  nothing  is  more  annoying  than  a  fresh  incision  with  fresh  stitches  in  one's  ab-  domen  except,  of  course,  two  fresh  in-  cisions  with  fresh  stitches  in  one's  abdomen.  'The  thought,  for  some  rea-  son,  made  me  chuckle,  and  the  chuckle  made  me  more  than  intellectually  aware  of  the  incisions-the  result  of  that  morning's  operation  for  double  hernia.  But  even  pain  did  not  quite  touch  me,  and  in  the  euphoria  of  ether  intoxica-  tion  I  felt  at  one  with  the  whole  world,  whose  center  for  me  was  this  New  York  hospital.  I  did  not  expect  then  that  only  a  few  days  later  I  would  com-  mit  there  the  most  unpardonable  sin  for  an  43616e616461al  (I  am  566965746e616dese)-  that  of  losing  face  through  one's  own  bad  behavior.  But  lose  face  I  did,  and  to  this  day  I  wonder  whether  my  shame  was  caused  by  the  hypersensitivi-  ty  of  an  ethnic  minority  group  reduced  to  one  specimen,  or  by  my  secret  desire  not  to  be  treated  as  a  foreigner  in  my  wife's  native  land,  or  by  my  old,  ill-  suppressed  43616e616461al  prejudice  against  being  openly  pushed  around  by  women,  or  simply  by  the  fact  that  I  had  never  been  a  hospital  patient  be-  fore  andwas  hopelessly  un-  prepared  for  the  efficient,  cold-blooded,  and  frequent,  ly,  it  seemed,  nonsensical  routines  that  are  so  familiar  and  so  irritating  to  most  convalescents.  I  still  don't  know,  in  short,  whether  my  behavior  was  a  display  of  just  in-  dignation  or  a  childish  tantrum.  I  had  a  nurse,  of  course,  after  my  operation-a  woman  whose  white  hair  was  ineffectually  covered  by  a  ridicu-  lously  small  white  bonnet,  and  who  fluttered  around  my  little  private  room  with  concentrated  energy  and,  I  am  sure,  efficiency.  Despite  a  few  minor  dif-  ferences,  she  reminded  me  of  a  Sister  of  Charity  whom  I  had  known  twenty-  eight  years  earlier  in  the  566965746e616dese  town  of  Soctrang.  My  brother  and  I  referred  to  this  nun  between  ourselves  as  the  ange  de  charit\xc3\xa9-a  clich\xc3\xa9  we  em-  ployed  with  no  hint  of  irony  because  we  knew  she  worked  without  salary  and  because  the  two  huge,  triangular  white  wings  of  her  coif  flapped  over  her  shoulders  angelically  whenever  she  moved.  On  her  flat  chest  she  wore  a  black  wooden  cross  with  a  worn  metal  Christ  on  it,  and  from  her  belt  swung  a  long,  heavy  rosary.  She  was  gentle  and  cheerful,  as  we  imagined  angels  to  be,  although  she  sang  in  a  French  strongly  tinged  with  a  Marseille  ac-  cent,  which  we  somehow  felt  was  not  the  true  tone  of  angels.  Did  my  New  York  nurse  speak  French?  I  was  too  weak  in  the  hours  following  the  opera-  tion  to  find  out,  and  too  weak  even  to  try  to  identify  her  accent,  which  might  have  been  thatof  [REDACTED].  She  was  plump  and  there  was  none  of  the  self-  less  gentleness  of  the  nun  about  her.  But  a  nurse  is  a  nurse,  I  told  myself,  and  therefore  an  angel.  With  this  re-  assuring  conclusion,  I  closed  my  eyes  and  sank  back  into  the  fog  of  ether,  thinking  about  how  poorly  my  child-  hood  had  prepared  me  for  modern  medical  care.  WAS  born  in  a  small  village  on  the  banks  of  a  canal,  among  the  rich  rice  fields  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Accord-  ing  to  local  standards,  my  father  was  a  wealthy  man,  for  he  owned  over  a  hundred  and  twenty  hectares  of  rice  fields,  and  our  family  lived  in  an  en-  closure  containing  a  tile-roofed  master  house  and  several  thatch-roofed  out-  buildings  for  farm  hands,  domestic  servants,  water  buffaloes,  and  agricul-  tural  implements.  This  was  an  inviting  world  for  a  young  boy,  and  I  en-  joyed  it  in  an  active,  al-  most  headlong  fashion,  collecting  a  vast  assort-  ment  of  cuts  and  bumps  along  the  way.  Whenever  I  hurt  myself  I  would  ery  to  get  my  mother's  attention.  She  would  come  at  once  to  scold  not  me  but  the  object  that  hurt  me,and  then  would  rub  my  bruise  or  wash  my  cut  with  rain  wa-  ter,  as  the  case  might  be  (we  had  no  clinic  in  our  village,  and  no  arnicaor  mercurochrome  in  our  household  ),  and  tell  me  to  forget  about  it.  Then  she  would  carry  me  across  the  yard  to  my  favorite  old  water  buffalo,  and  I  would  have  an  extra  ride  on  his  back  all  around  our  compound,  to  inspect  the  sparrow  nests  under  the  eaves  of  our  red  tile  roof,  to  pass  in  review  the  dwarf  coconut  palms  along  the  wide  ditches  where  our  barges  were  moored,  or  to  pick  hibiscus  flowers  from  the  hedge  that  separated  our  compound  from  the  communal  canal.  Or,  if  it  was  raining,  my  mother  would  lay  me  in  a  hammock  and  swing  it  gently  with  one  foot  while  she  sat  in" b"a  wicker  chair  beside  me  and  read  me  passages  from  ancient  stories  that  were  full  of  heroes  who  suffered  with  equa-  nimity-including  a  general  who  had  a  broken  arrowhead  removed  from  one  arm  and  the  wound  cleansed  with  rice  alcohol  while  playing  Chinese  chess  with  his  free  hand.  My  older  brother  was,  in  his  small  way,  another  example  to  me.  If  he  had  a  toothache,  he  would  hold  a  spoonful  of  rice  alcohol  in  his  mouth-a  Viet-  namese  remedy  based  on  the  principle  of  fighting  pain  with  firee--without  whimpering.  He  would  even  challenge  me,  in  sign  language,  to  one  of  the  in-  numerable  games  566965746e616dese  children  have  played  for  generations,  and,  leer-  ing  at  me  derisively  over  his  mouthful  of  fire,  beat  me,  no  matter  what  the  game.  The  fact  that  he  was  incapable  of  comment  or  small  talk  only  added  to  his  importance.  After  my  father's  death,  in  1910,  my  education  fell  temporarily  to  my  moth-  er  and  to  one  or  another  of  her  younger  brothers.  Maternal  Uncle  Number  Three  was  a  true  scholar,  whose  phi-  losophy  was  based  on  a  mingling  of  native  tradition,  Taoism,  Confucian-  ism,  and  Buddhism.  Along  with  my  letters,  he  taught  me  our  fundamental  566965746e616dese  beliefs-among  them  the  concept  of  man's  three  souls.  The  Su-  perior  Man,  he  often  told  me,  pays  little  attention  to  his  vegetative  soul,  restrains  his  animal  soul  under  all  cir-  cumstances,  and  strives  to  develop  his  spiritual  soul  as  much  as  possible,  in  order  to  distinguish  himself  from  cab-  bages,  eggplants,  coconut  palms,  cats,  dogs,  pigs,  and  water  buffaloes.  This  uncle  had  a  vegetative  soul  plaguedby  a  number  of  minor  tropical  diseases-  malaria  and  various  skin  eruptions-but  he  sternly  refused  to  take  notice  of  its  sufferings.  He  classified  his  internal  troubles  into  two  categories-those  caused  by  an  excess  of  internal  heat,  to  be  treated  with  rhinoceros  horn,  and  those  caused  by  a  deficiency  of  internal  heat,  to  be  treated  with  ginger.  The  first  medicine  is  prepared  by  patiently  rubbing  a  rhinoceros  horn-from  which  the  rhinoceros  has  been  detached,  of  course-across  the  rough  inner  surface  of  an  earthenware  bowl  containing  cold  water,  When  the  water  becomes  milky,  you  drink  it  until  your  fever  subsides.  'The  second  remedy  is  no  more  than  a  hot  infusion  of  fresh  ginger  sweetened  with  rock  sugar.  You  drink  it  until  you  feel  warmer,  which  is  very  soon.  My  uncle  had  no  quarrel  with  other  local  medicinal  products,  such  as  deer  antler,  dried  bumblebees,  tiger " b"bones,  ginseng,  orange  peel,  and  mint,  but  he  saw  no  reason  to  complicate  his  life  with  them  when  he  had  a  rhinoceros  horn  stored  in  a  tin  box  and  ginger  growing  in  his  own  yard.  As  for  sur-  gical  operations,  he  considered  them  sins  against  filial  piety.  Were  they  not  mutilations  of  one's  body,  which  was  a  precious  gift  from  one's  parents  and  not  to  be  tampered  with  under  any  cir-  cumstances?  The  concessions  he  did  make  to  ill-  ness  were  rare  and  grudging.  He  bore  his  skin  diseases  without  even  scratch-  ing.  He  would  drink  rhinoceros-horn  water  and  bathe  himself  with  it  from  time  to  time,  although  he  expected  no  rapid  results.  My  mother  used  to  bathe  our  mangy  dogs  in  creosote  diluted  with  water,  and  she  urged  my  uncle  to  try  the  same  cure  for  his  skin  troubles.  &quot;Of  course,  it  must  hurt  a  little,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  it  does  the  dogs  a  lot  of  good.  You,  Little  Brother,  have  the  same  vegetative  soul  that  dogs  have,  so  why  don't  you  try  it?&quot;  Little  Brother  resented  this  reminder  of  the  least  of  his  three  souls.  He  was  also  an  adult  566965746e616dese  and  only  hu-  man,  and  was  therefore  suspicious  of  the  creosote  because  it  came  in  a  bottle  with  a  French  label.  But  to  prove  to  his  elder  sister  that  he  did  not  shy  away  from  pain  he  bathed  himself  once  or  twice  with  her  dog  medicine,  proving  simultaneously  that  it  did  not  hasten  the  purging  of  his  blood.  Malaria  made  him  more  codperative  with  his  vegetative  soul.  In  some  un-  canny  fashion,  he  knew  when  he  was  about  to  have  a  malarial  seizure,  and  he  would  prepare  his  mat  and  his  con-  coctions  beforehand.  As  soon  as  he  started  to  feel  the  chill,  he  would  drink  the  ginger,  lie  down  on  his  mat,  and  shake  lamentably.  After  a  time,  the  chill  would  pass,  and  there  would  be  a  little  lull.  Then  the  fever  would  seize  him,  and  he  would  drink  rhinoceros-  horn  water  and  perspire  profusely  for  a  while-a  long  while,  it  seemed  to  me.  When  the  fever  subsided  he  would  sit  up,  give  me  a  quizzical  smile,  half  of  apology  and  half  of  pride,  and  prepare  himself  a  pot  of  Chinese  tea  while  smoking  one  of  the  conical  cigarettes  he  made  out  of  black  566965746e616dese  tobacco  and  the  same  coarse  white  paper  I  made  kites  with,  When  I  went  off  to  a  boarding  school  run  by  a  group  of  Christian  Brothers,  I  encountered  another  way  of  dealing  with  physical  miseries.  The  tres  cher  Fr\xc3\xa9re  Infirmier  in  charge  of  the  school's  infirmary  was  a  fat  man  with  a  big  red  beard,  and  big  blue  eyes " b"made  bigger  by  thick  lenses,  who  spoke  French  and  566965746e616dese  with  a  Breton  accent  and  who  believed  in  Western  medicine  and  Christian  purgatory.  Armed  with  a  bottle  of  iodine  and  an  ap-  plicator,  he  could  make  the  smallest  wound  feel  like  a  major  abscess,  and  he  classified  our  cuts  and  bruises  as  deserv-  ing,  according  to  their  size,  one  hun-  dred  days,  two  hundred  days,  or  three  hundred  days  of  deliverance  from  purgatory,  provided  the  patient  offered  his  pain  as  a  sacrifice  to  the  Almighty  and  did  not  cry  or  whimper.  Any  rise  in  body  temperature-checked  with  the  cher  Fr\xc3\xa9re's  oral  thermometer-  was  followed  by  the  administration  of  castor  oil.  'The  patients  stood  at  atten-  tion  in  a  row,  and  the  Fr\xc3\xa9re  Infirmier,  a  huge  bottle  ofcastor  oil  in  one  hand  and  a  teaspoon  in  the  other,  passed  slowly  down  the  line  like  a  fatherly  colonel,  explaining  to  neophytes  that  they  would  receive  three  spoonfuls  of  the  stuff,  each  worth  one  hundred  days'  remission  from  purgatory  if  the  medicine  was  bravely  offered  to  God.  Sometimes  a  spoonful  of  castor  oil,  through  no  fault  of  the  recipient,  re-  fused  tostay  down.  The  Infirmier  would  continue  his  distribution  as  though  nothing  unusual  had  happened,  but  he  would  keep  the  unfortunate  boy  after  the  others  had  been  dismissed,  to  console  him  for  his  medicinal  and  spiritual  loss.  AS  I  lay  now  on  my  hard  hospital  bed  and  tried  to  remember  the  exact  appearance  of  the  Infirmier's  face,  my  half-closed  eyes  were  struck  by  a  strong  electric  light  switched  on  over  my  head.  Another  face,  tanned  and  kind,  seemed  to  be  floating  above  me.  I  made  an  effort  to  focus  on  it,  and  recognized  it  as  that  of  my  surgeon.  Behind  him  was  a  group  of  internes.  &quot;How're  you  doing?'&quot;  the  surgeon  asked  me  in  a  gentle  voice.  &quot;I'm  doing  all  right,  Doctor,&quot;  I  an-  swered.  He  uncovered  me  by  pulling  down  the  sheet  and  pulling  up  my  hospital  gown.  My  belly  was  warm,  his  fingers  were  cold,  and  at  the  best  of  times  I  am  ticklish.  The  result  was  that  I  winced,  and  my  face  must  have  shown  an  inexplicable  hilarity.  The  internes  converged  on  me,  watching  me  seri-  ously.  'The  cold  fingers  poked;  I  wiggles and  giggled  Involuntarlly  The  soft  voice  asked  &quot;Does  it  hurt?&quot;  I  an-  swered  &quot;No,&quot;  partly  because  my  flesh  was  still  numb  and  partly  to  reassure  him  that  my  wiggling  was  not  due  to  pain.  The  internes  looked  on  with  in-" b"tense  gravity,  from  which  I  surmised  that  I  was  a  rare  sort  of  hospital  pa-  tient,  to  be  observed  with  special  atten-  tion.  The  examination  went  on  like  this  for  some  time,  until  at  last  the  sur-  geon  covered  me  again  and  departed  with  his  solemn  retinue.  I  HAD  full  confidence  in  my  surgeon  and  liked  him,  although  many  of  our  earlier  encounters  had  been  marked  by  this  same  kind  of  foolish  misunder-  standing.  I  must  admit  that  at  our  first  meeting,  in  1948,  I  had  disliked  him.  I  had  joined  the  United  Nations  staff  in  New  York  in  1946.  Two  years  later,  at  the  conclusion  of  a  routine  physical  examination-the  U.N.  has  its  own  clinic  and  its  own  staff  of  doctors  giv-  ing  regular  physical  checkups  to  all  members  of  its  Secretariat-a  charm-  ;)  ing  French-speaking  woman  doctor  told  me  that  she  wanted  me  to  see  the  specialist  on  hernia.  &quot;Just  to  make  sure,  you  know,&quot;  she  added  reassuringly.  That  was  how  I  met  my  surgeon.  He  was  nine  years  younger  then,  still  un-  der  thirty,  and  perhaps  &amp;  little  less  gentle  than  he  is  now.  I  was  far  from  patient  with  him,  not  because  of  my  youth,  since  I  was  already  forty-three,  but  because  I  spoke  little  English  and  he  knew  no  French.  When  he  asked  me  to  uncover  my  middle,  I  started  to  explain  to  him  in  my  slow  English  that  I  had  never  noticed  anything  wrong.  He  cut  me  short  with  an  impatient  &quot;Yes,  but-&quot;  and  plunged  a  long,  firm  finger  into  me,.  &quot;Cough!&quot;  he  com-  manded.  I  didn't  feel  like  coughing,  but  I  tried  to  oblige.  &quot;Louder!&quot;  he  snapped.  I  did  my  best.  He  poked  harder,  and  I  began  to  giggle.  ''There's  nothing  to  laugh  about,&quot;  he  said,  and  my  blood  pressure  rose  sev-  eral  points,.  After  all,  I  was  much  older  than  he  (in  [REDACTED]  he  would  have  had  to  call  me  ing,  which  literally  means  &quot;grandfather),  and  we  were  of  equal  rank  in  the  U.N.  But  my  lim-  ited  English  prevented  me  from  mak-  ing  a  properly  acid  retort.  After  a  few  more  pokes,  the  doctor  straightened  up  and  asked,  &quot;How  long  have  youhad  this  double  hernia?&quot;  His  tone  was  an  accusation,  as  if  I  had  known  of  the  hernia  all  along  and  had  willfully  concealed  it  on  my  medical  questionnaire.  But  again  my  English  wouldn't  come,  and  I  could  only  an-  swer  him  with  a  phrase  I  had  learned  from  comic  strips-&quot;I  dunno.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  know?&quot;  he  fired  at  me.  Nobody  had  asked  me  such  a  ques-  tion  since  the  days  when  I  was  a  soldat" b"de  deuxieme  classe  in  the  French  Army.  Sensing  my  rising  temper  at  last,  he  tried  to  make  me  feel  at  ease.  &quot;You  must  be  a  real  tough  [REDACTED];  he  said.  This  was  no  better.  I  had  heard  the  epithet  &quot;tough  [REDACTED];  but  I  had  always  translated  it  to  myself  as  &quot;mauvais  gargon.&quot;  Again  he  must  have  seen  my  anger  and  incomprehension,  because  he  modified  his  statement.  &quot;You  don't  pay  much  attention  to  minor  pains,  do  you?&quot;  After  that,  we  got  along  better.  He  told  me  that  there  was  no  hurry  about  an  operation,  but  I  must  come  to  him  for  an  examination  at  least  once  a  year.  So  forthe  next  seven  years  Idutifully  reported  to  his  office,  where  he  would  poke  and  I  would  jump,  and  the  opera-  tion  would  again  be  postponed,  because,  he  told  me,  it  was  only  the  beginnings  of  a  hernia.  Last  year,  however,  I  in-  formed  him  of  my  decision  to  retire  from  the  U.N.  and  to  move  to  [REDACTED],  and  he  said  thatthe  time  had  come  for  surgery.  I  was  not  getting  any  younger,  he  told  me,  and  I  might  not  find  such  good  hospital  facilities  away  from  New  York.  My  wife  voted  with  the  doctor,  and  I  reluctantly  agreed.  I  did  not  then  know  what  was  in  store  for  me.  NE  afternoon  late  last  winter,  I  presented  myself  at  the  hospital,  where  my  wife  and  I  waited  patiently  and  endlessly  for  anurse  in  the  admit-  ting  office  to  grant  me  an  audience.  At  last  she  produced  questionnaires  and  began  to  ask  me  a  series  of  ques-  tions  that  reminded  me  of  my  first  encounter  with  the  Gestapo,  in  Mar-  seille  in  1943.  My  difficulties  started  with  the  very  first  questions:  &quot;What's  your  first  name?  What's  your  last  names&quot;  Being  intellectually  scrupulous,  I  wanted  clarification  on  what  she  meant  by  first  and  last.  &quot;First  is  what  comes  first.  Last  is  what  comes  last,&quot;  the  bureaucrat-nurse  said  with  infinite  weariness.  My  trouble  was  that  we  tradition-  bound  566965746e616dese  have  been  more  re-  luctant  than  the  Chinese  to  Westernize  our  way  of  writing  our  names,  even  when  we  live  in  a  Western  country,  by  reversing  our  usual  order  of  family  name  first  and  given  name  last.  My  566965746e616dese  name  is  Tao-Kim-Hai,  the  family  name,  Tao,  coming  first.  But  when  I  became  a  French  citizen  in  1929,  I  was  required  by  law  to  add  a  Western  given  name  in  front  of  my  old  name.  Thus  my  full  name,  Andr\xc3\xa9  Marie  Tao-Kim-Hai,  now  contains  two  first  names  first,  then  my  family" b"name,  and  then  two  first  names  last.  After  much  explanation  on  my  part  and  bored  impatience  on  the  nurse's  part,  my  names  were  written  down,  but  I  reduced  the  name  Marie  to  the  initial  M,  in  order  to  avoid  confusing  the  nurse  as  to  my  sex.  &quot;Country  of  birth?&quot;  This  was  easy,  or  so  I  thought,  and  I  answered  without  hesitation,  &quot;Viet-  nam.&quot;  The  young  lady  held  her  pen  poised  but  refused  to  write.  &quot;Never  heard  of  it,&quot;  she  said,  as  if  I  had  just  invented  a  new  country.  [REDACTED]  is  not  a  new  country.  Its  first  king  is  thought  to  have  died  in  the  year  2879  B.C.  Perhaps  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  lady,  even  a  professional  and  educated  lady,  cannot  be  expected  to  know  Viet-  namese  ancient  history,  because  the  name  of  the  country  has  changed  sev-  eral  times.  But  how  about  Bao-Dai,  Ho  Chi  Minh,  Ngo  Dinh  Digm,  [REDACTED],  Hanoi,  and  Dign-Bign-Phu?  &quot;Is  it  in  4368696e61?&quot;  the  nurse  asked.  Now,  that  is  a  question  calculated  to  drive  any  566965746e616dese  wild.  The  Viet-  namese  respect  4368696e61  as  the  seat  of  a  very  honorable  culture,  but  they  cannot  forget  the  thousand  years  of  war  be-  tween  4368696e61  and  [REDACTED].  Historically,  ethnically,  geographically,  and  polit-  ically  the  lady  was  wrong,  but  I  drew  a  deep  breath  and  held  my  temper.  It  took  a  long  time,  but  eventually  the  nurse  passed  me,  not  cum  laude,  and  turned  me  over  to  a  male  attendant,  who  turned  me  over  to  a  cashier  to  pay  in  advance  for  private  nurses.  Finally,  I  was  allowed  to  go  to  my  room.  The  room  was  small  but  comfortable  and  well  located,  with  a  balcony  and  a  view  over  the  city.  When  my  sister-in-  law  was  in  the  Soctrang  hospital  in  1929,  she  had  a  whole  suite  to  herself  on  the  ground  floor,  surrounded  by  a  hedge  of  blooming  hibiscus.  Here  in  New  York  there  was  no  blooming  hi-  biscus  but  a  hedge  of  dirty  buildings,  with  a  few  skyscrapers  in  the  back-  ground.  Nevertheless,  my  room  cost  at  least  twenty  times  as  much  as  the  suite  in  the  Soctrang  hospital  and  at  least  twice  as  much  as  the  room  I  had  oc-  cupied  in  the  Waldorf-Astoria  in  1945.  At  that  price,  I  decided,  I  could  ex-  pect  good  service,  some  comfort,  and  a  certain  measure  of  privacy.  I  changed  my  business  suit  for  pajamas  and  a  robe,  said  goodbye  to  my  wife,  and  eased  my-  self  comfortably  into  the  one  armchair  and  started  to  read.  The  door  opened  suddenly  and  a  voice  boomed  &quot;Hi,  Andr\xc3\xa9!&quot;  It  was  a  Catholic  priest,  plump  and  jovial,  com-" b"plete  with  prayer  book  and  stole.  &quot;How  about  Confession  and  Communion?&quot;  I  had  told  the  admitting  nurse  ex-  pressly  that  although  I  was  a  Catholic,  I  did  not  want  a  priest,  but  here  he  was.  He  seemed  a  bit  disappointed  when  I  told  him  that  it  was  not  to  be  a  serious  operation,  that  I  expected  to  survive,  and  that,  anyway,  I  did  not  take  death  as  seriously  as  many  other  Christians  do.  I  tried  to  talk  religion  with  him,  but  he  did  not  seem  particularly  interested,  and  left  after  a  few  minutes.  Almost  immediately,  another  man  came  in.  He  pointed  an  accusing  finger  at  me  and  said  with  what  I  took  to  be  a  Middle  European  accent,  &quot;You  have  tuberculosis.  You  have  venereal  disease.  You  have-&quot;  There  was  not  the  slight,  est  interrogative  inflection  in  his  voice.  &quot;Who  are  you?&quot;  I  interrupted.  &quot;''The  anesthetist,&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;Parlezx-vous  frangas?&quot;  &quot;Out,&quot;  he  said,  and  resumed  &quot;Vous  avez  la  tuberculose.  Vous  avez  des  maladies  v\xc3\xa9en\xc3\xa9riennes.  V  ous  aver-&quot;  as  affirmatively  as  ever.  During  that  first  afternoon  in  the  hospital,  many  other  unexpected  and  unknown  visitors  came  in,  always  with-  out  knocking,  without  introducing  themselves,  and  without  stating  their  business-except  for  the  man  who  came  to  rent  me  a  television  set.  I  was  both  annoyed  and  amused,  assuming,  rightly  or  wrongly,  that  all  this  was  the  normal  routine  of  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  hospital.  There  is  nothing  to  report  about  the  next  morning,  except  that  a  man  came  in  to  prepare  me  for  the  operation  and  a  nurse  popped  in  to  give  me  a  hypo-  dermic,  the  significance  of  which  I  did  not  realize  until  I  woke  in  the  after-  noon  and  discovered  the  incisions  in  my  abdomen.  HAT  evening,  when  I  was  fast  asleep,  somebody  again  turned  on  the  light  above  my  head.  I  looked  at  my  watch  and  found  that  it  was  a  few  min-  utes  after  ten.  Two  young  male  internes  and  a  young  woman  interne  were  sit-  ting  in  chairs  tilted  back  against  the  wall  and  looking  at  me.  I  recognized  them  as  having  been  in  the  group  that  had  visited  me  with  the  surgeon  that  after-  noon.  They  smiled  at  me  and  I  smiled  back  at  them.  We  talked.  One  interne  said  that  he  had  been  surprised  when  I  giggled  during  the  surgeon's  examina-  tion  in  the  afternoon.  &quot;43616e616461als  are  stoic,&quot;  he  stated  sententiously.  I  decided  that  by  &quot;stoic&quot;  he  meant  tough,  in  the  way  my  surgeon  meant  it  when  he  said  I  was  a  tough  guy,  and  I  took  it  to  be  a  compliment.  But  I  won-" b"dered  about  &quot;43616e616461als&quot;  and  asked  him  for  his  interpretation  of  the  word.  \xc2\xab&quot;Chinese,  of  course,&quot;  he  said.  I  asked  him  if  he  thought  the  whole  [REDACTED]-whatever  geographical  limits  he  gave  to  that  word-was  peopled  by  Chinese.  To  my  astonishment,  he  said  that  he  took  it  for  granted  thatI  was  Chinese,  and  anyway,  all  yellow  people  were  the  same.  I  asked  him  if  he  thought  all  white  people  were  the  same.  I  saw  that  he  was  embarrassed,  and  I  was  aware  that  it  was  I  who  was  em-  barrassing  him.  I  tried  to  put  him  at  ease-as  if  I  were  ahost  inthis  room,  and  not  a  man  who  had  just  had  an  operation  and  was  hoping  to  be  allowed  to  sleep-with  the  story  of  my  adven-  ture  with  some  Canadian  broadcasters.  A  few  years  back,  Itold  the  interne,  I  had  received  a  telephone  call  from  [REDACTED]  inviting  me  to  go  there  as  the  guest  of  the  Canadian  Radiodiffusion  and  read  a  few  pages  of  French  text  for  a  film  sound  track.  &quot;Don't  any  of  you  in  [REDACTED]  speak  Frenchany  more?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Yes,  but  we  want  somebody  from  the  [REDACTED]  to  do  it.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  text?&quot;  I  asked.  But  it  was  a  long-distance  call,  and  they  didn't  want  to  go  into  details.  I  was  glad  to  visit  [REDACTED]  at  somebody  else's  expense  and  get  paid  for  it  be-  sides.  I  flew  to  [REDACTED],  had  an  excel-  lent  French  lunch,  and  was  shown  the  film,  which  was  about  496e646961,  and  I  read  their  text  aloud  into  a  microphone.  I  read  it  in  my  own  French  accent,  which  had  grown  out  of  twenty-two  years'  residence  in  [REDACTED],  out  of  my  study  of  French  diction,  and  out  of  sev-  eral  years  spent  as  an  habitu\xc3\xa9  of  the  Club  du  Faubourg,  where  Parisian  orators  discuss  everything  from  Paul  Val\xc3\xa9ry  to  colonialism.  When  I  finished  my  recording,  despair  was  on  the  faces  of  my  Canadian  hosts.  I  sensed  that  I  was  a  complete  failure,  and  said  I  was  sorry.  A  French-Canadian  said,  &quot;Mais  c'est  de  la  Com\xc3\xa9die-F  rangaise!  Couldn  t  you  read  French  with  an  43616e616461al  accent?&quot;  &quot;Which  43616e616461al  accent?&quot;  I  replied.  I  explained  that  I  did  not  know  any  of  the  dozens  of  languages  spoken  in  In-  dia,  any  more  than  I  knew  Japanese  or  Chinese  or  Laotian  or  Cambodian  or  Malay  or  Siamese  or  Burmese,  or  what-  ever  languages  they  speak  in  Afghani-  stan,  [REDACTED],  and  Inner  and  Outer  Mon-  goha  All  I  knew  was  566965746e616dese,  and  my  566965746e616dese  friends  had  told  me  that  I  spoke  566965746e616dese  with  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  accent,  whatever  that  might  be.  At  the  end  of  this  story,  the  internes  dropped  the  subject  of  race  and  tackled " b"me  on  43616e616461al  religions.  I  had  a  hard  time  explaining  to  them  that  neither  Taoism  nor  Confucianism  nor  Bud-  dhism  is  a  religion  in  the  Western  sense  of  the  word.  They  shrugged,  and  one  of  them  said,  &quot;Tell  us  about  Ori-  ental  food.&quot;  But  here  again  I  had  to  say  that  I  could  find  no  common  de-  nominator  for  a  Japanese  sukiyaki,  a  Korean  pulgogi,  an  Indonesian  nas  goreng,  a  Siamese  mee  kraub,  and  an  496e646961n  curry.  And  so  they  left.  They  had  not  been  unkind,  but  I  had  a  feeling  that  they  were  disappointed  by  my  in-  ability  to  give  them  any  general  ideas  and  unhappy  because  they  were  no  longer  sure  of  the  general  ideas  they  had  had.  Y  real  troubles  started  the  next  morning.  Around  five,  a  nurse  came  into  my  room  and  propped  both  doors  wide  open.  I  had  never  been  awakened  so  early  in  my  life  except  once  in  Oxford,  where  an  English  maid  woke  me  before  dawn  to  serve  me  early-morning  tea.  Here,  in  the  New  York  hospital,  my  nurse  served  me  an  early-morning  thermometer,  without  asking  my  consent  or  cooperation.  I  re-  solved  to  be  patient,  however,  and  tried,  unsuccessfully,  to  go  back  to  sleep.  Around  seven  o'clock,  I  thought  it  was  late  enough  to  ask  for  a  special  favor,  and  I  rang.  Ten  minutes  later,  anurse  in  her  late  twenties  whom  I  had  never  seen  before  came  in.  Before  I  had  time  to  ask  her  please  to  bring  me  a  cup  of  coffee  or  anything  hot,  and  kindly  to  close  the  door  when  leaving,  she  shouted  at  me,  &quot;W  hatsa  matta,  boy?&quot;  I  was  nonplussedby  the  rudeness  of  her  tone  and  her  vocabulary,  but  I  managed  to  lodge  my  double  re-  quest.  &quot;Breakfast  at  eight-thirty,&quot;  she  snapped,  andwent  out  immediately-  without  closing  the  door.  She  went  out  so  fast  that  I  had  no  time  to  formulate  an  appropriate  reply.  The  word  &quot;boy&quot;  had  stung  me  more  than  the  nurse's  tone  and  manner.  I  did  remember  that  before  my  Ameri-  can  father-in-law  died,  my  mother-in-  law  used  to  explain  his  occasional  ab-  sence  from  their  cottage  in  [REDACTED]  by  saying  &quot;He  must  be  out  bowling  with  the  boys&quot;&quot;  -by  which  she  meant  a  group  of  gentlemen  who  were  in  their  seven-  ties.  But  I  also  could  not  forget  my  per-  sonal  knowledge  that  the  French  in  their  colonies  use  the  word  &quot;boy&quot;  mean  &quot;servant.&quot;  They  even  call  a  fe-  male  servant  a  &quot;boyesse.&quot;  Suddenly  angry,  I  wanted  to  ring  for  the  nurse  again  and  explain  all  this  to  her,  but  then  I  remembered  my  conversation" b"with  the  internes  and  decided  to  live  up  to  their  high  opinion  of  the  stoicism  of  43616e616461als.  Around  eight-thirty,  several  nurses  invaded  my  room,  all  shockingly  healthy  and  cheerful,  and  chattering  like  para-  keets.  I  heard  a  jumble  of  overlapping  greetings  and  questions,  such  as  &quot;Hi,  boy!&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  feel  this  morn-  ing,  sweetie?&quot;  &quot;He  looks  wonderful!&quot;  &quot;Where  did  you  get  this  beautiful  silk  robe?&quot;  &quot;Here's  your  breakfast.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  like  coffee?  You  prefer  Chinese  tea?&quot;  and  &quot;Soft-boiled  eggs-  no  chop  suey  here!&quot;  I  was  confused,  and  I  couldn't  sort  out  the  questions  fast  enough  to  answer  any  of  them.  Then  a  couple  of  male  attendants  walked  into  the  crowded  room,  one  of  them  shouting  at  me  in  Chinese,  &quot;NZ  hau  mat  Ni  hau  pu  hau?&quot;  When  I  did  not  answer,  he  added,  &quot;You  Chinese?  What  dialect  you  speak?  ..  .  No  Chi-  nese?  Jap?&quot;  The  other  attendant  turned  on  the  television,  which  responded  with  a  blurred  image  and  a  blare  of  sound.  Suddenly  my  surgeon  came  in  and  the  nurses  and  attendants  became  silent  at  once  and  filed  out  of  the  room.  Gently  he  examined  me.  When  he  was  through,  he  asked,  &quot;How  do  you  feel?&quot;  &quot;Physically,  as  good  as  possible,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;Mentally,  not  so  good.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Why?\xe2\x80\x9d  I  explained  to  him  that  I  had  the  im-  pression  of  beinga  rare  animal  in  a  zoo,.  In  fact,  I  added,  this  was  worse  than  a  zoo,  because  in  a  zoo  the  public  is  not  supposed  to  excite  the  animals.  The  surgeon  tried  to  cheer  me  up,  tell-  ing  me  that  there  was  a  lack  of  privacy  and  social  amenities  in  almost  all  hos-  pitals.  He  went  as  far  as  to  explain  the  psychology  of  nurses  and  hospital  work-  ers,  who  tend  to  become  insensitive  be-  cause  they,  fully  clothed  and  able-  bodied,  habitually  deal  with  more  or  less  helpless  patients  who  are  stripped  of  their  business  suits  and  their  vertical  dignity.  This  reasoning  cheered  me  slightly,  and  I  pondered  over  it  later,  when  a  nurse  came  to  wash  me.  Her  method  was  without  consideration  or  kindness  but  efficient  and  thorough.  No  wonder  nurses  have  a  superiority  complex,  I  reasoned  as  she  rubbed  my  back,  and  no  wonder  I  feel  inferior,  being  babied  like  this.  I  quoted  Spinoza  to  myself.  &quot;An  emotion  which  is  a  passion  ceases  to  be  a  passion  as  soon  as  we  form  a  clear  and  distinct  idea  thereof.&quot;  But  matters  did  not  improve  in  the  succeeding  days.  I  was  a  &quot;boy,&quot;  I  was " b"a  dumb  43616e616461al.  I  was  addressed  in  what  sounded  like  pidgin  English.  I  heard  allusions  to  what  the  hospital  staff  thought  of  as  43616e616461al  ways  and  Ori-  ental  foods.  Even  my  556e6974656420537461746573n  wife  was  not  spared  rudeness,  vexation,  and  humiliation.  Although  she  had  an  M.A.  in  Greek  before  many  of  the  nurses  were  born,  these  young  ladies  took  it  for  granted  that  the  wife  of  such  a  strange  man  could  not  amount  to  much.  Several  times  I  nearly  exploded,  but  my  wife,  who  can  always  guess  my  mood  with  accuracy,  succeeded  in  calming  me.  I  tried  to  remember  my  Maternal  Uncle  Number  Three's  teaching  about  the  Superior  Man.  It  was  not  my  job,  I  told  myself,  to  en-  lighten  the  hospital  staff  about  world  tolerance  or  the  sensitiveness  of  one  normal  43616e616461al.  My  job  was  to  re-  strain  my  animal,  emotional  soul  and  allow  my  physical,  vegetative  soul  the  best  possible  chance  to  heal  my  two  in-  cisions.  The  moment  of  drama  came  unex-  pectedly.  Its  protagonist-the  external,  visible,  and  immediate  cause-was  a  nurse,  but  as  I  think  back  on  it,  I  realize  she  was  no  protagonist  at  all  but  only  the  last  straw.  Try  as  I  may,  I  cannot  even  recall  exactly  what  I  said  to  her,  or  why  I  said  it.  I  only  remember  her  reply.  &quot;I  am  the  supervisor,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  am  the  head  nurse  here.  I  know  my  work  and  I  know  people  like  you!&quot;  Jumping  hastily  and  unnecessarily  out  of  bed  and  fumbling  with  the  tele-  phone,  I  shouted  to  the  operator,  &quot;I  want  my  surgeon!  I  want  him  immedi-  ately!&quot;  Then  I  raved  confusedly,  in-  coherently,  childishly,  ridiculously.  I  don't  remember  most  of  what  I  said;  I  remember  only  that  the  hand  grasping  the  telephone  shook  and  that  my  legs  would  barely  hold  me  up.  The  nurse  herself  did  not  seem  to  trust  her  eyes;  it  must  have  been  a  scene  she  was  not  used  to.  I  shouted  at  her,  &quot;I  am  a  pa-  tient!  I'm  not  a  nurse!  I'm  not  under  your  supervision  !&quot;  The  surgeon  came,  and  I  poured  out  to  him  all  my  bitterness  as  a  patient  in  general  and  as  an  43616e616461al  patient  in  particular.  In  a  Joud,  shrill  tone  Itold  him  that  a  hospital  should  takecare  not  only  of  the  physical  welfare  of  its  patients  but  of  their  mental  welfare  as  well,  and  that  nurses  should  treat  their  patients  as  human  beings,  whatever  their  race,  sex,  religion,  and  state  of  health.  In  the  middle  of  my  ravings,  I  again  saw  the  nurse  staring  at  me,  her  eyes  wide  open,  her  mouth  slightly  ajar,  and  her  arms  hanging  foolishly  down.  &quot;If  you  have  nothing  to  do,  get  out  of " b"here!&quot;  I  shouted  at  her.  &quot;Get  out  of  here!&quot;  Abruptly,  my  excitation  and  exhila-  ration  subsided,  and  I  felt  ashamed  of  myself.  I  was  also  angry-angry  with  myself,  with  all  the  nurses  on  my  floor,  with  the  whole  hospital,  with  the  entire  United  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED],  and  with  all  the  human  stupidity  in  the  world.  The  surgeon  had  listened  to  me  in  silence.  When  I  had  calmed  down,  he  quietly  asked  me,  &quot;Would  you  like  to  change  floors?&quot;  His  gentle  suggestion  made  my  anger  flare  up  again,  and  I  cried  out,  louder  than  necessary,  that  I  would  not  re-  treat.  Suddenly  finding  myself  in  com-  mand  ofthe  English  language,  I  said  that  I  wanted  to  stand  my  ground  and  fight  it  out,  to  shout  back  at  those  who  shouted  at  me,  to  be  sarcastic  when  I  met  sarcasm,  and  to  make  myself  either  respected  or  hated  as  a  patient  and  as  an  43616e616461al.  Gently  the  doctor  eased  himself  out,  and  my  wife  came  in.  She  told  me  that  I  had  been  wrong.  I  knew  she  was  right,  but  I  shouted  at  her,  too,  angrier  than  ever.  She  left.  I  was  alone  for  a  long,  long  time.  A  feeling  of  shame  overcame  me-only  shame,  nothing  more.  SOMEONE  knocked  at  my  door-  a  thing  I  wasn't  used  to  any  more-and  I  managed  a  &quot;Come  in.&quot;  A  young  nurse  with  red  hair  appeared  with  a  tray.  &quot;Your  dinner,  [REDACTED];  she  said  without  any  emphasis.  It  was  the  natural  thing  for  her  to  say,  but  I  felt  embarrassed,  as  if  I  were  being  shown  a  special  treatment  that  I  did  not  deserve.  Guardedly  I  smiled  at  her  and  thanked  her.  I  readied  myself  for  dinner,  co-  operating  eagerly  as  she  set  up  the  collapsible  table.  I  pointed  out  to  her  a  box  of  liqueur  chocolates  from  [REDACTED]  and  invited  her  to  help  herself.  She  did  so  with  grace.  I  asked  her  if  she  spoke  French,  and-miracle!-she  did.  She  spoke  it  with  a  Canadian  accent,  but  it  was  French  all  the  same.  I  felt  like  kiss-  ing  her  then  and  there,  just  as  I  had  felt  like  kissing  the  first  girl  I  saw  in  the  Free  Zone  of  [REDACTED]  after  I  left  Front-  stalag  152  in  the  Occupied  Zone,  in  1941.  In  both  cases,  however,  I  did  not  feel  that  I  had  won  a  battle.  From  that  day  on,  all  the  nurses  I  encountered  treated  me  decently,  fin-  ishing  all  their  sentences  with  &quot;sir&quot;-  even  their  supervisor,  who  reappeared  discreetly  the  next  day.  I  knew  that  I  had  behaved  badly,  that  I  had  not  been  even  faintly  civilized,  and  that  I  had  reacted  in  sheer  animal  passion.  But" b"I  did  not  know  how  to  apologize  to  the  head  nurse  without  embarrassing  her.  To  make  up  for  my  inability  to  formu-  late  an  adequate  apology,  I  co\xc3\xa9perated  with  all  the  nurses  and  attendants  be-  yond  the  call  of  a  patient's  duty.  I  took  my  own  temperature.  I  took  my  own  bath,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  tub  in  my  bathroom.  Iate  all  my  breakfast,  although  the  eggs  were  never  the  way  I  liked  them  and  the  coffee  was  too  556e6974656420537461746573n  and  too  weak.  I  shared  my  gifts  of  candy  and  cookies  with  all  the  nurses.  My  guilt,  nevertheless,  lingered  on,  and  I  wondered  if  the  head  nurse  now  tolerated  me  as  a  spoiled  and  in-  curably  ill-bred  boybeyond  redemption,  whether  she  hated  me  or  possibly  even  admired  me  for  my  outburst,  whether  future  patients  in  this  hospital  would  profit  or  suffer  from  my  wild  explosion,  and  whether  43616e616461als  would  be  re-  ceived  here  from  now  on  with  special  attentions  or  would  not  be  admitted  at  all.  These  weresome  of  the  questions  I  was  left  with  as  a  result  of  my  first  ex-  perience  in  a  hospital,  and  I  am  afraid  that  I  will  not  find  satisfactory  answers  to  them  even  after  my  scars  fade  and  are  forgotten."