 b"THE  west  wind  was  blowing  damp  and  cold  from  the  distant  Welsh  hills  across  the  [REDACTED]  plains  of  England,  and  Eileen  Carter  was  not  sorry  when  bedtime  came.  She  tightened  the  cord  of  her  sandy  Jaeger  dressing  gown  around  her  full  waist,  for  the  routine  of  preparing  for  bed  was  a  lengthy  one  and  her  boy's-style  pink-  and-white  striped  flannel  pajamas  were  loose  and  inclined  to  impede  her  actions.  Habitual  though  all  the  preparation  was,  she  went  at  it  doggedly,  her  heavy  face-a  rosy-cheeked  bulldog's-set  in  childish  concentration.  First,  she  heated  milk  in  a  little  saucepan  on  the  spirit  stove  in  a  corner  of  her  bedroom;  then  she  poured  three  dessertspoons  of  whiskey  into  the  milk.  She  placed  the  milk  and  two  Marie  biscuits  on  her  bed-  side  table,  with  her  reading  glasses,  her  sleeping  pills,  and  &quot;The  Cloud  of  Un-  knowing&quot;  (the  treatise  of  the  anony-  mous  medieval  mystic-Miss  Under-  hill's  edition).  Then  she  knelt  beside  her  bed  and  said  the  Lord's  Prayer.  Once  in  bed,  she  kicked  her  hot-  water  bottle  to  rest  at  her  feet,  and  slow-  ly  drank  the  milk  and  ate  both  biscuits  while  she  read  from  the  book:  &quot;All  men  will  they  reprove  of  their  defaults,  right  as  they  had  cure  of  their  souls:  and  yet  they  think  that  they  do  not  else  for  God,  unless  they  tell  them  their  defaults  as  they  see.  And  they  say  that  theybe  stirred  thereto  by  the  fire  of  charity,  and  of  God's  love  in  their  hearts:  and  truly  they  lie,  for  itis  with  the  fire  of  hell  welling  in  their  brains  and  in  their  imagination.&quot;  But  the  passage  seemed  inapposite  to  her  this  night.  She  had,  of  course,  been  guilty  of  moral  righteousness  and  censori-  ousness  in  the  past,  often  and  of-  ten-lonely  people,  she  reflected,  are  prone  to  this  sin-but  at  the  moment  she  wished  only  to  dwell  on  one  person's  virtues,  to  give  praise  to  the  one  she  loved.  And  this,  too,  was  a  sin  to  which  lonely  people  were  prone.  She  tried  to  deflect  her  mind  by  reading  other  passages,  but  the  obtrusive  thoughts  kept  break-  ing  in.  She  was  not  unaware  that  the  Devil  sometimes  increased  his  power  by  forcing  his  victims  to  fight  him,  and  that  often  in  withdrawal  lay  victory.  She  there-  fore  put  by  her  book,  put  off  her  dressing  gown,  and,  taking  a  small  green  pill  with  the  last  drains  of  the  milk,  prepared  for  sleep.  It  came  quite  quickly,  but  just  be-  fore  she  slept,  she  saw  Esther's  dear  face  smiling  at  her,  and  she  smiled  lov-  inglyin  return.  FAR  across  the  village,  beyond  the  pond  and  the  pub  and  the  crescent  of  new  council  houses,  Esther  Barring,  ton  lay  awake  beside  her  husband,  Jim,  in  the  big  bedroom  above  their  general  store.  Esther  was  used  now  to  waking  suddenly  in  the  night,  sometimes  from  alarming  dreams,  sometimes  just  from  nothing,  but  always  to  find  herself  ap-  pallingly  and  hopelessly  awake.  To-  night  she  tried,  as  she  had  so  often,  to  attribute  her  wakefulness  to  the  screech  owl  that  nightly  settled  on  the  telegraph  wire  above  the  outside  lavatory,  or  to  blame  it  on  a  sudden  stirring  of  young  jackdaws  in  the  eaves.  Presently,  she  was  tempted  to  wake  Jim  and  tell  him  it  was  all  his  fault,  for  despite  his  deep  sleeping,  he  constantly  turned  and  mut-  tered.  When  the  despair  at  being  awake  became  urgent,  she  thought  of  getting  up  and  running  into  Jim's  mother's  room  and  telling  her  it  was  her  fault,  for  having  become  senile  and  for  moan-  ing  senselessly  in  the  night.  You're  not  my  mother,  she  thought  to  shout  at  her.  Just  because  you  stood  by  Jim  and  me  &quot;at  the  time&quot;  doesn't  mean  that  we  have  to  support  you  forever.  You  must  leave!  But  how  could  a  semi-paralyzed  old  woman  of  seventy  leave?  In  any  case,  Esther's  hysterical  attempt  to  put  the  blame  for  her  wakefulness  on  others  did  not  last  long,  for  the  wakefulness  seemed  to  come  from  so  deep  within  her  that  it  pushed  out  everything  except  consciousness  of  herself.  She  could  think  of  nothing,  see  nothing,  feel  nothing,  but  herself  awake.  She  tried  desperately  to  force  some  issue-some  thoughts  or,  at  the  least,  some  memory-out  of  this  blank  self-  ness.  In  earlier  years,  when  she  was  not  drained  by  work  and  futility,  she  had  been  able-curiously  able  for  one  with  only  a  genteel  girl's  education-  to  imagine  and  think  with  willed  con-  centration.  Now  memory  came  only  in  pictures  that  jolted  shakily  before  her  eyes,  as  though  projected  by  a  badly  operated  magic  lantern,  and  trembled  there  for  a  moment  before  flicking  out.  As  for  thoughts,  they  led  nowhere.  She  heard  Mother  moaning  in  the  next  room,  and  told  herself  that  it  was  like  a  child's  crying,  with  no  more  meaning  than  that,  and  then  she  set  herself  to  reflect  whether  indeed  a  child's  crying  meant  so  little,  whether  childish  terrors  were  indeed  so  transitory.  Her  mind,  however,  would  make  nothing  of  the  question.  Scenes  of  her  own  childhood  misery-of  the  closet  in  the  vicarage  nursery  where  she  had  taken  her  sor-  rows,  or  of  the  dank  ground,  covered  with  rotting  leaves,  behind  the  berberis,  where  she  had  fled  grown-up  solici-  tude-came  before  her  sharply  and  were  as  sharply  gone.  And  then,  like  words  flashed  on  the  local  cinema  screen,  her  old,  tedious  generalities:  You  have  no  children.  It's  worked  out  badly.  Perhaps  yow're  to  blame.  I'm  to  blame-I'm  tired  of  it  all,  she  thought.  She  heard,  in  recollection,  Lottie  [REDACTED]'s  dismal  off-key  droning  from  the  house  next  door  to  the  shop:  &quot;Oh,  I  never  felt  more  like  crying  all  night,/For  everything's  wrong  and  nothing  ain't  right.&quot;  Defeated  by  the  fact  that  her  whole  attempt  at  thinking  had  ended  only  in  recollection  of  a  vulgar  popular  song,  Esther  turned  to  doing  sums  in  her  head;  after  all,  her  true  anxieties  were  prac-  tical,  She  went  over  the  biscuit  orders  she  and  Jim  had  placed,  did  the  confectionery  accounts,  and  measured  the  dwindling  returns  from  egg  sales  against  the  possible  returns  from  homemade  jam.  But  everything  depended  on  bills  and  figures  that  lay  downstairs  in  the  sawdusty,  soapy-smelling  dark  of  the  shop.  Past  accounts  now  came  into  her  head,  and  the  large  sums  that  had  spelled  the  failure  of  an  earlier  farming  venture  became  inextricably  involved  with  the  little     " b"bills  of  the  shop.  The  shop,  she  thought,  kept  Jim's  head  and  hers  just  above  water,  and  she  saw  herself  andJim  swimming  in  the  water-filled  shop,  their  heads  bobbing  up  and  down  like  ducks.  She  thought  indignantly,  An  absurd  position  for  a  woman  who  had  once  brought  scandal  to  her  family,  a  woman  who  had  married  beneath  her,  for  love,  a  woman  who  had  stolen  an-  other  woman's  husband.  She  checked  a  sudden  loud  laugh  as  she  realized  she  had  reduced  the  central  action  of  her  life  to  the  terms  of  a  popular  novelette.  The  laughter  turned  to  bitter  sobbing,  which,  in  turn,  she  checked.  She  had  no  right  to  add  to  Jim's  already  cruelly  heavy  day  by  disturbing  his  sleep.  The  church  clock  sounded  four.  I'm  not  a  bit  tired,  she  told  herself;  sleep-  lessness  is  harmful  only  if  you  allow  yourself  to  think  it  so.  She  knew,  though,  how  tired  she  would  be  when  the  alarm  went  off  at  half  past  five.  And  now,  to  calm  her,  came  the  re-  flection  that  nowadays  increasingly  sup-  ported  her  resolution  to  hold  on:  It  took  great  courage  for  someone  brought  up  as  I  was  to  do  what  I  did.  She  hated  the  snobbish  implication  of  the  thought;  nevertheless,  she  moved  away  from  Jim  in  the  bed,  and  pride  at  her  thought  gave  her  calm,  POLLY  WasHincton,  the  little  girl  from  next  door,  climbed  over  the  fence  into  the  Barringtons'  garden,  the  next  morning,  and  began  talking  to  the  hens-those  somewhat  dreary  survivors  of  the  failed  farming  venture.  Since  Miss  Cleaver  had  taken  her  up  in  Sunday  school,  teaching  her  little  poems  to  re-  cite  and  encouraging  her  to  invent  little  dances  for  herself,  Polly  had  become  ever  so  ladylike,  and  hardly  played  with  the  other  village  children  any  more.  She  was  forever  picking  little  bunches  of  flowers  and  holding  little  conversa-  tions  with  the  animals.  At  first,  Lottie  and  Reg  [REDACTED],  her  mother  and  father,  had  encouraged  her,  too,  and  had  made  her  show  off  her  dances  in  a  little  peach  silk  party  frock  every  Sunday  afternoon  to  visitors.  After  a  while,  they  had  lost  patience  with  her  whim-  seys.  Lottie  was  too  busy  to  have  a  child  hanging  around  her  all  day;  even  old  Granny  [REDACTED]  had  slapped  Polly  and  called  her  &quot;a  little  madam.&quot;  So  Pollyspent  more  and  more  of  her  time  now  at  the  Barringtons',  following  Esther  around  telling  her  stories,  or  giving  &quot;presents&quot;  to  old  Mrs.  Barring-  ton,  who  was  too  senile  to  grasp  that  they  were  not  real,  and  said,  &quot;Thank  you,  my  dear,&quot;  making  the  little  girl  break  into  giggles.  &quot;Good  morning,  Mrs.  Speckly  Hen,&quot;  Polly  said  to  a  Plymouth  Rock  fowl,  speaking  in  the  special  prissy,  lady-  like  voice  that  Miss  Cleaver  had  taught  her  to  use  for  games  of  pretense.  Esther  had  already  given  Jim  his  breakfast  and  had  sent  him  out  on  the  milk  round  he  made  for  the  dairyman,  to  earn  extra  money,  when  she  came  out  into  the  dust-blowing  gale  to  feed  the  hens.  This  was  one  of  the  days  when,  after  the  milk  round,  Jim  worked  as  a  job-  bing  gardener,  and  she  had  had  sand-  wiches  to  cut  for  him,  as  well  as  her  usual  chores-beds  to  make,  Mother  to  put  on  the  commode-before  open-  ing  the  shop.  Gusts  of  cold  wind  blew  up  Esther's  sleeves  and  licked  around  her  legs,  reminding  her  of  winter,  whose  approach  she  so  dreaded.  How  long  would  Jim's  obstinacy  refuse  to  accept  that  the  fowls,  the  last,  sentimental  relics  of  their  farm's  high  hopes,  added  nothing  but  trouble  to  their  lives?  &quot;Good  morning,  Mrs.  Barrington,&quot;  Polly  said,  in  a  special  sweet  voice.  Miss  Cleaver  had  told  her  that  she  must  al-  ways  be  a  very  kind,  polite  little  girl  to  poor,  pretty  little  Mrs.  Barrington,  Esther  started  into  recognition  of  the  child's  presence  with  irritation.  Polly  under  her  feet  at  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning!  There  seemed  to  be  no  hour  of  the  day  at  which  those  wretched  people  cared  for  their  offspring.  Did  the  child  get  no  breakfast?  They  trade  on  the  weakness  of  my  barrenness,  Esther  thought  bitterly.  &quot;Good  morn-  ing,  Polly,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  a  verybusy  morning  for  everybody!&quot;  'The  hard  lines  that  lay  beneath  the  soft  surface  of  her  pretty,  birdlike  face  snapped  into  place  as  she  spoke.  &quot;My  mummy  isn't  busy,&quot;  Polly  an-  swered.  &quot;She's  listening  to  the  wire-  less.&quot;  Esther  made  no  reply  as  she  forced  open  the  rickety  henyard  gate  and  foughther  way  through  the  acrid-  smelling,  clucking  birds.  Polly  ran  ex-  citedly  behind  her,  increasing  the  hens'  alarm,  getting  in  the  way  of  the  scat-  tering  corn.  &quot;Mrs.  Speckly  Hen  had  a     " b"dream  last  night,  Mrs.  Barrington!&quot;  she  cried,  and  then  she  paused,  her  face  red  and  bursting  with  imaginative  ef-  fort-for  despite  all  Miss  Cleaver's  encouragement,  she  was  a  girl  of  very  limited  fancy.  &quot;She  dreamed  she  laid  a  big,  big,  big  chocolate  egg!&quot;  Polly  said  triumphantly.  &quot;Oh,  look,  look,  Mrs.  Barrington!  There's  the  greedy  one  with  the  little  yellow  patch  on  her  foot.  What  shall  we  call  her?  Mrs.  Yellow  Patch?&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  time  to  give  hens  names  this  morning,  Polly.&quot;  Esther  could  hear  Lottie  [REDACTED],  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence,  droning,  &quot;I  never  felt  so  like  singing  the  blues,&quot;  and,  out  of  the  corner  of  her  eye,  saw  the  cig-  arette  dangling  from  Lottie's  fresh,  full  mouth,  and  her  lazy,  easy,  sen-  sual  movements  as  she  reached  up  to  fix  clothespins  on  her  line.  &quot;You  must  not  come  over  here  so  early,  Polly,&quot;  Esther  said  loudly  and  sternly.  Lottie  immediately  called  raucously,  &quot;Polly!  Polly,  come  back  here  at  once!&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Mrs.  Wash-  ington,&quot;  Esther  said.  &quot;I  cannot  have  Polly  here  at  all  hours  of  the  day.&quot;  Lottie  did  not  answer,  but  when  Polly  had  scram-  bled,  red-faced,  over  the  fence,  she  caught  the  little  girl  by  one  arm,  twisted  it,  and  slapped  her  face.  &quot;Don't  you  go  where  you're  not  wanted!&quot;  she  said,  and  pushed  the  crying  child  toward  the  house.  Esther  scattered  the  last  of  the  corn  and  returned  indoors,  feeling  sick.  ESTHER  was  already  be-  hind  the  counter,  serv-  ing-or,  rather,  listening  to-old  Mrs.  Sumper,  when  Jim  returned  from  his  milk  round.  &quot;She  were  like  a  little  sleeping  child  as  she  lay  there,&quot;  Mrs.  Sumper  was  saying.  &quot;Doc-  tor  said  'e'd  never  seen  one  to  go  so  peaceful,  not  as  'ad  gone  with  the  cancer.&quot;  Through  the  old  wom-  an's  words,  Esther  saw  her  husband  for  a  moment  as  if  he  were  a  stranger  en-  tering  the  shop-swarthily  handsome,  strong  but  gen-  tle;  a  strong,  steady  face  set  in  heavy  lines  of  pa-  tience.  People  saidthat,  for  her  part,  she  had  kept  her  prettiness;  as  for  the  lines,  they  only  gave  more  interest  to  the  face.  Well,  let  them  say  so;  it  would  be  all  right  if  every  line  didn't  speak  of  past  worries  and  of  backbreaking  labors.  And  asfor  Jim's  gentleness  and  pa-  tience,  if  only  she  didn't  resent  them!  He  ought  to  be  more  angry,  more  re-  sentful,  she  thought.  I've  cheated  him,  and  he  ought  to  hate  me  for  it.  What  does  love  mean  if  it  breeds  only  gentle-  ness?  She  indicated  his  sandwiches  to  him,  but  he  simply  smiled  and  went  up-  stairs.  When  he  came  down  again,  Mrs.  Sumper  had  finished  her  story.  &quot;Well,  there  it  is,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  'aven't  got  'em,  so  I'll  'ave  to  get  'em  at  Rayner's  when  I  go  in  to  Lichfield  Saturday.&quot;  She  sniffed,  and  waddled  out  of  the  shop.   &quot;Mother's  waiting  for  her  break-  fast,&quot;  Jim  said.  &quot;Oh,  Jim!&quot;  Esther  cried.  &quot;She's  had  her  breakfast!  I  gave  it  to  her  half  an  hour  ago.&quot;  &quot;Ah!  The  poor  old  thing's  forgot-  ten,  then,&quot;  Jim  said.  &quot;Well,  she  really  shouldn't  have  done.  I  gave  her  two  sardines,  and  she  insisted  on  dipping  them  into  her  tea.&quot;  Esther  heard  herself  laugh  loudly,  for  some  reason.  Jim's  dark  calf's  eyes  looked  hurt  for  a  moment.  Then,  &quot;You've  got  enough  to  do  without  extra  burdens,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We'll  have  to  send  her  away.&quot;  It  annoyed  Esther  that  after  fifteen  years  of  married  life  with  her  his  peasant  fears  and  ignorance  still  showed  through  his  good  sense  and  independence  in  phrases  like  &quot;send  her  away.&quot;  She  ad- " b"mired  him  so  much  that  it  enraged  her  to  think  of  his  humility  before  authorities  such  as  hospitals  and  doctors.  He  had  been  so  meek  and  uncomplaining  three  years  ago,  when  the  failure  of  the  farm  ended,  for  him,  in  two  bouts  of  pneu-  monia.  &quot;Don't  be  silly,  Jim.  We've  discussed  all  that,&quot;  Esther  said,  and  she  began  bustling  about  behind  the  count-  er,  rearranging  tins  on  the  shelves.  The  Maxwell  children-a  huddle  of  cheeping,  underfed  sparrows-came  in  for  their  daily  supply  of  assorted  licorice.  When  they  had  gone,  she  said,  &quot;You'll  be  late  at  Major  Driver's,  Jim.  See  that  they  give  you  some  tea  with  your  lunch.  It's  a  biting  wind.&quot;  She  felt  ashamed  of  her  solicitude  for  his  health,  remember-  ing  how  hostile  scandal  had  said  that  she  had  married  him  only  for  his  physical  strength.  Now  it  was  her  &quot;wiry&quot;  strength  that  never  failed.  But  this  time  he  countered  her  sym-  pathy.  &quot;I  don't  like  you  not  sleeping,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  must  speak  to  Doctor  about  it.  They  can  give  you  something  for  that  nowadays.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  my  sleep-  ing?&quot;  she  cried  with  mocking  indigna-  tion.  &quot;Snoring  your  head  off!&quot;  She  was  overcome  with  tenderness  for  him,  and  resented  it.  What  could  the  underlying  tenderness  do  to  mend  the  broken  sur-  face  of  their  daily  life  together?  &quot;Be-  sides,  today's  early  closing,  thank  heavy-  en,&quot;  she  said  brightly.  &quot;I'm  going  to  tea  with  Eileen  Carter.&quot;  &quot;Ah!  That'll  do  you  good,&quot;  he  said,  smiling,  showing  the  perfect,  even  white  teeth  she  still  delighted  to  see.  But  she  knew  how  little  he  liked  her  friendship  with  Eileen-that  ladylike  companion-  ship  of  books  and  gardening  and  re-  ligion,  in  which  he  hadno  part.  A  woman  came  in  for  some  elastic,  but  Jim  disregarded  her  presence.  He  went  up  to  Esther  and  whispered,  &quot;It'd  be  far  better  to  let  theold  woman  go,  as  the  doctor  wants.&quot;  Esther  shook  her  head  in  reply.  She  had  brought  him  no  children  to  care  for;  she  was  not  going  to  let  his  mother  be  taken  away.  She  moved  past  him  to  the  woman,  and  as  she  went,  he  pressed  the  back  of  his  hand  against  hers  and  whispered,  &quot;Thank  you,  my  old  Esther.&quot;  It  was  a  gesture  he  had  not  used  for  a  long  time-a  gesture  that  re-  called  intensely  the  days  of  their  clan-  destine  lovemaking,  their  occasional  secret  pressures  and  touches  when  they  met  in  shop  or  market  square  or  wher-  ever  there  were  people  who,  in  the  days  before  the  scandal  broke,  made  open  recognition  impossible.  The  tenderness  that  filled  her  now  was  so  little  touched  by  irritation  that  the  woman,  receiving  her  card  of  elastic,  said,  &quot;The  cold  weather  agrees  with  you,  all  right,  Mrs.  Barrington.  But  there,  you're  always  on  the  move.&quot;  ERHAPS  Esther's  reawakened  and  unalloyed  tenderness  for  Jim  would  have  died  beneath  the  anesthetic  of  the  day's  tedious  chores  had  not  a  chance  customer  revived  the  past  in  her  feel-  ings.  During  all  the  years  she  and  Jim  spent  in  the  remoteness  of  their  York-  shire  farm,  she  had  dreaded  an  utterly  improbable  chance  contact  with  neigh-  bors  from  her  old  home  in  Sussex,  who  would  revive  the  memory  of  scandal-  who  might  even  break  down  the  wall  she  had  built  around  Jim's  wounded  self-esteem.  In  these  recent  years,  with  her  father  dead  and  her  mother  gone  to  join  a  daughter  in  4b656e7961,  the  Sussex  faces  had  faded  out,  the  fear  of  their  intrusion  had  ceased.  But  here,  of  course,  in  the  shop,  remote  though  this  [REDACTED]  village  was  from  Sussex,  the     possibility  was  far  greater,  and  on  that  very  morning  it  turned  to  certainty.  The  face  of  the  man  who  entered  the  shop  was  familiar;  the  voice  that  asked  for  cigarettes  made  Esther  sure.  The  man  was  Charles  Stanton,  still  bearing  traces  of  the  fourteen-year-old  boy  who,  round-eyed,  had  once  stared  at  her  with  fascination  because  she  was  the  subject  of  mysterious  adult  whispering.  The  vis-  ual  memory  of  childhood  was  less  en-  during  than  hers,  however,  for  he  left  the  shop  without  recognizing  her.  When  he  had  gone,  she  peered  between  the  stacked  boxes  of  Puffed  Wheat  and  tins  of  cocoa  in  the  window,  and  there,  indeed,  in  a  Ford  Consul,  sat  Mrs.  Stan-  ton-motherly,  vulgar,  overdressed,  hardly  changed  from  the  woman  who,  with  her  curiosity  more  highly  titillated  than  her  young  son's,  had  befriended  Esther  after  the  scandal  broke.  For  a  moment,  memory  of  the  old  woman's  kindness  made  Esther  start  for  the  door,  and  then  a  sharp  recollection  of  how  difficult  even  kindness  had  been  to  en-  dure  forced  her  to  stop  while  she  was  still  in  the  shop's  safety.  With  relief,  she  heard  the  car  drive  off,  but  Mrs.  Stanton's  love  of  touring  and  Charles  Stanton's  momentary  impulse  to  stop  for  cigarettes  had  broken  through  the  blanketing  mist  that  had  finally  been  interposed  between  Esther  and  &quot;the  worst  fortnight  of  my  life.&quot;  If  Esther  had  had  her  way-or,  for  that  matter,  if  her  mother's  will  had  prevailed-she  would  not  have  stayed  one  day  at  the  vicarage  after  Jim's  wife  made  her  scene,  But  her  father  had  been  determined  that  she  should  not  go.  &quot;If  you  care  for  me  at  all,  Esther,  you  will  stay  and  fight  it  out.  I  will  try  to  help  you,  even  to  forgive  you,  as  long  as  you  do  not  run  away.  I  can  forgive  anything  else-indeed,  I  should  hardly  bea  min-     " b"ister  of  Christ  if  I could  not-but  cowards  I  will  not  forgive.&quot;  His  words  hadhad  nothing  to  do  with  her,  of  course;  they  were  merely  part  of  his  relentless  fight  against  his  parishioners.  &quot;I  will  teach  these  people  Christ's  char-  ity,  even  if  I  can  do  so  only  with  the  rod  of  shame,&quot;  he  had  said.  Of  course,  he  had  not  been  able  to  teach  it  to  theni,  and  at  the  end  of  a  fortnight  he  had  been  frankly  relieved  when  she  ended  the  fight  for  him  by  running  away.  And  why  should  the  parish  have  for-  given  her?  She  had  betrayed  her  class,  herchurch,  and  her  sex.  The  parish  had  not  shared  the  passion  that  had  sustained  and  driven  her.  If  she  had  been  outside  that  passion,  she  would  have  been  on  the  side  of  the  parish.  Only  Mrs.  Stan-  ton  had  been  kind  to  her:  &quot;My  dear,  you're  always  welcome  here,  I'm  sure.  Not  that  that'll  help  you  with  the  coun-  ty,  I'm  afraid.  You  know  what  they  think  of  Henry  and  me.  Rich  trade,  that's  us.  But  who  cares  what  they  say?  They  think  the  days  of  carriage  folk  are  still  with  us,  stupid  creatures.&quot;  She  had,  of  course,  been  full  of  sentimental  curiosity:  &quot;Well,  love  certainly  suits  her,  doesn't  it,  Henry?  I've  never  seen  you  in  such  good  features,  my  dear.&quot;  Old  Mr.  Stanton  had  been  just  a  little  more  familiar  than  he  should  have  been.  Esther  had  hated  herself  for  needing  their  support  and  had  also  hated  herself  for  disliking  it,  but  still  she  had  not  been  able  to  bear  their  coating  her  passion  with  their  sticky  sentimentalism:  &quot;You  must  always  follow  your  heart,  my  dear.&quot;  She  had  longed  to  reject  Mrs.  Stanton  as  Marianne  Dashwood  re-  jected  Mrs.  Jennings,  but  then  Mari-  anne  had  not  committed  adultery  with  her  Willoughby.  Little  by  little,  at  the  chivying  and  poking  of  the  day's  demands-the  ac-  counts,  the  customers'  gossip,  the  orders  by  telephone-the  memories  faded  from  Esther's  mind.  She  was  left,  as  she  closed  the  shop  early,at  one  o'clock,  onlywith  an  overwhelming  tenderness  for  Jim.  S  teatime  approached,  Eileen  Carter  became  as  excited  asa  schoolgirl.  Although  a  strict  guardian  of  her  con-  science,  she  was  not  inclined  to  be  con-  scious  of  her  own  moods;  to  be  so  would  have  seemed  to  her  dangerously  near  to  emotional  fudge.  Her  present  elation,  however,  was  too  violent  to  escape  her  notice,  and  she  told  herself  sharply  not  to  be  swoony.  Esther  Barrington  was  a  good,  brave  little  woman;  it  was  lucky  for  both  of  them  that  they  had  broken  through  the  barriers  of  shyness,  for  loneliness  helped  nobody  in  this  world.  Eileen  was  only  pleased  that  her  com-  fortable  sufficiency  in  life  allowed  her  to  brighten  the  drudgelike  existence  of  someone  so  decent;  that  was  all  there  was  to  it.  All  the  rest  was  fudge.  As  Eileen  passed  through  her  kitchen  on  the  way  to  the  garden,  old  Madge,  her  cook,  glowed  warmth  at  her.  &quot;I'm  making  some  of  those  griddlecakes  Mrs.  Barrington  loves,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  does  one  good  to  see  herenjoying  herself,  doesn't  it,  Miss  Eileen?&quot;  Eileen's  gruff  notes  were  almost  a  bark  as  she  answered,  &quot;All  right,  Madge,  but  don't  worry  me  with  it.  I'm  up  to  my  eyes  in  work.&quot;  And  so  she  was,  she  thought,  with  twenty  her-  baceous  plants  to  move;  the  work  ought  to  have  been  done  a  week  ago.  It  was,  therefore,  a  vast  prospect  of  buttocks  stretching  tight  a  chocolate-  and-white  striped  cloth  skirt  that  con-  fronted  Esther  as  she  turned  into  the  garden  at  a  quarter  to  four  that  after-  noon.  &quot;Heavens  above,  Eileen!&quot;  she     cried.  &quot;Surely  you're  not  putting  more  plants  into  that  border.&quot;  Eileen's  pink  cheeks  were  scarlet  al-  most  to  the  point  of  apoplexy  as  she  rose,  swung  her  broad  shoulders  around,  and  faced  her  visitor.  &quot;I'm  only  moving  these  damned  phloxes,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  grunt.  &quot;Every  one  of  them's  got  a  hell  of  agreat  root.  God  knows  whether  they're  worth  moving.  They're  prob-  ably  riddled  with  bloody  eelworm.&quot;  It  was  a  mark  of  her  shyness  that  she  used  to  Esther  the  &quot;bad  language&quot;  that  she  normally  employed  only  in  her  volun-  tary  social  work  in  order  to  show  that  she  was  not  an  old  frump.  &quot;But  surely  you  can  tell,&quot;  Esther  said.  &quot;No,  I  can't,&quot;  Eileen  said  emphat-  ically.  &quot;The  damned  leaves  are  all  floppy,  but  that  may  be  due  to  this  sum-  mer's  drought.&quot;  &quot;'You  should  let  Jim  come  and  ad-  vise  you,&quot;  Esther  said.  Inher  present  mood,  she  rushed  to  get  her  husband's  name  in  as  soon  as  possible.  Eileen  ran  her  hand  through  her  un-  tidy,  graying  black  bob  with  impa-  tience.  &quot;I  have  some  pretensions  to  being  a  gardener  myself,  Esther,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;A  very  good  one,&quot;  Esther  replied.  &quot;But  Jim,poor  dear,  has  to  know  these  things  professionally.&quot;  &quot;Professional  gardeners,  in  my  ex-  perience,  always  make  a  ball-up,&quot;  Eileen  said.  Esther's  pretty  blue  eyes,  in  her  thin,  lined  face,  flashed  angrily  for  a  mo-  ment,  and  then  she  decided  that  the  poor  old  thing  was  in  one  of  her  moods.  &quot;'Most  of  them  do,  of  course,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Double  begonias  and  calceolarias!  They  couldn't  have  more  ghastly  taste.&quot;  Her  voice,  as  she  spoke,  took  on  the  upper-middle-class  drawl  she  had     " b"found  again  recently,  in  her  friendship  with  Eileen.  They  talked  for  a  while  about  gar-  dening,  and  as  they  talked,  Eileen  lost  her  shy  coarseness  and  Esther  slipped  more  completely  into  drawling  assur-  ance.  &quot;Well,  and  how  is  the  mum?&quot;  Eileen  asked  as,  later,  they  sat  over  4368696e61  tea,  griddlecakes,  currant  bread,  and  homemade  quince  cheese.  &quot;Dotty  as  ever?&quot;  She  habitually  referred  to  the  mothers  she  visited  in  her  family-  welfare  work  as  &quot;the  mums,&quot;  and  it  was  a  mark  of  her  attitude  toward  Jim  that  she  called  old  Mrs.  Barrington  by  this  name.  &quot;Oh  dear!&quot;  Esther  said.  &quot;Poor  old  thing,  her  memory  gets  worse  every  day.  She  was  such  a  good,  kind  person,  Eileen,  even  if  she  was  always  a  very  simple  soul.  I  can't  bear  to  see  her  in  this  childish  state.  I  gave  her  sardines  for  breakfast,  and  nothing  would  stop  her  dipping  them  in  her  tea.&quot;  Eileen  threw  back  her  bulldog  head  and  wheezed  with  laughter.  For  a  mo-  ment,  Esther  was  on  the  point  of  join-  ing  in;  then  she  remembered  Jim.  &quot;It  isn't  a  laughing  matter,  Eileen,&quot;  she  said.  Her  handkerchief  was  rolled  into  a  ball  in  the  palm  of  her  hand.  She  dug  her  nails  into  it  with  anger  at  betraying  Jim;  she  should  never  have  spoken  of  Mother's  pathetic  childishness.  Eileen  looked  at  her  unperturbed.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  it  is,  my  dear,&quot;  she  said.  Sickness,  death,  even  sin-all  have  their  absurdities  And  God  intended  that  we  should  laugh  at  them.  As  long  as  it's  not  cruel  laughter.&quot;  She  lit  one  of  her  small  cheroots-her  only  capitu-  lation  to  eccentricity.  &quot;Jane  understood  it  well  enough,  as  you  know.  She  could  laugh  at  Mrs.  Musgrave's  fat  tears  over  her  scapegrace  son,  but  Emma's  cruel  gibe  at  Miss  Bates  could  not  be  for-  given.  It's  as  simple  as  that-or,  rath-  er,  like  everything  else  in  life,  as  diffi-  cult.&quot;  When  she  spoke  her  ethical  convictions,  her  gruff  voice  became  al-  most  ridiculously  offhand  and  flat.  Esther  took  a  last  pieceof  currant  bread  to  finish  her  quince  cheese.  &quot;Jane  Austen  was  awfully  clever,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  even  when  I'm  enjoying  her  books  most,  I  sometimes  wonder  whether  she  ever  knew  what  it  was  like  to  be  laughed  at.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Eileen  said.  &quot;A  surplus  old  maid?&quot;  Then,  embarrassed  by  this  degree  of  self-revelation,  she  added,  &quot;'The  trouble  with  you,  my  dear,  is  that  you're  a  Jane  Bennet,  and  not  an  Eliza.  You  take  too  good  a  view  of  the  world.  You  let  it  trample  on  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh!&quot;  Esther  cried.  &quot;I've  had enough  of  revolt  to  last  me  for  my  life.  I  don't  ever  want  to  fight  people  again.  I  just  want  to  be  left  alone  to  get  on  with  my  work,  and  God  knows  there's  enough  of  it.&quot;&quot;  Then  she  looked  at  Eileen's  glowing  fire,  at  the  samplers,  the  bellows,  the  etchings  of  Lichfield  Cathedral.  &quot;What  I'd  most  like  in  all  the  world,&quot;  she  said,  stretching  her  thin  body  with  an  easiness  unusual  for  her,  &quot;would  be  some  comfort,  some  easeof  living,  like  this.  Or,  rather,&quot;  she  added  earnestly,  &quot;I  should  like  it  for  Jim.&quot;  Eileen's  heavy  face  seemed  to  lose  all  life,  to  become  a  smooth,  fleshy  mass.  &quot;I  can't  quite  see  dear  old  Jim  at  Throckings,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  chuckle  that  was  somehow  not  warm.  Esther  still  stretched,  at  ease.  &quot;Can't  you?&quot;  She  spoke  from  far  away.  &quot;You  don't  know  Jim  at  all,  do  you,  Eileen?&quot;  &quot;He's  notvery  easy  to  know,&quot;  Eileen  answered  stiffly.  &quot;Isn't  that  the  best  kind?&quot;  Esther  asked.  'Then,  as  though  she  had  re-turned  to  the  room  suddenly,  she  said,  mallght  gay  voice,  &quot;Oh,  Eileen!  You  can't  think  how  much  it  means  to  be  able  to  come  and  relax  here.  You  are  a  dear  person,  you  know.&quot;  Eileen's  heavy  head  bent  down  for  a  moment  in  girlish  shyness.  &quot;I  wish  you  would  come  far  more  often,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  my  dear!  If  I  could  ...&quot;  Esther  laughed.  &quot;But  how  could I?  Who's  to  give  Jim  his  tea?&quot;  Eileen  got  up  and  stood  for  a  mo-  ment  by  Esther's  chair,  her  thick  legs  set  apart  in  an  ungalnlv  way.  &quot;Thou  shalt  o  make  unto  thyself  any  graven  image,&quot;  she  said.  She  moved  across  the  room  and  fingered  the  dried  hydrangeas  on  the  window  table.  &quot;It's  awful  here  on  rainy  days,&quot;  she  said  absently.  Then,  coming  behind  Esther,  she  placed  a  square  hand  on  her  shoulder  and  pressed  it.  'The  gesture  of  intimacy  was  familiar  to  her  friend.  &quot;You're  worth  such  a  lot  more  than  you  think,&quot;  Eileen  said.  Then  she  stroked  Esther's  graying  fair  hair.  This  was  a  gesture  en-  tirely  unfamiliar  to  her  friend,  who  got  up,  hurriedly  pushing  Eileen's  hand  to  one  side.  She  went  over  to  the  mirror  above  the  fireplace  and  patted  her  hair  into  place.  Eileen  sat  down  on  the  sofa,  " b"squat  and  lowering,  legs  apart,  heavy  bosom  forward.  Esther  stared  into  the  mirror  and  spoke  without  turning  around.  &quot;I  sup-  pose  I've  lost  the  art  of  friendship,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You've  no  idea  what  it's  like  to  be  a  lawbreaker  in  decent  society.  And  that's  what  Jim  and  I  were.  We  broke  every  rule  in  the  book.  I  pray  for  for-  giveness,  and  God,  I  trust,  will  forgive  me.  But  the  world-especially  the  vil-  lage  world-isn't  God.&quot;  Eileen  laughed.  &quot;Oh,  you  make  it  sound  like  one  of  those  novels  I  used  to  read  as  a  girl.  By  Sheila  Kaye-Smith,  or  someone.  Why,  all  that  was  fifteen  years  ago,  in  Sussex!  My  dear,  times  have  changed.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  know.&quot;  Esther  still  did  not  look  at  her  friend.  &quot;But  the  county  haven't.  About  adultery,  perhaps,  but  they  don't  forgive  anyone  who  over-  steps  their  precious  class  barrier.&quot;  &quot;You  live  in  the  past,&quot;  Eileen  de-  clared.  A  gleam  appeared  in  her  usual-  ly  dulled  eyes.  &quot;Besides,  even  if  you're  right,  it  isn't  as  noticeable  as  all  that.  You've  acquired  a  good  deal  of  protec-  tive  coloring  through  the  years,  you  know.&quot;  Esther  swung  around;  for  a  moment  her  soft  blue  eyes  showed  horror.  &quot;Oh,  my  dear!&quot;  Eileen  boomed.  &quot;I've  said  the  wrong  thing!  If  that's  what  worries  you,  put  your  mind  at  rest.  'Once  a  lady,&quot;  as  our  mums  used  to  say.  For  what  it's  worth.&quot;  "