 b"ONE  afternoon  in  the  spring  of 1921,  I  was  sitting  at  my  desk  in  the  basement  of  an  office  building  overlooking  [REDACTED]  Ave-  nue-the  building  that  housed  the  [REDACTED]  Herald-slowly  turning  over  the  pages  of  the  current  issue  of  La  Vie  Parisienne  and  translating  to  myself,  with  the  aid  of  a  French-Eng-  lish  dictionary,  the  captions  that  accom-  panied  the  drawings.  I  was  wearing  a  B.V.D.  union  suit,  green  lisle  socks,  high  tan  shoes,  a  single-breasted  three-  piece  suit  of  blue  cheviot,  a  brown-and-  white-striped  madras  shirt,  a  white  semi-stiff  Arrow  collar  with  long  points,  and  a  yellow-and-black  foulard  cravat  tied  into  a  fashionable  four-in-hand  knot  about  half  the  size  of  my  Adam's  apple.  A  couple  of  months  back,  I  had  been  promoted  from  mail  clerk  to  stockroom  clerk  and  given  a  raise  in  salary  from  seventeen-fifty  a  week  to  the  dignified  and  symmetrical  figure  of  twenty.  The  promotion  had  involved  a  descent;  in-  stead  of  being  lodged  at  a  counter  in  the  ground-floor,  marble-walled  business  office  of  the  paper,  where  I  had  worked  as  mail  clerk  after  graduating  from  the  starting  position  of  messenger  boy,  I  had  been  placed,  with  the  higher  salary  and  the  better  title,  at  this  desk  in  the  base-  ment,  where  the  stockroom  was.  There  was  nothing  else  in  that  basement  except  the  pressroom,  and  it  was  at  the  ex-  treme  rear  of  the  building,  half  a  block  away  from  where  I  sat.  The  stockroom  was  partitioned  off.  Inside  it,  from  floor  to  ceiling,  were  shelves  that  contained  pencils,  penholders,  pen  points,  pen-  wipers,  blotters,  rulers,  erasers,  rubber  bands,  paper  clips,  letterheads,  enve-  lopes,  and  various  office  forms  such  as  Adv.  1,  Adv.  2,  and  Adv.  3,  which  were  first,  second,  and  third  notices  for  delinquent  classified  advertisers.  I  kept  the  stockroom  door  locked  except  when  I  was  filling  a  requisition  for  somebody  from  upstairs.  The  key  was  always  in  the  left-hand  pocket  of  my  pants,  on  a  nickel-plated  key  ring  I'd  bought  with  my  own  money  for  that  specific  pur-  pose.  It  had  cost  fifteen  cents.  The  key  to  the  stockroom  was  the  only  key  I  had.  Having  no  motorcar,  I  was  without  a  car  key,  and  whenever  I  stayed  out  after  eleven  o'clock  at  night,  which  was  rarely,  my  mother  simply  put  the  key  to  our  house  in  Mt.  Pleasant  under  the  doormat  on  the  front  porch.  I  saw  to  it  that  the  stockroom  and  its  stores  were  in  perfect  order  at  all  times.  I  maintained  an  up-to-the-minute  in-  ventory,  and  in  a  weekly  report,  which  THE  POTOMAC  I  delivered  by  hand  to  the  office  man-  ager  upstairs,  I  kept  him  informed  as  to  how  things  stood  in  the  stockroom.  Still,  I  fre  quently  found  mysel  f  with  time  on  my  hands,  and  when  I  did  I  read  the  books  and  magazine  s  that  filled  the  left-hand  bottom  drawer  of  my  desk.  In  addition  to  t  he  French-English  diction-  ary,  I  had  volumes  of  Dickens,  Jules  Verne,  Mark  Twain,  and  O.  Henry.  I  had  brought  them  from  my  room  at  home.  And  I  had  copies  of  Judg  e,  Life,  Smart  Set,  and  La  Vie  Parisienne.  I'd  purchased  those  at  Brentano's,  on  F  Street.  My  taste  in  periodicals  encom-  passed  wickedness  but  was  not  confined  to  it.  I  had  first  been  introduced  to  the  pages  of  La  Vie  Parisienne  by  a  boy  named  Alphonse.  He  was  the  s  on  of  t  he  Second  Secretary  of  the  Fr  ench  Embassy,  and  had  been  a  fellow-fresh-  man  at  Western  High  School  in  191  8.  We  called  hi  m  Al.  After  coming  to  this  country,  Al  had  discovered  that  Ameri-  can  boys  enjoyed  looking  at  La  Vie  Parisienne  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  they  could  read  no  French.  An  accommo-  dating  chap,  he  usually  carried  a  copy  of  it  in  t  he  pocket  of  his  mackinaw  or  else  stuffed  inside  his  shirt.  He  told  his  friends  he  simply  walked  into  Bren-  tano's,  picked  up  the  current  issue,  and  took  it  to  the  clerk,  who  always  asked  if  he  wished  it  wrapped.  Al  wo  uld  say  &quot;Om&quot;  to  the  clerk  and  it  would  be  wrapped  and  handed  over  to  him  in  ex-  change  for  twenty-five  cents.  When- ever  he  let  it  be  known  to  his  friends  that  he  had  a  fresh  copy  in  his  mackinaw  or  in  his  bosom,  a  small  bunch  of  us  would  go  with  him  after  school  to  a  favorite  spot  behind  some  thick,  tall  shrubs  that  had  been  planted  in  the  [REDACTED]  to  set  of  f  the  beauty  of  the  L  incoln  Memorial.  &quot;What  does  it  say  under  this  one?&quot;  he  would  be  asked  as  we  looked  over  his  shoulder  at  a  pink,  tinted  drawing  in  which,  for  example,  a  number  of  Fr  ench  girls  who  wore  little  or  no  underwear  under  their  swirling  skirts  were  leaping  around  a  kind  of  dormitory  while  a  mouse  sat  grinning  in  the  middle  of  the  floor.  &quot;It  says,  uh,  'Look  sharp!  The  mouse!'  &quot;  he  would  explain.  On  that  spring  afternoon  at  my  base-  ment  desk,  I  was  so  engrossed  in  my  copy  of  La  Vie  Parisienne  that  I  was  unaware  of  the  approach  of  a  living-  and-b  reathing  girl  until  it  was  too  late  to  try  to  hide  the  magazine  without  creating  a  bad  impression.  The  girl  was  Miss  Sarah  Hovic,  of  the  classified-ad-  vertising  department.  I  decided  to  be  nonchalant-an  imposture  I  frequently  fell  back  on  in  those  years.  Although  smo  king  in  the  basement  was  prohibited  and  I  had  never  broken  the  rule  before,  I  took  a  box  of  cork-tipped  Melachrinos  from  the  pocket  of  my  ja  cket,  selected  one  ,  and  lit  it.  &quot;Why,  Buster  Brown!&quot;  said  Miss  Hovic,  looking  down  at  the  outspread  magazine  on  my  desk.  &quot;Don't  call  me  that!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  screech,  sonny,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What's  this  you  got  there,  anyway?&quot;  She  picked  up  La  Vie  Parisienne  and  began  looking  through  it.  &quot;Oh,  just  a  French  magazine,&quot;  I  said,  yawning.  &quot;You  got  a  requisition  or  something?&quot;  &quot;T'wo  dozen  pencils,  medium  soft,&quot;  she  said,  handing  me  the  requisition.  &quot;  What  does  it  say  under  this  one?&quot;  &quot;It  says,  'Go  away,  devilis  h  little  breeze.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know  what  it  says?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it's  only  simple  French  lan-  guage.&quot;  I  took  out  my  nickel-plated  key  ring,  put  the  key  in  the  stockroom  door,  and  unlocked  it,  leaving  the  key  on  the  out-  side  while  I  went  in  and  got  M  iss  Hovic  the  two  dozen  penci  ls.  Miss  Hovic  in-  terested  and  alarmed  me.  I  was  glad  I  had  been  able  to  adopt  and  successfully  carry  out  the  nonchalant  pose.  Most  of  the  women  who  worked  in  the  business  office  of  the  Herald  were  in  their  twen-  ties;  some  of  them  were  even  in  their  thirties.  Miss  Hovic,  I  guessed,  was  not  much  more  than  eighteen.  Although  " b"she  was  disfigured  by  a  severe  case  of  acne,  an  inner  assurance  of  a  sort  that  was  a  mystery  to  me  seemed  to  make  her  unaware  of  her  outer  lackof  what  I  would  have  called  beauty.  She  was  about  as  unlike  Mary  Pickford  or  Lila  Lee  as  a  woman  could  be.  Yet  I  had  noticed  that  some  of  my  fellow-  males  upstairs  seemed  to  find  her  allur-  ing.  I  wasn't  at  all  sure  why  they  did.  Her  voice,  let  alone  her  complexion,  didn't  have  the  qualities  that  attracted  the  whole  of  me  to  a  woman.  One  of  her  jobs  in  the  classified-advertising  de-  partment  was  to  telephone  rooming-  house  keepers  who  put  ads  in  the  Herald  to  run  until  further  notice,  failed  to  pay  even  after  receiving  Adv.  3  forms,  and  then  claimed  they  had  cancelled  the  ad  anyway  long  ago  and,  furthermore,  that  they  had  got  no  results  from  it.  Miss  Hovic  spoke  to  them  continually  on  the  telephone.  She  held  the  pear-  shaped  receiver  to  her  ear  by  propping  it  on  her  left  shoulderand,while  she  talked  into  the  upright  mouthpiece,  used  her  hands  to  powder  her  nose  and  even  sometimes  to  put  rouge  on  her  cheeks.  She  had  an  aggressive  way  about  her  that  I  found  both  frightening  and  exciting,  and  she  wore  her  long,  black  hair  braided  and  wound  into  a  large  knot  on  the  back  of  her  head,  like  my  mother's.All  the  girls  I  knew  socially  had  bobbed  hair.  When  I  handed  Miss  Hovic  the  pencils,  she  put  La  Vie  Parisienne  back  on  my  desk  and  gave  me  a  long,  odd  look.  Then  she  went  off  upstairs  without  saying  any-  thing.  I  had  a  date  that  night  to  take  Nicky  to  a  high-school  fraternity  dance  at  2400  Sixteenth  Street,  which  in  those  years  in  [REDACTED]  was  about  what  the  Ritz  was  in  New  York.  Although  I  needed  no  new  collars,  and  certainly  no  new  wing  collars  of  the  sort  I  would  wear  that  night  with  my  tuxedo,  I  stopped  on  the  way  home  at  my  favorite  haberdashers  and  looked  over  their  Ar-  row  supply.  Actually,  I  suppose,  I  was  just  checking  to  make  sure  no  new  models  had  hit  the  market  during  the  day.  I  can  remember  little  about  Nicky  except  that  she  was  about  half  an  inch  taller  than  I  was,  belonged  to  an  ex-  tremely  solid  [REDACTED]  family,  and,  whenever  we  finished  a  dance,  looked  down  into  my  eyes  and  murmured  Thanks.&quot;  She  would  allow  me  to  kiss  her  only  once  on  a  date  and  then  only  when  she  was  standing  on  the  doorstep  of  her  home  at  the  end  of  the  evening.  When  I  had  kissed  her  that  night,  I  re-  joined  my  friend  Phil,  who  had  driven  his  girl  and  Nicky  and  me  to  and  from  the  dance  in  his  father's  Ford,  and  who  was  now  waiting  to  drop  me  off  at  my  home.  &quot;What  the  hell,&quot;  he  said  as  I  climbed  into  the  front  seat  beside  him.  &quot;It's  only  twelve-thirty,  and  I  gota  little  stuff  left  in  the  flask.  Let's  have a  nightcap,  huh?&quot;  We  stopped  under  some  maple  trees  down  the  block  from  Nicky's  house  and  finished  in  a  couple  of  sips  apiece  the  remains  of  his  corn  whiskey  and  fusel  oil.  And  so  home  and  to  bed.  HE  next  day,  an  hour  or  so  after  lunch,  Miss  Hovic  came  once  more  to  my  desk  in  the  basement  and  said  abruptly  that  she  wanted  to  examine  the  stock  of  classified-advertising  forms  and  decide  which  ones  she  needed  more  of  upstairs.  I  am  able  to  give  an  accurate  and  detailed  account  of  what  happened  then,  because  I  havenever  been  able  to  forget  it.  When  I  had  unlocked  the  stockroom  door  and  let  her  in,  she  walked  a  few  steps  in  frontof  me  and  gave  her  skirts  a  deliberate  twitch.  They  swirled  up,  and  for  an  instant  she  looked  exactly  like  a  French  girl  beset  by  a  mouse  or  a  breeze.  She  smiled  at  me  over  her  shoulder,  and  I  moved  toward  her  with  both  arms  stretched  out  in  front  of  me  like  a  sleepwalker.  &quot;Shut  the  door,&quot;  she  said  before  I  reached  her.  Wordlessly,  I  made  my  way  back  to  the  door  and  shut  it.  In  that  shortspace  of  time  I  could  feel  that  I  had  begun  to  sweat  all  across  my  forehead,  but  nevertheless  I  started  for  her  again.  I  came  up  to  her  and,  leaning  forward,  kissed  her  on  the  corner  of  her  mouth.  I  then  put  my  right  arm  around  her  waist  and,  for  some  reason  that  hides  " b"itself  from  me  to  this  day,  clutched  one  of  her  elbows  with  my  left  hand  as  if  I  was  about  to  help  her  over  a  curbstone.  &quot;Did  you  lock  it?&quot;  she  asked,  speak-  ing  so  loudly  that  I  jumped  away  from  her.  I  tried  to  think.  &quot;'The  key's  on  the  outside  of  the  door,&quot;  I  said,  and  started  to  leave  her  for  another  round  trip  to  the  door,  but  she  took  my  hand  and  held  it.  &quot;I'm  afraid,&quot;  she  said  lightly.  &quot;Are  you?&quot;  I  asked,  and  hiccuped.  &quot;Aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Me?  Hell,  no!  I'll  go-lock  door.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't.&quot;  I  obeyed  her.  &quot;Let's  go  out  some  night,&quot;  I  barked.  &quot;Why,  Buster  Brown!&quot;  she  said,  and  looked  at  me  thoughtfully.  &quot;Don't  call  me  that!&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  shout  at  me!&quot;  She  left  the  stockroom,  slamming  the  door  asI  started  to  stumble  afterher.I  got  to  my  desk,  sat  down,  wiped  my  face  with  my  handkerchief,  and  smoked  a  Melachrino.  After  a  while,  I  walked  to  the  telephone  booth  used  by  the  press-  men  at  the  other  end  ofthe  basement  and  telephoned  Cataldi's,  adelicatessen  on  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  just  off  Connecti-  cut,  where  my  high-school  friends  usually  hung  out  afterschool.I  asked  for  Phil  and  he  came  to  the  phone.  I  suggested  that,  if  he  had  the  Ford,  he  might  meet  me  at  Huyler's  soda  foun-  tain  on  F  Street  afterI  got  off  from  the  office.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  he  wanted  to  know.  &quot;Oh,  maybe  we  could  line  something  up  for  tonight,&quot;  I  said.  You  got  any  cash?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  I  said,  having  four  dollars  and  a  half.  At  Huyler's,  sure  enough,  we  got  in-  to  conversation  with  two  girls  we'd  never  met  before.  They  turned  out  to  be  seniors  at  Central  High.  We  ar-  ranged  to  call  for  them  at  their  homes  in  northeast  [REDACTED]  after  supper,  and  I  paid  out  forty  cents  for  the  four  sodas.  Phil's  girl  was  pretty  and  dark,  and  mine  was  pretty  and  fair,  and  though  Iliked  everything  about  her,  I  don't  remember  her  name  or  her  face.  As  we  rode  toward  [REDACTED],  Phil  and  his  girl  in  the  front  seat  and  my  girl  and  I  in  the  back  seat,  the  four  of  us  talked  about  the  high-school  baseball  season.  'Then  Phil  stopped  the  car  on  a  quiet  street  on  the  outskirts  of  George-  town  and,  although  it  was  a  clear  night  in  May,  began  to  put  up  the  rain  cur-  tains.  They  were  rubberized  canvas  curtains  with  small  windows  of  isinglass,  and  they  closed  us  in  snugly.  &quot;Must  have  our  privacy,&quot;  said  Phil,  laughing,  and  we  all  laughed.  He  even  had  a  cur-tain  to  divide  the  back  seat  from  the  front  seat.  It  was  one  of  the  many  Ford  accessories  listed  in  the  Sears,  Roebuck  catalogue  of  1921:  &quot;MAKE  YOUR  FORD  LIKE  A  LIMOUSINE.&quot;  Phil  had  bought  that  curtain  without  telling  his  father  and  kept  it  hidden  in  his  room  except  when  he  was  going  out  for  an  evening  in  the  Ford,  when  he  smuggled  it  downstairs  and  put  it  under  the  front  seat  with  the  other  curtains.  After  we'd  put  all  the  curtains  up,  Phil  drove  on  in-  to  [REDACTED]  and  parked  on  a  country  lane  near  Bethesda,  on  the  edge  of  an  open  field.  My  girl  and  I  talked  in  low  voices.  Itold  her  most  of  the  story  of  my  life,  and  she  told  me  most  of  hers.  &quot;I  kind  of  like  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'You're  sort  of-I  don't  know-dif-  ferent.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  just  not  the  same  as  everybody  else.  I  like  that  in  men.  You  make  me  think  of  Wallace  Reid,  ina  way.&quot;  &quot;Wally  Reid?  How  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  kind  of  happy-go-lucky,  like  he  was  in  his  last  picture.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  guess  I'm  happy-go-lucky  all  right,&quot;  I  said,  slipping  my  left  arm  along  the  top  of  the  back  seat.  &quot;I  sure  like  the  way  your  hair  sort  of  falls  over  your  ears.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;Like  locks  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Sure  enough?&quot;  ''They're  so  different-not  like  any-  body  else.&quot;  &quot;Honestly?&quot;  &quot;Id  like  to  kiss  you,&quot;  I  said  confi-  dently,  letting  my  arm  slide  down  over  her  shoulders.  &quot;But  don't  get  fresh,&quot;  she  whispered,  lifting  her  lips  to  mine.  Boy  and  girlin  front  seat,  boy  and  girl  in  back  seat,  we  sat  entwined  in  the  curtained  car  beside  the  dark  meadow,  kissing  gently  and  long  as  the  screen  lovers  kissed,  prevented  by  the  girls  from  going  beyond  a  certain  point,  en-  abled  by  the  girls  we  had  searched  for  and  found  to  accept  defeat  with  an  equanimity  that  might  have  been  badly  shaken  in  those  years  by  victory. "