 b"LIKE  many  other  4972616en  landowners  of  his  generation,  my  father  had  a  superstitious  faithin  the  ways  of  the  [REDACTED],  and  particularly  in  the  bene-  fits  ofa  European  education.  In  1925,  when  I  was  eight  years  old,  hetook  me  to  [REDACTED]  and  put  me  in  school,  and  I  remained  there  for  the  next  eleven  years,  without  ever  going  home  or  see-  ing  any  member  of  my  family.  When  I  was  nineteen,  I  came  to  [REDACTED],  on  a  year's  scholarship  to  an  institution  of  learning  in  [REDACTED]  that  I  shall  call  Wat-  son  College-just  such  a  place  as  Goethe  must  have  imagined  when  he  wrote  &quot;Kennst  Du  das  Land  wo  die  Zitronen  bliih'n?&quot;  By  the  time  my  year  was  over,  I  felt  it  had  been  too  much  of  a  good  thing.  The  curriculum  offered  no  challenge,  after  my  Viennese  educa-  tion,  and  I  felt  as  if  I  had  drunk  too  many  glasses  of  orange  juice,  smoked  too  many  556e6974656420537461746573n  cigarettes,  held  too  many  girls'  hands,  taken  too  many  hot  showers,  and  exchanged  too  many  cheerful  hellos.  Everybody  had  been  friendly,  and  nobody  had  become  my  particular  friend.  I  looked  forward  to  windingup  the  year  and  going  home  to  4972616e.  I  was  waiting  for  a  transfer  of  money  from  my  father,  soI  could  book  passage  back,  and  on  the  morning  of  graduation  day  it  still  hadn't  come.  I  was  beginning  to  be  anxious.  Though  I  hadn't  con-  fided  my  anxiety  to  anyone,  I  expected  somebody-one  ofthe  boys  who  sat  at  the  same  table  with  me  in  the  commons  or  next  to  me  in  classes,  or  had  been  my  partners  on  the  tennis  and  swimming  teams-to  sense  my  difficulty  and  offer,  if  not  help,  at  least  sympathy  and  con-  cern.  No  one  did  sense  my  difficulty,  and  the  parting  words  of  those  who  stopped  to  say  goodbye  were  as  casual  as  their  daily  greetings  had  been.  They  didn't  ask  me  a  single  question,  or  seem  to  care  that  I  wasn't  coming  back  to  school  in  the  fall.  As  the  day  wore  on,  I  found  myself  shaking  hands  with  students  I  barely  knew.  I  lingered  on  the  campus,  in  the  hope  that  someone  I  had  overlooked  or  thought  already  gone  might  yet  show  up  and  redeem  my  expectations.  Toward  evening,  I  moved  my  bag-  gage  from  the  college  dormitory  to  a  hotel  in  Watson.  I  had  about  fifty  dol-  lars,  so  I  wasn't  unduly  worried.  Each  morning,  I  went  to  the  post  office,  con-  fident  that  the  bank  draft  would  be  there.I  knew  vaguely  that  there  were  new  international  monetary  restric-  tions,  owing  to  the  mounting  war  ten-  sion,  but  I  never  imagined  that  Father  might  not  be  able  to  get  around  them.  When  I  was  down  to  ten  dollars,I  moved  out  of  the  hotel  and  took  refuge  on  the  small  back  porch  of  a  building  at  the  far  end  of  the  campus.  I  subsisted  on  oranges,  which  were  everywhere  and  free  for  the  picking,  and  the  ten-  cent  loaf  of  bread  that  I  bought  each  day.  The  daily  disappointment  at  the  post  office  and  the  daily  expenditure  of  one  more  dime  gradually  forced  me  to  realize  that  something  had  to  be  done,  and  not  by  my  father  but  by  me.  The  idea  of  finding  a  job  didn't  occur  to  me  at  first.  I  had  been  brought  up  to  regard  money  asa  sort  of  stream  that  dried  up  toward  the  end  of  each  month  but  flowed  again  at  the  beginning  of  the  next,  when  Father's  check  arrived.  Re-  duced  to  my  last  three  dollars,  I  began,  with  a  mixture  of  queasiness  and  fascina-  tion,  to  watch  delivery  boys,  waiters,  attendants  at  filling  stations,  movie  ush-  ers,  clerks  behind  counters-anyone  with  a  job  that  required  no  previous  ex-  perience.  By  one  of  those  convenient  twists  of  the  imagination,  I  was  sudden-  ly  able  to  regard  these  jobs  not  as  menial  and  degrading  but  as  so  many  oppor-  tunities  to  masquerade.  Still,  I  couldn't  bring  myself  to  apply  for  a  job  as  a  wait-  er  or  delivery  boy  in  Watson,  where  someone  might  recognize  me.  The  only  solution  was  to  hitchhike  to  another  town.  I  checked  my  luggage,  except  for  a  small  valise,  at  the  depot,  and  instruct-  ed  the  post  office  to  hold  my  mail  until  further  notice.  The  first  time  I  raised  my  thumb  to  get  a  ride,  I  felt  I  had  compromised  my  pride  by  this  pleading  gesture.  I  was  comforted  when  the  people  who  picked  me  up  didn't  hold  it  against  me.  I  experienced  for  the  first  time  the  freedom  of  anonymity,  and,  once  on  the  road,  I  decided  to  keep  going  all  the  way  across  [REDACTED]  and  see  the  Pacific  Ocean.  I  didn't  do  too  badly  on  the  road,  though  there  were  times  when  I  had  to  go  without  food  or  pass  the  night  at  a  railroad  station  or  bus  depot,  pretending  to  bea  passenger.  But  I  made  only  slow  headway.  It  took  me  two  weeks  to  leave  [REDACTED]  behind,  because  I  was  afraid  to  quit  the  first  job  I  got.  A  tile  layer  picked  me  up  near  St.  Petersburg,  and  took  me  on  as  a  helper.  All  I  did  was  mix  cement  and  carry  it  in  buckets  to  wherever  he  was  working.  He  paid  me  twenty-five  cents  an  hour.  The  hard  labor  made  me  so  hungry  that  I  spent  every  cent  I  earned  on  food. By  the  time  I  crossed  the  [REDACTED]  border  into  [REDACTED],  I  had  learned  that  to  hang  around  any  place  where  loading  and  unloading  were  done  usually  result-  ed  in  some  work  ora  ride;  that  to  wash  somebody's  car  was  always  good  for  fifty  cents  or  a  dollar;  and  that  I  must  never  admit  I  was  a  transient  when  there  was  a  chance  for  a  job.  I  knew  I  ought  not  to  hesitate,  in  a  pinch,  to  walk  up  to  private  houses  and  inquire  for  odd  jobs,  but  I  couldn't  bring  myself  to  do  this.  Instead,  I  sold,  one  after  another,  for  a  small  fraction  of  their  worth,  my  Leica,  my  silver  cigarette  case,  and  my  wristwatch.  I  wrote  to  the  post  office  in  Watson  a  few  days  before  I  got  to  [REDACTED],  asking  them  to  forward  any  mail  for  me  there,  care  of  General  Delivery.  In  [REDACTED],  waiting  for  me,  was  a  letter  from  my  father,  saying  that  he  had  made  an  application  to  the  government  forthe  amount  of  foreign  exchange  necessary  to  bring  me  home,  but  since  it  would  undoubtedly  be  some  time  before  the  application  was  approved,  he  advised  me  to  try  to  borrow  my  return  fare.  I  couldn't  think  of  anyone  in  the  whole  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  from  whom  I  could  borrow  even  a  dollar.  I  sold  my  last  valuable-a  pair  of  gold  cuff  links  that  had  been  a  gift  from  my  mother-for  fourteen  dollars.  I  knew  that  I  ought  to  turn  back  and  hitchhike  to  New  York,  where  I  would  be  more  likely  to  meet  a  4972616en  to  whom  Father's  name  or  standing  might  be  familiar,  and  who  would  therefore  be  will-  ing  to  risk  a  loan,  but  I  hated  to  pass  up  my  one  chance  of  seeing  [REDACTED],  so  I  decided  to  keep  on.  The  next  day,  on  the  out-  skirts  of  a  small  town,  I  got  into  conversation  with  an-  other  hitchhiker  as  we  stood  -  together  at  the  side  of  the  road  and  signalled  to  the  cars  that  passed.  He  told  me  that  his  name  was  Jim,  and  that  he  had  quit  his  job  as  a  short-order  cook  in  [REDACTED]  and  was  on  his  way  back  home  to  El  Paso.  He  suggested  that  we  stick  togeth-  er.  He  did  not  conform  in  any  way  to  my  notion  of  a  cook.  He  neither  smelled  of  food  nor  looked  greasy;  he  was  shaved,  and  his  blond  hair  was  neatly  combed.  With  his  spruce  appearance,  he  might  easily  have  mixed  on  the  Watson  campus.  And  I  couldn't  help  but  admire  the  way  he  had  taken  it  into  his  head  to  quit  his  job  and  cross  a  distance  the  size  of  Europe  for  no  better  reason  than  that  he  &quot;liked  it  better  out  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  had  a  snobbish  prejudice  against  team-  ing  up  with  a  short-order  cook,  but,  " b"on  the  other  hand,  I  was  lonely.  After  a  month  on  the  road,the  mere  presence  of  someone  alongside  me  made  me  strangely  content.  With  a  companion,  I  felt,  nothing  could  happen  for  the  worse-only  for  the  better.  And  so  I  fell  in  with  him,  a  little  ashamed  of  my  condescension  while  grateful  for  his  company.  O  driver  stopped  for  us,  and  after  a  time  Jim  convinced  me  that  hitchhiking  was  too  slow  and  uncertain,  and  that  we  ought  to  take  to  the  rails.  We  hid  behind  an  abandoned  shed  near  the  freight  yard,  and  ran  for  the  first  freight  going  [REDACTED],  and  jumped  on.  At  one  of  those  deserted  stops  in  west  [REDACTED]  where  freights  take  on  water,  a  patrolman  caught  us.  He  climbed  into  our  boxcar  and  said,  &quot;If  either  of  you  set  foot  off  this  car,  I'll  beat  hell  out  of  you.&quot;  I  was  relieved;  I  had  no  intention  of  setting  foot  off  the  boxcar.  I  was  further  relieved  when  the  officer  addressed  Jim  first.  &quot;Where  you  heading  for?&quot;  My  mind  automatically  registered  what  seemed  to  me  a  grammatical  error:  the  man  should  have  said,  &quot;Where  are  you  heading  for?&quot;  &quot;El  Paso-my  home  town,&quot;  Jim  said,  as  if  he  were  eager  to  make  a  good  impression.  'You  born  there?&quot; Again  I  registered  the  omission  in  a  silent  aside.  Yes,  sir.&quot;  Jim  must  be  joking,  I  thought;  sure-  ly  he  couldn't  be  trying  to  ingratiate  himself  with  such  a  man  by  addressing  him  as  &quot;sir.&quot;  The  officer  had  a  provincial  accent,  and  his  grammar  was  inexcus-  able.  I  was  so  intent  on  remembering  the  exact  wording  and  pronunciation  of  Jim's  answers,  in  order  to  be  pre-  pared  for  my  own  interrogation,  that  the  officer  had  to  repeat  his  next  ques-  tion  before  I  realized  it  was  addressed  to  me.  &quot;Where  you  heading  for?&quot;  &quot;El  Pazzo,  also,&quot;  I  said.  Something  odd  about  the  way  I  had  pronounced  El  Paso  lingered  in  the  air.  I  cursed  the  language  I  had  studied  for  five  hours  a  day  over  the  past  nine  months.  My  English  would  never  amount  to  any-  thing,  I  decided.  I  might  as  well  give  it  up  if  I  couldn't  parrot  a  word  right  when  somebody  had  just  finished  saying  it.  &quot;You  a  foreigner?&quot;  The  officer's  voice  had  an  ominous  note.  So  had  his  appearance.  His  dark  shirt,  cut  military  style,  had  the  crisp-  ness  of  a  garment  freshly  laundered  and  freshly  pressed.  Its  vertical  creases  were  knife  sharp,  one  running  down  each  sleeve  and  two  down  the  front.  His  breeches,  held  up  by  a  wide  belt,  were  tucked  into  shiny  boots  that  laced  up  to  the  knees.  And  when  I  said  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  I  couldn't  pretend  to  myself  that  I  was  joking  or  had  said  &quot;sir&quot;  justto  imitate  Jim.  &quot;Where  you  born?&quot;  he  asked.  I  hesitated.  Should  I  name  the  city,  as  Jim  had  done,  or  the  country?  But  the  officer  had  probably  never  heard  of  my  country,  much  less  of  my  home  town,  Meshed.  &quot;I  think  he  was  born  in  [REDACTED],  or  thereabouts,&quot;  Jim  said.  &quot;Who  asked  you?&quot;  the  officer  snapped  at  him.  &quot;Let  him  talk  for  him-  self.&quot;  I  glanced  at  Jim  to  let  him  see  I  ap-  preciated  his  help,  even  though  he  had  backed  the  wrong  country,  but  he  avoided  my  glance,  as  if  he  were  anxious  to  put  a  distance  between  us.  I  at  once  suppressed  the  suspicion  that  Jim  hadn't  really  spoken  up  for  my  sake  but  had  volunteered  information  to  save  the  pa-  trolman  the  trouble  of  finding  out  for  himself.  &quot;4972616e,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  mean  4972616e.&quot;  &quot;Make  up  your  mind-which?&quot;  &quot;You  see,  Officer,&quot;  I  began,  &quot;my  country-&quot;  &quot;Don't  give  me  any  of  that  stuff.&quot;  &quot;I  am  only  trying  to  explain-&quot;  &quot;Shut  up.  You  don't  have  to  explain  nothing  to  me.  I  asked  you  a  simple  question,  and  I  want  a  simple  answer.&quot;  " b"Unfortunately,  there  was  no  simple  answer  to  his  question.  In  1935,  4972616e  had  changed  its  name  officially  to  4972616e-a  change  that  wasn't  really  a  change,  because  the  4972616ens  have  al-  ways  called  themselves  4972616ei  and  their  country  4972616e.  The  very  words  &quot;4972616e&quot;  and  &quot;4972616en&quot;  don't  exist  in  our  lan-  guage.  The  whole  confusion  started  a  long  time  ago,  when  early  European  travellers  transferred  the  name  of  the  southerly  province  of  Fars,  which  they  called  Pars,  to  the  country  as  a  whole.  When  I  told  people  I  was  from  4972616e,  they  often  didn't  know  what  country  I  meant.  But  when  I  said  4972616e,  they  knew  immediately,  because  of  4972616en  rugs.  Maybe  the  man  in  front  of  me  owned  a  4972616en  rug.  He  was  only  a  patrolman,  but  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  patrol-  man  might  be  able  to  afford  one,  for  all  I  knew.  I  was  suddenly  caught  up  in  the  wild  hope  that  one  of  my  country's  rugs  had  found  its  way  into  this  man's  home.  Perhaps,  through  a  kind  of  provi-  dence,  the  carpet  had  by  its  weave  and  design  ingratiated  its  place  of  origin  into  this  man's  liking  and  memory.  &quot;4972616e,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Where's  that?&quot;  &quot;You  know  -where  4972616en  rugs  come  from.&quot;  &quot;What's  that  got  to  do  with  it?  An-  swer  my  question.&quot;  What  was  I  to  say?  Where  is  any  place?  Every  place  is  in  a  bigger  place.  &quot;In  Asia,&quot;  I  said,  afraid  of  an-  tagonizing  him  further  by  silence  or  hesitation.  &quot;Where  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Asia.  Continent  of  Asia.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  from  the  continent,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  making  sense  at  last  of  my  words.  &quot;How  did  you  come  over  here?&quot;  &quot;On  a  scholarship.&quot;  &quot;On  what  ship,  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;On  a  scholarship,&quot;  I  repeated,  with  ahalting  and  tentative  smile,  want-  ing  to  gauge  his  response  before  let-  ting  the  smile  expand  into  a  grin  or  fade  off.  &quot;Where  did  you  get  your  entry  per-  mit?&quot;  he  asked,  in  a  voice  strangely  casual.  Was  he  trying  to  distract  me,  so  that  I  would  fall  into  the  trap  he  was  laying  for  me?  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  Austria.&quot;  Thought  you  just  said  you  come  from-&quot;  In  my  nervousness,  I  missed  the  last  word.  Had  he  said  4972616e?  Asia?  What?  I  felt  my  total  intelligence  in-  sufficient  to  convey  a  few  personal  facts  that  would  allay  the  man's  suspicion  and  overcome  his  ignorance.  I  looked  at  Jim,  half  expecting  him  to  help  me  out,  and  then  realized  that  he  had  grasped  as  little  as  the  officer  where  I  came  from  or  who  I  was,  though  I  had  talked  to  him,  on  and  off,  since  the  day  before.  A  peculiar  panic  rose  in  me-the  panic  that  is  due  not  to  the  immediate  danger  itself  but  to  its  assault  upon  the  past.  I  suddenly  sus-  pected  that  everyone  who  had  asked  me  about  my  country  and  myself  -the  stu-  dents  at  college,  the  bums  on  the  road,  the  kind  old  ladies  in  Watson  who  in-  vited  foreign  students  to  tea  and  cookies,  the  strangers  who  had  given  me  rides  had  remained  as  ignorant  about  me  as  Jim,  as  uncomprehending  as  the  officer,  and  as  indifferent  as  both.  It  didn't  real-  ly  matter  whether  anyone  knew  where  4972616e  was  or  what  it  was  called,  but  it  mattered  crucially  that  I  should  recall  one  face  to  whom  I,  or  my  words,  had  mattered.  &quot;Yes,  I  am  from  4972616e,&quot;  I  resumed  dispiritedly,  &quot;but  I  received  my   visa  in  [REDACTED].  I  studied  there.  I  was  graduated  from-&quot;  'You  say  you  went  to  school  there?&quot;  &quot;Yes&quot;  &quot;And  you  mean  to  tell  me  you  packed  your  bags  to  come  over  here  and  hop  a  freight?&quot;  &quot;No.  I  went  to  school  here  in  Ameri-  ca  also,&quot;  I  said.  He  narrowed  his  eyes,  as  if  to  warn  me  not  to  carry  things  too  far.  &quot;Where  was  that?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;University  of  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;No.  Watson  College.&quot;  &quot;Never  heard  of  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Got  anything  to  prove  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  no,  not  here  with  me.  I  didn't  bring  my  diploma  along.&quot;  &quot;''That  don't  surprise  me,&quot;  he  said,  and  sneered.  I  was  appalled  at  what  I  had  said,  but  I  had  no  time  to  set  things" b"right,  for  he  went  on,  with  a  knowing  air,  &quot;[REDACTED]  ...  Ever  been  near  the  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;Which  gulf?&quot;  I  asked.  I  wasn't  sure  what  he  meant,  but  I  could  see  he  had  something  on  his  mind.  &quot;Ever  been  to  New  Orleans?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes.  I  was  there  several  days,&quot;  I  said  with  pride.  My  hitchhiking  had  taken  me  through  that  city,  and  I  hoped  to  gain  an  advantage  by  ap-  pealing  to  what  seemed  to  me  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  penchant  for  reminiscing,  an  urge  toward  nostalgia,  which  takes  hold  of  two  556e6974656420537461746573ns  as  soon  as  they  dis-  cover  they  come  from  the  same  state  or  city,  or  have  driven  through  each  other's  home  town,  or  have  relatives  living  near  one  another,  or  have  stayed  at  the  same  hotel  or  eaten  in  the  same  restau-  rant.  Perhaps  the  officer  had  been  to  New  Orleans,  too.  IfI  could  only  re-  member  a  few  details  about  that  city,  it  might  give  us  something  in  common.  &quot;It  rained  a  lot  when  I  was  there,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  give  a  damn  if  youhad  rain  or  shine.  What  I  want  to  know  is  if  you're  sure  you  didn't  enter  the  coun-  try  by  way  of  New  Orleans  or  one  of  them  [REDACTED]  ports.&quot;  I  caught  on  at  last.  He  suspected  me  of  illegal  entry.  I  said,  &quot;What  allows  you  to  presume  thatI  would  bother  to  lie  to  you?  I  entered  at  New  York.... Here,  Ishall  show  you  my  passport  to  prove  it.&quot;  I  turned  and  stooped  over  my  valise.  But  before  I  could  unsnap  the  lock,  the  officer's  boot  was  resting  on  top  of  the  bag.  &quot;I  better  do  that,&quot;  he  said.  I  straightened  up,  outraged,  and  he  frisked  me  the  way  I  had  seen  it  done  in  the  movies.  I  was  taken  off  guard  and  had  no  time  to  react,  except  for  shame.  When  I  found  my  voice,  I  said,  with  all  the  dignity  I  could  muster,  &quot;If  you  are  looking  for  a  gun,  you  may  spare  yourself  the  trouble.  I  am  not  a  gang-  ster.&quot;  He  didn't  look  up.  He  was  bending  over  the  valise,  feeling  through  my  be-  longings.  Then  he  straightened  up  and  said,  &quot;O.K.,  let's  haveyour  passport.&quot;  I  took  it  out  of  a  side  compartment  and  handed  it  to  him.  He  opened  the  hard  cover  and  turned  to  the  first  page,  which  contained  certain  particulars   about  me-my  physical  characteristics,  and  the  date  and  place  of  my  birth-  written  in  4972616en  and  in  French.  &quot;It  says  here  '4972616e.'&quot;  He  pronounced  the  word  &quot;Eye-ran.&quot;  &quot;Thought  you  said  a  different  country  when  I  asked  you  the  first  time.&quot;  'That  is  correct,Officer.  I  tried  to  explain  to  you  when  you  said-&quot;  &quot;Shut  up.&quot;  &quot;That  is  exactly  what  you  said  when  Itried  to  explain-&quot;  &quot;Shut  up.&quot;  He  leafed  through  the  pages  slowly,  made  curious  by  all  the  foreign  visas,  stamps,  and  notations.  His  absorbed  expression  indicated  a  simu-  lated,  incomplete  comprehension.  His  mind,  I  could  see,  was  functioning  by  pictorial  impression.  When  he  finished  and  started  all  over  again,  I  said  that  my  United  [REDACTED]  entry  visa  was  on  one  of  the  last  pages.  He  closed  the  passport  and  ordered  me  to  come  along  with  him.  I  turned  to  Jim,  who  looked  down  at  his  shoes.  &quot;Better  do  what  he  says,&quot;  Jim  said,  in  a  low  voice.  &quot;Can't  you  come  with  me?&quot;  &quot;That  wouldn't  help  you  any  and  might  get  me  into  trouble.&quot;  There  was  a  note  of  irritation  in  his  voice-the  irri-  tation  of  someone  who  can't  get  rid  of  a  hanger-on  or  a  child.  I  felt  like  shaking  him  to  make  him  understand  his  mistake,  to  make  him  " b"see  that  this  wasn't  the  time  for  either  of  us  to  think  of  himself  alone;  sticking  together  was  all  that  mattered,  for  then  nothing  could  really  happen  to  either  of  us.  I  had  meant  to  ask  him  how  I  would  ever  find  him  again,  if  I  should  manage  to  get  to  El  Paso,  but  I  changed  my  mind.  As  I  picked  up  my  valise  and  walked  over  to  the  door  of  the  boxcar,  my  knees  were  weak.  Suddenly,  this  miserable  boxcar,  with  its  piled-up  crates,  its  heat  and  dust,  seemed  the  only  place  on  earth  that  offered  me  peace  and  comfort.  And  I  was  frightened.  It  was  not  the  fear  of  any  particular  punish-  ment  that  gripped  me  but  the  fearof  giving  myself  over  to  the  officer.  Around  us  was  the  prairie,  without  a  tree  ora  house  in  sight.  I  was  in  the  hands  of  this  local  policeman,  who  might  abuse  the  law  as  he  pleased.  And  if  he  was  so  dense  asto  mistake  me  for  a  bum  or  worse,  what  might  he  not  do  to  me  to  justify  his  suspicions?  &quot;Look,  Officer,&quot;  I  pleaded  before  jumping  off.  &quot;If  you  would  have  a  little  patience  and  permit  me  to  explain  about  my  country-&quot;  &quot;You  can  do  all  your  explaining  to  the  boss,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Get  a  move  on.&quot;  I  followed  the  patrolman  along  the  rails  to  his  car,  which  was  parked  be-  hind  some  huge,  vat-shaped  water  tanks.  After  my  ten-hour  ride  on  the  freight,  the  soft,  cushioned  car  seat  was  almost  enough  to  make  me  glad  I  had  been  taken  off  the  train.  I  leaned  back,  luxu-  riating  in  the  cool  air  of  the  rotating  fan,  which  had  begun  to  hum  when  the  mo-  tor  started.  With  such  comforts  on  hand,  I  thought,  civilization  and  com- mon  sense  couldn't  betoo  far  off.  Caught  up  in  a  sudden  surge  of  opti-  mism,  I  addressed  the  officer.  &quot;How  long  will  the  train  stop  here?&quot;  &quot;Long  enough  to  tank  up,  I  im-  agine.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  will  it  stay  long  enough  for  me  to  return?&quot;  For  the  first  time,  he  looked  at  me  in  a  personal  way,  with  what  I  felt  was  a  good-humored  grin.  &quot;Like  hell  it  will,&quot;  he  said,  and  turned  his  eyes  back  to  the  road.  &quot;But  what  shall  I  do  if  I  get  back  too  late?&quot;  I  was  convinced  that  I  would  have  no  trouble  explaining  myself  to  &quot;the  boss,&quot;  who  would  immediately  set  me  free  to  continue  my  ride.  It  was  all  a  mistake  of  the  patrolman's,  and  he  might  as  well  make  up  for  it  by  helping  me  get  back.  He  didn't  answer.  &quot;Could  " b"you  at  least  tell  me  where  you  are  driving  me?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Shut  up,&quot;  he  said  good-naturedly.  &quot;I  think  I  am  at  least  entitled  to  know  where-&quot;  &quot;Shut  up.&quot;  I  drew  myself  up  toprotest,  and  he  said  it  again.  We  rode  on  in  silence.  I  was  still  wondering  why  on  earth  these  Ameri-  cans  had  ever  built  such  a  magnificent  highway  through  this  forsaken  territory  when,  over  a  slight  rise,  a  few  trees  and  houses  came  into  view,  and,  a  little  far-  ther  on,  a  town.  I  was  relieved;  if  the  train  was  gone  by  the  time  I  got  back,  I  could  hitchhike  on  from  here.  We  stopped  on  the  outskirts  of  town,  before  a  small  two-story  frame  building  with  wooden  stairs  leading  up  to  a  front  porch.  I  followed  the  officer  up  the  steps  and  into  a  small  room.  Except  for  two  desks-one,  unoccupied,  near  the  door  and  the  other  at  the  far  end,  where  a  man  sat  half  hiddenby  stacked-up  volunes-the  room  was  bare.  I  took  it  for  a  waiting  room,  and  looked  around,  in  vain,  fora  door  to  an  inner  office.  Straight  ahead,  two  open  windows  framed  the  branches  of  a  wide-spread-  ing  tree,  and  between  the  two  windows  was  a  portrait  I  recognized-the  first  President  of  the  Republic.  In  spite  of  the  granite  jaw  and  the  broad,  aggres-  sive  forehead,  the  familiar  features  seemed  drowsy  in  the  heat  and  the  eyes  averted  from  the  slab  of  sunshine  that  streaked  across  the  dusty  frame.Alto-  gether,  I  felt,  the  room  was  too  shabby  to  represent  authority.  Isaid  &quot;Good  afternoon,&quot;  put  my  valise  down,  and  waited,  near  the  door.  My  &quot;good  afternoon,&quot;  I  decided,  had  come  off  rather  well-nonchalant,  yet  with  an  accent  confident  and  formal  enough  to  indicate  my  social  level  and  set  a  standard  of  etiquette  forthe  other.  The  man  behind  the  desk  didn't  an-  swer.  He  didn't  even  look  up.  My  greeting  seemed  to  linger  on  in  the  air,  affect-  ed  and  pretentious.  I  felt  caught  in  a  pose;  the  silence  was  exposing  my  words  for  what  they  were--not  a  true  courtesy  but  a  pathetic  shield  for  my  uncertainty.  I  won-  dered  if  it  wouldn't  have  been  wiser  and  more  honor-  able  to  say  nothing.  The  patrolman  stepped  up  to  the  desk.  &quot;Sheriff-&quot;  hebegan,  propping  his  palms  on  the  desk.  I  couldn't  have  been  more  astonished  if  he  had  said  &quot;Your  Excellen-  cy.&quot;  The  word  &quot;sheriff&quot;  had  for  me  something  of  the  romantic  flavor  that  &quot;sul-  tan,&quot;  &quot;pasha,&quot;  or  &quot;sheik&quot;  might  have  for  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  I  didn't  know  this  famous  breed  of  men  still  existed  in  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  [REDACTED],  much  less  that  I  would  ever  come  face  to  face  with  one  of  them.  I  tried  to  get  a  better  look  at  him,  but  the  volumes  stacked  up  at  the  edge  of  the  desk  limited  my  view  to  one  round,  fleshy  shoulder  and  thetop  of  a  bald  head.  &quot;Sheriff,  here's  a  guy  I  picked  up  that  might  in-  terest  you.  A  foreigner,&quot;  the  officer  added,  as  if  he  had  bagged  special  game.  His  voice,  quiet,  self-ef-  facing,  almost  pedantic,  was  so  unlike  what  I  remem-  bered  from  the  boxcar  that  my  atten-  tion  shifted  from  the  sheriff  to  him,  in  surprise.  Even  his  physique,  which  had  loomed  frighteningly,  now  seemed  merely  of  middling  proportions.  &quot;What's  the  charge?&quot;  &quot;V  agrancy,  Sheriff.&quot;  The  sheriff's  face  shifted  into  view.  Dull,  drowsy  eyes  wandered  to  me  with  no  more  interest  or  animation  than  they  might  have  wasted  upon  some  spot  on  the  wall.  &quot;''That  calls  for  Section  204,  don't  it?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Sure  does,  Sheriff.&quot;  The  sheriff  turned  to  me.  &quot;Guilty  or  not  guilty?&quot;  The  &quot;not&quot;  was  all  but  in-  audible,  and  the  question  sounded  like  &quot;Guilty  or  guilty?&quot;  I  hadn't  anticipated  a  climax  so  soon.  I  wanted  to  avoid  committing  myself  to  a  direct  answer,  but  my  English  vo-  cabulary  seemed  to  have  seeped  away-  not  just  forgotten  but  lost.  This  blank-  " b"ness  overtook  me  sometimes  when  I  got  overexcited  or,  occasionally,  just  after  waking  up  in  the  morning.  At  such  times,  my  English  was  reduced  to  a  few  unfamiliar  words,  remembered  by  rote  and  difficult  to  pronounce.  &quot;Please-guilty  to  what?&quot;  I  brought  forth  at  last.  The  sheriff  pulled  down  the  top  vol-  ume  from  the  pile  on  his  desk,  opened  it,  and  began  to  read  so  rapidly  and  in  such  an  expressionless  voice  that  I  caught  only  isolated  words  and  phrases.  &quot;.  ..  county  of  .  ..  state  of  [REDACTED]  ...  no  place  of  residence  ..  .  no  destination  ...  no  means  of  support  .  ..  vagrancy  .  ..  guilty  or  not  guilty.&quot;  His  last  words  sounded  like  part  of  the  text.  &quot;I  cannot  admit  guilty,&quot;  I  began  haltingly,  &quot;if  the  charge  is  not  justified.  If  youhad  been  kind  enough  to  look  at  my  passport,  you  could  see  I  have  a  place  of  residence,  which  is,  naturally,  my  own  country-to  be  precise,  in  the  city  of  Meshed,  in  the  province  of  Khora-  san.&quot;  I  paused,  pleased  that  I  had  at  last  found  enough  English  to  address  him  sensibly.  Neither  the  sheriff  nor  the  pa-  trolman  looked  at  me.  I  went  on.  &quot;The  officer  here  must  remember.  I  told  him  my  destination  is  El  Paso.  Therefore,  I  have  a  place  of  residence  and  a  destina-  tion.  Secondly-&quot;  The  utter  lack  of  re-  sponse  in  the  sheriff's  face  confused  me.  &quot;Secondly,  you  must  grant  that  no  one  could  possibly  mistake  me  for  a  vagrant.  No  one  has  so  far,  and  I  hope  no  one  will.  Also,  I  have  over  thirteen  dollars.  I  am  sure  that  this  is  enough  to  secure  me  dwelling-and  feod,  either  until  I  |-  reach  my  destination  or  at  least  until  I  am  distant  from  your  jurisdiction.  If  you  wish,  I  shall  take  from  here  a  pas-  senger  train  or  a  bus,  and  I  hope-  I  hope-&quot;  I  felt  I  ought  to  go  on  talking,  but  the  sheriff's  face  stopped  me.  No  flicker  or  expression  indicated  that  he  had  lis-  tened  to,  let  alone  comprehended,  what  I  said.  I  stood  and  waited.  Finally,  he  said,  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  but  without  the  intonation  of  a  question.  I  waited,  hoping  he  might  add  something,  but  he  didn't.  &quot;I  said,&quot;  I  started  again,  &quot;that  the  charge  of  vagrancy  cannot  really  apply  to  me.&quot;  Carefully,  I  repeated  all  my  arguments,  and  ended  up  not  sure  whether  my  second  defense  had  been  as  good  as  the  first.  &quot;How's  that  again?&quot;  The  sheriff  lifted  a  couple  of  fingers  to  his  ear,  which  suddenly  struck  me  as  enormous.  And  what  didthe  gesture  mean?  Was  the  sheriff  hard  of  hearing?  Or  outright  stupid?  And  if  he  couldn't  hear,  why" b"had  he  let  me  talk  on  for  so  long  with-  out  hinting  at  his  infirmity?  His  face  hadn't  betrayed  the  slightest  strain  in-  dicative  of  dull  hearing-or  of  a  dull  mind,  for  that  matter.  In  my  perplexity,  I  turned  to  the  patrolman.  He  glanced  toward  the  sher-  iff  and  then  back  at  me.  &quot;You  ought  to  raise  your  voice  a  little.  The  sheriff  is  kind  of  hard  of  hearing.&quot;  When  I  started,  for  the  third  time,  each  argument  seemed  harder  to  phrase.  My  loud  voice  magnified  my  awkward  pronunciation.  I  found  myself  rephras-  ing  my  arguments  in  a  way  that  asked  for  sympathy.  But  when  the  sheriff,  tak-  ing  advantage  ofa  pause,  cupped  a  hand  to  his  ear  and  repeated  &quot;How's  that  again?&quot;  I  glared  at  him.  &quot;I  told  you  the  sheriff  is  a  little  bit  hard  of  hearing,&quot;  the  officer  said.  wi.  'You'll  have  to  raise  your  voice  a  little if  you  want  him  to  get  the  drift.&quot;  &quot;'This  is  a  matter  beyond  hearing,&quot;  I  retorted.  &quot;It  seems  neither  my  Eng-  lish  nor  my  intelligence  is  good  enough  to  explain  myself,  or  be  understood.&quot;  &quot;What  was  that?&quot;  the  sheriff  said  idly,  heaving  himself  forward  in  his  chair.  Nothing  worth  while  repeating,  sir,  I'm  sure,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well?&quot;  He  looked  up  at  me.  &quot;Guilty  or  not  guilty?&quot;  &quot;Any  way  you  choose.&quot;  The  sheriff  leaned  forward  again.  His  elbow  had  pushed  his  pipe  over;  grains  of  charred  tobacco  dotted  the  surface  ofthe  desk.  He  propped  up  his  pipe,  and  when  he  lifted  some  papers  to  shake  them  clear  of  tobacco,  I  saw  a  magazine  cover  beneath  them-  a  girl,  with  hair  and  dress  dishevelled,  screaming  with  terror.  Had  he  confis-  cated  the  magazine  from  some  young-  ster,  as  my  teachers  had  done  with  such  stuff  at  school?  I  missed  the  sheriff's  next  question  and  had  to  ask  him  to  repeat  it.  ''The  law  says  here,&quot;  he  said  sharp-  ly,  and  patted  the  volume  in  front  of  him,  &quot;tendays  orten  dollars.  Well,  which?&quot;  &quot;But  if  I  pay  you  ten  dollars,  I  shall  have  hardly  anything  left.  I  might  really  be  taken  for  a  vagrant.&quot;  &quot;Well?&quot;  I  stepped  forward  and,  counting  out  the  money,  put  it  on  his  desk.  All  I  wanted  was  to  get  out  of  there,  to  be  alone.  The  sheriff's  hand  covered  the  bills.  I  went  to  the  door  and  picked  up  my  valise.  &quot;I  hope  I  can  depart  now?&quot;  I  said,  forgetting  to  raise  my  voice.  &quot;You  get  the  hell  out  of  here,&quot;  the  sheriff  answered.  He  turned  to  the  " b"patrolman.  &quot;And  make  damn  sure  he  stays  out.&quot;  The  sheriff  was  not  deaf,after  all.  He  had  resorted  to  an  unfair  trick,  and  I  had  been  taken  in  by  it.  It  was  humili-  ating,  but  I  was  more  upset  by  his  total  lack  of  interest  in  me,  after  all  the  talk-  ing  about  myself  I  had  done.  As  I  was  on  the  stairs  outside,  I  heard  him  say  to  the  patrolman  in  a  loud  voice,  &quot;Keep  an  eye  on  him  till  he's  over  the  county  line.  And  if  he  shows  up  again,  don't  bother  to  bring  him  in.&quot;  ARRYING  my  valise,  I  walked  on  toward  the  center  of  town,  troubled  by  a  sensation  stronger  than  thatof  being  watched  but  not  quite  as  oppressive  as  that  of  being  followed.  For  the  first  time,  I  approached  an  Ameri-  can  town  without  anticipation.  I  was  aware  of  the  weight  of  the  valise,  and  of  the  heat  of  the  late  afternoon,  and  of  being  dirty.  When  I  reached  the  main  street,  I  turned  and  walked  up  it,  as  I  had  done  in  so  many  other  towns,  but  this  time  without  staring  at  people  and  buildings,  and  without  hurrying  from  one  crossing  to  the  next  as  if  each  new  side  street  harbored  a  strange  and  unexpected  vista  (until,  at  the  other  end  of  the  town,  I  would  be  overcome  by  a  sense  of  irremediable  loss,  of  having  missed  something-a  regret  that  di-  minished  in  proportion  as  my  imagina-  tion  was  drawn  by  the  promise  and  ad-  venture  of  the  town  ahead).  I  stopped  a  passerby  and  asked  the  direction  of  the  bus  depot.  He  said  the  town  was  too  small  to  have  a  bus  depot,  and,  trying  to  be  helpful,  asked  me  which  bus  I  meant  to  take  and  what  my  destination  was.  I  thanked  him  curtly  and  went  on.  All  I  had  wanted  the  depot  for  was  to  rent  a  shower  for  twenty-five  cents,  as  I  had  done  in  other  places.  The  sign  &quot;TRANSIENTS  BATHS  FIF-  TY  CENTS&quot;  above  an  old  building  caught  my  eye.  I  could  afford  neither  the  fifty  cents  nor  the  time-it  was  get-  ting  late  and  I  should  be  on  my  way-  but  I  was  in  the  habit  of  having  a  show-  er  or  washing  from  head  to  foot  once  a  day,  whenever  I  could,  so  I  went  in.  After  my  shower,  I  cleaned  my  two-  toned  shoes  and  rubbed  off  the  dirt  spots  from  my  flannels  with  the  fluid  I  always  carried  along.  Then  I  put  my  dirty  linen  in  the  zipper  bag,  to  be  washed  the  next  time  I  had  a  chance  to  rent  a  room  for  the  night.  Out  on  the  street  again,  cool  and  clean,  I  felt  the  luxurious  ease  that  invariably  followed  a  hot  and  abundant  shower  in  [REDACTED],  and  stopped  for  a  leisurely  cup  of  coffee  and  a  cigarette.  Then  I  hurried  on.  I  reached  the  highway  sooner  than  I  " b"expected.  I  always  overestimated  the  size  of  such  small  towns,  misled  by  the  few  buildings  of  more  than  average  height  along  the  main  street.  The  last  building  at  the  edge  of  town  was  a  gas  station.  It  would  have  been  a  good  spot-as  most  gas  stations  were-to  wait  for  a  ride,  but  I  walked  on  for  about  a  mile  and  posted  myself  at  the  next  curve,  to  give  drivers  a  chance  for  a  long  look  at  my  silhouette,  marked  by  my  upraised  thumb.  The  sun  was  about  to  set.  I  was  sure  I  had  a  good  hour  or  two  of  light  ahead  of  me-time  enough  to  catch  a  ride.  But  there  were  very  few  cars,  and  none  of  them  slowed  down.  The  first  headlights  alarmed  me,  and  after  they  had  passed,  the  atmosphere  seemed  noticeably  darker.  I  tried  to  persuade  myself  that  those  lights  had  been  switched  on  prematurely  or  by  mistake,  and  I  drew  reassurance  from  subsequent  cars  with  their  lights  still  off.  Each  car  that  passed  bequeathed  an  ominous  note  of  failure  to  the  next,  un-  til  the  increasing  darkness  shifted  my  expectations  from  legitimate  hope  to  mere  luck.  I  knew  by  experience  how  little  chance  there  was  of  being  picked  up  once  darkness  set  in.  Ordinarily,  I  would  have  returned  to  the  center  of  town  and  found  a  cheap  room  for  the  night,  but  there  was  no  |;  telling  what  the  patrolman  might  do  if  he  caught  me.  I  tried  to  think  up  alter-  natives-that  I  might  get  a  ride  yet,  that  I  might  spend  the  night  waiting,  that  I  might  even  return  to  town  without  running  into  the  patrolman,  or  that  if  he  caught  me,  he  might  un-  derstand  that  I  had  at  least  been  trying  to  get  out  of  town.  But  all  these  speculations  couldn't  cover  up  the  fact  that,tired  as  I  was,  I  was  standing  there  in  the  dark  for  one  reason  only-the  sheriff's  threat.  I  decided  to  wait  for  one  more  car  and  then  go  back  into  town.  A  car  came  into  view  and  passed  me  slowly-much  more  slowly,  I  thought,  than  the  other  cars  had.  To  check  any  temptation  to  temporize-since  the  car  had  appeared  so  soon  after  my  resolve-  I  picked  up  my  valise  and  set  off  toward  town.  I  had  barely  left  the  bend  of  the  road  when  headlights  focussed  upon  me  from  behind.  When  I  looked  back,  I  saw  that  the  car  had  turned  around  and  was  coming  towardme.  It  drew  over  to  my  side  of  the  road  and  stopped.  Ileaned  toward  the  window  and  said,  &quot;'Thank  you,  thank  you  very  much,  but  I  was  trying  to  geta  ridein  the  opposite  direction.  I  am  only  walking  back  to  town  to-&quot;  &quot;That's  what  you  think!  You  stay  right  where  you  are.&quot;  The  voice  was" b"matter-of-fact.  It  was  also  familiar.  So  was  the  car.  And  though  I  could  barely  make  out  the  face  behind  the  wheel,  I  recognized  the  patrolman.   &quot;But  that's  impossible!&quot;  Iprotested.  &quot;Nobody  will  pick  me  up  any  more,  and  I  cannot  stay  here  the  whole  night.&quot;  'That's  your  business.  And  you  bet-  ter  stay  put  if  you  don't  want  me  to  beat  the  living  daylights  out  of  you.&quot;  He  shifted  gears,  and  the  car  moved  on,  the  sound  of  the  motor  rising  power-  ful  and  indifferent  in  the  stillness  of  the  night.  The  red  tail-lights  receded  and  vanished.  I  walked  off  the  highway  to  the  near-  est  telegraph  pole  and  propped  my  valise  against  it.  Then  I  spread  my  trench  coat  on  the  ground  and,  with  the  valise  as  a  back  rest,  made  myself  as  comfortable  asI  could,  resigned  to  waiting  for  day- light.  If  only  I  had  someone  alongside  to  talk  to,  I  thought,  the  waiting  would  takecare  of  itself.  I  thought  of  Jim.  The  other  people  I  had  met  on  the  road,  for  a  few  minutes  or  a  few  hours,  had  already  faded  into  anonymity.  From  this  distance,  college  seemed  like  some  pleasant  summer  resort  where  everyone  is  jolly  and  a  collective  amiability  pre-  vails  at  the  expense  of  personal  relation-  ships.  I  could  think  of  no  one  from  Watson  who  would  be  willing  to  share  my  long  wait.  And  as  always  when  I  was  alone  and  wanted  to  talk  to  someone,  speculations  and  memories  crowded  inas  substitutes  for  human  companionship:  My  child-  hood  in  4972616e,  the  school  in  Europe,  my  stay  in  [REDACTED],  all  mixed  in  with  the  recurrent  themes  of  what  would  become  of  me  if  the  passage  money  never  arrived  and  could  never  be  borrowed,  and  of  what  my  life  might  have  been  like  if  I  had  never  left  4972616e.  When  relatives  reproached  my  father  for  thinking  of  banishing  a  mere  child  of  eight  to  study  in  Europe,  he  said,  &quot;The  world  can  take  everything  away  from  a  man,  but  not  what  he  has  stored  up  here,&quot;&quot;  tapping  his  wrinkled  forehead  with  his  forefinger.  It  never  occurred  to  him  to  wonder  whether  the  knowledge  and  experience  I  would  gain  abroad  would  ever  compensate  for  the  loneli-  ness  I  would  find  there.  He  wouldn't  hear  of  sentiments  and  never  said  any-  thing  about  his  feelings.  In  his  world,  all  feeling  was  safely  embedded  in  cen-  turies  of  tradition  and  family  ties,  so  much  at  peace  within  its  familiar  and  unchanging  boundaries  that  noth-  ing-no  amount  of  questioning  and  doubt-could  affect  it.  I  speculated  about  my  father's  fury  if  he  were  ever  to  hear  of  my  hitch- " b"hiking,  and  I  had  no  doubt  that  some-  day  I  would  tell  my  mother  about  it.  Writing  her  about  it  wouldn't  do the  external  details  of  my  daily  hitchhiking  were  not  worth  telling,  and  as  for  the  rest,  her  love,  the  sea  of  her  emotions,  would  drown  any  meaning  I  might  try  to  convey.  At  the  sight  of  my  letter,  tears  would  well  into  her  eyes,  and  she  would  mix  murmured  endearments  with  benedictions  and  prayers  that  her  son  might  be  spared  pain  and  want.  She  would  enfold  all  my  hungers  in  the  same  embrace,  without  distinguishing  between  them.  She  couldonly  yearn  for  something  specific-for  example,  for  my  return.  Everything  broad  and  abstract  she  entrusted  to  God.  The  old  world  she  lived  in,  though  never  spared  its  full  share  of  sorrows  and  wants,  knew  nothing  of  that  vague,  unnamable  hun-  ger  that  haunted  the  new,  where  all  hungers  seemed  so  richly  fed  save  those  of  the  heart.  And  her  son  knew  as  yet  barely  more  than  she  did,  though  some-  times  I  became  alarmed  and  puzzled  when  I  caught  myself,  just  for  the  sake  of  talking  and  being  talked  to,  address-  ing  strangers  for  directions  I  already  knew,  or  entering  a  storeafter  catching  sight  of  an  idle  salesclerk  who  appeared  sympathetic,  though  I  had  neither  the  means  nor  the  intention  of  buying  any-  thing.  I  DOZED,  off  and  on,  without  quite  abandoning  the  thread  of  these  reveries,  until  finally  the  eastern  hori-  zon  seemed  to  be  growing  brighter.  Soon,  I  thought,  the  first  cars  would  be  on  the  road,  and  those  early  drivers  sel-  dom  refused  you  a  ride.  All  I  needed  to  start  off  on  a  perfect  day  was  to  slip  back  into  town,  wash  up,  shave,  and  change  my  shirt,  if  it  showed  too  much  wear.  I  was  up  on  my  feet  without  actually  deciding  on  it,  beating  the  air  with  my  trench  coat  to  shake  it  free  of  dust  and  wrinkles,  when  I  remembered  the  patrolman.  He  was  probably  fast  asleep  in  his  bed.  Muttering  &quot;To  hell  with  him,&quot;  I  made  for  the  highway.  For  the  first  time,  that  556e6974656420537461746573n  phrase  sound-  ed  just  the  way  556e6974656420537461746573ns  said  it.  The  sound  of  my  footfalls  rose  clear  and  cadenced  in  the  quiet  air.  There  were  still  a  few  lights  in  the  town.  I  watched  them  for  the  moment  when  they  would  fade  off  into  the  dawn,  but  their  dim  glow  persisted,  and  the  sky  seemed  no  brighter  than  when  I  had  started  out.  I  began  to  wonder  if  I  had  been  wrong  about  the  time.  My  palm,  gripping  the  handle  of  my  valise,  was  sweating,  though  the  bag  didn't  weigh  much  and  the  air  was" b"cool.  As  I  switched  the  bag  to  my  left  hand,  I  stopped,  wondering  whether  it  wasn't  foolish  to  go  on.  But  I  did  go  on,  doggedly,  keeping  my  eyes  on  the  ground,  as  if  to  ward  off  doubt.  When  I  looked  up  again,  I  had  almost  reached  the  edge  of  town.  The  gas  station,  white,  austere,  was  immediately  ahead.  It  was  closed,  and  there  was  a  dim  light  inside.  Four  shiny  pumps  flanked  the  double  driveway,  like  robot  sentries,  and  the  rectangular  glass  of  the  huge  show  window  caught  and  magnified  my  ap-  proach  in  fluid,  bluish  shadows.  I  put  my  valise  on  a  cement  bench  and  went  over  to  the  show  window  to  check  the  time.  The  clock  on  the  oppo-  site  wall  showed  precisely  midnight.  I  had  that  double  sensation  that  sets  in  when  an  assumption  is  proved  to  be  so  wide  of  the  mark  that  the  very  extent  of  the  error  momentarily  fortifies  the  original  miscalculation.  Pressing  my  face  to  the  glass,  I  watched  the  thin  red  second  hand  of  the  clock  as  it  ticked  off  a  full  round.  Suddenly,  the  huge  plate-glass  win-  dow  seemed  aflame.  I  whirled  around,  caught  in  the  focus  of  a  searchlight.  I  had  the  physical  sensation  of  being  ex-  posed  naked.  My  eyes  strained  to  pierce  the  glare,  but  it  was  too  strong.  I  closed  my  eyes,  and  it  seemed  to  penetrate  my  eyelids.  As  the  light  came  nearer  and  I  listened,  I  heard  the  sound  of  tires  on  asphalt.  The  car  stopped.  Then  the  glare  cut  itself  off  like  magic.  A  voice  warned,  &quot;Don't  move.&quot;  The  car  had  stopped  exactly  in  front  of  me.  The  door  on  the  driver's  side  opened  with  a  click,  and  a  flashlight  played  first  over  me  and  then  over  my  valise  on  the  bench.  Then  a  figure  stepped  forth.  It  was  the  patrolman.  Once  again,  the  flashlight  circled  briefly  about  my  immediate  vicinity,  then  shifted  back  to  me.  &quot;It's  you,&quot;  said  the  patrolman.  thought  so.  What  you  got  there?&quot;  &quot;It's  my  suitcase.  I'm  sure  you  recog-  nize  it.&quot;  &quot;Open  it  up.&quot;  I  unsnapped  the  lock  and  lifted  the  top.  After  the  patrolman's  flashlight  had  played  over  the  surface  of  my  be-  longings,  it  turned  to  me  once  more.  &quot;Remember  what  I  told  you  out  there?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  I  remember.&quot;  &quot;And  what  did  I  say  I'd  do  to  you  if  you  showed  up  again  in  these  parts?&quot;  &quot;But-&quot;  I  hesitated.  &quot;We  both  thought  I  might  get  a  ride  even  then,  and  so  I  wouldn't  need  to  come  back.  I  waited  and  waited.,&quot;  &quot;&quot;What  did  I  say  I'd  do  to  you?&quot;  he  persisted,  like  a  pedantic  teacher  who" b"wants  the  answer  given  in  his  particular  way.  'You  said  you  would  beat  the-  the  daylight  out  of  me.  The  living  day-  light,&quot;  I  corrected  myself,  The  combination  of  words  amused  me,  and  I  smiled,  I  thought  how  lucky  I  was  that  it  was  night.  If  he  insisted  on  carrying  out  his  threat  literally,  he  would  have  to  wait  till  daylight,  unless  there  was  a  phrase  in  English  about  beating  the  nightlight  out  of  .  .  .  The  blow  caught  me  smiling.  In-  stinctively  lifting  my  shoulder  and  con-  tracting  my  neck,  I  had  broken  its  full  force.  Still,  the  impact  sent  me  sprawl-  ing.  A  sharp,  shooting  pain  throbbed  about  my  forehead.  I  lay  there  on  the  ground,  as  shocked  by  the  patrolman's  sudden  attack  as  I  was  by  my  own  in-  decision.  For  I  didn't  bounce  back,  as  I  would  have  expected  myself  to  do.  In-  stead,  I  lay  there,  waiting  for  some  impulse,  some  overdue  reaction,  to  propel  my  body  into  action.  Had  I  been  a  mere  bystander,  I  would  probably  have  shaken  my  head  at  the  passiveness  of  the  victim.  As  a  by-  stander,  I  might  even  have  intervened.  But  all  that  stirred  in  me  was  moral  outrage  at  being  hit  unawares.  &quot;That  wasn't  fair,&quot;I  said,  finally,  and  rose  to  my  feet.  The  patrolman  neither  moved  nor  said  anything.  I  thought  the  incident  was  closed  and  my  moral  censure  un-  disputed.  I  was  waiting  for  some  sign  from  him  to  confirm  this.  Simultaneous-  ly,  I  felt  a  mounting  regret  that  nothing  more  would  happen  and  that  I  would  be  left  with  the  ignominy  of  not  having  hit  back.  &quot;That  wasn't  fair,&quot;  I  repeated.  &quot;If  you  hit  me  again,  I  shall  have  to  retali-  ate.&quot;  &quot;So,  you'll  hit  back,  eh?&quot;  There  was  a  faint  amusement  in  his  voice.  His  arm  shot  forward  in  the  dark  and  grabbed  my  shirt  collar.  The  other  fist  was  al-  ready  swinging,  hitting  my  face  and  head.  &quot;Pll  teach  you  what's  fair.  .  .  .  I'll  teach  you  what's  fair  .  .  .&quot;  At  first,  I  made  the  mistake  of  being  concerned  with  each  blow  separately-  where  it  hit  and  how  much  it  hurt.  With  my  arms  around  my  bent  head,  waiting  for  the  blows  to  cease,  I  realized  that  I  must  either  bear  them  as  best  I  could,  without  doing  anything  that  might  pro-  voke  the  patrolman  further,  or  fight  back.  I  closed  in,  pushed  my  stiffened  palms  against  his  chest  as  hard  asI  could,  and  tangled  one  foot  between  his  legs.  He  stumbled  back  with  a  curse,  and  then  I  saw  the  club  in  his  hand,  I  was  caught  in  a  streak  of  fear.I  threw  my-" b"self  against  the  upraised  arm  and  with  both  hands  clung  to  it  with  all  my  might.  The  officer's  free  handwas  trying  to  break  my  grip,  but  the  instant  I  felt  my  hold  loosening  I  made  my  body  limp  |,  and  dragged  him  down  with  me  to  the  ground.  Each  pull  and  curse  made  me  hold  on  tighter.  I  was  surprised  at  my  own  strength  and  stamina.  I  no  longer  thought  of  the  consequences  or  of  the  fact  that  I  was  actually  fighting  a  policeman.  I  simply  felt  like  a  school-  boy  who  has  got  into  a  fight  and  must  fight  it  out  to  the  end,  He  managed  to  get  on  top  of  me.  When  the  first  free  blow  struck  my  face,  I  was  relieved  that  it  was  with  his  bare  fist.  And  mingled  with  the  pain  of  the  blows  that  followed  was  something  akin  to  pride,  as  if  each  blow  now  testified  to  my  challenge  and  resistance.  I  tried  to  dodge  his  blows  by  motions  of  my  head,  but  something  over  my  right  eye  was  clouding  my  sight,  mistiming  my  re-  flexes.  I  couldn't  tell  whether  it  was  sweat  or  blood,  but  the  moisture  was  thickening.  I  could  barely  keep  the  eye-  lids  apart.  I  was  still  speculating  about  my  eye  when  a  blow,  catching  me  sidewise,  knocked  a  tooth  out,  It  stuck  in  my  throat,  and  a  spasm  of  choking  reared  my  torso  off  the  ground,  in  spite  ofthe  officer's  weight  on  top  of  me.  Then  my  body  went  limp.  At  last,  the  blows  stopped.  I  felt  my-  self  freed  of  the  patrolman's  weight,  and  managed  to  rise  to  my  feet,  mistaking  the  slowness  of  my  movements  for  some  residue  of  self-control.  Swaying  slightly,  I  watched  the  patrolman  brush  himself  off.  I  tried  to  stand  upright,  but  the  ground  seemed  to  be  shifting  and  roll-  ing-under  one  foot  more  than  the  other.  I  looked  down.  My  left  foot  was  on  the  patrolman's  club,  which  he  had  dropped  in  the  shuffle.  The  distance  to  the  ground  loomed  immense.  With  all  the  concentration  I  could  muster,  I  slowly  bent  down.  When  I  straightened  up,  with  the  elub  in  my  hand,  the  patrol-  man  was  watching  me.  His  hand  groped  toward  his  hip.  When  I  saw  the  revoly-  er,  I  also  heard  his  voice.  &quot;'Throw  it  to  me.&quot;  I  tried  to  obey,  but  the  stick  weighed  my  arm  down.  &quot;'Throw  it,  you  son  of  a  bitch!&quot;  My  palm  was  so  moist  I  was  afraid  the  stick  would  slip  out  of  my  hand.  My  body  was  drenched  with  sweat.  I  tried  to  raise  my  arm  for  the  throw,  but  the  effort  was  too  much.  The  club  slipped  out  of  my  hand,  my  knees  gave  way,  and  I  tumbled  to  the  ground.  The  patrolman,  with  the  revolver  in " b"one  hand,  picked  up  his  club  with  the  other.  Standing  over  me,  he  said,  &quot;I  guess  you've  had  enough.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  you  had  a  little,  too,&quot;  I  said  slowly.  I  tried  to  smile,  but  I  felt  that  my  face  conveyed  no  more  than  a  grimace.  &quot;I  am  sure  you  wouldn't  hit  anybody  so  hard  if  he  hadn't  hit  back  a  little.  So  I  made  it  easier  for  you  to  beat  me  up.&quot;  &quot;Shut  up.  Get  up  and  go  on  back  out  there  where  you  was.&quot;  I  tried  to  get  up  by  shifting  into  a  sitting  posture  first.  IfI  could  get  on  my  feet,  I  could  manage  the  rest.  But  I  seemed  to  lackthe  necessary  coordina-  tion.  After  trying  it  sidewise,  by  using  my  hands  as  props,  I  shifted  into  a  kneel-  ing  posture  and  then  pushed  myself  up  until  I  was  standing.  &quot;O.K.  Get  going.&quot;  I  looked  at  him,  puzzled.  He  didn't  seem  to  realize  what  he  was  asking  of  me.  &quot;I  can't  go  so  fast,&quot;  I  said,  although  I  hadn't  taken  a  single  step.  Something  about  my  voice  or  my  teetering  balance  must  have  struck  him  as  queer.  He  stepped  close  and,peering  at  my  face,  let  out  a  whistle.  &quot;You  bet-  ter  wash  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  think  so.&quot;  I  groped  with  my  fingertips  about  my  eye.  It  felt  swollen  and  clotty.  I  wiped  the  spot  with  my  handkerchief,  and  saw  it  was  smeared  with  red.  &quot;That  needs  washing,&quot;  the  officer  said.  Yes,  yes,  I  shall,&quot;  I  assured  him.  He  supported  me  the  few  steps  to  the  water  faucet.  I  let  the  water  run  over  my  face.  I  didn't  mind  the  shooting  pain  about  my  forehead;  what  worried  me  was  the  missing  tooth,  and  whether  the  gap  would  show.  I  cupped  my  hands  and  washed  out  my  mouth.  With  the  taste  of  the  water,  a  spasm  of  thirst  made  me  drink  in  big  gulps.  Suddenly,  I  was  retching.  Supporting  myself  with  both  hands  on  the  rim  of  the  bowl,  I  waited  for  the  nausea  to  pass.  I  heard  the  patrolman  say,  &quot;Here,  let  me  have  a  look.&quot;  His  flashlight  played  over  my  face.  &quot;Better  sit  down,&quot;  he  said.  He  led  me  to  the  bench,  and  then  got  a  first-aid  kit  from  his  car.  I  watched  him  take  out  a  small  bottle  and  a  roll  of  cotton.  Putting  one  knee  against  the  edge  of  the  bench,  to  steady  himself,  he  held  up  my  chin.  I  could  feel  his  hand  pushing  my  face  a  little  sidewise,  the  pressure  of  his  thumb  on  onecheek  and  of  his  four  fingers  on  the  other.  Even  the  wild  stinging  of  the  fluid  he  applied  could  not  detract  from  my  particular  awareness  of  him-of  those  fingers  that  rested  upon  my  skin,  gently  pressing  my" b"face  this  way  and  that  to  apply  the  moist  cotton.  I  closed  my  eyes,  yielding  myself  to  this  sudden  bounty  of  compassion  and  care,  longing  for  it  to  last,  or  at  least  not  to  cease  too  soon.  The  hand  was  moving  upon  my  brow.  Carefully,  the  fingers  lifted  loose  strands  of  hair  that  clung  to  my  forehead.  And  with  each  strand  they  seemed  to  lift  off  so  much  that  I  couldn't  name.  I  was  on  the  verge  of  crying.  Some-  thing  in  me  that  had  been  thirsting  so  long-a  thirst  I  had  never  quite  con-  fessed  to  myself-took  deep  draughts  of  ease  from  the  communion  of  this  hu-  man  touch.  Then  I  felt  his  guiding  pres-  sure  on  my  shoulders,  and  knew  I  was  to  lie  down.  A  moment  after  I  was  resting  full  length  on  the  bench,  I  missed  the  con-  tact  of  those  hands.  I  wanted  to  call  them  back,  to  have  them  linger  on  for  one  more  moment.  And  into  my  sleep  I  carried  the  elation  of  that  fulfillment  which,  though  always  sought  for  by  oneself  alone,  is  never  found  except  when  granted  by  another.  EARLY in  the  morning,  a  car  drew  up  to  the  gas  station,  and  the  driver  mistook  me  for  the  attendant,  who  hadn't  shown  up  yet.  I  held  my  face  sidewise,  to  keep  him  from  seeing  the  wound  in  my  forehead,  and  asked  him  fora  ride.  He  abruptly  refused  me,  We  got  to  talking,  and  he  asked  me  where  I  was  from  and  how  I'd  come  to  Amer-  ica.  Then  he  said,  &quot;How'd  you  get  that  forehead?&quot;  I  would  have  liked  to  tell  him  the  truth,  but  it  seemed  simpler  to  say  that  I  had  been  in  a  car  accident  the  day  before.  Halfanhour  later,  when  the  gas  station  did  open,  he  tanked  up and  told  me  to  get  in  the  car,  and  this  ride  took  me  all  the  way  to  Los  Angeles."