 b" IT  is,  of  course,  still  summertime,  strictly  speaking.  Nevertheless,  La-  bor  Day  has  come  and  gone,  and  the  first  crisp,  obedient  leaves  have  dropped.  Lakes  are  gray,  and  there  is  a  cool  doggedness  about  the  way  rain  falls.  It  seems  possible  even  to  catch  the  smell  of  leaf  smoke  in  the  city  air  now  and  again,  but  perhaps  that  is  only  a  city-  bred  hallucination-wistful  thinking.  At  any  rate,  the  harbingers  of  autumn  are  coming  on,  and  they  recall  times  not  too  long  past  when  they  were  always  more  than  welcome.  Nowadays,  fall  has  changed.  Beyond  the  leaf  smoke,  real  or  fancied;  beyond  the  chrysanthemums  and  theatres  and  apples,  the  first  frost  and  the  last  pumpkin,  the  icy  pink-and-  purple  sunsets  of  November;  beyond-  and  over-the  whole  pleasant  autumn  looms  a  fir  tree,  bright  with  glass,  hoary  with  stainless,  indestructible  snow.  For  several  years,  this  tree  has  been  advancing  on  me  through  November,  through  October,  into  September-and  I  have  been  backing  away.  Now  I  have  reached  what  must  surely  be  a  limit;  I  am  flat  up  against  the  end  of  summer,  and  I  can  shrink  no  more.  A  short  while  ago-on  the  fifth  of  September,  to  be  exact-my  wife  saw,  or  says  she  saw,  from  a  taxi,  &quot;a  window  with  Christmas  things  in  it.&quot;  I  was  with  her,  but  we  were  moving  fast-the  driver  was  already  late  for  din-  ner-and  I  missed  the  sight.  We  are  both  aware  that,  like  the  smoke,  it  may  have  been  a  mere  hallucina-  tion-just  nerves.  Still,  if  it  was  not  real,  at  least  they  were-the  first  nerves  of  the  season.  Others  have  followed.  I  keep,  in  an  old  cardboard  box  with  a  holly  pattern  on  its  cover,  a  sortof  dossier  on  Christmas-a  sporadic,  melancholy  record  of  felo-  nies  committed  in  its  name-and  when  I  reached  home  that  evening,  I  got  it  out.It  is  a  jumble  of  adver-  tisements,  scraps  from  news-  papers  and  magazines,  and  apprehensive  jottings  of  my  own,  and  for  a  while  I  rummaged  among  them,  turning  up  old  gift  sugges-  tions  (three-hundred-dol-  lar  Teddy  bears  in  1954,  =  miniature  hara-kiri  swords  in  1955),  and  feeling  all  along  that  what  I  was  doing  was  fool-  hardy.  It  was.  For  since  then  the  box  has  drawn  me  back  to  itself  too  often,  giving  me  more  and  more  the  annual  sense  of  being  advanced  upon,  hemmed  in.  Last  year,  the  first  portent  waited  to  arrive  until  September  26th,  at  eight-  fifteen  in  the  morning.  I  recollect  it  well.  A  young  man,  hands  in  pockets,  came  jiggling  and  singing  toward  me  on  East  Nineteenth  Street,  doing  a  dec-  orous  rock  to  &quot;Good  King  Wenceslas.&quot;  He  smiled  a  merry  greeting  as  we  passed.  The  day  was  warm  and  hopeful,  bright  as  a  zinnia,  and  I  could  think  only  that  he  was  a  spontaneous  deviation  from  the  time  of  year-a  seasonal  sport.  But  then,  when  I  came  to  remember  him  at  night,  in  the  dark,  I  was  not  sure.  Something,  I  felt-some  wreath,  some  bell-must  have  started  him  up.  At  any  rate,  spontaneously  or  not,  I  seem  to  have  started  myself  up  this  year  the  earliest  ever,  and  I  have  been  trying  to  think  what  I  can  do  about  it.  Nothing  much,  I  expect.  Neverthe-  less,  I  have  been  looking  around  for  ad-  vice,  or  at  least  for  company,  inquiring  of  people  how  they  propose  to  get  through  the  months  ahead,  and  occa-  sionally  also  asking  themwhat  they  think  could  have  become  of  Christmas.  Each  has  his  own  opinion.  One  man,  George  Ridley,  an  old  and  fierce  friend  of  mine,  said  simply  that  he  intends  to  leave  the  country  the  moment  he  hears  the  first  carol  clang  from  a  loud-  speaker.  He  added  that  Christmas  is  humbug.  He  seems  to  think  that  Scrooge  was  all  right  up  to  a  point,  and  that  then  he  gave  in  to  lobbying.  But  I  doubt  that  George  will  go.  He  is  a  bach-  elor,  with  nieces  and  nephews  and  host-  esses  to  think  of,  and  in  spite  of  his  fe-  rocity,  which  he  earnestly  believes  in,  he  certainly  never  could  be  spared.  I  be-  lieve  that  he  will  buy  his  gifts  for  them  all,  and  for  his  hosts,  too,  and  for  any  uncles  he  himself  may  have,  and  that  he  will  send  out,  as  always,  his  two  hun-  dred  Christmas  cards,  eachwith  its  small  personal  pleasantry.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  I've  kept  up  things  like  that,  year  after  year,&quot;  he  said,  scowling,  ex-  plaining  some  of  the  other  reasons  he  has  for  leaving  the  country.  &quot;Vanity,  may-  be.  Trying  to  outdo  the  competition.&quot;  For  a  competition  is  what,  in  his  de-  tached,  September  mood,  he  says  has  be-  come  of  Christmas.  He  believes  it  has  turned  into  a  contest-card  against  card,  gift  against  gift,  everybody  against  everybody-and  that  you  either  have  to  fight  it  through  or  quit.  This  is  what  makes  him  think  he  wants  to  go  away,  but  he  is  himself  a  competitive  man,  with  a  bristle  of  gray  hair  and  a  long  jaw,  and  in  the  past,  when  the  gifts  were  down,  it  was  always  clear  that  \xc2\xbbo  competitor  had  outdone  him.  So  I  think  that  he  will  stay.  On  the  night  of  the  day  Italked  to  George,  I  went  to  the  dossier  again.  &quot;Last  year,  storesre-  ported  that  they  had  fewer  requests  than  ever  to  take  off  price  tags,&quot;  I  read.  Well,  there  it  was-  creeping  competitive  gen-  erosity.  George  was  right.  Still,  I  didn't  think  that  could  be  all  there  was  to  it.  I  went  on  reading,  feel-  ing  at  first  as  if  October  were  stalking  past,  and  then  as  if  I  were  at  bay  in  late  November:  &quot;For  the  person  who  has  everything:  a  live  baby  elephant  named  [REDACTED].  $7,800,&quot;  said  one  item.  &quot;Our  Santa-sans  are  clad  only  in  scanty  bath-  ing  suits,&quot;  said  another.  (Santa-sans  are  hostesses,  as  anyone  might  guess;  the  store  is  in  Yokohama,  " b"and  may  or  may  not  carry  small  hara-kiri  swords.)  ANDREW  Brount  is  a  thin,  kind,  sen-  sible  man  who  talks,  and  even  walks,  warily,  as  if  he  were  on  the  lookout  for  traps,  as  perhaps  he  is.  But  once  he  gets  hold  of  a  prob-  lem,  he  is  likely  to  stick  with  it,  and  he  has  a  smoldering,  low-grade  optimism  that  makes  him  a  good  person  to  take  vexed  questions  to.  I  went  to  see  him  on  a  Sunday  afternoon,  and  as  soon  as  I  men-  tioned  Christmas,  I  saw  vigilance  inhis  eyes.  He  said  he  had  no  idea  how  he  was  going  to  get  through  the  fall.  And  then,  perhaps  feel-  ing  a  sudden  need  for  breathing  space,  he  pro-  posed  that  we  take  a  walk.  For  a  while,  we  strolled  silently  in  Cen-  tral  Park.  The  day  was  splendid.  Dogs  were  out  in  force.  Couples  scuffed  along,  lost  to  the  world  but  still  tuned  to  it  with  portable  radios.  Near  the  Mu-  seum,  a  woman  was  trying  to  make  a  squirrel  accept  a  walnut.  The  squirrel  hesitated  and  then  took  it  indifferently,  tail  limp;  plainly,  winter  was  farther  away  from  him  than  it  was  from  me.  &quot;What's  happened  to  Christmas?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;George  Ridley  says  competi-  tion.&quot;  Andrew  thinks  that,  instead,  the  trouble  is  complexity.  &quot;I  admit  there's  a  lot  of  infighting.  I  give  George  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  there's  just  too  much  of  Christmas.  When  I  was  my  son's  age,  things  were  simple  and  personal.  W  hat  I  craved  was  a  catcher's  mitt.  He  wants  a  Geiger  counter.  Have  you  been  out  in  the  country  lately  at  Christmastime?  We  used  to  put  up  a  tree  inside  the  house,  and  maybe  some  wreaths  at  the  windows.  Now  if  you  don't  have  a  floodlit  creche  in  the  breezeway  and  your  roof  outlined  with  colored  lights  you're  nobody.&quot;  I  said  I  supposed  you  were.  (&quot;Almost  every  town  ushered  in  the  season  with  a  bigger-than-ever  parade,&quot;  a  scrap  in  the  box  with  the  holly  cover  had  said.  &quot;San-  ta  arrived  by  helicopter,  flatcar,  fire  en-  gine,  and  barge.&quot;  )  Andrew  was  remembering  a  simple  and  personal  Christmas.  Early  in  the  war,  his  wife  was  living  in  a  room  near  his  Army  post,  he  said.  He  expected  to  be  shipped  overseas  before  Christmas,  but,  by  amiracle,  the  date  was  post-  poned.  'They  got  a  tree  at  the  last  min-  ute,  and  set  it  up  in  her  room,  and  be-  cause  there  were  no  ornaments  left  in  the  stores,  they  cut  cellophane  into  strips,  and  impaled  oranges  on  toothpicks  and  tied  strings  to  them,  to  decorate  the  tree.  'They  lit  a  pair  of  candles,  and  all  Christmas  Eve  the  oranges  swung  se-  dately  on  their  strings,  and  the  glittering  strips,  stirred  by  a  wandering  draft,  shiv-  ered  gently  in  the  candlelight.  Andrew  and  his  wife  satside  by  side,  hand  in  hand,  on  the  bed,  scarcely  talking,  scarcely  thinking,  looking  at  their  tree.  And  though  during  the  night  theor-  anges  slipped  off  the  toothpicks  and  one  by  one  thudded  to  the  floor,  and  the  wartime  cellophane  shrivelled  and  most  of  it  also  slid  down,  still  he  and  she  hadhad  what  they  wanted  for  Christ-  mas  MORE  of  my  days  went  by,  drop-  ping  with  soft  thuds,  and  I  had  not  yet  found  out  how  to  face  the  au-  tumn. &quot;Holy  Family  twelve  stories  high,  inelectric  lights-the  world's  largest  Christmas  Card,&quot;  the  dossier  said.  &quot;Electrically  warmed  socks,  wired  to  a  battery  worn  on  the  belt.&quot;  &quot;''Toy  suits  of  armor-one  hundred  dollars.  Solid-gold  belts  for  men-  thirty  dollars  an  inch.&quot;  ''Three-slice  toasters.&quot;  God  rest  me  merry.  By  night,  I  burrowed  in  the  box,  feeling  the  phantom  grip  of  mid-De-  cember  closing  in  on  me.  By  day,  if  I  encountered  more  than  six  people,  I  had  an  ungovernable  impulse  to  elbow  my  way  through  them.  My  feet  began  to  hurt.  One  evening,  I  went  to  a  dinner  party  at  which  I  met  a  young  wom-  an  with  three  small  children  and  at  least  one  ingrained  conviction  about  Christmas.  She  said  the  basic  problem  is  that  people  have  been  trying  to  put  novelty  into  it;  they  keep  wanting  it  to  be  up-to-date  and  odd,  and  this  is  against  its  nature.  &quot;You  have  to  do  the  same  things  every  year,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  have  to  have  white  cr\xc3\xa9pe-paper  bells,  and  long  ropes  of  tinsel,  and  a  real  bayberry  candle  in  the  window.  And  evergreens-green  evergreens,  not  mauve  or  metal  ones.  Can  you  " b"imagine  an  aluminum  Christmas  tree?&quot;  (Aluminum  Christmas  trees  do  not  have  to  be  imagined,  nor  do  mink  ones.  Both  of  them  are  in  the  dossier,  along  with  chocolate  Christmas  cards,  for  holi-  day  eating.)  She  said  that  her  children's  Christ-  mases  are  precisely  like  the  ones  that  she  remembers.  &quot;The  afternoon  before  Christmas,  we  gild  almonds  for  the  tree,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;We  bring  the  tree  in  after  dinner  and  set  it  up.  Thenwe  hang  stockings.  Then  one  of  the  grown-  ups  reads  'A  Christmas  Carol.&quot;  Then  the  children  go  to  bed.&quot;  No  television,  I  gathered.  Visions  of  sugarplums.  &quot;'The  grownups  fix  the  tree,  always  with  the  same  old  ornaments  and  the  same  lights.  None  of  them  blink  or  pop  or  bubble.  And  that's  the  way  it  goes,  all  through  Christmas.  Everything  ex-  actly  the  same,  every  time.  I  used  to  think  the  other  kids  in  the  neighborhood  had  barbarous  Christmases,  simply  be-  cause  theirs  were  a  little  different  from  ours.&quot;  She  said  that  she  means  to  go  on  keep-  ing  Christmas  just  that  way,  but  I  thought  she  spoke  defiantly.  Her  oldest  child  can  read.  All  three  have  friends.  Word  will  get  to  them,  and  she  knows  it.  PPARENTLY,  then,  you  can  say  that  what  has  become  of  Christ-  mas  is  that  they-anonymous  &quot;they&quot;--  have  been  trying  to  recondition  it,  and  that,  wishing  it  nothing  but  the  best,  they  have  made  it  newfangled  and  com-  petitive  and  complex.  That  night,  after  the  party,  I  didn't  get  out  the  dossier.  For  one  thing,  it  had  already  done  its  worst;  it  had  car-  ried  me  from  early  September  down  the  whole  long,  shuddering  fall,  and  now  thisgirl  had  pulled  me  onto  the  thresh-  old  of  Christmas  itself.  I  thought  that  hers  was  quite  a  good  Christmas  Eve,  really,  if  you  could  manage  it,  But  just  for  the  record,  if  I  may:  You  don't  gild  almonds  for  the  tree  on  the  after-  noon  ofthe  twenty-fourth;  you  string  cranberries  for  it-or  used  to.  And  ev-  erybody  decorates  the  tree  together,  that  night,  and  sings  carols  afterward;  you  read  Dickens  the  previous  Sunday.  White  bells  are  for  weddings,  not  for  Christmases,  when  bells  are  red  or  green.  People  are  queer.  Anyway,  I  did  go  along  with  her  identical,  uncomplex  Christmases.  And  I  also  thought  that  if,  like  Andrew  and  his  wife,  you  couldn't  have  whatever  your  own  Christmas  was-all  the  love-  ly,  familiar,  uncompetitive  trimmings  even  so,  you  could  make  out;  you  could have  the  essentials,  provided  you  knew  what  they  were.  The  point  was  that  nowadays  there  had  to  be  some  way  of  hanging  on  in  the  first  place-of  not  being  outmaneuvered  by  two-hundred-  and-fifty-dollar  ermine  bottle  guards.  I  got  to  talking  to  Andrew  along  this  line  the  next  evening.  He  had  asked  me  to  drop  by,  and  we  were  sitting  out-  doors,  high  upon  the  terrace  of  his  apartment.  Twilight  was  falling.  The  sky  was  mauve.  Neon  was  blinking  in  the  street  below,  and  in  the  windows  of  an  aluminum  building  opposite  us  pale  lights  were  popping  on.  &quot;I've  been  thinking,&quot;  Andrew  said.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  something.  People  won't  go  in  for  sim-  ple  Christmases  unless  they  can't  possi-  bly  help  it.  Maybe  what  we  need  more  of  is  obstacles-handicaps.&quot;  I  thought  there  was  something  to  that.  The  Christmas  in  the  rooming  house  hadhad  obstacles,  and  another  wartime  Christmas  that  I  found  myself  " b"remeimbering  had  had  them,  too.  I  saw  it  in  England-  or,  rather,  I  should  say  I  heard  it.  I  went  off  duty  in  an  Air  Force  radio  shack  at  ten  o'clock  on  Christmas  Eve.  I  had  a  mile  to  go  to  my  barracks.  I  set  out,  walking  cau-  tiously  down  a  pitch-black  road  in  an  icy  rain,  listen-  ing  to  an  air-raid  alert  a  long  way  off  to  the  south.  After  I  had  gone  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile,  I  heard  a  few  people  singing.  At  first,  they  seemed  to  be  right  beside  me,  but  pres-  ently  I  realized  that  they  were  on  the  far  side  of  a  hedge,  and  that  they  were  singing  to  a  house,  which  itself  was  as  dark  as  the  night.  I  thought  it  was  a  pity  that,  because  ofthe  blackout,  they  couldn't  be  welcomed  with  a  fine  holi-  day  blaze  of  lights,  and  then  I  began  to  wonder  whether  they  would  be  welcomed  at  all.  For  I  was  going  through  a  vil-  lage,  and  behind  almost  every  other  black,  wet  hedge  was  a  little  group  of  carollers,  maybe  four  or  five.  So  it  seemed  as  if  the  whole  village  must  be  out  there  singing  (light-  ly,  sweetly,  against  an  accompaniment  of  dis-  tant  sirens)  to  one  an-  other's  empty  houses  in  the  cold  Christ-  mas  rain.  I  told  Andrew  I  thought  the  singers  had  achieved  a  kind  of  distillation  of  Christmas,  and  Andrew  said,  absolutely.  But  then  he  added  that  you  had  to  be  fair.  He  said  they  hadhad  their  large  and  solemn  obstacle  ready-made  for  them-  imposed-and  that  you  couldn't  expect  people  who  didn't  have  one  to  act  as  if  they  did.  And  I  guess  there  is  something  to  that.  Forthough  I  wouldn't  be  will-  ing  now  to  part  with  that  night  asI  re-  call  it  (nor,  perhaps,  would  the  sing-  ers),  I  also  know  that  at  the  time  we  all  would  have  settled  for  something-  well,  a  little  more  complex,  less  distilled.  I  never  had  asked  to  have  it  the  way  it  was,  and  neither  had  they.  SO,  granted.  Fair's  fair.  Nobody  is  obliged  to  have  any  Yuletide  sim-  plicities  he  doesn't  want  and  can  escape. However  (holding  out,  hanging  on  ),  it  occurs  to  me  that  I  may  have  overlooked  a  thing  or  two  in  my  early  alarm.  I  may  even  have  been  missing  a  good  way  to  get  through  the  fall,  If  obstacles  really  do  help  you  keep  a  grip  on  the  essen-  tials-well,  the  next  thirteen  weeks  will  be  bursting  with  them.  There  will  be  plenty  for  Andrew  and  George  and  my  new  friend  who  gilds  almonds  (a  dubi-  ous  practice,  but,  still,  she  is  one  of  us)  and  me-and  for  anyone  else,  If  things  are  at  all  likelast  year  (and  the  year  be-  fore,  and  the  year  before)-and  they  will  be-we  will  have  nine-foot  me-  chanical  giraffes,  inflatable  plastic  Santa  Clauses,  insult  cards,  and  a  deafness  of  carols.  We  will  have  the  spectral  fir  tree  always  with  us,  and  this  will  keep  us  in  line,  handicap-haunted,  right  up  to  Christmas.  Then,  possibly,  things  will  change,  though  no  one  can  tell  for  certain  until  the  time  comes.  For  Christmas  is  not  its  environs,  which  can  sometimes  even  get  mixed  up  in  the  day  itself.  It  is,  if  you  do  get  to  it,  not  an  aluminum  tree  or  a  fir  one.  It  is  not  even  a  bare  tree,  in  a  small  room,  with  its  garlands  at  its  feet.  Christmas  is  simply  invisible,  and  always  has  been.  So  we  shall  have  to  wait  and  see."