 b"THE  head  of  our  department-my  husband's  department,  that  is-  in-the  Ministry  of  Valuation  was  a  widower  for  a  long  time,  but  three  years  ago,  when  he  came  back  home  to  496e646961  from  his  yearly  holiday  in  Bom-  bay,  he  was  married.  We  were  all  very  much  surprised.  We  had  thought  that  he  was  happy  living  alone  in  his  gov-  ernment  hostel;  he  had  sucha  nice  room  there,  and  a  good  bearer,  whom  I  myself  had  selected  for  him,and,  of  course,  all  we  wives  did  our  best  to  make  him  comfortable,  often  sending  special  dishes  to  him  or  arranging  little  dinner  parties.  We  were  a  happy  group-he  and  the  other  senior  officers  of  the  de-  partment  and  their  wives-and  there  was  a  close  feeling  of  friendship  among  us  all.  Of  course,  we  did  have  a  bit  of  friction  sometimes;  for  instance,  I  often  found  myself  cross  with  Mrs.  Nayyar,  because  I  felt  she  was  pushing  herself  forward  too  much  in  order  to  get  into  the  Head's  favor.  She  invited  him  far  too  often  to  her  house,  and  that  time  he  had  jaundice,  she  went  around  at  least  twice  a  day  to  visit  him.  I  do  not  like  to  see  a  lady  being  so  forward.  I  truly  think  that  the  Head  favored  me  and  appreciated  all  the  little  things  I  was  able  to  do  for  him,  since  he  knew  that  I  did  not  do  them  because  he  was  my  husband's  superior  officer-I  am  not  that  sort  of  person,  doing  things  only  for  my  own  interest,  though  I'm  afraid  that  Mrs.  Nayyar  may  be  rather  in-  clined  that  way-but  only  be-  cause  I  have  always  genuinely  liked  him  and  esteemed  him  for  his  good  qualities.  When  we  heard  that  he  was  married,  we  all  realized  that  things  would  be  different,  but  we  hoped  that  our  friendly  relations  with  him  would  continue.  Naturally,  we  were  very  eager  to  meet  his  new  wife.  At  last,  we  were  invited  for  dinner,  and  I  must  admit  I  was  rather  nervous  at  the  prospect.  So  much  de-  pended  on  this  lady  andwhether  she  would  like  me.  It  can  be  very  awk-  ward  if  the  wife  of  your  husband's  superior  officer  does  not  like  you.  In  the  car  on  our  way  to  the  dinner,  my  hus-  band  gave  me  a  look  out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye  and  said,  &quot;I  see  you  have  made  yourself  very  elegant  to  meet  her.&quot;  That  annoyed  me  a  little,  so  Itold  him,  &quot;I  don't  know  what  you  mean.  Certainly  I  always  like  to  look  my  best  when  people  invite  me  out  to  dinner.&quot;  He  did  not  say  anything,  and  after  a  while  I  continued,  &quot;'You  need  not  think  that  I  am  going  to  put  myself  out  he  much  forher.If  she  likes  me,  very  well,  I  shall  be  happy.  But  if  she  is  going  to  expect  me  to  go  down  on  my  hands  and  knees  to  her,  I'm  sorry-I'm  afraidI  have  too  much  pride  forthat.&quot;  But  as  soon  as  I  saw  Lekha,  I  knew  at  once  that  it  was  going  to  be  all  right.  She  was  young-about  twenty-but  not  really  pretty.  Only  her  eyes  were  nice-very  large  eyes,  which  seemed  to  take  up  all  her  face.  She  was  terribly  nervous,  and  when  I  realized  this,  I  at  once  stopped  being  nervous  myself.  I  said  to  her,  &quot;We  have  all  been  so  eager  to  meet  you,&quot;  in  a  kind  and  confident  way.  She  giggled  (and  her  voice  trem-  bled  soat  the  same  time  that  it  was  al-  most  as  if  she  were  crying)  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  thank  you,  thank  you!&quot;  She  bit  her  lip,  and  a  last  strangled  giggle  came  out,  and  then  she  was  very  serious.  Mrs.  Nayyar,  who  was  already  sit-  ting  there  on  the  settee  with  a  glass  of  pineapple  juice  in  her  hand,  cried  out  to  me,  &quot;Just  think,  she  used  to  go  to  school  in  [REDACTED]  with  my  cousin!&quot;  &quot;Oh?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'They  were  in  the  same  class.  Isn't  it  a  coincidence?&quot;  She  sounded  trium-  phant.  &quot;We  have  already  found  a  lotto  talk  about!&quot;  Lekha  did  not  say  anything  for  a  mo-  ment,  but  then  suddenly  she  said,  in  the  same  trembling  way  as  before,  &quot;Yes,  isn't  it?  Isn't  it  a  coincidence?&quot;  But  she  seemed  to  be  thinking  of  something  quite  different  while  she  was  saying  it.  Her  eyes  kept  straying  around  the  room,  and  she  looked  lost  and  unhappy  aboutsomething.  I  have  had  enough  experience  to  recog-  nize  that  look;  there  was  some-  thing  wrong  with  the  dinner.  Poor  little  thing,  I  thought.  I  felt  very  protective  toward  her  because  of  her  inexperience,  and  I  did  not  like  to  see  Mrs.  Nayyar  being  already  so  possessive  about  her.  When  she  went  into  the  next  room,  I  followed  her  and  said,  &quot;May  I  help  you,  please?&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  no,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Please  stay  comfortably  with  the  others.&quot;  But  then  she  glanced  up  at  my  face  and  suddenly  threw  her  head  against  my  shoulder  and  began  tocry.  I  patted  her  gently.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know  what  to  do!&quot;  she  cried,  wiping  her  eyes.  &quot;Nothing  is  ready  for  the  dinner,  and  it  looks  so  terrible!  How  will  anybody  ever  eat  it?&quot;  Without  another  word,  I  walked  into  the  kitchen.  I  could  see  at  once  what  sort  of  cook  she  had  got.  But  I  soon  showed  him  that  I  was  not  a  person  to  stand  for  any  nonsense,  so  he  bestirred  himself  as  best  he  could,  and  under  my  directions  the  dinner  was  soon  made  ready.  It  was  not  a  good  dinner,  but  at  least  we  got  it  served,  and  everybody  sat  down  to  eat.  O  that  was  how  I  became  Lekha's  best  friend,  right  from  the  begin-  ning.  She  came  to  see  me  the  very  next  day,  and  sat  in  my  drawing  room,  drink-  ing  coffee  and  eating  my  homemade  biscuits,  and  talked  and  talked.  I  had  never  heard  anyone  talk  the  way  she  did.  She  told  me  all  about  herself  and  her  father  and  the  house  she  came  from,  and  she  told  me  that  she  loved  496e646961n  classical  music  and  dancing  and  to  go  walking  late,  late  at  night  on  the  beach  at  [REDACTED],  and  how  she  was  sometimes  very  happy  and  sometimes  so  unhappy  that  she  did  not  want  to  live  any  more.  &quot;Ihave  always  been  like  that,  since  I  was  a  child,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  you  are  still  a  child,&quot;  I  said,  smiling.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  do  not  know  how  very  serious  I  am  inside  me.&quot;  And  she  sighed  and  ate  another  biscuit.  Of  course,  she  was  very  sweet,  but  I  could  not  help  feeling  that  she  was  hardly  suitable  to  be  the  Head's  wife.  A  little  later,  she  told  me  that  what  she  had  first  liked  about  her  husband  was  that  he  was  so  serious.  &quot;He  is  a  very  fine  administrative  officer,&quot;  I  told  her.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said  rather  slowly.  And  then,  more  cheerfully,  although  it  seemed  to  be  an  effort,  she  added,  ''Yes,  I  am  sure  he  must  be.&quot;  They  had  been  married  then  about  five  months,.  After  that,  Lekha  and  I  used  to  meet  several  times  a  week.  I  was  the  only  person  she  ever  came  to  see;  I  don't  think  she  knew  anyone  else  in  496e646961.  She  never  visited  the  wives  of  the  other  officers,  though  I  know  Mrs.  Nayyar  tried  very  hard  to  become  friendly  with  her.  But  Lekha  had  taken  a  dislike  to  her  right  from  the  beginning.  &quot;She  is  like  her  cousin,&quot;  she  explained  to  me.  &quot;Why,  what  is  wrong  with  her  cousin?&quot;  I  asked.  Lekha  turned  away  and  said,  &quot;Please  don't  let  us  talk  about  her,&quot;  and  her  lips  went  tight.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;What  has  she  done  to  you?&quot;  &quot;It  is  nothing  she  has  done  to  me.  It's  only  what  she  is.&quot;  Suddenly,  she  turned  to  face  me,and  her  big  eyes  were  flashing.  &quot;I  Aate  that  sort  of  person!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;A  person  with  a  cold  heart.&quot;  I  could  see  that  she  was  really  filled  with  hate,  and  it  quite  frightened  me.  I  my-  self  disapprove  of  Mrs.  Nayyar's  na-  ture,  but  I  certainly  do  not  hate  her.  It  " b"is  wicked  to  hate  people.  But  the  next  moment  Lekha's  face  was  its  usual  sweet,  childish  self  again.  She  came  close  to  me  and  rubbed  her  cheek  against  mine.  &quot;I  told  you  we  shouldn't  talk  about  her,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  have  you  and  I  to  do  with  such  people?  You  have  such  a  dear,  warm  nature.  I  am  so  happy  you  are  my  friend.&quot;  What  worried  me  the  most  as  I  grew  to  know  Lekha  bet-  ter  was  the  fact  that  she  did  not  care  about  her  house.  Mrs.  Nayyar  and  I  and  all  the  other  ladies  take  great  pride  in  making  our  homes  dainty  and  nice  to  look  at.  We  hang  up  ruffled  curtains  and  paint  our  own  flower  vases  and  embroider  cushions  and  table  runners.  Of  course,  I  wanted  to  help  Lekha  to  make  her  home  nice,  too.  At  first,  she  was  quite  enthusias-  tic,  and  we  went  out  to  buy  material  for  curtains,  but  then  she  lost  interest  and  never  even  bothered  to  have  the  curtains  made.  In  the  end,  I  brought  my  own  tailor  and  had  the  curtains  stitched,  and  I  hung  them  up  with  my  own  hands.  Lekha  was  very  grateful  to  me  and  kept  saying  how  nice  they  looked,  but  she  never  took  them  down  to  have  them  washed.  They  just  hung  there,  limp  and  full  of  dust  and  show-  ing  a  missing  curtain  ring  in  one  place.  The  real  trouble  with  Lekha  was  that  she  was  not  modern.  She  simply  did  not  understand  the  new  trends  we  have  in  496e646961  today.  Of  course,  we  are  all  very  proud  of  being  496e646961n,  but  all  the  same  we  do  realize  that  there  are  some  things  we  can  learn  from  the  West.  The  Western  way  of  doing  up  a  house  and  living  in  it,  for  example,  is  more  attractive  and  advanced  than  ours.  But  Lekha  kept  to  the  old  496e646961n  ways.  When  she  was  alone,  she  never  sat  down  to  eat  properly  at  a  table  but  squatted  on  the  floor  and  had  her  food  brought  to  her  on  a  round  brass  tray,  and  then  ate  it  with  her  fingers.  That  may  be  the  traditional  496e646961n  way,  but  it  is  my  opinion  that  it  would  be  better  for  496e646961  if  everyone  learned  to  eat  in  the  way  people  do  in  the  West.  I  also  didn't  like  the  way  Lekha  always  had  incense  burning  in  her  house;  that  smell  always  reminds  me  of  the  dirty  shops  in  the  bazaars.  It  was  not  as  if  she  were  orthodox-I  have  never  known  her  to  go  to  the  temple.  And  yet  she  would  often  observe  some  fast  day,  all  the  way  from  sunset  to  sunset.  On  the  day  of  the  Spring  Festival,  she  would  wear  only  yellow,  just  like  the  peasants,  and  once,  when  there  was  an  eclipse,  she  even  went  down  to  the  Jumna  to  bathe,  with  all  the  crowd.  Some  of  our  old  customs  are  very  pretty,  I  know  -the  lighting  of  little  lamps  on  Divali,  for  in-  stance,  which  we  always  do  because  the  children  like  it  so  much-but  no  mod-  ern  person  observes  as  many  of  them  as  Lekha  did.  And,  as  if  there  were  not  enough  Hindu  festivals,  she  would  keep  the  Moslem  ones  also,  such  as  Mohur-  rum  and  Bakri-Id,  when  she  had  some  goat  meat  cooked  and  sent  to  our  house.  When  I  asked  her  about  this,  she  said,  &quot;Oh,  you  know,  I  love  festivals  so  much  that  it  doesn't  matter  whether  they  are  Hindu  or  Moslem.  And  anyway  I  think  there  is  bound  to  be  some  Moslem  strain  in  all  of  us,  so  it  is  only  right  that  we  should  keep  their  holy  days.&quot;  The  only  festival  she  would  notkeep  was  Christmas.  I  think  Christmas  is  such  a  nice  festival;  we  always  have  a  turkey  dinner  with  plum  pudding,  and  so  do  all  our  friends.  But  Lekha  said  she  did  not  like  Christmas,  because  it  is  not  religious.  She  said  it  is  only  social  and  only  for  Englishmen.  When  I  pointed  out  to  her  that,  on  the  contrary,  Christmas  is  very  religious  because  it  is  the  day  on  which  the  God  of  the  Christians  was  born,she  said  yes,  she  liked  Jesus  Christ,  but  she  did  not  like  Christians  or  their  Christmas.  What  can  you  make  of  a  person  like  that?  It  surprised  me  that  the  Head  allowed  her  to  carry  on  with  all  these  fads.  He  himself  has  always  been  very  correct  in  his  behavior,  and  one  would  have  thought  that  he  was  the  last  person  to  allow  his  wife  to  go  in  for  practices  that  were  so  unsuitable  to  a  high  social  and  official  position.  But  apparently  he  made  no  objections  and  let  her  do  what-  ever  she  pleased.  I  think  he  had  grown  very  fond  of  Lekha.  I  could  detect  a  change  in  him,  something  in  his  face  that  had  not  been  there  before  and  that  showed  he  was-  I  don't  know  quite  how  to  say  it-perhaps  satisfied  is  what  I  mean,  or  perhaps  just  happy.  Lekha  didn't  enjoy  the  little  dinner  parties  we  gave.  She  came  once  or  twice  to  dinners  at  Mrs.  Nayyar's  house  or  Mrs.  Kaul's  or  one  of  the  other  wives',  but  it  was  quite  evident  that  shedid  not  enjoy  herself.  She  would  just  sit  there  with  her  head  bowed,  not  joining  in  the  conversation,  and  play  with  her  bangles.  Then,  oneday  when  Mrs.  Nayyar  was  giving  a  dinner  party,  the  Head  tele-  " b"phoned  her  in  the  afternoon  to  say  that  his  wife  was  ill  and  therefore  they  could  not  come.  I  went  to  see  Lekha  straightaway  next  morning,  but  when  I  asked  her  what  was  the  matter,  she  laughed  out  loud.  &quot;Only  Mrs.  Nayyar's  party  was  the  matter!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No,  I  have  had  enough  now  of  these  little  dinner  parties.  I  have  done  my  duty.&quot;  &quot;Lekha,  are  you  telling  me  that  you  are  not  coming  to  amy  of  our  parties  again?&quot;  I  said.  I  was  quite  shocked,  for  I  myself  was  giving  a  party  the  follow-  ing  week.  &quot;I  will  come  to  your  house,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  to  nobody  else's.  Why  should  I  sit  there  and  die  with  boredom  while  everyone  talks  stupid  things?  I  will  sit  at  home  and  think  my  own  stupid  things.&quot;  ALWAYS  feel  rather  nervous  be-  fore  my  dinner  parties,  so  you  can  imagine  that  I  was  not  at  all  pleased  when  Govind  suddenly  appeared  at  my  house  half  an  hour  before  the  guests  were  due  to  arrive.  Govind  is  my  hus-  band's  younger  brother,  but  he  is  as  unlike  my  husband  as  can  be.  He  fin-  ished  his  studies  at  the  university,  but  after  that  he  never  made  any  attempts  to  get  into  government  service  or  into  any  proper  job  at  all.  He  only  sits  in  cof-  feehouses  all  day,  with  other  loafers  like  himself;  sometimes  he  does  a  little  some-  thing  for  films  or  radio-I  do  not  know  what.  He  associates  a  great  deal  with  musicians  and  dancers  and  such  people.  I  did  not  even  pretend  to  be  pleased  to  see  him.  &quot;I  didn't  know  you  were  in  496e646961,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  have  been  here  for  three  weeks,&quot;  he  said,  and  laughed.  (He  laughs  a  great  deal.)     &quot;And  only  now  you  come  to  see  your  elder  brother.&quot;  &quot;But  you  are  never  happy  to  see  me,&quot;  he  said.  That  was  true,  but  I  didn't  think  it  was  right  for  him  to  say  it.  Just  then,  my  husband  came  in,  and  the  two  of  them  greeted  one  another.  My  hus-  band  is  quite  fond  of  his  brother,  al-  though,  of  course,  he  disapproves  strong-  ly  of  his  ways.  While  the  two  brothers  talked,  I  thought  desperately  about  how  I  could  possibly  fit  Govind  into  my  din-  ner  party.  He  was  entirely  unsuitable  to  meet  the  Head  and  all  the  other  officers,  who  are  serious  and  important  govern-  ment  servants.  Even  his  clothes  were  unsuitable;  the  others  would  all  be  coming  in  evening  dress,  but  he  was  wearing  his  usual  wide  white  pajama  trousers,  with  a  loose  and  very  fine  Lucknow  kurta  on  top.  He  keeps  his  hair  rather  too  long,  and  this  gives  him  a  not  quite  respectable  appearance.  But  it  turned  out  that  I  need  not  have  worried  after  all.  Govind  knows  how  to  behave  himself  when  he  wants  to,  and  that  evening  he  really  acquitted  himself  very  well.  He  took  an  interest  in  the  office  affairs  the  gentlemen  were  dis-  cussing,  and  asked  some  quite  intelligent  questions,  which  the  Head  answered  for  him  in  a  clear,  precise  way,  and  he  was  very  polite  and  attentive  to  the  ladies.  Indeed,  I  could  see  at  once  that  Mrs.  Nayyar  felt  flattered  by  the  way  he  got  fruit  juice  and  nuts  for  her,  and  found  her  handbag  when  she  mislaid  it.  A  little  later,  after  the  buffet  dinner  had  been  served,  I  noticed  Govind  talking  animatedly  to  Lekha.  He  was  sitting  on  the  arm  of  her  chair,  holding  his  plate  and  swinging  one  foot,  and  she  was  looking  up  to  him.  If  Lekha  had  not   happened  to  be  the  Head's  wife,  I  would  have  felt  embarrassed  for  her  appearance.  She  was  wearing  an  orange  cot-  ton  sari-cotton  for  a  dinner  party!  -and,  as  usual,  no  lipstick.  She  had  the  Hindu  tikka  mark  on  her  forehead,  and  she  had  stained  the  palms  of  her  hands  and  bottoms  of  her  feet  with  henna  to  make  them  bright  orange,  which  I  think  is  really  a  dirty  habit,  even  though  it  may  be  an  old  Hindu  tradi-  tion.  Her  big,  big  eyes  appeared  even  bigger,  because  she  had  under-  lined  them  with  kohl.  She  and  Govind  seemed  to  have  a  lot  to  talk  about,  and  I  must  say  they  fitted  well  together-both  of  them  so  odd  in  their  appearance  and  so  different  from  the  rest  of  us.  They  looked  like  a  couple  out  of  Hindu  mythology-the  sort  of  Krishna  and  Radha  couple  you  see  on  calendars  or  in  historical  films.  HE  day  after  my  party,  Sita,  my  eldest  child,  got  measles,  and  after  that  my  son  got  it,  too,  and  finally  the  baby.  It  was  a  very  hectic  time  for  me,  and  it  was  three  weeks  before  I  could  leave  the  house  again.  I  had  many  er-  rands  to  do  that  first  day,  but  in  the  aft-  ernoon  I  happened  to  be  passing  near  Lekha's  house,  and,  because  I  still  felt  responsible  for  her,  I  decided  to  drop  in.  The  servant  showed  me  straight  into  the  drawing  room,  where  I  found  Lekha  sitting  on  the  floor.  Lying  beside  her,  with  his  head  in  her  lap,  was  Govind.  She  was  stroking  his  hair.  They  started  up  when  they  saw  me,and  Lekha  came  flying  to  meet  me.  She  embraced  me  with  great  fervor  and  said,  &quot;I  am  so  hap-  py  to  see  you,  so  happy!&quot;  Really,  I  have  never  known  anyone  to  sound  so  happy.  I  sat  down  and  said  quite  formally,  &quot;How  are  you,  Lekha?&quot;  I  felt  terribly  shaken,  and  my  heart  was  like  a  cold,  dead  weight  inside  me.  Govind  lay  down  on  the  floor  again  and  rested  his  head  on  his  hand.  I  didn't  want  to  look  at  him,  but  I  could  not  help  myself,  and  I  saw  he  was  smiling.  Lekha  was  also  smiling,  and  laughing,  and  she  kept  talk-  ing  all  the  time.  I  was  so  upset  and  she  was  talking  so  fast  that  I  couldn't  take  in  half  of  what  she  was  saying.  She  asked  after  Sita  and  the  two  other  children  and  my  husband,  and  asked  what  we  had  been  doing,  but  she  never  waited  " b"for  a  reply,  and  all  the  time  she  didn't  really  seem  to  be  asking  those  questions,  because  her  voice  was  full  of  something  else.  Govind  did  not  say  anything,  but  sometimeshe  would  laugh  at  something  she  said,  and  then  she  would  cry,  &quot;No,  you  must  not  laugh  at  me!  Tell  him  not  to  laugh  at  me!&quot;  But  she  laughed,  too.  I  told  her  I  had  to  go-I  made  up  a  lie  and  said  I  had  an  appointment  with  the  dentist-and  I  went  out  without  saying  anything  at  all  to  Govind.  Lekha  saw  me  to  the  door,  and  there  she  embraced  me  again.  &quot;I  will  come  and  see  you  to-  morrow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  have  so  much  to  tell  you!&quot;  Suddenly,  she  kissed  me  on  the  neck;  her  lips  and  breath  were  very  hot.  When  I  got  home,  I  lay  down  on  the  bed  and  shut  my  eyes.  But  I  could  not  get  rid  of  the  picture  of  the  two  of  them  together  as  I  had  seen  them  when  I  came  in,  or  the  sound  of  the  laughter  between  them.  I  was  shocked  not  only  because  it  was  Lekha  and  Govind,  though  that  in  itself  was  bad  enough  and  would  get  worse  when  I  grew  calm  enough  to  think  about  it.  But  to  see  two  people  behaving  like  that,  a  man  and  a  woman  together!  Oh,  it  was  nothing  really  that  they  did;  it  was  only  the  understanding  between  them,  and  something  else,  which  I  cannot  de-  scribe-something  that  had  come  rising  out  of  them  and  filled  the  room.  I  have  been  married  now  for  ten  years  and  I  am  fond  of  my  husband  and  we  have  three  children,  but  there  has  never  been  anything  between  us  like  what  I  felt  between  Govind  and  Lekha  that  after-  noon.  I  pressed  my  face  into  my  pillow  and  suddenly  I  began  tocry.  I  do  not  know  why  I  cried,  but  I  cried  bitterly.  By  the  time  Lekha  came  to  see  me  the  next  morning,  I  was  quite  calm  and  collected.  I  had  not  told  my  husband  anything  about  what  I  had  discovered.  I  did  not  want  to  worry  him-he  has  enough  worries  in  his  office-and  also  I  felt  shy  about  telling  him.  I  did  not  know  how  to  put  it  into  words  for  him.  So  I  determined  to  deal  with  this  thing  myself.  I  would  talk  to  Lekha  very  strictly,  and,  speak-  ing  as  an  older  married  friend,  I  would  make  her  see  her  folly.  But  when  she  came,  it  was  she  who  did  all  the  talking.  She  came  running  into  the  house  with  her  arms  full  of  toys  for  the  children.  &quot;How  are  they?&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;How  is  my  Sita?&quot;  And  when  they  came,  she  embraced  them  and  kissed  them-something  she  had  never  done  before-and  they  were  extremely  pleased  with  the  toys.  There  was  a  great  change  in  her;  she  had  be-  come  beautiful.  Her  movements  had  always  been  a  little  awkward,  but  now  they  were  light  and  graceful.  She  tossed  back  her  hair,  stretched  out  her  arms,  and  walked  up  and  down-she  could  not  sit  still  for  a  minute-and  her  bangles  jingled,  her  eyes  sparkled,  and  she  was  laughing,  laughing  all  the  time.  &quot;I  am  so  happy!&quot;  she  said  to  me.  &quot;You  don't  know  how  happy!&quot;  Here  I  should  have  started  telling  her  what  I  had  meant  to  tell  her,  but  she  would  not  give  me  time.  &quot;I  didn't  know  there  was  anyone  so  wonderful  as  he  in  the  world!&quot;  she  said.  I  wanted  to  protest-  I  had  known  Govind  a  good  deal  long-  er  than  she,  and  there  was  no  one  who  knew  his  worth  (or,  rather,  lack  of  it)  better  than  I-but  she  went  on  again  immediately.  &quot;There  is  such  depth  in  him,  such  greatness!  Oh,  I  know,  he  hasn't  done  anything  great  yet,  but  he  will.  Only  wait  and  you'll  see!  He  will  astonish  the  world!&quot;  If  the  situation  hadn't  been  so  serious,  I  could  have  burst  out  laughing  at  the  idea  of  Govind  astonishing  the  world.  If  sitting  idly  in  coffeehouses  will  aston-  ish  the  world,  then  he  certainly  will  do  it,  butnot  otherwise.  &quot;I  feel  so  privileged  to  be  allowed  to  know  him,&quot;  she  said,  and  added,  in  a  whisper,  &quot;And  to  be  loved  by  him.&quot;  &quot;Lekha,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  don't  know  what  happiness  he  gives  me,  what  a  paradise  he  has  made  for  me.  He  is  like  a  god.&quot;  &quot;Lekha,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;are  you  in  your  senses?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  no!  I  have  taken  leave  of   my  senses!  I  have  no  mind  any  more-  only  a  body  and  a  soul!  He  has  awak-  ened  both  for  me.  You  can't  know.&quot;  Isaid,  quietly  and  sternly,  &quot;And  your  husband?&quot;  &quot;Please  don't!&quot;  she  cried,  and  put  up  her  hands  to  coverher  ears.  &quot;Why  do  you  talk  of  him?  What  has  he  to  do  with  this?&quot;  I  was  aghast  at  such  total  irresponsi-  bility,  but  I  managed  to  say  quite  calm-  ly,  &quot;I  should  have  thought  your  hus-  band  had  a  great  deal  to  do  with  it.&quot;  &quot;Nothing!  Believe  me,  this  is  differ-  ent.  Oh,  believe  me.  ..  .&quot;  She  stood  still  and  put  both  her  arms  up  to  her  head  to  stroke  back  her  hair,  and  her  eyes  shone  more  brightly  than  ever.  I  felt  embar-  rassed  to  look  at  her.  &quot;He  is  good  and  kind,  I  know-&quot;  she  began.  &quot;The  Head  is  an  excellent  man  in  every  way,&quot;  I  interrupted,  taking  her  up  rather  severely.  &quot;I  know,  I  know!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;But  being  good  and  kind  is  so  little-it  is  nothing.  You  cannot  touch  another  person's  soul  by  being  only  good  and  kind.  I  was  not  alive  before.  Nobody  could  show  me  what  there  was  in  me  until  he  came.&quot;  Then  I  only  wanted  her  to  go  away.  But  she  wouldn't  go;  she  kept  talking  on  and  on  about  herself  and  Govind.  I  sat  quite  still  and  tried  not  to  listen,  but  I  couldn't  help  listening.  There  was  something  burning  and  fierce  about  her,  like  fire.  After  that,  she  often  came  to  see  me,  and  every  time  it  was  the  same.  She  talked,  and  I  had  to  sit  and  listen  to  things  that  should  never  be  spoken.  She  had  no  shame  at  all.  She  talked  to  me  of  the  beauty  of  Govind  and  how  she,too,  had  learned  to  feel  her-  self  as  beautiful.  It  was  painful  for  me  even  to  look  at  her,  and  after  a  time  I  began  to  avoid  her.  I  would  go  out  of  the  house  at  the  times  I  knew  she  would  be  coming  to  visit  me.  I  did  not  care  where  I  went,  as  long  as  I  didn't  have  to  see  her  and  listen  to  her.  Mostly,  I  went  to  Mrs.  Nayyar,  where  we  would  sit  and  talk  quietly  and  normally  about  nor-  mal  things,  like  the  chil-  dren's  schooling  and  the  high  price  of  vegetables  and  the  lovely  new  Benares  saris  that  had  come  inat  the  Cottage  Industries  Emporium.  These  conversations  with  Mrs.  Nayyar  were  sooth-  " b"ing  to  me,  yet  whenever  I  got  home  I  would  find  myself  thinking  of  Lekha  and  Govind  again.  I  became  very  ir-  ritable,  especially  with  my  husband;  somehow  I  had  a  feeling  of  dissatis-  faction  about  him.  Some  time  later,  it  came  my  turn  again  to  give  a  dinner  party,  and,  of  course,  I  had  to  invite  the  Head  and  Lekha.  When  the  guests  were  all  as-  sembled,  Govind  walked  in.  I  knew  who  had  told  him  to  come,  but  with  all  those  people  there  there  was  nothing  I  could  do  but  pretend  to  be  pleased  to  see  himand  make  him  welcome.  He  was  perfectly  free  and  smiling,  and  not  in  the  least  embarrassed.  This  was  the  first  time  I  had  seen  him  since  that  day  in  Lekha's  house,  and  I  looked  at  him  curiously,  for  I  had  wondered  how  Lekha  could  possibly  find  him  hand-  some  and  &quot;like  a  god.&quot;  But  now  I  saw  that  there  was  something  about  him  that  might  strike  an  impressionable  person  like  Lekha.  His  complexion  is  rather  too  dark-my  husband,  thank  God,  is  much  fairer-and  against  this  dark  skin  his  strong  and  healthy  teeth  and  the  whites  of  his  eyes  shine  quite  brilliantly.  He  has  strong  shoulders,  and  because  he  always  wears  such  thin,  transparent  kurtas  one  can  see  exactly  how  they  are  formed  and  how  the  muscles  move.  His  hair  is  really  far  toolong,  but  it  is  very  curly  and  shines  with  oil.  He  always  wears  a  fine  gold  chain  around  his  neck,  There  is  something  strange  about  him,  something  that  is  more  like  an  animal  than  like  a  man,  though  perhaps  it  is  a  sin  to  say  that.  I  watched  the  two  of  them  anxiously,  but  I  must  say  their  behavior  was  quite  good.  I  never  intercepted  as  much  as  a  glance  between  them,  and  they  talked  together  very  little.  Lekha  was  more  lively  than  she  usually  is  at  parties,  for  which  I  suppose  I  ought  to  have  been  grateful.  The  Head  seemed  pleased  to  see  her  enjoying  herself,  and  I  noticed  that  he  still  looked  at  her  with  an  expres-  sion  of  satisfaction.  The  talk  turned  to  acelebrated  [REDACTED]  496e646961n  dancer  who  had  given  a  recital  in  496e646961  the  week  before,  and  from  there  a  discussion  arose  about  the  various  styles  of  dancing  and  their  ex-  ponents.  Govind  talked  intelligently  and  managed  to  impress  the  other  guests  with  his  knowledge  of  496e646961n  classical  music  and  dancing.  Mrs.  Nayyar,  I  could  see,  was  thrilled  by  all  he  was  tell-  ing  us,  and  the  Head,  too,  listened  with  interest.  Then,  suddenly,  the  Head  said,  &quot;You  know,  my  wife  is  quite  a  compe-  tent  exponent  of  Bharata  Natyam,&quot;  and  he  smiled  in  a  deprecating  but  rather  proud  manner.  &quot;Oh,  yes?  How  inter-  esting,&quot;  said  Govind,  and  he  looked  around  as  if  he  were  not  quite  sure  who  the  Head's  wife  was.  Really!  &quot;Oh,  but  why  does  she  not  dance  for  us!&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Nayyar,  clap-  ping  her  hands  together.  She  always  likes  to  be  lively  at  parties,  and  now,  of  course,  she  was  being  especially  lively,  for  Govind's  benefit.  So  then  everybody  looked  at  Lekha.  &quot;Should  I?&quot;  she  said,  with  a  smile.  She  was  not  at  all  shy  or  embarrassed.  &quot;It  would  be  a  great  pleasure  for  all  ofus,&quot;  Govind  said.  &quot;Yes,  wouldn't  it?&quot;  I  said  quickly.  &quot;But  there  are  no  ankle  bells  and  no  music.  What  a  pity!&quot;  &quot;Couldn't  she  borrow  Sita's  ankle  bells?&quot;  Go-  vind  suggested.  &quot;And  you  have  a  dholak,  I  think?&quot;  &quot;What  are  we  wait-  ing  for?&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Nayyar.  I  looked  at  the  Head;  I  was  sure  he  would  not  allow  it.  But  he  smiled  and  rubbed  his  chin  and  said,  &quot;Well,  Govern-  ment  is  always  telling  us  that  we  must  preserve  and  foster  our  cultural  heritage.  ...&quot;  I  hoped  that  Sita's  an-  kle  bells  would  be  too  small  for  Lekha,  but,  of  course,  they  weren't.  Her  limbs  were  as  thin  and  fragile  as  a  child's.  Govind  sat  on  the  floor  by  the  dholak  and  began  to  beat  it  with  his  fingers  and  sing  while  Lekha  danced.  He  sang:  &quot;Bring,  oh,  bring  my  beloved  unto  me!  Oh,  what  ecstasy  shall  I  know  with  him  alwayson  the  couch  strewn  with  flow-  ers,  in  the  white  radiance  of  the  moon.  O  my  friend,  beautiful  as  a  bird!  I  lan-  guish  with  love  for  my  Lord.  What  is  this  happening  to  me?  Come,  O  friend!  Ask  my  Lord  to  come  to  me,  sothat  flow-  er-adorned  I  may  dance,  sing,  and  play  with  him.  Why  this  delay!&quot;  And  that  was  what  Lekha  danced.  She  really  was  quite  a  good  dancer.  Her  hand  gestures  were  very  suggestive,  and     so  was  her  smile,  and  the  way  she  rolled  her  eyes  and  swayed  her  head  from  her  neck.  &quot;I  languish  with  love  for  my  Lord,&quot;  said  her  fingers.  &quot;What  is  this  happening  to  me?&quot;  said  her  eyes  and  her  lips.  The  ankle  bells  rang  out  as  she  stamped  her  feet:  &quot;Come,  O  friend!&quot;  Govind  flung  back  his  head  as  he  sang,  so  that  one  could  see  the  movement  in  his  throat.  His  long  brown  fingers  danced  on  the  drum,  his  whole  body  swayed,  and  he  smiled  with  flashing  eyes  and  teeth.  &quot;Like  a  god,&quot;  Lekha  had  said  of  him,  and  now  she  was  wor-  shipping  him  with  her  dance.  Mrs.  Nayyar  sat  with  her  hands  clasped  be-  fore  her  and  a  smile  of  rapture  on  her  face.  The  Head  was  also  smiling  a  lit-  tle  and  he  looked  veryproud.  As  I  " b"looked  at  the  Head,  I  thought  how  good  he  is-how  true,  how  affectionate,  and  how  stupid!  WEEK  later,  Govind  went  away  to  [REDACTED]-I  think  on  some  film  work.  When  he  had  gone,  Lekha  be-  gan  coming  to  see  me  every  day.  If  I  was  out,  as  I  often  tried  to  be,  she  would  sit  and  wait  for  me,  and  the  moment  I  came  in,  she  would  begin  totalk  about  herself  and  Govind.  His  absence  did  not  seem  to  make  her  at  all  sad.  &quot;You  see,  he  has  not  gone  away  from  me,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;He  is  with  me  here.&quot;  And  she  clasped  her  hand  to  her  bosom  in  such  a  passionate  gesture  that  I  had  to  look  at  the  floor.  &quot;He  is  with  me  all  the  time,  all  the  time.&quot;  Another  day,  she     said,  &quot;You  remember  when  Krishna  went  away  from  Radha?  How  she  thought  she  could  hear  his  flute  playing,  even  when  he  was  not  there?  Well,  itis  like  that  with  me.  I  can  feel  him  playing  in  my  heart.&quot;  She  had  told  him  to  send  letters  to  her  at  my  house.  &quot;Because  I  know  you  are  my  friend,&quot;  she  explained  to  me.  But  there  were  never  any  letters.  Every  day  she  came  with  a  trembling  air  of  expec-  tation,  but  every  day  there  was  nothing.  After  a  week  or  so,  I  could  see  the  look  of  disappoint-  ment  and  pain  more  and  more  clearly  in  her  face,  and  the  smile  with  which  she  tried  to  cover  it.  &quot;''There  is  no.  need  for  him  to  write,&quot;  she  ex-  plained  once.  &quot;He  knows  how  near  we  are  to-  gether,  even  when  we  are  apart.&quot;  I  think  she  was  writing  to  him  every  day.  The  days  went  by,  and  Lekha  stopped  com-  ing  to  see  me  so  often,  and  when  she  did  come,  she  did  not  talkas  much.  She  sat  quite  quietly  in  my  drawing  room,  play-  ing  with  the  bangles  on  her  arms.  She  was  thin-  ner  and  her  lips  were  pale,  and  it  became  hard  for  me  to  imagine  how  I  had  ever  managed  to  think  of  her  as  beautiful.  Now  it  was  I  who  did  most  of  the  talk-  ing,  but  she  never  seemed  to  take  any  interest  in  what  I  was  telling  her.  I  couldn't  help  thinking  that  Lekha  was  rather  a  dull  girl,  but  all  the  same  I  be-  gan  to  feel  protective  toward  her  again  and  to  like  her  as  I  had  in  the  beginning.  Then  a  whole  week  went  by  with  no  visit  from  her,  and  I  became  worried,  and  went  to  see  her  one  morning.  I  found  her  sitting  in  her  drawing  room,  on  the  floor,  with  her  knees  drawn  up  and  her  arms  clasped  around  them.  Al-  though  it  was  after  eleven  o'clock,  she  had  not  yet  had  her  bath  or  dressed,  and  her  hair  straggled  over  her  shoul-  der  in  a  very  untidy  manner.  The  room  smelled  of  stale  incense,  and  I  could  see  at  once  that  it  had  not  been  dusted  or  made  neat  for  many  days.  She  did  not  move,  and  hardly  even  smiled,  when  I  came  in.  &quot;Hallo,  Lekha!&quot;  I  called,  in  a  loud  voice.  I  was  trying  to  cheerher  up,  and  besides  I  felt  fresh  and  vigorous  after  my  morning  bath,  in  my  crisp,  clean  sari  and  with  my  household  duties  all  ordered  and  done.  But  Lekha  only  looked  at  me  out  of  her  big,  sad  eyes,  and  lifted  one  hand  to  brush  a  strand  of  hair  from  her  forehead.  I  wanted  to  shake  her  and  shout,  &quot;Come  on,  Lekha!  Up  and  doing!&quot;  I  wanted  to  fling  open  all  the  windows  and  call  in  the  servant  to  give  the  room  a  good  scrubbing  and  cleaning,  and  then  bring  fresh  flowers  to  arrange  on  the  mantelpiece  and  a  clean  starched  cloth  to  put  on  the  table.  But  I  realizedthat  my  first  duty  was  to  give  Lekha  a  good  talking-to,  so  I  sat  down  on  the  settee  just  behind  her,  with  my  hand  laid  affectionately  on  her  shoulder.  I  did  not  know  how  I  was  going  to  start,  but  the  words  came  of  them-  selves-all  the  words  I  had  been  want-  ing  to  sayfor  many  weeks  but  which  she  had  never  given  me  an  opportunity  to  say.  First,  I  talked  to  her  about  her  hus-  band-about  what  a  fine,  good,  con-  scientious  man  he  was  and  what  she  owed  to  him  as  his  wife.  And  after  that  I  told  her  what  a  worthless  loafer  Go-  vind  was.  I  explained,  in  a  very  under-  standing,  womanly  way,  how  he  was  the  kind  of  man  who  might  impress  a  young  woman  who  didn't  know  his  background  and  his  association  with  people  who  were  not  respectable.  I  even  gave  her  a  very  small  hint  of  the  rumors  I  had  heard  about  his  be-  havior  with  a  certain  type  of  woman  in  [REDACTED].  I  talked  for  a  long  time.  She  sat  quite  still,  with  her  head  bowed,  and  the  only  movement  she  made  was  once  when  she  shrugged  the  shoulder  on  which  I  had  laid  my  hand.  I  thought  it  might  be  making  her  feel  hot-it  was  rather  sticky  that  morning-so  I  took  it  away.  She  did  not  see  me  to  the  door  when  I  left,  but  remained  sitting  there  on  the  floor.  I  felt  pleased  and  con-  tented  all  the  rest  of  the  day,  for  I  knew  I  had  done  my  duty,  and  in  the  eve-  ning  I  made  my  husband  take  me  to  a  cinema.  I  telephoned  to  her  the  next  day,  but  the  servant  said  she  was  out;  the  day  after  that  it  was  the  same,  and  the  day  after.  I  was  rather  surprised,  so  I  went  to  her  house  to  see  her.  When  I  entered  at  the  gate,  I  saw  her  sitting  on  the  veranda,  but  she  got  up  at  once  and  went  indoors.  I  thought  she  had  not  seen  me,  and  I  was  about  to  follow  her  when  the  servant  came  running  " b"out,  calling,  in  a  loud  voice,  &quot;Mem-  sahib  has  gone  out!&quot;  I  realized  then  that  Lekha  didn't  wish  to  see  me  any  more.  I  went  home  and  I  satin  my  bedroom  and  cried.  But  I  didn't  cry  long,  for  I  knew  that  I  had  acted  rightly  in  every  way,  and  that  if  Lekha  had  been  a  person  of  principle,  she  would  have  understood  that  and  felt  grateful  toward  me.  At  any  rate,  I  had  nothing  to  reproach  myself  with.  It  was  not  my  fault  that  Lekha  chose  to  take  this  attitude.  I  had  only  done  my  duty.  [REDACTED]  morning,  shortly  afterward,  I  finished  my  shopping  a  little  earlier  than  usual,so  there  was  just  time  to  drop  in  at  Mrs.  Nayyar's  for  a  chat  and  perhaps  a  cup  of  coffee  (though  the  coffee  she  serves  is  never  very  good).  I  came  by  the  veranda,  and  I  was  just  going  to  enter  the  drawing  room  through  the  open  glass  doors  when  I  heard  a  voice  say,  &quot;I  don't  know  how  it  is,  sometimes  I  am  so  happy,  so  hap-  py-and  sometimes  I  am  so  sad  that  I  don't  want  to  live  any  more.&quot;  I  stood  quite  still  and  then  I  looked  through  the  door,  and,  yes,  there  was  Lekha,  curled  up  on  a  rug  in  Mrs.  Nayyar's  drawing  room,  talking  with  great  ani-  mation  and  nibbling  homemade  bis-  cuits.  I  wanted  to  go  away,  but  un-  fortunately  Mrs.  Nayyar  caught  sight  of  me  and  called  out,  &quot;Hallo,  there!  What  a  surprise!&quot;  Lekha  got  up  at  once  and  said,  &quot;I  must  go.&quot;  She  had  averted  her  head  from  me  and  was  playing  with  her  bangles.  &quot;So  soon?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Nayyar,  and  she  put  her  arm  round  Lekha's  shoul-  ders  to  walk  with  her  to  the  door.  I  heard  them  whispering  together  out-  side,  and  then  I  think  they  kissed  each  other  goodbye.  &quot;Poor  Lekha!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Nayyar,  coming  back  into  the  drawing  room  wearing  her  big,  pleased  smile.  &quot;She  is  such  a  shy  little  thing.  Whenever  any-  body  comes,  sherushes  off  at  once.  A  cup  of  coffee?&quot;  She  poured  the  coffee  and  then  sat  on  the  settee,  stirring  the  sugar  in  her  cup.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;Lek-  ha  is  very  shy  before  others.  But  when  we  are  alone  together,  she  sits  and  talks  and  talks  for  hours.  She  tells  me  every-  thing.  Everything,&quot;  she  said  again,  stirring,  and  looking  as  if  she  had  a  big  secret.  I  also  stirred.  After  awhile  she  leaned  close  to  me  and  continued  in  a  low  voice,  &quot;You  know,  she  has  had  a  great  love  affair  with  an  Artist.&quot;  I  kept  looking  down  into  my  coffee  cup.  &quot;'They  were  terribly  in  love,&quot;  Mrs.  Nayyar  went  on,  and  her  eyes  shone.  &quot;But  then  Lekha  sent  him  away.  Be-  cause  of  the  Head.  She  says  she  couldn't  do  anything  to  hurt  the  Head.  How  fine,&quot;  she  said  in  a  voice  full  of  feeling.  &quot;How  noble.&quot;  I  sipped  the  coffee,  which  was,  as  I  had  expected,  of  a  rather  in-  ferior  quality.  The  only  times  I  ever  see  Lekha  nowadays  are  at  one  of  Mrs.  Nayyar's  dinner  parties.  She  won't  come  to  any  of  our  other  parties,  and  at  Mrs.  Nay-  yar's  she  only  sits  there  and  plays  with  her  bangles.  She  never  as  much  as  looks  at  me.  Mrs.  Nayyar  has  told  me  in  confidence  that  Lekha  has  told  her  she  does  not  like  me  because  I  am  a  person  with  a  cold  heart.  I  think  that  is  a  very  unfair  and  unkind  thing  to  say  about  me,  especially  after  I  have  been  such  a  good  friend  to  her.  But  what  distresses  me  most  is  that  because  of  Lekha's  attitude  toward  mewe  can  no  longer  have  any  social  relations  with  the  Head.  I  know  it  will  not  make  any  difference  in  the  end,  because  he  is  real-  ly  too  fair-minded  a  person  to  let  per-  sonal  considerations  stand  in  the  way  of  his  official  reports.  But  I  am  sorry  to  have  lost  contact  with  him,  because  I  have  always  had  a  genuine  liking  for  him.  He  is  such  a  good  man.  Often  I  can't  help  thinking  that  itis  a  pity  he  could  not  have  married  a  wife  who  would  do  more  credit  to  his  office.  After  all,  being  the  wife  of  the  head  of  a  de-  partment  carries  a  lot  of  responsibilities,  and  if  my  husband  ever  attains  such  a  high  position,  I  certainly  shall  not  shirk  them  as  Lekha  has  done."