 b"MAYBETH'S father  had  a  business  M  in  the  town,  which  was  about  a  mile  from  where  they  lived,  but  he  had  about  forty  acres  of  land  be-  low  the  house  that  he  planted  in  cotton  and  corn.  The  land  was  down  the  hill  from  the  house  and  it  was  on  two  levels  of  ground:  twenty  acres,  then  a  bluff  covered  with  oak  sprouts  and  vines,  then  a  lower  level,  which  stretched  to  the  property  line  at  the  small  creek.  You  could  see  it  all  from  the  house-the  two  fields  and  the  creek,  and  other  fields  beyond  the  creek-but  from  the  upper  field  you  could  just  see  as  far  as  the  wil-  lows  along  the  creek  bank.  For  nine  months  of  the  year,  May-  beth's  father  hired  a  Negro  named  Jim  Williams  to  make  the  crop.  Jim  would  work  uptown  in  the  mornings  and  come  in  the  afternoons  around  two  o'clock-  a  black,  strapping  Negro  in  blue  over-  alls,  stepping  light  and  free  and  power-  ful  on  the  road  from  town.  He  would  go  around  the  house  to  the  back  to  hitch  up  the  black  mule  in  spring,  or  file  on  the  hoe  blade  in  summer,  or  drag  a  great  dirty-white  cotton  sack  to  the  field  in  the  fall.  Spring,  summer,  and  fall  they  saw  him  come,  until  he  became  as  much  a  part  of  the  household  as  May-  beth  or  Brother  or  Lester-Junior  or  Snookums,  the  cook;  then,  after  the  last  pound  of  cotton  was  weighed  in  the  cold  fall  twilight,  the  Jim  they  knew  would  vanish.  In  winter,  they  sometimes  spoke  to  a  town  Negro  as  Jim,  and  he  would  answer  back,  pleasant  as  you  please,  but  it  was  no  use  pretending  he  was  the  same.  The  cotton  stalks  stood  black  and  sodden  in  the  field,  and  the  cornstalks  broke  from  the  top,  and  there  was  noth-  ing  for  a  little  girl  to  do  in  the  after-  noons  but  grow  all  hot  and  stuffy  by  the  fire  or  pester  Mother  for  things  toeat  or  study  schoolbooks  sometimes.  There  wasn't  anybody  much  to  play  with  out  where  they  lived.  At  last,  the  spring  day  would  come  when  Maybeth  could  leap  away  from  the  school  bus  and  the  ugly  children  in  the  bus,  and  run  up  the  drive  to  the  house,  then  down  the  hill,  under  the  maple  trees,  to  the  field.  Jim  would  be  in  the  field,  plowing  with  the  middle-  buster,  and  she  would  get  to  follow  be-  hind  him  for  the  first  time  in  the  year.  Jim  did  a  lot  of  funny  things  out  there  in  the  field.  Up  ahead,  where  the  rows  ended  at  thetop  of  the  bluff,  Jim  some-  times  stopped  when  he  had  pulled  the  plow  out  of  the  ground,  and  while  the  black  mule  circled  in  the  trace  chains  he  would  fling  up  his  head  and  sing  out,  rich  and  full,  as  loud  as  he  could  sing,  &quot;Ama-a-zi-in'  grace-&quot;  The  air  would  quiver  for  the  next  line  to  come,  but  Jim  would  be  well  into  the  field  by  then,  driving  the  plow  down  the  furrow  with  along,  swinging  stride.  Once,  Maybeth  tried  to  tell  him  the  next  line.  &quot;It  goes  'How  sweet  the  sound,&quot;  Jim,&quot;  she  said,  trying  to  puther  little  shoes  in  Jim's  broad  tracks.  But  all  Jim  Williams  said  was  &quot;Git  up,  Jimpson  Weed!&quot;  Other  times,  he  called  the  mule  Daisy  Bell,  and  that  was  funny,  too,  because  the  mule's  name  was  Dick,  and  Dick  was  a  man  mule.  Maybeth  was  sure  he  was  a  man  mule.  But  when  she  told  Jim  that,  he  only  said,  &quot;Lawd,  Lawd,&quot;  as  though  she  had  told  him  something  he  had  never  heard  before,  or  something  he  had  only  half  heard  when  she  said  it.  You  couldn't  tell  which.  But  most  of  the  time  Maybeth  was  asking  Jim  questions.  When  she  got  like  that  with  Mother,  Mother  would  finally  say,  &quot;Now,  what  on  earth  made  you  think  of  that?&quot;  Daddy  would  laugh  at  her  questions  and  say,  &quot;I  don't  know,  honey.&quot;  But  Jim  knew  the  answer  to  everything.  He  knew  why  the  jaybird  bounced  on  the  air  when  he  flew  and  why  the  mule  swept  his  nose  along  the  ground  when  he  turned  and  why  the  steel  plow  slid  out  of  the  earth  as  clean  as  when  it  entered.  Sometimes  May-  beth  knew  that  Jim  was  making  up,  but  most  of  the  time  she  believed  him  word  for  word,  like  the  catechism  in  Sunday  school.  One  spring  afternoon,  a  few  days  be-  fore  Maybeth's  seventh  birthday,  Jim  was  sporting  a  new  red  bandanna  in  the  back  pocket  of  his  overalls.  Even  before  Maybeth  reached  him,  she  spotted  it,  and  she  asked  about  it  first  thing.  &quot;My  little  girl  give  me  that,&quot;  he  said.  He  spoke  in  his  making-up  voice,  but  he  looked  perfectly  straight-faced.  Maybeth  hurried  very  fast  behind  him.  &quot;Aw,  Jim,  you  ain't  got  a  little  girl,  have  you?  How  old  is  she?&quot;  &quot;She  be  eight  nex  fall,&quot;  he  said,  very  businesslike.  &quot;Gee,  mule.&quot;  &quot;How  big  is  she?&quot;  &quot;She  jes  'bout  your  size,  honey.&quot;  A  little  brown  girl  in  a  starched  blue-  and-white  checked  dress  stepped  smiling before  Maybeth's  eyes.  From  then  on,  Maybeth's  questions  all  went  in  one  di-  rection,  and  if  Jim  had  any  peace,  it  was  only  because  he  was  Jim.  &quot;When  will  I  get  tosee  her,  Jim?  When  will  she  come  and  play  with  me?&quot;  &quot;Some  day  nex'  week,  I  reckon.&quot;  &quot;What  day  next  week?&quot;  &quot;Long  'bout  the  middle  part  of  the  week,  I  spec.&quot;  &quot;Aw,  you're  just  foolin',  Jim.  Aren't  you  just  foolin'?&quot;  &quot;Ama-a-zi-in'  grace-&quot;  sang  Jim  Williams  as  the  black  mule  turned  in  the  trace  chains  against  a  low  and  burn-  ing  cloud.  And  that  night,  when  Jim  had  eaten  his  supper  in  the  kitchen  and  gone,  the  little  brown  girl  in  theblue-  and-white  checked  dress  stayed  on.  &quot;Mother,  guess  what  Jim  told  me  to-  day,&quot;  said  Maybeth,  opening  her  arith-  metic  book  before  the  fire.  &quot;He  said  he  had  a  little  girl.  She's  coming  and  play  with  me.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  honey,  Jim's  just  fooling  you.  Jim  hasn't  got  any  children,  has  he,  Lester?&quot;  &quot;Not  that  I  ever  heard  of,&quot;  said  Daddy.  &quot;It's  a  good  thing,  too-the  way  he  drinks  and  carries  on  every  Saturday  night.&quot;  &quot;He's  fooling  you,&quot;  said  Mother.  Maybeth  bent  quickly  to  her  sums.  &quot;I  know  it,&quot;  she  said.  And  in  a  way  she  had  known  it  all  along.  But  in  another  way  she  hadn't  known  it,  and  the  not  knowing  still  re-  mained  along  with  the  knowing,  and  she  never  thought  it  out  any  further.  Nothing  was  changed,  and  she  and  the  little  brown  girl  played  together  before  she  went  to  sleep  at  night,  in  dull  mo-  ments  at  school,  and  when  she  was  be-  ing  quiet  on  the  bus,  riding  home  with  the  noisy  children.  The  little  girl  was  the  first  thing  to  ask  questions  about  when  she  ran  to  the  field  after  school,  the  warm  sun  on  her  yellow  hair,  and  her  feet  already  uncomfortable  to  be  out  of  their  shoes.  The  first  thing,  that  is,  until  the  Fri-  day  came  when  Maybeth  was  seven.  It  was  a  perfect  birthday.  Under  her  plate  at  breakfast  that  morning  she  found  two  broad  silver  dollars.  The  class  sang  &quot;Happy  Birthday&quot;  to  her  in  school,  and  that  night  Snookums,  the  cook,  who  usually  finished  work  in  the  afternoon,  returned  from  her  house  to  cook  supper,  and  they  all  had  fried  chicken  and  rice  and  gravy  and  a  coconut  birthday  cake.  Maybeth  ran  into  the  kitchen  to  show  her  silver  dollars  to  Snookums  and  Jim.  &quot;Look,  Snookums!  Look,  Jim!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Lawd-ee!&quot;  said  Snookums.  She  was  " b"a  young,  bright  Negro  with  a  slim  waist  and  straight  black  hair.  &quot;My,  my!&quot;  said  Jim.  &quot;That's  ringin'  money,  ain't  it,  Snookum?&quot;  &quot;Lawd-ee!&quot;  said  Snookums.  &quot;Which  you  druther  have,  Snook-  um,&quot;  said  Jim,  '&quot;ringin'  money  or  foldin'  money?&quot;  The  door  was  open  to  the  dining  room,  and  Maybeth  heard  her  big  brother  laugh  and  holler  back,  &quot;Either  one'll  do  to  buy  Saturday-night  liquor,  won't  it?&quot;  Jim  and  Snookums  just  fell  out  laughing,  and  Maybeth  somehow  felt  ashamed.  After  supper,  she  put  the  two  silver  dollars  in  a  little  box  inside  a  bigger  box  and  put  them  in  the  very  back  right-hand  corner  of  her  drawer  in  the  bureau.  THE  next  day  was  Saturday,  and  it  rained,  so  Jim  stayed  in  the  barn  and  shelled  corn  for  the  chickens,  and  Maybeth  watched.  &quot;I  wuz  gwine  bring  my  little  girl  to  play  with  you  nex'  week,&quot;  said  Jim.  Maybeth  was  stricken.  &quot;How  come  you  can't,  Jim?  Oh,  how  come  you  can't?&quot;  &quot;She  ain't  got  no  fine  dress  like  you  is.  She  ain't  got  nothin'  'cept  one  ole  brown  dress.  She  say  she  shame  to  come.&quot;  Maybeth  broke  the  stubborn  grains  of  corn  from  a  cob  one  at  a  time,  and  her  heart  beat  very  fast.  &quot;Have  you  sure  'nough  got  a  little  girl,  Jim?&quot;  Jim  did  not  answer.  &quot;There's  dress-  es  at  the  Jew  store,&quot;  he  went  on  mourn-  fully.  &quot;But  they's  nigh  onto  two  dollars.  Take  the  nigger  long  time  to  make  up  that  money.&quot;  A  few  minutes  later,  Maybeth  was  hurrying  back  to  the  house  in  the  rain.  She  took  the  two  silver  dollars  out  of  the  little  box  within  the  larger  box,  and  ran  back  to  the  barn.  &quot;What  you  fixin'  to  do?&quot;  JimWil-  liams  asked,  holding  the  two  coins  in  his  open  palm  and  cutting  his  eyes  toward  her.  &quot;For  the  dress,&quot;  Maybeth  said.  &quot;You  know.  For  your  little  girl's  dress,  Jim.&quot;  &quot;Your  daddy  ain't  gwine  like  you  playing  around  with  this  money,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  ain't  going  to  know,&quot;  said  May-  beth.  You  sure?&quot;  he  asked,  snapping  shut  thethree  clasps  on  his  little  leather  purse.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  tell  him,&quot;  said  Maybeth.  &quot;Gwine  git  her  a  yalla  dre-ess,&quot;  sang Jim  softly,  and  the  corn  poured  out  of  his  fingers  in  rich  handfuls  and  rattled  against  the  side  of  the  scuttle  as  fast  as  the  rain  on  the  tin  roof.  Maybeth  did  not  know  why  she  had  given  Jim  the  money.  It  was  like  when  you  are  playing  mud  pies  by  yourself  and  you  get  real  salt  and  pepper  for  the  pies,  or  when  you  are  dressing  up  to  play  lady  and  you  make  a  mess  of  all  the  closets  and  cedar  chests  trying  to  get  something  real  and  exactly  right-the  high-heeled  button  shoes  or  the  hat  with  the  plume.  She  and  Jim  were  playing  that  Jim  had  a  little  girl.  But  when  the  playing  was  over,  Jim  did  not  give  the  money  back,  and,  of  course,  she  did  not  really  know  that  she  had  expected  him  to,  so  she  never  asked.  And  because  she  wasn't  exactly  sure  what  money  meant,  her  sorrow  centered  on  the  two  little  empty  boxes  in  the  corner  of  the  dresser  drawer.  She  thought  of  them  with  an  empty  feeling  when  she  rode  to  school  on  Monday  morning  in  the  pickup  with  Daddy  and  saw  a  yellow  dress  in  the  Jew-store  window.  When  she  rode  back  from  school  on  the  bus,  she  looked  again,  and  something  went  queer  inside  her,  because  the  yellow  dress  was  gone.  Maybeth  ran  so  hard  down  the  hill  to  the  field  that  afternoon  that  the  pound  of  her  feet  shook  her  all  over  and  she  could  hardly  stop  running  at  the  fence.  All  the  way  home  in  the  bus,  all  the  way  through  the  yard  and  down  the  hill,  she  could  picture  Jim  plow-  ing  with  the  little  girl  in  the  yellow  dress  behind  him  in  the  furrow,  and  they  would  look  up  when  Maybeth  came.  From  the  fence,  she  could  see  that  Jimwas  plowing  down  at  the  far  corner,  where  the  land  was  low-  est;  he  was  almost  through  busting  the  up-  per  field.  She  could  just  see  the  top  of  his  head  following  Dick's  flapping  ears  up  the  slope.  May-  beth  crawled  through  the  barbed  wire  and  caught  a  snag  in  her  dress.  When  she  had  pulled  it  free,  and  looked  up,  Jimwas  in  full  view  on  the  high-  er  ground,  and  he  was  alone.  Maybeth  came  slowly  out  of  the  maple  shade  into  the  hot  sun.  As  she  " b"crossed  the  rows,  the  clods  made  her  stumble  once  or  twice.  She  fell  in  behind  him  at  last.  &quot;I  tore  my  dress.  See?&quot;  she  said,  holding  up  the  snagged  hem.  He  glanced  back,  the  sweat  big  on  his  temples  and  catching  the  sun  on  his  cheek.  &quot;Sho&quot;  did,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  shorely  did.&quot;  They  were  back  beside  the  bluff  before  she  asked,  &quot;How  come  your  little  girl  didn't  come  today,  Jim?&quot;  He  had  stopped,  with  the  plow  in  the  new  furrow,  to  cut  himself  a  plug  of  tobac-  co.  He  jerked  his  kinky  head  toward  the  creek.  &quot;She  down  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Down  there?&quot;  &quot;She  shame  to  come  till  you  come.  She  say  she  gwine  set  in  the  bushes  and  watch  for  you.  She  be  comin'  on  in  a  minute  now.&quot;  Maybeth  ran  to  the  edge  of  the  bluff,  among  the  honeysuckle  vines,  and  stared  and  stared  down  toward  the  low  willows  along  the  creek  bank,  until  their  sharp  spring  green  blurred  in  her  eyes.  &quot;Where,  Jim,  where?&quot;  Jim  hooked  the  lines  over  the  plow  handle.  &quot;Whoa,  mule,&quot;  he  said.  He  walked  away  from  her  along  the  edge  of  the  bluff  and  stood  on  the  highest  point,  bigger  than  anything  from  sky  to  sky.  He  pointed.  &quot;See,&quot;  he  said,  and  his  tone  was  in-  finite.  &quot;Look  yonder.  She  setting  on  the  groun'.  See.  She  done  crossed  her  legs.))  &quot;Has  she  got  on  a-  a  yellow  dress?&quot;  &quot;Yes'm!  Yes'm!  You  sees  her!  You  sees  her  sho'!&quot;  &quot;Is  she  sitting  under  that  bigges'  clump  of  willow,  right  over  yonder?  Sitting  cross-legged?&quot;  &quot;'Yes'm!  That's  right!  bigges'  clump.&quot;  &quot;Sort  of  with  one  hand  on  the  ground?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  Ma'am!  You  sees  her  sho'!&quot;  Then,  in  two  strides,  he  was  back  at  the  plow.  &quot;She'll  come.  My  little  girl'll  come.  Gee,  mule.  She  knows  we  done  seen  her,  and  she'll  come.  Gee  up,  sir!&quot;  The  plow  ran  into  the  earth,  and  Maybeth,  still  standing  on  the  bluff,  could  hear  from  somewhere  the  creak  of  the  harness,  and  the  tearing  of  little  roots  as  the  soft  ground  was  severed.  She  stood  staring,  and  the  green  blur  beyond  the  lower  field  fanned  out  and  then  closed  together  around  the  shape  of  something-was  it  something?-- like  a  still  image  under  the  willow  trees.  Humming  to  himself,  Jim  Williams  passed  farther  down  the  slope,  but  May-  beth  stayed  on  the  bluff,  as  motionless  as  the  fluted  honeysuckle  bloom  beside  her  hand  and  the  willows  across  the  lower  field  standing  up  in  the  windless  air.  She  saw  something  move  under  the  willows.  Maybeth  began  to  walk,  and  then  she  began  to  run,  faster  and  faster.  The  rows,  with  their  heavy  chunks  of  clod-  ded  earth,  flew  beneath  her,  trying  to  trip  her,  to  keep  her  from  the  hill  and  the  white  house  on  the  hill  and  Mother.  She  caught  her  breath  a  little  in  the  yard,  and  then  she  went  in  and  found  Mother  in  the  kitchen,  drinking  some  water.  &quot;'Why,  precious,  why  are  you  so   hot?&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Why  did  you  come  back  from  the  field?&quot;  How  could  you  tell  about  the  yellow  dress  and  something  coming  alive  be-  neath  the  willows?  &quot;I-  I  got  hungry,&quot;  said  Maybeth.  Mother  gave  her  a  piece  of  cold  corn  bread  and  sent  her  out  on  the  back  steps.  There  was  a  sound  around  the  corner  of  the  house.  A  Bantam  rooster  stepped  toward  her  on  the  flagstone  walk.  Maybeth  jumped  up,  trembling,  and  flung  the  muffin  to  him  and  ran  into  the  house,  through  one  room  and  another.  &quot;Mother!&quot;  she  called.  &quot;Mother!&quot;  &quot;In  here,  honey.&quot;  When  she  came  into  the  room,  her  mother  looked  up  at  her.  Then  she  laid  aside  her  darning  basket  and  took  May-  beth  into  her  arms  and  rocked  her  in  the  rocking  chair. "