 b"LATE  in  the  afternoon,  when  their  I  work  was  done,  the  young  men  ofthe  town  sailed  their  boats  along  the  coast,  out  past  the  big  hotels  where  foreigners  stayed.  They  drifted  in  a  wide,  restless  half  circle  around  the  private  beaches  belonging  to  the  hotels.  They  liked  to  look  at  the  foreign  people  and  at  the  girls.  The  foreigners  carried  portable  radios  andsmoked  expensive  cigarettes  and  their  voices-French,  German,  and  English-floated  over  the  calm  Adriatic  bays  and  rocky  shore.  The  hotels,  up  on  a  low  cliff  behind  the  beaches,  were  square  and  imposing,  built  before  the  war  and  the  People's  Revolution.  Now  the  hotels  were  said  to  belong  to  the  people,  and  it  was  per-  haps  because  of  this  ownership  that  the  people  hung  about  at  a  distance,  staring  in.  There  were  Yugoslavs  as  well  as  strangers  in  the  hotels-well-to-do  civil  engineers,  and  meritorious  members  of  the  police-but  the  young  men  were  not  interested  in  any  of  them.  One  would  have  said,  indeed,  that  they  failed  to  see  them.  The  chief  magnet  those  last,  hot  days  of  July  was  a  trio  of  girls  on  the  beach  of  the  Hotel  [REDACTED].  All  day,  every  day,  the  girls  lay,  stretched  like  offerings,  on  the  warm  rocks,  under  a  sun  that  bleached  their  hair  and  turned  their  faces  brown.  They  had  neat  hair  and  straight  tecth,  and  they  wore  frilly  skirted  bathing  suits  that  covered  the  tops  of  their  rather  fat  legs.  &quot;American  women  are  said  to  have  the  finest  legs  in  the  world,&quot;  one  of  the  dining-room  waiters  remarked,  as  if  he  had  been  deceived.  He  hung  over  the  railing  of  the  dining  terrace,  watching  the  three  motionless  girls.  From  the  pocket  of  his  white  jacket  he  fished  out  two  butts  he  had  saved  from  the  break-  fast  ashtrays.  He  offered  one  to  his  com-  panion,  another  waiter,  who  lit  both,  flipping  the  match  down  among  the  bathers.  &quot;'They  aren't  women,&quot;  his  com-  panion  said.  &quot;'They  are  little  girls.&quot;  &quot;'They  think  they  are  women.&quot;  Nancy  and  Patty  and  Linda  were  conscious  of  being  observed.  Even  with-  out  opening  their  eyes,  they  could  tell  when  men  were  looking.  'They  always  smiled  at  the  waiters-the  right  sort  of  smile,  friendly  but  distant-and  they  swam  cautiously,  tentatively,  around  the  anchored  boats  and  the  blond  young  men  from  town.  Nancy  and  Patty  were  sisters;  Linda  was  a  friend.  The  three  were  being  clucked  through  Europe  by  a  Miss  Baxter,  a  professional  chaperone,  who,  though  careful,  had  decided  that  no  harm  could  come  to  them  on  the  beach,  and  had  gone  off  to  town  today  on  the  pretext  of  visiting  churches.  The  girls  had  been  looking  at  things  in  4974616c79  and  were  shortly  to  be  looking  at  things  in  [REDACTED].  They  had  looked  at  every-  thing  in4672616e6365,  in  [REDACTED],  in  Florence,  in  Rome,  and  in  4974616c79,  all  in  less  than  four  weeks.  It  had  been  cold  in  [REDACTED]  and  hot  in  Rome  and  smelly  in  4974616c79,  and  this  beach,  halfway  down  the  Dal-  matian  coast,  was  the  best  part  of  the  trip.  They  were  good-tempered  girls.  They  made  no  demands  on  the  strange  things  they  saw,  or  the  strange  people  they  met,  and  they  had  left  a  bland,  favorable  impression  with  the  travel  agents  and  consular  officials  with  whom  they  had  come  in  contact.  To  the  un-  discerning,  they  were  alike  as  triplets.  Miss  Baxter  could  tell  them  apart,  though.  So  could  the  boys  in  the  boats.  Nancy  and  Patty  lay  with  their  eyes  shut,  silent,  as  if  speech  might  interfere  with  the  businessof  getting  brown.  The  advantages  of  having  spent  the  summer  abroad  were  easily  outweighed  by  the  fear  that  in  the  autumn  they  would  be  paler  than  their  friends.  Secretly,  they  wished  they  had  stayed  home  and  gone  up  to  the  lake;  but  it  was  a  wish  neither  of  them  expressed,  not  even  to  each  oth-  er.  Someone  had  told  them  that  there  were  no  beaches  in  [REDACTED]-none,  at  least,  where  they  would  be  staying.  They  were  determined  to  grasp  all  the  benefits  possible  from  these  few  days  of  sun.  Only  Linda  seemed  unable  to  settle  down.  She  looked  at  the  sea  and  then  up  at  the  waiters.  Suddenly  she  got  up,  with  no  explanation,  and  climbed  the  concrete  steps  that  led  up  to  the  hotel.  Her  departure  had  the  effect  of  a  signal.  The  sisters  behaved  as  if  an  inhibiting  force  had  been  removed.  Patty  rolled  over,  sighing.  Nancy  knelt,  blinking.  She  looked  at  the  shallow  side  of  the  rocks,  and  at  the  part  where  it  was  safe  to  dive.  &quot;Going  in?&quot;  said  Patty.  Nancy  shook  herself  like  a  little  dog,  cold  at  the  thought  ofthe  water  she  would  strike.  She  climbed  to  the  top  of  the  piled-up  rocks,  gathered  courage,  and  suddenly  dived.  The  boat  nearest  the  beach  was  painted  blue.  One  of  the  boys  on  board  smoked  a  cigarette,  the  other  sat  with  his  feet  over  the  side,  moving  them  in  the  colorless  water.  He  watched  the  girl  who  was  swimming  out  to  them.  Both  boys  were  fair,  and  nearly  black  with  sun.  Nancy  caught  a  rope  and,  with  the  other  hand,  pushed  back  her  dripping  hair.  &quot;I  like  your  boat,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Come  on,  then,&quot;  said  the  boy  with  the  cigarette.  He  bent  over  and  held  out  his  hand.  &quot;Uh-uh,&quot;&quot;  She  shook  her  head  vigor-  ously.  Her  eyelashes  were  stuck  to-  gether  in  points  with  water.  The  boy  with  the  cigarette  lay  prone.  He  edged  closer  to  the  side.  He  looked  at  her  and  then,  suddenly  giving  up,  lowered  his  head  on  his  crossed  arms.  &quot;Come  with  us,&quot;  said  his  friend,  slowly,  with  great  concentration.  He  had  to  fish  each  word  from  a  sea  teem-  ing  with  English  expressions.  &quot;Oh,  for  goodness'  sake,&quot;  said  the  girl.  &quot;Can't  a  person  even  talk  about  your  boat  without  starting  something?&quot;  The  boy  smoking  had  not  under-  stood.  He  saidto  his  friend,  &quot;Ask  her  to  come  for  a  sail.  Tell  her  we'll  go  around  the  island.&quot;  His  friend  shook  his  head  impatiently,  and  the  girl  let  go  the  rope.  She  pushed  herself  out  with  a  long  backstroke  and  then  turned  over  and  swam  to  shore.  They  watched  her  pick  her  way  out  on  the  shallow  side  of  the  pier,  over  rocks  perilous  with  sea  urchins.  The  boy  smoking  threw  his  cigarette  into  the  calm  water.  He  said,  &quot;Why " b"does  she  always  come  out,  then?  They're  crazy,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;The  other  girl  would  come,&quot;  said  his  friend.  He  looked  at  the  dry  rocks  above  the  shore,  where  Linda,  back  from  the  hotel,  was  settling  down  on  a  towel.  &quot;''That's  the  one,&quot;  he  said,  with  an  assurance  that  would  not  have  sur-  prised  the  sisters.  Men  had  followed  the  girls  in  4974616c79,  but  only  Linda's  door  had  been  nearly  broken  down.  She  was  not  prettier,  or  fairer,  or  better  dressed.  But  she  was  the  one  Miss  Baxter  watched,  and,  with  a  resigned  conces-  sion  to  the  workings  of  nature,  sodid  Nancy  and  Patty.  It  took  Linda,  as  always,  about  three  minutes  to  arrange  herself  on  a  beach  towel.  &quot;I've  had  a  letter,&quot;  she  said,  at last.  &quot;Remember  that  reporter  we  met  in  Florence,  the  one  that  was  taking  pic-  tures  for  that  Italian  magazine?&quot;  The  sisters  exchanged  a  look.  The  reporter,  like  every  other  man  encoun-  tered  on  the  trip,  had  shown  an  undis-  guised  preference  for  Linda.  &quot;He  wants  to  know  if  we're  coming  back  through  4974616c79,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;They're  trying  out  a  new  kind  of  submarine  in  Genoa  or  someplace.  He  wants  me  to  go  down  in  it,  in  the  submarine.  He  says  he'll  take  my  picture.  As  he  says,  how  can  you  make  a  submarine  interest-  ing  all  by  itself?  He  says  the  story  needs  me.  He  says  they'll  put  me  on  the  cover.&quot;  &quot;On  what  cover?&quot;  said  Nancy.  She  longed  to  ask  how  he  had  known  where  to  write,  but  felt  it  an  unnecessary  diver-  sion.  &quot;Oh,  of  some  magazine.&quot;  The  sisters  were  silent.  They  were  by  no  means  plain,  and  it  seemed  unfair  that  Linda  should  have  everything.  One  of  us  would  have  had  a  chance  if  Linda  hadn't  been  along,  Nancy  thought.  &quot;I've  cabled  home,&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;That's  why  I  went  up  to  the  hotel  just  now.  I  thought  'd  better  do  it  and  get  it  over  with.  I've  asked  my  parents  if  it's  all  right.  Baxie  wasn't  around,  so  I  sent  the  cable  myself.&quot;  &quot;Why  a  cable?&quot;  said  Patty.  &quot;Could-  n't  you  have  just  written?&quot;  &quot;He  wants  an  answer  right  away.  Anyway,  it's  better  to  have  your  parents'  consent;  it's  only  polite. " b"sort  of  have  to  have  it,&quot;  said  Linda,  calmly,  as  if  she  were  frequently  in-  volved  in  these  emergencies.  &quot;I  cabled,  'Offered  chance  to  go  down  in  new-  type  submarine  for  magazine  cover  please  cable  immediate  permission.&quot;  Soon  as  I  getthe  answer,  I'll  tell  him  yes.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  suppose  your  parents  would  hardly  refuse,&quot;  said  Patty.  &quot;I  mean,  it's  a  once-in-a-lifetime  chance.&quot;  &quot;They  might,&quot;  said  Linda,  frown-  ing.  &quot;They  don't  know  it's  a  responsible  sort  of  submarine,  with  officers  and  ev-  erything.  They  don't  know  there're  go-  ing  to  be  reporters  and  people  around,  and  they  don't  know  it  isn't  going  to  cost  them  any  more  money.  I  couldn't  get  all  that  in.&quot;  &quot;You  could  have  got  in  'expenses  paid,  &quot;  said  Nancy.  &quot;Anyway,  they  probably  wouldn't  mind  if  they  did  have  to  pay  something,  for  a  thing  like  that.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  ask  them  for  more  money,&quot;  said  Linda,  virtuously.  At  this  point,  a  display  of  virtue  was  insupportable.  &quot;Naturally  you  wouldn't  ask  for  any  more,&quot;  said  Nancy.  &quot;Naturally.  It  hap-  pens  to  be  free.&quot;  She  added,  &quot;You  didn't  even  tell  them  which  navy  it  was.&quot;  &quot;I  forgot.&quot;  After  a  silence,  Patty  said,  &quot;T'll  bet  your  parents  won't  want  you  to  be  on  the  cover.  Ours  certainly  wouldn't.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Nancy,  &quot;and  what's  more  I  wouldn't  like  it.  Not  for  myself,&quot;  &quot;Neither  would  I,&quot;  her  sister  said.  &quot;Well,  it  wouldn't  be  either  of  you,  anyway,&quot;  said  Linda,  &quot;so  it  doesn't  matter.&quot;  She  lay  flat  on  her  back,  look-  ing  dreamily-but  with  slightly  nar-  rowed  eyes,  as  if  there  were  calculation  in  the  dream-up  to  the  fringe  of  pine  that  hung  over  the  edge  of  the  cliff.  There  was  so  much  truth  in  her  re-  mark  that  the  others  were  not  of-  fended.  Linda's  success  was  inevitable:  she  would  be  famous  first,  married  first,  everything  first.  Unable  to  compete,  they  tacitly  decided  to  share  the  excite-  ment  of  her  career.  &quot;Wait  till  Baxie  hears  it,&quot;  Patty  said.  &quot;She'll  be  thrilled.  It's  a  lot  more  ex-  citing  than  her  old  churches.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Baxie,&quot;  Linda  said,  closing  her  eyes,  giving  herself  up  to  the  deli-  ciousness  of  sun  and  of  being  pretty  and  desired.  &quot;Churches  are  Baxie's  kind  of  fun,  I  guess.&quot;  A}  it  happened,  Miss  Baxter  was  spending  the  afternoon  in  a  caf\xc3\xa9.  The  caf\xc3\xa9  was  on  a  square  facing  what  seemed  to  be  a  very  old  church.  Con-  scientiously,  she  noted  every  feature  of  the  church  and  of  the  square,  so  that  she  could  tell  the  girls  about  it  later  on.  The  girls  were  not  allowed  to  sit  in  caf\xc3\xa9s.  They  had  promised  their  parents  before  sailing.  Cozy  with  guilt,  Miss  Baxter wondered  if  she  was  being  fair  in  enjoy-  ing  something  her  charges  were  not  permitted.  Returning  to  her  exercise  in  observation,  she  recorded  swallows,  two  sailors  in  uniform,  a  Gothic  fountain,  the  absence  of  motorcars,  and  the  fact  that  every  window  shutter  on  the  square  was  painted  the  same  shade  of  green.  She  was  in  a  mood  to  find  everything  lovely;  the  glass  she  drank  from  seemed  enchanting,  and  a  poster  announcing  a  summer  festival  with  the  words  '*SUMMER  GAMES-JEUX  D'ETE&quot;  struck  her  as  being  something  of  great  significance  and  charm.  Her  companion,  a  shabby  gentleman  from  a  tourist  office,  ordered  slivovitz  for  them  both.  He  was  fat  and  amiable  and  anxious  to  improve  his  English.  He  carried  a  dictionary  and  looked  every-  thing  up  before  he  spoke.  Miss  Baxter  gravely  assisted  him.  To  her  charges,  she  appeared  plain  and  effaced.  How-  ever,  the  man  from  the  tourist  office  was  not  the  first  to  have  asked  for  help  with  the  English  language.  Miss  Bax-  ter's  blue  eyes  held  a  kind  of  watery  sympathy.  She  wore  soft  pastel  suits  with  felt  flowers  pinned  to  the  lapel,  and  blouses  with  pleated  jabots.  Part  of  the  year,  she  taught  history  in  a  girls'  board-  ing  school.  Summers,  she  hired  herself  out  as  governess,  chaperone,  compan-  ion-anything  that  promised  a  season  of  travel  or  country  living.  This  sum-  mer  was  particularly  wonderful,  forthe  girls'  parents  had  let  her  choose  the  travel  plan  and  given  them  all  a  large  allowance.  She  was  almost  excruciat-  ingly  grateful.  Three  times  a  week  she  sent  the  parents  a  dull,  de-  tailed  account  of  the  places  they  had  visited  and  the  things  they  had  seen.  &quot;We  particularly  enjoyed  seeing  the  love-  ly  Gold  Staircase  of  4974616c79,&quot;  she  had  writ-  ten.  &quot;Linda  was  in-  trigued  by  the  amusing  round  hats  worn  by  the  Italian  gentlemen  of  the  Renaissance.  In  the  morning  we  hired  a  gondola.  The  girls  were  amused  at  the  bargain-  ing  required  in  hiring  this  conveyance.  Nancy  remarked  ...&quot;  Three  times  a  week  she  put  this  sort  of  thing  in  the  post,  closing  each  let-  ter  with  her  fulsome  " b"thanks.  She  wanted  to  thank  the  parents,  but  she  also  wanted  to  let  them  know  that  they  were  getting  their  money's  worth.  When  she  was  with  the  girls,  she  talked  incessantly.  She  felt  that  she  was  not  doing  her  duty  or  earning  her  keep  if  she  kept  a  single  impression  to  herself.  Sometimes,  talking  on  and  on,she  obliterated  the  scene  she  was  so  anxious  they  should  take  away  with  them.  She  had  been  deeply  moved  in  4974616c79  by  a  small  thing,  the  re-  flection  of  water  from  the  canal  outside  shin-  ing  on  the  ceiling  of  the  room.  She  had  pointed  it  out  to  the  girls,  one  of  whom  had  said  in-  dulgently,  &quot;Honestly,  Baxie!&quot;  Yet  she  re-  membered  it  now,  and  she  remembered  Flor-  ence  because  for  break-  fast  she  had  been  given  a  fresh  fig  that  was  cold  as  water  and  tasted  of  cream.  She  also  remem-  bered  how  the  bootboy  in  Florence  had  pointed  to  her  bed,  then  her,  then  himself,  then  clasped  his  hands  and  put  his  head  against  them.  &quot;Did  you  care  for  4974616c79?&quot;  said  her  companion  politely.  He  waved  a  fly  away  from  his  drink.  Miss  Baxter  considered  her  answer  with  care.  The  Croats  and  the  Italians,  she  knew,  were  traditional  enemies.  &quot;It  is  difficult  to  travel  in  aLatin  country  with  a  party  of  girls,&quot;  she  said.  Her  drink  smelled  of  warm  fruit.  She  drank  the  last  of  it  and  felt  patches  of  heat  covering  her  cheeks.  He  smiled  sympathetically  and  said,  &quot;It  will  be  different  here.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  Tears  started  to  her  eyes.  How  kind  he  was,  how  kind  they  all  were,  how  kind  the  Florentine  bootboy  had  been,  how  lovely  the  swallows  were,  swooping  acrossthe  square!  &quot;We  are  not  like  the  Italians,&quot;  he  said.  The  waiter  took  away  their  small  glasses  and  set  fresh  drinks  before  them.  'Thank  goodness  for  that,&quot;  Miss  Baxter  murmured,  not  really  listening.  &quot;Our  boys  are  good  boys,&quot;  the  man  said.  What  he  next  had  to  say  he  as-  sembled  from  his  dictionary.  Miss  Bax-  ter  sipped  her  new  drink,  smiling  at  everyone.  He  had  found  the  words:  &quot;I  should  say  that,  with  our  people,  what  matters  is  only  the  pure  animal  pleasure  of  making  love.&quot;  Uttered  in  bald  Eng-  lish,  it  sounded  quite  wrong.  Hastily,  he  ruffled  his  dictionary  again.  &quot;I'm  sure,&quot;  said  Miss  Baxter,  still  dreamy.  The  word  &quot;pure&quot;  had  taken  hold  and  she  derived  a  sleepy  pleasure  from  the  idea  of  her  girls  purely  in  love.  She  had  been  so  often  in  love  herself,  and  fell  so  easily  into  romantic  difficul-  ties!  The  man  from  the  tourist  bureau  seemed  in  no  hurry  to  get  back  to  work.  Miss  Baxter  was  perfectly  content  to  sit  on  beside  him.  Conversation  became  at  once  halting  and  discursive:  she  remem-  bered  that  they  represented  countries  politically  apart.  Although  not  in  the  least  politically  minded,  it  seemed  to  her  natural  that  the  subject  might  arise,  and  destroy  this  new  relationship-warm,  sleepy,  pleasantly  sensuous.  It  was  pos-  sible  that  he,  too,  felt  this  constraint.  Their  talk  became  slower.  An  aware-  ness  of  what  they  were  really  about,  and  of  what  this  was  bound  to  lead  to,  sur-  rounded  them  like-Miss  Baxter  thought-a  warm  little  cloud.  All  the  same,  it  made  it  difficult  to  get  on  with  the  normal  interchange  of  polite  speech,  particularly  between  strangers  who  barely  spoke  the  same  tongue.  It  was  almost  seven  o'clock  before  the  length-  ening  shadows  of  buildings  on  the  square  reminded  her  of  how  long  she  had  been  away.  Yawning,  her  com-  panion  paid  for  their  drinks.  For  the  moment,  they  were  glad  to  part.  The  man  from  the  tourist  office  ad-  mired  her  frilled  blouse.  &quot;Our  women  are  like  men,&quot;  he  said,  holding  her  hand.  &quot;It  is  your  femininity  we  find  ap-  pealing.&quot;  The  &quot;you&quot;  was  collective-  Miss  Baxter  was  too  modest  to  accept  the  entire  tribute  for  herself-yet  some-  thing  like  intimacy  established  itself,  as  if  they  had  been  through  danger  together,  and  Miss  Baxter,  brushing  something  invisible  from  her  cheek,  agreed  that  femininity  was  important.  They  made  an  appointment  to  meet  on  Sunday.  &quot;It  is  our  last  day,&quot;  she  said,  already  savoring  Sunday,  and  feeling  warmly  sad  at  the  parting  to  follow.  PANIC  came  during  the  walk  back  to  the  hotel.  The  road  from  town  was  long  and  hot,  and  the  flaming  oleanders  cast  a  thin  lacyshade,  How  " b"could  she  have  left  her  girls  alone,  on  the  beach,  for  an  entire  afternoon?  I  cannot  be  trusted,  she  thought.  It  was  a  thought  she  wore  with  comfort.  It  be-  came  her,  like  the  curly  lines  of  her  clothes  and  the  almost  liquid  anxiety  in  her  eyes.  She  thought  about  Sunday,  and  the  man  from  the  tourist  office.  He  was  fat  and  affable.  He  was  a  Aid  man,  she  thought,  halting  in  a  patch  of  shade.  But  her  charges,  her  girls!  They  might  have  drowned,  or  had  indigestion,  or  disappeared  in  a  sailboat  with  the  blond  young  men  from  town.  'Thepure  animal  pleas-  ure  of  making  love,  the  man  had  said.  Perhaps  he  had  been  trying  to  warn  her.  The  trouble  had  been  his  voice,  so  very  reassuring;  it  had  prevented  her  from  taking  in  the  import  of  his  words.  By  the  time  she  reached  the  hotel,  anxiety  was  like  a  rope  around  her  throat,  and  her  voice,  when  she  asked  the  desk  clerk  if  he  had  seen  her  girls,  was  hoarse  and  uncontrolled.  &quot;Your  girls  are  here,&quot;  said  Linda,  behind  her.  They  had  dressed  for  the  evening  in  fresh,  cool  blouses  and  skirts.  Their  hair,  streaked  with  sun  and  salt,  was  brushed,  their  lips  rouged  and  ex-  pectant.  Their  expectancy  terrified  Miss  Baxter;they  seemed  to  her  terribly  in  danger.  I  left  them  alone  for  most  of  a  day  in  a  country  where  anything  might  happen,  she  said  to  herself,  but  even  as  she  produced  the  thought,  she  knew  thatthe  danger  she  had  left  them  ex-  posed  to  was  not  political.  'The  truth  was  that  she  herself  had  always  been  expectant,  still  was  (What  about  Sun-  day?  What  about  the  man  from  the  tourist  bureau?  ),  and  her  life  was  strewn  with  errors  and  moves  of  un-  surpassable  stupidity.  &quot;Oh,  Baxie!&quot;  Nancy  cried,  falsely  enthusiastic.  &quot;Guess  what!  Linda's  been  asked  to  go  down  in  a  submarine,  and  she's  cabled  home  for  permission.&quot;  Even  if  I  were  perfectly  sober  and  could  consider  this  rationally,  Miss  Baxter  thought,  I  could  not  consider  myself  a  greater  failure  than  at  this  moment.  &quot;I  wish  youhad  discussed  it  with  me  first,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  was  up  to  me  to  send  the  cable.  What  will  Linda's  parents  think  of  me?  After  all  they've  spent.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  going  to  cost  them  any-  thing,&quot;  Linda  said  sulkily.  &quot;I  mean,  after  all  they've  spent  for  me,&quot;  said  Miss  Baxter.  &quot;Oh,  I  cannot  bear  it.  No,  no,  don't  tell  me  who  has  invited  Linda  to  go  down  in  a  submarine.  One  of  those  boys  in  the  sailboats  .  .  .&quot;  They  denied  it  together,  indignant.     Linda  said,  &quot;Honestly,  Baxie,  when  you  get  like  that,  a  person  doesn't  know  what  to  do  with  you.  It's  not  your  fault.  You  couldn'thelp  it  if  he  asked  me.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98WhO'P  e  &quot;This  reporter,&quot;  Nancy  said.  &quot;You  know,  the  one  we  met  in  Florence.  The  one  that  told  us  to  be  careful  in  4974616c79  not  to  talk  to  married  men.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  but  then  we  met  this  other  man,  remember?&quot;  said  her  sister.  &quot;''That  sort  ofnice  married  man  with  the  mustache,  on  the  train,  the  one  that  told  us  never  to  talk  to  single  men?&quot;  Miss  Baxter  was  not  to  be  diverted.  &quot;I  said  nothing  in  any  of  my  letters  home  about  a  re-  porter.  What  on  earth  are  your  parents  going  to  think  now?  If  only  you  girls  would  try  to  understand  my  position,  my  ...  my  position,&quot;&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  Bax,&quot;  said  Linda,  affectionate-  ly.  She  put  her  arm  about  Miss  Baxter's  shoulders  and  said,  &quot;What's  your  posi-  tion,  Baxie?&quot;  The  elating  effect  of  the  slivovitz  had  worn  off  just  enough  to  give  her  a  headache.  But  she  still  retained  an  alcoholic  feeling  of  clarity.  &quot;My  posi-  tion  is  that  I  owe  your  parents  a  great  deal  in  return  for  this  trip.  Your  position  is  that  you  are  spoiled,  silly,  and  rich.&quot;  She  spoke  so  quietly  that  it  was  a  mo-  ment  or  so  before  any  of  the  girls  real-  izeda  scene  had  been  created.  'They  looked  at  one  another.  They  considered  her  reference  to  money  indelicate  in  the  extreme,  but  none  of  them  could  say  so.  'They  had  been  brought  up  to  deprecate  extravagance  and  to  say  that  they  couldn't  afford  things.  Also,  they  felt  that  Baxie  had  no  right  to  divert  atten-  tion  from  Linda  to  herself.  This  was  Linda's  moment;  even  Baxie,  unworld-  ly  though  she  was,  ought  to  realize  it.  In  silence  they  filed  out  to  the  dining  terrace  for  dinner.  In  silence  they  at-  tempted  to  sulk;  butthey  kept  forgetting  they  were  annoyed  and  even  found  themselves  commenting  on  Miss  Bax-  ter's  description  ofa  church.  &quot;How  long  will  we  be  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;A  week.&quot;  &quot;A  whole  week!&quot;  It  was  impossible  to  tell  whether  her  exclamation  meant  joy  or  dismay.  &quot;A  whole  week  for  all  of  [REDACTED],&quot;  Miss  Baxter  said.  &quot;Then  back  to  [REDACTED]  and  home.  We  shall  have  had  the  best  of  it  by  then.  August  is  sohot.  We've  had  the  best  part  of  the  summer.  There's  only  tomorrow  here  and  then  Sunday,  our  last  day.&quot;  &quot;Our  last  day,&quot;  Nancy  said,  working  herself  up  to  a  feeling  of  nostalgia.  &quot;I'll  have  my  answer  by  then,&quot;  Lin-  da  said,  looking  dreamily  out  to  the  warm  summer  sea.  &quot;I'll  have  my  cable  and  I  can  tell  him  yes,  and  then  we'll  have  [REDACTED]  and  then  there's  my  sub-  marine.  Oh,  Baxie!&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Miss  Baxter  said.  &quot;Only  don't  count  on  it,  Linda  dear.&quot;  But  this  was  so  preposterous  that  none  of  them  bothered  to  reply."