 b"I  AM  always  very  careful  of  my  ap-pearance,  so  you  could  not  say  that  I  spent  much  more  time  than  usual  over  myself  that  morning.  I  trimmed  and  oiled  my  mustache,  but  then  I  often  do  that;  I  always  like  it  to  look  very  neat,  like  Raj  Kapoor's,  the  film  star's.  My  sister-in-law  and  my  wife  were  watching  me,  my  sister-in-law  smiling  and  resting  one  hand  on  her  hip,  and  my  wife  only  looking  anxious.  I  knew  why  she  was  anxious.  All  night  she  had  been  whispering  to  me,  saying,  &quot;Get  this  job  and  take  me  away  to  live  somewhere  alone-only  you  and  I  and  the  chil-  dren.&quot;  I  had  answered  &quot;Yes,&quot;  because  I  wanted  to  go  to  sleep.  I  don't  know  where  and  why  she  has  taken  this  no-  tion  that  we  should  go  and  live  alone.  When  I  had  finished  combing  my  hair,  I  sat  on  the  floor,  and  my  sister-  in-law  brought  me  my  food  on  a  tray.  It  may  sound  strange  that  my  sister-in-  law,  and  not  my  wife,  should  serve  me,  but  itis  so  in  our  house.  It  used  to  be  my  mother  who  brought  me  my  food,  even  after  I  was  married;  she  would  never  allow  my  wife  to  do  this  for  me,  though  my  wife  wanted  to  very  much.  Then,  when  my  mother  got  so  old,  my  sister-in-law  began  to  serve  me,  I  know  that  my  wife  feels  deeply  hurt  by  this,  but  she  doesn't  dare  say  anything.  My  mother  really  doesn't  notice  things  any  more;  otherwise,  she  certainly  would  not  allow  my  sister-in-law  to  serve  me.  She  always  used  to  be  very  jealous  of  this  privilege,  though  she  never  cared  who  served  my  brother.  Now  she  has  become  so  old  that  she  can  hardly  see  anything,  and  most  ofthe  time  she  sits  in  the  corner  by  the  family  trunks,  and  folds  and  strokes  her  pieces  of  cloth.  For  years  now  she  has  been  collecting  pieces  of  cloth.  Some  of  them  are  very  old  and  dirty,  but  she  doesn't  care.  No-  body  else  is  allowed  to  touch  them,  and  once,  I  remember,  there  was  a  great  quarrel  because  my  wife  had  taken  one  of  them  to  make  a  dress  for  our  child.  My  mother  shouted  at  her-ft  was  ter-  rible  to  hear  her,  but  then  she  has  never  liked  my  wife-and  my  wife  was  very  much  afraid,  and  cried,  and  tried  to  excuse  herself.  I  hit  her  across  the  face,  not  very  hard  and  not  because  I  wanted  to,  but  only  to  satisfy  my  mother.  It  seemed  to  quiet  theold  woman,  and  she  went  back  to  folding  and  stroking  her  pieces  of  cloth.  Allthe  time  I  was  eating,  I  could  feel  my  sister-in-law  looking  at  me  and  smiling.  It  made  me  uncomfortable,  I  thought  she  might  be  smiling  because  she  knew  I  wouldn't  get  the  job  for  which  I  had  to  go  and  be  interviewed  thatday.  I  also  knew  I  wouldn't  get  it,  but  I  didn't  like  her  smiling  like  that,  as  if  she  were  saying,  &quot;You  see,  you  will  always  have  to  be  dependent  on  us.&quot;  It  is  clearly  my  brother's  duty  to  keep  me  and  my  family  until  I  can  get  work  and  contribute  my  own  earnings  to  the  household,  so  there  is  no  need  for  smiling.  But  itis  truethat  I  am  more  dependent  on  her  now  than  on  anyone  else.  Lately,  my  sister-in-law  has  become  more  and  more  the  most  impor-  tant  person  in  the  house,  and  now  she  even  keeps  the  keys  and  the  household  stores.  At  first,  I  didn't  like  this.  As  long  as  my  mother  was  managing  the  household,  I  was  sure  of  getting  many  extra  tidbits.  But  now  I  find  that  my  sister-in-law  is  also  very  kind  to  me-  much  more  kindthan  she  is  to  her  husband.  It  is  not  for  him  that  she  saves  the  tidbits,  or  for  her  children.  She  never  says  anything  when  she  gives  them  to  me,  but  she  smiles,  and  then  I  feel  confused  and  rather  embarrassed.  My  wife  has  noticed  what  she  does  for  me.  I  have  found  that  women  are  usual-  ly  kind  to  me.  I  think  they  realize  that  I  am  a  rather  sensitive  person,  and  that  therefore  I  must  be  treated  gently.  My  mother  has  always  treated  me  very  gen-  tly.  I  am  her  youngest  child,  and  I  am  fifteen  years  younger  than  my  brother,  who  is  next  to  me.  (She  did  have  sever-  al  children  in  between  us,  but  they  all  died.)  Right  from  the  time  when  I  was  a  tiny  baby,  she  understood  that  I  need-  ed  greater  care  and  tenderness  than  other  children.  She  always  made  me  sleep  close  beside  her  in  the  night,  and  in  the  day  I  usual-  ly  sat  with  her  and  my  grand-  mother  and  my  widowed  aunt,  who  were  also  very  fond  of  me.  When  I  got  bigger,  my  father  sometimes  want-  ed  to  take  me  to  help  in  his  stall  (he  had  a  little  grocer's  stall,  where  he  sold  lentils  and  rice  and  cheap  cigarettes  and  colored  drinks  in  bottles),  but  my  moth-  er  and  grandmother  and  aunt  never  liked  to  let  me  go.  Once,  I  remember,  he  did  take  me  with  him,  and  he  made  me  pour  some  lentils  out  of  paper  bags  into  a  tin.  I  rather  liked  pouring  the  lentils-they  made  such  a  nice  noise  as  they  landed  in  the  tin-but  suddenly  my  mother  came  and  was  very  angry  with  my  father  for  making  me  do  this  work.  She  took  me  home  at  once,  and  when  she  told  my  grandmother  and  aunt  what  had  happened,  they  stroked  me  and  kissed  me,  and  then  they  gave  me  a  beautiful  hot  fritter  to  eat.  The  fact  is,  right  from  childhood  I  have  been  R3  a  person  who  needs  a  lot  of  peace  and  rest,  and  my  food,  too,  has  to  be  rather  more  delicate  than  that  of  other  people.  I  have  often  tried  to  explain  this  to  my  wife,  but  as  she  is  not  very  intelligent,  she  doesn't  seem  to  understand.  Now  my  wife  was  watching  me  while  I  ate.  She  was  squatting  on  the  floor,  washing  our  youngest  baby;  the  child's  head  was  in  her  lap,  and  all  one  could  see  of  it  was  the  back  of  its  naked  legs.  My  wife  did  not  watch  me  as  openly  as  my  sister-in-law  did,  but  from  time  to  time  she  raised  her  eyes  to  me,  looking  very  worried  and  troubled.  She,  too,  was  thinking  about  the  job  for  which  I  was  going  to  be  interviewed,  but  she  was  anxious  that  I  should  get  it.  I  cannot  imagine  why  she  wanted  us  to  go  and  live  alone,  when  she  knew  that  it  was  not  possible  and  never  would  be.  And  even  if  it  were  possible,  I  would  not  like  it.  I  cannot  leave  my  mother,  and  I  do  not  think  I  would  like  to  live  away  from  my  sister-in-law.  I  often  look  at  her,  and  it  makes  me  happy.  Even  though  she  is  not  young  any  more,  she  is  still  beautiful.  She  is  tall,  with  big  hips  and  eyesthat  flash.  She  often  gets  angry,  and  then  she  is  the  most  beautiful  of  all.  Her  eyes  look  like  fire  and  she  shows  all  her  teeth,  which  are  very  strong  and  white,  and  her  head  is  proud,  with  the  black  hair  flying  loose.  My  wife  is  not  beautiful  at  all.  I  was  very  disap-  pointed  in  her  when  they  first  married  me  to  her.  Now  I  have  grown  used  to  her,  and  I  even  like  her,  because  she  is  so  good  and  quiet  and  never  troubles  me  at  all.  But  I  don't  think  anybody  else  in  our  house  likes  her.  My  sister-in-  law  always  calls  her  &quot;that  beau-  ty,&quot;  and  she  makes  her  do  all  the  most  difficult  household  tasks.  She  shouts  at  her  and  abuses  her,  which  is  not  right,  because  my  wifehas  never  done  anything  to  her  and  has  always  treated  her  with  respect.  But  I  cannot  interfere  in  their  quarrels.  I  finished  my  meal  and  then  I  was  ready  to  go,  though  I  did  not  want  to.  My  mother  blessed  me,  and  my  sister-  in-law  looked  at  me  over  her  shoulder,  and  her  great  eyes  flashed  with  laugh-  ter.  I  did  not  look  at  my  wife,  who  still  sat  squatting  on  the  floor,  but  I  knew  she  was  pleading  with  me  to  get  the  job.  Even  as  I  walked  down  the  stairs,  I  knew  what  would  happen  at  the  inter-  view.  I  had  been  to  so  many  during  the  past  few  months,  and  the  same  thing  al-  ways  happened.  Of  course,  I  know  I  have  to  work.  My  last  position  was  in  an  insurance  office,  and  all  day  they  made  me  sit  at  a  desk  and  write  figures.  What  pleasure  could  there  be  for  me  in  that?  I  am  a  very  thoughtful  person,  and  I  " b"always  like  to  sit  and  think  my  own  thoughts.  But  in  that  office  my  thinking  sometimes  caused  me  to  make  mistakes  over  the  figures,  and  then  they  were  very  angry  with  me.  I  was  always  afraid  of  their  anger,  and  I  begged  their  for-  giveness  and  admitted  that  I  was  much  at  fault.  But  the  last  time  they  would  not  forgive  me  again,  although  I  begged  many  times  and  cried  what  a  faulty,  bad  man  I  was  and  what  good  men  they  were,  and  how  they  were  my  mother  and  my  father,  and  how  I  looked  only  to  them  for  my  life  and  the  lives  of  my  children.  But  when  they  still  said  I  must  go,  I  saw  that  the  work  there  was  really  finished,  so  I  stopped  crying.  I  went  into  the  cloakroom  and  combed  my  hair  and  folded  my  soap  in  my  tow-  el,  and  then  I  took  my  money  from  the  accountant  without  a  word  and  left  the  office  with  my  eyes  lowered.  But  I  was  no  longer  afraid,  because  what  is  fin-  ished  is  finished,  and  my  brother  still  had  work  and  probably  one  day  I  would  get  another  job.  Ever  since  then,  my  brother  has  been  trying  to  get  me  into  government  serv-  ice.  He  himself  is  a  clerk  in  government  service,  and  enjoys  many  advantages.  Every  five  years,  he  gets  an  increase  of  ten  rupees  in  his  salary.  He  has  ten  days'  sick  leave  in  the  year,  and  when  he  re-  tires  he  will  get  apension.  It  would  be  good  for  me  to  have  such  a  job,  but  it  is  difficult  to  get,  because  first  there  is  an  interview,  at  which  important  people  sit  at  a  desk  and  ask  many  questions.  Be-  cause  I  am  afraidof  them,  I  cannot  un-  derstand  properly  what  they  are  saying,  but  I  answer  what  I  think  they  want  me  to  answer.  But  it  seems  that  my  answers  are  somehow  not  the  right  ones,  because  they  have  not  given  me  a  job.  Now,  as  I  walked  down  the  stairs,  I  wished  I  could  go  to  the  cinema,  in-  stead.  If  I  had  had  ten  annas,  perhaps  I  would  have  gone;  it  was  just  time  for  the  morning  show.  The  young  clerks  and  the  students  would  be  collecting  in  a  queue  outside  the  cinema  now.  They  would  be  standing  and  not  talking  much,  holding  their  ten  annas  and  wait-  ing  for  the  box  office  to  open.  I  enjoy  those  morning  shows,  perhaps  because  the  people  who  come  to  them  are  all  youngmen,  like  myself-all  silent  and  rather  sad.  I  am  often  sad;  it  would  even  be  right  to  say  that  I  am  sad  most  of  the  time.  But  when  the  film  begins,  I  am  happy.  I  love  to  see  the  beautiful  women  dressed  in  golden  clothes,  with  heavy  earrings,  and  necklaces,  and  bracelets  covering  their  arms,  and  to  see  their  handsome  lovers,  who  are  all  the  things  I  would  like  to  be.  And  when  they  sing  their  love  songs,  so  full  of  deep  feelings,  the  tears  sometimes  come  into  my  eyes,  because  I  am  so  happy.  After  the  film  is  over,  I  never  go  home  straightway,  but  I  walk  around  the  streets  and  think  about  how  wonderful  life  could  be.  HEN  I  arrived  at  the  place  where  the  interview  was,  I  had  to  walk  down  many  corridors  and  ask  directrons  from  many  peons  before  I  could  find  the  right  room.  The  peons  were  all  rude  to  me,  because  they  knew  what  I  had  come  for.  They  lounged  back  on  benches  outside  the  offices,  and  when  I  asked  them,  they  looked  me  up  and  down  before  answering,  and  sometimes  made  jokes  about  me  to  one  another.  But  I  was  very  polite  to  them,  for  even  though  they  were  only  peons,  they  had  uniforms  and  jobs  and  belonged  here,  whereas  I  did  not.  At  last  I  came  to  the  room  where  I  had  to  wait.  Many  others  were  already  sitting  there,  on  chairs  drawn  up  against  the  wall  all  around  the  room.  No  one  was  talking.  I  found  a  chair,  and  after  a  while  an  official  came  in  with  a  list  and  asked  if  anyone  else  had  come.  I  got  up  and  heasked  my  name,  and  thenhe  looked  down  the  list  and  made  a  tick  with  a  pencil.  &quot;Why  are  you  late?&quot;  he  asked  me  very  sternly.  I  begged  pardon  and  told  him  the  bus  in  which  I  had  come  hadhad  an  acci-  dent.  He  said,  &quot;When  you  are  called  for     an  interview,  you  have  to  be  here  exactly  on  time,or  your  name  is  crossed  off  the  list.&quot;  I  begged  pardon  again  and  asked  him  very  humbly  please  not  tocross  me  off  this  time,  I  knew  that  all  the  others  were  listening,  even  though  none  of  them  looked  at  us.  He  said  some  more  things  to  me  very  scornfully,  but  in  the  end  he  said,  &quot;Wait  here.  When  your  name  is  called,  you  must  go  in  at  once.&quot;  I  didn't  count  the  number  of  people  waiting  in  the  room,  but  there  were  a  great  many.  Perhaps  there  was  one  job  free,  perhaps  two  or  three.  As  I  sat  there,I  began  to  feel  the  others  all  hop-  ing  anxiously  that  they  might  get  the  job,  soI  became  worried  and  anxious,  too.  I  stared  around  and  tried  to  put  my  mind  on  something  else.  The  walls  of  the  room  were  painted  green  halfway  up  and  white  above  that,  and  were  quite  bare.  There  was  a  fan  turning  from  the  ceiling,  but  it  didn't  give  much  breeze.  An  interview  was  going  on  behind  the  big  door.  One  by  one,  we  would  all  be  called  in  there  and  have  the  door  closed  behind  us.  I  began  to  worry  desperately.  It  al-  ways  happens  like  this.  When  I  come  to  an  interview,I  never  want  the  job  at  all,  but  when  I  see  all  the  others  waiting  and  worrying,  I  want  it  terribly.  Yet  at  the  same  time  I  know,  deep  down,  that  I  don't  want  it.  I  know  it  would  only  be  the  same  thing  over  again:  writing  figures  and  making  mistakes  and  then  being  afraid  when  they  found  out.  And  there  would  beasuperior  officer  in  my  office  to  whom  I  would  have  to  be  very  deferential,  and  every  time  I  sawhim  or  heard  his  voice  I  would  begin  to  be  afraid  that  he  had  found  out  something  against  me.  For  weeks  and  months  I  would  sit  and  write  figures,  getting  wearier  of  it  and  wearier,  and  thinking  my  own  thoughts  more  and  more.  Then  the  mistakes  would  come,  and  my  superior  officer  would  be  angry.  My  brother  never  makes  mistakes.  For  years  he  has  been  sitting  in  the  same  office,  writing  figures,  being  deferen-  " b"tial  to  his  superior  officer,  and  concen-  trating  very  hard  on  his  work.  But,  nevertheless,  he  is  afraid  of  the  same  thing-a  mistake  that  will  make  them  angry  with  him  and  cost  him  his  job.  I  think  it  is  right  for  him  to  be  afraid,  for  what  would  become  ofus  all  if  he  also  lost  his  job?  It  is  not  the  same  with  me.  I  believe  I  am  afraid  to  lose  my  job  only  because  that  is  a  thing  of  which  one  is  expected  to  be  afraid.  When  I  have  actually  lost  it,  I  am  really  relieved.  But  this  is  not  surprising,  because  I  am  very  different  from  my  brother;  even  in  ap-  pearance  I  am  different,  As  I  have  said,  he  is  fifteen  years  older  than  I,  but  even  when  he  was  my  age,  he  never  looked  as  I  do.  My  appearance  has  always  at-  tracted  others,  and  right  up  to  the  time  I  was  married  my  mother  used  to  stroke  my  hair  and  my  face  and  say  many  tender  things  to  me.  Once,  when  I  was  walking  on  my  way  to  school  through  the  bazaar,  a  man  called  to  me  very  softly,  and  when  I  came  he  gave  me  a  ripe  mango,  and  said,  &quot;You  are  beauti-  ful,  beautiful.&quot;  He  looked  at  me  in  an  odd,  kind  way,  and  wanted  me  to  go  with  him  to  his  house,  in  another  part  of  the  city.  I  love  wearing  fine  clothes-  especially  very  thin  white  muslin  kurtas  that  have  been  freshly  washed  and  starched,  and  are  embroidered  at  the  shoulders,  Sometimes  I  also  use  scent-  a  fine  khas  smell-and  my  hair  oil  also  smellsof  khas.  Several  years  ago,  just  after  I  was  married,  there  was  a  hand-  some  teen-age  girl  who  lived  in  the  tailor's  shop  opposite  our  house  and  who  used  to  wait  for  me  and  follow  me  whenever  I  went  out.  But  itis  my  brother,  not  I,  who  is  married  to  a  beautiful  wife,  and  this  has  always  seemed  most  unfair.  The  big  closed  door  opened  and  the  manwho  had  been  in  there  for  an  in-  terview  came  out.  We  all  looked  at  him,  but  he  walked  out  in  a  great  hurry,  with  a  preoccupied  expression  on  his  face.  I  could  feel  the  anxiety  in  the  other  men  getting  stronger,  and  mine,  too.  'The  official  with  the  list  came,  and  we  all  looked  up  at  him.  He  read  off  another  name,  and  the  man  whose  name  was  called  jumped  upfrom  his  chair.  He  started  forward,  but  then  he  was  brought  up  short  by  his  dhoti,  which  had  got  caught  on  a  nail  in  the  chair.  As  soon  as  he  realized  what  had  happened,  he  became  very  agitated,  and  when  he  tried  to  disentangle  himself,  his  fingers  shook  so  much  that  he  could  not  get  the  dhoti  off  the  nail.  'The  official  watched  him  coldly  and  said,  &quot;Hurry,  now!  Do  you  think  the  gentlemen  will  wait  for  as  long  as  you  please?&quot;  In  his  confu-  sion,  the  man  dropped  his  umbrella,  and  then  he  tried  to  disentangle  the  dhoti  and  pick  up  the  umbrella  at  the  same  time.  When  hecould  not  get  the  dhoti  loose,  he  became  so  desperate  that  he  pulled  at  the  cloth  and  ripped  it  free.  It  was  a  pity  to  see  the  dhoti  torn,  because  it  was  a  new  one,  which  he  was  prob-  ably  wearing  for  the  first  time  and  had  put  on  specially  for  the  interview.  He  clasped  his  umbrella  to  his  chest  and  scurried  into  the  interviewing  room  with  his  dhoti  hanging  about  his  legs  and  his  face  swollen  with  embarrass,  ment  and  confusion.  We  all  sat  and  waited.  The  fan,  which  seemed  to  be  a  very  old  one,  made  a  creaking  noise.  One  man  kept  cracking  his  finger  we  heard,  #\xc2\xa5.  All  the  rest  of  us  kept  very  still.  From  time  to  time,  the  official  with  the  list  came  in  and  walked  around  the  room  very  slowly,  tapping  his  list,  and  then  we  all  looked  down  at  our  feet,  and  the  man  even  stopped  cracking  his  fingers.  A  faint  and  muffled  sound  of  voices  came  from  behind  the  closed  door.  Sometimes  a  voice  was  raised,  but  even  then  I  could  not  make  out  what  was  being  said,  though  I  strained  hard.  My  previous  interview  was  very  un-  pleasant  for  me.  One  of  the  people  who  were  interviewing  took  a  dislike  to  me  and  shouted  at  me  very  loudly.  He  was  a  large,  fat  man  who  wore  an  English  suit.  His  teeth  were  quite  yellow,  and  when  he  became  angry  and  shouted  he  showedthem  all,  and  even  though  I  was  very  upset,  I  couldn'thelp  looking  at  them  and  wondering  how  they  had  be-  come  so  yellow.  I  don't  know  why  he  was  angry.  He  shouted,  &quot;Good  God,  man!  Can't  you  understand  what's  said  to  you?&quot;  It  was  true  I  could  not  under-  stand,  but  I  had  been  trying  hard  to  an-  swer  well.  What  else  did  he  expect  of  me?  Probably  there  was  something  in  my  appearance  he  did  not  like.  It  hap-  pens  that  way  sometimes-they  take  a  dislike  to  you,  and  then,  of  course,  there  is  nothing  you  can  do.  Now  the  thought  of  the  man  with  the  yellow  teeth  made  me  more  anxious  than  ever.  I  need  great  calm  in  my  life.  Whenever  anything  worries  me  too  much,  I  have  to  cast  the  thought  of  it  off  immediately;  otherwise,  there  is  a  danger  that  I  may  become  ill.  I  felt  now  as  if  I  were  about  to  become  very  ill.  All  my  limbs  were  itching,  so  that  it  was  difficult  for  me  to  sit  still,  and  I  could  feel  blood  rushing  into  my  brain.  I  knew  it  was  this  room  that  was  doing  me  so  much  harm-the  waiting,  silent  men,  the  noise  from  the  fan,  the  official  with  the  list  walking  up  and  down,  tapping  his  list  or  striking  it  against  his  thigh,  and  thebigclosed  door  behind  which  the  interview  was  going  on.I  felt  a  great  need  to  get  up  and  go  away.  I  didn't  want  the  job.  I  wasn't  even  thinking  about  it  any  more-only  about  how  to  avoid  having  to  sit  here  and  wait.  Now  the  door  opened  again  and  the  man  with  the  torn  dhoti  came  out.  He  was  biting  his  lip  and  scratching  the  back  of  his  neck,  and  he,  too,  walked  straight  out  without  looking  at  us  at  all.  The  big  door  of  the  interviewing  room  was  left  slightly  open  for  a  moment,  and  I  could  see  a  man's  arm  in  a  white  shirt-  sleeve,  and  part  of  the  back  of  his  head.  His  shirt  was  very  white  and  of  good  material,  and  his  ears  stood  away  from  his  head,  so  that  one  could  see  how  his  spectacles  fitted  over  the  backs  of  his  ears.  I  suddenly  realized  that  this  man  " b"would  be  my  enemy,  and  that  he  would  make  things  very  difficult  for  me,  and  perhaps  even  shout  at  me.  Then  I  knew  it  was  no  use  for  me  to  stay  there.  The  official  with  the  list  came  back,  and  a  panic  seized  me  that  he  would  read  out  my  name.  I  rose  quickly,  murmuring,  &quot;Please  excuse  me-bathroom,&quot;  and  went  out.I  heard  the  official  with  the  list  call  after  me  &quot;Hey,  Mister,  where  are  you  going?&quot;  soI  lowered  my  head  and  walked  faster.  I  would  have  started  to  run,  but  that  might  have  caused  some  kind  of  suspicion,  soI  just  walked  as  fast  as  I  could  down  the  stairs  and  right  out  of  the  building.  There,  at  last,  I  was  able  to  stop  and  takea  deep  breath,  and  I  felt  much  better.  STOOD  still  only  for  a  minute,  and  then  I  started  off  again,  though  not  in  any  particular  direction.  There  were  a  great  many  clerks  and  peons  moving  past  me  in  the  street,  hurrying  from  one  office  building  to  another,  with  files  and  papers  under  their  arms.  Everyone  seemed  to  have  something  to  do.  In  the  next  block,  I  found  a  little  park,  and  I  was  glad  to  see  people  like  myself,  who  had  nothing  to  do,  sitting  under  the  trees  or  in  any  other  patch  of  shade  they  could  find.  But  I  couldn't  sit  there;  it  was  too  close  to  the  office  blocks,  and  any  moment  someone  might  come  up  and  say  to  me,  &quot;Why  did  you  go  away?&quot;  So  I  walked  farther.  I  was  feel-  ing  quite  lighthearted  with  relief  over  having  escaped  the  interview.  At  last  I  came  to  a  row  of  eating  stalls,  and  I  sat  down  on  a  wooden  bench  outside  one  of  them,  which  was  called  the  [REDACTED]  Hotel,  and  asked  for  tea.  I  felt  badly  in  need  of  tea,  and  since  I  intended  to  walk  part  of  the  way  home,  I  was  in  a  position  to  pay  for  it.  There  were  two  Sikhs  sitting  at  the  end  of  my  bench,  who  were  eating  with  great  ap-  petite,  dipping  their  hands  very  rapidly  into  brass  bowls.  Between  mouthfuls,  they  exchanged  remarks  with  the  pro-  prietor  of  the  [REDACTED]  Hotel,  who  sat  high  up  inside  his  stall,  stirring  a  big  brass  pot  in  which  he  was  cooking  the  day's  food.  He  was  chewing  a  betel  leaf,  and  from  time  to  time  he  very  skillfully  spat  the  red  betel  juice  far  over  the  cooking  pot  and  onto  the  ground  between  the  wooden  benches  and  tables.  I  sat  quietly  at  my  end  of  the  bench  and  drank  my  tea.  The  food  smelled  good,  and  it  made  me  realize  that  I  was  hungry.  I  made  a  calculation,  and  de-  cided  that  if  I  walked  all  the  way  home,  I  could  afford  a  little  cake.  (I  am  very  fond  of  sweet  things.)  The  cake  was  not  very  new,  but  it  had  a  beautiful  piece  of  bright  orange  peel  inside  it.  What  I  wanted  to  do  when  I  got  home  was  to  lie  down  at  once  and  not  wake  up  again  until  the  next  morning.  'That  way,  no  one  would  be  able  to  ask  me  any  questions.  By  not  looking  at  my  wife  at  all  I  would  be  able  to  avoid  the  question  in  her  eyes.  I  would  not  look  at  my  sis-  ter-in-law,  either,  but  she  would  be  smiling,that  I  knew-leaning  against  the  wall,  with  her  hand  on  her  hip,  and  looking  at  me  and  smiling.  She  would  know  that  I  had  run  away,  but  she  would  not  say  anything.  Let  her  know!  What  did  it  matter?  It  was  true  I  had  no  job  and  no  imme-  diate  prospect  of  getting  one.  It  was  truethat  I  was  dependent  on  my  broth,  er.  Everybody  knew  that.  There  is  no  shame  in  it;  there  are  many  people  with-  out  jobs.  And  she  had  been  so  kind  to  me  up  till  now  that  there  was  no  reason  she  should  not  continue  to  be  kind  to  me.  The  Sikhs  at  the  end  of  the  bench  had  finished  eating.  They  licked  their  fingers  and  belched  deeply,  the  way  one  does  after  a  good  meal.  They  started  to  joke  and  laugh  with  the  proprietor.  I  sat  quiet  and  alone  at  my  end  of  the  bench.  Of  course,  they  did  not  laugh  and  joke  with  me,  for  they  knew  that  I  was  su-  perior  to  them;  they  work  with  their  hands,  whereas  I  am  a  lettered  man  who  does  not  have  to  sweat  for  a  living  but  sits  on  a  chair  in  an  office  and  writes  figures  and  can  speak  in  English,.  My  brother  is  very  proud  of  his  superiority,  and  he  has  great  contempt  for  carpen-  ters  and  mechanics  and  such  people.  I,  too,  am  proud  of  being  a  lettered  man,  but  when  Ilistenedto  the  Sikhs  laugh-  ing  and  joking,  it  occurred  to  me  that  perhaps  their  life  was  happier  than  mine.  It  was  a  thought  that  had  come  to  me  before.  There  is  a  carpenter  who  lives  downstairs  in  our  house,  and  though  he  is  poor,there  is  always  great  eating  in  his  house,  and  many  people  come,  and  I  hear  them  laughing  and  singing  and  even  dancing.  The  carpenter  is  a  big,  strong  man,  and  he  always  looks  happy,  never  anxious  and  sick  with  worry  the  way  my  brother  does.  To  be  sure,  he  doesn't  wear  shoes  and  clean  white  " b"clothes  as  my  brother  and  I  do,  nor  does  he  speak  any  English,  but  all  the  same  he  is  happy.  I  don't  think  he  gets  weary  of  his  work,  and  he  doesn't  look  like  a  man  who  is  afraid  of  his  superior  officers.  I  put  the  ignorant  carpenter  out  of  my  mind,  and  thought  again  of  my  sister-in-law.  IfI  were  kind  to  her,  I  decided,  she  would  really  be  kind  to  me  someday.  I  became  quite  excited  at  this  idea,  Then  I  would  know  whether  she  is  as  soft  and  yet  as  strong  as  she  looks.  And  I  would  know  about  her  mouth,  with  the  big,  strong  teeth.  Her  tongue  and  palate  are  very  pink-just  the  color  ofthe  pink  satin  blouse  she  wears  on  festive  occasions.  And  this  satin  has  often  made  me  think  also  of  how  smooth  and  warm  her  skin  would  feel.  Her  eyes  would  be  shut  and  perhaps  there  would  be  tears  on  the  lashes,  and  she  would  be  smiling,  but  in  a  different  sort  of  way.  I  became  very  excited  when  I  thought  of  it,  but  then  the  excitement  passed  and  I  was  sad.I  thought  of  my  wife,  who  is  thin  and  not  beautiful,  and  is  without  excitement.  But  she  does  whatever  I  want  and  always  tries  to  please  me.  I  thought  of  her  whispering  to  me  in  the  night,  &quot;'Take  me  away  to  live  some-  where  alone-only  you  and  I  and  the  children.&quot;  That  cannever  be,  and  so  always  she  will  have  to  be  unhappy.  Sitting  on  that  bench,  I  grew  more  and  more  sad  when  I  thought  of  her  being  unhappy,  because  itis  not  only  she  who  is  unhappy  but  I  also,  and  many  others.  Everywhere  there  is  unhappi-  ness.  I  thought  of  the  man  whose  new  dhoti  had  been  torn  and  who  would  now  have  to  go  home  and  sew  it  care-  fully,  so  that  the  tear  would  not  be  seen.  I  thought  of  all  those  other  men  sitting  and  waiting  to  be  interviewed,  all  but  one  or  two  of  whom  would  not  get  the  job  for  which  they  had  come,  and  so  would  have  to  go  on  to  another  inter-  view  and  another  and  another,  to  sit  and  wait  and  be  anxious.  And  my  brother,  who  has  a  job  but  is  fright-  ened  that  he  will  lose  it-and  my  moth-  er,  who  is  so  old  that  she  can  only  sit  on  the  floor  and  stroke  her  pieces  of  cloth-and  my  sister-in-law,  who  is  warm  and  strong  and  does  not  care  for  her  husband.  Yet  life  could  be  so  dif-  ferent.  When  I  go  to  the  cinema  and  hear  the  beautiful  songs  they  sing,  I  know  how  different  it  could  be,  and  also  sometimes  when  I  sit  alone  and  think  my  thoughts,  I  have  a  feeling  that  everything  could  be  truly  beautiful.  But  now  my  tea  was  finished  and  also  my  cake,  and  I  wished  I  had  not  bought  them,  because  it  was  a  long  way  to  walk  home  and  I  was  tired."