 b"WHENEVER  I  run  across  an  article  about  juvenile  delin-  quents-and,  as  everyone  knows,  these  appear  fairly  frequently  nowadays-I  am  likely  to  have  a  twinge  of  fellow  feeling  for  the  poor  youngsters  involved.  There  was  a  time-still  vivid  in  my  mind,  too-  when  I  came  close  to  being  a  juvenile  delinquent  myself.  'That  was  years  ago,  when  I  was  living  in  [REDACTED],  and  it  all  began  late  one  summer  afternoon  on  the  playground  of  theold  Dewey  Avenue  School,  not  far  from  my  parents'  home,  on  Bryan  Street.  I  wasn't  going  to  that  particular  school  at  the  time;  I  was,  in  fact,  in  my  first  year  at  West  High  School,  over  on  the  other  side  of  town.  Anyway,  the  big,  old-fashioned  school,  three  stories  high,  built  of  red  brick,  and  rambling,  had  a  playground  to  match  its  size.  T'wo  blocks  long  on  each  side,  the  playground  had  room  for  football  or,  interchange-  ably,  soccer  or  baseball;  it  had  a  couple  oftennis  courts,  too,  as  well  as  swings,  teeter-totters,  and  suchlike  for  younger  children,  and  that  summer  a  group  of  us  older  boys  had  more  or  less  taken  it  over.  I  can't  recall  now  quite  how  that  hap-  pened,  if  indeed  I  ever  did  know,  forI  was  new  in  the  neighborhood.  It  may  have  been  the  outgrowth  of  a  vogue  for  tennis  we  all  had  at  that  period  that  drew  usto  the  courts  there;  it  may  have  been  a  kind  of  culmination  of  those  way-  ward,  mysterious  impulses  that  drive  boys  in  their  early  and  middle  teens  to  form  coteries-tight,  clannish,  partly     clandestine,  and  as  ephemeral,  usual-  ly,  as  the  boys  themselves  think  them  to  be  everlasting.  Partly,  certainly,  it  was  due  to  the  heady  feeling  the  move  up  from  grade  school  to  high  school  had  given  us;  we  were  well  on  our  way  to  being  men  now,  we  thought,  and  were  automatically  entitled  to  lord  it  over  the  lesser  fellows.  At  all  events,  some  eight  or  nine  of  us-Charlie  Bowman,  Paul  Benedict,  Bill  Ingle,  Wallie  Blaine  (these  are  all  the  names  that  come  back  to  me  at  the  moment)-really  &quot;owned&quot;  the  play-  ground  that  summer.  'There  was  no  such  thing  as  a  playground  director  in  those  simple  days.  Old  Mr.  Roach,  the  school  janitor-a  gray,  spidery,  taciturn  UIsterman-was  supposed,  I  believe,  to  be  technically  in  charge.  But  he  was  never  a  man  to  overexert  himself,  and  besides  it  was  summer,  and  hence,  in  some  sense,  a  vacation  time  for  him,  too;  about  all  he  did  was  to  put  out  the  tennis  nets  and  the  rest  of  the  play-  ground  equipment  in  the  morning  and  leave  a  dooropen  into  the  cellar  for  us  to  put  them  away  at  night.  Otherwise,  we  were  pretty  much  untrammelled;  we  ran  the  younger  kids'  baseball  games,  bossed  their  other  activities,  and,  pre-  empting  the  courts  without  question,  played  tennis,  tennis  endlessly.  We'd  play  mornings  and  afternoons,  and  if  we  could  get  home  and  get  through  our  dinners  fast  enough,  we'd  be  back  in  the  early  evening  playing  ten-  nis  again,  until  the  ball  was  literally  one  with  the  dusk  and  the  only  way  you  could  follow  it  was  by  keeping  your  eyes   on  it  constantly;  if  you  looked  away  from  it  even  for  a  few  seconds,  it  was  immediately  invisible.  Afterward-  summer  days  in  [REDACTED]'s  latitude  are  long,  and  the  onset  of  evening  is  grad-  ual-we  lingered,  playing\xc2\xbb  games  of  cross  tag  that  lapsed  in  the  middle  or  veered  into  horseplay,  or  just  lying  on  the  grassy  ground  and  talking.  There  was  a  clump  of  young  trees  at  one  edge  of  the  tennis  courts,  more  or  less  in  the  middle  of  the  area,  where  we  usually  gathered;  otherwise,  the  play-  ground  was  fairly  barren,  all  turf  and  trodden  earth.  But  its  very  size  made  it  seem  almost  parklike,  and  this  gave  it  a  certain  feeling  of  isolation,  too.  Facing  it,  all  around,  were  the  neat  two-  story  homes  that  were  typical  of  that  part  of  [REDACTED],  shingled  or  clap-  boarded,  each  with  its  concrete  drive-  way  leading  back  to  the  garage  at  the  rear,  its  stretch  of  lawn  and  its  clump  of  arborvitae,  its  dormered  roof  and  wide,  shadowy  porch,  and  with  now,  as  the  evening  deepened,  its  downstairs  windows-hall,  dining  room,  living  room,  kitchen-being  lighted.  They  were  our  homes,  or  if  they  were  not  ours  in  actuality,  ours  being  on  dif-  ferent  streets  here  and  there  in  the  neighborhood,  they  were  ours  in  es-  sence,  and  we  knew  well  enough  what  went  on  inside  them-the  daughter  playing  the  phonograph,  perhaps,  while  the  father  sat  reading,  the  mother  out  in  the  kitchen,  putting  dishes  away  or  readying  things  for  tomorrow's  break-  fast.  But  their  distance  gave  them  a  look  of  unreality  and  usa  feeling  of  remoteness;  they  were  the  far  fagade  of  a  different  world,  the  world  of  grown-  ups  and  family,  and  familiar  and  pleas-  ant  as  that  world  was-and  comfort-  able,  too-we  lingered  still  on  the  playground,  putting  off  the  moment  when  by  merely  running  up  a  few  short  steps  and  opening  a  door  we  would  be  plunged  back  into  it.  DON'T  think  our  parents  minded  our  haunting  the  playground  in  the  way  we  did.  For  one  thing,  I  suppose  they  felt  at  least  that  they  &quot;knew  where  we  were.&quot;  If  any  of  them  decided  sud-  denly  on  some  project  for  the  evening--  the  movies,  perhaps,  or  just  a  drive  out  to  Lake  Ontario  (in  that  gentler  time,  when  traffic  was  no  problem  and  the  motorcar  still  something  of  an  adven-  ture,  people  often  made  little  evening  excursions  like  that)-they  would  drive  up  to  the  curb  by  the  playground,  sound  their  horn,  and  wait  till  the  son,  recog-  nizing  the  family  car,  ran  down  to  join  them.  Yet  it  has  only  now  struck  me  that,  except  for  our  innocence,  and  the     " b"protection  our  middle-class  background  gave  us  from  any  contact  with  real  criminality,  we  were  actually  a  &quot;gang,&quot;  or  we  had  the  makings  of  one-as,  one  night,  to  our  own  surprise,  we  discov-  ered.  That  was  when  we  raided  the  Boy  Scout  camp,  and  this  began  one  after-  noon  when  Wallie  Blaine  mentioned,  possibly  a  bit  self-importantly,  that  he  had  to  go  home  early;  he  was  camping  out  with  his  troop  that  night.  Even  then,  everything  would  have  been  all  right  if  it  hadn't  been  Wallie  who  said  it.  For  Wallie-short,  fat,  and  bumbling,  and  just  pettish  enough  to  give  spice  to  the  sport  of  tormenting  him-was  not  so  much  a  member  of  our  group  as  the  butt  of  it.  I  don'tthink  we'd  known  he  was  a  Boy  Scout  till  then,  and  the  pic-  tureof  him-at  his  age,  too,  for  we  felt  that  we'd  all  outgrown  such  childish  pursuits-still  running  around  in  a  scarf  and  sombrero,  khaki  shorts  and  blouse,  with  a  knapsack  over  his  shoulder,  was,  to  us  anyway,  irresistible.  We  kidded  him  about  it,  if  the  kind  of  heavy-handed  verbal  mauling  boys  of  that  age  go  in  for  can  be  called  kidding.  &quot;Gee,  Wallie!  Aren't  you  scared?  Suppose  the  tent  falls  in.&quot;  &quot;It  won't.  I  thought  everybody  knew  how  to  pitch  a  tent.&quot;  And  he  told  us  that  the  rest  of  the  boys  in  the  troop  were  young;  he  was  a  kind  of  assistant  to  the  Scoutmaster.  &quot;What  do  you  do  when  they  want  to  go  to  the  bathroom,  Wallie?&quot;  we  asked.  &quot;Do  you  have  to  go  with  them?&quot;  Even  after  he'd  left-in  a  huff,  of  course-the  idea  of  Wallie  in  a  Boy  Scout  troop,  and  our  sallies  about  it,  still  convulsed  us,  and  before  we  went  home  for  dinner,  we  had  decided  to  go  out  that  evening  and  take  alook  at  Wallie's  encampment.  That's  a  simple  statement,  on  the  face  of  it,  and  yet  there  is  a  mystery  about  it;  even  now,  in  my  mind,  it's  hard  to  reconcile  such  an  excursion  with  theusual  round  of  our  life  that  sum-  mer.  For  if  the  playground  was,  in  a  way,  our  escape,  it  was  also  our  tether.  More  than  that,  the  neighborhood  en-  closed  us,  and  so  did  our  age,  and  our  age's  inclinations.  Later,  just  ayear  or  so  later,  we  were  to  be  bored  with  ten-  nis,  and  our  tight  tribal  feeling  would  be  beginning  to  evaporate,  too.  Girls  would  occupy  us  more  by  that  time,  and,  borrowing  a  family  car,  we'd  be  taking  them  on  wider  excursions,  mak-  ing  foursomes  to  go  to  the  band  concerts  in  Maplewood  [REDACTED],  or  the  roller-coast-  er  rides  at  Sea  Breeze,  out  at  the  lake  front-and  then  driving  home  slowly,  tentatively  amorous,  through  the  cool,  pale,  moonlit  evenings.  This,  though,  was  the  farthest  we'd  ever  wandered  afield  until  then,  and  I  can  only  explain  it  as  a  step  in  a  new  direction.It  was  a  gesture  of  revolt,  perhaps-for  I'm  sure  none  of  us  told  his  parents  where  he  was  going-and  a  venturing  toward  independence,  manliness,  too,;  it  was  the  beginning  of  a  change.  We  went  out,  anyway,  on  the  Dewey  Avenue  trolley,  for  W  allie,  poor  fellow,  had  even  told  us  where  the  camp  was  to  be-on  a  farm  a  half  mile  or  so  out-  side  town,  beyond  the  trolley-lineter-  minus.  The  odd  thing,  too,  is  that  the  farther  we  went  the  more  ganglike  we  became.  We  skylarked  on  the  trolley  till  the  passengers  glared;  and  when  we  came  to  the  little  settlement  on  the  RidgeRoad,  at  the  terminus,  we  marched  through  it  yelling  and  sing-  ing-singing,  I'm  afraid,  nothing  more  desperate  than  our  own  West  High  School  songs.  Approaching  the  farm,  though,  we  quieted;  and  as  we  sighted  the  camp  at     " b"last-a  ring  of  pup  tents  in  a  hollow,  some  aglow,  paper-lantern-like,  with  a  lamp  inside,  some  still  canvas-white  and  ghostly,  and  with  a  bonfire  at  the  center  of  the  circle-it  was  by  common  agree-  ment  that  we  dropped  back  and  then,  cautiously,  at  first  crouching  and  finally  on  our  hands  and  knees,  began  working  our  way  across  the  field  on  the  small  bluff  above.  We  had  been  an  ordinary  group  of  boys  at  the  playground,  a  gang  on  the  trolley;  now  we  were  sharpshooters  rec-  onnoitring  the  enemy,  and  when  we  got  to  the  edge  of  the  field  and  could  look  down  on  the  scene  below-a  few  boys,  Wallie  among  them,  sitting  around  the  campfire,  others  washing  their  mess  kits  in  the  stream  that  flowed  through  the  hollow  or  moving  about  here  and  there-I  think  we  all  had  a  taste  of  that  tight,  secret  pleasure  spies  must  have,  of  being  the  all-seeing,  un-  suspected  witnesses,  observing  but  unob-  served.  A  moment  later,  we  were  Indians  as-again,  as  far  as  I  can  recall,  on  a  common  impulse-we  jumped  up  and  ran  shrieking  down  upon  them.  Even  now,  our  intentions,  if  a  bit  scatterbrained,  were  innocent.  We  were  showing  off,  of  course,  and  surely  we  did  hope  to  startle  them.  But  we  felt  that  somehow,  beyond  all  our  shouting  and  so  on,  we'd  be  known,  we'd  be  recognized-as  on  our  wildest  Hallow-  een  escapades,  for  example,  beneath  our  most  fantastic  disguises,  we  were  recognized  in  our  own  neighborhood  as  just  boys  on  a  rampage,  and  harmless.  This  time,  though,  we  weren't.  We  were  outside  our  neighborhood,  to  be-  gin  with;  more  than  that,  we  hadn't  considered  the  suddenness  of  our  on-  slaught  and  its  effect  on  a  bunch  of  small  boys  camping  out  in  the  lonely  dark  of  the  countryside.  Nor,  I  must  add,  had  we  counted  on  the  timidity  of  the  Scout-  master.  What  ensued,  anyway,  went  far  be-  yond  anything  we  could  have  expected.  There  was  an  instant's  hush  as  we  burst  in,  and  a  startled  staring-and  then  turmoil  and  confusion,  and  on  such  a  scale  that  I  can  remember  it  only  glancingly:  a  boy's  face  flaring  up  at  mine  and  then  vanishing,  and  behind  him  a  tent  going  down  and  then  an- other;  a  crisscrossing  of  flash-  light  beams  and  a  frantic  yell-  ing;  figuresleaping  and  darting  across  the  light  of  the  fire  and  then  past  it  into  the  darkness  and  then  silence  and  emptiness,  in  which  we  were  left,  aghast,  now,  ourselves,  at  the  havoc  we'd  wrought,  calling  plain-  tively  &quot;Wallie!  Wallie!&quot;  out  into  the  deepening  night.  &quot;Lis-  ten,  Wallie,  it's  just  us!&quot;  In  a  minute  or  two,  they  all  came  straggling  back.  But  our  adventures  were  not  over  yet;  instead,  from  then  on,  trouble  piled  on  trouble.  The  boys  forgave  us  at  once;  indeed-boys  are  elastic  at  that  age-the  whole  episode  only  added  a  touch  of  novelty  to  their  night  outdoors.  The  Scoutmaster,  though,  took  a  darker  view  of  the  proceed-  ings.  He  was  a  sandy-haired,  pale,  rather  scrawny  man,  as  I  remember  him,  and  we  figured  he  must  have  run  farther  than  the  rest  at  our  onslaught,  for  he  was  the  last  to  return.  When  he  did,  it  was  to  order  us  off  the  place  immediately.  He  was  quite  justified  in  that,  of  course;  without  mean-  ing  to,  we  had  acted  like  a  bunch  of  young  ruffians.  W  hat  he  failed  to  tell  us  was  that  when  he  had  run  away  he  had  made  a  good  job  of  it.  He  had  run  all  the  way  to  the  farmhouse  on  the  property  and  had  phoned  the  [REDACTED]  police-and  the  farmer,  pending  their  arrival,  had  offered  to  round  up  some  friends,  in  a  kind  of  makeshift  posse,  to  come  to  the  rescue  meanwhile.  We  didn't  know-we  didn't  even  sus-  pect-what  a  chain  of  alarm  we  had  waked,  out  there  in  the  country  eve-  ning,  until,  shuffling  off  down  theroad,  depressed  and  considerably  chastened,  we  ran  head  on  into  the  posse,  coming  toward  us.  All  this  happened,  as  I've  said,  years  ago,  and  I  find  that,  in  my  own  mind,  at  least,  distant  memories  such  as  this  tend  to  fall  into  separate  episodes,  each  one  vivid  in  itself  but  pretty  much  iso-  lated,  so  that  the  whole  experience  is,  so  to  speak,  skeletonized  into  a  series  of  dramatic  but  largely  unrelated  flashes.  Thus,  I  can  recall-in  that  odd,  oblique  way  in  which  one  figures  both  as  an  observer  and  as  a  participant-our  long,  lazy  evenings  on  the  playground;  I  can  see  us  marching  through  the  vil-  lage  street,  with  its  scattering  of  white-  painted  houses;  and  I  can  see,  and  feel,     " b"too,  the  excitement  and  tension  of  our  charge  down  on  the  encampment.  Even  more  clearly  still,  I  can  recall  the  look  of  that  group  of  men,  dark,  hos-  tile-most  of  all,  anonymous-bunched  against  the  white  gravel  road,  as  they  advanced  upon  us.  What  they'd  ex-  pected  to  find  themselves  up  against  I  have  no  way  of  knowing,  but  they  had  obviously  prepared  for  theworst,  be-  cause  one  man  had  a  shotgun  and  a  couple  had  clubs,  and  another  actually  had  a  pitchfork;  it  was  the  pitchfork  that  scared  me  most,  And  it  occurs  to  me,  now,  that  quite  possibly  they  were  as  frightened  as  we  were,  for  when  a  voice  came  out  of  the  group-'&quot;Stop  right  where  you  are,  now!&quot;  it  called-it  was  a  little  shaky.  We  didn't  stop;  we  just  cut  and  ran.  After  that,  it  was  ev-  eryone  for  himself.  I  remember  racing  across  fields  and  scrambling,  stumbling,  over  fences.  In  the  next  scene-the  next  of  any  clarity,  that  is-I  am  walking  along  the  Ridge  Road.  I  have  somehow  joined  forces  with  another  boy-as  I  recall  it,  it's  Bill  In-  gle-and  if  we  had  been  partofa  gang  earlier,  it  was  a  gang  long  since  dispersed;  if  we  were  hoodlums  once,  we  are  now  sin-  gularly  dispirited  ones,  and  lost,  too,  at  least  in  the  sense  that  we  daren't  go  backthrough  the  village  to  the  trol-  ley  line,  and  have  no  idea  how  we  are  going  to  make  our  way  home  in  any  other  fashion.  We  were  waifs,  real-  ly,  Bill  and  I,  and  it  was  late  by  then,  really  late,  and  dark.  When  a  car  came  up  behind  us  and,  instead  of  pass-  ing,  stopped,  with  its  headlights  full  upon-  well,  we  felt,  or  I  did,  anyway,  that  the  ulti-  mate  doom  was  upon  us.  We  made  a  jump,  instinctively,  for  the  side  ofthe  road.  But  as  we  did  so,  a  spot-  light  caught  us,  and  a  man  cried  &quot;Stop!&quot;  We  stopped.  A  moment  later,  the  car  was  beside  us,  It  was  a  police  car,  all  right-we  could  tell  that  by  the  uni-  form  ofthe  driver.  But  the  manwho  leaned  out  from  the  seat  beside  him  was  in  plain  clothes-a  neat  blue  suit  and  a  straw  hat  tipped  well  back  from  a  round,  cheerful  face.  It  may  have  been  some  psychological  reaction  on  my  part,  but  he  looked  surprisingly  like  my  fa-  ther,  and  his  voice  was,  equally  surpris-  ingly,  friendly.  &quot;Where  you  heading  for,  kids?&quot;  he  demanded-and  we  told  him,  into  the  city.  &quot;Yeah,  but  where?&quot;  And  I  said  Bry-  an  Street.  Bill  Ingle,  I  suppose,  said Hollis  Avenue.  The  man  studied  us  for  a  moment.  He  seemed  to  be  in  no  hurry  to  get  out  the  handcuffs.  &quot;Well,  climb  in,  then,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  reached  back  to  unlatch  the  rear  door.  &quot;We're  going  that  way  ourselves.  Give  you  a  lift.&quot;  We  got  in.  What  else  was  there  to  do?  &quot;How'd  you  get  out  here,  anyway?&quot;  he  asked  next.  (Though  I  can't  remem-  ber  his  exact  words,  I  can  recall  the  sense  of  them.)  &quot;We  were  walking.&quot;  &quot;Kind  of  a  long  walk,  wasn't  it?&quot;  he  said,  and  we  answered,  truthfully,  yes.  &quot;Funny  thing,&quot;  he  went  on  after  that.  &quot;We  had  a  call  from  out  around  here, " b"to  Police  Headquarters.  From  a  Boy  Scout  camp.  Seems  the  camp  was  raided.&quot;  The  man  twisted  around  in  his  seatto  look  at  us.  &quot;You  wouldn't  know  any-  thing  about  that,  I  sup-  pose?&quot;  Oh,  no  sir,  we  told  him.  I  think  we  felt,  even  then,  that  he  knew  all  there  was  to  know  about  us,  but  it  seemed  the  only  way  to  an-  swer.  Anyway,  he  seemed  to  accept  it.  &quot;I  guess  not,&quot;  he  went  on,  nodding  com-  fortably.  &quot;These  were  real  roughnecks,  from  what  they  tell  me-not  your  kind  of  fellows  at  all.  Broke  the  camp  up.&quot;  We  stiffened.  &quot;Tore  the  tents  down.  Beat  the  kids  up-little  kids,  too,&quot;  he  went  on,  in  his  placid  recital,  while  Bill  and  I  looked  at  each  other.  &quot;And  to  top  that  off,  know  what  they  did?  They  stole  the  Scoutmaster's  watchand  wallet!&quot;  &quot;That's  not  so!&quot;  Bill  cried,  and  I  hope  I  echoed  him.  The  man  turned  around  farther  in  his  seat  and  gazed  at  us.  &quot;Oh?&quot;  he  said.  We,  of  course,  were  quaking.  We  had  given  ourselves  away,  at  last.  The  man-he  had  already  told  us  he  was  a  detective-seemed  not  to  notice.  &quot;Well,  you  know,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;it  turns  out  you're  right.  Seems  the  Scoutmaster  lost  his  head,  sort  of,  in  the  excitement,  and  forgot  where  he'd  put  the  blamed  things.  But  they  turned  up  all  right;  they  were  under  his  pillow,  in  the  end.  There  was  a  fellow  out  there-W  alter,  Wallie,  Wallie  something-said  he  knew  the  fellows.  Funny,  you  being  out  here,  right  in  the  neighborhood,  with  all  this  going  on,  and  not  knowing  any-  thing  about  it.  Do  you  know  Wallie  Blaine?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,  yes,  in  a  way.&quot;  He  nodded.  &quot;Well,  you  know,  it's  a  good  thing  to  stay  out  of  things  like  that.  You  know,  kids,  even  your  age,  old  enough  to  know  better,  they  get  all  steamed  up  once  in  a  while.  They  get  a  little  bit  too  big  for  their  breeches.  And  then,  the  first  thing  you  know,  they're  in  a  jam.&quot;  The  car  had  made  a  turn  or  two,  and  then  had  driven  straightaway;  we  were  in  familiar  territory  now,  go-  ing  down  Dewey  Avenue.  &quot;Kids  like  you,  even,  kids  of  good  families.  Do  your  folks  know  where  you  are  to-  night?&quot;  &quot;No,  sir.&quot;  &quot;No?  Why  not?  Were  you  visiting  friends  out  there?&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  were  going  to.  But-&quot;  Again,  he  made  no  attempt  to  entrap     us.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  he  said.  The  car  had  halted  at  the  corner  of  Bryan.  &quot;You're  near  enough  here,  too,  aren't  you?&quot;  he  asked  Bill.  &quot;We'll  let  you  both  out  here.&quot;  It  was  the  time  for  a  lecture  if  there  ever  was  one.  But  instead,  he  just  sat  there  a  moment,  quietly  looking  at  me.  And  by  now  the  man's  calm-and  yet  knowing,  knowing-acquiescence  in  all  our  little  deceptions  had  piled  up  in  my  mind  till  it  had  the  ominous  implications  of  a  thundercloud.  Surely,  surely-like  a  teacher  trying  to  pry  throughour  reti-  cences,  like  any  other  of  our  grown-up  inquisitors-he  would  crack  down  on  us  now!  And  the  fact  that  he  didn't,  that  he  let  our  small  evasions  lie  like  an  open  secret  between  us,  gave  a  man-to-  man  atmosphere  to  our  relations.  He  was  treating  us,  really,  like  men,  and  in  so  doing,  subtly,  he  had  put  a  respon-  sibility  on  us  not  to  act  like  children  any  more.  And  then  I-but  I  couldn't  help  it-reverted  to  the  small-boy  status.  &quot;Did  they  catch  any  of  the  other  fel-  lows?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;What  other  fellows?&quot;  'The  ones  in  the  gang.&quot;  &quot;Did  I  say  anything  about  a  gang?&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  know.  I  mean-&quot;  &quot;'You  mean  the  ones  with  the  Boy  Scouts  and  all  that?  'That,  a  gang?&quot;  He  turned  to  the  driver,  who  snickered.  And  then,  answering  my  question,  &quot;I  wouldn't  know.  All  I  know  is  that  we  were  the  only  car  that  went  out  there.  So  I  guess  the  others  must  be  walking  home.  Do  'em  good,  too,&quot;  he  added  as  the  car  drove  away.  Y  last  recollection  of  that  long-ago  eve-  ning  is  a  little  meagre,  and  again  it  forms  a  picture  at  least  partly  out  of  context  with  the  rest.  I  must  have  run  the  half  block  or  so  to  our  house  from  where  the  police  car  had  left  me-the  street  dark  and  quiet,  and  the  houses,  set  back  on  their  neat  individual  lawns,  be-  ginning  to  go  dark,  too,  or  having  only  their  bedroom  windows  lighted.  And  I  must  have  been  scared,  going  up  the  front  walk  and  up  the  porch  steps,  for  in  our  house  the  downstairs  windows  were  lit,  as  I'd  known  they'd  be.  My  father  and  mother  were  waiting  up  for  me;  and,  when  they  asked  me  where  I  had  been,  either  from  scaredness,  or  more  likely  in  reaction  to  it-put  simply,  just  the  feelingof  being  safe  home  again-I  came  right  out  with  the  whole  story.  My  mother  was  horrified,  particular-  ly  at  the  fact  that  I'd  been  brought  home  in  a  police  car,  but  my  father  took  it  more  casually.  Indeed,  the  clearest  pic-  ture  I  have  ofthat  phase  of  the  adven-  ture  is  of  him  sitting  in  the  high-backed  old  brown  leather  easy  chair  that  he  always  sat  in,  in  the  space  beside  the  bay  window,  with  his  opened  book  turned  face  down  on  his  lap,  looking  back  and  forth  between  my  mother  and  me,  and  laughing.  &quot;Oh,  he's  all  right,&quot;  he  toldher.  &quot;Kids  have  got  to  cut  loose  once  in  a  while.  It's  a  sign  that  they're  growing  up.&quot;  I  remember  his  saying  that  (he  had  his  store  of  stories  about  his  own  boyhood  escapades),  but  I'm  not  sure  now  what  it  was  he  was  laughing  at-at  the  fiasco  at  the  camp  or  the  one  in  the  road  later,  at  the  fact  that  the  de-  tective  had  looked  like  him,  or  just  the  fact  that  we'd  felt  impelled  to  embark  on  such  an  adventure.  All  I  know  is  that,  although  his  laughter  piqued  me  a  little,  it  was  at  the  same  time  curiously  reassur-  ing,  and  in  the  end  I  found  myself  laughing,  too. "