 b"THEY  were  the  same  age-Mrs.  Allen  and  the  woman  who  came  every  day  to  do  the  housework.  &quot;I  shall  never  have  children  now,&quot;  Mrs.  Allen  had  begun  to  tell  herself.  Something  had  not  come  true-the  es-  sential  part  of  her  life.  She  had  always  imagined  her  children  in  fleeting  scenes  and  intimations;  that  was  how  they  had  come  to  her,  like  snatches  of  a  film.  She  had  seen  them  plainly,  their  chins  tilted  up  as  she  tied  on  their  bibs  at  mealtimes.  Their  naked  bodies  had  darted  in  and  out  of  the  water  sprinkler  on  the  lawn,  and  she  had  listened  to  their  voices  in  the  garden  and,  in  the  mornings,  from  their  beds.  She  had  even  cried  a  little,  dreaming  of  the  day  when  the  eldest  boy  would  go  off  to  boarding  school.  She  pictured  the  train  going  out  of  the  sta-  tion;  she  raised  her  hand  and  her  throat  contracted  and  her  lips  trembled  as  she  smiled.  The  years  passing  by  had  slowly  filched  from  her  the  reality  of  these  scenes-the  gay  sounds,  the  grave  peace  she  had  longed  for,  even  the  pride  of  grief.  She  listened-as  they  worked  togeth-  er  in  the  kitchen-to  Mrs.  Lacey's  troubles  with  her  family,  her  grum-  blings  about  her  grown-up  son,  who  would  not  get  up  till  dinnertime  on  Sundays  and  then  expected  his  mother  to  have  cleaned  his  shoes  for  him;  about  the  girl  of  eighteen,  who  was  a  hair-  dresser  and  too  full  of  dainty  ways,  which  she  picked  up  from  the  wom-  en's  magazines;  and  the  adolescent  girl,  who  moped  and  glowered  and  answered  back.  My  children  wouldn't  have  turned  out  like  that,  Mrs.  Allen  thought  as  she  made  her  murmured  replies.  &quot;The  more  you  do  for  some,  the  more  you  may,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Lacey.  But  from  gossip  that  Mrs.  Allen  heard  in  the  village,  she  had  done  all  too  little.  'The  children,  one  night  after  anoth-  er,  for  years  and  years,  hadhad  to  run  out  for  parcels  of  fish  and  chips  for  their  supper  while  their  mother  sat  in  The  Horse  and  Jockey  drinking  brown  ale.  On  summer  evenings,  when  they  were  younger,  they  had  hung  about  outside  the  pub.  When  they  were  bored,  they  pressed  their  foreheads  to  the  window  and  looked  in  at  the  dark  little  bar,  hearing  the  jol-  ly  laughter,  their  mother's  the  loudest  of  all.  Seeing  their  faces,  she  would  swing  at  once  from  the  violence  of  hilarity  to  that  of  extreme  annoyance,  and  al-  though  ginger  beer  and  packets  of  po-  tato  crisps  would  be  handed  out  through  the  window,  her  anger  went  out  with  them  and  threatened  the  children  as  they  ate  and  drank.  &quot;And  she  doesn't  always  care  who  she  goes  there  with,&quot;  Mrs.  Allen's  gar-  dener  told  her.  &quot;She  works  hard  and  deserves  a  little  pleasure.  She  has  her  anxieties,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Allen,  who,  alas,  had  none.  She  had  never  been  inside  The  Horse  and  Jockey,  although  it  was  nearer  to  her  house  than  The  Chequers,  at  the  other  end  of  the  village,  to  which  she  and  her  husband  went  sometimes  for  a  glass  of  sherry  on  Sunday  mornings.  The  Horse  and  Jockey  attracted  a  dif-  ferent  set  of  customers-for  instance,  people  who  sat  down  and  drank,  at  tables  all  round  the  wall.  At  The  Chequers  no  one  ever  sat  down,  but  people  stood  and  sipped  and  chatted  as  at  a  cocktail  party,  and  luncheons  and  dinners  were  served,  which  made  it  so  much  more  respectable.  No  children  hung  about  outside,  because  they  were  all  at  home  with  their  nannies.  Sometimes  in  the  evenings-so  many  of  them-when  her  husband  was  kept  late  in  [REDACTED],  Mrs.  Allen  wished  that  she  could  go  down  to  The  Chequers  and  drink  a  glass  of  sherry  and  exchange  a  little  conversation  with  someone,  but  she  was  too  shy  to  open  the  door  and  go  in  alone.  She  imagined  heads  turning,  a  surprised  welcome  from  her  friends,  who  would  all  be  safely  in  married  pairs,  and  then,  when  she  left,  eyes  meeting,  with  unspoken  messages  and  conjecture  in  the  air.  Mrs.  Lacey  went  home  at  midday,  and  then  there  was  gardening  to  do  and  the  dog  to  be  taken  fora  walk.  After  six  o'clock,  she  began  to  pace  restlessly  about  the  house,  glancing  at  the  clocks in  one  room  after  another,  listening  for  her  husband's  car-the  sound  she  knew  so  well  because  she  had  awaited  it  for  such  a  large  part  of  her  married  life.  She  would  hear,  at  last,  the  tires  turning  on  the  soft  gravel,  the  door  being  slammed,  then  his  footsteps  hurrying  toward  the  porch.  She  knew  that  it  was  a  wasteful  way  of  spending  her  years-  and,  looking  back,  she  was  unable  to  tell  one  of  them  from  another-but  she  could  not  think  what  else  she  might  do.  Humphrey  went  on  earning  more  and  more  money,  and  there  was  no  stopping  him  now.  Her  acquaintances,  in  wretch-  ed  quandaries  about  where  the  next  term's  school  fees  were  to  come  from,  would  turn  to  her  and  say  cruelly,  &quot;Oh,  you're  all  right,  Ruth.  You've  no  idea  what  you  are  spared.&quot;  And  Mrs:  Lacey  would  be  glad  when  Maureen  could  leave  school  and  &quot;get  out  earning.&quot;  &quot;  I've  got  my  geometry  to  do,'  she  says  when  it's  time  to  wash  up  the  tea  things.  'I'll  geometry  you,  my  girl,  I  said.  'When  I  was  your  age,  I  was  out  earning.&quot;  &quot;  Mrs.  Allen  was  fascinated  by  the  life  going  on  in  that  house,  and  the  children  were  very  real  to  her,  although  she  had  never  seen  them.  Only  Mr.  Lacey  re-  mained  blurred  and  unimaginable.  No  one  knew  him.  He  worked  in  the  town  in  the  valley,  six  miles  away,  and  he  kept  himself  to  himself;  had  never  been  known  to  show  his  face  in  The  Horse  and  Jockey.  &quot;I've  got  my  own  set,&quot;  Mrs.  Lacey  said  airily.  &quot;After  all,  he's  nearly  twenty  years  older  than  me.  I'll  make  sure  neither  of  my  girls  follow  my  mistake.  'I'd  rather  see  you  dead  at  my  feet,  I  saidto  Vera.&quot;  Ron's  young  lady  was  lucky-having  Ron,  she  added.  Mrs.  Allen  found  this  strange,  for  Ron  had  always  been  paint-  ed  so  black;  was,  she  had  been  led  to  believe,  oafish,  ungrateful,  greedy,  and  slow  to  put  his  hands  in  his  pockets  if  there  was  any  paying  out  to  do.  There  was  also  the  matter  of  his  shoe-cleaning,  for  no  young  women  would  do  what  his  moth-  er  did  for  him-or  said  she  did.  Always,  Mrs.  Lacey  would  sigh  and  say,  &quot;Goodness  me,  if  only  I  was  their  age  and  knew  what  I  know  now.&quot;  She  was  an  envious  woman.  She  envied  Mrs.  Allen  her  pret-  ty  house  and  her  clothes,  and  she  envied  her  own  daughters  their  youth.  &quot;If  I  had  your  fig-  ure,&quot;  she  would  say  to  Mrs.  Allen.  Her  own  had  gone.  What  else  could  be  expected,  she  asked,  when  she  had  had  three  chil-  dren?  Mrs.  Allen  thought,  too,  " b"of  all  the  brown  ale  Mrs.  Lacey  drank  at  The  Horse  and  Jockey  and  of  the  reminiscences  of  meals  past,  which  came  so  much  into  her  conversations.  W  hat-  ever  the  cause  was,  her  flesh,  slackly  corseted,  shook  as  she  trod  heavily  about  the  kitchen.  In  summer,  with  bare  arms  and  legs,  she  looked  larger  than  ever.  Although  her  skin  was  very  white,  the  impression  she  gave  was  at  once  colorful-from  her  orange  hair  and  bright  lips  and  the  floral  patterns  that  she  always  wore.  Her  red-painted  toenails  poked  through  the  straps  of  her  fancy  sandals.  Turquoise-blue  beads  were  wound  around  her  throat.  Humphrey  Allen  had  never  seen  her-he  had  always  left  for  the  sta-  tion  before  she  arrived-and  that  was  a  good  thing,  his  wifethought.  When  she  spoke  of  Mrs.  Lacey,  she  won-  dered  if  he  visualized  a  neat,  homely  woman  in  a  clean  white  overall.  She  did  not  deliberately  mislead  him,  but  she  took  advantage  of  his  indifference.  Her  relationship  with  Mrs.  Lacey  and  the  intimacy  of  their  conversations  in  the  kitchen  he  would  not  have  approved  of,  and  the  sight  of  those  callused  feet,  with  their  chipped  nail  varnish  and  yel-  lowing  heels,  would  have  sickened  him.  [REDACTED]  Monday  morning,  Mrs.  Lacey  was  later  than  usual.  She  was  never  very  punctual  and  had  many  excuses  about  flat  bicycle  tires  or  Mau-  reen  being  poorly.  Mrs.  Allen,  waiting  for  her,  sorted  out  all  the  washing.  When  she  took  another  look  at  the  clock,  she  decided  that  it  was  far  too  late  for  her  to  be  expected  at  all.  For  some  time  lately,  Mrs.  Lacey  had  seemed  ill  and  depressed.  Her  eyelids,  which  were  chronically  rather  inflamed,  had  been  more  angrily  red  than  ever,  and,  at  the  sink  or  ironing  board,  she  would  fall  into  unusual  silences.  She  was  absent-minded  and  full  of  sighs.  She  had  always  liked  to  talk  about  the  &quot;change&quot;  and  now  she  did  so  more  than  ever,  as  if  with  a  desperate  hopefulness.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  but  I  was  ever  so  sick,&quot;  she  told  Mrs.  Allen  when  she  arrived  the  next  morning.  &quot;I  still  feel  queerish.  Such  heartburn.  I  don't  like  the  signs,  I  can  tell  you.  All  I  crave  is  pickled  walnuts,  just  the  same  as  I  did  with  Maureen.  I  don't  like  the  signs  one  bit.  I  feel  I'll  throw  myself  into  the  river  if  I'm  taken  that  way  again.&quot;  Mrs.  Allen  felt  stunned  and  an-  tagonistic.  &quot;Surely  not  at  your  age,&quot;  she  said  crossly.  &quot;You  can't  be  more  astonished  than  me,&quot;  Mrs.  Lacey  said,  belching  loudly.  &quot;Oh,  pardon.  I'm  afraid  I  can't  help  myself.&quot;  Not  being  able  to  help  herself,  she  continued  to  belch  and  hiccup  as  she  turned  on  taps  and  shook  soap  powder  into  the  washing-up  bowl.  It  was  be-  cause  of  this  that  Mrs.  Allen  decided  to  takethe  dog  for  a  walk.  Feeling  con-  sciously  fastidious  and  aloof,  she  made  her  way  acrossthe  fields,  trying  to  dis-  engage  her  thoughts  from  Mrs.  Lacey  and  her  troubles,  but  unable  to.  &quot;Poor  woman,&quot;  she  thought  again  and  again,  with  bitter  animosity.  She  turnedback  when  she  noticed  how  the  sky  had  darkened  with  racing,  sharp-edged  clouds.  Before  she  could  reach  home,  the  rain  began.  Her  hair,  soaking  wet,  shrank  into  tight  curls  against  her  head.  Her  woollen  suit  smelled  like  a  damp  animal.  &quot;Oh,  I  am  drenched!&quot;  she  called  out  as  she  threw  open  the  kitchen  door.  She  knew  at  once  that  the  house  was  empty,  that  Mrs.  Lacey  must  have  put  on  her  coat  and  left  almost  as  soon  as  she  started  out  on  her  walk.  For  noth-  ing  was  done;  the  washing  up  was  hardly  started,  and  the  floor  was  un-  swept.  Among  the  stacked-up  crockery  a  note  was  propped.  She  had  come  over  funny,  felt  dizzy,  and,  leaving  her  apologies  and  respects,  had  gone.  Angrily,  but  methodically,  Mrs. Allen  set  about  making  good  the  wasted  morning.  By  afternoon,  the  grim  look  was  fixed  upon  her  face.  &quot;How  dare  she?&quot;  she  found  herself  whispering,  without  allowing  herselfto  wonder  what  it  was  the  woman  had  dared.  She  had  her  own  little  ways  of  cos-  seting  herself  through  the  lonely  hours,  comforts  that  were  growing  more  im-  portant  to  her  as  she  grew  older,  so  that  the  time  would  come  when  not  to  have  her  cup  of  tea  at  four-thirty  would  seem  a  prelude  to  disaster.  This  after-  noon,  disorganized  as  it  already  was,  she  fell  out  of  her  usual  habit,  and  instead  of  carrying  the  tray  to  the  low  table  by  the  fire,  she  poured  out  her  tea  in  the  kitchen  and  drank  it  there,  leaning  tiredly  against  the  dresser.  Then  she  went  upstairs  to  make  herself  tidy.  She  was  trying  to  brush  her  frizzed  hair  smooth  again  when  she  heard  the  door-  bell  ringing.  When  she  opened  the  door,  she  saw  quite  plainly  a  look  of  astonishment  take  the  place  of  anxiety  on  the  face  of  the  man  standing  there.  Something  about  her  surprised  him,  was  not  what  he  had  expected.  &quot;Mrs.  Allen?&quot;  he  asked  un-  certainly,  and  the  astonishment  re-  mained  when  she  had  answered  him.  &quot;Well,  I'm  calling  about  the  wife,&quot;  " b"he  said.  &quot;Mrs,  Lacey  that  works  here.&quot;  &quot;I  was  worried  about  her,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Allen.  She  knew  that  she  must  face  the  em-  barrassment  of  hearing  about  Mrs.  Lacey's  condition,  and  invited  the  man  into  her  husband's  study,  where  she  thought  he  might  look  less  out  of  place  than  in  her  brocade-smothered  draw-  ing  room.  He  looked  about  him  resent-  fully  and  glared  down  at  the  floor  that  his  wife  had  polished.  With  this  thought  in  his  mind,  he  said  abruptly,  &quot;It's  all  taken  its  toll.&quot;  He  sat  down  on  a  leather  couch,  with  his  cap  and  his  bicycle  clips  beside  him.  &quot;I  came  home  to  my  tea  and  found  her  in  bed,  crying,&quot;  he  said.  'This  was  true.  Mrs.  Lacey  hadsuccumbed  to  despair  and  gone  to  lie  down.  Feeling  better  at  four  o'clock,  she  went  to  the  kitchen  to  find  some  food  to  comfort  herself  with,  but  the  slice  of  dough  cake  was  ill-chosen  and  brought  on  more  heartburn  and  floods  of  bitter  tears.  &quot;If  she  carries  on  here  for  a  while,  it's  all  got  to  be  very  different,&quot;  Mr.  Lacey  said  threateningly.  He  was  nerv-  ous  at  saying  what  he  must,  and  could  bring  out  the  words  only  with  the  im-  petus  of  anger.  &quot;You  may  or  may  not  know  that  she's  expecting.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Mrs..  Allen  humbly.  'This  morning  she  told  me  that  she  thought-&quot;  'There's  no  &quot;thought&quot;  about  it.  It's  as  plain  as  a  pikestaff.&quot;  Yet  in  his  eyes  she  could  see  disbelief  and  bafflement,  and  he  frowned  and  looked  down  again  at  the  polished  floor.  Twenty  yearsolder  than  his  wife-  or  so  his  wife  had  said-he  really,  to  Mrs.  Allen,  looked  quite  ageless,  a  crooked,  bowlegged  little  manwho  might  have  been  a  jockey  once.  The  ex-  pression  about  his  blue  eyes  was  like  a  child's.  He  was  both  stubborn  and  pathetic.  Mrs.  Allen's  fat  spaniel  came  into  the  room  and  went  straight  to  the  stranger's  chair  and  began  to  sniff  at  his  corduroy  trousers.  &quot;It's  too  much  for  her,&quot;  Mr.  Lacey  said.  &quot;It's  too  much  to  expect.&quot;  To  Mrs.  Allen's  horror,  she  saw  the  blue  eyes  filling  with  tears.  Hoping  to  hide  his  emotion,  he  bent  down  and  fondled  the  dog,  making  playful  thrusts  at  it  with  his  fist  closed.  He  was  a  man  utterly,  bewilderedly  at  sea.  His  married  life  had  been  too  much  for  him,  with  so  much  in  it  that  he  could  not  understand.  &quot;Now  I  know,  I  will  do  what  I  can,&quot;  Mrs.  Allen  told  him.  &quot;I  will  try  to  get  someone  else  in  to  do  the  rough.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  late  nights  that  are  the  trou-ble,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  comes  in  dog-tired.  Night  after  night.  It's  not  good  enough.  'Let  them  stay  at  home  and  mind  their  own  children  once  in  a  while,  I  told  her,  'We  don't  need  the  money.'  &quot;  &quot;I  can't  understand  ..  .&quot;  Mrs.  Allen  began.  She  was  at  sea  herself  now,  but  felt  perilously  near  a  barbarous,  un-  known  shore  and  was  afraid  to  make  any  movement  toward  it.  &quot;I  earn  good  money.  For  her  to  come  out  at  all  was  only  for  extras.  She  likes  new  clothes.  In  the  daytime  I  never  had  any  objection.  Then  all  these  cock-  tail  parties  begin.  It  beats  me  how  peo-  ple  can  drink  like  it  night  after  night  and  pay  out  for  someone  else  to  mind  their  kids.  Perhaps  you're  thinking  that  it's  not  my  business,  but  I'm  the  one  who  has  to  sit  at  home  alone  till  all  hours  and  get  my  own  supper  and  see  next  to  nothing  of  my  wife.  I'm  boiling  over  some  nights.  Once  I  nearly  rushed  out  when  I  heard  the  car  stop  down  the  road,  I  wanted  to  tell  your  husband  what  I  thought  of  you  both.&quot;  &quot;My  husband?&quot;  murmured  Mrs.  Allen.  &quot;  'What  am  Z  supposed  to  have?&quot;  I  would  have  asked  him.  'Is  she  my  wife  or  your  sitter-in?  Bringing  her  back  at     this  time  of  night.&quot;  And  it's  no  use  say-  ing  she  could  have  refused.  She  never  would.&quot;  Mrs.  Allen's  quietness  at  last  defeat-  ed  him  and  dispelled  the  anger  he  had  tried  to  rouse  in  himself,  The  look  of  her,  too,  filled  him  with  doubts-her  grave,  uncertain  demeanor  and  the  shock  her  age  had  been  to  him.  He  had  imagined  someone  so  much  younger,  and-because  of  the  cocktail  parties-  flighty.  Instead,  he  recognized  some-  thing  of  himself  in  her,  a  yearning  dis-  appointment.  He  picked  up  his  cap  and  his  bicycle  clips  and  sat  looking  down  at  them,  turning  them  round  in  his  hands.  &quot;I  had  to  come,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Allen.  &quot;Soyou  won't  ask  her  again?&quot;  he  pleaded.  &quot;It  isn't  rightfor  her.  Not  now.  Not  as  things  are.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  won't,&quot;  Mrs.  Allen  promised,  and  she  stood  up  as  he  did,  and  walked  over  to  the  door.  He  stooped  and  gave  the  spaniel  a  final  pat.  &quot;You'll  excuse  my  coming,  I  hope.&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  &quot;It  was  no  use  saying  any  more  to  her.  Whatever  she's  asked,  she  won't  refuse.  It's  her  way.&quot;  MRS.  ALLEN  shut  the  front  door  after  him  and  stood  in  the  hall,  listening  to  him  wheel  his  bicycle  across  the  gravel.  Then  she  felt  herself  be-  ginning  to  blush.  She  was  glad  that  she  was  alone,  for  she  could  feel  her  face,  her  throat,  even  the  tops  of  her  arms  burning,  and  she  went  over  to  a  look-  ing  glass  and  studied  with  great  inter-  estthis  strange  phenomenon. "