 b"A FEW  days  ago,  I  got  a  postcard  from  sixteen-year-old  Michael  A  Barnett,  of  Oil  City,  Pennsyl-  vania,  that  read,  &quot;Saving  my  allowance  to  get  back  to  New  York  this  summer.  Warn  the  cops  I'm  coming-not  on  the  run.&quot;  My  acquaintance  with  Michael  be-  gan  last  August,  after  a  phone  call  from  his  mother,  Josephine,  whom  I  hadn't  seen  since  we  lived  in  the  same  dormi-  tory  of  a  small  college  in  western  Penn-  sylvania.  She  said  she  and  Michael  had  been  in  New  York  for  nearly  a  week,  seeing  some  shows,  while  her  husband  was  away  in  [REDACTED]  on  a  fishing  trip.  I  invited  them  to  go  out  to  dinner  with  me  the  following  evening.  When  they  arrived  at  my  small  apartment,  in  Greenwich  Village,  there  was  almost  none  of  that  awkwardness  of  twenty-years-later  reunions,  because  Michael,  a  tall,  cheerful  boy,  with  his  mother's  curly  dark  hair,  at  once  be-  gan  telling  me  joyously  how  he  felt  about  New  York.  He  had  lived  in  several  towns,  but  he  had  been  in  only  one  other  city,  he  said-[REDACTED].  &quot;But  now  that  I've  seen  New  York,  there's  just  no  comparison.  Why,  I  saw  all  of  [REDACTED]  in  just  a  couple  of  days,  but  I've  been  here  a  week  and  I  haven't  even  begun  to  see  all  I  wanted.&quot;  The  day  after  tomorrow,  he  added  ruefully,  he'd  have  to  leave.  Josephine  then  ex-  plained  that  she  was  taking  him  up  to  Stonington,  [REDACTED],  to  spend  the  second  week  of  their  vacation  with  Margaret  Seeley,  an  old  school  friend.  &quot;But  it's  a  town,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;And  I  already  live  in  a  town.  Why  can't  we  stay  in  New  York  a  week  longer?&quot;  &quot;Now,  dear,&quot;  his  mother  said.  &quot;You  know  I've  been  planning  on  this  visit  for  ages.  And  a  week  in  New  York  is  plenty.  Now  I'm  ready  to  settle  down  at  Margaret's  and  enjoy  some  home-  cooked  meals  and  family  life.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I'm  not,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;Why  can't  I  stay  here  by  myself  and  then  you  come  back  and  get  me  at  the  end  of  a  week?&quot;  Josephine  looked  worried  and  thoughtful.  When  she  glanced  at  me,  I  thought  she  wanted  support.  &quot;You're  still  a  bit  young  for  that,  Michael,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  you  don't  know  anyone  here  your  age,  so  it  wouldn't  be  much  fun  for  you.&quot;  &quot;He's  very  self-reliant,&quot;  Josephine  said.  &quot;He'd  never  be  a  bother  to  anyone.&quot;  I  was  bewildered.  Whose  side  was  she  on?  I  said  I  was  sure  Michael  was  the  sort  who  would  get  along  beauti-" b"fully  wherever  hewas,  and  that  I  could  sympathize  with  his  hating  to  leave  [REDACTED].  I  added  that  I'd  invite  him  to  stay  with  me,  but  I  didn't  have  a  guest  room.  &quot;I'd  stay  at  a  hotel,&quot;  Michael  said  quickly.  &quot;After  all,  I've  been  in  the  Statler  all  week.&quot;  &quot;I  think  he'd  be  better  off  in  a  small  hotel  down  here  in  the  Village,&quot;  his  mother  said.  &quot;Some  quiet,  family  sort  of  place  where  they'd  keep  an  eye  on  him.  How  about  the  little  hotel  right  acrossthe  street  from  you?  It  looks  very  nice,  and  I  saw  a  family  coming  out  of  there  as  we  came  by  tonight.  They  were  obviously  nice  people.&quot;  Michael  looked  at  me  anxiously.  &quot;I'd  be  careful  not  to  impose.  You  wouldn't  even  have  to  see  me  at  all.&quot;  I  said  of  course  I'd  want  to  see  him.  &quot;You  do  think  it's  safe,  don't  you?&quot;  Josephine  asked  me.  &quot;I've  read  terrible  stories  about  muggings  and  switch  knives  and  drug  addicts.  What  if  you  were  held  up,  Michael?  Promise  me  you'd  hand  over  your  money  and  not  argue.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Well,  it  would  depend  on  how  big  the  guy  was  and  whether  he  had  a  gun,&quot;  Michael  began.  But  at  this  Josephine  became  very  agitated,  and  Michael  at  once  promised  her  he'd  hand  over  his  wallet  without  any  fuss.  &quot;Of  course,  you  could  always  keep  some  of  it  tucked  away,&quot;&quot;  Josephine  said,  &quot;and  if  they  didn't  know  you  hadany  more,  they  wouldn't  ask  for  it.&quot;  &quot;I  know!  In  my  shoe!  Under  my  sock!&quot;  He  turned  to  me,  beaming.  &quot;A  holdup  man  wouldn't  ask  me  to  take  off  my  shoes  and  socks,  would  he?&quot;  I  agreed  it  wasn't  likely.  Josephine  said  he  must  cash  only  one  small  traveller's  check  at  a  time.  &quot;And  you  won't  walk  in  any  dark  alleys  alone,  will  you,  dear?&quot;  &quot;I  hate  dark  alleys,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;I'd  much  rather  spend  all  my  time  on  Eighth  Street,  and  it's  crowded.&quot;  &quot;And,  of  course,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;he's  much  too  smart  to  accept  invitations  from  strangers  to  go  home  with  them.&quot;  \xc2\xabMichael,  if  anyone  bothers  you,  just  go  straight  to  the  nearest  policeman,&quot;  Josephine  said.  She  was  already  biting  off  her  lipstick.  I  think  that  by  then  she  regretted  the  whole  impulsive  arrange-  ment,  but  she'd  gone  too  far  too  fast  to  back  out  now.  Presently,  with  the  matter  settled,  we  went  out  to  dinner,  at  an  Italian  res-  taurant  on  Eighth  Street.  OsEPHINE  called  me  the  next  day,  a  Thursday,  to  say  she  was  leaving  Friday  morning.  &quot;We  reserved  a  room" b"at  that  little  hotel  for  Michael,  andI'm  going  down  with  him  tonight,  after  we  getout  of  the  show,  to  see  him  settled  in.  That  way,  he  can  try  it  out  for  one  night  while  I'm  still  here  in  town,  and  then,  if  he  should  change  his  mind,  he  can  still  come  with  me  to  Stonington.&quot;  We  arranged  that  if  Michael  stayed,  he  should  call  me  after  she  left.  He  phoned  around  noon  Friday,  sounding  oddly  subdued,  and  when  I  asked  if  he'd  like  to  meet  me  that  night  for  a  movie,  he  agreed  so  eagerly  that  I  wondered  whether  he  was  already  homesick.  I  was  having  dinner  with  a  friend  in  the  neighborhood,  and  came  home  about  nine  o'clock,  shortly  before  the  time  Michael  was  to  pick  me  up.  I  found  him  in  the  lobby,  sticking  a  note  into  my  mailbox.  &quot;I  wanted  to  let  you  know  I'm  leaving,&quot;  he  said  very  rapidly.  &quot;I'm  taking  a  train  at  ten-fifteen,  and  Margaret  and  Mother  will  meet  me.&quot;  He  had  his  bag  with  him,  soI  asked  if  he  wouldn't  come  upstairs  with  me  for  a  while,  and  then  I'd  take  him  up  to  Grand  Central  in  plenty  of  time  for  his  train.  &quot;Or  would  you  rather  we'd  go  up  to  [REDACTED]  and  look  around?&quot;  &quot;My  feet  hurt,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wore  my  best  shoes  all  day  and  I  guess  they  aren't  so  good  for  walking  in.  I've  got  blisters  on  both  heels.&quot;  As  soon  as  we  got  inside  my  apart-  ment,  he  asked  in  a  gentlemanly  tone  if  he  might  take  his  shoes  off.  When  we  were  companionably  settled  on  the  couch,  with  two  Cokes,  he  said,  &quot;I  could  have  taken  you  to  a  night  club  or  some-  thing,  if  there  was  more  time.  I  still  have  all  my  traveller's  checks.  They  made  me  pay  for  another  night  at  the  hotel  because  I  hadn't  checked  out  by  three  o'clock,  but  I  had  enough  cash.  I  have  seven  dollars  and  thirty  cents  left.  I  guess  that'll  cover  the  train  fare.&quot;  I  said  it  would.  &quot;And  I  really  think  you'll  have  a  better  time  in  Stonington,&quot;  I  added.  &quot;I'm  only  going  there  to  keep  Moth-  er  from  worrying.&quot;  I  kept  a  straight  face,  but  some  ray  of  disbelief,  or  amusement,  must  have  showed,  because  he  said,  &quot;She  called  twice  today  after  she  got  to  Margaret's,  to  make  sure  I  was  all  right.  The  sec-  ond  time  she  called,  I  was  out,  and  I  didn't  getthe  message  till  I  went  back  to  the  hotel  about  an  hour  ago.  And  by  the  time  I  got  her,  she  was  so  nervous  I  figured  it  wouldn't  be  fair  to  ruin  her  whole  visit,  so  I  said  I'd  leave  tonight.  She's  usually  an  awfully  good  sport,  but  after  the  cops  scared  her,  naturally  she  felt  kind  of  nervous.&quot;  &quot;&quot;What  cops?&quot; " b"Michael  looked  surprised.  &quot;Didn't  Mother  tell  you?  I  thought  she'd  call  you  this  morning  and  throw  a  fit  over  what  happened  to  me.&quot;  &quot;But  what  did  happen?&quot;  &quot;It  really  wasn't  much  of  anything,&quot;  he  said  nonchalantly.  &quot;And  I  wasn't  scared  at  all,  but  it  was  a  shame  the  cops  had  to  wake  Mother  out  of  a  sound  Sleep&quot;&quot;  MICHAEL  said  that  the  night  before,  when  he  and  his  mother  left  the  theatre,  they  picked  up  his  bag  at  the  Statler  and  came  down  to  the  hotel  near  me,  where  Josephine  saw  him  registered  and  settled  in  his  room.  Michael  walked  back  with  her  to  the  corner  of  Fifth  [REDACTED]  and  Eleventh  Street,  and  put  her  in  a  cab.  He  was  to  meet  her  at  the  Statler  the  next  morning  for  break-  fast,  before  she  took  the  train.  When  he  came  back  into  the  lobby  of  his  hotel,  he  told  me,  it  was  just  after  midnight,  and  a  new  desk  clerk  was  on  duty-&quot;an  old  man  with  kind  of  a  humped  back.&quot;  Michael  had  left  his  key  on  the  counter  only  a  few  minutes  be-  fore,  but  now,  when  he  gave  his  room  number-409-the  clerk  put  down  the  paperbacked  book  he'd  been  reading,  reached  into  the  box,  and  said  irritably,  &quot;&quot;Not  here.  You  must  have  it  yourself.&quot;  To  convince  the  clerk,  and  himself,  that  he  didn't  have  the  key,  he  turned  out  his  pockets,  and  showed  the  clerk  exactly  where  he'd  laid  it  on  the  counter  before  he  went  out.  The  old  man  grumbled,  &quot;Only  one  key  here.&quot;  This  remark  made  sense  to  me,  if  not  to  Michael.  I  had  stayed  in  that  hotel  while  my  apartment  was  being  painted,  and  a  chatty  clerk  had  explained  to  me  that  the  management  always  kepta  key  in  each  cubbyhole,  &quot;be-  cause  we  have  a  lot  of  old  ladies  who  are  always  lockin'  themselves  out  or  losin'  their  key.&quot;  Michael,  not  knowing  any  of  this,  then  told  the  clerk  reasonably  that  he  was  alone,  in  a  single  room,  so  he  needed  only  one  key.  The  old  man,  probably  impatient  to  return  to  his  paperback,  handed  the  duplicate  over,  saying,  &quot;Mind  you  don't  lose  this.&quot;  Michael  grabbed  the  key  before  the  clerk  could  change  his  mind,  and  went  upstairs  in  the  self-service  elevator.  &quot;But  I  suddenly  realized  it  was  my  first  night  alone  in  New  York,  and  I  was  so  excited  I  couldn't  just  go  to  bed.  Any-  way,  I  was  hungry.So  instead  of  going  to  my  room,  I  turned  around  and  went  back  to  the  elevator.  By  then  it  was  gone,  and  I  rang  and  rang,  but  it  didn't  come,  soI  ran  down  the  stairs.&quot;  I  could  picture  him  bounding  across" b"the  lobby.  &quot;I  was  just  going  out  the  front  door,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;when  somebody  yelled,  'Hey,  you.  Stop!  Come  back  here.'  I  looked  around  and  saw  two  men  standing  at  the  desk.  One  of  them-he  was  fatter  and  older  than  the  other  one-started  walking  toward  me,  so  of  course  I  waited  to  see  what  he  wanted.  He  shoved  something  at  me,  and  at  first  I  thought  maybe  he  was  drunk,  and  trying  to  show  me  the  badge  from  some  convention  he'd  been  to.  But  then  he  said,  'Police-Eighth  Precinct,&quot;  so  I  realized  it  must  be  a  police  badge  and  he  and  the  other  fellow  were  de-  tectives.  I'd  never  seen  a  police  badge  except  on  television,  but  the  man  didn't  give  me  a  chance  to  take  a  good  look.  He  said,  'What  were  you  doing  up-  stairs?&quot;  '  o  Michael  explained  to  the  detective  that  he  had  started  up  to  his  room  and  then  decided  he  wanted  a  hamburger.  This  simple  explanation  was  apparently  too  simple  for  the  detective.  He  marched  Michael  back  to  the  desk  and  there  asked  him  to  repeat,  in  the  clerk's  hear-  ing,  his  name  and  room  number.  When  Michael  gave  his  name  and  said  &quot;409,&quot;  the  clerk  squawked  furiously,  &quot;He  made  me  give  him  the  duplicate  to  405.&quot;  Michael  then  pulled  the  key  out  of  his  pocket,  to  prove  that  the  clerk  was  wrong,  and  the  older  plainclothesman  snatched  it  from  him.  &quot;So  you're  in  409,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Then  how  come  you  got  the  key  to  405?  What  are  you  trying  to  pull?&quot;  Michael,  recounting  this  to  me,  said,  &quot;By  then,  I  was  so  confused  I  thought  I  must  have  two  keys,  so  I  started  to  reach  in  my  pocket  again,  but  one  of  the  men  jumped  at  me  and  knocked  my  hand  down,  and  thenhe  frisked  me.  Have  you  ever  been  frisked?  They're  terribly  thorough.&quot;  He  began  to  describe  the  process  in  de-  tail,  and  finally  I  asked  desperately,  &quot;Is  that  when  they  called  your  mother?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that  was  ages  later.  First,  they  said  they  were  going  to  take  me  into  Room  405  and  see  what  I'd  done  there.  I  kept  telling  them  I  hadn't  even  seen  that  room,  and  I  told  them  to  look  on  the  register  and  see  that  I  was  in  409,  but  they  didn't  even  listen  to  me.  They  hustled  me  into  the  elevator.&quot;  When  they  got  to  Room  405,  the  younger  man  held  Michael's  arm  while  the  older  one  knocked  at  the  door,  He  got  no  answer,  so  he  opened  the  door  with  the  key  he  had  taken  from  Michael.  He  went  in,  snapped  on  the  light,  and  took  a  look  around,  opening  a  couple  of  bureau  drawers  and  the  closet  door.  Then  he  shrugged,  and  said,  &quot;It's  not  occupied.&quot;" b"Next,  the  detectives  took  Michael  to  409,  which  he'd  been  claiming  all  along  as  his  room,  and  opened  the  door  with  a  pass  key.  Once  inside,  Michael  pointed  triumphantly  to  his  still  unpacked  suit-  case.  &quot;But  the  trouble  was  it  had  the  initials  R.  W.  on  it,  for  RobertWatts,  my  cousin.  I  don't  have  any  luggage  of  my  own,  because  I  haven't  really  trav-  elled  much,  and  Dad  had  to  take  his  two  bags  on  his  trip,  so  I'd  borrowed  my  cousin  Bob's.  I'd  nevereven  thought  about  the  initials  being  different.  But,  boy,  the  detectives  sure  noticed  it  right  away.  They  started  questioning  me  all  over  again,  asking  me  why  I  had  some-  body  else's  suitcase  if  I  was  Michael  Barnett.  Finally,  I  told  them  that  if  they'd  call  my  mother  at  the  Statler,  she'd  identify  me,  butthey  laughed  and  said,  'That's  some  story-you  in  one  hotel  and  your  mother  in  the  Stat-  ler.'  They  asked  me  where  I'd  stolen  the  bag,  and  they  made  a  mess  when  they  searched  it.&quot;  'They  searched  your  bag?  But  what  were  they  looking  for?&quot;  I  asked.  Michael  said  thoughtfully,  &quot;I'm  not  sure.  They  didn't  find  anything.  One  of  them  kept  rummaging  around,  and  the  other  one  kept  on  asking,  'Who's  R.W.?  Come  on,  now,  tell  us  your  right  name.  What  are  you  hiding?&quot;  &quot;  I  said  to  Michael,  &quot;But  why  didn't  you  phone  me?  I  could  have  come  right  over  and  identified  you.&quot;  &quot;Well,  by  then  it  was  almost  one  o'clock.  And  anyway  Mother  had  told  me  I  shouldn't  impose  on  you.  Besides,  I  knew  I  was  Michael  Barnett.  Oh,  I  forgot  to  tell  you  about  my  identifica-  tion.  You  know  that  card  that  comes  in  wallets,  with  places  for  your  name  and  address?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;Id  tried  to  remember  to  change  mine  whenever  we  moved,  but  I'd  only  crossed  out  the  old  addresses  and  writ-  ten  in  the  new  ones.  When  the  de-  tectives  looked  at  it,  they  said,  'How  come  you  kept  movin'  around?  Did  you  hafta  get  out  of  town?  Were  you  ever  picked  up?'  Then  they  went  through  the  papers  in  my  wallet  and  found  the  court  summons.  The  younger  detective  had  been  getting  nicer,  but  when  he  saw  that  summons  he  got  really  mad  at  me.  He  waved  it  under  my  nose  and  said,  'You  claim  you've  never  been  picked  up.  But  you  can't  deny  this  is  a  court  summons,  can  you&quot;&quot;  And  I'd  never  tried  to  deny  it.  I  said  I  was  a  witness,  but  he  wouldn't  even  believe  that.&quot;  For  a  moment,  I  had  a  swift  twinge  of  sympathy  for  the  detective.  &quot;It  was  the  old  lady  who  got  thrown  off  the  bus  in  Oil  City,&quot;  Michael  told " b"me.  &quot;I  mean,  nobody  threw  her  off  on  purpose,  but  the  driver  started  up  so  fast  she  didn't  get  clear  down  the  steps,  so  she  fell  off  and  broke  her  arm.  Or  maybe  she  just  sprained  it,  but  anyway  the  driver  said  it  wasn't  his  fault,  and  a  lot  of  the  other  passengers  said  they  hadn't  seen  a  thing  and  wouldn't  be  witnesses,  but  I  told  the  lady  I'd  testify  for  her,  because  it  really  was  the  driver's  fault,  and  I  wrote  out  my  name  and  address  forher.  That's  why  I  got  a  summons  to  appear  in  court  next  month.&quot;  He  looked  modestly  gratified.  &quot;It's  at  10  a.m.  on  aschoolday,  but  Mother  said  she  was  sure  the  principal  would  excuse  me,  because  it's  a  civic  duty  to  testify.  And  Itold  the  detectives  all  that,  but  the  older  one  said,  'A  wit-  ness!  Oh,  yeah?  Just  payin'  a  nice  little  social  call  on  the  judge.&quot;  And  he  started  questioning  me  all  over  again.  I  said,  'If  you'd  just  call  my  mother-Mrs.  Henry  Barnett-at  the  Statler,  she'd  tell  you  it's  all  true.  Every  word.&quot;  At  last,  the  younger  man  said  to  the  other  detective,  'The  kid  might  just  possibly  be  telling  the  truth,  at  that.  It  might  just  be  he's  got  a  mother  uptown  like  he  says.  Sure  it's  crazy,  but  why  would  he  make  up  a  thing  like  that?  He  knows  we  can  check  it  in  two  minutes.&quot;  &quot;  His  colleague  argued  that  it  was  a  waste  of  time,  but  the  younger  detective  insisted  on  phoning  downstairs  and  tell-  ing  the  clerk  to  put  in  a  call  to  Mrs.  Henry  Barnett  at  the  Statler.  &quot;Then  he  handed  the  phone  to  the  other  man,  and  when  Mother  answered,  he  said  he  was  a  detective  from  the  Eighth  Precinct,  and  then  heasked  her,  'Do  you  have  a  son  named  Michael  Barnett?&quot;  &quot;I  guess  Mother  thought  I'd  been  killed  or  something.  'The  detective  was  telling  her,  'No,  no,  he's  not  hurt.  He's  all  right.  But  I  want  to  make  sure  this  is  your  son.  Will  you  describe  him?&quot;  Mother  still  thought  I  must  be  in  the  morgue,  or  at  least  in  a  hospital,  but  the  detective  made  her  tell  him  the  color  of  my  eyes  and  hair,  and  how  tall  I  was,  and  how  much  I  weighed-all  that  stuff.  But  what  really  scared  her  most  was  that  all  of  a  sudden  they  were  cut  off.&quot;  I  was  feeling  rather  anxious  myself,  because  it  was  time  for  us  to  make  a  dash  for  the  train  and  I  was  afraid  that  once  Michael  got  his  shoes  on  and  started  out  the  door,  I'd  never  yank  him  back  to  his  story.  When  we'd  left  the  apartment  and  he'd  set  R.W  's  suitcase  carefully  at  our  feet  in  a  cab,  I  prompted  him  quickly,  &quot;'Your  mother  and  the  detective  were  cut  off.&quot;  &quot;It  took  Mother  at  least  ten  min-  utes  to  get  another  call  through,&quot;" b"Michael  said.  &quot;And  by  that  time  she  was  nearly  out  of  her  mind.  'The  de-  tectives  were  still  in  my  room,  because  they'd  told  the  clerk  to  get  the  Statler  again,  and  while  we  were  waiting,  they  were  telling  me  about  all  the  juvenile  sneak  thieves  who've  been  around  here  lately,  and  how  the  police  have  to  make  the  rounds  of  the  Village  hotels  every  night  to  watch  for  suspicious  characters.  When  Mother  finally  got  her  call  and  talked  to  the  detective  again,  he  just  told  her  there'd  been  a  mixup  about  my  room  key  and  that's  why  they  were  checking  up.  Then  he  let  me  talkto  her,  and  I  told  her  I  was  fine.  I  think  the  detectives  were  sorry,  because  they  both  shook  hands  with  me  when  they  left,  and  the  younger  one  told  me,  'You  were  running  across  the  lobby,  and  that's  why  we  noticed  you  in  the  first  place.  The  minute  a  cop  sees  someone  running,  he's  apt  to  get  suspicious.  From  now  on,  just  walk.  Remember  that,  kid.  Walk-don't  run.?  &quot;  Michael  said  to  me,  &quot;I've  been  trying  all  day  to  remember  to  walk  slowly.&quot;  He  took  a  last,  loving  look  at  New  York  from  the  cab  window  as  we  turned  off  Fifth  [REDACTED]  to  Grand  Central.  &quot;Oh,  I  hate  to  leave.  I  really  love  this  city.  I  can  hardly  wait  to  come  back.&quot;  I  wanted  to  offer  him  some  great,  glittering  piece  of  New  York  on  a  platter,  to  make  up  for  his  having  been  given  the  wrong  key  to  the  city,  but  all  I  could  do  just  then  was  to  make  sure  he  got  on  the  train.  Now  that  I  knew  what  Josephine  had  been  through,  I  marvelled  that  she  hadn't  bundled  him  off  with  her  that  morning,  and  I  told  Michael  he  had  a  remarkably  nice  mother,  &quot;I  know  it,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;That's  one  of  the  reasons  I'm  going  up  there  tonight-because  she  said  she  trusted  me  to  use  my  own  judgment.&quot;  As  we  said  goodbye  at  the  train  gate,  I  told  Michael  we'd  certainly  make  up  for  things  the  next  time  he  came.  &quot;But  there's  nothing  to  make  up  for,&quot;  he  said  radiantly.  &quot;I've  had  a  wonderful  time.&quot;  I  watched  him  after  he  went  through  the  gate.  He  started  racing  down  the  stairs,  with  R.  W.'s  suitcase  banging  against  his  legs,  but  halfway  down  he  suddenly  checked  himself,  and  walked  on  down  sedately. "