 b"WHENEVER  I  return  to  my  native  country,  I  prefer  to  do  so  as  slowly  as  possible.  I  like  to  put  off  the  happy  day  for  a  little  while  longer.  Few  means  of  transit  between  two  worlds  could  be  slower  than  a  slow  Cunarder.  So,  after  a  lifetime  of  eight  months  in  [REDACTED],  I  took  the  Fran-  conia,  bound  for  Liverpool,  early  last  winter,  resigning  myself  to  a  nine-day  limbo  in  which  to  ponder  the  virtues  of  that  world  to  which  I  was  so  unhurried-  ly  returning-my  country,  as  I  remem-  bered  it  and  as  my  556e6974656420537461746573n  friends  had  taught  me  to  imagine  it.  These  virtues  were  immediately  ap-  parent  in  the  attentions  of  a  fatherly  cabin  steward,  who  whisked  my  shoes  off  me-they  had  been  uncleaned  for  some  weeks,  owing  to  my  incompetence  in  locating  shoeshine  parlors-and  re-  turned  them  in  a  trice,  all  lustrous  with  British  spit  and  British  polish.  Here  I  was,  back  once  again  in  an  all-British  womb,  this  daddy-figure  spoiling  me  with  early-morning  tea  in  the  early  morning  and  afternoon  tea  in  the  after-  s  l]  noon,  and,  in  the  evening,  running-or,  as  he  put  it,  drawing-a  hot  bath  for  me  and  laying  out  my  tuxedo  and  stuffed  shirt  for  a  leisurely  six-course  dinner.  This  was  announced  by  a  gong  and  served  by  white-coated  sonny-fig-  ures,  swift  and  noiseless  in  their  atten-  tions.  At  the  first  one,  the  Get  Together  Dinner,  we  wore  with  dignity  (and,  as  we  got  together,  politely  tipped)  pa-  per  hats.  The  atmosphere  of  the  place  re-  sembled  that  of  a  small  but  commodious  country  house-a  house  decorated  in  the  Georgian  style,  fitted  with  Victorian  comforts,  and  then,  rather  incongruous-  ly,  floated  on  the  ocean.  The  dining  room,  it  seemed,  had  been  designed  by  Adam.  Its  paintings  were  evidently  by  Angelica  Kauffmann  and  its  chairs  by  Chippendale.  There  were  Chippendale  bookcases  in  the  library  and  Sheraton  cabinets,  full  of  Wedgwood  china,  in  the  smoking  room.  Everywhere  there  were  deep  armchairs  and  sofas,  uphol-  stered  in  restful  shades,  and  copies  of  the  Times  and  of  glossy  society  weeklies lying  discreetly  on  tables.  The  merest  touch  at  the  bell  brought  instant  feudal  attentions.  Here  was  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  dream  of  the  British  way  of  life  come  true.  There  were  only  seventeen  guests  first-class  passengers,  that  is-and  all  were  British.  They  stood  by  the  hour  at  the  bar,  telling  each  other  so,  and  saying  just  how  much  they  had  liked  or  had  not  liked  [REDACTED],  and  how  nice  it  was  to  bealready,  as  it  were,  back  at  Home,  Sweet  Home.  They  were  all,  I  supposed,  characteristically  British,  and  hence  suitable  study  material  for  my  voyage  of  rediscovery.  Yet  I  found  it  hard  to  trace  much  of  a  common  de-  nominator  between  them.  The  girl  typist  from  Lancashire,  with  the  blondish  hair  and  the  boldish  make-  up,  did  not  exactly  personify  English  reserve.  In  a  swift  burst  of  confidence,  she  told  me  that  she  had  spent  three  years  in  [REDACTED],  during  which  time  everybody  had  told  her  how  much  she  was  enjoying  it.  But  had  she  been?  Each  morning  she  had  examined  herself  searchingly  in  a  mirror  in  New  Jersey  and  had  asked  herself  the  questions  &quot;Am  I  happy?  Do  I  look  happy?&quot;  Puzzle  away  as  she  might,  she  could  never  hit  on  the  answer,  though  she  had  an  uneasy  suspicion  that  it  might  be  &quot;No.&quot;  But  this  morning  she  had  looked  into  a  Fran-  conia  mirror,  in  its  Victorian  mahogany  frame,  and,  lo  and  behold,  the  answer  was  now  unmistakably  &quot;Yes.&quot;  She  was  unable  to  define  the  reason.  It  was  true  that  she  had  never  succeeded,  despite  serious  efforts,  in  breaking  her  heart  over  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  but  then  she  had  not  yet  broken  it,  despite  equally  serious  ef-  forts,  over  any  of  the  Britishers  on  board.  In  fact,  she  was  rather  bored,  and  begged  me  to  give  her  some  typing  to  do,  in  order  to  fill  in  what,  in  the  States,  had  been  her  working  hours.  &quot;But  somehow,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  look  to  myself  happy.  What  do  you  think?&quot;  She  looked  all  right  to  me,  and,  sure  enough,  in  mid-Aflantic  she  developed  a  secret  smile  and  began  keeping  irregu-  lar  hours  at  table  and  asked  me  for  no  more  typing.  One  night  I  found  her  sitting  up  late  in  the  library,  writing  and  writing  and  writing.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I'm  doing?&quot;  she  confided.  &quot;I'm  writing  to  all  my  friends  in  [REDACTED]  to  say  I'll  never  go  back  there.  Never,  never,  never!&quot;  This,  I  supposed,  was,  if  not  British  reticence,at  least  British  insularity.  But  there  was  nothing  either  reticent  or  in-  sular  about  the  two  British  naval  staff  officers,  who  had  been  globe-trotting  with  their  wives  and  children,  at  gov-  " b"ernment  expense,  between  such  places  as  HongKong  and  [REDACTED],  Malta  and  Gibraltar,  and  Ports-  mouth,  [REDACTED],  and  Norfolk,  [REDACTED].  Nor  were  they  very  standoffish,  as  the  British  are  known  to  be-except  perhaps  from  one  another.  For  though  they  were  of  the  same  rank,  one  was  breezy  and  lowbrow  and  liked  to  play  deck  games  and  defended  the  invasion  of  [REDACTED],  while  the  other  was  reflective  and  high-  brow  and  preferred  to  read  books  and  was  against  it.  They  were  as  different  as  two  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  one  from  the  other.  The  advertising  ex-  ecutive  from  Bond  Street  was  just  as  talkative-for-  tunately  not  about  adver-  tising  but  about  his  half-  timbered  cottage  in  Kent  and  the  pictures  of  his  gar-  den  he  liked  to  paint  on  weekends.  And  then  there  was  a  Scotsman,  of  the  strong,  silent  race,  and  he  talked  most  of  all.  He  was  a  movie  star,  nearing  the  age  of  eighty,  and  had  played,  it  appeared,  in  every  film  ever  made.  Once  he  had  been  cruci-  fied  upside  down  as  St.  Peter  in  &quot;Quo  Vadis,&quot;  and  now  he  was  on  his  way  home  to  burn  St.  Joan.  His  wife,  a  gracious  lady  of  similar  age,  was  the  only  556e6974656420537461746573n-  born  passenger.  She  talked  hardly  at  all.  She  divulged,  however,  that  she  was  the  last  surviving  relative  of  Baby  Doe  Tabor,  of  [REDACTED]  fame,  to  whom  she  referred  with  familiarity  as  Aunt  Liz-  zie.  She  had  come  over  to  [REDACTED]  as  an  actress  in  1902  to  sing  there,  for  the  first  time,  &quot;The  Honeysuckle  and  the  Bee,&quot;  and  had  gone  on  singing  it,  with-  out  the  need  of  another  number,  right  up  to  the  outbreak  of  the  First  World  War.  As  a  delicate  compliment,  it  was  now  sung  for  her  at  the  ship's  concert  by  the  elevator  steward,  a  turn  that  al-  most  stole  the  show  from  a  pair  of  potato  peelers--or  potato-peeling-ma-  chine  minders-called  Jerry  and  John-  ny,  who  rock-'n'-rolled  like  two  beer  barrels  afloat  on  this  high  sea.  Presiding  as  host  over  all  was  the  cap-  tain,  a  silver-haired  Scotsman  from  the  Hebrides  with  a  faraway  look,  who  told  &amp;  bd  strange  tales  of  the  land  birds  he  had  seen  right  out  at  sea.  And  there  was  the  ship's  doctor,  an  Irishman  with  a  quiet  voice,  who  tried  to  use  me  as  a  guinea  pig  for  some  of  those  newfangled  tran-  quillizing  drugs  from  New  York.  But  I  no  longer  needed  tranquillizing.  THE  days  went  by  without  effort,  as  they  do  in  the  best  country  houses,  until  suddenly  an  SOS  jolted  us  out  of  our  calm.  It  was  from  a  small  Greek  cargo  ship;  one  of  her  crew  had  had  his  throat  cut,  and  she  had  no  doc-  tor  and  no  drugs  on  board.  We  turned  about  to  the  rescue,  setting  course  back  toward  [REDACTED]  and  uneasily  hoping,  lest  the  spell  of  this  nirvana  be  broken,  that  we  should  not  overshoot  the  Greek  cargo  ship  and  land  once  again  on  its  shores.  A  restless  British  spirit  now  spread  through  the  ship.  There  was  a  pacing  of  the  decks  and  a  craning  of  necks  toward  the  horizon  and  a  buzz  of  speculation  far  into  the  night. 'Those  Greeks!&quot;  We  smiled  at  each  other  with  insular  tolerance.  &quot;Always  cutting  their  throats,  or  each  other's!&quot;  Early  next  morning,  we  sighted  the  Greek  ship.  Then  a  small  boat  came  tossing  toward  us,  two  miles  over  the  waves,  and  we  could  see  an  oldish  man  sitting  in  its  stern,  facing  the  oarsmen,  with  a  dirty  white  scarf  tied  tight  around  his  neck.  He  was  hauled  on  board,  seated  in  a  kind  of  cradle.  He  was  put  to  bed,  then  to  sleep.  At  last  the  ship's  doctor  had  someone  to  tran-  quillize.  The  sailor  came,  we  learned,  from  Ithaca,  the  island  of  Ulysses.  He  had  fallen  from  the  rigging  and  thus  perforated  his  throat.  Soon  a  message  was  broadcast  around  the  ship:  Could  any  passenger  speak  Greek?  None  could.  We  hung  our  heads  in  shame.  Yes,  this  was  insularity  in-  deed-and  we  a  seafaring  race.  The  poor  sailor  was  trying  to  swallow  his  pills  instead  of  sucking  them,  with  hard-  ly  a  throat  left  to  swallow  with,  and  no  " b"one  knew  the  Greek  word  for  &quot;suck.&quot;  That  night  he  died.  Next  morning  his  body  was  wrapped  in  a  Union  Jack  and  was  lowered  over  the  side,  making  a  very  small  splash  in  the  ocean,  while  one  of  the  crew  played  &quot;The  End  of  a  Per-  fect  Day&quot;  on  the  cornet.  A  hush  fell  over  us  all.  ANY  days  later,  we  reached  the  Irish  coast.It  seemed  not  at  all  English  but  like  a  softer,  quieter,  mistier  version  of  [REDACTED];  the  police  on  the  tender  conversed  in  accents  like  those  of  their  New  York  brethren,  and  the  Cork  gentry  stumped  aboard,  in  square  overcoats  and  horn-rims  and  flamboyant  ties,  to  mob  the  bar  for  bourbon.  One  of  our  ladies,  who  had  been  visiting  a  sister  in  [REDACTED],  be-  longed  to  one  of  them.  At  the  Goodbye  Dinner  the  night  before,  when  we  again  wore  (and  this  time  exchanged)  paper  hats,  I  had  written  cornily  on  her  menu  card,  &quot;Bon  voyage  thru'  life.&quot;  &quot;T  hank  you  for  that,&quot;  she  had  sighed.  &quot;I'm  going  to  need  it.&quot;  Now  laughingly  she  disem-  barked  on  her  husband's  arm,  and  we  sailed  for  [REDACTED].  We  should  be  in  Liverpool  the  next  day.  We  were  not.  This,  as  we  had  learned  at  the  outset,  was  the  Fran-  conia's  last  voyage  (already  the  crew,  in  a  nostalgic  farewell  ceremony,  had  presented  the  Captain  with  a  chiming  clock),  but  it  had  not  occurred  to  us  that  it  might  be  ours  as  well.  Though  the  Adam  decoration  was  standing  up  splendidly,  the  engines  were  not,  and  now,  as  we  entered  the  Irish  Channel,  one  of  them  breathed  its  last.  All  that  day  and  the  next  day  and  the  next  day  and  the  next  we  lay  still  in  a  bay  off  the  Isle  of  Man,  or  shuttled  back  and  forward  a  little,  on  one  engine,  to  keep  warm.  Each  day  we  sent  cables  to  re-  assure  anxious  friends:  &quot;Tomorrow&quot;  .._.  &quot;Tomorrow&quot;  ...  &quot;Tomorrow.&quot;  The  blackboard  informed  us,  with  studied  imprecision:  &quot;Due  to  severe  storms  and  other  circumstances,  the  ship  will  not  be  expected  to  enter  the  port  of  Liverpool  until  the  weather  moder-  ates.&quot;  Feigning  not  to  understand  that  the  &quot;other  circumstances&quot;  were  a  defunct  engine,  pretending  politely  to  detect  signs  of  a  storm  beyond  the  tranquil  coasts  of  the  Isle  of  Man,  we  forbore  from  asking  embarrassing  questions.  It  would  not  be  fair  to  bother  the  captain,  we  said  to  each  other.  We  had  only  -  Al      to  wait  for  the  six-o'  clock  news  over  the  radio.  Six  o'clock  came  and  the  B.B.C.  informed  us  just  what  was  happening  to  us:  we  were  keeping  up  our  spirits  with  dancing  to  the  ship's  orchestra  and  looking  at  cinema  films,  of  which  the  ship  possessed  an  ample  stock.  Here,  I  reflected,  was  a  revealing  test  of  British  phlegm,  to  say  nothing  of  the  British  sense  of  humor.  My  compatriots,  I  am  proud  to  sav,  rose  to  it.  The  Scots  movie  actor  bore  it  stoically  when  the  porridge  ran  out,  seeming  in  no  way  impatient  to  start  burning  the  Maid.  Everybody  bore  it  stoically  when  it  was  rumored  that  the  water  had  run  out  and  more  would  have  to  be  distilled  from  the  sea.  The  Scotch  whiskey  ranon.  'The  advertising  executive  painted  portrait  after  portrait  of  the  lowering  sky.  The  young  lady  from  Lancashire  was  radiant,  and  expressed  the  frank  hope  that  we  should  be  here  for  some  weeks.  One  naval  of-  ficer  took  more  books  out  of  the  library,  the  other  began  to  organize  a  shout,  promis-  ing  &quot;kippered  seagulls&quot;  for  breakfast.  At  this  we  bravely  laughed.  And  we  still  asked  no  questions  and  were  told  no  lies.  For  myself,  I  was  content  to  linger  on  in  this  limbo,  to  postpone  my  happy  arrival  for  a  little  while  longer.  I  had  a  feeling  that  life  in  [REDACTED]  itself  would  not  really  resemble  life  on  this  slow  Cunarder.  Home  was  never  like  this.  There  would  be  no  dream-daddies  to  shine  my  shoes,  no  dream-sonnies  to  serve  me  with  leisurely  six-course  meals,  For  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  was  having  the  good  fortune  to  look  upon  the  Isle  of  Man,  or  at  least  upon  along,  blurred  sliver  of  this  seldom  visited  outpost  of  [REDACTED].  I  had  also  seen  &quot;The  Battle  of  the  River  Plate&quot;  twice,  and  would  tonight  see,  for  the  second  time,  &quot;Seagulls  Over  Sorrento.&quot;  Why  stir  from  so  admirable  a  womb?  Nevertheless,  when  the  fourth  day  had  dawned,  being  not  yet  wholly  broken  into  the  English  rhythm,  I  was  importunate  enough  to  inquire  tenta-  tively  of  my  friendthe  ship's  doctor  what  was  really  going  on.  We  had,  after  all,  a  second  engine;  there  were  surely  such  things  as  tugs.  Might  we  not,  I  added  sententiously,  as  responsible  adult  citizens  of  a  democracy,  be  given  just  a  little  bit  more  information?  The  doctor  led  me  confidingly  into  a  corner  of  the  Chippendale  library.  There,  in  a  low  voice,  he  disclosed  to  me  that  a  lady  in  the  tourist  class  was  expecting  a  baby  insix  weeks'  time.  If  too  much  about  our  helpless  condition  was  re-  vealed  on  the  blackboard,  the  effect  on  her  might  be  grave.  In  the  circum-  stances,  I  would  surely  appreciate  the  need  for  tranquillization.  At  midday,  nonetheless,  the  board  was  a  little  more  informative.  The  storm,  it  seemed,  was  where  the  pilot  boats  were.  They  were  reluctant  to  come  out.  We  also  learned  from  one  of  the  officers,  strictly  off  the  record,  that  our  particular  harbor  pilot,  a  Manxman  known  as  Windy  (from  his  great  knowledge  of  the  winds),  had  nearly  come  out,  then  had  changed  his  mind.  But  after  thinking  the  matter  over  for  another  day  he  did  come  out,  and  the  Franconia  was  tugged  into  Liverpool,  at  the  conclusion  of  a  four-  tcen-day  voyage,  never  to  sail  the  seas  again.  &quot;'The  old  Mayflower  beat  us  by  a  tide,&quot;  remarked  a  cynical  sailor.  We  made  our  lingering  farewells  and  braced  ourselves  for  the  realities  of  Eng-  lish  life.  As  we  docked,  the  sky  dulled  from  a  silvery  gray  to  a  comforting  yellow,  over  a  Customs  shed  of  dilapi-  dated  aspect  but  in  apparent  process  of  reconstruction.  Bells  tolled  through  the  fog,  from  ships  and  from  Victorian  church  towers.  In  the  silent  English  streets,  very  small  black  cars  stopped  considerately  to  let  shrouded  pedestrians  pass.  I  boarded  a  British  Railways  train  that  had  a  locomotive  named  for  an  earl.  With  a  laudable  conservatism,  de-  ferring  gracefully  to  British  nurseries,  it  was  still  a  &quot;puff-puff,&quot;  and  presently  it  was  puffing  out  its  steam  in  a  tran-  quillizing  pall  over  the  muted  mono-  chrome  landscape.  After  anhour  or  so,  the  pipes  beneath  my  seat  began  to  gur-  gle  reassuringly,  promising  warmth.  I  was  home. "