 b"TOWARD the  end  of  March,  in  St.  Louis,  slush  fills  the  gutters,  and  dirty  snow  lies  heaped  along-  side  porch  steps,  and  everything  seems  to  be  suffocating  in  the  embrace  of  a  season  that  lasts  too  long.  Radiators  hiss  mournfully,  no  one  manages  to  be  pa-  tient,  the  wind  draws  tears  from  your  eyes,  the  clouds  are  filled  with  sadness.  Women  with  scarves  around  their  heads  and  their  feet  encased  in  fur-lined  boots  pick  their  way  carefully  over  patches  of  melting  ice.  It  seems  that  winter  will  last  forever,  that  this  is  the  decision  of  nature  and  nothing  can  be  done  about  it.  At  the  age  when  I  was  always  being  warned  by  my  mother  not  to  get  over-  heated,  spring  began  on  that  evening  when  I  was  first  allowed  to  go  outside  after  dinner  and  play  kick-the-can.  The  ground  would  be  moist,  I'd  manage  to  get  muddy  in  spite  of  what  seemed  to  me  extreme  precautions,  my  mother  would  call  me  home  in  the  darkness,  and  when  she  saw  me  she  would  ask,  &quot;What  have  you  done  to  yourself?&quot;  &quot;'Nothing,&quot;  I'd  say  hopefully.  But  by  the  time  I  was  sixteen,  the  moment  when  the  year  passed  into  spring,  like  so  many  other  things,  was  less  clear.  In  March  and  early  April,  track  began,  but  indoors;  mid-term  exams  came  and  went;  the  buds  appeared  on  the  maples,  staining  all  their  branches  red;  but  it  was  still  winter,  and  I  found  myself  having  feelings  in  class  that  were  like  long  peti-  tions  for  spring  and  all  its  work.  And  then  one  evening  I  was  sitting  at  my  desk  doing  my  trigonometry  and  I  heard  my  sister  coming  home  from  her  office;  I  heard  her  high  heels  tapping  on  the  sidewalk,  and  realized  that,  forthe  first  time  since  fall,  all  the  windows  in  the  house  were  open.  My  sister  was  coming  up  the  front  walk.  I  looked  down  through  a  web  of  budding  tree  branches  and  called  out  to  her  that  it  was  spring,  by  God.  She  shrugged-she  was  very  hand-  some  and  she  didn't  approve  of  me-and  then  she  started  up  the  front  steps  and  vanished  under  the  roof  of  the  porch.  I  ran  downstairs.  &quot;The  bus  was  crowded  tonight,&quot;  my  sister  said,  hanging  up  her  coat.  &quot;I  could  hardly  breathe.  This  is  such  a  warm  dress.&quot;  &quot;You  need  a  new  spring  dress,&quot;  my  mother  said,  her  face  lighting  up.  She  was  sitting  in  the  living  room  with  the  evening  paper  on  her  lap.  She  and  my  sister  spread  the  newspaper  on  the  dining-room  table  to  look  at  the  ads.  &quot;We'll  just  have  to  settle  for  sand-  wiches  tonight,&quot;  my  mother  said  to  me.  My  father  was  dead,  and  my  mother  pretended  that  now  all  the  cooking  was  done  for  my  masculine  benefit.  &quot;Look!  That  suit's  awfully  smart!&quot;  she  cried,  peering  at  the  paper.  &quot;Montaldo's  al-  ways  has  such  nice  suits.&quot;  She  sighed  and  went  out  to  the  kitchen,  leaving  the  swinging  door  open  so  she  could  talk  to  my  sister.  &quot;Ninety  dollars  isn't  too  much  for  a  good  suit,  do  you  think?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;I  don't  think  it's  too  much.  But  I  don't  really  want  a  suit  this  spring.  I'd  much  rather  have  a  sort  of  sky-blue  dress-with  a  round  neck  that  shows  my  shoulders  a  little  bit,  I  don't  look  good  in  suits.  I'm  not  old  enough.&quot;  She  was  twenty-two.  &quot;My  face  is  too  round,&quot;  she  added,  in  a  low  voice.  My  mother  said,  &quot;You're  not  too  young  for  a  suit.&quot;  She  also  meant  my  sister  was  not  too  young  to  get  married.  My  sister  looked  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Mother,  do  you  think  he  shaves  often  enough?  How  often  do  you  shave?&quot  &quot;Every  three  days,&quot;  I  said,  flushing  up  my  neck  and  cheeks.  &quot;Well,  try  it  every  other  day.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  try  to  be  neater,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  girls  don't  like  boys  with  fuzz  on  their  chin.&quot;  &quot;I  think  he's  too  proud  of  his  beard  to  shave  it,&quot;  my  sister  said,  and  giggled.  &quot;I  feel  sorry  for  the  man  who  mar-  ries  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Because  everybody  thinks  you're  sweet  and  you're  not.&quot;  She  smiled  pityingly  at  me,  and  then  she  looked  down  over  the  newspaper  again.  NTIL  I  was  four,  we  lived  in  a  large  white  frame  house  over-  looking  the  Mississippi  River,  south  of  St.  Louis.  This  house  had,  among  other  riches,  a  porte-cochere,  an  iron  deer  on  the  lawn,  and  a  pond  with  goldfish  swimming  in  it.  Once,  I  asked  my  mother  whywe  had  left  that  earlier  house,  and  she  said,  &quot;We  lost  our  mon-  ey-that's  why.  Your  father  was  a  very  trusting  man,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  was  al-  ways  getting  swindled.&quot;  She  was  not  a  mercenary  woman,  nor  was  she  mean  about  money-except  in  spells  that  didn't  come  often-but  she  believed  that  what  we  lost  with  the  money  was  much  of  our  dignity  and  much  of  our  happiness.  She  did  not  want  to  see  life  in  agrain  of  sand;  she  wanted  to  see  it  from  the  shoresof  the  Riviera,  wearing  a  white  shark-  skin  dress.  I  will  never  forget  her  astonish-  ment  when  she  took  us-she  was  dressed  in  her  best  furs,  as  a  ges-  ture,  I  suppose-to  see  the  house  that  was  to  be  our  home  from  then  on  and  I  told  her  I  liked  it.  It  had  nine  rooms,  a  stained-glass  win-  dow  in  the  hall,  and  neighbors  all  up  and  down  the  block.  She  de-  tested  that  house.  As  she  grew  older,  she  changed,  she  grew  less  imperious,  She  put  her  hair  into  a  roll,  wore  dark-  colored  clothes,  said  often,  &quot;I'm  not  a  young  woman  any  more,&quot;  and  began  to  take  pride  in  being  practical.  But  she  remained  de-  termined;  she  had  seen  a  world  we  didn't  remember  too  clearly,  and  she  wanted  us  to  make  our  way  back  to  it.  &quot;I  had  it  [REDACTED];  she  said  once  to  my  sister.  &quot;I  was  good-  looking.  We  were  rich.  You  have  no  idea  what  it  was  like.  If  I  had  died  when  I  was  thirty,  I  would  have  died  completely  happy.  ...&quot;  But  being  practical  did  not  come  easy  to  her.  She  was  not  practical  in  her  bones,  and  every  spring  " b"brings  back  the  memory  of  my  mother  peering  nearsightedly,  with  surprise,  at  the  tulip  shoots  in  her  flower  border.  And  it  brings  back  her  look  of  dis-  traught  efficiency  during  spring  house-  cleaning.  &quot;You'd  better  clear  your  closet  shelves  tonight,&quot;  she  would  warn  me,  &quot;because  tomorrow  Tillie  and  I  are  going  in  there  with  a  vacuum  cleaner,  and  we'll  throw  out  everything  we  find.&quot;  Year  after  year,  I  would  run  upstairs  to  save  my  treasures-even  when  I  was  sixteen  and  on  the  verge  of  a  great  embarkation,  the  nature  of  which  I  could  not  even  begin  to  guess.  My  treasures  consisted  of  my  postcard  col-  lection-twenty-five  hundred  cards  in  all,  arranged  alphabetically  by  states  of  the  Union  and  countries  of  the  world  (the  wonder  was  that  Z  lived  in  St.  Louis)-an  old  baseball  glove,  my  leaf  collection,  two  obscene  comic  books  I  had  won  in  a  poker  game  at  a  Boy  Scout  jamboree,  my  marble  collection,  and  thirty-five  pages  of  secret  thoughts  writ-  ten  out  in  longhand.  All  these  had  to  be  taken  out  to  the  garage  and  hidden  among  the  toolsuntil  the  frenzy  of  cleaning  was  over  and  I  could  smuggle  them  back  upstairs.  After  supper,  as  the  season  grew  warmer,  my  motherand  sister  and  I  would  sit  on  the  screened  porch  in  the  rear  of  the  house,  marooned  among  the  shadows  and  the  new  leaves  and  the  odor  of  insect  spray,  the  light  from  our  lamps  sticking  to  the  trees  like  bits  of  yellow  paper.  Usually  the  radio  was  on,  and  my  mother,  a  book  on  her  lap,  her  face  abstracted  (she  was  usually  bored;  her  life  was  moved  mainly  by  the  burn-  ing  urge  to  rise  once  more  along  the  thin  edge  of  social  distinction),  would  listen  to  the  comedians  and  laugh.  When  the  phone  rang,  she  would  get  up  and  go  into  the  house  with  long  strides,  and  if  the  call  was  for  my  sis-  ter,  my  mother  would  call  her  to  the  phone  in  a  voice  mottled  with  triumph.  Sometimes  in  the  evening  my  mother  would  wash  my  sister's  hair.  My  sister  would  sit  in  front  of  the  basin  in  Moth-  er's  bathroom,  a  towel  around  her  shoul-  ders,  smiling.  From  my  room  across  the  hall  I  would  hear  my  sister  chatter-  ing  about  the  men  she  knew  -the  ones  she  dated,  the  ones  she  wanted  to  date,  the  ones  she  wouldn't  touch  with  a  ten-foot  pole.  My  mother  would  interrupt  with  accounts  of  her  own  clevernesses,  her  sorties  and  successes  when  young,  sometimes  laughingly,  but  sometimes  gloomily,  because  she  re-  gretted  a  lot  of  things.  Then  she  and  my  sister  would  label  my  sister's  suitors:  one  or  two  had  family,  one  had  money, one-a  poor  boy-had  a  brilliant  fu-  ture,  and  there  were  a  few  docile,  sweet  ones  who  were  simply  fillers,  who  repre-  sented  the  additional  number  of  dates  that  raised  my  sister  to  the  rank  of  a  very  popular  girl.  In  these  conversations,  my  mother  would  often  bring  up  matters  of  pro-  priety.  Late  dates  were  improper,  flirt-  ing  with  boys  other  than  one's  date,  breaking  dates.  Then,  too,  she  would  try  to  instruct  my  sister  in  other  matters,  which  had  to  do  with  keeping  passion  in  its  place  and  so  preventing  embarrass-  ment  forthe  boy  and  disaster  for  the  girl.  My  sister  would  grow  irritated.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  you  talk  like  that-I  behave  very  well,&quot;  she  would  tell  my  mother.  &quot;Better  than  the  other  girls  I  know.&quot;  Her  irritation  would  please  my  mother,  who  would  smile  and  say  that  only  good-looking  girls  could  afford  to  be  good,  and  then  they  would  both  laugh.  I  used  to  wonder  why  my  mother  didn't  take  my  sister's  success  for  granted.  My  sister  was  lovely,  she  had  plenty  of  dates,  the  phone  rang  inces-  santly.  Where  was  the  danger?  Why  did  she  always  lecture  my  sister?  Once,  my  mother  said  my  sister  ought  not  to  dance  with  too  many  boys  or  she  would  frighten  off  the  more  serious  ones.  My  sister  was  getting  dressed  for  the  spring  dance  at  the  country  club.  Arrogant  and  slender,  she  glistened  like  a  water  nymph,  among  her  froth  of  bottles  and  jars  and  filmy  clothes.  She  became  furious;  she  screamed  that  she  liked  to  dance.  I  closed  the  door  to  my  room,  but  I  could  still  hear  the  two  of  them.  &quot;Don't  be  so  foolish,&quot;  my  moth-  er  kept  saying,  over  and  over  again.  &quot;Please  don't  be  foolish.  .  .  .&quot;  Then  my  sister,  on  the  verge  of  tears,  said  she  just  wanted  to  have  a  good  time.  My  sister's  date  arrived,  and  I  went  downstairs  to  let  him  in,  and  by  the  time  I  came  back  upstairs,  the  two  of  them  were  laugh-  ing.  My  mother  said  she  was  just  trying  to  be  helpful;  after  all,  my  sister  was  impractical  and  her  looks  wouldn't  last  forever.  My  sister,  as  she  opened  the  door  of  her  room,  said,  under  her  breath,  &quot;'They'll  last  a  lot  longer  yet.&quot;  I'll  never  forget  the  wild  rustling  of  her  voluminous  white  skirt  as  she  came  down  the  hallway  toward  me.  Her  face  was  strangely  still,  as  if  seen  by  moon-  light.  Her  hair  was  smooth  and  shining,  " b"her  hands  bent  outward  at  the  wrist,  as  if  they  were  flowers.  &quot;How  beautiful  you  look!&quot;  I  cried.  My  sister  smiled  and  then  solemnly  turned  all  the  way  around,  and  her  huge  skirt  rose  and  fell  like  a  splash  of  surf.  She  was  so  beautiful  I  could  hardly  bear  it.  I  hugged  her,  and  she  laughed.  Later  that  night  I  asked  my  mother  why  she  got  so  distraught.  Wasn't  my  sister  popular  enough?  My  mother  was  sitting  in  the  kitchen,  in  an  old,  faded  yellow  housecoat,  drinking  a  glass  of  warm  milk.  &quot;You  don't  know  anything  about  it,&quot;  she  said,  with  such  sadness  that  I  rose  from  the  table  and  fled  to  my  room.  &quot;I  know  what  I'm  saying!&quot;  my  mother  would  cry  when  she  argued  with  my  sister.  &quot;You  must  listen  to  me.  People  talk.  ...  You  don't  know  who  you'll  meet  on  a  date;  it's  good  to  accept  even  if  you  don't  like  the  boy.  .  ..  Girls  have  to  be  very  careful.  You're  thoughtless.  Don'tyou  think  in  fifty  years  I've  learned  what  makes  the  world  go  around?  Now,  listen  to  me.  I  know  what  I'm  saying.  ..  .&quot;  But  my  sister's  face  was  so  radiant,  her  charmwas  so  intense,  she  pushed  her  blond  hair  back  from  her  face  with  a  gesture  so  quick,  socertain,so  arrogant  and  filled  with  vanity,  that  no  one,  I  thought,  could  doubt  that  whatever  she  did  would  be  right.  I  wanted  to  be  arrogant,  too.  I  didn't  want  to  wear  glasses  and  be  one  of  the  humorless,  heavy-handed  boys  my  sister  despised.  I  was  on  her  side  as  much  as  she'd  let  me  be.  She  was  the  elder,  and  she  often  grew  impatient  with  me.  I  didn't  seem  to  understand  all  the  things  involved  in  being  on  her  side.  Night  after  night  I  saw  her  come  home  from  work  tired-she  had  a  sec-  retarial  job  in  a  hospital  and  she  hated  it-and  two  hours  later  she  would  de-  scend  the  stairs,  to  greet  her  date,  her  face  alight  with  seriousness  or  with  a  large,  bright  smile,  depending  on  her  mood  or  on  where  her  es-  cort  was  taking  her  that  evening.  A  concert  or  an  art  movie  made  her  seri-  ous;  one  of  the  hotel  supper  clubs  brought  the  smile  to  her  face.  She  would  trip  down  the  stairs  in  her  high  heels,  a  light,  flimsy  coat  thrown  over  one  arm,  one  hand  clutching  a  purse  and  gloves,  her  other  hand  on  the  banister.  In  the  queer  yellow  light  ofthe  hall  chandelier,  her  necklace  or  her  earrings  would  shine  dully,  and  sometimes,  es-  pecially  if  she  was  all  dressed  up,  in  a  black  dress,  say,  with  a  low  neck,  be-  cause  they  were  going  out  to  a  supper  club,  there  would  be  an  air,  in  spite  of  her  gaiety,  of  the  captive  about  her.  It  was  part  of  her  intense  charm.  In  her  voluminous  white  skirt,  she  went  to  the  spring  dance  at  the  country  club  and  brought  back  to  my  mother  the  news  that  she  had  captured  the  interest  of  Sonny  Bruster,  the  old-  est  son  of  M.  F.  Bruster,  a  banker  and  a  very  rich  man-more  than  interest,  it  turned  out,  because  he  called  my  sister  up  almost  every  day  at  work  and  took  her  out  almost  every  night.  My  mother  was  on  the  phone  much  ofthe  afternoon  ex-  plaining  to  her  friends  that  my  sister  wasn't  engaged.  It  was  criminal  the  way  some  people  gossiped,  she  said.  My  sister  had  only  gone  out  with  the  boy  ten  or  twelve  times.  They  were  just  getting  to  know  each  other.  Then  my  mother  be-  gan  to  receive  calls;  someone  had  heard  from  a  friend  of  Mrs.  Bruster's  that  Mrs.  Bruster  had  said  herson  was  very  serious  about  my  sister,  who  was  a  very  charming,  very  pretty  girl,  of  good  fam-  ily.  .  ..  My  mother  rubbed  her  hands  with  glee.  She  borrowed  money  from  her  brothers,  and  every  week  my  sister  had  new  clothes.  My  sister  would  come  home  from  work  and  run  upstairs  to  change.  Sonny  would  be  due  at  seven,  to  take  her  out  to  dinner.  My  sister  would  kick  her  shoes  off,  struggle  out  of  her  dress,  and  dash  around  the  upstairs  in  her  slip.  &quot;&quot;Mother,  I  can't  find  my  earrings.&quot;  &quot;Which  earrings,  dear?&quot;  &quot;The  little  pearls-the  little  tiny  " b"pearl  ones  that  I  got  two  Easters  ago,  to  go  with  my  black  .  .  .&quot;  My  sister  was  delighted  with  herself.  She  loved  being  talked  about,  being  en-  vied.  &quot;Mother,  do  you  know  what  Ceil  Johnson  saidto  me  today?  She  said  that  Beryl  Feringhaus-you  know,  the  real-estate  people-was  heartbroken  be-  cause  she  thought  Sonny  Bruster  was  going  to  get  engaged  to  her.&quot;  My  sister  giggled.  Her  long  hair  was  tangled,  and  my  mother  yanked  a  comb  through  it.  &quot;Maybe  you  ought  to  cut  your  hair,&quot;  my  mother  said,  trying  to  hide  her  own  excitement  and  to  stay  practical.  During  this  period,  my  mother  was  living  in  the  imminence  of  wealth.  Whenever  she  stopped  what  she  was  doing  and  looked  up,  her  face  would  be  bright  with  visions.  HAT  spring  when  I  was  sixteen,  more  thananything  else  in  the  world  I  wanted  to  bea  success  when  I  grew  up.I  did  not  know  there  was  any  other  way  of  being  lovable.  My  best  friend  was  a  boy  named  Preston,  who  already  had  a  heavy  beard.  He  was  shy,  and  unfortunate  in  his  dealings  with  other  people,  and  he  wanted  to  bea  physicist.  He  had  very  little  imagination,  and  he  pitied  anyone  who  did  have  it.  &quot;You  and  the  word  'beautiful'!&quot;  he  would  say  disdainfully,  holding  his  nose  and  imitating  my  voice.  &quot;'Tell  me-what  does  'beautiful'  mean?&quot;  &quot;It's  something  you  want,&quot;  I  would  say.  'You're  an  aesthete,&quot;  Pres-  ton  would  say.  &quot;I'm  a  scientist.  That's  the  difference.&quot;  He  and  I  used  to  call  each  other  almost  everynight  and  have  long,  profound  talks  on  the  telephone.  On  a  date,  Preston  would  sit  beside  his  girl  and  stolidly  eye  her.  Occasionally,  toward  the  end  ofthe  evening,  he  would  begin  to  breathe  heavily,  and  he  would  make  a  few  labored,  daring  jokes.  He  might  catch  the  girl's  hand  and  stare  at  her  with  inflamed  and  wistful  eyes,  or  he  might  mut-  ter  incoherent  compliments.  Girls  liked  him,  and  escaped  easily  from  his  clumsy  longing.  They  slipped  their  hands  from  his  grasp  and  asked  him  to  call  them  up  again,  but  after  a  few  dates  with  a  girl  Preston  would  say  disgustedly,  &quot;All  she  does  is  talk.  She's  frigid  or  some-  thing.  ...&quot;  But  the  truth  was,  he  was  afraid  of  hurting  them,  of  doing  something  wrong  to  them,  and  he  never  really  courted  them  at  all.  At  school,  Preston  and  I  had  after-  noon  study  hall  together.  Study  hall  was  in  the  library,  which  was  filled  with  the  breathing  of  a  hundred  and  fifty  stu-  dents,  and  with  the  dim,  half-fainting  breezes  of  high  spring,  and  with  books:  it  was  the  crossroads  of  the  world.  Pres-  ton  and  I  would  sign  out  separately,  and  meet  in  the  lavatory.  There  we  would  lean  up  against  the  stalls  and  talk.  Preston  was  full  of  thoughts;  he  was  tormented  by  all  his  ideas.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  relativity  means?&quot;  he  would  ask  me.  &quot;Do  you  realize  how  it  affects  every  little  detail  of  everyday  life?&quot;  Or  it  might  be  Spinoza  that  moved  him:  &quot;Eighteenth-century,  but  by  God  there  was  a  rational  man.&quot;  I  would  pace  up  and  down,  half  listening,  half  daydreaming,  wishing  my  name  would  appear  on  Preston's  list  of  people  who  had  elements  of  greatness.  Or  we  talked  about  our  problems.  &quot;I'm  not  popular,&quot;  I  would  say.  &quot;I'm  too  gloomy.&quot;  &quot;Why  is  that,  do  you  think?&quot;&quot;  Pres-  ton  would  ask,  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  I  would  say.  &quot;I'm  a  virgin.  'That  has  a  lot  to  do  with  everything.&quot;  &quot;Listen,&quot;  Preston  said  one  day,  &quot;you  may  not  be  popularbut  you're  likable.  Your  trouble  is  you're  a  snob.&quot;  He  walked  up  and  down  the  white-tiled  floor,  mimicking  me.  He  slouched,  and  cast  his  eyes  down,  and  jutted  his  chin  out,  and  pulled  a  foolish,  serious  look  over  his  face.  &quot;Is  that  [REDACTED];  I  cried,  heartbroken.  &quot;Well,  almost,&quot;  Preston  said.  Or,  leaning  on  the  window  sill,  stick-  ing  our  heads  out  into  the  golden  after-  noon  air  and  watching  a  girls'  gym  class  doing  archery  under  the  trees,  we  talked  about  sex.  &quot;It  startsin  the  infant,&quot;  Preston  said.  &quot;And  it  lasts  forever.&quot;  \xc2\xabSaints  escape  it,&quot;  I  said  mournfully.  &quot;''The  hell  they  do,&quot;  Preston  said.  The  girls  beneath  us  on  the  hillside  drew  their  bows.  Their  thin  green  gym  suits  fluttered  against  their  bodies.  &quot;Aren't  they  nice?&quot;  Prestonasked  longingly.  &quot;Aren't  they  wonderful?&quot;  After  school,  Preston  and  I  went  out  for  track.  The  outdoor  track  was  a  cinder  oval  surrounding  the  football  field.  A  steep,  grassy  hill  led  up  to  the  entrance  of  the  school  locker  room.  &quot;Run  up  that  hill  every  night,  boys,&quot;  the  coach  pleaded-Old  Mackyz,  with  his  paunch  and  his  iron-gray  wavy  hair-at  the  end  of  the  practice  period.  &quot;Run,  boys,  because  when  you're  abso-lootly  exhausted,  that's  when  you " b"got  to  give  more.  It's  the  more,  boys,  that  makes  champions.&quot;  And  then  he'd  stand  there,  humble,  and  touched  by  his  own  speech.  During  our  warmup  sessions,  we  used  to  jog-trot  the  length  of  the  field  and  back  again,  keeping  our  knees  high.  The  grand  inutility  of  this  movement  filled  me  with  something  like  exalta-  tion;  and  on  every  side  of  me,  in  irregu-  lar  lines,  my  fellow-males  jogged,  keeping  their  knees  high.  What  happi-  ness!  &quot;The  turf's  too  springy,&quot;  Preston  would  mumble.  &quot;Bad  for  the  muscles.&quot;  Preston  was  a  miler.  He  was  thickset  and  without  natural  grace;  Mackyz  said  he  had  no  talent,  butheran  dog-  gedly,  and  he  became  a  good  miler.  I  ran  the  440.  I  was  tall  and  thin,  and  even  Mackyz  said  I  ought  to  be  good  at  it,  but  I  wasn't.  Mackyz  said  I  didn't  have  the  spirit.  &quot;All  you  smart  boys  are  alike,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  haven'tgot  the  heart  for  it.  You  always  hold  back.  You're  all  a  bunch  of  goldbricks.&quot;I  tried  to  cure  my  maimed  enthusiasm.  As  I  ran,  Mackyz  would  bawl  desperately,  &quot;Hit  the  ground  harder.  Hit  with  your  toes!  Spring,  boy!  sPRING!  Don't  coddle  yourself,  for  Christ's  sake.  ...&quot;  After  a  race,  1d  throw  myself  down  on  a  knoll  near  the  finish  line,  under  a  sycamore  tree,  where  the  track  man-  ager  dug  a  new  hole  every  day  for  us  to  puke  in.  Three  or  four  others  would  join  me,  and  we'd  lie  there  wearily,  our  chests  burning,  too  weak  to  move.  Amongmy  other  problems  was  that  I  was  reduced  nearly  to  a  state  of  tears  over  my  own  looks  whenever  I  looked  at  a  boy  named  Joel  Bush.  Joel  was  so  incredibly  good-looking  that  none  of  the  boys  could  quite  bear  the  fact  of  his  ex-  istence;  his  looks  weren't  particularly  masculine  or  clean-cut,  and  he  wasn't  a  fine  figure  of  a  boy-he  was  merely  beautiful.  He  looked  like  a  statue  that  had  been  rubbed  with  honey  and  warm  wax,  to  geta  golden  tone,  and  he  car-  ried  at  all  times,  in  the  neatness  of  his  features  and  the  secret  proportions  of  his  face  and  body  that  made  him  so  handsome  in  that  particular  way,  the  threat  of  seduction.  Displease  me,  he  seemed  to  say,  and  I'll  get  you.  I'll  make  you  fall  in  love  with  me  and  I'll  turn  you  into  a  donkey.  Everyone  either  avoided  him  or  gave  in  to  him;  teachers  refused  to  catch  him  cheating,  boys  never  teased  him,  and  no  one  ever  told  him  off.  One  day  I  saw  him  say-  ing  goodbye  to  a  girl  after  school,  and  as  he  left  her  to  join  me,  walking  to-  ward  the  locker  room,  he  saidto  her,  &quot;Meet  you  here  at  five-thirty.&quot;  Track  wasn't  over  until  six,  and  I  could  tell  that  he  had  no  intention  of  meeting  her,  and  yet,  when  he  asked  me  about  some  experiments  we  had  done  in  physics,  instead  of  treating  him  like  someone  who  had  just  behaved  like  a  heel,  I  told  him  everything  I  knew.  He  never  joined  us  under  the  syca-  more  tree,  and  he  ran  effortlessly.  He  would  pass  the  finish  line,  his  chest  heaving  under  his  sweat-stained  track shirt,  and  climb  into  the  stands  and  sit  in  the  sunlight.  I  was  watching  him,  one  afternoon,  as  he  sat  there  wiping  his  face  and  turning  his  head  from  side  to  side.  At  one  moment  it  was  all  silver  except  for  the  charred  hollows  of  his  eyes,  and  the  next  it  was  young  and  perfect,  the  head  we  all  recognized  as  his.  Mackyz  saw  him  and  called  out  to  him  to  put  his  sweatshirt  on  before  he  caught  a  cold.  As  he  slipped  the  sweat-  shirt  on,  Joel  shouted,  &quot;Aw,  go  fry  your  head!&quot;  Mackyz  laughed  good-  naturedly.  Sprinkled  here  and  there  on  the  foot-  ball  field  were  boys  lifting  their  arms  " b"high  and  then  sweeping  them  down  to  touch  their  toes,  or  lying  on  their  backs  and  bicycling  their  legs  in  the  air.  I  got  up  and  walked  toward  them,  to  do  a  little  jog-trotting  and  high-knee  prancing.  I  looked  at  Joel.  &quot;I'm  cool-  ing  off,&quot;  he  said  to  me.  I  walked  on,  and  just  then  a  flock  of  crows  wheeled  up  behind  the  oak  tree  on  the  hill  and  filled  the  sky  with  their  vibrant  motion.  Ev-  eryone-even  Preston-paused  and  looked  up.  The  birds  rose  in  a  half  circle  and  then  glided,  scythelike,  with  wings  outspread,  on  a  down  current  of  air  until  they  were  only  twenty  feet  or  so  above  the  ground;  then  they  flapped  their  wings  with  a  noise  like  sheets  being  shaken  out,  and  soared  aloft,  drag-  ging  their  shadows  up  the  stepped  con-  crete  geometry  of  the  stands,  past  Joel's  handsome,  rigid  figure,  off  into  the  sky.  &quot;Whaddya  know  about  that?&quot;  Mackyz  said.  &quot;Biggest  flockof  crows  I  ever  saw.&quot;  &quot;Why  didn't  you  get  your  gun  and  shoot  a  couple,&quot;  Joel  calledout.  Every-  one  turned.  &quot;Then  you'd  have  some  crow  handy  whenever  you  had  to  eat  some,&quot;  Joel  said.  &quot;Take  a  lap,&quot;  Mackyz  bawled,  his  leathery  face  turning  red  up  to  the  roots  of  his  iron-gray  hair.  &quot;He  was  only  kidding,&quot;  I  said,  ap-  palled  at  Mackyz'  hurt.  Mackyz  looked  at  me  and  scowled.  &quot;You  can  take  a  lap,  too,  and  don't  talk  so  much.&quot;  I  took  off  my  sweatshirt  and  dropped  it  on  the  grass  and  set  off  around  the  track.  As  soon  as  I  started  running,  the  world  changed.  The  bodies  sprawled  out  across  the  green  of  the  football  field  were  parts  of  a  scene  remembered,  not  one  real  at  this  moment.  The  whole  secret  of  effort  is  to  keep  on,  Itold  my-  self.  Not  for  the  world  would  I  have  stopped  then,  and  yet  nothing-not  even  if  I  had  been  turned  handsome  as  a  reward  for  finishing-could  have  made  up  for  the  curious  pain  of  the  effort.  About  halfway  around  the  track,  Joel  caught  up  to  me,  and  then  he  slowed  down  and  ran  alongside.  &quot;Mackyz  isn't  watching,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  sneak  up  the  hill.&quot;  I  looked  andsaw  that  Mackyz  was  lining  up  the  team  for  high-jump  practice.  Joel  sailed  up  over  the  crest  of  the  hill,  and  I  followed  him.  &quot;He's  getting  senile,&quot;  Joel  said,  dropping  to  a  sitting  position,  sighting  over  the  crest  of  the  hill  at  Mackyz,  and  then  lying  down.  &quot;Come  on,  jerk,  lie  down.  You  want  Mackyz  to  see  you?&quot;  I  was  uneasy;  this  sort  of  fooling  was  all  right  for  Joel,  because  he  &quot;made  the  effort,&quot;  but  if  Mackyz  caught  me,  he'd  kick  me  off  the  team.  I  pointed  this  out  to  Joel.  &quot;Aw,  Mackyz  takes  everything  too  seriously.  That's  his  problem,&quot;  Joel  said.  &quot;He's  always  up  in  the  air  about  something.  I  don't  see  why  he  makes  so  much  fuss.  You  ever  notice  how  old  men  make  a  big  fuss  over  everything?&quot;  &quot;Mackyz'  not  so  old.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  you  ever  notice  how  middle-aged  men  make  a  big  fuss  over  everything?&quot;  A  few  seconds  later,  he  said  casually,  his  gaze  resting  on  the  underside  of  the  leaves  of  the  oak  tree,  &quot;I  had  a  woman  last  night.&quot;  &quot;No  kidding?&quot;  I  said.  He  spread  his  fingers  over  his  face,  no  doubt  to  see  them  turn  orange  in  the  sunlight,  as  children  do.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  he  said.  From  the  football  field  came  the  sounds  of  high-jump  practice  starting.  Mackyz  was  shouting,  &quot;Now,  start  with  your  left  foot-one,  two,  three-take  off!  TAKE  OFF,  GOD  DAMN  IT!  Spread  your  God-damned  legs,  spread  'em.  You  won't  get  ruptured.  'There's  sand  to  catch  you,  for  Christ's  sake.&quot;  The  jumper's  footsteps  made  a  series  of  thuds,  there  was  a  pause,  and  then  the  sound  of  the  landing  in  the  sand.  Lifting  my  head,  I  could  see  the  line  of  boys  waiting  to  jump,  the  lead  boy  breaking  into  a  run,  leaping  from  the  ground,  and  spreading  his  arms  in  ath-  letic  entreaty.  &quot;It  was  disappointing,&quot;  Joel  said.  &quot;How?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;It's  nothing  very  special.&quot;  I  was  aroused  by  this  expos\xc3\xa9.  &quot;You  mean  the  books&quot;  &quot;It's  not  like  that  at  all.&quot;  He  turned  sullenly  and  scrabbled  with  his  fingers  in  the  dirt.  &quot;Maybe  the  girl  didn't  know  how  to  do  it.&quot;  &quot;She  was  a  grown  woman!&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  but-&quot;  &quot;She  was  a  fully  grown  woman!  She  knew  what  she  was  doing!&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  I  said.  Then,  after  a  minute,  &quot;Look,  would  you  mind  telling  me  what  you  said  to  her?  If  I  ever  had  a  chance,     " b"I  wouldn't  know  what to  say.  I  ...&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remem-  ber,&quot;  Joel  said.  &quot;We  just  looked  at  each  other,  and  then  she  got  all  tearful,  and  she  told  me  to  take  my  clothes  off.&quot;  We  lay  therea  mo-  ment,  in  the  late-after-  noon  sunshine,  and  then  I  said  we'd  better  be  getting  back.  We  walkedaround  behind  the  hill,  and  waited  un-  til  Mackyz  wasn't  look-  ing  before  we  sprinted  out  onto  the  track.  The  jumping  went  on  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  more;  then  Mackyz  raised  his  arms  in  a  gesture  of  benedic-  tion.  &quot;All  right,  you  squirts-all  out  on  the  track  for  a  fast  lap.  And  that  includes  you,  gold-  brick,&quot;  he  said  to  me, wagging  his  finger.  All  the  boys  straight-  ened  up  and  started  to- ward  the  track.  The  sun's  light  poured  in  long  low  rays  over  the  as  roof  of  the  school.  Jos-  tling  and  joking,  we  started  to  run.  &quot;Fast-  er!&quot;  Mackyz  yelled.  &quot;Faster!  Whatsa  matter-you  all  a  bunch  of  girls!  Faster,  for  Christ's  sake,  faster!&quot;     SINCE  Preston,  in  his  dogged  effort  to  become  a  good  miler,  ran  three  laps  to  everyone  else's  one,  he  was  usu-  ally  the  last  in  the  locker  room.  He  would  come  in,  worn  out  and  breath-  ing  heavily;  sometimes  he  even  had  to  hold  himself  up  with  one  hand  on  his  locker  while  he  undressed.  Everyone  else  would  long  since  have  showered  and  would  be  almost  ready  to  leave.  They  might  make  one  or  two  remarks  about  Preston's  running  his  legs  down  to  stumps  or  trying  to  kill  himself,  for  Mackyz'  sake.  Preston  would  smile  numbly  while  he  tried  to  get  his  breath  back,  and,  somehow,  I  was  always  sur-  prised  by  how  little  attention  was  paid  to  Preston,  how  cut  off  and  how  alone  he  was.  More  often  than  not,  Joel  would  be  showing  off  in  the  locker  room-walk-  ing  around  on  his  hands,  singing  dirty  songs,  or  engaged  in  some  argument  or  other.  Preston  would  go  into  the   shower.  I  would  talk  to  Joel,  dress-  ing  slowly,  because  I  usually  waited  for  Preston.  By  the  time  I  was  all  dressed,  the  locker  room  would  be  empty  and  Preston  would  still  be  towelling  himself  off.  Then,  instead  of  hurrying  to  put  his  clothes  on,  he  would  run  his  hand  over  his  chest,  to  curl  the  few  limp  hairs.  &quot;Oh  come  on!&quot;  I  would  say,  disgustedly.  &quot;Hold  your  horses,&quot;  he  would  say,  with  his  maddening  physicist's  serenity.  &quot;Just  you  hold  your  horses.&quot;  It  took  him  half  an  hour  to  get  dressed.  He'd  stand  in  front  of  the  mirror  and  flex  his  muscles  endlessly  and  admire  the  line  his  pectorals  made  across  his  broad  rib  cage,  and  he  always  left  his  shirt  until  last,  even  until  after  he  had  combed  his  hair.  I  found  his  vanity  confusing;  he  was  far  from  handsome,  with  his  heavy  mouth  and  bushy  eyebrows  and  thick,  sloping  shoulders,  but  he  loved  his  reflection  and  he'd  turn  and  gaze  at  himself  in  the  mirror  from  all  sorts  of  angles  while  he  buttoned  his  shirt.  He  hated  Joel.  &quot;There's  a  guy  who'll  never  amount  to  much,&quot;  Preston  would  say.  &quot;He's  chicken.  And  he's  notvery  smart.  I  don't  see  why  you  want  him  to  like  you-except  that  you're  a  sucker.  You  let  your  eyes  run  away  with  your  judg-  ment.&quot;  I  put  up  with  all  this  because      " b"I  wanted  Preston  to  walk  me  part  way  home.  It  seemed  shameful  somehow  to  have  to  walk  home  alone.  Finally,  he  would  finish,  and  we  would  emerge  from  the  now  deserted  school  into  the  dying  afternoon.  As  we  walked,  Preston  harangued  me  about  my  lack  of  standards  and  judg- ment.  'The  hunger  I  had  for  holding  school  office  and  for  being  well  thought  of  he  dismissed  as  a  streak  of  lousy  bourgeois  cowardice.  I  agreed  with  him  (I  didn't  like  myself  anyway);  but  what  was  to  be  done  about  it?  &quot;We  might  run  away,&quot;  Preston  said,  squint-  ing  up  at  the  sky.  &quot;Hitchhike.  Work  in  factories.  Go  to  a  whorehouse.  ...&quot;  leaned  against  a  tree  trunk,  and  Preston  stood  with  one  foot  on  the  curb  and  one  foot  in  the  street,  and  we  lobbed  pebbles  back  and  forth.  &quot;We're  doomed,&quot;  Preston  said.  &quot;Doom&quot;  was  one  of  his  favorite  words,  along  with  &quot;culture,&quot;  &quot;kinet-  ic,&quot;  and  &quot;the  Absolute.&quot;  &quot;We  come  from  a  dy-  ing  culture,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  suppose  you're  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  certain-  ly  looks  that  way.&quot;  But  then  I  cheered  up.  &quot;After  all,  it's  not  as  if  we  were  insane  or  anything.&quot;  &quot;It  wouldn't  show  [REDACTED];  Preston  said  gloom-  ily.  &quot;It's  still  in  the  la-  tent  stage.  It'll  come  out  later.  You'll  see.  After  all,  you're  still  living  at  home,  and  you'vegot  your  crude  charm-&quot;  I  broke  in;  I'd  never  had  a  compliment  from  him  before.  &quot;I  didn't  say  you  were  charming,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  said  you  have  a  crude  charm.  You  behave  well  in  public.  'That's  all  I  meant.&quot;  At  the  corner  where  we  separated,  Preston  stooda  moment  or  two.  &quot;It's  hopeless,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;God,  do  you  really  think  so?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;''That's  my  honest  opinion,&quot;  he  said.  He  turned  toward  his  house.  I  jogged  a  block  or  two,  and  then  felt  my  stomach  muscles.  When  I  came  to  a  maple  with  a  low,  straight  branch,  I  ran  and  jumped  up  and  swung  from  the  branch,  while  a  big  green  diesel  bus  rolled  pon-  derously  past,  all  its  win-  dows  filled  with  tired  faces  that  looked  out  at  the  street  going  by  and  at  me  hanging  from  the  branch  and  smiling.  I  was  doomed,  but  I  was  very  likely  charming.  I  ran  in  the  front  door  of  my  house  and  called  out,  &quot;Mother!  Mother!&quot;  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  she  answered.  She  was  sitting  on  the  screened  porch,  and  I     " b"could  see  a  little  plume  of  cigarette  smoke  in  the  doorway.  'There  was  the  faint  mutter  of  a  radio  news  program  turned  on  low.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  home,  that's  [REDACTED];  T  the  dinner  table,  I  would  try  to  disguise  myself  by  slouching  in  my  chair  and  thinking  about  my  homework,  but  my  mother  and  my  sister  always  recognized  me.  &quot;How  was  track  to-  day?&quot;  my  sister  would  ask  in  a  slightly  amused  way.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  I  would  say  in  a  low  voice.  My  mother  and  my  sister  would  ex-  change  glances.  I  must  have  seemed  comic  to  them,  stilted,  and  slightly  ab-  surd,  like  all  males.  Almost  every  evening,  Sonny  Brus-  ter  used  to  drive  up  to  our  house  in  his  yellow  convertible.  'The  large  car   would  glide  to  a  stop  at  the  curb,  and  Sonny  would  glance  quickly  at  himself  in  the  rear-view  mirror,  running  his  hand  over  his  hair.  Then  he'd  climb  out  and  brush  his  pants  off,  too  occupied  with  his  own  shyness  to  notice  the  chil-  dren  playing  on  the  block.  But  they  would  stop  what  they  were  doing  and  watch  him.  I  would  wait  for  him  at  the  front  door  and  let  him  in  and  lead  him  into  the  living  room.  I  walked  ahead  of  Sonny  because  I  had  noticed  that  he  could  notkeep  himself  from  looking  up  the  stairs  as  we  passed  through  the  hallway,  as  if  to  conjure  up  my  sis-  ter  then  and  there  with  the  intensity  of  his  long-  ing,  and  I  hated  tosee  him  do  this.  I  would  sit  in  the  high-backed  yel-  low  chair,  and  Sonny  would  settle  himself  on  the  couch  and  ask  me  about  track,  or  if  I'd  picked  a  college  yet.  &quot;You  ought  to  think  carefully  about  col-  lege,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;I  think  Princeton  is  more  civilized  than  Yale.&quot;  His  gentle,  well-bred  voice  was  carefully  in-  expressive.  In  his  man-  ner  there  was  a  touch  of  stiffness  to  remind  you,  and  himself,  that  he  was  rich  and  if  some  disre-  spect  was  intended  for  him  he  wouldn't  neces-  sarily  put  up  with  it.  But  I  liked  him.  He  treated  me  with  great  politeness,  and  Iliked  the  idea  of  his  being  my  brother-in-law,  and  I  sometimes  thought  of  the  benefits  that  would  fall  to  me  if  my  sister  married  him.  Then  my  sister  would  appear  at  the  head  of  the  stairs,  dressed  to  go  out,  and  Sonny  would  leap  to  his  feet.  &quot;Are  you  ready?&quot;  he'd  cry,  as  if  he  had  neverdared  hope  she  would  be.  My  sister  wouldhandhim  her  coat,  and  with  elaborate  care  he'd  hold  it  for  her.  It  would  be  perhaps  " b"eight  o'clock  or  a  little  after.  The  street  lamps  would  be  on,  but  look-  ing  pallid  because  it  wasn't  quite  dark.  Usually,  Sonny  would  open  the  car  door  for  my  sister,  but  sometimes,  with  a  quick  maneuver,  she  would  forest  all  him;  she  would  hurry  the  last  few  steps,  open  the  door,  and  slip  inside  before  he  could  lift  his  hand.  Sonny  was  not  the  first  rich  boy  who  had  loved  my  sister;  he  was  the  fourth  or  fifth.  And  in  the  other  cases  there  had  been  scenes  between  my  mother  and  sister  in  which  my  mother  extolled  the  boy's  eligibility  and  my  sister  argued  that  she  was  too  young  to  marry  and  didn't  want  to  stop  having  a  good  time  yet.  Each  time  she  had  won,  and  each  time  the  boy  had  been  sent  packing,  while  my  mother  looked  heartbroken  and  said  my  sister  was  throwing  her  chances  away.  With  Sonny,  the  same  thing  seemed  about  to  happen.  My  sister  missed  going  out  with  a  lot  of  boys  instead  of  with  just  one.  She  complained  once  or  twice  that  Sonny  was  jealous  an  d  spoiled.  There  were  times  when  she  seemed  to  like  him  very  much  ,  but  there  were  other  times  when  she  would  greet  him  blankly  in  the  evening  when  she  came  downstairs,  and  he  would  be  apologetic  and  fearful,  and  I  could  see  that  her  dis-  approval  was  the  thing  he  feared  most  in  the  world.  My  mother  didn't  seem  to  notice,  or  if  she  did,  she  hid  her  feelings.  Then  one  night  I  was  sitting  in  my  room  doing  my  homework  and  I  heard  my  mother  and  sister  come  upstairs.  They  went  into  my  sister's  room,  &quot;I  think  Sonny's  serious,&quot;  my  mother  said.  \xc2\xabSonny's  so  short,&quot;  I  heard  my  sister  say.  &quot;He's  not  really  interesting,  either,  Mother.&quot;  &quot;He  seems  to  be  very  fond  of  you,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;He's  no  fun,&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;&quot;Mo  ther,  be  careful!  You're  brushing  too  hard!  You're  hurting  me!&quot;  I  stopped  trying  to  work,  and  listened.  &quot;Sonny's  a  very  intelligent  boy,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;He  comes  from  a  good  family.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care,&quot;  my  sister  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  waste  myself  on  him.&quot;  &quot;Waste  yourself?&quot;  My  mother  laughed  derisively.  I  got  up  and  went  to  the  door  of  my  sister's  room.  My  sister  was  sitting  at  her  dressing  table,  her  hair  shining  like  glass  and  her  eyes  closed.  My  mother  was  walking  back  and  forth,  gesturing  with  the  hair-  brush.  &quot;He's  the  one  who's  throwing  " b"himself  away,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Who  do  you  think  we  are,  anyway?  We're  no-  bodies.&quot;  &quot;I'm  pretty!  angrily.  My  mother  shrugged.  &quot;The  woods  are  full  of  pretty  girls.  What's  more,  they're  full  of  pretty,  rich  girls.  Now,  Sonny's  avery  nice  boy-&quot;  &quot;Leave  me  alone!&quot;  My  sister  pulled  her  hair  up  from  her  shoulders  and  held  it  in  a  soft  mop  on  thetop  of  her  head.  &quot;Sonny's  a  jerk!  A  jerk!&quot;  &quot;He's  nice-looking!&quot;  my  mother  cried.  &quot;Oh,  what  do  you  know  about  it?&quot;  my  sister  cried.  &quot;You're  old,  for  God's  sake!&quot;  The  air  vibrated.  My  sister  rose  and  looked  at  my  mother,  horrified  at  what  she  had  said.  She  took  her  hands  from  her  hair,  and  it  fell  tumbling  to  her  shoulders,  dry  and  pale  and  soft.  &quot;I  don't  care,&quot;  she  said  suddenly,  and  brushed  past  me,  and  fled  into  the  bathroom  and  locked  the  door.  There  was  no  further  sound  from  her.  The  only  trace  of  her  in  the  house  at  that  mo-  ment  was  the  faint  odor  in  her  room  of  the  flowery  perfume  she  used  that  spring.  &quot;Oh,  she's  so  foolish,&quot;  my  mother  said,  and  I  saw  that  she  was  crying.  &quot;She  doesn't  know  what  she's  do-  ing.  .  .  .  Why  is  she  so  foolish?&quot;  Then  she  put  the  hairbrush  down  and  raised  her  hands  to  her  cheeks  and  began  to  pinch  them.  I  went  back  to  my  room  and  closed  the  door.  When  I  came  out  again,  an  hour  later,  my  mother  was  in  bed  reading  a  magazine;  she  looked  as  if  she  had  been  wounded  in  a  dozen  places.  My  sister  sat  in  her  room,  in  front  of  the  mirror.  Her  hair  streamed  down  the  back  of  her  neck  and  lay  in  touching,  defenseless  little  curls  on  the  towel  she  had  over  her  shoulders.  She  was  studying  her  reflec-  tion  thoughtfully.  (Are  flowers  vain?  Are  trees?  Are  they  consumed  with  vanity  during  those  days  when  they  are  in  bloom?)  She  raised  her  finger  and  pressed  it  against  her  lower  lip  to  see,  I  think,  if  she  would  be  prettier  if  her  lip,  instead  of  being  so  smooth,  had  a  slight  break  in  the  center  as  some  girls'  did.  !&quot;  my  sister  objected  HORTLY  after  this,  my  mother,  who  was  neither  stupid  nor  cruel,  suggested  that  my  sister  stop  seeing  Sonny  for  a  while.  &quot;Until  you  make  up  your  mind,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Otherwise  you  might  break  his  heart,  you  know.  Tell  him  you  need  some  time  to  think.  He'll  " b"understand.  He'll  think  you're  grown-  up  and  responsible.&quot;  Sonny  vanished  from  our  house.  In  the  evenings  now,  after  dinner,  the  three  of  us  would  sit  on  the  screened  porch.  My  sister  would  look  up  eagerly  when  the  phone  rang,  but  the  calls  were  never  for  her.  None  of  her  old  boy  friends  knew  she  had  stopped  dating  Sonny,  and  after  a  while,  when  the  phone  rang,  she  would  compose  her  face  and  pretend  she  wasn't  interested,  or  she  would  say  irritably,  &quot;Who  can  that  be?&quot;  She  began  to  answer  the  phone  herself  (she  never  had  before,  because  it  wasn't  good  for  a  girl  to  seem  too  eager)  and  she  would  look  sadly  at  her-  self  in  the  hall  mirror  while  she  said,  &quot;Yes,  Preston,  he's  here.&quot;  She  tried  to  read.  She'd  skim  a  few  pages  and  then  put  the  book  down  and  gaze  out  through  thescreens  at  the  night  and  the  patches  of  light  on  the  trees.  She  would  listen  with  my  mother  to  the  comedians  on  the  radio  and  laugh  vaguely  when  my  mother  laughed.  She  picked  on  me.  &quot;Your  posture's  no  good,&quot;  she'd  say.  Or  &quot;Where  do  you  learn  your  man-  ners?  Mother,  he  behaves  like  a  zoot-  suiter  or  something.&quot;  Another  time,  she  said,  &quot;If  I  don't  make  a  good  marriage,  you'll  be  in  trouble.  You're  too  lazy  to  do  anything  on  your  own.&quot;  She  grew  more  and  more  restless.  Toying  with  her  necklace,  she  broke  the  string,  and  the  :  beads  rolled  all  over  the  floor,  and  there  was  something  frantic  in  the  way  she  went  about  retrieving  the  small  rolling  bits  of  glitter.  It  occurred  to  me  that  she  didn't  know  what  she  was  doing;  she  was  not  reallyas  sureof  everything  as  she  seemed.  It  was  a  painfully  difficult  thought  to  arrive  at,  and  it  clung  to  me.  Why  hadn't  I  realized  it  before?  Also,  she  sort  of  hated  me,  it  seemed  to  me.  I  had  never  noticed  that  before,  either.  How  could  I  have  been  so  wrong,  I  wondered.  Knowing  how  wrong  I  had  been  about  this,  I  felt  that  no  idea  I  had  ever  held  was  safe.  For  instance,  we  were  not  necessarily  a  happy  family,  with  the  most  wonderful  destinies  waiting  for  my  sister  and  me.  We  might  make  mistakes  and  choose  wrong.  Unhappiness  was  real.  It  was  even  likely.  .  ..  How  tired  I  became  of  study-  ing  my  sister's  face.  I  got  so  I  would  do  anything  to  keep  from  joining  the  two  women  on  the  porch.  FTER  three  weeks  of  this,  Sonny  returned.  I  was  never  told  wheth-  er  he  came  of  his  own  accord  or  was  summoned;  but  one  night  the  yellow  convertible  drove  up  in  front  of  our  house  and  he  was  back.  Now  when  my  " b"mother  would  watch  my  sister  and  Sonny  getting  into  Sonny's  car  in  the  evenings,  she  would  turn  away  from  the  window  smiling.  &quot;I  think  your  sister  has  found  a  boy  she  can  respect,&quot;  she  would  say,  or  &quot;'They'll  be  very  happy  togeth-  er,&quot;  or  some  such  hopeful  observation,  which  I  could  see  no  basis  for,  but  which  my  mother  believed  with  all  the  years  and  memories  at  her  disposal,  with  all  the  weight  of  her  past  and  her  love  for  my  sister.  And  I  would  go  and  call  Preston.  I  used  to  lie  under  the  dining-room  table,  sheltered  and  private  like  that,  looking  up  at  the  way  the  pieces  of  ma-  hogany  were  joined  together,  while  we  talked.  I  would  cup  the  telephone  to  my  ear  with  my  shoulder  and  hold  my  textbook  up  in  the  air,  over  my  head,  as  we  went  over  physics,  which  was  a  hard  subject  for  me.  &quot;Preston,&quot;  I  asked  one  night,  &quot;what  in  God's  name  makes  a  siphon  work?&quot;  They  did  work-everyone  knew  that-and  I  groaned  as  I  asked  it.  Preston  explained  the  theory  to  me,  and  I  frowned,  breathed  heavily  through  my  nose,  squinted  at  the  incomprehensible  dia-  grams  in  the  book,  and  thought  of  sex,  of  the  dignity  of  man,  of  the  wonders  of  the  mind,  as  he  talked.  Every  few  min-  utes,  he  asked  &quot;Do  you  see?&quot;  and  I  would  sigh.  It  was  spring,  and  there  was  meaning  all  around  me,  if  only  I  were  free-free  of  school,  free  of  my  mother,  free  of  duties  and  inhibitions-  if  only  I  were  mounted  on  a  horse.  .  .  .  Where  was  the  world?  Not  here,  not  near  me,  not  under  the  dining-room  table.  ...  &quot;Not  quite,&quot;  I'd  say,  un-  truthfully,  afraid  that  I  might  discour-  age  him.  &quot;But  I  almost  get  it.  Just  tell  me  once  more.&quot;  And  on  and  on  he  went,  while  I  frowned,  breathed  hard,  and  squinted.  And  then  it  happened!  &quot;I  see!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;I  see!  I  see!&quot;  It  was  air  pressure!  How  in  the  world  had  I  failed  to  visualize  air  pressure?  I  could  see  it  now.  I  would  never  again  not  see  it;  it  was  there  in  my  mind,  solid  and  indestructible,  a  whitish  column  sitting  on  the  water.  &quot;God  damn  but  science  is  wonderful!&quot;  I  said,  and  heaved  my  physics  book  into  the  living  room.  &quot;Really  wonderful!&quot;  &quot;It's  natural  law,&quot;  Preston  said  re-  provingly.  &quot;Don't  get  emotion  mixed  up  with  it.&quot;  One  evening  when  my  sister  and  Sonny  didn't  have  a  date  to  go  out,  my  mother  tapped  lightly  on  my  foot,  which  protruded  from  under  the  dining-room  table.  &quot;I  have  a  feeling  Sonny  may  [REDACTED];  she  whispered.  I  told  Preston  I  had  to  hang  up,  and  crawled " b"out  from  beneath  the  table.  &quot;Ihavea  feeling  that  they're  getting  to  the  point,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;Your  sister's  nervous.&quot;  I  put  the  phone  back  on  the  telephone  table.  &quot;But,  Mother-&quot;  I  said,  and  the  phone  rang.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  she  said.  The  phone  rang  three  times.  My  sister,  on  the  extension  upstairs,  said,  &quot;Hello.  ...  Oh,  Sonny.  .  ..&quot;  My  mother  looked  at  me  and  smiled.  Then  shepulled  at  my  sleeve  until  I  bent  my  head  down,  and  she  whispered  in  my  ear,  &quot;''They'll  be  so  happy.  ..  .&quot;  She  went  into  the  hall,  to  the  foot  of  the  stairs.  &quot;'Tell  him  he  can  come  over,&quot;  she  whispered  passionately.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  my  sister  was  saying  on  the  phone.  &quot;Pd  like  that.  ...  If  you  want.  .  .  .  Sure.  ...&quot;  My  mother  went  on  listening,  her  head  tilted  to  one  side,  the  light  falling  on  her  aging  face,  and  then  she  began  to  pantomime  the  answers  my  sister  ought  to  be  making-sweet  yesses,  dignified  noes,  and  little  bursts  of  al-  luring  laughter.  I  plunged  down  the  hall  and  out  the  screen  door.  'The  street  lamps  were  on,  and  there  was  a  moon.  I  could  hear  the  children:  &quot;I  see  Digger,  One-two-  three,  you're  caught,  Digger.  .  ..&quot;  Two  blocks  away,  the  clock  on  the  Presby-  terian  church  was  striking  the  hour.  Just  then  a  little  girl  left  her  hiding  place  in  our  hedge  and  ran  shrieking  for  the  tree  trunk  that  was  home-free  base:  &quot;I'm  home  safe!  I'm  home  safe!  Ev-  erybody  free!&quot;  All  the  prisoners,  who  had  been  sitting  disconsolately  on  the  bumpers  of  Mr.  Karmgut's  Oldsmo-  bile,  jumped  up  with  joyful  cries  and  scattered  abruptly  in  the  darkness.  I  lifted  my  face-that  exasperating  factor,  my  face-and  stared  entranced  at  the  night,  at  the  waving  tops  of  the  trees,  and  the  branches  blowing  back  and  forth,  and  the  round  moon  em-  bedded  in  the  night  sky,  turning  the  nearby  streamers  of  cloud  into  mother-  of-pearl.  It  was  all  very  rare  and  eter-  nal-seeming.  What  a  dreadful  unhappi-  ness  I  felt!  I  walked  along  the  curb,  balancing  with  my  arms  outspread.  Leaves  hung  over  thesidewalk.  The  air  was  filled  with  their  rustling,  and  they  caught  the  light  ofthe  street  lamps.  I  looked  into  the  lighted  houses.  'There  was  Mrs.  Kearns,  tucked  girlishly  into  a  corner  of  the  living-room  couch,  reading  a  book.  Next  door,  through  the  leaves  of  a  tall  plant,  I  saw  the  Lewises  all  stand-  ing  in  the  middle  of  the  floor.  When  I  reached  the  corner,  I  put  one  arm " b"around  the  post  that  held  the  street  sign,  and  leaned  there,  above  the  sewer  grating,  where  my  friends  and  I  had  lost  perhaps  a  hundred  tennis  balls,  over  the  years.  In  numberless  dusks,  we  had  abandoned  our  games  of  catch  and  handball  and  gathered  around  the  grat-  ing  and  stared  into  it  at  our  ball,  floating  down  there.  The  Cullens'  porch  light  was  on,  in  the  next  block,  and  I  saw  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Cullen  getting  into  their  car.  Eleanor  Cullen  was  in  my  class  at  school,  and  she  had  been  dating  Joel.  Her  parents  were  going  out,  and  that  meant  she'd  be  home  alone-if  she  was  home.  She  might  have  gone  to  the  library,  I  thought  as  the  car  started  up;  or  to  a  sorority  meeting.  While  I  stood  there  looking  at  the  Cullens'  house,  the  porch  light  went  off.  A  minute  later,  out  of  breath  from  running,  I  stood  on  the  dark  porch  and  rang  the  doorbell.  There  was  no  light  on  in  the  front  hall,  but  the  front  door  was  open,  and  I  could  hear  someone  coming.  It  was  Eleanor.  &quot;Who  is  it?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Me,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Are  you  busy?  Would  you  like  to  come  out  for  a  little  while  and  talk?&quot;  She  drifted  closer  to  the  screen  door  and  pressed  her  nose  against  it.  She  looked  pale  without  makeup.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'll  have  to  go  put  my  shoes  on.  I'm  not  in  a  good  mood  or  anything.&quot;  &quot;That's  all  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Neither  am  I.  I  just  want  to  talk  to  some-  body.&quot;  While  I  waited  for  Eleanor  to  come  out,  Mattie  Seaton  appeared,  striding  along  the  sidewalk.  He  was  on  the  track  team.  &quot;Hey,  Mattie,&quot;  I  called  out  to  him.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  he  said.  .  &quot;What's  new?&quot;  Nothing  much,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  got  your  trig  done?&quot;  &quot;No,  not  yet.&quot;  &quot;You  going  with  her?&quot;  he  asked,  pointing  to  the  house.  &quot;Naw,&quot;  I  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  I  got  to  get  my  homework  done,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;See  you  later,&quot;  Icalled  after  him.  I  knew  where  he  was  going:  Nancy  Ellis's  house,  two  blocks  down.  &quot;Who  was  that?&quot;  Eleanor  asked.  She  stepped  out  on  the  porch.  She  had  combed  her  hair  and  put  on  lipstick.  &quot;Mattie  Seaton,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He's  pinned  to  Nancy,&quot;  Eleanor  said.  &quot;He  likes  her  a  lot.  .  .  .&quot;  She  sat  down  in  a  white  metal  chair.  I  sat  on  the  porch  railing,  facing  her.  She  fumbled  in  her  pocket  and  pulled  out  a  " b"pack  of  cigarettes.  &quot;You  want  a  ciga-  rette?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No.  I'm  in  training.&quot;  We  looked  at  each  other,  and  then  she  looked  away,  and  I  looked  down  at  my  shoes.  I  sat  there  liking  her  more  and  more.  &quot;How  come  you're  in  a  bad  mood?&quot;  I  asked  her.  &quot;Me?  Oh,  I  don't  know.  How  did  you  know  I  was  in  a  bad  mood?&quot;  &quot;You  told  me.&quot;  I  could  barely  make  out  her  face  and  the  dull  color  of  her  hands  in  the  darkness.  &quot;You  know,  Ithink  I'm  not  basical-  ly  a  happy  person,&quot;  Eleanor  said  sud-  denly.  &quot;I  always  thought  I  was.  .  ..  People  expect  you  to  be,  especially  if  you're  a  girl.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  surprise  me,&quot;  I  said.  A  breeze  set  all  the  leaves  in  motion  again.  &quot;It's  going  to  rain,&quot;  I  said.  Eleanor  stood  up,  smoothing  her  yel-  low  skirt,  andthrew  her  cigarette  off  the  porch;  the  glowing  tip  landed  on  the  grass.  She  realized  I  was  staring  at  her.  She  lifted  her  hand  and  pressed  it  against  her  hair.  ''You  may  have  noticed  T  look  unusually  plain  tonight,&quot;she  said.  She  leaned  over  the  porch  railing  be-  side  me,  supporting  herself  on  her  hands.  &quot;I  was  trying  to  do  my  geome-  try,&quot;  she  saidin  a  low  voice.  &quot;I  couldn't  do  it.  I  felt  stupid,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;So  I  cried.  That's  why  I  look  so  awful.&quot;  &quot;I  think  you  look  all  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  think  you  look  fine.&quot;  I  leaned  for-  ward  and  laid  my  cheek  on  her  shoul-  der.  Then  I  sat  up  quickly,  flushing.  &quot;I  don't  like  to  hear  you  being  so  dissatis-  fied  with  yourself,&quot;  I  mumbled.  &quot;You  could  undermine  your  self-confidence  that  way.&quot;  Eleanor  straightened  and  faced  me,  in  the  moonlight.  &quot;You're  beautiful,&quot;  I  burst  out  longingly.  &quot;I  never  noticed  before.  But  you  are.&quot;  &quot;Wait,&quot;  Eleanor  said.  Tears  gath-  ered  in  her  eyes.  &quot;Don't  like  me  yet.  I  have  to  tell  you  something  first.  It's  about  Joel.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  tell  me,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  know  you're  going  with  him.  I  un-  derstand.&quot;  &quot;Listen  to  me!&quot;  she  said  impatiently,  stamping  her  foot.  &quot;I'm  not  going  with " b"him.  He-&quot;  She  suddenly  pressed  her  hands  against  her  eyes.  &quot;Oh,  it's  aw-  ful!&quot;  she  cried.  A  little  shudder  of  interest  passed  through  me.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  I  don't  care  if  you  don't  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;I'm  just  a  little  embarrassed.  I'll  be  all  right  in  a  minute-  &quot;We  went  out  Sunday  night  .  .  .&quot;  she  began  after  a  few  seconds.  They  had  gone  to  Medart's,  in  Clayton,  for  a  hamburger.  Joel  had  talked  her  into  drinking  a  bottle  of  beer,  and  it  had  made  her  so  drowsy  that  she  had  put  her  head  on  the  back  of  the  seat  and  closed  her  eyes.  &quot;What  kind  of  car  does  Joel  have?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;A  Buick,&quot;  Eleanor  said,  surprised  at  my  question.  &quot;I  see,&quot;  I  said.  I  pictured  the  dash-  board  of  a  Buick,  and  Joel's  handsome  face,  and  then,  daringly,  I  added  Eleanor's  hand,  with  its  bitten  finger-  nails,  holding  Joel's  hand.  I  was  only  half  listening,  because  I  felt  the  pre-  liminary  stirrings  of  anenvy  so  deep  it  would  make  me  miserable  for  weeks.  I  looked  up  at  the  sky  over  my  shoulder;  clouds  had  blotted  out  the  moon,  and  everything  had  got  darker.  From  the  next  block,  in  the  sudden  stillness,  I  heard  the  children  shouting,  uttering  their  Babylonian  cries  as  they  played  kick-the-can.  Their  voices  were  grow-  ing  tired  and  fretful.  &quot;And  then  I  felt  his  hand  on  my-&quot;  Eleanor,  half  drowned  in  shadow,  was  showing  me,  on  her  breast,  where  Joel  had  touched  her.  &quot;Is  that  all?&quot;  I  said,  suddenly  smil-  ing.  Now  I  would  not  have  to  die  of  envy.  &quot;That's  nothing!&quot;  &quot;I-  I  slapped  his  face!&quot;  she  ex-  claimed.  Her  lip  trembled.  &quot;Oh,  I  didn't  mean-  I  sort  of  wanted-  Oh,  it's  all  so  terrible!&quot;  she  burst  out.  She  ran  down  the  front  steps  and  onto  the  lawn,  and  leaned  against  the  trunk  of  an  oak  tree.  I  followed  her.  The  pre-  storm  stillness  filled  the  sky,  the  air  be-  tween  the  trees,  the  dark  spaces  among  the  shrubbery.  &quot;Oh,  God!&quot;  Eleanor  cried.  &quot;How  I  hate  everything!&quot;  My  heart  was  pounding,  and  I  didn't  know  why.  I  hadn't  known  I  could  feel  like  this-that  I  could  pause  on  the  edge  of  such  feeling,  which  lay  stretched  like  an  enormous  meadow  all  in  shadow  in-  side  me.  It  seemed  to  me  a  miracle  that  human  beings  could  be  so  elaborate.  &quot;Listen,  Eleanor,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you're  all  right!  I've  always  liked  you.&quot;  I  swal-  lowed  ani  moved  closer  to  her;  there  were  two  moist  streaks  running  down  her  face.  I  raised  my  arm  and,  with  the" b"sleeve  of  my  shirt,  I  wiped  away  her  tears.  &quot;I  think  you're  wonderful!  I  think  you're  really  something!&quot;  &quot;You  look  down  on  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  know  you  do.  I  can  tell.&quot;  &quot;How  can  I,  Eleanor.  How  can  I?&quot;  Icried.  &quot;I'm  nobody.  I've  been  dam-  aged  by  my  heredity.&quot;  &quot;You,  too!&quot;  she  exclaimed  happily.  &quot;Oh,  that's  what's  wrong  with  me!&quot;  A  sudden  hiss  swept  through  the  air  and  then  the  first  raindrops  struck  the  street.  &quot;Quick!&quot;  Eleanor  cried,  and  we  ran  upon  her  porch.  Two  bursts  of  lightning  lit  up  the  dark  sky,  and  the  rain  streamed  down.  I  held  Eleanor's  hand,  and  we  stood  watching  the  rain.  &quot;It's  a  real  thundershower,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  you  feel  bad  because  we  only  started  being  friends  tonight?  I  mean,  do  you  feel  you're  on  the  rebound  and  settling  on  the  second-best?&quot;  I  asked.  There  was  a  long  silence  and  all  around  it  was  the  sound  of  the  rain.  &quot;I  don'tthink  so,&quot;  Eleanor  said  at  last.  &quot;How  about  you?&quot;  I  raised  my  eyebrows  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  no,  it  doesn't  bother  me  at  all.&quot;  &quot;That's  good,&quot;  she  said.  We  were  standing  very  close  to  one  another.  We  talked  industriously.  &quot;I  don't  like  geometry,&quot;  Eleanor  said.  &quot;I  don't  see  what  use  it  is.  It's  supposed  to  train  your  mind,  but  I  don't  believe  fore.  I  took  my  glasses  off.  &quot;Eleanor-&quot;  I  said.  I  kissed  her,  passionately,  and  then  I  turned  away,  pounding  my  fists  on  top  of  each  other.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  I  whispered  hoarsely.  That  kiss  had  lasted  a  long  time,  and  I  thought  I  would  die.  Eleanor  was  watching  the  long,  slanting  lines  of  rain  falling  just  out-  side  the  porch,  gray  in  the  darkness;  she  was  breathing  very  rapidly.  &quot;You  know  what?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  could  make  you  scrambled  eggs.  I'm  a  good  cook.&quot;  I  leaned  my  head  against  the  brick  wall  ofthe  house  and  said  I'd  like  some.  In  the  kitchen,  she  put  on  an  apron  and  bustled  about,  rattling  pans  and  silverware,  and  talking  in  spurts.  &quot;I  think  a  girl  should  know  how  to  cook,  don't  you?&quot;  She  let  me  break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl-three  eggs,  which  I  cracked  with  a  flourish.  &quot;Oh,  you're  good  at  it,&quot;  she  said,  and  began  to  beat  them  with  a  fork  while  I  sat  on  the  kitchen  table  and  watched  her.  &quot;Did  you  know  most  eggs  arew't  baby  chickens?&quot;  she  asked  me.  She  passed  so  close  to  me  on  her  way  to  the  stove  that,  because  her  cheeks  were  flushed  and  her  eyes  bright,  I  couldn't  help  leaning  for-" b"ward  and  kissing  her.  She  turned  pink  and  hurried  to  the  stove.  I  sat  on  the  kitchen  table,  swinging  my  legs  and  smiling  to  myself.  Suddenly  we  heard  a  noise  just  outside  the  back  door.  I  leaped  off  the  table  and  took  up  a  polite  position  by  the  sink.  Eleanor  froze.  But  no  one  opened  the  door,  and  no  one  appeared.  &quot;Maybe  it  was  a  branch  falling,&quot;  I  said.  Eleanor  nodded.  Then  she  made  a  face  and  looked  down  at  her  hands.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  we  got  so  nervous.  We  aren't  doing  anything  wrong.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  way  they  look  at  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes,  that's  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  know,  I  think  my  parents  are  ashamed  of  me.  But  someday  I'll  show  them.  I'll  do  something  wonderful,  and  they'll  be  amazed.&quot;  She  went  back  to  the  stove.  &quot;When  are  your  parents  coming  fess:  I  asked.  &quot;''They  went  to  a  double  feature.  They  can't  possibly  be  out  before  eleven.&quot;  &quot;'They  might  walk  out  on  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh  no!&quot;  Eleanor  said.  &quot;Not  if  they  pay  for  it  ...&quot;  We  ate  our  scrambled  eggs  and  _-  washed  the  dishes,  and  watched  the  rain  from  the  dining-room  windows  with-  out  turning  the  light  on.  We  kissed  for  a  while,  and  then  we  both  grew  restless  and  uncomfortable.  Her  lips  were  swollen,  and  she  went  into  the  kitchen,  and  I  heard  her  running  the  water;  when  she  returned,  her  hair  was  combed  and  she  had  put  on  fresh  lip-  stick.  &quot;I  don't  like  being  in  the  house,&quot;  she  said,  and  led  me  out  on  the  porch.  We  stood  with  our  arms  around  each  other.  The  rain  was  slackening.  &quot;Good-  :  bye,  rain,&quot;  Eleanor  said  sadly.  It  was  as  if  we  were  watching  a  curtain  slow-  ly  being  lifted  from  around  the  house.  The  trees  gleamed  wetly  near  the  street  lamps.  HEN  I  started  home,  the  rain  had  stopped.  Water  dripped  on  the  leaves  of  the  trees.  Little  plumes  of  mist  hung  over  the  wet  macadam  of  the  street.  I  walked  very  gently  in  order  not  to  disturb  anything.  I  didn't  want  to  run  into  anybody,  and  so  I  went  home  the  back  way,  through  the  alley.  At  the  entrance  to  the  alley  there  was  a  tall  cast-iron  pseudo-Victorian  lamppost,  with  an  urn-shaped  head  and  panes  of  frosted  glass;  the  milky  light  it  shed  trickled  part  way  down  the  alley,  illuminating  a  few  curiously  still  garage  fronts  and, " b"here  and  there,  the  wet  leaves  of  the  bushes  and  vines  that  bordered  the  back  yards  and  spilled  in  such  profusion  over  the  fences,  hiding  the  ashpits  and  making  the  alley  so  pretty  a  place  in  spring.  When  I  was  younger,  I  had  climbed  on  those  ashpits,  those  brick  squares  nearly  smothered  under  the  in-  tricacies  of  growing  things,  and  I  had  searched  in  the  debrisfor  old,  bro-  ken  mirrors,  discarded  scarves  with  fringes,  bits  of  torn  decorated  wrap-  ping  paper,  and  such  treasures.  But  now  I  drifted  down  the  alley,  walking  ab-  sently  on  the  wet  asphalt.  I  was  having  a  sort  of  daydream  where  I  was  lying  with  my  head  on  Eleanor's  shoulder-  which  was  bare-and  I  could  hear  the  slow,  even  sound  of  her  breathing  as  I  began  to  fall  asleep.  I  was  now  in  the  darkest  part  of  the  alley,  the  very  center  where  no  light  reached,  and  in  my  daydream  I  turned  over  and  kissed  Eleanor's  hands,  her  throat-and  then  I  broke  into  a  sprint  down  the  alley,  slipping  and  sliding  on  the  puddles  and  wet  places.  I  came  out  the  other  end  of  the  alley  and  stood  underneath  the  lamppost.  I  was  breathing  with  diffi-  culty.  Across  the  street  from  me,  two  women  stood,  oneon  the  sidewalk,  the  other  on  the  front  steps  of  a  house,  hug-  ging  her  arms.  &quot;It's  not  a  bad  pain,&quot;  the  woman  on  the  sidewalk  said,  &quot;but  it  persists.&quot;  &quot;My  dear,  my  dear,&quot;  said  the  other.  &quot;Don't  take  any  chances-not  at  our  age  ...&quot;  And  a  couple,  a  boy  and  a  girl,  were  walking  up  the  street,  coming  home  from  the  Tivoli  Theatre.  The  girl  was  slouching  in  order  not  to  seem  taller  than  the  boy,  who  was  very  short  and  who  sprang  up  and  down  on  the  balls  of  his  feet  as  he  walked.  I  picked  a  spray  of  lilac  and  smelled  it,  but  then  Ididn't  know  what  to  do  with  it-I  didn't  want  to  throw  it  away-and  finally  I  put  it  in  my  pants  pocket.  I  vaulted  our  back  fence  and  landed  in  our  back  yard,  frightening  a  cat,  who  leaped  out  of  the  hedge  and  ran  in  zigzags  acrossthe  dark  lawn.  It  startled  me  so  much  I  felt  weak.  I  tucked  my  shirt  in  carefully  and  smoothed  my  hair.  Suddenly,  I  looked  down  at  my  fingertips;  they  were  blurred  in  the  darkness  and  moist  from  the  lilac,  and  I  swept  them  to  my  mouth  and  kissed  them.  HE  kitchen  was  dark.  There  was  no  sound  in  the  house,  no  sound  at  all,  and  a  tremor  passed  through  me.  I" b"turned  the  kitchen  light  on  and  hur-  riedly  examined  myself  for  marks  of  what  had  happened  to  me.  I  peered  at  my  shirt,  my  pants.  I  rubbed  my  face  with  both  hands.  Then  I  turned  the  light  off  and  slipped  into  the  dining  room,  which  was  dark,  too,  and  so  was  the  hall-  way.  The  porch  light  was  on.  I  ran  up  the  front  stairs  and  stopped  short  at  the  top;  there  was  a  light  on  in  my  mother's  room.  She  was  sitting  up  in  bed,  with  pillows  at  her  back,  a  magazine  across  her  lap,  and  a  pad  of  paper  on  the  maga-  zine.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  said.  I  expected  her  to  bawl  me  out  for  being  late,  but  she  just  looked  at  me  solemnly  for  a  moment,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;Sonny  proposed  to  your  sister.&quot;  Because  I  hadn't  had  a  chance  to  wash  my  face,  I  raised  one  hand  and  held  it  over  my  cheek  and  chin,  to  hide  whatever  traces  of  lipstick  there  might  be.  She  said,  &quot;''They're  going  to  be  mar-  ried  in  June.  They  went  over  to  the  Brusters'  to  getthe  ring.  He  proposed  practically  the  first  thing  when  he  came.  They  were  both  so-  they  were  both  so  happy!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;They  make  such  a  lovely  couple.  .  .  .  Oh,  if  you  could  have  seen  them.&quot;  She  was  in  a  very  emotional  state.  I  started  to  back  out  the  door.  &quot;Where  are  you  going?&quot;  my  mother  asked.  &quot;'To  bed,&quot;  I  said,  surprised.  &quot;I'm  in  training-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  ought  to  wait  up  for  your  sister.&quot;  &quot;I'll  leave  her  a  note,&quot;  I  said.  I  went  to  my  room  and  took  the  white  lilac  out  of  my  pocket  and  put  it  on  my  desk.  I  wrote,  &quot;I  heard  the  news  and  think  it's  swell.  Congratulations.  Wake  me  up  when  you  come  in.&quot;  I  stuck  the  note  in  the  mirror  of  her  dress-  ing  table.  Then  I  went  back  to  my  room  and  got  undressed.  Usually  I  slept  raw,  but  I  decided  I'd  better  wear  pajamas  if  my  sister  was  going  to  come  in  and  wake  me  up.  I  don't  know  how  much  later  it  was  that  I  heard  a  noise  and  sat  bolt  upright  in  bed.  I  had  been  asleep.  My  sister  was  standing  in  the  door  of  my  room.  She  was  wearing  a  blue  dress  that  had  little  white  buttons  all  the  way  down  the  front  and  she  had  white  gloves  on.  &quot;Are  you  awake?&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Where's  Mother?&quot;  &quot;Downstairs,&quot;  my  sister  said,  com-  ing  into  the  room.  &quot;Sending  telegrams.  Do  you  want  to  see  my  ring?&quot;  She  took  her  gloves  off.  I  turned  the  bedside-table  lamp  on," b"and  she  held  her  hand  out.  The  ring  was  gold,  and  there  was  an  emerald  and  four  diamonds  around  it.  &quot;It  was  his  grandmother's,&quot;  my  sis-  ter  said.  I  nodded.  &quot;It's  not  what  I-&quot;  she  said,  and  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  and  forgot  to  finish  her  sen-  tence.  &quot;Tell  me,&quot;  a  sad  gaze  on  me,  through  her  lashes.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  know  something  aw-  ful?  I  don't  like  my  ring.  ...&quot;  &quot;Are  you  unhappy?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;No,  just  upset.  It's  scary  getting  married.  You  have  no  idea.  I  kept  get-  ting  chills  all  evening.  I  may  get  pneu-monia.  Do  you  have  acigarette?&quot;  I  said  I'd  get  her  one  downstairs.  &quot;No,  there's  some  in  my  room,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'll  get  them.  You  know,  Sonny  and  I  talked  about  you.  We're  going  to  send  you  to  college  and  everything.  We  planned  it  all  out  tonight.&quot;  She  playedwithher  gloves  for  a  while,  and  then  she  said,  looking  at  the  toes  of  her shoes,  &quot;I'm  scared.  What  if  Sonny's  not  good  at  business?&quot;  She  turned  to  me.  &quot;Youknow  what  I  mean?  He's  so  young.  ...&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  marry  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;After  all,  you're-&quot;  &quot;You  don't  understand,&quot;  my  sister  said  hurriedly,  warding  off  advice  she  didn't  want.  &quot;You're  too  young  yet.&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;You  know  what  he  said  to  [REDACTED];  Just  then,  my  mother  called  out  from  the  bottom  of  the  stairs,  &quot;Listen,  how  does  this  sound  to  you?  'Dear  Greta-'  It's  a  night  letter,  and  we  get  a  lot  of  words,  and  I  thought  Greta  would  like  it  better  if  I  started  that  way.  Greta's  so  touchy,  you  know.  Can  you  hear  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  have  to  go,&quot;  my  sister  whispered.  She  looked  at  me,  and  then  suddenly  she  leaned  over  and  kissed  me  on  the  forehead.  &quot;Go  to  sleep,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Have  nice  dreams.&quot;  She  got  up  and  went  out  into  the  hall.  \xc2\xab&quot;  --Dodie  got  engaged  tonight,  my  mother  read.  &quot;Is  'got  engaged&quot;  the  right  way  to  say  it?&quot;  &quot;Became  engaged,&quot;  my  sister  said,  in  a  distant  voice.  I  PUT  on  my  bathrobe  and  slippers  and  went  out  into  the  hall.  My  sister  was  leaning  over  the  banister,  talking  to  my  mother  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs  about  the  night  letter.  I  slipped  past  her  and  down  the  back  stairs  and  into  the  kitchen.  I  found  a  cold  chicken  in  the  icebox,  put  the  platter  on  the  kitchen  table,  and  tore  off  a  leg  and  began  to  eat.  The  door  to  the  back  stairs  swung " b"open,  and  my  sister  appeared.  &quot;I'm  hungry,  too,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  why.&quot;  She  drifted  over  to  the  table,  and  bent  over  the  chicken.  &quot;I  guess  emo-  tion  makes  people  hungry.&quot;  My  mother  pushed  open  the  swing-  ing  door,  from  the  dining-room  side.  &quot;'There  you  are,&quot;  she  said.  She  looked  flustered.  &quot;I'll  have  to  think  some  more,  and  then  I'll  write  the  whole  thing  over,&quot;  she  said  to  my  sister.  To  me  she  said,  &quot;Are  you  eating  at  this  time  of  night?&quot;  My  sister  said  that  she  was  hungry,  too.  'There's  some  soup,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;Why  don't  I  heat  it  up.&quot;  And  suddenly  her  eyes  filled  with  tears,  and  all  at  once  we  fell  to  kissing  one  an-  other-to  embracing  and  smiling  and  making  cheerful  predictions  about  one  another-there  in  the  white,  brightly  lighted  kitchen.  We  had  known  each  other  for  so  long,  and  there  were  so  many  things  that  we  all  three  remem-  bered.  .  ..  Our  smiles,  our  approving  glances,  wandered  from  face  to  face.  There  was  a  feeling  of  politeness  in  the  air,  We  were  behaving  the  way  we  would  in  railway  stations,  at  my  sister's  wedding,  at  the  birth  of  her  first  child,  at  my  graduation  from  college.  This  was  the  first  of  our  reunions. "