  THE  UNEASY  VISIT  OF  R  ~34  ‘  a  JT  HEN  I  read  in  the  newspapers  a  while  back  that  a  free  balloon  had  ascended  from  Roosevelt  Field,  on  Long  Island,  marking  the  last  official  takeoff  of  any  aircraft  from  that  field,  which  is  now  largely  a  shopping  and  industrial  center,  I  was  vividly  re-  minded  of  the  time  I  had  the  responsi-  bility  for  the  landing  at  the  old  Roose-  velt  Field  of  the  British  rigid  airship  R-34,  when  it  made  the  first  westward  aerial  crossing  of  the  Atlantic,  in  July,  1919.  The  rigid  airship,  as  a  type  of  air-  craft,  is  now  extinct,  but  for  four  frantic  days  it  was  the  dominant  factor  in  my  life.  In  June  of  1919,  I  was  at  nearby  Mitchel  Field,  awaiting  my  discharge  from  the  Army  Air  Service-as  it  was  then  called-in  which  I  was  a  _  captain.  I  had  returned  from  [REDACTED]  some  ten  weeks  previously,  and  had  been  organizing  from  among  postwar  recruits  an  observation-balloon  company  for  service  in  the  [REDACTED].  I  had  earned  a  rating  as  a  free-balloon  pilot  in  1917,  and  had  commanded  an  observa-  tion-balloon  company  in  [REDACTED]  for  six-  teen  months.  My  knowledge  of  airships  was  a  bit  limited,  however;  in  fact,  the  only  one  I  had  ever  seen  was  a  yellow  French  blimp  that  patrolled  the  harbor  at  Le  Havre.  At  the  time  I  was  await-  ing  discharge  on  Long  Island,  I  was,  by  chance,  the  only  &quot;trained&quot;  light-  er-than-air  officer  on  duty  in  the  area.  Even  so,  I  was  not  prepared  for  the  shock  of  being  sum-  moned  by  the  Air  Service  area  commander,  Colo-  nel  Archie  Miller,  whose  office  was  at  Hazelhurst  Field,  adjoining  Roose-  velt,  and  being  told  that  R-34  would  arrive  from  England  within  three  weeks  and  would  refuel  at  Roosevelt  Field  for  the  return  flight,  and  that  I  would  be  in  charge  of  the  landing  crew  during  her  landing,  her  stay  at  the  field,  and  her  departure.  I  wanted  to  question  my  capability,  but,  being  a  veteran  of  military  service,  I  said  nothing.  Limited  as  my  qualifications  were  for  my  job,  they  were  as  good  as  Roose-  velt  Field's  for  its  job.  No  airplane  hangar  was  anywhere  near  big  enough  to  house  R-34,  and  the  mooring  mast  was  not  yet  a  practical  device.  At  the  time,  the  Army  and  Navy  flying  services  were  in  the  middle  of  a  controversy  over     which  should  be  custodian  of  rigid-  airship  development  in  this  country.  Presently,  plans  were  made  forthe  Army  to  do  the  actual  handling  of  R-34;  personnel  from  the  naval  air  station  at  nearby  Rockaway  would  provide  technical  services.  The  Navy  according-  ly  began  trucking  in  fuel  and  hydrogen  cylinders,  and  laying  pipes  to  supply  wa-  ter  for  ballast.  Its  technicians  also  plant-  ed,  deep  in  the  ground,  a  concrete  block  with  an  iron  ring,  or  eye,  set  in  its  top.  A  two-hundred-foot  cable  was  attached  to  the  eye,  and  R-34  would  float  aloft  at  the  end  of  this  cable.  Colonel  Miller  gave  me  what  infor-  mation  about  R-34  he  possessed.  It  was  sketchy,  but  it  was  all  anybody  at  the  field  had.  Those  were  innocent  days,  when  [REDACTED]  as  yet  owned  no  rigid  airship.  (Later  on,  I  learned  that  the  British  had  sent  an  advance  party  of  experts  to  advise  on  the  landing  of  R-34,  but  they  must  have  spent  their  time  with  the  Navy,  because  of  the  primary  im-  portance  of  assembling  supplies.  At  any  rate,  I  don't  recall  seeing  any  member  of  the  party.)  R-34  was  reputed  to  be  cigar-shaped,  six  hundred  and  forty-  three  feet  long,  or  almost  as  long  as  three  average  city  blocks,  and  about  eighty  feet  through  at  the  middle.  Its  rigidity  was  maintained  by  a  duralumin  framework,which  was  covered  with  an  enve-  lope  of  doped  linen,  and  between  the  frames  were  eighteen  cham-  bers,  or  gasbags,  which  provided  buoyancy.  A  catwalk,  or  keel-corri-  dor,  ran  the  length  of  the  aircraft,  inside  the  envelope.  Suspended  below  the  keel  were  four  gondolas-one  forward,  one  aft,  and  two  side  by  side  amid-  ships.  The  gondolas  housed  the  engines  and  propellers,  and  in  the  forward,  or  main,  gondola  there  were  also  the  wireless  and  control  mechanisms.  The  crew,  including  sev-  eral  observers,  numbered  thirty  officers  and  enlisted  men,who,  when  they  could,  slept  in  hammocks  slung  inside  the  envelope,  above  the  catwalk.  While  the  Navy  was  preparing  for  R-34's  arrival,  I  got  busy  with  pencil  and  paper,  I  knew  from  experience  that  it  took  forty  men  to  maneuver  a  single  observation  balloon  with  a  gas  capacity  of  thirty-five  thousand  cubic  feet  and  a  lift  of  little  more  than  a  ton.  R-34's  capacity  was  about  two  million  three  hundred  thousand  cubic  feet.  She  had  a  gross  lift  in  excess  of  eighty  tons.  By  my  computation,  which  allowed  for  absentees  and  relief  shifts,  I  was  going  to  need  six  hundred  men.  ColonelMil-  ler  immediately  requisitioned  them-  not  from  the  Army  Air  Service,  which  couldn't  supply  that  many,  but  from  the  Army,  which  was  then  operating  a  sep-  aration  base  at  Camp  Mills,  adjoining  Mitchel  Field.  While  the  First  World  War  had  been  over  for  eight  months,  a  shipping  shortage  had  delayed  the  re-  turn  of  a  substantial  number  ofthe  two  million  menwho  went  overseas.  My  men  were  not  enthusiastic  about  their  as-  signment,  however  historic  it  might  be,  since  their  only  real  interest  was  in  get-  ting  out  of  the  service.  But  I  ordered  a  pair  of  cotton  gloves  for  each  man,  so  that  his  hands  wouldn't  be  blistered  by  the  airship's  landing  ropes,  and  hopefully  went  to  work.  After  splitting  the  men  into  shifts,  I  organized  them  by  rope  sta-  tions  (about  eight  stations  on  each  side  of  R-34,  with  several  ropes  per  sta-  tion)  and  then  taught  them  what  I  could  of  the  fundamentals  of  rope  dis-  cipline  and  maneuvering  techniques.  Within  a  few  days,  my  landing  crew  had  obviously  shaken  down  as  much  as  it  was  going  to  shake.  N  July  2nd,  R-34  left  [REDACTED],  with  its  commander,  Major  G.  H.  Scott,  in  radio  communication,  by  a  sys-  tem  of  relays,  with  a  Navy  headquarters  set  up  temporarily  at  Roosevelt  Field.  On  July  4th,  while  still  some  eight  hun-  dred  miles  away,  Major  Scott  expressed  concern  over  his  fuel  supply.  The  Navy  at  once  started  outlining  plans  for  emergency  landings,  and  suggested  that  R-34  might  come  down  in  the  vicinity  of  [REDACTED]  or  at  the  Chatham  Naval  Station,  on  Cape  Cod.  During  the  afternoon  and  early  eve-  ning  of  July  5th,  my  landing  party  was  standing  by  at  Camp  Mills.  About  two  o'clock  the  next  morning,  a  Navy  officer  informed  me  that  R-34  was  then  three  hundred  miles  away  and  that  the  fuel  outlook  was  more  reassuring.  Head  winds  had  died  down,  enabling  the  ship  to  throttle  back  on  her  engines  and  save  gas.  Working  deftly  with  slide  rule  and  calipers,  the  Navy  officer  told  me  that  R-34  could  not  possibly  be  over  Roosevelt  Field  before  teno'clock  that  morning,  July  6th.  With  eight  hours  to  go,  I  decided  to  get  some  sleep,  and  instructed  the  Navy  officer  to  alert  me  at  my  room  at  the  Mitchel  Field  visiting  officers'  quarters,  either  by  phone  or  by  messenger,  if  anything  de-   veloped.  Then  I  added,  &quot;Just  in  case  I  drop  deadon  the  way  to  my  bunk,  here's  the  phone  number  at  Camp  Mills  to  get  out  the  landing  party.&quot;  Six  hours  later,  shortly  after  eight  o'clock,  an  Army  orderly  shook  me  awake.  He  was  too  excited  to  talk,  but  he  had  no  need  to.  Through  the  thin  walls  of  the  barracks  I  could  hear  anun-  familiar  but  instantly  recognizable  drone  of  engines  in  chorus  aloft.  Rush-  ing  outside-I  had  slept  with  my  clothes  on-I  saw  R-34  hovering  some  two  thousand  feet  above  what  is  today  Roosevelt  Raceway.  I  dashed  back  into  the  barracks  and  phoned  Camp  Mills  to  turn  out  my  landing  party.  I  got  devas-  tating  news.  Most  of  my  more  or  less  trained  crew  of  six  hundred  soldiers  were  aboard  a  truck  convoy  that  was  speeding  them  eastward  to  Montauk  Point,  ninety  miles  away.  I  learned  later  what  had  happened.  About  four  o'clock  that  morning,  Major  Scott  had  radioed  that  he  doubted  whether  he  had  fuel  enough  to  reach  Roosevelt  Field  after  all.  The  Navy  had  then  advised  him  that  if  he  could  nurse  his  craft  as  far  as  Montauk,  they  would  get  men  there  to  handle  the  landing.  I  suppose  that  in  the  excite-  ment  the  Navy  officer  I  had  spoken  to  forgot  to  call  me.  At  any  rate,  while  I  slept  peacefully,  Navy  officials  called  Colonel  Archie  Miller,  and  he,  through  his  executive  officer,  hurriedly  rounded  up  some  seventy  trucks  and  automo-  biles,  loaded  them  with  most  of  my  sleepy,  bewildered  crew  at  Camp  Mills,  along  with  some  Navy  personnel,  and  started  them  off  for  Montauk.  (In  addition,  the  Navy  sent  some  two  hun-  dred  and  fifty  men  to  Montauk  by  de-  stroyer,  from  New  [REDACTED].)  The  Camp  Mills  convoy  had  not  quite  reached  Montauk  when  the  men  in  the  leading  vehicles  sawR-34,  whose  fuel  situation  was  now  less  critical,  pass  blithely  above  them  in  the  opposite  di-  rection.  Thereupon  the  convoy  turned  aroundand  headed  back  toward  Roose-  velt  Field.  They  failed  to  arrive  in  time  to  assist  in  the  landing.  July  6,  1919,  was  a  Sunday.  Sunday  is  a  notoriously  bad  day  on  which  to  mobilize  barracks  soldiers,  especially  those  who  are  one  step  away  from  be-  coming  civilians.  I  frantically  tele-  phoned  duty  officers  at  Camp  Mills  and  at  the  three  flying  fields  in  the  vicinity  and  asked  them  to  rush  every  available  man  to  meet  me  at  the  landing  site.  It  was  R-34  itself,  however,  that  made  |i  the  emergency  mobilization  job  comparatively  easy  for  me.  Attracted  by  the  historic  spectacle,  the  imminence  of  which  had  been  played  up  in  the  metro-  politan  newspapers,  thousands  of  Long  ||  s  Islanders,  civilian  and  military,  were  now  converging  on  the  landing  area.  Arriving  there  with  a  megaphone,  I  began  feverishly  assembling  re-  cruits-Army,  Navy,  and  Air  Serv-  ice-while  R-34  slowly  circled  over-  head.  'To  its  crew  the  scene  on  the  groundmust  have  represented  unallevi-  ated  chaos.  Presently,  just  as  I  glanced  up,  a  human  figure  leaped  from  the  forward  gondola.  A  parachute  billowed  [|  out,  and  seconds  later  the  parachutist  landed  close  by,  rolling  over  on  the  ground.  Regaining  his  feet,  he  disen-  gaged  himse  l  f.  I  squeezed  thro  ugh  the  V,  ¥  crowd  toward  him.  &quot;I'm  Captain  Moore,  in  charge  of  ©  your  landing  party,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Righto.  I'm  Major  Want  a  spotof  help?&quot;  Pritchard  seemed  not  to  be  aware  of  it  at  the  time,  but  he  was  the  first  human  being  ever  to  reach  [REDACTED]  from  Europe  by  air.  He  was  just  what  I  needed.  It  took  no  more  than  ten  min-  utes  to  organize  makeshift  rope  parties.  Then  Pritchard,  who  was  standing  in  the  clear,  waved  his  arms,  signalling  a  come-ahead  as  the  ship  made  a  final  turn  over  Mineola.  Major  Scott,  down  to  his  last  few  teacupfuls  of  fuel,  must  have  sighed  with  relief  as  his  binoculars  picked  up  thet  signal.  R-34  began  its  slow  descént,  its  long  dragline,  or  main  landing  rope,  which  had  been  thrown  out,  slanting  and  weaving  from  the  nose,  while  shorter  ropes  whipped  back  along  the  sides.  The  green  rope-handlers  responded  promptly,  and  as  each  group  prepared  to  grasp  its  assigned  rope,  engine  power  was  cut.  But  apparently  Major  Scott  believed  the  gondolas  might  hit  the  ground  too  hard.  He  eased  the  descent  of  the  craft  by  ordering  the  release  of  all  the  remaining  water  ballast.  And  in  a  moment  the  rope  parties  and  the  spec-  tators  who  were  standing  close  by  were  thoroughly  doused.  Then  R-34  came  to  rest,  in  the  inexperienced  hands  of  my  rope  parties,  within  stepping  distance  of  the  ground.  Brigadier  General  E.  M.  Maitland,  the  ranking  British  officer,  was  the  first  person  to  emerge  from  the  main  gondola,  but  the  reporters  present  seemed  more  interested  in  a  bedraggled  Cockney  private,  who  was  hustled  off  the  aircraft  as  transatlantic  aviation's  first  stowaway.  Pritchard.  HE  dirigible  had  a  complement  of  about  ten  officers,  but  until  her  de-  parture,  four  days  later,  I  rarely  set  eyes  on  even  one  of  them.  They  had  arrived   exhausted  after  a  trip  of  a  hundred  and  eight  hours,  during  which  nothing  but  short  naps  in  their  hammocks  had  been  possible.  The  only  hot  items  on  their  menu  forthe  better  part  of  five  days  had  been  steak  pudding,  tea,  cocoa,  and  coffee  warmed  at  the  engine  exhausts,  and,  of  course,  they  had  not  been  able  to  smoke,  because  ofthe  danger  of  ignit-  ing  the  dirigible's  hydrogen.  The  Army  Air  Service  had  arranged  a  chicken  dinner  for  them,  andhad  provided  ac-  commodations  at  Roosevelt  Field's  visiting  officers'  quarters,  but  immedi-  atelyafter  a  brief  welcoming  ceremony  they  were  whisked  off  by  the  Navy  to  the  Garden  City  Hotel  for  an  elaborate  luncheon,  and  later  they  were  installed  in  rooms  at  the  Ritz-Carlton,  in  New  York,  where  they  got  some  needed  sleep.  Most  of  them  then  embarked  upon  a  series  of  parties.  The  British  enlisted  men  likewise  disappeared,  though  a  few  may  have  been  around  to  advise  the  Navy  technicians.  Before  the  officers  left  the  field,  I  suggested  to  several  of  them  that  a  skeleton  crew  of  either  British  or  556e6974656420537461746573ns  be  put  aboard  R-34,  in  case  of  emergency.  The  suggestion  was  ignored,  and  I  began  to  think  the  visitors  had  already  had  enough  of  their  airship.  As  I've  said,  I  rarely  saw  any  of  them  around.  By  noon  that  first  day,  the  Montauk  expeditionary  force  had  returned,  and  I  was  able  to  organize  shifts  for  taking  care  ofthe  airship.  During  the  daytime,  she  would  be  suspended  only  a  few  feet  off  the  ground,  and  my  men  would  hold  ropes  to  keep  her  pointing  into  the  wind.  At  night,  when  the  cool  air  would  con-  tract  the  hydrogen  sufficiently  to  assure  stable  flight,  she  would  ride  unattended  a  couple  of  hundred  feet  in  the  air,  at  the  end  of  her  cable,  to  which  she  would  be  attached  by  a  nose  bridle.  That  eve-  ning,  I  supervised  a  crew  as  it  slowly  paid  out  the  cable,  allowing  R-34  to  float  upward.  Because  the  hydrogen  would  expand  with  the  heat  of  the  morning  sun,  it  was  imperative  to  get  R-34  back  down  before  sunrise.  As  the  craft  rose  into  the  air  that  first  evening,  I  became  somewhat  alarmed,  and  so  did  the  Navy  technicians,  who  had  be-  gun  replenishing  fuel  tanks,  hydrogen  chambers,  and  water-ballast  compart-  ments.  These  technicians,  whose  work  schedule  was  upset  by  a  severe  thunder-  storm  during  the  afternoon,  had  been  able  to  fill  only  the  forward  water-  ballast  compartments,  instead  of  dis-  tributing  the  water  evenly  in  compart-  ments  spaced  along  the  entire  length  ofthe  hull.  This  fact  had  been  over-  looked  in  the  confusion,  and  now,  with    the  craft  badly  off  balance,  her  tail  shot  upward.  As  R-34  reached  the  cable  tip,  her  posture  became  not  unlike  that  of  a  six-hundred-foot  leaning  tower  that  rose  out  of  nothing,  several  hun-  dred  feet  in  the  air.  Nose  down  and  tail  up,the  airship  slept  almost  erect  throughout  the  night.  When  I  dismissed  my  startled  crew  that  evening,  I  tried  to  impress  on  them  the  absolute  necessity  of  reporting  back  before  sunrise.  But  next  morning,  be-  cause  plans  for  an  early  breakfast  went  partly  awry,  only  about  half  the  crew  got  back  on  the  job  at  the  appointed  hour-not  enough  to  haul  the  ship  down.  By  the  time  the  full  crew  was  as-  sembled,  the  heat  had  begun  to  take  effect,  and  the  men,  who  could  grasp  only  the  forward  lines  and  some  sup-  plementary  lines  attached  to  the  cable  itself,  had  to  pull  with  all  their  strength.  R-34  strained  at  her  nose  bridle,  and  as  she  reluctantly  started  to  descend,  you  could  hear  the  ripping  of  fabric  and  the  snapping  of  some  of  the  duralumin  gird-  ers  around  the  bridle.  Finally,  in  spite  of  the  fantastic  posture  of  the  ship,  my  rope  parties  were  able  to  get  hold  of  the  aft  lines,  and  R-34  was  returned  to  earth.  As  I  had  feared,  several  of  the  craft's  nose  frames  were  broken.  Since  there  were  no  spares  to  replace  them,  a  Navy  carpenter  substituted  two-by-four  joist  sections  for  the  broken  frames,  bracing  them  against  undamaged  units,  and  a  sailmaker  sewed  up  the  rips  in  the  fabric  nose  covering.  To  enable  these  special-  ists  to  operate  some  forty  feet  above  the  ground,  the  Navy  borrowed  an  exten-  sion-ladder  truck  from  a  neighboring  village  fire  department.  After  the  re-  pairs  were  completed,  two  of  R-34's  officers-at  least,  I  saw  only  two-  showed  up  at  the  airship.  They  made  a  casual  inspection  of  the  jury  rig,  grunt-  ed  approval,  and  went  away.  OR  me,  the  next  two  days  were  hell.  The  weather,  which  had  been  rela-  tively  cool  and  pleasant,  became  humid  and  sticky.  Ground  winds  shifted  whim-  sically,  sometimes  in  lively  twenty-  five-mile  gusts.  These  vagrant  breezes  tended  to  work  under  R-34's  belly  and  produce  dangerous  upsurges,  which  sometimes  yanked  the  rope  parties  off  their  feet.  To  keep  the  nose  into  the  wind  required  continuous  maneuver.  Well,  that  at  least  broke  the  monotony  of  standing  in  one  position  and  holding  on  to  a  rope,  but  it  was  tedious  work  at  best.  The  crews  had  lost  whatever  inter-  est  they  may  have  started  out  with,  and  there  were  rumbles  of  mutiny.  Only  by  threatening  to  delay  them  in  the  process  of  being  discharged  could  I  keep  thein  in  line.  I  myself  needed  relief.  Among  the  visitors  at  Roosevelt  Field  were  sev-  eral  old  friends-balloon  officers  from  distant  points  who  had  been  ordered  to  the  field  to  find  out  what  an  airship  looked  like-and  I  had  invited  them  to  share  my  assignment.  When  they  learned  of  the  makeshift  arrangements,  however,  all  but  two  had  pleaded  press-  ing  engagements  in  [REDACTED].  The  exceptions  were  a  couple  of  Army  Air  Service  lieutenants  named  Shoptaw  and  McKee.  They  were  with  me  on  the  third  night  of  R-34's  visit,  when  we  raised  the  ship  on  her  cable  through  the  warm,  sticky  air.  An  hour  later,  with  R-34  riding  evenly  at  her  cable  tip,  there  was  a  sudden  chill  in  the  atmos-  phere.  I  looked  at  Shoptaw  and  McKee.  It  was  good  to  know  that  the  heat  wave  was  breaking,  but  our  charge  wasn't  likely  to  take  kindly  to  the  drop  in  tem-  perature.  The  hydrogen  would  contract  at  the  expense  of  her  buoyancy,  which  was  now  at  the  critical  point,  because  she  was  heavy,  with  all  the  fuel  and  water  aboard  for  the  return  trip.  Anx-  iously  we  turned  our  eyes  upward.  What  we  were  afraidof  was  already  happening.  A  slight  slack  in  the  cable  showed  that  R-34  was  descending.  Had  a  single  man  been  aboard,  he  could  have  checked  the  movement  in-  stantly  by  releasing  water  ballast.  The  thing  to  do  in  this  crisis  was  to  get  somebody  aboard  who  could  do  just  that.  Otherwise,  the  airship  would  set-  tle  onto  the  ground,  and  the  gondolas,  making  the  first  contact,  would  be  driven  up  into  the  light  framework  of  the  hull.  There  wasn't  much  time  to  lose,  as  the  ship  was  beginning  to  fall  more  rapidly,  though  on  an  even  keel.  But  what  could  we  do?  I  looked  around   me.  'There,  parked  just  outside  the  maneuver  area,  was  a  firetruck  -the  firetruck  that  the  Navy  had  borrowed  from  a  neighboring  fire  department  and  had  providentially  neglected  to  return.  Some  of  the  Navy  crew  were  still  around.  One  of  them  jumped  into  the  truck  and  drove  it  directly  under  the  forward  gondola,  raising  the  extension  ladder  as  he  went.  The  slack  cable  was  now  a  broad  arc.  The  ship  was  a  hun-  dred  feet  overhead-then  eighty,  sixty,  forty.  Without  my  saying  anything,  Shoptaw,  who  was  small  and  slender,  raced  over  to  the  truck  and  quickly  climbed  the  ladder.  As  the  doorsill  of  the  gondola  came  within  his  reach,  he  swung  aboard,  and  the  truck  roared  out  from  beneath,  just  in  time  to  prevent  |:  the  ladder  from  puncturing  the  descend-  ing  hull.  Shoptaw  then  mounted  the  short  ladder  leading  into  the  hull  from  the  gondola.  All  three  ofus  had  inspect-  ed  the  interior  when  the  ship  was  on  the  ground  and  had  memorized  its  arrange-  ments;  Shoptaw  therefore  knew  just  where  to  find  the  ballast  valves.  We  could  tell  that  he  hadn't  forgotten  when,  a  few  seconds  later,  a  series  of  minor  cloudbursts  occurred.  It  was  a  bath  that  we  welcomed,  but  had  it  come  in  time?  Airships  were  sluggish  creatures  at  best,  and  reacted  }  slowly.  R-34's  rate  of  fall  had  plainly  decreased,  but  she  was  still  descending.  Shoptaw  was  now  back  in  the  doorway  of  the  gondola,  eager  to  debark  and  add  himself  to  the  total  of  lost  ballast.  From  a  distance  of  twice  his  own  height,  he  jumped  to  the  ground.  R-34  wavered  slightly,  but  she  continued  downward.  It  was  McKee  who  saved  the  day.  Run-  ning  over,  he  ducked  under  the  main  gondola,  got  down  on  all  fours,  and  arched  his  back.  R-34  settled  up-  on  it.  McKee  was  lucky  that  the  ship  had  reached  the  end  of  her  momentum;  otherwise  he  would  havebeen  crushed.  As  it  was,  his  body  pillowed  her  contact  just  the  least  bit,  but  enough.  Quivering  from  nose  to  tail,  she  began  rising-in-  finitesimally  at  first,  then  faster.  We  breathed  in  relief  as,  with  a  jerk,  the  cable  finally  arrested  the  ship's  upward  surge.  For  a  moment,  she  teetered.  Then  she  settled  on  an  even  keel,  and  stayed  that  way  during  the  night.  The  next  day,  July  9th,  a  holiday  feeling  pervaded  the  landing  crew;  R-34  was  going  home  that  night,  and  soon  they  would  be  going  home,  too.  I  wasn't  unhappy,  either,  for  I  was  al-  most  exhausted.  Night  came  on,  clear  and  cool,  and  the  maneuver  area  was  lighted  with  what  in  1919  passed  for  floodlights.  About  nine  o'clock,  R-34's personnel  reached  the  field,  some  of  them  moderately  aglow  from  farewell  parties.  They  piled  aboard  unemotion-  ally,  and  around  midnight,  with  engines  running  smoothly,  the  great  ship  lum-  bered  up  into  the  night,  accompanied  by  the  cheers  of  my  relieved  rope-handlers  and  the  honking  of  spectators  auto-  mobile  horns.  R-34  sailed  over  Man-  hattan,  and  then,  favored  by  a  brisk  tail  wind,  set  off  on  the  return  trip  to  Eng-  land,  making  it  in  seventy-five  hours.  Major  Scott  had  shaken  my  hand  be-  fore  he  climbed  aboard,  but  I  felt  that  his  action  was  purely  perfunctory.  Low  in  mind  about  my  part,  as  well  as  that  of  my  men,  in  the  whole  performance,  I  went  back  to  my  room  at  the  visiting  officers'  quarters  and  stumbled  into  bed.  I  awoke  late  the  next  day.  Over  a  noon-  time  breakfast,  I  read  the  New  York  Times  account  of  R-34's  departure  and,  in  doing  so,  came  across  this  quota-  tion  from  Major  Scott:  &quot;'The  arrange-  ments  that  the  Army  and  Navy  made  for  our  reception  could  not  have  been  better.  The  men  who  handled  our  balloon  while  it  was  here  showed  an  intelligence  far  above  any  body  of  military  men  I  have  seen.&quot;  That  break-  fast  was  almost  forty  years  ago,  but  I  have  never  forgotten  how,  when  I  read  that  improbable  statement,  I  al-  most  choked  on  my  coffee.  