 b"IT  was  eight  o'clock  on  a  warm  Sep- tember  evening,  and  all  the  bells  of  Harvard  were  striking  the  hour.  Elgin  Smith,  tired  of  studying,  was  standing  on  the  steps  of  Widener  Li-  brary-those  wide,  Roman,  inconven-  ient  steps-blinking  his  eyes  and  staring  into  the  distance,  because  that  was  sup-  posed  to  refresh  the  corneas  and  the  reti-  na.  He  was  thinking,  but  not  of  his  schoolwork.  He  was  thinking  of  what  it  would  be  like  to  fall  in  love,  to  wor-  ship  a  girl  and  to  put  his  life  at  her  feet.  He  despised  himself,  because  he  feared  he  was  incapable  of  passion  and  he  be-  lieved  that  only  passionate  people  were  worth  while  and  all  other  kinds  were  shallow.  He  was  taking  courses  in  Eng-  lish  Literature,  in  German  Literature,  in  Italian  Literature,  in  History,  ancient  and  medieval,  and  every  one  of  them  was  full  of  incidents  that  he  thought  mocked  him,  since  they  seemed  to  say  that  the  meaning  of  life,  the  peak  of  existence,  the  core  of  events  was  one  certain  emotion,  to  which  he  was  a  stranger,  and  for  which  he  was  very  likely  too  rational.  Therefore,  he  stood  on  the  steps  of  Widener,  so  aracked  by  longing  that  it  seemed  only  gravity  held  him  together.  He  was  very  tall,  six  feet  three,  and  gangling.  He  had  a  small  head,  curi-  ously  shaped  (his  roommate,  Dimitri,  sometimes  accused  him  of  looking  like  a  wedge  of  cheese),  and  a  hooked  nose.  He  wanted  to  be  a  professor  in  the  field  of  comparative  philology,  and  he  be-  lieved  in  Beauty.  He  studied  all  the  time,  and  there  were  moments  when  he  was  appalled  by  how  hard  he  worked.  He  was  known  for  his  crying  in  movies.  He  was  not  unathletic.  Somehow,  he  had  become  convinced  that  he  was  oddand  that  only  odd  girls  liked  him,  pitiable  girls  who  couldn't  do  any  better,  and  this  singed  his  pride.  It  was  his  fate  that  this  particular  night  he  should  see  a  girl  walking  up  the  steps  of  Widener  Library.  She  was  of  medium  height  and  had  black  hair  cut  short;  she  was  wearing  a  light-colored  coat  that  floated  behind  her  because  she  was  walking  so  fast,  nearly  running,  but  not  quite;  and  the  curve  of  her  forehead  and  the  way  her  eyes  were  set  took  El-  gin's  breath  away.  She  was  so  pretty  and  carried  herself  so  well  and  had  a  look  of  such  healthy  and  arrogant  self-satisfac-  tion  that  Elgin  sighed  and  thought  here  was  the  sort  of  not  odd  girl  who  could  bestow  indescribable  benefits  on  any  young  man  she  liked-and  on  his  con-  fidence.  She  was  that  very  kind  of  girl,  that  far  from  unhappy,  that  world- contented  kind,  he  believed  would  nev-  er  fall  for  him.  She  carried  her  books  next  to  her  bosom.  Elgin's  eyes  followed  her  up  the  steps;  and  then  his  head  turned,  his  nostrils  distended  with  emotion;  and  she  was  gone,  vanished  into  Widener.  \xc2\xabSurely  this  year,&quot;  he  thought,  look-  ing  up  at  the  sky.  &quot;Now  that  I'm  almost  nineteen.&quot;  He  stretched  out  his  arms,  and  theleaves  on  the  trees,  already  growing  dry  at  the  approach  of  autumn,  rustled  in  the  breezes.  He  thought  about  that  girl  once  or  twice  in  the  days  that  followed,  but  the  longing  for  her  didn't  really  take  root  until  he  saw  her  again,  two  weeks  later,  at  a  Radcliffe  Jolly-Up  in  Cabot  Hall.  It  was  in  one  of  the  dimly  lit  common  rooms,  where  couples  were  indefatiga-  bly  dancing  in  almost  total  darkness.  Elgin  was  swaying  in  place  (he  was  not  a  good  dancer)  with  a  girl  who  helped  him  on  his  German  when  he  caught  sight  of  his  Widener  Library  vision.  When  the  next  dance  began,  he  wound  through  the  couples  looking  for  her,  to  cut  in  on  her,  but  when  he  drew  near  her,  he  turned  and  walked  over  to  the  wall,  where  he  caught  his  breath  and  realized  he  was  frightened.  This  was  the  stroke  that  fatally  wounded  him.  Knowing  he  was  fright-  ened  of  that  girl,  he  longed  for  her,  the  way  men  who  think  they  are  cowards  long  for  war  so  they  can  prove  they're  not.  Or  perhaps  it  was  some  other  rea-  son.  The  girl  had  a  striking  appearance;  there  was  her  youth  and  her  proud,  clean  look  to  recommend  her.  But  whatever  the  reason,  he  did  be-  gin  to  think  about  her  in  earnest.  She  rose  up  in  clouds  of  brilliant  light  in  his  head  whenever  he  came  across  certain  words  in  his  reading.  (&quot;Mistress  was  one,  &quot;beautiful&quot;  another;  you  can  guess  the  rest.)  He  did  a  paper  on  &quot;The  Un-  possessable  Loved  One  in  Troubadour  Poetry.&quot;  When  he  walked  through  the  Yard  on  his  way  to  classes,  his  eyes  re-  volved  nervously  and  never  rested,  searching  all  the  faces  on  all  the  walks  in  the  hope  of  seeing  her.  In  fact,  on  his  walks  to  classes  he  looked  so  dis-  ordered  that  a  number  of  his  friends  asked  him  if  he  was  feeling  ill,  and  it  pleased  Elgin,  after  the  first  two  times  this  happened,  to  reply  that  he  was.  He  was  ill  with  longing.  At  night,  before  going  to  the  dining  hall  for  supper,  he  would  put  on  his  bathrobe  and  slip  down  to  the  pool  in  the  basement  of  Adams  House.  There,  un-  der  the  wooden  beams,  he  would  swim  angrily  from  one  end  of  the  pool  to  the  other,  faster  and  faster,  until  his  arms  ached.  Then  he  would  take  a  cold  shower.  When  he  slept,  he  dreamed  of  car-  nage,  horses,  and  speeding  automobiles.  He  went  to  French  movies  and  ground  his  knees  against  the  seat  in  front  of  him.  He  laughed  at  himself,  and  decided  to  break  this  absurd  habit  he  had  got  in-  to  of  thinking  all  the  time  about  this  girl  he  had  never  met,  but  he  didn't  quite  succeed.  At  last,  he  admitted  to  himself  that  he  was  in  love  with  her;  and  one  night,  sleeping  in  his  lower  bunk  while  Dimitri  breathed  heavily  over  his  head,  he  had  tears  in  his  eyes  because  he  was  so  foolish  and  did  desire  that  girl  whom  he  had  seen  the  two  times  mentioned  and  only  twice  more  besides.  AVING  resigned  himself-in  imi-tation  of  Dante-  to  a  state  of  per-petual  longing,  he  felt  calmer  and  looked  at  the  world  with  sad,  scholarly  eyes.  But  his  equilibrium  was  delicate,  and  in  December  Dimitri  began  having  an  affair  with  a  Radcliffe  girl  named  Felicia.  Upperclassmen  could  have  girls  in  their  room  in  the  afternoon  if  they  signed  them  in  with  the  campus  police  -  man  who  sat  in  a  little  room  near  the  main  entrance  of  their  house,  and  signed  them  out  when  they  left.  There  was  always  the  chance  the  policeman  would  come  to  the  room  and  check  up,  but  even  so  on  gray  December  afternoons  Dimitri,  all  bundled  up,  would  come  searching  through  Widener  for  Elgin  and  ask  him  not  to  come  home  until  after  six  o'clock  because  Dimitri  was  taking  Felicia  to  the  room.  Then  Elgin  would  sit  in  front  of  his  books,  numbed,  unable  to  read,  with  fine  beads  of  sweat  standing  out  on  his  upper  lip  and  fore-  head.  Once  he  came  back  to  the  room  and  found  Dimitri  lying  in  front  of  a  fire  in  the  fire  place;  the  fire  was  being  fed  by  Dimitri's  lecture  notes.  &quot;Oh  God,  it's  you.  How  I  hate  your  ugly  face!&quot;  Dimitri  said,  but  Elgin  knew  what  he  meant;  at  that  moment,  being  El-  gin  and  not  Felicia  was  a  blasphemy.  He  tiptoed  through  the  room  to  hang  up  " b"his  coat  and  tiptoed  out  again.  In  January,immediately  after  exams,  Elgin  came  down  with  flu.  He  was  exhausted.  When  he  was  well  again,  it  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  been  washed  clean  and  purified.  He  hardly  thought  about  that  girl  at  all.  But  one  sunny,  cold  morn-  ing  in  February  Elgin  saw  her  standing  in  front  of  Sever  Hall.  She  was  wearing  long  blue  woollen  socks,  and  she  was  talking  to  a  pock-marked  boy  in  a  raccoon  overcoat.  Elgin  suddenly  turned  and  went  into  Sever  and  waited  in  the  hall  until  the  bell  rang.  'The  girl  came  in,  and  Elgin  followed  her  upstairs  and  into  a  classroom;  he  sat  three  rows  in  back  of  her.  It  was  a  course  given  by  Profes-  sor  Bush  on  Metaphysical  Poets  of  the  Seventeenth  Century.  And  that  after-  noon  Elgin  went  and  got  permission  to  transfer  from  The  Victorian  Novel  to  that  class.  HE  girl's  name  was  Caroline  Hedges  and  she  came  from  Balti-  more.  She  was  a  horsewoman  of  con-  siderable  ability.  She  spent  a  good  deal  of  her  time  on  clothes,  not  ever  being  quite  sure  where  true  elegance  lay,  She  was  inclined  to  buy  pale  colors,  blouses  one  size  too  large  for  her,  and  tweeds.  She  was  easily  embarrassed.  She  read  a  good  deal,  her  favorite  books  being  &quot;''The  Charterhouse  of  Parma,&quot;  &quot;Anna  Karenina,&quot;  and  &quot;Madame  Bovary.&quot;  She  was  very  proud  and  easily  moved  by  appeals  to  her  courage.  She  con-  sidered  she'd  had  a  happy  childhood,  and  she  liked  her  family  (although  she  could  not  help  looking  down  on  them  a  little  because  their  name  was  not  famous  in  the  history  of  [REDACTED]).  When  she  was  ten,  she  had  briefly  loved  a  cousin  of  hers,  who  was  twelve,  and  who  had  taken  her  to  the  National  Museum  of  Art  in  [REDACTED]  and  told  her  the  names  of  the  great  painters.  At  Radcliffe,  her  freshman  year,  she  discovered  that  she  had  been  sheltered,  compared  to  most  of  the  other  girls,  and  she  felt  young  and  slightly  ashamed  of  herself.  This  gave  her  a  look  of  great  purity,  and  she  was  something  of  a  belle.  But  late  in  the  spring  of  her  freshman  year  she  stayed  up  all  one  night,  ob-  sessed  and  genuinely  moved  by  the  fact  thatshe  was  intelligent  and  hadn't  really  known  it  before.  She  had  just  found  it  out  by  noticing  that  section  men  and  assistant  professors  and  sometimes  full  professors  liked  to  hear  her  talk  in  class.  From  that  night  on,she  limited  her     dating  and  threw  herself  into  studying.  &quot;It  is  poetry  that  I  love,&quot;  she  wrote  in  her  diary.  &quot;It  is  hard  for  me  to  ex-  plain  why.  Once  when  I  was  staying  with  Aunt  Kitty  in  New  York  I  went  for  a  walk  in  43616e616461Park  when  it  was  snowing.  In  the  zoo  I  saw  the  Bactrian  camel  standing  in  the  middle  of  its  pen.  It  was  holding  its  head  straight  up  in  the  air  with  its  mouth  open  and  its  tongue  out  and  the  snowflakes  were  falling  on  it.  Perhaps  he  never  saw  snow  before.  I'm  not  exactly  sure  where  Bactria  is  or  what  its  climate  is  like-  perhaps  it  was  remembering  snow.  'That  is  how  I  feel  about  poetry.&quot;  Another  entry  read,  &quot;My  mother  writes  and  asks  me  if  I  still  see  Louis  Du  Pont  whom  she  thought  such  a  charming  boy.  How  can  Mother  think  anyone  so  plump  is  charming?&quot;  Early  in  April  of  her  junior  year,  she  wrote,  &quot;''Today  in  Metaphysical  Poetry,  we  discussed  the  tradition  of  Platonic  Love  in  Jacobean  England.  A  boy  named  Elgin  Smith  spoke  brilliantly,  I  thought.  He  describedthe  winters  the  young  people  spent  in  those  vast  country  houses,  twenty  or  so  young  people  visit-  ing  in  one  house,  with  two  or  three  chaperons,  and  snow  everywhere.  They  sang  and  gave  masques  and  such  things.  Because  young  people  are  so  hot-blooded,  it  was  necessary  to  devise  a  code  of  courtship  to  restrain  them,  for  marriages  of  alliance  had  to  be  made  later,  Needless  to  say,  it  didn't  work,  Platonic  Love,  I  mean,  and  it  was  much  more  often  written  about  than  observed.  I  do  so  admire  brilliance  and  wish  that  I  had  some.  This  young  man  had  the  oddest  voice;  itis  positively  nasal  and  twangs  and  twangs.  I  wanted  to  put  my  hand  over  his  mouth  and  tell  him  'Sh-h-h.'  He  is  terribly  intense  and  nervous.  He  has  borrowed  a  pencil  from  me  several  times,  and  he  asked  me  to  have  coffee  with  him  once.  I  said  I  couldn't,  but  next  time  he  asks,  I  will  accept.  I  long  for  some  really  intelligent  friends.&quot;  WHEN  you  consider  the  combusti-  bility  of  the  emotions  of  these  two  young  people,  it  is  hardly  surprising  that  within  two  weeks  of  their  first  long  con-  versation  together  they  were  trembling  when  they  talked,  and  found  themselves  oppressed  whenever  silences  fell.  'The  impulse  to  discuss  this  state  of  affairs  with  each  other  kept  recurring,  butthey  fought  it,  until  one  afternoon  when  they  were  sitting  in  the  [REDACTED]  Common  and  having  a  cigarette  together  before  separating  for  dinner.  All  through  the  Common,  young  mothers  were  sitting,  bored,  by  baby  carriages,  and  beneath  the  trees,  newly  come  to  leaf,  children  were  climbing  on  the  old  cannon.  Abraham  Lincoln  was  brooding  under  his  canopy,  and  trolleys  clanged  on  [REDACTED]  Avenue.  &quot;Elgin,&quot;  Caroline  said,  &quot;we've  talked  about  a  hundred  things,  a  thou-  sand  things,I  bet.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cYes.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;But  we've  never  talked  about  what  we  think  of  each  other.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said,  twisting  his  fingers  together.  &quot;I  guess  we  never  have.&quot;  &quot;I-  I  don't  approve  of  it,  actually,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;Analyzing  things  and  all.  Some  things  are  better  left  unsaid.&quot;  &quot;I  agree,&quot;  Elgin  said.  The  words  seemed  to  explode  on  his  lips,  leaving  a  faintly  surprised  look  on  his  face.  &quot;Do  you?&quot;  Caroline  said.  For  her  part,  she  was  having  difficulty  hanging  on  to  her  poise.  'There  isn't  much  people  can  say  that  hasn't  been  said  before,&quot;  Elgin  said  with  finality.  Then  he  added,  &quot;It's  my  reading.  I've  read  so  much  I  guess  I'm  a  little  jaded.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  said  Caroline.  &quot;Well,  it's  a  fascinating  subject.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Elgin,  &quot;it  is.&quot;  They  sat  in  silence  for  several  sec-  " b"onds,  both  of  them  on  the  verge  of  speaking,  but  Elgin  was  frightened  and  Caroline  was  disconcerted,  as  if  her  ideas  of  what  could  happen  had  been  trampled  on  and  left  for  dead.  &quot;Let's  get  started  back,&quot;  Elgin  said,  and  Caroline  agreed.  She  rose  and  the  two  of  them  walked  on  toward  Rad-  cliffe,  past  the  Hotel  Continental.  At  the  corner,  Caroline  said,  &quot;You  com-  ing  by  this  evening?&quot;  Elgin  nodded.  Caroline  reached  out  and  shook  El-  gin's  hand,  which  was  a  strange  thing  for  her  to  do.  &quot;Caroline!&quot;  Elgin  said  sharply. &quot;YES&quot;  &quot;Let's  go  have  dinner  together.&quot;  &quot;Where?  I  thought  you  were  broke,&quot;  &quot;'The  Chinese  restaurant.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  if  I  have  enough  mon-  ey.&quot;  She  opened  her  purse  and  looked;  she  and  Elgin  went  Dutch  most  places.  &quot;I've  got  two  dollars  and  some  change.&quot;  They  linked  arms  and  walked  back  to  the  Common.  &quot;I  think  Vaughan  is  a  little  bit  of  a  bore,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;Really,  the  lan-  guage  has  deteriorated  so  much  since  Donne.&quot;  They  sat  down  on  the  same  bench  where  they  had  sat  before.  Elgin  said,  &quot;I  assume  since  our  con-  versation  fifteen  minutes  ago  it  would  be  terrible  if  I  talked  about  the  way  I  feel  about  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  said  Caroline.  &quot;Go  right  ahead.&quot;  &quot;Well,  they're  very  strong.&quot;  &quot;I'd  more  or  less  guessed  that,&quot;  Caroline  said,  unable  to  make  her  voice  sound  normal.  &quot;But  I  never  mentioned  it  before,&quot;  Elgin  said,  &quot;because  I  didn't  want  any-  thing  to  come  up  that  might  make  you  want  to  stop  seeing  me.&quot;  &quot;I  understand,&quot;  Caroline  &quot;''That  was  very  subtle  of  you.&quot;  said.  BS  can  it  hurt?  Yes,  let's  not  be  priggish.&quot;  To  her  astonishment  and  delight,  Elgin  caughther  hand  and  pressed  it  to  his  lips.  HEY  hadn't  kissed  then,  nor  did  they  kiss  each  other  for  several  days  afterward.  It  was  a  tacit  confession  that  they  suspect,  ed  the  presence  of  passion,  and  in  such  cases,  if  one  is   &quot;Please  shut  up,&quot;  Elgin  said.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  get  some  words  out  and  it's  very  hard.  I  want  you  to  know  I'm  not  just  chasing  you  or  anything  like  that.&quot;  &quot;Oh?&quot;  &quot;I  saw  you  last  fall.  You  were  going  into  Widener.  It  was-you  know  -at  first  sight.&quot;  &quot;Elgin!&quot;  &quot;It  was.  I  only  took  Metaphysical  Poetry  because  you  were  taking  it.  Caroline,  I  have  deep  feelings  about  you.&quot;  Caroline  felt  an  intense  sense  of  re-  lief.  &quot;Well,  I  always  thought  so,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  I  wasn't  sure.&quot;  Then  she  realized  Elgin  was  trembling.  &quot;Elgin,  what's  wrong?&quot;  A  child  ran  by  with  a  red  disin-  tegrator  pistol.  &quot;You're  not  angry?&quot;  Elgin  asked.  &quot;Of  course  not!&quot;  she  said  ringingly.  &quot;You're  not  going  to  tell  me  that  the  most  I  can  expect  is  your  friendship?  And  if  I  expect  more  we  oughtn't  to  see  each  other  any  more?&quot;  There  was  silence.  &quot;I  hadn't  thought  this  far,&quot;  Caroline  said.  She  thought  it  was  much  more  decent  if  shedidn't  have  to  mention  her  feelings;  she  felt  trapped.  &quot;Well,  Elgin,  I'lltell  you,  I  certainly  don't  want  to  stop  seeing  you.&quot;  She  moved  her  legs  until  they  were  spread  ungracefully.  &quot;But,  really,  I  think  ...  we  ought  to  be  careful  and  not  get,  oh,  I  don't  know,  sloppy,  if  you  know  what  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  mind  that,&quot;  Elgin  said.  He  swallowed.  &quot;But  is  it  all  right-  Is  it  all  right,  Caroline,  if  I  show  how  I  feel  a  little  more?&quot;  His  voice  rose  and  quiv-  ered  with  longing.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  you  mean.&quot;  &quot;You  do.&quot;  &quot;Honestly,  Elgin,  I-&quot;  &quot;You  do!&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.  ...  Yes.  Do  show  it.  Let's  be  honest.  For  God's  sake,  who  at  all  practical,  one  stands  back,  one  dawdles,  one  doesn't  rush  in  to  confront  the  beast  in  its  lair.  Or  to  put  it  another  way,  one  doesn't  go  tamper-  ing  with  the  floodgates  What  they  did,  after  this  conversation,  was  sudden-  ly  to  become  lighthearted.  They  made  jokes;  Caroline  stole  Elgin's  notebook  from  his  hands  and  made  him  chase  her;  they  discussed  Metaphysical  Poetry.  And  when  this  lightness  and  gaiety  had  eased  their  suspicion  and  their  fright  was  in  abeyance,  Caroline  decided  she  wanted  Elgin  to  kiss  her.  She  was  walking  up  Garden  Street  in  late  afternoon,  and  the  sunlight  was  clear  and  golden.  There  was  a  light  wind  that  ruffled  her  hair,  and  she  was  striding  along,  passing  any  number  of  couples,  Harvard  boys  and  Radcliffe  girls,  some  with  their  arms  around  each  other's  waist,  some  holding  hands,  some  just  walking  side  by  side.  Caroline  decided  then,  in  a  single  flash;  and  the  next  minute  her  cheeks  began  to  glow  and  she  pushed  happily  at  her  hair,  which  kept  blowing  across  her  eyes.  At  seven  o'clock  that  evening,  Elgin  arrived  at  Cabot  Hall  to  pick  her  up.  He  was  wearing  his  shabby  tweed  jacket  and  khakipants  and  striped  tie.  Caro-  line  came  downstairs  wearing  her  pret-  tiest  sweater,  a  pink  cashmere.  Her  hair  was  carefully  brushed  and  she  wore  lipstick,  so  Elgin  knew  something  was  up.  &quot;I'd  sort  of  like  to  go  to  a  movie  tonight,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I've  got  enough  money  for  both  of  us  if  you're  flat.&quot;  Elgin  told  her  he  had  a  little  cash.  They  settled  on  the  U.T.-the  Uni-  versity  Theatre  in  Harvard  Square.  &quot;I'm  in  the  mood  for  gangsters,&quot;  Caroline  said  as  they  emerged  from  Cabot  into  thespring  evening.  The  sky  between  the  trees  was  pur-  ple,  a  deep,  stirring  plum  color.  Caro-  line  puther  arm  through  Elgin's,  and  they  strode  briskly  through  the  Quad  toward  Garden  Street,  and  then  through  the  Common-one  ofa  num-  ber  of  couples,  in  a  long,  irregular  pro-  " b"cession  stretching  from  the  Radcliffe  dormitories  to  Harvard  Square.  &quot;I  finished  my  paperon  Donne,&quot;  El-  gin  said.  Caroline  laughed  inconsequently,  and  Elgin  laughed,  too,  for  nogood  reason.  They  passed  through  the  middle  of  the  Common,  by  Lincoln's  statue,  where  a  lamp  cast  a  ghostly  white  glare  on  leaves  and  benches  and  the  surface  of  the  walk.  Caroline's  charming  face  swam  into  the  light,  shadows  fell  across  it,  and  Elgin  closed  his  eyes.  Caroline  pressed  his  hand.  They  hur-  ried.  All  during  the  movie,  they  sat  hold-  ing  both  of  each  other's  hands,  and  their  shoulders  touching.  Entwined  and  tangled  like  that,  they  giggled  together  whenever  the  movie  became  particular-  ly  violent.  They  couldn't  stop  giggling  after  a  while,  as  the  death  toll  in  the  movie  mounted.  When  the  movie  end-  ed,  they  left  and  Elgin  bought  Caroline  a  chocolate  ice-cream  cone  at  St.  Clair's  and  they  walked  down  to  the  Charles  River.  The  Charles  looked  placid,  and  glim-  mered  as  it  quietly  flowed  under  the  bridge;the  lights  of  Eliot  House  were     reflected  in  its  surface.  Caroline  put  her  head  on  Elgin's  shoulder.  They  breathed  in  unison,  the  two  of  them,  standing  on  the  bank  of  the  river,  and  then  Elgin  said,  &quot;It's  clumsy  to  ask,  but  Caroline,  do  you  really  .  ..  or  ...  would  I  .  ..&quot;  He  missed  her  lips,  kissing  her  cheek  instead,  and  he  was  holding  her  so  tightly  that  she  couldn't  move  and  correct  his  mistake.  But  a  minute  later  he  corrected  his  error  himself.  They  both  had  difficulty  breathing.  &quot;I  love,  I  love  you,  I  love  you,&quot;  he  whis-  pered.  It  sounded  beautiful  in  the  moon-  light,  the  river  ran  quietly  beneath  the  bridge,  and  Caroline  was  glad  she  had  let  him  kiss  her.  FTER  that  they  took  to  kissing  each  other  a  good  deal.  They  met  every  afternoon  at  Widener.  When  one  of  them  broke  off  work,  the  other  would  break  off,  too,  and  they  would  both  go  downstairs.  Along  either  side  of  the  steps  rose  large  stone  arms,  which  looked  as  if  they  should  be  surmounted  by  statues,  but  they  were  bare,  and  in  spring,  in  the  afternoons,  on  both  of  them  there  would  usually  be  people  sit-  ting,  sometimes  alone,  sometimes  in  pairs.  Here  Elgin  and  Caroline  would  sit  and  look  out  over  the  Yard  toward  the  Chapel.  At  four-thirty,  they  would  go  to  Massachu-  setts  Avenue  and  have  a  cup  of  coffee  in  one  of  the  luncheonettes.  Usually  they  separated  then,  Caroline  to  go  to  Cabot  Hall,  Elem  to  Adams  House,  for  sup-  per,  but  some  evenings,  when  they  had  the  money,  they  had  dinner  together  at  a  Chinese  restaurant  near  the  Square,  where  the  food  was  very  cheap.  (Elgin  didn't  like  taking  her  to  Adams  House  on  the  nights  when  girls  were  allowed  in  the  dining  hall,  becauseit  reminded  him  that  he  was  young  and  ineffectual  and  un-  der  the  control  of  an  institution.  )  In  the  eve-  nings,  they  studied,  ei-  ther  in  the  library  or  in  one  of  the  common  rooms  at  Cabot,  and  at  nine  o'clock  when  the  library  closed,  they  would  walk  down  to  the  riverbank.  Elgin  had  an  old  rain-  coat  that  hewore,  and  they  used  that  to  spread  on  the  grass,  to  sit  on.  They  satside  by  side  and  shared  long,  rath-  er  tender  kisses.  At  first  on  these  ex-  peditions  they  talked  about  poetry,  but  after  a  while  conversation  began  to  seem  disagreeable,  and  they  sat  in  si-  lence.  Then  they  began  to  leave  off  study-  ing  at  Widener  earlier  in  the  afternoon,  at  three-thirty,  or  even  three.  Caroline  liked  going  with  Elgin  to  the  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  and  they  would  look  at  the  pictures  and,  when  their  feet  were  tired,  go  and  sit  in  the  Fens,  the  park  just  behind  the  Museum,  which  has  a  rose  garden  at  one  end  of  it.  Caroline  wanted  Elgin  tolose  his  Mid-  dle  Western  pronunciation,  and  the  ex-  cuse  they  used  for  these  jaunts  was  that  this  was  time  spent  in  teaching  Elgin  how  to  speak.  He  would  bring  abook,  Bacon's  &quot;Essays,&quot;  or  Montaigne's,  or  Jeremy  Taylor's  &quot;Sermons,&quot;  or  John-  son's  &quot;Rasselas&quot;-good,  sturdy  books,  with  sentences  so  rich  that  sometimes  Elgin's  voice  grew  fuzzywith  the  pleas,  ure  he  felt  reading  them.  &quot;Always,  all-ways,  not  oll-wez,&quot;  Caroline  would  say.  " b"&quot;Wait,  Caroline,  just  wait  a  bit,  lis-  ten  to  this,&quot;  and  he  would  read  another  rolling,  rhetorical  period.  &quot;Isn't  that  gorgeous?&quot;  &quot;Not  gorgeous,&quot;  Caroline  would  say.  &quot;'That's  not  the  right  word  somehow.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  itis  inthis  case,&quot;  Elgin  would  say.  &quot;It's  absolutely  exact.&quot;  And  Caroline,  struggling  not  to  be  moved,  would  say,  &quot;I  suppose.  I  sup-  pose,  just  barely.&quot;  Then  Elgin  started  reading  Colette  and  Boccaccio.  Now,  when  silence  fell,  something  seemed  to  be  lying  beside  them  on  the  grass,  breathing  softly.  Glances,  trees,  the  movements  of  peo-  ple  in  the  park  suddenly  split  off  from  the  commonsensical,  taken-for-granted  world  and  became  strange.  Caroline  frowned  more  and  more  often,  turned  into  something  very  like  a  nag.  She  made  Elgin  buy  new  ties  and  have  his  shoes  reheeled.  Often,  in  the  after-     noons,  she  would  take  him  to  St.  Clair's  and  make  him  drink  freshly  squeezed  orange  juice.  When  it  was  raining,  she  still  insisted  they  go  for  walks  because  it  was  good  for  Elgin.  She  took  to  proof-  reading  all  his  papers  and  typing  them  over  for  him  because  he  was  a  poor  and  careless  typist.  One  day,  Elgin  read  to  her  the  story  in  Boccaccio  of  the  young  girl  who  used  to  tell  her  mother  that  she  wanted  to  sleep  in  the  garden  in  order  to  hear  the  nightingale  sing,  but  the  girl  met  her  lover  in  the  garden-he  was  the  nightingale.  Elgin  read  this  story  to  Caroline  in  an  intense  and  quavering  " b"voice.  For  a  week  afterward,  Caroline  walked  back  and  forth  to  classes  hear-  ing  in  her  head  the  phrase  &quot;listening  to  the  nightingale.&quot;  Finally,  the  phrase  came  to  stand  for  so  much,  it  aroused  such  deep  tumult  in  her  and  made  her  feel  so  lonely  and  deprived,  that  one  night  Elgin  came  back  to  his  room,  woke  Dimitri  from  a  sound  sleep,  and  asked  him  to  stay  away  from  the  room  the  next  afternoon.  It  turned  out  that  Elgin  and  Caroline  were  both  virgins.  Their  first  dip  into  sensual  waters  left  them  nonplussed.  They  didn't  know  what  to  make  of  it.  They  tried  to  persuade  themselves  that  something  had  really  happened,  but  the  minute  it  was  over,  they  couldn't  believe  they  had  ever  done  such  a  thing.  'They  rushed  into  further  experiences;  they  broke  off  in  the  middle  of  embraces  and  looked  at  each  other,  stunned  and  delighted.  &quot;Is  this  really  happening?&quot;  they  both  asked  at  different  times,  and  eachtime  the  other  said,  &quot;No,&quot;  and  they  would  laugh.  They  knew  that  nothing  they  did  was  real,  was  actual.  They  had  re-  ceived  a  blow  on  the  head  and  were  prey  to  erotic  imaginings,  that  was  all.  But  at  the  same  time  they  half  realized  it  was  true,  they  were  doing  these  things,  and  then  the  fact  that  they,  Caroline  and  El-  gin,  shared  suchintimacy  dazed  and  fascinated  them;  and  when  they  were  together,  they  tried  to  conceal  it,  but  this  indescribable  attraction  they  felt  for  each  other  kept  making  itself  known  and  draining  all  the  strength  from  their  bodies.  'They  tried  to  make  jokes  about  themselves  and  this  odd  little  passion  they  felt.  &quot;We're  unskilled  labor,&quot;  El-  gin  said.  &quot;You  know,  I'm  just  giving  in  because  you're  irresistible,&quot;  Caroline  said.  She  always  pretended  that  she  was  completely  dispassionate  about  sex.  It  just  happened  that  she  was  susceptible  to-  Elgin's  entreaties.  But  he  was  too  shy  to  entreat  unless  she  encouraged  him,  and  Caroline  often  felt  like  the  worst  kind  of  hypocrite.  The  truth  ofthe  mat-  ter  is,  they  were  caught  up  in  a  fever  of  their  senses,  Caroline  would  have  her  lunch  in  Cabot  Hall,  locked  in  an  impenetrable  haze  of  daydreaming,  not  even  hearing  the  girls  chattering  aroundgh\xc3\xa9r.  She  would  walk  to  Widener,  and  if  boys  she  knew  stopped  her  to  talk,  she  would  stare  at  them  stonily,  afraid  the  boy  might  guess  her  feelings  for  Elgin  and  think  they  applied  to  him.  She  would  run  up  the  stairs  of  Widener,  past  the  Sargent  murals,  petrified  that  Elgin  might  not  be  waiting  for  her.  Every  day  this  fear  grew  worse;  but  every  day  he  was  there,  sitting  at  one  of  the  long  wooden  tables  in  the  reading  room,  be-  neath  the  great  coffered  ceiling,  and  the " b"look  on  his  face  when  he  caught  sight  of  her  would  make  Caroline  smile  gid-  dily,  because  she  had  never  known  be-  fore  what  a  miraculous  power  she  had  over  men.  They  managed  a  wry  stiffness  when  they  were  in  public.  They  spoke  to  each  other  in  tones  of  the  crudest  good-  fellowship.  Elgin  called  her  &quot;Girl.&quot;  &quot;Girl,  you  finished  with  that  book?&quot;  Caroline  called  Elgin  &quot;Cheese.&quot;  &quot;No,  Cheese.  Don't  rush  me.&quot;  They  didn't  hold  hands  or  touch.  They  thought  they  fooled  everyone,  but  everyone  who  knew  them  guessed,  and  they  both  told  their  roommates.  In  fact,  they  wanted  to  talk  about  what  was  hap-  pening  to  them  to  everyone;  this  news  was  always  on  the  tip  of  their  tongues;  and  so  they  got  into  the  habit  of  sud-  denly  breaking  off  conversations  with  their  friends  when  the  impulse  to  con-  fess  grew  too  strong  to  be  contained  a  moment  longer,  and  all  their  friends  thought  they  were  becoming  very  queer  and  difficult  indeed.  Each  afternoon  that  they  met  in  Widener  started  on  this  high  level  of  confusion  and  rapidly  ran  downhill.  The  minute  hand  of  the  clock  over  the  door  of  the  reading  room  jerked  every  sixty  seconds,  marking  off  a  whole  min-  ute  in  one  movement,  and  at  two-thirty  they  were  no  longer  capable  of  speech.  Elgin  would  be  pale  or  flushed.  He  would  draw  breath  irregularly  through  a  mouth  he  couldn't  quite  close,  or  through  distended  nostrils,  and  this  phenomenon  would  fascinate  Caroline,  except  that  she  couldn't  look  at  him  for  too  longwithout  feeling  the  most  awful  pain  in  her  head.  Finally,  Elgin  would  gasp,  &quot;Well?&quot;  '  &quot;I'm  finished,&quot;  Caroline  would  say  in  the  weakest  voice  imaginable.  They  would  walk  in  silence  to  Adams  House,  and  Elgin  would  sign  Caroline  inat  the  policeman's  room.  In  silence  they  would  mount  the  stairs,  and  Elgin  would  unlock  the  door  of  his  room,  and  then  they  would  fall  into  each  other's  arms,  sometimes  giggling  with  relief,  some-  times  sombre,  sometimes  almost  cry-  ing  with  the  joy  of  this  privacy  and  this  embrace.  Then,  later,  both  of  them  dressed  and  their  faces  scrubbed,  Caroline,  like  an  addict,  would  descend  on  Elgin's  bureau  and  haul  out  his  torn  and  buttonless  shirts.  She  didn't  know  how  to  sew,  but  she  thought  she  did,  and  she  sat  on  Elgin's  couch,  smiling  to  herself,  softly  humming,  and  sewed  buttons  on  wrong.  Elgin  tried  to  study,  but  his  moods  whirled  and  spun  him  around  so    that  one  minute  he'd  bereading  quietly  and  the  next  minute  he'd  be  striding  up  and  down  the  room  on  the  worn  carpet,  wringing  his  hands  or  else  waving  them  aloft  and  denouncing  the  College  and  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Educational  System,  full  of  rage,  but  not  knowing  with  what  or  why,  and  forced  to  let  it  out  any  way  he  could,  while  Caroline,  faintly  bored,  ignored  him  mostly  and  sewed.  Every  once  in  a  while,  Caroline  would  cry.  Then  she  would  be  unable  to  dress  properly,  and  she'd  drag  around  the  room  with  her  hair  badly  combed,  her  shoes  off,  looking  slatternly,  and  say,  &quot;I  don't  know  what's  wrong  with  me.  Actually,  nothing's  wrong  with  me.&quot;  But  every  few  minutes  tears  would  course  down  her  cheeks.  Nor  did  she  know  why  she  cried;  she  was  as  in-  nocent  of  understanding  herself  as  she  was  of  understanding  Elgin.  Sometimes  they  quarrelled.  Once,  it  was  because  Caroline  wouldn't  use  El-  gin's  towel.  &quot;If  you  loved  me,  you'd  use  it.&quot;  &quot;I'd  adore  to  use  your  towel,&quot;  Caro-  line  said,  &quot;but  this  towel  is  dirty.&quot;  Elgin  thought  her  preposterous;  she  called  Elgin  a  boor  and  slammed  out  of  the  room.  She  reached  the  bottom  of  the  stairs  and  started  back  up  and  heard  Elgin  coming  down.  Neither  of  them  said  a  word;  they  didn't  apologize  or  mention  this  episode  again.  They  went  for  a  walk  along  the  riverbank  and  talked  about  Metaphysical  Poetry.  On  Saturdays,  Elgin  took  Caroline  to  the  Harvard  courts  to  play  tennis.  Caroline  had  fine  ankles  and  legs,  and  while  they  walked  to  the  courts,  Elgin  kept  stealing  glances  at  them,  which  made  Caroline  nervous.  She  was  a  good  tennis  player,  as  good  as  Elgin,  but  he  could  throw  her  off  her  game  by  charg-  ing  the  net  and  yelling  at  her,  &quot;I've  got  you  now!&quot;  This  would  rattle  her  so  she'd  completely  miss  the  ball,  and  then  she  would  laugh  with  exasperation.  When  he  served,  he  made  a  point  of  calling  the  score  in  aloud,  cheerful,  teasing  voice:  &quot;Thirty-love!&quot;  He'd  say  the  &quot;love&quot;  in  sucha  way  that  Caroline  would  blush,  and  then  she  would  try  to  drive  the  ball  directly  at  him,  and  most  of  the  time  it  went  out  of  bounds.  One  afternoon,  they  were  in  each  other's  arms  in  Elgin's  room.  Elgin  was  whispering,  &quot;I  love  you,  Caroline.  I  love  you  so  much,&quot;  and  someone  knocked  on  the  door.  The  sound  seemed  to  blind  Elgin,  who  squeezed  his  eyes  closed,  as  tightly  as  he  could.  The  knock  was  repeated  a  second  time,  and  a  third,  echoing  in  the  small  room.  Then  the  footsteps  retreated.  Elgin  got  up  and  fetched  cigarettes  and  towels  for  them  both.  They  leaned  back  on  the  couch,  at  opposite  ends,  wrapped  in  towels,  and  smoked.  They  didn't  mention  the  fact  that  they  were  afraid  it  had  been  the  campus  police-  man  and  they  would  be  expelled.  They  discussed  whether  or  not  they  were  de-  praved.  &quot;We  are,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;Other-  wise,  we  wouldn't  be  so  ashamed.&quot;  &quot;We  don't  have  to  be  ashamed,&quot;  Elgin  said.  &quot;We  only  pretend  we  are  anyway,  to  be  polite.&quot;  &quot;'You're  a  rebel,&quot;  Caroline  said  gloomily.  &quot;You  can  say  that.  But  I'm  a  conformist.  I'm  basically  a  nice  girl.  I  ar:  ashamed.&quot;  The  pressure  of  details,  the  maze  of  buttons,  hooks,  and  zippers  that  they  had  to  make  their  way  through  to  that  condition  which  pleased  them  best,  kept  forcing  them  to  be  self-conscious.  They  couldn't  be-  lieve  that  what  they  were  doing  was  real,  and  yet  it  was  real,  as  they  well  knew  the  minute  they  sepa-  rated,  when  the  memory  of  their  last  encounter  would  descend  on  both  of  them,  occupying  their  minds,  and  unfitting  them  for  any  occupa-  tion  except  dreaming  of  the  next  encounter.  At  night,  lying  in  his  bunk,  Elgin  would  try  to  sleep,  but  he'd  think  of  Caroline,  and  slow-  ly,  like  a  leaf  curling  in  a  salt  solu-  tion,  he  would  twist  under  his  covers  until  his  knees  were  even  with  his  chest,  and  this  was  a  tortured,  invol-  untary  movement  of  longing  he  could  no  more  control  than  he  could  control  his  thoughts.  He  would  " b"try  to  do  his  reading  for  his  courses:  &quot;In  the  early  years  of  this  century,  I  moved  to  [REDACTED],  feeling  thatIre-  land  and  my  love  for  Ireland  were  too  distracting  for  my  poetry.&quot;  And  then  right  on  the  printed  page  would  appear  &quot;CAROLINE,&quot;  in  capital  letters,  and  Elgin  would  rub  his  face  foolishly  with  both  hands,  twisting  his  mouth  and  his  cheeks  and  his  nose.  He  didn't  believe  that  Caroline  loved  him  as  much  as  he  loved  her,  or  at  least  that  she  desired  him  as  much  as  he  did  her,  and  this  made  him  sullen.  He  picked  on  her.  He  told  her  she  wasn't  as  smart  as  she  thought  she  was;  people  treated  her  as  if  she  were  intelligent  only  because  she  was  pretty.  He  would  ac-  cuse  her  of  pettiness,  and  she  would  agree  withhim,  confess  that  she  had  an  awful  character,  and  while  he  was  con-  soling  her,  their  embraces  would  begin.  Elgin  would  be  hurt  whenever  Caro-  line  was  the  first  to  point  out  that  it  was  time  to  go  and  have  dinner.  Caroline  would  eye  the  clock,  but  Elgin  would  pretend  he  was  so  entranced  with  Caro-  line  he  didn't  know  what  time  it  was.  The  minutes  would  tick  by,  and  Caro-  line  would  grow  gayer  and  gayer,  try-  ing  to  ignore  thetime,  while  Elgin,  beetling,  thin,  and  sardonic,  refused  to  say  the  words  that  would  release  her.  Elgin  became  frightened.  He  was  so  frightened  he  couldn't  eat,.  He  was  afraid  of  losing  Caroline,  of  failing  his  courses  because  he  couldn't  study  un-  less  she  was  sitting  beside  himwhere  he  could  reachout  and  touch  her  every  few  minutes.  The  thought  of  what  it  would  be  like  if  any  of  the  quarrels  they  had  should  turn  serious  worried  him  until  he  was  sick.  Finally,  looking  gray  and  haggard,  he  suggested  to  her  one  afternoon  that  the  two  of  them  should  run  off  and  get  married.  &quot;Elgin,  don't.  Don't  let's  talk  about  that.  You  know  we  can't.&quot;  Elgin  shrugged  and  looked  disheart-  ened.  &quot;I  don't  like  self-pity,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I  admit  I  have  some.  Oh,  yes.  I  pity  myself  a  lot.  Imagine,  here  I  am,  in  love  with  a  common,  ordinary,  con-  ventional  girl  like  you.&quot;  Caroline  supported  her  head  with  her  hands.  &quot;Oh,  Elgin,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you're  being  cruel.  You  know  we're  awfully  young.  And  just  because  we  got  carried  away-there's  no  need,  really,  to  ...  It's  our  animal  appetites  mostly,  you  know.  ...&quot;  Elgin  wanted  to  say  something  bitter  but  her  last  remark  stopped  him.  &quot;Your  animal  appetites,  too?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  He  was  so  happy  he  forgot  his  feel-  ings  had  been  hurt.  SOMETIMES,  she  and  Elgin  went  out  with  Felicia  and  Dimitri.  Caro-  line  could  not  now  bear  girls  she  thought  were  virgins;  they  made  her  uneasy,  and  she  would  notdouble  with  Dimitri  and  Felicia  until  Elgin  swore    they  were  lovers,  too.  Elgin  spent  more  than  one  afternoon  telling  her  that  al-  most  all  the  girls  at  Radcliffe  and  all  other  colleges  had  slept  with  somebody.  &quot;'The  percentage  is  very  high,&quot;  he  said.  They  went  boating  twice  at  Marble-  head.  Dimitri  had  a  car,  which  El-  gin  borrowed-an  old,  weak-lunged  Ford-and  they  would  wheeze  up  to  Marblehead  and  rent  a  dinghy  and  be  blown  around  the  bay,  with  the  sun-  light  bright  on  Caroline's  hair  and  the  salt  air  making  them  hungry  and  the  wind  whipping  up  small  whitecaps  to  make  the  day  exciting.  Caroline  wrote  in  her  diary,  &quot;His  back  is  so  beautiful.  It  has  such  a  lovely  shape.  It's  so  defenseless.  I  like  to  put  my  ear  against  his  back  and  listen  to  his  heart-I  think  it's  his  heart  I  hear.  It's  funny  he  is  not  more  handsome  in  his  clothes,  but  that  only  makes  him  seem  more  beautiful  to  me,  I  think.  I  feel  I  would  like  to  give  birth  to  him.  Some-  times,  I  want  to  crawl  into  his  pocket  and  be  carried  like  a  pencil.  I  never  let  him  see  how  strongly  I  feel.  I  am  a  dreadful  person,  dreadful.  .  ..&quot;  Elgin  wrote  her  a  letter.  &quot;Dear  Caroline,  Isn't  it  funny  to  have  me  writing  a  letter  to  you  when  I  see  you  every  day?  But  just  imagine  how  it  would  seem  later  if  we  looked  back  and  saw  that  we  had  never  written  each  other  how  we  felt.  &quot;You,  Caroline  Hedges,  are  the  greatest  love  of  my  life,  just  as  you  are  the  first.  &quot;I  don't  suppose,  you  being  a  girl,  that  you  know  what  it's  like  to  love  a  girl  like  you,  but  if  you  knew  how  de-  pendent  men  are  on  women,  youmight  understand.  Not  that  men  can't  survive  alone,  but  they  don't  seem  to  really  amount  to  anything  until  they  have  a  woman  they  love.  &quot;Reading  over  what  I  have  just  writ-  ten,  I  see  that  everything  I've  said  ap-  plies  only  to  the  selfish  side  of  love.I  guess  that's  a  dead  giveaway  about  me.  But  as  for  you,  kid,  just  knowing  you  is  rather  awe-inspiring.&quot;  Sometimes,  there  would  be  birds  sing-  ing  in  the  ivy  outside  the  window  of  El-  gin's  room.  Sometimes,  Elgin  would  sing  to  Caroline;  he  had  a  sweet,  in-  securelypitched  voice,  and  his  singing  would  give  them  both  pleasure.  Some-  times,  seeing  Elgin  walk  across  the  room  unclothed  would  make  all  the  breath  leave  Caroline's  body,  and  she  would  not  even  be  conscious  of  her  gasp  or  that  he  heard  her.  One  afternoon,  Elgin  went  into  the  bathroom  to  get  Caroline  a  glass  of  water.  She  was  lying  in  the  lower  bunk,  lapped  in  shadows,  and  she  saw  him  come  back  into  the  " b"room  and  she  said  weakly,  &quot;I  love  you,  Elgin.&quot;  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  said  it,  that  proud,  stubborn  girl.  Elgin  heard  her;  he  stopped  in  his  tracks  and  he  put  his  head  back.  &quot;God,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;''This  is  the  happiest  moment  I  ever  had.&quot;  Now  there  was  no  bar  to  their  in-  timacy,  and  they  talked.  Elgin  was  re-  lentless  about  asking  questions:  &quot;What  do  you  think  about  money?  What  is  your  father  like?  Are  you  fond  of  him?&quot;  At  first,  Caroline  was  cautious.  &quot;Well,  I  think  there's  a  minimum  amount  of  money  people  should  have.  .  ..  My  father  is  sort  of  nice.  He's  shallow,  I  guess.  He  doesn't  seem  to  have  very  strong  emotions.  He  works  for  an  insurance  company.  I  used  to  like  him  a  lot;  I  still  do.  ..  .  I  think  I  feel  sorry  for  him.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean  by  that?&quot;  Elgin  asked.  He  handed  her  a  cigarette  and  lit  it  for  her.  &quot;'Tell  me  everything  about  yourself.  Be  honest.  I've  never  known  anyone  as  well  as  I  know  you.&quot;  Caroline  cupped  her  hands  over  her  mouth.  &quot;I  think  he  loves  me,  and  now  I  love  you,  and  I  think  that's  sad.  That  he's  older  ..  .  Should  we  be  talking  like  this,  Elgin?&quot;  &quot;Why  not?  Who  else  can  we  talk  to?&quot;  Then  it  all  began  to  come  out,  her  feelings  toward  her  father,  toward  her  mother,  toward  money.  Caroline  want-  ed  a  nice  house  and  a  large  family;  she  looked  down  a  little  on  people  who  weren't  well  off.  When  she  felt  ex-  hausted  from  telling  Elgin  these  things,  she  asked  him  questions.  &quot;My  mother's  very  possessive,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  we  got  married,  I  think  we'd  have  in-law  problems.  I  want  to  be  a  famous  scholar.  I  don't  disapprove  of  campus  politics.  I  know  I  should,  but  I  don't.  Isn't  that  shameful?&quot;  &quot;This  isn't  dignified,  talking  like  this,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  do  it  any  more.&quot;  She  was  frightened.  Having  admitted  she  loved  Elgin,  she  felt  naked,  and  these  conversations  only  made  her  feel  worse.  She  kept  hoping  she  and  Elgin  would  reach  some  stability  together,  but  it  never  came.  She  still  was  frightened  when  she  ran  up  the  stairs  of  Widener  that  he  wouldn't  be  waiting  for  her.  She  wondered  why  she  couldn't  get  used  to  this  situation,  why  the  pleasures  she  was  drawn  into  didn't  lose  their  ele-  ments  of  pain-indeed,  why  the  ele-  ments  of  pain  grew  steadily  worse,  until  she  dreaded  seeing  Elgin  and  had  to  force  herself  to  get  out  of  bed  in  the  morning  and  go  through  her  day.  She  couldn't  helpthinking  that  what  she  was  with  comparative  strangers  was  much  pleasanter  than  what  she  was  with  El-  gin.  With  him  she  was  capricious,  un-  truthful,  often  sharp-tongued,  giddy  with  emotions  that  came  and  went,  and  while  one  emotion  might  be  ennobling,  having  six  or  seven  in  thespace  of  an  hour  was  undignified  and  notdecent  at  all.  She  had  always  believed  that  a  wom-  an  ought  to  walk  very  straight,  write  a  firm  hand,  keep  house  and  entertain  well-in  short,  be  like  those  friends  of  her  mother's  whom  she  admired.  The  fact  that  she  was  young  didn't  seem  any  excuse  at  all  for  her  not  being  like  those  women,  and  now  she  said  to  herself,  &quot;I'm  wild.  That's  all  there  is  to  that.&quot;  She  decided  she  was  inordinately  sex-  ual.  Elgin  caught  her  in  Widener  read-  inga  book  describing  the  great  cour-  tesans  ofthe  nineteenth  century,  La  Belle  Otero  and  Lola  Montez.  She  believed  that  Elgin  would  inevitably  forsake  her  because  she  had  lost  all  her  dignity  and  mystery,  and  she  boasted  to  him  that  he  would  never  forget  her,  even  if  he  married  some  pasty-faced  virgin.  Elgin  couldn't  calm  her;  in  fact,  he  was  more  than  half  persuaded  that  she  wes  unusually  passionate  when  she  said  she  was,  and  he  became  uneasy  with  her.  Caroline  began  to  wear  a  little  too  much  lipstick  and  to  walk  not  in  her  habitual  erect  fashion  but  slouching  and  swaying  her  hips,  She  drank  and  smoked  more,  and  when  she  got  high,  she  would  look  at  Elgin  through  low-  ered  eyelids  and  kiss  him  in  a  knowing-  a  childishly  knowing-way.  And  all  of  this  humbled  Elgin,  who  felt  Caroline  was  a  great  enigma  and  that  she  was  drawing  away  from  him.  One  night,  they  were  sitting  on  the  riverbank  and  Caroline  put  her  hands  on  Elgin's  head  and  drew  him  to  her,  and  Elgin  pulled  away  desperately.  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  kiss  me  like  that!&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong?&quot;  Caroline  asked  haughtily.  &quot;Am  I  too  much  woman  for  you?&quot;  Elgin's  eyes  grew  moist.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  you  do  to  me,&quot;  he  said  mis-  erably.  &quot;I'm  ready  to  cry.  I  didn't  think  we  were  having  that  kind  of  an  affair.&quot;  In  the  darkness,  he  saw  Caroline's  eyelids  descend.  Then  a  shudder  passed  over  her  face.  He  decided  to  stake  every-  thing  rather  than  have  Caroline  frighten  him  into  helplessness.  He  grabbed  her  arm.  &quot;Listen,  you've  got  to  get  hold  of  yourself.  You're  act-  ing  like  an  ass.&quot;  Caroline  was  motionless.  &quot;You're  ruining  everything,&quot;  Elgin  said.  &quot;You  have  too  many  illusions  about  " b"me,&quot;  Caroline  said  coldly.  She  pulled  away  from  his  grasp  and  lay  down  on  his  old,  battered  raincoat  and  puther  hands  under  her  head.  &quot;'There  are  a  lot  of  things  you  don't  know  about  me.  I  didn't  want  to  tell  you  I  loved  you  be-  cause  I  wanted  to  hold  you.  There,  what  do  you  think  of  that?&quot;  Elgin  hit  himself  on  the  chest.  &quot;You  think  that's  bad?  Well,  I  always  in-  tended  to  seduce  you,  right  from  the  be-  ginning.  God!&quot;  He  lay  down,  too,  on  the  damp  grass,  two  feet  away  from  her,  and  he  put  his  hands  under  his  head.  Lying  like  that,  they  quarrelled  in  this  peculiar  way,  libelling  themselves,  lowering  the  object  of  love  in  the  oth-  er's  eyes.  &quot;I  think  it's  loathsome  that  we  sleep  together,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;I  feellike  a  you-know-what.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  seeing  you  every  day,&quot;  Elgin  said.  &quot;Not  because  of  you  but  because  I'm  always  afraid  you'll  see  through  me.  Also,  I  miss  having  free  time  to  study-that's  how  cold-blooded  I  am.&quot;  There  was  a  full  moon  that  night,  and  its  light  was  no  chillier  than  what  these  two  young  people  said  about  them-  selves.  But  after  a  while  Elgin  rolled  over  and  took  Caroline  in  his  arms.  &quot;Please  don't  hate  me.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  hate  you.  I  love  you.&quot;  &quot;I  love  you,  too.  God,  it's  hell!&quot;  They  decided  to  be  more  sensible.  The  next  day  they  didn't  meet  in  Widener.  Elgin  stayed  in  his  room,  and  at  three  o'clock  the  phone  rang.  &quot;It's  me-Caroline.&quot;  &quot;Oh  God,  you  called.  I  was  pray-  ing  you  would.  Where  are  you?&quot;  &quot;In  the  drugstore  on  the  corner.&quot;  There  was  silence.  &quot;Elgin,&quot;  she  said  at  last,  &quot;did  you  have  any  orange  juice  today?&quot;  He  ran,  down  the  stairs,  along  the  sidewalk,  to  the  drugstore,  to  have  his  orange  juice.  One  day,  Elgin  told  Caroline  he  was  going  to  stay  home  and  play  poker  with  some  of  the  boys  in  his  entry.  Caroline  said  that  was  a  good  idea.  She  had  to  write  her  mother;  for  some  reason,  her  letters  home  had  gother  mother  all  upset,  and  she  wanted  to  take  some  time  and  calm  the  old  biddy  down.  &quot;Poor  thing,&quot;  said  Caroline.  &quot;She's  had  such  an  empty  life,  and  I'm  so  important  to  her.&quot;  Then  she  smiled  a  thin,  nervous  smile.  &quot;Of  course,  when  I  think  how  stupid  she  is,  I  wonder  what  I'll  find  to  say  to  her.&quot;  Elgin  played  poker.  He  lost  four  dollars  and  sixty  cents.  At  eleven-thirty,  he  excused  himself  from  the  game  and  went  out  on  the  street.  He  walked  hur-  riedly,  jogging  part  of  the  distance,  un-til  he  stood  on  the  sidewalk  across  from  Cabot  Hall,  looking  up  at  the  light  in  Caroline's  room.  Finally,  a  shadow  passed  over  the  window,  and  Elgin  felt  what  he  could  only  describe  as  anguish.  He  looked  in  the  gutter  until  he  found  a  pebble,  and  thenhe  hurled  it  at  Caroline's  window.  It  struck.  'The  shadow  appeared  again,  standing  quite  still.  At  that  moment,  a  policeman  rounded  the  corner.  Elgin  thrust  his  hands  in  his  pockets  and  walked  up  the  street.  'The  policeman  stopped  him.  &quot;Hey,  buddy,  did  you  just  throw  something  at  that  building?&quot;  &quot;No,  Officer.&quot;  Elgin  was  sweating  and  looked  so  pitiable  the  officer  said,  &quot;I  guess  it  was  a  trick  of  the  light.&quot; When  Caroline  asked  him  if  he  had  come  by  Cabot  the  night  before,  he  denied  it.  The  next  day,  he  and  Caroline  went  up  to  his  room.  As  Elgin  closed  the  door,  Caroline  threw  herself  onto  the  couch.  She  looked  pale  and  unhappy,  and  she  was  making  a  face,  preparing  herself  for  what  was  coming.  But  Elgin  walked  over  and  stood  next  to  the  couch  and  said,  &quot;Caroline,  we've  got  to  be  chaste.  God!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;It's  not  easy  to  say  this,  and  if  your  feelings  get  hurt,  I  don't  know  what  I'll  do!&quot;  &quot;They're  not  hurt.&quot;  &quot;I  want  you  to  be  happy,&quot;  he  said,  looking  down  ather.  &quot;I  think  we  ought  to  get  married.&quot;  &quot;We're  under  age,  Elgin-you  know  that.  Our  parents  won't  let  us.&quot;  &quot;We'll  tell  them  you're  pregnant.  We'll  do  something.&quot;  Caroline  jumped  up.  &quot;But  I  don't  want  to  marry  you!  You  won't  make  me  happy.  I'm  scared  of  you.  You  don't  have  any  respect  for  me.  I  don't  know  how  to  be  a  good  wife.&quot;  &quot;Listen,  Caroline,  wehaven't  donethe  " b"rightthing.  You  want  tohave  children?&quot;  A  pink,  p  iteou  s  flush  covered  Caro-  line's  face.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  ought  to  get  married,&quot;  he  said  doggedly.  &quot;It  w  on't  be  easy,  but  other-  wise  we'll  never  be  happy.  You  see,  what  we  didn't  figure  out  is  the  teleo  lo-  gy  of  t  he  thing.  We  don't  have  a  goal.  We  have  to  have  a  goal,  do  you  see?&quot;  &quot;Elgin,  we  ca  n't  be  foolish.  If  we  really  love  each  other,  we  have  to  be  very  pra  ctical  or  else  we'll  just  c  ause  each  other  ver  y  needless  pa  in.&quot;  They  looked  at  each  other,  pure  at  last,  haloed  by  an  urge  to  sacrifice.  &quot;I  may  not  be  right  for  you,&quot;  Caro-  line  whispered.  &quot;We'll  wait.  We'll  wait  until  fall.  We'll  h  ave  the  summer  to  think  things  over.&quot;  Elgin  f  rowned,  not  liking  to  have  his  sacrifice  ignored.  &quot;I'm  willing  to  mar-  ry  you  ,&quot;  he  sa  id.  &quot;No,  it's  not  right,&quot;  said  Caroline.  We're  too  young.  We  couldn't  have  children  now.  We're  too  ignorant.  We'd  be  terrible  parents.&quot;  How  it  pained  her  to  say  this! &quot;If  you  feel  that  way,&quot;  Elgin  said,  &quot;I  think  we  ought  to  plan  to  break  up.  Nothing  sudden,&quot;  he  added,  to  ease  the  sudden  twinge  that  was  twisting  his  stomach.  &quot;When  school's  over.&quot;  Caroline  hesitated,  but  it  seemed  to  her  dreamlike  and  wonderful  to  be  free  of  this  febrile  emotion.  And  atonement  would  be  so  wonderful.  ...  At  the  same  time,  she  was  hurt.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  said  with  dignity.  &quot;If  you  want.&quot;  Elgin  turned  away  from  her.  &quot;Caro-  line,  tell  me  one  thing,&quot;  he  said  with  his  back  to  her.  &quot;Emotionally,  would  you  like  to  marry  me?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98tYeS&quot;,  &quot;God!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  so  prac-  tical!&quot;  &quot;I'm  not!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;I  can't  help  it.&quot;  She  wrung  her  hands.  &quot;If  you  tried  to  carry  me  off,  I  wouldn't  re-  sist,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  if  you  ask  me,  I  think-  I  think-&quot;  He  didn't  have  to  marry  her;  he  wouldn't  have  to  worry  about  support-  ing  her;  he  hadn't  lost  his  career.  Elgin  felt  irrepressible  relief  welling  up  in  him.  &quot;God,  how  we  love  each  other.&quot;  Carolinelaughed.  &quot;It's  true.&quot;  She  laughed  a  little  more.  &quot;It's  so  true!&quot;  She  threw  her  arms  around  his  neck  and  kissed  him.  Of  course,  they  didn't  stick  to  El-  gin's  plan  of  breaking  up  when  school  ended.  They  decided  they  would  take  a  vacation  from  each  other,  and  meet  in  the  fall,  when  college  began  again,  as  friends.  This  agreement  seemed  to  remove  a  great  weight  from  them.  They  had  only  two  weeks  of  the  reading  period  and  three  weeks  of  exams  left  to  be  together,  but  they  resumed  some  of  their  old  habits-the  walks  between  classes,  for  instance,  and  the  trips  to  the  Boston  Museum  of  Fine  Arts-and  they  even  took  to  reading  stories  aloud  again,  preferring  Chekhov  and  Colette.  The  sweetness  and  the  sadness  of  their  predicament  were  what  they  loved,  and  they  threw  themselves  into  the  role  of  well-disciplined  lovers  with  all  their  en-  ergy.  Hardly  a  day  passed  without  their  thinking  of  some  new  gesture  toward  each  other.  Elgin  gave  flowers  to  Caro-  " b"line;  she  bought  him  cuff  links  and  books  of  poetry.  Elgin  left  off  suspect-  ing  that  he  was  being  made  a  fool  of,  and  was  actually  gentlemanly,  opening  doors  for  Caroline  and  lighting  her  cigarettes.  Caroline  was  ladylike  and  concealed  her  moods.  They  engaged  in  roughhouse;  Elgin  pulled  her  hair  and  she  pummelled  him  when  they  sat  on  the  riverbank.  They  were  chaste.  They  referred  sometimes  to  the  times  when  they  had  listened  to  the  nightingale,  and  while  the  chastity  didn't  come  easily  to  them,  the  act  of  sacrifice  did.  Elgin  put  on  weight,  and  his  face  regained  its  color.  &quot;My  goodness,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;I  think  knowing  me  has  improved  your  looks.&quot;  It  seemed  they  had  found  the  secret  of  being  happy  together,  in  the  imminence  of  separation,  and  while  they  didn't  understand  the  paradox,  they  knew  it  was  true.  But  as  their  five  last  weeks  passed,  they  discovered  why  it  was  true.  All  the  pain  of  the  relationship  was  now  bound  up  with  the  parting  and  not  with  the  things  they  did  to  each  other.  &quot;It's  dreadful,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;I  have  feel-  ings.  They're  like  heavy  mice  that  come  out  of  holes  and  sit  in  my  stomach  and  weigh  me  down.&quot;  They  had  been  so  proud  of  them- selves,  so  free  and  relaxed  and  peaceful  together,  andnow,  when  they  saw  what  this  parting  was  going  to  be  like,  all  their  vivacity  and  happiness  flagged,  they  lost  interest  in  talking  to  each  oth-  er,  and  all  they  wanted  was  to  get  it  over  with.  On  the  last  day  of  exams,  they  went  up  to  Elgin's  room  at  six  o'clock.  Elgin  had  bought  a  bottle  of  champagne  and  rented  two  glasses.  Caroline  was  all  dressed  up  because  she  was  going  to  catch  a  train  for  Baltimore  at  nine  o'clock.  She  had  on  a  small  hat,  which  she  kepteying  in  the  mirror.  Poor  Elgin  was  nervous  about  opening  the  champagne.  &quot;It's  imported,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  sound  tight,  but  if  half  of  it  explodes  or  comes  out  in  foam,  I  won't  be  happy.&quot;  Carolinelaughed,  but  when  the  cork  popped,  she  turned  very  serious.  She  was  afraid  of  what  Elgin  would  toast;  she  was  afraid  it  would  ruin  her  self-possession.  Elgin  slowly  poured  the  champagne  into  the  two  glasses.  Then  the  two  young  people,  alone  in  the  room,  picked  up  their  glasses  and  held  them  together.  'To  our  reunion  in  the  fall,&quot;  Elgin  said.  &quot;God  knows  what  it  will  be  like.&quot;  They  drank.  Caroline  put  her  glass  down.  &quot;Let's   play  a  record  and  dance,&quot;  she  said.  El-  gin  put  on  a  ColePor-  ter  L.P.,  and  he  and  Caroline  circled  around  the  room,  dodging  the  furniture,  pausing  to  take  occasional  sips  of  their  champagne.  At  six-thirty,  they  went  downstairs  and  ate  in  the  dining  hall.  By  seven-fifteen,  they  were  back  upstairs  in  Elgin's  room,  sitting  on  the  bunk,  kissing  each  other  with  a  dry,  intense  helplessness.  At  quarter  of  eight,  Caro-  line  said  she  had  to  go.  Elgin  pulled  away  from  her;  she  had  taken  off  her  hat,  and  her  dress,  made  of  some  pretty  gray-blue  material,  was  hopelessly  rumpled.  With  his  hands,  he  set  her  just  so  on  the  bunk.  Then  he  took  out  his  pocket  comb  and  combed  her  hair.  &quot;'There,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  I  look  prettier  now?&quot;  Caroline  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Elgin  said.  They  walked  downstairs  and  out  the  door  of  Adams  House.  When  they  reached  the  sidewalk,  Caroline  said,  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  come  with  me.  I  want  to  go  back  to  the  dorm  alone.  All  right?&quot;  Elgin  nodded.  &quot;I'll  write  you  from  Europe,&quot;  Caro-  line  said.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  she  said  and  walked  away,  up  the  sidewalk;  she  tried  to  walk  crisply  but  her  feet  dragged  because  she  felt  tired.  Slowly,  the  hoped-for  sense  of  relief  was  coming;  she  was  free  of  Elgin,  she  had  herself  back,  but  not  all  of  herself.  Elgin  still  held  some  of  her,  and  she  would  never  get  it  back  except  when  he  was  beside  her.  Elgin  sat  on  the  steps  in  front  of  Adams  House  and  buried  his  face  in  his  hands.  &quot;God!&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  &quot;I  love  her.&quot;  And  he  wondered  what  would  become  of  them  now."