 b"I  REMEMBER  the  first  time  that  I  was  badly  frightened.  I  was  a  girl  of  twelve  or  thirteen,  and  had  presumably  run  the  gantlet  of  most  childhood  fears-fear  of  the  dark,  of  certain  animals,  of  ghosts  and  other  in-  explicable  things.  But  these  were  more  or  less  in  the  nature  of  hallucinations  self-induced,  and  generally  conquered  before  they  got  the  upper  hand.  The  worst  fear  of  all-fear  of  one's  own  species-had  never  seriously  affected  me  until  the  year  my  family  moved  to  a  place  called  Aligarh,  in  what  was  then  the  United  Provinces  of  Agra  and  Oudh,  in  496e646961.  My  father,  an  Englishman,  had  late-  ly  retired  as  an  officer  of  the  Imperial  496e646961n  Police,  and  was  practicing  as  a  barrister,  specializing  in  criminal  law,  for  which  he  had  a  special  flair.  He  was  extremely  successful,  and  was  a  friend  and  confidant  of  496e646961ns  of  all  creeds  and  classes,  although  something  of  an  iconoclast  where  his  own  traditions  were  concerned-a  complex  man  of  many  gifts.  Shortly  before  we  went  to  Aligarh,  he  had  been  stricken  by  the  illness  that  was  to  kill  him  eventually,  and  this  may  have  accounted  for  his  moodiness.  He  had  an  increasing  unpredictability  of  temper  and  a  reputation  for  violent  out-  bursts  that  had  already  cost  him  several  good  friends  and  was  a  cause  of  deep  concern  to  my  mother.  It  had  also  pro-  duced  a  wholesome  wariness  toward  him  in  us  children.  An  496e646961n  friend  rented  us  his  house  on  the  outskirts  of  Aligarh.  It  was  a  huge  house,  painted  a  stark,  glaring  white.  There  were  vast  rooms  and  turrets  and  cupolas,  and  a  small  winding  staircase  that  led  up  to  the  roof.  By  standing  on  the  roof  of  this  magnificent  dwelling,  we  could  see  for  miles  around-flat  plains  dotted  with  thornbushes,  dusty  roads  running  straight  as  rulers  between  rows  of  shisham  and  neem  trees,  and,  in  the  fields  of  distant  villages,  the  rich  green  of  new  crops  of  mustard,  wheat,  and  beans.  The  city  of  Aligarh  was  off  to  the  east,  veiled  in  the  blue-white  haze  that  hangs  over  this  part  of  the  country  at  any  time  of  year  and  has  its  individual  smell-a  compound  of  wood  smoke,  cattle,  and  the  vagrant  dampness  that  rises  off  newly  watered  fields.  The  village  nearestus  was  roughly  three  miles  away,  and  comprised  the  usual  collection  of  mud-walled  housesroofed  with  pink  tiles  or  thatch  and  threaded  by  narrow  alleys,  the  whole  place  shaded  by  great  pipal  and  mango  trees,  which  were  as  indispensable  to  the  scene  as  church  spires  are  to  New  England.  Because  there  were  few  distractions of  a  civilized  nature,  we  children  early  learned  to  do  the  best  we  could  with  what  we  had.  People  nowadays  make  a  cult  of  going  on  safaris  and  expeditions  into  the  wilds  after  game  and  fish;  they  pay  handsomely  for  experiences  that  for  us  at  that  time  lay  close  at  hand.  We  had  been  taught  to  ride  horseback,  handle  firearms,  and  walk  for  miles  in  all  kinds  of  difficult  country,  without  indulging  in  any  self-conscious  ideas  of  adventure.  We  enjoyed  these  things  be-  cause,  I  suppose,  there  wasn't  anything  else  to  do.  My  father  was  an  enthusiastic  sports-  man,  and  we  loved  to  go  with  him  into  the  countryside  when  he  went  to  hunt  black  buck  or  partridge  in  the  early  mornings  before  work  or,  better  still,  in  the  late  afternoons,  when  you  could  hear  the  birds  calling  from  every  clump  of  thorn.  The  birds  were  wily  and  would  lie  like  rocks,  falling  silent  when  they  heard  us,  and  it  was  the  duty  of  my  younger  brother,  Vee,  and  me  to  throw  stones  into  the  bushes  and  scare  the  creatures  out,  so  my  father  could  shoot  them.  They  flew  like  the  devil,  an  oc-  casional  pair  flushing  out  of  the  same  bush  and  going  in  different  directions,  and  it  was  exciting  to  watch  my  father  as  he  swung  from  one  to  the  other,  sel-  dom  missing  either.  Often,  on  these  jaunts,  we'd  be  tagged  by  a  little  bunch  of  villagers,  always  friendly  and  inter-  ested,  ready  to  show  usthe  best  places  to  find  game.  Besides  partridges  (and  green  pi-  geons,  ducks,  and  sand  grouse),  there  were  any  number  of  peacocks.  They  fed  among  the  crops,  and  must  have  done  some  damage,  butthey  were  considered  sacred  by  the  Hindu  community,  and  were  therefore  taboo  to  sportsmen.  This  is  not  to  say  that  a  peacock  didn't  once  in  a  while  get  shot  and  end  up  as  curry  in  our  friends'  kitchens  or  our  own,  or  that  one  didn't  sometimes  serve  in  place  of  turkey  at  Christmastime-turkey  as  tough  as  leather  and  with  wires  for  ten-  dons,  unless  it  happened  to  be  a  chick.  Although  we  knew  that  our  father  and  his  friends  had  shot  peacocks,  it  had  beendinned  into  Vee  and  me  that  we  were  onno  account  to  do  so,  and  we  accepted  this  unfair  discrimination  as  just  one  more  example  of  adult  in-  consistency.  Accordingly,  we  passed  up  many  opportunities  for  bagging  a  peacock-and  what  opportunities  they  were,  as  the  big  birds  scurried  through  the  young  green  fields  with  necks  out-  stretched,  the  tails  of  the  cocks  stream-  ing  in  the  afternoon  light,  the  dowdy  hens  running  behind!  Everywhere  one  heard  their  cries  as  they  fed  in  the  fields  " b"or  roosted  in  the  trees,  and  in  that  flat,  almost  featureless  landscape,  upon  which  the  sky  rested  like  pallid  silk,  they  were  impressive  and  incongruous  in  their  splendor.  'They  did  not  really  seem  wild  to  me,  since  they  were  probably  descended  from  birds  that  had  fed  from  the  hands  of  Jahangir  and  Shah  Jehan,  and  one  of  them  had  spread  its  shining  tail  to  keep  the  hot  rays  of  the  sun  from  the  sleeping  head  of  no  less  a  lord  than  the  god  Krishna  himself.  My  brother,  young-  er  than  I  by  two  years,  had  at  that  time  few  such  aesthetic  ideas,  and  the  subject  nearest  him  in  interest  was  hunting.  His  marksmanship  was  precociously  good,  and,  attired  in  khaki  shorts  and  shirt,  shotgun  on  his  Shoulder,  he  often  sallied  forth  with  me  into  the  fields  and  along  the  canal  banks  in  search  of  game.  A  serv-  ant  was  supposed  to  accompany  us  on  these  trips,  but  we  had  our  own  reasons  for  preferring  to  go  alone,  We  were  for-  bidden  to  eat  native  food  when  it  had  not  been  bought  under  our  parents'  su-  pervision,  or  to  drink  sugar-cane  juice  or  unboiled  water,  but  we  were  apt  to  be  overcome  by  hunger  and  thirst  long  be-  fore  the  hunt  was  over,  and-the  villag-  ers  being  by  tradition  hospitable-we  were  aware  that  we'd  fare  best  without  a  chaperon.  The  villagers  knew  us  by  sight,  and  some  were  well  acquainted  with  my  father,  either  from  earlier  days  when,  as  a  police  officer,  he  had  been  stationed  nearby  or  through  his  reputation  as  an  advocate  who  had  got  some  of  their  neighbors  off  stiff  jail  sentences  and  saved  others  from  hanging.  The  496e646961n  villager  has  a  charm  of  manner  you  don't  always  find  in  the  cities.  One  can  generalize  about  him  as  one  wouldn't  dare  to  do  about  his  urban  brothers.  Poor  and  hard-working,  these  people  remain  dignified,  courteous,  and  hospi-  table,  When,  twenty  years  later,  I  revisited  this  area,  I  found  them  un-  changed  in  a  changing  world,  and-  children  though  my  brother  and  I  were-I  still  reflect  with  shame  on  the  day  we  abused  their  hospitality,  and  came,  I  do  believe,  close  to  paying  dear-  ly  for  it.  ON  an  afternoon  in  late  February,  Vee  and  I  set  out  to  hunt,  leaving  the  servants  still  asleep  in  their  quarters  after  their  midday  meal.  The  weather  was  warming  up,  and  we  were  soon  sweating  freely  and  taking  turns  carry-  ing  the  gun.  Our  objective  was  the  neighborhood  of  a  village  we  could  see  from  the  roof  of  our  house,  about  three  miles  beyond  a  gullied  plain  where  fields  of  mustard  were  just  coming  into  flow-  er.  Puffs  of  scent  from  the  mustard  flowers  were  blown  toward  us  as  we  went,  and  we  could  hear  in  the  fields  the  voices  of  men  who  were  mending  the  water  channels  that  fed  their  crops,  or  driving  the  bullocks  working  at  the  wellheads.  Peacocks  were  calling  here  and  there,  but  the  partridges  were  silent,  perhaps  because  of  the  growing  heat.  We  must  have  walked  for  an  hour  without  seeing  anything  to  shoot  except  a  flock  of  pigeons,  at  which  Vee  fired,  missing  them  all,  and  a  rabbit,  at  which  I  fired,  missing  likewise.  By  the  time  we  reached  the  village,  we  were  con-  sumed  with  thirst.  We  made  our  way  into  the  village's  main  courtyard  -a  pleasant,  shady  place  that  felt  like  heavy-  en  after  the  glare  of  the  sun-and  some  of  the  villagers  came  out  to  greet  us.  Among  themwas  the  headman,  an  eld-  erly,  white-haired  Brahman,  wearing  the  sacred  cord  across  his  chest,  who  asked  news  of  Father's  health,  We  an-  swered,  and  then-though  we  had  been  expressly  forbidden  to  touch  unboiled  water-announced  that  we  were  thirsty.  As  we  expected,  the  headman  offered  to  draw  water  for  us  himself  from  the  well  in  the  middle  of  the  court-  yard.  Reassuring  ourselves  with  the  dubious  reflection  that  the  Brahman's  well  must  be  purer  than  any  other  in  the  vicinity  (and,  after  all,  hadn't  they  been  drinking  from  it  all  their  lives?  ),  we  thanked  theold  man,  who  then  lowered  a  brass  lotah  into  the  well,  brought  up  water,  and  poured  some  carefully  into  our  cupped  hands.  When  we'd  finished  drinking,  he  sent  his  son-a  boy  of  about  Vee's  age-to  pick  custard  apples  for  us  from  their  own  tree.  These  we  ate  with  relish,  spitting  the  black,  shiny  seeds  on  the  ground,  while  we  com-     " b"plained  about  the  bad  luck  we'd  had  in  our  search  for  game.  Some  ofthe  villagers  amiably  sug-  gested  that  we  try  a  patch  of  cane  and  thorn  trees  a  few  hundred  yards  beyond  the  village,  near  a  pool  where,  they  said,  teal  sometimes  dropped  in  to  feed.  The  headman's  son  offered  to  guide  us;  like  any  boy,  he  was  eager  to  be  in  on  the  fun,  and  it  was  his  ideathat  we  should  first  take  a  turn  along  the  village  wall,  where  there  were  a  few  scattered  bushes  that  sometimes  harbored  partridges  and  occasionallya  quail.  The  wall,  we  found  when  we  got  there,  was  built  of  unbaked  brick,  topped  in  places  with  slabs  of  red  sand-  stone  carved  in  a  design  of  leaves,  flow-  ers,  and  peacocks.  The  carvings  were  old,  eroded  by  time  and  weather,  and  the  Brahman's  boy  explained  that  this  village  had  been  built  on  the  ruins  of  another-a  much  older  one  that  had  been  destroyed  in  some  long-forgotten  battle  hundreds  of  years  ago.  As  we  walked  along,  I  found  bits  of  broken  sandstone  lying  about,  some  half  buried  in  the  ground  and  all  bearing  that  de-  sign  with  peacocks  in  it.  Presently,  we  disturbed  a  little  family  ofthe  actual  birds-a  cock  andtwo  hens-and  the  cock  took  wing  gloriously  and  lit  on  the  wall,  improbably  beautiful  in  the  afternoon  sun,  with  one  small,  alert  eye  peering  down  at  us.  The  village  boy  smiled  at  us,  then  nodded  at  the  bird.  &quot;The  peacock  is  very  beautiful,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  don't  you  allow  people  to  shoot  them?&quot;  my  brother  asked.  &quot;Why  don't  you  shoot  them  yourselves?&quot;  The  boy  shook  his  head  violently.  &quot;We  never  kill  them!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  my  brother  asked.  'You  could  eat  them.&quot;  &quot;We  do  not  eat  meat.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  The  boy  hesitated,  still  smiling.  &quot;We  do  not  care  for  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  the  bird  is  beautiful,  and  quite  tame.&quot;  The  bird  on  the  wall  was  indeed  beautiful  and  tame.  It  made  no  move  when  we  passed  directly  under  it,  walk-  ing  so  close  that  by  reaching  up  a  hand  I  was  able  to  touch  the  end  of  its  great  sheaf  of  a  tail.  We  went  on  for  a  while,  finding  nothing  worth  shooting,  and  our  new  friend  suggested  that  we  go  to  a  nearby  canal,  where  there  might  be  ducks.  The  sun  was  still  high,  but  the  shadows  were  getting  longer  and  there  was  a  hint  of  coolness  in  the  air,  and  everywhere  we  could  smell  the  scent  of  mustard  flow-  ers  and  hear  the  cries  of  peacocks  feed-  ing  among  them.  We  found  no  ducks  on  the  stretch  of  canal  we  came  to,  but  since  it  led  toward  home,  my  brother  and  I  decided  to  continue  our  hunt  along  it.  The  Brahman's  boy  bade  us  goodbye,  explaining  that  it  was  time  he  went  back  to  the  village,  and  invited  us  to  come  again  soon.  We  left  him,  and,  turning  to  look  back,  I  saw  him  turn  also,  and  look  after  us.  I  waved  to  him  and  he  waved  in  response.  VEE  and  I  went  on  down  the  canal.  We  heard  a  partridge  call  from  a  clump  of  bushes,  and  immediately  we  had  an  altercation  about  whose  turn  it  was  to  shoot.  My  brother  won  the  argu-  ment,  because  he  happened  to  be  in  pos-  session  of  the  gun,  and  we  advanced  on  the  bushes,  Vee  leading.  The  partridge  heard  us  and  stopped  its  call,  but  we  knew  exactly  where  it  lay.  The  field  was  clear,  and  no  matter  which  way  the  bird  flushed,  it  was  bound  to  offer  a  good  shot.  I  began  throwing  stones  into  the  bush,  and  the  partridge  suddenly  flew  out  of  it  in  the  unnerving  way  they  have,  and  Vee  fired  at  it,  missing  with  both  barrels.  &quot;It  was  an  easy  shot,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  could  have  killed  it  with  a  stone!&quot;  Well,  why  didn't  you?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Because  I  didn't  want  to  be  a  bad  sport.&quot;  He  gave  an  angry  laugh.  &quot;Just  for  that,  I'm  going  to  take  the  next  shot,  too,&quot;  he  said.  We  walked  on.  We  were  a  little  away  from  the  canal  now.  In  the  dis-  tance  was  a  well,  and  a  man  in  a  white  dhoti  was  driving  a  pair  of  buffaloes  up  and  down  the  incline  leading  to  it,  drawing  water.  We  could  hear  the  creaking  of  the  well  wheel  and  the  sound  of  the  man's  voice  as  he  spoke  to  his  beasts.  Right  ahead  of  us,  a  peahen  darted  out  of  the  mustard  and  ran-  head  down,  neck  outstretched-along  the  narrow  path  that  divided  one  field  from  the  next,  and  I  sensed,  rather  than  saw,  my  brother's  impulse  to  take  a  shot  at  it.  It  disappeared  and  we  went  on.  We  must  have  been  about  a  mile  " b"from  home.  By  standing  on  an  anthill,  I  could  see  the  roof  and  cupolas  of  our  house.  A  few  yards  to  our  left,  the  mus-  tard  stirred  as  something  large  moved  through  it,  and  a  gleaming  peacock,  all  gold-green  and  sapphire  slashed  with  chestnut  color,  broke  cover  and  ran  onto  the  path  directly  before  us  and  rose  a  foot  or  two,  and  in  an  instant  my  brother  had  thrown  the  gun  to  his  shoulder  and  fired.  The  bird  pitched  forward  and  sprawled  in  the  path  with  a  great  beat-  ing  of  wings,  its  tail  rising  up  like  a  sail,  the  fringed  edges  catching  the  light  as  it  thrashed  about  in  the  bruised  mustard.  My  brother,  handing  me  the  gun,  leaped  on  the  bird,  trying  to  catch  hold  of  its  neck.  I  felt,  all  around  me,  a  sud-  den  enormous  confusion.  On  the  in-  stant  that  Vee  fired,  I  had  glanced  across  the  field  and  realized  that  the  man  at  the  well  could  see  what  was  happening.  If  I'd  had  any  doubts  about  that,  they  vanished  when  I  heard  him  yell  and  sawhim  start  toward  us.  &quot;Leave  the  thing,&quot;  I  said  to  Vee.  &quot;Leave  it,  and  let's  get  away  from  here.&quot;  But  he  was  having  none  of  that.  The  peacock  was  dead,  and  now  Vee  stood  up,  lifting  the  shimmering  body  so  it  lay  over  his  shoulder  and  down  his  back,  its  tail  trailing  to  the  ground.  Vee's  hands  were  bloody,  but  for  the  moment  his  eyes  shone  with  triumph.  People  were  shouting  behind  us,  and  we  turned  to  see  our  young  friend  the  Brahman's  son  racing  in  our  direction,  followed  by  a  number  of  men  carrying  lathis-heavy  sticks  of  iron-bound  bam-  boo.  Themen  sounded  angry,  like  hornets  into  whose  nest  someone  has  tossed  a  stone,  and  it  was  then  that  the  fear  came  upon  me.  It  had  its  main-  spring  somewhere  in  my  middle,  and  it  went  in  two  directions-up  into  my  throat,  paralyzing  my  powers  of  speech,  and  down  into  my  legs,  paralyzing  them.  Instinctively,  my  hands  clenched  the  gun,  and  if  the  man  who  had  been  " b"working  at  the  well  hadn't  reached  us  just  then  and  snatched  the  gun  from  me,  I  think  I  might,  in  my  terror,  have  fired  the  second  barrel  into  the  advanc-  ing  throng.  In  no  time  at  all,  Vee  and  I  were  engulfed.  We  were  pushed  and  jostled,  half  deafened  by  menacing  shouts,  and  glared  at  by  hot,  angry  eyes.  Whether  Vee  was  as  frightened  as  I  was,  I  don't  know;  he  never  admitted  it  later.  But  in  me  every  drop  of  sensation  had  drained  away  to  make  room  for  fear.  Fear  stiffened  my  whole  being  into  something  bloodless  and  ossified,  while  into  my  imagination  seeped  memories  of  what  I  had  read  about  the  Mutiny  of  1857,  when  496e646961ns  threw  English  women  and  children  into  wells  or  burned  them  alive,  and  skewered  babies  on  bayonets.  'There  was  nothing  to  pre-  vent  such  a  thing  from  happening  to  my  brother  and  me  at  that  very  moment!  True,  it  would  be  found  out,  and  the  villagers  punished  for  our  murder.  I  had  an  insane  mental  image  of  my  fa-  ther,  in  the  role  of  prosecutor,  making  an  impassioned  plea  for  the  death  sen-  tence,  and  of  all  the  people  around  me  handcuffed  and  in  leg  irons,  shuffling  off  to  the  gallows  in  single  file.  We  would  be  avenged,  all  right,  but  a  lot  of  good  that  would  do  us!  The  elderly  Brahman  who  had  given  us  water  and  custard  apples  now  ap-  peared  and  was  vociferously  apprised  of  our  crime.  He  looked  grim,  but  his  arrival  seemed  to  have  a  restraining  ef-  fect  on  the  others.  On  his  suggestion,  it  was  decided  that  Vee  and  I  be  marched  home  to  our  father  and  that  retribution  be  demanded  at  his  hands.  I  felt  a  slight  relief  from  terror,  but  only  slight.  It  was  a  mile  to  the  house,  and  anything  could  happen  before  we  got  there.I  didn't  trust  my  brother,  who  had  an  excitable  tem-  per  and  who  was  already  shouting  abuse  at  our  cap-  tors,  most  of  them  luckily  too  deafened  by  their  own  noise  to  hear  him.  A  pro-  cession  was  formed,  with  the  Brahman  and  his  son  at  the  head,  the  manwho  had  confiscated  the  gun  'next,  then  my  brother  and  me,  followed  by  a  growling  mob  of  men  and  boys.  My  brother  was  carrying  the  peacock;  no  one  else  would  touch  it,  because  not  only  was  it  a  sacred  object  but  it  was  dead  and  to  touch  any-  thing  dead  was  against  the  villagers'  creed.  The  bird  must  have  weighed  twen-  ty  pounds,  and  I  wondered  whether  Vee  would  make  it.  As  we  plodded  along,  my  fear  took  a  more  subtle  twist:  What  would  my  fa-  ther  do  when  he  heard  the  story?  We  were  caught  with  the  goods,  and  no  amount  of  lying  was  going  to  get  us  out  of  our  trouble.  Frail  with  fright,  I  trudged  beside  my  brother,  who,  clinging  sullenly  to  his  prize,  had  by  now  no  breath  left  to  use  in  verbal  recklessness.     S$  we  approached  the  house,  I  saw  Father  sitting  in  the  front  veran-  da,  as  he  often  did  at  that  time  of  the  day.  He  was  dressed  in  white  linen  trousers  and  a  white  shirt,  with  a  khaki  sola  topee  on  his  head,  and  his  eyes  hidden  behind  a  pair  of  dark  glasses.  The  sight  of  those  glass-  es  set  my  heart  pounding  all  over  again.  They  seemed  to  sum  up  everything  that  was  inscrutable  in  his  nature.  Would  he  meet  the  crowd  head-on  in  our  defense,  and  be  massacred  with  us?  I  knew  that  my  mother  and  the  rest  of  the  family  were  spending  the  afternoon  at  the  club,  and  so  were  safe.  But  what  a  homecom-  ing  for  them  later,  when  it  was  all  over  and  they  returned  to  find  us,  a  bloody  pulp,  spattered  on  the  veranda  steps!  My  father  didn't  move,  nor  could  I  detect  the  slightest  evidence  of  emotion  on  his  part  when  finally  we  reached  the  bottom  step  of  the  veranda.  My  brother,  with  what  sounded  like  a  sob  of  relief,  dropped  the  dead  peacock  on  the  ground  and  ran  up  the  steps  to  my  father's  chair.  I  raced  just  behind  him.  Our  noisy  ap-  " b"proach  had  brought  the  servants  scurry-  ing  out,  and  they  now  ranged  themselves  ina  silent  and  apprehensive  row  along  the  veranda  wall  behind  my  father.  Meantime,  Father  made  no  move,  but  continued  to  sit  with  his  legs  stretched  out,  his  hands  clasped  behind  his  head,  and  those  mysterious  black  discs  of  eyes  fastened,  so  it  seemed  to  me,on  space.  It  was  impossible  to  guess  what  he  was  thinking.  At  the  sight  of  him,  the  villagers  fell  silent,  waiting  for  their  spokesman,  the  Brahman,  to  tell  the  story.  He  advanced  halfway  up  the  steps,  made  an  obeisance  to  my  father,  and  began  to  speak  with  dignity  and  re-  strained  passion,  turning  once  or  twice  to  his  friends  for  corroboration,  which  he  got  from  any  number  of  excited  voices.  'T  hey  came,  these  children  of  yours,  Sahib,  to  our  village  and  asked  for  wa-  ter  to  drink,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They  had  walked  far,  and  were  thirsty.  We  made  them  welcome.  With  my  own  hands,  I  poured  water  for  them,  and  I  sent  my  son,  here,  to  bring  fruit  for  them  from  my  trees.  We  conversed.  They  com-  plained  that  they  had  hunted  for  miles  and  had  found  no  game.  I  sent  my  son  to  guide  them  to  a  place  where  they  might  find  partridges,  perhaps  ducks.  My  son  tells  me  that  they  asked  him  about  killing  peacocks  and  that  he  ex-  plained  that  it  would  be  wrong  for  them  to  do  this  thing.  Then  he  bade  them  goodbye  and  left  them,  and  very  soon  afterward  this  bird  rose  from  the  fields  and  your  son  shot  it.&quot;  The  Brahman  paused,  and  an  angry  mutter  eddied  through  the  crowd.  I  believe  that  if  the  muscles  of  my  throat  had  not  been  so  constricted,  I  might  have  been  sick.  My  fear  took  another  turn.  Father  was  a  man  of  law,  and  these  villagers  were  not  so  simple-mind-  ed  as  not  to  understand  their  rights.  If  we  should  escape  being  massacred,  they  would  have  other  resources.  They  could  bring  legal  action  against  us,  and  cause  untold  worry  and  expense.  I  was  old  enough  to  have  learned  that  it  was  out  of  just  such  trifling  incidents  as  the  shooting  of  a  bird  that  big  issues  were  made.  Suppose  these  people  decided  to  sue  Father  for  some  enormous  sum  of  money,and  he,  unable  to  pay,  had  to  leave  us  and  go  to  jail?  Still  without  moving,  Father  seemed  to  direct  his  in-  visible  gaze  from  one  face  to  another  in  the  crowd  before  him.  He  asked,  finally,  &quot;Who  saw  this  thing  happen?&quot;  The  man  who  had  taken  the  gun  from  me  stepped  forward  and  laid  it  at  Father's  feet.  &quot;I  did,  Sahib,&quot;  he  said:  &quot;I  was  drawing  water  in  my  field  and  saw  the  boy  shoot  first  at  a  partridge,  " b"which  he  missed.  Then  this  bird  rose,  as  Maharaj,  here,  has  told  you,  and  I  saw  the  bebe  raise  his  gun,  like  this,  and  the  bird  dropped  before  my  eyes.&quot;  &quot;Who  else  saw  it  happen?&quot;  my  fa-  ther  asked,  The  Brahman's  son,  urged  forward,  now  declared  in  a  somewhat  uncertain  voice  that  he,  too,  had  seen  Vee  shoot  the  peacock.  &quot;I  had  left  them  and  was  walking  back  to  my  village  when  I  heard  a  shot  andsaw  the  partridge  fly  away.  'Thinking  there  might  be  an-  other,  I  stood  watching,  and  the  babe  shot  again,  and  I  saw  the  peacock  fall.&quot;  Silence.  Then,  abruptly,  my  father  directed  his  next  question  at  me:  &quot;Is  this  true?&quot;  For  some  reason,  the  question  took  me  unawares,  and  I  could  only  stare  at  him  dumbly,  not  knowing  what  on  earth  to  say.  He  repeated  the  question,  and  I  managed  to  squeak  out  that  I  didn't  think  Vee  had  meant  to  kill  the  peacock.  Father  repeated  my  words  to  the  vil-  lagers,  speaking  in  Hindustani,  and  there  was  an  immediate  furious  outcry.  He  turned  to  my  brother.  &quot;Vee,  is  this  true?&quot;  he  asked.  Vee  replied,  with  characteristic  bra-  vado,  &quot;It  was  nothing  but  an  old  pea-  cock!&quot;  This,  too,  Father  repeated  to  the  vil-  lagers,  and  there  was  another  yell  of  rage.  'The  Brahman  pointed  a  finger  at  the  dead  bird,  which  lay  spread  below  the  veranda  steps  like  some  beautiful  shawl.  &quot;The  Sahib  knows-who  does  not?  -that  these  birds  are  sacred  to  us,&quot;  the  Brahman  said.  &quot;The  boy  knows  it,  too.  There  is  no  excuse,  Sahib.  In  jus-  tice-and  who  has  greater  understand-  ing  of  justice  than  yourself?  -in  jus-  tice,  there  is  no  excuse.&quot;  &quot;You  are  right,&quot;  said  Father.  &quot;There  is  no  excuse.&quot;  He  spoke  over  his  shoulder  to  Ali,  one  of  the  servants,  who  was  standing  near  him.  &quot;Fetch  my  cane.&quot;  Ali  hesitated,  looking  unhappy.  &quot;Hu-  zoor-&quot;  he  began  pleadingly.  &quot;Fetch  my  cane,&quot;  said  Father.  Deep  silencesettled  on  all  of  us.  Ali  fetched  the  cane.  Father  removed  his  hat  and  dark  glasses  and  handed  them  to  Ali,  taking  the  cane  from  him.  He  did  not  get  up  but  sat  with  the  cane  held  in  both  hands  before  him.  Without  glancing  at  my  brother  or  me,  he  again  addressed  the  crowd.  &quot;I  have  tried  to  bring  my  children  up  to  respect  the  customs  and  feelings  of  other  people,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There  is,  as  you  say,  no  ex-  cuse  for  my  son's  behavior.&quot;  I  stole  a  look  at  Vee,  who  was  obvi- " b"ously  trying  hard  not  to  break  down.  He  looked  undersized  and  defenseless,  with  his  white  face  and  dirty  knees.  I  began  to  sob.  Father  tested  the  lithe  cane  inhis  hands,  bending  it  this  way  and  that,  as  he  spoke  to  the  villagers  once  more.  &quot;You  have  been  kind  to  my  children,  giving  them  water  to  soothe  their  thirst  and  fruit  to  sustain  them,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You,  Maharaj,  sent  your  own  son  to  show  them  game.  'They  accepted  your  hospitality,  your  courtesy-and  how  did  they  repay  you?  By  wantonly  destroy-  ing  this  sacred  bird  under  your  very  eyes.&quot;  He  paused,  and  a  queer,  heavy  mur-  mur  rose  from  his  listeners.  The  Brah-  man  said  slowly,  &quot;It  is  truly  without  excuse.&quot;  &quot;'That  being  the  case,&quot;  said  Father,  &quot;I  shall  now  punish  my  son  for  what  he  has  done.  With  my  own  hands  I  pro-  pose  to  thrash  him,  and  to  go  on  thrash- ing  him  until  you  givethe  word  for  me  to  stop.&quot;  There  was  another  silence,  except  for  my  sobs,  which  were  becoming  un-  controllable.I  could  feel  Vee  trembling  beside  me.  'The  Brahman's  son  spoke  suddenly,  in  a  tremulous  voice.  &quot;Could it  have  been  a  mistake,  as  the  Miss  Baba  says?  Could  he  perhaps  have  shot  think-  ing  it  was  a  rabbit,  not  seeing  it  until  too  late?&quot;  The  question  remained  unanswered.  My  father  lifted  the  cane  in  his  right  hand  and  described  a  swift  feint  with  it  through  the  air,  making  it  hiss.  A  deep,  concerted  sigh  came  from  the  villagers.  Through  my  tears  I  saw  their  faces,  the  passion  suddenly  drained  from  them,  a  strange  anxiety  in  its  place.  &quot;I  shall  thrash  him,&quot;  Father  said  icily.  &quot;I  shall  thrash  him  within  an  inch  of  his  life.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  muttered  the  Brahman's  son,  turning  his  face  aside.  &quot;No,  no,  no!&quot;  The  Brahman  stared  at  Father.  &quot;You  understand  we  do  not  wish  to  be  unkind-to  be  harsh,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  have  not  come  here  to  demand  blood,  Sahib.  And  the  boy  is  young.&quot;  &quot;A  child,&quot;  said  a  voice  from  the  crowd.  &quot;A  mere  child.&quot;  &quot;He  is  ten  years  old,&quot;  Father  told  them  dispassionately.  &quot;Old  enough  to  know  better.&quot;  He  rose  at  last,  a  pale  figure,  tall,  terribly  forbidding.  &quot;I  shall  lift  the  skin  from  his  bones.&quot;  The  Brahman  flung  his  hands  wide  in  a  gesture  of  appeal.  &quot;He  is  a  child,  Sahib.  Let  him  promise,  in  our  pres-  ence,  that  he  will  never  again  kill  our  peacocks,  and  we  will  be  satisfied.&quot;  He  " b"glanced  at  the  crowd.  &quot;Do  you  agree,  my  brothers?&quot;  Their  answers  came,  low-pitched:  &quot;We  agree.&quot;  &quot;He  is  but  a  child.&quot;  &quot;He  has  had  his  lesson.&quot;  My  father  gazed  at  them  silently.  &quot;You  arethe  judges  in  this  matter,&quot;  he  said,  at  last.  &quot;I  shall  do  exactly  as  you  say.&quot;  &quot;''Then  let  him  promise,  and  itis  enough,&quot;  said  the  Brahman.  Father  looked  coldly  at  Vee.  &quot;Prom-ise,&quot;  he  ordered.  &quot;Promise.  Not  me- them!&quot;  Vee  mumbled  his  promise,  and  the  crowd  turned  away-subdued,  grave-  eyed,  and  quite  different  from  the  men-  acing  mob  it  had  been  ashort  while  before.  When  they  had  gone,  Father  said  to  the  servants,  &quot;'Take  that  bird  away  and  bury  it.&quot;  He  turned  to  my  brother.  &quot;You  are  let  off  for  shooting  the  peacock  this  time,&quot;  he  said.  'Then,  glancing  at  me,  headded,  &quot;But  you   drank  well  water  when  you'd  been  told  not  to.  Hold  out  your  hands,  both  of  you.&quot;  It  was  almost  with  joy  that  I  held  out  my  hand  and  received  the  stinging  rebuke  ofthe  cane  twice  across  my  palm.  And  not  until  much  later  did  it occur  to  me  to  ask  my  brother  what  he  thought  would  have  happened  had  the  villagers  insisted  on  getting  their  pound  of  flesh.  Vee  shook  his  head  and  gave  me  a  sly  look.  &quot;They  wouldn't  have,  and  Father  knew  they  wouldn't,&quot;  he  said.  Maybe  Veewas  right,  maybe  he  wasn't;  neither  of  us  really  knew  Fa-  ther  well  enough  to  be  sure.  But  if  there  is  one  thing  I  am  sure  of,  it  is  that  I  have  never  been  so  afraidof  human  beings  as  I  was  that  day,  nor  do  I  quite  believe  thatI  ever  will  be  again.  "