 b"LILY  had  not  considered  culture-as a  word  or  anything  else-until  she  fell  in  love.  As  soon  as  that  happened,  it,  culture,  descended  on  her.  It  was  as  if  all  the  books  Mr.  Ransome  had  ever  read  were  thrown  at  her,  one  after  the  other-Voltaire,  Tolstoy,  Bal-  zac:  the  sharp  names  came  at  her,  bru-  tal  spondees,  brutally  pronounced.  She  thought,  though,  that  she  hated  the  sound  of  Dostoevski  most  of  all.  &quot;Yes,  Dad,&quot;  Mr.  Ransome's  two  sons  con-  tinually  said,  agreeing  to  rate  Zola  high-  er  than  Dickens  if  he  wished  them  to,  promising  to  remember  what  he  had  told  them  about  Michelangelo.  Paint-  ers'  names  were  also  part  of  the  attack,  but  Lily  thought  they  sounded  gentler.  She  had  felt  curiosity  about  someone  called  Leonardo  when  first  she  heard  him  mentioned,  and  had  wondered  if  he  was  Harry's  cousin.  When  she  asked  Harry  he  laughed  and  referred  her  to  his  father,  which  meant  three-quarters  of  an  hour  wasted  sitting  in  the  kitchen,  listening,  and  then  it  was  too  late  for  them  to  go  for  their  walk.  Trembling  with  frustrated  desire,  she  had  learned  her  lesson;  she  asked  no  more  questions  and  sat  sullenly  quiet  whenever  the  enemy  names  began  again.  Only  winter  courting  seemed  to  be  allowed;  then,  with  the  Thames  [REDACTED]  giving  off  impenetrablevapors  or  taking  in,  day  after  day,  torrents  of  rain  until  the  river  rose  and  spread  over  the  fields,  Harry  was  free  to  go  out  with  her;  except,  of  course,  for  his  two  evenings  at  the  Art  School.  They  held  hands  coming  back  in  the  bus  from  the  cinema,  kissed  beneath  dripping  trees  in  the  muddy  lane,  choked  and  whispered  in  the  fog.  &quot;Silly  notion,  venturing  out  tonight,&quot;  Mr.  Ransome  would  tell  them.  &quot;You've  no  right,  letting  her  catch  her  death,  Harry.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it's  easing  up  now,&quot;  Lily  would  say.  &quot;Just  the  clearing-up  show-  er.  And  a  spot  or  two  of  rain  doesn't  do  anyone  any  harm.&quot;  Mr.  Ransome,  with  a  daunting-looking  book  open  in  front  of  him,  would  be  hurriedly  un-  folding  his  spectacles.  &quot;We  ought  to  be  go-  ing,&quot;  Lily  whispered.  &quot;Man  is  a  political  an-  imal,&quot;  boomed  Mr.  Ran-  some,  wanting  to  throw  as  many  words  at  them  as  he  could  before  they  es-  caped,  but  Lily  had  gone,  PRIMITIVE  was  through  the  scullery  and  already  standing  in  the  wet  garden,  and  Harry  sent  an  apologetic  smile  back  at  his  father  and  followed  her.  &quot;Good  [REDACTED];  said  Lily.  &quot;Once  he  gets  going.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  wonderful  old  man,&quot;  Harry  said,  &quot;You're  both  afraid  of  him,  I  think-  you  and  Godfrey.&quot;  &quot;We  respect  him,&quot;  Harry  said  sen-  tentiously.  &quot;He's  been  a  good  father,  and  since  Mother  died  he  has  no  one  to  read  to  in  the  evenings.  He  misses  that.&quot;  She  did  the  best  thing,  dying,  Lily  thought.  r.  RansomE\xc2\xae  was  a  lock-keeper.  He  and  his  sons  lived  in  a  red  brick  cottage  at  the  side  of  the  lock,  On  hot  summer  afternoons,  the  garden  was  what  people  going  through  in  their  boats  called  a  riot  of  color.  The  primary  colors  assaulted  the  eye;  salvias,  geraniums,  lobelias,  calceolarias  were  made  all  the  more  dazzling  by  everything  being  whitewashed  that  Mr.  Ransome  could  lay  his  brush  on-flower  tubs,  step  edges,  the  boulders  round  flower  beds,  the  swinging  chains  round  the  little  lawns,.  In  wintertime,  it  seemed  that  the  garden  could  not  really  have  been  so  bright.  Now  in  February,  when  all  the  locks  down  the  river  were  closed,  the  cottage  was  lost  in  a  caldron  of  steam,  and  the  sad  sound  of  the  weir  came  drearily  through  the  fog.  Mr.  Ransome  won-  dered  how  Harry  and  Lily  could  prefer  the  sodden  lanes  to  a  nice  fire  and  a  book  to  read  beside  it.  He  read  so  much  about  great  passions,  of  men  and  women  crossing  continents  because  of  love,  and  enduring  hardship  and  peril,  not  just  the  discomforts  of  a  dark,  wet  night-  but  he  could  not  see  Harry  and  Lily  go  out  without  feeling  utter  exasperation  at  their  fecklessness.  &quot;It  will  be  lovely  when  the  summer  comes,&quot;  Lily  sometimes  said;  but  Harry  knew  that  it  would  not  be,  if  by  &quot;lovely&quot;  she  meant  they  would  have  long  eve-  nings  together  in  the  golden  meadows  or  walking  along  the  towing  path.  &quot;He  does  like  us  to  get  out  with  our  sketch-  ing,  Godfrey  and  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  mind.  We  can  go  miles  away.  You  can  sketch  with  one  hand  and  I'll  sit  beside  you  and  hold  the  other.&quot;  &quot;We  couldn't  very  well  do  that,  you  see,  because  Dad  likes  to  come  out  with  us.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  think  why  you  bother  with  it  when  you've  got  such  a  nice  job.&quot;  Harry  knew  why  he  bothered.  His  father,  self-taught  painter,  had  once  had  a  picture  hung  in  a  local  exhibition-an  oil  painting,  moreover.  &quot;I  jib  at  noth-  ing,&quot;  he  had  explained.  The  bright,  varnished  scene  hung  in  the  parlor  now.  &quot;It  was  not  for  sale,&quot;  he  said,  when  no  one  bought  it.  Jibbing  at  noth-  ing,  he  had  used  a  great  deal  of  paint  and  had,  in  some  way,  caught  the  hard,  venomous  colors  of  his  own  garden.  &quot;The  Towing  Path  of  a  Sunday&quot;  was  inscribed  carefully  on  the  frame.  The  white  chains  stood  out  thickly  on  the  canvas,  like  icing;  the  chestnut  trees  had  pink  cones  of  blossom  stuck  about  them  and  dropped  down  sharp  ovals  of  shadow  on  the  emerald  grass.  &quot;If  I  had  of  had  tuition  .  .  .&quot;  Mr.  Ransome  so  often  said.  He  would  see  to  it,  he  added,  that  his  sons  should  not  look  back  and  have  to  say  the  same.  In  their  earliest  days  they  had  been  given  paintboxes  and  sketching  blocks,  He  had  taken  the  boys  to  [REDACTED]  to  the  National  Gal-  lery  and  shown  them  the  Virgin  of  the  Rocks  and,  standing  in  front  of  it,  lec-  tured  them  on  Leonardo.  They  had  not  known  which  was  more  painful-their  embarrassment  or  their  shame  at  their  own  disloyalty  in  suffering  it.  Young  as  they  were  at  the  time,  they  realized  that  he  was  much  stared  at-the  thin,  fierce  man  with  his  square  beard  and  so  old-fashioned  clothes-but  they  could  not  help  feeling  that  he  deserved  it,  booming  away  as  he  did  in  the  echoing  gallery.  They  even  began  to  think  that  he  expected  to  be  noticed  and  took  pleasure  from  it.  Harry  and  Godfrey,  articled  in  respectable  of-  fices  in  the  nearby  town,  were  not  yet  quite  a  dis-  appointment  to  him;  for  many  great  men  mature  late,  their  father  remind-  ed  them,  reach  their  height  after  middle  age:  " b"Voltaire,  for  one.  They  went  on  with  their  art  classes  at  evening  school  and  were  painstaking  enough  in  their  desire  to  please;  but,  sometimes,  looking  at  them  and  then  at  their  feeble  paintings,  Mr.  Ransome  could  not  help  thinking  that  passion  was  missing  from  them.  &quot;'They  are  not  on  fire,&quot;  he  mourned.  &quot;As  I  have  been.&quot;  Then  Harry  met  Lily  and  seemed,  to  his  father,  to  be  less  on  fire  than  ever.  &quot;But  it  will  come,&quot;  he  encouraged  his  sons.  It  must  come.  What  had  been  in  him  so  powerful  a  desire,  so  bitterly  a  failed  attempt,  could  not  be  wasted,  must  be  passed  on,  and  in  greater  strength,  too,  if  things  were  to  turn  out  as  he  considered  just.  Lily,  impinging  on  his  plan  with  her  sly,  mincing  manner,  her  pout,  and  her  impatient  sighs,  was  the  eternal  female  enemy.  He  had  built  a  bastion,  a  treas-  ure  house  for  his  sons,  with  all  the  great  names  they  had  heard  from  the  cradle,  the  learning  he  had  struggled  for  to  make  their  inheritance.  It  had  come  too  easily,  he  realized  now,  and  Harry  would  rather  spend  an  evening  talking  inanities,  lowering  his  mind  to  Lily's  level.  His  attitude  towards  her  was  vex-  ing,  suggesting  that  he  was  willing,  eager,  to  learn  something  from  her,  and  even  that  she  might  be  able  to  teach  it:  suppliant,  receptive,  he  was  with  her;  yet  it  was  surely  for  him  to  instruct,  who  knew  so  much,  and  dominate,  being  a  man,  and  to  concede,  whatsoever  he  felt  inclined  to  concede;  not  beg  for  favors.  Mr.  Ransome  thought  of  his  own  happy  married  life-the  woman,  so  gentle  and  conciliatory,  listening  to  him  as  he  read.  Into  those  readings  he  had  put  the  expression  of  his  pleasure  at  be-  ing  able  to  share  with  her  the  best  he  had  discovered.  She  had  sat  and  sewed,  and,  when  she  raised  her  eyes  to  look  for  her  scissors,  she  would  also  glance  across  at  him,  and  he,  conscious  of  her  doing  so,  would  pause  to  meet  this  glance,  knowing  that  it  would  be  full  of humble  gratitude.  She  had  never  been  able  to  comprehend  half  of  what  he  offered  her,  she  had  muddled  the  great  names,  and  once  dozed  off  after  a  few  pages  of  Stendhal;  but  something,  he  thought,  must  have  seeped  into  her,  something  of  the  lofty  music  of  prose,  as  she  listened,  evening  after  evening  of  her  married  life.  Now  he  missed  her  and  so  much  of  the  sound  of  his  own  voice  that  had  gone  with  her.  How  different  was  Lily.  The  mo-  ment  he  began  to  read  aloud,  or  even  to  quote  something,  down  came  her  eye-  lids  to  half-mast.  An  invisible  curtain  dropped  over  her,  and  behind  it  she  was  without  any  response,  as  if  heavily  drugged.  He  would  have  liked  to  stick  pins  in  her  to  see  if  she  would  cry  out;  instead,  he  assaulted  her-in-  decently,  she  thought,  and  that  was  why  she  would  not  listen-with  Cicero  and  Goethe,  Ibsen  and  Nietzsche  and  a  French  poet,  one  of  his  specials,  called  Bawdyleer.  Having  removed  herself,  as  it  were,  she  would  then  glance  at  the  clock,  wind  a  curl  round  her  finger  and  suddenly  let  it  spring  back  against  her  cheek,  Distracted  by  this,  Harry  would  murmur,  &quot;Yes,  Dad,  I  remem-  ber  you  telling  us.&quot;  So  Mr.  Ransome  had  lost  them  both.  &quot;Come  here,&quot;  Lily  seemed  to  be  enticing  his  son.  &quot;Come  behind  my  invisible  curtain  and  we  can  think  of  other  things  and  play  with  my  hair  and  be  alone  together.&quot;  Sometimes,  but  very  rarely,  Mr.  Ransome  would  manage  to  catch  her  .  unawares  and  force  one  of  the  names  on  her  before  she  had  time  to  bring  down  the  curtain.  Then  her  manner  was  rude  and  retaliatory,  instead  of  vague.  &quot;And  who,  pray,  is  Dosty  what's-is-name  when  he's  at  home?&quot;  She  knew  that  Mr.  Ran-  some  was  her  enemy,  and  felt  not  only  malice  in  his  attitude  towards  her  but  something  she  might  have  defined  as  obscenity  if  she  had  known  how  much  that  word  could  mean.  He-for  he  was  at  heart  puritani-  cal-had  once  or  twice  delighted  to  indulge  in  a  bout  of  broadmindedness.  She  should  learn  that  he  and  some  ofthe  great  thinkers  of  the  world  could  face  the  truth  unflinchingly,  and  even  some  of  the  words  the  truth  must  be  described  in.  To  the  pure,  he  said,  all  things  are  pure;  he  watched  Lily's  look  of  prim  annoyance,  implying  that  to  her  they  obviously  were  not.  He  was  de-  feated,  however,  by  the  silence  that  fell-Lily's  and  his  son's.  His  remark,  made  to  seem  blatant  by  being  isolated  and  ignored,  repeated  itself  in  his  own  head  and  he  felt  his  cheeks  and  brow  darkening.  He  did  not  want  to  appear  to  have  any  impurity  in  his  own  mind,  " b"and  quickly  bent  down  and  re-  arranged  the  coals  on  the  fire.  HE  spring  was  beginning;  the  puddles  along  the  rutted  lanes  were  blue,  reflecting  the  bright  sky,  and  lilac  trees  in  cot-  tage  .gardens  bore  buds  as  small  as  grape  pips.  Although  the  dark-  ness  fell  later,  the  interval  of  day-  light  after  tea  was  of  no  use  to  Lily,  for  Mr.  Ransome  had  his  two  sons  out,  whitewashing  and  weeding  and  trimming.  &quot;We  shall  have  no  time  to  do  it  once  the  season  has  begun,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Butwhat  about  us?&quot;  Lily  asked  Harry.  &quot;I  can't  help  but  what  give  him  a  hand  of  an  evening.  It  wouldn't  be  right  to  leave  it  all  to  Godfrey.&quot;  &quot;It  sounds  as  if  the  summer's  going  to  be  just  as  bad  as  the  win-  ter.&quot;  All  along,  Harry  had  known  it  would  be  worse.  In  the  sum-  mer,  the  lock  was  always  full,  boats  jostled  together,  smart  women  in  motor  launches  stared  through  their  dark  glasses  at  men  in  rowing  boats  wearing  braces  and  knotted  handkerchiefs  on  their  heads.  In  the  narrowness  of  the  lock  they  were  all  resentful  of  their  proximity  to  one  another,  and  were  glad,  when  the  water  had  finished  rising  or  falling,  to  see  the  gates  opening  slowly.  The  locks  were  an  ordeal  to  be  negotiated,  not  made  easier  by  the  passersby  on  the  towpath  who  stopped  to  watch  them  lying  exposed  below  and  hoped  that  they  would  ram  their  craft  into  the  gates,  or  take  the  paint  off  one  of  the  white  launches.  Steamers  came  through  at  intervals  and  then  the  lock  was  a  well  of  noise,  with  someone  thumping  at  the  piano  in  the  saloon  and  cheery  messages  thrown  from  deck  to  towing  path;  glasses  of  beer  were  held  up  to  tantalize  and  the  funny  man  of  the  party,  wearing  a  yachting  cap,  sang  &quot;A  life  on  the  ocean  wave  is  better  than  going  to  sea.&quot;  The  pretty  stretch  of  river,  with  its  willows  hanging  down  to  the  water  and  the  brilliance  of  the  lock  garden,  brought  artists,  with  folding  stools  and  easels,  who  took  up  much  of  Mr.  Ran-  some's  time.  Such  an  old  character  they  thought  him,  forgetting-as,  of  all  peo-  ple,  the  English  should  not-that  char-  acters  are  encouraged  at  the  cost  of  their  families'  destruction.  He  showed  them  his  own  painting  ofthe  same  scene  and  they  were  enraptured.  They  called  him  a  true  primitive  and  talked  of  the  Dou-  anier  [REDACTED].  On  summer's  evenings,  after  days  of  advising  these  amateur  artists,  talking  about  himself,  bringing  in  a  great  deal  about  Leonardo,  Mr.  Ransome  behaved  as  if  he  had  been  drinking  too  much.  He  boasted,  belabored  his  sons  with  words,  and  then,  from  too  much  excite-  ment,  surrendered  to  self-pity.  It  sud-  denly  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  wasted  his  life.  He  had  seen  this  on  the  face  of  one  stranger  after  another.  You!  they  had  been  thinking.  A  man  who  has  all  the  great  Masters  at  his  fingertips  and  can  summon  from  memory  one  thundering  phrase  after  another-who  would  expect  to  find  you  in  such  a  back-  water,  livingso  humbly?  'You  two,  my  sons,  shall  make  up  for  me,&quot;  he  told  them.  &quot;Then  I  have  not  lived  in  vain.&quot;  &quot;  'I  am  the  teacher  of  athletes,&quot;  &quot;  he  intoned.  &quot;'He  that  by  me  spreads  a  wider  breast  than  my  own  proves  the  width  of  my  own,  He  most  knows  my  style  who  learns  under  it  to  destroy  the  teacher.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;'Yes,  Father,&quot;  said  his  sons.  &quot;Walt  Whitman,&quot;  he  added,  giving  credit  where  credit  was  due.  Lily,  who  had  given  up  working  in  a  shop  to  become  a  laundress,  now  had  Saturday  afternoons  free.  The  full  sig-  nificance  of  this  she  told  Harry  when  they  were  lingering  over,  postponing  from  minute  to  minute,  their  farewell  embrace  in  the  dark  lane  near  her  home.  To  draw  apart  was  so  painful  to  them  that,  as  soon  as  they  attempted  it,  they  suffered  too  much  and  flew  together  again  for  comfort.  &quot;It  must  be  gone  eleven,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Dad's  tongue  will  curdle  the  milk.  But  guess  what,  though.  Did  you  realize?&quot;  &quot;Realize  what?&quot;&quot;  he  mumbled,  and  lifted  her  hair  from  her  shoulders  and  kissed  underneath  it,  along  the  back  of  her  neck,  with  busy  little  nibbling  kisses.  In  acurious  and  contradictory  way,  she  felt  that  he  was  so  intent  on  her  that  she  no  longer  existed.  &quot;Why,  Saturday  afternoons,  of  course,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;You'll  be  free.  Now  I'll  be  free  as  well.&quot;  She  could  not  help  noticing  that  the  kissing  stopped  at  once.  &quot;Well,  you  do  know  weekends  in  the  season  I  have  to  give  Dad  a  hand,&quot;  Harry  said.  &quot;It  isn't  the  season  yet.  We'll  have  a  fortnight  before  that.  I  can  meet  you  any  time  after  dinner.  Sooner  the  bet-  ter,&quot;  she  whispered  and  raised  herself  on  tiptoe  and  put  her  warm  mouth  against  his.  He  was  unhappy  and  she  be-  came  angry.  Say  about  teatime,&quot;  he  suggested.  &quot;Why  not  earlier?&quot;  She  knew,  although  of  course  she  could  not  see,  that  he  was  blushing.  &quot;Ever  since  we  were  little,  Dad's  " b"liked  us  to  be  together  on  Saturday  afternoons.&quot;  &quot;What  for,  pray?&quot;  &quot;Just  to  have  a  quiet  time  together.  It's  a  family  custom.&quot;  Now  she  could  feel  him  blushing.  &quot;If  you  ask  me,  he's  round  the  bend,&quot;  she  said  loudly.  &quot;And  even  if  you  don't  ask  me,  he  is.&quot;  She  pushed  Harry  away  and  began  to  walk  down  the  lane  towards  her  home.  He  followed  her.  &quot;And  so  are  you,&quot;  she  added.  She  did  not  turn  her  head  as  she  spoke,  but  the  words  came  back  to  him  clearly.  &quot;No  wonder  that  girl  Vera  Webster  gave  up  going  out  with  Godfrey.  She  could  see  the  way  the  wind  was  blowing.  'Dad  likes  this'  and  'Dad  likes  that.'  I'm  sick  and  tired  of  Dad,  and  one  of  these  days  I'll  tell  him  so.  'You  and  your  Bawdyleer,  I'll  say,  'you  boring  old'  &quot;-her  voice  rose  and  trembled-&quot;  'codger,'  &quot;  she  cried.  &quot;And  you,  too.&quot;  She  had  reached  her  gate,  and  she  threw  it  open  and  hurried  up  the  path.  &quot;Saturday  teatime,  then?&quot;  he  called  after  her  anxiously.  &quot;Saturday  nothing!&quot;  she  shouted  back,  and  she  lifted  the  latch  and  went  in  boldly  to  face  her  father's  sarcasm.  &quot;You're  in  early  this  morning,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  milkman  hasn't  been  yet.&quot;  HE  next  day,  her  beautiful  anger  had  dissolved.  She  had  enjoyed  it  while  she  indulged  in  it,  but  now  her  words  haunted  and  alarmed  her.  Per-  haps  they  had  meant  the  end  of  Harry's  love  for  her,  and  so  of  all  her  hopes.  Her  future  life  with  him  dissolved:  a  whole  council  house  full  of  daydreams-  trousseau,  wedding  presents,  pots  and  pans,  dainty  supper  dishes,  baby  clothes,  cradle,  even  a  kitten  asleep  on  a  cushion.  She  imagined  Harry  going  to  work  and  then  on  to  his  evening  class,  his  head  tilt,  ed  proudly  back,  the  stain  of  anger  on  his  cheeks.  The  day  after  would  be  Satur-  day,  and  if  it  turned  out  that  he  had  taken  her  at  her  furious  word,  she  could  not  endure  to  go  on  living.  &quot;Not  going  out  with  Harry?&quot;  her  mother  asked  her,  when  Lily  began  to  wash  her  hair  at  the  kitchen  sink  on  Saturday  afternoon.  &quot;I  think  love's  sweet  song  has  run  into  a  few  discords,&quot;  her  father  said.  &quot;Very  hoity-toity  words,  coming  up  the  path  the  night  before  last.&quot;  Lily  poured  a  jug  of  water  over  her  head  and  so  her  tears  were  hidden.,  By  four  o'clock  her  hair  was  quite  dry.  Harry  had  not  come.  She  was     restless  and  felt  herself  watched  by  her  mother  and  father.  Soon  she  decided  that  there  was,  after  all,  nothing  to  stop  her  walking  along  the  towing  path  for  a  breath  of  fresh  air.  It  was  a  public  way  and  there  was  no  one  who  could  stop  her.  It  would  be  a  sorry  thing  if,  just  because  of  Harry  Ransome,  she  could  never  walk  along  the  riverbank  again.  It  was  a  bright  and  blowy  evening.  She  met  no  one.  At  every  bend  in  the  lane,  she  expected  to  see  Harry  come  hastening,  full  of  apologies,  towards  her.  Then  she  came  to  the  river  and  still  no  one  was  in  sight.  The  water  was  high,  after  the  winter's  rain,  and  flowed  fast,  covered  with  bubbles,  bearing  away  scum  and  twigs  and  last  year's  leaves.  The  sound  and  look  of  it  completed  her  depression.  With  her  head  turned  towards  the  river  and  not  in  the  direction  of  the  cottage,  she  walked  along  the  lock-  side.  She  went  on  beyond  it  a  little  way  and  then  turned  and  sauntered  back.  The  kitchen  window  was  dark,  but  from  the  parlor  a  light  fell  faintly  through  the  wooden  shutters,  which  had  been  drawn  across  the  outside  of  the  window.  This  seemed  quite  strange  to  Lily,  for  it  would  not  be  dark  for  some  hours  to  come,  and  in  all  the  months  she  had  known  Harry  she  had  never  seen  anyone  go  into  the  parlor  except  to  fetch  a  book.  She  remembered  Harry's  shame  and  reluctance  when  she  had  tried  to  make  plans  for  this  afternoon,  and  an  unreasonable  suspicion  overtook  her  that  he  was  in  that  shuttered  room  making  love  to  someone,  that  he  had  known  be-  forehand  that  he  would  be  doing  so,  and,  knowing,  had  gone  on  kissing  Lily-though  he  had  had,  she  admitted,  the  decency  to  blush.  She  stepped  quietly  onto  the  little  plot  of  grass  and  hesitated,  glancing  round  her.  There  was  no  one  in  sight  and  not  a  sound  except  for  the  river.  She  went  softly  across  to  the  win-  dow  and  listened  there,  but  there  was  a  shameful  silence  from  within.  Her  heart  beating  with  great  violence  un-  nerved  her,  and  only  the  extreme  ten-  sion  of  her  jealousy  enabled  her  to  lay  her  hand  on  the  shutter  and  move  it  gently  towards  her.  The  light  in  the  room  was  not  so  very  bright;  but  she  could  see  Mr.  Ransome  facing  her  not  two  yards  away,  stand-  ing  upright  in  a  strange  stiff  pose  with  hand  on  hip  and  one  knee  slightly  bent,  his  beard  jutting  forward  and  his  ex-  pression  fixed.  A  rosy  glowfrom  an  oil-  stove  close  beside  him  fell  over  his  com-  pletely  naked  body.  Their  eyes  met.  His  widened  with  surprise,  Lily's  with  horror.  Then  she  slammed  back  the  shutter  and  leaned  against  it  for  a  moment,  sick  and  trem-  bling.  Through  the  narrow  slit  between  the  shutters  she  had  not  seen  the  two  sons,  sitting  unwillingly  but  dutifully  be-  hind  their  easels.  Terror,  in  any  case,  had  quite  put  the  thought  of  Harry  out  of  her  mind.  She  was  afraid  that  Mr.  Ransome  would  come  leaping  out  of  the  house  after  her  and  chase  her  down  the  towing  path,  naked  and  mad  as  he  was,  shouting  Balzac  and  Voltaire  after  her.  She  summoned  all  her  strength  and  turned  and  ran  across  the  lawn,  as  fast  as  she  could  go,  away  from  the  cottages,  and  her  legs  were  as  heavy  as  lead,  as  if  she  were  running  in  a  nightmare. "