 b"I  WAS  having  lunch  at  the  Faculty  Club  with  Joe  Nordyke,  who  is  the  only  close  friend  I  have  left  from  undergraduate  days.  Twenty-five  years  ago,  as  seniors,  we  roomed  together.  He  stayed  on  for  advanced  work  and  so  did  I.  He  is  head  of  the  Classics  Depart-  ment  now,  and  I  am  Director  of  Ad-  missions.  He  complains  about  the  calibre  of  students,  and  I  complain  about  the  amount  of  mail  I  have  to  handle.  We  love,  respect,  and  put  up  with  each  other.  Despite  the  mounting  pressures,  or  possibly  because  of  them,  my  job  has  grown  more  interesting  with  the  years.  It  is  not  so  easy  to  get  into  college  as  it  used  to  be,  and  there  are  a  lot  of  people,  too  many  people,  trying.  Fathers  bring  their  boys  to  the  office,  and  the  sessions  often  get  to  be  fairly  intense.  Many  an  affectionate  &quot;Johnny&quot;  has  been  con-  ferred  on  me  by  former  classmates  who  used  to  call  me  Madeira,  if  they  spoke  to  me  at  all.  Others  demand  to  know  why  there  is  no  longer  room  in  the  old  college  for  the  Average  Ameri-  can  Boy.  Still  others  are  torn  between  a  craving  to  appear  successful  and  'the  need,  real  or  faked,  to  draw  on  scholar-  ship  funds.  Last  year,  a  [REDACTED]  man  talked  at  length  about  the  frightfulin-  fluences  his  son  had  been  exposed  to  since  birth  and  how  much  the  lad  stood  to  benefit  from  attending  a  fine  New  [REDACTED]  college  like  ours.  With  tradi-  tions.  Before  I  had  a  chance  to  tell  him  that  on  the  basis  of  all  the  available  data  the  boy  appeared  to  be  superbly  quali-  fied  and  we  had,  in  fact,  already  de-  cided  on  admission,  he  offered  me  an  outright  bribe  of  five  thousand  dollars.  Joe  said,  &quot;Our  president  has  been  having  a  house  guest.  Old  friend  of  yours.  Don  Bromley.&quot;  &quot;Oh?&quot;  I  said.  Then  added,  think-  ing  how  absurd  that  after  twenty-five  years  I  should  still  have  to  make  a  small  effort  to  sound  casual,  &quot;And  Mrs.  Bromley?&quot;  &quot;No.  Just  Don.  He'sbeen  in  the  Old  Man's  office  all  morning.  Some  kind  of  stupendous  deal  cooking.  Billions  of  dollars.  Whole  new  School  of  Industrial  Relations.  Or  something.  One  of  Don's  clients  appears  to  have  seen  the  light.  A  baby-food  baron?  Hair  tonic?  I  for-  get.  You  can  bet  there  won't  be  a  dime  in  it  for  Classics.  Still,  it  was  nice  of  Don  to-  I  don't  suppose  we'll  get  to  see  him,  you  and  I.  Flew  up  here  in  his  own  air-  plane.  T  win-engined  Cessna.&quot;  DON  had  not  belonged  to  either  of  the  two  distinct  groups  of  friends  I  had  as  an  undergraduate.  The  first  consisted  of  Joe  Nordyke  and  one  other  bemused  classics  major,  while  the  sec-  ond  included  about  half  of  the  wrestling  team.  Both  groups  were  light-years  re-  moved  from  the  jeunesse  dor\xc3\xa9e  that  Don  went  around  with.  I  could  not  then  and  I  cannot  now  see  how  he  found  time  to  do  thethings  he  did.  He  made  Phi  Beta  Kappa  in  his  junior  year.  He  ran  a  signed  column  in  the  campus  newspaper.  He  was  a  wheel  in  the  Dramatics  Society  and  managed  the  football  team.  I  don't  believe  we  were  so  much  as  nodding  acquaintances  until  our  third  year.  I  thought  of  him,  when  I  did,  primarily  as  the  owner  of  a  red  Chrysler  convertible.  The  first  talk  we  ever  had  was  in  the  wrestling  room.  Don  had  come  down  there  with  the  notion  of  scaring  up  material  for  a  column  about  one  of  the  obscure  teams.  His  idea,  a  strange  one  forthe  man  about  to  take  over  as  football  manager,  was  that  too  much  attention  had  been  lavished  on  the  major  sports.  He  found  me  alone,  the  others  having  taken  off  to  the  showers.  I  was  trying  to  make  weight,  in  one  of  those  putrid  rubber  shirts.  Don  squatted  on  the  edge  ofthe  big  mat,  and  we  talked  for  an  hour  or  more.  I  showed  him  how  to  apply  a  windmill  hip  lock.  He  told  me  he  was  worried  about  how  to  keep  Telford,  our  best  halfback,  in  college  for  senior  year.  Telford's  family  had  run  out  of  money.  &quot;I  may  have  to  put  the  arm  on  some  alumnus,&quot;  he  said.  And  that  is  just  what  he  did,  as  it  turned  out.  He  wrote  a  splendid  column  on  the  wrestling  team,  with  the  result  that  at  the  next  meet  we  played  to  a  gallery  of  thirty  or  so,  instead  of  the  usual  six  or  eight.  Don  himself  came  and  brought  a  girl  from  out  of  town,  an  exceedingly  pretty  girl,  too,  as  I  recall.  But  the  girl  who  made  me  really  wish,  for  the  first  time  in  my  life,  that  I  were  someone  else,  someone  like  Don  Bromley,  was  the  one  he  brought  to  our  Spring  Dance.  I  had  never  seen  a  girl  like  that,  and  I  contrived  all  my  movements  so  I  would  not  have  to  take  my  eyes  off  her.  This  was  not  so  hard  as  it  sounds.  She  was  scarcely  ever  away  from  the  dance  floor,  and  I  could  worship  her  from  any  number  of  vantage  points.  I  had  not  brought  a  girl  of  my  own.  Come  to  think  of  it,  I  didn't  have  a  girl  of  my  own.  After  along,  unconscionably  long,  waltz  that  she  danced  with  Don,  he  left  her  and  went  to  the  washroom.  I  followed  him,  hoping  perhaps  he  would  offer  to  introduce  her.  We  had  just  had  a  chance  to  say  hello  when  Coley  Frahn  burst  in  and  headed  straightfor  Don.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That  God-  damned  call  girl  Hank  brought.  She's  all  liquored  up  and  yelling  her  fool  head  off.  We  got  to  get  her  away  from  here-and  now.  Before  she  gets  out  on  the  floor  and  does  a  strip.  Hank's  plas-  tered,  too.  No  shape  todrive.  We  got  to  get  her  the  hell  out  of  here.  I  can't  handle  her.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  they?&quot;  Coley  pointed  toward  the  ceiling  with  his  thumb.  &quot;I'll  take  a  look,&quot;  Don  said.  &quot;Keep  your  shirt  on.&quot;  They  left  together,  and  I  wandered  back  to  the  floor  to  search  for  the  girl  I  loved.  She  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  I  was  consoling  myself  with  some  non-alcoholic  punch  when  Don  came  down.  He  took  me  by  the  elbow  and  steered  me  to  a  corner.  &quot;Look,  Madeira,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  stag,  aren't  [REDACTED];  He  noticed  things  like  that.  &quot;Can  you  do  me  abig  favor?  That  girl  of  Hank's  is  worse  than  Coley  said.  I've  got  to  drive  her  back  to  the  city.  Or  wherever  she's  willing  to  be  dumped.  Can  you  look  after  my  girl  while  I'm  gone?  I'll  be  back  as  soon  as  possible.  She's  really  very  nice.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Be  glad  to.  Cer-  tainly,&quot;  &quot;I've  explained  to  her.&quot;  He  led  me  to  the  Music  Room,  where  Abby  Hill  was  waiting,  and  introduced  us.  &quot;Don't  be  gone  long,&quot;  she  said.  She  kept  her  head  turned  toward  " b"him  until  he  was  out  of  the  room,  and  then  said,  &quot;Do  you  mind  if  we  don't  dance  for  a  while?  That  waltz  made  me  sort  of  dizzy.  I'd  love  to  take  a  little  walk,  if  you  would.&quot;  It  turned  into  quite  a  long  walk.  The  air  was  warm,  but  a  heavy  fog  had  moved  in  on  the  campus  and  dimmed  the  lines  of  all  the  familiar  trees  and  benches.  I  have  no  idea  if  Abby  Hill  knew  how  beautiful  she  was  that  night.  But  she  may  perhaps  have  no-  ticed  how  she  was  likely  to  affect  young  men  of  a  certain  kind,  because  she  took  the  lead  in  such  talking  as  we  did.  &quot;What  are  you  studying  to  be?&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  be  an  archeologist.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  how  lovely.  Don  says  he's  going  into  politics.  My  fatherthinks  he  ought  to  get  through  law  school  first.  My  father  says  if  you  lose  an  election,  you  need  something  to  fall  back  on.  He  says  there's  no  longer  much  room  for  a  gentleman  in  politics.  Do  you  think  there  is?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Not  in  my  home  precinct,  probably.  But  I've  heard  the  Governor  is.  A  gentleman,  I  mean.  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;I'll  tell  him,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He'll  be  *  flattered.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  him?&quot;  &quot;He's  my  father.&quot;  Abby  Hill,  I  thought.  Governor  Hill.  Of  course,  I  felt  stupid.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  be?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Somebody's  wife.  Somebody's  ter-  rible  wife.  I'll  do  all  the  wrong  things  for  the  children.&quot;  You've  never  done  a  wrong  thing  in  your  life,  I  thought.  Nor  ever  will.  If  I  could  only  remember  the  lines  in  that  poem  and  say  them  as  my  instructor  in  Freshman  English  had:  &quot;Now  slides  the  silent  meteor  on,  and  leaves  a  shin-  ing  furrow,  as  thy  thoughts  in  me.&quot;  And  something  about  a  gold  fin  in  a  porphyry  font.  If  I  could  just  think  of  the  right  things  to  say,  I  thought,  she  would  love  me,  and  I  would  never  trouble  God  with  another  praver,  not  one.  We  went  back  and  drank  two  glasses  of  the  lousy  punch,  and  people  started  dancing  with  her.  She  passed  from  hand  to  hand  until  Don  came  back.  I  asked  him  if  things  had  worked  out  all  right  with  Hank's  lady,  and  he  made  a  circle  with  his  thumb  and  forefinger.  No  ques-  tion  about  it,  Don  could  certainly  fix  things,  even  then.  NEVER  saw  Abby  Hill  again,  and  I  never  became  an  archeologist.  I  worked  for  my  degrees,  I  taught  a  little,  I  held  down  a  series  of  jobs  in  the  Admissions  Office.  Shortly  before  Pearl Harbor,  the  Air  Force  made  me  goon  active  dutywith  my  R.O.T.C.  com-  mission,  and  that  lasted  four  years,  al-  most  to  the  day.  Two  of  those  years  were  spent  in  the  Pentagon,  where  I  shuffled  papers  and  large  rectangular  pieces  of  cardboard  for  the  Assistant  Chief  of  Air  Staff,  Personnel.  It  was  there  that  I  first  began  to  be  called  Johnny  by  a  number  of  men  who  remembered  that  they  had  always  thought  well  of  me  at  college.  The  of-  fice  of  theAssistant  Chief  of  Air  Staff,  Personnel,  was  afine  place  to  arrange  for  various  changes  of  status,  transfers,  and  the  like.  Coley  Frahn  had  dis-  covered  me  and  spread  the  glad  tidings.  Coley  was  in  the  Navy,  had  a  job  something  like  mine,  and  I  could  almost  gauge  an  old  college  friend's  current  station  in  life  by  the  urgency  in  Coley's  voice  over  the  phone.  It  could  be  assumed  that  Don  had  made  outex-  traordinarily  well  when  Coley,  instead  of  ringing  up,  came  all  the  way  across  the  Potomac  to  my  desk.  Coley  seemed  astonished  that  I  had  not  heard  of  Don  in  theten  years  since  graduation.  But  then,  he  noted,  Don  was  not  the  kind  to  write  into  the  Alumni  Bulletin.  Not  that  the  boy  didn't  have  plenty  to  write  about.  Hadn't  I  really  ever  heard  of  Donald  Bromley  Associates?  No,  it  wasn't  an  advertising  agency.  Nor  even  a  public-  relations  firm,  exactly.  What  Don  did  was,  well,  it's  hard  to  describe.  He  took  personages  and  changed  them  into  personalities,  you  might  say.  Like  this  Karl  Doremus.  Who  ever  heard  of  Karl  Doremus  before  Don  took  over?  Just  another  clown  who  had  made  a  lot  of  money  in  real  estate.  Couldn't  even  talk  English.  Like  [REDACTED].  People  " b"laughed.  Now  look  at  him.  When  he  flies  back  from  [REDACTED],  reporters  meet  him  and  he's  quoted  on  the  front  page  of  the  Times.  A  statesman.  Conditions  on  the  Continent  and  all  that.  Signed  articles  in  all  the  mag-  azines.  Ghosted  by  some  of  the  greatest  writers  in  the  country.  Names  that  even  Doremus  might  have  heard.  Not  that  he  has  anything  to  do  with  them  direct-  ly.  He  just  pays  Don  an  annual  retain-  er-somewhere  in  six  figures,  you  may  be  sure-and  the  rest  is  history.  I'd  be  surprised  to  see  a  list  of  the  people  Don  has  handled.  Coley  wasn't,  he  said  wistfully;  he  had  learnednot  to  be  surprised  byanything  Don  did.  'That  boy  had  talent.  And  justas  important,  he  hadhad  the  advantage  of  a  very  good  start.  In  Coley's  book,  marrying  the  Governor's  daughter  was  as  good  a  start  as  any  he  could  think  of  offhand.  Mind,  he  wasn't  implying  that  Don  had  married  Abby  Hill  for  anything  but  love.  [REDACTED]  girl.  Those  two  had  been  as  crazyabout  each  other  as  any  couple  Coley  knew.  They  have  a  house  in  [REDACTED]  and  a  kid  almost  school  age.  [REDACTED]  boy.  Now,  here  was  the  problem.  Don  had  an  assignment  as  intelligence  of-  ficer  in  a  bomber  group  at  Westover  Field.  They  were  due  for  shipment  in  a  week  or  less.  Don  liked  the  outfit,  liked  the  assignment,  but  he  just  had  to  have  another  month  in  this  country.  It  was  a  matter  of  whipping  his  firm  into  shape  to  operate  on  some  kind  of  basis  in  his  absence.  If  he  couldn't  have  a  month,  he'd  sure  as  hell  have  to  start  all  over  after  the  war.  Officers  have  re-  ceived  hardship  leaves  on  much  flimsier  grounds,  and  all  Don  asked  for  was  a  month.  A  month  from  now,  Coley  thought,  the  outfit  might  still  be  at  Westover.  &quot;Not  at  Westover,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Those  groups  have  all  been  committed.  You  can't  geta  leave  once  your  outfit  is  ready  to  ship.&quot;  &quot;He's  got  to  have  one,&quot;  Coley  said.  &quot;If  you  knew  Don  as  I  do,  you'd  know  it  wasn't  gangplank  fever.  This  office  can  do  it,  if  anybody  can.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  my  level.  It  would  take  a  major  general  to  yank  someone  from  an  outfit  ready  to  take  off  from  West-  over.&quot;  I  was  a  captain.  &quot;'You  tell  him.  I  can't.&quot;  &quot;Is  he  down  here?&quot;  Coley  nodded  sadly,  &quot;On  a  twenty-  four-hour  leave.  Half  of  which  must  be  over.&quot;  He  left,  and  about  an  hour  later  Don  showed  up.  Don  was  a  captain,  too.  He  looked  years  younger  than  Coley,  very  fit;  as  spruce  as  he  had  to  be  but  no  more  so.  He  repeated  the  things  Coley  had  told  me,  and  I  told  him  the  things  I  had  told  Coley.  &quot;What  major  generals  could  do  it?&quot;  he  asked.  I  named  two.  &quot;But  they  wouldn't.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  them?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  even  know  any  buck  gen-  erals.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  thanks,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  they're  in  the  building,  maybe  I  can  get  to  them  somehow,  Look,  Madeira.  I  don't  pretend  this  is  important  to  any-one  but  me  and  a  few  of  the  people  who  work  in  my  shop.  It's  just  that  I  don't  want  to  see  the  whole  opera-  tion  fall  apart.&quot;  After  he  was  gone  I  re-  membered  that  he  had  not  called  me  Johnny.  I  liked  him  for  that,  and  I  wished  I  hadhad  enough  sense  to  warn  him  against  trying  to  get  to  either  of  those  gen-  erals.  I  wished  I  had  at  least  made  it  plainer  that  asking  to  haveyour  name  taken  off  shipment  at  West-  over  was  not  going  to  be  like  getting  rid  of  Hank's  girl,  or  even  like  making  a  statesman  out  of  Karl  Do-  remus.  BOUT  five  weeks  later  Don  called  up  and  asked  me  over  for  a  drink  at  his  apartment  in  the  [REDACTED].  He  had  been  transferred  to  [REDACTED],  he  said,  and  put  on  liaison  work  with  the  British,  I  was  puzzled  enough  to  blurt  out,  &quot;How  did  you  get  off  shipment?&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  too  hard,&quot;  he  said.  That  is  as  much  as  I  have  learned  about  it.  For  some  reason  I  thought  he  had  asked  me  to  have  a  drink  with  him  alone,  but  when  I  got  there  I  found  some  fifteen  people  in  the  room,  among  them  an  Air  Force  brigadier,  a  rear  admiral,  a  sprinkling  of  R.A.F.  brass,  and  half  a  dozen  well-turned-out  wom-  en.  There  were  a  couple  of  civilians.  One  of  them,  a  pink-faced  man  from  Boeing,  held  forth  about  what  the  B-17s  had  just  done  to  the  Focke-Wulf  as-  sembly  plant  at  Marienburg.  &quot;There's  your  daylight  precision  bombing  for  you,&quot;  he  saidto  the  R.A.F.  men  at  large.  &quot;Broad  daylight.  Altitudes  be-  tween  eleven  and  thirteen  thousand.  Not  a  building  ora  hangar  left  un-  damaged.  Two  lost  out  of  a  hundred.&quot;  The  R.A.F.  men  were  rather  more  civilized  than  I  would  have  been  in  their  place.  The  Air  Force  brigadier  said  very  little;  he  already  knew  the  results  of  the  previous  day's  raid  over  Schweinfurt,  where  we  lost  sixty-two  out  of  two  hundred  and  twenty-eight.  The  women  talked  a  lot  but  the  room  was  big  enough  to  hold  it.  Don  had  been  in  the  city  less  than  a  week.  It  was  remarkable  that  he  should  have  been  able  to  arrange  for  a  suite  at  the  [REDACTED],  where  during  the  war  even  single  rooms  for  overnight  guests  had  to  be  reserved  far  in  advance.  " b"Yet  he  held  on  to  that  suite  throughout  his  [REDACTED]  tour  of  duty,  which  lasted  well  over  a  year.  He  entered  it  a  captain  and  left  as  a  lieutenant  colonel  on  his  way  overseas  to  join  General  Spaatz's  staff.  Between  those  dates  he  must  have  given  a  great  many  parties.  I  was  asked  to  four  or  five  myself,  and  always  ac-  cepted  with  pleasure.  After  a  day  with  the  rectangular  cardboards  in  the  Pen-  tagon  I  welcomed  such  amenities  as  the  [REDACTED]  had  to  offer.  Besides  Don's  usual  mixture  of  the  city's  flower  and  chivalry,  I  remember  meeting  Robert  Sherwood  there  and  Vincent  Bendix  and  Jerome  Kern,  all  of  them  good  talkers,  and  a  Supreme  Court  justice  who  kept  spilling  whiskey,  and  a  high-  octane  Free  Frenchman  who  stood  on  a  chaise  longue  to  make  a  speech  about  truffles.  I  remember  Don's  introducing  me  to  an  enormous  man  with  &quot;Here's  Woody  Johnson.  He  can  build  a  ship  in  less  time  than  it  would  take  you  to  translate  an  eclogue.&quot;  I  had  to  explain  to  Mr.  Johnson  about  eclogues;  he  seemed  interested,  a  little.  Some  years  after  the  war  there  was  a  flurry  of  headlines  about  this  Woody  Johnson.  A  magazine  had  published  a  series  devoted  to  his  shipbuilding  em-  pire,  with  particular  attention  to  the  number  of  retired  admirals  who  had  cropped  upon  his  boards  of  directors.  I  was  at  the  long  table  in  the  Faculty  Club  when  one  of  our  sociology  men,  an  inveterate  trend-spotter,  discussed  the  series  to  the  accompaniment  of  many  raised  eyebrows.  He  offered  a  five-dol-  lar  bet  that  there  would  be  no  Con-  gressional  investigation.  And  there  has  not  been,  to  date.  Probably  no  reason  why  there  should  be.  There  are  numerous  gifted  admirals,  easily  capable  of  running  a  shipyard,  and  Johnson  must  have  known  a  good  man  when  he  saw  one.  I  wondered  how  many  of  them  he  had  met  through  Don.  I  thought  about  those  [REDACTED]  parties  again  in  the  barbershop  while  I  was  reading  a  syndicated  chatter  col-  umn  and  came  across  this  item:  &quot;Since  last  week's  Senate  hearings,  the  press  has  not  been  kind  to  Earl  Hughes,  the  big  uranium  man  from  the  wide  open  spaces.  Someone  ought  to  slip  him  the  word.  He's  badly  but  badly  in  need  of  the  Bromley  Touch.&quot;  The  gatherings  at  the  [REDACTED]  had  been  part  of  the  Touch,  then,  as  care-  fully  planned  as  a  sales  campaign  or  the  lilt  of  a  phrase  in  asinging  com-  mercial.  Yet  it  was  hard  to  reconcile  this  notion  with  my  image  of  Don  as  a  host-so  attentive  to  the  lame  ducks  that  turned  up,  so  unaffectedly  easy  with  everyone  there,  so  often  lapsing  into  moods  of  almost  total  detachment.  And  if  the  parties  had  been  planned  as  purely  utilitarian  in  character,  why  had  he  asked  me?  Surely  not  in  payment  for  the  tip  about  the  two  major  generals.  Surely  not  for  auld  lang  syne;  we  had  done  no  reminiscing  to  speak  of.  Whatever  his  reasons,  I  always  went,  always  with  the  fervent  hope  of  meeting  Abby  Hill,  and  at  one  of  the  parties  I  asked  Don  why  she  never  came.  &quot;Abby?&quot;  he  said.  His  face  took  on  that  look  I  can  only  call  detached.  &quot;What  would  she  be  doing  down  here?&quot;  I  went  to  only  one  more  of  those  [REDACTED]  parties,  and  after  that  I  did  not  see  Don  for  about  twelve  years.  ,AT  the  Faculty  Club,  I  said  to  Joe,  &quot;How  long  has  he  been  stopping  with  Meade?&quot;  Dr.  Meade  is  the  presi-  dent  of  our  college.  &quot;'Since  night  before  last.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  he'dlook  me  up.&quot;  &quot;If  he  does,&quot;  said  Joe,  &quot;put  in  a  word  for  Classics.  What  the  hell  do  we  need  a  School  of  Industrial  Relations  for?  I  mean  why  can't  workers  just  go  on  strike  the  way  they  used  to?  If  we  have  no  strikes  at  all  one  year,  the  Rus-  sians  will  only  say  our  people  don't  dare  walk  out.  I'll  let  you  know  if  I  think  of  some  more  good  arguments.&quot;  In  the  middle  of  the  afternoon  I  got  a  call  from  Dr.  Meade.  He  said,  &quot;Here's  an  old  comrade-in-arms  wants  totalk  to  you.&quot;  He  handed  the  phone  to  Don,  who  said  he  would  stop around  if  I  had  a  little  time  for  him.  He  came  over  alone  in  Dr.  Meade's  car.  I  sawhim  park  it,  without  hesi-  tation,  in  one  of  the  reserved  places,  and  again  I  wondered  if  that,  too,  was  part  of  the  Touch.  I  watched  him  walk  up  the  Lindsey  Hall  stairs,  and  at  a  distance  it  seemed  he  had  changed  very  little.  He  had  not  put  on  weight,  and  his  movements  were  brisk.  But  when  he  came  into  the  office,  I  was  somewhat  shocked  to  see  his  face;  no  more,  though,  than  he  must  have  been  to  see  mine.  He  did  not  look  any  older  than  his  years.  It  was  simply  that,  for  the  first  time  since  I'd  known  him,  he  did  not  look  any  younger,  either.  We  talked  about  his  tour  on  Gen-  eral  Spaatz's  staff,  and  about  mine  with  the  Tenth  Air  Force  in  4368696e61.  He  said  he  still  saw  a  few  of  the  people  he  had  served  with.  One  of  them  had  taught  him  to  fly  the  little  Cessna,  but  now  he  was  sorry,  because  he  wasted  a  lot  of  time  tooling  around  in  it.  I  told  him  what  Joe  Nordyke  had  said,  and  helaughed.  He  said,  &quot;Industrial  Relations  it  will  have  to  be,  I'm  afraid.  Worse  than  that,  it  will  have  to  be  named  after  my  stumblebum.  He's  no  baby-food  baron,  you  can  tell  Professor  Nordyke.  Mo-  lybdenum,  with  a  side  interest  in  trac-  tors,  combines,  and  such.  My  next  job  is  to  explain  to  him  why  he  can't  hire  his  own  faculty.  One  of  those.&quot;  I  found  some  rye  in  a  bottle  I  had  almost  forgotten  about,  and  we  had  a  drink.  Don  walked  over  to  the  window.  He  looked  up  at  the  sky.  &quot;That  ceiling  is  coming  down,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  may  not  be  able  to  take  off  tonight.  Say,  if  this  project  does  go  through,  I  hope  they  stick  the  building  somewhere  on  the  other  side.  I  shouldn't  care  to  see  this  spoiled.  'This  looks  nice  from  here.&quot;  I  thought  of  the  weather  closing  in,     " b"and  fog,  and  I  asked  him  how  Abby  was.  He  glanced  at  me  over  his  shoulder,  then  turned  back  toward  the  window.  You  must  not  get  to  see  the  New  York  papers  up  here.  Or  maybe  you  just  missed  the  story.  Abby  killed  herself  five  years  ago.&quot;  Like  an  imbecile,  I  said,  &quot;My  God!  Why?&quot;  Don  continued  looking  out  of  the  window.  &quot;Why?  Good  question.  If  that  ceiling  keeps  coming  down,  we  might  spend  the  night  hashing  it  over.  She  didn't  leave  a  note,  you  see,  so  it's  a  subject  I've  had  to  give  a  certain  amount  of  thought  to.  I'm  full  of  in-  genious  theories.  Governor  Hill  has  a  simple  one:  I  neglected  her.  Too  simple,  you  think?  You'd  be  startled  at  the  number  of  adherents  it  has  ...  notably  my  son  Matt-whom  I  would  like  you  to  meet  this  Saturday.  If  you  can  work  us  in.  Her  psychiatrist,  now-you  may  be  sure  his  theories  were  not  simple  scant,  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  was  a  damn-  fool  question.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  want  to  know  what  her  psychiatrist  had  to  say?  With  all  the  shoptalk  cut  out,  it  seems  she  was  punish-  ing  herself  for  having  yearned  to  kill  me.  Furthermore,  he  observed,  pre-  dominantly  Catholic  countries  have  a  high  homicide  rate  but  very  few  suicides,  while  with  Protestant  countries  it's  the  other  way  around.  And  Abby  was  brought  up  Pres-  byterian.  Still  furthermore,  he's  convinced  I'm  dying  to  kill  myself,  too,  with  all  this  flying  around  the  country.  But  I  don't  holdwith  that.  If  I  were  really  trying,  I  would  certainly  have  bought  a  single-engine  job.&quot;  He  came  back  to  his  chair  and  sat  down.  I  could  not  think  of  anything  to  say,  so  I  poured  him  another  drink.  &quot;Well,  may  I  bring  him  over  here  this  Saturday?  For  lunch?&quot;  Your  boy?  Sure.  Bring  him  over  to  the  house.  My  wife's  a  good  cook.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  no.  Can  you  have  it  with  us  at  the  Tavern?  'This  is  busi-  ness.  He's  applying  here  for  next  fall.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Have  his  papers  been  put  through?&quot;  Don  nodded.  &quot;'They  haven't  come  to  me  yet.  I'll  ask  for  them.&quot;  &quot;Do.  They'll  give  you  a  faint  idea.  The  truth  is,  on  the  basis  ofthat  record  he  couldn't  get  into  the  men's  room  at  Grand  Central.  Matt's  been  kicked  out  of  more  schools  than  youand  I  attended  in  our  lives.  His  present  headmaster  just  gaped  at  me  when  I  breathed  the  name  of  this  establishment.  Maybe  you  will,  *  -  too.  But  I  thought  I'd  have  a  try  at  it  anyway.  I  thought  I'd  bring  Matt  around  on  the  off  chance  you  might  see  in  him  what  I  do.&quot;  &quot;How  did  he  make  out  on  his  College  Boards?&quot;  &quot;Awful.  He  always  louses  upon  ex-  aminations.  That's  what  drives  his  teachers  insane,  the  disparity  between  his  .Q.  and  the  things  he  puts  down  on  those  sheets  of  paper.  It's  a  spectacular  [REDACTED],  as  you'll  see.  Partly  as  a  result  of  it,  he's  never  learned  to  work.  Not  in  school.  Here  he'd  have  his  opportunity,  probably  his  last.  He'll  be  nineteen,  a  ripe  draft  age,  when  he  graduates  next  month.  The  Army  would  finish  him  for  life.  I  know  that.&quot;  &quot;How  can  you  know  that?  Some-  times  it  works  just  the  opposite.&quot;  Don  shook  his  head.  &quot;Not  with  Matt  it  wouldn't.  I  know.  He'd  goldbrick  through  or  he'd  crack.  Either  way,  he'd  be  finished.  I  know.  Matt's  had  a  rough  time.  He's  big  and  he's  handsome  and  brilliant  and  he  doesn't  know  how  to  work.  The  latest  is,  he  wants  to  be  a  writer.  A  serious  writer.  His  word.  Serious.  Matt.  Lordy!&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong  with  that?  'There  must  be  some  writers  who're  big,  hand-  some,  and  brilliant.&quot;  &quot;But  none  that  don't  know  how  to  work.  And  this  is  the  place  where  he  could  learn  how.  This  is  where  I  learned.  I  didn't  know  how,  before.  I  had  to  work  for  Phi  Beta  Kappa.  And  managing  football,  that  was  work.  Matt  can't  even  manage  his  allow-  ance.  Abby  brought  him  up  a  rich  little  boy  and  now  he'sa  rich  big  boy.&quot;  &quot;Wait,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  didn't  skip  any  meals  here,  if  I  remember  right.&quot;  &quot;You  remember  right.  You're  think-  ing  of  the  Chrysler.  When  I  had  that  Chrysler,  my  father  was  drivinga  Ford  with  a  cracked  windshield.  It  wasn't  some  quaint  conceit  of  his.  My  father  hadno  money.  He  wanted  me  to  make  a  splash  here  because  he  thought  it  was  important.  Most  likely  it  wasn't.  But  I  did  what  I  could  to  make  a  splash-I  think  as  much  to  please  him  as  to  please  myself.  Brother  Matt  won't  put  out  to  please  anybody.  At  this  point,  he's  not  even  sure  he  wants  to  be  pleased.  Didn't  you  like  to  travel  when  you  were  a  boy?&quot;  &quot;Not  always.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Idid.  Not  Matt.  Last  month  when  he  had  his  Easter  vacation,  I  took  some  days  off.  Thought  I'd  surprise  him  with  a  trip.  We  flew  the  plane  up  to  [REDACTED],  had  lunch  in  [REDACTED],  dinner  in  [REDACTED].  Saw  a  championship  fight  in  [REDACTED]  on  the  way  down.  We  got  home  about  midnight.  I  had  a  cup  of  coffee  while  he  ate  all  of  a  cold  chicken.  He  gazed  sombrely  at  the  bones.  He  said,  'What's  the  use  of  going  places?  You  can't  get  away  from  your-  self.&quot;  Original.  Profound.  Reeking  with  Weltschmerz.  Then  he  ate  another  chicken,  a  pear,  and  two  bananas.&quot;  &quot;&quot;My  boy  is  beginning  to  eat  like  that.  He's  thirteen.&quot;  &quot;Does  he  also  flunk  physics  and  math?&quot;  &quot;Not  yet.&quot;  Don  walked  back  to  the  window.  &quot;That  ceiling  may  be  lifting  some,&quot;  he  said.  He  looked  at  his  watch.  &quot;I  ought  to  be  chasing  out  to  the  airport.&quot;  &quot;I'd  be  glad  to  drive  you.  My  after-  noon  is  about  over.&quot;  &quot;Thanks  but  I  promised  to  have  a  quick  one  with  the  Meades.  Maybe  I  can  get  Mrs.  Meade  to  put  me  up  a  sandwich.&quot;  I  sawhim  to  the  corridor  through  the  secretary's  office.  He  said,  &quot;Matt's  got  stuff.  If  he  could  just  learn  to  work  here.  All  the  stuffin  the  world.  I  hope  to  Christ  he'll  give  you  half  a  chance  to  see  it  this  Saturday.  I  don't  know  whether  we'll  fly  up  or  not.  If  we  do,  would  your  boy  like  a  spin  around  the  countryside,  you  think?&quot;  After  he  left,  I  wished  he  had  not  made  that  offer.It  smacked  a  bit,  per-  haps  more  than  a  bit,  of  what  the  col-  umnist  might  have  meant  by  the  Brom-  ley  Touch.  In  an  accessof  wariness  I  saw  Don  as  operating  again,  in  a  crafts-  manlike  manner,  at  all  levels:  to  the  President  a  brand-new  School  brought  in  on  a  molybdenum  platter;  to  the  Di-  rector  of  Admissions  a  powurboire  in  the  form  of  an  act  of  kindness  to  his  son.  There  was  one  factor  that  Don,  however  craftsmanlike,  had  not,  could  not  have,  taken  into  account.  Clarence  Meade  was  an  odd  sort  of  president  for  an  American  college.  He  had  never  in-  terfered  in  the  running  of  my  office,  and  he  was  not  apt  to  do  so  in  behalf  of  Matthew  Bromley.  I  asked  my  secretary  for  the  folder  on  the  boy.  She  found  it  in  a  batch  al-  ready  marked  for  letters  of  refusal.I  looked  over  the  record,  and  it  was  just  as  Don  had  said,  awful.  EATHER  kept  the  Bromleys  from  flying  on  Saturday.  They  drove  up  in  a  black  Daimler,  which  quickly  became  a  center  of  interest  in  front  of  the  Tavern.  Matt  would  have  become  a  center  of  interest,  too,  if  we  had  been  a  girls'  college.  He  was  indeed  big  and  handsome,  much  bigger  than  Don.  I'm  used  to  that.  Most  of  the  " b"sons  who  come  to  see  me  are  bigger  than  their  fathers.  Few  of  them,  how-  ever,  possess  the  aplomb  to  ordera  Mar-  tini  beforelunch,  as  Matt  did.  I  could  see  Don  didn't  like  it,  but  he  made  no  comment.  Altogether,  during  those  first  few  minutes,  Don  struck  me  as  hav-  ing  lost  some  of  his  own  aplomb,  and  as  the  lunch  went  on,  this  impression  grew  stronger.  Long  before  the  food  arrived,  Don  had  ceased  to  be  the  Grand  Almoner  with  schools  of  industrial  re-  lations  to  hand  out.  In  a  reversal  that  caught  me  unprepared  and  made  me  lose  my  wariness,  he  began  to  show  all  the  symptoms  of  what  my  assistant  calls  the  Admissions  Office  syndrome,  en-  demic  among  fathers  anxious  for  their  boys  to  make  a  showing.  He  said,  &quot;Dr.  Meade  tells  me  you  have  a  very  good  man  to  teach  Creative  Writing.  I  understand  he  publisheda  fine  novel  last  year.&quot;  &quot;I  read  it,&quot;  Matt  said.  &quot;It  stinks.&quot;  &quot;Well,  now-&quot;  Don  started.  He  turned  to  me.  &quot;Does  it?&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  I  said,  thinking  of  poor  Bill  Parke  and  his  face  the  day  he  silently  handed  me  a  sheet  of  paper.  On  it  was  a  poem  entitled  &quot;Sonnet,&quot;  writ-  ten  by  a  sophomore.  It  had  twenty  lines  and  eight  errors  in  spelling.  'The  boy  had  spelled  &quot;beggar&quot;  with  one  &quot;g&quot;  and  &quot;leg&quot;  with  two.  &quot;It's  taking  liberties  with  the  lan-  guage  to  call  William  Parke  a  very  good  writer,&quot;  said  Matt.  I  asked  whom  he  would  call  a  very  good  writer.  &quot;Any  number  of  other  Williams,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Shakespeare.  Hazlitt.  Blake.  Wycherley.  Yeats.  Even  Faulkner  " b"when  he's  going  good.  And  I  bet  not  one  of  them  ever  took  a  course  in  Crea-  tive  Writing.  Not  one  of  them  tooka  Bachelor's  degree,  either.&quot;  &quot;I  could  get  up  an  equally  imposing  list  of  good  writers  who  have,&quot;  Dcz  said,  mildly.  &quot;Not  in  this  country,  you  couldn't,&quot;  the  boy  said,  not  so  mildly.  &quot;Who  has  written  good  fiction  here  these  last  fifty  years?  Henry  James?  Mark  Twain?  Dreiser?  Anderson?  Fitzgerald?  Hem-  ingway?  Not  a  Bachelor's  degree  in  the  lot.&quot;  He  stopped,  and  glanced  from  Don  to  me.  &quot;My  father  just  kicked  me  under  the  table.  He  thinks  I'm  talking  myself  out  of  this  college.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  a  fool,&quot;  Don  said.  &quot;It  was  an  accident.  I'd  apologize  for  it,  too,  if  you'd  kept  your  feet  where  they  belonged.&quot;  The  boy  flushed.  &quot;You  kicked  me,  all  right.  So  I  guess  I'd  better  stop.&quot;  &quot;Don't  stop,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You're  not  talking  yourself  out  of  this  college.&quot;  I  didn't  want  to  tell  him  so,  but  he  had  just  about  talked  himself  into  it.  I  doubt  if  a  quarter  of  our  entering  fresh-  men  could  identify  Wycherley.  If  Mas-  ter  Bromley  could  only  suppress  his  opinion  of  one  particular  novel,  Bill  Parke  would  love  him.  Matt  looked  at  me.  &quot;I  might  as  well  queer  it  for  fair,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes,  d  like  to  be  admitted  here.  I'd  try  to  pass  my  courses  so  I  could  beat  the  draft  four  years.  Isn't  four  years  enough  to  find  out  whether  you  can  learn  to  write?  I  would  even  take  R.O.T.C.  That  way  I  could  put  in  my  time  as  an  officer  and  a  gent.&quot;  He  turned  to  Don.  &quot;Isn't  that  what  you  want?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  if  you  put  in  your  time  as  a  yardbird,  junior  grade,&quot;  Don  said.  He  was  having  trouble  with  his  voice,  and  he  took  a  deep  breath  to  regain  some  command  of  it.  &quot;What  I  want  is  not  the  point.  Wouldn't  you  want  to  know  a  little  something  before  you  sat  down  to  tell  the  world?  A  little  learning  may  be  a  dangerous  thing  but  it  never  hurt  any  of  the  writers  I've  met.&quot;  &quot;&quot;You  mean  the  ones  you  employ?&quot;  ''Those  or  any  others.&quot;  &quot;But  those  aren't  writers,&quot;  Matt  said,  taking  no  trouble  at  all  to  keep  the  contempt  out  of  his  voice.  &quot;'They're  employees.&quot;  &quot;Because  they  write  for  money?  Look,  chum.  If  someone  is  charitable  enough  to  admit  you  to  a  college  and  if  you're  allowed  to  take  a  course  in  eighteenth-century  literature,  you'll  find  that  Dr.  Johnson  said  no  man  but  a  blockhead  ever  wrote  except  for  mon-  ey.&quot;  Don  had  stopped  eating.  He  seemed  to  have  forgotten  all  about  me.  This  was  between  the  two  of  them.  &quot;I  didn't  have  to  wait  for  college  to  read  that.  As  far  as  I'm  concerned,  it  makes  no  damn  difference  way  people  write.  It's  what  they  write  that  counts.  Don't  forget,  I've  also  read  some  of  the  stuff  you  people  turn  out.&quot;  That  &quot;you  people&quot;  was  not  said  in  contempt.  It  was  charged  clear  through  with  pure  hatred  that  could  not  have  had  anything  to  do  with  writers  orwriting.  &quot;For  a  buck,&quot;  Matt  went  on,  &quot;you'll  tell  a  little  lie.  For  two,  you'll  tell  a  bigger  one.  For  three  .  ..  what  won't  you  do  for  three?  Hell,  those  aren't  writers.&quot;  Then  I  knew  for  sure  Don  had  for-  gotten  all  about  me.  His  face  was  as  white  as  the  boy's  was  flushed.  &quot;And  yet,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;those  non-writers  earned  not  only  their  keep  but  the  money  for  that  pretty  sport  jacket  you're  wear-  ing.  And  the  tie  and  the  shirt  and  the  shoes.&quot;  &quot;I  can  take  them  off,&quot;  Matt  said.  &quot;I  think  I  will.&quot;  &quot;Don't,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  management  here  requires  that  ties  be  worn.&quot;  Don  stared  at  me  as  though  I  had  just  come  into  the  room.  &quot;Sorry,  John.&quot;  He  lit  a  cigarette.  &quot;Is  there  anything  else  you'd  care  to  know  about  the  Bromleys?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  too,  sir,  &quot;I  guess  I  blew  my  top.&quot;  But  it  was  not  much  of  a  lunch  after  that.  We  talked  about  affairs  in  the  Middle  East,  and  Don,  his  face  still  white,  told  me  many  things  I  had  not  known.  79  the  boy  said.  ESTERDAY  I  overruled  the  as-  sistant  who  had  been  about  to  send  Matt  a  letter  of  refusal.  He  will  un-  doubtedly  tell  it  at  the  F  aculty  Club,  and  the  raised-eyebrow  platoon  will  take  it  from  there.  Don  himself,  for  all  I  know,  will  someday  book  it  as  another  case  of  sound  public  relations.  My  wife's  considered  view,  as  expressed  to  me  at  dinner,  is  that  if  Matt  had  not  been  Abby  Hill's  boy,  he  would  still  be  out  looking  for  a  college.  Like  almost  ev-  erybody  else,  I  talk  too  much."