 b"ONE  day  in  the  winter  of  1924,  I arose  from  my  bed  in  the  top  floor  front  room  of  my  home  on  the  edge  of  Rock  Creek  Park  in  Wash-  ington,  D.C.  Although  I  looked  care-  fully  at  my  face  in  the  bathroom  mirror,  I  could  discover  nothing  to  indicate  that  I  needed  a  shave.  It  was  a  little  before  noon.  I  put  on  a  grayish  flannel  union  suit,  a  pair  of  maroon  wool  socks,  blue  garters,  a  white  shirt,  and  a  semi-stiff,  long-pointed  collar  (&quot;will  not  wilt,  shrink,  crack,  or  wrinkle&quot;).  Then  I  looked  over  my  suits.  There  were  two  of  them.  I  could  wear  either  the  brown  double-breasted  herringbone  or  the  sin-  gle-breasted  blue  Cheviot,  I  chose  the  herringbone  and,  to  go  with  it,  a  red-  and-gold  striped  necktie.  I  went  down-  stairs.  Nobody  was  at  home  but  our  Scotch-Irish  housekeeper,  Miss  Anna-  belle,  who  had  been  a  member  of  the  family  since  before  I  was  born.  She  had  breakfast  ready  for  me.  I  had  half  a  grapefruit,  shirred  eggs  and  country  sausage,  and  hot  Sally  Lunn  muffins.  After  I  had  finished  the  eggs  and  sau-  sages  and  two  muffins,  I  split  open  a  third  muffin,  buttered  it,  and  poured  thick,  brown-sugar  syrup  over  it,  and  ate  that.  With  the  meal  I  drank  a  glass  of  milk  and  two  cups  of  coffee.  Miss  [REDACTED]  chattered  cheerfully  as  she  served  me,  and  I  accorded  her  three  or four  monosyllables.  I  then  lit  a  cork-  tipped  Melachrino  cigarette,  stretched,  went  to  the  hall,  and  put  on  my  brown  herringbone  topcoat.  &quot;You  ought  to  wear  your  heavy  overcoat,&quot;  said  Miss  [REDACTED].  I  ignored  her.  The  topcoat  was  brand  new;  I  had  bought  it  the  week  before  at  Woodward  &amp;  Lothrop's  for  twenty-two  dollars  and  fifty  cents.  I  put  on  a  snap-brim  gray  felt  hat,  took  down  my  malacca  walking  stick,  and  started  forthe  office.  I  was  a  reporter  on  the  [REDACTED]  Herald  and  my  sal-  ary  had  recently  been  raised  from  thir-  ty-five  dollars  a  week  to  thirty-seven-  fifty.  I  was  nineteen.  Our  house  was  onPark  Road,  in  the  Mt.  Pleasant  district,  and  was  one  of  a  long  row  of  identical  three-story  brick  houses,  but  since  it  was  the  last  house  in  the  row,  it  had  windows  on  the  side  in-  stead  of  just  at  the  front  and  back.  This  gave  it  an  air  of  distinction  I  appreciated.  On  the  other  hand  the  streetcar  line  was  in  the  opposite  direction  and  so  the  walk  was  that  much  longer-about  six  blocks,  and  all  uphill.  I  badly  needed  a  car  but  couldn't  seem  to  save  much  to-  ward  buying  one.  I  don't  know  where  all  the  money  went.  I  walked,  swinging  my  stick  and  trying  to  stroll,  but  it  was  impossible  to  stroll  up  that  hill.  I  got  off  the  streetcar  at  Fourteenth  and  H  and  strolled  successfully  the  level  block  and  a  half  to  the  building  that  housed  the  Herald,  a  morning  paper,  and  the  Times,an  afternoon  paper.  'They  were  owned  by  William  Randolph  Hearst.  Looking  bored,  I  stepped  into  the  ele-  vator  and  rode  to  the  city  room  on  the  third  floor.  I  had  been  a  reporter  for  two  years  and  was  now  a  general  assignments  man.  My  byline  almost  always  appeared  over  what  I  wrote.  National  news,  such  as  the  happenings  at  the  White  House,  in  Congress,  at  the  Supreme  Court,  and  at  the  various  government  departments,  was  handled  on  the  Her-  ald  and  the  Times  by  the  Hearst  news  services,  Universal  and  International.  Six  or  seven  reporters  covered  the  local  news  of  [REDACTED]  for  the  Herald  and  worked  such  regular  beats  as  police  headquarters,  the  District  Building,  the  Board  of  Education,  and  the  local  courts.  I  had  graduated  from  all  that.  If  a  good  murder  or  a  disastrous  fire  came  along,  I  usually  got  the  assign-  ment.  I  owed  my  success,  though,  chief-  ly  to  what  were  known  as  human  in-  terest  stories.  'These  were  mostly  about  animals.  Ifacat  was  up  a  telephone  pole  and  couldn't  get  down,  if  a  dog  waked  a  family  by  barking  when  it  smelled  smoke,  if  a  baby  hippopotamus  was  born  at  the  zoo,  that  was  my  meat.  Human  interest  stories  could  also  be  about  people,  but  the  people  had  to  be  unfortunate  in  some  way.  I  had  written  a  whole  series  of  stories  on  the  sordid  condition  of  Negro  people  who  lived  in  the  alleys  of  [REDACTED].  They  had  attracted  much  atten-  tion.  With  my  topcoat  still  on,  my  hat  on  the  back  of  my  head,  anoth-  er  Melachrino  in  my  mouth,  and  twirling  my  stick  carelessly,  I  sat  on  the  edge  of  my  desk  in  the  city  room  fora  few  minutes,  chatting  with  some  of  my  colleagues.  Then  the  city  editor  called  me  over  to  his  desk  to  give  me  my  as-  signment  for  the  day.  He  handed  me  a  short  letter  that  had  been  re-  ceived  from  a  manwho  described  himself  as  a  veteran  of  the  World  War.  I  read  the  letter.  He  had  lost  an  arm,  two  legs,  and  both  eyes,  he  said,  and  the  govern-  ment  red  tape  pre-  " b"vented  him  from  getting  a  pension  of  more  than  twelve  dollars  a  month.  He  said  he  was  dictating  the  letter  to  his  buddy,  also  a  veteran,  in  the  hope  that  the  Herald  could  help  him.  He  said  he  and  his  buddy  were  living  in  poverty  in  a  basement  room,  and  gave  the  ad-  dress.  &quot;It's  a  dull  day,&quot;  said  the  city  editor.  &quot;Nothing  stirring  anywhere.  But  we  haven't  had  a  vet  case  in  a  long  time,  and  maybe  you  can  get  a  tear-jerker  out  of  this.  What  do  you  think,  kid?&quot;  I  looked  at  him  coldly,  nodded  with-  out  saying  anything,  shoved  the  letter  in  my  topcoat  pocket,  hooked  my  stick  over  my  arm,  adjusted  my  hat,  and  left  the  city  room.  All  ofus  treated  the  city  editor  that  way.  His  name  was  Bryan  Morse.  He  was  the  former  sportseditor  of  the  Herald  and  also,  as  it  happened,  had  been  my  football  coach  at  Western  High  School  a  few  years  before  he  be-  came  sports  editor.  Soon  after  Hearst  bought  the  papers,  in  the  early  nineteen-  twenties,  a  new  managing  editor  named  H.  H.  Stansbury  had  been  sent  down  from  New  York  to  take  charge  of  the  Herald.  Like  all  new  Hearst  managing  editors  in  those  days,  he  felt  compelled  to  have  a  shakeup,  and  in  the  shakeup  he  had  fired  the  old  city  editor  for  no  conceivable  reason  and  for  some  preposterous  reason  nobody  could  fath-  om  had  made  Bryan  Morse  the  city  edi-  tor.  Morse  was  nervous,  unsure  of  him-  self,  and  unhappy,  and  had  cause  to  be.  He  had  never  had  any  kind  of  newspaper  experience  except  the  couple  of  years  as  sports  editor.  He  had  not  even  been  an  outstanding  sports  editor.  He  was  a  de-  cent  man  who  had  been  a  competent  high-school  football  coach.  He  would  never  have  thought  of  becoming  a  city  editor  if  Stansbury  hadn't  insisted  on  it.  Already  Stansbury  had  begun  to  shun  him,  going  around  him  to  give  his  orders  direct  to  the  assistant  city  editor,  a  pale,  ambitious  young  chap.  He  was  named  Jeff  Keen.  Stansbury  knew  he  had  made  a  mistake  in  the  shakeup  and  showed  it  in  all  kinds  of  ways,  but  he  didn't  want  to  let  Morse  go  back  to  the  sports  department  for  a  while  because  that  would  be  taken  by  his  superiors  in  New  York  as  an  indication  that  he  had  made  a  mistake  in  the  shake-  up.  Jeff  Keen  sat  across  the  desk  from  Morse,  received  instructions  from  Stans-  bury,  made  out  the  assignment  sched-  ule,  handed  it  to  Morse,  and  Morse  wretchedly  went  through  the  motions  of  giving  out  the  assignments  to  the  re-  porters.  Because  he  had  known  me  for  a  long  time  and  we  had  got  along  well  at  Western  High  School,  Morse  seemed  to  hope  for  some  sign  of  sympathy  or  understanding  from  me  and  tried  to  show  that  he  had  a  kindly  feeling  to-  ward  me  by  calling  me  &quot;kid.&quot;  That  was  no  way  to  curry  favor  with  me.  I  got  on  a  streetcar,  and  before  I  reached  the  street  where  McGrath  and  his  buddy  lived  I  had  the  lead,  or  open-  ing,  of  my  story  pretty  well  in  hand.  Laurence  Stallings,  who  had  been  a  copyreader  on  the  Herald  after  the  war,  had,  with  Maxwell  Anderson,  written  the  play  &quot;What  Price  Glory?&quot;  and  I  had  seen  it  on  my  vacation,  which  I  had  spent  in  New  York.  My  lead,  I  thought,  would  be:  What  price  glory?  Two  eyes,  two  legs,  an  arm-$12  a  month.  Huddled  in  an  armchair  in  a  dingy  base-  ment  room  at  No.  1716  Seventeenth  Street  Northwest  is  the  withered  and  battered  frame  ofa  man,  within  it  the  soul  of  a  soldier  clinging  desperately  to  life  with  what's  left  of  the  body  once  known  as  Robert  McGrath,  private,  [REDACTED]  And  that  is  exactly  how  it  was  printed  the  next  morning  in  the  Herald.  I  am  able  to  quote  it  accurately  after  all  these  years  because  it  was  reprinted  early  in  1925  in  a  volume  called  &quot;The  Best  News  Stories  of  1924,&quot;  and  I  still  have  that  volume,.  So,  I  presume,  have  the  hundred-odd  other  reporters  of  that  era  whose  stories  were  reprinted  in  it,  but  I  doubt  if  there  are  many  more  copies  of  it  around.  'The  book  didn't  catch  on.  There  was  no  &quot;Best  News  Stories  of  1925&quot;  or  of  any  year  after  that.  The  buddy  of  the  one-armed,  legless,  and  sightless  veteran  did  most  of  the  talking  when  I  interviewed  them  in  the  basement  room.  I  don't  remember  much  about  him,  but  his  name  is  in  the  story.  It  was  Fred  Birch.  The  veteran  sat  in  an  old,  bent  wicker  chair  and  with  nods  and  grunts  affirmed  what  Birch  said.  I  didn't  listen  carefully  and  made  only  a  few  notes.  The  story,  after  all,  was  already  half  written  in  my  head.  I  only  wanted  a  framework  of  facts  on  which  to  hang  the  garlands  of  my  prose.  I  could  see  at  a  glance  that  they  were  living  in  squalor  and  I  made  a  note  of  that:  squalor.  I  accepted  without  ques-  tion  the  claim  that  government  red  tape  had  prevented  McGrath  from  getting  an  adequate  pension.  The  Herald  was  continually  exposing  and  attacking  gov-  ernment  red  tape  in  news  stories  and  editorials.  Birch  said  he  himself  had  been  in  McGrath's  regiment,  which  was  in  training  in  the  [REDACTED],  when  the  accident  occurred.  I  was  disap-  pointed  to  learn  that  McGrath  hadn't  been  wounded  in  Flanders  or  at  Ch&amp;-  teau-  Thierry,  but  I  rose  above  it.  What  had  happened,  Birch  said,  was  that  in  the  line  of  duty  McGrath  had  been  manning  a  twelve-inch  gun  at  Fort  Mills,  in  the  [REDACTED],  when  it  back-  fired,  injuring  his  kneecap.  Gangrene  had  set  in.  The  &quot;poison,&quot;  asI  called  it  in  my  story,  &quot;gradually  seeped  through  his  veins  and  then  the  doctors  had  more  work  to  do.&quot;  Two  eyes,  two  legs,  an  arm.  The  pension  of  twelve  dollars  a  month  he  was  getting  for  the  original  " b"injury  to  his  knee.  'That  was  enough  for  me.  I  put  away  my  notes  and  shook  hands  with  Birch.  McGrath  flipped  up  his  good  arm,  and  I  shook  that.  I  left  the  basement  room  and  took  a  streetcar  to  Fourteenth  and  F,  where  I  went  into  the  Palace  Theatre  and  saw  an  excellent  picture  in  which  Wallace  Reid  drove  a  Stutz  Bearcat  and  got  the  girl  in  the  end  in  spite  of  her  family's  opposition.  I  then  had  an  oyster  cock-  tail  and  an  oyster  stew  at  Harvey's  on  [REDACTED]  Avenue,  strolled  to  the  office,  and  wrote  my  story.  'The  night  city  editor,  a  tiny,  gloomy  man  named  Fred  Shapiro,  came  over  to  my  desk  after  he  had  read  it  and  slugged  it  for  a  two-column  head  on  page  one,  and  said,  &quot;Mac,  that's  a  lulu,  a  real  lulu.&quot;  I  thanked  him.  I  did  some  rewrite,  waited  up,  as  always,  for  the  first  edition,  and  read  my  story  in  the  city  room,  and  again  at  Childs  while  having  a  late  supper  of  chicken  cro-  quettes  with  cream  sauce,  mashed  pota-  toes,  green  peas,  apple  pie  a  la  mode,  and  coffee.  Then  I  strolled  over  to  the  pressroom  at  police  headquarters,  in  the  District  Building,  drank  some  corn  whiskey  and  fusel  oil  from  a  bottle  some-  body  had  bought  from  a  bootlegger,  and  joined  the  crap  game  that  was  always  going  on.  I  won  four  dollars,  and  went  home,  and  read  my  story  once  more  be-  fore  I  got  to  sleep  around  two  o'clock  that  morning.  When  I  arrived  at  the  office  the  next  afternoon,  there  was  a  note  in  my  box  from  Stansbury  saying,  &quot;*A  crackerjack  of  a  story  this  morning,  Mac.  Keep  up  the  good  work.&quot;  EOPLE  wrote  to  the  Herald  by  the  hundreds  in  the  next  week  or  so,  enclosing  money  and  checks  for  McGrath.  One  of  the  cub  reporters,  a  youth  of  seventeen  whose  name  I  for-  get,  was  given  the  task  of  acknowledg-  ing  them,  turning  the  money  and  checks  over  to  McGrath  and  Birch,  and  writ-  ing  a  daily  story  on  the  situation.  I  had  been  sent  to  Frederick,  [REDACTED],  and  was  living  at  a  hotel  onan  expense  ac-  count  while  I  wrote  daily  stories  about  a  couple  of  unfortunate  young  women  who  had  been  tarred  and  feathered  by  a  small  mob  of  wives.  'The  two  young  women,  as  I  think  I  put  it,  &quot;had  been  accused  of  keeping  clandestine  company  with  the  husbands  in  their  bungalow  on  the  edge  of  town.&quot;  My  stories  about  that  episode  not  only  were  first-page  stuff  for  the  Herald  but  were  put  on  the  wire  by  the  International  News  Service  and  were  printed  on  the  first  pages  of  Hearst  newspapers  all  over  the  country.  I  man-  aged  to  get  hold  of  most  of  these  papers  afterI  got  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  was  able  to  read  my  stories  over  and  over  again.  'Then  one  afternoon  when  I  got  to  the  office,  there  was  a  letter  in  my  box  from  the  Pension  Office.  It  suggested  concisely  and  unemotionally  that  I  might  be  interested  to  know  that  Mc-  Grath  had  indeed  been  injured  by  a  backfiring  gun  while  in  training  in  the  [REDACTED]  in  1917,  had  suffered  second-degree  burns,  and  had  recovered  from  the  injury  after  three  days  of  hos-  pitalization.  Following  that,  he  had  at  a  date  unknown  to  the  Pension  Office  contracted  two  diseases  of  the  kind  I  recognized  as  being  unmention-  able,  had  been  treated  for  them,  discharged  from  the  Army,  and  advised  to  keep  up  the  treat-  ments  at  Army  hospitals  after  his  re-  turn  to  the  United  [REDACTED].  This,  how-  ever,  he  had  failed  to  do.  When,  three  years  afterward,  he  had  been  arrested  in  San  Francisco  as  a  street  beggar,  he  had  been  turned  over  to  a  vet-  erans'  hospital  after  a  police  surgeon  had  examined  him.  By  that  time  he  had  lost  the  sight  of  both  eyes,  owing  to  in-  fection  from  one  of  his  diseases,  and  his  neglect  of  the  other  disease  had  indeed  resulted  in  a  gangrenous  condition,  necessitating  the  amputation  of  both  legs  and  anarm.  Further  treatment  at  the  Army  hospital  had  brought  about  a  satis-  factory  cure,  or  arrestment,  of  both  diseases,  and  he  had  left  the  hospital.  Under  the  pension  regulations,  he  could  not  receive  any  additional  pension  ex-  cept  by  a  special  act  of  Congress.  I  folded  the  letter  and  put  it  in  the  inside  coat  pocket  of  the  blue  Cheviot,  which  I  happened  to  be  wearing  that  day,  told  Bryan  Morse  I  had  a  cold  and  felt  feverish,  left  the  office,  and  walked  around  [REDACTED]  and  its  environs  for  several  hours,  ending  up  at  Hains  Point  on  the  Potomac.  The  public  wave  of  sympathy  for  McGrath  was  working  up  to  its  climax,  which  was  taking  the  form  of  a  tea  that  was  to  be  given  for  his  benefit  at  the  White  House  the  following  day  by  Mrs.  Coolidge.  It  was  to  be  attended  mostly  by  Gold  Star  Mothers  who  had  raised  a  sum  of  money  andhad  asked  Mrs.  Coolidge  to  present  it  personally  to  Mc-  Grath,  but  I  had  been  invited,  and  was  supposed  to  write  the  story  about  it  for  the  Herald.  Sitting  on  a  bench  at  Hains  Point  that  December  afternoon,  I  ex-  amined  the  letter  from  the  Pension  Office  with  care  and  from  every  angle.  It  was  signed  by  a  name  I  was  never  to  forget-J.  Hollister.  After  his  name  he  had  written  simply  &quot;Clerk.&quot;  The  letter  was  evidently  unofficial;  it  appeared  to  have  been  typed  by  Hollister  himself,  rather  than  by  a  typist,  although  it  was  on  Pension  Office  stationery.  It  didn't  express  any  indignation  or,  in  fact,  any  feeling  at  all;  it  was  a  recitation  of  the  facts.  I  tried  to  tell  myself  the  letter  might  be  a  hoax-that  it  might  be  some  little  government  clerk's  idea  of  a  joke  to  make  up  that  rigmarole  and  send  it  to  me.  But  it  was  no  use.  'The  letter  had  the  unmistakable  ring  of  truth.  Would  Hollister  writeother  letters?  To  Stansbury?  'To  Mrs.  Coolidge?  'To  the  Herald's  competitor,  the  Post?  Sudden-  ly  and  sickeningly,  there  at  Hains  Point,  gazing  morosely  out  over  the  icy  Poto-  mac,  I  felt,  in  addition  to  everything  else,  as  if  I  were  very  young.  After  a  while,  I  walked  rapidly  to  the  nearest  streetcar  line.  By  the  time  I  got  home,  I  did  have  a  cold  and  I  did  feel  feverish.  Miss  [REDACTED]  thought  I  ought  to  go  straight  to  bed.  I  agreed  with  her.  I  telephoned  Bryan  Morse  and  told  him  I  seemed  to  have  the  grippe  and  wouldn't  be  able  to  work  the  next  day-that  somebody  else  had  better  be  assigned  to  cover  the  White  House  tea  for  McGrath.  I  suggested  the  cub  re-  porter  who  had  beenhandling  the  Mc-  Grath  contributions.  &quot;'You  sound  bad,  kid,&quot;  said  Morse.  &quot;Don't  you  worry.  Everything  will  be  all  right.&quot;  AND  everything  was  Hollister,  hav-  ing  written  the  one  letter,  ap-  peared  to  be  satisfied.  He  wrote  to  no-  body  else.  After  Mrs.  Coolidge's  tea  (at  which,  according  to  the  cub  reporter's  story,  McGrath  satin  a  wheelchair  and  wept  every  now  and  then)  the  veteran  and  his  buddy  left  [REDACTED]  and  moved  on-I  presume  to  some  other  city.  I  recovered  from  the  grippe  in  a  few  days  and,  little  by  little,  the  sense  of  impending  catastrophe  faded  away.  In  a  month  or  two  I  had  other  things  to  think  about.  Jeff  Keen  had  quit  the  Herald  and  gone  to  work  for  a  paper  in  [REDACTED].  Stansbury  had  made  me  assistant  city  editor  and  my  salary  had  been  raised  to  forty  dollars  a  week. "