 b"WHEN my  great-great-  grandmother,  Mary  Moore,  returned  to  Rockbridge  County,  [REDACTED],  after  being  a  captive  of  the  Indians,  she  was  thirteen  years old,.  Nine  years  later  she  married  a  Presby-  &quot;aly  terian  clergyman,  the  Reverend  Samuel  Brown,  and  began  hav- ing  the  family  that  was  to  represent  to  those  of  her  great-granddaugh-  ters  with  whom  I  was  acquainted  (my  moth-  er  and  her  four  sisters)  a  record  of  achievement  which  probably  would  never  be  equalled  by  anybody  but  which  still  was  something  for  them  to  shoot  at.  She  had  eleven  children,  of  whom  seven  sons  and  two  daughters  lived  to  maturity.  Five  of  the  seven  sons  became  Pres-  byterian  clergymen,  one  became  a  successful  farmer  who  was  a  Pres-  byterian  elder,  and  one  became  a  physician.  One  of  the  daughters  married  a  Presbyterian  clergyman  and  the  other  married  a  physician.  The  first  thing  for  my  mother  and  her  sisters  to  do,  of  course,  was  to  marry  Presbyterian  clergymen.  Their  situa-  tion  in  this  respect  was  favorable.  Their  father  was  a  Doctor  of  Divinity  who  was  a  member  of  the  faculty  of  the  Union  Theological  Seminary  at  Hamp-  den-Sydney,  [REDACTED],  and  they  lived  in  a  house  on  the  campus.  One  after  anoth-  er,  they  married  the  graduates  and  be-  gan  emulating  Mary  Moore  to  the  best  of  their  abilities.  In  the  opinion  of  my  mother  and  her  sisters,  the  next-best  thing  their  sons  could  do  if  they  didn't  become  clergymen  was  to  become  phy-  sicians,  and  if  the  daughters  didn't  marry  clergymen,  the  next-best  thing  they  could  do  was  to  marry  physicians.  To  become  college  professors  was  third  as  a  preferred  career  for  sons  and  for  daughters'  husbands.  If  daughters  didn't  marry  at  all,  teaching  school  was  thought  to  be  the  best  way  out  for  them.  My  mother  considered  journalism  as  a  possibility  for  sons  who  did  not  become  clergymen,  physicians,  or  college  pro-fessors,  This  was  partly  because  my  father  had  for  a  time  been  editor  of  the  Presbyterian  Standard  and  the  Presby-  terian  Quarterly  and  had  been  called  &quot;the  greatest  journalist  the  church  had  produced,&quot;  and  partly  because  his  father's  brother,  my  Great-Uncle  St.  Clair,  was  editor  and  part-owner  of  the  Brooklyn  Daily  Eagle  and  wore  a  mink-lined  overcoat.  The  profes-  sion  of  law  was  not  admired.  The  sisters  were  faithful  readers  of  Dickens'  novels  and  felt  much  as  he  did  about  lawyers.  For  sons  to  become  plain,  substantial  citizens-property-owning  farmers  or  even  businessmen-was  con-  doned  as  long  as  they  also  became  elders  of  Presbyterian  churches  and  helped  handle  the  financial  problems  of  the  churches  and  the  pastors,  But  the  pri-  mary  objective  of  the  sisters  was  to  somehow  propel  their  sons  into  the  Presbyterian  ministry.  A  difficulty  that  lay  in  the  way  of  sons  becoming  clergymen  was  that  men  couldn't  do  that  unless  and  until  they  had  received  what  was  known  as  &quot;the  call.&quot;  They  could  receive  the  call  almost  any  time,  but  they  usu-  ally  got  it,  if  they  were  going  to  get  it  at  all,  about  the  time  they  fin-  ished  preparatory  school  and  were  ready  to  go  to  college.  Sometimes  men  got  it  after  they  had  started  on  some  other  career,  where-  upon  they  had  to  drop  everything  and  start  over,  but  this  was  un-  usual.  Men  could  get  the  call  anyplace,  but  it  always  happened  to  them  when  they  were  is  alone.  They  might  be  out  walking  or  rid-ing  horseback  or  milk-ing  a  cow  or  hunt-  *  U  \xe2\x80\x98  ing  quail  or  paddling  a  canoe  or  doing  their  homework  or  saying  their  evening  prayers.  When  they  got  it,  they  knew  what  it  was.  From  then  on,  they  had  no  doubts  about  what  career  they  were  going  to  follow.  The  call  en-  tailed  a  direct  commu-  nication  between  the  re-  cipient  and  God,  and  it  was  a  private  affair  be-  tween  the  recipient  and  God.  Nobody  knew  much  about  the  precise  nature  of  the  procedure  except  God  and  the  men  who  had  themselves  received  the  call,  and  those  men,  even  if  they  were  a  woman's  father  or  husband  or  brother,  wouldn't  talk  about  it  much  except  in  inexplicit  terms.  They  might  say,  &quot;It  was  then  that  I  got  the  call,&quot;  or  &quot;The  call  came  to  me  at  that  time,&quot;  or  some-  thing  like  that,  but  no  more.In  giv-  ing  them  the  call,  God  evidentlyex-  acted  a  promise  of  secrecy,  for  some  reason  known  only  to  God.  My  Cousin  John  was  the  first  one  of  the  sons  of  those  great-granddaughters  of  Mary  Moore  to  get  the  call.  His  mother,  my  Aunt  Fanny,  was  my  moth-  er's  second-oldest  sister.  The  only  thing  Cousin  John  would  tell  his  mother  or  his  aunts  was  that  he  had  got  it.  Al-  though  his  mother  and  his  aunts  gladly  helped  him  pack  his  grip  and  joyfully  saw  him  off  on  his  journey  to  the  family  clergyman  factory  at  Hampden-Syd-  ney,  they  nevertheless  wished  they  could  know  just  how  the  thing  had  occurred  and  exactly  what  God  had  said  to  him.  He  only  kept  repeating  cheerfully  that" b"he  had  got  the  call.  He  was  raking  leaves  on  the  lawn  of  his  father's  manse  in  Petersburg,  [REDACTED],  when  he  re-  ceived  it.  &quot;It  was  then  that  I  got  the  call,&quot;  he  said.  His  mother  and  my  moth-  er  and  the  other  aunts  felt  that  fuller  information  on  the  subject  might  help  them  know  better  how  to  bring  about  the  issuance  of  calls  by  God  to  all  the  other  sons  in  that  particular  cluster  of  Mary  Moore's  descendants.  Among  them,  the  five  sisters  had  seventeen  sons.  My  mother  was  the  youngest  of  the  sisters  and  hadn't  married  until  she  was  twenty-six.  She  was  twenty-two  years  younger  than  her  oldest  sister  and  twelve  years  younger  than  the  sister  closest  to  her  in  age,  with  the  result  that  by  the  timeher  own  three  sons  were  growing  up  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  in  the  early  nineteen-hundreds,  the  achievements  of  her  sisters  had  been  chalked  up.  Unless  some  very  late  calls  were  issued,  the  record  would  stand  as  it  was,  and  my  mother  didn't  consider  it  an  impressiveone.  When  compared  with  Mary  Moore's  record,  it  was  piddling.  My  mother's  oldest  sister,  Mary,  who  had  married  the  Reverend  Parke  Poindexter  Flournoy,  D.D.,  in  1866,  had  raised  six  sons  and  one  daughter  at  the  manse  in  Bethesda,  [REDACTED],  where  Uncle  Parke  rana  church  and  wrote  essays  and  books  on  theological  subjects.  He  had  a  beautiful  clipped  white  beard.  He  was  a  life  member  of  the  Victoria  Institute  of  [REDACTED]  andhad  twice  received  the  Gunning  Prize  for  his  writings  on  the  history  of  the  Scriptures.  His  best-known  works  were  &quot;The  Search  Light  of  St.  Hippolytus&quot;  (1896),  &quot;New  Light  on  the  New  Testament&quot;  (1903),  and  &quot;''The  Bearing  of  Archeological  and  Historical  Research  Upon  the  New  Testament&quot;  (1913).  Because  Aunt  Mary  had  been  in  poor  health  for  many  years,  the  one  daughter,  the  eldest  of  the  children,  had  taken  over  the  re-  sponsibilities  of  the  household  and  hadn't  married.  Of  the  sons,  not  one  had  got  the  call.  Two  had  become  architects  and  had  designed,  among  other  things,  a  number  of  Presbyterian  churches  in  [REDACTED]  and  Baltimore  and  some  of  the  new  buildings  at  [REDACTED]  and  Lee  University,  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED];  one  had  become  an  authority  on  inter-  national  law  and  was  a  solicitor  in  the  State  Department;  one  had  become  an  engineer  and  was  doing  well  at  it;  one  had  become  a  college  professor  with  a  Ph.D.;  and  one  was  an  invalid.  They  were  all  members  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  but  none  of  them  was  an  elder.  So  much  for  the  Flournoys.  My  Aunt  Fanny,  who  had  married  the  Reverend John  Rosebro,  D.D.,  in  1873,  had  raised  five  sons  and  no  daughters.  Uncle  John  had  been  pastor  of  a  number  of  churches  in  [REDACTED],  and  around  1910  had  a  church  in  [REDACTED].  His  eld-  est  son,  my  Cousin  John,  had,  as  I've  said,  got  the  call,  and  another  son,  my  Cousin  Frank,  had  also  got  the  call,  but  Cousin  Frank's  had  turned  out  to  be  an  Episcopalian  call  and  couldn'tbe  counted.  Of  the  other  three,  onehad  become  a  physician,  one  a  businessman  who  was  not  an  elder,  and  one  a  me-  chanical  engineer  who  was  an  elder.  The  next  sister,  my  Aunt  Em,  had  mar- ried  a  graduate  of  Hampden-Sydney  who  had  chosen  to  follow  an  academic  career  instead  of  a  clerical  one.  He  was  Professor  Addison  Hogue,  Litt.D.-  not  D.D.-of  [REDACTED]  and  Lee,  and  they  hadno  children.  'They  were  my  favorites  among  the  uncles  and  aunts,  but  that  is  neither  here  nor  there.  The  sister  closest  to  my  mother  in  age  was  my  Aunt  Elizabeth,  who  had  mar-  ried  the  Reverend  John  Alexander  Preston,  D.D.,  in  1878.  They  had  raised  two  sons.  One  of  them  had  be-  come  a  lawyer  and  federal-government  official  and  the  other  was  starting  out  as  a  promising  newspaper  reporter  in  At-  lanta,  [REDACTED],  when  he  died  of  typhoid  fever  at  the  age  of  twenty-two.  My  mother  knew  her  sisters  had  done  everything  they  could  think  of  to  get  " b"the  call  for  their  sons.  Their  sons  had  been  carefully  brought  up,  had  learned  the  catechism  and  knew  the  Bible,  had  joined  the  Presbyterian  Church,  and  so  on.  Any  one  of  them,  except  the  one  who  was  an  invalid,  would  havebeen  capable  ofreceiving,  accepting,  and  carrying  out  the  call  if  God  had  issued  it.  She  knew  her  sisters  hadprayed  to  God  that  their  sons  would  get  the  call.  She  knew  that  some  of  the  sons  had  themselves  prayed  to  God,  asking  that  they  be  given  the  call,  and  nothing  had  happened.  They  had  reported  resigned-  ly  that  they  hadn't  got  the  call  and  had  gone  about  the  business  of  becom-  ing  physicians,  college  professors,  archi-  tects,  lawyers,  and  soforth.  In  some  ways,  the  call  system  was  a  comfort  to  my  mother's  sisters  because  it  was  gen-  erally  understood  that,  although  they  might  feel  disappointed,  they  had  no  rea-  son  to  feel  guilty  or  to  blame  their  sons  if  the  sons  didn't  get  the  call.  In  the  final  analysis,  the  issuance  of  the  call,  they  told  themselves,  was  up  to  God.  It  was  God,  they  felt,  who  had  to  take  the  initiative.  Y  mother  wasn't  satisfied  with  the  call  system  and  tried  to  bring  about  its  revision,  or  in  some  manner  get  around  it,  in  the  case  of  her  own  three  sons.  She  was  accustomed  to  tak-  ing  the  initiative  in  things  herself  or,  if  it  was  initiative  of  the  kind  a  woman  couldn'tproperly  take,  seeing  to  it  that  her  husband  or  her  brothers-in-law  or  her  nephews  or  her  sons  took  it.  She  had  a  troubling  suspicion  that  many  of  her  nephews  may  have  got  the  call  and  through  some  lack  of  perception  on  their  part,  or  through  some  kind  of  slipup  in  the  method  by  which  it  was  issued,  the  call  hadn't  registered.  My  father  and  all  theuncles  were  positive  that  couldn't  happen,  and  told  her  so.  They  also  in-  timated  that  women,  even  such  a  wom-  an  as  my  mother,  probably  would  never  fully  understand  the  call  system,  because  it  was  something  entirely  between  men  and  God.  After  all,  no  woman  had  ever  received  a  call  from  God  in  the  Presbyterian  Church.  Nevertheless,  my  mother  asked  God  every  now  and  then,  in  roundabout  ways,  to  change  the  call  system.  One  of  Mary  Moore's  sons  had  written  of  his  mother  that  she  al-  ways  led  the  family  prayers  when  her  husband  was  away  from  home,  and  my  mother  followed  her  example  inthat.  She  would  slip  in  respectful  references  to  the  call  system  on  those  occasions.  &quot;And  in  asking  God's  blessing  on  these  three  sons,&quot;  she  would  say,  &quot;I  ask  also  that  God  enlighten  me  asto  how  best  to  guide  my  sons  into  His  service  in   an  era  when  the  old  established  customs  and  systems  by  which  they  might  be  called  upon  by  the  God  of  their  fathers  to  serve  Him  may  have  been  diminished  in  their  effectiveness  with  the  passage  of  time.&quot;  She  once  impulsively  proposed  to  my  father  that  the  eldest  son  be  sent  to  the  seminary  at  Hampden-Sydney  even  if  he  hadn't  got  the  call,  on  the  ground  that  his  being  there  might  bring  about  its  issuance.  My  father  put  his  foot  down  on  that  proposal,  and  my  mother  didn't  argue,  knowing  that  precedent  was  against  her.  There  were  portraits  of  the  seven  sons  of  Mary  Moore  around  the  house  and  Mother  used  so  study  their  faces  and  urge  her  sons  to  do  the  same.  She  also  read  aloud  to  her  sons,  from  family  records,  the  facts  about  those  seven  sons  of  Mary  Moore.  &quot;'The  Reverend  James  Moore  Brown,  D.D.,&quot;  she  would  read,  &quot;couldn't  go  to  Princeton  Seminary,  where  he  had  intended  to  go  after  he  got  the  call,  but  pursued  his  theological  studies  under  the  Reverend  George  A.  Baxter,  D.D.,  and  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1824.  The  Reverend  Henry  Brown  went  to  Hampden-Sydney  and  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1829.  The  Reverend  Samuel  Brown,  D.D.,  went  to  Princeton  Seminary  and  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1832.  Daniel  Brown  joined  the  Presbyterian  Church  in  1822  and  became  a  ruling  elder  in  1841.  The  Reverend  Joseph  Brown  went  to  Princeton  Seminary  and  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1835.  The  Reverend  Wil-  liam  Brown,  D.D.,  went  to  Princeton  Seminary  and  also  to  Hampden-Sydney  and  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1835.  Luther  Brown  went  to  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  and  became  a  physician  in  1843.&quot;  No  calls  came  through.  And  my  mother's  three  sons  appeared  to  beex-  traordinarily  wavery  about  what  other  careers  to  undertake.  The  oldest  was  at  first  determined  to  become  what  was  called  in  those  days  a  &quot;scientific  farmer&quot;  and  earnestly  attended  the  [REDACTED]  Polytechnic  Institute  at  Blacksburg  with  that  purpose  in  mind,  only  to  wind  up,  after  serving  as  a  lieutenant  ofinfantry  in  the  First  World  War,  as  a  newspaper  editorof  distinction  but  not  an  elder.  The  second  brother,  a  gay  sweet-tem-  pered  lad  who  went  to  dances  when  in  high  school  and  smoked  cigarettes  long  before  he  came  ofage,  quit  the  Uni-  " b"versity  of  [REDACTED]  when  he  was  a  freshman  in  or-  der  to  serve  in  the  war  as  a  naval  aviator.  Afterward  he  decided  to  become  an  industrial  engineer.  To  that  end,  he  studied  at  the  [REDACTED]  Insti-  tute  of  Technology  and  went  to  work  for  the  Grinnell  Sprinkler  Com-  pany  in  Providence.  Then,  at  the  rather  late  age  of  twenty-three,  he  got  the  call.  He  once  told  me  it  had  come  to  him  during  working  hours.  He  was  supposed  to  be  learning  the  sprin-  kler  business  from  the  bottom  up,  and  his  job  at  that  time  was  to  stand  beside  a  conveyor  belt  on  which  small  lengths  of  copper  wire  moved  up  to  him  at  regular  inter-  vals.  He  was  supposed  to  pick  up  each  length  of  wire,  bend  it  a  certain  way,  and  put  it  back  on  the  conveyor  belt.  After  he  got  the  call,  he  fin-  ished  out  the  working  day  and  telephoned  my  mother  that  evening  to  give  her  the  news.  (Like  Mary  Moore's  husband,  my  father  had  died  of  a  heart  attack  at  the  age  of  fifty-two.)  He  then  went  to  the  Union  Theological  Semi-  nary,  which  by  that  time  had  been  moved  to  [REDACTED]  and  was  in  the  charge  of  a  cousin,  and  was  licensed  to  preach  in  1926.  He  had  a  short,  happy  life,  was  the  only  chaplain  in  the  Navy  during  the  Second  World  War  who  had  the  right  to  wear  pilot's  wings,  and,  like  his  father  and  his  great-great-  grandfather,  died  of  a  heart  attack  in  his  early  fifties.  WAS  the  thirdson.  I  was  tenyears  younger  than  the  eldest  brother  and  seven  years  younger  than  the  second  brother,  and  was  thirteen  when  my  father  died,  in  1918.  Before  that,  I  had  thought  not  a  little  about  the  possi-  bility  of  getting  the  call.  I  frequently  came  to  the  conclusion  that  I  was  destined  to  get  it,  that  there  was  not  much  question  about  it.  I  felt  this  way  when  I  was  in  a  lugubrious  frame  of  mind.  'There  was  a  story  that  was  read  aloud  to  me  when  I  was  five  or  six  about  a  boy  who  threatened  to  &quot;go  out  in  the  garden  and  eat  worms.&quot;  I  knew  exactly  how  he  felt,  only  I  would  go  out  in  the  back  yard  and  think  about  getting  the  call.  It  seemed  to  offer  a  solution  to  everything  and  at  the  same  time  an  effective,  though  entirely  acceptable,  method  of  getting  back  at  everybody  and  putting  them  in  their  place.  I  soon  outgrew  this  notion,  just  as  I  had  already  outgrown  earlier  and  absurdly  childish  daydreams  of  getting  back  at  everybody  and  put-  ting  them  in  their  place  simply  by  killing  them.  By  the  time  I  was  fifteen  and  in  my  second  year  at  high  school,  I  no  longer  wanted  to  get  the  call,  but,  when  feeling  lugubrious,  I  suspected  there  was  still  a  chance  that  I  might  get  it.  I  began  to  look  forward  to  this  possi-  bility  with  a  kind  of  dread.  If  I  got  it,  I  felt,  I  would  have  to  accept  it,  The  ideaof  anybody  getting  the  call  and  turning  it  down  was  too  outlandish  to  be  considered.  It  had  just  begun  to  dawn  on  me  that  my  life  was  in  my  hands,  and  I  wanted  to  keep  it  in  my  hands.  &quot;You're  quite  sure,  [REDACTED];  my  mother  would  sometimes  ask  me,  &quot;that  you  haven't     had  a  kind  of  indescribable  feeling  that  your  destiny  is  to  enter  the  pulpit  like  your  father  and  your  forefathers  before  you?&quot;  I  would  tell  her  in  all  truthful-  ness  that  I  hadn't  received  the  call.  The  upshot  was  that,  all  at  once,  it  seemed  to  become  my  desire  not  only  to  fail  to  become  a  clergyman  but  also  to  fail  to  become  a  physician,  a  college  professor,  a  substantial  citizen  who  was  an  elder,  or  even  a  journalist.  I  ran  away  from  my  Presbyterian  home  with-  out  finishing  the  second  year  of  high  school,  and  stayed  away  for  five  months,  supporting  myself  mostly  as  an  appren-  tice  stevedore  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  as  a  night  counterman  in  a  railroad  restaurant  in  St.  Augustine.  I  came  home  only  after  my  mother,  my  older  broth-  ers,  and  those  of  my  uncles  and  aunts  who  were  still  alive  had  agreed  that  I  need  not  go  back  to  school  and  that  I  could  go  to  work.  I  got  a  job  as  an  office  boy  in  the  business  office  of  a  newspaper,  the  [REDACTED]  Herald.  I  was  promoted  fairly  rapidly,  with  raises  in  salary,  to  stockroom  clerk  and  " b"then  to  an  assistant  bookkeeper.  I  took  a  correspondence  course  in  cost  account-  ing  with  the  intention  of  eventually  be-  coming  a  certified  public  accountant.  Nobody  in  any  branch  of  the  family  had  ever  been  a  certified  public  accountant.  I  was  by  then  nearly  seventeen.  I  still  had  a  lingering  fear  that  I  might  unex-  pectedly  getthe  call  and,  like  my  sec-  ond  brother,  would  have  to  turn  around  and  go  to  the  Union  Theological  Semi-  nary.  Even  more  disturbing  than  the  fear  of  getting  the  call  was  the  fact  that  when  I  was  particularly  upset  or  dis-  couraged  by  some  problem  having  to  do  with  my  personal  life,  I  would  dis-  cover  myself  at  least  partly  possessed  by  that  earlier  notion  that  getting  the  call  might,  after  all,  solve  everything.  I  looked  upon  this  feeling  as  a  weakness,  a  tendency  to  give  in.  As  it  happened,  a  brass  rail  became  to  me  a  symbol  of  the  particular  sanc-  tuary  I  appeared  to  be  seeking.  It  was  waist-high,  and  it  enclosed  a  prefer-  ential  space  in  the  business  office  in  which  I  was  employed.  Behind  the  brass rail  were  the  cashier's  cage,  a  counter  at  which  worked  the  comptroller  (a  C.P.A.),  the  desk  at  which  sat  the  pub-  lisher  of  the  newspaper,  and  one  more  desk,  at  which  sat  the  payroll  clerk.  The  payroll  clerk  was  only  a  few  years  older  than  I  was,  and  had  been  an  assistant  bookkeeper  like  me  before  he  got  that  job.  I  was  determined  to  succeed  him  if  he  got  fired  or  quit  or  was  promoted  or  was  the  victim  of  some  disabling  or  fatal  accident.  His  duties  were  to  make  out  the  payroll  sheets  for  the  various  de-  partments  and,  once  a  week,  draw  sev-  eral  thousands  of  dollars  in  cash  from  the  bank  and  stuff  it  into  the  pay  en-  velopes.  If  he  made  a  mistake  and  didn't  come  out  even,  he  had  to  look  into  all  the  envelopes,  discover  where  he  had  made  his  mistake,  and  rectify  it.  It  was  a  tedious  job,  but  it  was  a  position  of  trust,  and  the  desk  at  which  it  was  ac-  complished  was  behind  that  brass  rail.  I  followed  all  the  rules  and  tricks  that  ambition  feeds  on,.  I  worked  overtime  at  night  on  my  ledgers  and  was  never  late  getting  to  the  office  in  the  morning.  When  my  salary  was  raised  from  twenty-five  a  week  to  twenty-sev-  en-fifty,  I  took  advan-  tage  of  the  ceremony  attending  its  announce,  ment  by  the  publisher  to  have  a  short  talk  with  him  about  my  future,  and  I  indicated  my  de-  sire  to  be  payroll  clerk  should  that  post  become  vacant.  That  sameyear,  the  payroll  clerk  was  promoted  to  thejob  of  cashier,  and  I,  with  still  another  raise  in  salary-this  time  to  thirty  dollars  a  week-  moved  to  the  desk  in-  side  the  brass  rail.  Once  there,  I  got  over  my  fear  of  the  call.  My  mother  was  im-  pressed  by  my  industry  and  told  me  she  was  proud  of  me.  &quot;The  ways  of  God  are  indeed  past  finding  out,&quot;  she  said,  and  it  seemed  to  me  she  said  it  in  a  rather  perfunctory  fashion.  In  any  case,  she  stopped  asking  me  if  I  was  sure  I  hadn't  got  the  call.  I  think  this  was  prob-  ably  because  she  had  herself  received  what  amounted  to  a  call  in  a  field  of  endeavor  even  broader  in  scope  than  the  Presbyterian  Church-the  field  of  national  politics.  She  was  inextricably  wrapped  up  in  the  woman's  suffrage  movement,  and  was  on  her  way  to  becoming  a  power  in  the  League  of  Women  Voters,  and  shebe-  lieved  and  stated  publicly  that  any  num-  ber  of  antiquated  systems  she  and  other  members  of  her  sex  had  had  to  put  up  with  were  at  last  on  their  way  out.  She  took  on  an  air  of  secret  self-satisfaction  that  was  characteristic  of  men  who  had  got  the  Presbyterian  call,  and,  like  them,  was  often  carried  away  by  overopti-  mism.  'That  training  in  finance  you  are  receiving,  [REDACTED];  she  said  to  me,  &quot;will  be  of  inestimable  benefit  to  you  if  you  should  someday  become  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.&quot; "