    UNCLE  RUSSELL'S  VEEKENDS  Y  Uncle  Russell  had  always  M  said  that  when  he  retired  from  the  Royal  Navy,  he  intended  to  settle  inland-that  if  one  lived  on  the  coast,  one  had  only  three  directions  in  which  to  take  walks.  His  relatives  had  assumed  from  this  that  he  was  thinking  of  walks  in  the  country,  so  we  were  all  surprised  when,  on  his  retirement,  he  took  a  small  apartment  in  a  [REDACTED]  Ken-  sington  hotel.  He  explained  that  there  were  several  perfectly  good  parks  handy  to  go  walking  in  and  that  by  living  in  [REDACTED]  he  would  see  something  of  his  nieces;  three  of  my  cousins  and  I  were  students  there  at  the  time.  Getting  to  know  Uncle  Russell  (he  was  my  father's  youngest  brother)  was  a  new  and  pleasant  experience  for  me.  During  my  childhood,  he  and  I  had  met  only  at  long  intervals,  when,  on  his  leaves,  he  visited  my  parents,  at  our  house  in  Derbyshire.  He  was  suspicious  of  small  girls,  and  thought  that  the  way  to  keep  them  in  order  was  to  shout  at  them.  (&quot;In  the  Navy,  my  child,  we  don't  say,  'I  don't  know.'  We  say,  'Pl  find  out  !&quot;)  While  I  was  growing  up,  I  was  away  at  boarding  school,  and  my  vacations  and  Uncle  Russell's  did  not  coincide,  so  we  had  not  met  for  several  years  when  I  received  the  first  dinner  invitation  he  sent  me  after  we  had  both  gone  to  live  in  [REDACTED].  I  went,  and  had  a  very  good  time.  Each  of  us  felt,  I  think,  that  age  had  improved  the  other.  Uncle  Russell,  as  I  found  then  and  on  later  meetings,  had  an  appropriate  awareness  of  a  bachelor  uncle's  duties.  He  was  in  his  middle  fifties,  tall  and  heavily  built,  and  had  a  jovial  manner.  He  hadn't  retired  quite  as  early  as  he'd  originally  expected  to.  When  he  reached  retirement  age,  the  Navy  had  offered  him  command  of  an  old  black-and-  white  wooden  warship  anchored  in  the  Thames,  which  the  government  used  as  a  boys'  reformatory.  My  uncle  liked  the  job,  and  stayed  in  it  for  several  years.  One  might  have  supposed  that  his  re-  tirement  would  be  a  disappointment  to  him  after  he  had  looked  forward  to  it  for  so  long,  but  I  think  it  exceeded  his  hopes,  if  anything.  Though  he  wasn't  rich,  he  had  enough  money  to  live  the  way  he  wanted  to  live,  and  to  travel  when  he  felt  so  inclined.  He  had  a  great  many  friends,  with  whom  he  dined,  played  bridge,  sailed  boats,  and  went  to  the  theatre,  and  his  interests  were  varied  enough  so  that  he  wasn't  dependent  on  other  people  for  enjoyment.  He  liked  the   company,  but  he  didn't  mind  being  alone.  My  cousins  and  I,  living  in  student  hostels  and  bed-sitting  rooms,  came  to  look  upon  Uncle  Russell's  [REDACTED]  flat  as  an  anchor.  It  consisted  of  two  connecting  rooms  and  a  tiny  bathroom,  and  what  we  liked  best  about  it  was  its  atmosphere  of  permanence.  In  all  the  years  I  knew  the  place,  its  rather  for-  bidding  dowdiness  was  never  relieved  by  new  slipcovers  or  a  fresh  coat  of  paint.  Sometimes  Uncle  Russell  bought  a  bunch  of  flowers  and  dumped  them  in  a  big  yellow  pitcher  the  hotel  supplied.  The  flowers  would  add  a  touch  of  warmth  and  color,  and  the  maid  would  always  leave  them  just  as  they  were  un-  til  they  died.  There  was  an  air  of  permanence  about  Uncle  Russell,  too,  though  cer-  tainly  no  dowdiness.  He  was  fussy  about  his  appearance.  Like  many  other  naval  officers  released  from  uniform,  he  al-  ways  wore  navy-blue  suits.  He  had  a  whole  wardrobe  of  them.  Every  week-  day  morning  when  Uncle  Russell  was  in  [REDACTED]  (he  travelled  a  good  deal  during  the  spring  and  summer  months,  but  only  then),  he  walked  a  couple  of  miles  through  [REDACTED]  Gardens  and  Hyde  Park  to  his  club,  in  Piccadilly,  where  he  read  the  newspapers  and  an-  swered  his  mail.  In  the  afternoon,  he  sailed,  or  perhaps  took  another  walk.  Evenings,  he  played  bridge  or  went  to  the  theatre,  usually  selecting  a  musical  or  a  revue.  On  one  occasion-it  was  my  birth-  day,  and  I  chose  the  play-he  took  me  to  see  &quot;A  Doll's  House.&quot;  It  was  playing  at  a  theatre  that  backs  onto  the  same  lane  that  Wyndham's  Theatre  backs  on.  During  the  intermission,  Uncle  Russell  left  me  to  go  out  for  a  smoke.  Afterward  he  went,  by  mistake,  into  the  stalls  of  Wyndham's.  Once  there,  he  did  not  try  to  return  to  our  play.  The  curtain  had  already  risen  at  Wynd-  ham's,  revealing,  he  told  me  later,  a  very  pretty  girl  in  a  large,  pink-quilted  bed,  and  it  pleased  him  to  discover  how  much  more  cheerful  everything  was  at  Wyndham's.  I  didn't  see  Uncle  Russell  again  until  after  &quot;A  Doll's  House&quot;  was  over,  when  he  met  me  in  the  foyer.  He  remarked  that  my  taste  in  plays  needed  shaking  up.  |  I  ncLE  RussELL  was  very  generous  with  his  hospitality.  My  cousins  and  I  were  encouraged  to  visit  him'  whenever  we  cared  to,  and  to  bring  our  friends  with  us.  We  sought  his  advice  on  all  sorts  of  topics,  and  took  it  more  often  than  I  think  we  would  have  been   prepared  to  admit.  Uncle  Russell  al-  @a  ways  said  exactly  what  he  thought.  (&quot;'That  was  a  pompous  chap  you  brought  here  last  night.  His  intentions  honorable?&quot;  &quot;Good  heavens,  Uncle  Russell!  Yes,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  as  |-  much.&quot;)  In  return  for  Uncle  Russell's  criti-  |'  cism,  we  felt  free  to  criticize  him.  It  shocked  us  that  a  manwho  had  served  his  country  faithfully  for  most  of  his  |  life  should  now  live  solely  for  pleasure;  we  were,  I'm  afraid,  rather  pompous  ourselves.  We  noticed  that  Uncle  Rus-  sell,  unlike  other  old  people  we  knew,  devoted  none  of  his  time  to  good  works.  He  contributed  to  his  favorite  seamen's  charities,  but  he  didn't  serve  on  com-  mittees,  help  in  fund-raising  drives,  or  belong  to  a  church.  We  sometimes  told  him  that  we  thoughthe  ought  to  em-  ploy  himself  more  usefully  than  he  did,  and  he  entirely  disagreed.  He  said  that  a  great  deal  of  careful  planning  lay  behind  his  present  schedule,  and  that  to  waste  all  those  planning  hours  by  making  changes  would  beextrava-  gant.  (Uncle  Russell's  ideas  about  time  were  quite  odd.  One  cold,  wet  after-  noon,  he  telephoned  and  invited  me  to  go  walking  with  him  in  Kew  Gar-  dens.  I  said,  &quot;I'd  love  to,  but  I  haven't  time.&quot;  &quot;If  you  don't  want  to  come,  say  so,&quot;  he  retorted.  &quot;You've  got  twenty-four  hours  a  day,  just  like  the  rest  of  us.&quot;)  I  seem  to  remember  best  the  occasions  when  Uncle  Russell  was  annoyed  with  me,  though  I  don't  know  why  I  should.  Mostly,  he  was  approving  and  encour-  aging,  and  I  think  he  genuinely  enjoyed  showing  his  nieces  off.  When  our  al-  lowances  from  home  failed  to  meet  the  dress  bills  we  somehow  acquired,  Uncle  Russell  helped  us  out,  and  he  was  always  sending  us  presents  of  plum  cake  and  fruit,  in  the  belief,  probably  correct,  that  when  we  cooked  for  ourselves,  we  didn't  eat  enough.  He  liked  to  know  what  interested  us,  even  when  our  in-  terests  bored  him.  One  time,  we  all  invited  him  to  a  rally  at  [REDACTED]  Uni-  versity  to  hear  a  well-known  preacher  we  admired.  Afterward,  over  tea,  crumpets,  and  strawberry  jam  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  Uncle  Russell  made  fun  of  our  idol,  roaring  with  laughter  at  the  idea  he  had  propounded-that  a  public  confession  of  one's  sins  was  beneficial.  We  began  to  argue,  but  we  were  no  match  for  Uncle  Russell.  He  supported  all  his  arguments  with  Biblical  quota-  tions,  and  he  knew  the  Bible  much  bet-  ter  than  we  did.  His  teasing  didn't  offend  us,  though.  He  was  careful  never  to  hurt  anyone's    feelings.  He  once  became  quite  angry  with  one  of  my  cousins  because  he  thought  she  had  been  carelessin  this  respect  when  she  refused  an  invitation  to  spend  a  week  on  a  friend's  yacht.  My  cousin  said  she  hadn't  got  the  right  clothes,  and  my  uncle  replied  that  from  what  he  had  seen  of  her  clothes,  he  thought  it  unlikely  that  she  had  been  invited  because  of  them.  She  should  re-  member,  he  said,  that  rich  people  needed  friends,  too,  and  that  to  be  willing  to  mix  onlywith  persons  of  humble  bank  deposit  was  discourteous  as  well  as  snob-  bish.  It  was,  I  suppose,  Uncle  Russell's  kindliness  that  made  him  so  attentive  to  various  widowed  ladies  who  wanted  to  marry  him.  He  used  to  meet  them  at  the  bridge  clubs  he  belonged  to,  and  at  the  houses  of  his  friends,  and  he  would  invite  them  to  lunch,  and  escort  them  to  matinées  and  flower  shows.  As  far  as  I  am  aware,  he  never  became  engaged  to  any  of  them,  but  I  don't  believe  they  thought  any  the  less  of  him  for  that.  UNCLE  RussELL  seemed  to  my  cousins  and  me  the  most  uncom-  plex  of  men  until  we  discovered  he  had  a  secret  that  nothing  would  persuade  him  to  divulge.  It  concerned  the  first  weekend  of  every  month,  when  he  went  away,  out  of  town.  He  alwayscaught  the  same  early-Saturday-morning  train  from  Charing  Cross  Station,  wearing  a  freshly  pressed  blue  suit  and  carrying  a  raincoat  and  an  overnight  bag.  He  re-  turned  after  dinner  the  following  eve-  ning.  Whatever  the  reason  for  the  ren-  dezvous,  it  was  extremely  important  to  him;  nothing-not  even  a  vacation  trip  on  the  Continent-was  allowed  to  in-  terfere  with  it.  My  cousins  and  I  supposed  that  Uncle  Russell's  weekendswere  con-  nected  with  one  of  the  widows-one  more  successful  than  the  others.  We  pic-  tured  her  as  calm,  equable,  and  unde-  manding;  an  aura  of  peace  always  en-  veloped  Uncle  Russell  on  these  monthly  departures  and  returns.  On  the  other  hand,  it  was  quite  unlike  him  to  keep  a  widow  stashed  away  in  the  country-  or,  for  that  matter,  anywhere  else.  He  simply  didn't  approve  of  such  things.  And  yet,  we  wondered,  if  he  hadn't  anything  to  hide,  why  didn't  he  tell  us  where  he  went  each  month  and  what  he  did  when  he  got  there?  We  never  actually  asked  Uncle  Rus-  sell  about  his  weekends.  It  wouldn't  have  got  us  anywhere  if  we  had.  In  England,  at  that  time,  it  was  consid-  ered  ill-mannered  to  ask  direct  questions.  We  could,  however,  ask  circui-  tously,  and  set  those  little  conversation-  al  traps  by  means  of  which  the  English  are  so  clever  at  eliciting  information.  With  anybody  as  forthright  and  open  as  Uncle  Russell,  it  should  have  been  easy  to  find  out  what  we  wanted  to  know,  but  it  was  not.  He  sidestepped  all  our  questioning  and  every  one  of  our  traps,  and  he  did  it  in  such  a  way  that  we  couldn't  tell  whether  he  had  more  subtlety  than  we  gave  him  credit  for  or  whether  he  genuinely  didn't  under-  stand  the  questions  we  implied.  We  could  ask  our  parents  about  Uncle  Russell,  and  this  we  did.  My  mother  expressed  surprise  that  I  should  suppose  she  knew  how  her  brother-in-  law  spent  his  weekends;  my  father  didn't  care.  My  cousins'  parents,  ap-  parently  no  better  informed  than  mine,  suggested  that  we  find  out  from  Uncle  Russell;  they  said  we  saw  more  of  him  than  they  did.  During  the  winter  months,  we  did  see  a  lot  of  him.  In  the  spring  and  sum-  mer,  he  went  abroad  on  short  trips  (short  because  he  had  to  be  back  in  [REDACTED]  in  time  for  the  first  weekend  of  the  following  month),  and  we  hardly  saw  him  at  all,  unless  it  was  the  turn  of  one  of  us  to  accompany  him;  he  liked  to  take  a  niece  or  a  godson  along  on  his  travels.  Uncle  Russell's  godsons  were  either  thesons  of  brother-officers  or,  later,  the  children  of  the  delinquent  boys  who  had  served  under  him  on  the  old  black-  and-white  ship.  He  kept  up  with  many  of  the  boys  he  had  known  there.  The  godsons  received  about  twice  as  many  invitations  as  we  nieces  did,  but  this  did  not  create  any  ill  feeling;  we  knew  that  the  discrimination  was  purely  one  of  sex.  I  think  Uncle  Russell  felt  about    travelling  with  one  of  us  the  way  many  people  feel  about  buying  a  puppy-the  female  may  have  more  charm,  but  the  male  is  less  bother.  Taking  a'trip  abroad  with  Uncle  Russell  was  quite  an  exhausting  experi-  ence.  He  preferred  to  visit  places  where  English  was  not  understood,  thus  giving  himself  an  opportunity  to  use  his  smat-  terings  of  French,  German,  and  Italian,  all  three  of  which  he  spoke  loudly  and  without  shame.  This  method  of  com-  munication  was  apt  to  be  slow  as  well  as  noisy.  One  problem  that  sometimes  arose  in  the  smaller  places  in  [REDACTED]  concerned  the  hotels'  interpretation  of  Uncle  Russell's  request  for  rooms.  Uncle  Russell  liked  to  make  reservations  ahead,  and  occasionally  we  would  find  that  one  bedroom  had  been  reserved,  instead  of  the  two  he  had  ordered.  This  would  throw  Uncle  Russell  into  a  panic.  While  the  accompanying  niece,  who  realized  that  the  confusion  was  owing  solely  to  the  host's  wish  to  be  coopera-  tive,  tried  to  explain  what  was  wanted,  Uncle  Russell  would  bang  on  the  reg-  istration  desk,  shouting  &quot;Non,  non!  Ma  niece!&quot;  over  and  over  at  the  agree-  able,  smiling  aubergiste.  We  always  got  our  two  rooms  in  the  end,  of  course  (perhaps  as  a  compromise,  they  usual-  ly  had  a  connecting  door),  but  sort-  ing  out  the  problem  was  tiring  for  everyone.  Apart  from  such  incidents,  holidays  with  Uncle  Russell  were  calm.  He  en-  joyed  looking  at  views  and  visiting  gar-  dens,  but  he  didn't  care  about  picture  galleries  and  cathedrals.  He  was  firm,  however,  about  exposing  us  to  them.  There  can't  be  many  people  who  have  walked  farther  alone  indoors  in  Europe  than  I.  By  the  time  my  cousins  and  I  had  completed  our  studies  in  [REDACTED],  we  were  no  nearer  solving  the  mystery  of  Uncle  Russell's  weekends,  and  although  I  suppose  we  should  have  outgrown  our  curiosity,  we  had  not.  Even  after  the  start  of  the  Second  World  War,  when  he  had  a  job  as  a  Civil  Defense  worker,  his  schedule,  as  far  as  his  monthly  weekend  was  concerned,  re-  mained  the  same.  He  saved  up  all  his  leave  periods,  and  changed  dates  around  with  the  other  men  on  the  post,  so  that  he  could  get  away  when  he  wanted  to.  UNCLE  Russert  died  suddenly,  of  a  heart  attack,  in  the  fall  of  1944.  His  brothers  were  already  dead  and  his  sisters  too  old  to  get  about,  so  there  were  few  people  at  the  funeral,  though  sever-  al  of  his  friends  from  the  reformatory  ship  came,  and  a  couple  of  godsons  who  were  still  too  young  to  be  away  in  the  Navy.  After  the  service,  a  middle-  aged,  pleasant-looking  man  walked  up  to  me  and  introduced  himself.  He  was,  he  told  me,  the  superintendent  of  the  hospital  where  my  uncle  had  for  a  long  time  spent  the  first  weekend  of  every  month,  visiting  the  patients,  reporting  to  them  about  their  families,  and,  if  they  wished,  helping  them  with  their  business  affairs.  The  patients  were  going  to  miss  him  terribly,  the  superintendent  said.  All  those  he  had  visited  were  lep-  ers.  