 b"THE  manwho  sold  our  blue  horse  to  us  said  he  was  gray,  and  so  did  the  rest  of  thepeople  of  Terra  Betinga,  in  Tuscany,  but  they  knew  nothing  about  horses.  They  were  right  when  they  said  Nello  stumbled  and  had  a  few  other  defects,  but  he  was  blue.  And  what's  more,  he  had  a  hunger  for  green.  Anything  green:  blinds,  shut,  ters,  doors,  umbrellas-also  grass,  of  course.  His  love  of  green  came  from  the  fact  that  he  had  always  been  kept  on  a  diet  of  straw.  And  after  we  bought  him,  he  was  kept  on  that  very  same  diet,  in  spite  of  Mother's  protests.  Grass  was  expensive,  my  father  pointed  out.  We  were  surrounded  by  it,  but  all  the  same  grass  was  expensive,  straw  was  cheap;  so  the  horse  had  to  eat  straw,  like  all  the  poorer  horses  in  the  village.  As  for  barley,  that  was  terribly  expensive,  and  Nello  got  two  measures  of  it  every  day  at  noon  and  two  at  night;  then  straw,  to  get  used  to  it.  So  the  color  of  grass  became  a  real  obsession  withhim.  &quot;Look  out!&quot;  my  father  warned  me  every  now  and  then.  &quot;The  horse  is  chewing  on  a  door!&quot;  Or  a  shutter,  or  whatnot.  It  had  come  to  the  point  where  damages  we  had  to  pay  for  chewed-up  doors  were  higher  than  the  price  of  grass,  full  diet,  three  times  a  day.  Nello  was  a  monumental  horse.  I  don't  mean  that  he  was  big  but  that  he  was  made  for  statuary  purposes.  His  head  was  beautiful  and  always  held  erect,  and  he  looked  as  if  he  were  ready  to  believe  anything,  especially  great  and  noble  things  such  as  bronze  men  on  pedestals  in  public  squares  believe.  His  body  was  beautiful,  too;  so  was  his  pos-  ture,  as  long  as  he  stood  still.  When  he  walked  or  trotted-  But  as  I  say,  monu-  ments  were  his  world,  not  the  poor  stable  of  a  country  doctor  like  my  father,  who  cared  more  for  his  books  than  for  his  horse.  The  purchase  of  the  horse  was  a  very  im-  portant  affair;  he  cost  five  thousand  lire,  which  for  the  horse  market  of  Febru-  ary,  1922,  was  quite  high.  We-Father  and  Mother,  my  sister  So-  nia,  my  older  brother  Pippo,  my  younger  brother  Jules-Adrian,  and  I-had  barely  ar-  rived  in  Terra  Betinga  from  another  place  in  Tuscany,  where  we  had  stayed  for  two  years  at  great  sacrifice  of  pride  and  com-  fort,  and  where  Father  needed  oxen  more  often  thanhe  needed  a  horse  to  reach  his  patients,  who  lived  on  the  sides  of  mountains  where  there  weren't  any  roads.  But  the  horse  dealers  of  Terra  Betinga  were  not  sentimental,  and  cared  nothing  at  all  for  the  sad  destiny  of  a  distinguished  family  ruined  by  the  wars  and  the  impact  of  distant  ideologies  on  foreign,  unknown  places  such  as  [REDACTED].  The  horse  dealers  of  Terra  Betinga  were  tough  people,  and  when  they  had  a  horse  that  looked  beautiful  but  was  slow,  uncodperative  (worse  than  a  donkey  inthis  respect),  possessed  of  a  gigantic  hunger,  and  full  of  com-  plexes,  they  tried  to  sell  it  for  the  best  price  they  could  obtain,  to  the  first  fool  that  came  along;  if  that  fool  was  sur-  rounded  and  counselled  by  worse  fools  than  himself,  as  my  father  was  by  the  rest  of  us,  it  was  almost  too  easy.  We  bought  the  horse  because  he  was  Hun-  garian,  a  foreigner  in  4974616c79,  just  like  ourselves,  more  or  less  (though  there  wasno  Hungarian  in  any  of  us,  there  was  a  great  dealof  527573736961n,  which  all  came  from  the  same  source-my  mother),  and  the  Hungarians  we  knew  were  charming,  rich,  and  educated  peo-  ple,  so  the  horse  must  have  something  in  common  with  them,In  fact,  when  my  parents  heard  that  the  horse  was  Hungarian,  they  were  ashamed  of  tak-  ing  such  unfair  advantage  of  the  horse  dealer,  because  they  saw  the  infinite  horizons  of  the  Hungarian  pusztc  around  the  horse,  like  a  great  halo  of  constant  poetry;  they  heard  the  music  of  Hungarian  violinsin  the  trot  of  that   beautiful  animal.  They  also  liked  his  face.  It  was  the  faceof  a  horse  that  has  travelled  and  knows  how  to  behave  among  the  international  set.  Standing  in  the  courtyard  of  the  horse  dealer's  house,  they  tried  German,  French,  Hungarian,  and  527573736961n  words  on  the  horse,  to  see  whether  he  was  intelligent  (instead  of  looking  under  his  gray  wet  lips  to  see  whether  his  teeth  were  clean,  and  so  the  horse  dealer  knew  how  in-  telligent  they  were).  And  if  they  did  not  ask  the  horse  whether  he  knew  the  people  they  knew,  it  was  only  because  they  did  not  want  to  show  off  in  the  presence  of  an  ignorant  horse  dealer.  Whether  or  not  the  horse  could  also  pull  a  light  two-wheeler  was  irrele-  vant;  we  could  do  it  ourselves,  as  we  had  learned  to  do  so  many  other  menial  things  distinguished  people  never  should  have  to  do  if  the  world  were  not  what  it  is.  The  important  thing  was  to  have  the  horse  away  from  that  questionable  environment  and  with  us,  one  of  the  family.  Only,  the  price  was  a  little  too  high,  and  I  remember  that  the  best  ar-  gument  my  father  found  to  persuade  the  horse  dealer  that  he  should  let  him  have  the  horse  for  much  less  was  that,  first  of  all,  greed  does  not  get  you  anywhere.  My  father  said  he  had  seen  greedy  peo-  ple  die  of  tuberculosis  in  a  very  short  time  in  spite  of  all  the  money  they  had  made,  so  why  be  so  attached  to  money?  We  ourselves  were  not  mercenary,  he  said.  If  the  horse  dealer  had  been  buying  the  horse  from  us,  instead  of  the  other  way  around,  we  would  have  shown  him  how  generous  we  could  be;  we  would  have  given  him  the  horse  for  nothing.  We  were  unwilling  to  pay  what  he  was  asking  for  the  horse  solely  because  we  were  obliged  to  practice  various  disagree-  able  economies  in  order  to  reconstruct  the  fam-  ily  fortune  and  leave,  go  back  where  we  be-  longed.  For  this  was  not  our  world;  we  were  not  at  home  here  in  this  small,  faraway  village  with  no  schools  and  no  libraries  and  no  museums.  This  horse  is  my  companion,&quot;  the  horse  dealer  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  I  am  going  to  do  without  him.&quot;  And  so  on.  We  prom-  ised  that  if  we  bought  the  horse  we  would  bring  him  back  to  his  former  home  for  short  visits  now  and  then.  (It  sounded  as  if  we  " b"were  talking  about  the  child  in  a  divorce  case.)  &quot;Do  you  not  feel,&quot;  my  mother  said  to  the  horse  dealer,  &quot;that  we  are,  in  a  manner  of  speaking,  related?  After  all,  we  have  something  in  com-  mon:  we  both  love  the  same  horse.  So  why  bother  about  a  few  more  paper  bank  notes?  Isn't  disease,  isn't  unhappiness,  isn't  death  always  ready  to  take  us?  We  know  something  about  that-we  whose  best,  richest  relatives  have  died  in  [REDACTED].  That's  the  real  reason  why  we  care  nothing  for  money.&quot;  Neither,  it  turned  out,  did  the  horse  dealer.  He  made  it  quite  clear  to  us  that  he  was  not  more  greedy  than  we  were.  &quot;I  will  explain  to  you,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;why  I  need  that  money  more  than  you  do.  You  have  the  wealth  of  knowledge-isn't  that  the  correct  way  to  say  it?&quot;  But,  yes,  of  course  it  was,  we  assured  him.  &quot;You  have  the  wealth  of  knowledge,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;and  I  do  not.&quot;  And  he  swore  that  he  need-  ed  the  money  and  that  he  hated  money-  Did  we  want  to  hear  this  from  someone  else?  Women  were  called,  and  what  they  told  us  about  the  generosity  ofthat  man  made  him  so  lovable  to  us  children  that  we  begged  our  parents  to  be  lenient  with  him  about  the  money.  &quot;Are  you  not  here  for  a  brief  stay  merely?&quot;  asked  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;Well,  then,  this  horse  will  take  you  very  far,&quot;  he  said.  (These  words  were  made  to  sound  symbolical,  and  so  they  were  taken.  Very  far!  How  true.  Yes,  very  far  on  the  way  back  to  our  own  world.)  &quot;Take  my  word  for  it,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer,  &quot;'You  know  the  coun-  try  where  this  horse  comes  from?&quot;  Of  course  we  did.  &quot;And  you  love  it?&quot;  Love  it?  We  almost  gave  him  a  full  descrip-  tion  of  it,  only  there  was  no  time;  the  horse,  he  said,  was  waiting  for  a  deci-  sion.  &quot;You  want  a  horse  with  whom  you  have  something  in  common,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;This  is  the  horse  for  you.  Speak  to  him,  mention  the  names  of  your  Hungarian  friends-  Not  now.  Later,  at  home.  Now  he  is  nervous.  Do  it  to  console  him.  Because  he  is  fond  of  me;  he  does  not  want  to  leave  me.  And,  finally,  you  want  a  horse  with  a  nice,  honest  face?  This  is  your  horse.  I  never  saw  such  a  nice  face.  Look  at  his  eyes.  How  honest  they  are!  And  how young!  My  father  asked,  at  last,  about  the  horse's  teeth.  &quot;Excellent  teeth,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;But  let  me  tell  you  a  story  about  this  horse,  a  story  that  will  reveal  to  you  how  generous  he  is.  And  also  how  young.  Old  horses  lose  their  generosity,  and  I  hope  this  one  won't.  It's  up  to  you.  'This  horse  once  tried  to  rescue  my  son  from  the  hands  ofa  man  who  was  beating  him,  and  the  man  hit  the  poor  horse  in  the  teeth  and  broke  one.  See?  This  one  here.  I  always  show  this  to  my  friends.  It  is  a  mark  of  youth-the  youth  of  the  heart.  Usual-  ly-this  is  strange-people  believe  a  broken  tooth  to  be  a  mark  of  old  age.  And  how  peculiar  that  in  this  case  it  should  be  exactly  the  opposite.  Well,  such  is  life.&quot;  We  children  all  looked  sadly  at  the  teeth  of  the  horse  condemned  to  appear  old  when  he  was  young.  My  father  was  still  skeptical.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  asked  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;Don't  you  believe  me?  Then  nothing  doing!  I  don't  want  my  horse  to  go  to  people  who  cast  doubt  on  his  age.  Poor  foreign  horse,  lost  in  this  country  where  no  one  understands  him  or  believes  him!  I  alone  can,  but  with  me  you  can  never  speak  about  your  country,  my  poor  angel!  Never!  I  know  you  would  want  to,  I  know.  .  .  .&quot;  We  children  had  tears  in  our  eves.  Jules-Adrian  said,  &quot;Papa,  I  will  talk  to  that  horse  every  day.  He  won't  have  to  feel  lonely  any  more.&quot;  &quot;Good  child,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;I,  too,  will  talk  to  him,&quot;  said  Mother,  wiping  her  eyes.  &quot;Well?&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;What  are  you  waiting  for,  then?  Take  him  home,  talkto  him.  He  will  like  it.  He  needs  company.  I  have  no  time  to  talk  to  horses.  I  must  talk  about  horses  all  day  long,  going  from  market  place  to  market  place,  and  when  I  get  home  in  the  evening,  I  realize  I  haven't  spoken  a  single  kind  word  with  my  horse.  Nothing  but  bargaining  all  day  long.  Besides,  people  would  consider  me  crazy  if  I  did.  You  know  how  people  are.  To  most  people  a  horse  is  just  a  means  of  getting  from  one  place  to  thenext;  nothing  else.  'To  me  a  horse  is  my  own  brother  in  Christ,  and  even  if  the  parish  priest  says  a  horse  has  no  soul-  Well,  I  answer  him  one  thing:  He  may  know  more  about  souls  than  I  do,  but  he  does  not  know  my  horse.  I  alone  know  him,  and  know  his  soul.  .  ..  But  I  must  confess,  I  do  treat  him  like  an  animal.  IfI  were  not  so  tired  in  the  evening,  I  would  talk  to  him  for  hours.  I  would  let  people  say  what  they  pleased.  I  never  cared  what  people  said  about  me  anyway.  But  I  am tired,  and     " b"besides  I  am  ignorant.  I  have  rough  manners,  you  see?  My  wife  loves  the  horse,  but  what  can  she  say  to  him  in  the  evening?  I  said  to  her  the  other  day,  'Talk  to  the  poor  animal  while  I  eat  my  dinner.  You  don't  have  to  serve  me.  I  want  you  to  talk  to  that  lost  soul  for  a  moment.  It  will  make  him  feel  good.'  Well,  what  do  you  think  she  said?  She  said  no.  She  said,  'I  don't  want  to  be  laughed  at  by  the  neighbors.&quot;  That's  what  she  said  to  me.  ...  Well,  I  say  one  thing:  If  you  can  talkto  this  poor  horse  in  his  own  language,  there  is  no  telling  what  he  might  do  for  you.  He  hasa  heart  as  large  as  a  house.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  exclaimed  my  father.  &quot;He  has  an  enlarged  heart?  But  that  is  bad.  ...&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;In  actual  size  it  is  as  small  as  the  heart  of  your  child  here.  I  was  speaking  only  in  a  figurative  sense.  It's  full  of  love  for  the  world.  That's  what  I  mean  when  I  say  big.  And  let  me  tell  you  another  thing  about  this  horse.  The  reason  I  didn't  beat  my  wife  for  refusing  to  say  a  few  kind  words  to  this  poor  foreign  horse  is  that  when  she  says,  'The  horse  is  scared  of  me,'  she  is  right.  He  is  afraid  of  her.&quot;  'You  never  told  us  that,&quot;  said  my  father  suspiciously.  &quot;Give  me  time.  I  am  telling  you  now.  You  hear  me,  I  hope.  Nobody  is  compelling  me  to  tell  you  this.  Admit  I  do  it  of  my  own  free  will,  with  no  compulsion,&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  said  my  father,  &quot;but  tell  me  one  more  thing.  Why  is  he  afraidof  her?&quot;  &quot;Look,  my  friend,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;You  know  poor  peasant  folk,  ugly  and  deformed  by  birth?  Well,  she  is  one.  And  she  spends  the  whole  day  washing  bedsheets  in  the  ditches  at  the  side  of  the  road.  You  know  those  big  bedsheets  it  takes  so  long  to  rinse  and  wring  out?  And  you  know  the  ditches,  of  course.  Well,  this  pooranimal  sees  my  wife  beating  the  laundry  on  rocks  and  tossing  it  into  the  air,  and  he  cannot  explain  this  to  himself  and  is  scared.  Very  simple.  But  the  Signora  is  not  a  poor  washerwoman,  and  so  there  is  no  problem.  You  can  let  him  carry  you  in  your  two-Wheclcr,  or  even  a  four-  wheeler,  and  you  will  be  perfectly  safe.  Nothing  will  happen.  So  will  it  be  five  thousand?&quot;  &quot;Wait  a  moment,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;Let's  be  practical.  We-my  husband  and  I-have  greatexperience  in  suffer-  ing  and  losses.  We  lost  everything  in  [REDACTED].  And  also  we  have  had  an  ex-  tremely  hard  time  here.  This  is  not  the  moment  to  tell  you  all  about  our  private  lives,  nor  do  we  know  you  well  enough  to  do  so,  but  as  you  seem  a  kindhearted  person  (the  fact  alone  that  you  own  such  a  horse  and  are  so  fond  of  him  proves  it  beyond  all  doubt)  and  ap-  parently  have  problems  and  worries  (indeed,  who  doesn't?  ),I  will  have  to  step  in  and  use  my  practical  instinct,  with  which  I  have  already  solved  so  many  difficult  situations  in  my  own  family  and  in  the  families  of  countless  other  people,  and  tell  you  that  perhaps  you  can  find  a  solution  to  your  worries  without  heving  to  part  with  your  horse.  Don't  you  have  anything  else  you  might  sell  to  meet  your  obligations?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  asked  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;Ido  want  to  sell  my  horse.  IfI  didn't,  do  you  think  I  would have  bothered  to  come  to  you?  I  am  a  busy  man.  Horses  are  my  business.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  my  mother,  and  she  seemed  very  surprised.  &quot;A  commercial  person,  in  other  words.  Pfuil  And  I  believed  you  were  sorry  to  have  to  sell  your  horse-&quot;  &quot;But  of  course  I  am  sorry.  You  can  ask  my  wife.  She'll  tell  you  I  was  cry-  ing  as  recently  as  last  night-real  tears.  You  should  have  seen  them.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  my  mother,  with  a  sigh  of  relief,  &quot;I  am  glad  to  hear  that  I  was  right  in  my  first  impression.  First  im-  pressions  usually  are  right  with  me.  The  minute  I  saw  you,  I  felt  that  you  were  a  straightforward,  honest  man.  Wheth-  er  you  deal  in  horses  or  in  pigs  makes  no  difference  asfar  as  the  soul  is  concerned.  We  are  all  equals  in  the  essence  of  things.  The  difference  is  moral-that's  where  good  and  evil  lies.&quot;  This  left  everyone  rather  confused.  &quot;What  were  we  saying?&quot;  asked  my  father  after  a  moment.  &quot;I  had  just  asked  you  five  thousand  for  this  horse,&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;To  me  it  seems  a  ridiculous  price.  The  animal  is  worth  at  least  six  thousand.  In  fact,  I  am  sorry  now  I  said  five  thousand  at  all.  I  should  neverhave  said  it.  I  am  always  doing  the  wrong  thing.  Five  " b"thousand  for  a  Hungarian  horse?  Five  thousand,  I  should  say,  for  a  friend,  for  a  brother,  a  person  with  whom  you  can-&quot;  &quot;'The  animal  seems  older  than  you  said,&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;How  much  older?&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  know  exactly,  but  old-  er  than  you  said.&quot;  &quot;True.  And  he  will  be  much  older  if  we  go  on  talking  and  talking,  as  we  are  doing  now.  Time  flies.  You  are  now  buying  a  horse  an  hour  older  than  he  was  when  I  first  showed  him  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Now,  look,&quot;  said  Mother.  &quot;Let's  be  practical  once  more.  What  is  old  age?  A  purely  spiritual  matter.  One  is  as  old  as  one  feels.&quot;  My  father  turned  to  the  horse  and  said,  &quot;And  how  old  do  you  feel?&quot;  The  horse  neighed  and  showed  his  teeth,  lifting  his  head  way  up  in  the  air.  &quot;See?&quot;  said  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;An  old  horse  never  behaves  that  way.  Five  thousand?&quot;  &quot;It  is  a  lot  of  money,&quot;  said  Father.  &quot;'Time  is  money,&quot;  said  Mother,  in  his  ear.  These  wise  words  made  him  yield.  To  save  money,  he  bought  a  horse.  But  the  last  moments  before  we  led  the  horse  away  were  painful,  because  the  horse  dealer  now  seemed  unable  to  part  with  his  horse.  He  kept  saying,  \xc2\xab&quot;My  horse,  my  poor  little  horse.&quot;  Father  also  seemed  of  two  minds  about  the  transaction,  but  Mother,  with  her  sharp  practical  sense,  found  a  solu-  tionat  once.  &quot;Look,&quot;  she  said  to  the  horse  dealer.  &quot;Whatever  you  do  in  life,  you  must  never  say,  'I  am  a  fool  to  be  so  generous.'  I  promise  you  one  thing:  If  by  a  fortunate  chance  (and  you  never  can  tell)  we  should  win  back  our  money  in  the  next  few  weeks,  or  months,  or  even  years,  I  will  give  you  five  thousand  more  'at  once  for  the  horse.  But  even  if  this  is  not  possible  (and  I  must  ask  you  not  to  count  on  these  vague  possibilities;  they  are  dreams,  and  one  must  never,  never  count  on  dreams),  you  can  always  find  comfort  in  the  thought  that  your  horse  is  in  good  hands  and  that  you  canalways  come  and  see  him  any  time  you  feel  like  doing  so.  Come  tomorrow.  Come  for  tea.&quot;  &quot;For  tea?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  need  tea.  I  am  very  well.&quot;  &quot;But  tea,  my  friend,  is  not  a  medi-  cine,  as  you  Italians  always  seem  to  think.  Tea  is  a  drink  one  takes  for  con-  versation.&quot;  &quot;For  what?&quot;  &quot;For  conversation.&quot;  Father  left  at  this  point,  showing  signs  of  impatience,  and  the  horse  dealer  said,  &quot;I  don't  need  tea  to  talk.  I  like  wine.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  then,  we  will  give  you  wine.  Whatever  you  like.  But  please  feel  free  to  come  and  tell  us  all  your  worries.  I  know  how  important  that  is.  We  all  need  it.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  will.  What  time?&quot;  &quot;Four.  No,  wait....  Five.  Yes,  five.&quot;  &quot;At  five  tomorrow,  then,&quot;  he  said.  And  then  he  added,  &quot;You  understand  " b"me.  You  area  person  one  can  talk  with.  Your  husband  isn't  like  that.  He  thinks  everybody  is  dishonest.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  If  you  only  knew  him  bet-  ter,  you  would  never  say  that,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;That  isn't  fair.  He  is  worried,  and  somewhat  pessimistic.  All  Italians  are.  But  you  must  get  to  know  him  better,  and  then  he  will  trust  you.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  something  I  must  tell  you,&quot;  the  horse  dealer  said.  &quot;Something  that  I  could  not  tell  him,  because  he  would  not  have  believed  me.&quot;  &quot;Go  ahead,  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;You  know  how  much  that  horse  loves  me.  Now,  when  he  realizes  that  I  am  not  with  him,  when  he  feels  abandoned  by  the  only  true  friend  he  has  everhad,  I  know  what  is  going  to  hap-  pen.  In  his  unhappiness  he  won't  even  look  where  he  is  going,  and  he  is  likely  to  fall  on  his  knees.&quot;  &quot;We  will  be  with  him,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Don't  worry.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  want  your  husband  to  feel  alarmed  if  this  happens,&quot;  the  horse  dealer  said.  &quot;Wait.  Treat  him  kindly.  And  little  by  little  he  will  get  used  to  the  idea  that  I  am  not  there  to  console  him.&quot;  &quot;Leave  it  to  me,&quot;  Mother  said.  And  they  shook  hands  like  two  conspirators.  My  older  brother  tookhold  of  the  bridle,  and  the  horse  was  led  home  and  triumphantly  domiciled  in  the  stable.  The  next  afternoon,  there  was  a  bottle  of  white  wine  on  the  tea  table  for  the  horse  dealer.  Father  never  drank  tea  with  us.  When  he  was  not  seeing  pa-  tients  or  out  on  calls,  he  read  in  his  study.  But  we  children  were  all  there,  with  Mother  and  a  Swiss  friend  of  our  par-  ents,  whom  we  called  Aunt  Sophia-a  very  thin  and  active  woman,  always  busy  with  banks  and  the  stock  exchange  but  also  interested  in  music  and  litera-  ture.  Mother  told  her  that  we  were  ex-  pecting  a  very  simple  person  for  tea,  and  from  time  to  time  during  the  con-  versation  she  turned  around  and  lifted  thecurtain  to  see  whether  anyone  was  coming  toward  the  house  from  the  gar-  den.  The  conversation  was  not  about  money  or  music  or  literature;  it  was  about  suitable  names  for  the  horse.  AMING  a  horse  is  not  an  easy  matter.  And  especially  a  beauti-  ful  Hungarian  horse  like  ours.  &quot;Drug&quot;  (pronounced  &quot;droog'  and  meaning  &quot;friend&quot;  in  527573736961n)  was  one  of  the  names  we  tried  on  him.  It  did  not  work.  So  we  tried  &quot;Drujok,&quot;  which  means  &quot;little  friend&quot;-or,  in  this  case,  &quot;horsie&quot;-but  that,  too,  left  him  cold.  He  responded  to  &quot;Giorgio,&quot;  like  most  horses  in  Tuscany  (I  later  learned  that  horses  in  the  United  States  do  also),  and,  of  course,     he  responded  to  &quot;Nel-  lo,&quot;  the  name  hebore  on  a  round  metal  orna-  ment  on  his  harness  above  his  right  eye.  But  &quot;Nello&quot;  was  not  ac-  ceptable  to  us.  The  re-  sult  was  that  for  the  seven  years  we  had  him  the  onomastic  question  remained  pending.  Meanwhile,  Moth-  er  discovered  that  her     last  emerald,  which  she  wore  on  a  black  velvet  ribbon  round    her  neck,  was  miss-  ing.  Suspicion  fell  first  on  Maria,  the  fifteen-year-old  maid,  whose  sister  had  been  with  us  prac-  tically  from  the  day  of  her  birth  to  the  day  of  her  marriage,  in  &quot;the  bet-  ter  days.&quot;  Maria  was  asked,  &quot;Did  you  by  any  chance  take  that  green  thing  with  that  small  safety  pin  at-  tached  to  it'  Now,  if  you  did,  you  must  remember  that  in  the  Ten  Com-  mandments  it  says  one  should  never  take  things-it  is  a  sin.  Do  you  know  what  a  sin  is?  Well,  thereare  many,  and  taking  things  that  belong  to  other  people  is  one  of  them.  Besides,  it  is  a  big  sin,  because  that  green  stone  is  very  valuable,  and  we  need  it  very  badly  right  now.  So  if  you  have  it,  give  it  back,  and  we  will  give  you  something  else.&quot;  Of  course,  the  girl  cried  and  said  she  knew  perfectly  well  what  was  a  sin  and  what  wasn't;  she  did  not  have  to  be  told.  And  besides  she  hadn't  seen  the  emer-  ald.  So  she  was  given  a  scolding,  and  sus-  picion  moved  on  to  a  second  person,a  blond  German  girl  who  was  staying  with  us  and  helping  in  the  household  in  exchange  for  Italian  conversation.  In  her  case,  the  questioning  had  to  be  more  tactful.  The  tactful  question  my  mother  asked  her  was  &quot;By  the  way,  Friulein  Frieda,  while  you  were  dusting  the  piano  yesterday,did  you  throw  away  a  green  thing  with  a  small  safetypin  attached  to  it,  that  someone  might  have  placed  here  in  this  porcelain  ashtray?&quot;  &quot;Green  thing?  What  sort  of  a  green  thing?&quot;  &quot;Well,  a  green  stone  that  really  looked  like  nothing  but  was-just  think  of  it-an  emerald,  and  a  fine  one,  too.&quot;  And,  of  course,  the  German  girl  cried  and  protested.  Did  one  imply  she  was  a  thief?  She  was  not  used  to  having  such  accusations  made  to  her;  she  would  leave  that  very  day.  Who  had  said  anything  about  thieves,  my  mother  wanted  to  know.  How  German  of  her,  really!  Indeed,  had  not  that  been  the  reason  for  the  constant  political  misunderstanding  between  Germans  and  527573736961ns  in  the  past?  The  Germans  always  felt  attacked,  believed  they  were  suspected  of  the  worst,  were  insulted,  while  the  527573736961ns  were  al-  ways  unsuspecting  and  outspoken.  It  had  been  merely  a  question,  in  this  par-  ticular  case,  of  a  small,  unimportant  green  stone,  a  mineral,  one  of  the  many  crystals  to  be  found  in  nature,  but  one  that  for  stupid,  unexplainable  reasons  was  regarded  as  precious  by  a  perfectly  stupid  humanity,  and  that  even  intelli-  gent  people  like  ourselves  kept  as  a  precious  possession,  and  were  now  very  glad  to  own,  because  it  might  be  sold  and  the  money  was  needed.  That  was  all.  And,  as  the  emerald  might  have  been  left  in  an  ashtray,  and  as  ashtrays  must  be  emptied  (noone  would  normal-  ly  search  the  ashes  and  cherry  stones  in  ashtrays  for  gold  or,  let's  say,  emer-  alds),  so  it  was  only  natural  for  anyone  to  think  that  if  an  emerald  was  left  in  an  ashtray,  the  person  in  charge  of  cleaning  that  ashtray  might  have  thrown  it  away.  And  if  that  was  what  had  happened-why,  very  good.  It  would  serve  as  a  lesson  to  those  who  leave  their  emeralds  in  ashtrays.  The  thing  to  do  in  such  a  case  was  not  to  cry  and  scrutinize  every  word  that  was  spoken  in  normal  conversation  about  ashtrays  and  household  work  for  offen-  sive  remarks  against  the  Germans  but  to  help  search  the  garbage  can  at  once  to  find  that  silly  little  stone,  if  it  was  not  too  late.  But  now,  the  second  person  likely  to  have  taken  the  emerald  having  been  found  innocent  (and  also  stupid),  the  search  for  culprits  became  more  impor-  tant  than  the  search  for  the  emerald,  because  an  emerald  cannot  be  lost,  Es-  pecially  in  a  house  No  one  has  ever  heard  of  such  a  thing.  When  a  precious  " b"thing  is  lost,  it  is  invariably  stolen.  So  the  doors  and  windows  were  ex-  amined  to  see  if  anyone  had  forced  his  way  into  the  house,  or  if  they  could  be  opened  from  the  outside.  It  occurred  to  Mother  that  Tronco,  the  gardener,  might  have  placed  the  ladder  against  the  wall  of  her  bedroom  while  we  were  downstairs  at  dinner,  entered  her  room,  and  taken  the  emerald.  Mother's  jewels  were  kept  in  a  large  parchment-covered  box  in  a  chest  next  to  the  window,  and  the  key  to  that  chest  had  been  lost  in  [REDACTED],  so  it  hadn't  been  locked  for  years.  Tronco,  seeing  Pippo  and  me  place  his  ladder  against  the  house,  at  Mother's  direction,  asked  us  if  it  was  something  he  could  do,  was  told  it  was  not,  and  stayed  there  looking  on  while  Jules  Adrian  was  finding  out  that  the  window  could  be  opened  with  no  trouble  at  all  and  Mother  was  commenting  on  this  fact  from  the  foot  of  the  ladder.  When  Father  was  informed  that  Jules-Adrian  had  succeeded  in  opening  the  bedroom  window  from  the  outside,  he  refused  to  believe  that  either  Tronco  or  his  sons  would  ever  do  such  a  thing,  but,  he  said,  there  were  many  others  wh  o  might.  The  world  was  full  of  thieves  and  Communists.  There  were  all  the  factory  workers  in  Prato.  And  the  famous  inhabitants  of  Campi  Bisenzio,  a  town  of  thieves  since  the  Middle  Ages  and  probably  before-how  about  them?  THINGS  were  at  this  point,  and  the  clouds  of  suspicion  were  be-  ginning  to  cover  the  whole  neighbor-  hood,  and  it  looked  as  if  Tronco  and  his  sons  were  about  to  be  questioned,  first  by  Mother  herself,  in  her  own  diplo-  matic  way,  and  then  by  the  police,  and  Father  was  insisting,  in  vain,  that  the  house  ought  to  be  searched  for  the  emerald  (all  he  could  manage  was  that  the  garbage  can  and  the  living-room  floor  under  the  carpet  and  under  the  piano  were  searched  time  and  again)  when  the  terrible  truth  made  itself  evi-  dent  to  Mother  and  she  screamed,  &quot;Green!  But  of  course!  Green'!&quot;  We  all  thought,  mistakenly,  that  she  had  just  realized  where  the  missing  emerald  would  be  found.  &quot;Not  the  emerald,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  the  clue  to  the  thief!  We  all  seem  to  have  forgotten  that  emeralds  are  green.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  'we'  have  for-  gotten  that  emeralds  are  green?&quot;  asked  Father.  &quot;I  never  did.  Or  do  you  think  I  have  been  looking  for  a  blue  emerald  since  yesterday?&quot;  &quot;Think  fora  moment,&quot;  Mother  said.  We  did;  nothing  came  of  it.  &quot;How  can  you  all  be  so  stupid?  Don'tyou  realize  in  your  small  minds  that  emeralds  are  green?&quot;  &quot;All  right,  the  emerald  is  green,&quot;  said  Father.  &quot;And  then  what?&quot;  &quot;'Think,  I  say,  think,  all  of  you,  think!&quot;  Mother  exclaimed.  A  lot  of  thinking  was  squeezed  out  of  our  minds,  and  still  nothing  came.  &quot;Well,  I  see  you  are  all  babies,&quot;  said  Mother,  &quot;We  know  where  the  emerald  was  last  seen-on  the  ashtray  in  the  liv-  ing  room  near  the  piano.  I  remember  that  I  sat  down  at  the  piano,  and  I  want-  ed  to  sing,  and  the  black  ribbon  round  my  neck  bothered  me,  so  I  took  it  off,  and  rolled  the  ribbon  up  and  put  it  on  the  piano,  where  I  later  found  it,  and  the  emerald  I  placed  in  that  ash-  " b"tray.  That  is  a  fact.&quot;  The  first  two  sus-  pects  began  to  look  uncomfortable.  'Yes,  in  that  ashtray.  I  remember  this  so  clearly,  so  definitely,  that  no  one  can  persuade  me  it  was  not  so.  I  re-  member  there  was  a  ray  of  sunlight  re-  flected  from  the  mirror,  falling  just  on  my  emerald.  Very,  very  beautiful.  Now,  think.  Go  on  from  there.&quot;  We  asked  to  be  excused  from  further  thinking.  &quot;Who  in  this  household,&quot;  Mother  went  on,  &quot;who  is  so  fond  of  green?&quot;  &quot;My  color  is  pink,&quot;  said  Frieda,  and  so  was  her  face.  &quot;And  mine  yellow,&quot;  said  Maria.  &quot;No  one  has  asked  yow  to  defend  yourselves  even  before  being  accused.  Wait  for  a  formal  accusation,  at  least.  ...  But,  no,  they  can  think  of  nothing  but  themselves,themselves,  themselves!&quot;  my  mother  went  on.  &quot;Egotists!  I  said  'Think  and  they  think  of  themselves.  All  right,  if  that  is  the  general  attitude,  I  will  say  nothing,  even  though  I  know  who  has  the  emerald,  and  I  know  it  will  soon  be  recovered,  and  also  know  that  I  will  never  wear  it  again.  Three  things  I  know,  but  I  would  ratherbe  strangled  than  reveal  them  to  you  now.&quot;  Apologies  were  made,  entreaties  were  used  and  used  again,  untilfinally  she  preferred  to  speak  rather  than  to  be  strangled.  &quot;I  said  'Think.&quot;  Now,  why  did  I  say  'Think'?  Because  I  wanted  you  to  think.  And  to  think  what?  To  think  of  green,  and  who  loves  green  in  this  family,  and  who  was  in  the  living  room  lately,  all  alone,  yesterday  morn-  ing?&quot;  No  one  could  think  who  this  was.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  will  tell  you:  the  horse.&quot;  ND  it  was  true,  of  course.  None  of  us  could  dispute  it.  But  before  I  goon  with  this  true  and  unique  detec-  tive  story  in  which  a  horse  is  accused  of  stealing  an  emerald,  I  must  explain  briefly  how  the  horse  came  to  be  in  the  living  room  the  morn-  ing  the  emerald  was  stolen.  The  day  the  emerald  was  stolen  was  the  third  or  fourth  day  after  we  bought  the  horse.  The  stable  was  still  clean,  the  manger  was  still  new,  the  straw  a  brilliant  yellow;  in  short,  the  stable  looked  like  a  painting  by  Rosa  Bonheur,  A  coachman  was  teaching  our  father  how  to  drive  a  car-  riage.  (He  had  owned  horses  in  the  past,  but  for  riding  only.  This  was  no  excuse  for  his  clumsy  behavior  with  the  blue  horse,  but  in  a  way  he  did  feel  he  was  driving  our  dream  and  not  his  animal.)  And  whatever  the  coachman  said  or  did  about  the  horse  was  memorized  by  us  children  in  secret.  Mother  would  open  the  narrow  door  that  led  from  the  kitchen  to  the  coach  house  and  the  stable,  and  call,  &quot;Nu,  drujok,  miliyie  sosdanyie,&quot;  which  means  &quot;Nu,  my  little  friend,  sweet  substance,&quot;  and  the  horse  would  neigh  in  re-  ply.  We  youngsters  were  around  the  horse  all  the  time,  fighting  among  ourselves  for  the  horse's  attention,  for  the  right  to  speak  to  him  in  whis-  pers-secrets  between  us  and  the  horse  and  no  one  else-  and  for  the  right  to  show  the  horse  picture  albums  with  photographs  of  all  our  ancestors  and  relatives,  and  postcards  from  all  the  places  in  [REDACTED]  and  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  4974616c79  where  we  had  lived  or  visited,  and,  finally,  pictures  of  horses  that  had  preceded  him  in  our  family.  We  also  showed  him  spurs  and  saddles  and  old  riding  boots,  which  we  found  in  a  trunk  in  the  attic.  Some-  times  Father  would  stop  us,  saying,  &quot;Enough,  now,  he  is  tired.  He  doesn't  want  to  look  at  anything  more.&quot;  And  we  would  protest,  &quot;No,  he  isn't,  he  wants  more.  He  is  asking  for  company.&quot;  Oh,  what  a  thing  it  was  to  have  a  horse  enter  the  family!  For  the  first  few  days,  Father  spared  the  horse  as  he  had  always  spared  new  things,  and  walked.  But  then  he  dis-  covered  about  the  horse's  love  for  green.  To  begin  with,  the  horse  got  loose  from  his  &quot;head-apron,&quot;  as  we  children  called  the  halter,  and  ran  away.  He  stood  in  a  green  pasture  and  washed  his  face  in  it  instead  of  eating  it.  He  plunged  his  head  into  the  grass  as  if  that  pasture  were  a  " b"huge  washbasin,  and  let  the  grass  caress  his  cheeks-first  one  cheek,  then  the  other-without  listening  to  us.  We  chil-  dren  called  to  him  tenderly  to  come  back.  Instead,  he  trotted  through  the  village,  stopped  in  front  of  a  millinery  shop  and  licked  the  show  window,  think-  ing  he  could  eat  the  green  hat  that  was  in  it,  and  then  tried  to  grab  the  green  of  the  national  flag,  flying  for  who  remem-  bers  what  festivity  from  the  town-hall  balcony.  Every  time  people  got  close  enough  to  grab  him,  he  stood  beautifully  on  his  hind  legs,  scared  everybody  away,  and  galloped  madly  through  the  streets.  He  stopped  in  front  of  the  church  and  tried  to  eat  the  huge  green  church  door,  freshly  painted;  then  he  made  for  the  green  tent  over  a  potter\xe2\x80\x99s  market  stand  in  the  square,  jumped  elegantly  over  the  hedge  of  the  pharmacist's  garden,  and  tore  two  or  three  leaves  from  a  magnolia  tree.  He  lifted  a  green  blanket  off  the  crib  of  the  pharmacist's  child,  scaring  the  women  who  were  there,  and  ran  through  the  whole  village  with  that  green  blanket  in  his  teeth.  Then  he  took  to  the  green  fields  and  pastures  once  more  and  disappeared,  while  tens  of  people  ran  after  him,  afoot,  on  bicy-  cles,  shouting  and  hissing.  Father  ran,  too,  panting,  and  calling  through  his  teeth,  &quot;Five  thousand  lire,  you  rascal!  I'll  teach  you  to  ruin  me!&quot;  A  few  minutes  later,  God  knows  how,  the  horse  got  into  the  house-but  first  passing  through  the  garden  and  ruining  every  one  of  the  freshly  planted  flower  beds.  He  got  as  far  as  the  living  room.  He  wasn't  in  there  very  long,  or  there  is  no  telling  what  damage  he  might  have  done,  with  all  the  porcelains  there  were  around  here  and  there,  on  tables  and  the  mantelpiece.  He  was  licking  a  green  chair  when  the  strong  hand  of  the  coachman  grabbed  him  tight  by  the  lock  of  hair  between  his  ears  and  forced  the  &quot;head-apron&quot;  back  around  his  jaw.  He  had  green  paint  all  over  his  face  and  a  flower  hanging  like  a  ciga-  rette  butt  from  his  lips.  And  the  emerald  had  been  right  there  in  thatashtray,  so  of  course  he  was  the  thief.  WO  hours  after  we  had  been  told  who  took  the  emerald,  the  angry  voice  of  Mother  was  audible  from  up-  stairs.  She  was  angry  with  Maria  and  the  Fraulein  for  being  so  stupid,  both  of  them,  so  petty,  so  devoid  of  generos-  ity,  so  always  on  the  lookout  for  some-  thing  bad,  unpleasant,  while  she  had  only  meant  to  thank  them,  one  of  them,  she  still  did  not  know  which  one-the  one  who  had  repented  and  put  the  emerald  back  in  the  jewel  box,  " b"where  she  had  found  it  by  mere  chance  and  where  it  had  ot  been  before.  &quot;Anyway,&quot;  said  she,  &quot;none  of  this  would  ever  have  happened  if  we  were  not  forced  to  live  in  this  frightful  place.&quot;  She  wiped  her  eyes  with  a  small  hand-  kerchief,  went  to  the  kitchen  and  from  there  to  the  stable,  and  said,  &quot;Here  at  least  is  a  friend.&quot;  The  friend  neighed,  scraping  the  floor  with  his  hoof.  &quot;Good  horse!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Good  little  horse!  You,  too,  can  give  me  worries.&quot;  She  patted  him  on  the  star  between  his  eyes,  and  then  said  re-  proachfully,  &quot;When  will  you  learn  to  speak?&quot;  THE  horse  dealer  was  right.  The  horse  was  unhappy  and  did  fall  on  his  knees,  and  he  did  have  an  unholy  fear  of  washerwomen,  and  what  our  father  did  not  want  to  understand  was  that  a  horse  also  has  feelings,  and  that  it  takes  him  some  time  to  get  used  to  new  masters.  When  I  said,  stupidly  enough,  that  I  had  known  about  his  weak  knees  all  along,  Father  was  furious.  &quot;Soyou  knew  this,  but  you  did  not  see  fit  to  let  me  know!  As  if  the  fact  that  I  make  a  bad  bargain  were  not  damaging  you  just  as  much  as  me!  As  if  my  money  were  not  yours!  As  if  I  did  not  have  a  right  to  know  what  I  am  doing  when  I  purchase  a  horse!  Why  you  should  side  with  my  enemies  against  me  is  something  I  shall  never  understand.  Never!&quot;  &quot;''The  horse  dealer  is  not  your  enemy.&quot;  &quot;He  is  not  my  friend,  and  neither  are  you.&quot;  &quot;Why  is  he  not  your  friend?  He  is  your  friend!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;'Nice  friend,  indeed,  one  who  sells  you  a  horse  that  has  weak  knees!  Now  if  we  want  to  sell  that  horse,  no  one  will  buy  it.&quot;  I  could  not  have  been  more  pleased.  Sell  our  greatest  friend,  one  of  us,  to  God  knows  what  unkind  people?  What  would  his  former  owner  think  of  us  if  we  did?  I  said  to  Father  that  every-  one  in  the  village  knew  the  horse  had  weak  legs,  andhad  known  this  long  before  we  bought  him.  I  thought  that  he  would  say,  as  he  so  often  did,  &quot;Oh,  well,  of  course.  We  are  always  the  last  ones  to  learn  what  we  should  know.&quot;  Alas,  his  reaction  was  most  unexpected!  He  jumped  up  in  a  fury  and  almost  hit  me  with  the  handle  of  the  whip.  For  hours  after  that-we  were  riding  through  the  countryside  in  the  rain,  in  an  open  carriage  with  alarge  green  um-  brella  (later  eaten  up  by  the  horse)  to  " b"protect  us-for  hours  he  kept  sighing  and  looking  at  me  sidewise  with  disap-  pointed,  pleading  eyes  that  tore  my  heart.  Poor  man,  his  strength  was  all  in  arguments,  in  logic,  which  he  never  pro-  duced  until  it  was  too  late.  So  that  wet  afternoon,  after  insulting  me  for  what  I  had  done-or  ,  rather  ,  had  not  done-  he  pleaded  with  me  for  permission  to  be  right  (which  he  actually  was),  and  at  such  moments  he  not  only  lost  all  his  authority  but  all  his  logic,  too.  And  those  times  when  he  did  not  plead  for  permis-  sion  to  be  right,  he  got  incensed;  he  beat  us;  he  pronounced  absurd  sentences,  like  a  despot  who  does  not  know  what  to  do  next  to  impress  his  inferiors.  I  decided  to  go  a  head  and  put  everything  in  the  hands  of  the  horse  dealer,  ask  him  for  advice,  and,  if  necessary,  get  him  to  re-  mind  Father  of  his  promise.  This  was  a  very  Machiavellian  scheme-so  much  so  that  I  knew  I  could  not  mention  it  to  anyone  ,  not  even  to  Pippo,  because  I  knew  that  no  one  in  the  family  was  as  wicked  and  scheming  as  I.  But  when  you  want  something,  or  when,  asin  this  case,  you  must  defend  your  dearest  friend  against  a  life  of  hardships  and  solitude,  away  from  you  who  love  him,  you  whom  he  loves,  no  scheme  is  too  tricky,  and  one  cannot  stop  to  consider  the  morality  of  one's  actions.  So,  while  scheming  and  holding  the  green  umbrella  over  our  heads  in  the  rain  and  watching  the  rain  drip  off  the  back  of  the  horse,  I  prayed:  &quot;Dear  Lord,  please  make  that  horse  dealer  be  really  as  good  a  man  as  we  want  him  to  be.  Make  it  that  he  really  loved  the  horse,  and  that  it  is  unhappiness  and  not  weak  legs  that  makes  the  horse  stumble.  And  also  make  him  strong,  and  make  the  527573736961n  Revolution  stop,  and  make  us  keep  this  horse  even  if  we  go  back  to  town,  even  if  we  should  go  to  [REDACTED].  Always  keep  him  with  us  and  let  him  live  a  long  and  happy  life.  Thank  you  so  much.  Amen.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cHOW  does  our  friend  carry  the  rain?&quot;  asked  Mother  as  we  ap-  peared,  Father  and  I,  in  the  dining  room  at  teatime,  dripping  with  rain.  &quot;What  a  question!&quot;  said  Father.  &quot;How  does  a  horse  carry  the  rain.  On  his  back.  Better  than  he  carries  us.&quot;  &quot;Poor  animal.  Is  he  wet?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not.  First,  we  ran  in  front  of  him  holding  the  green  umbrella  over  his  head,  and  then,  seeing  that  this  was  not  sufficient  to  protect  him  from  the  rain,  we  put  him  in  the  carriage  and  pulled  him.  And  then  waited  for  him  to  see  his  patients.  And  now  we  are  back  home.  He  will  soon  come  in  and" b"have  tea,  and  we  will  be  tied  to  the  manger  in  the  stable.&quot;  &quot;Ihope  that  you  are  joking,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  am  perfectly  serious.  Ask  anybody  in  the  village.  They  did  not  even  find  it  strange.  They  had  already  found  it  much  stranger  that  I  should  have  bought  such  an  animal  for  such  a  price.  Weak  knees  he  has.  You,  too,  knew  that,  I  imagine.&quot;  And,  ordering  some  hay  for  himself  and  for  me,  he  left  the  room.  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  Mother  asked,  turning  to  me.  &quot;''The  horse  fell  twice,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;So?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;This  means  that  we  must  buy  him  those  leather  things  you  wear  onyour  knees  when  you  area  horse.  Very  simple.  I  know  why  your  father  is  in  such  a  tragic  mood  today.  He  does  not  want  to  buy  those  leather  things.  He  thinks  they  will  add  to  the  cost  of  the  horse.  As  if  he  did  not  still  have  to  buy  a  new  carriage  and  a  few  other  things  a  horse  needs.  Ridiculous.&quot;  &quot;He  says  he  wants  to  sell  the  horse  because  it  has  weak  knees.&quot;  &quot;How  typical!  You,  too,  had  weak  knees  when  you  were  small,  and  did  we  sell  you?  How  unfaithful  they  are,  these  Italians!  What  else  did  he  say?&quot;  &quot;He  said  we  sided  with  his  enemies  against  him.&quot;  &quot;Who  are  his  enemies?&quot;  &quot;In  this  case,  the  horse  dealer.&quot;  &quot;We  sided  with  the  horse  dealer?  It  was  we-I,  to  be  more  precise-who  had  to  help  your  father  against  the  horse  dealer.  I  forced  that  man  to  sell  his  horse.  Without  me,  I  would  like  to  see  the  horse  we  might  have  in  our  sta-  ble  now!  He  also  said  the  horse  dealer  was  not  our  friend?&quot;  Yes.,  &quot;I  know  why  he  said  that.  Because  the  horse  dealer  did  not  come  for  tea  the  other  day.  I  never  expected  him.  I  saw  how  timid  he  was,  and  you  cannot  expect  these  low  people  to  have  man-  ners.  All  you  can  expect  of  them  is  that  they  have  a  heart,  and  he  does.&quot;  ON  days  when  it  had  rained,  all  the  ditches  were  full  of  water,  and  the  roads  in  the  country  were  full  of  washerwomen,  and  Nello  always  got  frightened  and  tried  to  run  away.  One  day,  he  upset  the  carriage  with  us  in  it.  He  was  pulled  down  by  the  carriage,  the  carriage  shafts  broke,  and  he  fell  backward,  his  hind  legs  sinking  in  the  water  of  the  ditch.  And,  of  course,  shrieks  and  commotion,  whippings  and  more  damage,  and  more  whippings  be-  cause  of  it,  and  more  damage  because  of  " b"those  retaliatory  whippings.  'Terrible  thing.  The  carriage  we  had  bought  to  do  us  temporarily  (and  might  have  kept  for  years,  still  temporarily,  had  the  horse  not  destroyed  it  in  that  way  )  was  worth  eight  hundred  litree-quite  a  sum,  even  though  it  was  old.  And  now  a  new  one  would  have  to  be  bought,  and  they  were  very  expensive,  those  new  ones.  But  how  he  ran,  that  time!  How  beautiful  he  was  when,  with  the  carriage  empty  behind  him,  the  pillows  and  the  people  still  in  the  mud,  he  fled  galloping  through  the  village  at  such  speed  that  it  was  a  miracle  half  a  dozen  people  were  not  killed.  He  turned  left  in  front  of  the  phar-  macist's  house,  where  the  sidewalk  was  enough  higher  than  the  street  level  that  carriages  were  often  overturned  when  a  wheel  ran  over  it,  but  our  horse  man-  aged  topass  without  upsettingthe  car-  riage  and  continued  in  the  direction  of  the  cemetery.  The  whole  village  was  mobilized  to  stop  him.  'There  is  no  tell-  ing  where  he  might  have  gone-prob-  ably  inside  the  cemetery  itself,  desecrat-  ing  the  tombs,  devouring  the  green  ribbon  around  the  wreaths  of  recent  graves,  and  perhaps  falling  into  some  freshly  dug  hole  and  breaking  his  legs-  had  he  not  been  saved  by  a  young  girl.  She  was  washing  clothes  beside  the  road  and  singing  while  she  washed,  so  she  heard  nothing,  not  even  the  shrieks  of  other  women  calling  to  her  to  get  up  and  run  because  a  mad  horse  was  coming  down  the  road  in  her  direc-  tion.  Seeing  that  kneeling  figure  and  those  flapping  wet  clothes  from  a  dis-  tance,  he  stopped,  turned  around,  half  upsetting  the  carriage,  and  ran  back  to  the  village  square.  This  time,  he  did  smash  the  carriage  against  the  sidewalk  in  front  of  the  pharmacist's  house,  and  the  butcher  brought  him  home  to  us,  with  the  wreckage  still  dragging  miser-  ably  behind  him.  &quot;Now!&quot;  said  Father,  striking  the  horse  in  the  face  with  his  fists.  &quot;Now  you  will  learn,  you  beast!&quot;  But  Mother  still  found  words  in  Nello's  defense.  &quot;This  is  what  hap-  pens,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;when  you  put  the  cart  behind  the  horse.&quot;  And  when  Nello  was  back  in  the  stable,  she  gave  him  sugar  and  an  extra  measure  of  barley,  which  she  took  out  of   the  bin  with  her  own  hands,  and  spoke  '  527573736961n  to  him,  because  she  did  not  know  Hungarlan  After  that,  when  Father  had  to  make  calls,  he  walked  or  rode  Pippo's  bicy-  cle.  In  despair,  Mother  declared  that  she  would  even  sell  the  horse,  provided  Father  stopped  using  the  bicycle  or  " b"walking  all  day  long.  &quot;Because  after  all,&quot;  she  pointed  out,  &quot;you  must  not  for-  get  that  the  horse  is  here  to  help  you!&quot;  But  Father  refused  to  consider  the  horse  as  his  exclusive  tool.  No,  no,  the  horse  was  a  good  horse,  he  said,  only  there  was  no  way  for  the  two  of  them  to  get  together,  to  find  a  common  ground  of  understanding,  to  work  to-  gether  for  the  good  of  the  family.  So  a  reconciliation  between  our  father  and  our  horse  was  brought  about,  with  a  great  deal  of  talking,  first  to  the  man,  then  to  the  horse,  and  then  back  to  the  man  again,  until  Father  decided  that  the  horse  deserved  a  second  chance,  and  also  a  few  toys,  as  tokens  of  his  friendship,  such  as  a  shining  new  car-  riage,  a  few  head  and  body  ornaments,  and  a  new  whip.  We  wanted  to  have  a  celebration  for  the  horse  on  his  birth-  day,  but  it  seemed  impossible  to  discover  in  what  year  and  at  what  precise  time  the  horse  was  born,  so  we  settled  on  February  29th,  to  make  sure  he  would  never  grow  too  old,  since  he  would  have  only  one  birthday  every  four  years.  Mother  gave  him  her  emerald,  which  in  the  meantime  had  been  appraised  by  a  jeweller  in  Florence  and  found  cracked,  and  therefore  worth  infinitely  less  than  Mother  said  it  was  worth.  What  she  had  hoped  to  get  for  the  emerald  no  jeweller  ever  would  have  paid.  Since  her  fortune  had  been  lost  and  the  good  days  were  gone,  whatever  big  or  small  objects  were  still  left  ofthat  fortune  and  those  days  had  gone  up  astronomically  in  value,  beyond  all  pos-  sible  evaluation,  and  in  her  mind  this  astronomical  price  should  be  paid,  with-  out  hesitation-indeed,  with  gratitude.  Which  never  happened.  So  the  dear  emerald  went  for  almost  nothing;  it  hardly  paid  for  the  new  carriage,  but  she  quickly  forgot  that  unpleasant  detail  (&quot;Why  always  think  ofthesad  side  of  life?&quot;)  and  went  on  paying  with  that  emerald  for  whatever  new  fancy  she  had.  &quot;The  emerald  will  pay  for  that!&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Hay  for  the  horse!&quot;  she  would  order,  in  February,  when  the  price  of  hay  was  at  its  highest.  &quot;The  emerald  will  pay  for  it.&quot;  The  emerald  paid  for  all  sorts  of  things  that  were  paid  for  much  later  by  going  further  into  debt  or  out  of  Father's  meagre  savings.  Thus,  and  as  part  ofthe  horse's  birthday  celebration,  Maria,  who  had  never  forgotten  the  fact  that  she  had  been  unjustly  accused  and  was  quite  jealous  of  the  horse,  re-  ceived  a  gold  brooch  as  a  present.  A  smaller  present  was  given  to  Frieda,  be-  cause  her  family  was  rich  and  she  was  German.  The  horse  dealer,  too,  was  on  " b"Mother's  list,  and  received  two  pres-  ents-a  framed  etching  of  a  horse  (that  was  a  present  from  the  horse)  and  a  cigarette  holder  of  old  527573736961n  silver,  a  by  no  means  indifferent  gift,  for  which  Mother  paid  nothing,  because  she  didn't  have  to  buy  it.  We  had  a  great  many  silver  trinkets,  large  and  small,  in  good  and  in  bad  taste.  We  knew  that  the  horse  dealer  had  undoubtedly  never  seen  sucha  thing  in  his  life,  but,  as  Mother  explained,  &quot;One  must  be  practical.  We  need  his  help  to  exploit  the  capital  in-  vested  in  that  horse.  He  alone  can  ad-  vise  us.&quot;  And  even  the  horse  dealer's  wife  received  a  present-a  silk  shawl,  quitea  beautiful  one,  that  Mother  had  in  her  collection  anyway.  Pippo's  present  to  the  horse  was  a  tiny  golden  horn  he  himself  had  re-  ceived  on  the  day  of  his  christening.  Father  was  against  the  horse's  wearing  frivolous  things  with  his  equipment,  so  the  little  golden  horn  was  kept  in  the  box  it  had  always  been  kept  in.  The  only  difference  was  that  Pippo  put  a  note  in  the  box  stating  that  the  golden  horn  belonged  to  his  dear  horse,  Nello,  and  to  avoid  confusion  all  the  other  names  that  had  ever  been  discussed  or  consid-  ered  were  listed  on  the  same  piece  of  paper.  Sonia  played  the  piano  for  Nello.  She  played  an  arrangement  of  the  Second  Hungarian  Rhapsody  of  Liszt  for  four  hands,  with  Mother,  but  it  was  Sonia's,  not  Mother's,  present  to  the  horse,  and  he  listened  to  them  from  the  garden,  with  his  entire  head  inside  the  window.  This  piano  concert  given  for  the  horse  audience  exclusively  was  also  a  scientific  experiment.  We  wanted  to  know  whether  it  was  true  that  horses  love  music.  'The  Meyers  &quot;Konversations  Lexicon,&quot;  in  twelve  huge,  heavy,  green,  leather-bound  volumes  said  so,  our  illus-  trated  German  books  of  mythology  said  so,  Homer  said  so,  Aristotle  said  so,  but  Father  said  it  was  not  so.  He  took  the  position  that  horses  are  stupid-hope-  lessly  stupid-and  that  only  incorrigible  dreamers  like  us  children,  led  by  a  dreamer  such  as  Mother,  could  make  up  such  idiotic  fancies,  taking  for  gospel  truth  the  pseudoscientific  statements  of  the  ancients,  as  quoted  by  some  modern  lexicographer  on  pure,  classical  hearsay.  Father  consented  to  our  scientific  ex-  periment  only  in  order  to  prove  us  wrong,  and  we  all  insisted  that  he  ob-  serve  the  one-animal  audience  from  out-  doors,  where  he  could  see  the  horse's  face  reflected  in  the  mirror  above  the  sofa  opposite  the  window.  If  the  horse  saw  Father's  sombre  face  inside  the  room,  he  might  think  the  Second  Hun-" b"garian  Rhapsody  of  Liszt  was  part  of  a  punishment  or  a  lesson  in  good  be-  havior.  And  we  won,  with  Homer,  Aristotle,  and  many  others,  We  won  because  the  horse  rolled  his  eyeballs  at  the  piano  while  the  mysterious,  evoca-  tive  sounds  were  coming  out  of  it.  His  ears  stood  erect  and  slightly  bent  to-  ward  the  music.  He  sighed  right  into  Sonia's  neck,  and  she  made  amistake,  for  which  she  quickly  apologized.  The  music  was  interrupted  while  she  and  Mother  started  counting  again,  and  then  they  resumed  playing.  And  the  horse  resumed  sniffing  and  sighing.  Out  in  the  road,  crowds  of  curious  people  were  pressing  their  faces  against  the  holes  in  the  rusty  iron  plate  that  covered  the  whole  front  gate.  Word  had  been  spread  that  something  called  a  &quot;psycho-  logical  test&quot;  was  being  tried  at  the  Doc-  tor's  house,  and  the  peasant  folk,  who  had  never  even  heard  of  the  word  &quot;psy-  chological,&quot;  were  very  much  impressed,  Some  made  the  sign  of  the  cross  and  saidthis  was  a  devilish  practice,  butthey  came  to  observe  it  all  the  same.  The  surrounding  fields  were  also  full  of  peo-  ple,  and  when  Mother  heard  their  dis-  tant  chatter,  hardly  distinguishable  from  the  many  other  noises  of  the  country,  she  shouted,  without  looking  away  from  the  score  or  stopping  with  her  hands,  &quot;Barbarians!&quot;  Seeing  how  much  the  horse  was  enjoying  the  concert,  the  artists  played  a  few  527573736961n  songs,  by  way  of  an  encore,  and  he  liked  them  immensely,  Idid  not  have  any  present  to  give  the  horse  for  his  birthday,  and  Jules-  Adrian  almost  brought  about  a  major  family  quarrel  by  thinking  he  could  give  the  horse  a  dog-which,  first  of  all,  did  not  even  belong  to  us,  even  though  it  stayed  with  us  all  the  time;  it  belonged  to  Tronco.  And,  secondly,  we  all  con-  tended  that  a  dog  cannot  possibly  be-  long  to  a  horse,  because  the  horse  is  a  slave  and  so  is  the  dog.  My  younger  brother  did  not  get  the  idea.  &quot;Why  don't  you  want  thehorse  to  have  a  dog?&quot;  he  kept  asking.  &quot;A  dog  does  not  work,  anyway.  They  can  be  friends.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;'They  can  be  friends,  but  this  proves  nothing.  The  dog  still  cannot  belong  to  the  horse.&quot;  &quot;And  how  about  those  other  presents  there?&quot;  He  was  perfectly  right,  so  we  were  all  against  him,  and  in  the  end  we  won,  butnot  before  we  made  it  clear  to  him  that  a  horse  could  not  own  a  cat,  either.  Besides,  the  cat  belonged  to  all  of  us,  and  we  did  not  think  that  the  horse  should  have  it.  We  won  our  argument  by  finding  something  he  could  give  to  the  horse-a  leather  harness  with  little  " b"bells,  which  he  had  received  from  his  Hungarian  godmother  when  he  was  a  little  boy  and  used  to  while  away  the  sad  hours  of  childhood  by  pretending  to  himself  that  he  was  a  horse.  VERY  one  of  these  episodes  of  silli-  ness,  while  augmenting  the  halo  around  our  horse,  made  any  contact  with  reality,  even  the  most  innocent  contact,  something  to  be  avoided  at  all  cost.  The  horse  dealer  had  been  right;  there  was  no  telling  how  far  that  horse  would  take  us.  As  the  crowning  event  in  the  birth-  day  celebration,  we  took  Nello  to  see  the  horse  dealer,  who  felt  terribly  guilty  in  our  presence  and  proud  in  the  pres-  ence  of  everybody  else,  because  he  had  sold  his  old  horse  for  such  a  price.  When  the  horse  dealer  and  his  wife  heard  of  our  impending  visit,  they  must  have  thought  that  now,  of  course,  they  would  have  a  good  laugh  at  our  expense.  And  I  confess  that  for  a  while  that  afternoon  we  children  felt  extremely  embarrassed.  We  knew  that  it  was  not  very  nice  of  us  to  laugh  at  our  own  mother,  but  we  knew  also  that  it  had  to  be  done  if  we  were  to  establish  a  bridge  between  our  family  and  the  rest  of  the  world;  there  was  no  alternative.  Perhaps  if  they  could  laugh  at  her  and  see  how  gracious-  ly  she  took  it,  they  might  accept  her-as  we  did,  after  all-because  of  her  wit.  At  first,  the  occasion  was  rather  stiff.  Mother  spoke  of  the  two  Arab  horses  the  Governor  of  [REDACTED]  had  given  her  grandfather.  A  lot  the  horse  dealer  knew  where-or  what-[REDACTED]  was!  I  explained,  laughing,  that  Arab  horses  rode  from  right  to  left,  like  Arabic  writ-  ing  and  like  Hebrew  writing,  while  Chi-  nese  horses  went  up  and  down.  That  shifted  the  subject  of  our  conversation  to  something  less  connected  with  us  and  of  more  interest  to  anyone  who  had  at  least  a  spark  of  interest  in  what  he  did  not  know.  Mother  had  studied  Arabic  during  her  frequent  visits  to  [REDACTED],  and  she  gave  the  horse  dealer  and  his  wife  a  lesson  in  that  language,  and  this  gave  her  a  chance  to  exhibit  the  best  in  her,  instead  of  the  worst.  And  as  soon  as  the  worst  began  to  come  out  again,  in  brag-  ging  reminiscences  of  her  childhood  in  [REDACTED],  I  said,  &quot;But  that  is  nothing,  what  you  just  heard.  At  home,  we  have  a  picture  of  the  horse  that  brings  the  sun  to  the  world  every  morning.  It  is  called  'Dawn,'  and  it  is  by  Guido  Reni.&quot;  Thus  the  conversation  became  interesting  again,  and  Mother,  who  could  talk  about  mythology  for  hours,  had  a  chance  to  exhibit  her  knowledge,  in-  stead  of  just  her  solitude  and  her  re-  sentment.  She  talked  on  and  on.  She     " b"showed  the  horse  dealer  and  his  wife  some  ofthe  aquarelle  drawings  of  horses  her  sister  Adja  had  sent  to  her  from  [REDACTED]  (Aunt  Adja  was  insane,  and  lived  in  a  clinic  near  [REDACTED]),  and  when  she  said,  &quot;'These  were  made  by  my  sister,  who  is  mentally  unbalanced,&quot;  the  horse  dealer  and  his  fat  wife  did  not  laugh  and  did  not  have  to  make  an  effort  not  to  laugh.  Almost  without  knowing  it,  they  had  been  converted  to  our  side,  and  so  our  horse  was  accepted  by  those  who  had  discarded  him,  and  it  was  the  horse  dealer  himself  who  later  taught  Nello  not  to  fear  the  mysterious  behavior  of  peasant  women  washing  clothes  in  the  ditches  beside  the  road.  He  made  his  wife  and  other  women  kneel  in  front  of  his  house  and  hold  their  flapping  wet  sheets  up  forthe  horse  to  examine,  and  in  the  end  the  horse  decided  that  washerwomen  were  not  really  inimical  to  him.  F  course,  new  difficulties  clouded  the  horizon  and  made  life  trying  for  us.  Some  of  these  difficulties  were  invented  and  some  were  really  true.  And,  like  all  toys,  our  horse  lost  its  at-  traction.  He  became  one  of  us.  The  Latin  words  that  my  father  would  teach  me-angrily,  as  usual-during  the  long  drive  from  one  peasant  house  to  the  next  scared  the  horse  just  as  much  as  they  scared  me.  The  long  and  pessimistic  speeches  that  he  made  to  me,  looking  intently  at  the  trotting  behind  of  the  horse,  seemed  addressed  to  the  horse  as  much  as  they  were  to  me,and  Nello  and  I  were  equally  impressed  or  de-  pressed  by  them.  Mother  grew  old,  and  we  children  grew  young-young  and  resentful.  Childhood  is  not  youth;  childhood  is  everything  and  anything.  [REDACTED]  is  just  this  and  that-fewer  and  fewer  possibil-  ities,  and  the  stubborn  insistence  on  the  choice  of  just  one.  And  Mother  resented  that.  We  were  becoming  like  the  tough  peasants  of  Terra  Betinga.  In  fact,  we  spoke  their  language;  we  understood  their  narrow  ways.  But  our  childhood  was  still  Mother's  and  hers  alone,  like  the  horses  of  [REDACTED],  the  steppes  of  Hun-  gary,  the  names  and  people  of  her  past.  And  the  horse  trotted  through  the  bare  Tuscan  marshlands,  ever  more  lazily  and  with  weaker  knees.  He  was  sold  after  seven  years  when  Father  bought  a  car. "