 b"LATELY I  have  found  myself  brood-  ing  about  the  preliminary  stages  of  great  voyages  and  pioneering  adventures,  and  wondering  how  these  undertakings  were  described  in  ad-  vance  by  the  men  who  were  to  lead  them.  Did  [REDACTED]  draw  up  a  re-  cruiting  poster  to  attract  sailors  for  his  first  voyage?  If  so,  was  it  specific  about  his  intentions  and  the  estimated  duration  of  the  trip,  and  about  accommodations  below  decks,  messing  arrangements,  recreation,  shore  leave,  opportunities  for  trade  with  local  inhabitants,  and  the  publication  rights  of  future  memoir  writers?  These  questions  have  been  gnawing  at  me  for  some  time  now-  ever  since  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  George  D.  Krouse,  of  Vallejo,  Cali-  fornia,  in  which  he  invites  me  to  be-  come  a  pioneer  sea  colonist  on  a  floating  settlement  in  the  South  [REDACTED].  I  haven't  answered  Mr.  Krouse  yet,  but  this  doesn't  mean  that  I  haven't  been  thinking  about  his  offer.  Every  few  weeks,  in  fact,  I  have  picked  up  his  letter  and  turned,  with  the  resolute  intention  of  making  a  decision,  to  its  accompanying  declaration  form:  I  have  decided  to  associate  myself  with  those  who  are  also  interested  in  using  their  spare  time  in  library  research  and  in  experimental  work  aimed  at  developing  unconventional  seacraft  suitable  for  sur-  vival  and  balanced  ecology  in  relation  to  the  open  [REDACTED]  Ocean  ...  I  have  even  pencilled  some  notes  on  the  margin,  such  as  &quot;Dietary  Prob-  lems-Plankton?  Culturedseaweed?  ,&quot;  which  indicate  at  least  a  dawning  in-  terest  in  balanced  ecology.  But  I  still  can't  make  up  my  mind,  and  for  that  I'm  inclined  to  blame  Mr.  Krouse  more  than  myself.  He  simply  hasn't  given  me  enough  in-  formation  about  his  Wilrge  (pronounced,  he  assures  me,  &quot;will-urge&quot;)  Research  Association.  It  is  no  accident,  of  course,  that  Mr.  Krouse  has  picked  me  out  as  a  man  likely  to  be  interested  in  un-  conventional  seacraft.  Some  reflections  of  mine  on  the  problems  of  crime  detection  in  interplanetary  space  hap-  pened  to  be  reprinted  in  the  Magazine  of  Fantasy  &amp;  Science  Fiction,  and  there  caught  the  eye  of  Mr.  Krouse.  Recognizing  a  forward-looking  colonist's  mind  when  he  encountered  one,  he  wrote  to  me,  care  of  the  Magae-  zine  of  F.  &amp;  S.  F.  (whose  editor  lives  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  not  far  from  Wilrge  headquarters),  which  kindly  passed  the  letter  on.  Thus  the  link  was  forged.  We  hope  Mr.  Krouse's  letter  begins,  without  preamble  to  develop  Wilrge  into  a  World  Inter-Land  Residents'  Group  Ecology,  with  first  seacolony  in  the  South  [REDACTED]  area.  The  unconventional  design  of  our  floating  homes,  gardens  andworkshops  is  aimed  at  high  stability  in  any  weather:  Bouyant  [sic]  bases  conform  to  the  pat-  tern  of  waves  and  cushion  up  steady  floors.  Air-supported  plastic  domes  offer  protec-  tion  from  sun,  salt-spray  and  rain.  Wind  and  sun  are  used  to  power  equipment.  Etc.  This  whole  paragraph  is  typical  of  Mr.  Krouse's  niggardly  way  with  facts.  Almost  every  word  in  it  raises  more  questions  than  it  answers.  For  example,  where  in  the  South  [REDACTED]  (an  area  of  some  thirty-six  million  square  miles)  does  he  propose  to  heave  anchor?  Just  out  of  sight  of  land,  within  easy  shop-  ping  distance  of,  say,  Papeete?  Or  in  less  crowded  waters,  where  we  won't  be  distracted  by  anything  except  an  occa-  sional  passing  raftload  of  Scandinavian  scientists?  My  postman,  for  one,  will  want  to  know,  so  that  he  can  forward  my  periodicals.  I  am  prepared  to  accept  the  need  for  some  unconventionality  of  design  in  our  floating  homes  and  gar-  dens;  the  pioneer  sea  colonist  does  not  look  for  gravel  paths  and  wide  white  staircases.  But  what  are  buoyant  bases  that  &quot;conform  to  the  pattern  of  waves  and  cushion  up  steady  floors&quot;?  An  ordi-  nary  Kon-Tiki  raft  buoyantly  conforms  to  the  pattern  of  waves,  but  its  floor,   from  all  I  read,  isn't  always  steady,  and  sharks  peer  through  the  gaps  between  the  balsa  logs.  A  little  more  information  here,  please,  Mr.  Krouse.  I'm  a  bit  nervous,  too,  about  those  air-supported  plastic  domes.  I  am  no  scientist  (except  in  outer  space),  but  I  have  been  under  the  impression  that  air  can  barely  sup-  port  its  own  weight,  plus,  from  time  to  time,  that  ofa  little  dust  and  pollen.  I  must  assume  that  Mr.  Krouse  has  licked  this  old  problem,  but  if  he  can  support  plastic  domes,  then  why  can't  he  hang  the  whole  sea  colony  in  the  air  and  cut  down  his  overhead  on  all  those  floor-  cushioners?  Most  of  all,  though,  my  attention  is  held  by  the  last  word  of  the  quoted  para-  graph-&quot;Ete.&quot;  Standing  all  alone  out  there,  between  two  full  stops,  it  may  not  be  the  shortest  sentenceever  written  but  it  can't  be  far  from  the  most  preg-  nant.  It  has  to  cover  the  problem  of  anchorage.  It  must  embrace  agricul-  ture,  finance,  cooking  arrangements  (it  takes  time  to  learn  to  cook  by  wind),  type  of  government,  relations  with  for-  eign  powers,  fishing  rights,  the  sunburn  problem,  school  curriculums,  seasick-  ness-all  the  hundred  and  one  adminis-  trative  details  of  sea  colonization,  which  Mr.  Krouse  has  presumably  thought  about  and  solved.  Buried  in  there  some-  where,  too,  are  all  the  library  research  and  experimental  work  I  shall  have  to  do  if  I  sign  the  declaration  form.  &quot;Etc.&quot;  does  not,  however,  cover  Exports  and  Propagation.  Mr.  Krouse  deals  specifi-  cally  with  these  subjects  in  his  second  paragraph:  We  need  writers  now  to  help  in  this  de-  velopment  and  later,  as  colonists,  to  pro-  duce  additional  value  (fiction)  for  export  to  the  mainlands.  Also  we  expect  difficulty  in  locating  intelligent  women  willing  to  be  founding  mothers  of  the  first  [REDACTED]  seacolony.  Science  fiction  writers  have  the  com-  munication  medium  most  like-  ly  to  reach  such  unusual  women,  There  is  a  dual  appeal  here  that  we  science-fiction  writers  are  going  to  find  hard  to  resist.  Not  since  Plato  wrote  his  &quot;Republic&quot;  has  the  status  of  imaginative  thinkers  ina  group  ecology  been  so  clearly  recognized.  It's  no  small  thing  for  a  writer  to  have  his  product  labelledas  a  valuable  ex-  port,  and  inviting  unusual  women  to  become  mothers  is  something  that  most  men  do  not  have  the  opportunity  to  do  more  than  once  or  " b"twice  in  a  lifetime.  If  there  is  a  flaw  in  Mr.  Krouse's  agenda,  it  is  that  the  ad-  ditional  value  I  am  to  produce  for  ex-  port  is  to  take  the  form  of  fiction.  Truth,  I  think,  would  find  a  readier  market  on  the  mainlands,  at  least  in  the  early  years  of  the  sea  colony.  With  titles  like  &quot;I  Was  a  Founding  Mother,&quot;  &quot;Some  High-Stability  Problems  in  Floating  Gardens,&quot;  and  &quot;Our  Penguin  Ranch&quot;  at  hand,  it  is  prodigal  for  a  writer  to  keep  on  turning  out  bizarre  Martian  romances.  [REDACTED].  KrousE  is  absolutely  right  in  his  belief  that  science-fiction  writ-  ers  are  in  touch  with  unusual  women.  Our  mailboxes  are  cluttered  up  with  their  letters  every  day,  and  our  frus-  trated  desire  to  make  some  adequate  return  to  them  for  their  friendly  inter-  est  is  something  that  we  discuss  fre-  quently  at  science-fiction  writers'  con-  ferences.  Already  my  two  typing  fingers  itch  to  be  at  work  on  a  preliminary  cir-  cular  for  Wilrge:  &quot;Madam:  May  I  appeal  to  you,  an  unusual  woman,  to  associate  yourself  with  our  group  in  using  your  spare  time  to  become  a  founding  mother  in  the  open  South  [REDACTED]?  We  offer  you  high  stability  in  any  weather  and  nurseries  on  buoyant  bases.  Ete.&quot;  The  thing  writes  itself.  It  would  be  legitimate,  I  think,  to  end  this  letter  with  the  temperate  appeal  that  forms  the  third,  and  last,  paragraph  of  Mr.  Krouse's  own  letter:  I  sincerely  hope  that  your  current  eval-  uation  of  your  experience  can  provide  mo-  tivation  for  your  personal  interest  in  our  seacolony  project.  But  I  am  getting  ahead  of  myself.  It  will  be  time  enough  to  think  of  send-  ing  out  circ  ulars  after  I  have  signed  the  Wilrge  declaration  f  orm,  and  this,  I  have  just  decided,  I  cannot  bring  my-  self  to  do.  Not  only  must  I  promise  all  my  future  spare  time  to  balanced  ecolo-  gy  but  I  must  also  subscribe  to  the  prop-  osi  tion  that  &quot;I  u  nderstand  I  will  be  re-  sponsible  for  supplying  or  securing  loan  of  all  supplies  &amp;  equipm  ent  that  are  re-  quired  in  any  research  I  elect  to  under-  take.&quot;  That  strikes  me  as  a  bit  unfair.  Mr.  Krouse  may  argue  that  if  there  is  any  particular  piece  of  equipment  I  don't  feel  ready  to  supply,  all  I  have  to  do  is  not  undertak  e  the  research  for  which  it  is  required.  Superficially,  I  sup-  pose,  he's  in  the  right;  I  could  always  start  on  some  very  small,  inexpensive  project,  such  as  a  method  of  quick-  freezing  jellyfish,  But  once  you  start  researching,  you  never  know  where  it's  going  to  lead  you.  My  bet  is  that  Krouse  himself  began  in  quite  a  small  way,  roughing  out  a  design  fora  house-  boat  for  himself  and  the  boys,  and  then  suddenly  found  that  he  was  the  admiral  of  a  sea  colony.  The  last  thing  I  want  is  to  end  up  with  a  couple  of  windmills  and  a  whole  stack  of  helical  gearing  on  my  hands.  No,  Mr.  K  rouse,  it  won't  do.  If  I  an-  swer  all  the  subsidiary  questions  on  this  declaration,  Wilrge  is  going  to  have  a  lot  more  information  about  me  than  I  have  about  Wilrge.  All  it  has  divulged  to  me  is  a  post-office-box  number.  There  ought  to  be  more  give-and-take  about  the  matter.  The  organization  is  welcome  to  my  address,  and  I  don't  re-  sent  &quot;Phone,&quot;  &quot;Age,&quot;  &quot;Born  in,&quot;  and  &quot;Male  or  Female.&quot;  But  &quot;Major  Stud-  ies&quot;  is  something  else  again.  Why  should  I  reveal  that  I  graduated,  or  very  nearly,  in  Logic,  Metaphysics,  and  Greek  History  down  to  404  B.C.  when  I  have  no  means  of  judging  the  demand  forthese  subjects  in  a  high-stability  group  ecology:  Or  take  &quot;Aptitudes,  hobbies,  training,  experience  of  possible  value  in  Wilrge  (pronounced  will-  urge)  research.&quot;  I  can  catch  fish  of  moderate  size  (provided  I  can  secure  loan  of  supplies  and  equipment),  and  I  know  the  principle  of  Archimedes.  Also,  as  far  as  experience  of  value  in  the  design  of  plastic  domes  goes,  I  could  at  a  pinch  put  down,  &quot;Some  knowledge  of  greenhouses.&quot;  But  I  won't.  I  can't  see  why  I  should  strip  myself  naked  before  a  man  who  hardly  bothers  to  lift  the  hem  of  his  cloak.  Come  out  into  the  open,  Krouse!  One  thing  I  will  do,  though.  Right  at  the  end  of  the  declaration  form  is  the  phrase  &quot;I  DO  (DO  NOT)  live  near  the  ocean  or  near  a  river  that  empties  into  the  [REDACTED].&quot;  I'll  give  him  that  one.  I  (DO  xOT).  I  live  near  the  Thames,  a  river  that  empties  into  the  North  Sea,  carrying  with  it  ships,  mud,  garbage,  unusual  women,  old  automobile  tires,  and-very  soon  now,  I  fear-one  un-  completed,unsigned  declaration  form  from  the  World  Inter-Land  Residents'  Group  Ecology  Research  Association. "