 b"MIRANDA  GriErson  was  look- ing  up  the  telephone  number  of  a  hairdresser  who  had  been  recommended  to  her  when  a  name  leaped  forth  from  the  dense  printof  the  directory,  causing  her  eyes  to  widen  and  a  flush  of  astonishment  to  visit  her  cheeks.  Aloud,  she  said,  &quot;Ian  Fergu-  son!  Can  it  be  possible  thatthat  inno-  cent  from  [REDACTED]  still  lives  here?&quot;  In  her  surprise,  she  forgot  how  badly  she  needed  a  shampoo  and  a  manicure  be-  fore  she  proceeded  on  her  way  to  [REDACTED]  the  next  day,  and  she  began  to  muse  in  the  Indian-summer-morning  sun-  shine  that  came,  together  with  the  songs  of  boys  and  birds,  through  the  broad  windows  of  her  Heidelberg  hotel  room.  And  as  she  mused,  now  and  again  she  looked  back  at  that  Caledonian  name,  so  tense  and  sudden  there  among  the  Teutonic  oneg  even  the  printof  it,  it  seemed  to  her,  looked  slightly  differ-  ent,  slightly  lighter.  She  was  sure  that  the  name  could  belong  to  no  one  but  the  man  she  had  known;  the  arm  of  chance  could  never  reach  out  far  enough  and  cleverly  enough  to  discover  and  set  down  in  this  particular,  out-of-the-  way  place  a  secondIan  Ferguson.  While  she  had  known  of  Ian's  being  in  other  places,  it  was  with  Heidelberg  that  she  associated  him,  since  it  was  here  that  they  had  at  one  time  happened  to  livein  the  same  house-a  square  yellow  house,  with  a  garden  and  a  pear  tree,  beside  the  brown-green  Neckar  River.  Almost  twenty  years  ago  this  spring,  at  the  opening  of  the  summer  term,  Miran-  da,  bookish,  twenty-one  years  old,  had  come  from  [REDACTED]  to  learn  the  German  lan-  guage  and  to  study  phi-  losophy  on  a  fellowship  at  Heidelberg.  She  had  taken  a  small  but  pleasing  room  (the  branches  of  the  pear  tree  brushed  her  window,  and  leaf  shadows  lay  on  the  plump  feather  bed)  in  the  house  of  a  straitened  and  wid-  owed  Baroness  in  middle  age  who  of-  fered  bed  and  breakfast  to  five  uni-  versity  students.  The  Baroness,  whose  bright-blue  eyes  were  frantic  and  whose  thin  hands  trembled  in  perpetual  anxiety,  main-  tained,  despite  her  poverty  and  hu-  miliation,  the  manner  and  tone  of  a  distinguished  hostess  at  a  subdued  but  nonetheless  chic  houseparty.  The  morn-  ing  trays  were  laid  with  linen  cloths  (a  little  discolored  and  a  little  frayed)  and  4765726d616e79n  china  (some  of  it  chipped  and  some  of  it  crazed),  although  the  fare  was  only  rolls  and  ersatz  cof-  fee  that  tasted,  inexplicably,  of  mar-  garine.  And  quite  often,  in  the  eve-  ning,  the  Baroness  invited  those  of  her  lodgers  who  were  at  home  into  her  shab,  by,  ill-lit  drawing  room,  which  served,  as  well,  as  her  bedroom  (the  bed,a  noble  four-poster,  stood  in  an  alcove  cur-  tained  with  aged  blue  velours  that  was  embroidered  at  the  front  with  her  hus-  band's  armorial  bearings),  and  there,  giving  them  tisane,  which  she  brewed  on  a  spirit  lamp,  she  showed  them  sad,  fussy  mementos  of  her  courtly  life  when  the  Baron  was  still  alive  and  they  had  waltzed,  shot  birds  and  boars,  boated  on  the  43616e616461Sea,  and  travelled  in  4974616c79  with  an  entourage.  'The  room  smelled  of  obsolete  mignonette  sachet  and  it  smelled  of  sorrow-a  proper  setting  for  the  Baroness,  who,  to  Miranda,  was  the  very  crystallization  of  pathos.  Poor  woman,  her  clothes  were  left  over  from  another  time  in  history;  she  wore  a  seedy  ermine  tippet  when  she  went  shop-  ping  in  the  Kornmarkt,  and  she  gar-  dened  in  a  Paisley  basque.  Her  costume  in  the  evening  was  usually  a  rusty  dark-  green  satin  redingote  over  a  faded  violet  underdress  of  peau  de  soie;  the  toes  of  her  French-heeled  slippers  were  cruelly  pointed;  her  stockings,  khaki-colored,  were  lisle.  The  diamonds  (of  which  she  spoke,  lamenting)  were  gone  from  her  fingers,  and  she  had  neither  tiaras  nor  gem-studded  combs  for  her  grayed  yellow  halr,  but  she  wore  a  pair  of  ruby  earrings  in  her  pierced  ears,  and  frequently  she  fingered  them,  as  if  to  make  sure  that  bad  luck  had  not  robbed  her  of  them,  too.  Alas,  her  little  soir\xc3\xa9es were  notvery  well  or  I  very  enthusiastically  at-  tended,  and  in  the  same  voice  she  used  when  she  described  balls  of  long  ago  she  spoke  to  Miranda  of  how,  in  earlier  years,  her  guests  had  called  upon  her  nightly  and  they  had  had  such  galas,  singing  goliardic  songs  (the  naughtiness  of  the  words  made  only  the  most  erudite  Latinists  blush),  playing  charades,  telling  fortunes,  con-  sulting  a  ouija  board,  reading  Goethe's  love  songs.  She  found,  she  said  with  a  sigh,  that  the  youth  of  today  was  too  earnest;  along  with  grandeur,  gaiety  had  gone  from  the  world.  Herr  Win-  kler,  the  solemn,  top-heavy  Brown  Shirt  who  lived  on  the  third  floor,  rarely  accepted  her  invitations,  because  when  he  did  not  have  his  vast  nose  in  a  law- book,  he  was  in  the  town,  at  the  Stadt-  -  halle,  involved  in  Party  business.  Herr  Griffiths,  the  English  boy  of  seventeen,  whose  room  was  next  to  the  Nazi's,  spent  most  of  his  evenings  at  the  kino  learning  German  from  the  dubbed-in  voices  of  Laurel  and  Hardy.  (The  Baroness  did  not  find  this  droll  but,  rather,  vulgar.)  And  Fraulein  Wal-  dock,  who  occupied  the  room  next  to  Miranda's,  on  the  second  floor,  a  girl  of  Dutch  and  English  descent,  from  Rhodesia,  was-assiduously  applying  her-  self  to  the  study  of  biochemistry  and  hadno  time  for  infusions  of  jasmine  and  tales  from  the  [REDACTED]  woods.  Two  or  three  evenings  a  week,  Mi-  randa,  out  of  politeness  and  pity,  visited  the  drawing  room  and  listened  to  the  lady's  soliloquy,  delivered  in  fluent,  faulty  English.  As  she  talked,  she  sewed  or  embroidered,  making  pretty  dresses  for  a  favorite  niece  of  five,  who  lived  in  Stuttgart.  And  as  she  sewed  and  talked,  the  terror  in  her  eyes  gave  way  to  hope  and  peace;  it  was  as  if  by  remembering  the  dead  days  so  wellshe  had  truly  re-  suscitated  them  and  was  living  through  them  again.  She  clearly  heard-and  made  Miranda  hear-the  playing  of  fountains  long  since  gone  dry,  the  neighing  of  hunters  and  the  baying  of  hounds  long  since  dead;  she  plainly  saw  the  repouss\xc3\xa9  ceiling  and  the  superb  chandelier  of  the  ballroom  where  the  Baron,  as  they  were  dancing,  had  asked  her  to  marry  him;  saw  the  frocks  and  the  furs  and  the  hats  and  the  gloves  and  the  jewels  of  her  friends;  tasted  marvellous  food,  drank  marvellous  wine;  laughed  at  the  wit  and  lived  by  the  wisdom  of  diplomats,  poets,  sports-  men,  and  kings.  HOUGH  the  Baroness  was  dis-  appointed  in  Herren  Griffiths  and  Winkler  and  Fraulein  Waldock,  and  though  Miranda  was  really  not  her  style,  she  had  cause  for  rejoicing  in  the  fifth  of  her  lodgers,  Ian  Ferguson,  who  came  into  the  drawing  room  on  Thurs-  day  evenings  and  kissed  her  hand  and  flattered  her,  addressing  her  as  &quot;Right  Honorable  Milady.&quot;  He  came  on  Thursday,  that  is,  unless  he  was  away  on  some  voluptuous  mission-in  [REDACTED],  going  to  the  theatre,  or  in  [REDACTED],  add-  ing  to  his  sumptuous  wardrobe.  When  he  did  come,  the  refreshments  were  not  tisane  and  pfeffernuesse  but  aquavit  and  caviar,  which  he  brought,  having,  the  Baroness  declared,  paidtheearth  for  them.  Ian  Ferguson,  much  older  than  the  other  guests  in  the  house,  was  a  story-  book  556e6974656420537461746573n-a  rich  and  golden  man  out  of  the  west  of  [REDACTED].  He  was  long-legged  and  rangy,  red-haired  and  brown-eyed,  and  his  nice,  bony  face  " b"wore  always  an  expression  of  boundless  amiability.  He  drove  a  red  Mercedes;  his  Egyptian  cigarettes  were  mono-  grammed;  he  hired  halls  in  Heidel-  berg  in  which  he  entertained  at  mid-  night  dancing  and  supper  parties;  he  hunted  grouse  in  Yorkshire  and  roe  deer  in  [REDACTED];  he  bet  on  the  horses  at  Ostend,  gambled  regularly  at  the  Kur-  haus  in  [REDACTED],  and  sat  ina  box  at  La  Scala.  The  raison  d'\xc3\xa9tre  of  Heidelberg  for  him  was  not  the  august  university  of  Ruprecht-Karl  but  the  city's  tradition  of  romance,  of  duellin:  and  dancing,  of  fraternal  song  in  the  rowdy  Studentenlokale,  which  he  fre-  quented  when  he  was  in  town,  staying  until  closing  time  at  the  Roter  Ochse,  where  he  played  host  to  everyone  and  treated  the  barmaids  like  queens  in  dis-  guise.  He  could  not  speak  a  word  of  German  beyond  &quot;Gutter  Tag,&quot;  &quot;Auf  Wiedersehen,&quot;  and  &quot;Noch  einmal:&quot;  he  was  politically  an  abysmal  ignoramus:  although  he  had  studied  four  years  at  Harvard,  one  would  never  have  known  it  except  for  his  jocular  enmity  to  Yale  and  an  occasional  reference  to  a  d\xc3\xa9but  at  the  [REDACTED]  Ritz;  he  had  knocked  about  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  the  [REDACTED]  and  had  travelled  widely  in  Europe,  but  though  he  had  seen  everything,  he  had  regarded  little.  For  example,  he  had  Luxor  quite  badly  confused  with  49726171,  since  in  both  places  he  had  been  insensibly  drunk.  But  no  one  cared  about  these  shortcomings  of  his.  His  German  friends  spoke  English  with  him;  the  Nazis  he  knew  tried  to  in-  doctrinate  him  and  so  did  the  anti-  Nazi  556e6974656420537461746573ns;  and  all  of  them  drank  his  Scotch  and  ate  his  food.  If  they  thought  him  a  fool,  they  never  showed  it.  This  agreeable,  smiling  bon  vivant  lived  across  the  passage  from  Miranda  in  a  suite  that  consisted  of  a  bedchamber,  dressing  room,  sitting  room,  and  bath,  and  there  was,  besides,  a  balcony,  which  commanded  a  handsome  view  of  the  river  and  of  the  ruined  castle  on  the  op-  posite  hill;  here,  on  bright  days,  Ian  lay  in  a  long  chair  sunning  his  lithe,  Western  legs.  In  his  travels,  he  had  gathered  beautiful  and  curious  things,  and  they  were  on  display  in  his  apart-  ment-paintings,  rare  books,  porce-  lains,  guns,  old  maps.  He  had  a  short-  wave  radio;  on  it  you  could  hear  4a6170616e  as  clearly  as  you  could  hear  [REDACTED].  He  had  a  priceless  cellar  of  Mosels  and  French  wines,  and  priceless  glasses  to  drink  them  from.  Now  and  again,  he  gave  a  small  dinner  party  in  his  sitting  room;  the  food,  ordered  from  Stras-  bourg,  was  prepared  by  the  chef  at  the  Hotel  zum  Ritter  and  served  by  a   waiter  in  tails.  Till  dawn,  on  those  oc-  casions,  much  to  the  vexation  of  the  studious  Herr  Winkler  and  Fraulein  Waldock,  the  giggling  of  girls  and  drunken  choruses  of  &quot;Gaudeamus  Igi-  tur&quot;  rang  through  the  house  and  troubled  the  air  of  the  quiet  valley.  HE  Baroness  was  Ian's  confi-  dante-a  role  she  dearly  loved  to  play-and  it  was  from  her,  rather  than  from  him,  that  Miranda,  picking  the  facts  out  of  the  panegyrics,  learned  his  history;  it  was  a  pastiche  of  many  556e6974656420537461746573n  histories.  He  had  not  risen  from  rags  to  riches,  but  his  father,  an  illiterate  emigrant  from  Arran,  had,  and  the  riches  Ian  had  inherited  were  so  blindingly  brand-new  that  it  had  taken  time  and  pains  to  patinate  them  with  good  manners  and  good  taste.  Now,  said  the  Baroness  with  the  air  of  an  expert,  his  aura  was  patrician  and  he  would  be  accepted  and  sought  after  by  high  society  throughout  the  world.  He  had  been  intended  to  carry  on  a  family  tradition  of  ranching,  but  he  had  no     bent  for  stockbreeding  or  agronomy,  and  he  hated  the  heat  and  the  arid  tree-  lessness  of  [REDACTED].  He  had  not  known  what  he  wanted  to  do  or  be,  and  in  his  years  at  Harvard  he  had  sampled  one  variety  of  learning  after  another  and  had  left  without  taking  a  degree.  And  so,  not  having  found  himself  at  one  with  anything,  he  had  gone  back  to  [REDACTED]  and,  in  partnership  with  his  two  broth-  ers,  had  dutifully  and  unenthusiastically  set  about  raising  white-faced  cattle.  He  built  a  house  and  married  a  wife  as  rich  and  as  restless  as  himself;  their  restless,  ness  went  hand  in  hand  with  apathy,  and  because  they  had  no  reason  to  go  elsewhere,  they  could  not  extricate  themselves  from  their  parochial  ex-  istence  in  those  dry  lands.  'This  beauti-  ful  wife,  though  she  was  nearly  a  dec-  ade  older  than  Ian,  had  not  learned  calm,  and  their  passion  for  each  other  continued  to  bea  thrilling  infatuation  and  did  not  mature  into  a  nourishing  love.  She  was  fragile,  and  their  im-  prudent,  desperately  euphoric  life  with  the  fast  young  set  of  Amarillo  puther  " b"at  last  into  a  tuberculosis  sanitarium,  where,  after  a  year,  she  died.  Ian,  stricken  and  lost  and  guilt-ridden,  sure  he  had  murdered  her  with  too  many  parties,  which  had  sometimes  lasted  through  the  green  '[REDACTED]  dawn  into  the  blazing  flood  of  noon,  left  [REDACTED]  immediately  after  the  funeral,  selling  his  land  and  his  share  of  the  herd  to  his  steady  brothers,  and  selling  the  house  where  those  phrenetic  revelries  had  tak-  en  place.  Ian  was  close  to  no  one  in  his  family  except  his  mother,  and  he  re-  gretted  leaving  no  one  but  her.  She  was  English,  and  all  the  time  she  had  lived  in  [REDACTED],  she  had  been  home-  sick  for  the  demure  gardens  of  Surrey.  Urged  by  her  loving  descriptions  of  them,  Ian,  as  a  child,  had  imagined  the  gentle  roses  and  the  feathery  larches  and  the  sweet  songbirds  of  Abinger,  though  what  he  had  looked  at  was  yucca  and  mesquite  and  what  he  had  heard  was  the  stridulous  nagging  of  magpies.  &quot;Poor  lady,&quot;  said  the  Baroness,  sighing  and  looking  fondly  at  a  vase  of  roses  from  her  own  garden.  &quot;Now  she  has  neither  summer  flowers  nor  her  favorite  son.  But  she  told  him  to  go.  What  she  said  was  poetic-'Go  mend  your  broken  heart  in  a  soft  land.&quot;  &quot;  HEN  Miranda  came  to  livein  the  Baroness's  house,  lan  had  been  there  since  the  previous  autumn,  and  during  that  time,  the  landlady  breathlessly  reported,  he  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  Rome  and  [REDACTED],  spending  money,  losing  money,  win-  ning  friends.  &quot;He  goes  away  from  ro-  mantic  Heidelberg  in  his  sehr  rot  motor-  car,&quot;  said  the  Baroness,  captivated,  &quot;but  he  comes  back  to  my  humble  villa  by  the  river.  What  an  honor!  Thank  God!&quot;  Her  eyes  sparkled,  bedewed.  It  did  not  occur  to  her,  as  it  did  to  Miranda,  to  wonder  why,  out  of  all  the  places  in  the  world,  he  had  picked  this  town,  whose  palaces  of  pleasure  were  few  and  for  the  most  part  dismal,  and  whose  society  was  either  academic  or  mercantile;  the  handful  of  aristocrats  in  Heidelberg  were,  like  the  Baroness,  impoverished,  and  sustained  only  by  their  souvenirs.  Miranda  thought  that  he  had  not  lost  his  heart  in  Heidelberg  but  perhaps  had  found  that  it  beat  more  calmly  there.  Usually  when  the  Baroness  spoke  of  money,  there  was  grief  in  her  voice  for  the  loss  of  her  own,  but  when  she  spoke  of  Tan's  it  was  as  if  she  were  commend-  ing  a  shining  talent  or  a  sterling  virtue.  To  be  sure,  because  the  revenue  she  got  from  his  rooms  was  probably  what  kept  her  going,  because  he  overtipped  her  underpaid  servants,  because  he  gave  her  presents  of  hothouse  grapes  and  hothouse  flowers,  she  was  grate-  ful.  But  besides  grati-  tude  there  was  awe  in  her  voice  and  awe  in  her  eyes  whenever  she  con-  templated  the  moun-  tain  of  [REDACTED]  silver  and  gold  that  stood,  like  a  wonder  of  the  world,  behind  his  blessed,  be-  loved  checkbook,.  This  woman,  with  her  bour-  geois  code,  would  have  been  shocked  ifit  had  been  proposed  to  her  that  she  liked-indeed,  all  but  adored-  Ian  for  his  money;  she  would  have  pro-  tested  that  character  and  personality  were  what  counted,  and  she  would  have  extolled  his  gallantry,  his  dash  without  brag,  his  armour-propre  without  egotism,  his  generosity,  his  way  of  sowing  good  will.  But  the  fact  was  that  if  she  had  been  pinned  down,  she  might  possibly  have  conceded  that  the  reason  she  valued  her  other  lodgers  less  was  that  they  were  obliged  to  make  do  and  do  without  and  eat  atrocious  sixty-pfennig  meals  at  the  Mensa  and  study  hard  to  prepare  themselves  to  earna  living,  and  all  this  hardship  and  privation  removed  them  to  a  realm  of  unworldliness  that  the  once-worldly  Baroness  confounded  with  barbarism.  Though  they  were  blameless,  indigence  had  placed  them  beyond  the  pale,  and  they  depressed  and  embarrassed  her;  they  would  remain  forever  strangers.  In  Ian's  presence,  on  the  other  hand,  her  animation  and  her  optimism  testified  to  her  belief  that  as  long  as  there  were  people  like  him  left,  there  was  the  possibility  that  the  old,  ele-  gant  order  might  one  day  be  restored  to  the  world.  And  thus,  superstitiously,  she  kept  her  eye  on  him,  and  did  not  let  it  stray  to  the  curt  and  hidebound  Nazi,  or  the  grubby  English  boy,  with  his  gluttony  for  cheap  films,  or  the  serious  [REDACTED]  African  girl,  with  her  mind  full  of  enzymes  and  yeast.  There  existed  between  Ian  and  the  Baroness  such  concord  that  they  might  have  been  friends  for  years.  On  those  jubilee  evenings  when  the  well-dressed,  well-made  millionaire  came  into  the  drawing  room  with  his  expensive  treat,  he  and  his  landlady  made  cryptic  refer-  ences  to  episodes  on  drives  they  had  taken  on  fair  spring  days,  and  excused  themselves  to  Miranda  for  their  private  laughter  but  said  they  couldn't  explain;  out  of  context  the  incident  would  have  no  meaning.  They  would  discuss  the  lat-  est  letter  from  Stuttgart,  with  its  news  of  Friede  the  niece,  whom  Ian  knew  from  a  visit  she  had  paid  her  aunt  at  Easter.  Much  at  home  in  the  cluttered  room,  lan,  wandering  about,  would  pinch  away  a  dead  leaf  from  the  Jeru-  salem  cherry,  straighten  a  picture  (the  etching  of  the  gardens  at  Trier  was  for-  ever  askew  ),  look  at  a  book  (though  he  could  not  read  a  word  of  it),  bend  down  to  admire  the  blue  daisies  with  which  the  Baroness  was  deftly  bestrewing  the  skirt  of  a  dress  for  Friede.  Sometimes  he  wound  up  the  music  box;  the  music  box  was  agilded  cage  with  a  tarnished  bird  on  aperch,  which  turned  its  head  from  left  to  right  as  a  minuet  tinkled  and  trilled  and  slowly  trailed  off.  While  it  played,  the  Baroness  dropped  her  work,  and  her  head  moved  with  the  bird's,  and  she  hummed,  eyes  closed,  remember-  ing-seeing-some  immortal  loveliness.  When  it  was  over,  she  would  clap  her  hands  and  cry  &quot;Ah,  my  sweet-bitter  linnet!  My  blithe,  sad  bird!&quot;  and  finish  off  her  aquavit  and  hold  out  her  glass  for  more.  The  aquavit  and  the  \xc3\xa9aviar  were  mnemonics  as  urgent  as  the  mechanical  bird,  and,  by  now  quite  tipsy,  she  would  excitedly  go  off  into  recollections  of  visits  to  cousins  in  Copenhagen  when  she  was  a  girl.  Ian  loved  her  stories  and  pressed  her  for  details;  he  treated  her  rather  like  an  older  sister  who  brought  to  him  in  the  nursery  news  of  the  world.  And,  indeed,  at  these  times  his  naive  and  sweet  sincerity  stripped  him  of  many  of  his  years  and  he  was  a  touching,  beardless  boy,  as  dreamy  as  he  might  have  been  in  [REDACTED],  stirred  by  his  moth-  er's  poignant  memories  of  the  gentle  English  countryside.  Although  he  shied  with  a  shudder  away  from  any  talk  of  his  life  before  he  had  left  [REDACTED],  Miranda,  from  bits  and  pieces  he  inadvertently  let  fall,  was  able  to  determine  that  he  had  been  miserable  as  a  child,  fearing  his  dour,  money-making  father,  uneasy  with  his  conventional  brothers  and  his  smug  sis-  ters,  and  allied  only  with  his  mother,  sighing  away  her  days  amid  the  alien  " b"corn.  Above  all,  Ian  had  hated  the  West,  and  if  in  this  mild  and  vacant  man  there  was  a  passion,  it  was  a  pas-  sion  for  the  dense,  luxuriant  landscape  of  [REDACTED],  so  sharp  a  contrast  to  the  sahara  where  he  had  been  reared.  Of-  ten,  on  Sunday,  he  and  the  Baroness,  in  the  national  tradition,  took  a  long  ramble  through  the  hills,  and  at  dusk  Miranda  would  see  them  coming  home  with  their  arms  full  of  ground  pine  and  autumn  leaves;  sometimes  the  Baroness  carried  a  basket  of  mushrooms  or  nuts  that  she  had  gathered  in  the  woods.  At  these  times,  in  Lederhosen  and  a  Tyrolian  hat,  his  face  colored  by  wind  and  sun  and  exercise,  Ian  looked  like  a  part  of  the  bucolic  German  scene-  a  far  cry  from  his  sleek  other  self  that  frequented  noisy  bars  and  the  tables  of  chemin  de  feer-and  the  Baroness,  exhilarated  by  her  outing,  laughing  with  happiness,  looked  many  years  younger  as  she  waited  with  feminine  de-  pendence  for  Ian  to  open  her  garden  gate.  Miranda,  gazing  down  on  them  through  the  branches  of  the  pear  tree,  was  moved  by  the  man's  tender  solici-  tude  for  the  woman  bereft  of  all  her  privilege.  Except  for  Thursdays,  Miranda  sel-  dom  had  more  than  a  glimpse  of  Ian.  Once  in  a  while,  he  invited  her  into  his  rooms  for  a  drink,  but  conversation  be-  tween  them  was  stiff;  her  memories  were  all  556e6974656420537461746573n  and  they  were  for  the  most  part  schoolish,  so,  without  the  Baroness  to  act  as  catalyst,  she  felt  far  more  the  bluestocking  than  in  fact  she  was,and,  to  her  horror,  she  heard  herself  being  pompous  or  found  her-  self  tongue-tied.  In  their  uncomfortable  silences,  she  looked  about  at  his  treas-  ures,  hunting  a  source  of  occupation  for  him  during  the  day,  when  all  his  young  friends  were  at  lectures  or  in  labora-  tories,  but  she  could  find  none;  his  rare  books  were  too  rare  to  read.  W  hat  could  Heidelberg's  lodestone  possibly  be  for  this  lazy,  hedonistic  Texan?  A  mistress,  perhaps?  When  she  asked  the  Baroness  if  this  was  possible,  the  lady  paled,  of-  fended,  and  took  a  moral  tone  and  said,  &quot;A  cosmopolitan  gentleman  of  leisure  has  better  things  to  do  than  visit  the  houses  of  Semmelstrasse.&quot;  And  when  Miranda  explained  that  she  had  not  been  thinking  in  such  terms  at  all,  had  simply  wondered  if  Ian  was  involved  in  a  genuine  affair  of  the  heart,  the  Baroness  prissily  pursed  her  lips  and  said  no  more  and  arranged  two  sprays  of  edelweiss  in  a  glass  tear  jar.  BOUT  a  month  after  the  fall  se-  mester  began,  there  came  a  day  so  beautiful  that  by  afternoon  Miranda  could  no  longer  bear  to  be  indoors;  un-  able  to  support  the  thought  of  Herr  Professor  Zintgraft's  exegesis  of  Kant's  categories  of  judgments,  she  cut  her  last  lecture  and  went  for  a  long,  aimless  walk  in  the  sun  on  the  Philosophenweg,  which  wound  up  the  Monchberg,  be-  hind  the  Baroness's  house.  High  on  the  hill,  she  found  a  fine  harvest  of  chest-  nuts,  and  she  gathered  the  nuts  in  her  baize  book  bag  for  the  Baroness,  who  would  combine  them  with  parsley  and  onion  to  make  a  soup  for  her  lonely  din-  ner.  As  she  descended  the  opulently  arboreal  path,  passing  through  sudden  misty  glades,  enjoying  the  smell  of  dy-  ing,  drying  leaves,  she  wondered  what  the  Baroness  and  Ian  talked  about  when  they  made  their  Sunday  excursions  through  romantic  ways  like  these.  What  a  truly  curious  friendship!  When  he  went  away  for  a  weekend  of  gambling,  the  Baroness  was  quiet-almost  woebe-  gone-but  when  he  was  in  residence,  she  was  spirituelle  and  affably  loqua-  cious,  detaining  even  the  silent  Herr  Winkler  in  the  foyer  to  tell  him  some  quaint  bit  of  nonsense  perpetrated  by  the  Dienstmiadchen,.  Miranda  dreaded  for  her  the  day  when  her  nomadic  mil-  lionaire  would  go  off  for  good  in  his  sehr  rot  motorcar.  That  afternoon,  when  she  came  up  the  steps  of  the  yellow  brick  house,  she  found  the  Baroness  and  Tan  sitting  on  the  terrace  that  overlooked  the  river.  The  Baroness,  asusual,  was  at  work  with  her  needle  and  her  rainbow  of  silk  threads,  and  Ian,  sprawled  in  a  long  chair,  was  drinking  beer  from  a  stein.  Because  the  day  was  still  warm,  because  a  few  late  roses  still  bloomed  on  the  garden  wall,  because  exuberant  young  men  and  their  girls  were  canoeing  on  the  river,  the  whole  scene  wore  an  air  of  easy,  summery  holiday,  and  Miranda,  seduced  by  the  lackadaisical  atmosphere,  felt  as  if  she  were  coming  to  a  particular-  ly  pleasant  party  as  she  joined  the  smil-  ing  man  and  woman  taking  their  ease  in  the  sun.  She  gave  the  chestnuts  to  the  Baroness,  who  was  delighted,  and  she  accepted  a  stein  of  Ian's  cool,  delicious  beer,  and  then  the  two  resumed  the  con-  versation  that  her  arrival  had  inter-  rupted.  There  had  come  that  day  to  Heidel-  berg  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  girl  from  43616e616461Carolina  and  her  brother,  whom  Ian  had  met  in  [REDACTED]  in  August,  at  the  Olympics,  and  he  and  the  Baroness  were  discussing  how  he  should  enter-  tain  them  that  evening.  &quot;I  might  take  them  up  to  the  castle  for  a  drink  before  dinner,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  the  Tarheels  would  like  the  string  quartet  at  the  Casino?&quot;  The  Baroness  cried  out  in  pain.  That  ensemble  is  frightful!  It  scratches  and  squeaks  like  guinea  pigs,  and  the  tables  there  are  all  grit  on  top.  It  is  only  a  place  for  Hollander  tourists.&quot;  Tan  laughed.  &quot;Right  Honorable  Mi-  lady's  a  snob,&quot;  he  said,  and  the  Baron-  ess,  who  secretly  loved  to  be  called  a  snob,  since  she  did  not  understand  the  word  and  thought  it  a  compliment,  turned  pink  with  pleasure.  They  talked  of  other  posuibilities.  He  could  drive  his  friends  up  to  the  Molk-  enkur-but  the  food  there  was  banal.  Perhaps  a  pub  crawl  through  the  Stw-  dentenlokale?  'The  Baroness  thought  " b"not;  the  evening  would  probably  be  warm,  and  those  roomswould  be  un-  comfortable,  with  too  many  people  and  too  much  smoke  and  noise.  Mann-  heim-but  what  was  there  to  do  in  Mannheim?  Perhaps  he  should  take  his  friends  to  Schwetzingen,  then.  &quot;Die  Entfiihrung  aus  dem  Serail&quot;  was  being  sung  there  that  night,  butwhile  the  theatre  was  a  love  and  they  would  love  it,  the  opera  company  was  indifferent  and  could  not  possibly  do  Mozart  jus-  tice;  the  soprano,  according  to  the  Baroness,  looked  like  a  turtle  and  sang  like  an  owl.  &quot;It  is  a  lovely  day!&quot;  said  the  Baron-  ess,  looking  upfrom  her  work,  her  hap-  py  eyes  roving  her  roses  with  pride,  as  if  her  garden  rivalled  Versailles.  &quot;Why  not  bring  them  here  to  enjoy  a  Ente  chez  mori  in  the  true  German  Abendsonnenschein.  And  later  we-&quot;  But  shedid  not  finish,  for  Ian  turned  on  hera  look  of  terrible  embarrassment  and  profound  pity,  and  it  seemed  to  Miranda  that  a  cloud  came  down,  dark,  through  the  branches  of  the  lime  trees.  &quot;I  think  my  friends  might  rather  ...&quot;  he  faltered,  and  then  he  busied  himself  with  fitting  a  cigarette  into  his  holder.  The  Baroness  resumed  her  work  and  brightly  said,  &quot;I  was  not  serious.&quot;  Yet     it  was  plain,  from  her  sorrowing  frown,  that  she  had  been.  The  shadow  continued  to  enshroud  the  terrace  and  fade  the  crimson  ram-  bler  on  the  wall.  The  three  were  silent.  Miranda,  though  she  desperately  tried,  could  think  of  nothing  to  say.  'The  world  about  them  was  alive  with  sound;  barges  signalled  to  pass  through  the  locks,  the  canoeing  sweethearts  laughed,  church  bells  rang,  birds  in  the  high  hills  sang.  With  keen  concentration,  she  watched  the  meaningless  meanderings  ofa  rooster  and  three  brown  hens  on  a  barge.  She  could  see  no  coop  for  them,  and  wondered  if  they  laid  their  eggs  in " b"the  coiled-up  hawsers;  save  for  the  poul-  try,  there  was  no  sign  of  life  on  board,  and  the  vessel  drifted  downstream  on  an  erratic  course.  For  some  time,  she  looked  at  a  fire  in  a  field  across  the  river,  slowly  turning  the  stubble  black.  She  saw  a  girl  herding  tall  geese  along  the  riverbank;  one  of  them  was  blue,  and  his  character  as  well  as  his  plumage  was  eccentric,  for  he  dawdled  and  then  took  it  into  his  head  to  go  swimming,  then  attended  to  his  person,  slapping  the  wa-  terdrops  away  with  his  bill,  ignoring  the  girl's  cross  outcries,  and  hissing  at  her  stick.  After  a  long  while,  Ian  said  to  the  Baroness,  &quot;Perhaps  I  should  take  them  up  to  Neckargemiind  tonight,  to  the  Pfalz.&quot;  &quot;The  Pfalz-oh,  lovely!&quot;  said  the  Baroness.  &quot;Because  the  moon  is  full!&quot;  She  was  as  charmed  and  charming  as  if  she  were  to  be  the  guest  of  honor  on  whom  the  orange  harvest  moon  would  shine.  She  had  never,  it  seemed  to  Mi-  randa,  looked  so  threadbare  and  so  faded  and  so  dreadfully  poor,  so  inse-  curely  held  together  with  pins  and  patches.  But  all  the  same,  having  re-  gained  her  poise,  she  was  once  more  the  hostess,  gifted  with  cordiality  and  small  talk,  making  it  gently  plain  that  she  was  to  the  manner  born.  Delicately  she  caressed  the  rubies  in  her  ears  and  smiled,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;I  know  what  I  once  was  and  I  shall  never  forget.&quot;  Although  Tan  had  earlier  rebuffed  her  in  her  in-  vitation  to  bring  his  friends  to  her  house,  he  was  now  as  admiring  as  he  was  on  Thursday  evenings,  and  listened  to  her  tell  of  an  adventure  that  had  befallen  her  and  the  Baron  one  time  in  Naples;  the  lighthearted  boaters  in  the  bright-  colored  boats  on  the  Neckar  had  re-  minded  her  of  the  wild  blue  southern  bay.  Presently,  the  Baroness  got  up,  say-  ing  that  she  must  go  into  the  kitchen  to  make  her  chestnut  soup;  she  could  not  trust  the  maid  to  do  it,  for  the  girl  was  gross.  When  she  had  wished  Miranda  and  Ian  a  good  appetite  and  had  van-  ished  into  the  house,  Ian  said,  &quot;I  hated  to  do  what  Idid.  But  I  couldn't  have  brought  those  people  here;  they  wouldn't  have  known  from  her  looks  that  she's  a  great  lady,  and  looks  is  all  they  go  on.  I  won't  have  her  laughed  at,&quot;  He  clenched  his  fist  in  his  friend's  defense  against  her  hypothetical  assail-  ants.  That  evening,  although  Miranda  had  planned  to  come  home  early  to  call  briefly  on  the  Baroness  and  then  get  to  her  books,  she  stayed  late  with  friends  at  a  caf\xc3\xa9.  She  remembered  Ian's  look  of  pity  and  embarrassment;  it  expressed her  own  feeling  when  she  thought  of  the  needy  noblewoman  in  her  murky,  musty  drawing  room  that  swarmed  and  echoed  with  memories.  At  midnight,  when  she  let  herself  into  the  house,  she  heard  faintly,  behind  the  door  of  the  drawing  room,  the  tinkling  of  the  mu-  sic  box.  Throughout  the  winter,  Ian  con-  tinued  to  bea  carefree,  spendthrift,  toping,  foppish,  indolent  man  of  the  world,  terrorizing  the  townsfolk  with  his  reckless  driving,  filling  the  tills  of  the  Bierstuben,  bringing  girls  home  with  him  late  at  night,  dancing  attendance  on  the  respectable  daughters  of  professors,  occasionally  going  away.  But  the  rakish  side  of  himwas  eradicated  on  Thursday  nights,  when  he  came  with  his  eucharist  for  Right  Honorable  Milady.  And  then,  in  the  spring,  a  change  came  over  him;he  went  away  only  once,  and  that  was  to  drive  the  Baroness  to  Stuttgart  to  visit  her  sister  and  niece.  While  they  were  gone,  the  house  was  as  still  as  a  library  and  as  lifeless  as  a  grave.  And  then,  when  they  came  back,  he  began  to  show  up  in  the  evenings  far  more  often  than  just  on  Thursdays,  and  such  now  was  the  wealth  of  experience  common  to  him  and  his  hostess  that  Miranda  felt  intrusive  and  tended  to  leave  early,  if  she  came  at  all.  They  did  not  press  her  to  stay,  for  they  had  taken  up  mah-  jongg,  and  even  before  Miranda  had  left  the  room,  their  heads,  the  red  one  and  the  wispy,  whitish-yellow  one,  were  together  over  the  pretty  tiles.  All  spring,  as  the  Baroness  tended  her  flow-  ers  and  planted  her  kitchen  garden  and  cross-stitched  dirndls  for  Friede,  she  sang  in  a  thin,  true  schoolgirl  voice.  On  the  day  Miranda  left  Heidelberg  in  June,  Ian  waved  goodbye  to  her  from  his  balcony  as  she  got  into  her  cab;  he  was  wearing  a  velvet  smoking  jacket  and  an  ascot,  and,  fancifully,  he  was  smoking  a  porcelain  pipe;  he  looked,  in  a  sense,  like  the  man  of  the  house.  But  despite  his  smile  and  his  friendly  wave,  there  was  something  wistful  in  his  voice  when  he  cried  down,  &quot;Auf  Wieder-  sehen!&quot;  ROM  time  to  time  in  the  next  few  years,  Miranda  heard  scraps  of  news  of  Ian  Ferguson.  He  had  stayed  in  Hei-  delberg  until  the  war  and  then  had  re-  turned  to  [REDACTED]  to  continue  restlessly  to  look  for  the  land  of  Cockaigne,  to  drink  so  much  that  he  was  often  put  away  in  nursing  homes,  to  wreck  his  cars  (in  one  crash,  on  Long  Island,  he  lost  the  sight  of  an  eye,  and  this,  to-  gether  with  a  number  of  serious  al-  lergies,  eliminated  him  from  the  draft),  to  underwrite  businesses  that  promptly  failed,  and  to  have  his  name  linked  in  the  gossip  columns  with  galaxies  of  star-  lets  and  renowned  divorcees.  A  good  part  of  the  time,  he  roved  the  Carib-  bean,  and  Miranda,  hearing  of  him  in  Haiti  and  [REDACTED],  could  perfectly  see  him  in  this  appropriate  setting,  sunning  his  golden  flesh  on  pale  beaches  under  garish  skies,  drinking  Daiquiris  in  the  company  of  people  like  himself,  cosmo-  politan  and  untroubled  by  any  cosmolo-  gy  or  any  politics,  good-looking,  charm-  ing,  disarming,  unharming,  a  useless  " b"vestigial  appendage  of  society,  but  one  for  which  Miranda,  despite  her  moral  objection  to  waste  and  despite  her  own  dedication  to  work,  had  a  soft  spot  in  her  heart.  She  had  been  really  fond  of  Tan  and  the  Baroness,  and  even  when  she  no  longer  heard  of  them,  she  often  thought  of  their  sympathetic  affection  for  each  other-those  Sunday  walks,  those  mah-jongg  games.  She  remem-  bered  the  tune  the  music  box  had  played  and  remembered  the  smell  of  the  carna-  tions  Ian  used  to  bring  as  a  tribute  to  Milady's  blue  blood;  the  fragrance  over-  came  that  other,  that  pathetic,  scent  of  dead  sachet.  Returning  to  Heidelberg  after  twen-  ty  years  had  been  a  strange  experience  even  before  she  saw  Ian's  name  in  the  telephone  book.  Miranda  was  fond  of  revisiting  scenes  to  learn  what  changes  history  had  made  in  them,  and  when  she  found  that  en  route  from  4974616c79,  where  she  had  been  visiting  friends,  to4672616e6365,  where  she  was  to  meet  her  husband,  she  could  stop  in  Heidelberg  for  a  few  days  with  no  great  inconvenience,  she  was  delighted.  She  had  found  the  town  un-  changed.  It  was  spring,  and  the  same  big  blond  boys  had  pitched  their  sleazy  pup  tents  on  the  grassy  esplanade  of  the  river  and  were  engaged  in  rowdy  horse-  play,  trying  to  push  each  other  into  the  oily  water,  bursting  into  song,  cooking  what  were  bound  to  be  nasty  messes  in  iron  pots  over  smoky  fires.  The  pleasure  craft  were  spry,their  paint  was  fresh,  the  same  heavy-laden  barges  rode  proudly  down.  The  same  myopic,  ill-  dressed  students  were  bicycling  through  the  narrow  Hauptstrasse,  where  the  same  blue  trolleys  swayed  and  clanged.  The  sun  shone  brightly  on  the  sweet  dark  hills,  and  the  gardens,  behind  their  gates,  were  spruce,  and  the  upriver  checkerboard  of  fields  beyond  the  peace-  ful  Benedictine  monastery  was  thriving  in  a  dozen  different  hues  of  green.  There  was  upon  this  lovely  landscape  no  mark  of  disaster.  Of  course,  there  were  changes-pro-  found  ones,  which  presently  she  saw.  Where  once  there  had  been  S$.S.  men,  now  there  were  556e6974656420537461746573n  soldiers,  and  where  once  there  had  been  a  leanness  of  purse,  now  there  was  immense  pros-  perity.  Nevertheless,  the  experience  of  Heidelberg-far  more  than  just  the  memory  of  it-returned  to  her,  and  she  lived  in  it  in  reflection  more  intensely  than  she  had  originally.  Observing  the  vividness  of  her  sensa-  tions  and  impressions,  she  realized  that  her  backward  glance  had  probably  in-  creased  the  rosiness  of  what  she  saw.  When  she  wandered  the  streets  that  smelled  of  cheese  and  wurst,  gazed  into  the  shops,  with  their  gimerack  steins  and  Lederhosen  for  babies  and  overwrought  etchings  of  the  castle,  twenty  years  dropped  from  her  mind  and  her  mus-  cles,  and  she  actually  was  a  resilient  girl,  intoxicated  with  the  headiness  of  being  abroad.  And  now,  to  complete  the  restoration  of  that  long-ago  time,  here  was  Ian  Ferguson's  name-a  name,  she  thought  romantically,  to  conjure  with.  At  last,  her  curiosity  overcame  her  reticence,  and  she  picked  up  the  telephone  and  gave  the  porter  Ian's  number;  it  was  only  then  she  noticed  that  his  address  was  the  same  as  ever-Ziegelh4user  Landstrasse  18,  the  Baroness's  yellow  house.  As  she  waited  for  the  telephone  to  be  answered,  she  heard  a  hard  pulse  in  her  temple  and  half  hoped  no  one  was  at  home,  for  she  felt  like  a  voyeur.  But  Ian  was  at  home  (&quot;Ferguson  here,&quot;  he  said),  and  when  Miranda  had  established  her  identity-  his  vagueness  indicated  that  his  recollec-  tion  of  her  was  uncertain-he  invited  her  to  come  to  tea  that  afternoon.  A  sign  under  the  bell  at  the  derelict  and  rusted  gate  of  No.  18  warned  the  visitor  to  beware  of  the  dog,  and  when  Miranda  rang,  a  ferocious  and  unkempt  young  schnauzer  tore  down  from  the  garden,  barking  murderously.  Imme-  diately  a  man's  voice  cried,  in  English,  &quot;Hansel!  Shut  up,  damn  you!  Shut  up,  I  say!&quot;  and  the  man  himself  came  hur-  tling  down  the  worn  steps  to  slap  the  dog  and  send  him  off,  howling.  Because  the  pales  of  the  grille  obscured  him,  Mi-  randa  did  not  recognize  Ian  until  he  had  opened  the  gate.  But  there  was  no  mistaking  him,  despite  the  black  patch  over  his  right  eye-she  recalled  hearing  of  the  automobile  accident-and  a  thick  and  sleek  mustache.  'These  two  new  appurtenances  gave  him  the  look  of  a  character  actor  who  had  wandered  off  the  set  of  a  melodrama  taking  place  in  a  British  colony;  he  wanted  onlya  pith  helmet  and  a  retinue  of  blacks.  But  he  was  so  thin  and  pale,  so  hollow-eyed  and  sunken-cheeked,  that  on  second  thought  she  decided  he  looked  more  as  if  he  had  just  quitted  a  bed  in  a  tubercu-  losis  sanitarium  where  he  had  been  gravely  ill.  He  greeted  Miranda  hospitably,  but  she  was  sure  that  he  did  not  really  know  who  she  was.  &quot;Sorry  about  that  dog,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Come  in,  come  in,  what  a  pleasure!  Right  Honorable  Milady  will  be  delighted.&quot;  &quot;The  Baroness?&quot;  said  Miranda,  amazed  at  first,  but  then  realizing  that  she  was  not  amazed  at  all.  &quot;Yes,  she  stayed  on.  Most  of  the  aristocrats  got  out  in  the  thirties,  bag  " b"and  baggage,  but  she  stayed.  I  call  that  pluck.&quot;  &quot;Will  she  remember  [REDACTED];  asked  Mi-  randa.  Ian  smiled.  &quot;Did  you  ever  know  Milady  to  forget  anything?  She's  a  lit-  tle  deaf  now,  but  apart  from  that  I  don't  think  you'll  find  her  changed.&quot;  And  then,  fussing  with  thegate  and  taking  Miranda's  elbow,he  urged  her  up  the  steps,  saying,  &quot;It's  much  too  hot  to  stand  in  the  sun.  Friede-Milady's  niece-  has  made  some  refreshments  for  us.  Do  you  remember  the  terrace?  We'll  sit  there,  in  the  sun.&quot;  The  Baroness,  as  desiccated  as  a  dried  leaf  or  a  bug,  sat,  a  tiny  huddle  of  bones,  in  a  cavernous  upholstered  chair  under  a  Roman-striped  umbrella.  She  ex-  tended  her  hand  to  Miranda  imperious-  ly  but  hospitably,  and  grandly  indicated  a  chair  where  her  guest  might  sit.  She  said,  &quot;How  good  you  are  to  come  to  pay  your  respectsto  this  aged  denizen  of  Heidelberg.  When  Ian  told  me  you  were  coming,  I  said,  'Then,  for  old  time's  sake,  we  must  have  tisane.'  Do  you  remember  those  evenings?  Lemon  verbena  was  your  favorite,  I  think.  But  Ianvetoed  my  proposal.  He  said  it  wasn't  a  properly  festive  tipple  for  so  unusual  a  reunion.  So  we  are  having  a  true  556e6974656420537461746573n  cocktail  party.&quot;  And  she  gestured  toward  the  garden  table,  where  there  were  glasses  and  a  bowl  of  ice  and  two  bottles  of  bourbon  and  a  dish  of  peanuts.  &quot;I  remember  the  first  time  I  ever  drank  whiskey,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  began,  in  her  familiar,  breathless  voice,  to  tell  a  story  Miranda  had  once  known  by  heart-of  a  steamer  trip  down  the  Danube  from  Ulm  to  Braila.  The  Baroness  was  wearing  a  brown  Mother  Hubbard  and  a  hat  woven  like  a  basket,  and  though  the  day  was  very  warm  for  April,  she  hugged  to  her  shoulders  that  bedraggled,  yellowed  old  ermine  tippet.  All  the  same,  she  still  played  the  grand  lady,  adding  to  her  monologue  fillips  of  French  and  Italian.  Her  pride  and  her  hopeless  vanity  broke  Miranda's  heart.  In  the  course  ofthat  long  afternoon,  the  whole  household  broke  Miranda's  heart.  Friede,  that  beloved  niece  for  whom  her  aunt  had  smocked  frocks  and  embellished  the  collars  with  forget-  me-nots  during  her  happy  childhood,  was  a  heavy-legged,  round-shouldered  young  woman  with  a  smooth,  unsmiling  face,  whose  expression  was  forever  one  of  puzzlement,  as  if  she  had  never  got  used  to  being  alive.  She  had  been,  Mi-  randa  learned,  orphaned  by  the  war,  for  her  parents,  seeking  shelter  in  their  cellar  during  an  air  raid,  drowned  in  their  own  wine  when  the  tuns  burst;  at  the  time,  Friede  had  been  in  Heidel-  berg  with  her  aunt,  and  she  had  never  left  the  yellow  house  on  Ziegelhfuser  Landstrasse.  Ian  had  come  back  to  Heidelberg  at  the  very  beginning  of  the  Occupation,  in  some  minor  job  with  the  Information  Service.  Although  Ameri-  cans  were  not  then  allowed  to  buy  property,  he  had  managed,  by  money  paid  surreptitiously  into  the  right  hands,  to  purchase  the  Baroness's  house  justat  the  moment  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Army  was  about  to  commandeer  it  fortheuse  of  bachelor  officers.  In  the  deed,  he  had  stipulated  that  the  Baroness  was  to  live  in  it  until  her  death.  It  was  the  Baroness  who  toldthese  facts,  and,  leaning  over  to  pat  her  benefactor's  hand,  she  said,  &quot;There  is  no  greater  gentleman  in  all  the  world.&quot;  To  be  sure,  they  had  been  obliged  to  billet  transient  personnel,  but  they  had  not  felt  invaded;  they  had  enjoyed  the  company  of  the  captains  and  majors.  (&quot;They  made  me  think  of  the  days  when  dashing  young  hussars  came  to  call  on  my  sisters  and  me,&quot;  said  the  Baroness,  twinkling  all  over.  &quot;I  remem-  ber  one  hussar  in  particular,  a  Captain  Frommel,  who  went  with  us  when  we  called  on  Chancellor  von  Bismarck  at  Fricdrichsruh  in  the  last  years  of  his  life.&quot;)  Now,  just  as  before  the  war,  the  extra  rooms  were  let  to  students.  &quot;It  seems  only  yesterday  that  Herr  Fer-  guson  was  my  lodger,&quot;  said  the  Baron- " b"ess,  &quot;and  now  he  is,  so  tosay,  my  land-  lord.&quot;  &quot;Not  landlord!&quot;  protested  Tan,  and  got  up  to  retrieve  the  gardening  gloves  she  had  let  fall.  &quot;You  must  not  call  me  that.&quot;  &quot;Dear  friend,  then,&quot;  said  the  Baron-  ess,  gazing  at  him  with  ineffable  affec-  tion,  and  to  Miranda  she  said,  'You  see,  there  was  something  about  my  humble  villa  by  the  river  that  always  drew  him  back.&quot;  &quot;It  was  the  noble  lady  who  lived  there  that  drew  me  back,&quot;  said  Ian,  and  though  he  spoke  with  de-  votion,  Miranda  could  not  help  feeling  that  he  spoke  by  rote-that  this  was  a  game  they  had  played  over  and  over,  never  missing  a  cue,  nev-  er  fumbling  a  line.  Tan,  drinking  straight  bourbon  rapidly,  grew  garrulous.  &quot;'You  remem-  ber  me,  I'm  sure,  as  a  gay  blade  who  used  to  go  cavorting  about  from  one  casino  to  the  next,  never  giving  a  thought  to  tomor-  row  and  never  bothering  my  head  about  arainy  day,&quot;  he  said  to  Miranda.  &quot;Black  sheep  of  the  family,  that  was  Yours  [REDACTED],  as  my  brothers  rejoice  in  telling  me  whenever  they  deign  to  write.  Oh,  they're  rich,  I  can  tell  you!  And  sober  and  God-fearing,  and  sur-  rounded  by  offspring  who  count  it  a  rare  privilege  to  live  in  the  Lone-Star  State.  ButI'm  not  one  to  regret  that  I  made  ducks  and  drakes  of  my  money,  because  I  had  a  hell  of  a  good  time  doing  it.  I've  seen  a  lot  in  my  day,  and  sometime  I'm  going  to  write  down  my  experiences.&quot;  &quot;He's  been  everywhere!&quot;  exclaimed  the  Baroness,  beaming.  Just  for  example,  he  said,  he  had  been  here  in  [REDACTED]  while  the  Spanish  civil  war  was  going  hot  and  heavy,  and  it  had  been  as  plain  as  a  pikestaff  then  that  a  general  war  was  on  the  way.  (It  had  been  plain  to  almost  everyone  but  Tan,  who  one  time  had  asked  the  Baron-  ess  what  on  earth  could  be  the  meaning  of  the  words,  stamped  in  his  passport,  &quot;Not  Valid  for  Travel  in  537061696e.&quot;  She  had  not  the  faintest  idea;  she  had  ro-  guishly  suggested  that  he  was  persone  non  grata  in  537061696e  because  of  some  cava-  lier  scandal  involving  a  grandee's  daughter,  or  even  a  grandee's  wife.  )  His  hindsight  was  astigmatic,  and  he  saw  himself  as  a  serious  inquirer  into  politi-  cal  and  sociological  matters,  and  also  as  a  dog  gayer  than  Casanova  had  ever  thought  ofbeing.  Poor  man,  thought  Miranda,  he  had  not  even  been  really  gay-he  had  cut  a  narrow  swath  in  a       fallow  field,  and  his  thrills  had  been  ever  so  tame-but  she  listened  atten-  tively  to  his  romantic  exaggerations,  as  she  had  once  listened  to  the  Baroness's.  Gratuitously,  and  with  vehemence,  he  insisted  that  he  was  the  happiestof  men,  and  if  he  had  his  life  to  live  over  again,  he  would  do  the  same  things;  he  wanted  to  spend  the  rest  of  his  days  right  here  on  this  sunny  belvedere,  watching  the  ceaseless  change  and  play  of  light  on  the  broken  turrets  of  the  castle.  The  Baroness  said,  &quot;Sometimes  I  say  to  him,  'Why  don't  you  take  a  trip  somewhere?  Why  don't  you  go  to  England  and  make  a  pilgrimage  to  your  mama's  birthplace?&quot;  I  say,  'She'd  be  happy  in  her  grave  in  [REDACTED]  if  she  knew  you  were  looking  at  the  roses  in  Surrey.&quot;  But  he's  such  a  stay-at-home!&quot;  h  &amp;  &quot;'The  roses  in  Surrey  AmNMED  can't  be  any  more  beau-  tiful  than  the  ones  you  grow,&quot;  said  Ian,  and  he  gazed  out  across  the  river.  These  lines,  too,  thought  Miranda,  were  a  part  of  the  game.  He  went  on,  meditatively,  &quot;I  suppose  my  brothers  and  sisters  are  right-that  I'm  a  wastrel.  God  knows,  it's  the  truth  that  I'm  poor.  I  never  wanted  to  spend  the  time  with  brokers  and  bankers,  soI  just  spent  the  money  tillit  was  gone.  But  my  tastes  are  simple  now.  Do  you  re-  member  the  way  I  used  to  have  lobster  brought  down  from  [REDACTED]  for  those  dinner  parties  I  threw  in  my  rooms?&quot;  He  laughed  at  the  memory  of  his  debonair  days.  &quot;But  though  I'm  poor,  I've  got  what  I  want.  Sometimes  I'm  not  just  sure  what  it  is,  but  I've  got  it  anyway.&quot;  &quot;He  won't  go  to  England.  He  won't  even  go  to  the  Harz,  where  he  used  to  love  to  hunt,&quot;  said  the  Baroness  compla-  cently.  &quot;These  late  afternoons  in  Hei-  delberg  are  so  beautiful!  Why  should  anyone  want  to  be  anywhere  else?&quot;  &quot;If  my  ship  comes  in,  I'll  tell  you  what  I'll  do,  Milady,&quot;  said  Ian.  &quot;I'll  move  my  mother's  body  from  [REDACTED]  to  England.&quot;  Friede,  sitting  on  a  stone  bench  be-  side  the  wall  where  the  rambler  grew,  had  been  silent  with  boredom  or  with  despair,  but  now  she  shuddered  and  got  up  and  said  &quot;How  morbid  you  are!&quot;  and  she  went  into  the  house,  slamming  the  door.  &quot;The  young  are  so  strict,&quot;  said  the  Baroness.  &quot;I'm  sure  I  wasn't  when  I  was  her  age,  but  then  in  those  days  we  lived  like  the  lilies  ofthe  field.&quot;  &quot;My  oldest  sister  came  through  &gt;  Heidelberg  last  year,&quot;  said  Ian,  &quot;and  came  out  here  for  the  sole  purpose  of  upbraiding  me.  She  said  she  wasn't  a  bit  surprised  that  I  had  gone  to  the  dogs-that's  how  she  put  it-and  be-  haved  as  if  this  were  Skid  Row.  She  said  I'd  been  spoiled  all  my  life.  Oh,  Lord,  the  things  she  said!&quot;  He  was  very  drunk  now;  his  hand-  some  face  fell  into  pleats  and  corruga-  tions,  his  good  eye  was  red  and  moist,  and,  in  his  awful  woe  and  disappoint-  ment,  he  stumbled  over  to  the  Baroness  and  knelt  before  her  on  one  knee.  The  Baroness  touched  him  on  the  shoulder.  &quot;I  dub  thee  Sir  Ian,&quot;  she  said.  Miranda  could  no  longer  watch  the  creaking  antics  of  this  game,  and  she  asked  if  she  might  ring  for  a  cab,  but  Tan  insisted  on  driving  her  home,  and  the  Baroness,  in  her  grandest  manner,  said,  &quot;I  personally  have  never  ridden  in  a  public  vehicle.  That  is  one  thing  I  look  on  asreally  infra  dig.&quot;  Their  goodbyes  were  formal  and  ef-  fusive;  it  was  as  if  they  were  taking  leave  of  one  another  after  a  ceremony  of  great  importance-a  christening  party,  per-  haps,  for  an  infant  queen.  'The  Baron-  ess  pluckeda  tulip  for  Miranda,  and  stood  there  in  the  filtered  sunlight  in  those  dilapidated  clothes  and  fingered  the  rubies  in  her  ears.  Tan  drove  Miranda  back  to  her  hotel  in  a  sudden  April  shower.  He  had  a  Mercedes  again,  but  it  was  old  and  halting  and  its  upholstery  was  scuffed.  At  the  door  of  the  hotel,  he  stood  on  the  bottom  step,  unprotected,  the  rain  pour-  ing  down  his  face.  &quot;This  time  tomorrow  you'll  be  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said,  and  there  was  anguish  in  his  voice.  &quot;I'd  like  to  go  to  [REDACTED].  I'd  love  to  go  to  England,  but  Milady  is  frail-I'd  worry  if  I  left  her  alone.&quot;  In  his  reluctant  exile  in  this  unlikely  place,  with  his  waning,  paling  ladylove  (Or  was  she  that,  or  had  she  ever  been?  Probably  he  no  longer  knew  himself),  he  envied  Miranda,  but  what  he  said-and  he  said  it  gallantly-was  &quot;Don't  forget  Heidelberg!  Come  back!  You  will,  you  know-you'll  be  drawn.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'll  be  back,&quot;  said  Miranda  limply,  knowing  that  nothing  on  earth  could  drag  her  here  again.  There  was  an  awkward  pause  between  them,  in  the  thundering  rain,  and  finally  Miranda  said,  &quot;Well,  Ian,  auf  Wiedersehen,&quot;  although  she  meant  &quot;goodbye.&quot;"