 b"THERE  was  something  strange,  abnormal,  about  my  bringing-up;  only  now  that  my  grandmother  is  dead  am  I  prepared  to  face  this  fact.  When  she  died,  she  had  not  divulged  her  age;  none  of  her  children  knew  it,  and  whatever  birth  date  they  found  in  her  papers  has  remained  a  secret  to  me.  She  was  well  over  eighty,  certainly,  and  senile  when  she  finally  &quot;passed  away,&quot;  three  years  ago,  in  her  tall  [REDACTED]  house-under  her  gold  taf-  feta  puff,  doubtless,  with  her  rings  on  her  fingers  and  her  blue-figured  dia-  mond  wristwatch  on  her  puckered  wrist.  Probably  she  herself  no  longer  knew  how  old  she  was;  she  was  con-  fused  the  last  time  I  saw  her,  six  years  ago,  when  I  flew  West  to  be  with  her  after  she  had  broken  her  hip.  Going  over  family  photographs,  which  we  spread  out  on  her  bed,  she  nodded  and  smiled  eagerly,  sitting  up  among  her  pillows  like  a  macaw  on  its  perch,  in  her  plumage  of  black  hair  and  rouge  and  eyebrow  pencil  and  mascara.  She  recognized  the  faces-her  husband,  Grandpa  Preston,  with  a  mustache,  her  husband  clean-shaven,  her  son  in  a  World  War  I  uniform,  her  nephews,  her  younger  son  in  a  sailor  suit,  my  mother  dressed  as  a  Spanishdancer,  my  mother  in  a  ball  gown-but  she  was  vague  about  the  names.  &quot;My  father,&quot;  she  decided  after  studying  an  obituary  photograph  of  Grandpa,  clipped  out  of  a  newspaper.  &quot;Son,&quot;  &quot;husband,&quot;  and  &quot;father'&quot;  were  all  one  toher.  She  knew  who  I  was,  right  enough,  and  did  not  mix  me  up  with  my  dead  mother,  but  this  was  not  very  flattering,  since  it  was  usually  the  peo-  ple  she  had  loved  that  she  could  not  keep  apart,  melting  them  into  a  single  cate-  gory-father-son-husband-like  the  Mystery  of  the  Trinity.  One  relation  whom  she  had  quarrelled  with  she  picked  out  instantly,  while  I  was  still  fumbling  for  the  name.  &quot;That's  Ger-  trude!&quot;  she  proclaimed  victoriously.  Then  she  made  a  face-the  same  face  she  made  when  the  cook  brought  her  something  she  did  not  like  on  her  tray.  I  reminded  her  that  she  had  made  up  with  Gertrude  years  ago,  but  she  shook  her  head.  &quot;Bad,&quot;  she  said  childishly.  &quot;Gertrude  said  bad  things  about  me.&quot;  &quot;You,&quot;  she  said  one  day,  suddenly  pointing.  &quot;You  wrote  bad  things  about  me.Bad.&quot;  It  was  not  true;  I  had  never  written  about  her  at  all.  But  when  I  told  her  so,  she  would  not  listen,  nor  would  she  say  where  she  had  derived  her  notion.  This  was  exactly  like  her;  she  collected  stray  grudges  like  bits  of  colored  ribbon  and  would  never  tell  where  they  came  from.  Nobody  had  ever  known,  for  instance,  the  exact  cause  of  her  falling-out  with  Gertrude.  That  day,  sitting  by  her  bed,  I  tried  to  coax  her  into  a  better  frame  of  mind.  She  turned  her  head  away  on  the  pillow  and  shut  her  eyes;  long,  sharp  lines  ran  down,  like  rivulets  of  discontent,  from  her  nose  to  the  corners  of  her  mouth.  A  hopeless  silence  followed.  It  troubled  me  to  see  her  like  this;  those  deep,  bitter  lines  were  new  to  me,  yet  it  must  have  taken  years  to  indent  them.  I  did  not  know  whether  to  leave  or  stay,  and  I  wished  the  nurse  would  come  in.  &quot;You  wrote  about  my  husband,&quot;  she  abrupt,  ly  charged,  opening  her  eyes  and  frown-  ing  over  her  high-bridged  nose.  This  was  a  sign  that  she  was  far  away;  in  her  clear  moments  she  spoke  of  him  to  me  as  &quot;Grandpa.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  agreed.  &quot;I  wrote  about  Grandpa.&quot;  It  transpired  that  this  had  made  her  veryangry,  though  she  had  never  al-  luded  to  it  in  any  of  her  letters.  But  why,  precisely,  she  was  angry,  I  could  not  find  out  from  her.  Certainly  I  had  not  said  anything  that  she  could  call  &quot;bad&quot;  about  Grandpa.  It  occurred  to  me  that  she  was  jealous  because  she  had  not  been  included  in  these  writings;  moreover,  my  grandfather  had  been  shown  with  other  women-a  Mother  Superior,  a  fictional  aunt,  myself.  When  she  accused  me  of  putting  her  in,  didshe  really  mean  that  she  felt  left  out?  She   was  capable  of  such  a  contradiction  even  before  her  mind  had  clouded.  Or  did  she  suppose  that  she  was  the  aunt-  a  disagreeable  personage?  Hopeless,  hopeless,  I  repeated  to  myself.  It  had  always  been  like  this.  You  could  never  explain  anything  to  her  or  make  her  see  you  loved  her.  She  rebuffed  ex-  planations,  as  she  rebuffed  shows  of  af-  fection;  they  intruded  on  her  privacy,  that  closely  guarded  preserve-as  sac-  rosanct  as  her  bureau  drawers  or  the  safe  with  a  combination  lock  in  her  closet-in  which  she  clung  to  her  own  opinion.  &quot;Look,  Grandma,&quot;  I  began,  but  then  I  gave  it  up.  I  was  going  to  say  that  (a)  I  had  not  written  about  her  in  any  shape  or  disguise,  and  (b)  if  I  had  not,  it  was  not  because  I  considered  her  unimpor-  tant  but  because  I  knew  she  would  hate  to  have  her  likeness  taken.  For  nearly  forty  years,  she  had  refused  to  be  pho-  tographed.  The  last  picture  made  of  her,  a  tinted  photograph,  stood  on  her  chiffonier;  it  showed  an  imperious,  handsome  matron  in  a  low-cut  beaded  evening  dress  and  a  gauzy  scarf,  with  her  hair  in  a  pompadour  and  her  young  son  at  her  knee.  This  remained  her  official  image,  and  nothing  would  per-  suade  her  to  let  it  be  superseded.  In  the  four-generations  pictures  made  when  my  brothers  and  I  were  children-my  great-grandfather,  my  grandfather,  my  mother,  and  the  babies-my  grand-  mother  is  absent.  The  last  time  I  had  come  to  visit  her,  with  my  own  baby,  in  1939,  just  before  the  war,  I  had  begged  her  to  let  us  take  pictures  of  this  new  family  group.  But  she  would  notallow  it.  In  the  snapshots  I  have  of  that  sum-  mer,  my  grandmother  again  is  absent;  a  shadow  on  the  lawn,  near  the  playpen,  in  one  of  them  may  indicate  where  she  was  standing.  Yet  I  dared  not  draw  these  facts  to  her  attention,  for  there  was  a  story  behind  them,  the  story  of  her  life-a  story  that  was  kept,  like  her  age,  a  secret  from  those  closest  to  her,  though  we  all  guessed  at  it  and  knew  it  in  a  general  way,  just  as  we  all  knew,  in  a  general  way,  calculating  from  our  own  ages  and  from  the  laws  of  Nature,  that  she  had  to  be  over  eighty  when  she  died.  Starting  to  tell  that  story  now-to  publish  it,  so  to  speak,  abroad-I  feel  a  distinct  uneasiness,  as  though  her  shade  were  interposing  to  forbid  me.  If  I  be-  lieved  in  the  afterlife,  I  would  hold  my  peace.  I  should  not  like  to  account  to  her  in  whatever  place  we  might  meet;  Limbo  is  where  I  can  best  imagine  her,  waiting  for  me  at  some  Victorian  stair-  head,  with  folded  arms,  and  cold  cream  on  her  face,  as  she  used  to  wait  in  her  " b"pink  quilted  Japanese  bathrobe  or  the  green  one  with  the  dragons  when  I  turned  my  key  softly  in  the  front  door  at  two  or  three  in  the  morning,  with  a  lie,  which  I  hoped  not  to  need,  trem-  bling  on  my  lips.  She  would  never  for-  give  me  for  what  I  am  about  to  do,  and  if  there  is  an  afterlife,  it  is  God  who  will  have  to  listen  to  my  explanations.  MY  first  recollection  of  her  is  in  her  gray  electric,  her  smartly  gloved  hands  on  the  steering  bar,  or  tiller.  How  old  I  was,  I  am  not  sure,  but  it  was  long  before  my  family  left  [REDACTED]  when  I  was  six.  The  gray  box  would  glide  up  to  the  curb  in  front  of  our  brick  house  on  Twenty-fourth  Avenue,  and  we  would  see  her  step  out,  wearing  a  dressy  suit,  braided  or  spangled,  and  a  hat  with  a  dotted  veil  that  was  pulled  tight  over  her  high-bridged  nose,  so  that  the  black  furry  dots  against  her  skin  looked  like  beauty  patches.  On  her  feet,  over  her  shoes,  were  curious  cloth  covers  fastened  with  pearl  buttons;  my  father  said  that  they  were  called  &quot;spats,&quot;  and  that  some  men  wore  them,  too.  She  had  come  to  see  my  mother,  and  smelled  of  perfume.  The  electric  would  be  parked  for  a  long  time  outside  our  house;  one  day  my  brothers  and  I  climbed  in  and  got  it  started  rolling.  My  mother  spanked  us  with  her  tortoise-shell  comb,  but  my  father  boasted  of  the  exploit.  &quot;How  did  the  little  tykes  do  it?&quot;  he  would  say,  laughing;  we  must  all  have  been  well  under  six.   Next,  I  think  I  see  her  in  our  bath-  room,  telling  my  mother  that  we  must  each  have  our  own  towel  with  our  name  above  it,  so  that  we  would  not  keep  catching  colds  from  each  other.  When  she  left  that  afternoon,  there  was  a  brand-new  towel  for  each  ofus  hang-  ing  folded  on  the  towel  rack,  with  our  name  written  out  on  a  little  label  pasted  on  the  wall  behind  each  towel:  &quot;Roy&quot;  and  ''Tess&quot;  for  our  parents,  and  &quot;[REDACTED];  &quot;Kevin,&quot;  and  &quot;James  Pres-  ton&quot;  for  us  children;  my  littlest  brother,  Sheridan,  was  too  young  to  have  one.  I  was  impressed  by  this  arrangement,  which  seemed  to  me  very  stylish.  But  the  verynext  day  my  father  spoiled  it  by  using  one  of  our  towels,  and  soonthey  were  all  scrambled  up  again  and  the  labels  fell  off.  'This  was  the  first  (and,  I  think,  the  only)  time  I  felt  critical  of  my  debonair  Irish  father,  for  I  knew  that  the  strange  lady  would  be  cross  with  him  if  she  could  see  our  bathroom  now,.  On  Sundays,  sometimes,  we  were  taken  to  lunch  at  her  house,  out  by  Lake  [REDACTED].  Two  things  we  loved  to  do  there.  One  was  to  crawl  under  the  table  while  the  grownups  were  still  eat-  ing  and  find  the  bulge  or  little  mound  in  the  carpet  where  there  was  a  bell  she  stepped  on  when  she  wanted  the  maid  to  come  in.  The  bulge  in  the  carpet  was  rather  hard  to  locate,  with  all  the  feet  and  the  women's  skirts  in  the  way,  but  eventually  we  found  it  and  made  the  bell  ring.  It  was  nice  under  there,  with  the  white  tablecloth  hanging  down  all  around  us  like  a  tent.  The  carpet  was  thick  and  soft  and  furry,  and  if  we  peered  out,  we  could  see  exotic  birds  on  the  wallpaper.  I  don't  re-  member  anyone's  telling  us  not  to  get  under  the  table,  but  one  Sunday,  perhaps  the  last  time  we  went  there,  we  could  not  find  the  bulge  at  all,  and  I  remember  the  strange,  scary  feeling  this  gave  me,  as  though  I  had  been  dreaming  or  mak-  ing  up  a  story  and  there  had  never  been  any  bulge  or  bell  in  the  first  place.  It  did  not  occur  to  us  that  the  bell  must  have  been  removed  to  keep  us  from  annoying  the  maid,  and  the  mystery  of  its  disappearance  used  to  plague  me,  long  after  we  had  left  [REDACTED],  like  some maddening  puzzle.  I  would  lie  awake  in  my  new  bed,  thinking  about  the  bell  and  wishing  I  could  be  given  another  chance  to  look  for  it.  Five  years  later,  when  I  was  brought  back  to  that  house  to  live,  a  girl  of  eleven  (and  it  remained  my  official  home  until  I  was  twenty-one),  I  had  the  great  joy,  the  vindication,  of  finding  the  bell  just  where  I  thought  it  should  be,  between  her  feet  and  mine.  The  other  thing  we  liked  to  do  was,  after  lunch,  to  roll  down  her  terraces,  which  dropped  in  grassy  tiers  from  her  tall  house  all  the  way,  I  remembered,  to  Lake  [REDACTED].  We  rolled  and  rolled,  almost  into  the  water,  it  seemed,  and  nobody  stopped  us  until  it  was  time  to  go  home,  our  white  Sunday  clothes  smeared  with  green  stains.  'The  grass  was  like  velvet,  and  there  were  flower  beds  all  around,  and  a  smell  of  roses;  a  sprinkler  was  going  somewhere,  and  there  were  raspberries  that  we  ateoff  bushes.  Alas,  when  I  came  back,  I  found  I  had  been  dreaming.  The  grounds  did  not  go  down  to  the  lake  but  only  to  the  next  block,  below,  and  there  was  only  one  grass  terrace;  the  second  one  was  wild,  covered  with  blackberry  prickers,  and  it  had  always  been  so,  they  said.  Irolled  a  few  times  down  the  bank,  but  it  was  not  the  same;  only  five  or  six  turns  and  I  had  reached  the  bottom;  I  could  not  re-  capture  the  delicious  dizzy  sensation  I  remembered  so  well.  And  the  rasp-  berries,  which  I  had  been  looking  for-  ward  to  eating,  did  not  belong  to  us  but  to  the  people  next  door.  The  strange  lady  was  supposed  to  be  my  grandmother,  but  I  did  not  think  of  her  that  way  when  I  was  little.  She     " b"did  not  have  white  hair,  for  one  thing,  like  my  other  grandmother-the  real  one,  as  I  considered  her.  Nor  did  she  do  embroidery  or  tapestry  work,  or  stare  at  us  over  her  glasses.  She  did  not  have  glasses-only  a  peculiar  ornament  on  a  chain  that  she  put  up  to  her  eyes  when  she  wanted  to  look  at  something.  With  her  queer  electrical  car  that  ran  sound-  lessly  and  was  upholstered  inside  in  the  softest  gray,  like  a  jewel  case,  her  dotted  veil,  her  gloves,  which  had  bumps  in  them  (made  byher  rings,  I  discovered  later),  her  bell,  and  her  descending  ter-  races,  she  was  a  fairy-tale  person  who  lived  in  an  enchanted  house,  which  was  full  of  bulges,  too-two  overhanging  balconies,  on  the  lake  side,  and  four  bays  and  a  little  tower.  (She  had  a  fairy-tale  sister,  different  from  her-  self-tall,  with  white  hair  piled  on  top  of  her  head  in  a  long,  conical  shape,  a  towering  mountain  peak  or  a  vanilla  ice-cream  cone.  We  were  taken  to  see  her  one  day,  and  her  house  was  magic  also.  She  had  a  whole  polar  bear  for  a  rug,  and  her  floor  shone  like  glass  and  made  you  slip  when  you  walked  on  it;  her  house  was  like  a  winter  palace  or  like  the  North  Pole,  where  Santa  Claus  came  from.)  I  did  not  love  the  strange  lady  in  the  electric,  but  I  loved  the  things  she  had.  The  last  time  I  saw  her,  in  this  pris-  tine,  fairy-tale  period,  was  in  the  Hotel  [REDACTED],  where  we  were  staying  because  our  house  had  been  sold  and  we  were  moving  away  from  [REDACTED].  She  was  riding  in  the  elevator,  wearing  a  funny  white  mask,  like  the  one  the  doctor  had  worn  when  they  took  my  tonsils  out;  I  heard  the  word  &quot;epi-  demic,&quot;  and  Ithink  she  told  my  moth-  erthat  we  should  have  masks,  too,  when  we  rode  up  and  down  in  the  elevator-a  thing  we  were  fond  of  doing.  But  I  did  not  like  the  masks.  We  were  very  sick  on  the  train  and  they  took  us  off  with  stretchers  and  wheelchairs.  I  was  still  sick  when  I  saw  her  again,  in  a  place  where  shedid  not  belong-a  place  called  [REDACTED],  where  my  other  grandmother  lived.  Lying  in  an  iron  bed  in  my  other  grand-  mother's  sewing  room,  I  watched  the  door  open,  and  the  strange  lady  came  in,  with  a  different  kind  of  veil  on-a  black  one,  which  hung  all  the  way  down  over  her  face.  She  flung  it  back,  and  her  face  looked  dreadful,  as  if  she  had  been  crying.  Then  she  sat  down  on  my  bed,  and  her  husband,  Grandpa  Pres-  ton,  sat  on  a  straight  chair  beside  it.  She  sobbed,  and  her  husband  patted  her,  saying  something  like  &quot;Come  now,  Gussie,&quot;  which  appeared  to  be  her  name.  She  wiped  her  tears  with  a  hand-  kerchief;  they  went  away  on  tiptoe,  telling  me  to  be  a  good  girl.  I  did  not  understand  any  of  this;  my  reason  was  offended  by  her  turning  up  here  in  [REDACTED]  when  I  knew  she  lived  in  [REDACTED].  No  one  enlightened  me;  I  heard  the  word  &quot;flu,&quot;  but  it  was  months  before  it  dawned  on  me  that  the  oc-  casion  had  been  my  parents'  funeral.  Yet  when  I  surmised,  finally,  that  Mama  and  Daddy  were  not  coming  back,  I  felt  a  certain  measure  of  relief.  One  mystery,  at  least,  was  cleared  up;  the  strange  lady  had  come  and  cried  on  my  bed  because  her  daughter  was  dead.  I  did  not  see  her  again  till  five  years  later,  when  she  was  standing  in  the  depot  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  hat  with  a  black  dotted  veil  pulled  tight  across  her  face,  which  was  heavily  rouged  and  pow-  dered.  By  this  time,  I  knew  that  she  was  my  grandmother,  that  she  was  Jewish,  and  dyed  her  hair.  HE  last  of  these  items  was  a  canard.  Her  hair  was  naturally  black,  black  as  a  raven's  wing  and  with  afine  silky  gloss,  like  loose  skeins  of  embroidery  thread.  When  she  was  over  eighty  and  bedridden,  the  first  sprinkling  of  white  hairs  began  to  ap-  pear  in  her  thick,  shining  permanent.  Brushing  it,  the  nurses  used  to  marvel  (&quot;Wonderful,  isn't  it?  You'd  swear,  at  first,  it  was  dye&quot;),  but  this  triumph  overher  calumniators  came  too  late.  The  nurses  could  testify,  my  uncles  and  their  wives  could  testify,  I  could  testify,  but  whom  were  we  to  tell?  Within  the  immediate  family,  we  had  always  given  her  the  benefit  of  the  doubt,  though  I  recall  my  grandfather's  uneasy  face  when  she  went  to  have  her  first  perma-  nent,  for  in  those  days  dyed  hair  did  not  take  well  to  the  process  and  was  reputed  to  turn  green  or  orange.  It  was  the  out-  siders-the  distant  in-laws,  the  ladies  who  bowed  to  my  grandmother  in  the  shops  and  then  turned  aside  to  whisper  something-whom  I  should  have  liked  to  make  eat  their  words  now,  and  in  particular  my  other  grandmother,  with  her  reiterated,  crushing  question  &quot;Who  ever  saw  natural  hair  that  color?&quot;  But  she  was  in  her  mausoleum,  unavailable  for  comment,  and  the  others  were  gone,  too.  My  grandmother  had  outlived  them  all-an  unfortunate  state  of  af-  fairs.  Moreover,  she  herself  was  no  longer  in  a  condition  to  appreciate  or  even  understand  her  victory;  on  her  energetic  days  she  would  ask  me  to  fetch  her  hand  mirror  from  her  bureau,  and,  frowning  into  it,  would  set  herself  to  plucking  out  those  stray  white  hairs,  not  realizing  that  they  were  the  proof" b"she  had  longbeen  needing  to  show  that  her  hair  was  truly  black.  She  had  been  a  beautiful  woman-  &quot;the  most  beautiful  woman  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  my  friends'  mothers  used  to  tell  me,  adding  that  my  mother,  in  her  day,  had  been  the  most  beautiful  woman  in  Seat-  tle,  too.  I  can  see  it  in  the  caseof  my  mother,  but  my  grandmother  does  not  appear  beautiful  to  me  in  the  few  pho-  tographs  that  exist  of  her  as  a  young  woman.  Handsome,  I  would  say,  with  a  long,  narrow,  high-nosed,  dark-eyed,  proud,  delicate  face,  the  pure  forehead  topped  by  severe,  somewhat  boyish  curls,  such  as  the  Romantic  poets  used  to  cultivate.  A  Biblical  Jewish  face  that  might  have  belonged  to  the  young  Rachel  when  Jacob  first  saw  her.  Her  ears  were  pierced,  and  in  one  photo-  graph  she  is  wearing  a  pair  of  round,  button-style  earrings  that  lend  her,  somehow,  a  Russian  appearance;  in  an-  other,  where  she  is  posed  with  my  moth-  er  as  a  little  girl,  her  hair  is  caught  in  a  big  dark  hair  ribbon  that  gives  her  the  air  ofa  student.  She  has  a  gentle,  open,  serious  mien-qualities  I  would  never  associate  with  thesharp,  jaunty  woman  I  knew  or  with  the  woman  of  the  mature  photograph  on  her  chif-  fonier.  Perhaps  fashions  in  photogra-  phy  are  responsible  for  the  difference  or  perhaps  her  character  changed  radi-  cally  during  the  early  years  of  her  mar-  riage.  The  long,  dreamy  countenance  became  short,  broad,  and  genial;  the  wide  eyes  narrowed  and  drew  closer  to-  gether.  The  change  is  so  profound  as  to  evoke  the  question  &quot;What  hap-  pened?&quot;  The  young  woman  in  the  photographs  looks  as  though  she  could  be  easily  hurt.  She  came  to  [REDACTED]  from  SanFran-  cisco,  where  her  father  had  been  what  she  called  a  &quot;broker.&quot;  Whether  or  not  she  meant  a  pawnbroker,  I  never  could  discover.  He  was  a  Forty-niner,  having  gone  out  to  [REDACTED]  in  the  gold  rush,  after  a  year  in  [REDACTED].  He  had  left  Europe  during  the  troublesof  '48,  and  I  like  to  think  he  was  a  political  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9,  but  I  do  not  know.  I  do  not  know,  though  I  once  asked  her,  what  part  of  Europe  he  came  from.  [REDACTED],  I  suspect;  her  name,  however,  was  Ger-  man:  Morganstern.  Her  first  name  was  Augusta.  These  few  sketchy  facts  were  all  she  seemed  to  know  of  her  early  life  and  family  history,  and  it  puzzled  her  that  anyone  should  want  to  find  out  more.  &quot;All  those  old  things,  [REDACTED];  she  would  say  to  me  half  grumpily.  &quot;Why  do  you  keep  asking  me  all  those  old  things?&quot;  Like  many  great  beauties,  she  had  little  curiosity;  for  nearly  ten  years  she  did  not  know  the  name  of  the  family  who  had  moved  into  the  house  next  door  to  us.  Her  parents  had  died  when  she  was  quite  young-in  her  teens-and  she  and  her  younger  sister,  my  Aunt  Rosie,  came  to  live  in  [REDACTED]  with  an  older  sister,  Eva,  who  had  married  a  fur  im-  porter  named  Aronson;  this  was  the  lady  with  the  polar-bear  rug.  'The  girls  hadhad  some  private  education;  my  grandmother,  at  one  time,  used  to  play  the  piano-rather  prettily,  I  imagine.  She  had  a  pleasing  speaking  voice  and  a  surprising  knowledge  of  classical  mu-  sic.  &quot;&quot;Were  you  rich  or  poor?&quot;  I  asked  her  once,  trying  to  learn  the  source  of  these  accomplishments.  &quot;My  father  had a  nice  business,&quot;  she  replied.  She  had  read  the  Russian  novelists;  when  I  sought  to  introduce  her  to  Tolstoy  and  Dostoevski,  she  gave  her  dry  laugh  and  said  they  had  been  the  popular  writers  of  her  youth.  All  her  life,  she  retained  a  taste  for  long  novels  that  went  on  from  generation  to  generation,  on  the  model  of  &quot;War  and  [REDACTED];  She  hated  short  stories,  because,  she  said,  justas  you  got  to  know  the  characters,  the  story  ended;  it  was  not  worth  the  trou-  ble.  Her  sister  Rose  was  fourteen  when  the  two  arrived  in  [REDACTED];  Aunt  Rosie  went  out  and  inspected  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  which  had  just  been  started,  and  decided  she  knew  more  than  the  professors  did-a  fact  she  faced  up  to  ruefully,  since  she  had  been  yearn-  ing  for  a  higher  education.  AUNT  RostE  was  a  very  different  person  from  my  grandmother,  yet  they  talked  together  on  the  phone  for  nearly  an  hour  every  day  and  often  went  &quot;downtown&quot;  together  in  the  afternoon,  my  grandmother  stopping  by  at  her  house  to  pick  her  up  in  the  " b"electric,  later  in  the  Chrysler  or  the  La  Salle.  Aunt  Rosie  was  a  short,  bright,  very  talkative,  opinionated  woman,  something  of  a  civic  ac-  tivist  and  something  of  a  bohemian.  She  had  married  an  easygoing  [REDACTED]  Jew,  Uncle  Mose  Gottstein,  a  juicy,  cigar-smoking  man  who  rana  furniture  store,  subscribed  to  the  [REDACTED]  Times,  and  liked  to  chat  about  cur-  rent  events,  his  cigar  tilted  at  a  reflective  angle,  upward,  in  his  cherry-red  mouth.  He  and  Aunt  Rosie  often  sat  up  all  night  in  their  first-floor  bedroom,  with  its  big  walnut  dou-  ble  bed,  Uncle  Mose  in  his  nightgown  reading  the  newspapers,  and  Aunt  Rosie  playing  a  solitaire,  which  she  would  not  leave  till  it  came  out.  Uncle  Mose  had  fond  recollections  of  Liichow's  (Jimmy  Durante,  he  said,  used  to  be  a  singing  waiter  there),  and  their  big  bedroom,  strewn  with  newsprint  and  playing  cards  and  smelling  of  cigar  smoke,  was  like  a  club  or  a  caf\xc3\xa9.  Aunt  Rosie  and  her  husband  and  their  two  sons  al-  ways  sat  there,  even  in  the  daytime,  instead  of  in  the  living  room  or  the  little  parlor,  which  was  lined  with  signed  photographs  of  opera  stars  and  violinists  and  pianists.  Aunt  Rosie  had  &quot;known  them  all;&quot;  in  her  youth,  she  had  been  a  vocal  soloist,  much  in  demand  for  weddings  and  special  services  in  [REDACTED]'s  Protestant  churches.  Later,  she  had  managed  the  musical  events  at  [REDACTED]'s  Metropolitan  Theatre;  the  high  point  of  her  life  had  been  a  trip  she  took  to  Vancouver  with  Chaliapin,  about  whom  Uncle  Mose  liked  to  twit  her,  his  small,  moist  eyes  (he  later  de-  veloped  cataracts)  beaming  behind  his  glasses,his  apple  cheeks  flushed.  Aunt  Rosie  had  met  other  artists  besides  Chaliapin  and  the  various  divas,  includ-  ing  Mary  Garden  and  Galli-Curci,  who  had  inscribed  their  photographs  to  her;  thanks  to  her  theatre  connec-  tion,  she  had  known  Houdini  and  The  Great  Alexander  and  could  explain  the  magicians'  acts  by  the  fact  that  there  was  a  trapdoor  on  the  Metropoli-  tan  Theatre's  stage.  When  I  knew  her,  she  was  running  the  Ladies'  Mu-  sical  Club.  Aunt  Rosie  was  poor-compared  to  her  sisters.  Her  husband  was  the  kind  of  manwho  is  chronically  unsuccessful  in  business-the  genial  uncle  nearly  every  Jewish  family  possesses  who  has  to  behelped  out  by  the  others.  Aunt  Rosie  had  a  plain  &quot;girl&quot;  to  give  her  a  hand  with  the  housework;  she  dressed  very  unmodishly  and  lived  in  a  some-  what  rundown  section,  in  a  smallish  frame  house  that  needed  painting.  She  was  active  in  the  temple  as  well  as  in  " b"the  musical  world,  The  cookbook  of  the  Ladies'  Auxiliary  ofthe  Temple  de  Hirsch,  a  volume  got  up  for  charity  and  much  used  in  our  family-I  still  own  a  copy-has  many  recipes  con-  tributed  by  Mrs.  M.  A.  Gottstein.  Her  chicken  stewed  with  noodles,  hamburg-  er  in  tomatoes,  and  rhubarb  pie  are  quite  unlike  the  recipes  contributed  by  Mrs.  S.  A.  Aronson,  my  other  great-  aunt,  which  begin  with  directions  like  this:  &quot;'Take  a  nice  pair  of  sweetbreads,  add  a  cup  of  butter,  a  glass  of  good  cream,  sherry,  and  some  foie  gras.&quot;  Or  her  recipe  for  baked  oysters:  &quot;Pour  over  each  caviar  and  cream,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Serve  hot.&quot;  Aunt  Rosie,  with  her  energy,  her  good  heart  and  rattling,  independent  tongue,  was  a  popular  woman  in  Seat-  tle,  among  all  classes  and  kinds.  Society  ladies  fond  of  music  gushed  over  &quot;the  wonderful  Mrs.  Gottstein;  poor  Jew-  ish  ladies  in  the  temple  praised  her;  Protestant  clergymen  respected  her  (they  used  to  try  to  convert  her  when  she  was  younger,  she  told  me,  be-  cause  she  sang  their  anthems  with  such  feeling);  judges,  politicians,  butchers,  poor  tailors,  clerks  in  bookstores  all  knewAunt  Rosie.  She  had  not  let  the  Protestant  ministers  tempt  her  away  from  her  religion,  but  she  was  a  truly  open  person,  able  to  cross  barriers  nat-  urally  because  shedid  not  notice  they  were  there.  Most  of  the  Jews  in  [REDACTED]  lived  a  life  apart,  concerned  with  ber  mitzvahs  and  weddings,  and  family  and  business  affairs;  a  few,  with  German-  sounding  names,  managed  to  cross  into  the  Gentile  world  and  get  their  sons  pledged  to  regular  fraternities  at  the  University,  leaving  temple  and  observ-  ances  behind  them.  Aunt  Rosie  was  a  unique  case.  Her  Jewishness-that  is,  her  bounce  and  volubility-was  a  posi-  tive  asset  to  her  in  her  dealings  with  the  Gentile  ascendancy.  If  my  grandmoth-  er's  marriage  (to  a  Gentile)  had  made  it  a  little  easier  for  Aunt  Rosie  to  get  around,  Aunt  Rosie,I  think,  never  suspected  it;  she  had  a  lively  self-con-  ceit  and  no  social  envy  or  ambition.  To  her  good-humored  mind,  being  Jewish  was  simply  a  matter  of  religion.  Each  of  the  three  sisters  had  a  dif-  ferent  attitude  toward  her  Jewish  herit-  age,  perhaps  in  each  case  conditioned  by  the  man  she  had  married.  Aunt  Eva-  Mrs.  Aronson,  whose  husband,  Uncle  Sig,  had  long  since  passed  on-was  a  typical  wealthy  widow  of  Jewish  high  society.  She  travelled  a  good  deal,  with  a  rather  hard,  smart  set  who  had  con-  nections  in  [REDACTED],  San  Francisco,  and  [REDACTED],  and  even  in  [REDACTED];  she  gam-  bled,  and  went  to  resorts  and  fashionable  hotels  in  season;  when  she  was  in  [REDACTED],  she  was  a  habitu\xc3\xa9  of  the  Jewish  country  club,  where  they  golfed  in  the  daytime  and  played  bridge  for  very  high  stakes  at  night.  The  scale  of  living  of  these  people-widows  and  widowers,  bache-  lors  and  divorcees,  forthe  most  part-  was  far  beyond  anything  conceived  of  " b"by  the  local  Christian  haute  bourgeoisie,  which  was  unaware  of  their  existence.  This  unawareness  was  mutual,  at  least  in  the  case  of  Aunt  Eva,  who,  gyrating  with  perfect  aplomb  on  her  roulette  wheel  of  hotels,  yachts,  race  tracks,  and  spas,  her  white  hairdress  always  in  order,  seemed  ignorant  of  the  fact  that  there  was  a  non-Jewish  society  right  under  her  nose,  whose  doings  were  recorded  in  the  newspapers,  daily  and  Sunday,  whose  members  were  &quot;seen  lunching&quot;  at  the  Olympic  Hotel  on  Mondays,  or  golfing  at  the  [REDACTED]  Golf  Club,  near  The  Highlands,  or  sunning  at  the  ten-  nis  club  on  the  lake.  Aunt  Eva,  I  think,  hardly  realized  that  the  world  contained  persons  who  were  not  Jewish.  She,  too,  never  knew  envy;  her  nature  was  serene  and  imper-  turbable.  My  grandmother's  mixed  marriage  never  seemed  to  give  Aunt  Eva  a  qualm;  her  tall  unawareness  was  sub-  lime,  a  queenly  attribute.  If  my  grand-  father  was  not  &quot;of  the  tribe,&quot;  as  my  Irish  relations  used  to  call  it  suggestive-  ly,  she  did  not  give  any  sign  of  per-  ceiving  it.  The  &quot;unpleasant&quot;  was  barred  by  Aunt  Eva,  who  seldom  read  any-  thing  and  talked  in  magnificent  general-  ities.  She  was  fond  of  the  theatre,  and  when  she  was  not  travelling,  she  used  to  go  every  week  to  see  the  Henry  Duffy  stock  company  in556e6974656420537461746573.  My  grand-  mother,  Aunt  Rosie,  and  I  had  strong  opinions  about  these  players  (&quot;He's  a  perfect  stick,&quot;  my  grandmother  almost  invariably  complained  of  the  leading  man),  but  to  Aunt  Eva  there  were  no  distinctions.  Every  play  she  saw  she  pronounced  &quot;very  enjoyable.&quot;  And  the  actors  &quot;took  their  parts  well.&quot;  We  used  to  laugh  at  her  and  try  to  get  her  to  acknowledge  that  the  play  was  better  some  weeks  than  others.  But  Aunt  Eva  would  not  cross  that  Rubicon;  she  smelled  a  rat.  To  her,  all  the  plays  and  players  were  equal,  and  equally,  bland-  ly  good.  Toward  the  end  of  her  life,  she  suf-fered  cruelly  from  indigestion  (the  foie  gras  and  the  cup  of  butter,  doubtless),  and  it  was  an  awful  thing  to  watch  her,  after  a  Sunday  luncheon  at  our  house,  majestic  and  erect,  walk  about  our  back  living  room,  her  lips  bubbling  a  little  and  her  face  pale-vanilla-colored  and  contorting  slightly  from  spasms  of  pain.  &quot;Gas,&quot;  she  would  say,  with  dignity.  It  tortured  me  to  see  this  highly  aristocratic  lady  reduced  by  her  stomach  to  what  I  felt  must  be  a  horrible  embarrassment  for  her,  but  her  unawareness  seemed  to  extend  to  the  &quot;unpleasant&quot;  aspect  of  her  sufferings;  she  entertained  them,  as  it  were,  graciously,  like  a  hostess.  My  grandfather  showed  her  great  sym-  pathy  during  these  ordeals  of  hers;  she  was  his  favorite,  Ithink,  among  my  grandmother's  relations.  Having  helped  her  withher  business  affairs,  he  must  have  come  to  realize  that  Aunt  Eva,  unlike  her  sisters,  was  extremely  stupid.  Perhaps  this  regal  stupidity,  like  that  of  a  stately  white  ox,  elicited  his  chivalry,  " b"for  he  was  a  gallant  man,  or  perhaps  the  slow,  measured  pace  of  her  wits  allowed  him  to  forget  that  she  was  one  of  the  Chosen  (another  classic  epithet  dear  to  my  Irish  relations).  HOW  did  my  grandfather  feel  about  the  Jews?  Again,  I  do  not  know;  this  was  one  of  the  many  mysteries  that  surrounded  our  family  life.  He  almost  never  attended  church,  except  to  be  a  pallbearer  at  a  funeral,  but  he  was  by  birth  a  Presbyterian  Yankee,  the  son  of  a  West  Point  man  who  was  head  of  a  military  college  in  Norwich,  [REDACTED],  commanded  a  Negro  regiment  during  the  Civil  War,  and  was  retired  as  a  brigadier  general.  Simon  Manly  Preston  was  my  great-grandfather's  name  (wife:  Martha  Sargent,  born  in  New  Hampshire),  and  he  lived  to  be  ninety-  nine;  his  last  years  were  passed  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  was  one  of  the  local  curiosities.  All  his  progeny,  including  Uncle  Ed,  another  West  Point  man,  who  died  in  his  fifties,  were  eventually  drawn  to  [REDACTED]:  my  grandfather,  Harold;  my  Great-Uncle  Clarence;  and  my  Great-  Aunt  Alice,  who  married  a  law  partner  of  my  grandfather's,  Eugene  H.  Carr,  and  lived  for  atime  in  [REDACTED].  My  grandfather  first  came  West  working  as  a  geodetic  surveyor  during  his  college  vacation  (he  started  at  Cornell  and  finished  at  what  is  now  Grinnell  Col-  lege,  in  [REDACTED]),  and  when  he  had  his  A.B.  degree,  he  decided  to  read  law  in  [REDACTED].  It  was  then  that  he  must  have  first  met  my  grandmother,  aged  circa  seventeen,  who  was  living  in  the  house  of  the  fur  importer,  Sigismund  Aron-  son.  Did  this  name  ring  strangely  in  my  grandfather's  Yankee  ears?  Pos-  sibly  not.  [REDACTED]  was  a  frontier  town,  where  you  could  expect  to  meet  all  kinds-French  and  Dutch  and  Germans,  aristocrats  and  plebeians.  Many  of  our  first  families  had  aris-  tocratic  pedigrees  (the  de  Turennes,  the  von  Phuls),  yet  it  used  to  be  said  of  every  first  family  that  the  great-grandfather  &quot;came  here  with  his  pack  on  his  back.&quot;  My  grandmother  was  courted  by  a  number  of  suitors,  including  one,  George  Preston,  who  had  the  same  last  name  as  my  grandfather.  She  had  Jew-  ish  beaux  also,  I  discov-  ered,  and,  asfaras  I  could  make  out,  she  did  not  dis-  tinguish  between  the  two  kinds.  They  were  assorted  young  menwho  took  her  driving;  that  was  all.  &quot;As  far  as  I  could  make  out&quot;  -this  matter  was  impossible  to  probe  with  my  grandmother.  I  don't  think  I  ever  used  the  word  &quot;Jewish&quot;  in  any  connec-  tion  when  talking  with  her.  I  sensed  she  would  not  like  it.  I  used  to  think  about  the  word  a  lot  my-  self,  when  I  first  came  back  to  [REDACTED]  and  was  sent  as  a  five-day  boarder  to  a  Sacred  Heart  Con-  vent.  I  thought  about  it  partly  because  of  the  ugly  innuendoes  dropped  by  my  father's  people,  but  chiefly  because  I  was  in  love  with  my  cousin,  Aunt  Rosie's  tall,  ravishing  son  Burton,  who  was  twenty-one,  ten  years  older  than  I,  and  I  worried,  being  a  Catholic,  " b"about  the  impediments  to  our  marriage:  the  fact  that  he  was  my  first  cousin  once  temoved,  and  the  difference  in  re-  ligion-would  he  have  to  be  baptized?  This  passion  of  mine  was  secret  (or  at  least  I  hope  it  was),  but  even  if  it  had  not  been,  I  could  not  have  discussed  the  problem  with  my  grandmother  because  of  that  unmentionable  word.  I  myself  had  a  curious  attitude,  I  now  realize,  in  which  the  crudest  anti-Semi-  tism  (&quot;Ikey-Mose-Abie,&quot;  I  used  to  chant,  under  my  breath,  to  myself  in  the  convent)  mingled  with  infatuation  and  with  genuine  tolerance  and  detach-  ment.  I  liked  Uncle  Mose  and  Aunt  Rosie  far  better  than  any  other  older  people  I  knew,  and  &quot;Ikey-Mose-Abie&quot;  represented  what  I  supposed  others  would  think  of  them.  It  was  a  sort  of  defiance.  If  I  identified  a  little  bit  of  my-  self  with  those  others,  my  dead  moth-  er  had  gone  much  further;  one  day  I  found  a  letter  she  had  written  to  my  Grandmother  McCarthy  in  which  she  spoke  of  an  evening  &quot;with  the  He-  brews.&quot;  Finding  this  letter  was  one  of  the  great  shocks  of  my  adolescence.  It  destroyed  my  haloed  image  of  my  moth-  er,  and  the  thought  that  her  mother  must  have  read  it,  too  (for  there  it  was,  in  my  desk,  put  away  for  me  with  other  family  keepsakes),  nearly  made  me  ill.  Perhaps  I  was  too  sensitive  on  my  grandmother's  behalf.  No  secret  was  ever  made  of  the  family  connection  with  Aunt  Rosie  and  Aunt  Eva,  and  when-  ever  my  grandmother  gave  a  tea,  it  always  appeared  in  the  paper  that  Mrs.  M.  A.  Gottstein  and  Mrs.  S.  A.  Aron-  son  poured.  I  used  to  hear  about  some  distant  cousin's  having  a  bar  mitzvah,  and  once  I  was  taken  to  a  Jewish  wed-  ding,  which  fascinated  me  because  it  was  held  at  night  in  a  hotel  ballroom.  Nevertheless,  there  was  something,  a  shying  away  from  the  subject,  an  aver-  sionto  naming  it  in  words-so  persist,  ent  that  I  was  startled,  one  morning,  when  I  was  about  sixteen,  to  hear  my  grandmother  allude  to  &quot;my  faith.&quot;  I  had  been  talking  to  her  about  my  dis-  belief  in  God,  and  to  my  surprise  she  grew  quite  agitated.  She  no  longer  practiced  her  faith,  she  declared,  but  she  was  certain  that  there  was  a  kind  God  who  understood  and  who  watched  over  everything.  She  spoke  with  great  feeling  and  emphasis-a  rare  thing  in  our  relationship.  It  was  characteristic  of  her  queer,  oblique  nature  that  I  should  have  chanced  to  find  out  that  she  had  had  Jewish  suitors  by  idly  asking  her  the  names  of  the  young  men  she  had  driven  out  with.  She  gave  them  with  perfect  " b"readiness,  but  without  any  indication  that  such  a  name  as  Schwabacher  or  Rosenblatt  would  tell  a  story  to  me.  If  it  had  been  a  major  step  to  marry  out-  side  her  own  people,  she  did  not  seem  to  recall  this  any  more,  and,  of  course,  I  could  not  ask  her.  Yet  in  other  respects  she  was  remark-  ably  frank.  &quot;How  did  you  come  to  marry  Grandpa?&quot;  I  asked  her  one  night,  when  I  was  home  on  a  visit  after  I  myself  had  married.  &quot;Rosie  and  I  didn't  get  along  with  Uncle  Sig,&quot;  she  answered  matter-of-factly.  So  that  was  all;  I  could  hardly  be-  lieve  my  ears,  and  wondered  whether  she  realized  the  enormity  of  what  she  was  saying.  &quot;But  why  did  you  pick  Grandpa  instead  of  one  of  the  others?&quot;  I  pressed  her,  determined,  for  Grand-  pa's  sake,  that  she  should  answer  that  it  had  been  because  of  his  eyes  or  his  mus-  tache  or  his  intellect.  She  appeared  to  search  her  memory,  in  vain.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,  [REDACTED];  she  said,  yawning.  &quot;You  must  know,&quot;  I  retorted.  She  thought  he  would  be  good  to  her,  she  finally  conceded.  This  archaic  view  of  the  function  of  a  husband  astonished  me.  But  for  her,  as  I  soon  learned,  it  was  the  prime,  the  only,  consideration.  &quot;Is  he  good  to  you?&quot;  she  asked  me,  another  night,  on  that  same  visit,  speaking  of  my  new  husband.  I  had  to  stop  and  think,  be-  cause  marriage  had  never  presented  it-  self  to  me  in  this  light.  &quot;Why,  yes,  I  suppose  so,&quot;  I  said  slowly.  &quot;Yes,  of  course  he  is.&quot;  My  grandmother  nodded  and  reopened  her  evening  newspaper.  &quot;That's  all  right,  then.&quot;  The  subject  of  my  new  husband  was  closed.  &quot;Grand-  pa  was  always  good  to  me,&quot;  she  re-  sumed  tranquilly,  turning  to  the  racing  column  and  beginning  to  mark  her  selections  for  the  next  day's  pari-mutuel.  What  did  these  words  mean?  Kind-  ness,  patience,  forbearance-or  fur  coats  and  jewelry?  Or  was  it  all  the  same  thing?  Love,  evidently,  was  as  foreign  a  concept  to  her  as  this  &quot;good-  ness&quot;  was  to  me.  She  did  not  want  to  hear  about  love;  it  irritated  her.  The  words  &quot;I  love  him&quot;  were  meaningless  sounds  to  her  ears;  if  I  uttered  them  in  her  hearing,  which  at  length  I  had  the  sense  not  to  do,  I  might  as  well  have  been  talking  Chinese.  She  did  not  care  for  love  stories,  which  she  pronounced  trash,  and  she  used  to  make  fun  of  the  movie  actors  who  were  my  heroes  as  a  young  girl.  &quot;He  has  such  thick  lips,&quot;  she  used  to  say  of  Ronald  Colman,  mimicking  his  expression  by  thrusting  out  her  own  lower  lip.  &quot;And  that  mus-  tache!  'Think  of  kissing  that  bristly  " b"mustache!&quot;  Ricardo  Cortez,  she  said,  mimicking  his  expression,  &quot;looked  as  if  he  had  a  stomach  ache.&quot;  Yet  her  own  favorite  was  Adolphe  Menjou.  My  grandfather  liked  Lewis  Stone.  She  was  not  so  much  cynical  as  prosaic.  She  made  fun  of  the  young  men  who  used  to  come  to  take  me  out  when  I  was  home  from  college  on  vaca-  tions  by  seizing  on  some  small  detail  of  their  appearance  and  relentlessly  ex-  aggerating  it:  curly  hair,  rosy  cheeks,  full  lips,  large  ears.  This  was  not  done  maliciously  but  in  high-humored  jest,  as  though  she  were  the  young  girl  mocking  her  suitors  behind  their  backs  to  her  audience  of  sisters.  I  never  mind-  ed  it  (though  I  had  minded  about  Ronald  Colman),  but  it  struck  me  as  unfair  in  the  abstract;  the  part  was  al-  ways  greater  to  her  than  the  whole,  and  some  of  the  things  she  noticed  would  have  escaped  the  attention  of  anyone  but  a  phrenologist.  Her  marriage  had  been  successful,  and  she  attributed  this  to  a  single  sim-  ple  recipe,  like  one  of  the  Household  Hints  in  the  back  of  the  Temple  de  Hirsch  cookbook,  on  how  to  clean  er-  mine  (rub  with  corn  meal)  or  how  to  extract  grease  from  papered  walls  (flan-  nel  and  spirits  of  wine).She  had  never  let  a  quarrel  continue  overnight.  No  matter  how  mad  she  was  at  Grandpa,  she  told  me,  she  always  kissed  him  good  night.  And,  a  corollary,  no  matter  how  mad  she  was  in  the  morning,  she  al-  ways  kissed  him  goodbye  before  he  went  to  the  office.  She  passed  this  recipe  on  to  me  gravely  after  I  had  been  divorced;  if  I  would  just  follow  it,  I  would  never  have  any  more  trouble,  she  was  certain.  This  advice  made  me  smile;  it  was  so  remote  in  its  application  to  my  case.  But  she  shook  her  head  re-  provingly  as  she  stood  in  front  of  her  mirror,  undoing  her  pearls  for  the  night.  &quot;Remember,  [REDACTED];  she  en-  joined.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said  lightly.  &quot;Ill  remember.  'Always  kis  him  good  night.&quot;  &quot;  She  had  felt  the  moment  as  a  solemn  one,  like  the  time  she  had  spo-  ken  of  &quot;my  faith,&quot;  yet  in  an  instant  she,  too,  was  smiling  broadly.  An  anecdote  had  occurred  to  her,  and  she  began  to  tell  me,  acting  out  both  parts,  of  a  morning  when  Grandpa  had  left  for  his  office  without  theusual  morning  salute.  .  ..  From  one  point  of  view,  her  entire  married  life  was  a  succession  of  comic  anecdotes,  of  which  she  was  both  butt  and  heroine.  HESE  anecdotes  began  before  her  marriage,  with  the  time  the  horse  ran  away  with  her  and  George  Preston " b"in  the  buggy,  and  Grandpa  was  terribly  jealous.  Then  there  was  her  honey-  moon:  how  he  had  taken  her  back  to  Towa  to  visit  his  family,  who  had  settled  there  after  the  Civil  War.  It  was  win-  ter,  and  before  they  left,  my  grand-  father  kept  asking  her  whether  she  had  enough  clothes.  She  answered  yes  each  time,  but  the  question  puzzled  and  offended  her,  for  she  took  it  as  a  criti-  cism  of  her  wardrobe.  &quot;I  had  very  nice  clothes,&quot;  she  explained.  What  he  meant,  it  turned  out,  was  long  under-  wear,  but  he  was  too  delicate  to  name  it,  so  she  went  ignorantly  on  to  New-  ton,  [REDACTED],  in  her  fine  batiste-and-lace  underclothing;  she  could  never  tolerate  anything  else  next  to  her  skin-silk  was  too  coarse.  In  the  barbarous  Midwest-  ern  climate,  she  nearly  froze  to  death,  she  declared,  and  she  came  out  in  chil-  blains  all  over.  She  nearly  died  of  bore-  dom  also.  The  provinciality  of  her  in-laws  hor-  rifled  her.  She  had  never  met  people  like  this,  whose  idea  of  a  social  eve-  ning  was  to  stand  around  the  stove,  clad  in  long  underwear  and  heavy  dark  clothing,  the  men  cracking  one  joke  after  another.  She  could  see  that  her  in-laws,  with  the  exception  of  Great-  Grandpa  Preston,  did  not  like  her.  &quot;'They  thought  I  was  fast  and  stuck-  up.&quot;  She  could  not  eat  their  food  or  put  on  the  union  suit  they  offered  her.  They  were  displeased  by  her  elegant  clothes  and  by  her  smiles  and  laughter.  They  only  laughed,  shortly,  at  the  humorless  jokes  they  told.  Alone  in  her  bedroom  with  her  husband,  she  cried  and  cried,  and  finally  she  made  him  have  a  telegram  sent  to  himself  calling  him  back  to  [REDACTED].  After  the  telegram  came,  her  father-in-law,  the  General,  took  them  to  [REDACTED],  which  was  sup-  posed  to  be  a  treat.  But  they  put  up  at  an  awful  boarding  house,  where  she  could  not  eat  the  food,  either.  The  two  men  stayed  out  all  day,  looking  at  sights  like  the  stockyards,  and  the  other  board-  ers  scared  her,  they  were  so  rough  and  crude  in  their  manners.  'That  was  the  end  of  her  honeymoon,  and  on  the  train  going  back  she  made  my  grandfather  promise  that  he  would  never  take  her  to  [REDACTED]  again.  Later,  they  went  to  [REDACTED]  for  the  World's  Fair  with  my  Aunt  Eva,  and  this  was  the  subject  of  another  anecdote.  She  and  Aunt  Eva  were  left  at  a  stop  in  [REDACTED],  when  the  train  drew  out  un-  expectedly  while  they  were  buying  post-  cards  in  the  station.  Another  passenger,  a  man,  seeing  their  predicament,  jumped  out  of  the  train  and  said  to  my  grand-  mother,  &quot;Can  I  be  of  assistance  to  you,  " b"Madam?&quot;  Somehow  (I  forget  the  de-  tails),  he  managed  to  get  the  train  to  come  back  for  them  or  to  wait  at  the  next  station  for  them  to  arrive  by  car-  riage.  But  my  grandfather  was  terribly  jealous;  as  soon  as  he  saw  them  again,  he  accused  my  grandmother  of  having  got  off  the  train  to  be  with  the  strange  man.  And  she  never  could  convince  him  differently  all  the  rest  of  her  life.  There  was  the  time  the  house  caught  on  fire  while  my  grandmother  was  downtown  shopping.  When  she  board-  edthe  Cherry  Street  trolley  to  go  home  (her  house  was  way  out,  almost  in  the  country,  then),  the  conductor  said  to  her,  &quot;Mrs.  Preston,  your  house  is  on  fire,&quot;  and  she  arrived  on  the  scene  to  find  the  fire  engine  there  and  their  one-  eyed  maid,  Tilda  (yes,  so  my  grand-  mother  swore),  carrying  the  piano  out  ofthe  house  balanced  on  onehand,  like  a  tray;  all  the  little  boys  in  the  neighborhood  were  sitting  on  the  lawn  reading  her  love  letters  from  my  grand-  father,  which  they  had  found  in  a  bu-  reau  drawer.  'There  was  the  time  her  riding  horse  ran  away  with  her,  down  in  Gearhart,  [REDACTED],  and  there  was  an  incident,  I  think,  with  a  rowboat.  There  was  the  time  she  came  to  our  house,  when  my  mother  had  been  taken  to  the  hospital  to  have  our  little  brother,  and  found  the  three  of  us  sitting  on  the  floor  of  the  living  room  making  a  bon-  fire  of  my  father's  lawbooks  and  point-  ing  his  loaded  revolver  at  each  other.  My  grandmother  was  a  gifted  recon-  teuse  when  she  could  be  induced  to  tell  one  of  her  stories.  She  acted  out  all  the  parts  zestfully,  particularly  her  own,  and  short  trills  of  unwilling  laugh-  ter  proceeded  from  her  as  she  spoke;  when  she  had  finished,  she  would  have  to  wipe  her  eyes  with  a  handkerchief.  This  power  of  being  amused  at  herself,  this  perpetual  dismay,  made  one  see  her  in  these  disconcerting  situations,  which  had  a  classic  plot-the  plot  of  a  night-  mare,  really.  Someone,  usually  a  man,  laconically  breaks  her  an  untoward  piece  of  news,  or  fails  to  break  it  successfully,  as  in  the  case  of  the  long  underwear.  Or  it  is  a  runaway  horse,  a  runaway  train,  a  runaway  buggy,  a  rocking  boat,  a  load-  ed  revolver;  my  grandmother  is  always  helpless  while  some  uncontrollable  event  unfolds  before  her  eyes.  (There  was  the  story  of  the  crazy  piano  tuner  who  without  a  by-your-leave  walked  into  her  parlor  and  took  the  piano  apart  as  my  grandmother  watched,  unable  to  stop  him,  bewitched  by  his  flow  of  talk:  &quot;A  beautiful  instrument,  Madam.  ...  So  you  have  neglected  your  lovely  mu-  " b"sical  gift  [an  imitation  of  him  shaking  his  head].  Believe  me,  Madam,  you  owe  it  to  the  world  and  to  your  hus-  band  and  family  to  take  up  the  instru-  ment  again....&quot;  At  the  end  of  the  story,  naturally,  the  dismembered  piano  was  lying  on  the  floor;  he  had  forgotten  how  to  put  it  together  again.)  She  is  always  the  loser  in  these  anecdotes;  she  never  gets  the  better  of  the  situation  with  a  biting  retort,  as  she  often  did  in  real  life.  But  because  she  is  the  heroine,  she  is  usually  rescued,  in  the  nick  of  time.  In  my  grandmother's  narratives,  it  is  the  other  person  who  is  self-possessed,  full  of  an  almost  supernatural  assur-  ance-the  stranger  alighting  from  the  moving  train  in  a  single  airy  bound,  like  an  acrobat  sliding  down  a  rope  to  bow  at  her  feet.  She  is  forever  disconcerted,  put  out  of  countenance,  dumb-struck.  In  reality,  she  was  the  disconcerting  one,  short  of  speech  when  she  was  not  telling  a  story  (and  to  get  her  to  tell  a  story  usually  took  a  lot  of  coaxing),  impassive,  forbidding.  Most  people,  in-  cluding  all  my  friends,  were  afraid  of  her.  HE  first  thing  that  would  have  struck  an  outsider  about  her  in  her  later  years-that  is,  when  she  was  in  her  sixties  and  seventies-was  the  oddi-  ty  of  her  appearance.  If  you  saw  her  downtown,  shopping  in  Frederick's  or  Magnin's-and  she  never  did  anything  butshop  any  afternoon  of  her  life,  ex-  cluding  Sundays,  matin\xc3\xa9e  days,  and  the  days  of  the  race  meetings-you  would  probably  ask  the  salesgirl  who  she  was:  a  woman  of  medium  height,  a  little  plump  butnot  fat,  wearing  a  small,  high-crowned  hat  topped  with  ribbons  or  feathers,  pumps  with  Cuban  heels,  fabric  gloves,  an  onyx-and-diamond  lorgnon,  a  smart  dress  in  black  or  navy,  printed  or  solid-color,  with  a  fur  piece  over  it-silver  fox  or  baum  marten.  This  would  be  in  summer.  In  the  fall,  she  might  be  wearing  a  dark-green  wool  ensemble,  or  a  black  one  trimmed  with  monkey,  or  a  beige  one  trimmed  with  beige  broadtail  or  caracul.  In  the  winter,  she  would  have  on  her  mink  or  her  Persian  or  her  squirrel  or  her  broadtail.  She  would  be  proceeding  at  a  stately  walk  through  the  store,  stop-  ping  to  finger  something  ata  counter,  smiling  at  the  salespeople,  nodding.  Her  clothes  in  themselves  should  not  have  attracted  attention.  She  disliked  bright  colors  and  never  wore  anything  but  black,  navy,  dark  green,  beige,  or  wine.  Nor  were  the  styles  youthful  or  ex-  treme.  She  was  careful  about  her  skirt  " b"lengths;  her  dresses  were  lavish  in  tucks  and  shirring,  but  the  cut  was  simple  and  discreet.  She  wore  small  pearl  ear-  rings  and  a  short  string  of  pearls;  her  rings  were  concealed  byher  gloves.  Underneath  the  gloves,  her  nails  were  natural-color,  polished  with  a  buffer.  Nor  did  her  toilet  table  contain  a  lip-  stick.  Yet  the  whole  effect  she  made,  was  of  an  indescribable  daring.  It  was  partly  the  black  hair,  so  im-  probably  black  and  glossy.  It  was  part-  ly  the  mascara  and  the  eyeshadow  sur-  rounding  her  narrow  black  watchful  eyes,  though  these  aids  to  beauty  were  not  applied  carelessly  but  with  an  in-  finite  discretion.  It  was  the  rouge,  per-  haps,  most  of  all,  the  rouge  and  the  powder  and  the  vanishing  cream  under-  neath.  When  she  perspired,  on  a  warm  day,  the  little  beads  of  sweat  on  her  eagle  nose  under  her  nose  veil  and  on  her  long  upper  lip  would  produce  a  caked  look  that  seemed  sad,  as  though  her  skin  were  crying.  Yet  not  even  her  cosmetics  and  the  world  of  consummate  artifice  they  suggested  could  account  for  the  peculiarly  florid  impression  she  made  as  she  moved  across  the  store,  peering  through  her  lorgnon  at  the  nov-  elties  and  notions,  and  vanished  into  the  elevator,  up  to  the  lending  library  or  the  custom-made  or  the  hat  depart-  ment-her  favorite  purlieus-where  elderly  salespeople,  Aer  salespeople,  would  hurry  up  to  greet  her,  throwing  their  arms  around  her,  just  as  though  they  had  not  seen  her  the  day  before.  &quot;Have  you  got  anything  for  me?&quot;  my  grandmother  would  demand  of  Mrs.  Slaughter,  the  red-haired  hat  lady  at  Frederick's,  surveying  the  premises  with  a  kind  of  jesting  coquetry,  a  hand  on  her  hip.  This  was  the  same  tone  she  took  with  the  clerks  in  the  circulating  library  or  with  the  butcher  on  the  tele-  phone-a  tone  of  challenging  banter,  as  though  she  defied  these  people,  her  suit-  ors,  to  please  her.  On  a  good  day,  Mrs.  Slaughter  would  bring  out  two  or  three  hats  she  had  &quot;put  away&quot;  for  my  grandmother  in  a  special  cupboard.  &quot;They  just  came  in,&quot;  she  would  whisper.  &quot;I've  been  saving  them  for  you.&quot;  My  grandmother  would  try  them  on  before  the  mirror,  tilting  her  head  sidewise  and  back  in  an  odd  way  she  had,  at  once  vain  and  highly  self-critical.  If  she  liked  one  of  them  well  enough,  she  would  walk  to  the  full-length  mirror  and  assay  her-  self,  thrusting  one  small  foot  forward  and  balancing  back  and  forth,  seeming  to  weigh  herself  and  the  hat  in  the  scales  of  judgment.  To  my  disappoint-  ment,  watching  her,  she  never  bought  " b"on  the  spot.  She  would  set  the  hat  or  hats  down  on  the  table,  as  if  she  were  through  with  them,  and  Mrs.  Slaugh-  ter,  who  seemed  to  be  a  mind  reader,  would  whisk  them  back  into  the  spe-  cial  cupboard,  where  they  would  wait,  out  of  sight  of  othercustomers,  for  several  days  or  even  a  week,  while  my  grandmother  arrived  at  a  decision.  She  was  the  same  with  her  shoes  and  dresses;  she  would  even  coquette  with  a  piece  of  meat.  It  was  as  though  she  would  not  give  these  things  the  satis-  faction  of  letting  them  see  that  she  liked  them.  To  her,  every  piece  of  merchan-  dise,  suing  for  her  favor,  appeared  to  enter  the  masculine  gender  and  to  be  subject,  therefore,  to  rebuff.  Yet  the  salespeople  were  all  eager  to  oblige  her,  for  she  was  a  good  customer  and,  more  than  that,  underneath  her  badinage,  al-  ways  good-humored.  It  pleased  her  to  pretend  to  be  cross  with  them;  indeed,  in  all  her  dealings  she  had  an  air  of  just  consenting  to  be  mollified.  Her  veteran  salespeople  would  flatter  her  (&quot;You're  looking  younger  every  day,  Mrs.  Preston.  Nobody  would  believe  this  young  lady  was  your  grand-  daughter.  Make  her  pass  for  your  daughter&quot;),  and  my  grandmother  would  hide  her  gratification  in  a  short,  tart,  scathing  laugh.  Actually,  they  were  proud  of  her,  for  shedid  look  remarkably  young,  despite  her  blazonry  of  makeup;  she  could  have  passed  for  my  mother.  They  were  genuinely  fond  of  her.  &quot;Take  care  of  yourself,&quot;  they  would  call  after  her,  and  some  of  them  used  to  kiss  her.  My  grandmother  pre-  tended  to  be  suspicious  of  these  mani-  festations;  a  muscle  moved,  like  a  pro-  test,  in  her  cheek  while  the  kiss  was  being  planted.  She  was  lonely.  That  was  the  thing  that  made  her  seem  so  garish  and  caused  people  to  turn  their  heads  when  she  went  by.  Loneliness  is  a  garish  quality,  and  my  grandmother's  wardrobe  and  elab-  orate  toilette  appeared  flamboyant  be-  cause  they  emphasized  her  isolation.  An  old  woman  trying  to  look  young  is  a  common  enough  sight,  but  my  grand-  mother  was  something  stranger  and  sadder-a  hermit  all  dressed  up  for  a  gala,  a  recluse  on  stubborn  parade.  Tagging  along,  I  was  half  conscious,  even  as  a  little  girl,  of  the  bizarre  figure  my  grandmother  cut,  and  if  I  had  not  known  her,  my  imagination  might  have  woven  some  story  around  her  for  a  school  composition-the  holocaust,  at  the  very  least,  of  all  her  nearest  and  dearest,  her  husband  gone  to  prison,  her  children  branded  as  traitors.  .  ..  But  in  fact,  during  the  years  I  knew " b"her  best-the  years  after  I  had  left  the  convent  and  was  in  boarding  school  in  Tacoma-she  had  a  husband;  two  sons,  whom  she  saw  every  day  (one  of  them  lived  at  home  and  went  to  the  Univer-  sity,  and  the  other  lived  across  the  street  with  an  exemplary  wife);  two  sisters,  whom  she  saw  nearly  every  day;  a  sister-in-law,  Aunt  Alice  Carr,  who  lived  downtown  in  the  Sorrento  Hotel;  a  granddaughter  (myself)  who  came  home  from  school  for  vacations;  a  cook;  and  an  old  gardener  who  had  been  with  her  twenty-five  years-the  origi-  nal  family  coachman.  All  these  people  were  devoted  to  her.  She  was  independ-  ent;  she  had  her  own  investments  and  drove  her  own  car.  Every  winter,  my  grandfather  took  her  to  [REDACTED],  where  they  ate  at  the  best  restaurants  and  lived  at  the  best  hotels  and  went  to  the  races  at  Tijuana,  over  the  bor-  der.  He  was  a  distinguished  citizen,  with  a  prosperous  law  practice,  a  reputation  for  immense  integrity,  and  countless  friends  and  cronies.  During  my  sophomore  year  in  boarding  school,  he  tookher  to  [REDACTED],  where  they  saw  nearly  every  play  on  the  boards  and  she  had  an  outfit  made  by  a  smart  new  designer  in  a  new  color  called  &quot;kasha,&quot;  an  exact  copy  of  an  outfit  worn  by  Katharine  Cornell  in  &quot;The  Green  Hat,&quot;  and  he  took  her  to  Wash-  ington,  where  they  had  an  interview  with  Calvin  Coolidge.  She  had  nothing  to  complain  of  in  life.  There  was  nothing  wrong  with  her  health,  except  for  a  mild  diabetic  con-  dition,  which  the  best  local  specialist  was  controlling,  and  ahighblood  pressure  that  was  not  dangerous  but  that  gave  her  headaches  in  the  afternoons.  Nor  did  she  complain;  she  was  a  little  fretful  sometimes  when  she  was  having  her  headaches,  but  she  possessed  an  equable  temper-the  result,  no  doubt,  of  self-  discipline.  She  and  I  used  to  quarrel,  and  she  had  much  to  find  fault  with  in  my  conduct.  She  worried  a  good  deal  about  her  younger  son's  late  hours.  But  she  was  never  cross  or  nagging.  It  was  only  much  later,  when  she  grew  senile,  that  she  became  difficult  to  deal  with,  capricious  and  fault-finding,  send-ing  the  cook  downtown  to  return  a mascara  applier  that  dissatisfied  her,  pushing  her  food  away,  soughing  and.  making  faces.  But  until  she  reached  her  second  childhood  she  seemed,  on  the  surface,  a  contented  woman,  well  situated  in  life,  self-contained,  unemotional.  'The  only  blights  she  had  suffered,  so  far  as  I  knew,  were  the  unseasonable  death  of  my  mother  and  a  mastoid  operation  that  " b"had  left  her  with  some  scars  just  under  her  ears,  in  her  neck  and  lower  cheeks.  If  she  was  cold  to  me  for  a  few  days,  or  stopped  speaking,  abruptly,  to  Gertrude,  or  feuded  with  my  grandfather's  broth-  er,  Uncle  Clarence,  these  were  mere  quirks-the  privileges  of  beauty-that  did  nobody  any  harm.  She  was  not  a  demonstrative  person,  but  neither  were  her  sons  or  her  husband  or  her  daughter-  in-law;  they  all  seemed  to  have  been  cut  from  the  same  bolt  of  cloth.  I  was  the  only  member  of  the  family-not  count- ing  Aunt  Rosie-who  was  excitable.  HEN  I  was  brought  back  from  [REDACTED]  to  live  with  my  grandparents,  I  was  impressed  byour  house  and  its  appurtenances,  much  as  I  had  been  as  a  young  child  -the  bay-  window  seat  in  the  parlor,  the  cabinet  with  opaline  Tiffany  glass  and  little  demitasse  cups,  all  different,  the  grass  wallpaper,  the  pongee-silk  curtains,  the  sleeping  porches  upstairs,  the  hawthorn  tree  in  front  of  the  house,  theold  car-  riage  block  with  the  name  &quot;PRESTON  carved  on  it,  the  date  &quot;1893&quot;  over  the  front  door,  the  Kelvinator  in  the  kitch-  en,  the  bell  system,  the  generator  in  the  garage  that  charged  the  electric,  the  sil-  ver  samovar,  the  Rhine-wine  glasses  (never  used),  with  green  bowls  and  crystal  stems.  To  me,  the  house  was  like  a  big  toy,  full  of  possibilities  for  ex-  periment  and  discovery;  I  was  constant-  ly  changing  my  sleeping  quarters-out  to  the  sleeping  porch  behind  my  bath-  room,  upstairs  to  the  little  room  under  the  eaves  on  the  cook's  floor,  back  again  to  my  green-and-violet  bedroom.  Once  I  even  got  permission  to  sleep  outdoors,  in  the  moonlight,  on  the  back  lawn,  overlooking  the  lake.  The  room  I  was  given  had  been  re-  done  for  me;  I  had  lots  of  pretty  new  clothes,  made  by  my  grandmother's  own  dressmaker;  the  gardener  drove  me  about  in  the  electric  and  let  me  prac-  tice  steering;  I  did  not  have  to  wear  glasses  any  more,  asI  had  had  to  in  [REDACTED],  and  I  could  read  anything  I  wanted  to  in  my  grandfather's  li-  brary:  Dickens  and  Frank  Stockton  and  Bulwer-Lytton  and  Sienkiewicz,  and  the  Elsie  Dinsmore  books,  which  had  belonged  to  my  mother.  I  could  look  through  the  stereoscope,  or  play  an  old  record  of  &quot;Casey  at  the  Bat&quot;  on  the" b"new  Victrola.  Everything  we  had  seemed  superior  to  anything  anyone  else  had-the  flowers  in  our  garden,  the  vegetables  on  the  table,  which  we  grew  ourselves  in  the  lower  garden  instead  of  getting  them  from  the  store,  as  other  people  did.  We  had  straw-  berry  beds,  too,  and  rows  of  currant  bushes,  a  crab-apple  tree  and  two  kinds  of  cherry  trees,  black  and  Royal  Ann,  and-something  very  special  for  Seat-  tle-my  grandmother's  favorite,  an  apricot  tree.  At  Christmas,  we  had  our  own  holly,  cut  from  a  tree  in  the  front  yard;  the  idea  that  this  was  better  than  other  holly  persisted  in  my  grandmoth-  er's  mind  to  the  very  end,  for  every  year  until  she  died,  a  box  would  arrive  for  me,  just  before  Christmas,  in  New  England,  from  [REDACTED],  packed  full  of  holly  from  the  Preston  tree.  My  grand-  mother's  gardening  was  a  distinguished,  personal  thing;  she  never  joined  a  gar-  den  club  or  pored  over  seed  catalogues,  or  exchanged  slips  or  compared  notes  with  other  gardeners.  Every  morning  after  breakfast,  she  gave  directions  to  the  old  gardener,  descending  from  the  back  porch  in  a  farmer's  straw  hat  and  a  smock,  with  a  basket  over  her  arm,  to  pick  flowers  for  the  day's  bouquets  and  supervise  the  new  asparagus  bed  he  was  laying  out  or  the  planting  of  the  new  variety  of  sweet  corn  they  were  trying.  She  was  greedy,  in  a  delicate  way,  picking  daintily  at  her  food,  yet  finishing  off  a  whole  bow!  of  fresh  apricots  or  a  dozen  small  buttered  ears  of  the  tender-  est  white  corn.  She  had  a  cormorant's  rapacity  for  the  first  fruits  of  the  season:  the  tiniest  peas,  the  youngest  corn,  baby  beets  cooked  with  their  greens.  This  emphasis  of  hers  on  the  youth  of  the  garden's  produce  made  her  fastidious  appetite  seem  a  little  indecent-can-  nibalistic,  as  though  she  belonged  to  a  species  that  devoured  its  own  young.  'Take  aspring  chicken,&quot;  many  of  her  recipes  began,  and  the  phrase  'often  salted  her  conversation.  &quot;She's  no  spring  chicken,&quot;  she  would  say  of  an- other  woman.  Baby  beets,  new  pota-  toes,  young  asparagus,  embryonic  string  beans,  tiny  Olympia  oysters,  tiny  curl-  ing  shrimps,  lactary  ears  of  corn-like  my  grandmother's  clothes,  our  food  was  almost  too  choice,  unseemly  for  daily  use.  'The  specialties  of  our  table  were  like  those  of  a  very  good  hotel  or  club:  Olympia-oyster  cocktail  and  devilled  Dungeness  crabs;  a  salad,  served  as  a  first  course,  that  started  with  a  thick  slice  of  tomato,  on  which  was  balanced  an  artichoke  heart  containing  crabmeat,  which  in  turn  was  covered  with  Thou-  sand  Island  dressing  and  sprinkled  with" b"riced  egg  yolk;  a  young  salmon  served  in  a  sherry  sauce  with  oysters  and  little  shrimps;  eggs  stuffed  with  chicken livers.  We  ate  this  company  food  every  day;  every  meal  was  a  surprise,  aimed  at  pleasing  some  member  of  the  family,  as  though  we  were  all  invalids  who  had  to  be  &quot;tempted.&quot;  On  Sundays,  the  ice  cream,  turned  by  the  gardener  in  the  freezer  on  the  back  porch,  was  chosen  to  suit  me;  we  had  strawberry  (our  own  strawberries),  peach,  peppermint  (made  from  crushed  candy  canes),  and  the  one  I  was  always  begging  for-bisque.  Our  icebox  always  contained  a  bowl  of  fresh-  ly  made  mayonnaise  and  a  bowl.  of  Thousand  Island  dressing,  and  usual-  ly  a  chicken  or  a  turkey  and  a  mold  or  bombe  with  maraschino  cherries,  whipped  cream,  and  macaroons  or  lady-  My  grandmother's  own  palate  was  blander  than  the  rest  of  the  family's.  I  associate  her  with  sweet-  breads,  with  patty  shells,  and  with  a  poulette  sauce.  Or,  if  I  shut  my  eyes,  I  can  see  her  at  the  head  of  the  table,  on  a  summer  morning,  wearing  her  horn-rimmed  reading  glasses,  the  newspaper  before  her  on  a  silver  rack;there  is  a  dish  of  fresh  apricots  in  the  middle  of  the  table,  and  as  she  reads,  her  bare,  plump  white  arm,  as  if  absently,  stretches  out  toward  this  dish;  her  slender,  tapering  fingers  pinch  the  fruit,  and  she  selects  the  choicest,  ripest  one.  The  process  is  re-  peated  until  the  dish  is  empty,  and  she  does  not  look  up  from  her  paper.  I  had  a  tremendous  appetite  myself  (&quot;If  she  assimilated  all  she  ate,  she'd  be  a  moun-  tain,&quot;  my  older  uncle's  wife  used  to  comment  after  a  Sunday-night  supper),  but  my  grandmother's  voracity,  so  finical,  so  selective,  chilled  me  with  its  mature  sensuality,  which  was  just  the  opposite  of  hunger.  I  conceived  an  aver-  sion  to  apricots-a  tasteless  fruit  any-  way,  I  considered-from  watching  her  with  them,  just  as  though  I  had  wit-  nessed  what  Freud  calls  the  primal  scene.  Now  I,  too,  am  fond  of  them,  and  whenever  I  choose  one  from  a  plate,  I  think  of  my  grandmother's  body,  full-  fleshed,  bland,  smooth,  and  plump,  cushioning  in  itself,  close  held-a  secret,  like  the  flat  brown  seed  of  the  apricot.  HIS  body  of  hers  was  the  cult  ob-  ject  around  which  our  household  revolved.  As  a  young  girl,  I  knew  her  shoe  size  and  her  hat  size  and  her  glove  '|  size,  her  height  and  weight,  the  things  she  ate  and  didn't  eat,  her  preferences  in  underwear  and  nightgowns  and  stock-  ings,  the  contents  of  her  dressing  table  in  the  bathroom,  down  to  the  pumice " b"stone  that  she  used  for  removing  an  occasional  hair  from  under  her  arms;  one  of  her  beauty  attributes  was  that  her  white,  shapely  arms  and  legs  were  al-  most  totally  hairless,  so  that  she  never  had  to  depend  on  a  depilatory  or  a  razor.  No  other  woman  has  ever  been  known  to  me  in  such  a  wealth  of  fleshly,  ma-  terial  detail;  everything  she  touched  be-  came  imbued  for  me  with  her  presence,  as  though  it  were  a  relic.  I  still  see  her  clothes,  plumped  to  her  shape,  hanging  on  their  velvet-covered  hangers  in  her  closet,  which  was  permeated  with  the  faint  scents  of  powder  and  perfume,  and  the  salty  smell  of  her  perspiration;  she  comes  back  to  me  in  dress  shields,  in  darned  service-sheer  stockings  (for  mormng),  in  fagoting  and  hemstitch-  ing,  in  voile  and  batiste,  in  boucl\xc3\xa9  and  monkey  fur,  in  lace  dyed  \xc3\xa9cru  with  tea.  I  never  saw  her  undressed.  Once,  when  she  was  in  her  seventies,  I  did  catch  a  disturbing  glimpse  of  her  thighs,  which  were  dazzling,  not  only  in  their  whiteness  and  firmness  but  in  the  fine-  ness  of  the  skin's  texture-closer  to  a  delicate  chiffon  than  to  silk  or  satin.  Disturbing  because  I  knew  she  would  not  want  to  be  looked  at,  even  in  ad-  miration.  She  shared  with  my  grand-  father  the  mysteries  of  the  big  bathroom,  but  until  she  became  bedridden,  no  one  else,  I  think,  ever  saw  her  in  less  than  her  corset,  camisole,  and  petticoat.  The  big  bathroom,  which  had  a  sofa  covered  with  worn  Oriental  carpeting and  an  old-fashioned  deep  tub  with  claw  feet,  was  the  temple  of  her  beauty, and  I  never  went  into  it,  even  as  a  grown  woman,  without  feeling  as  if  I  were  trespassing.  For  me,  as  a  young  girl,  it  had  all  the  attractions  of  the  for-  bidden,  and  as  soon  as  my  grandmother  left  the  house  in  the  afternoon,  I  would  fly  in  to  examine  her  salves  and  oint-  ments,  buffers  and  pencils  and  swabs,  brushes  and  tweezers,  her  jars  and  bot-  tles  from  Elizabeth  Arden,  Dorothy  Gray,  Marie  Earle,  Helena  Rubinstein,  and  Harriet  Hubbard  Ayer,  her  skin  food,  neck  lotion,  special  astringent,  and  anti-wrinkle  emollient,  Hinds  Honey  and  Almond,  cucumber  lotion,  Murine,  special  eye  lotion,  Velva  Cream,  mas-  cara,  eyeshadow,  dry  rouge,  paste  rouge,  vanishing  cream,  powders,  chin  strap,  facial  mask.  One  day,  I  found  a  box  of  something  called  Turkish  Delight,  which  I  took,  from  its  name,  to  be  a  beauty  preparation  used  in  harems.  The  room  had  a  queer,  potpourri  smell;  my  grandmother  seldom  threw  anything  away,  and  some  of  her  cos-  metics  were  so  old  they  had  gone  rancid.  Another  odor,  medicinal,  sometimes" b"hung  about  the  room  in  the  morning;  I  smelled  it  on  the  days  when  I  was  al-  lowed  to  have  my  hair  washed  in  the  basin  there,  by  my  grandmother's  &quot;woman.&quot;  Actually,  as  I  learned  many  years  later,  what  I  smelled  was  bourbon  whiskey;  my  grandfather,  though  a  temperate  man,  was  accustomed  to  have  two  shots  of  bourbon  before  breakfast.  The  only  other  signs  of  his  presence  were  a  bottle  of  Eau  Lilas  V\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9tal-a  purple  cologne-on  my  grandmother's  dressing  table  and  some  corn  plasters  in  one  of  its  drawers.  He  kept  his  shaving  things,  asI  recall,  in  a  small  dressing  room  that  opened  off  the  big  bathroom.  You  could  find  almost  anything  there:  medicine,  bath  salts,  an  unopened  bottle  of  Virginia  Dare,  family  photographs,  fishing  tackle,  Christmas  presents  that  were  being  hidden,  newspaper  clippings  that  dated  back  to  the  time  when  my  grandfather  had  been  running  for  Unit-  ed  States  Senator.  (He  was  defeated  byLevi  Ankeny,  of  Walla  Walla.)  The  temptation  totry  out  some  of  my  grandmother's  beauty  aids  got  the  better  of  me  when  I  was  twelve.  Un-  fortunately  (like  her  Household  Hint  for  a  successful  marriage  ),  most  of  them  had  no  bearing  on  my  particular  prob-  lems.  &quot;Not  for  the  Youthful  Skin,&quot;  cautioned  one  astringent,  and  there  was  nothing  in  her  crowded  drawers  for  freckles.  I  did  not  need  eyebrow  pen-  cil;  my  eyebrows  were  too  thick  already,  and  I  had  recently  performed  the  ex-  periment  of  shaving  half  of  them  off  in  the  convent,  while  my  grandparents  were  in  [REDACTED].  My  nose  was  my  chief  worry;  it  was  too  snub,  and  I  had  been  sleeping  with  a  clothespin  on  it  to  give  it  a  more  aristocratic  shape.  Also,  I  was  bowlegged,  and  I  was  wondering  about  having  an  operation  I  had  heard  about  that  involved  having  your  legs  broken  and  reset.  The  dressing  table  offered  no  help  on  these  scores,  and,  failing  to  find  a  lipstick  and  being  timor-  ous  of  the  curling  iron,  I  had  to  be  satis-  fied  with  smearing  a  little  paste  rouge  on  my  lips  and  putting  dry  rouge  on  my  cheekbones  (to  draw  attention  away  from  the  nose)  and  pink  powder  all  over  my  face.  I  myself  could  see  little  change,  but  my  grandmother  could,  and  as  soon  as  she  came  home  that  after-  noon,  a  terrible  scene  took  place,  for  I  felt  so  guilty  at  what  I  had  done  that  I  would  not  admit  I  had  been  &quot;into&quot;  her  dressing  table,  even  when  confront-  ed  with  the  proof  in  the  disarrayed  drawers  and  the  rouge  that  came  off  on  the  handkerchief  she  applied  firmly  to  my  cheek.  She  did  not  actually,  as  I  learned" b"later,  think  that  what  I  had  done  was  so  bad;  it  was  the  lying  that  offend-  ed  her.  But  I  was  convinced  that  I  had  committed  a  real  crime,  so  terri-  ble  that  I  might  be  sent  away  from  home.  The  ideathat  I  was  not  to  touch  my  grandmother's  things  had  impressed  itself  on  my  excitable  mind  like  a  Mo-  saic  commandment.  I  had  left  the  well-  codified  Catholic  world  in  which  my  young  childhood  had  been  spent,  and  in  this  new  world  I  could  no  longer  tell  what  was  a  mortal  and  what  a  venial  sin.  The  bathroom  figured  to  me  as  the  center  of  everything  in  the  Preston  family  life  from  which  I  was  excluded.  I  had  begun  to  wonder  about  this  family  life  a  little;  it  was  not  as  much  fun  as  I  had  thought  at  first,.  In  spite  of  the  glamour  that  lay  on  it  like  a  spell,  I  was  not  having  as  good  a  time,  nearly,  as  my  schoolmates  had.  Yet  when  I  tried  to  determine  what  was  dif-  ferent,  the  only  thing  I  could  put  my  finger  on  then  was  that,  unlike  other  people,  we  did  not  have  a  regular  lunch  at  home,  and  that  at  the  time  most  people  were  lunching  my  grandmother  was  in  the  bathroom  with  the  door  shut.  HIS  seems  a  small  complaint,  but  the  clue  to  everything  was  there.  When  I  think  of  our  house  now,  the  me  is  of  shut  doors  and  silence.  My  young  uncle,  five  years  older  than  I  was,  had  his  own  apartments,  reached  by  a  dark  set  of  stairs  that  branched  off  the  main  staircase  at  the  landing;  my  separate  chain  of  rooms,  connected  by  a  series  of  inner  doors;  the  cook  had  her  own,  on  the  third  floor,  though  she  had  to  tiptoe  down  to  share  my  bath-  room;  the  gardener  lived  over  the  garage  in  rooms  I  never  saw.  There  wasno  guest  room.  the  upstairs  hall  was  in  gloom,  because  every  door  opening  off  it,  except  mine,  was  shut.  The  common  rooms  down-  stairs-the  library,  parlor,  and  living  room-were  seldom  used  in  the  day-  timeby  anyone  but  me.  'The  rest  of  the  family  kept  to  their  own  quarters;  you  would  have  thought  the  house  was  empty  when  everyone  was  home.  during  school  vacations.  'The  mornings  morning.  The  silence  was  profound.  Every  member  of  the  family,  except  me,  was  taciturn-thecook  and  the     fast  (my  grandfather  had  already  gone" b"to  the  office),  I  was  left  to  my  own  de-  vices  while  my  grandmother  went  out  to  the  garden,  picked  flowers,  then  ar-  ranged  them  in  the  pantry;  every  vase  in  the  house  was  renewed  daily,  but  I  was  not  allowed  to  help  with  the  bou-  quets.  'Then  she  climbed  the  stairs  to  her  bedroom;  the  door  was  shut  and  stayed  shut  for  an  hour  or  more  while  she  talked  on  the  telephone  to  her  sis-  ters  and  the  butcher.  During  this  peri-  od,the  stillness  was  broken  only  by  the  hum  of  the  vacuum  cleaner  and  the  sound  of  the  mail  dropping  through  the  slot  in  the  front  door.  There  was  never  any  interesting  mail,  just  the  National  Geographic,  Vogue,  and  the  American  Boy  (which  my  grandfather,  for  some  reason,  had  subscribed  to  for  me),some  ads  and  charitable  appeals  addressed  to  &quot;The  Honorable  Harold  Preston,&quot;  and  per-  haps  a  letter  from  Aunt  Eva  or  Aunt  Alice  Carr.  After  a  time  that  seemed  interminable,  while  I  lay  on  the  sofa  reading  and  waiting  for  something  to  happen,  the  door  to  the  old  nursery  up-  stairs,  where  my  grandfather  slept  and  my  grandmother  did  her  sewing,  would  open-a  signalto  me  that  I  could  come  up  if  I  wanted.  Then,  for  another  hour,  we  would  sit  opposite  each  other  in  the  bay  window,  my  grandmother  mending,  or  looking  through  the  latest  copy  of  Vogue,  I  staring  out  the  win-  dow  and  trying  to  start  a  conversation.  &quot;What  did  Aunt  Rosie  have  to  say?&quot;  I  would  begin.  &quot;Oh,  nothing,&quot;  she  would  answer.  &quot;Just  talk.  You  know  Rosie.&quot;  Or  &quot;Uncle  Mose  isn't  feeling  so  well.&quot;  Or  &quot;She  had  a  letter  from  Mortie  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  Silence.  When  she  was  finished  with  the  magazine,  she  would  pass  it  on  to  me,  and  I  would  study  the  society  notices  of  weddings  and  engagements,  but  there  was  never  anything  from  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED],  Chi-  cago,  [REDACTED],  San  Francisco-that  was  all.  You  would  think,  to  read  Vogue,  that  nothing  ever  happened  in  [REDACTED],  a  supposition  that,  from  where  Z  sat,  was  true.  Yet  I  never  lost  hope;  I  think  I  somehow  expected  tofind  my  own  name  in  those  columns,  just  asI  some-  how  expected  that,  down  below,  a  road-  ster  would  turn  the  corner  with  a  boy  in  it  who  had  discovered  that  I  existed.  My  interest  in  boys  was  one  ofthe  many  subjects  I  could  not  discuss  with  my  grandmother;  I  was  not  supposed  to  be  aware  of  them  until  I  was  in  college.  Indeed,  the  only  topics  we  had  in  com-  mon  were  clothes  and  movie  actors  and  actresses.  She  disliked  the  kind  of  books  I  read  and  would  have  disliked  the  girls  I  saw  if  she  hadhad  any  inkling  of  what " b"they  were  like.  She  would  never  give  her  opinion  of  any  member  of  the  fam-  ily,  including  those  she  was  &quot;mad&quot;  at.  For  all  my  fishing,  I  could  never  find  out  even  a  simple  thing,  such  as  what  she  thought  of  me.  The  liveliest  time  we  had,  in  all  the  mornings  we  sat  opposite  each  other  in  the  nursery,  was  when  I  wrote  in  for  a  Vogue  pattern  to  make  a  tennis  dress.  If  I  could  have  learned  to  sew,  or  she  had  had  the  patience  to  teach  me,  we  might  have  found  a  medium  in  which  we  could  communicate.  The  tennis  dress,  thanks  to  her  help,  did  not  come  out  too  badly,  and,  encouraged,  I  wrote  for  another  pattern-a  model  far  too  old  for  me,  in  tiers  of  cr\xc3\xa9pe  de  Chine  that  were  supposed  to  shade  from  a  pale  yellow,  through  apricot,  to  flame.  This  dress  was  never  finished;  I  found  the  blushing  remains  of  it  in  a  hall  cupboard  on  my  last  visit  home.  The  dressmaking  phase,  of  which  my  grandfather  entertained  great  hopes,  was  a  failure.  We  could  never  be  &quot;like  mother  and  daughter&quot;  to  each  other,  in  spite  of  what  people  said.  She  could  not  bear  to  watch  me  sewing  without  a  thimble  and  with  a  long  thread  that  had  a  slightly  dirty  knot  on  the  end  of  it.  If  I  started  on  a  piece  of  mending,  my  in-  eptitude  always  drove  her  to  finish  it.  MUCH  of  my  adolescent  boredom  and  discontent  sprang  from  the  fact  that  I  had  absolutely  nothing  to  do  but  read  and  play  the  Victrola.  I  was  not  allowed  in  the  kitchen,  except  to  fix  a  sandwich  for  my  lunch,  because  of  a  historic  mess  I  had  made  with  a  batch  of  marshmallows;  as  with  the  dawn-col-  ored  dress,  I  had  been  too  ambitious  for  a  beginner.  All  I  know  today  of  sewing  I  learned  in  boarding  school  and,  earlier,  from  the  nuns  in  the  convent,  and  the  only  person  who  was  willing  to  show  me  anything  about  cooking  was  the  old  gardener-chauffeur,  who  used  to  come  in  and  make  German-fried  potatoes  for  his  lunch.  On  the  cook's  day  out,  he  would  let  me  watch  him  and  then  try  it  myself.  In  our  family  now,  we  have  a  dish  called,  in  his  memory,  chauffeur-  fried  potatoes;  they  are  very  good.  My  grandmother  herself  did  not  eat  lunch  as  a  regular  thing,  and  at  twelve  o'clock,  or  sometimes  earlier,  my  audi-  ence  was  over.  She  would  get  up  from  her  chair  and  retire  to  the  bathroom,  shutting  the  door  into  the  hall  behind  her.  In  a  minute,  her  bedroom  door  closed,  the  nursery  door  closed.  From  then  on  till  a  time  that  varied  between  two  and  three  o'clock,  she  was  invisible;  no  one  was  allowed  to  disturb  her.  She" b" was  getting  ready  to  go  downtown.  This  sortie  was  the  climax  of  her  day.  Her  bedroom  door  would  open,  reveal-  ing  her  in  festive  array;  every  outfit  she  wore,  like  everymeal,  was  a  surprise.  The  car  would  be  waiting  in  frontof  the  old  carriage  block,  and  we  would  set  off,  sometimes  stopping  for  Aunt  Rosie.  The  next  two  or  three  hours  would  be  spent  in  the  stores,  trying  on,  ransacking  counters.  My  grandmother  was  not  much  interested  in  bargains,  though  we  never  missed  a  sale  at  Helen  Igoe's  or  Magnin's;  what  she  cared  about  was  the  &quot;latest  wrinkle&quot;  in  dresses  or  furs  or  notions-news  from  the  fashion  front.  During  these  hours,  she  reached  her  highest  point  of  laconic  animation  and  sparkle;  she  shopped  like  an  epigramma-  tist  in  top  form,  and  the  extravagance  of  her  purchases  matched  her  brilliant  hair  and  bobbing  feathers  and  turkey  walk  and  pursy  pink  cheeks.  But  at  a  quarter  of  five,  wherever  we  were,  my  grandmother  would  look  at  her  watch.  It  was  time  to  pick  up  Grandpa  in  front  of  his  club,  where  he  always  played  a  rubber  of  bridge  after  leaving  the  office.  At  five  o'clock,  punc-  tually,  he  would  be  on  the  sidewalk,  anxiously  surveying  the  traffic  for  us.  The  car  would  draw  up;  he  would  climb  in  and  kiss  my  grandmother's  cheek.  &quot;Have  a  good  day?&quot;  he  would  ask.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  would  reply,  sighing  a  little.  We  would  get  home  at  five-thirty;  din-  ner  was  at  six,  punctually.  During  the  meal,  my  young  uncle  would  be  queried  asto  how  he  had  passed  his  day,  and  he  would  answer  with  a  few  monosyllables.  My  grandmother  would  mention  the  names  of  any  persons  she  had  seen  on  her  shopping  tour.  My  grandfather  might  praise  the  food.  &quot;Allee  samee  Vic-  tor  Hugo,&quot;  he  would  say,  referring  to  a  restaurant  in  [REDACTED].  After  din-  ner,  my  married  uncle  would  drop  in  with  his  wife,  perhaps  on  their  way  out  to  a  party.  My  other  uncle,  yawning,  would  retire  to  his  quarters.  The  door-  bell  might  ring.  I  would  run  to  answer  it,  and  two  or  three  of  his  friends  would  tramp  past  me  upstairs  to  his  rooms.  The  door  on  the  landing  would  shut.  In  a  little  while,  he  would  lope  down  the  stairs  to  say  that  he  was  going  out.  He  would  kiss  his  mother  and  father,  and  my  grandfather  would  say  to  him,  &quot;Home  by  eleven,  son.&quot;  My  grand-  father  and  grandmother,  having  fin-  ished  the  evening  papers,  would  start  playing  double  Canfield,  at  which  my  grandmother  nearly  always  won.  &quot;I'll  have  to  hitch  up  my  trousers  with  a  safety  pin,&quot;  my  grandfather  would  say  to  me,  jesting,  as  he  paid  over  her  win-" b"nings;  this  expression  signified  to  him  the  depths  of  poverty.  Then  he  might  go  downtown  to  his  club  for  a  game  of  poker,  or  he  might  stay  in  his  deep  chair,  smoking  a  cigar  and  reading  a  book  that  always  seemed  to  be  the  same  book:  &quot;The  Life  and  Letters  of  Walter  Hines  Page.&quot;  My  grandmother  would  take  up  her  cir-  culating-library  book,  I  would  take  up  mine,  and  silence  would  resume  its  sway  over  the  household.  The  only  sound  would  be  the  turning  of  a  page  or  the  click  of  the  door  on  the  kitchen  land-  ing  as  the  cook  went  upstairs  to  bed.  Rarely,  the  telephone  would  ring,  and  I  would  rush  to  get  it,  but  it  was  never  anything  interesting-someone  for  my  uncle,  or  a  girl  for  me,  asking  what  I  was  doing.  Or  my  grandmother  would  glance  over  at  me  as  Ilay  stretched  out  on  the  sofa  with  my  copy  (disappoint-  ing)  of  &quot;Mademoiselle  de  Maupin&quot;:  &quot;Mary,  pull  your  dress  down.&quot;  At  ten  o'clock,  she  would  close  her  book,  sigh-  ing,  and  start  out  to  the  front  hall,  on  her  way  to  bed.  &quot;Going  up,  Mama?&quot;  my  grandfather  would  say  if  he  was  at  home,  raising  his  gray  eyes  with  an  invariable  air  of  surprise.  &quot;I  think  so,  Harry,&quot;  she  would  reply,  sighing  again,  from  the  stairs.  The  stairs  creaked;  her  door  closed;  the  bathroom  door  closed.  Soon  my  grandfather  would  put  down  his  book  and  his  paper  knife,  offer  his  cheek  to  me  for  a  kiss,  and  follow  her  up  the  stairs.  The  nursery  door  would  shut.  Occasionally,  we  would  all  go  to  the  movies,  or  to  the  theatre  if  a  [REDACTED]  company  was  in  town;  my  grandfather  did  not  care  for  stock.  We  saw  &quot;The  StudentPrince&quot;  and  &quot;No!  No!  Na-  nette!&quot;  I  remember,  and  &quot;Strange  In-  terlude,&quot;  which  my  grandmother  pro-  nounced  &quot;talky.&quot;  On  Thursday  nights,  we  might  go  out  to  dinner  at  my  grand-  father's  club.  On  Sundays,  the  cook  left  a  supper  prepared  for  us;  my  married  uncle  and  his  wife  always  came  to  this  meal,  no  matter  how  many  invita-  tions  they  had  to  turn  down,  and  some-  times  Aunt  Eva  or  Aunt  Alice.  These  suppers  usually  ended  with  our  going  to  the  movies  afterward;  we  were  al-  ways  home  by  eleven,  ABOUT  once  a  year,  or  possibly  ev-  ery  two  years,  my  grandmother  gave  a  tea  and  we  had  the  caterer  in.  That  was  the  only  entertaining  we  did.  Except  for  Aunt  Alice  and  Aunt  Eva  (both  widows),  we  never  gave  anyone  dinner  outside  the  immediate  family.  We  never  had  Uncle  Mose  and  Aunt  Rosie,  or  Uncle  Clarence  and  his  wife," b"Aunt  Abbie  (a  vegetarian  pair)  or  any  of  my  cousins  and  their  wives,  or  my  grandfather's  partners  and  theirs.  My  grandmother's  brother  Elkan,  whom  she  saw  rarely  but  was  not  on  bad  terms  with,  was  never,  to  my  knowledge,  in  our  house,  nor  were  his  wife  or  his  numerous  progeny.  This  leads  me  to  wonder  whether  it  was  not  the  Jewish  connection  that  had  put  the  bar  on  entertaining.  &quot;If  we  have  one  in  the  house,  we'll  have  them  all,&quot;  my  grandfather  may  have  said.  But  we  did  have  Aunt  Eva,  frequently,  and  once,  a  great  exception,  her  daughter  from  [REDACTED],  to  Sunday  lunch.  The  only  other  exception  that  comes  back  to  me  was  a  dinner  we  gave  for  old  Judge  Gilman,  of  the  Great  Northern,  and  his  wife;  I  remember  this  because  the  men  were  served  whiskey  before  dinner,  the  only  time  this  ever  happened  in  our  house.  But  why  we  had  Judge  and  Mrs.  Gilman  I  do  not  know;  I  think  it  puzzled  me  at  the  time  by  introducing  into  my  head  the  question  of  why  we  did  not  have  other  people,  since  on  this  oc-  casion  a  good  time  was  had  by  all.  Up  to  then,  it  had  never  occurred  to  me  that  my  family  was  remarkably  in-  hospitable.  I  did  not  realize  how  strange  it  was  that  no  social  life  was  ever  planned  for  me  or  my  young  uncle,  that  no  young  people  were  invited  for  us  and  no  attempt  made  to  secure  invitations  on  our  behalf.  Indeed,  I  did  not  fully  realize  it  until  I  was  over  thirty  and  long  a  mother  myself.  If  I  did  not  have  an  ordinary  social  set  but  only  stray,  odd  friends,  I  blamed  this  on  myself,  think-  ing  there  was  something  wrong  with  me,  like  a  petticoat  showing,  that  other  people  could  see  and  I  couldn't.  The  notion  that  a  family  had  responsibility  for  launching  the  younger  members  was  more  unknown  to  me  than  the  theorem  of  Pythagoras,  and  if  anybody  had  told  me  of  it,  I  think  I  would  have  shut  my  ears,  for  I  loved  my  family  and  did  not  wish  to  believe  them  remiss  in  any  of  their  obligations.  The  fact  that  they  would  not  let  me  go  out  with  boys  was   an  entirely  different  case.  I  saw  their  side  of  it,  even  though  I  disagreed  violently;  they  were  doing  it  for  my  own  good,  as  they  conceived  it.  And  yet  I  knew  there  was  something  odd  about  my  grandmother's  attitude  toward  outsiders.  She  would  never  go  up  to  Lake  Crescent,  in  the  Olympic  Mountains,  with  my  grandfather  and  my  young  uncle  and  me  in  the  summer-  time,  where,  amid  my  grandfather's  circle  of  friends  and  their  descendants,  we  had  the  only  regular  social  life  I  ever  experienced  in  the  West.  Life  in  the " b"mountain  hotel  was  very  gay,  even  for  theold  people-Judge  and  Mrs.  Bat-  tle,  Colonel  Blethen,  Mr.  Edgar  Battle,  Mr.  Claude  Ramsay,  Mr.  and  Mrs  Boole-in  my  grandfather's  set.  They  had  card  games  on  the  big  veranda  and  forest  walks  up  to  the  Marymere  water-  fall;  they  went  on  motorboat  expedi-  tions  and  automobile  expeditions;  they  watched  the  young  people  dance  in  the  evening  and  sent  big  tips  to  the  chef  in  the  kitchen.  I  could  not  understand  why  my  grandmother  preferred  to  stay  in  [REDACTED],  pursuing  her  inflexible  routine.  She  was  funny  that  way-that  was  the  only  explanation-just  as  she  was  funny  about  not  letting  my  young  uncle  or  me  ever  have  a  friend  stay  to  dinner.  In  all  the  years  I  lived  with  my  grand-  mother,  as  achild  and  as  a  woman,  I  can  only  recall  two  occasions  when  this  rule  was  broken.  'The  second  one  was  when  she  was  bedridden  and  too  feeble,  morally,  to  override  my  determination  to  ask  a  poet  who  was  teaching  at  the  University  to  stay  and  have  supper  with  me.  I  felt  a  little  compunction,  though  the  nurse  and  the  cook  assured  me  that  it  would  be  all  right-she  would  forget  about  it  the  next  minute.  But  her  pretty  voice,  querulous,  was  heard  from  up-  stairs  at  about  eight-thirty  in  the  eve-  ning:  &quot;Mary,  has  that  man  gone  home  yet?&quot;  And  all  through  the  rest  of  my  visit  she  kept  reverting  crossly  to  the  subject  of  &quot;that  man&quot;  who  had  stayed  to  supper;  it  was  no  good  explaining  to  her  that  he  had  no  means  of  getting  home,  that  he  lived  in  rooms  way  out  at  the  University  and  took  his  meals  in  diners  and  tearooms,  that  he  was  an  old  friend  to  whom  some  hospitality  was  due  in  my  native  city.  Nor  could  I  laugh  her  out  of  it.  &quot;Why  didn't  he  go  home  for  his  dinner?&quot;  she  reiterated,  and  those  dark,  suspicious  words  were  very  nearly  the  last  I  heard  from  her.  This  ungraciousness  of  my  grand-  mother's  was  a  deeply  confirmed  trait.  It  was  not  only  that  she  resisted  offering  meals  to  anyone  outside  the  immediate  family;  she  took  exception  to  a  mere  caller.  'There  was  a  silver  tray  for  call-  ing  cards  on  the  hall  table,  but  most  of  the  cards  in  it  were  yellowwith  age;  my  grandmother  was  always  downtown  shopping  at  the  hour  when  calls  were  normally  paid.  If  I  had  a  girl  in  for  the  evening,  we  couldnot  really  talk  until  my  grandmother  had  gone  to  bed,  and  often  she  would  outstay  the  guest,  sitting  in  a  corner  with  her  book  and  glancing  at  us  from  time  to  time  as  we  sat  on  the  sofa  endeavoring  to  improvise  a  dia-  logue.  We.could  tell  she  was  listening,  but  shedid  not  talk  herself.  Suddenly," b"looking  up,she  would  make  the  gesture  to  me  that  meant  &quot;Pull  your  skirt  down.&quot;  My  uncle's  situation  was  the  same,  but  he  had  the  advantage  of  having  his  own  sitting  room,  where  his  friends  could  congregate.  For  the  most  part,  my  grandmother  ignored  their  presence;  she  wouldnod  to  them  curtly  if  she  chanced  to  meet  them  in  the  hall.  The  girls  he  knew  were  never  asked  to  the  house;  he  could  never  give  a  party.  Yet  she  was  not  an  unkindly  woman.  She  was  good  to  her  servants  and  their  families,  and  on  some  occasions,  if  she  was  persuaded  to  unbend  and  tell  an  anecdote,  she  could  be  positively  cordial.  Her  house,  with  its  big  rooms  and  wide  porches,  had  been  built,  it  would  seem,  with  a  hospitable  intention.  And  in  my  mother's  day,  so  I  was  told,  things  had  been  very  different;  the  house  had  been  full  of  young  people.  The  silver  and  crystal  and  cut  glass  had  not  always  been  put  away  in  the  cupboard;  there  had  been  music  and  dancing,  and  my  moth-  er's  school  and  college  friends  had  spent  night  after  night  on  the  sleeping  porches  without  even  the  necessity  ofa  permis-  sion.  MY  mother  had  been  my  grand-  mother's  darling.  'The  fact  that  we  did  not  entertain,  I  was  given  to  understand,  was  related  to  my  mother's  death.  My  grandmother  had  resented  her  marriage  to  my  father;  according  to  my  Irish  relations,  she  would  not  have  a  priest  in  the  house,  and  so  the  cere-  mony  had  been  performed  on  the  lawn.  I  do  not  believe  this  story,  which  is  con-  tradicted  by  other  accounts,  but  itis  true  that  my  grandmother  resented  the  Catholic  Church,  to  which  my  mother  was  eventually  converted.  Dr.  Sharples,  the  family  physician,  had  told  my  father,  it  seems,  that  my  mother's  health  would  not  stand  her  repeated  pregnancies,  but  my  father  went  right  ahead  anyway,  refusing  to  practice  birth  control.  Actu-  ally,  my  mother's  death  had  nothing  to  do  with  childbearing;  shediedof  the  flu,  like  so  many  young  women,  during  the  great  epidemic.  But  this  would  not  have  deterred  a  woman  like  my  grand-  mother  from  holding  my  father  and  the  Church  responsible.  'That  was  perhaps  the  reason  she  took  no  interest  in  my  three  brothers,  who  were  still  living  with  my  father's  people  in  [REDACTED];  she  sent  them  checks  and  gifts  at  birth-  days  and  Christmas,  and  remembered  them  later  in  her  will,  but  during  the  years  I  lived  with  her,  the  three  little  boys  who  had  been  born  against  her  judgment  were  very  remote  from  her" b"thoughts.  Possibly  I  was  enough  of  a  handful  for  a  woman  of  her  age;  never-  theless,  it  seems  odd,  unfeeling,  that  dry  lack  of  concern,  when  she  well  knew  that  their  lot  was  not  happy.  But  happi-  ness,  like  love,  was  a  concept  she  had  no  real  patience  with.  As  for  the  impassibility  or  aloofness  she  showed  sometimes  toward  me,  this  may  have  been  due  to  an  absence  of  temperamental  sympathy  (could  she  have  thought  I  had  my  father's  traits?  ),  or  it  may  have  been  because  I  reminded  her  painfully  of  my  mother  (I  was  al-  ways  conscious  of  a  resemblance  that  did  not  go  far  enough;  everyone  was  always  telling  me  how  &quot;good&quot;  my  mother  had  been).  For  three  years  after  my  mother's  death,  one  of  her  friends  told  me,  my  grandmother  did  not  go  out  socially.  Five  years,  said  another.  And  this  pro-  longed  mourning  was  always  offered  as  the  official  explanation  of  any  oddities  in  our  household.  My  grandmother,  people  said,  lowering  their  voices,  had  never  recovered  from  the  shock  of  my  mother's  death.  As  a  child,  I  could  not  quite  believe  this;  it  was  impossible  for  me  to  imagine  this  contained,  self-cen-  tered  woman  overcome  by  a  passion  of  grief.  Without  being  a  psychologist,  I  felt  somehow  that  her  obdurate  mourn-  ing  was  willful  and  selfish.  Children  generally  feel  this  about  any  adult  emotion  that  is  beyond  their  ken,  but  in  my  grandmother's  caseI  think  I  was  on  the  track  of  something  real.  Her  grief  had  taken  a  form  peculiar  to  her-  self,  stamped,  as  it  were,  with  her  mon-  ogram-the  severe  &quot;AMP,&quot;  in  scroll  lettering,  that  figured  on  her  silver,  her  brushes  and  combs,  her  automobile.  Her  grief  had  the  character  of  an  in-  veterate  hostility.  One  of  my  mother's  friends  recently  wrote  me  a  letter  de-  scribing  how  my  grandmother  had  hurt  her  feelings  by  refusing  to  speak  to  her  for  a  year  after  my  mother's  death  whenever  they  met  in  the  stores.  &quot;Your  grandmother  could  not  stand  the  sight  of  me,&quot;  she  sadly  decided.  And  that  is  how  I  see  my  grand-  mother,  bearing  her  loss  like  an  affront,  stubborn  and  angry,  refusing  to  speak  not  only  to  individual  persons  but  to  life  itself,  which  had  wounded  her  by  taking  her  daughter  away.  Her  grief  was  a  kind  of  pique,  one  of  those  nurtured  grievances  in  which  she  specialized  and  which  were  deeply  related  to  her  co-  quetry.  If  I  had  only  her  photographs  to  go  on,  I  might  doubt  the  legend  of  her  beauty;  what  confirms  it  for  me  is her  manner  of  grieving,  her  mistrust  of  words,  her  refusal  to  listen  to  explana-" b"tions  from  life  or  any  other  guilty  suitor.  Life  itself  was  obliged  to  court  her-in  vain,  as  it  appeared,  for  she  had  been  mortally  offended,  once,  twice,  three  times.  What  the  first  offense  was,  I  do  not  know,  but  I  presume  it  had  something  to  do  with  her  Jewish  pride  and  sensi-  tiveness;  some  injury  was  dealt  her  early  in  her  marriage,  and  it  may  have  been  a  very  small  thing-a  chance  word,  even-that  causedher  to  draw  back  into  an  august  silence  on  this  topic,  a  silence  that  lasted  until  her  death,  The  second  one  I  know  about.  This  was  the  tragic  face-lifting  that  took  place-in  1916  or  1917,  I  imagine-when  she  was  in  her  forties  and  my  mother  was  still  liv-  ing.  Perhaps  she  really  did  have  a  mastoid  operation  at  some  later  period  (Irather  think  she  must  have),  but  the  disfiguring  pouchy  scarsI  have  spoken  of  that  started  on  her  cheeks  and  went  down  into  her  neck  were  the  work  of  a  face-lifter,  who,  as  I  understand  the  story,  had  pumped  her  face  full  of  hot  wax.  Such  accidents  were  common  in  the  early  days  of  face-lifting,  and  the  scars,  by  the  time  she  was  sixty,  were  not  es-  pecially  noticeable.  It  was  only  that  her  cheeks  had  a  puffy,  swollen  appearance,  which  her  makeup  did  not  conceal-in  fact,  if  anything,  enhanced,  for  though  shedid  not  know  it,  she  always  looked  better  in  the  morning,  before  she  put  on  the  rouge  and  powder  that  made  her  skin's  surface  conspicuous.  But  when  the  scars  were  new,  they  must  have  been  rather  horrifying,  and  that  was  surely  the  reason  for  the  dotted  veils  she  wore,  pulled  tight  across  her  face.  The  photo-  graphs  break  off  at  the  time  of  the  op-  eration.  That  was  when  she  stopped  speaking  to  the  camera,  and,  according  to  one  informant,  my  grandmother  left  [REDACTED]  for  a  year  after  the  tragedy.  &quot;According  to  one  informant&quot;  -the  story  of  the  face-lifting  was  well  known  in  [REDACTED],  and  yet  in  the  family  no  men-  tion  was  ever  made  of  it,  at  least  in  my  hearing,  and  I  learned  of  it  from  out-  siders,  my  father's  people,friends  of  my  mother's,  who  naturally  were  unable  to  supply  all  the  details.  I  was  grown  up  when  I  learned  it,  and  yet  that  same  unnatural  tact  that  kept  me  from  ever  using  the  word  &quot;Jewish&quot;  to  my  grand-  mother  kept  me  from  prying  into  the  matter  with  the  family.  &quot;Your  grand-  mother's  tragedy&quot;  -so  I  first  heard  the  face-lifting  alluded  to,  if  I  remember  rightly,  by  one  of  my  friends,  who  had  heard  of  it  from  her  mother.  And  I  will  not  query  the  appropriateness  of  the  word  in  terms  of  the  Aristotelian  canon;" b"in  this  case,  common  usage  seems  right.  It  was  a  tragedy-for  her  and  for  her  husband  and  family,  who,  deprived  of  herbeauty  through  an  act  of  folly,  came  to  live  in  silence,  like  a  house  accursed.  My  grandmother's  withdrawal  from  society  must  have  dated,  really,  from  this  period,  and  not  from  the  time  of  my  mother's  death,  which  came  as  the  crowning  blow.  That  was  why  we  were  sopeculiar,  so  unsocial,  so,  I  would  add,  slightly  inhuman;  we  were  all  devoting  ourselves,  literally,  to  the  cult  of  a  relic,  which  was  my  grandmother's  body,  laved  and  freshened  every  day  in  the  big  bathroom,  and  then  paraded  before  the  public  in  the  downtown  stores.  I  WAS  living  in  [REDACTED]  when  my  grandfather  died,  of  a  stroke,  one  morning,  when  he  was  seventy-nine,  in  the  big  bathroom.  My  grandmother's  ritual  did  not  change.  She  still  dressed  and  went  downtown  at  the  same  hours,  returning  at  the  time  when  she  would  have  picked  him  up  at  his  club.  She  was  cheerful  when  I  saw  her,  a  year  or  so  after  this.  She  went  to  the  races  and  had  a  new  interest,  night  baseball;  we  went  to  the  ballpark  together.  Once  in  a  great  while,she  would  lunch  and  play  bridge  with  a  group  of  women  friends,  with  whom  she  had  resumed  connections  after  twenty  years.  But  she  did  not,  to  my  knowledge,  ever  have  them  to  her  house;  they  met  at  the  [REDACTED]  Golf  Club  usually,  the  best  (non-Jewish)  country  club.  Like  many  widows,  she  appeared  to  have  taken  a  new  lease  on  life;  I  had  never  seen  her  so  chatty,  and  she  was  looking  very  handsome.  I  remember  an  afternoon  at  the  races,  to  which  she  drove  Aunt  Rosie  and  me  in  her  car,  at  a  speed  of  seventy  miles  an  hour;  she  herself  was  well  over  seventy.  The  two  sisters,  one  a  lively  robin  and  the  other  a  brilliant  toucan,  chaffed  and  bantered  with  the  sporting  set  in  the  clubhouse.  Conscious  of  their  powers  and  their  de-  sirability,  they  were  plainly  holding  court.  Aunt  Rosie  did  not  bet  but  ad-  vised  us;  my  grandmother,  as  usual,  won,  and  I  think  I  won,  too.  That  night,  or  in  the  small  hours  of  the  morning,  Aunt  Rosie  died.  It  was  something  that  she  had  eaten  at  the  races,  Dr.  Sharples  thought;  an  attack  of  indigestion  caused  a  heart block.  He  believed  at  first  that  he  could  save  her,  and  I  had  persuaded  my  grandmother  to  go  to  bed,  confident  that  Aunt  Rosie  would  be  almost  her-  self  the  next  day.  But  in  the  middle  of  the  night  the  phone  rang.  I  ran  to  get  it.  It  was  Uncle  Mose:  &quot;Rosie  just " b"went.&quot;  My  grandmother  understood  before  I  could  tell  her,  before  I  had  set  down  the  telephone.  A  terrible  scream-an  unearthly  scream-came  from  behind  the  closed  door  of  her  bed-  room;  I  have  never  heard  such  a  sound,  neither  animal  nor  human,  and  it  did  not  stop.  It  went  on  and  on,  like  a  fire  siren  on  the  moon.  In  a  minute,  the  whole  household  was  roused;  everybody  came  running.  I  got  there  first.  Fling-  ing  open  her  bedroom  door  (even  then  with  a  sense  of  trepidation,  of  being  an  unwarranted  intruder),  I  saw  her,  on  her  bed,  the  covers  pushed  back;  her  legs  were  sprawled  out,  and  her  yellow  batiste  nightgown,  trimmed  with  white  lace,  was  pulled  up,  revealing  her  thighs.  She  was  writhing  on  the  bed;  the  cook  and  I  could  hardly  get  hold  of  her.  My  uncle  appeared  in  the  door-  way,  and  my  first  thought  (and  I  think  the  cook's  also)  was  to  get  that  night-  gown  down.  'The  spectacle  was  in-  decent,  and  yet  of  a  strange  boudoir  beauty  that  contrasted  in  an  eerie  way  with  the  awful  noise  she  was  making,  more  like  a  howl  than  a  scream,  and  bearing  no  resemblance  to  sorrow.  She  was  trying,  we  saw,  to  pull  herself  to  her  feet,  to  go  somewhere  or  other,  and   the  cook  helped  her  up.  But  then,  all  at  once,  she  became  heavy,  like  a  sack  full  of  stones.  The  screaming  stopped,  and  there  was  dead  silence,  Eventually,  I  forget  how,  but  thanks  chiefly  to  the  cook,  we  got  her  calmed  down  to  the  point  where  she  was  crying  normally.  Perhaps  the  doctor  came  and  administered  a  sedative.  I  sat  up  with  her,  embracing  her  and  trying  to  con- sole  her,  and  there  was  something  sweet  about  this  process,  for  it  was  the  first   time  we  had  ever  been  close  to  each  other.  But  suddenly  she  would  remem-  ber  Rosie  and  shriek  out  her  name;  no one  could  take  Rosie's  place,  and  we  both  knew  it.  Then  I  felt  like  an  utter  outsider.  It  seemed  clear  to  me  that  night,  as  I  sat  stroking  her  hair,  that  she  had  never  really  cared  for  anyone  but  her  sister;  that  was  her  secret.  The  in-  tellectual  part  of  my  mind  was  aware  that  some  sort  of  revelation  had  been  made  to  me-of  the  nature  of  Jewish  family  feeling,  possibly.  And  I  won-  dered  whether  that  fearful,  insensate  noise  had  been  classic  Jewish  mourning,  going  back  to  the  waters  of  Babylon.  Of  one  thing  I  was  certain:  my  grand-  mother  was  more  different  from  the  rest  of  us  than  I  could  ever  have  conceived.  Uncle  Mose  was  taking  it  well,  I  learned  the  next  morning.  It  was  only  my  grandmother,  so  unemotional  nor-  mally,  who  had  given  way  to  this  ex- " b"travagant  grief,  and  the  family,  I  gath-  ered,  were  slightly  embarrassed  by  her  conduct,  as  though  they,  too,  felt  that  she  had  revealed  something-some-  thing  that,  as  far  as  they  were  con-  cerned,  would  have  been  better  left  in  the  dark.  But  what  hed  she  revealed,  as  they  saw  it?  Her  essential  Jewish-  ness?  I  could  never  find  out,  for  I  had  to  take  the  train  East  that  very  day,  with  my  baby,  and  when  I  came  back,  several  years  later,  no  one  seemed  to  remember  anything  unusual  about  the  occasion  of  Aunt  Rosie's  death.  s  HATS  my  sister!&quot;  my  grand-  mother  would  exclaim,  eagerly  pointing,  when  we  came  to  a  photo-  graph  of  Aunt  Rosie.  &quot;My  sister,&quot;  she  would  say  of  Aunt  Eva,  in  a  somewhat  grander  tone.  She  always  brightened  when  one  of  her  sisters  turned  up  in  the  photograph  collection,  like  a  child  when  it  is  shown  its  favorite  stuffed  animal.  I  think  she  was  a  little  more  excited  at  the  sight  of  Aunt  Rosie.  By  that  time,  I  imagine,  she  had  forgotten  that  her  sisters  were  dead-or,  rather,  the  concept  death  no  longer  had  any  meaning  for  her,  They  had  &quot;gone  away,&quot;  she  probably  believed,  just  as  children  believe  that  this  is  what  hap-  pens  to  their  dead  relations.  I  used  to  stand  ready  to  prompt  her  with  the  names,  but  she  did  not  seem  to  need  or  want  this;  her  sisters'  relationship  to  her  was  what  mattered,  and  she  always  got  that  straight.  &quot;Aunt  Rosie,&quot;  I  would  observe,  showing  her  a  picture  of  a  small,  smiling,  dark  woman  in  a  big  marabou  hat.  &quot;My  sister,&quot;  voice  would  override  me  proudly,  as  if  she  were  emending  my  statement.  The  clothes  in  the  old  photographs  amused  her.  She  had  not  lost  her  in-  terest  in  dress,  and  was  very  critical  of  my  appearance,  urging  me,  with  im-  patient  gestures,  to  pull  my  hair  forward  on  my  cheeks,  and  surveying  me  with  pride  when  I  had  done  so;  it  gave  a  &quot;softer&quot;  look.  IfI  did  not  get  it  right,  she  would  pull  her  own  black  waves  forward,  to  show  me  what  she  meant.  Though  she  could  no  longer  go  down-  town,  she  still  kept  to  the  same  schedule.  Every  day  at  twelve  o'clock,  the  nurse  would  close  my  grandmother's  door  and  the  doors  to  the  nursery  and  the  bathroom,  reopening  them  between  two  and  three,  when  the  beauty  prepa-  rations  had  been  completed.  &quot;You  can  come  in  now.  Your  grandmother  is  all  prettied  up.&quot;  One  afternoon,  re-  sponding  to  the  summons,  I  found  my  grandmother  frowning  and  preoccu-  pied.  There  was  something  the  mat-" b"ter,  and  I  could  not  make  out  what  it  was,  She  wanted  me  to  get  her  something,  the  &quot;whatchamacallit&quot;  from  her  bureau.  I  tried  nearly  everything-  brush,  comb,  handkerchief,  perfume,  pincushion,  pocketbook,  photograph  of  my  mother.  All  of  them  were  wrong,  and  she  grew  more  and  more  impa-  tient,  as  if  I  were  behaving  like  an  imbecile.  &quot;Not  the  comb-the  what-  chamacallit!&quot;  Finally,  for  she  was  get-  ting  quite  wrought  up,  I  rang  for  the  nurse.  &quot;She  wants  something,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;But  I  can't  make  out  what  it  is.&quot;  The  nurse  glanced  at  the  bureau  top  and  then  went  swiftly  over  to  the  chiffonier;  she  picked  up  the  hand  mirror  that  was  lying  there  and  passed  it  silently  to  my  grandmother,  who  at  once  began  to  beam  and  nod.  &quot;She's  forgotten  the  word  for  mirror,&quot;  the  nurse  said,  wink-  ing  at  me.  At  that  moment,  the  fact  that  my  grandmother  was  senile  became  real  to  me. "