 b"AROUND  Santa  Fe,  as  in  most  of  the  [REDACTED],  we  are  specta-  tors  of  and  participants  in  an  eternal  cliff-hanger  in  which  moisture,  the  hero,  comes  just  in  time  to  save  the  land  from  ruination.  Our  consciousness  of  precipitation  is  unlike  an  Easterner's.  You  never  hear  &quot;Raining  again'&quot;  or  a  disgusted  &quot;More  snow!&quot;  but  &quot;I'm  afraid  this  rain  won't  amount  to  much,&quot;  in  the  tone  of  a  connoisseur,  or  &quot;That  was  a  good  snow  we  had  yesterday.&quot;  This  consciousness  is  heightened  by  the  quick,  dramatic  way  in  which  rain  usually  comes-what  the  Navajos  call  male  rain,  the  narrow,  fast-moving  storm,  with  its  outriders  of  thunder  and  lightning.  Much  rarer  is  female  rain,  gentle  from  gray  skies  that,  one  may  hope,  extend  for  hundreds  of  miles-  female  rain  or  its  snow  equivalent,  coming  down  slowly,  almost  stopping,  falling  again,  building  wetness,  soaking  into  the  earth,  a  mild,  effective  blessing  that  brings  with  it  a  relaxing  of  the  usual  stimulus  of  this  bright  climate,  humidity,  and  perfect  sleeping  weather.  Such  days  come  hardly  three  or  four  to  a  year.  'They  have  a  series  of  effects  on  me  that  have  become  fixed  inse-  quence.  The  first  is  asense  of  something  too  strong,  too  large,  too  good  to  be  called  magic.  The  highly  stylized  Indian  art  has  symbolized  the  phenomena  of  weather  in  forms  one  cannot  help  seeing  when  the  clouds  gather.  Indian  ritual  poetryhas  described  not  only  the  phe-  nomena  but  man's  and  the  earth's  subjective  response  to  it.  (When  I  speak  of  the  earth's  subjective  re-  Pork  sponse,  I  suppose  I  am  speaking  like  an  Indian.)  Most  of  their  ceremonies  Beer  beseech  water  and  arouse  \xc2\xa2  a  great  conviction  that  they  can  bring  it.  When  the  dry  earth  is  being  soaked,  it  is  diffi-  cult  not  to  feel  the  Indians  strongly.  Most  especially  one  feels  the  Pueblo  tribes,  which  are  settled  in  a  long,  irreg-  ular  line  from  mid-[REDACTED]  to  just  out-  side  Santa  Fe.  The  Pueblos  have  been  here  since  an  appallingly  remote  epoch,  The  kiva,  in  which  their  worship  cen-  ters,  is  a  windowless  structure,  partly  underground  and  entered  through  the  roof;  the  floor  is  pierced  by  holes,  to  give  communication  to  the  yet  older  under-  world,  and  the  ladder  by  which  the  kiva  is  entered  points  tall  prongs  to  the  sky.  It  is  not  hard  to  believe  that  many  people  concentrating  their  prayer  with-in  these  chambers  exert  a  power  that  touches  all  of  nature.  Most  of  our  rain  and  snow  comes  from  the  west.  That  is,  it  comes  to  Santa  Fe  from  over  Navajo  country  (and  the  night-long  chants  of  the  Nava-  jos  are  not  to  be  despised),  from  over  the  many  kivas  of  the  strong-praying  Hopis,  and  thence  from  one  kiva  in  New  [REDACTED]  after  another.  When  you  know  how  these  people  unite  their  spirits,  how  they  call  the  rain,  gather  it,  and  spread  it  out  for  the  world,  then,  when  it  comes,  you  cannot  help  ascerib-  ing  it  at  leastin  part  to  them.  That  first  effect  is  of  local  origin,  ob-  viously;  it  is  agreeable  and  somewhat  literary.  It  is  followed  by  the  quite  dif-  ferent  one  of  homesickness.  When  the  clouds  stretched  between  the  J\xc3\xa9mez  Mountains  to  the  west  and  the  Sangre  de  Cristos  to  [REDACTED]  hang  so  low  as  to  create  moments  of  fog,I  have  a  delusion  of  the  seacoast.  Then  I  have  to  face  the  fact  that  choosing  to  live  in  a  place  I  have  come  to  love  is  also  self-imposed  exile  and  costs  exile's  price.  'The  freight  train  on  the  branch  line  that  comes  up  from  Lamy  whistles  with  the  piddling  whistle  trains  use  nowadays,  and  I  am  transported  to  within  earshot  of  the  fog-  hornon  the  Big  Dock  at  Saunderstown,  and  see  the  gray,  white-capped  waves  on  Narragansett  Bay  and  smell  an-  other  vegetation.  It  is  not  entirely  an  unpleasant  pain,  and  it  leads  into  the  third  effect.  I  have  been  carried  away.  As  I  re-  turn  to  Santa  Fe,  I  seem  to  approach  it  hovering,  and  see  again  the  whole,  which  is  ordinarily  forgot-  ten  in  details,  recalling  what  might  be  called  con-  firmations  of  my  choice  of  living  here.  I  do  not  mean  ca  a  new  view  of  the  physi-  cal  scene;  that  is  always  before  the  eyes-the  authentic,  the  phony,  the  merely  banal.  I  mean  the  peculiar  qualities  of  this  town,  the  City  of  the  Holy  Faith,  which  its  publicists  call  the  City  Different  and  many  of  its  inhabitants  the  City  Difficult.  I  mean  what  I  think  of  as  &quot;the  Santa  Fe  sensa-  tion,&quot;  which  contains  familiarity  with  the  irrational,  and  enjoyment  of  it-a  chronic  peculiarity  not  entirely  unre-  lated  to  the  Indian  more-than-magic  that  surrounds  us.  T  fits  Santa  Fe  that  it  should  not  be  on  the  main  line  of  the  Santa  Fe  Railway  but  should  be  served  by  a  spur" b"  from  the  insignificant  hamlet  of  Lamy,  and  this  not  because  the  railway  spurned  its  name  city  but  because,  when  the  line  was  a-building,  certain  leading  citizens  ofthe  place  set  out  to  bite  the  hand  that  sought  to  feed  them,  whereupon  the  hand  was  snatched  away.  Indians  are  not  of  the  city  itself.  They  are  part  of  its  setting.  They  are  a  context  for  all  the  mixtures  of  people  that  have  come  here  after  them.  Having  the  atomic-research  center  of  Los  Alamos  barely  twenty  miles  from  our  plaza  is  part  of  theincongruity,  and  it  is  eminently  fitting  that  not  far  away  there  is  an  enterprising  Spanish  rancher  who  keeps  his  sheep  in  jackets.  This  does  wonders  for  their  wool  and  con-  fuses  the  coyotes.  A  few  blocks  from  me,  on  my  street,  a  sign  on  a  brick  wall  shows  arrows  pointing  north  and  south.  Over  one  is  lettered  &quot;San  Miguel,&quot;  over  the  other  &quot;Circular  Staircase.&quot;  San  Miguel  is  an  ancient  church,  for  which  the  dubious  claim  is  put  forth  that  itis  the  oldest  in  the  United  [REDACTED].  It  is  a  handsome  antiquity,  in  any  case,  suitableto  a  city  that  trades  on  its  age.  The  staircase,  in  Loretto  Convent,  is  something  more.  To  the  layman's  eye  it  defies  reason  and  gravity.  It  is  said  that,  needing  access  to  the  upper  story  and  having  no  room  for  ordinary  stairs,  the  nuns  searched  long  and  vainly  for  someone  who  knew  how  to  build  stairs  in  a  spiral.  One  day  a  bearded,  gray-haired  carpenter  ap-  peared  and  took  on  the  job.  He  finished  it  overnight  and  disappeared.  The  car- penter  could  hardly  have  been  anyone  but  Saint  Joseph,  and  there  are  few  Protestants  in  town  so  Protestant  asto  deny  that  the  construction  is  miraculous.  A  couple  ofblocks  from  Loretto  Con-  vent,  on  the  [REDACTED],  both  the  Woolworth  and  the  J.  C.  Penney  stores  are  built  in  really  fine  adaptations  of  the  prevailing,  Spanish-Indian  style  of  architecture,  instead  of  in  their  usual  forms,  and  that  this  should  be  so  is  also  a  pretty  good  miracle.  NOT  long  ago,  the  landscape  here-  abouts  was  brightened  by  the  ap-  pearance  of  numbers  of  Apaches  in  turquoise-blue  Cadillacs.  This  particular  branch  of  the  Apaches,  the  Jicarillas,  used  to  harry  the  countryside  in  a  great  arc,  northwest,  north,  and  east  of  Santa  Fe-an  arc  that  at  times  fitted  uncom-  fortably  close  to  the  city.  It  is  by  no  means  a  hundred  years  since  the  last  time  they  ran  off  local  cattle  or  stole  a  likely  boy.  These  past  misdeeds  are  not  held  against  them.  After  all,  the  Spanish-speaking  people  enslaved " b"Apache  women  and  children  if  they  could  get  them;  more  than  one  Anglo-  American  owned  some;  and  Lincoln's  Emancipation  Proclamation  met  seri-  ous  opposition  here  although  the  terri-  tory  was  strongly  Republican  and  its  men  fought  well  for  the  Union.  It  just  did  not  occur  to  anyone  that  freeingthe  Negroes  would  imply  anything  about  the  status  of  Indian  captives.  After  the  Jicarillas  were  subdued,  they  had  a  dreadfully  hard  time  of  it.  They  eventually  became  modestly  suc-  cessful  sheep  and  cattle  men.  Then  it  turned  out  that  their  reservation,  which  embraces  the  western  extreme  of  their  old  homeland,  also  embraces  a  lot  of  gas  and  oil.  So,  having  set  up  a  million-dollar  fund  for  putting  their  children  through  college-and  con-  founding  American  folklore  by  naming  the  fund  in  honor  of  a  beloved  Indian  agent-they  began  cutting  up  the  mel-  on  and  passing  pieces  round.  This  resulted  in  a  satisfying  sight  that  is  part  of  American  folklore  butnot  often  seen  in  real  life-the  Indian  with  braided  hair  and  on  his  head  a  large,  black,  expensive  Stetson  decorated  with  a  beaded  band,  driving  himself  in  the  latest  thing  in  automobiles,  with  his  lady  sitting  beside  him,  a  touch  of  light  red  paint  on  her  cheeks  and  forehead,  her  braids  tucked  under  her  handsome  flowered  shawl.  It  causes  everybody  pleasure,  and  since  the  cars  first  blos-  somed  during  a  hot  dry  spell,  their  color  in  town  and  on  the  roads  was  refresh-  ing.  I  particularly  enjoy  seeing  them  in  the  parking  lot  at  La  Fonda,  the  Fred  Harvey  hotel  that,  along  with  its  neigh-  bor  the  cathedral,  dominates  the  cen-  ter  of  Santa  Fe-the  temples  of  Cathol-  icism  and  tourism,  like  a  statement  of  the  city's  motif,  The  Apache  cars  compare  favorably  with  the  showiest  parked  in  the  lot  by  Texans,  and,  man  for  man  and  manner  for  manner,  the  Apachescompare  all  right,  too.  Even  at  the  peak  of  their  raiding  days,  they  maintained  friendly  relations  with  the  Indians  of  certain  pueblos,  and  the  Apaches  continue  to  visit  them.  Most  Pueblo  Indians  make  their  living  farm-  ing,  although  working  for  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  is  now  an  impor-  tant  source  of  income.  Suddenly,  in-  stead  of  being  more  wealthy  than  their  Apache  guests,  they  have  become,  by  comparison,  poor  tillers  of  the  soil,  but  as  both  parties  are  given  to  easy,  simple  behavior,  neither  seems  aware  of  the  change.  The  Apache  visits  present  the  charming  picture  of  Abel  dropping  in  on  Cain,  the  Lord  having  indeed  shown  respect  unto  the  herdsman,  and  abso-" b"lutely  no  hard  feelings  on  anybody's  part.  ABOUT  the  time  the  novelty  .of  Apache  wealth  was  wearing  off,  the  people  of  Santa  Fe  were  whipped  into  one  of  their  periodic  and  stimulat-  ing  furies  by  an  article  in  Verfety  about  the  Cochiti  corn  dance.  Cochiti  Pueblo  is  famous  for  its  drum-making  and  its  drumming,  and  it  puts  onan  excellent  and  utterly  sincere  corn  dance,  but  the  Variety  man  was  thrown  off  by  the  fact  that  the  priestin  charge  of  the  affair,  who  watches  over  the  line  of  dancers  during  the  public  performance,  sprin-  kles  sacred  corn  meal  for  them  in  vari-  ous  ways,  and  maintains  continuous  inward  prayer,  was  a  young  Indian  who  held  a  white-collar  job  with  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  and  had  taken  leave  of  absence  from  Los  Alamos  to  do  his  part.  The  young  man  had  wrapped  a  blanket  around  himself,  but  it  never  occurred  to  him  not  to  wear  his  white  collar  and  his  business  suit.  His  appear-  ance  led  the  reporter  to  conclude,  by  an  illogic  equal  to  the  best  Santa  Fe  can  offer,  that  the  whole  performance  was  phony  and  that  the  dancers  (several  hundred  members  ofthe  tribe,  none  of  whom  receives  a  cent)  should  join  Actors'  Equity  to  keep  from  being  ex-  ploited.  Innumerable  people  dipped  their  pens  in  vitriol  and  wrote,  the  local  paper  made  a  thing  of  it,  everyone  fumed.  A  lot  of  fussing  and  feudinggoes  on  in  the  City  of  the  Holy  Faith,  and  itis  hard  to  get  people  to  stay  organized  for  any  purpose.  Events  like  this  restore  our  unity  and  generally  create  cheer.  The  classic  in  this  line,  by  which  later  rhubarbs  are  always  measured,  oc-  curred  when  an  organization  called  something  like  the  Society  of  Pioneer  Dames  tried  to  donate  a  statue  of  the  Pioneer  Mother  to  the  city.  The  statue  was  to  be  erected  in  the  [REDACTED],  at  the  End  of  the  Santa  Fe  [REDACTED].  The  End  of  the  Santa  Fe  [REDACTED]  is  a  sacred  spot  com-  parable  to  the  Omphalos  at  Delphi,  its  sanctity  being  in  no  way  diminished  by  the  fact  that  to  attempt  to  select  any  one  spot  as  the  End  of  the  [REDACTED]  is  absurd,  since  the  wagons  came  into  town  by  a  number  of  different  routes  and  un-  loaded  at  many  different  places.  The  Pioneer  Mother  was  being  placed  all  over  the  West  at  that  time.  It  was  a  mass-produced  concrete  article  aesthetically  similar  to  the  Civil  War  soldier  who  is  so  familiar  farther  east,  and  whose  wife  the  Mother  might  well  be.  It  showed  a  powerful  woman  in  a  poke  bonnet,  striding  forward,  baby  on  one  arm,  rifle  over  the  other,  and  a" b"plowshare  nudging  her  ankle.  Wheth-  er  or  not  the  City  Council  had  actually  accepted  this  gift  has  become  obscure,  thanks  to  the  subsequent  cloud  of  ac-  cusations  and  denials.  Apart  from  ob-  jecting  to  the  monument  on  artistic  grounds,  all  Santa  Feans  are  aware  that  the  pioneer  women  here  were  either  Spanish  ladies  or  the  local  Indians  whom  the  lesser  conquistadors  took  to  wife.  They  dressed  according  to  their  origins,  and  while  an  Indian  woman  might  oc-  casionally  wield  a  hoe,  neither  would  set  hand  to  a  plow.  With  due  fanfare  and  advance  pub-  licity  the  Society's  delegation  arrived,  with  the  statue  on  a  truck.  The  group  was  led  by  a  rising  politician  from  Kan-  sas  City-where  the  Santa  Fe  [REDACTED]  began-named  Harry  S.  Truman,  who  was  to  make  the  presentation  speech.  Therewas  a  reception  committee,  too,  and  it  included  the  full  force  ofthe  flourishing  art  colony,  a  number  of  ladies  ofthe  finest  Spanish  descent,  and,  at  the  head  of  the  lot,  the  late  Mary  Austin,  who  was  somewhat  more  than  a  committee  all  by  herself.  Mrs.  Austin  told  the  delegation  bluntly  what  Santa  Fe  thought  of  them  and  their  concrete  cast,  and  pointed  out  thatthe  city  had  been  in  existence  more  than  two  hun-  dred  years  before  any  Anglo  woman  in  or  out  of  a  poke  bonnet  ever  reached  it,  and  the  delegation  was  sent  packing-  truck,  monument,  Truman,  undeliv-  ered  speech,  and  all.  WE haven't  had  anything  as  good  as  that  since,  and  a  tendency  to  live  on  the  memory  of  it  may  indicate  that  we  are  falling  off,  but  this  last  fall  was  pleasantly  enlivened  by  an  invasion  of  bears.  I  don't  know  how  other  com-  munities  feel  about  bears,  except  that  up  at  Los  Alamos  they  are  a  nuisance  and  frequently  tree  security  guards  patrol-  ling  the  outer  limits  of  the  area.  The  guards  are  at  a  disadvantage,  since  bears  are  not  classified  as  subversive  and  are  protected  by  the  game  laws.  They  dropped  into  Santa  Fe  shortly  after  school  opened  in  September.  One  of  the  first  was  asmall  brown  bear  that  turned  upon  the  streetin  front  of  the  junior  high  school  as  the  children  were  on  their  way  to  school.  The  children  were  en-  chanted;  the  bear  was  confused  but  apparently  not  greatly  embarrassed;  teachers  and  police  were  terrified.  The  grownups  managed  to  keep  the  young  from  getting  too  intimate  with  the  ani-  mal,  school  opened  late,  and  the  bear  disappeared.  Bears  kept  on  appearing  for  several  weeks.  We  haven't  had  Indian  trouble " b"since  the  eighteen-seventies,  Billy  the  Kid  has  been  dead  so  long  he  has  be-  come  a  myth,  wolves  have  been  extinct  these  many  years,  and  you  can't  get  much  of  a  wild-frontier  effect  out  of  coyotes  and  jack  rabbits.  We  did  have  a  wildcat  that  raided  a  chicken  yard  at  the  edge  of  town  and  started  a  rabies  epidemic.  That  resulted  in  the  first  roundup  of  stray  dogs  since  the  Co-  manches  stopped  eating  them,  and  was  a  real  boon,  but,  again,  it  did  not  reinforce  Santa  Fe's  picture  of  itself.  The  bears  did,  and  we  were  grateful  for  them.  They  were  a  nuisance  to  parents.  The  houses  lying  a  short  distance  out-  side  the  main  mass  of  the  city,  toward  the  mountains,  are  mostly  occupied  by  families  with  children.  As  soon  as  the  children  said  they  had  seen  abear  hang-  ing  around,  all  their  friends  moved  out  to  spend  the  night.  They  were  pre-  vented  from  taking  their  bedrolls  and  sleeping  in  the  open,  as  many  of  them  wanted  to  do,  but  they  would  not  go  to  sleep  unless  they  were  promised  that  they  would  be  waked  when  the  visitor  turned  up.  Fathers  were  popping  up  at  all  hours-if  they  didn't  hear  the  bear,  the  children  did  and  called  them-  and  a  lot  of  sleep  was  lost.  The  Game  and  Fish  Department  managed  to  trap  one  bear  that  got  lost  and  bewildered  among  the  motels  on  Route  85,  to  the  west.  The  others  just  stopped  appearing;  no  one  knows  why,  any  more  than  anyone  can  give  a  good  explanation  of  why  they  came.  They  were  Santa  Fe-type  bears,  in  my  opinion.  T  is  this  order  of  assortment  of  small  things  that  makes  the  nature  of  Santa  Fe,  although  how  to  calculate  their  sum,  or  average,  or  highest  com-  mon  factor,  I  would  not  know.  A  short  while  back,  we  were  having  a  balmy  spell  such  as  comes  from  time  to  time  during  every  winter,  when  in  the  sun  you  do  not  want  even  a  jacket.  You  know  that  it  would  be  better  if  it  would  turn  cold  and  snow  -for  fine  weather  is  our  ruin,  and  our  great  enemy,  drought,  comes  upon  us  gentle  and  smiling-and  you  hope  that  the  change  will  not  lead  to  an  early  spring,  but  you  put  those  thoughts  aside  and  enjoy  it.  I  was  driving  out  to  see  a  friend  who  lives  along  one  ofthe  many  approaches  that  have  a  right  to  claim  to  be  the  Old  Santa  Fe  [REDACTED].  It  was  such  a  nice  day  that  I  dawdled,  the  window  open  and  my  elbow  sticking  out  of  it,  enjoying  the  breeze  on  my  cheek.  The  road  dips  where  it  crosses  the  Arroyo  Chamiso;  that  is,  the  road  goes  down  to  the  sandy  bed  of  the  arroyo  and  is  carried  across" b'by  a  sheetof  concrete,  over  which  water  flows  when  there  is  any.  The  arrovo  is  about  a  hundred  feet  wide.  As  I  descended  toward  the  dip,  I  saw  a  black  sedan,  off  the  road  at  an  angle,  and  around  its  back  wheels  some  nuns.  The  one  nearest  me  was  work-  ing  with  a  shovel.  I  thought  that  the  unfortunate  women  had  somehow  slid  off  the  road  and  got  stuck  in  the  heavy  sand,  and  realized  with  annoyance  that  I  could  not  very  well  fail  to  stop  and  help  them.  I  slowed  yet  more  as  I  drew  near,  looking  to  see  where  I  could  stop  off  the  road  without  getting  stuck  my-  self.  There  were  fournuns.  Then  I  saw  that  they  all  were  wearing  blue-  checked  pinafore  aprons  over  their  habits,  and  all  had  shovels.  The  rear  doors  ofthe  sedan  were  open.  They  were  tossing  small  shovelfuls  of  sand,  by  turns,  onto  the  floor  behind  the  front  seat.  Well,  that  was  their  privilege,  and  far  be  it  from  me  to  stop  and  pry.  I  pressed  on  the  accelerator  and  went  on  by  with  a  sense  of  relief,  and  once  again  I  experienced  the  pleasure  of  the  Santa  Fe  sensation.'