 b"I  REALIZE  that  nobody  goes  to  Europe  at  this  time  of  year  and  that  the  whole  place  is  deader  than  Martha's  Vineyard  right  now,  but  be-  fore  the  European  season  comes  in,  we  must  get  through  the  advice-on-what-  to-do-in-Europe  season,  and  this  year  I've  decided  to  give  prospective  tourists  the  benefit  of  my  experience  abroad  be-  fore-  well,  before  anybody  else  can  give  them  the  benefit  of  his  experience.  I  went  to  Europe  twice  while  I  was  in  the  Navy  several  years  ago,  so  it  should  be  only  a  matter  of  days  before  some  travel-minded  periodical  takes  me  up  on  my  offer,  and  I  imagine  that  the  interview  will  go  pretty  much  as  fol-  lows:  REportTER:  How  do  you  do,  Mr.  Lemon?  I'm  told  that  you  have  seen  quite  a  bit  of  this  old  world,  and  I  wonder  if  you  would  mind  telling  our  readers  a  little  about  what  Europe  is  like.  ME:  Not  at  all.  I  first  went  to  Europe  in  October,  1952,  and  my  first  stop  was  Portsmouth,  [REDACTED].  From  there  I  entrained  to  [REDACTED].  RrEportEr:  Ah!  And  what  is  your  opinion  of  [REDACTED]?  Mz:  Why,  I  can  recommend  it  high-  ly.  A  most  interesting  old  city.  I  was  especially  taken  with  the  window  that  King  Charles  jumped  out  of.  REporTER:  Excuse  me  a  moment  while  I  make  a  note  of  that.  Fine.  Now,  Mr.  Lemon,  how  long  did  you  devote  to  your  sightseeing?  Mr:  All  told,  we  spent  two  hours.  REportERr:  Two  hours?  MB:  It  was  raining  when  we  got  there  and  we  actually  had  six  hours  to  kill,  so  we  spent  four  hours  sitting  in  a  pub,  in  order  to  stay  out  of  the  rain.  We  met  an  English  Army  major  there  and  he  drank  down  a  shot  of  whiskey  and  a  glass  of  ale  all  in  one  gulp.  I  remember  it  was  Worthington  ale.  Then  we  hired  a  taxi  to  take  us  around.  The  driver  was  very  thorough-gave  us  the  history  of  each  place  as  we  drove  by.  We  finally  quit  when  he  showed  us  the  teahouse  in  which  they  made  the  tea  that  was  thrown  overboard  during  the  Boston  Tea  Party.  .  REporTER:  I  see.  Mx:  The  only  fault  I  had  to  find  was  that  he  left  the  meter  running  when  we  gotout  at  Westminster  Abbey.  You  don't  happen  to  remember  why  King  Charles  jumped,  do  you?  RrEportTER:  No.  What  city  did  you  visit  next!  Mr:  Next  we  went  to  Gourock," b"Scotland,  and  there  I  took  a  trainto  Glasgow.  I  remember  we  changed  trains  atPaisley,  where  they  make  the  shawls.  After  that,  we  went  to  Tangier.  RrportTER:  And  what  did  youdo  in  Tangier?  Mr:  We  played  basketball.  I  was  manager  of  the  ship's  team,  you  see,  and  we  played  a  group  of  natives.  Right  be-  fore  the  game  was  supposed  to  start,  they  told  us  it  was  the  custom  in  Tan-  gier  for  both  teams  to  parade  before  the  stands  and  then  meet  in  mid-court  and  exchange  flowers,  and  so  I  got  a  cab  and  raced  into  town  and  bought  a  big  bunch  of  flowers  and  brought  them  back.  REporTER:  &quot;Tangier  flower  ritual.&quot;  Go  on.  Mr:  Well,  the  other  team  didn't  have  any  flowers,  so  their  captain  asked  for  half  of  ours  and  I  gave  them  to  him.  Then  we  had  the  parade  and  met  in  mid-court  and  he  gave  us  his  half  of  the  flowers  and  I  gave  him  our  half.  It  was  a  very  curious  ceremony.  RrEporTER:  Yes,  indeed.  Mz:  Of  course,  I  don't  know  how  many  of  your  readers  play  basketball.  Next,  we  went  to  [REDACTED].  ReEportTER:  And  what  were  the  high  spots  of  your  trip  to  [REDACTED]?  Mr:  I  would  rather  not  go  into  the  high  spots  of  my  trip  to  [REDACTED].  REporTER:  Well,  where  did  you  go  next?  Mr:  Naples,  Pompeii,  Florence,  Pisa,  Portofinos  La  Spezia,  [REDACTED],  Cannes,  Gibraltar,  Lisbon,  and  Trieste.  One  of  my  shipmates  bought  a  bowling  ball  in  Trieste.  RrportTER:  Oh,  Trieste  is  famous  for  its  bowling  balls?  Mz:  I  don't  think  so.  After  Trieste,  we  went  to  4974616c79  for  five  days,  and  I  think  I  can  tell  you  quite  a  bit  about  that.  REporTER:  Fine!  ME:  Well,  it  was  October,  and  the  Doge's  Palace  was  locked.  Do  you  know  what  4974616c79  sells  the  most  of  to  the  United  [REDACTED]?  REPORTER:  No.  Mr:  Next  time  I  go  to  4974616c79,  I  mean  to  find  out.  RrEporTER:  I  see.  Mr:  Another  thing.  I  took  a  long  walk  in  4974616c79one  afternoon  and  went  across  three  or  four  main  canals,  and  finally  I  came  to  a  huge  old  building  that  wastwo  blocks  long  and  looked  like  a  fortress.  I'm  glad  I  didn't  miss  that.  RrEporTER:  &quot;Spots  the  tourist  may  miss.&quot;  And  what  was  the  building?  Mr:  It  turned  out  to  be  a  belt  factory.  RrporTtER:  Well,  thank  you  very " b"much,  Mr.  Lemon.  I  guess  that  covers  everything.  Mx:  I  forgot  Marseille.  RrEportTErR:  What  about  Marseille?  Mx:  I  forgot  it,  that's  all.  AS  I  said,  any  day  now,  I  suppose,  I'll  be  getting  a  telephone  call  from  some  periodical  or  other.  That  is,  if  my  wife  hasn't  left  the  receiver  off  the  hook. "