 b"EXCEPT  for  occasional  moments of  embarrassment,  I  never  mind-  ed  being  out  of  work.  I  lived  at  home,  so  I  really  didn't  need  money,  and  though  I  knew  it  made  things  harder  for  Mother,  and  though  Fa-  ther  always  put  on  a  sour  puss  about  having  to  feed  and  clothe  me,  I  spent  more  time  out-of-doors  than  inside,  and  they  could  not  follow  me  on  my  ex-  cursions.  'The  uneasy  moments  came  when  I  saw  some  girl  I  knew  an  a  tram  and  could  not  get  on  it  because  I  could  not  pay  her  fare,  or  when  I  was  walk-  ing  with  some  fellows  whose  conversa-  tion  I  enjoyed  and  I  had  to  make  some  excuse  and  leave  them  because  I  could  not  afford  a  drink  with  them.  At  times  like  these  I  was  very  sorry  for  myself  and  very  angry  with  people  and  life.  Never  for  long,  though,  and  the  rest  of  the  time  I  was  perfectly  happy,  for  I  was  freeto  go  on  with  my  own  thoughts.  I  wasn't  opposed  to  work  on  principle  but  I  did  think  that  in  practice  people  wasted  too  much  valuable  time  on  it  for  the  little  it  gave  them  back.  For  the  short  while  that  I  had  a  job  on  the  railway  I  had  been  miserable,  doing  work  I  disliked  and  talking  to  chaps  I  felt  quite  indifferent  to.  We  lived  in  an  outlying  district  of  Cork,  and  I  walked  a  great  deal  when  the  weather  wasn't  too  bad,  and  some-  times  even  when  it  was,  and  because  I  felt  that  I  really  hadno  right  to  these  walks,  I  got  from  them  something  of  the  pleasure  I  felt  as  a  kid  when  I  went  on  the  lang  from  school.  There  is  only  one  clement  common  to  all  forms  of  ro-  mance-guilt;  and  because  I  felt  guilty,  all  the  places  I  walked  in  had  a  curious  poetic  aura,  as  though  each  of  them  belonged  to  an  entirely  different  country:  the  Glen  to  [REDACTED];  the  country  north  of  our  house,  with  its  streams  and  fields  and  neat  little  farmhouses,  to  [REDACTED];  the  river  roads  to  the  Rhineland.  They  didn't  really  look  like  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  or  the  Rhineland,  but  for  all  the  difference  it  made  to  me  they  might  as  well  have  looked  like  them,  and  it  would  not  have  surprised  me  in  the  least  if  the  people  I  met  in  them  spoke  different  languages.  Each  neighborhood,  too,  had  its  own  sort  of  imaginary  girl:  noble  and  tragic  in  the  Glen;  gentle  and  charming  in  the  English  countryside;  subtle  and  culti-  vated  along  the  river,  like  the  big  houses  that  sheltered  behind  high  walls.  Some-  times  we  just  met  and  talked,  and  we  both  realized  as  we  told  one  another  the  story  of  our  lives  that,  different  as  these  were,  we  were  made  for  one  another.  She  was  usually  rich-English  or  American;  not  because  I  hankered  after  money  but  because  it  removed  any  ob-  stacles  from  our  way.  I  had  to  persuade  her  about  the  political  folly  of  her  class,  but  this  never  seemed  to  offer  any  dif-  ficulties  to  her  clear  and  sympathetic  intelligence.  But  at  other  times,  per-  haps  when  the  feeling  of  guilt  was  strongest  in  me,  she  would  be  in  serious  difficulty-being  run  away  with  by  a  wild  horse,  flying  from  kidnappers,  or  just  drowning.  At  the  right  moment,  with  a  coolness  that  was  bound  to  ap-  peal  to  any  girl,  I  stepped  in;  stopped  the  horse,  scattered  the  gangsters,  or  swam  ashore  with  her  from  the  sinking  boat.  Though  modesty  required  that  I  should  goaway  without  telling  her  my  name,  leaving  her  to  a  lifelong  search,  it  nearly  always  happened  that  I  ac-  companied  her  back  to  the  Imperial  Hotel  and  was  introduced  to  her  father,  who  was  naturally  grateful  and,  besides,  had  just  been  looking  for  a  young  man  like  me  to  inherit  his  business  If  I  thought  of  my  own  position  at  all  on  those  walks,  it  was  only  with  a  mild  re-  gret  that  economic  conditions  deprived  the  world  of  theattention  of  a  really  superior  mind.  And  the  worse  my  situa-  tion  was,  the  better  the  mind  appeared.  When  the  weather  was  really  too  bad,  I  sat  in  the  reading  room  of  the  Public  Library  and  read  steadily  through  all  the  reviews  and  periodicals,  about  the  crisis  in  British  politics,  penal  reform,  unemployment,  and  social  se-  curity.  I  was  strongly  in  favor  of  social  security.  *~  Though  Father  said  that  I  was  turn-  ing  into  a  corner  boy,  and  that  I  would  never  do  any  good,  my  real  dif-  ficulty  came  not  from  him  but  from  good-natured  friends  who  didn't,  as  they  put  it,  want  to  see  me  wasting  my  time.  They  were  always  trying  to  get  me  intro-  ductions  to  influential  people  who  might  be  able  to  fit  me  in  somewhere  as  a  warehouse  clerk  at  thirty  bob  a  week.  I  knew  they  meant  it  well,  and  I  did  my  best  to  be  polite,  but  they  hurt  me  far  more  than  Father  did  with  his  scowling  and  snarling,  or  any  of  the  handful  of  enemies  I  had  in  the  locality,  who,  I  knew,  talked  of  me  as  a  good-  for-nothing  or  a  half-idiot.  &quot;Well,  Larry,&quot;  some  old  friend  would  say  sagaciously,  &quot;you're  getting  on,  you  know.  It  won't  be  long  now  till  you're  twenty,  and,  of  course,  even  if  it  was  a  small  job,  it  would  be  better  than  noth-  ing.&quot;  And  I  would  look  at  him  sadly  and  realize  that  he  was  measuring  me  against  whatever  miserable  vacancy  he  knew  of  and  seeing  no  disparity.  Natu-  rally,  I  interviewed  the  influential  peo-  ple  they  sent  me  to,  and  pretended  a  lifelong  interest  in  double-entry  book-  keeping,  and  tried  to  look  like  a  quiet,  hard-working,  religious  boy  who  would  never  give  any  trouble.I  could  scarcely  tell  the  manager  of  a  big  shop  that  I  liked  being  out  of  work.  Anyway,  I  doubt  if  there  was  any  need,  because  any  jobs  they  had  didn't  come  to  me.  One  night  I  went  all  the  way  to  Blackrock,  a  little  fishing  village  down  the  river  from  Cork,  to  see  a  solicitor  who  was  supposed  to  have  an  interest  in  some  new  factory,  and  for  two  solid  hours  he  talked  to  me  about  the  com-  mercial  development  of  the  city,  and  at  the  end  all  he  said  was  that  he'd  keep  me  in  mind  in  case  anything  turned  up.  I  left  his  house  rather  late  and  discov-  ered  to  my  disgust  that  I  hadn't  the  price  of  the  tram.  This  was  one  of  my  really  bad  moments.  To  feel  guilty  and  have  to  walk  is  one  thing;  to  feel  as  virtuous  as  I  did  after  talking  for  hours  about  reclamation  schemes  and  still  have  to  walk  is  another.  Besides,  I  hadno  cigarettes.  There  were  two  ways  in  to  town,  one  through  the  suburbs,  the  other,  a  little  shorter,  along  the  riverbank,  and  I  chose  the  latter.  It  was  a  pleasant  enough  place  by  day-a  river  walk  called  the  Ma-  rina,  witha  beautiful  road  called  [REDACTED]  on  the  other  side,  and  above  [REDACTED]  were  the  sandstone  cliffs  and  expen-  sive  villas  of  Montenotte,  all  named  with  the  nostalgia  of  an  earlier  day.  The  [REDACTED]  Walk  had  an  avenue  of  trees,  a  bandstand,  seats  for  the  nurse-  maids,  and  two  guns  captured  in  the  Crimean  War,  over  which  the  children  climbed.  It  was  part  of  the  Rhineland  of  my  daydreams,  but  by  night  the  re-  semblance  was  not  quite  so  clear.  As  it  approached  the  city,  it  petered  out  in  jetties,  old  warehouses,  and  badly  lit  streets  of  sailors'  lodging  houses.  I  had  just  emerged  into  this  section  when  I  heard  a  woman  scream.  It  startled  me  out  of  my  reverie,  and  I  stood  and  looked  about  me.  It  was  very  dark.  Then  under  a  gas  lamp  at  the  corner  of  a  warehouse  I  saw  a  man  and  woman  in  some  sort  of  acling.  The  woman  was  screaming  her  head  off,  and,  thinking  she  had  been  taken  ill,  I  ran  toward  them.  As  Idid,  the  man  broke  away  and  walked  quickly  up  the  quay,  and  the  woman  stopped  screaming  and  began  to  sob,  turning  her  face  to  the  wall  in  a  curiously  childish  gesture  of  despair.  Obviously,  she  wasn't  sick.  I  didn't  know  what  to  do,  so  I  stopped  and  raised  my  cap.  " b" &quot;Can  I  help  you,  Miss?&quot;  I  asked  doubtfully.  She  shook  her  head  several  times  without  turning  to  me.  &quot;The  dirty  rat!&quot;  she  said,  rubbing  her  face  with  her  hand,  and  then  she  poured  forth  a  stream  of  language  I  had  neverheard  the  like  of  and  some  of  which  I  didn't  understand  at  all.  I  didn't  even  know  men  knew  words  like  that.  &quot;All  I  earned  the  last  two  nights  he  took  fromme,  the  rat!  the  rat!&quot;  &quot;But  why  did  he  do  that?&quot;  I  asked,  wondering  if  the  man  was  her  husband,  and  she  gaped  at  me  in  astonishment,  the  tears  streaming  down  her  little  painted  face.  It  wouldn't  have  been  a  bad  face  if  only  she  had  let  it  alone.  &quot;Because  he  says  'tis  his  beat,&quot;  she  said,  and  sniffed.  &quot;All  the  girls  has  to  pay  him.  For  protection,  he  says.&quot;  &quot;But  why  don't  you  tell  the  police  about  him?&quot;&quot;  I  asked  in  surprise.  'The  police?&quot;  she  echoed.  &quot;A  hell  of  " b"a  lot  the  police  care  about  the  likes  of  us.  Only  get  more  out  of  us,  if  they  could.&quot;  &quot;But  how  much  did  he  take?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Five  quid,&quot;  she  replied,  and  began  to  sob  again,  takingout  a  dirty  little  handkerchief  to  dab  her  eyes.  &quot;Five  blooming  quid!  All  I  earned  the  past  two  nights!  And  now  there  won't  be  another  ship  for  a  week,  and  the  old  landlady  will  be  after  me  for  the  rent.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said,  coming  to  a  quick  decision.  &quot;T'll  ask  him  about  it.&quot;  Which  was  exactly  as  far  as  I  pro-  posed  to  go.  It  was  still  all  beyond  my  comprehension.  I  quickened  my  step  and  went  off  after  the  footsteps  I  heard  re-  treating  up  the  quay.  Like  all  dreamy  and  timid  people  who  avoid  rows  on  their  own  account,  I  have  always  taken  an  unnatural  delight  in  those  that  other  people  thrust  on  me.  It  never  even  crossed  my  mind  that  I  was  in  a  danger-  ous  locality  and  might  quite  well  end  up  in  the  river  with  a  knife  in  me.  Some  of  my  doubts  were  dispelled  when  the  man  in  front  of  me  looked  backward  and  began  to  run.  This  seemed  like  an  admission  of  guilt  so  I  ran,  too.  Since  I  walked  miles  every  day,  I  was  in  excellent  condition,  and  I  knew  he  had  no  chance  of  getting  away  from  me.  He  soon  realized  this  as  well,  and  stopped  with  his  back  to  the  wall  of  a  house  and  his  right  arm  lifted.  He  was  a  tall,  thin  fellow  with  a  long,  pasty,  cadaverous  face,  a  mustache  that  looked  as  though  it  had  been  put  on  with  an  eyebrow  pencil,  and  sideburns.  He  was  good-looking,  too,  in  his  own  coarse  way.  &quot;Excuse  me  following  you,&quot;  I  said,  panting  but  still  polite,  &quot;the  lady  behind  seems  to  think  you  have  some  money  of  hers.&quot;  &quot;Lady?&quot;  he  snarled.  &quot;What  lady?  That's  no  lady,  you  fool!&quot;  I  did  not  like  his  tone  and  I  strongly  resented  his  words.  For  the  first  time,  I  understood  what  the  girl  behind  me  was,  but  that  made  no  difference  to  me.  I  had  been  brought  up  to  treat  every  woman  as  a  lady,  and  had  no  idea  that  a  crook  is  really  as  sensitive  about  re-  spectability  as  a  bank  manager.  It  really  pains  him  to  have  to  deal  with  immoral  women.  &quot;I  didn't  k43616e616461;  I  said  apologeti-  cally.  &quot;I'm  sorry.  But  I  promised  to  ask  you  about  the  money.&quot;  &quot;Ask  what  you  like!&quot;  he  said,  begin-  ning  to  shout.  &quot;'That  money  is  mine!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  mean  she  took  it  from  you,&quot;  I  said,  thinking  I  was  beginning  to  see  the  truth  at  last.  &quot;Took  it  from  me?&quot;  he  asked,  frowning.  &quot;I  didn't  say  she  took  it  from  me.  She  owes  it  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Oh!&quot;  I  said  again,  not  feeling  quite  so  sure  that  I  understood.  &quot;You  mean  you  lent  it  to  her?&quot;  But  that  only  seemed  to  make  him  mad  entirely.  &quot;What  the  hell  do  you  think  I  am-  a  moneylender?  She  agreed  to  pay  me  to  look  after  her  down  here,  and  now  she's  trying  to  rob  me.&quot;  &quot;But  how  do  you  look  after  her?&quot;  I  asked-quite  innocently,  as  it  happened,  though  he  did  not  seem  to  think  so.  &quot;How  do  I  look  after  her?&quot;  he  re-  peated  angrily.  &quot;My  God,  man,  a  woman  would  have  no  chance  in  a  place  like  this  without  a  man  to  look  after  her.  Or  have  you  any  idea  what  it's  like?&quot;  I  hadn't,  and  I  regretted  it.  It  struck  me  that  perhaps  I  wasn't  really  justified  in  interfering-that  people  had  their  own  arrangements  and  she  might  have  tried  some  sort  of  sharp  practice  on  him.  I  did  not  realize  at  the  time  that  every  crook  has  to  have  a  principle  to  defend;  otherwise  he  would  be  compelled  to  have  a  low  opinion  of  himself,  which  is  something  no  crook  likes.  It  was  the  fellow's  manner  I  distrusted.  If  only  he  had  been  polite,  I  wouldn't  have  dreamed  of  interfering.  &quot;But  in  that  case,  surely  you  should  let  her  look  after  herself,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  the  hell  do  you  mean?&quot;  he  snarled.  &quot;I  mean,  if  she  broke  a  bargain  you  just  refuse  to  look  after  her  any  more,&quot;  I  explained  reasonably.  &quot;That  ought  to  bring  her  to  her  senses,  and  if  it  doesn't,  anything  that  happens  is  her  own  fault.&quot;  " b"He  looked  at  me  incredulously,  as  if  I  was  an  idiot,  which,  recollecting  the  whole  incident,  is  about  the  only  way  I  can  describe  myself.  &quot;If  I  were  you,&quot;  I  went  on,  &quot;I'd  simply  give  her  back  the  money  and  have  nothing  more  to  do  with  her.&quot;  &quot;I'll  do  nothing  of  the  sort,&quot;  he  said  contemptuously.  'That  money  is  mine.  I  told  you  that.&quot;  &quot;Now,  look,&quot;  I  said,  almost  plead-  ingly.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  have  a  row  with  you  about  it.  It's  only  the  state  she's  in.&quot;  &quot;You  think  you  can  make  me  give  it  back?&quot;  heasked  threateningly.  &quot;Well,  I  promised  the  girl,&quot;  I  said.  I  know  it  sounds  feeble,  but  feeble  was  what  my  position  was,  not  knowing  right  from  wrong  in  the  matter.  He  glanced  up  the  quay,  and  for  a  moment  I  thought  he  was  going  to  make  a  bolt  for  it,  but  even  this  much  hehadn't  nerve  for.  God  knows  why!  I  am  quite  sure  I  don't  look  formidable.  Then  he  drew  himself  up  to  his  full  height,  the  very  picture  of  outraged  rectitude,  gave  me  a  couple  of  pound  notes,  and  turned  on  his  heel  and  started  to  walk  away.  I  counted  the  notes  and  sud-  denly  became  absolutely  furious.  &quot;Come  back  here,  you!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  the  hell  isit  now?&quot;  he  said,  as  though  this  were  the  last  indignity.  &quot;I  want  the  rest  of  that  money.&quot;  &quot;'That's  all  she  give  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What's  this?  A  holdup?&quot;  &quot;That's  what  it's  going  to  be  unless  you  hand  over  what  you  stole,  God  blast  you!&quot;  I  said.  I  knew  that  a  man  who  had  tried  to  deceive  me  when  I  was  giving  him  the  benefit  of  the  doubt  and  trying  in  every  way  possible  to  see  things  from  his  point  of  view  was  only  too  capable  of  deceiving  a  defenseless  girl,  and  I  was  determined  that  he  should  deceive  her  no  longer.  He  gave  me  the  rest  of  the  money,  a  bit  fright,  ened  inhis  manner,  and  I  added  biting-  ly,  &quot;And  the  next  time  you  interfere  with  that  girl,  you'd  better  know  what's  going  to  happen  to  you.  Fortwo  pins  I'd  pitch  you  in  the  river,  sideburns  and  all,  you  dirty,  lying  little  brute!&quot;  For  a  moment  he  looked  at  me,  measuring  me  up,  but  then  he  went  off  up  the  quay,  muttering  to  himself.  The  girl  had  crept  nearer  as  we  stood  argu-  ing,  and  now  she  rushed  up  to  me,  still  weeping.  &quot;God  bless  you,  boy!  God  bless  you!&quot;  she  said  wildly.  &quot;I'll  pray  for  you  the  longest  day  I  live,  for  what  you  done  for  me.  And  then,  suddenly,  I  felt  very  weak,  and  realizedthat  I  was  trembling  all  over,  trembling  so  that  I  could  scarcely   move.  Heroism,  it  seemed,  did  not  come  naturally  to  me.  All  the  same,  I  man-  aged  to  muster  up  a  smile.  &quot;You'd  better  let  me  see  you  home  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  think  you'll  have  any  more  trouble  with  that  fellow  after  tonight,  but  just  at  the  moment  it  might  be  better  not  to  meet  him  alone.&quot;  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  said,  and  tried  to  give  back  two  of  the  five  bank  notes  I  had  handed  toher.  &quot;'Take  these.  For  your-  self!&quot;  &quot;I  will  not,  indeed,&quot;  I  said,  laughing.  &quot;For  what?&quot;  &quot;'That's  all  you  know,  boy,&quot;  she  said  bitterly.  &quot;That  fellow  have  the  heart  scalded  out  of  the  poor  unfortunate  girls  here.  A  hard  life  enough  they  have  without  it,  the  dear  God  knows!&quot;  &quot;If  he  attacks  you  again,  tell  him  you'll  put  me  on  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Delaney  is  my  name.  Larry  Delaney.  Tell  him  I'm  a  middleweight  champion.  I'm  not,  buthe  won't  know.&quot;  And  I  laughed  again,  out  of  sheer  relief.  &quot;Go  on,  Larry!&quot;  she  said  deter-  minedly,  trying  to  give  me  the  notes.  &quot;'Take  that!&quot;  &quot;I'll  do  nothing  of  the  sort,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  I'll  take  a  fag  if  you  have  one.  I'm  dying  for  a  hale.&quot;  &quot;God,  isn't  it  the  likes  of  you  would  be  without  them?&quot;  said  she,  fumbling  in  her  handbag.  &quot;Here,  take  the  packet,  boy!  I  have  tons.&quot;  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  just  that  I  get  a  bit  excited.&quot;  Which  was  a  mild  way  of  describing  the  way  my  hands  jumped  when  I  stood  to  light  that  ciga-  rette.  She  saw  it,  too.  &quot;What  brought  you  down  here  at  all?&quot;  she  asked  inquisitively.  &quot;Oh,  I  had  to  walk  from  Black-  rock.&quot;  &quot;And  where  do  you  work?  Or  are  you  still  at  school?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  working  anywhere  at  the  moment,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  what  took  me  to  Blackrock,  looking  for  a  job.&quot;  &quot;God  help  us,  isn't  it  hard?  But  you  won't  be  long  that  way,  with  God's  help.  You  have  the  stuff  in  you,  Larry,  not  like  most  of  them.  You're  only  a  boy,  but  you  stood  up  to  that  fellow  that  was  twice  your  age.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  him!&quot;  I  said  with  a  sniff.  &quot;He's  only  a  blowhole.&quot;  &quot;Them  arethe  dangerous  ones,  " b"boy,&quot;  she  said  shrewdly  with  a  queer  trick  she  had  of  narrowing  her  eyes.  &quot;'Them  are  the  ones  you'd  have  to  mind,  or  a  bit  of  lead  piping  on  the  back  of  your  head  is  what  you'd  be  getting  when  you  weren't  looking.&quot;  Frightened  by  her  own  words,  she  stopped  and  looked  about  her.  &quot;Look,  like  a  good  boy,take  the  old  couple  of  quid!&quot;  she  went  on  eagerly.  &quot;Go  on!  Ah,  do,  can't  you!  Sure,  you're  out  of  a  job-don't  I  know  damn  well  what  'tis  like?  I  suppose  you  had  to  walk  from  Blackrock  be-  cause  you  hadn't  the  price  of  the  tram.  Ah,  go  on,  Larry,  boy!  Just  for  fags,  can't  you?  From  me!&quot;  She  stuffed  the  money  into  the  pock-  et  of  my  jacket,  and  I  suddenly  found  I  wanted  it.  Not  only  for  its  own  sake,  though  it  meant  riches  to  me,  but  because  she  was  that  sort  of  woman-warm  and  generous  and  addlepated-and  I  knew  it  would  give  her  a  feeling  of  satisfaction  Because  I  was  in  an  excited,  emotional  state,  her  emotion  infected  me.  All  the  same,  I  put  a  good  face  on  it.  &quot;That's  all  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'll  bor-  row  it,  and  be  very  grateful.  But  I'm  going  to  pay  it  back.  And  I  don't  know  your  name  or  where  you  live.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  for  God's  sake!&quot;  she  exclaimed  with  a  joyous  laugh.  &quot;Forget  about  it!  So  long  as  I  have  enough  to  keep  the  old  landlady's  puss  off  me.  But  if  you  want  to  see  me,  my  name  is  Molly  Leahy,  and  I  have  a  room  here.  But  they  all  know  me.  You  have  only  to  ask  for  me.&quot;  We  shook  hands,  and  I  promised  to  see  her  soon  again.  Mind,  I  meant  it.  I  went  over  the  bridges  in  a  halo  of  self-satisfaction.  I  felt  I  hadhad  a  great  adventure,  had  added  a  whole  new  area  to  my  experience,  and  had  learned  things  about  life  that  no  one  could  ever  have  taught  me,  That  mood  of  exaltation  lasted  just  as  long  as  it  took  me  to  reach  the  well-lit  corner  by  the  cinema  in  King  Street,  and  then  it  disappeared,  and  I  stood  there  in  acold  wind,  unable  to  face  the  thought  of  returning  home.  I  knew  the  reason  without  having  to  examine  my  conscience.  It  was  the  damned  money  in  my  pocket.  It  had  nothing  to  dowith  the  girl  or  how  she  had  earned  it;  noth-  ing  even  to  do  with  the  fact  that  she  needed  it  a  great  deal  more  than  I  did  and  probably  deserved  it  more.  It  was  just  that  I  realized  that  the  great  moment  of  my  daydreams  had  come  to  me  without  my  recognizing  it;  that  I  had  behaved  myself  asI  had  always  hoped  I  would  behave,  and  I  had  then  taken  pay  for  it  and  in  this  world  need  never  expect  more.  Someone  passed  and  looked  back  at  me  curiously,  and  I  real-  ized  that  I  had  been  talking  to  myself.  Outside  theScots  Church  at  the  foot  of  Summerhill  an  old  woman  in  a  shawl  was  sitting  on  the  low  wall  with  her  bag  beside  her.  &quot;Gimme  a  few  coppers  for  the  night,  sir,  and  that  the  Almighty  God  may  give  you  a  bed  in  Heaven,&quot;  she  whined.  &quot;Here  you  are,  Ma'am,&quot;  I  said  with  a  laugh,  handing  her  the  two  bank  notes.  Then  I  hurried  up  the  hill,  pursued  by  her  clamor.  Of  course,  the  moment  I  had  done  it,  I  knew  it  was  wrong-the  exhibitionistic  behavior  of  someone  who  was  trying  to  resolve  the  conflict  in  him-  self  by  a  lying,  dramatic  gesture.  Next  day,  I  would  be  without  cigarettes  again  and  cursing  myself  for  a  fool.  I  was  really  destitute  now,  without  either  money  or  self-respect.  AFTER  that,  I  could  find  no  pleas,  ure  in  my  solitary  walks;  the  im-  aginary  girls  were  all  gone.  I  took  the  first  job  I  was  offered,  but  by  the  time  I  had  saved  up  two  pounds  and  started  to  look  down  the  [REDACTED]  for  Molly  Leahy,  she  had  disappeared-I  suppose  to  Liverpool  or  Glasgow  or  one  of  the  other  Limbos  where  we  pious  folk  con-  sign  those  troublesome  shades  that  dis-  turb  our  daydreams."