 b"IT  is  perfectly  O.K.  for  contemporary   American  novelists  to  write  in  con-  siderable  detail  about  sex,  but,  with  one  pioneering  exception,  they  are  still  leery  of  writing  about  money-whether  because  they  feel  the  subject  is  non-U  orbecause  they  don't  know  enough  about  it,  I  haven't  any  idea.  The  excep-  tion  is  Mr.  Brendan  Gill,  and  the  vehicle  of  his  distinction  is  &quot;''The  Day  the  Money  Stopped,&quot;  which  I  have  just  read.  Stim-  ulated  by  the  financial  candor-nay,  abandon-of  this  novel,  I  have  been  boning  up  on  the  subject  of  money  as  reflected  in  works  of  fiction  about  the  rich.  My  suspicion  that  writers,  other  than  the  authors  of  the  First  National  City  Bank  Monthly  Letter  and  the  Business  Bulletin  of  the  Cleveland  Trust  Company,  don't  know  much  about  money  has  been  given  impetus  by  the  example  of  the  late  Theodore  Dreiser,  who,  perhaps  more  conscien-  tiously  than  any  other  domestic  novelist  pre-Gill,  tied  to  write  about  it,  nota-  bly  in  his  trilogy  consisting  of  &quot;The  Financier,&quot;  &quot;The  Titan,&quot;  and  &quot;The  Stoic.&quot;  &quot;''To  the  world  in  general,&quot;  Dreiser  wrote  as  he  approached  the  finale  of  this  monumental  effort,  &quot;the  main  sub-  ject  of  interest  in  connection  with  the  death  of  Frank  Algernon  Cowperwood  was  his  fortune:  its  size,  who  would  inherit  it,  how  much  they  would  each  receive.&quot;  And  he  went  on:  The  Inheritance  Tax  Appraiser  pro-  nounced  a  total  value  of  the  estate,  four  years  after  the  death  of  Cowperwood,  at  $11,467,370.65.  ...  Day  [Mrs.  Cowper-  wood's  lawyer]  claimed  the  appraisal  was  too  high.  ..  .  Action  was  postponed  indef-  initely  to  give  attorneys  for  both  sides  opportunity  to  reach  an  agreement.  More  delay!  Delay!Delay!  Corporations!  Corporations!  Corpora-  tions!  Decisions!  Decisions!Decisions!  Courts!  Courts!  Courts!  Hysterics!  Hysterics!Hysterics!  Dreiserhas  a  reverent  attitude  toward  money,  as  his  beatific  capitalization  of  the  tax  appraiser  indicates,  but  here  the  taboo  has  got  him.  He  is  not  on  topof  his  subject.  He  has,  in  fact,  clearly  gone  out  of  his  head.  I  do  not  believe  in  half  measures,  and  I  have  not  confined  my  research  to  this  country.  I  have  travelled  far  and  wide,  down  the  centuries  and  on  both  sides  of  the  Atlantic,  and  I  propose  to  pass  my  findings  along.  Surprises  abound.  Jane  Austen,  for  example,  who  eschews  sex,  is  more  explicit  about  money  than  Scott  Fitzgerald,  John  P.  Marquand,  or  John  O'Hara.  &quot;It  is  a  dangerous  thing  to  bother  about  the  rich,&quot;  Mr.  O'Hara,  who  has  taken  this  chance  repeatedly,  writes  inhis  introduction  to  &quot;'The  Port-  able  F.  Scott  Fitzgerald,&quot;  published  in  1945.  &quot;A  writer  who  does  it  in  this  country  ..  .  will  find  himself  regarded  as  a  toy.  ...  In  this  country  the  rich  don't  write;  there  are  really  so  few  of  them,  and  they  can't.  write  anyway.  Americans  who  write  .  ..  have  very  lit-  tle  contact  with  the  rich  or  none  at  all.&quot;  Although  O'Hara  goes  on  to  give  Fitzgeraldhigh  marks  for  the  way  he  handles  this  splinter  group,  the  fact  is  that  Fitzgerald  usually  boggles  at  the  ultimate  financial  realities.  What  are  we  told,  fiscally,  about  Tom  Buchanan,  the  rich  man  in  &quot;'The  Great  Gatsby&quot;?  &quot;His  family  were  enormously  wealthy.&quot;  Is  Buchanan  worth  ten  million  dollars,  like  a  rich  Lewisohn,  or  twenty,  like  a  poor  du  Pont,  or  a  hundred,  like  a  run-of-the-mill  [REDACTED],  or  two  hun-  dred,  like  an  exceptional  Ryan?  Does  he  own  his  fortune  outright,  like  Elvis  Presley;  in  trust,  like  your  aunt;  or  in  a  combination  of  both,  like  the  late  Marshall  Field  III  between  the  time  of  his  grandfather's  death,  when  he  was  thirteen,  and  his  fiftieth  birthday?  What  are  Buchanan's  expectations  from  rela-  tives?  No  way  of  telling.  And  Gatsby  himself  is  left  even  more  up  in  the  air     MARCH  9,  19  5  7  financially.  The  only  figure  pinned  onto  him  is  twenty-five  thousand  dollars,  be-  queathed  to  him  by  a  friend  of  his  youth,  and  even  this  isn't  pinned  very  securely;  he  has  already  lost  it  in  a  legal  battle  over  the  will.  I  would  say  that  Gatsby  has  a  large  earned  income,  like  Ben  Sonnen-  berg,  and  no  capital  to  speak  of,  unlike  Sonnenberg,  but  this  is  a  guess,  and  not  a  very  informed  guess  at  that.  How  about  Nicole,  the  rich  [REDACTED]  girl  in  &quot;Tender  Is  the  Night&quot;&quot;?  She  tells  her  suitor,  Dick  Diver,  &quot;Sister  says  we're  very  rich.  ...  Since  Grandmother  is  dead,&quot;  but  she  doesn't  say  how  rich,  and  she  doesn't  go  into  her  grandmoth-  er's  will.  &quot;Just  how  much  money  has  she  got?&quot;  Diver  asks  Sister,  but  Sister  doesn't  give.  Probably  these  girls  don't  know  the  answer  themselves.  &quot;A  well-  bred  man  intensely  dislikes  the  mention  of  money  and  never  speaks  of  it  (out  of  business  hours)  if  he  can  avoid  it,&quot;  Emily  Postobserved  in  &quot;Etiquette:  The  Blue  Book  of  Social  Usage&quot;  in  1922,  and  she  has  maintained  this  ban  in  the  latest  (1955)  edition.  Nicole's  father,  who  was  well-bred,  would  scarcely  have  discussed  stocks  and  bonds  with  his  womenfolk  in  1934,  but  in  spite  of  Mrs.  Post,  I  believe  that  money  has  to  some  extent  been  liberated  as  a  topic  of  gen-  teel  conversation.  Nevertheless,  there's  a  time  lag,  and  at  a  dinner  party  it's  still  safer  to  ask  the  heiress  at  your  right  about  her  personal  life  than  to  inquire  as  to  her  net  worth.  The  most  forthright  financial  refer-  ence  I  recall  in  Fitzgerald  (I  have  just  checked  it)  occurs  in  &quot;The  Rich  Boy.&quot;  It  runs,  &quot;Anson  was  the  eldest  of  six  children  who  would  some  day  divide  a  fortune  of  fifteen  million  dollars.&quot;  But  even  this  flat  figure  is  relatively  meaningless.  Fortunes  fluctuate  over  a  period  of  years;  the  tax  bite,  or  swallow,  varies  with  the  date  of  the  testator's  death  and  the  geographical  distribution  of  his  assets;  real  property  and  non-  liquid  securities  often  have  to  be  sacri-  ficed  to  meet  inheritance  taxes;  and,  again,  there's  thequestion  of  life  interest  in  income  vs.  outright  principal,  which  is  not  cleared  up  in  the  above  over-  simplification.  A  far  cry  from  &quot;Pride  and  Prejudice,&quot;  in  which,  bang  at  the  beginning,  Miss  Austen  writes:  &quot;What  is  his  name?&quot;  &quot;Bingley.&quot;  &quot;Is  he  married  or  single?&quot;  &quot;Oh  single,  my  dear,  to  be  sure!  A  single  man  of  large  fortune;  four  or  five  thousand  a  year.  What  a  fine  thing  for  our  girls!&quot;  And,  later  on,  of  the  participants  in  this  dialogue:  Mr.  Bennet's  property  consisted  almost  entirely  in  an  estate  of  two  thousand  a  " b"year,  which,  unfortunately  for  his  daugh-  ters,  was  entailed,  in  default  of  heirs-male,  on  a  distant  relation;  and  their  mother's  fortune,  though  ample  for  her  situation  in  life,  could  but  ill  supply  the  deficiency  of  his.  Her  father  had  been  an  attorney  in  Meryton,  and  had  left  her  four  thousand  pounds.  OW  let  us  backtrack  from  Fitz-  gerald,  forge  ahead  from  Austen,  and  take  a  sharp  look  at  Henry  James,  whose  &quot;The  American&quot;  contains  the  following  passage.  Christopher  New-  man  has  just  solicited  Mme.  de  Belle-  garde's  aid  in  his  suit  for  her  daughter,  Mme.  de  Cintr\xc3\xa9:  &quot;You  don't  know  what  you  ask.  I'm  a  very  proud  and  meddlesome  old  per-  son.  &quot;Well,I'm  very  rich,&quot;  he  returned  with  a  world  of  desperate  intention.  She  fixed  her  eyes  on  the  floor....  But  at  last  looking  up,  &quot;How  rich?&quot;  she  sim-  ply  articulated.  He  gave  her,  at  this,  the  figure  of  his  income-gave  it  in  a  round  number  which  had  the  magnificent  sound  that  large  aggregations  of  dollars  put  on  when  translated  intofrancs.  He  added  to  the  enunciation  of  mere  brute  quantity  certain  financial  particulars  which  completed  a  sufficiently  striking  presentment  of  hisre-  sources.  James's  man  is  more  candid,  finan-  cially,  than  Fitzgerald's  girls,  but  the  reader  is  left  equally  in  the  dark.  James  is,  in  fact,  a  terrible  tease  not  only  about  money  but  about  the  sources  ofthe  for-  tunes  of  his  rich  people.  In  &quot;'The  Ameri-  can,&quot;  again,  in  a  colloquy  between  Newman  and  his  friend  Tristram,  James  writes:  &quot;You've  made  a  pile  of  money,  hey?&quot;  &quot;I've  made  about  enough.&quot;  &quot;Happy  the  man  who  can  say  that!  But  enough  for  what?&quot;  &quot;Enough  to  let  up  a  while,  to  forget  the  whole  question,  to  look  about  me,  to  see  the  world,  to  have  a  good  time,  to  im-  prove  my  mind  and,  if  my  hour  strikes,  to  marry  a  wife.&quot;  ...  &quot;[REDACTED],  there's  an  order!&quot;  cried  Mr.  Tristram.  ...  &quot;And  what's  the  story?  How  have  you  done  it?&quot;  ...  &quot;Well,  I  haven't  done  it  by  sitting  round  this  way.&quot;  ...  &quot;What  have  you  been  in?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  in  more  things  than  I  care  to  re-  member.&quot;  [REDACTED]![REDACTED]!  [REDACTED]!  Maddening!  Maddening!  Madden-  ing!  FORWARD  march,  now,  to  Mr.  Marquand,  who  hit  his  stride  in  writing  about  the  rich  with  &quot;The  Late  George  Apley,&quot;  in  1937.  Apley's  fa-  ther  writes,  when  George's  wife  is  pregnant,  &quot;Dear  George:  I  have  to-  day  established  a  trust  fund  for  the  new  Apley  whom  I  trust  will  be  with  us before  long,  the  income  of  which  when  compounded  and  suitably  re-invested  should  much  more  than  equal  the  prin-  cipal  at  the  end  of  twenty  years.&quot;  Noth-  ing  asto  the  trust's  amount.  When  Apley  grand-p\xc3\xa9re  dies,  we  learn  that  &quot;The  bequests  in  Thomas  Apley's  will  hint  eloquently  at  the  size  of  the  re-  mainder:  To  Harvard  University,  one  million  dollars  .  ..  two  hundred  thou-  sand  dollars  for  the  schools  at  Apley  Falls;  one  million  dollars  to  the  city  of  Boston,&quot;  but  this  eloquent  hint  is  all  we  get.  In  &quot;H.  M.  Pulham,  Esquire,&quot;  writ-  ten  four  years  after  &quot;Apley,&quot;  we  are  treated  to  another  will,  but  the  taboo  persists:  &quot;Mary  and  I,&quot;  Pulham  says,  &quot;were  each  left  a  hundred  thousand  dollars  outright,  and  after  other  be-  quests  to  the  servants  and  to  charities,  the  bulk  ofthe  estate  was  left  to  my  mother  for  her  lifetime,  to  be  invested  by  the  trustee.&quot;  This  will  is  strikingly  similar  to  one  in  Mr.  O'Hara's  &quot;Ten  43616e616461Fred-  erick&quot;:  The  will  of  Joseph  B.  Chapin  contained  no  surprises.  ...  Certain  sums  were  to  be  paid  to  servants  and  charities,  and  those  sums  were  specified  in  dollars,  but  the  bulk  of  the  estate  was  in  stocks,  bonds,  and  mortgages,  identified  by  name  or  location.  The  sum  of  $100,000  was  to  bepaid  to  the  son,  Joseph  BenjaminChapin  Junior,  and  a  like  sum  to  the  daughter,  Ann  Cha-  pin.  The  remainder  was  to  be  used  to  create  a  trust  fund  for  the  widow,  Edith  Chapin.  Upon  herdeath  the  fund  was  to  be  divided  equally  between  the  son  and  the  daughter.  ...  Edith  Chapin,  as  she  had  always  been,  was  a  woman  in  comfortable  circum-  stances.  Now,  in  fact,  in  1945,  she  was  in  more  than  comfortable  circumstances.  She  was  rich.  In  each  of  the  three  aforementioned  instruments,  theresiduary  estate's  the  thing,  but  it  remains  unsung.  I  don't  want  toflog  a  dead  horse,  but  take  a  look  at  two  more  passages  from  " b"recent  novels  about  the  rich-one  from  O'Hara's  &quot;A  Rage  to  Live,&quot;  the  other  from  Edward  Newhouse's  &quot;The  Hol-  low  of  the  Wave.&quot;  In  the  first,  the  au-  thor  takesa  long  stride  toward  his  own  emancipation  by  crediting  Sidney  Tate  with  an  inheritance  of  &quot;about  $800,-  000,&quot;  but  then  he  goes  and  spoils  it  all  by  saying  ofthe  family  of  Sidney's  wife,  who  is  represented  as  being  far  richer  than  her  husband:  The  Caldwells  were  acknowledged  to  be  among  the  richest  people  in  Nesquehela  County  and  among  the  richest  in  the  Com-  monwealth  outside  [REDACTED]  and  Phila-  delphia,  but  it  had  been  a  long  time  since  an  accurate  estimate  had  been  put  on  their  wealth,  with  the  result  that  some  people  said  the  Caldwells  were  worth  five  million,  some  said  they  were  worth  fifty  million,  and  some  said  they  couldn't  pay  their  bills.  Mr.  Newhouse  is  similarly  evasive  about  his  rich  man,  Larry  Holland:  He  was  a  Communist,  I  had  been  as-  sured,  six-feet-five,  and  he  had  twelve  million  dollars.  He  was  six-feet-eight  in  his  socks,  a  New  Dealer,  and  he  had  twen-  ty-one  million  dollars.  He  was  an  an-  archist,  a  single-taxer,  a  vegetarian,  a  disciple  of  Gandhi  whom  he  visited  each  year,  and  his  Press  would  soon  fold  be-  cause  he  had  spent  all  his  money  on  a  Velasquez.  He  really  had  never  had  much  money  of  his  own,  but  his  father  had  given  him  five  hundred  thousand  dollars  to  prove  that  a  person  with  no  business  experience  will  lose  every  dime  of  it.  He  was  six-feet-  eleven.  A  far  cry-or  two  far  cries-from  Trollope,  who  in  &quot;The  Eustace  Dia-  monds&quot;  advises  us  that  Lady  Eustace  has  inherited  a  ten-thousand-pound  dia-  mond  necklace  and  revenues  of  four  thousand  pounds  a  year,  and  from  Bal-  zac,  who  states  precisely  what  Eug\xc3\xa9nie  Grandet  is  worth:  seventeen  million  francs.  Boy,  have  I  been  boning  up!  ERY  well.  This  scholarly  windup  is  by  way  of  preparing  a  suitable  frame  of  reference  for  the  appreciation  of  Mr.  Gill,  a  man  whose  masterly  clinical  attitude  toward  finance  stamps  him  as  a  pioneer  in  American  letters  and,  conceivably,  the  literary  bounder  of  all  time.  To  say  that  money  is  the  backbone  of  &quot;TheDay  the  Money  Stopped&quot;  would  be  an  understatement;  it  is  the  rib  case,  heart,  and  guts.  Mr.  Gill's  is  the  straight  Price,  Waterhouse  approach.  Charles  Morrow,  a  lawyer,  whose  death  is  the  book's  point  of  departure,  leaves  an  estate,  &quot;after  taxes  and  the  usual  expenses,&quot;  of  approximately  a  mil-  lion  three  hundred  thousand  dollars.  He  makes  an  outright  bequest  of  ten  thou-  sand  dollars  and  two  life-interest  be-  quests  of  sixty  thousand  and  seventy thousand.  The  first  of  the  life-interest  bequests  reverts  to  the  residuary  legatees  upon  the  death  of  the  beneficiary.  The  second  reverts  to  theresiduary  legatees  in  the  event  of  the  death  of  the  bene-  ficiary  (a  childless  woman  on  the  verge  of  divorce  and  remarriage)  without  issue.  Now  for  the  residuary  estate,  which,  in  this  will,  has  been  specified  (approximately  a  million  two  hundred  thousand  dollars).  A  third  goes  out-  right  to  the  testator's  daughter,  Kathie,  a  forty-three-year-old  spinster.  Another  third  goes  outright  to  the  younger  of  his  two  sons,  Richard,  thirty-six.  The  third  third  is  to  be  held  in  trust  for  twenty-five  years  and  then  divided  equally  among  his  grandchildren,  who  at  the  time  of  his  death  consist  of  Rich-  ard's  three  children.  Charles,  the  tes-  tator's  elder  son,  a  forty-year-old  ne'er-  do-well  and  charmer,  and  the  hero  of  the  book,  is  cut  off,  to  his  astonishment  and  chagrin,  with  a  library  appraised  at  twelve  thousand  five  hundred,  a  few  Piranesi  prints,  the  remnants  of  a  wine  cellar,  and  a  gold  watch  worth  &quot;easily&quot;  a  hundred  dollars.  Mr.  Gill  does  not  tell  us  what  the  wine  and  prints  are  worth,  but  he  does  document  in  con-  siderable  detail  the  gifts  the  testator  has  made  to  his  wastrel  namesake  over  a  period  of  twenty-odd  years-stocks,  bonds,  and  cash.  &quot;If  you'd  hung  on  to  everything,&quot;  Richard  tells  his  brother,  &quot;you'd  have  well  over  half  a  million  right  this  minute.&quot;  Charles,  who  has  hung  on  to  nothing,  is  in  debt  to  the  tune  of  some  twelve  or  thirteen  thou-  sand  dollars,  and  Mr.  Gill  is  specific  about  his  debts.  He  is  even  specific  about  the  cash  Charles  has  on  hand-two  dol-  lars,  which  I  regret  to  state  he  tears  up.  I  believe  this  is  a  federal  offense.  &quot;The  Day  the  Money  Stopped&quot;  is  made  up  of  a  morning's  conversation  al-  most  entirely  about  Mr.  Morrow's  will,  " b"in  the  course  of  which  the  history  ofthe  family  is  set  forth.  Again,  surprises  abound.  I  have  only  two  financial  bones  to  pick  with  the  author.  Richard,  in  list-  ing  some  of  the  securities  the  senior  Morrow  gave  to  Charles,  mentions  General  Electric,  du  Pont,  A.T.  &amp;  T.,  and  Walker  Drilling.  (&quot;It  was  selling  at  fifty  when  Dad  gave  it  to  you.  Now  it's  up  in  the  hundreds.&quot;)  I  mean  no  offense  to  the  Walker  Drill  Grinding  Corporation,  of  342  West  Fortieth  Street,  but  there  is  no  such  company  as  Walker  Drilling-at  least  not  one  that  should  be  mentioned  in  the  same  breath  as  G.E.,  du  Pont,  and  Tel  &amp;  Tel  with-  out  some  sort  of  explanation.  And  since  Mr.  Gill  computes  Mr.  Morrow's  gifts  to  Charles  on  the  basis  of  the  apprecia-  tion  of  the  stocks  among  them  over  a  period  of  years,  should  he  not  have  taken  ashot  at  thevaluation  of  the  grandchil-  dren's  individual  shares  at  the  end  of  the  twenty-five-year  incubation  period,  in-  stead  of  leaving  them,  as  he  does,  at  a  mere  four  hundred  thousand?  We  are  growing  with  the  country;  my  guess  is  three  million  two  hundred  thousand.  Four  characters-Charles,  Richard,  Kathie,  and  a  stenographer-talking  in  an  office  for  three  or  four  hours.  No  changes  of  costume.  No  changes  of  scene.  What  a  cinch  for  [REDACTED]!  An  investment  of  seventy-five  thousand  dollars,  an  operating  nut  of  fifteen  thousand  dollars  a  week,  and-after  full  houses  for  eight  weeks-the  back-  ers  reimbursed,  and  twenty-six  hundred  dollars  a  week  for  Mr.  Gill,  before  taxes! "