 b"IT  was  areal  irony,  Applegate  thought,  that  theultimate  returns  from  his  whimsey  should  have  been  brought  to  him  by  the  butler,  all  un-  knowing,  on  a  silver  salver.  The  whim-  sey  was  his  creation  of  a  new  John  Manderville,  and  Applegate  had  had  no  conception,  at  the  start,  of  where  it  would  lead.  He  had  lent  himself  to  it,  he  supposed,  simply  because  he  was  rather  out  of  a  job.  Turning  fifty,  John  Applegate  did  not  have  to  work  at  anything.  He  had  plenty  of  money,  his  scholarly  reading  had  become  desultory  for  lack  of  a  goal,  and  he  was  tired  of  leisure.  He  lived  in  [REDACTED]  Marnick,  which  was  too  far  out  of  New  York,  and  too  rural,  the  houses  standing  in  too  wide  grounds,  to  be  called  a  suburb.  His  neighbors  consid-  ered  themselves  cosmopolitan,  and  they  were  in  fact  on  the  bright  side.  They  had  money,and  ability,  and  not  a  few  of  them  had  traceable  ancestries.  Among  them,  Applegate  was  accepted,  and  respected  for  his  scholarship  and  his  travels.  Because  he  was  known  to  be  a  scholar,  people  made  allowances  for  his  tendency  to  sit  silent  when  conversation  was  liveliest  and  for  the  rarity  of  his  clever  remarks.  His  acceptance  was  furtherinsured  by  the  fact  that  after  he  married  and  gave  up  the  professional  practice  of  anthropology,  he  had  shown  a  streak  of  business  ability.  He  had  not  merely  lived  gracefully  on  his  wife's  money;  he  had  increased  it,  and  ended  by  sitting  on  the  boards  of  several  com-  panies.  His  wife,  Priscilla,  was  handsome,  and  young  for  her  age,  and  she  spared  no  pains  to  stay  so.  She  was  intelligent  and  an  excellent  hostess.  She  was  pleased  withher  husband,  and  glad  that  his  in-  terests  differed  from  those  of  the  busi-  nessmen  who  surrounded  them.  They  had  a  son,  who  had  recently  married,  and  an  attractive  daughter.  Applegate  had  become  accustomed  to  the  way  his  life  had  changed  since  the  days  when  he  was  a  young  instructor  on  his  way  toward  a  Ph.D.,  yet  he  could  still  marvel  at  it.  In  his  youth,  as  Priscilla  sometimes  said,  when  he  wasn't  helping  moldy  professors  teach  grubby  students,  he  was  squatting  in  some  septic  Indian  village  talking  to  unwashed  old  men,  and  eating  the  most  appalling  food-stew,  mostly,  made  of  old  mut-  ton  or  goat-in  order  to  save  money.  Her  description  was  somewhat  exag-  gerated,  but  no  more  than  that.  Apple-  gate  had  worked  among  the  Hopi  In-  dians  of  [REDACTED],  who  are  not  famous  for  their  cleanliness.  He  did  eat  the   native  foods,  supplemented  withonly  minor  items  bought  at  trading  posts,  and,  furthermore,  he  had  lived  in  na-  tive  houses  and  slept  on  the  floors.  That  was  all  good  research  technique,  of  course,  but  it  also  helped  him  to  save  something  out  of  his  meagre  stipend,  and  when  he  returned  to  civilization,  he  needed  it,  He  rarely  spoke  of  the  Hopis-the  [REDACTED]  Marnick  people  did  not  find  them  interesting,  and,  after  all,  since  that  period  of  his  life  he  had  visited  the  Ubangis  and  the  Jibaro  head-shrink-  ers-but  once  when  Priscilla  was  teas-  ing  him  about  them  he  did  remark  that  if  you  have  barely  enough  water  for  drinking  purposes  you  don't  waste  much  of  it  on  washing,  and  that  a  goat  that  has  been  eating  juniper  has  a  fine  flavor.  Then,  seeing  a  look  of  disgust  on  some-  one's  face,  he  stopped  talking.  Not  long  after  Manderville  entered  his  life-or,  more  exactly,  re\xc3\xa9ntered  it-Applegate  had  a  conversation  with  Bill  Whittaker,  who  was  his  and  Pris  cilla's  most  intimate  friend.  Whittaker  recalled  it  later  and  told  people  about  it.  He  and  Applegate  both  had  to  spend  the  night  in  town,  and  they  had  dinner  together  at  one  of  their  clubs.  The  [REDACTED]  Marnick  crowd  went  pretty  heavy  on  the  cocktails  anyway.  The  two  men  didthe  same  that  night,  and  perhapsa  little  extra,  for  being  stag  together.  And  after  dinner  they  had  a  few  highballs.  As  Bill  said  later,  In  vino  veritas.  Applegate  praised  his  wife  al-  most  to  the  point  of  being  boring  about  her.  &quot;Pris  opened  up  my  imagination,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;When  we  were  married,  all  I  could  think  of  was  living  a  little  more  comfortably  and  going  on  with  the  same  routine-Ph.D.,  getting  to  bea  pro-  fessor  or  a  curator  someday,  all  that, and  the  slow,  grimy  field  work  you've  heard  Pris  kid  about.  My  whole  career,  at  that  point,  depended  on  sitting  on  the  ground  cultivating  an  old  gink  who  didn't  speak  English,  through  his  nephew.&quot;  Applegate  stopped  to  relight  his  cigar;  then  he  laughed.  &quot;The  old  boy's  name  was  Youkehumai,  and  the  nephew's,  God  help  me,  was-still  is--  Wallace  Kinanumptiwa.&quot;  In  telling  about  this  conversation  afterward,  Bill  did  not  remember  the  names;  he  sim-  ply  said  they  were  ludicrous.  &quot;Then  I  married,&quot;  Applegate  went  on,  &quot;and  shortly  after  that  I  gave  up  being  a  practicing  anthropologist,  and  saw  something  of  the  world  instead.  I've  had  some  really  swell  expeditions-sa-  faris  and  things.  I've  brought  home  all  sorts  of  stuff.  I'm  a  benefactor.  And  I'm  on  the  boards  of  institutions  I'd  hoped  might  hire  me  someday.  I  owe  it  all  to  Pris.&quot;  A  bit  after  that,  Bill  said,  the  con-  versation  became  vague.  Applegate  got  to  rambling  on  about  the  Hopis,  and  said  something  about  how  their  spirit  was  life,  and  about  their  concept  of  time,  until  Bill  said,  &quot;Let  up.  I  can't  follow  you,  and  I  bet  you  can't  follow  your-  self.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Applegate  said.  His  next  words  Bill  remembered  exactly.  &quot;I  was  getting  around  to  a  point,  old  man,  which  is  that  Pris  kept  me  from  sort  of  turning  into  a  Hopi.  Those  people  are  sitting  on  hundreds  of  millions  of  dol-  lars'  worth  of  oil,  and  they  won't  sell  it  because  they're  afraid  that  would  change  their  way  of  life,  which  is  the  only  way  they  know.  Me,  I  would  have  failed  to  take  advantage  of  Pris's  money,  and  probably  lost  Pris  in  the  end,  be-  cause  I  felt  that  I  was  committed  to  the  kind  of  life  an  anthropologist  has  to  lead,  and  couldn't  imagine  any  other.  Only,  Pris  had  good  sense.  And  patience,  of  course.  You've  no  idea  how  patient  she  was  with  me.  She  convinced  me  that  itis  shortsighted  to  spend  your  life  dig-  ging  around  in  the  ruins  of  the  past,  without  even  knowing  the  present.  And,  of  course,  someone  had  to  take  over  the  management  of  all  that  money,  which  turned  out  to  be  fully  as  absorb-  ing  as  the  rituals  of  the  Hopis.  I  don't  know  how  Pris  knew  I  had  a  knack  for  that  kind  of  thing,  but  she  did.  A  wonderful  woman,  my  boy.&quot;  Bill  asked  why  the  Indians  wouldn't  sell  their  oil,  and  Applegate  said  it  was  partly  that  they  knew  what  oil  had  done  to  some  of  the  [REDACTED]  Indians  and  were  afraid  of  what  would  happen  to  their  young  people,  and  partly  a  reli-  gious  matter,  having  to  do  with  the  in-  " b"tegrity  of  their  land,  that  was  too  in-  volved  to  explain.  Then  he  changed  the  subject.  That  evening,  John  Applegate  was  stimulated  not  only  by  the  drinks  but  by  the  developments  then  occurring  in  the  Manderville  affair.  That  had  started  when  Talvert,  his  old  univer-  sity,  to  which  in  recent  years  he  and  Priscilla  had  made  some  handsome  gifts,  forwarded  him  a  letter  from  a  priest  in  a  place  called  Ocotin,  in  southern  [REDACTED].  The  priest  wrote  to  say  that  a  North  American  named  John  Mander-  ville,  who  had  for  many  years  lived  in  that  population  in  a  state  of  disgrace  from  a  vice  of  alcohol,  had  ultimately  passed  on,  having  repented  and  been  received  into  the  Christian  Church.  In  his  dying  hours,  he  had  spoken  many  times  of  his  antique  teacher  at  the  Uni-  versity  Talvert,  John  Applegate,  and  had  asked  that  his  scientific  works  be  sent  to  him.  'The  priest  would  forward  the  same,  the  value  of  which  he  could  not  judge,  as  they  were  all  in  English,  if  Sefior  Applegate  would  accept  the  charge.  After  a  moment's  thought,  John  re-  membered  Manderville-a  tall,  skinny  youth,  a  junior,  he  believed,  at  the  time  that  he,  Applegate,  left  the  university.  Manderville  had  been  an  intense  stu-  dent,  a  solitary,  friendless.  The  depart-  ment  had  been  small  in  those  days,  be-  fore  the  social  sciences  became  popular,  and  the  anthropology  majors  and  grad-  uate  students  had  been  like  members  of  a  club,  but  when  they  were  out  on  the  portico  of  the  museum  having  a  smoke  (the  building  was  a  strictly  &quot;No  Smok-  ing&quot;   firetrap  inside),  Manderville  didn't  know  how  to  join  the  others.  Applegate  had  thought  him  something  of  a  screwball,  and  judged  that  he  would  do  well  in  anthropology,  a  sci-  ence  in  which  odd  numbers  have  always  flourished.  But  why  the  deathbed  remembrance  of  him?  Routinely,  as  part  of  his  duties,  he  had  had  the  young  man  to  his  quar-  ters  a  few  times  to  discuss  his  studies,  and  they  had  had  some  rather  good  talks.  That  year,  Applegate  recalled  with  some  amusement,  he  had  acquired  a  dozen  bottles  of  inferior  Burgundy,  of  which  he  had  been  immensely  proud  because  it  was  imported-a  rare  thing  for  a  man  of  his  means  to  have  during  prohibition.  Feeling  sorry  for  Mander- ville,  he  had  offered  him  some.  The  man  must  indeed  have  been  badly  off  if  this  mild  friendli-  ness  could  leave  so  deep  an  impression  on  him.  As  Applegate  thought  about  it,  it  came  back  to  him  that  the  poor  fellow  had  accepted  the  wine  eagerly,  and  drunk  it  too  fast,  and  that  he  had  been  slightly  put  out  because  he  felt  obliged  to  pour  him  a  second  and  a  third  glass.  Also,  it  was  after  a  glass  or  two  that  Man-  derville  had  opened  up  and  become  interesting.  So  the  seeds  of  his  vice  were  in  him  then.  He  had  shown  signs  of  bril-  liance,  too;  there  might  be  something  of  value  in  the  work  he  had  left  be-  hind.  Applegate  wrote  to  the  priest,  telling  him  to  send  on  the  papers.  They  came.  There  were  several  pages  of  notes  on  the  natives  of  the  region  in  which  Manderville  had  lived,  more  than  halfof  it  illegible  or  incoherent,  and  most  of  what  could  be  made  out  covering  matters  that  others  had  already  report-  ed.  Then,  there  was  a  draft  of  a  paper  on  the  influence  of  spontaneous  groups  within  a  formal  organization,  which  was  brilliant.  It  was  not  publishable  as  it  stood,  however;  the  presentation  was  erratic,  the  author  knew  far  too  little  of  the  relevant  literature,  and  the  theoretical  side  of  the  paper,  which  was  what  made  it  important,  needed  to  be  supported  by  more  observed  data,  pref-  erably  from  a  people  more  tightly  or-  ganized  than  the  Tzeltals  of  the  Oco-  tan  region  were.  In  short,  Applegate  thought,  it  needed  data  from  a  tribe  such  as  the  Hopis.  That  thought  caused  him  to  get  up  and  take  from  the  drawer  where  they  had  lain  untouched  for  so  long  the  field  notesof  his  early  years-the  fruit  of  three  seasons  of  ever  closer  friendship  with  old  Youkehumai  and  Wallace  Kinanumptiwa.  Applegate  was  seized  by  a  most  diverting  idea.  He  would  complete  Manderville's  thesis;  he  would  crown  the  unfortunate  man's  career.  It  was  easy  enough  to  find  out  that  Manderville  had  graduated  magna  cure  laude,  had  earned  no  higher  degree,  and  was  listed  in  the  alumni  directory  as     " b"&quot;lost.&quot;  He  had  published  three  short  articles  in  minor  periodicals,  all  descrip-  tive  ethnography  and  none  more  recent  than  ten  years  ago.  The  man  must  have  just  sloped  off  to  [REDACTED]  after  he  gradu-  ated,  with  some  idea  of  doing  research  on  his  own,  and  slowly  deteriorated.  Applegate  himself  had  published  hardly  half  a  dozen  papers.  His  anthro-  pological  reading  had  become  sporadic.  On  the  expeditions  that  Priscilla's  money  had  financed,  he  had  left  the  heavy  research  and,  afterward,  the  long,  dull  grind  of  major  publication  to  the  earnest  young  men  he  took  with  him.  Now  he  was  in  for  some  real  work.  As  he  considered  it,  his  plan  grewmore  elaborate.  He  would  re-create  John  Manderville-an  interesting  coinci-  dence  that  they  had  the  same  first  name.  He  would  give  him  some  more  publi-  cations,  leading  up  to  the  big  one.  There  had  been,  he  decided,  two  John  Man-  dervilles.  'There  had  been  the  peculiar  character  who  reached  too  eagerly  for  a  drink  and  who  finally  went  to  pieces,  and  there  had  been  the  gifted  scholar  who,  put  at  ease  by  a  little  wine,  talked  very  well  indeed  and  showed  great  promise.  'The  latter  he  would  restore,  or,in  no  small  measure,  create.  Applegate  was  a  member  of  the  Play-  ers  Club,  and  frequently  stopped  in  there  when  he  was  in  town.  It  was  an  easy  mat-  ter  to  step  around  the  corner  to  the  post  office  on  Twenty-third  Street,  where  he  rented  a  box  in  Manderville's  name.  He  began  working  as  he  had  not  done  in  years,  and  was  annoyed  when  a  di-  rectors'  meeting  or  other  business  interrupted  him.  As  Applegate  went  along,  the  new  John  Mander-  ville  became  more  and  more  real.  As  he  ap-  proached  middle  age,  he  had  filled  out,  becoming  fairly  solid,  like  Applegate  himself,  but  sparse  living  and  constant  field  work  had  kept  him  from  devel-  oping  a  pot.  He  was  a  rather  shy  man,  ill  at  ease  in  smart  society,  happier  in  the  company  of  other  scholars,  and,  as  is  so  often  the  case,  entirely  sure  of  himself  and  relaxed  in  the  unaggressive  company  of  Indians.  Since  he  had  no  advanced  degrees,  he  could  have  but  little  academic  rank.  Anyway,  he  was  more  a  research  man  than  a  teacher.  He  probably  had  a  position,  part  curator-  ship  of  a  small  museum  or  academy  of  sciences  or  philosophical  society-per-  haps  a  state  historical  society-and  his  salary  was  just  about  enough  to  live  on.  Applegate  became  fond  of  the  man,  and  half  envied  his  quiet,  studious  career.  Manderville  did  not  have  to  brace  himself  with  cocktails  evening  after  evening  in  order  to  deal  with  the  bright  company  of  [REDACTED]  Marnick.  Applegate  dismissed  the  thought  that  the  real  Manderville  might  have  become  a  drunkard  under  any  circumstances.  In  Manderville's  name  he  wrote  and  placed  three  articles  based  on  his  Hopi  notes,  two  in  the  43616e616461ern  Anthro-  pologist  and  one  in  the  American  An-  thropological  Review,  which  was  nice  going.  The  articles  resulted  infive  let-  ters  of  inquiry  from  fellow-scientists,  one  of  whom  claimed  to  remember  meeting  him  at  the  last  Powamu  cere-  mony  at  Mishongnovi.  Then  Applegate  sent  the  article  on  spontaneous  groups,  now  highly  polished  and  backed  with  ample  observations,  to  the  Review,  confident  that  it  would  be  taken  as  the  lead  paper,  which  it  was.  It  oc-  curred  to  him  that,  whatever  the  orig-  inal  Manderville's  unrealized  potential  might  have  been,  he,  Applegate,  would have  been  a  pretty  good  scientist  had  he  continued  on  his  original  course.  T  was  then  time  for  the  letter  he  wrote  every  year  to  Wallace  Kina-  numptiwa-a  brief  line  of  greeting,  a  gesture  of  sentiment  toward  a  lost  friendship.  Stimulated  by  his  other  ac-  tivities,  he  did  something  he  had  been  putting  off  year  after  year-he  used  various  connections  to  obtain  from  the  Bronx  Zoo  a  quantity  of  feathers  of  parrots  and  other  tropical  birds.  Such  feathers  are  more  precious  to  the  Hopis  than  jewels,  since  some  of  their  rituals  cannot  be  performed  without  them.  Also,  since  the  importation  of  feathers  of  tropical  birds  into  the  United  [REDACTED]  is  forbidden,  the  tribe  suffers  from  a  chronic,  critical  shortage  of  them.  He  mailed  the  feathers  to  Wallace,  along  with  his  letter.  It  did  not  surprise  him  that  the  Hopi  was  slow  in  thanking  him.  The  Hopis  live  not  in  our  continuously  elapsing  time  but  in  an  element  within  which  they  seem  to  move  about  and,  as  Whorf  has  shown,  which  can  also  be  accumulated.  They  have  less  cause  to  hurry,  their  time  does  not  get  lost  so  easily,  and  they  can  more  fully  savor  a  pleasant  occurrence.  The  feathers  were  a  gift  of  importance,  they  had  undoubt-  edly  caused  great  pleasure,  and  it  would" b"be  natural  for  Wallace  to  wait,  to  ma-  ture  and  complete  his  appreciation,  be-  fore  he  expressed  himself.  Applegate  found  himself  at  loose  ends.  He  could  not  do  much  more  with  his  field  notes  unless  he  rounded  them  out  with  more  data.  Manderville,  he  feared,  had  had  his  fling,  and  Apple-  gate,  too.  Being  now  well  up  on  all  recent  Hopi  material,  he  did  turn  out  a  minor  paper  called  &quot;Neglected  Leads  in  Hopi  Ethnography.&quot;  He  did  not  think  any  of  the  big  periodicals  would  take  it,  so,  at  random,  he  sent  it  to  the  Margass  Review,  published  by  the  Mar-  gass  Institute  of  Man,  a  small  en-  dowed  museum  and  research  institu-  tion  situated  in  the  southwestern  part  of  the  Middle  West.  He  was  not  sur-  prised  that  the  paper  was  accepted,  but  he  was  both  startled  and  amused  when  the  director  of  the  Institute  wrote  to  say  that  it  had  been  given  funds  for  field  work  in  the  [REDACTED]  proper,  and  to  offer  Manderville  a  position.  The  director  addressed  him  as  &quot;Dr.  Manderville.&quot;  His  creation,  Applegate  thought,  was  assuming  remarkable  life  just  when  it  could  no  longer  continue.  First  a  scientist  claimed  to  have  methim  shortly  after  the  real  Manderville  had  drunk  himself  to  death  in  the  Mexican  jungle;  now  he  could  have  a  job.  The  job  was  an  assistant  curatorship,  involv-  ing  some  museum  work  in  addition  to  his  field  and  desk  research.  It  was  also  hoped  that  he  would  teach  a  seminar  or  two  at  the  neighboring  state  college,  for  which  he  would  receive  an  addi-  tional  honorarium.  Applegate  decided  against  getting  out  of  it  by  pretending  that  Manderville  was  already  em-  ployed;  that  web  could  become  tan-  gled.  Instead,  he  had  Manderville  take  refuge  behind  his  ignorance  of  museum  techniques  and  his  lack  of  degrees,  pointing  out  that  the  latter  not  only  disqualified  him  for  a  curatorship  but  would  also  make  him  unacceptable  to  the  college.  For  the  next  three  weeks,  Applegate  would  be  confined  to  [REDACTED]  Marnick  by  a  variety  of  social  and  business  mat-  ters.  He  considered  terminating  his  creation  by  simply  giving  up  the  post-  office  box  and  leaving  no  further  ad-  dress,  but  the  few  letters  that  had  come  there  were  the  only  ones  he  had  opened eagerly  in  years.  He  postponed,  and  took  the  risk  of  turning  in  a  tem-  porary-change-of-address  order  in  care  of  himself.  NOUT  a  fortnight  after  that,  the  butler  brought  him,  upon  a  silver  salver,  what  struck  him  as  the  ultimate  returns  from  his  whimsey.  The  mail  reached  his  house  in  the  afternoon,  and  he  had  given  orders  that  when  he  was  working  in  his  study,  he  should  not  be  interrupted  by  it  but  should  have  it  at  five,  to  scan  before  the  cocktail  hour.  That  day  the  butler  brought  him  the  usual  assortment-nothing  urgent,  nothing  interesting,  except  for  two  that  could  be  called  &quot;Manderville  items,&quot;  although  one  was  addressed  to  him  un-  der  his  own  name.  That  one  was  post-  marked  &quot;Second  Mesa&quot;  and  addressed  in  pencil,  and  contained  Wallace's  an-  nual  reply.  The  other  was  from  the  Margass  Institute,  for  Manderville.  They  were  having  people  in.  He  heard  guests  arriving,  so  he  stacked  the  letters  on  his  desk  and  went  out  to  play  host.  If  three  Martinis  did  not  make  him  feel  gay,  they  made  him  bold-  er.  He  slipped  out  of  the  living  room  for  a  hasty  first  reading  of  the  two  letters.  He  took  up  the  Margass  one  first.  The  director  of  the  Institute  wrote  that  he  had  never  held  too  much  with  the  requirement  of  degrees,  that  the  stipend  offered  was,  after  all,  only  " b"thirty-six  hundred  dollars  a  year,  and  that  the  author  of  &quot;Interaction  of  Spontaneous  Groups  with  the  Formal  Organizations  of  a  Structured  Society&quot;  and  of  &quot;Neglected  Leads&quot;  was  perfect-  ly  qualified  for  the  position.  'The  col-  lege  would  be  glad  to  have  him,  and  museum  techniques  can  be  acquired.  Wallace  thanked  him  for  the  feathers  and  mentioned  some  ceremonies  in  which  they  had  already  been  used.  He  said  he  had  another  grandchild,  a  girl.  Then  he  wrote,  &quot;It  been  too  long  since  we  see  you.  I  am  sponsoring  Niman  this  year.  You  always  like  to  come  to  that.  You  better  come  out  for  it  if  you  cant  come  sooner.&quot;  Applegate  stood  for  a  moment,  holding  the  letter,  thinking  of  the  Niman,  which  was  to  him  the  most  beautiful  and  the  strongest  of  the  Hopi  ceremonies.  Then  heshook  his  head  and  dropped  the  letter  on  his  desk.  Applegate  returned  to  the  living  room.  The  talk  sounded  loud  and  jum-  bled.  His  wife's  voice-bell-like,  well  modulated,  but  carrying-was  clearly  distinguishable.  Everyone  said  that  she  had  a  beautiful  voice.  The  only  titles  worth  considering  any  more,  she  was  saying,  were  the  British.  Applegate  poured  himself  another  Martini.  He  could  not  remember  when  he  had  not  been  high  about  this  hour.  W  hat  would  he  do  if  he  were  suddenly  transposed  to  the  Hopi  villages  with  a  ceremony  going     on?  Dramatically,  but  with  conviction,  he  told  himself  that  he  was  forever  cut  off  from  that  primitive  world.  His  daughter  sat  between  twoyoung  men,  both  of  whom  were  strutting  for  her.  His  daughter,  he  was  quite  sure,  was  unchaste.  He  made  an  ugly  comparison  concerning  her  relationship  to  the  two.  His  eye  lit  on  his  son's  wife.  He  did  not  like  her.  She  pretended  to  be  an  intel-  lectual,  but  in  fact  she  was  a  bore.  It  would  be  a  long  time  before  she  pro-  duced  a  child,  By  moving  about,  glass  in  hand,  standing  near  but  not  joining  this  group  or  that,  Applegate  could  ap-  pear  sociable  yet  keep  out  of  the  talk  for  fair  periods  of  time.  He  followed  this  procedure  now.  Vaguely  he  thought  about  how  to  answer  the  Margass  letter.  He  considered  killing  Manderville  off  and  doing  an  obituary  for  the  Review,  relished  the  thought  briefly,  and  then  discarded  it.  Manderville  was  too  much  fun  to  kill  quite  yet.  Three  days  later,  Applegate  had  a  luncheon  at  the  Waldorf  with  the  trus-  tees  of  a  civic  organization  to  which  he  and  Priscilla  had  decided  to  make  a  gift.  The  chauffeur  drove  him  to  New  York  and  deposited  him  at  the  hotel.  He  checked  his  hat  and  coat.  (It  was  a  warm  day  and  he  had  taken  the  coat  only  in  case  of  rain.)  'Thenhe  disap-  peared.  The  police  searched  diligently,  and  Priscilla  put  the  best  private-detective  agency  there  was  on  the  job,  but  no  trace  of  John  Applegate  was  ever  found.  He  had  simply  disappeared,  and  no  dis-  appearance  this  side  of  the  crew  of  the  Mary  Celeste  could  have  been  more  un-  reasonable.  Gossip  to  the  effect  that  there  had  been  some  failure  in  his  mar-  riage  was  spiked  by  Bill  Whittaker's  tale  of  Applegate's  admiration  of  Pris-  cilla  and  his  gratitude  to  her,  which  left  the  mystery  deeper  than  ever.  The  newspapers  made  a  thing  of  it,  and  since  new  false  leads  kept  turning  up,  there  were  brief  stories  about  it  from  time  to  time  for  months,  and  writeups  with  references  to  Judge  Crater.  aALLace  Kimmanumrptiwa  had  been  abright  but  rather  solemn  young  man.  In  the  agelessness  of  his  early  fiftiee-which  for  a  Hopi  is  just  about  full  maturity-he  also  had  the  humor  and  the  sensitive,  penetrating  understanding  of  people,  of  which  humor  is  an  essential,  that  had  char-  acterized  his  uncle,  to  whose  priestly  po-  sition  he  had  acceded.  He  and  John  Manderville,  of  the  Margass  Institute,  sat  together  on  sheepskins  on  the  floor  of  the  room  in  Wallace  Kinanumpti-  wa's  house  that  Manderville  had  rented.  They  were  tired  and  at  ease.  The  Ni-  man  ceremony  had  been  beautiful.  In  it  had  been  clearly  apparent  what  itis  " b"the  Hopis  hold  to  be  of  more  worth  than  a  fortune  in  oil,  Now  the  sacred  period  was  over,  and  the  two  friends  could  be  at  ease  together.  Before  them  on  the  floor  were  cups,  a  pot  of  weak  coffee,  anative  basket  holding  fragments  of  the  blue  corn  bread  called  piki,  and  a  bowl  of  stew  made  with  goat  meat.  As  the  goat's  diet  had  included  juniper  and  sage,  its  meat  was  as  savory  as  it  was  tough.  The  onions  and  the  canned  green  chili  in  the  stew  had  been  bought  by  the  scientist.  Neither  he  nor  Wallace  had  washed  his  hands  before  eating,  but  since  they  dipped  the  stew  up  with  spoons,  they  did  not  think  that  important.  It  was  a  dry  time  of  year  and  water  was  scarce.  Johnwore  a  small  beard  and  mustache,  both  grizzled,  which  gave  him  distinction  of  an  academic  sort.  Sparse  liv-  ing  and  two  months  in  the  field  accounted  for  his  flat  stomach;  he  was  not  as  spare  and  hard  as  his  friend,  but  he  was  in  good  shape  for  a  white  man  of  his  age.  The  room  in  which  they  were  eating  was  the  one  he  had  rented  as  a  young  man.  It  was  well  kept  and  aus-  terely  bare.  The  floor  was  of  hard-  dried  mud,  on  which  the  evening  sun  made  a  red-gold  flood  inside  the  door-  way.  The  walls  had  been  plastered  with  the  same  mud,  and  whitewashed,  not  very  recently.  From  the  ceiling,  which  was  made  of  small  sticks  resting  on  round  beams,  several  prayer  feathers  hung.  There  was  a  fireplace  in  one  corner,  near  which  Applegate's  bedding  was  neatly  folded  and  piled.  A  few  gar-  ments  hung  on  one  wall;  a  box  and  a  duffelbag  suggested  other  possessions.  Against  another  wall  were  one  chair  and  a  table;  on  the  table  half  a  dozen  reference  books,  writing  equipment,  and  notebooks.  They  finished  eating,  belched  com-  fortably,  and  lit  cigarettes  from  John's  pack.  Wallace's  wife  came  in  to  collect  the  dishes.  She  had  once  been  slim,  quite  lovely,  and  shy;  now  she  was  broad,  motherly,  and  self-assured.  She  did  not  regret  the  changes  time  had  brought.  She  was  next  in  line  to  be  clan  mother  of  an  important  clan.  She  had  four  daughters,  all  of  whom  had  children,  she  had  several  good_sons,  her  brothers  occupied  the  positions  for  which  their  lineage  made  them  eligible,  and  she  was  genuinely  fond  of  her  husband.  She  and  Wallace  were  people  to  whom  one  could  entrust  with  entire  safety  the  secret  that  until  recently  one  had  been  someone  else.  29  e  &quot;  as     The  two  men  thanked  her  for  the  meal.  She  responded,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;I  got  to  put  my  old  man  to  work  for  a  while,&quot;  and  spoke  to  Wallace  in  Hopi.  He  stood  up.  &quot;I  got  to  go  haul  wood  or  I'll  be  in  trouble.&quot;  Alone,  John  tried  to  concentrate  on  a  thought  that  had  come  to  him  while  watching  the  katcinas  during  the  cere-  mony-why  it  was  that  masks  that  made  no  attempt  to  look  like  faces  sug-  gested  the  divine  better  than  the  finest  portraiture-but  he  could  not.  His  mind  wandered,  He  should  have  been  utterly  hap-  py,  he  thought,  and  until  recently  he  had  been,  but  now  he  was  not.  For  several  weeks  his  happiness,  his  peace,  had  been  leaking  away;  at  times  he  had  felt  he  did  not  know  himself.  His  unease  was  becoming  acute.  W  hat  should  have  been  an  absorb-  ing  line  of  thought  only  led  him  back  to  what  had  come  over  him  in  the  middle  of  the  Niman,  with  the  lines  of  singing  katcinas  splendid  in  the  plaza.  He  had  been  suddenly  attacked  by  one  of  those  fears  that,  psychology  says,  arise  merely  from  one's  opposition  to  the  thing  feared,  like  the  feeling  that  one  might  jump  from  a  height.  He  imagined  himself-or,  rather,  Apple-  gate  of  [REDACTED]  Marnick-unable  longer  to  forgo  his  Martinis,  and  theruin  that  his  drinking,  or  even  a  smell  on  his  breath,  would  cause  to  his  relations  with  the  Hopis,  who  despise  drinking  in  any  case,  and  during  a  time  of  ritual  and  holy  thinking  consider  it  plain  blas-  phemy.  Shaking  himself  out  of  that,  he  had  thought  that,  as  Manderville,  he  had  been  in  a  bad  situation  among  the  Tzeltals,  since  the  natives  of  southern  [REDACTED]  drink,  and  frequently  get  good  and  drunk,  during  their  religious  ob-  servances.  He  had  had  a  sudden  recol-  lection  ofthe  sweetish  fire  of  aguar-  diente  and  its  strength  in  the  stomach,  and  he  had  somehow  conjured  up  a  vision  of  a  drunken  ceremony  here  in  the  Hopi  plaza  until  he  saw,  with  a  sense  of  fright,  that  there  was  a  thin,  dark  curtain  between  him  and  the  katcinas,  and  he  was  seized  by  the  idea  that  the  powers  present  in  those  masks  knew  what  was  in  his  mind.  In  his  room,  after  he  got  away  from  those  phantasms,  he  was  obsessed  by  the  simple  thought  of  a  drink.  The  subject  had  come  back  more  and  more  frequently-at  first,  as  now,  at  the  cocktail  hour,  then  at  almost  any  time,  including  on  waking.  It  was  only  fifty  miles  of  decent  road  to  Winslow,  and  at  a  bar  there,  the  evening  before  he  drove  onto  the  reservation,  having  received  a  distressing  Martini,  he  had  switched  and  enjoyed  a  couple  of  ex-  cellent  whiskey  sours.  He  did  not  desire  whiskey  sours  now;  he  imagined  the  good  bite  and  taste  of  a  neat  whiskey  after  so  long  a  drought.  He  thought  of  having  one,  and  knew  perfectly  well  that  it  would  not  be  just  one.  Neither  his  funds  nor  his  work  would  permit  his  re-  maining  any  length  of  time  in  town.  Vodka  makes  but  little  smell  on  the  breath,  and  with  chlorophyll  tablets  .  ..  His  mind  ran  like  a  mouse  about  the  bare  room,  cunningly  selecting  hiding  places.  With  eagerness  and  distress  he  knew  he  was  about  to  tell  Wallace's  wife  a  story  and  drive  to  Winslow.  It  was  in-  evitable;  it  was  his  pattern.  There  had  been  at  least  a  partial  preparation  for  it  in  more  than  twenty  years  of  Apple-  gate's  pattern.  He  had  a  sudden,  vivid  image,  part  visual,  part  emotional,  of  his  study,  the  adjacent  plenitude  of  cock-  tails,  the  life  without  demands  or  dan-  gers,  and  the  butler  bringing  the  letters  on  a  Salver.  He  could  never  return  to  that;  it  was  done.  His  commitment  was  inexorable.  The  thought  of  irreversible  fate  filled  him  with  cold  fear;  then  he  embraced  it,  seeming  at  that  moment  to  slip  from  one  aspect  of  himself,  one  per-  sonality,  into  another,  and  as  he  did  so  he  relaxed  and  his  expression  changed.  In  the  end,  if  need  be,  he  could  go  to  [REDACTED];  in  fact,  [REDACTED]  and  much  less  constraining  conditions  of  life  might  be  preferable.  Given  the  reputation  he  now  had,  which  this  season's  work  would  in-  crease,  he  could  create  a  decent  enough  situation  for  himself  down  there,  his  wants  being  so  simple-one  might  al-  most  say  single.  He  rose  slowly  to  his  feet.  With  the  mixture  of  amusement  and  appreciation  a  man  of  brilliance  feels  toward  a  good  but  lesser  man  who  has  built  not  only  better  than  he  knew  but  far  better  thanhe  intended,  he  thought  what  an  amazing  job  Applegate  had  done  of  re-creating  him. "