  LEAST  SAID  HIS  winter,  for  reasons  too  long  and  very  likely  tedious  to  go  into,  my  husband  and  I  have  removed  ourselves  and  our  clothes  from  an  up-  stairs  bedroom  of  our  house  in  Con-  necticut  and  gone  to  live  for  a  few  months  in  the  downstairs  guest  room.  This  was  to  be  great  fun;  rather  like  going  visiting-or  so  we  supposed.  An  ancestral  highboy  accommodates  all  my  foldable  clothes,  and  the  one  closet  takes  whatever  needs  a  hanger.  'To  be  sure,  the  nearest  closet  we  could  find  for  my  husband's  suits  was  an  empty  one  off  the  maids'  dining  room,  and  the  best  use  of  this  takes  thought  and  planning,  and  agility,  and  deft  darting  forays  in  his  dressing  gown  when  he  hopes  no  one  is  about;  he  comes  flying  back  through  pantry,  dining  room,  and  library,  his  blue  dressing-gown  sash  ends  waving,  and  a  captured  suit  still  on  its  hanger  tri-  umphantly  borne,  like  a  captive  Sabine  woman,  over  his  shoulder.  Soon  after  we  moved  downstairs  into  the  guest  room,  it  became  apparent  that  we  were  now  right  next  to  the  artesian  well  and  its  electric  pump.  Just  outside  the  windows,  in  the  lawn,  this  enemy  is  established,  its  painted  cover  a  different  green  from  the  surrounding  grass;  I  must  say  I  scarcely  ever  noticed  it  be-  fore.  But  now,  all  night  long,  it  goes  nummy-nummy-nummy-nummy,  in-  terminably,  and  my  husband  lies  rigid  in  the  other  bed,  listening,  and  gritting  his  teeth,  and  muttering,  lowand  wor-  ried,  &quot;Why  doesn'tthe  damned  thing  shut  itself  off!&quot;  I  don't  know,  of  course.  I  don't  want  to  know.  What  goes  on  among  the  sullen  pipes  and  valves  of  our  water  system  and  in  the  dark  mysterious  fuse  boxes  is  no  concern  of  mine.  What  I  am  concerned  with,  though,  is  the  suffering,  rage,  and  frustration  engen-  dered  in  a  helpless  woman-any  wom-  an-by  a  man  insisting  on  explaining  plumbing  to  her;  plumbing  and,  or  elec-  tricity.  &quot;Let's  just  let  the  pump  run  and  forget  about  it,  why  not&quot;&quot;  I  plead  through  the  dark,  night  after  night.  But  no.  Some  evenings,  my  husband  turns  it  off  before  he  goes  to  bed,  and  sets  the  alarm  clock  for  3  a.M.  in  order  to  turn  it  on  again.  When  the  alarm  goes  off,  he  springs  up  and  goes  fum-  bling  out  to  the  lawn.  I  hear  the  pump  cover's  muted  clash,  then  a  long,  long  silence,  and  I  lie  wide-eyed,  wondering  if  he  has  touched  something  he  shouldn't  and  been  electrocuted,  and  if  so,  wheth-  er  I  ought  to  get  up.  The  cover  is  heard  again,  and  he  comes  shivering  back.  &quot;But  why  do  you  have  to  do  that!&quot;  I  cry.  &quot;Because  it  has  a  high  head  and  a  small  bore,&quot;  he  replies,  very  grimly.  &quot;But  it  must  run  all  night  when  we're  sleeping  upstairs,  and  you  never  hear  it,  and  you  don't  care.  'These  broken  nightsare  killing  me.&quot;  «'The  leathers  are  wearing,&quot;  he  says,  gloomily.  &quot;If  they  really  give  out,  we'll  have  to  pull  the  pipe.&quot;  &quot;Don't  tell  me.&quot;  I  plunge  beneath  the  blankets,  but  I  can  hear  &quot;.  ..  so  we'd  better  give  up  the  dishwasher.&quot;  &quot;Oh!&quot;  I  come  up  for  air;  I  thump  my  pillow.  &quot;All  right.  But  you  be  the  one  to  tell  [REDACTED],  who  will  probably  then  leave.&quot;  &quot;And  no  baths  for  a  while,  or  we'll  never  get  thepressure  up.&quot;&quot;  My  husband  belongs  to  the  I-am-holier-than-thou-  because-I-take-a-shower-and-thou-  takes-a-bath  school,  despite  the  several,  true,  scientific  experiments  I  have  made,  proving  it's  completely  a  case  of  six  of  one  and  six  of  the  other.  If  I  bring  this  up,the  reply  is  &quot;Waste  pipe  leaks  then,  probably,&quot;  and  he  telephones  the  plumber  before  he  goes  off  to  the  office.  'The  plumber  comes,  or  two  or  three,  and  they  crowd  into  the  small  guest-room  bathroom  and  lay  their  greasy  great  tools  down  on  the  white  rug  and  flick  cigarette  ashes  all  over  the  English  soap.  &quot;Least  Said  Soonest  Mended&quot;  should  be  carved  in  marble  over  the  front  door  of  trade  schools.  But  it  isn't;  it  can't  be,  the  way  they  go  on.  &quot;See,  lady,  the  female  joint  is  stripped,  so  we'll  have  to  use  a  threader,  but  we  can't  do  it  now  because  we  have  to  go  back  in  to  town  and  get  one.  While  we're  here,  we  might  as  well  check  everything  else.&quot;  They  set  to  and  wrench  out  whole  joints;  they  look  solemnly  into  the  dark  mouths  of  pipes.  &quot;Corrosion,&quot;  they  murmur,  in  Episcopalian  tones.  An-  otherthing  they  say,  staring  downward  and  nodding  their  heads,  is  &quot;It  don't  seem  toseat  itself,  does  it;  h'hmm.&quot;  If  I  am  so  unwary  as  to  pass  nearby,  they  call  me  in  again.  &quot;See;  you  can  see  how  she  keeps  leaking  and  leaking.&quot;  She!  Needs  graphiting,&quot;&quot;  they  conclude.  HE  simple  truth  is  that  no  woman  born  of  woman  wants  to  know  about  valves  and  traps  and  elbow  joints.  If  I  picked  up  one  of  the  greasy  wrenches  and  aimed  a  shrewd  blow  at  what  ap-  pears  to  me  to  be  the  seat  of  the  trouble,  they'd  blanch,  those  men.  Or  I  hope  they  would,  but  who  has  ever  been     lucky  enough  to  see  a  blanched  plumb-  er?  It's  all  most  unfair.  When  have  I  ever  forced  an  electrician  ora  plumber  or  a  husband  to  come  close  to  my  sewing  basket  and  said  to  him,  &quot;You  see,  be-  fore  I  can  sew  a  button  on  this  shirt,  I  have  to  do  this  to  the  thread,&quot;  and  made  him  attend  while  I  perform  the  quick  legerdemain  that  results  in  a  knot  at  the  thread's  end?  Nor  do  I  then  tip  the  mingled  contents  of  the  big  Mark  Cross  basket  out  all  over  the  floor  at  his  feet  and  say,  &quot;And  I'll  just  leave  all  this  here  while  I  go  into  town  and  get  a  button.  This  button  doesn't  fit;&quot;  and  be  gone  and  gone.  And  not  come  back  and  start  banging  again  until  the  middle  of  my  nap-their  nap-oh  whose?  High  head  and  small  bore,  indeed.  High  head  and  a  big  bore,  more  likely. 