 b"THE  discovery  of  where  babies  came  from  filled  my  life  with  excitement  and  interest.  Not  in  the  way  itis  generally  supposed  to  do  it,  of  course.  Oh,  no.  I  never  seem  to  have  done  anything  like  a  small  boy  in  a  standard  textbook.  I  merely  discov-  ered  history.  Up  to  this,  I  had  lived  in  a  world  without  history,  accepting  my  parents'  marriage  as  an  event  ordained  from  the  creation,  but  now,  considering  it  in  this  new,  scientific  way,  I  began  to  see  it  as  only  one  of  the  turning  points  of  history-one  of  those  apparently  trivial  events  that  are  little  more  than  accidents  but  have  the  effect  of  changing  the  destiny  of  humanity.  I  had  not  heard  of  Pascal,  but  I  would  have  ap-  proved  his  remark  about  what  would  have  happened  if  Cleopatra's  nose  had  been  shorter.  Peering  back  through  the  mists,  I  could  see  that  there  had  been  moments  when  history  tottered  in  the  balance  and  ran  the  danger  of  not  pro-  ducing  me.  This  immediately  changed  my  way  of  looking  at  my  parents.  Until  then  they  had  been  prototypes,  not  characters;  they  had  been  like  a  chain  of  mountains  guarding  a  green  horizon.  Suddenly  a  little  shaft  of  light  emerging  from  be-  hind  a  cloud  struck  them  and  the  whole  mass  broke  up  into  peaks,  valleys,  and  foothills;  you  could  even  see  white-  washed  houses  and  fields  where  people  worked  in  the  evening  light-a  whole  world  of  interior  perspective.  Mother's  character  was  the  richer  area  for  exploration.  It  was  extraordinary  the  variety  of  people  and  settings  that  woman  had  in  her  background.  Before  she  married  my  father  and  set  up  housekeeping  in  Barrackton,  on  the  outskirts  of  Cork,  and  had  a  son,  who  turned  out  to  be  me,  she  had  been  an  orphan,  a  house-  maid,  a  paid  companion,  a  travel-  ler;  and  had  beenproposed  to  by  a  plasterer's  apprentice,  by  a  French  chef,  who  had  taught  her  to  make  superb  coffee,  and  by  a  rich  and  elderly  shopkeeper  in  Sunday's  Well.  I  liked  the  idea  of  the  Frenchman,  but  the  shopkeeper  was  an  even  more  vivid  figure  in  my  imagination,  because  he  had  married  some-  one  else  and  died  within  a  mat-  ter  of  months-of  disappoint-  ment,  I  had  no  doubt-leaving  a  large  fortune.  The  fortune  was  to  me  what  Cleopatra's  nose  was  to  Pascal-the  ultimate  proof  that  things  might  have  been  different.  &quot;How  much  was  Mr.  Riordan's  for-  tune,  Mummy?&quot;  I  asked  thoughtfully.  &quot;Ah,  they  said  he  left  eleven  thou-  sand,&quot;  Mother  replied  hesitantly.  &quot;But  you  can't  believe  halfof  what  people  say.&quot;  Couldn't  I,  indeed?  I  who  if  history  had  taken  a  different  course  would  have  inherited  it'  &quot;And  weren't  you  ever  sorry  for  poor  Mr.  Riordan?&quot;  I  asked  severely.  &quot;Ah,  why  would  I  be  sorry,  child?&quot;  she  asked  with  a  shrug.  &quot;Sure,  what  use  would  money  be  where  there  was  no  liking?&quot; That,  of  course,  was  not  what  I  meant  at  all.  My  heart  was  full  of  pity  for  poor  Mr.  Riordan,  but  even  on  the  low  level  at  which  Mother  discussed  it,  money  would  have  been  of  great  use.  I  was  not  so  fond  of  my  father  asto  think  he  was  well  bought  at  such  a  rate.  Mother-it  was  one  of  the  discoveries  I  was  making  at  the  time-was  not  only  rather  hardhearted;  she  was  impractical  as  well.  But  Father  was  the  real  shock.  He  was  a  brooding,  worried  man  who  seemed  to  have  no  proper  affection  for  me,and  was  always  wanting  me  to  go  out  and  play,  or  go  upstairs  and  read,  but  the  historical  approach  changed  him like  a  sort  of  magic  formula,  &quot;Now  let's  talk  about  the  ladies  Daddy  nearly  married,&quot;  I  would  say,  and  he  would  stop  whatever  he  was  doing.  &quot;Oh,  ho,  ho!&quot;  he  would  crow,  slapping  his  knee  and  looking  slyly  at  Mother.  &quot;You  could  write  a  book  about  them.&quot;  Even  his  face  changed  at  such  moments,  Sud-  denly  he  would  look  young  and  ex-  traordinarily  mischievous.  Mother,  on  the  other  hand,  grew  black.  &quot;You  could,&quot;  she  would  say,  looking  into  the  fire.  &quot;Daisies!&quot;  &quot;''The  handsomest  man  that  walks  Cork-that's  what  one  of  them  called  me,&quot;  Father  would  say  with  a  wink  at  me.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Mother,  scowling.  &quot;May  Cadogan.&quot;  &quot;The  very  girl!&quot;  Father  would  cry  in  astonishment.  &quot;How  did  I  forget  her  name?  A  beautiful  girl!  'Pon  my  word,  a  most  remarkable  girl!  And  still  is,  I  hear.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  with  her  six  children!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  now,  she'd  be  the  one  that  could  look  after  them.  A  fine  head  that  girl  had.&quot;  &quot;She  had.  Tying  them  to  a  lamp-  post  while  she  went  in  for  drink  and  gossip!&quot;  That  was  one  of  the  peculiar  things  about  history.  Father  and  Mother  both  loved  talking  about  it,  but  while  Mother  did  not  like  talking  about  it  in  front  of  Father,  he  loved  talking  about  it  in  front  of  her,  and  it  made  her  mad.  Particularly  when  he  mentioned  May  Cadogan.  And  Father  knew  that,  and  would  wink  at  me  and  make  me  laugh  outright  at  her,  though  I  had  no  idea  why  I  laughed,  and  anyway  my  sym-  pathy  was  all  with  Mother.  &quot;But,  Daddy,&quot;  I  would  say,  making  bold  on  his  high  spirits,  &quot;if  you  liked  Miss  Cadogan  so  much,  why  didn't  you  marry  her?&quot;  At  this  point  Father  always  let  on  to  be  filled  with  doubt  and  distress.  He  put  his  hands  in  his  trousers  pockets  and  strode  to  the  hall  door.  &quot;Well,  now,&quot;  he  would  reply,  &quot;that  was  a  delicate  matter.  You  see,  I  had  to  think  of  your  poor  mother.&quot;  &quot;I  was  a  great  trouble  to  you,&quot;  Mother  would  say,  in  a  blaze.  &quot;Poor  May  said  it  to  me  her-  self,&quot;  he  went  on,  ignoring  Mother,  &quot;and  the  tears  pouring  down  her  cheeks.  'Mick,'  says  " b"she,  'that  girl  with  the  brown  hair  will  bring  me  to  an  untimely  grave.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;She  could  talk  of  hair!&quot;  cried  Mother.  &quot;With  her  carroty  mop!&quot;  &quot;Never  did  I  suffer  the  way  I  suffered  then,  be-  tween  the  two  of  them,&quot;  Father  said  emotionally,  re-  turning  to  his  chair  by  the  window.,  &quot;Oh,  'tis  a  pity  about  ye,&quot;  Mother  would  say  in  an  ex-  asperated  tone,  and  sudden-  ly  get  up  and  go  into  the  front  room  with  her  book,  to  escape  his  teasing.  Every  word  that  man  said  she  took  literally,  Father  would  give  a  guffaw  of  delight,  his  hands  on  his  knees  and  his  eyes  raised  to  the  ceiling,  and  wink  at  me  again.  I  laughed,  too,  of  course,  and  then  grew  wretched  because  I  hated  Mother's  sitting  alone  in  the  front  room.  I  would  go  in  and  find  her  in  her  wicker  chair  by  the  window  in  the  dusk,  with  the  book  open  on  her  knees,  looking  out  at  the  Square.  She  would  always  have  regained  her  composure  by  the  time  she  spoke  to  me,  but  always  I  would  have  an  uncanny  feeling  of  unrest  in  her,  and  I  would  stroke  her  and  talk  to  her  soothingly,  as  if  she  were  the  child  and  I  the  grownup.  UT  if  I  was  excited  about  what  history  meant  to  them,  I  was  even  more  excited  about  what  it  meant  to  me.  Their  potentialities  were  consider-  able,  but  nothing  compared  to  mine.  Through  Mother  I  might  have  been  a  Frenchman  named  Armady,  or  a  rich  boy  from  Sunday's  Well  named  Rior-  dan-Laurence  Riordan  sounded  to  me  a  quite  good  name.  Through  Fa-  ther,  while  still  remaining  a  Delaney,  I  might  have  been  one  of  the  six  chil-  dren  of  the  mysterious  Miss  Cadogan.  I  was  fascinated  by  the  problem  of  who  I  would  have  been  if  I  hadn't  been  me,  and,  even  more,  by  the  problem  of  whether  or  not  I  would  have  known  that  I  wasn't  me.  As  the  imaginary  boy  Laurence  Riordan,  would  I  have  felt  about  Larry  Delaney,  who  was  not  imaginary,  the  way  that  as  Larry  De-  laney  I  felt  about  Laurence  Rior-  dan?  One  afternoon  after  school,  Ire-member,  I  walked  all  the  way  up  to  Sunday's  Well  by  myself.  I  stood  for  some  time  at  the  garden  gate  of  the  house  in  which  Mother  had  been  work-  ing  when  she  was  proposed  to  by  the  shopkeeper,  and  then  I  went  and  studied  the  shop  itself.  Obviously  it  had  seen  better  days.  It  looked  neglected,  and  the  cartons  and  advertisements  in  the  window  were  dirty  and  sagging.  It  was  not  like  one  of  the  big  stores  in  Patrick  Street,  but  at  the  same  time,  in  size  and  fitments,  it  was  well  above  the  level  of  a  village  shop.  I  regretted  that  Mr.  Riordan's  name  was  no  longer  above  the  door.  I  was  even  sorry  that  he  was  dead.  I  would  like  to  have  seen  him  for  myself,  instead  of  relying  upon  Mother's  impressions,  which  seemed  to  me  unreliable.  I  imagined  him  behind  the  counter,  lending  him  the  counte-  nance  and  manner  of  an  old  gentleman  who  always  spoke  to  me  on  the  road,  and  I  felt  I  could  have  been  really  at-  tached  to  him  as  a  father.  Mother,  of  course,  would  be  in  the  parlor  off  the  shop,  reading  and  waiting  for  me  to  come  home  to  Sunday's  Well  in  a  cap  and  blazer  and  with  an  expensive  leath-  er  satchel,  instead  of  theold  cloth  school-  bag  I  carried  over  my  shoulder.  I  could  see  myself  walking  slowly  and  with  a  certain  distinction,  lingering  at  gateways  and  looking  down  at  the  river  below.  And  later  I  would  go  out  to  tea  in  one  of  those  big  houses,  with  their  long  gardens  sloping  to  the  water,  and  perhaps  row  a  boat  on  the  river,  along  with  a  girlin  a  pink  frock.  I  would  per-  haps  never  be  even  aware  of  my  own  possible  extension,  the  National  School  boy  with  the  cloth  schoolbag,  who  would  linger  about  the  shop  looking  for  traces  of  me.  It  was  a  queer,  rather  lonesome  feeling  that  all  but  reduced  me  to  tears.  I  knew  that  under  similar  circumstances-if  I  were  the  shop-  keeper's  son  and  that  Riordan  boy  came  to  our  house  looking  for  me-I  should  behave  differently.  I  should  somehow  be  aware  of  him,  and  be  considerate,  even  generous,  with  him.  But  the  place  that  had  the  greatest  attraction  for  me  was  the  Douglas  " b"Road,  where  I  knew  Father's  friend  Miss  Cadogan  lived-only,  now  she  wasn't  Miss  Cadogan  but  Mrs.  O'Brien.  Mrs.  O'Brien  was  not  as  attractive  to  my  imagination  as  the  French  chef  and  the  elderly  shopkeeper,  but  she  had  a  physical  reality  which  they  lacked.  As  I  went  regularly  to  the  Library  by  Parnell  Bridge,  I  frequently  found  myself  wandering  up  the  road  in  the  direction  of  Douglas,  past  a  long  row  of  houses,  in  one  of  which  I  knew  she  lived.  In  the  evening,  thesunlight  always  fell  brightly  onto  the  house  fronts  till  they  looked  like  a  screen.  One  evening  as  I  watched  a  gang  of  boys  playing  ball  in  the  street,  curiosity  overcame  me.  I  spoke  to  one  of  them.  &quot;I  wonder  if  you  could  tell  me  which  house  Mrs.  O'Brien  lives  in,  please?&quot;  I  asked.  (I  was  always  a  child  of  solemn  and  unnatural  politeness.)  &quot;Hi,Gussie!&quot;  he  yelled  to  another  boy.  &quot;This  fellow  wants  to  know  where  your  old  one  lives.&quot;  A  thin,  good-looking  boy  of  about  my  own  age  detached  himself  from  the  gang  and  came  up  to  me  suspiciously,  his  fists  clenched  at  his  sides.  Though  I  was  feeling  distinctly  panicky,  I  stud-  ied  him  closely.  He  was,  after  all,  the  boy  I  might  have  been.  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  know  for?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;My  father  was  a  great  friend  of  yourmother,&quot;  I  explained.  I  might  have  been  talking  a  foreign  language,  sofar  as  he  was  concerned.  It  was  quite  clear  that  Gussie  O'Brien  had  no  sense  of  history.  &quot;What's  that  you  said?&quot;  he  asked  in-  credulously.  At  this  point  we  were  interrupted  by  a  small,  untidy  woman  I  had  noticed  earlier.  She  was  standing  by  her  front  door,  with  a  pram  beside  her,  and  talk-  ing  to  another  woman  across  the  railing  between  their  two  gardens.  Occasion-  ally  she  rocked  the  pram  in  an  absent-  minded  way  as  she  talked,  as  though  the  memory  of  it  only  came  to  her  in  brief  flashes.  &quot;What  is  it,  Gussie?&quot;  she  cried,  rais-  ing  herself  on  tiptoe  to  see  us  better.  &quot;I  don't  really  want  to  disturb  your  mother,  thank  you,&quot;  I  said  in  alarm,  but  he  was  already  pointing  me  out  to  her.  'T  hatfellow  wants  you,&quot;&quot;  he  bawled.  &quot;I  don't  really,&quot;  I  murmured,  feel-  ing  that  now  I  was  in  for  it.  There  was  a  high  flight  of  steps  from  the  door  to  the  gate,  and  she  skipped  down  them  with  a  laughing,  puzzled  air,  her  eyes  in  slits,  her  right  hand  ar-  ranging  her  hair  at  the  back.  It  was  not  carroty,  as  Mother  described  it,  but  it  had  red  lights  in  it.  &quot;What  is  it,  little  boy?&quot;  she  asked  coaxingly,  bending  forward.  &quot;I  didn't  really  want  anything,  thank  you,&quot;  I  said  in  terror.  &quot;It  was  just  that  Daddy  said  you  lived  up  here,  and  as  I  was  changing  my  book  at  the  Library,  I  thought  I'd  inquire.  You  see,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I've  only  just  got  out  this  book.&quot;  &quot;But  who  is  your  daddy?&quot;  she  asked,  her  gray  eyes  still  in  long,  laughing  slits.  &quot;What's  your  name?&quot;  &quot;My  name  is  Delaney,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Lar-  ry  Delaney.&quot;  &quot;Not  Mike  Delaney's  boy?&quot;  she  ex-  claimed  wonderingly.  &quot;Well,  for  God's  sake!  Sure,  I  should  have  known  it  from  that  big  head  of  yours.&quot;&quot;  She  passed  her  hand  gently  down  the  back  of  my  head  and  laughed.  &quot;If  you'd  had  your  hair  cut  I  wouldn't  be  long  recognizing  you.  You  wouldn't  think  Pd  know  the  feel  of  your  old  fellow's  head,  would  you?&quot;  she  asked  roguishly.  &quot;No,  Mrs.  O'Brien,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;Why,  then,  indeed  I  do,&quot;  she  said     in  the  same  tone.  &quot;And  more  along  with  it&quot;&quot;-a  remark  that  left  me  baffled.  &quot;Ah,  come  in  and  give  us  a  good  look  at  you.  'That's  my  eldest,  Gussie,  you  were  talking  to,&quot;  she  added  as  she  took  my  hand.  Gussie  trailed  behind  us,  for  a  purpose  I  only  recognized  later.  &quot;Ma-a-a-a,  who's  dat  fella  with  you?&quot;  yelled  a  fat  little  girl  who  had  been  playing  hopscotch  on  the  pave-  ment.  &quot;Larry  Delaney  is  his  name,&quot;  her  mother  sang  out  over  her  shoulder.  I  don't  know  what  it  was  about  that  woman,  but  she  had  the  peculiar  effect  of  making  herself  and  me  resemble  a  public  procession.  Compared  with  Mother,  whose  modesty  was  almost  painful,  she  seemed  to  move  to  the  strains  of  an  invisible  band.  &quot;Mick  De-  laney's  son  from  Barrackton.  I  nearly  married  his  old  fellow  once.  Did  he  ever  tell  you  that,  Larry?&quot;  she  added  slyly.  &quot;Yes,  Mrs.  O'Brien,  he  did,&quot;  Ire-  plied,  and  she  went  off  into  a  delighted  laugh,  tossing  her  glowing  head.  &quot;Ah,  look  at  that,  now!  How  well  the  old  scoundrel  didn't  forget  me!  You  can  tell  him  I  didn't  forget  him,  either.  And  if  I'd  married  him,  I'd  be  your  mother  now.  Wouldn't  that  be  a  queer  old  three-and-fourpence?  How  would  you  like  me  for  your  mother,  Larry?&quot;  &quot;Very  well,  thank  you,&quot;  I  said  com-  placently.  &quot;Ah,  go  on  with  you,  you  would  not!&quot;  she  exclaimed,  but  she  was  pleased  all  the  same.  She  struck  me  as  the  sort  of  woman  it  would  be  easy  enough  to  please.  &quot;Your  old  fellow  always  said  it:  your  mother  was  a  most  superior  wom-  an.  And  you're  a  most  superior  child.  Ah,  I'm  not  too  bad  myself,  either,&quot;  she  added  with  another  laugh,  wrinkling  up  her  little  merry  face.  " b"In  the  kitchen  she  cut  me  a  slice  of  bread,  smothered  it  in  jam,  and  gave  me  a  big  mug  of  milk.  &quot;Will  you  have  some,  Gussie?&quot;  she  asked  in  a  sharp  voice.  &quot;Aideen?&quot;  she  added  to  the  hor-  rible  little  girl,  who  had  come  into  the  house,  too.  &quot;Aren't  you  fat  and  ugly  enough,  without  making  apigof  yourself?  .  ..  Murder-the-Loaf,  we  call  her,&quot;  she  added,  by  way  of  explanation  to  me.  &quot;You're  a  polite  little  boy,  Larry,  but  you  wouldn't  be  long  polite  with  them.  Is  the  book  for  your  mother?&quot;  &quot;No,  Mrs.  O'Brien,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  for  me.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  you  can  read  a  big  book  like  that?&quot;  she  asked  incredulously,  tak-  ing  it  from  my  hands.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  I  can.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  believe  it.  Go  on  and  read  us  a  bit.&quot;  There  was  nothing  I  asked  better.  I  never  felt  I  got  my  due  as  a  performer.  I  stood  in  the  middle  ofthe  kitchen,  cleared  my  throat,  and  began,  with  great  feeling,  to  enunciate  one  of  those  incredibly  involved  opening  paragraphs  that  flourished  in  children's  books  in  those  days:  &quot;On  a  fine  evening  in  Spring  as  the  sun  was  beginning  to  gild  the  peaks,  a  rider,  recognizable  as  a  student  by  certain  niceties  of  attire,  was  making  his  way  slowly  .  ..&quot;  It  was  the  sort  of  opening  sentence  I  loved.  &quot;I  declare  to  God!&quot;  Mrs.  O'Brien  interrupted.  &quot;And  that  fellow  there  is  only  one  age  with  youand  he  can't  spell  'house'!  How  well  you  wouldn't  be  down  at  the  Library,  you  ignorant  cau-  boge!  .  ..  That's  enough,  now,  Larry,&quot;  she  said  hastily  asI  was  getting  ready  for  another  exhibition.  &quot;Who  wants  to  read  that  old  stuff!&quot;  Gussie  said  contemptuously.  Later,  he  took  me  upstairs  to  show  me  his  air  rifle  and  his  model  airplanes.  Apart  from  the  fact  that  the  air  rifle  was  broken  and  the  model  airplanes  wouldn't  fly,  they  seemed  all  right  to  me.  But  every  detail  ofthe  room  is  still  clear  to  me:  the  view  into  the  back  gar-  den,  with  its  jungle  of  wild  plants  and  Gussie's  tent  pitched  within  them  (no  place  for  a  tent,  as  I  explained  to  him,  because  of  the  danger  of  wild  beasts);  thethree  cots  still  unmade;  the  scribbles  on  the  walls;  and  Mrs.  O'Brien's  voice  from  the  kitchen  calling  to  Aideen  to  see  what  was  wrong  with  the  baby,  who  was  screaming  its  head  off  in  the  pram  outside  the  front  door.  Gussie  in  particu-  lar  still  fascinated  me.  He  was  spoiled,  clever,casual,  good-looking,  with  his  mother's  small,  clean  features,  and  very  gay  and  calculating.  I  saw  that  when  I  left  and  his  mother  gave  me  sixpence.  I  refused  politely,  but  she  thrust  it  into  my  trousers  pocket,  while  Gussie  pulled  at  her,  demanding  something  for  himself.  &quot;If  you  give  him  a  tanner,  you  ought  to  give  me  a  tanner!&quot;  he  yelled.  &quot;I'll  tan  you,&quot;  she  said,  laughing.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  give  us  a  lop,  anyway,&quot;  he  begged,  and  shedid  give  him  a  penny  to  keep  him  quiet,  whereupon  he  followed  me  out  and  suggested  we  should  go  to  the  shop  and  get  sweets.  I  told  him  I  couldn't  buy  sweets  without  Mother's  permission,  at  which  he  gave  me  up  al-  together.  N  the  twilight  I  went  back  slowly  over  the  bridges,  a  little  regretful  for  that  fast,  colorful  household  but  also  with  a  new  appreciation  of  my  own  home.  It  had  been  an  exhausting  after-  noon  but  a  very  instructive  one.  When  I  went  in,  the  lamp  was  lit  over  the  fire-  place  and  Father  was  at  his  tea.  &quot;Wisha,  what  kept  you,  child?&quot;  Mother  asked  with  an  anxious  air.  I  suddenly  felt  slightly  guilty,  and  I  played  it  asI  usually  did  when-  ever  I  was  at  fault-in  a  loud,  demon-strative  way.  I  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  kitchen  with  my  cap  in  my  hand  and  pointed  it  first  at  one,  then  at  the  other.  &quot;You  wouldn't  believe  who  I  met!&quot;  I  said  dramatically.  &quot;Wisha,  who,  child?&quot;  asked  Mother.  &quot;Miss  Cadogan,&quot;  I  said,  putting  my  cap  firmly  on  a  chair  and  turning  on  them  both  again.  &quot;Miss  May  Cadogan.  Mrs.  O'Brien,  as  she  is  now.&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  O'Brien?&quot;  Father  exclaimed,  putting  down  his  cup.  &quot;But  where  did  you  meet  Mrs.  O'Brien?&quot;  &quot;I  said  you  wouldn't  believe  it.  It  was  near  the  Library.  I  was  talking  to  some  fellows,  and  what  do  you  think  but  one  of  them  was  Gussie  O'Brien,  Mrs.  O'Brien's  son.  And  I  went  back  home  with  him,  and  she  gave  me  bread  and  jam,  and  she  gave  me  this.&quot;  I  produced  the  sixpence  with  a  flourish.  &quot;Well,  I'm  blowed!&quot;  Father  said,  and  looked  at  Mother  and  burst  into  a  loud  guffaw.  &quot;And  she  said  to  tell  you  she  remem-  bers  you,  too,  and  that  she  sent  her  love.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  by  the  jumping  bell  of  Ath-  lone!&quot;  cried  Father,  and  clapped  his  hands  on  his  knees.  I  could  see  that  he  believed  the  story  as  I  had  told  it,  and  was  delighted  with  it.  I  could  also  see  that  Mother  did  not  really  believe  a  word  I  had  said,  and  that  she  was  not  delighted.  'That  was  always  the  trouble  with  Mother;  shedid  not  understand  the  responsibilities  of  an  intellectual  child  and  his  need  for  investigation  and  experiment.  She  never  opened  her  mouth  while  Father  questioned  me  about  detail  after  detail,  shaking  his  head  in  wonder  and  storing  it  all  up  to  tell  to  the  men  in  the  factory.  What  pleased  him  most  was  Mrs.  O'Brien's  remem-  bering  the  shape  of  his  head,  and  I  caught  him  later,  while  Mother  was  out  " b"of  the  kitchen,  looking  in  the  mirror  and  stroking  the  back  of  his  head.  But  I  knew,  too,  that  for  the  first  time  I  had  managed  to  produce  in  Mother  the  unrest  that  Father  could  produce,  and  I  felt  wretched  and  guilty,  and  didn't  know  why.  It  was  an  aspect  of  history  that  I  only  studied  later.  HAT  night  I  was  able  to  indulge  to  the  full  my  passion  for  thinking  about  who  I  might  have  been  if  I  hadn't  been  me.  At  last  I  had  the  material  to  go  on.  I  was  Gussie  O'Brien,  standing  in  the  back  room,  looking  down  at  the  tent  in  the  garden,  and  Aideen  was  my  sister,  and  Mrs.  O'Brien  was  my  mother.  I  remembered  Mrs.  O'Brien's  laughter,  her  scolding,  and  the  way  she  had  stroked  my  head.  I  knew  she  was  kind-casually  kind-and  hot-tem-  pered,  and  that  in  dealing  with  her  I     must  somehow  be  a  different  sort  of  person.  Reading  was  not  enough.  She  would  almost  compel  you  to  be  as  Gus-  sie  was-flattering,  impertinent,  and  exacting.  Though  I  could  not  have  ex-  pressed  it  in  those  terms,  she  would  compel  you  to  flirt  with  her.  When  I  had  had  enough  of  thinking  about  what  it  was  like  to  have  Mrs.  O'Brien  for  a  mother,  I  deliberately  soothed  myself.  It  was  what  I  did  whenever  I  had  scared  myself  by  imag-  ining  that  there  was  a  burglar  in  the  room  or  a  wild  beast  trying  to  get  in  the  attic  window.  I  crossed  my  hands  on  my  chest,  looked  up  at  the  window,  and  thought,  No,  it's  not  like  that.  I'm  me,  Larry  Delaney,  not  Gussie  O'Brien,  and  my  mother  is  Mary  De-  laney,  and  I  live  in  7  [REDACTED]  Cot-  tages.  Tomorrow  I'll  go  to  school  at  St.  James,  and  first  there  will  be  prayers,  and  then  arithmetic,  and  after  that  composition.  ...  But  for  the  first  time  the  charm  did  not  work.  I  had  ceased  to  be  Gussie,  but  somehow  I  had  not  yet  be-  come  myself  again.  It  was  as  though  I  had  managed  to  creep  out  of  my  own  identity  and  could  not  get  back,  because  it  was  now  too  narrow  and  cramped  to  accommodate  me-as  if  I  were  in  danger  of  being  di-  vorced  forever  from  Moth-  er  and  home  and  everything  permanentand  familiar.  I  did  everything  I  knew  to  reassure  myself.  I  tried  to  play  a  counting  game;  then  I  tried  to  pray.  But  the  prayer  itself  seemed  to  be  distorted,  as  though  it  no  longer  came  from  me.  I  was  away  in  the  middle  of  emp-  ty  space,  like  the  soul  of  an  unborn  child.  And  sudden-  lyin  my  anguish  I  found  myself  sobbing.  The  door  opened  and  Mother  came  in  in  her  nightdress,  shivering,  her  hair  about  her  face.  &quot;'You're  not  sleeping,  child,&quot;  she  said  in  a  wan  and  sleepy  voice.  I  snivelled,  and  she  put  her  hand  on  my  forehead.  &quot;You're  hot,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  ails  you?&quot;  But  I  could  not  tell  her  of  the  nightmare  in  which  I  was  lost.  Instead,  I  took  her  hand  and  squeezed  it,  and  gradually  the  terror  retreat-  ed,  and  I  became  myself  again,  shrank  into  my  little  skin  of  identity,.  I  knew  I  was  fallingasleep.  &quot;I  never  want  any-  body  but  you,&quot;  I  said,"