 b"NOWADAYS  when  I  make  a  trip  to  [REDACTED]  itis  to  go  to  the  dentist.  It  takes  two  and  a  half  hours  by  train  from  Charlottesville,  where  I  live,  and  I  am  apt  to  wear  a  tailored  suit  and  carry  a  coat,  in  case  it  turns  colder,  and  an  umbrella,  in  case  it  rains.  After  the  dentist  has  finished  with  me  I  replace  my  lipstick  and,  since  I  was  brought  up  to  expect  an  ice-cream  soda  after  the  dentist,  I  generally  go  to  see  my  friend  Miss  Dorothy  Armistead,  who  lives  in  a  fusty  old  apartment  near  Thomas  Circle  and  dresses  in  genuine  antiques.  (Since  she  would  be  enraged  if  her  privacy  was  invaded,  the  name  I  use  is  not  a  real  one,  and  neither  are  sev-  eral  more  to  come.  )  Sometimes  I  merely  pay  a  call  and  am  given  kitchen  tea  out  ofa  Royal  Worcester  pot  that  belonged  to  one  of  MissDorothy's  ancestors  at  Beaulieu,  in  [REDACTED];  sometimes  we  go  to  the  National  Gallery  or  to  a  concert.  Miss  Dorothy's  exalted  lineage  and  her  moral  standards,  which  are  Vic-  torian,  permit  her  to  view  [REDACTED]  society  with  a  very  cold  eye  indeed.  It  is  both  entertaining  and  salutary  to  observe  our  nation's  capital  through  the  dun-colored  glasses  of  her  lorgnette,  in  which  most  people  of  means  become  nouveaux  riches;  distinguished  diplo-  mats,  as  foreigners,  appear  fundamen-  tally  shabby;  and  Georgetown,  that  community  of  the  fashionable  rich,  is  a  sort  of  slum.  &quot;A  very  damp,  unsani-  tary  place,&quot;  Miss  Dorothy  calls  it.  Last  time  I  had  to  go  to  the  dentist  Miss  Dorothy  and  I  went  to  a  piano  recital.  We  heard  Mo-  zart  at  the  beginning  of  the  program,  but  I  don't  know  whatcame  after  that,  for  after  the  first  number  Miss  Doro-  thy-who  classes  musicians,  along  with  actors,  as  mummers  and  unfitfor  consideration  or  Christian  burial-whispered  sibilantly  to  me,  &quot;See  that  woman?  With  the  ragged  stuff  on  her  hat.  That's  Diana  de  Carville.  I  suppose  you've  heard  of  her?&quot;  She  gave  the  name  the  vanishing  &quot;y&quot;  of  old  [REDACTED],  so  that  it  sounded  like  &quot;Cyarville.&quot;  I  nodded  vigorously  as  the  pianist  again  lifted  his  hands  to  the  keys.  I  had  indeed  heard  of  her.  I  was  almost  unconscious  ofthe  music  as  I  continued  to  stare  at  the  profile  of  the  hand-  some  woman  with  the  black  monkey-fur  cap  over  her  silver  hair,  several  rows  ahead  of  us.  I  had  never  before  actually  seen  the  face  that  in  my  youth  was  a  legend  in  the  cities  up  and  down  the  eastern  seaboard,  but  twenty-five  years  ago  I  had  been  eaten  up  with  jealousy  of  its  owner.  I  will  never  know  the  reasons-cul-  tural?  patriotic?  -that  made  my  mother  take  me  out  of  my  [REDACTED]  school  for  a  week,  when  I  was  fifteen,  and  al-  low  me  to  accompany  her  to  Washing-  ton,  where  she  was  to  serve  on  the  jury  of  selection  at  the  Corcoran  Gallery  of  Art.  I  was  not  to  stay  with  her  at  the  hotel  where  the  jurists  were  being  put  up  but  with  my  cousin  Lelia,  in  the  house  on  N  Street  where  our  paternal  grandfather  had  lived  when  he  was  Chaplain  of  the  Senate  in  Teddy  Roose-  velt's  administration.  The  house  was  now  owned  by  his  oldest  son,  who  was  very  unlike  my  artist  father,  being  the  social  member  of  the  family;  he  had  been  heard  to  remark  that  in  his  travels  for  the  [REDACTED]  Railroad  he  liked  to  be  able  to  put  up  at  his  own  club  no  matter  what  city  he  found  himself  in.  Lelia,  though  only  a  little  older  than  I,  was  making  her  d\xc3\xa9but  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;Advanced  for  her  age&quot;  was  the  family  slug  for  Lelia.  Perhaps  my  parents  thought  it  would  be  nice  for  me,  an  only  child,  to  see  something,  under  conditions  of  girlish  festivity,  of  a  female  relative  of  similar  years;  I  don't  know.  In  any  case  I  doubt  whether  my  parents,  who,  contrary  to  the  popular  conception  of  artists,  were  innocent  and  unworldly  in the  extreme,  realized  what  my  visit  would  be  like.  Lelia  met  me  at  the  door  when  I  ar-  rived,  after  dark.  I  turned  and  waved  reassuringly  at  my  mother,  leaning  out  of  a  waiting  taxi.  She  waved  back  and  the  taxi  drove  on.  &quot;Well.  It's  been  aeons  since  we've  [REDACTED];  Lelia  drawled  as  we  went  into  the  lighted  hall.  She  was  tall,  blond,  and  dressed  in  a  black  cr\xc3\xa9pe-de-Chine  dress,  with  ob-  long,  braid-edged,  overlapping  flaps  down  the  skirt,  that  even  my  [REDACTED]  eye  recognized  as  being  French;  I  was  later  instructed  that  it  came  from  Patou's.  She  wore  lipstick.  She  wore  earrings.  I  nearly  died  right  there  in  the  hall.  After  I  had  spoken  to  my  uncle  and  aunt,  Lelia  showed  me  up  to  my  room,  on  the  fourth  floor,  where  I  unpacked  my  garments  from  Jordan  Marsh's  and  R.  H.  Stearns-serviceable  wool  dresses  for  daytime,  a  brown  velveteen  &quot;suitable  if  they  should  take  you  to  a  tea,&quot;  my  taf-  feta  evening  dress,  of  a  clear  and  guile-  less  pink,  with,  at  the  hip,  a  tinsel  rose  that  had  looked  dashing  back  in  [REDACTED].  As  I  hung  them  in  the  closet  Lelia  sat  gazing  at  her  image  in  the  mirror  of  my  dressing  table.  She  picked  up  the  hand  mirror  and  squinted  intently  at  the  skin  on  her  nose.  Then  she  held  the  mirror  farther  away  from  her  face.  &quot;God,  how  beautiful  I  am  tonight,&quot;  she  said.  It  has  occurred  to  me  in  later  years  that  Lelia,  &quot;advanced  for  her  age,&quot;  per- haps  meant  to  be  funny.  At  the  time  all  I  felt  was  awe  and  thorough  agreement.  &quot;We're  going  to  a  supper  dance  this  evening,&quot;  she  said,  laying  the  mirror  down  and  turning  around.  &quot;Two  divine  creatures  are  coming  here  to  dinner  first.&quot;  At  this  use  of  the  word  &quot;di-  vine&quot;  my  brain  reeled.  &quot;I  do  hope  your  family  lets  you  drink,&quot;  Lelia  continued.  &quot;We'll  all  have  cocktails  at  eight,  of  course,  in  the  Chinese Room.  Your  creature  is  named  Morgan  Hughes.  He's  in  the  diplomatic.  He's  been  literally  shattered  in  love  and  I  don't  suppose  he  will  ever  entirely   recover.  Diana  de  Carville,  of  course. I  thought  you  might soothe  him.&quot;  As  my  organism  struggled  to   adjust  itself  to  this  responsibili-ty,  Lelia  went  on,  &quot;My  crea-  ture  is  Russian.  White.  He's   suffered  horribly,  of  course.&quot;  The  phrase  &quot;of  course&quot;  has  never  again  sounded  to  me  " b"quite  the  way  it  did  on  that  trip  to  Washing-  ton:  world-weary,  nos-  talgic,  saturated  with  sophistication.  What  I  felt  mostly  was  grat,  itude  at  being  tacitly  included.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  I  agreed,  toI  know  not  what.  The  Chinese  Room  at  eight  turned  out  to  be  my  grandfather's  old  study,  which,  true  enough,  had  always  had  a  pair  of  orange-and-  gold  Chinese  vases  on  top  of  one  of  the  book-  cases;  Lelia  had  added  some  Chinese  carved-  stone  ashtrays  and  a  cigarette  box  to  match.  But  to  me,  totally  en-  glamoured  and  always  a  pushover  for  nomen-  clature,  it  might  as  well  have  been  the  Dowager  Empress's  pal-  ace  at  Peking.  The  two  young  men  arrived  in  white  tie  and  tails.  Lelia  had  on  a  white-and-  silver  sheath,  in  which  she  looked  taller  and  slimmer  and  blonder  than  ever.  I,  perforce,  wore  pink  taffeta.  &quot;Make  the  Orange  Blossoms,  will  you,  Morgan?&quot;  Lelia  commanded  with  a  weary  air.  &quot;Don't  forget  to  put  in  a  little  Five  Fruit.&quot;  Then,  turning  to  the  other  man,  she  burst  into  fluent  French;  Lelia  had  gone  to  school  in  [REDACTED].  The  Russian,  introduced  to  me  as  Serge  Sokolov,  replied  and  then,  turning  to  me,  said  something  that  ended  in  '\xc2\xbb  est-ce  pas,  Mademoiselle?&quot;  For  all  eleven  school  years  of  my  life  I  had  studied  French,  but  those  were  the  only  words  I  understood.  &quot;Je  ne  comprends  pas,&quot;  I  said  miserably,  with  a  [REDACTED]  accent.  Were  they  going  to  talk  only  French?  To  my  rescue  came  my  divine  crea-  ture,  who  seemed  indeed  divine,  being  well  over  six  feet  tall,  dark,  with  eye-  brows  that  met,  deliriously,  in  the  middle.  &quot;One  gets  tired  of  the  incessant  bab-  ble  offoreign  languages  in  Washing-  ton,&quot;  he  observed  wearily,  handing  me  a  glass.  &quot;English  is  so  much  more  chic,  of  course.&quot;  I  smiled  at  him  gratefully  and  began  on  my  life's  first  cocktail.  More  than  anything  else  it  reminded  me  of  castor  oil,  which  I  had  always  been  given  to  take  mixed  with  orange  juice.  The  supper  dance  was,  I  think,  at  the  Carlton.  The  ballroom  looked  beauti-  ful.  Chandeliers  of  cut  crystal  blazed, long  glass  French  doors  stood  open  on  a  terrace  where  romantic-looking  couples  strayed  away  from  the  floor;  there  were  glimpses  of  foreign  uniforms,  rows  of  medals  and  gold  braid,  as  their  dashing  wearers  swooped  in  and  out  of  the  dance  with  [REDACTED]  beauties  in  their  arms.  The  robes-de-style  that  were  just  be-  ginning  to  be  worn  in  those  days  swung  wide  in  sweeps  of  pale,  lovely  colors  mauve,  silver  gray,  and  dusty  rose.  Waiters  glided  around  the  edges  of  the  room  passing  great  trays  of  champagne  in  bell-shaped  glasses.  As  for  me,  aftera  short  turn  with  Morgan  Hughes  I  danced  round  and  round  and  round,  in  my  pink  taffeta  dress,  with  Mr.  Sokolov.  It  was  a  nightmare-all  heaven  out-  side  me  and  all  hell  within.  I  had  said  everything  I  could  think  of  to  say,  about  how  good  the  floor  was  and  how  pretty  the  girls  were  and  wasn't  it  warm  for  November?  I  felt  so  sorry  for  Mr.  Sokolov  that  my  heart  ached.  Was  he,  then,  always  to  suffer?  As  my  heart  was  going  down  for  the  third  time,  my  partner  suddenly  leapt  away  from  me  like  a  released  spring.  Morgan  Hughes  had  cut  in.  I  looked  up  at  those  eye-  brows.  He  had  rescued  me  again.  &quot;Would  you  care  to  go  out  on  the  terrace?&quot;  heasked  after  one  circuit  of  the  floor.  &quot;I  feellike  talking.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  I  said.  They  were  the  only  words  I  knew  that  sounded  right,  any  more.  We  passed  through  the  French  doors  and  out  into  the  damp,  cool  air.  Morgan  leaned  against  the  parapet  and  lighted  a  cigarette.  And  that  was  the  first  time  I  heard  about  Diana  de  Carville,  although  al-  ready,  while  still  in  her  teens,  she  was  a  legend-one  of  those  occasional  young  girls  in  the  Eastern  cities  who  became  famous  even  before  they  made  their  d\xc3\xa9buts.  Rumors  had  leakedout  from  the  very  schoolroom,  via  awe-struck  guests  at  her  [REDACTED]  mother's  [REDACTED]  Avenue  dinner  parties,  of  her  great  beau-  ty,  her  multilingual  virtuosity,  her  ex-  traordinary  charm.  She  seemed  marked  out  from  birth  for  personal  celebrity.  Her  childhood  had  been  fantastic-  a  much-publicized  succession  of  kidnap-  pings  by  her  French  viscount  father,  liti-  gations,  reinstatements  at  her  mother's  establishments  in  [REDACTED]  and  Bar  Harbor.  It  had  been  enough  to  ruin  the  life  of  most  children,  but  Diana  had  emerged  from  it  with  a  creamy  serenity  that  made  her  admirers  swoon.  &quot;Her  eyes  are  purple,&quot;  Morgan  Hughes  insisted  to  me,  feverishly,  as  he  lit  his  seventh  or  eighth  cigarette.  He  must  have  been  finding  me  the  perfect  listener.  Between  the  glamour  of  Diana  de  Carville  and  his  own  divinity,  I  could  only  gaze  in  silence,  with  all  the  atten-  tive  sympathy  any  lover  could  ask.  &quot;Her  hair  is  the  color  of  nasturtiums,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Of  course,  the  Italians  go  mad.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  I  said.  By  the  time  we  went  back  into  the  ballroom  I  was  hopelessly  in  love  myself.  It  was  the  first  time  I  had  experienced  the  tender  passion,  unless  you  count  a  little  boy  named  Charlie  in  my  kinder-  garten,  whom  I  used  to  kiss  because  he  had  such  beautiful  round  pink  cheeks,  I  had  been,  I  realize  now,  swept  up  " b"in  what  is  surely  the  most  insidious  web  in  the  world  -hearing  an  attractive  man  tell  how  he  feels  about  his  beloved.  Any  girl  will  identify  herself  with  the  adored  one,  and  thus  become  the  recipi-  ent  of  a  love  distilled  into  perfection  through  being  at  one  remove.  Many  an  experienced  charmer  has  been  car-  ried  off  her  feet  in  this  way,  and  I  was  no  charmer  and  anything  but  experi-  enced.  On  the  way  back  to  N  Street  thatnight,  [REDACTED]  seemed  to  be  a  city  of  total  magic,  with  its  white  mar-  ble  mansions,  its  stately  circles  each  with  a  fountain  or  a  statue,  its  ma-  jestic  avenues,  all  seen  by  the  white  twinkling  lights  of  one  in  the  morning.  Probably  nobody  has  ever  appreciated  M.  L'Enfant's  handiwork  more  thor-  oughly  than  I  did.  With  the  humility  of  childhood,  I  never  expected  to  see  Morgan  Hughes  again.  I  was  reconciled  to  the  prospect  of  spending  the  remainder  of  my  life  in  love  with  a  memory.  'To  tell  the  truth,  tragic  and  unrequited  as  I  knew  my  pas-  sion  to  be,  I  was  enjoying  it  very  much.  Lelia,  it  turned  out,  had  rather  acrush  on  Sokolov,  who  sent  her  boxes  of  loose  gardenias  that  arrived  at  thebreakfast  table,  to  my  uncle's  great  disapproval;  he  would  give  a  sniff  and  peer  over  the  top  of  his  [REDACTED]  Post  at  the  green  wax  paper  foaming  out  of  the  florist's  box  as  if  tosay  &quot;Flowers?  At  break-  fast?&quot;  But  Sokolov's  calls  had  not  been  discouraged,  and  heused  to  play  to  us,  on  the  piano  in  the  Chinese  Room,  the  tune  of  his  Czarist  regimental  marching  song.  After  he  had  gone,  Lelia  would  play  it  over  with  one  finger,  and  I  would  sit  on  the  sofa  thinking  of  Morgan.  The  tune,  at  once  gay  and  heartbreaking,  gallant  and  doomed,  seemed  exactly  to  fit  my  mood.  &quot;Serge  has  nothing  left  to  live  for,&quot;  Lelia  would  say  as  she  turned  from  the  piano.  &quot;Can  you  think  of  anything  more  divine?&quot;  That  week,  we  went  to  lunch  at  Rauscher's,  then  the  fashionable  Wash-  ington  restaurant,  and  once,  with  my  uncle,  at  the  Cosmos  Clubon  Lafayette  Square,  which,  since  it  had  a  view  from  its  front  door  of  the  White  House,  may  have  come  under  the  heading  of  educa-  tional.  We  went  to  teas,  where  I  wore  my  suitable  brown  velveteen  and  noticed  how  my  aunt  and  the  other  ladies  left  cards  in  a  silver  urn  near  the  door.  We  went  to  a  dinner  at  Chevy  Chase,  and  to  a  dance  at  the  Hungarian  Legation,  where  a  Zigeuner  orchestra  played  waltz  music  with  fast,  reckless  longing-the  pretty,  precocious  Lelia  and  her  lump  of  a  cousin  from  [REDACTED].  The  morning  before  the  day  I  was  to  leave,  the  telephone  rang  and  Lelia  an-  swered  it.  I  saw  her  glance  at  me  with  a  peculiar  expression.  &quot;I'm  sure  she'd  adore  it,&quot;  she  said.  She  turned  away  from  the  instrument  to  me.  &quot;You  would  like  to  go  to  tea  with  Morgan  this  afternoon,  wouldn't  you?&quot;  she  asked.  I  swallowed  hard  and  nodded.  &quot;She  would,&quot;  Lelia  reported  to  the  soul  of  my  soul.  Thus  was  made  my  first  date.  He  called  for  me  in  N  Street  that  afternoon  at  four,  an  irresistibly  sophisti-  cated  figure  in  a  coonskin  coat.  We  drove  by  taxi  to  the  Willard,  in  those  days  called  the  New  Willard,  where  marble-floored  courts  with  potted  palms  awaited  us  and  where  we  were  led  by  an  obsequious  headwaiter  to  a  white-  covered  table  for  two.  Morgan  ordered  tea  and  cinnamon  toast.  I  remember  it  was  the  first  time  I  had  ever  tasted  cinnamon  toast.  But  I  was  having  trouble  breathing.  Satan  had  entered  the  Eden  of  my  childhood  state  and  " b"introduced  the  fancy  that  Morgan  had  fallen  prey  to  just  such  a  passion  for  me  as  I  entertained  for  him.  &quot;I  have  never  encountered  such  sympathy  and  understanding,&quot;  he  would  begin  pretty  soon.  &quot;I  cannot  let  you  go  away  with-  out  ...&quot;  Even  the  Devil  himself  could  not  conjecture  how  that  sentence  would  end.  But  the  sentence  never  started.  Mor-  gan  just  wanted  to  talk  some  more  about  Diana  de  Carville,  who  since  I  saw  him  last  had  granted  him  something  called  a  late  date,  only  to  break  it  again.  He  had  found  me  sympathetic  and  un-  derstanding,  all  right.  As  the  orchestra  behind  the  palms  went  on  playing  hotel  music-&quot;Les  Patineurs,&quot;  I  remember,  and  &quot;Roses  of  the  South&quot;-as  beautiful  women  in  rich  furs  strolled  past  us  accompanied  by  handsome  ambassadorial  types,  and  I  sipped  the  tea  into  which  I  had  dropped  a  consoling  five  lumps  of  sugar,  my  vain  fancy  became  converted  into  its  con-  comitant  of  envy  of  Diana  de  Carville.  Oh,  to  livein  [REDACTED]  and  speak  five  languages!  To  have  purple  eyes  and  a  marble  mansion  and  a  Roman  admirer  who  had  tried  to  drown  himself  for  one,  to  be  beautiful  and  fascinating  and  hard  of  heart,  to  be  able  to  make  men  suffer!  Morgan  took  me  home  in  another  taxicab.  I  shall  never  forget  the  way  he  looked  as  he  took  me  up  to  the  door  of  the  N  Street  house,  his  dark  head  bare,  his  coon  coat  flapping  below  his  knees.  &quot;Goodbye,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let  me  know  when  you  come  back  to  [REDACTED].  You're  going  to  turnout  divine.&quot;  Not  quite  fainting,  I  entered  the  house.  In  the  room  on  the  left  of  the  hall  my  uncle  was  laying  out  bridge  problems.  &quot;Have  you  enjoyed  your-  self?&quot;  he  inquired.  NEXT  morning  I  took  the  Colonial  home  to  [REDACTED].  My  mother  had  gone  two  or  three  days  before,  at  the  close  of  the  jury's  deliberations;  it  had  been  thought  suitable  that  I  be  allowed  to  travel  alone.  My  uncle  accompanied  me  to  the  Union  Station  and  walked  down  the  long,  long  platform  with  me  to  my  Pullman  car.  As  we  passed  the  waiting  [REDACTED]  Railroad  conduc-  tors  and  brakemen  and  the  Pullman  porters,  they  tipped  their  caps  and  said,  &quot;Good  morning,  Mr.  Hale.&quot;  When  we  reached  my  car,  my  uncle  took  out  two  whole  dollars  and  handed  them  to  the  beaming  colored  attendantstanding  by  the  steps.  &quot;Take  care  of  this  little  girl,  George,&quot;  he  said.  I  was  so  impressed  that  it  almost  made  up  to  me  for  not  being  recognized  as  the  woman  who  had  suffered  that  I  was.  I  never  did  let  Morgan  Hughes  know  when  I  came  back  to  [REDACTED]  again,  for  by  that  time  I  was  in  the  process  of  making  my  own  d\xc3\xa9but-or,  as  we  called  it  in  [REDACTED],  coming  out-and  had  been  invited  to  [REDACTED]  to  go  to  the  d\xc3\xa9bu-  tante  parties  there  in  the  holidays.  One  afternoon  when  an  ardent  West  Pointer  took  me  to  tea  at  the  Willard,  I  did  re-  member  that  other,  first  teadate,  but  with  the  pitying  emotion  that  one  used  for  looking  back  on  childhood.  I  always  kept  a  little  stab  of  special  envy  for  Diana  de  Carville,  however.  Over  the  years,  in  dentists'  waiting  rooms  and  under  the  dryer  at  the  hair-  dresser's,  I  followed  her  career  in  the  pages  of  the  fashion  magazines.  Against  a  background  of  the  buzzing  of  the  drill  or  the  roaring  of  the  dryer  I  would  scan  with  intensity  those  pictures  of  her  in-  fallibly  beautiful  face.  Although  I  never  met  her-she  had  been  skiing  at  Sestrigres  that  winter  I  came  out  and  went  to  [REDACTED]-I  also  never  felt  that  she  was  just  someone  I  had  seen  pictures  of.  I  was  connected  to  her  by  emotional  bonds;  she  meant  something  painful  and  desirable  to  me.  And  so,  at  that  [REDACTED]  concert  to  which  I  had  gone  with  Miss  Dorothy  Armistead,  it  was  with  the  liveliest  curi-  osity  that-dressed  in  my  tailored  suit,  my  umbrella  planted  safely  between  my  knees,  my  feet  too  hot  from  wearing  rubbers-I  continued  to  gaze  at  the  legendary  profile  a  few  rows  ahead  of  me.  When  theintermission  came,  I  turned  to  my  companion  and  said,  &quot;Isn't  she  wonderful?&quot;  Miss  Dorothy  raised  her  battered  lorgnette  and  took  a  good  stare  at  Diana  de  Carville,  who  was  coming  up  the  aisle  from  her  seat,  chattering  to  a  friend:  tall,  beautiful,  exotic,  and  hag-  gard.  &quot;Who,  her?&quot;  Miss  Dorothy  said.  &quot;Common  as  pig  trash.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Miss  Dorothy,  come  on,  now!&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;She's  had  the  most  glam-  orous  life  of  anybody  in  my  generation.&quot;  Miss  Dorothy  considered  the  glamor-  ous  life  of  Diana  de  Carville.  &quot;Cheap  doings,&quot;  she  summed  it  up.  &quot;But  she  was  married  to  a  prince,&quot;  I  said  feebly.  &quot;He  was  common  as  pig  trash,  too,&quot;  Miss  Dorothy  said.  Briskly  she  put  her  lorgnette  away  in  a  preposterous  bead  bag  that  had  belonged  to  some  extinct  Armistead  of  Beaulieu.  &quot;Let  us  go  out-  side  and  take  the  air,&quot;  she  proposed. "