 b"WILLARD NESBITT  marked  his  place  in  &quot;'The  Power  Elite&quot;  with  a  matchstick  and  put  the  book  on  the  table  beside  his  reading  chair.  Nesbitt  was  a  handsome  man,  with  a  brisk,  trim,  lecturing  air  about  him  both  in  and  out  of  his  classroom.  He  was  a  professor  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  his-  tory  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  and  well  known  beyond  that  for  his  books,  his  round-table  discussions,  his  articles  in  the  Sunday  Times.  He  was  clever,  had  easy,  rather  flippant  manners,  and  treated  the  academic  world  as  if  he  were  just  passing  through  on  his  way  to,  perhaps,  the  State  Department  or  the  United  Nations.  Hidden  in  his  sensible  heart  was  the  desire  to  run  sometime  for  the  Senate,  like  Paul  Douglas.  Nesbitt  put  down  his  book  with  an  ambiguous  sigh.  He  found  it  very  diffi-  cultto  like  anything  with  his  whole  mind.  He  was  always  being  disappoint-  ed,  even  in  the  best.  Laurence  Olivier's  Hotspur  turned  out  to  be  not  quite  as  vigorous  as  he  had  heard  it  was;  David  Oistrakh's  violin  playing  left  him  with  a  sense  of  imperfection  hard  to  define;  he  had  expected  there  would  be  a  lot  more  in  Dr.  Jones'  biography  of  Freud  than  he  found;  and  he  thought  there  might  well  be  a  lot  less  on  every  sub-  ject  from  Arnold  Toynbee.  Professor  Nesbitt  rejoiced  in  his  failure  to  concur  with  the  common  opinion;  he  cherished  his  dissents  and  worked  to  refine  and  elaborate  them  as  if  they  were  a  piece  of  historical  composition  always  going  to  press.  When  he  said,  hesitating  and  smiling  slyly,  that  de  Tocqueville's  &quot;De-  mocracy  in  [REDACTED]&quot;  was  immensely  readable  and  would  cause  less  trouble  if  thought  of  as  a  sort  of  poem,  his  stu-  dents  were  charmed  by  his  impudence.  The  theme  that  went  the  campus  rounds,  year  in  and  year  out,  about  Nesbitt  was  that  whether  one  liked  him  or  not,  he  was  at  least  alive.  Henrietta,  Willard's  wife,  looked  up  from  the  crossword  puzzle  in  the  New  Statesman  &amp;  Nation.  The  Nesbitts  were  expecting  guests  for  dinner-  Henrietta's  cousin  Dodo  Babcock,  and  a  colleague  of  Willard's,  Clarence  Anderson.  The  Nesbitts  had  known  Anderson  for  five  or  six  years.  They  invited  him  every  year  to  several  cocktail  parties  and  small  dinners,  and  yet  they  did  not  especially  like  him.  The  invitations  were  sometimes  to  be  laid  at  the  door  of  Clarence's  condition  of  bachelorhood  but  more  often  to  some-  thing  demanding  and  disturbing  in  the  man  himself.  Willard,  if  a  number  of   months  had  passed  without  his  making  any  special  effort  over  Anderson,  would  begin  to  experience  a  feeling  of  unease,  of  neglectfulness  vaguely  dangerous  to  his  own  well-being.  Anderson's  themes  were  a  devotion  to  academic  life  and  a  claim  to  be  a  nature  molded  by  the  habit  of  idealism  and  disinterestedness.  He  played  upon  these  themes  gently  enough,  but  with  assurance,  leaving  his  auditors  with  the  feeling  of  having  been  accused  of  something  less  than  perfec-  tion.  &quot;I  dread  seeing  Dodo  tonight,  some-  how,&quot;  Henrietta  said.  &quot;All  that  branch  of  your  Babcock  relations  fills  me  with  gloom,&quot;  Willard  answered.  &quot;They  have  suffered  the  most  fantastic  collapse.  'The  strain  seems  to  have  undergone  a  queer  fa-  tigue,as  even  metals  are  said  to  do.  Or  so  I've  heard.&quot;  &quot;Metals?&quot;  Henrietta  said  sharply.  Willard  went  on,  in  a  musing  tone,  \xc2\xab'There  is  an  element  of  mystery  about  this  generation  of  Babcocks.  'They  pre-  sent  with  a  good  deal  of  clarity  the  ancient  debate  between  environment  and  heredity.  Their  parents  were  so  gay  and  rich,  and  the  children  are  so  melancholy  and  undistinguished.  They  haven't  even  got  money.&quot;  Yes,  they  do  seem  rather  languid,&quot;  Henrietta  agreed.  &quot;John  and  Evelyn  ,  have  tried  them  all  and  given  them  up,  though  I  think  they  admit  that  young  Perry  is  good  fun  upon  occasion.&quot;  John  and  Evelyn  were  Hen-  rietta's  brother  and  sis-  ter-in-law.  &quot;But  they  think  Perry's  wife  is  awful.  I  distinctly  remember  Evelyn's  saying  that,&quot;  Willard  offered.  &quot;I  believe  she  thought  it  was  Dudley  Bab-  cock's  wife  who  was  so  awful,&quot;  Henrietta  said.  &quot;Each  in  her  own  way,  perhaps.&quot;  Henrietta  Nesbitt  had  beenborn  a  Bab-  cock.  In  [REDACTED],  the  name  of  this  family  rang  out  with  a  clear  and  beautiful  glory.  The  founder  of  the  family  had  made  a  for-  tune  in  the  copper  mines  of  the  West;  copper  sons  had  mar-  ried  [REDACTED]  meat-  packing  daughters.     " b"Henrietta's  branch  of  the  family  had  never  been  as  richas  Dodo  Babcock's  branch.  Now  both  branches  were  of  unexceptional  means,  though  among  the  more  distant  cousins  there  were  still  Babcocks  of  large  fortune.  Willard  Nesbitt  took  pride  in  making  no  use  of  Henrietta's  connection  with  the  great  and  famous  Bab-  cock  family.  This  was  not  the  act  of  spiritual  renuncia-  tion  he  sometimes  imagined,  since  there  was  not  a  great  deal  of  personal  advantage  to  be  gained  from  the  con-  nection;  the  advantage,  such  as  it  was,  was  purely  aes-  thetic.  Willard,  straining  to  keep  the  proper  degree  of  faith  with  what  he  described  as  his  own  &quot;fabulously  sim-  ple&quot;  beginnings,  felt  that  the  absence  of  material  benefit  from  his  marriage  gave  him  the  right-even  the  duty-  to  make  creative  use  of  his  special  knowledge,  through  Henrietta,  of  the  decline  of  certain  members  of  what  he  liked  to  call  &quot;the  ruling  class.&quot;  On  an  intimate  and  yet  ironic  note,  he  sometimes  declared  he  was  less  fasci-  nated  by  the  living  Babcock  fortune  than  by  the  dead  one-those  riches  gone  like  a  dear  person,  or  buried  by  destiny  like  a  once  thriving  village  crushed  by  disaster.  The  financial  decay  of  some  of  Henrietta's  relatives  served  Nesbitt  as  fresh  fact  from  which  theories  might  be  drawn.  &quot;It's  damned  risky  having  Clarence  Anderson  to  meet  poor  Dodo  Bab-  cock,&quot;  Willard  said,  with  a  sigh.  &quot;Do  you  suppose  he'll  be  wearing  his  black  loafers  with  the  tassels  on  them?&quot;  Henrietta  said.  &quot;Of  course,  and  God  knows  what  to  match.  These  English  teachers  are  all  Cockneys  at  heart,  secretly  in  love  with  Princess  Margaret.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Dodo,&quot;  Henrietta  said.  &quot;She  has  a  faded  regality,  but  her  house-  keeping  is  like  a  Puerto  Rican's.&quot;  &quot;Faded  regality'-monstrous  phrase.  Probably  accurate.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  like  Clarence  Anderson  at  all?&quot;  Henrietta  asked  lazily.  &quot;If  not,  why  do  you  see  him?&quot;  &quot;I  always  expect  him  to  be  some-  thing  like  Thorstein  Veblen.  You  know,  he's  Norwegian,  and  from  one  of  those  states  out  there-Nebraska,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;He  probably  does  go  in  for  'pecuni- ary  emulation'-or  whatever  Veblen  called  it,&quot;  Henrietta  said,  with  a  smile.  Nesbitt  had  been  educatingHenrietta  for  all  the  years  of  their  marriage,  but  he  did  this  without  earnestness,  because  he  was  proud  of  his  wife's  somewhat  destructive  natural  brightness  and  not  ashamed  of  her  ignorance.  'The  frightfully  poor  education  of  the  well-  bred  society  lady  was  a  topic  they  often  discussed.  If  Henrietta  thought,  as  Zola  is  said  to  have  thought,  that  Charlemagne  lived  and  flourished  around  the  fifteenth  century-well,  that  was  amusing.  With  her  frightening  gift  for  mockery,  her  disarming  self-  confidence,  she  at  least  did  not  have  to  talk  cant,  and  that  was  worth  all  the  education  in  the  world.  Or  usually  worth  it.  Willard  had  had  occasion  to  feel  Henrietta's  bite  sink  into  some  sensitive  spot  of  his  own  being.  &quot;It  certainly  is  hard  to  make  the  grade  with  you,&quot;  Henrietta  said,  after  a  pause.  &quot;Well,  some  few  do  at  last  succeed  with  me,  but  rare  is  the  bird  that  meets  with  your  unqualified  praise,&quot;  Willard  answered  in  his  most  affectionate  voice.  &quot;Don't  be  ridiculous.  ...  Please  don't  be  over  Dodo's  head  tonight.  It's  bad  manners.&quot;  &quot;But  itis  impossible  not  to  be  over  Dodo's  head.  I  thought  manners  was  the  art  of  the  possible-or  is  that  poli-  tics?&quot; &quot;It  can  be  cow-milking,  for  all  I  know.  Dodo  has  her  own  peculiar  back-  wardness-that  I  admit,  since  one  must.  But  she's  not  stupid.&quot;  &quot;I  like  old  Dodo,&quot;  Willard  said,  re-  treating  hastily.  (Henrietta  did  not  like  to  be  pushed  the  whole  way  in  her  condemnation  of  her  family.  Some-  times,  if  they  drank  too  many  Martinis  before  dinner,  she  would  turn  upon  Willard  and  say,  with  profound  intent,  &quot;You  know  nothing  whatsoever  about  people  with  money  and  power.  That  you  can  go  about  all  over  the  country,  and  on  television,  sounding  off  on  the  subject  completely  amazes  me!&quot;)  &quot;Do  you  think  Dodo  will  be  an-  noyed  that  we  haven't  asked  someone  more  fancy  than  Clarence?&quot;  Henrietta  wondered.  &quot;It's  been  such  a  long  time  since  we've  had  her  over  I  feel  a  little  stingy  not  to  be  making  it  more  of  an  occasion.  One  of  the  ways  in  which  Dodo  is  absolutely  unique  is  that  you  can't  flatter  her  by  intellectual  appeal,  so  Clarence  as  a  mind  won't  mean  a  thing  to  her.  She's  an  old-fashioned  girl-money  and  position  speak  louder  to  her  than  all  the  artistic  or  cultural  honors  in  the  world.  Mother,  for  in-  stance,  is  quite  different.  When  we  asked  her  to  our  cocktail  party  for  that  dull  friend  of  Albert  Schweitzer's,  she  was  beside  herself  with  joy  and  ex-  citement.&quot;  &quot;Actually,  there  is  no  one  in  [REDACTED]  " b"fancier  than  Clarence  Anderson  when  you  come  right  down  to  it.&quot;  HE  Nesbitts  had  a  four-room  walkup  apartment  near  the  uni-  versity.  'The  place  was  brownish,  shab,  by,  comfortable,  stuffed  with  books  and  periodicals-all  of  which  indicated,  like  a  workman's  toolbox  in  a  hallway,  the  life  of  the  occupant.  At  the  Nesbitts',  there  were  also  a  few  surprises,  the  most  surprising  and  important  of  which  was  a  huge  abstraction  done  in  the  manner  of  Jackson  Pollock.  &quot;By  a  very  gifted  young  [REDACTED]  painter,  a  friend  of  ours,&quot;  Willard  would  say  by  way  of  identifi-  cation.  The  Jackson  Pollock  disciple  had  turned  out  to  be  a  disappointment  to  the  Nes-  bitts.  He  seemed  to  be  becom-  ing  less  known  rather  than  more,  but  they  did  not  take  down  the  picture  and  store  it  o  in  the  basement,  as  the  museums  do.  To  be  snobbish  about  [REDACTED]  painters  seemed  to  them  ludicrous  and  dull,  like  protesting  about  baseball  or  television.  Among  their  other  possessions  were  a  magnificent  silver  tray,  nearly  as  large  as  the  abstraction,  and  a  badly  restored  portrait  of  &quot;Aunt  Mag  Pierce,&quot;  by  Sully,  which  hung  with  careful  negli-  gence  in  a  not  very  light  corner  of  the  dining  room,  flanked  on  one  side  by  a  Medici  print  of  Uccello's  &quot;Cavalry  Bat-  tle&quot;  and  on  the  other  side  by  a  disc  of  hammered  copper  brought  from  [REDACTED].  Just  after  Henrietta  went  to  the  bed-  room  to  smooth  her  hair,  the  street  doorbell  rang.  &quot;There  they  are!&quot;  she  called  out.  &quot;Or  at  least  there  Clarence  is.  Dodo  is  probably  still  at  home  look-  ing  for  her  change  purse  or  coloring  her  nails.&quot;  Willard  opened  the  door  and  saw  that  Clarence  had  arrived  first,  but  Dodo  was  just  behind  him  on  the  stairs,  calling  up  to  him  wistfully,  &quot;We  are  both  going  to  the  same  place.  Of  course,  I  couldn't  have  known.&quot;  Clarence  had  a  rather  controlled  and  faraway  expression  on  his  face.  He  loathed  being  patronized  by  the  Nes-  bitts.  He  thought  himself  much  more  popular,  serious,  and  clever  than  they;  in  his  opinion,  Willard  was  something  of  a  charlatan,  and  Henrietta  came  un-  der  his  suspicion  as  impertinent  and  shallow.  Since  he  harbored  these  dis-  paraging  thoughts,  the  feeling  he  had  that  the  Nesbitts,  even  at  their  friend-  liest,  were  somehow  snubbing  him  made  him  rage  with  irritation  and  resent-  ment.  His  dream  was  that  he  might     getthe  jump  on  the  Nesbitts-in  some  subtle,  fascinating,  and  morally  plausible  way  soar  abovethem.  That  was  the  desperate  hope  behind  his  cool  and  stiff  expression  when  the  door  opened.  Willard,  seeing  that  Clarence  was  wearing  his  black  loafers  with  the  tas-  sels  on  them,  smiled  and  bowed.  An  amused  and  condescending  look  came  involuntarily  over  his  face-just  the  look  that  Clarence  detested,  and  called  &quot;the  hard-hearted  Nesbitt  smile.&quot;  When  Dodo  joined  them,  Willard  said,  &quot;I  don't  know  whether  Henrietta  told  you  that  her  cousin  Dodo  Babcock  was  dining  with  us  tonight.  And  here  she  is.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  dot&quot;  Dodo  said,  calmly  inspecting  Clar-  ence.  &quot;I  came  bytaxi  for  fear  of  being  late.  I  hope  I'm  &quot;You're  in  perfect  time,&quot;  Willard  said.  Dodo  was  im-  pressive  in  a  dress  of  purple  silk  and  a  little  cape  of  black  broadtail,  She  did  not  look  smart-the  cape  was  worn  in  spots  and  the  dress  was  not  new  -but  she  did  have,  resting  upon  the  solid  foundation  of  her  privileged  childhood,  an  awesome  tranquillity,  a  quaintly  pure  and  steadfast  self-confidence.  Her  gaze  was  fresh,  open-eyed,  and  self-  esteceming,  in  the  manner  of  a  family  portrait.  Clarence  felt  tricked  and  uncertain  when  he  recognized  the  clear  tremble  of  interest  that  flowed  through  him  as  he  was  presented  to  Dodo.  He  had  not  expected  a  relative  of  Henrietta's,  an  unmarried  lady,  clearly  near  his  own  age  of  thirty-eight.  His  mind,  always  painfully  alerted  by  piercing  longings,  and  his  flirtatious  heart  leaped  up  to  greet  the  complications  and  possibilities  of  the  situation.  He  smiled,  carefully  measuring  his  gallantry.  &quot;Dodo,  darling,  how  are  you!&quot;  Henrietta  said  gaily,  coming  out  of  her  bedroom  in  a  hurry  as  her  guests  entered,  acting  as  if  she  had  not  ex-  pected  them  so  soon.  Henrietta  hated  to  give  the  impression  of  being  ready  and  waiting  for  anyone,  and  this  led  her  to  assume  a  flustered  and  brightly  rushed  air  when  guests  arrived,  even  though  she  was,  behind  the  busyness,  prompt,  efficient,  and  quite  prepared  to  receive  them.  &quot;You  two  have  been  introduced,  I  gather,&quot;  she  added,  smil-  ing  brilliantly  at  Clarence  and  giving  him  her  hand.  &quot;You're  looking  awfully  well,&quot;  Clarence  said,  deciding  to  pay  Henri-  etta,  rather  than  Dodo,  his  first  quietly  uttered  compliment.  &quot;I  wish  I  could  believe  you,&quot;  Henri-  etta  replied,  smiling  mischievously  at  Clarence's  way  of  feeling  out  a  situa-  tion,  as  if  he  were  a  diplomat  among  an  inscrutable,  trickypeople,  Clarence  Anderson  was  nota  light-  hearted  man,  and  when  he  took  a  no-  tion  to  denounce  someone,  his  nature  forced  him  to  assume  a  moralistic  tone.  This  tone  was  quite  in  contrast  to  the  way  of  the  Nesbitts,  who  went  in,  sim-  ply  and  indefatigably,  for  the  kind  of  impudence  and  gossip  they  judged  to  be  amusing.  Clarence  never  mentioned  the  defect  of  an  acquaintance  without  clear-  ly  showing  the  poor,  faulty  person's  character  to  be  morally  inferior  to  his  own.  When  he  used  the  word  &quot;dull,&quot;  he  did  not  mean  to  lament  alack  of  sprightliness  so  much  as  to  expose  a  slug-  gish,  self-loving  soul,  remarkably  dif-  ferent  from  his  own  vigorous,  light  openness  of  feeling.  With  his  impatient,  moralizing  bent,  Clarence  was  a  pow-  erful  enemy.  Clarence's  enmity  was,  like  the  Nesbitts'  insults,  purely  verbal.  He  did  not  wish  to  effect  a  deterioration  in  his  antagonist's  circumstances  so  much  as  to  cause  everyone  to  think  of  his  victim  precisely  as  he  did.  If  he  thought  someone  charmingly  foolish  or  harmlessly  inane,  he  was  not  satisfied  until  the  wholeworld  acknowledged  this  foolishness  or  inanity.  It  was  an  agony  to  him  that  there  might  exist  an  intelligent  person  who  knew  his  circle  of  friends  and  yet  saw  the  various  mem-  bers  of  it  in  a  light  opposed  to  his  own.  To  insist  on  his  own  view  was,  to  his  mind,  &quot;telling  the  truth.&quot;  Stubborn-  ly  he  repudiated  the  tolerant,  careless  opinion,  and  with  a  great  show  of  ideal-  ism  and  objectivity  he  corrected  it.  This  readiness  to  speak  out  led  Clarence  to  imagine  that  others  spoke  out  also,  and  when  he  was  praised,  as  he  often  was  by  timid,  well-mannered  people,  hetook  the  praise  as  genuine  and  unmixed,  and  found  much  pleasure  in  it.  &quot;I'll  go  first.  I'd  love  a  Martini,  pet,&quot;  Henrietta  said,  leading  the  way  into  the  living  room.  She  sat  down,  crossing  her  long,  handsome  legs,  of  which  she  was  very  vain.  She  wore  high  heels,  which  would  have  been  painful  if  her  delight  in  the  way  they  showed  her  legs  to  ad-  vantage  had  not  mysteriously  made  her  nearly  unconscious  of  any  such  pain.  For  the  rest,  she  was  passable  in  appear-  ance-round  nose,  brown  face,  good  teeth,  and  graying  brown  hair,  difficult  to  manage.  &quot;I'm  very  fond  of  gin  myself,&quot;  Do-  do  said  thoughtfully.  &quot;I  suppose  one  shouldn't  say  a  thing  like  that,  but  I  do  think  a  gin  drink  is  awfully  good  be-     " b"fore  dinner.  God  himself  wouldn't  drink  it  afterward.&quot;  &quot;And  what  about  you,  Anderson?&quot;  Willard  said  abruptly.  &quot;You  aren't  to  feel  committed  by  the  ready  Martini  pitcher.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  feel  committed,  but  I'll  take  one  nevertheless.  It  would  be  a  great  deprivation  to  have  to  forgo  what  I  really  prefer.&quot;  Clarence  was  as  clerical-suited  as  Nesbitt  was  brown-tweeded.  This  eve-  ning,  Willard  was  dressed  with  even  more  than  his  usual  sporti-  ness:  he  was  wearing  an  old  jacket  with  sugde  patches  on  the  elbows.  Clarence  imme-  diately  analyzed  the  patched  jacket  as  a  form  of  conde-  scension  toward  himself.  He  marked  it  down  against  Willard  as  inverted  snob-  bery.  Clarence  had,  by  his  quickness  to  spot  pretension,  succeeded  in  turning  quite  a  few  people  against  the  Nesbitts.  He  had  made  Wil-  lard's  intellectual  arrogance  appear  flimsy  and  ersatz.  &quot;What,  in  the  long  run,  has  Nesbitt  written?&quot;  often  passed  Clarence's  lips.  As  for  Henrietta's  connection  with  the  Babcock  family,  Clarence  sometimes  made  its  very  existence  seem  open  to  question,  or,  if  admitted,  a  peculiar  and  interesting  handicap,  a  disqualifying  af-  fliction.  When  Willard  saw  Clarence's  red  bow  tie  and  inky  sack  suit,  he  felt  a  gush  of  irritation,  even  though  he  knew  that  this  was  the  way  Clarence  would  and  did  dress,  with  a  reasonable  sort  of  up-to-dateness  and  ap-  propriateness,  as  economi-  cally  and  neatly  achieved  as  a  little  suburban  house,  with  its  breezeway,  utility  room,  and  dining  area.  Nesbitt  wanted  Clarence,  as  he  said,  to  be,  like  Thorstein  Veblen,  a  radical  from  the  Western  plains,  and  Clar-  ence,  in  turn,  thought  Nes-  bitt  should  go  around  with  a  sign  on  his  back  that  read,  &quot;Born  in  Akron,  [REDACTED],  of  simple,  decent  stock.  Un-  dergraduate  at  Wayne,  con-  nection  with  Harvard  on  graduate  level  only,  wife  from  minor  branch  of  well-known  [REDACTED]  family-the  poor  side.&quot;  Clarence  smiled  quietly  at  Dodo  Babcock,  and  she  returned  his  smile  with  equal  quiet  and  composure.  Dodo  tend-  ed  toward  redness,  even  down  to  the  girlish  flush  of  her  cheeks.  Her  hair  was  touched  with  auburn  lights,  her  eyebrows  were  a  scanty  reddish  brown,  and  her  hands,  pink  as  a  shell,  lay  beau-  tifully  and  languidly  in  her  purple  silk  lap.  In  her  face,  there  was  the  mark  of  a  charming  immaturity,  of  expecta- tion  still  to  be  fulfilled,  and  a  sugges-  tion  of  hurt  feelings-proud,  disdainful  chagrin,  such  as  one  finds  in  those  for  whom  history  is  fully  dramatized  in  the  storyof  their  own  fate.  A  reactionary,  of  course,  Clarence  thought,  but  ami-  ably,  forgivingly.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Willard  said,  with  a  short  laugh,  waiting  for  the  conversation  to  begin.  After  a  pause,  Clarence  said,  &quot;Did  you  know  that  idiot  G.  B.  Cooper  was  being  sent  to  49726171  by  the  Ford" b"Foundation?  I  have  no  doubt  scholars,  even  bone-lazy  ones  like  Cooper,  can  benefit  from  the  advantages  of  foreign  travel,  but-&quot;  &quot;49726171.  That's  pretty  foreign  in-  deed,&quot;  Dodo  said  vaguely.  &quot;Exactly,&quot;  Clarence  said.  &quot;There  is  something  exorbitant-monstrous-  about  these  foundation  affairs.  They  go  beyond  what  anyone  would  expect.  In  the  long  run,  I  am  most  bothered  by  the  details-the  luxurious,  preposterous  details.  Wife  and  children  and  Chevro-  let  all  sent,  free  of  charge,  to  49726171!&quot;  &quot;G.  B.  Cooper?  I  can't  quite  place  him,&quot;  Willard  said.  &quot;He's  the  most  slavish  follower  of  T.  S.  Eliot  in  [REDACTED]-perhaps  in  the  world,  for  all  I  know.  The  whole-  the  whole,  mind  you-of  his  profession-  al  attitude  comes  out  of  'Tradition  and  the  Individual  Talent.&quot;  I  doubt  he  has  read  a  critical  work  before  or  since.&quot;  &quot;That  doesn't  seem  quite  enough  baggage,  somehow,&quot;  Henrietta  sug-  gested.  &quot;Wife,  children,  and  car  sent  to  49726171,&quot;  Clarence  repeated.  &quot;It's  an  unnerving  thought.  For  quantity,  lav-  ishness,  excess,  trust  our  dear,  huge  [REDACTED]!&quot;  &quot;I  bet  they  wish  they  had  some  quan-tity  in  49726171,&quot;  Dodo  said,  nodding  coquettishly.  Everyone  smiled.  &quot;Have  you  ever  applied  for  49726171  yourself,  Clar-  ence?&quot;  Henrietta  asked.  &quot;God,  no!&quot;  Clarence  replied  with  heat.  &quot;Or  some  more  plausible  place?&quot;  Willard  added.  &quot;To  be  perfectly  frank,&quot;  Clarence  said,  delighted  to  be  able  to  state  his  position,  &quot;I  have  not  applied  for  Bagh-  dad,  or  [REDACTED],  or  even  [REDACTED],  the  love  of  my  life.  I  can't  feel  deeply  need-  ed  in  the  Near  East.  I  am  astonished  at  those  who  can,  and  full  of  admiration  for  them.  Trucking  over  the  world  with  only  my  treasured  Victorian  prose  to  offer  the  fellahin-Cardinal  Newman  and  Ruskinwin  the  Garden  of  Allah?  One  must  keep  some  sense  of  what  is  fitting.  As  for  [REDACTED],  I  am  too  full  of  gratitude  and  private  feelings  of  rever-  ence  to  want  to  go  dashing  over  there,  my  pockets  full  of  money,  to  tell  them  what  they  already  know,  or  to  do  work  they've  already  done.&quot;  'That's  excessive.  Your  conscien-  tiousness  is  out  of  control,&quot;  Henrietta  said,  with  a  clear  trace  of  ill-humor.  One  of  Clarence's  &quot;positions&quot;  was  a  refusal  to  apply  for  grants,  fellow-  ships,  easy  posts.  Whether  this  atti-tude  came  from  a  fear  of  failure,  even  Willard,  an  inveterate  and  successful  getter  of  grants,  project  funds,  and  en-  dowments,  was  uncertain.  Clarence  had  a  way  of  suggesting  that  since  he  could  never  be  entirely  sure  his  re-  searches  would  be  of  clear  value  to  the  world,  it  would  be  personally  fraudu-  lent  for  him  to  accept-indeed,  to  seek-generous  sums.  He  preferred  to  let  his  lonely  little  bark  move  under  its  own  sail.  Clarence  continued,  &quot;When  I  was  at  Oxford  in  '54,  there  was  quite  a  bit  of  fun  poked  at  556e6974656420537461746573n  scholars  and  their  foreign  studies  and  lectures  and  cushy  positions.  It  is  easy  enough  to  dis-  miss  that  as  envy,  but  I  think  itis  more  serious-or  less  serious.  I  mean  I  truly  believe  one  can  maintain  that  all  man-  ner  of  stupid,  incompetent,  repetitious  work  is  being  done  by  our  556e6974656420537461746573n  scholars,  and  at  an  expense  that  stag-  gers  the  imagination!&quot;  Willard  poured  a  second  Martini  for  everyone.  Then  he  settled  back  in  his  chair  and,  smiling  maliciously  at  Clar-  ence's  flushed,  eager  face,  said,  &quot;What  you  people  never  seem  to  realize  is  that  these  foundations  literally-Hiterally,  mind  you-have  more  money  than  they  can  spend.  To  look  upon  the  few  thousand  one  may  get  for  teaching  as  " b"something  that  must  in  the  purest,  most  competitive  sense  be  earned  is  sheer  con-  ceit!&quot;  With  a  modest,  self-deprecating  laugh,  he  added,  &quot;This  thing  is  bigger  than  any  of  us.  Of  course,  you  aren't  married,  Anderson,  and  so  perhaps  you  are  allowed  more  perfection  and  chastity  than  the  rest  of  us.  Without  undeserved  honors  and  unearned  foun-  dationfunds,  how  on  earth  could  I  keep  my  son  Clark  at  Groton,  where  he  is  dreadfully  and  expensively  out  of  place?&quot;  Clarence  knew  well  that  Willard  Nesbitt  did  not  think  of  himself  as  the  recipient  of  undeserved  honors  and  un-  earned  funds.  It  was  enraging  that  by  this  insincere  show  of  cynicism  Nes-  bitt  could  make  him  seem  to  be  guilty  of  false  piety  and  pretentious  scrupu-  losity.  &quot;Groton?&quot;  Dodo  said  vaguely.  &quot;I  wonder  if  Clark  sees  anything  of  Bab-  cock  Van  der  Veen,  who  is  also  there.  You  remember-he's  old  [REDACTED]  Jim-  my's  nephew.&quot;  'That  I  couldn't  possibly  say,  dear,&quot;  Henrietta  answered.  &quot;Boys  of  Clark's  age  are  very  odd.  They  seem  to  fear  nothing  so  much  as  their  blood  rela-  tions.&quot;  Henrietta's  smile  for  Dodo  was  just  a  little  too  brilliant,  too  sweet.  All  of  Henrietta's  pride  and  her  habit  of  condescension  came  together  in  the  smile.  Her  arrogance  was  of  the  en-  during,  comfortable  kind,  and  came  from  her  sheer  and  bold  delight  in  being  who  she  was.  She  felt  she  and  Dodo  had  something  no  deprivation  or  failure  could  erase;  beyond  that,  everything  was  trimming,  superstructure.  It  was  a  pleasure  to  feel  herself  clever,  to  be  married  to  a  well-known  man,  but  these  were  truly  to  be  described  as  pleasure,  not  as  the  very  foundation  of  her  per-  sonal  well-being  or  her  belief  in  her-  self.  Henrietta's  tendency  to  patronize  was  just  as  real  and  unmanageable  as  her  family  pride.  She  was  tolerant  of  Dodo  as  a  fellow-Babcock  but  also  superior  to  her  cousin's  helpless  pale  eyes,  herinnocence  of  intellect,  her  bald  and  uncomplicated  assumptions,.  She  felt  that  Dodo's  imagination  declined  to  supply  the  facts  relating  to  her  true  situation.  Turning  suddenly  to  Clarence,  Dodo  asked,  in  her  thrilling  and  beautiful  voice,  &quot;Did  you  admire  AdlaiSteven-  son  terribly?&quot;  Clarence  blushed.  He  longed  to  re-  sent  Dodo  as  a  foolish  woman,  but  when  his  intense  powers  of  observation  re-  vealed  to  him  the  ambivalence  of  the  Nesbitts'  presentation  of  their  cousin,  the  way  they  at  once  displayed  and gently  mocked  her,  he  felt  hopelessly  drawn  to  her-allied  even  to  her  com-  placency  and  childishness.  &quot;Yes,  yes,  I  must  say  I  did-quite  a  lot.  He  seemed  to  me  a  remarkable  man,&quot;  Clarence  answered.  &quot;And  I  am  not  ashamed  to  admit  that  I  cherished  his  literacy.  It  is  a  mistaken  notion  that  one  can  think  without  words.&quot;  He  did  not  smile,  he  did  not  adopt  his  moraliz-  ing,  rebuking  tone.  He  treated,  or  pre-  tended  to  treat,  Dodo's  question  with  deep  and  puzzling  seriousness.  Also,  he  was  curious  to  know  how  this  creature  might  express  herself  on  the  subject  of  politics  and  whether  she  might  not  dis-  comfit  her  hosts.  Clarence  secretlysus-  pected  Willard  and  Henrietta  of  polit-  ical  dishonesty.  He  believed  they  were  more  conservative  than  they  appeared,  more  willing  to  compromise  with  the  status  quo  than  they  admitted.  &quot;I  dislike  Adlai  Stevenson  terribly,&quot;  Dodo  offered.  Willard  laughed  indul-  gently,  but  she  appeared  unaware  of  the  meaning  of  this  laugh,  which  was  de-  signed  to  stop  the  free  expression  of  her  political  notions.  &quot;I  know  quite  a  few  people  who  know  him  personally.  The  idea  seems  to  be  that  he  is  very  super-  ficial.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  a  great  partisan  of  Eisen-  hower,  then?&quot;  Clarence  said,  bending     " b"politely  toward  Dodo  and  waiting  gal-  lantly  for  her  reply.  &quot;I  am  indeed.  I  love  him.  Terribly,&quot;  Dodo  said,  with  her  great,  pale-eyed  carnestness.  Henrietta  coughed.  &quot;A  perfectly  atrocious  dinner  is  awaiting  us,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  have  my  part-time  maid  here  this  evening.  She  was  a  short-order  cook-for  the  White  Tavern  or  some  such  place.&quot;  At  that  moment,  a  moon-faced  col-  ored  woman  appeared  and  said,  &quot;O.K.&quot;  HEY  went  into  the  dining  room  and  settled  themselves  under  the  Sully  portrait  of  &quot;Aunt  Mag  Pierce&quot;  and  the  disc  of  hammered  copper.  Wil-  lard  had  trouble  with  the  wine  bottle,  but  when  the  cork  was  at  last  extracted,  he  said,  &quot;The  wine  is  not  superb,  that  I  grant  you.  But  it  is  just  good  enough  to  resent  being  on  the  same  program  with  the  overdone  lamb  that  is  as  sure  to  follow  as  the  night  the  day.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  remember  H\xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9ne,  Mum-  my's  wonderful  Swiss  cook?&quot;  Dodo  said  wistfully.  She  was  incorrigibly  remi-  niscent.  The  disposition  came  upon  her  with  the  regularity  of  a  stutter.  &quot;I  do  remember  her,  dear,  and  a  painful  memory  it  is,  at  the  moment,&quot;  Henrietta  replied.  During  the  meal,  Clarence  observed  Dodo-trained  the  heavy  ammunition  of  his  mind  upon  her,  as  if  he  were  a  general  besieging  an  undefended  shepherdess  on  her  lonely  hill.  At  the  same  time,  he  was  careful  to  conceal  the  wild  unruliness  of  'his  natural  cu-  riosity.  Dodo  was,  he  saw,  of  a  savage  invincibility  and  bitter  composure.  She  lived,  waiting  patiently  and  proudly,  like  an  old  deposed  tribal  chieftain  in-  dolently  dreaming  of  a  hopeless  return  to  power  and  dignity.  &quot;I  passed  our  old  house  recently,&quot;  she  said,  accepting  a  second  potato.  &quot;Can  you  imagine,  the  old  red  draperies-the  velvet  ones  with  gold  braid-are  still  hanging,  even  after  all  these  years!  It's  an  awful  thought-insulting,  somehow.  I  felt,  looking  at  those  dingy  curtains  behind  the  smeared  windows,  as  if  some  part  of  my  past  were  still  in  the  house,  rotting  away.  It's  a  rooming  house,  or  so  I  gather  from  the  looks  of  the  place.  Milk  cartons  on  every  window  ledge,  miserable  faces  peering  out  of  the  windows,  dirty,  torn  shades  in  the  room  that  used  to  be  mine.  Do  you  remember  the  dressing  table  with  the  pink  brocade  skirt  I  was  so  fond  of,  Hennie?&quot;  Dodo  coughed,  reproaching  fate  and  adversity.  Henrietta  gave  a  melancholy  sigh  in  honor  of  the  old, decaying  red  brick  mansion  and  the  memory  of  gold  service  plates,  four  but-  lers,  and  the  little  Babcocks,  pale  and  fair  and  spoiled.  &quot;Let  it  all  go!  I  couldn't  care  less  Dodo  suddenly  exclaimed.  &quot;I  miss  hav-  ing  someone  to  wash  out  my  underwear  more  than  I  miss  our  marble  entrance  hall.  Money,  not  beauty,  is  what  I  mourn.&quot;  To  her,  it  was  more  tedious  to  have  to  wash  a  coffee  cup  than  to  be  forced  to  wear  a  tattered  dinner  dress.  In  these  preferences  Dodo  showed  a  clear  and  terrify  ing  grasp  of  reality.  She  understood  that  the  dirty  coffee  cup  rep-  resented  an  effort.  A  frayed  dress  was  simply  it  self.  It  did  not  ask  anything  of  her  except  the  nerve  to  wear  it,  and  that  nerve  Dodo  had  in  abundance.  Clarence  did  not  speak  during  this  nostalgic  moment.  His  silences  were  ordinarily  well  considered;  there  was  a  lurking,  impressive  withholding  of  ap-  proval  in  them.  He  knew  when  to  let  other  people  worry  for  fear  they  might  be  making  fools  of  themselves;  with  a  deep  and  greedy  sense  of  drama  he  could  sit  nodding  attentively  and  send  a  chill  of  apprehension  through  the  speaker.  In  this  case,  though,  his  silence  was  not  malicious,  for,  in  truth,  Clarence  found  Dodo  endlessly  engaging.  His  sensibility,  his  scholarly  discipline,  his  obstinacy-  it  was  almost  a  form  of  genius  the  way  he  could  bring  all  these  to  bear  upon  the  thin,  reddish  woman  sitting  across  from  him.  He  felt,  somehow,  a  vague  but  genuine  sympathy  with  this  frayed  and  yet  luxurious  person.  Already  he  was  busily  informing  his  conscience  that  Dodo  had  an  honesty,a  candor,  and  a  rigid  simplicity  of  emotion  that  he  found  more  elegant  and  admirable  than  Hen-  rietta's  cleverness.  Dodo  was  certainly  not  smart,  and  she  was  not  kind.  She  was  profoundly  incapable  of  that  greatness  of  sacrifice  or  purity  of  feeling  at  whose  throne  Clarence  worshipped  and  in  whose  name  he  criticized  and  sighed  over  most  of  his  acquaintances.  But  Clarence  decided  to  find  Dodo  majes-  tically  produced,  gloriously  out  of  date,  even  historically significant.  No,  not     " b" that,  not  significant,  he  amended  his  thoughts,  but  socially  expressive  in  a  small  and  interesting  way.  She  was  ridiculous,  like  many  a  genuine  article;  she  was  a  [REDACTED]  Babcock,  helpless,  proud,  paralyzed  by  her  self-esteem  and  bemused  by  the  decline  of  her  fortunes.  Her  clear  eyes  and  pink  skin  reminded  him  of  portraits  of  German  princesses.  Her  long,  pale  fingernails  were  adorned  with  coral  polish;  on  one  haughty  finger  there  was  a  splendid  emerald  ring,  tell-  ing  of  days  past  and  lost  treasure  hoards.  There  was  a  runner  in  her  stocking,  an  affecting  thinness  to  her  ankles,  a  whiff  of  sachet  clinging  to  the  dress  of  purple  silk.  Clarence  was,  he  liked  to  say,  &quot;some  kind  of  a  Socialist.&quot;  Still,  he  did  not  approve  of  what  he  called  &quot;Socialist  pro-  vincialism;&quot;  he  freely  admitted  the  pos-  sibility  of  charm,  the  capacity  for  suffer-  ing,  in  all  classes.  Thus,  it  was  almost  to  his  credit,  he  believed,  to  take  a  tolerant,  worldly  view  of  Dodo.  N  a  young  girl,  Dodo  had  spent  sev-  eral  years  inItaly,  living  in  an  expensive  pensione  in  Florence.  She  nev-  er  managed  to  meet  the  eligible  English-  man  who  should  have  entered  her  life,  conquering  her  with  his  vanity  and  his     pedigree.  She  did  not  even  manage  to  return  to  [REDACTED]  with  an  attractive,  penniless  Italian  of  noble  birth,  It  was  not  that  she  sought  and  did  not  find.  She  did  not  seek  and  was  not  found.  Dodo  had  studied  singing,  but  her  in-  terestin  singing  had  gradually  declined,  leaving  as  a  mark  of  its  previous  exist-  ence  only  a  quantity  of  vehement  opin-  ion.  As  her  passion  for  the  art  and  the  hopes  of  her  youth  diminished,  they  had  been  replaced  by  dissatisfaction  with  other  voices  and  with  modern  music.  Now,  at  dinner  at  the  Nesbitts',  she  found  her  days  as  a  voice  student  an-  other  topic  for  reminiscence.  &quot;I  was  a  mezzo,&quot;  she  explained,  giving  to  the  middle  register  in  which  nature  had  placed  her  voice  a  romantic,  elusive  significance.  Then,  with  the  authority  of  a  retired  diva,  she  turned  and  said  to  Clarence  with  dazzling  irrelevance,  &quot;  'The  Rake's  Program,'  or  whatever  that  phony  concoction  was  called-I  couldn't,  and  never  shall,  find  the  cour-  age  to  hear  it  through.  Nowadays  you  can  put  anything  over  by  a  little  pub-  licity  in  the  right  places.  The  Russians,  in  my  opinion,  have  no  feeling  for  the  voice.  They  understand  only  the  vio-  lin.&quot;  Clarence  listened,  and  allowed  an  ex-pression  of  gentle  amusement  to  pass  over  his  features.  He  thought  there  was  considerable  beauty  in  the  clarity  of  Dodo's  chagrined  countenance.  &quot;Dodo,  dear,&quot;  Willard  said  as  they  left  the  table,  &quot;your  intransigence  in  this  other-directed  world  we  livein  is  a  delightful  curiosity.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  imagine  what  you  mean,&quot;  Dodo  said,  smiling  girlishly.  &quot;I  simply  state  my  opinion.  Nothing  very  original  about  that.&quot;  Willard  Nesbitt  did  not  like  to  offer  his  guests  alcohol  after  dinner,  and  so  at  his  parties  there  was  always  this  period  of  pause  and  hesitation,  and  even  a  bit  of  discomfort,  because  his  guests  were  likely  to  wonder  suddenly  if  Nes-  bitt  did  not  regret  the  whole  affair.  And  he  did,  indeed,  often  give  the  clearest  indication  that  he  wished  the  evening  were  over.  By  not  drinking  after  din-  ner,  Willard  managed  to  avoid  dull,  headachy  mornings  and  lazy,  worthless  days.  His  ambitions  were  limitless;  there  was  not  enough  time  for  all  he  wanted  to  do.  His  abrupt  seizures  of  boredom  and  restlessness  were  symptoms  of  his  ambition  and  of  his  sense  that  time  was  running  out  and  fame  fickle  and  hard  to  command.  He  enjoyed  social  life,  and  yet  he  felt  himself  best  suited  to  the  " b"formal  occasion,  to  the  meetings  and  councils  of  public  life,  to  an  existence  of  decisions,  addresses,  cameras,  and  mi-  crophones.  He  hadhad  all  too  much  of  the  unbuttoned,  cozy,  secure  little  world  ofthe  university.  Nesbitt's  restlessness,  as  the  evening  went  on,  offended  Clarence,  who  took  it  for  what  it  was,  since  he  understood  his  colleague  very  well,  and  yet  felt  an  exception  should  be  made  in  his  own  case.  His  sense  of  personal  affront  was  quickly  translated  into  a  generalization:  Nesbitt's  longing  for  the  world  stage  was  an  example  of  the  increasing  com-  mercialization  and  superficiality  of  aca-  demic  life.  Clarence,  a  bachelor  and  only  thir-  ty-eight,  was  nevertheless  a  lover  of  things  as  they  once  were.  Everything  seemed  to  him  to  have  been  subtly  de-  graded,  from  the  quality  of  bread  to  the  high-school  curriculum.  Violent  feelings  of  disappointment,  exhausting      worries  about  the  future  of  culture,  had  a  fierce  dominion  over  Clarence's  exist-  ence.  He  was  so  fully  and  abjectly  un-  der  the  tyranny  of  these  feelings  that  the  feelings  themselves  were  in  his  own  mind  mistaken  for  &quot;work.&quot;  When  he  was  angry  with  a  colleague,  defeated  in  a  committee  meeting,  dismayed  by  the  poor  preparation  of  the  students,  these  experiences  seemed  to  him  to  be  his  job.  They  were  much  too  devastat-  ing  and  severe  for  him  to  take  light-  ly.  In  judging  his  extremity  of  emo-  tion,  he  found  it  simply  an  example  of  his  greater  diligence  and  dedication,  his  superiority  to  the  mechanics  being  turned  out  by  the  graduate  schools.  Clarence  cared,  he  suffered,  he  worried.  Nesbitt's  Un-  der-Secretary  of  State  airs  and  his  desire  to  be  anim-  portant  figure  in  the  intellec-  tual  world  seemed  to  his  crit-  ic,  Clarence,  to  bea  slighting  of  the  great  career  of  educa-  tion.  Across  the  room,  cool  and  smiling,  sat  Dodo  Babcock.  That  schizophrenic,  danger-  ous  serenity,  Clarence  thought.  Childishness,  indif-  ference,  greed,  and  empty  vanity;  Clarence  counted  them  off  on  his  fingers-the  faults  of  upper-class  women.  Yet  out  of  nowhere  came  the  answer  that  he  had  the  opposite  qualities  in  super-  abundance.  He  was  careful,  liberal,  idealistic,  and  so  the  arrogant,  self-loving,  little-  girl  character  of  Dodo  ap-  pealed  to  him.  He  tilted  his  head  so  that  he  might  over-  hear  what  she  was  saying  to  Henrietta  without  interrupt-  ing  his  own  conversation  with  a  drowsy-looking  Willard.  &quot;'This  heavy  reliance  on  Freud  may  prove  embarrass-  ing  a  few  decades  from  now  -even  one  decade  from  now,&quot;  Clarence  was  saying.  &quot;I  don'tthink  people  quite  realize  the  extent  of  this  in-  fluence.  It  is  like  a  gas  that  has  mixed  into  the  natural  atmosphere.  Of  course,  a  great  mind  and  great  work  would  make  incalculable  dif-  ferences  in  special  fields-in  this  case,  in  psychology  and  character  analysis.  But  his-  tory,  sociology,  religion,  ar-  chitecture!  I  am  reminded  " b"of  the  seriousness  with  which  the  Vic-  torians  took  phrenology.&quot;  'You  can't  honestly  mean  to  imply  the  two  things  are  comparable  in  any  sense,&quot;  Willard  said,  languidly  taking  a  cigarette  from  a  Chinese  box  on  the  table.  &quot;No,  I  certainly  do  not.  I  think  Freud  is  immense,  don't  mistake  me.  But  still,  some  ofthe  details,  some  of  the  literalness,  the  use  to  which  he  has  been  put,  disturbs  me.  Even  thegreat-  est  intellectual  events  are  often  distorted  by  overearnest  followers.  There  are  fashions,  exaggerations,  mistakes  here,  as  elsewhere.  We  don't  know  exactly  what  will  remain,  after  all,  of  Fread-  ianism-what  its  real  contribution  will  turn  out  to  be.&quot;  Naturally,  naturally,&quot;  Willard  said,  without  enthusiasm.  Clarence  heard  Henrietta  say  to  Dodo,  &quot;'Your  parents  were  truly  glam-  orous,  and  I  am  not  one  to  use  that  word  lightly.&quot;  &quot;Daddy  was  the  most  wonderful  person  I  have  ever  known,&quot;  Dodo  said.  &quot;He  was  strong,  clever,  good-natured.  He  knew  how  to  have  a  good  time,  how  to  be  gay,  how  to  give  people  pleasure.&quot;  It  seemed  to  Clarence  that  Dodo  blushed  when  she  saw  him  looking  at  her.  &quot;Who  are  you?&quot;  Dodo  suddenly  said  to  him.  &quot;Are  you  terribly  brilliant,  and  all  that?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  I  must  confess  I  am,&quot;  Clar-  ence  replied,  with  an  elaborate  flourish  of  self-mockery.  &quot;I  am  very  frighten-  ing  with  my  great  brilliance.&quot;  Dodo  did  not  laugh.  She  was  as  free  of  irony  as  a  doll.  A  mind  like  that,  Clarence  thought  giddily,  lives  by  sheer  superstition.  Dodo's  eyes  remained  up-  on  him.  She  was  archaic,  quaint,  and  yet  not  really  eccentric.  Clarence  de-  cided  it  would  be  agreeable  if  she  turned  out  to  love  Jane  Austen,  or  even  Trol-  lope.  But  his  sanity  soon  returned  and  he  sullenly  reminded  himself  that  privileged  persons  no  longer  had  hob-  bies  like  Jane  Austen.  Daddy  Babcock  would  never  have  spent  an  evening-  or  an  hour-with  Roman  history.  The  Babcocks'  culture,  such  as  it  was,  was  thin  and  vulgar,  and  prodigiously  in-  dolent.  Clarence's  irritation  mounted,  but  it  did  not  center  on  Dodo  so  much  as  on  her  group-or  what  was  once  her  group.  Dodo's  haughty,  grim  help-  lessness  saved  her.  'The  old  purple  dress  and  the  runner  in  her  stocking  some-  how  brought  her  back  to  the  possible.  At  least  she  was  a  failure!  And  at  the  same  timea  challenge,  subtly  touching  the  vein  of  competition  that  throbbed  in  Clarence's  soul.  'The  smile  Dodo     " b"gave  him  was  sweet,  hesitant,  won-  dering.  He  observed  that  he  and  she  were  not  at  ease  witheach  other,  and  this  signified  to  him  the  possibility  of  sexual  drama-the  painful  and  promis-  ing  period  of  courtship  and  discovery.  Clarence  felt  bold.  He  said,  in  a  harsh,  uncaring  voice,  &quot;Do  you  like  chamber  music,  Miss  Babcock?&quot;  &quot;I  adore  it,&quot;  Dodo  said,  clasping  her  hands  and  looking  at  Willard  and  Hen-  rietta  as  if  she  had  scored  a  triumph  and  meant  to  be  congratulated.  'They  gave  no  sign  of  encouragement,  but  Dodo  let  the  disappointment  pass.  She  did  not  know  that  though  she  had  been  asked  with  Clarence  for  the  evening,  she  was  not  particularly  asked  to  admire  him.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  go  with  me  to  hear  three  fine  instrumentalists  perform  some  trios  next  week?&quot;  said  Clarence.  &quot;'The  'Archduke,'  for  one,  and  some  Mozart,  I  think.  The  full  program  es-  capes  me.&quot;  &quot;I'd  adore  it,&quot;  Dodo  said.  &quot;Good!&quot;  Clarence  said.  Henrietta  looked  at  him  with  a  twist,  ed  grin.  Willard  coughed.  Clarence  now  felt  he  could  leave  the  Nesbitts  to  their  post-mortem  conversation.  He  could  leave  dramatically,  on  his  own  terms,  giving  as  fit  payment  for  the  evening's  invitation  the  little  bit  of  con-  fusion,  wonder,  and  mystery  that  his  determination  to  continue  the  friend-  ship  with  Dodo  meant  for  the  Nesbitts.  Looking  at  his  watch,  he  exclaimed  gaily  that  it  was  a  quarter  to  eleven.  With  great  gentleness  and  delicacy,  he  offered  Dodo  a  taxi  ride,  which  she  accepted.  'The  Nesbitts  were  quiet.  At  the  door,  Clarence  took  his  time.  He  paused  reflectively,  to  round  out  his  conversation  with  Willard.  &quot;There  is  certainly  a  question  of  just  how  much  encouragement  we  want  to  give  the  new  era  in  education,  which  I  have  called  the  Divinity  School  Era,&quot;  he  said  slowly.  &quot;I,  for  one,  am  not  absolutely  certain  that  itis  an  advance  on  the  Teachers  College  Age.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  not,&quot;  Willard  said  limply.  ''The  only  thing  that  can  be  said  for  it  is  that  a  lot  of  persons  will  be  forced  to  take  New  Testament  Greek.&quot;  &quot;Some  comfort  but  not  enough,&quot;  Clarence  said,  giving  his  arm  to  Dodo  and  disappearing  down  the  stairs.  LONE,  the  Nesbitts  were  crest-  fallen.  &quot;That  was  sort  of  bor-  ing,&quot;  Henrietta  said.  She  poured  her-  self  a  brandy  and  shrugged  when  Willard  refused  one.  &quot;Clarence  is  terribly  irritating,&quot;  Willard  said  savagely.  &quot;Somehow,  I  keep  forgetting  just  how  provoking  his  " b"personality  can  be.  He's  too  cold  and  at  the  same  time  too  intense-a  tire-  some,  disturbing  combination.  I  don't  know  why  I  ever  had  the  dull  idea  of  having  him  here.  We  didn't  even  owe  him!  Of  course,  no  one  owes  him,  be-  cause  he  never  invites  anyone.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  think  of  Dodo?&quot;  Henrietta  said,  dreamily  sipping  her  brandy.  &quot;She  seemed  delighted  with  Clarence-at  least  delighted  forher.  She's  not  very  demonstrative,  but  the  poor  girl  is  susceptible.  Quite,  I  can  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  Dodo  was  the  same,&quot;  Willard  said  crossly.  &quot;But  I  must  say  that  if  she  is  attracted  to  Clarence,  then  she  has  deteriorated  since  the  last  time  I  saw  her.  She  used  to  have  more  sense.  It  would  be  absolutely  unbearable  if  that  ass  Anderson  started  to  escort  Dodo  about.  I  thought  it  was  very  speedy  of  him  to  make  the  engagement  for  that  damned  concert  right  here,  the  first  meeting.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  that  I  agree,&quot;  Henri-  etta  said,  her  eyes  glinting  mischievous-  ly.  The  brandy  was  having  its  effect.  &quot;Dodo  is  lonely.  She  must  be.  And  Clarence  is  plausible  to  a  degree  that  is  positively  frightening.&quot;  &quot;He'd  only  be  using  that  foolish  Dodo  to  vex  us.  I  know  him!  I  don't  relish  the  idea  of  Clarence  as  apart  of  the  family,  let  me  tell  you-not  even  as  a  part  by.  nothing  more  than  friend-  ship  with  Dodo.  Not  even  that!  The  whole  thing  is  exasperating!&quot;  &quot;Just  exactly  why,  pet?&quot;  Henrietta  insisted,  with  a  bit  of  hoarseness,  giving  her  husband  that  look  of  bone-and-  blood  superiority  he  had  learned  to  dread.  &quot;Dodo  is  not  likely  to  marry  anyone-at  least  so  far  as  I  can  predict.  You  can  never  tell  about  what  are  called  the  middle  years,  though.  Of  course,  she  turned  down  a  number  of  quite  soundly  eligible  persons  in  her  very  young  days.  And  don't  you  forget  it!&quot;  &quot;Why  should  I  forget  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  mean  her  situation,  her  sin-  gle  blessedness,  is  due  to  a  certain  over-  reaching  of  ambition  and  expectation  at  an  earlier  date.  It  is  not  that  she  was  unmarriageable,  by  any  means.  You  never  know  what  odd  person-what  shy  girl-will  turn  out  to  be  difficult  to  please  in  the  most  outrageous  and  inexplicable  way.  Her  sister  Jeannine,  a  great  beauty  and  wildly  popular,  was  not  like  that  at  all.  She  married  at  twenty-one,  and  while  Emory  is  per-  fectly  sweet,  he's  nothing  to  write  home  about  so  far  as  money,  birth,  personal  charm,  or  even  achievement  is  con-  cerned!&quot;  &quot;Poor  Emory!&quot;  Willard  said.  He " b"was  extremely  annoyed  with  Henrietta.  If  anything,  she  disliked  Clarence  more  than  he  did!  &quot;I'd  loathe  having  Clarence  Ander-  son  seeing  a  lot  of  Dodo.  Simply  loathe  it,&quot;  Henrietta  continued,  gathering  steam.  &quot;He  is  not  a  bijou.  Not  for  my  money.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  that  is  exactly  what  he  is,  at  least  to  some  people.  Ugh!&quot;  Wil-  lard  said.  &quot;But,  loathe  it  asI  would,&quot;  Henri-  etta  went  on  briskly,  &quot;I  think,  from  their  point  of  view,  they  might  have  a  pleasant  time  together  occasionally.  Concerts,  little  dinners,  a  play.  Not  too  frequently,  just  once  in  a  while.&quot;  You've  got  it  all  worked  out.  Any-  one  would  think  you  were  directing  them  in  a  movie.&quot;  Henrietta  was  hardly  hstemng  &quot;I  always  think  of  poor  Dodo  in  the  the-  atrical  way  I  last  saw  her  on  her  own  ground,  in  that  dreary,  soiled  little  flat  of  hers.  It's  a  frightful  place,  and  some-  how  made  all  the  worse  because  of  bits  of  heavenly  things  here  and  there,  all  chipped  and  dusty  and  battered.  The  final  tableau  was  wonderful:  there  was  Dodo  in  an  ancient  wrapper  eatinga  sandwich  of  canned  meat,  sitting  under  the  portrait  of  Grandfather  Perry  Bab-  cock,  who  made  three  million  out  West  before  he  was  twenty-five-all  those  years  ago.&quot;  &quot;Clarence  will  adore  that  note,  I  assure  you.  Nothing  will  escape  him,  and  his  additions  to  the  scene  will  be  epical.  If  he  chooses  to  do  so,  he  can  manage  to  turn  Dodo's  poverty  into  a  great  spiritual  principle.  A  sort  of  Chris-  tian  Socialist  impulse  will  be  found  to  lie  behind  the  waste  and  poor  manage-  ment.&quot;  &quot;Darling,&quot;  Henrietta  interrupted,  &quot;there's  one  thing  I  believe  should  be  cleared  up.  By  your  standards  and  Clarence's,  Dodo  isn't  poor!  She  has,  unearned,  at  least  three  or  four  thou-  sand  dollars  a  year.  Unearned  and  for  life,  bar  the  revolution.  That  isn't  poor,  really.  It's  just  poor  to  Dodo.&quot;  ''Yes,  I  suppose  she  has  something,&quot;  Willard  conceded  irritably.  &quot;But,  with  her,  what  is  unearned  is  all  there  is.  She  couldn't  ears  her  carfare.  That  three  orfour  thousand  is  all  she'll  ever  have.  With  taxes,  and  so  on,  I  can  im-  agine  Dodo  feels  pretty  strapped  and  worries  quite  a  bit  about  the  future.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know  that's  all  she'll  ever  have?  You  have  much  less  imagi-  nation  than  our  dear  Clarence.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know  Clarence  has  imagination  about  what  Dodo  will  have-or  has,  for  that  matter?&quot;  Henrietta  lit  a  cigarette  and  resumed     " b"with  a  knowledgeable  air,  &quot;At  least,  Clarence  wouldn't  be  so  positive  about  a  thing  like  that.  He  wouldn't  consider  Dodo  or  her  prospects  mummified.  Don't  forget,  Mr.  Professor,  rich  peo-  ple,  well-connected  people,  are  always  inheriting  a  little  bit  here  and  there.  Sometimes  more  than  a  little  bit  will  |  come  from  an  utterly  unexpected  source-and  a  greater  delight  human  society  cannot  offer.  Yet  sometimes  from  an  expected  source  nothing  comes,  or  much  less  than  might  have.  That  scars  your  very  soul,  believe  me....  But  don't  count  out  any  Babcock  while  a  single  branch  of  the  family  is  as  filthy  rich  as  Uncle  Wink!&quot;  Henrietta  was  soaring  into  her  most  lofty  sphere.  &quot;In  the  thirties,  when  all  the  so-called  clever  people  were  mak-  ing  so  much  fun  of  Ford  and  Rocke-  feller  and  Uncle  Wink,  I  felt,  without  daring  toutter  it,  that  times  would  change,  the  swing  would  come.  Right  now,  I  don't  know  a  single  damned  sociologist  who  wouldn't  be  beside  him-  self  with  joy  at  the  thought  of  dining  with  Uncle  Wink  and  Aunt  Bea!  And  the  conversation  would  bea  lot  more  diverting  than  what  one  hears  at  the  Faculty  Club,  I  can  assure  you.  I  don't  deny  that  it  would  be  different-light-  er-but  that  light  sort  of  thing  can,  in  its  own  way,  be  original  and  interesting.  And,  above  all,  gay!  God,  the  charm  of  a  sense  of  gaiety!&quot;  These  aggrieved  moods  appalled  Willard.  He  felt  defenseless,  embar-  rassed,  accused.  Henrietta  struck  this  note  only  when  she  had  had  too  much  to  drink,  and  the  mood  and  the  lan-  guage-even  the  feelings-vanished  with  the  return  to  full  sobriety.  And  yet  how  distressing  the  words  were,  how  resentful,  how  disappointed  and  unpredictable!  Just  beneath  the  sur-  face  of  Henrietta's  amiable,  witty,  and  nervous  temperament  lay  this  sewer  of  narrowness  and  disillusion.  Willard  shrank  from  the  moments  when  it  was  exposed  to  him.  He  hated  himself  for  having  clumsily  allowed  himself  to  be  somehow  paired  with  Clarence  Ander-  son  in  Henrietta's  intoxicated  dialogue.  Her  grudging,  preaching,  outlandish  statements  seemed  to  be  meant  for  both  men  alike.  It  was  a  relief  to  know  that  in  the  morning  she  would  mercilessly  make  fun  of  Clarence  and  praise  her  husband.  Henrietta  was  reaching  her  big  scene.  She  began,  as  usual,  to  repeat  her  re-  frain.  &quot;I  find  myself  overcome  with  admiration  for  you  academic  people-&quot;  &quot;Really,  dear?&quot;  Willard  injected  in  a  vanishing  voice.  &quot;Yes,  utter  admiration.  How  you" b" talk  about  things  with  such  godlike  as-  surance!  How  you  give  forth  on  mat-  ters  you  have  never  experienced!  Ideas  flow  like  wine-everything  out  of  books  and  other  people's  lectures,  nothing  from  actual  life!  People  write  books  on  the  psychology  of  the  upper  classes  who  have  only  read  other  books  on  the  upper  classes,  or  on  the  peasants-it's  all  the  same-or  on  Negroes,  any  subject  you  like.  There  is  always  someone  with  the  courage  to  talk  or  write  on  any  topic  under  the  sun.  The  brave  teacher  is  al-  ways  to  be  found!&quot;  Her  voice  dropped.  &quot;Andnow  I  suppose  our  good  friend  Clarence  will  join  you  in  the  fasci-  nating  analysis  of  the  great  Middle  Western  fortunes-in  the  authorita-  tive  statement  on  the  [REDACTED]  robber  barons!&quot;  Willard  shivered.  He  picked  up  his  book,  kissed  Henrietta  on  the  cheek,  and  retired  to  his  bedroom.  Thoughts  and  dreams  of  Clarence  Anderson  tor-  mented  hissleep. "