 b"IF,  at  the  moment,  you're  intent  on  piloting  a  wire  carriage  across  a  supermarket,  or  a  plane  through  the  overcast,  or  a  cartel  through  reorganiza-  tion,  I  don't  want  to  rattle  you,  and  please  don't  abandon  the  controls  for  anything.  If,  however,  you're  basking  before  the  hearth  with  a  siphon  handy  and  Rosy  Fahrleit  playing  over  your  face,  and  are  convinced  that  life  isn't  so  insupportable  after  all,  you're  exhibiting  symptoms  of  hubris  and  I  have  the  very  corrective  you  need.  It's  to  be  taken  externally,  in  the  form  of  a  letter  re-  ceived  by  several  publishers  around  town  from  an  outfit  in  [REDACTED]  called  the  Lake  Park  Research  Specialists,  W.  D.  [REDACTED],  President:  Dear  Sir:  We  are  living  today  in  a  nation  which  surely  must  be  man's  nearest  approach  to  the  proverbial  &quot;Land  of  Milk  and  Hon-  ey.&quot;  Certainly,  huge  fortunes  have  been  amassed  in  other  lands  and  in  othertimes  but  never  have  so  many  hundreds  of  thou-  sands  of  families,  in  one  nation,  had  the  means  to  buy  the  finest  products  available,  regardless  of  price.  The  truth  of  the  above  statement  has  been  brought  home  to  me  many  times  in  my  regular  work  of  fore-    casting  the  growth  of  cities,  and  the  telephone  market,  forthe  South-  western  Bell  Telephone  Company.  It  is  a  well  established  fact  that  the  standard  of  living  is  on  a  long  term  upward  trend.  This  means  that  not  only  can  more  families  afford  many  of  the  available  lux-  uries,  many  others  are  be-  coming  interested  in  them.  On  this  premise  we  are  compiling  a  book  to  illus-  trate  and  describe  several  hundred  ofthe  most  out-  standing  and  costly  prod-  ucts  regularly  available  on  the  American  market.  These  products  fall  into  categories  ranging  from  wearing  apparel  and  home  furnishings  to  sports  equip-  ment  and  pets.  We  believe  the  unique  and  interesting  aspect  of  our  book  will  be  the  wide  diversity  of  the  luxuries  included.  ...  The  products  in  this  Almanach  de  Gotha  of  merchandise,  ranging  from  a  $4.95  can  of  pretzels  to  an  airplane  costing  $540,000,  are  to  be  colorfully  illustrated  and  will  carry  short,  en-  ticing  descriptions,  re-  garding  which  Mr.  [REDACTED]  observes,  in  a  singularly  artless  aside,  &quot;'The  text  .  .  .  will  not  conflict  with  the  advertising  policy  of  the  companies  rep-  resented  since  itis  to  be  largely  based  on  copy  furnished  by  them.&quot;  Among  these  companies,  and  to  exemplify  the  catho-  licity  of  the  subject  matter,  are  Rolls-  Royce,  I.  Magnin,  Royal  Crown  Der-  by,  Mr.  John,  Schmieg  &amp;  Kotzian,  Poodles  Inc.,  Bronzini,  Dorothy  Gray,  Bachman  Bakeries,  and  Fiddler's  Green,  all  of  whom  have  responded  vibrantly  to  the  tocsin.  'There  is  also  appended  a  list  of  eighty-six  assorted  products,  which  includes  such  bijoux  as  &quot;Breakfront-$6,000,&quot;  &quot;Four  Post-  age  Stamps-$2,8  50,&quot;  &quot;Beef  Roast-  $27.50,&quot;  &quot;Mink  Coat-$12,980,&quot;  &quot;Kitten-$200,&quot;  &quot;Needlework  Carpet  (sq.  yd.)-$495,&quot;  and  &quot;Tub  and  Shower  Controls-$240.&quot;  Got  the  pic-  ture?  One  could  blithely  shrug  off  Mr.  [REDACTED]  and  reach  for  the  siphon  and  Rosy  except  that  the  proposal  has  another,  and  far  more  baleful,  aspect.  After  declaring  that  the  gift  of  this  book  would  imply  the  recipient  to  be  a  person  of  discrimina-tion-a  rather  carefree  assumption-its  advocate  continues  with  true  Texan  buoyancy,  &quot;Ithas  also  been  suggested  to  me  that  the  State  Department  might  buy  copiesfor  overseas  libraries  to  illustrate  the  rewards  held  out  to  the  more  suc-  cessful  under  our  system  of  free  enter-  prise.&quot;  As  the  staunchest  adherent  of  free  enterprise  since  Collis  P.  Hunting-  ton,  I  shall  labor  unceasingly  to  propa-  gate  it  as  long  .as  the  breath  whistles  in  my  lungs.  I  do  feel,  notwithstanding,  that  Mr.  [REDACTED]'s  export  scheme  de-  serves  extremely  sober  reflection  before  barging  into  it.  There  are  certain  far-  flung  locales  where  his  book  may  have  an  unintended  impact,  and  I  think  that  since  forecasting  is  his  m\xc3\xa9tier,  he  might  usefully  try  some  in  this  direction-or  better  yet,  permit  us  to.  Let's  adjourn,  therefore,  to  Tangan-  yika,  in  'British  [REDACTED]  Africa,  and  see  what  cooks  there.  Careful  where  you  sit,  bub;  those  blasted  sisal  plants  are  needle-sharp.  ScEnr:  A  Masai  encampment  in  the  shadow  of  Mount  Kilimanjaro-a  hud-  dle  of  twelve  or  fifteen  earth-and-wattle  mounds  inside  a  thorn  fence  contrived  to  discourage  marauding  lhhons.  Seated  be-  forea  mound  atop  which  a  broken  Pepsi-Cola  bot-  tle  proclaims  its  adminis-  trative  status  is  Unda-  privolo,  headman  of  the  camp.  He  is  a  magnificent  specimen,  tall  and  lissome  as  one  of  the  golden  aca-  cias  painted  on  the  back-  drop,  and  his  poll,  thickly  pomaded  with  zebra  fat,  glistens  in  the  afterglow.  He  is  endeavoring,  with  scant  success,  to  read  a  tattered  magazine.  From  within  his  hive  issues  a  dis-  cord  of  women's  voices  raised  in  execration  and  laughter.  NDAPRIVOLO  (shout-  ing  into  the  interi-  or):  Hey,  you  in  there!  How  do  you  expect  a  man  to  concentrate?  (The  noise  subsides  abruptly.  As  he  returns  to  his  periodical,  No'Valuta,  another  Ma-  sai  chieftain,  enters  bear-  ing  his  tribal  spear,  shield,  and  fly  whisk.)  Oh,  hello,  No'Valuta.  What  brings  you  over  this  way?  No'VaruTa:  Just  the  nomad  instinct.  As  you     " b"know,  we  Masai  are  herdsmen;  we  have  no  fixed  place  of  abode.  UnpaAPRIvOLO:  Yes,  ours  is  a  mar-  ginal  existence,  subsisting  as  we  doon  a  mixture  of  blood  and  milk  and  frequent-  ly  decimatedby  the  ravages  of  the  tsetse  fly.  No'V  aruTa:  Well,  I  guess  that  pret-  ty  well  cleans  up  the  exposition.  What  are  you  perusing  there  with  such  inter-  est!  UnpaprIvoro:  An  American  organ  of  show  biz  y-clept  Veriety,  which  it  ofttimes  contains  stray  nuggets  ofinfo  pertaining  to  these  climes.  Do  you  recall  a  stocky  little  chap,  an  author,  who  was  on  safari  hereabouts  a  while  ago?  No'VarurTa:  The  Serengeti's  been  full  of  stocky  authors  the  past  few  years.  Hemingway  ..  .  Ruark  .  ..  Buch-  wald  ...  UnpaAPRIvOLO:  ~Ruark-that's  the  name.  We  got  him  a  couple  of  rhino,  all  right,  but  it  sure  took  plenty  of  type-  writer  ribbon.  Well,  he's  just  bagged  somemore.  It  says  here  that  M-G-M  paid  three  hundred  grand  for  his  tome  &quot;Something  of  Value.&quot;  No'Varura:  Boy,  that  ain't  sisal.  How  much  is  a  grand?  UnparprIvoro:  I  don't  know  exact,  ly,  but  I  think  about  two  dollars.  No'Varura:  Those  Yankees  certain-  ly  throw  it  around.  I  was  in  Arusha,  buying  some  mint  to  hang  on  my  spear,  when  that  all-girl  safari  came  through.  Do  you  know  that  every  blessed  one  of  them  had  their  own  individual  tooth-  brush?  UnpaPprIvoro:  True,  but  the  whole  bevy  of  fifteen  had  only  one  author  be-  twixt  them.  A  nearsighted  coot  with  ginger-colored  mustaches-named  Peb-  bleman,  some  name  like  that.  No'VaruTA:  Still,  one  gracious  per-  sonality  like  him  is  worth  a  dozen  of  your  average  scriveners,  in  my  view.  UnparrIvoro:  Agreed.  And  speak-  ing  of  the  unusual,  have  you  seenthe  catalogue  of  American  luxury  wares  available  under  their  free-enterprise  system?  No'VaruTa:  You  mean  the  one  as-  sembled  by  a  Texan  soothsayer  that  his  job  is  predictingthe  growth  of  cities,  and  the  telephone  market,  for  South-  western  Bell?  No,  I  haven't,  old  man.  Unpaprivoro  (extracting  a  vol-  ume  from  his  toga):  W  ell,  here  is  a  mint  copy  I  brought  home  on  my  spear  from  the  556e6974656420537461746573I.S.  Library  in  4b656e7961.  No'VaruTa:  A  classy  piece  of  book-  making.  I  note  that  thedust  jacket  re-  produces  in  full  color  an  orchid,  a  1913  Mercer  Raceabout,  a  barbecue  wagon,  jewelled  glass  frames,  and  a  yacht.  What  is  the  connection  between  these?  UnpaPrIvoro:  Tenuous,  but  I  glean  that  anybody  with  enough  initiative  over  there  can  have  all  of  them  if  he  wants.  No'VaruTa:  Anybody  who  doesn't  must  bea  resident  of  Queer  Street.  Unparprivoro:  Or  a  subversive.  (Opening  the  book)  Look  at  this  pair  of  curtains  priced  at  $4,080,  for  in-  stance.  What  housewife  soblas\xc3\xa9  that  she  could  resist  their  shimmer?  Her  spouse  would  certainly  be  top  dog  if  she  flaunted  them  in  their  picture  window.  No'V  aruTa:  Would  he  not  be  more  " b"avid  for  this  fishing  reel  at  $645,  or  the  beer  stein  opposite  at  $300?  UnpaPprIvoro:  There  is  something  here  for  every  taste,  including  Fido's-  viz.,  a  poodle  sweater  priced  at  $20  that  will  effectively  shield  his  soft  underbelly  from  drafts.  Here  is  a  group  of  me-  chanical  birds  for  $300,  or  an  animated  Santa  Claus  display  for  $3,000,  war-  ranted  to  make  Baby  crow  with  delight.  Junior,  depending  on  his  age,  can  choose  between  a  child's  toy  car,  $595,  and  a  foreign  one,  $21,745,  whilst  Sister,  seated  at  her  vanity  and  bench,  $1,020,  is  lost  in  dreams  of  a  $2,250  bridal  gown.  At  eventide,  I  envision  the  fam-  ily  united  at  the  $3,500  dining  table,  ready  to  partake  of  pheasant  at  $14  a  brace  or  rattlesnake  meat,  $2  the  5-0z.  can,  heated  onan  $1,195  range,  and  after  a  tunefest  around  the  $4,585  pi-  ano,  dossing  down  in  their  $1,600  beds.  No'VaruTa:  Hmm,  this  is  all  very  fine,  Undaprivolo,  but  does  it  follow  that  acquisitions  like  these  insure  happi-  ness?  UnpaPrIvoro:  W  hy,  of  course.  The  more  cattle,  wives,  and  pelf  a  man  has,  the  more  serene  he  is-that's  rudimen-  tary.  The  Americans  are  the  happiest  folk  on  earth.  No'VarutTaA  (thoughtfully):  I  won-  der.  The  other  day  I  was  over  at  my  headshrinker's  in  Moshi-  Unpaprivoro:  I  didn't  know  you  were  having  problems.  No'VaruTA:  Idon't.  This  fellow  is  preparing  a  couple  of  trophies  for  my  hut-Wakamba  tribesmen.  UnpaprIvoro:  Is  Eudora  redeco-  rating  again?  It  beats  me  where  you  people  get  the  money.  No'VaruTa:  Let's  not  go  into  thet.  Well,  as  I  say,  I  was  chewing  some  fat  with  him  when  this  tourist  couple  passed  by.  She  was  a  real  long-stemmed  Amer-  ican  Beauty-hair  like  spun  gold,  skin  like  a  magnolia  petal-  UnpaAPRIvOLO:  Not  African  mag-  nolias.  Their  petals  look  like  skin.  No'V  aALuTA  (impatiently  ):  Anyway,  she  was  a  lulu,  and  you  could  see  she  had  more  shekels  than  the  [REDACTED]  Mint.  UnpaprIvorLo:  The  thought  of  the  Mint  transfixes  me  like  a  spear.  No'V  aruTA:  Me,  too.  Well,  the  man  with  her  was  a  pasty-faced  little  runt,  dark-complected,  a  cipher.  The  shrinker  told  me  he's  an  Italian  noble  that  her  family  bought  for  her,  but  she  cries  her-  self  to  sleep  every  night  at  the  hotel.  UnpaPprIvoro:  Pah.He's  been  read-  ing  too  much  Henry  James.  No'VaruTA:  Just  the  same,  it  shows  that  money  isn't  everything.  I'd  have  taken  her  away  from  him  if  I  didn't  have  a  houseful  already.  .  .  .  Well,  abba  dabba.  UnpaPrRrIvoLo:  going?  No'VaruTaA:  Oh,  anywhere  that  in-  stinct  dictates.  We  nomads  are  restless,  you  know.  UnpaprIvoro:  Won't  Eudora  be  worried  about  you?  No'VaruTa:  No,  she's  off  in  the  scrub,  as  usual,  playing  knucklebones  with  her  ladies.  UnpaPrivoro:  Then  why  don't  you  stay  for  supper?  We  can  always  rustle  up  an  extra  wildebeest  chop.  No'VarurTa:  You're  sure  I  won't  crowd  you  in  there?  I'm  kind  of  rangy.  UnpaPrIvOLO:  Nonsense,  my  dear  boy.  (Lifting  door  flap)  Now,  remem-  ber,  you  mustn't  expect  too  much.  It's  only  an  unpretentious  mound  without  any  $750  tablecloth  or  $4,150  silver  service,  but  we  like  it.  No'VauruTa  (gallantly):  Better  a  dinner  of  herbs  where  love  is  than  the  stalled  ox.  UnpaPprtyoro:  Could  be  you'll  get  both.  IfI  know  my  womenfolk,  the  ox  may  be  there,  too.  (As  they  vanish  into  his  burrow,  and  W  .  D.  [REDACTED],  Deo  volente,  vanishes  into  his-)  CURTAIN "