 b"WE  often  hear  it  said  that  we,  as  people,  have  cheapened  our-  selves  by  simply  becoming  too  many.  Whenever  I  hear  this  remark,  whether  it  is  true  or  not,  I  automatically  think  back  on  those  days  when  Mr.  Gates  seemed  to  me  to  be  one  of  the  few  people  on  earth.  I  was  about  eight  years  old,  soon  after  the  start  of  the  century,  when  Mr.  Gates  became  the  only  neighbor  my  father  and  I  had  in  [REDACTED].  He  took  up  a  homestead  some  four  miles  from  where  my  father  had  taken  one  up  not  long  before.  One  of  my  older  brothers  had  been  with  my  father  and  me,  but  after  a  short  time  he  decided  that  homesteading  wasn't  profitable  enough,  and  he  left  us  to  geta  job  else-  where  in  [REDACTED].  Most  of  the  rest  ofthe  family,  including  my  mother,  were  back  in  Everett,  [REDACTED],  where  some  of  my  brothers  and  sisters  were  in  school.  The  last  of  the  Indians  hadgone  from  our  part  of  the  prairie,  and  the  only  reminders  of  them  were  the  stones  they  had  placed  around  the  bottoms  of  their  tepees  to  hold  them  down  dur-  ing  windstorms.  'These  circles  of  stones  had  gradually  sunk  into  the  prairie  sod  until  they  were  level  with  it,  and  buf-  falo  grass  had  grown  around  them.  (|  They  appeared  as  if  they  had  been  there  always,  a  natural  thing,  and  it  seemed  as  if  no  one-Indians  or  anyone  else-  had  been  on  the  prairie  ahead  of  my  father  and  me.  So  when  Mr.  Gates  arrived,  he  was  an  event  merely  by  being  another  person.  From  our  shack,  my  father  and  I  could  look  across  the  treeless  prairie  at  Mr.  Gates'  shack,  which  was  silhouetted,  but  only  partly,  on  what  we  called  the  benchland-the  crest  of  a  gentle  rise.  His  shack  was  the  only  dwelling  anywhere  around  besides  our  own.  Like  ours,  his  consisted  of  one  room,  with  three  windows,  a  low  flat  roof,  and  a  stovepipe  anchored  by  bal-  ing  wire.  Nearby  was  a  small  barn,  similar  to  one  we  had.  Mr.  Gates  came  to  the  prairie  early  in  the  summer.  I  was  glad  to  see  him,  be-  cause  I  had  no  one  else  around  to  visit,  and  we  soon  became  friends.  He  was  a  bald-headed,  roly-poly  man,  with  legs  so  short  he  could  not  swing  up  into  a  wagon  seat  any  easier  than  I  could.  He  talked  constantly.  On  my  first  visit  to  his  shack,  he  said  he  had  been  living  here  and  there  around  [REDACTED]  ever  since     he  was  a  boy,  and  that  he  had  even  been  in  [REDACTED]  ahead  of  General  Custer.  &quot;But  I  never  had  any  use  for  Custer,&quot;  he  added,  &quot;or  for  any  of  his  damn  of-  ficers,  either,  because  they  wouldn't  listen  when  I  warned  them  about  the  Indians.  I  neverthought  1d  ever  be  a  homesteader,  though,  but  look  at  me  now.&quot;  When  I  was  about  to  leave,  he  said,  &quot;Wait  a  minute.  I  haven't  shown  you  my  scalp.&quot;  He  had  only  a  fringe  of  hair  at  the  back  of  an  exceptionally  round  head,but  this  did  not  seem  re-  markable  to  me,  as  my  father  was  al-  most  bald.  Mr.  Gates  told  me  that  he  had  been  scalped  by  Blackfeet  and  that  they  had  felt  sorry  about  it  after-  ward  and  had  returned  the  scalp  to  him.  He  said  he  had  been  keeping  it  inhis  trunk  ever  since.  The  trunk  was  noth-  ing  more  than  an  old  toolbox  from  off  a  wagon,  and  it  stood  in  a  corner  of  the  room.  He  opened  the  trunk  and  took  out  the  scalp.  I  noticed  that  it  had  a  cloth  lining.  He  put  on  the  scalp,  and  the  hair  fitted  all  over  his  head.  I  thought  it  made  him  look  much  young-  er.  He  went  on  to  say  that  during  his  younger  years  in  [REDACTED]  he  had  killed  hundreds  of  Blackfeet,  Flatheads,  Crows,  and  Piegans,  but  not  many  Sioux.  He  explained  that  the  reason  he  spared  so  many  Sioux  was  that  he  made  friends  with  them,  and  had  been  adopted  by  one  of  them,  a  chief  named  Two  Belly,  so  that  he  could  teach  the  Sioux  how  to  make  gunpowder  and  fire  rifles.  Glancing  out  a  window  at  some  buffalo  skulls-they  were  still  plen-  tiful  on  our  part  of  the  prairie-Mr.  Gates  remarked  that  he  had  killed  most  of  those  buffalo  many  years  ago.  From  time  to  time,  when  I  went  to  see  him,  Mr.  Gates  would  point  out  to  me  where  some  of  his  more  important  bat-  tles  with  the  Indians  had  taken  place.  &quot;See  that  knoll  over  there  about  five  miles,  the  one  that's  black  from  a  prairie  fire,&quot;  he  said  to  me  one  fall  afternoon.  &quot;Well,  one  time  ...&quot;  And  then  he  went  on  to  tell  me  about  his  biggest  Indian  battle.  On  that  occasion,  he  said,  thirty  Piegans  came  at  him  while  he  was  cooking  breakfast  over  a  campfire.  The  fight  had  lasted  from  morning  until  nightfall,  and  had  moved  down  into  a  draw  back  of  the  knoll  he  had  pointed  out  to  me,  and  that  was  why  the  draw  had  been  known  ever  since  as  Dead  Indian  Coulee.  From  a  drawer  in  a  wooden  table  he  pulled  " b"out  a  county  homestead  map  and  showed  me  the  name  on  it.  When  I  got  home  that  afternoon,  I  took  out  my  father's  homestead  map  and  showed  him  the  name.  Then  I  told  him  how  Mr.  Gates  had  been  respon-  sible  for  it.  &quot;Oh,  pshaw!&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Did  Ae  really  tell  you  that?  Well,  I  just  wonder  what  he'll  be  telling  you  next.&quot;  Mr.  Gates  had  said  he  was  going  to  tell  me  next  about  how  he  finally  managed  to  escape  the  Piegans,  after  killing  most  of  them,  including  a  secondbunch.  I  didn't  say  soto  my  father,  however,  because  he  had  such  a  strange  expression  on  his  face.  &quot;But  a  neighbor's  a  neighbor,  I  suppose,&quot;  he  said,  and,  leaving  me,  he  walked  out  to  the  barn.  My  father  and  Mr.  Gates  did  not  visit  each  other,  nor  did  they  seem  to  have  much  to  talk  about  when  they  ac-  cidentally  met  on  the  prairie.  They  were  not  hostile,  or  anything  like  that;  they  just  didn't  seem  interested  in  each  other.  Also,  my  father  had  heard  that  when  Mr.  Gates  drove  his  team  and  wagon  to  the  nearest  town,  thirty-two  miles  away,  for  supplies,  he  &quot;carried  on&quot;--  dancing  with  women  and  wearing  &quot;all  that  hair.&quot;  I  wasn't  sure  about  that,  as  I  had  not  been  to  town  since  Mr.  Gates  became  our  neighbor,  But  I  did  know  he  never  read  the  Bible,  and  didn't  even  own  one,  because  he  told  me  so.  My  father,  though,  read  passages  from  the  Bible  aloud  to  me  each  morning,  just  after  we  finished  breakfast  and  before  we  started  doing  our  chores,  OR  some  time  after  telling  my  fa-  ther  about  the  battle  of  Dead  Indian  Coulee,  I  did  not  visit  Mr.  Gates.  Win-  ter  was  coming  on,  and  my  father  and  I  were  busy  getting  ready  for  it.  We  re-  banked  the  sides  of  our  shack  with  sod  to  help  keep  the  winds  from  blowing  up  under  the  floor,  and  we  cut  driedbuffa-  lo  grass  and  stored  it  in  the  barn  for  our  two  plow  horses.  The  first  snow  came  unusually  early.  It  was  not  a  deep  one,  and  I  was  able  to  go  to  see  Mr.  Gates.  He  told  me  he  was  not  at  all  sur-  prised  by  the  early  snow;  he  said  he  knew  it  was  coming,  because  of  an  old  Indian  sign  that  Chief  Two  Belly  had  taught  him  to  recognize.  I  asked  what  the  sign  was,  and  he  said  he  had  sworn  to  Chief  Two  Belly  not  to  tell  white  men  but  that  someday  he  might  tell  me,  if  the  Chief's  ghost  wasn't  around.  Pret-  ty  soon,  the  snow  got  too  deep  for  me  to  walk  to  his  shack,  and  then  the  only  way  we  knew  we  had  a  neighbor  was  by  seeing  black  smoke  rise  from  his  stovepipe.  Almost  every  morning,  my" b"father,  seemingly  fascinated  by  the  sight,  would  say  to  me,  &quot;Mr.  Gates  has  got  up,  I  notice.&quot;  Then  one  night  we  had  our  first  chinook,  which  meant  the  breaking  up  of  winter,  and  the  snow  began  melting.  Next  day,  when  I  visited  Mr.  Gates,  he  said  he  might  start  for  town  early  in  the  morning.  This  would  be  his  first  trip  there  in  several  months,  and  since  my  father  hadn't  been  there  for  almost  as  long,  Mr.  Gates  asked  me  if  we  had  any  errands  for  him  to  do.  I  knew  we  had  quite  a  few,  so  I  returned  to  our  shack  and  told  my  father,  and  he  wrote  outa  list.  &quot;Just  as  I've  kept  saying,&quot;  my  fa-  ther  said  as  he  handed  me  the  list  to  take  back  to  Mr.  Gates,  &quot;a  neighbor's  still  a  neighbor.&quot;  At  daybreak  the  following  morning,  when  we  looked  over  at  Mr.  Gates'  shack,  his  wagon,  which  usually  stood  near  the  barn,  was  not  there,  and  no  smoke  was  coming  from  his  stove-  pipe.  Mr.  Gates  was  away  for  more  than  a  week  on  that  trip.  We  did  not  see  him  come  home,  so  he  must  have  returned  after  dark,  We  knew  he  was  back,  be-  cause  one  morning  we  saw  the  familiar  silhouette  of  his  wagon  between  his  barn  and  his  shack,  but  as  yet  there  was  no  smoke  trailing  up  from  the  stove-  pipe.  I  thought  Mr.  Gates  must  be  sleep-  ing  later  than  usual,  As  soon  as  Ifin-  ished  a  couple  of  my  chores,  I  started  across  the  prairie,  telling  my  father  I  wanted  to  see  if  Mr.  Gates  had  got  the  things  on  the  list  we  gave  him.  As  I  neared  the  shack,  I  thought  he  must  |.  have  seen  me  approaching;  his  door  was  open,  and  I  thought  I  sawhim  standing  there  to  welcome  me,  as  he  usually  did.  But  when  I  came  closer,  I  saw  that  the  figure  in  the  doorway  was  a  woman.  I  was  so  surprised  that  I  stopped  right  where  I  was  and  stared  at  her.  She  stared  back  at  me.  The  woman  was  wearing  Mr.  Gates'  sheep-wool-lined  overcoat,  which  reached  about  to  her  knees;  her  legs  and  feet  were  bare.  She  had  long  black  hair  that  hung  loose  all  around  her  head,  and  presently,  without  taking  her  eyes  off  me,  she  began  brushing  it  back  with  her  hands.  In  a  minute  or  two,  Mr.  Gates  appeared  in  the  doorway.  He  motioned  for  me  to  come  into  the  shack,  and  then  he  said  something  to  the  woman  that  I  couldn't  hear.  When  I  reached  the  door,  he  began  to  laugh.  He  slapped  me  on  the  shoulder  and  said,  &quot;By  God,  but  you  look  scared.  What  you  so  scared  about?  You  act  like  you've  never  seen  a  woman  before  in  your  whole  life.&quot;  Well,  I  hadn't  seen  a  woman  on  the  prairie  before.  In  fact,  the  only  women" b"I  had  seen  in  a  long  time  were  those  I  saw  on  a  trip  to  town  with  my  father.  They  were  not  like  this  woman.  Their  hair  had  already  been  done  up,  and  they  had  dresses  on,  instead  of  only  a  sheep-  wool-lined  overcoat.  At  least,  this  seemed  to  be  all  she  was  wearing.  I  walked  a  few  feetinside  the  shack.  At  first,  everything  was  a  blur.  When  my  eyes  cleared,  I  saw  that  the  bundles  Mr.  Gates  had  brought  from  town  were  scattered  around  the  floor,  along  with  a  strange  assortment  of  women's  gar-  ments.  Nothing  was  in  order.  A  chair  had  been  upset,  and  on  the  table  two  coffee  cups  were  lying  on  their  sides.  Although  my  father  never  drank  whis-  key,  or  even  kept  a  bottle  of  it  in  our  shack,  I  knew  how  whiskey  smelled,  and  now  I  was  smelling  a  lot  of  it.  I  wanted  to  back  out  of  the  doorway,  but  Mr.  Gates  was  watching  me  and  grinning.  The  woman  finally  said  something  to  me,  but  I  could  not  understand  her,  as  the  words  seemed  to  be  partly  foreign.  She  herself  looked  that  way-maybe  partly  Spanish  or  Italian,  I  thought,  because  she  had  very  dark  eyes,  and  her  face  was  darker  than  that  of  most  women  I  had  seen.  Then  Mr.  Gates  said  to  me,  &quot;A  woman  sure'd  be  good  to  have  around  out  here  all  the  time,  but&quot;-and  now  he  looked  at  me  close-  ly,  without  grinning-&quot;what  would  your  dad  think?&quot;  In  the  immensity  of  what  was  happening,  I  had  not  thought  about  that.  &quot;Her  people,&quot;  Mr.  Gates  went  on,  &quot;used  to  make  camp  around  here  lots  of  times  in  the  old  days.  By  God,  I  bet  I've  known  her  ever  since  she  and  me  were  both  about  your  age.  You  know,  I  bet  when  she  was  a  kid  she  helped  put  up  the  tepeesfor  her  folks  around  here,  and  helped  gather  some  of  those  stones  you're  always  talking  about.  The  ones  in  circles.  I  bet  she  did.  I'll  ask  her.&quot;  In  a  strange  mixture  of  language,  Mr.  Gates  and  the  woman  began  talking-and  gesturing-to  each  other.  Then  he  turned  back  to  me.&quot;She  says,  if  you  like,  she  would  go  outside  and  show  you  exactly  where  she  put  some  stones  herself.  She  still  remembers,  and  it  would  make  her  happy,  she  says.&quot;  By  now,  my  stomach  was  doing  fun-  ny  things,  and  I  could  not  get  any  words  to  come  out.  If  she  had  been  wearing  Indian  clothes,  I  would  have  known  right  away  from  Indian  pictures  what  she  was,  but  not  when  she  was  wearing  just  an  overcoat,  and  standing  there  in  her  bare  feet.  She  said  something  to  Mr.  Gates,  and  they  both  laughed.  Mr.  Gates  said  to  me,  &quot;What  she's  laughing  about  is  that  she  has  no  business  being  this  faroff  the" b"reservation,  and  she  knows  it.  But  what  the  hell?  She  just  got  a  little  looped,  I  guess,  but  so  was  I.  So,  when  I  was  leaving  town  yesterday,  she  climbed  in  my  wagon,and  I  let  her  come.  She  said  she  wanted  to  see  some  of  her  old  camp-  ing  places  outhere  again.&quot;  Mr.  Gates  paused  a  moment,  and  then  said,  once  more,  &quot;But  what'll  your  dad  think  about  me  having  a  woman  over  here?&quot;  My  father  would  not  believe  she  real-  ly  was  an  Indian,  I  thought,  and  even  if  she  was  one,  I  had  a  feeling  he  would  not  want  me  to  visit  her  and  Mr.  Gates  again.  But  I  didn't  say  anything.  Mr.  Gates  must  have  realized  some-  thing  of  what  I  was  thinking,  because  he  smiled  and  said,  &quot;Of  course,  she  ought  to  tidy  herself  up  a  bit.  Get  her  moccasins  on,  and  some  of  her  other  stuff,  and  begin  looking  pretty  once  more.  But  you  should  have  seen  her  in  the  wagon  last  night,  when  she  was  really  looped.  I  sure  had  one  hell  of  a  time  trying  to  convince  her,  all  the  way  out,  that  she  wouldn't  see  Chief  Two  Belly  again  even  when  shedid  get  out  here.  He  was  her  uncle,  but  she'd  for-  gotten  he  was  dead.  Or  else  she'd  made  up  her  mind  hewasn't  dead.  Indianscan  do  that,  you  know.&quot;  I  nodded,  as  if  I  had  always  known,  and  this  man-to-man  confidence  be-  tween  us  seemed  to  please  Mr.  Gates.  The  woman  said  something  to  him,  but  again  I  could  not  make  out  the  words.  He  interrupted  her  long  enough  tosay  to  me,  &quot;She  thinks  you're  a  mighty  fine  boy,  but  she  wonders  if  you've  ever  learned  to  talk.  She  wants  to  know  when  she  can  go  out  and  show  you  some  of  those  stones  she  placed  in  circles.  But  I  think  you  hadn't  better.&quot;  &quot;On  account  of  my  father?&quot;  I  asked,  and  I  realized  these  were  the  first  words  I  had  said.  Mr.  Gates  nodded.  &quot;And  another  thing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Because  of  your  dad,  I'd  better  keep  her  inside  until  dark,  so  he  won't  see  her,  and  she  'n'  me-we'll  leave  in  the  wagon  soon's  it  gets  dark.  And  you  won't  have  to  tell  your  dad  you  saw  a  woman  over  here  at  all.  How's  that?&quot;  &quot;All  right,  I  guess.&quot;  It  was  allI  could  think  of  to  say.  &quot;Shake  on  your  promise,  then,&quot;  Mr.  Gates  said.  We  shook  hands,  &quot;You  see,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;I've  about  decided  that  on  a  prairie  as  flat  as  this,  a  fellow  like  me  ought  to  have  no  neighbor  at  all,  or  else  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  them.  Now,  I  don't  mean  you  personally.  Get  me  straight.  You  'n'  me  have  had  a  good  time  right  along.  But  if  I  can't  have  an  Indian  woman  like  this  around  to  stay  once  in" b"a  while-why,  hell  and  horses,  this  prairie's  too  crowded.&quot;  While  Mr.  Gates  was  talking,  the  woman  had  begun  brushing  her  hair  again  with  her  hands,  and  now  her  eyes  were  taking  in  the  prairie.  I  would  have  liked  to  walk  around  the  prairie  with  her,  and  have  her  point  out  some  of  the  circles  of  stone  she  had  made,  but  this,  I  knew,  would  not  do  now.  So  I  simply  slipped  past  her  through  the  doorway,  turned  around,  and  bowed  to  her  (I  was  not  sure  whether  a  visitor  shakes  hands  with  an  Indian  woman),  and  then  I  started  back  to  our  shack.  Later  that  day,  Mr.  Gates  brought  over  the  supplies  he  had  bought  for  us  in  town,  and  I  sawhim  again  briefly.  He  didn't,  of  course,  mention  the  woman.  HE  next  morning,  no  smoke  rose  from  Mr.  Gates'  stovepipe,  and  his  wagon  was  gone.  But  this  time  he  didn't  return  after  a  week.  Instead,  after  sev-  eral  weeks  another  wagon,  with  two  strangers  in  it,  pulled  up  at  his  shack.  They  went  inside,  and  then  began  load-  ing  their  wagon.  When  they  had  fin-  ished,  they  drove  over  to  our  shack,  and  one  of  them  told  my  father  that  Mr.  Gates  had  given  up  homesteading  and  had  sent  them  for  his  things.  Mr.  Gates  had  said  he  didn't  want  some  of  the  things,  such  as  food,  and  he  had  asked  the  men  to  leave  them  with  us.  'They  did  this,  and  my  father  was  so  grateful  he  wrote  a  letter  of  thanks  to  Mr.  Gates  and  gave  it  to  the  men  to  deliver.  'They  drove  away.  From  then  on,the  prairie  became  once  again  just  the  prairie,  the  same  as  it  had  been  before  Mr.  Gates'  coming,  as  if  there  were  no  one  on  earth  ex-  cept  my  father  and  me.  While  help-  ing  my  father  plow,  I  would,  as  usual,  toss  into  piles  the  stones  from  the  Indian  circles,  along  with  the  buffalo  skulls  lying  around,  to  get  such  things  out  of  our  way,  and  I  would  think  about  Mr.  Gates  and  his  stories.  I  kept  hoping  that  someday  he  might  be  returning,  and  might  even  bring  back  with  him  Chief  Two  Belly's  niece-who  would  this  time  show  me,  maybe,  where  she  her-  self  had  put  down  some  of  those  stones."