   GOODBYE,  [REDACTED].  MCCOLLUMI!  but  if  you'k  give  me  a  minute  with  Publishers  W  eekly,  perhaps  I--  Young  Max  (after  hastily  consult-  ing  instructions  once  more):  I  beg  your  pardon,  I  mean  Whitehead.  Come  on,  now,  where  is  he?  Miss  Moon  (smiling):  Oh,  philoso-  phy's  over  here.  (She  rummages  through  an  untidy  pile  of  books.)  All  I  seem  to  have  in  stock  is  this  anthology.  Youn  MAN  (reaching  into  his  pocket  and  then  flashing  his  badge):  All  right,  lady,  let's  get  down  to  busi-  ness.  Miss  Moon:  Heavens!  Was  he  a  Communist  philosopher?  Young  Man  (patiently):  Ma'am,  have  you  ever  heard  of  an  outfit  called  Random  House?  Miss  Moon:  Naturally.  Bennett  Cerf  was  lecturing  hereonly  the  other  day.  A  charming  man,  although  I  must  confess  that  some  of  those  puns-  Young  Max:  Didn't  they  publish  &quot;The  F.B.I.  Story&quot;-  Miss  Moon:Would  that  be  in  their  Landmark  series,  for  children?  Young  Man:  -by  Don  White-  head?  Miss  Moon:  I  do  believe  you're  right!  Let  me  see-there  was  a  copy  around  here  somewhere.  Youns  Man  (whipping  out  note-  book  and  pencil):  I  want  an  exact  report  on  how  many  you  have  on  hand,  how  many  or-  ders,  etc.  Miss  Moon:  Oh,  I  never  make  up  my  re-  ports  till  the  end  of  the  month!  My  accountant  gets  socross  with  me.  Just  last  week,  he  was  saying,  &quot;Miss  Nettie,  I  know  you  don't  have  much  of  a  head  for  busi-  ness,  but  since  I'm  sup-  posed  to  be  helping  you  run  this  one,  I  certainly  would  appre-  ciate  it  it-&quot;  (Breaks  of  worriedly.)  Am  Iin  trouble  with  my  taxes?  Youngs  Max:  I'm  not  a  T-man.  I'm  a  G-man.  Miss  Moon:  Such  a  nice  man,  your  Mr.  Hoover.  I  follow  every  word  he  writes  in  the  Reader's  Digest.  Now,  don't  tell  me  that  accountant  of  mine  has  done  something  really  naughty.  Youna  Man:  Lady,  I've  got  three  counties  to  investigate  today,  and  if  you'll  just  please  tell  me  how  your  Whitehead  sales  stand,  I'd  be  much  obliged.  Miss  Moon:  Well,  now,  let  me  concentrate.  Mrs.  Huggins  was  in-it's  her  nephew's  birthday  tomorrow,  and  she  always  has  a  terrible  time  with  him,  the  child  has  everything-and  I  think  she  bought  a  copy,  and  I  promised  her  she  could  exchange  it  if  he  already  had  it,  so  I  suppose  we  can't  really  count  that  as  sold  yet,  can  we?  Or  was  it  &quot;The  Fireside  Book  of  Baseball&quot;  she  took?  Excuse  me  a  moment.  (She  pews  through  a  desk  drawer.  Then  she  ex-  claims  triumphantly)  It  was  the  base-  ball  book!  Imagine  playing  a  game  all  summer  and  then  reading  about  it  all  winter!  But  I  never  did  understand  you  men.  Would  you  be  interested  in  a  copy  of  the  baseball  book,  instead?  Wasn't  it  Mr.  Hoover  who  said  &quot;Little  Leaguers  go  straight&quot;?  Youn  Max:  I  don't  want  to  buy  a  book.  I  simply  want-  Miss  Moon  (reproachfully):  Why  didn't  you  say  soft  The  circulating  shelves  are  over  here.  Mostly  mysteries,  you  understand,  but  that's  what  people  insist  on  nowadays-for  relaxation,  you  know,  they  get  so  wrought  up  in  their  affairs.  Ah,  &quot;Peyton  Place&quot;  is  back!  But  then  I  guess  all  you  men  have  read  that  already.  If  you  care  for  animal  stories,  I  can  recommend-  Young  Man  (resignedly  backing  toward  the  door):  Madam,  I'll  be  in  again  next  week,  and  I  want  to  see  a  copy  ofthe  Whitehead  book  here  when  I  return.  Miss  Moon  (amiably):  Fine.  I'll  order  it  for  you  at  once.  No  deposit  necessary.  We're  all  trusting  folk  around  here.  I'll  just  hide  it  away  ina  drawer  when  it  comes  in,  so  it'll  be  safe  and  waiting  for  you.  (The  young  man  goes  out  and  slams  the  door  furiously,  evoking  a  riot  of  chimes.)  Goodbye,  Mr.  McCollum!  Drop  in  any  time! 