 b"TOM Sponson,  at  fifty-three,  was  a  thoroughly  successful  man.  He  had  worked  up  a  first-class  busi-  ness,  married  a  charming  wife,  and  built  himself  a  good  house  in  the  [REDACTED]  suburbs  that  was  neither  so  modern  as  to  be  pretentious  nor  so  conventional  as  to  be  dull.  He  had  good  taste.  His  son,  Bob,  nineteen,  was  doing  well  at  Ox-  ford;  his  daughter,  April,  aged  sixteen,  who  was  at  a  good  school,  had  no  wish  to  use  makeup,  to  wear  low  frocks,  or  to  flirt.  She  still  regarded  herself  as  too  young  for  these  trifling  amusements.  Yet  she  was  gay,  affectionate,  and  thoroughly  enjoyed  life.  All  the  same,  for  some  time  Tom  had  been  aware  that  he  was  working  very  hard  for  very  little.  His  wife,  Louie,  gave  him  a  peck  in  the  morning  when  he  left  for  the  office  and,  if  she  were  not  at  a  party,  a  peck  in  the  evening  when  he  came  home.  And  it  was  obvious  that  her  life  was  completely  filled  with  the  children,  with  her  clothes,  with  keeping  her  figure  slim,  with  keeping  the  house  clean  and  smart,  with  her  charities,  her  bridge,  her  tennis,  her  friends,  and  her  parties.  The  children  were  even  more  pre-  occupied-the  boy  with  his  own  work  and  his  own  friends,  the  girl  with  hers.  They  were  polite  to  Tom,  but  if  he  came  into  the  room  when  they  were  entertaining  a  friend,  there  was  at  once  a  feeling  of  constraint.  Even  if  they  were  alone  together,  he  perceived  that  when  he  came  upon  them  they  were  slightly  embarrassed,  and  changed  the  subject  of  their  conversation,  whatever  it  was.  Yet  they  did  not  seem  to  do  this  when  they  were  with  their  mother.  He  would  find  them  all  three,  for  instance,  laughing  at  something  and  when  he  came  in  they  would  stop  laughing  and  gaze  at  him  as  if  he  had  shot  up  through  the  floor.  In  fact,  if  he  asked  what  the  joke  was  his  wife  would  say  &quot;You  wouldn't  understand&quot;  or  &quot;Nothing&quot;  or  &quot;I'll  tell  you  afterwards,&quot;  but  she  never  did  tell  him  afterwards;  she  would  put  him  off  with  some  remark  like  &quot;Oh,  it's  perfectly  silly,  about  something  April  said.&quot;  He  said  to  himself,  &quot;It  isn't  only  that  they  don't  need  me,  but  I'm  a  nuisance  to  them.  I'm  in  the  way.  I'm  super-  fluous.&quot;  One  morning  when  he  was  just  going  to  get  into  his  car  and  his  wife  had  come  out  to  say  goodbye,  he  suddenly  made  an  excuse,  saying,  &quot;Just  a  moment,  I've  left  a  letter,&quot;  and  went  back  to  his  desk,  and  then  dashed  out  to  the  car  and  drove  off,  pretending  to  for-  get  that  goodbye  had  not  been  said.  Immediately  he  felt  that  he  could  not  stand  any  more  of  this  existence;  it  was  nonsense.  It  was  not  as  though  his  wife  and  children  were  depending  any  more  on  the  business;  he  could  sell  it  to  a  combine  tomorrow,  and  it  would  sup-  port  all  of  them  in  comfort.Actually  he  would  miss  the  business;  it  was  his  chief  interest.  But  if  he  had  to  give  it  up  for  the  sake  of  freedom,  of  a  break  in  this  senseless  life,  he  could  do  even  that.  Yes,  joyfully.  As  he  circled  Trafalgar  Square,  that  is  to  say,  as  he  came  within  the  last  few  hundred  yards  from  his  office,  he  told  himself  that  he  could  not  go  on.  It  was  as  though  that  moment  when  he  dodged  the  customary  goodbye  had  broken  a  contact.  The  conveyor  belt  on  which  his  life  had  been  caught  up  had  stopped  as  if  at  a  short  circuit,  a  break  in  a  switch.  No,  he  could  not  go  on.  So,  in-  stead  of  turning  down  the  Strand  out  of  the  Square,  he  drove  straight  on  to  a  West  End  garage.  N  hour  later,  he  was  in  the  train  for  Westford,  a  seaside  place  where  he  had  once  spent  a  summer  holiday  be-  fore  his  marriage,  with  three  friends  from  college.  On  the  luggage  rack  was  a  new  suitcase  containing  new  pajamas,  shoes,  a  new  kit,  as  for  a  holiday  by  the  sea-even  new  paperbacks  for  a  wet  day.  It  was  February,  but  when  he  reached  Westford  he  was  surprised,  for  a  moment,  to  find  that  both  its  hotels  were  closed.  Only  the  village  pub,  The  Case  Is  Altered,  was  still  open  for  visi-  tors,  and  as  he  sat  in  the  coffeeroom,  he  appeared  to  be  the  only  visitor,  except  for  a  commercial  traveller,  one  Sims,  a  dignified  young  man  who  addressed  him  with  the  most  formal  politeness  and  showed  a  strong  tendency  to  talk  poli-  tics-politics  on  what  he  called  the  &quot;highest  level.&quot;  In  his  view,  he  said,  what  parliaments  did  and  what  dictators  talked  about  did  not  really  matter;  what  mattered  was  population  statistics  and  economics.  You  can  put  over  anything  with  the  wireless  and  the  telly-that's  the  way  these  dictators  do  it-but  you  can't  feed  people  on  words.  They'll  swallow  all  the  lies  you  like,  but  they  can't  live  on  hot  air.  Sooner  or  later  most  of  these  chaps  have  to  face  facts.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;A  lot  later-  generally  too  late,  Look  at  what  Hitler  did  with  his  little  yarn-and  called  it  the  Big  Lie  all  the  time.  Look  at  all  the  people  eating  lies  now  and  getting  poison  all  the  time.  What  can  they  do,  poor  devils?  So  long  as  the  big  noise  has  a  really  tough  police.&quot;  Tom  was  a  liberal,  a  strong  supporter  of  the  United  Nations.  A  week  before,  he  had  been  saying  just  the  same  things  as  Mr.  Sims;  probably  they  had  come  out  of  the  same  papers.  But  now  all  at  once  he  was  revolted,  quite  furious  with  Mr.  Sims,  with  all  those  nice  chaps  at  the  club  and  the  golf  course,  who  had  been  so  ready  to  talk  this  nonsense  with  him,  who  simply  refused  to  face  facts,  especially  the  enormous,  obvious  fact  that  civilization  was  going  to  smash  just  because  of  all  this  cant,  this  wangling,  this  political  gabble,  this  nonsense.  Mr.  Sims  shook  his  head  and  re-  marked  that  the  police  hadn't  saved  the  Czar.  &quot;No,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;What  knocked  him  out  was  a  superior  brand  of  cant.  He  thought  the  people  loved  him,  and  sent  his  Guards  to  the  front.  But  the  Bolshies  told  the  people  they'd  bring  in  the  golden  age  right  off.  And  they  won.  They  had  a  bigger  lie  and  they  were  smarter  swindlers.  The  poor  old  Czar  only  cheated  himself;  they  cheated  everybody.&quot;  Suddenly  Tom  caught  Mr.  Sims'  eye  fixed  upon  him  with  a  speculative  alarm.  The  man  was  shocked.  He  was  so  used  to  the  regular  nonsense,  to  the  old,  worn  records  grinding  out  the  same  old  popu-  lar  tune,  that  he  was  bewildered  by  this  contradiction.  &quot;Quite  a  new  idea,&quot;  Mr.  Sims  mur-  mured.  &quot;Very  interesting.&quot;  He  was  growing  more  and  more  alarmed.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  Tom  muttered,  and  hurried  out  into  the  front  hall.  It  was  almost  a  run.  He  was  afraid  of  losing  his  temper  with  Mr.  Sims,  who  was  ob-     " b"viously  a  nice  chap,  a  very  nice  chap,  who  read  all  the  best  papers,  the  best  nonsense.  What  especially  angered  him  in  Mr.  Sims  was  that  Mr.  Sims'  nonsense  was  his  own  nonsense  of  a  week  before.  Sims  was  a  looking  glass  in  which  he  saw  his  own  silly  face.  And  it  made  it  no  better  that,  as  he  now  perceived,  he  had  al-  ways  known  his  nonsense  to  be  non-  sense.  All  that  time  when  he  had  been  talking  it  at  business  luncheons,  at  the  club,  in  the  train,at  breakfast  to  his  own  family,  he  had  had  the  same  deep  feel-  ing:  My  God,  what  nonsense!  For  years  he  had  been  hiding  this  knowledge,  justas  he  had  always  pre-  tended  that  he  enjoyed  nothing  so  much  as  his  family  life.  How  often  had  he  boasted  of  the  sympathetic  devotion  of  his  wife  and  children,  saying  how  lucky  he  was  compared  with  so  many  others,  who  found  themselves  ciphers  in  their  own  homes.  Why,  why  had  he  gone  on  telling  himself  these  lies,  living  a  life  of  hypocrisy?  It  was  as  if  he  had  been  drugged-or  was  it  simply  that  the  air  was  so  thick  with  nonsense,  with  cant,  that  it  was  almost  impossible  for  any  man  to  see  the  truth,  even  the  biggest,  the  most  obvious  truth?  Wasn't  it  simply  by  a  stroke  of  luck  that  he  had  broken  out  into  clear  air?  And  as  if  the  words  themselves  demanded  the  action,  he  put  on  his  mackintosh  and  went  out.  IT  was  raining  still,  but  the  opposite  side  of  the  bay  was  sharp  and  clear,  as  though  seen  through  a  lens.  The  gray  sky  was  brilliant  with  diffused  light,  and  the  breeze  had  a  taste  of  sea  salt.  The  whole  world  seemed  washed  as  clean  as  the  pebbles  on  the  beach.  He  walked  along  the  front.  West-  ford's  great  charm  in  the  old  days  had  been  its  smallness,  its  lack  of  enter-  prise.  Apart  from  the  two  hotels,  both  old-fashioned,  and  even  forbidding  to  strangers,  there  were  only  a  dozen  or  so  boarding  houses  along  the  front,  and  almost  the  entire  town  was  in  the  twen-  ty  or  so  buildings  facing  the  sea,  and  in  the  main  street  of  the  old  village  branch-  ing  off  at  right  angles.  There  was  what  was  called  a  Marine  Parade,  but  it  was  simply  a  paved  path  along  the  front  road  with,  on  the  seaward  side,  a  strip  of  rough  grass  where  half  a  dozen  seats  had  been  provided.  Below,  the  mag-  nificent  beach  had  neither  pier  nor  bath-  ing  huts.  The  great  landlord  who  owned  Westford  was  against  huts,  and  summer  visitors  were  expected  to  use  tents  that  they  could  hire  from  the  town  council.  There  wereno  municipal  gar-  dens,  bandstands,  putting  courses,  or  sideshows  to  vulgarize  the  place,  which,  apart  from  the  absence  of  bathing  ma-  chines,  might  have  been  existing  still  in  the  eighteen-sixties.  The  wind  was  rising  and  big  waves  were  thumping  on  the  beach.  The  sea  turned  almost  black  and  the  wet  fronts  of  the  houses,  in  spite  of  their  gay  colors,  began  to  have  adreary  look.  The  town  seemed  absolutely  empty;  nota  human  being  was  in  sight.  The  only  living  crea-  ture  to  beseen  was  a  dog  with  its  nose  in  the  gutter-as  Tom  appeared  from  around  a  corner,  it  jumped  and  looked  at  him,  uttered  one  sharp  bark,  and  cantered  away,  completely  shocked  by  the  intrusion.  But  the  very  drearinessof  the  scene,  the  monotonous  pounding  of  the  waves,  the  hiss  of  the  rain  in  the  pools  gave  Tom  the  kind  of  pleasure  that  one  gets  from  the  defiance  of  an  enemy.  He  was  stimulated,  excited.  He  felt  his  strength;  he  felt  that  he  had  done  well.  He  had  made  a  big  decision  and  saved  his  life,  and  he  went  down  to  the  beach  and  walked  up  and  down  close  to  the  waves  until  the  rain  grew  heavy.  His  shoes  filled  with  sand  and  he  remem-  bered  that  he  had  only  one  suit  with  him.  He  turnedback  to  the  pub,  intending  to  read  one  of  his  new  crime  novels.  In  the  little  hall  of  the  private  en-  trance,  the  clerk,  who  was  also  the  barman,  was  waiting  for  him  with  the  register,  and,  upon  an  impulse  that,  for  the  moment,  he  did  not  understand  and  did  not  examine,  he  hesitated  and  then  wrote  down  the  name  Charles  Stone  and  gave  a  false  address,  He  was  surprised  at  himself-he  detested  such  trickery-but  it  was  only  twenty  min-  utes  laterthat,  lying  upstairs  on  his  bed  with  his  book,  he  realized  how  neces-  sary  it  had  been,  how  wisely  he  had  followed  his  impulse.  &quot;In  the  first  ex-  citement,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  &quot;they  might  well  ask  the  B.B.C.  orthe  news-  papers  to  start  a  hunt;  the  last  thing  I  want  is  any  publicity.  I'll  write  to  Louie  at  once  and  get  things  settled  in  a  sensi-  ble  manner.&quot;  HAT  evening-in  fact,  as  soon  as  he  could,  with  decent  politeness,  separate  himself  from  Mr.  Sims,  who  was  anxious  to  make  him  realize  that  if  you  can  fool  the  people,  you  can't  fool  population  statistics,  so  long,  of  course,  as  they  are  reliable-he  slipped  off  to  his  room  to  write  to  Louie.  There  was  no  writing  table  in  the  room,  or  any  pro-  vision  for  writing,  so  he  set  his  new  suitcase  on  his  knee  and  proceeded  to  draft  a  letter  on  the  flyleaf  of  his  paper-  back.  &quot;Darling  Louie,&quot;  he  began,  but  stopped  immediately.  He  had  always  written  &quot;Darling  Louie,&quot;  but  how  could  he  begin  a  letter  of  farewell,  an  ultimatum  proposing  an  end  to  their     " b"marriage,  with  &quot;Darling  Louie&quot;?  He  crossed  it  out  and  wrote  &quot;My  dear  Louie.&quot;  This  also  struck  him  as  false.  She  was  not  his  dear  Louie.  And  was  he  going  to  start  a  new  life  of  truth,  of  sincerity,  by  writing  this  criminal  lie?  &quot;Dear  So-and-So.&quot;  What  hundreds  of  letters  to  total  strangers,  to  touts,  to  frauds  and  crooks,  to  people  who  were,  in  fact,  absolutely  detestable  to  him,  he  had  started  with  this  lying  formula,  this  stereotyped  nonsense.  Louie  was  simply  the  woman  who  lived  in  his  house,  like  a  creature  dropped  from  [REDACTED],  more  strange  to  him  than  any  stranger.  A  woman  whom  he  supported  and  who  had  no  real  contact  with  him  at  all,  who  did  not  even  speak  the  same  language.  He  began  again,  without  preamble:  &quot;I  daresay  you  wonder  where  I  am,  but  it  does  not  really  matter.  As  far  as  you  and  the  children  are  concerned,  I  have  not  existed  anywhere  for  a  long  time.  I'm  not  blaming  anyone  for  this  state  of  affairs.  I  imagine  it's  a  very  common  one  for  married  couples  in  our  situation.  The  childrenare  practically  grown  up  and  don't  need  us  any  more:  they  cer-  tainly  have  not  needed  me  for  years  past  and  your  life  is  entirely  full  of  your  own  private  interests.  For  a  long  time,  I  have  been  aware  that  I  was  only  in  the  way.  You  would  be  much  happier,  much  freer,  as  a  widow.  You  could  make  one  of  those  marriages  that  women  in  their  forties  do  make  after  their  children  cease  to  need  them,  a  marriage  with  a  man  suited  to  the  new  woman  you  have  become.  There  is  something  to  be  said  for  a  change  of  partners  at  our  age.  After  all,  people  don't  stop  growing  and  changing  simply  because  they  are  mar-  ried.  I  agree  that  they  have  a  duty  to  their  children,  but  when  that  duty  has  been  discharged  itis  absurd  to  make  them  waste  the  rest  of  their  lives  in  pre-  tending  to  a  community  of  interests  which  they  no  longer  possess.  It's  even  bad  for  the  children,  now  they  are  old  enough  to  think  for  themselves,  to  live  in  this  atmosphere  of  fake  and  hypocrisy.  They  get  infected,  too,  and  so  the  non-  sense  goes  on  to  another  generation.&quot;  It  was  a  good  letter;  he  was  surprised  how  good  it  was.  He  realized  that  it  ex-  pressed  for  him  feelings  that  had  been  present  for  years,  and  that  he  had  been,  unnoticed  by  himself,  collecting  all  kinds  of  information  bearing  on  his  argument.  It  was  a  good  letter,  but  he  did  not  send  it  that  evening.  He  had  no  notepaper  or  envelopes  with  him.  He  could  not  make  a  fair  copy  and  he  was  not  sure  that  he  had  not  said  too  much.  The  whole  thing,  as  read  through,  had  a  somewhat  professorial  air.  It  lacked  the  conviction  that  moved  him  so  strongly.  It  gave  no  hint  of  the  bitter-  ness  that  he  felt  to  be  justifiable.  He  had  been  a  good  husband,  a  good  father,  and  he  could  not  help  feeling  that  he  had  been  treated  with  ingratitude.  He  lay  awake  half  the  night  thinking  of  new  things  that  he  could  put  in  this  letter.  Once  he  even  turned  on  the  light  to  write  a  phrase  in  another  of  his  crime  novels.  Next  day  he  rewrote  the  letter.  It  was  not  till  Thursday,  three  days  after  his  flight,  that  he  went  out  in  the  town  to  seek  notepaper  and  envelopes.  Then  he  found  that  the  one  stationer's  had  nothing  to  his  taste-only  stationery  sets  done  up  in  ribbon  and  containing  deckle-  edged  paper  of  the  most  vulgar  type,  or  the  cheapest  blocks.  Both,  he  felt,  were  quite  impossible  for  his  letter.  He  had  always  been  particular  about  notepaper.  However,  Westford  was  only  ten  miles  from  the  large  seaside  town  of  Lil-  mouth,  and  he  would  enjoy  a  visit  there,  too.  He  and  his  college  friends  had  spent  a  very  happy  afternoon  and  evening  at  Lilmouth  at  the  annual  fair.  He  called,  therefore,  at  the  garage,  to  hire  a  car,  and  found  that  there  was  one  that  would  be  available  the  next  day.  He  gave  the  order  and  returned  to  the  pub.  He  was  in  no  hurry  to  write  his  letter.  Why,  Louie  knew  that  he  was  all  right.  He  had  phoned  the  office  to  tell  them  that  he  had  to  go  away  for  a  while,  that  he  would  send  his  address  in  due  course,  and  he  had  asked  them  to  in-  form  his  wife.  A  letter  from  or  to  Louie  would  start  " b"all  sorts  of  trouble,  and  meanwhile  he  was  only  just  beginning  to  enjoy  his  new  life,  He  had  found  out  how  to  dodge  Mr.  Sims-simply  by  having  his  meals  earlier.  And  time  was  passing  far  more  quickly  thanhe  had  expected.  It  was  astonishing  how  this  lounging,  thoughtful,  careless  existence  had  al-  ready  fallen  into  a  routine.  A  late  breakfast,  a  stroll  along  the  front,  coffee  at  eleven  in  a  little  caf\xc3\xa9  that  remained  open  apparently  for  the  use  of  unem-  ployed  landladies,  who  came  there  to  discuss  their  bookings  for  the  next  sea-  son.  Then  to  the  stationer's  for  the  [REDACTED]  papers,  then  early  luncheon  with  the  papers  to  read.  After  luncheon,  a  doze  in  his  room.  Then  another  stroll  along  the  front,  or,  if  it  were  fine,  over  the  headland  and  along  the  coast  for  a  mile  or  two.  The  sea  breeze  was  un-  equalled  for  giving  one  an  appetite.  He  had  not  for  years  so  much  enjoyed  either  the  prospect  of  dinner  or  dinner  itself.  The  Case  Is  Altered  did  not  attempt  French  cooking.  All  the  better.It  pro-  vided  excellent  meat,  beer,  and  cheese,  and  plenty  of  them.  After  dinner  he  was  ready  for  a  pipe  and  another  look  at  the  papers,  and  then  to  bed,  where  he  read  himself  to  sleep  in  a  few  minutes.  Even  for  luncheon  he  found  that  he  had  an  appetite,  and  he  was  sniffing  the  smell  of  chops  in  the  hall,  the  smell  that  not  many  months  before  would  have  turned  him  away  from  such  a  place  in  the  first  moment,  when  a  large,  dark  figure,  which  seemed  to  have  been  waiting  in  the  coffeeroom  doorway,  stepped  out  and  said,  &quot;Mr.  Sponson?&quot;  Tom,  without  thought,  answered,  &quot;My  name  is  Stone,&quot;  and  then,  indig-  nant  to  see  himself  confronted  by  a  policeman,  went  on,  &quot;What  do  you  want  here?  Why  should  I  answer  your  questions?&quot;  The  policeman,  a  large  West  Coun-  try  man  with  a  red  face,  answered,  in  a  deprecating  manner,  as  if  to  say  &quot;Ex-  cuse  me,&quot;  that  he  had  not  asked  any  questions.  He  was  holding  his  helmet  in  front  of  his  stomach  in  the  manner  of  a  shy  man  who  wants  to  occupy  his  hands.  Tom  saw  at  once  that  this  polite,  apologetic  manner  was  merely  assumed.  It  was  hypocritical  nonsense.  He  said  shortly,  &quot;Well,  don't,  be-  cause  I  don't  intend  to  answer  any.&quot;  &quot;'That's  all  right,  [REDACTED];  said  the  police-  man.  &quot;No  offense,I  hope.&quot;  And  he  went  out.  Even  his  gesture,  as,  turning  the  corner,  he  threw  up  his  chin  and  replaced  his  helmet  on  his  head,  an-  noyed  Tom.  It  seemed  to  carry  all  that  confidence  of  authority,  that  calm  superiority  of  power,  that  is  so  offensive  to  the  private  'citizen.  He  went  upstairs  to  his  room  ina  rage  and  began  to  pack.  He  must  get  away  at  once.  What  enraged  him  was  the  thought  that  he  had  been  followed,  spied  upon.  Louie  must  have  gone  to  the  police.  What  right  had  they  to  pursue  him  like  this'  He  had  done  no  wrong;  in  fact,  he  was  trying  to  do  the  right  thing,  the  sensible  thing.  No  doubt,  Louie  felt  offended;  perhaps  she  was  hurt  in  her  pride.  She  didn't  want  her  friends  to  know  that  her  marriage  had  failed.  But  if  there  were  any  pub-  licity  now  it  would  be  entirely  her  own  fault.  He  had  done  everything  to  avoid  publicity.  He  rang  the  bell  for  his  bill  before  he  remembered  that  it  did  not  ring;  none  of  the  bells  rang.  But  almost  at  once  a  maid,  as  if  summoned  by  telep-  athy,  appeared.  She  looked  with  sur-  prise  at  his  suitcase,  half  packed,  and  said  that  luncheon  was  ready  and  that  someone  was  waiting  for  him.  &quot;Someone  waiting?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;Who's  waiting?&quot;  &quot;In  the  coffeeroom,  sir-a  gentle-  man.&quot;  &quot;What  gentleman?&quot;  The  maid  did  not  know,  and  seemed  startled  by  the  question.  She  hurried  away  almost  at  a  run,  and  he  realized  that  he  had  been  shouting  at  her.  Tom  banged  his  suitcase  shut.  The  maid  was  obviously  a  spy,just  as  Mr.  Sims  had  certainly  been  a  spy,  and  all  barmen  like  to  keep  in  with  the  police.  That  policeman  had  certainly  talked  to  the  barman,  and  how  had  the  police  got  to  know  about  him  except  from  spies  in  theplace?All  at  once  Westford  seemed  to  him  almost  as  loathsome  as  his  own  suburb  at  home,  full  of  people  making  demands  upon  him,  thinking  about  him,  discussing  him.  Certainly  everyone  in  the  pub  would  be  discussing  him-this  mysterious  affair,  Mr.  Sponson's  disap-  pearance.  And  who  was  this  gentleman?  Prob-  ably  a  detective.  It  must  bea  detective.  He  took  his  suitcase  with  him  down  the  back  stairs.  He  would  escape  by  the  yard.  But  the  barman  was  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs,  looking  up  at  him  with  a  thought-  " b"ful  air,  and  when  he  turned  toward  the  front  hall,  there  was  his  brother,  Fred.  Fred  was  shaking  hands  with  him  before  he  realized  who  hewas.  &quot;Hullo,  old  chap,  how  are  you?  This  is  a  bit  of  luck,  to  find  you  here,&quot;  Fred  said.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  find  me  here?  What  do  you  take  me  for?  You've  come  after  me-1I  suppose  Louie  sent  you?&quot;  &quot;My  dear  oldchap,  that's  none  of  my  business.  It's  only  that-there's  one  or  two  small  points  about  our  own  family  affairs-about  some  of  our  father's  things.&quot;  Fred  was  in  the  Army,  a  major.  Tom  and  he  had  always  been  good  friends,  but  they  had  no  family  interests  in  common  except  their  memories.  Fred  was  married,  with  three  children,  the  paternal  estate  had  been  divided  long  ago,  and  Tom  suddenly  lost  his  tem-  per.  &quot;Look,  Fred,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  you  got  on  my  tracks-I  suppose  I'm  being  spied  on  all  the  time-but  it's  nogood  coming  after  me  like  this.  You  won't  get  me  to  go  back.&quot;  &quot;My  dear  chap,  I  wouldn't  dream  of  it.  In  fact,  I'm  all  for  this  idea  of  taking  a  holiday,  a  real  holiday.  You've  not  had  a  real  holiday  for  years.  Why  not  come  skiing  with  me  in  Norway?&quot;  He  slapped  Tom  on  the  shoulder  with  a  smile  that  was  just  a  little  too  hearty,  too  brotherly.  Tom  pushed  the  hand  from  his  shoul-  der.  &quot;Don't  talk  nonsense,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'The  thing  is  to  humor  the  lunatic,  isn't  it?  Go  along  with  the  poor  chap  in  his  wildest  fantods.&quot;  &quot;Good  heavens,  no,  old  boy.  I  never  saw  you  louking  better.&quot;  &quot;Because  the  fact  is  that  I've  just  got  sane-for  the  first  time  in  years.  I've  just  waked  up  to  the  kind  of  im-  becile  nonsense  that  my  life  had  be-  come.&quot;  &quot;Exactly.  I  couldn't  agree  more.  All  work  and  no  play-a  real  holiday-&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  want  a  holiday-for  the  rest  of  my  life.  You  think  this  is  a  break-  down.  It  isn't.  It's  a  breakout.  What  do  you  suppose  my  life  is  like  at  home-  as  they  call  it?  Bob  and  April  stopped  being  my  children  years  ago  when  they  went  away  to  school,  and  as  for  Louie,  I  often  wonder  whether  she  ever  has  been  my  real  wife.  Certainly  I've  never  known  just  what  she  was  after  or  what  she  thought  of  me.  And  these  last  two  years  I've  simply  been  a  nuisance  to  her.  This  is  abreak,  in  fact,  for  her  as  well  as  for  me.  It  isn't  so  much  a  new  life  we  need  as  a  real  life.  As  it  is,  we  just  carry  on  this  marriage  by  habit.  It's  just  an  imitation  marriage,  arobot  mar-  riage.  We  go  through  the  gestures  be-  cause  we've  been  wound  up  and  can't  stop  the  machinery.  Well,  now  I  have  stopped  the  machinery  andI'm  going  to  have  some  life  on  my  own  and  give  Louie  some  life,  too.  She  needn't  be  afraid  she  will  be  left  flat.  There's  plenty  of  money  for  both  of  us.&quot;  Fred  made  aface  as  if  to  say  &quot;Really, I  don't  want  all  this  talk,&quot;  and  said,  &quot;Quite.  I  quite  see  your  point,  old  chap,  though,  in  fact,  I  gather  she's  up-  set,  quite  ill,  they  say-  But  what  about  some  lunch?  I'm  hungry.&quot;  He  sat  down  at  a  table  in  the  coffeeroom  and  called  the  waiter.  But  Tom  was  not  going  to  be  wangled  in  this  manner.  He  wasn't  going  to  have  Fred  go  on  pretending  that  this  act  of  justice  and  sin-  cerity  was  a  trifle.  He  would  not  even  sitdown  at  the  table.  He  bent  over  it  toward  Fred  and  said,  &quot;So  she's  made  herself  ill.  She  would,  but  why?  Because  she's  upset  at  what  people  will  say.  Because  she  may  have  to  give  up  a  few  parties.  Because  her  routine  is  changed-  like  someone  who's  knocked  off  ciga-  rettes  and  doesn't  know  how  to  pass  the  time.&quot;  The  waiter  had  arrived  with  Fred's  chop,  mashed  potato,  and  [REDACTED]  sprouts,  the  standard  lunch  at  the  pub.  Fred  took  a  mouthful  and  then  shouted,  &quot;Waiter,  halfa  can  of  old  and  mild!&quot;  This  affectation  of  ease  still  more  ir-  ritated  Tom.  &quot;You  don't  believe  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Butwhat  do  you  know  about  it?  I  tell  you  I'm  nothing  to  Louie  but  a  provider  and  I'm  going  on  providing.  That's  to  say,  she'll  get  exactly  the  same  income  as  before.&quot;  The  waiter  came  with  the  beer.  Fred  took  a  sip  and  said,  &quot;Might  be  worse,&quot;  and  then,  sticking  his  fork  in  the  chop,  remarked,  &quot;The  children.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  the  children.  And  if  I'm  noth-  ing  much  to  Louie,  I'm  still  less  to  the  children.  They  have  their  own  lives,  they've  had  'em  for  years.&quot;  And  when  Fred  went  on  eating  his  chop,  Tom,  now  very  exasperated,  began  a  long  speech  about  the  children.  He  wasn't  blaming  them,  he  said.  They  were  nice  children.  It  was,  in  fact,  quite  right  that  they  should  be  having  their  own  lives.  What  was  wrong  and  perfectly  stupid  was  this  pretense  that  he  was  needed  any  more-this  hypocrisy,  which  was  just  as  bad  for  them  as  for  him,  and  all  for  nothing.  His  own  life  was  simply  being  wasted  for  nothing.  Fred  still  went  on  eating,  and  Tom,  leaning  across  the  table  on  his  knuckles,  felt  like  some  village  orator  addressing     " b"a  meeting  so  bored  that  it  cannot  even  listen.  Abruptly  he  stopped.  He  was  so  angry  that  for  a  moment  he  had  an  im-  pulse  to  take  up  Fred's  beer  and  throw  it  in  his  face.  The  impulse  was  so  strong  that  he  hastily  turned  away  and  went  out  of  the  room,  and,  catching  up  his  suitcase,  hat,  and  coat,  made  forthe  door.  But  before  he  could  escape,  the  barman  popped  out  from  the  saloon  bar.  &quot;Your  bill,  sir.&quot;  When  he  had  paid  the  bill,  Fred  had  picked  up  the  suitcase  and  was  say-  ing,  &quot;Let  me  give  you  a  hand,  old  chap.  What  about  the  old  heart?&quot;  Fred  carried  the  suitcase  all  the  way  to  the  bus.  He  talked  of  their  childhood.  Some  old  album  of  photographs  had  turned  up  in  his  attic.  Would  Tom  like  to  see  them?  There  ought  to  be  a  share-out.  Tom  said  nothing;  he  could  not  speak  for  fear  of  screaming  his  rage  at  Fred.  He  knew  that  if  he  began  to  speak,  if  he  said  a  word  to  him,  it  would  be  a  shriek,  and  he  dared  not  shriek.  The  bus  was  standing  in  front  of  the  Lobster  Pot,  the  village  beerhouse,  but  it  was  not  to  leave  for  half  an  hour  yet.  Fred  proposed  that  they  should  go  in  for  a  part-  ing  glass,  but  Tom  hastily  climbed  into  the  empty  bus  and  took  his  seat,  For  a  mo-  ment  he  was  afraid,  he  was  terrified,  that  Fred  would  sit  down  beside  himand  go  on  talking,  go  on  trying  to  smooth  him  down,  to  make  him  feel  that  nothing  was  really  wrong,  that  all  this  that  had  happened  was  quite  an  ordinary  event.  But  Fred  apparently  had  more  sense,  or  possibly  better  instructions.  He  put  down  the  suitcase  beside  Tom  and  held  out  his  hand.  &quot;Well,  old  chap,  I  suppose  you  don't  want  me  here,  but  if  there's  any-  thing  I  can  do,  I  hope  you'll  send  along  and  let  me  know.&quot;  Tom  did  not  take  the  hand.  He  wanted  to  do  so,  he  was  fond  of  Fred,  but  it  seemed  to  him  now  that  if  he  touched  his  hand  he  would  be  acknowledging  that  Fred's  mission  was  not  complete-  ly  nonsense,  that  after  all  there  was  something  in  the  conventional  shibboleth  of  family  unity  that  had  sent  him  to  Westford.  He  couldnot  touch  his  hand,  and  after  a  moment  Fred  said  goodbye  again  and  went  off.  What  a  relief.  Tom  felt  such  a  sense  of  release  that  he  was  full  of  gratitude  to  his  brother.  He  thought,  I  must  write  to  him,  I  must  tell  him  that  I  didn't  want  to  be  rude.  It  wasn't  a  personal  matter;  it  was  just  a  question  of  principle.  HAT  night  he  was  in  Liverpool,  at  a  quiet  back-street  hotel,  a  com-  mercial  hotel.  His  plan  was  to  go  abroad,  to  Eire  or  Europe.  He  had  sent  to  the  office  for  a  letter  of  credit,  addressed  Poste  Restante.  But  when  he  called  at  the  Central  Post  Office,  there  was  onlya  note  from  his  chief  clerk  saying  the  credit  was  on  its  way.  When  it  had  not  arrived  by  next  morning,  he  wrote  again,  with  some  indignation.  And  on  the  next  day,  the  fourth,  as  he  came  from  the  hotel  to  go  to  the  Post  Of-  fice,  Louie  stepped  out  ofa  taxi  that  had  been  waiting  at  the  curb.  She  threw  her  arms  round  his  neck  and  broke  into  tears.  She  said  nothing--  after  that  warm  embrace  she  only  stood  gazing  at  him  with  an  anxious  and  embarrassed  smile.  Louie's  smile  through  her  tears  struck  Tom  as  es-  pecially  artificial  and  disgust-  ing.  How  ridiculous  to  try  to  get  round  him  in  this  manner.  As  if  he  were  a  child  to  be  wangled  by  caresses  and  &quot;darlings.  &quot;What  exactly  do  you  want?&quot;&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;Didn't  you  get  my  letter?&quot;  Just  then  he  remembered  that  he'd  never  sentthat  letter  He'd  never  quite  decided  how  to  finish  it.  So  he  added  quick-  ly  and  impatiently,  &quot;What's  the  point  of  chasing  me  about  like  this?  That  can't  do  any  good  to  anybody.&quot;  Louie  only  continued  to  gaze  with  the  same  tearful  and  exasperating  look  of  grief.  Another  person  had  now  descended  from  the  taxi-  Tom's  family  doctor,  Bew-  ley,  an  earnest  young  man,  whose  long,  solemn  face  had  caused  Tom  to  say  that  he  was  more  fitted  to  be  an  undertaker.  He  was  much  valued  by  all  those  valuable  private  patients  who  like  to  have  their  kinks  taken  seri-  ously.  Tom  did  not  care  for  him,  and  shouted,  &quot;Good  God,  and  what  do  you  think  you're  doing  here?&quot;  Bewley  did  not  seem  to  hear.  He  did  not  even  look  at     " b"Tom  but  addressed  himself  to  a  stran-  ger  standing  a  couple  of  paces  behind  Louie-a  man  with  very  large  and  very  black  horn-rims,  and  very  high,  square  shoulders.  His  face  was  square,  too,  with  a  pug  nose  and  a  large  mouth,  which  was  fixed  in  that  habitual,  professional  smile  that  marks  a  floor  manager  in  a  store  or  the  master  of  ceremonies  at  a  palais  de  danse.  Tom  had  hardly  wondered  who  the  fellow  was  and  where  he  had  come  from  before  he  noticed,  just  behind,  as  if  to  take  cover  from  his  broad  back,  both  the  children.  And  a  little  to  their  right,  he  suddenly  recognized,  in  a  mysterious  skulker  with  an  immense  coat  collar  turned  up  almost  to  the  brim  of  a  bowler  hat,  the  long  white  nose  and  little  steel  goggles  of  his  chief  clerk.  His  whole  life  seemed  to  have  gathered  about  him  again  in  this  back  street-all  those  ties  that  had  gradually  bound  himand  wrapped  him  round  in  that  cocoon  of  dead  matter,  that  dusty  nonsense,  which,  if  he  could  not  break  through  it  now,  once  for  all,  would  smother  him.  &quot;What  on  earth  is  all  this  about?&quot;  he  asked  Louie.  She  opened  her  mouth  to  speak,  and  then  lost  courage  and  looked  round  at  the  stranger.  It  was  he,  with  a  slight  ex-  tension  of  that  professional  smile,  who  answered.  &quot;It's  all  right,  Mr.  Sponson.  We  don't  want  to  bother  you  in  any  way.  We're  just  going.&quot;  ''The  sooner  the  better,&quot;  Tom  said,  and,  with  a  sudden  conviction,  added,  &quot;So  you're  the  private  eye  that's  been  spying  on  me.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  at  all,  Mr.  Sponson.&quot;  The  man  stepped  forward  with  outstretched  hand.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  you  remember  me.&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  damned  if  I  do.  Who  the  devil  are  you?&quot;  The  stranger  did  not  answer,  and  for  some  reason  Tom  did  not  press  him  for  an  answer.  He  was  too  angry,  too  infuriated  by  that  professional,  confident  grin.  What  had  the  brute  got  to  be  pleased  about?  He  wanted  to  hit  him,  to  knock  that  grin  off  his  pug  face.  But  he  saw  that  this  would  be  a  giveaway;  it  would  be  just  what  the  brute  wanted.  To  see  him  rattled.  He  ignored  the  fel-  low,  and  said  to  Louie,  with  an  easy,  nonchalant  air,  &quot;Now,  Louie,  you're  a  sensible  woman.  You  know  perfectly  well  that  all  this  fuss  is  completely  un-  necessary.  It's  not  helping  either  of  us  to  see  straight.  Do  realize,&quot;  he  went  on,  in  a  sympathetic  tone,  &quot;that  I'm  not  accusing  you  of  any  conscious  hypocrisy,  of  putting  on  an  act.  Not  at  all.  I  realize  perfectly  well  that  you  think  you're  do-  ing  the  right  thing.  For  instance,  I'm  prepared  to  bet  that  you  thin\xc3\xa9  you  need  me  at  home.  Don't  you?&quot;  Louie  didn't  answer.  She  only  gazed  sadly,  anxiously.  Tom  thought,  She's  not  even  listening,  and  he  became  more  urgent.  &quot;But  don't  you  see  all  this  is  simply  because  you  won't  stop  to  ask  yourself  what  you're  really  doing-what  we're  all  playing  at?&quot;  His  voice  rose,  and  he  wanted  to  wave  his  hands.  But  he  kept  them  firmly  under  control.  He  smiled  in  a  noncha-  lant,  lazy  manner.  &quot;My  dear  old  girl,  really,  you  know-&quot;  At  this  moment,  he  noticed  that  the  party  had  closed  on  him.  As  the  stranger  had  moved  in,  they  had  followed,  as  if  drawn  by  some  magnetic  center  of  at-  traction.  The  children  were  within  a  yard;  the  clerk,  on  the  other  side,  was  at   his  elbow.  All  at  once  he  lost  the  thread  of  his  calm  discussion  with  Louie.  He  started  back.  He  had  actually  been  on  the  brink  of  running  away,  declaring  himself  a  fugitive.  And  what  from?  Nonsense?  To  run  away  from  nonsense,  just  pretense,  a  made-up  delusion-that  would  besimply  madness.  And  what  en-  raged  him  as  he  looked  round  at  all  these  nonsense-mongers  was  their  nonsense  looks.  The  children  seemed  even  more  terrified  than  Louie-the  self-confident  Bob,  the  popular  and  rather  too  success-  ful  freshman,  now  wore  the  face  of  a  child  who  has  seen  a  spectre,  and  April,  a  plump  girl,  whose  cheeks  were  nor-  mally  round  and  rather  too  rosy,  seemed  lank  and  pale.  The  lugubrious  Bewley  had  a  ferocious  glare,  as  if  affronted,  and  the  chief  clerk,  a  highly  respectable  and  rather  timid  person  whose  favorite  recreation  was  dominoes,  had  that  des-  perate  frown  of  resolution  that  one  sees  in  dentists'  parlors.  Tom  waved  one  hand  and  muttered,  &quot;But  it's  perfectly  stupid,&quot;  then  turned  on  the  girl.  &quot;Why  aren't  you  at  school?&quot;  The  girl  looked  frightened,  as  if  she  were  going  tocry,  and  all  the  rest  turned  their  faces  toward  her,  as  if  imploring  her  to  do  the  wise,  the  intelligent  thing.  And  obviously,  she  felt  her  responsibili-  ty  buthadn't  an  ideaof  whatwas  ex-     " b"pected  of  her.  Then  abruptly  she  stepped  forward,  gave  her  father  a  timid  peck  on  the  cheek,  quite  unlike  her  usual  vig-  orous  embrace,  and  said,  &quot;I  was  so  wor-  ried  about  you,  Daddy.&quot;  &quot;But  why,why,  why?&quot;  He  appealed  to  this  child  of  whom  he  was  so  fond.  &quot;Look  at  me-I'm  all  right.&quot;  He  laughed  gaily.  &quot;It's  you  who  are  wor-  ried,  darling,  it's  you  who  are  running  about  with  looks  of  horror  simply  be-  cause  I've  told  the  truth  for  once.&quot;  He  laughed  again,  and  now  both  his  arms  were  waving,  but  he  didn't  care.  Why  care?  Why  pretend?  What  hypocrisy,  what  nonsense!  &quot;It's  so  f-funny,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Look  at  you.  Chasing  me  all  over  [REDACTED]-and  why?  You  don't  want  me,  you  know  -you  haven't  wanted  me  for  years.&quot;  Suddenly  he  grew  disgusted.  What  was  the  good  of  talking?  They  abso-  lutely  refused  to  understand.  They  had  simply  sold  themselves  to  nonsense.  They  simply  didn't  want  to  understand  truth  anymore.  'Talking  to  them  was  like  talking  to  Chinese.  They  were  so  " b" completely  foreign  that  they  could  not  interpret  even  his  looks,  his  tone.  &quot;I'm  so  so-sorry,&quot;  said  the  girl,  and  she  gave  a  sob.  The  sob  had  a  kind  of  echo  in  Tom's  breast,  a  physical  echo.  He  took  a  long  breath.  He  wanted  to  consolethe  poor  child,  but  he  didn't  know  how.  She  was  too  strange,  too  cut  off  from  him.  And  then,  catching  the  stranger's  eye,  noting  again  his  smile,  he  saw  that  the  fellow  quite  understood  the  situa-  tion.  He  was  a  brute  but  not  a  fool.  Tom  found  himself  smiling  at  him  in  a  confi-  dential  manner.  The  stranger  at  once  stepped  for-  ward  and  opened  the  taxi  door.  Tom,  perceiving  at  once  how  right  he  had  been  about  the  fellow's  intelligence,  climbed  in  and  joyfully  took  his  seat.  He  was  surprised  for  only  a  moment  when  the  stranger  followed  him;  he  saw  at  once  that  this,  too,  was  an  intelligent  act.  He  had  a  lot  to  say  to  him-he  wanted  to  explain  the  whole  ridiculous  affair.  As  the  taxi  drove  off,  he  said  with  a  cheerful  and  knowing  air,  &quot;I  spotted  you  at  once-one  of  Louie's  psy-  chiatrists.&quot;&quot;  The  stranger  simply  smiled,  in  fact,  beamed  at  him.  He  now  looked  like  a  floor  manager  who  has  made  a  good  sale.  &quot;But  all  the  same,&quot;  said  Tom,  &quot;I'm  not  having  a  breakdown.  I'm  sim-  ply  fed  up  with  nonsense.&quot;  &quot;I  know.  I  know.  So  am  I.  So's  everybody.  You  just  want  to  get  away.&quot;  &quot;Get  away  from  the  nonsense,&quot;  Tom  said.  &quot;But  it  comes  after  you  all  the  time.  And  it  won't  even  listen  when  you  tell  it  it's  nonsense.  It  won't  even  be-  lieve  it's  nonsense.  It's  so  absolutely  soaked  in  its  own  nonsense  that  it  can't  take  in  anything  else.  Like  fish.&quot;  He  didn't  stop  to  explain  this  point;  he  was  quite  sure  that  the  stranger  understood.  He  smiled  hastily  to  show  this  confi-  dence.  &quot;Or  whiskey.  If  you  cut  it  off,  they'd  get  the  shakes,  they  couldn't  breathe.&quot;  The  stranger's  very  spectacles  were  full  of  understanding,  and  Tom  waved  his  hands  and  leaned  toward  him.  &quot;Words,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  all  words,  words,  words.  They  live  on  words  they  can't  understand  anything  but  words.  They  think  words.  You  talk  to  them,  but  you  might  as  well  be  burbling  in  a  madhouse  to  a  lot  oftape  record-  ers-they  only  geta  lot  of  noises.  You  saw  that  poor  child-all  the  family  in  tears-for  nothing.  For  absolute  non-  sense.  For  words.  It  makes  you  laugh.&quot;  And  to  his  horror,  he  began  to  cry.  The  stranger  patted  his  shoulder  and  said,  &quot;All  over  [REDACTED];  in  a  professional  but  understanding  tone.  The  taxi  drove  up  in  front  of  a  large,  discreet  building  standing  back  from  the  road  in  a  suburban  street.  &quot;Is  this  an  asylum?&quot;  Tom  asked.     The  stranger  actually  laughed.  &quot;No,  no,  no.  What  nonsense.  It's  just  a  place  where  you  can  get  away.  That's  all  you  need-to  get  away.&quot;  Twenty  minutes  later,  Tom  was  in  bed;  the  stranger  was  giving  instructions  to  a  nurse.  Tom  had  had  an  injection  and  was  sinkinghappily  into  a  doze.  What  joy,  what  peace.  At  last  he  had  got  away.  But  justas  he  closed  his  eyes,  he  muttered  again,  in  protest,  &quot;This  isn't  a  breakdown,  you  know.  It's  only-I  got  fed  up  with  all  the  words,  the  nonsense.&quot;  The  stranger  laid  a  large,  cool  hand  on  his  head.  &quot;I  know.  I  know.&quot;  And  he  really  seemed  to  know.  That  was  six  weeks  ago.  Tom  is  now  back  at  work,  back  with  his  family.  He  has  been  back  a  fortnight  and  already  life  is  exactly  the  same  as  before.  Louie  no  longer  hovers  about  him  with  anx-  ious  affection;  the  children  no  longer  come  into  the  room  on  tiptoe  and  try  to  talk  sympathetically  about  his  long  day  at  the  office.  He  has  found  it  especially  trying  to  keep  up  this  absurd  kind  of  conversation.  With  the  arrears  at  the  office,  he  has  been  far  too  busy  to  want  anything  at  home  but  peace.  And  why  should  Louie  tell  him  about  her  day's  amusements  or  the  children  pretend  to  take  an  interest  in  a  business  of  which  they  have  never  comprehended  a  detail?  What  nonsense.  Thank  God  they've  got  over  it.  That  first  week  back  at  home  had  almost  driven  him  really  mad.  And  suddenly,  at  the  club,  talking  to  an  old  friend,  he  hears  himself  say,  'Yes,  I've  been  lucky,  it's  been  a  wonderful  marriage.  Well,  you  know  Louie,  and  the  children  stay  so  nice,  so  affectionate.  You  couldn't  find  nicer,  more  affec-  tionate  children.  After  all,  family  life  is  everything,  and  mine  has  been  a  marvel-  lous  success.&quot;  He  stops,  startled  by  some  echo  from  thatholiday,  now  almost  for-  gotten.  The  word  &quot;nonsense&quot;  has  jumped  into  his  brain.  Neither  Tom  nor  his  family  has  ever  admitted  that  he  has  had  a  breakdown-  it  is  called  a  holiday,  a  rest  cure.  And  no  nonsense  about  it.  But  if  that  wasn't  nonsense,  what  is  this-all  these  words  that  he  is  uttering  with  such  earnest-  ness?  But  no,  xot  nonsense-God  for-  bid.  More  like  a  prayer. "