 b"I'VE  just  discovered  that  I  own  three  hundred  acres  I  didn't  know  about,  and  I  wish  I  could  think  what  to  do  with  them.  I  happened  to  discover  them  because  I  decided,  in  a  moment  of  man-  agerial  efficiency,  to  find  out  how  the  rates  (or,  in  [REDACTED],  property  taxes)  I  paid  last  year  on  Killegar,  my  house  and  farm  in  County  Leitrim,  in  the  remote  northwest  of  Ireland,  had  been  calcu-  lated.  Rates  are  payable  annually,  the  proceeds  being  devoted  to  public  serv-  ices.  The  amount  varies  mysteriously  from  year  to  year,  but  the  sum  I  relue-  tantly  have  to  hand  over  to  the  rate  col-  lector,  John  McGearty,  who  has  the  pub  and  grocery  in  the  neighboring  vil-  lage  of  Longfield,  and  whom  I  like  very  well  the  rest  of  the  time,  usually  ap-  proaches  four  hundred  pounds.  The  first  thing  I  unearthed  when  I  began  my  examination  was  that  I  was  still  paying  rates  on  three  cottages  that  no  longer  existed.  I  have  four  cottages  at  Killegar,  leased  to  employees  of  mine  at  the  statutory  rent  of  eighteenpence  a  week,  and  I  found  I  was  paying  rates  on  seven.  The  three  others,  which  I  can  barely  remember,  were  left  unoccupied  when  their  last  tenants  died  or  departed  years  ago.  Since  then,  the  cottages  have  gradually  disappeared  back  into  the  soil.  By  drawing  McGearty's  attention  to  their  phantasmal  nature,  I  was  able  to  save  myself  three  orfour  pounds  a  year.  It's  nothing  for  acottageor  two  to  disappear  in  Ireland,  but  my  second  dis-  covery  perplexed  me  more.  I  found  I  was  paying  thirty-four  shillings  a  year  on  land  at  Corrawallen.  This  tiny,  for-  gotten  hamlet  is  seven  miles  from  Kille-  gar,  on  a  back  road  that  leads  to  no-  where  in  particular,  and  as  far  as  I  could  remember,  I  had  only  once  even  been  there.  I  had  been  unaware  that  I  had  any  proprietorial  claims  in  Corrawallen  whatever.  My  solicitor,  Jack  Halpin;  who  al-  ways  has  all  the  answers,  happened  to  come  to  Killegar  a  few  days  after  I  made  this  discovery,  and  I  asked  him  to  explain.  &quot;Oh,  that's  in  respect  of  your  bog  there,&quot;  he  told  me  at  once.  He  looked  at  me  in  some  surprise.  &quot;You  mean  you  didn't  know  you  had  a  bog?  Your  father  never  happened  to  mention  it?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  Neither  my  father  nor  anyone  else  had  ever  said  a  word  about  this  piece  of  property.  If  the  rates  on  it  were  only  thirty-four  shillings  a  year,  I  thought,  then  it  had  to  be  avery  small  one.  &quot;A  fine  big  bog,  too,&quot;  Jack  said.  &quot;About  three  hundred  acres,  I  should" b"say  offhand.  A  very  good  bog  for  snipe,  by  the  way.  I've  often  shot  it  myself,  and  never  come  back  empty-handed.&quot;  &quot;Three  hundred  acres?&quot;  I  said  in-  credulously.  In  an  instant,  the  area  of  my  property-or,  rather,  the  area  of  the  property  I  knew  I  owned-had  been  very  nearly  doubled.  I  made  up  my  mind  to  go  and  look  at  my  bog  next  day.  AN  Irish  bog  is  not  what  most  people  imagine.  It  is  not  a  swamp.  It  is  simply  land-usually  low-lying  and  heather-covered-from  which  turf  has  been,  or  can  be,  cut.  Turf,  which  is  called  peat  outside  Ireland,  is  a  layer-  perhaps  fifteen  or  twenty  feet  deep-of  decomposed  primeval  forest;  when  cut  into  rectangular  slabs  and  dried,  it  is  much  in  demand  as  domestic  fuel.  An  old  bog  may  be  dangerous,  because  the  holes  that  turf  cutters  have  dug  fill  up  with  water,  sometimes  to  the  depth  of  a  man,  and  in  time  become  concealed  beneath  a  treacherous  covering  of  weeds  and  mosses.  But  most  bogs  are  safe  if  you  watch  your  step,  and,  because  they  are  unoccupied,  are  good  places  to  hunt  for  game  birds.  I  knew  I  could  earn  nothing  from  the  shooting  rights,  since  snipe-shooting  over  bogland  is  tradition-  ally  free,  but  turf  fetches  three  or  four  pounds  a  ton.  Ina  bog  as  big  as  mine,  I  reflected,  there  must  be  hundreds  of  thousands  of  tons  of  turf-well,  tensof  thousands,  anyway.  I  saw  myself  at  once  as  the  owner  ofa  great  new  enter-  prise,  Corrawallen  Bog  Products,  Ltd.  As  I  drove  to  Corrawallen  to  have  a  look  at  my  property,  I  found  myself  hoping  that  I  wouldn't  have  difficulty  locating  it.  It  would  be  highly  ignomini-  ous  if  I  had  to  ask  the  way.  (&quot;I'm  look-  ing  for  my  bog,&quot;  I  would  have  to  say.  &quot;Can  you  help  me  find  it,  please?&quot;)  Jack's  directions,  fortunately,  proved{  perfectly  easy  to  follow.  I  passed  the  Protestant  church,  went  down  thebrae  beyond  it,  and  there,  unmistakably,  was  the  bog-my  bog-filling  all  the  valley to  the  right  of  the  road  ahead  of  me.  And  Jack  had  been  absolutely  right;  it  is  a  very  fine  bog,  which  any  man  would  be  proud  to  own.  Ownership  of  land  is  truly  satisfying.  One  relishes  the  knowledge,  to  begin  with,  that  one  owns  not  only  the  land  but  everything  that  comes  with  it-  every  blade  of  grass,  every  stone,  each  flower,  every  bird  that  flies  over  it,  all  the  wild  animals  that  permanently  or temporarily  inhabit  it,  all  the  insects  and  worms,  and  so  on,  down  to  the  very  last  microorganism.  Land  that  I  own,  I  can  never  help  remembering,  is  mine  not  merely  on  the  surface,  or  down  to  a  depth  of  a  few  feet  or  yards,  but  right  on" b"down  to  the  very  center  of  the  earth-  an  immense  elongated  carrot  of  real  property,  something  over  three  thou-  sand  miles  long,  containing  hundreds  of  cubic  miles  that  belong  to  we,  that  are  mine  even  in  the  black  and  deepest  bowels.  (And  somewhere  down  there  might  there  not  be  gold?  Or  oil,  or  uranium?  Who  knows?  )  144  land,  I  find,  has  somehow  a  special  quality  to  it-a  softness  and  friendliness  under  my  feet.  If  I  cross  a  boundary  between  a  neighbor's  land  and  mine,  there  is  at  once  a  different  feeling.  The  neigh-  bor-James  Hill  or  Jack  Armstrong  or  Jimmy  McNamee-may  be  an  old  friend,  but  I  have  become  an  intruder,  an  outsider;  I  don't  belong  any  more.  I  had  all  these  feelings  at  Corrawal-  len  when  I  stopped  the  car,  crossed  a  field  (just  a  dull  old  field,  belonging  to  someone  else),  climbed  a  bank,  jumped  a  ditch,  and  landed  on  a  wide  expanse  of  heather  and  fern  that  was  mine.  It  had  been  mine  for  six  years  without  my  knowing  it,  but  I  felt  as  though  it  hadn't  really  been  mine  until  that  moment-  that  there  can  be  no  such  thing  as  un-  conscious  possession.  I  could  feel  it  be-  coming  mine  as  I  stood  there,  and  the  rushes  and  the  stones,  and  the  willows  and  the  weeds,  which  would  have  looked  perfectly  ordinary  if  I'd  seen  them  a  week  earlier,  slowly  assumed  a  new  quality  as  their  awareness  of  my  ownership  spread  to  me.  HE  countryside  was  deserted.  I  walked  my  new  land  with  a  springy  tread,  waving  to  my  sea  gulls  and,  from  time  to  time,  picking  up  one  of  my  stones  and  feeling  it  in  my  hand;  it  felt  rough,  and  good,  and  mine.  I  found  I  was  doing  some  complicated  arithmetic  in  my  head.  Say  I  made  a  clear  profit  of  ten  shillings  a  ton  from  the  sale  of  turf;  there  must  bea  hun-  dredweight  to  every  square  yard,  which  would  make  two  hundred  and  forty-  two  tons  to  the  acre.  Multiply  by  three  hundred  acres,  and  you  have  over  thir-  ty-six  thousand  pounds.  Or,  rather,  which  was  what  mattered,  I  would  have  it.  Well,  it  might  take  ten  years  to  extract  it,  but  all  the  same  that  would  mean  a  good  three  thousand  pounds  a  year.  I  had  just  reached  this  conclusion  when,  as  though  to  show  me  how  easily  it  could  be  done,  there  appeared  ahead  of  me  an  enormous  black  stack  of  cut  turf.  I  stopped  in  my  tracks.  I  gazed  around  me.  Now  that  I  came  to  look,  there  were  stacks  of  turf  everywhere-  here  a  group  of  six,  there  of  twenty,  there  of  a  dozen.  I  climbed  to  thetop  of  the  largest  stack  I  could  see,  gazed  out  across  my  bog,  and  counted  a  hun-" b"dred  and  ninety-three  stacks  in  ten  min-  utes.  An  hour  later,  I  was  in  Jack  Halpin's  office.  &quot;What's  the  law  of  trespass,  Jack?&quot;  I  asked.  (How  good  it  is,  I  thought,  to  have  a  smart  lawyer  at  such  times!)  &quot;There  are  people  taking  my  turf-hundreds  of  them,  I  should  think.  They  bolted  when  they  saw  me  com-  ing,  the  rascals.  I  didn't  get  a  glimpse  of  one  of  them.  But  we'll  catch  them,  Jack.  They'll  come  back  and  we'll  catch  them.  And  the  turf  they've  cut  already-that's  mine,  I  suppose,  isn't  ic}  Jack  laughed.  He  actually  laughed  at  me.  &quot;Is  this  at  Corrawallen,  John?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Where  else  would  it  be?&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  they  have  a  perfect  right  to  cut  turf  there,&quot;  said  Jack.  &quot;What's  more,  you  haven't.  They're  local  people  and  they  do  it  openly.  You  didn't  see  them  because  it  isn't  the  turf-cutting  season.  After  our  talk  yesterday,  I  looked  up  the  deeds.  Your  great-great-  grandfather,  old  John  Godley,  sold  the  turbary  rights  back  in  the  eightcen-six-  ties.&quot;  &quot;T  urbary  rights?&quot;  I  asked  in  amaze-  ment.  &quot;What  in  the  world  are  they?&quot;  &quot;The  rights  to  cut  turf  on  another  man's  land,&quot;  said  Jack.  &quot;Old  John  sold  the  turbary  rights  in  Corrawallen,  prob-  ably  for  a  song,  a  year  or  two  before  his death.&quot;  &quot;Then  what  use  is  the  bog  to  me?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;None,&quot;  replied  Jack,  roaring  with  laughter.  &quot;Unless  you  can  think  of  something  very  unusual,  it  has  absolute-  If  no  value  whatsoever.&quot;  I\xe2\x80\x99VE  been  trying  to  think  of  something  very  unusual  ever  since.  I  could  build  houses  on  it,  certainly,  if  I  had  any  capital,  which  I  haven't.  But  it  happens  that  more  people  are  leaving  Leitrim  than  are  leaving  any  other  county  in  Ireland-which  is  saying  something.  No,  houses  wouldn't  be  practical.  I  could  plant  my  bog  with  trees.  With  the  regular  five-foot  spacing  customary  in  plantations,  it  would  take  over  half  a  million-a  whole  forest.  But  even  soft-  woods  grow  relatively  slowly  on  bog-  land;  it  would  probably  be  sixty  years  before  they  reached  maturity,  by  which  time  I  would  be  ninety-seven.  Only  one  other  idea  has  come  to  me  so  far.  I  have  heard  of  the  admirable  activities  of  A  Little  Bit  of  Ireland,  Inc.  As  I  understand  it,  this  enterprising  company  has  bought  an  acre  of  land  somewhere  in  the  south  of  Ireland,  and  plans  to  sell  it  in  plots  of  a  square  yard,  at  a  dollar  each,  to  sentimental" b"THE  NEW  YORKER  TIrish-556e6974656420537461746573ns  who  would  like  a  stake,  however  small,  in  the  Old  Country.  Well,  if  I  were  to  do  the  same,  Cor-  rawallen  Bog  would  fetch  one  million  four  hundred  and  fifty-two  thousand  dollars.  This  brings  up  a  question:  Are  there  one  million  four  hundred  and  fifty-two  thousand  sentimental  and  still  landless  Irish-556e6974656420537461746573ns,  each  one  with  a  spare  dollar  he  wants  to  spend  on  real  estate?  On  the  chance  that  there  aren't,  I  think  I  can  afford  to  be  more  generous.  I  am  prepared  to  dispose  of  Corrawallen  Bog  at  a  nickel  a  square  yard,  which  would  bring  in  a  total  of  seventy-two  thousand  six  hundred  dollars-a  fine  price  for  a  genuine  Irish  bog  exclusive  of  turbary  rights.  Naturally,  all  these  new  land-  holders  will  have  to  divide  the  thirty-  four  shillings  in  annual  rates  among  themselves,  because  I  don't  propose  to  have  the  damned  place  cost  me  another  penny. "