 b"A  FLIGHT  of  an  hour  and  a  half  carries  you  from  Athens  to  Crete.  The  plane  ascends  sharp-  ly,  tilts  along  the  mainland  beaches,  and  moves  out  over  the  Aegean.  Soon  the  Cyclades  lie  scattered  below-frag-  ments  of  land  with  fresh  April  green  against  the  blue  water,  edged  with  white  foam.  Then  the  plane  moves  down,  rushing  toward  the  seaward  field  of  the  Herakleion  airport,  whilesheep  scatter  from  the  runway.  To  your  left  rises  Mount  Ida,  almost  invisible  in  clouds.  Brilliant  sunlight  pours  onto  the  field.  I  had  come  to  Crete  to  see  the  re-  construction  that  had  been  done  on  the  ruined  palace  of  the  Minoan  kings  at  Knossos-the  dynasty  whose  legends  tell  of  Pasipha\xc3\xa9  and  the  Minotaur,  of  Daedalus  and  Icarus,  of  Theseus  and  Ariadne.  Knossos  is  not  far  from  Herakleion,  where  my  hotel  was,  and  I  made  the  trip  every  day  by  taxi.  Few  tourists  visit  Knossos  in  early  April.  Day  after  day  I  found  myself  the  only  person  there,  and  I  could  wander  asI  chose.  The  buildings  of  the  palace,  which  were  partially  restored  by  the  late  Sir  Arthur  Evans,  the  English  archeologist,  rest  in  a  circle  of  stony,  barren  hills,  cut  from  south  to  north  by  a  valley  in  which  there  was  long  ago  a  broad  river.  Then  the  hills  around  were  darkwith  the  greenf  of  cedar  and  cypress,  from  which  the  subjects  of  King  Minos  made  the  ships  that  were  the  kingdom's  strength.  Four  thousand  years  ago,  the  sea  power  of  Knossos  wrung  tribute  from  [REDACTED]  and  from  the  mainland  of  [REDACTED],  as  well  as  from  the  Aegean  [REDACTED].  Its  sailors  may  have  voyaged  as  far  as  the  British  Isles.  Then  suddenly  Knossos  and  its  power  were  destroyed.  No  one  knows  what  the  catastrophe  was-per-  haps  the  hands  of  the  gods  bringing  earthquake  and  fire,  or  the  hands  of  men  in  violent  invasion.  Now  the  laby-  rinthine  sprawl  of  the  palace  is  invaded  by  clusters  of  bushes,  of  nettles,  of  olives.  In  the  great  court  outside  the  king's  audience  chamber,  on  the  edges  of  the  terraces,  between  the  paving  stones  of  the  dancing  floor,  grow  the  wild  flowers  of  an  Aegean  spring-red  and  blue  and  yellow,  mauve  and  purple,  pink  and  white.  The  incessant  hum  of  bees  is  everywhere.  Knossos  is  peopled  only  by  ghosts.  But  in  Herikleion  real  life  proceeds  busily,  Like  most  other  Greek  cities,  Herakleion  smells  of  new  plaster,  and,     like  Knossos,  it  has  known  invaders.  First  came  the  Greeks  from  the  main-  land,  then  the  Venetians,  then  the  Turks.  Most  recently,  in  World  War  II,  German  planes  flew  overhead  and  dropped  their  bombs;  then  the  earth  shook,  the  buildings  fell,  and  fire  de-  stroyed  most  of  what  remained.  'The  scars  of  the  Stuka  raids  still  show  on  the  surface  of  the  town,  but  new  build-  ings  go  up,  all  in  beige  stucco,  it  seems,  and  the  noise  of  construction-crashing  slides  of  stone,  whang  of  hammers,  slap  of  plaster-continues  into  the  night.  'This  restoration  is  not  so  beauti-  ful  as  that  of  Knossos,  but  it  vibrates  with  energy  and  purpose.  Herakleion  is  small,  and  a  stranger-  especially,  perhaps,  if  one  is  a  wom-  an-is  inspected  by  long,  inquiring,  courteous  stares.  People  are  friendly  and  deal  gently  with  a  visitor's  inability  to  speak  Greek.  Children  follow  you  down  the  street.  I  have  no  idea  whether  the  restaura-  teurs  of  Herakleion  ever  take  inventory,  but  if  they  do  they  must  have  a  time  of  it,  because  their  table  furnishings  have  a  way  of  wandering  about.  If  you  want  coffee-the  strong,  thick,  sweet  Turkish  coffee-you  ask  the  caf\xc3\xa9  waiter  for  it  and  then  you  tell  him  where  you  will  be  to  receive  it:  perhaps  at  your  table,  perhaps  in  the  courtyard  of  the  town's  elegant  museum,  perhaps  back  at  the  hotel.  Let'ssay  you  go  to  the  museum,  as  I  did.  Soon  the  waiter  will  come  down  the  street-past  men  from  the  hills  in  their  bal-  looning  trousers  and  shining  boots,  past  donkeys  pulling  wagons,  past  556e6974656420537461746573n  cars-carrying  the  tray  with  your  coffee  and  the  glass  of  water  that  always  accompanies  it.  I  suppose  he  comes  back  later  for  the  tray;  you,  at  any  rate,  are  not  responsi-  ble  for  it.  Once,  at  a  restaurant  beside  a  fountain  built  by  the  Venetian  in-  vaders,  where  I  took  most  of  my  meals,  I  asked  for  baklava,  the  dessert  made  of  pastry,  nuts,  and  honey.  There  was  noneon  hand,  but  the  staff  was  not  dismayed.  One  waiter  dashed  out  to  a  pastry  shop  and  returned  in  triumph  with  plate,  knife,  fork,  baklava,  and  pastrymaker,  under  whose  eyes,  as  well  as  those  of  the  staff  and  the  other  patrons,  I  had  to  approve  and  then  eat  the  pastry.  EARLY  on  my  last  morning  in  Herakleion-I  was  to  leave  at  noon  by  plane  for  Athens-I  started  " b"down  to  the  breakwater  to  inspect  the  Venetian  customs  house  there.  At  the  foot  of  the  precipitous  street  to  the  har-  bor,  cargo  and  fishing  boats  unload,  and  rust-colored  nets  dry  on  the  wharves  and  the  sea  wall.  I  picked  my  way  around  the  nets  and  went  out  on  the  breakwater  to  the  customs  building,  which  is  old  and  fortlike,  and  has  a  lion  of  St.  Mark  staring  out  to  sea,  After  a  while,  I  walked  on.  It  was  an  in-and-out  morning,  with  clouds  scudding  steadily  past  the  sun.  The  waves  slapped  hard  at  the  rocks  of  the  breakwater.  Then  I  heard  an-  other  slap,  not  quite  like  that  of  the  waves,  from  the  water's  edge.  I  turned  and  looked  down.  A  woman  and  a  boy,  she  perhaps  twenty-three  or  four,  he  perhaps  ten,  were  washing  clothes-  soaking  them  in  the  water,  then  rolling  them  up  and  hurling  them  onto  a  flat  rock.  We  smiled  at  each  other,  and  then,  asI  started  on,  they  waved  and  began  clambering  up  the  rocks  toward  me.  When  they  reached  me,  I  saw  that  the  woman  was  not  pretty  but  that  she  had  a  live  face-bright,  animated,  and  warm.  The  boy's  face  was  harder  to  see;  whenever  I  caught  his  eye,  he  ducked  his  head  and  then  looked  side-  wise  at  me,  with  a  half  smile.  We  tried  conversation,  but  there  was  the  language  barrier,  which  we  all  ac-  cepted  as  a  great  joke.  Presently,  how-  ever,  the  woman  did  manage  to  ask  a  one-word  question:  &quot;English?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;556e6974656420537461746573n,&quot;  I  said.  They  understood,  and  for  some  rea-  son  my  answer  seemed  very  right  and  important.  The  woman  spoke  rapidly  to  the  boy,  who  at  once  ran  back  to-  ward  the  town  as  fast  as  he  could  move  his  thin  bare  legs.  I  was  made  to  un-  derstand,  largely  by  signs,  that,  please,  I  must  wait  until  he  returned.  It  would  not  take  long.  It  didn't.  The  boy  came  backwith  another  boy,  who  was  about  the  same  age,  a  bit  thinner,  a  little  longer  in  arms  and  legs.  His  hair  was  cropped  close,  and  his  brown  eyes  shone  in  his  tan  face.  He  was  barefooted,  as  were  the  other  boy  and  the  woman,  and  his  T  shirt  and  shorts  were  clean  and  sun-bleached.  He  handed  me  a  letter.  It  was  an  old  letter,  and  it  bore  a  [REDACTED]  postmark.  Taking  it,  I  looked  at  them  questioningly.  'They  all  three  indicated  impatiently  that  I  should  read  it  aloud.  I  drew  from  the  envelope,  first,  a  Christmas  card  show-  ing  a  number  of  small  photographs,  with  English  captions  underneath.  A  com-  fortable,  plain  woman  in  her  thirties," b"wearing  glasses,  sewing:  &quot;Mother  al-  ways  works.&quot;  A  man  with  thinning  hair,  a  bow  tie,  smiling  over  a  pile  of  papers:  &quot;Twenty  years  on  the  job.&quot;  A  plump  little  girl  in  a  bathing  suit,  holding  to  the  edge  of  a  pool:  &quot;In  the  swim.&quot;  Another  little  girl,  in  a  very  evident  party  dress:  &quot;All  dressed  up.&quot;  And  a  sturdy  boy,  with  a  pile  of  elabo-  rately  wrapped  packages:  &quot;Ready  for  the  Season.  Merry  Christmas  from  All  of  Us.&quot;  There  was  also  in  the  envelope  a  handwritten  sheet,  with  [REDACTED]  dateline.  I  took  it  out  and  read:  &quot;We  had  your  letter  and  think  you  write  very  nicely  now.  .  ..  We  cannot  read  it  but  we  had  it  translated.  .  ..  We  are  pleased  you  are  doing  so  well  in  school.  ...  Will  you  let  us  know  if  there  is  any-  thing  else  you  would  like,  so  that  we  can  send  it  to  you....  Your  loving  556e6974656420537461746573n  family.&quot;  I  knew  then.  There  was  another-  a  third-restoration  on  Crete.  This  restoration  was  being  done  with  mate-  rial  from  halfway  around  the  world,  from  the  far  side  of  [REDACTED];  and  be-  cause  I  was  556e6974656420537461746573n,  like  the  family  that  had  obviously  &quot;adopted&quot;  this  Greek  boy,  I  was  being  given  some  of  the  credit.  After  I  finished  the  letter,  there  was  a  sudden  babbling  in  Greek.  I  was  thanked.  We  shook  hands,  we  smiled,  we  shook  hands  again.  At  last  I  turned  and  started  back  toward  town..  I  had  just  reached  the  wharves  when  the  sound  of  bare  feet  on  the  run  came  up  behind  me,and  there  were  the  boys.  We  smiled  and  chattered  incoherently,  and  then  they  were  off,  pelting  down  a  side  street.  I  was  up  the  hill  and  almost  at  my  hotel  when  they  caught  up  with  me  again.  This  time  there  was  something  more  than  chatter-an  earnest,  almost  des-  perate  attempt  to  communicate.  &quot;'Speet,&quot;  they  both  said.  &quot;Speet.&quot;  They  said  it  politely  but  also  insistently.  As  they  spoke,  they  pointed  down  the  side  street  from  which  they'd  come.  What  did  they  mean?  I  tried  hard  to  understand.  But  they  could  do  no  more  than  say  &quot;Speet&quot;  again.  'Then  I  remembered  it  was  almost  time  for  the  taxi  that  would  take  me  to  the  airport;  I  shrugged  helplessly  and  walked  on  to  the  hotel.  Looking  dejected,  they  stood  and  watched  me  go.  The  taxi  was  waiting,  with  my  suit-  case  already  in  the  back  seat.  Beside  the  driver-the  same  one  who  had  driven  me  on  my  trips  to  Knossos-sat  a  little  girl,  dressed  in  starched  pink  gingham.  She  was  unsmiling,  staring  straight  ahead.  'The  driver,  who  spoke  a  bit  of  English,  said  proudly,  &quot;My  lit- " b"tle  girl.  I  told  her  she  could  ride  to  the  airport,  if  you  did  not  mind.  Her  mama  dressed  her  up  to  come.&quot;  I  said  I  was  very  glad  to  have  her,  and  as  we  drove  over  the  bumpy  road  to  the  airport,  with  the  driver  honking  his  horn  constantly  from  sheer  delight  in  its  sound,  I  tried  vainly  to  induce  the  child  to  turn  around  and  relax.  Once  she  looked  at  me  unsmilingly,  but  that  was  all.  It  occurred  to  me  then  to  describe  to  the  driver  my  encounter  with  the  two  boys.  I  did,  and  ended  up  asking,  &quot;What  does  'speet'  mean?  What  did  they  want?&quot;  &quot;  'House,'&quot;  he  said,  swinging  the  car  in  beside  the  airport  office.  &quot;It  means  'house.&quot;  They  were  asking  you  to  come  to  their  house.&quot;  I  got  out  of  the  taxi,  with  a  sense  of  failure.  I  had  been  completely  inadequate.  And  much  as  I  wanted  to,I  could  not  now  go  back  to  find  them,  accept  their  kind-  ness,  and  thank  them.  The  plane  stood  ready,  and  I  turned  to  pick  up  my  bag  and  go.  The  little  girl  in  the  front  seat,  still  serious  and  unsmiling,  now  put  her  arm  through  the  open  window  and  held  out  some-  thing  to  me.  She  spoke  quietly,  shyly.  I  looked  at  her  father.  &quot;She  has  candy,&quot;  he  said.  would  like  to  give  you  some.&quot;  I  took  the  candy-there  were  several  sticky  pieces-and  she  smiled  at  last.  I  thanked  her.  Then  I  boarded  my  plane  and  flewout  of  Herakleion,  holding  the  candy  like  a  talisman  of  forgiveness."