 b"MY  father  taught  me  my  view  of  religion.  He  had  neverbeen  very  religious,  and  by  the  time  I  was  thirteen  or  fourteen  I  was  so  thoroughly  committed  to  his  way  of  thinking  that  I  considered  it  a  great  weakness  in  a  man  to  believe.  In  a  way,  this  was  rather  odd.  All  the  women  in  my  family-my  mother,  my  two  older  sisters,  my  several  maiden  aunts-were  devout  Methodists,  and  throughout  my  childhood,  in  a  small  town  outside  Bos-  ton,  I  had  spent  most  of  each  Sunday  in  and  around  the  church.  But  sud-  denly,  one  day,  I  was  seeing  religion  through  my  father's  eyes.  It  was  around  the  time  of  my  brother's  death.  I  re-  member  so  well  the  religious  fervor  that  swept  our  home.  Day  after  day,  we  sat  together  in  the  living  room,  praying,  listening  to  the  minister  as  he  gave  us  his  words  of  comfort,  trying  to  find  some  refuge  from  the  tragedy  that  had  be-  fallen  us.  Only  my  father  stood  alone.  He  had  no  refuge.  He  had  nothing  to  say  that  could  help  me  or  my  mother  or  even  himself.  With  no  one  to  turn  to,  with  no  faith  to  support  him,  he  suf-  fered,  I  think,  more  than  any  of  us.  Yet,  young  asI  was,  I  sensed  a  curious  no-  bility  and  dignity  in  hisgrief.  From  that  time  on,  I  wanted  to  grow  up  to  face  life  as  he  did-truthfully,  without  com-  fort,  without  support.  My  attitude  was  never  one  of  re-  bellion.  Despite  the  early  regimen  of  Sunday  school  and  church  that  my  mother  had  encouraged,  she  was  won-  derfully  gentle  with  me,  particularly  when  I  began  to  express  my  doubts.  She  would  come  into  my  room  each  night  after  the  light  was  out  and  ask  me  to  say  my  prayers.  Determined  to  be  honest  with  her,  I  would  explain  that  I  could  not  say  them  sincerely,  and  therefore  should  not  say  them  at  all.  &quot;Now,  Jack,&quot;  she  would  reply,  very  quietly  and  calmly,  &quot;you  mustn't  talk  like  that.  You'll  really  feel  much  better  if  you  say  them.&quot;  I  could  tell  from  the  tone  of  her  voice  that  she  was  hurt,  but  she  never  tried  to  force  me  in  anyway.  Indeed,  it  might  have  been  easier  for  me  if  she  Ahad  tried  to  oppose  my  decision  strenuously.  As  it  was,  I  felt  so  bad  at  having  wounded  her  that  I  was  continually  trying  to  make  things  up-  running  errands,  surprising  her  by  do-  ing  the  dishes  when  she  went  out  shopping-behaving,  inshort,  in  the  most  conscientious,  considerate  fashion.  But  all  this  never  brought  me  any  closer  to  her  religion.  On  the  contrary,  it  only  served  to  free  me  for  my  de-  cision  \xc2\xbb#ot  to  believe.  And  for  that  deci-  sion,  as  I  say,  my  father  was  responsible.  Part  of  his  influence,  I  suppose,  was  in  his  physical  quality.  Even  at  that  time-when  he  was  in  his  late  forties  and  in  only  moderately  good  health-  he  was  a  most  impressive  figure.  He  was  tall  and  heavy-chested,  with  leath-  ery,  rough-cast  features  and  with  an  easy,  relaxed  rhythm  in  his  walk.  He  had  been  an  athlete  in  his  youth,  and,  needless  to  say,  I  was  enormously  proud  of  his  various  feats  and  told  about  them,  with  due  exaggeration,  all  over  our  neighborhood.  Still,  the  physical  thing  had  relatively  little  to  do  with  the  mat-  ter.  My  father,  by  that  time,  regarded  athletes  and  athletics  with  contempt.  Now  and  again,  he  would  take  me  into  the  back  yard  to  fool  around  with  box-  ing  gloves,  but  when  it  came  to  some-  thing  serious,  such  as  my  going  out  for  football  in  high  school,  he  invariably  put  his  foot  down.  &quot;It  takes  too  much  time,&quot;  he  would  tell  me.  &quot;You  ought  to  be  thinking  of  college  and  your  studies.  It's  nonsense  what  they  make  of  sports  nowadays!&quot;  I  always  wanted  to  re-  mind  him  of  Ais  school  days,  but  I  knew  it  was  no  use.  He  had  often  told  me  what  an  unforgivable  waste  of  time  he  considered  his  youth  to  have  been.  Thus,  although  the  physical  thing  was  there,  it  was  very  much  in  the  back-  ground-Ilittle  more,  really,  than  the  simple  assumption  that  a  man  ought  to  know  how  to  take  care  of  himself.  The  real  bond  between  us  was  spiritual,  in  the  sense  that  courage,  as  opposed  to  strength,  is  spiritual.  It  was  this  intangi-  ble  quality  of  courage  that  I  wanted  desperately  to  possess  and  that,  it  seemed  to  me,  captured  everything  that  was  es-  sential  about  my  father.  We  never  talked  of  this  quality  di-  rectly.  The  nearest  we  came  to  it  was  on  certain  occasions  during  the  early  partofthe  Second  World  War,  just  before  I  went  off  to  college.  We  would sit  in  the  living  room  listening  to  a  speech  by  Winston  Churchill,  and  my  father  would  suddenly  clap  his  fist  against  his  palm.  &quot;My  God!&quot;  he  would  exclaim,  fairly  beaming  with  admira-  tion.  &quot;That  man's  got  the  heart  of  a  tiger!&quot;  And  I  would  listen  to  the  rest  of  the  speech,  thrilling  to  every  word,  and  then,  thinking  of  my  father,  really,  I  would  say  aloud  that,  of  all  men  in  the  world,  the  one  I  would  most  like  to  be  was  Churchill.  Nor  did  we  often  talk  about  religion.  Yet  our  religion-our  rejection  of  re-  ligion-was  the  deepest  statement  of  the  bond  between  us.  My  father,  perhaps  out  of  deference  to  my  mother  and  my  sisters  and  aunts,  always  put  his  own  case  very  mildly.  &quot;It's  certainly  a  great  philosophy,&quot;  he  would  say  of  Christian-  ity.  &quot;No  one  could  question  that.  But  for  the  rest  ...&quot;  Here  he  would  throw  up  his  hands  and  cock  his  head  to  one  side,  as  if  to  say  that  he  had  tried,  but  simply  could  not  manage  the  hurdle  of  divinity.  This  view,  however  mildly  it  may  have  been  expressed,  becamemine  with  absolute  clarity  and  certainty.  I  concluded  that  religion  was  a  refuge,  without  the  least  foundation  in  fact.  More  than  that,  I  positively  objected  to  those-I  should  say  those  men,  for  to  me  it  was  a  peculiarly  masculine  mat-  ter-who  turned  to  religion  for  support.  As  I  saw  it,  a  man  ought  to  face  life  as  it  really  is,  on  his  own  two  feet,  without  a  crutch,  as  my  father  did.  That  was  the  heart  of  the  matter.  By  the  time  I  left  home  for  college,  I  was  so  deeply  committed  to  this  view  that  I  would  have  considered  it  a  disloyalty  to  him,  to  myself,  to  the  code  we  had  livedby,  to  alter  my  position  in  the  least.  DID  not  see  much  of  my  father  dur-  ing  the  next  four  years  or  so.  I  was  home  during  the  summer  vacation  after  my  freshman  year,  but  then,  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  next  year,  I  went  into  the  Army.  I  was  shipped  to  the  Far  East  for  the  tail  end  of  the  war,  and  was  in  4a6170616e  at  the  start  of  the  Occupation.  I  saw  my  father  only  once  or  twice  during  my  entire  training  period,  and,  natural-  ly,  during  the  time  I  was  overseas  I  did  not  see  him  at  all.  While  I  was  away,  his  health  failed  badly.  In1940,  before  I  went  off  to  college,  he  had  taken  a  job  at  a  defense  plant.  The  plant  was  only  forty  miles  from  our  home,  but  he  was  working  on  the  night  shift,  and  commuting  was  ex-  tremely  complicated  and  tiresome.  And,  of  course,  he  was  always  willing  to  over-  exert  himself  out  of  a  sense  of  pride.  The  result  was  that  latein  1942  he  had  a  heart  attack.  He  came  through  it  quite  " b"well,  but  he  made  no  effort  to  cut  down  on  his  work  and,  as  a  consequence,  suf-  fered  a  second,  and  more  serious,  attack,  two  years  later.  From  that  time  on,  he  was  almost  completely  bedridden.  I  was  on  my  way  overseas  at  the  time  of  the  second  attack,  and  I  learned  of  it  in  a  letter  from  my  mother.  I  think  she  was  trying  to  spare  me,  or  perhaps  it  was  simply  that  I  could  not  imagine  so  robust  a  man  as  my  father  being  serious,  ly  ill.  In  any  event,  I  had  only  the  haziest  notion  of  what  his  real  condi-  tion  was,  so  when,  many  months  later,  I  finally  did  realize  what  had  been  going  on,  I  was  terribly  surprised  and  shaken.  One  day,  some  time  after  my  arrival  at  an  Americah  Army  post  in  4a6170616e,  I  was  called  to  the  orderly  room  and  told  that  my  father  was  critically  ill  and  that  I  was  to  be  sent  home  immediately.  With-  in  forty-eight  hours,  I  was  standing  in  the  early-morning  light  outside  my  father's  bedroom,  with  my  mother  and  sisters  at  my  side.  'They  had  told  me,  as  gently  as  they  could,  that  he  was  not  very  well,  that  he  had  had  another  at-  tack.  But  it  was  impossible  to  shield  me  then.  I  no  sooner  stepped  into  the  room  andsaw  him  than  I  realizedthat  he  would  not  live  more  than  a  day  or  two  longer.  From  that  moment  on,  I  did  not  want  to  leave  him  for  a  second.  Even  that  night,  during  the  periods  when  he  was  sleeping  and  I  was  of  no  help  being  there,I  could  not  get  myself  to  go  out  of  the  room  for  more  than  a  few  min-  utes.  A  practical  nurse  had  come  to  sit  up  withhim,  but  since  I  was  at  the  bed-  side,  she  finally  spent  the  night  in  the  hallway.  I  was  really  quite  tired,  and  late  that  night  my  mother  and  my  aunts  begged  me  to  go  to  my  room  and  rest  for  a  while,  but  I  barely  heardthem.  I  was  sure  he  would  wake  up  soon,  and  when  he  did,  I  wanted  to  be  there  to  talk  to  him.  We  did  talk  a  great  dealthat  first  day  and  night.  It  was  difficult  for  both  of  us.  Every  once  in  a  while,  my  father  would  shift  position  in  the  bed,  and  I  would  catch  a  glimpse  of  his  wasted  body.  It  was  a  knife  in  my  heart.  Even  worse  were  the  times  when  he  would  reach  out  for  my  hand,  his  eyes  misted,  and  be-  gin  to  tell  me  how  he  felt  about  me.  I  tried  to  look  at  him,  but  in  the  end  I  al-  ways  looked  down.  And,  knowing  that  he  was  dying,  and  feeling  desperately  guilty,  I  would  keep  repeating  to  myself  that  he  knew  how  I  felt,  that  he  would  understand  why  I  looked  away.  There  was  another  thing,  too.  While  we  talked  that  day,I  had  a  vague  feel-  ing  that  my  father  was  on  the  verge  of  making  some  sort  of  confession  to  me.  It  was,  as  I  say,  only  the  vaguest  impression,  and  I  thought  very  little  about  it.  The  next  morning,  however,  I  began  to  sense  what  was  in  the  air.  Apparently,  Mr.  Dodds,  the  minis-  ter  of  my  mother's  church,  whom  I  barely  knew,  had  been  coming  to  the  house  lately  to  talk  to  my  father.  My  father  had  not  said  any-  thing  about  this,  and  I  learned  it  only  indirect-  ly,  from  something  my  mother  said  to  my  eldest  sister  at  the  breakfast  table.  At  the  moment,  I  brushed  the  matter  aside.  I  told  myself  it  was  natural  that  Moth-  er  would  want  my  fa-  ther  to  see  the  minister  at  the  last.  Neverthe-  less,  the  very  mention  of  the  minister's  name  caused  something  to  tighten  inside  me.  Later  that  day,  the  matter  was  further  complicated.  After  lunch,  I  finally  did  go  to  my  room  for  a  nap,  and  when  I  returned  to  my  father's  room,  I  found  him  and  my  mother  talking  about  Mr.  Dodds.  The  conversation  ended  almost  as  soon  as  I  entered,  but  I  was  left  with  the  distinct  impression  that  they  were  expecting  the  minister  to  pay  a  visit  that  day,  whether  very  shortly  or  at  suppertime  or  later  in  the  evening,  I  could  not  tell.  I  did  not  ask.  In  fact,  I  made  a  great  effort  not  to  think  of  the  matter  at  all.  Then,  early  that  evening,  my  father  spoke  to  me.  I  knew  before  he  said  a  word  that  the  minister  was  coming.  My  mother  had  straightened  up  the  bed-  room,  and  fluffed  up  my  father's  pillows  so  that  he  was  half  sitting  in  the  bed.  No  one  had  told  me  anything,  but  I  was  sure  what  the  preparations  meant.  &quot;I  guess  you  probably  know,&quot;  my  father  said  to  me  when  we  were  alone,  &quot;we're  having  a  visitor  tonight.  It's-ah-Mr.  Dodds.  You  know,  the  minister  from  your  mother's  church.&quot;  I  nodded,  half  shrugging,  as  if  I  saw  nothing  the  least  unusual  in  the  news.  &quot;He's  come  here  before  once  or  twice,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Have  I  men-  tioned  that?  I  can't  remember  if  I've  mentioned  that.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  know.  I  think  Mother  said     " b"something,  or  perhaps  you  did.  I  don't  remember.&quot;  &quot;I  just  thought  I'd  let  you  know.  You  see,  your  mother  wanted  me  to  talk  to  him.  I--  I've  talked  to  him  more  for  her  sake  than  anything  else.&quot;  &quot;Sure.  I  canunderstand  that.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it  makes  her  feel  a  little  *  better.  I  think-&quot;  Here  he  broke  off,  seemingly  dissatisfied  with  what  he  was  saying.  His  eyes  turned  to  the  ceiling,  and  he  shook  his  head  slightly,  as  if  to  erase  the  memory  of  his  words.  He  studied  the  ceiling  for  a  long  time  before  he  spoke  again.  &quot;I  don't  mean  it  was  all  your  mother  exactly,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well,  what  I  mean  is  he's  really  quite  an  in-  teresting  man.  I  think  you'd  probably  like  him  a  good  deal.&quot;  &quot;I  know  Mother  has  always  liked  him,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;From  what  I  gather,  most  people  seem  to  like  him  very  much.&quot;  &quot;Well,  he's  that  sort,&quot;  my  father  went  on,  with  quickening  interest.  &quot;I  mean,  he  isn't  what  you'd  imagine  at  all.  To  tell  the  truth,  I  wish  you'd  talk  to  him  a  little.  I  wish  you'd  talk  things  over  with  him  right  from  scratch.&quot;  My  father  was  looking  directly  at  me  now,  his  eyes  flashing.  &quot;I'dbe  happy  to  talk  with  him  sometime,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;As  I  say,  everybody  seems  to  think  very  well  of  him.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  wish  you  would.  You  see,  when  you're  lying  here  day  after  day,  you  get  to  thinking  about  things.  I  mean,  it's  good  to  have  someone  to  talk  to.&quot;  He  paused  for  a  mo-  ment.  &quot;Tell  me,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;haveyou  ever  .  ..  have  you  ever  wondered  if  there  wasn't  some  truth  in  it?  Have  you  ever  thought  about  it  that  way  at  all?&quot;  I  made  a  faint  gesture  with  my  hand.  &quot;Of  course,  it's  al-  ways  possible  to  wonder,&quot;  I  re-  plied.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  you  can  ever  be  completely  certain  one  way  or  the  other.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know,&quot;  he  said,  almost  impatiently.  &quot;But  have  you  ever  felt-well,  all  in  a  sort  of  fash-that  it  was  true?  I  mean,  have  you  ever  had  that  feeling?&quot;  He  was  half  raised  up  from  the  pillow  now,  his  eyes  staring  into  me  with  a  feverish  concen-  tration.  Suddenly,  I  could  not  look  at  him  any  longer.  I  low-  ered  my  head.  &quot;I  don't  mean  permanently  or  anything  like  that,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;But  just  for  a  few  seconds.  The  feeling  that  you've  been  wrong  all  along.  Have  youhad  that  feeling-ever?&quot;  I  couldnotlook  up.  I  could  not  move.  I  felt  that  every  muscle  in  my  body  had  suddenly  frozen.  Finally,  after  what  seemed  an  eternity,  I  heard  him  sink  back  into  the  pillows.  When  I  glanced  up  a  moment  later,  he  was  lyingthere  silent,  his  eyes  closed,  his  lips  parted,  conveying  somehow  the  image  of  the  death  that  awaited  him.  Presently,  my  mother  came  to  the  door.  She  called  me  into  the  hall  to  tell  me  that  Mr.  Dodds  had  arrived.  I  said  that  I  thought  my  father  had  fallen  asleep  but  that  I  would  go  back  and  see.  It  was  strangely  disheartening  to  me  to  discover  that  he  was  awake.  He  was  sitting  there,  his  eyes  open,  staring  grim-  ly  into  the  gathering  shadows  of  the  evening.  &quot;Mr.  Dodds  is  downstairs,&quot;  I  said  matter-of-factly.  &quot;Mother  wanted  to  know  if  you  felt  up  to  seeing  him  to-  night.&quot;  For  a  moment,  I  thought  he  had  not  heard  me;  he  gave  no  sign  of  recogni-  tion  whatever.  I  went  to  the  foot  of  the  bed  and  repeated  myself.  He  nodded,  not  answering  thequestion  but  simply  indicating  that  he  had  heard  me.  At  length,  he  shook  his  head.  &quot;'Tell  your  mother  I'm  a  little  tired  tonight,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Perhaps-  well,  perhaps  some  other  time.&quot;  &quot;I  could  ask  him  to  come  back  lat-  er,  if  you'd  like.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  don't  bother.  I--  I  could  probably  use  the  rest.&quot;  I  waited  a  few  seconds.  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I'm  certain  he  could  come  back  in  an  hour  or  so.&quot;  Then,  suddenly,  my  father  was  look-  ing  at  me.  I  shall  never  forget  his  face  at  that  moment  and  the  expression  burn-  ing  in  his  eyes.  He  was  pleading  with  me  to  speak.  And  all  I  could  say  was  that  I  would  be  happy  to  ask  Mr.  Dodds  to  come  back  later,  if  he  wanted  it  that  way.  It  was  not  enough.  I  knew,  in-  stinctively,  at  that  moment  that  it  was  not  enough.  But  I  could  not  say  any-  thing  more.  As  quickly  as  it  had  come,  the  burn-  ing  flickered  and  went  out.  He  sank  back  into  the  pillows  again.  &quot;No,  you  can  tell  him  I  won't  be  needing  him " b"tonight,&quot;  he  said,  without  interest.  &quot;Tell  him  not  to  bother  waiting  around.&quot;  Then  he  turned  on  his  side,  away  from  me,  and  said  no  more.  So  my  father  did  not  see  Mr.Dodds  that  night.  Nor  did  he  ever  see  him  again.  Shortly  after  midnight,  just  after  my  mother  and  sisters  hadgone  to  bed,  he  died.  I  was  at  his  side  then,  but  I  could  not  have  said  exactly  when  it  occurred.  He  must  have  gone  off  in  his  sleep,  painlessly,  while  I  sat  there  awake  beside  him.  N  the  days  that  followed,  our  family  was  together  almost  constantly.  Curiously  enough,  I  did  not  think  much  about  my  father  just  then.  For  some  reason,  I  felt  the  strongest  sense  of  re-  sponsibility  toward  the  family.  I  found  myself  making  the  arrangements  for  the  funeral,  protecting  Mother  from  the  stream  of  people  who  came  to  the  house,  speaking  words  of  consolation  to  my  sisters  and  even  to  my  aunts.  I  was  never  alone  except  at  night,  when  a  kind  of  oblivion  seized  me  almost  as  soon  as  my  head  touched  the  pillow.  My  sleep  was  dreamless,  numb.  Then,  two  weeks  after  the  funeral,  I  left  for  [REDACTED]  Devens,  where  I  was  to  be  discharged  from  the  Army.  I  had  been  there  three  days  when  I  was  told  that  my  terminal  leave  would  begin  immediately  and  that  I  was  free  to  re-  turn  home.  I  had  half  expected  that  when  I  was  at  the  [REDACTED],  separated  from  the  family,  something  would  break  in-  side  me.But  still  no  emotion  came.  I  thought  of  my  father  often  during  that  time,  but,  search  as  I  would,  I  could  find  no  signof  feeling.  Then,  when  I  had  boarded  the  train  for  home,  it  happened.  Suddenly,  for  no  reason  whatever,  I  was  thinking  of  the  expression  on  my  father's  face  that  last  night  in  the  bedroom.  I  saw  him  as  he  lay  there  pleading  with  me  to  speak.  And  I  knew  then  what  he  had  wanted  me  to  say  to  him-that  it  was  really  all  right  with  me,  that  it  wouldn't  change  anything  between  us  if  he  gave  way.  And  then  I  was  thinking  of  my-  self  and  what  I  had  said  and  what  I  had  ot  said.  Not  a  word  to  help!  Not  a  word!  I  wanted  to  beg  his  forgiveness.  I  wanted  to  cryout  aloud  to  him.  But  I  was  in  a  crowded  train,  sitting  with  three  elderly  women  just  returning  from  a  shopping  tour.  I  turned  my  face  to  the  window.  There,  silent,  unnoticed,  I  thought  of  what  I  might  have  said. "