 b"THE  collaboration  known  as  mar-  I  riage  could,  I  think,  be  profitably  extended  from  the  domestic  to  the  social  sphere,  where  a  man  and  wife  might  brighten  their  contribution  to,  say,  the  give-and-take  of  dinner-table  conversation  bypreparing  a  few  ex-  changes  in  advance.  &quot;It's  simply  the  principle  of  teamwork,&quot;  I  told  my  wife  in  partially  describing  the  idea  to  her  one  evening  as  we  were  dressing  to  go  to  dinner  at  the  home  of  some  friends  named  Anthem.  &quot;For  instance,  tonight,  Sue  Anthem  being  as  hipped  as  she  is  on  family  trees,  we're  bound  totalk  relatives  at  some  point.  Well,  I'm  going  to  tell  about  my  seagoing  grandfather  who's  so  wonderful.  In  the  middle  of  it,  I'll  pause  and  take  up  my  napkin,  and  then  I'd  appreciate  it  if  you'd  ask  me,  'Was  heon  your  mother's  side?&quot;  &quot;  (I  planned  to  answer,  &quot;Yes,  except  in  money  matters,  when  he  usually  stuck  up  for  my  father.&quot;  This  wasn't  much,  but  I  was  feeling  my  way  around  in  the  form,  trving  to  get  the  hang  of  it  before.  going  on  to  something  more  nearly  certifiable  as  wit.)  Dinner  ran  along  the  lines  I  had  foreseen.  Sue  Anthem  got  off  on  kin-  ship,  and  I  launched  my  little  account  of  this  wonderful  grandfather.  I  paused  at  the  appointed  moment  and,  glancing  at  my  wife,  reached  for  my  napkin.  &quot;I  keep  forgetting,&quot;  she  came  in  brightly.  &quot;Was  he  your  maternal  grandfather?&quot;  ''Yes,  except  in  money  matters,  when  he  usually  stuck  up  for  my  father,&quot;  I  replied.  A  circle  of  blank  looks  met  my  gaze.  I  coughed  into  my  napkin,  and  Sue  picked  up  the  thread  of  the  discussion  while  I  reviewed  in  my  mind  a  couple  of  other  gambits  I  had  worked  out  with  my  wife,  on  the  way  over.  One  of  these  concerned  a  female  friend,  not  present  that  evening,  whom  I  will  cut  corners  by  calling  a  gay  divorc\xc3\xa9e.  She  had  just  announced  her  engagement  toa  man  so  staid  that  news  of  the  match  took  everyone  who  knew  her  by  surprise.  &quot;Now,  if  the  thing  comes  up,  as  it  proba-  bly  will,&quot;  I  had  coached  my  wife,  &quot;say  something  about  how  you've  only  met  him  a  few  times  but  he  seems  a  man  of  considerable  reserve.&quot;  I  intended  then  to  adroitly  add,  &quot;Which  Monica  will  get  her  hands  on  in  short  order.&quot;  I  expected  that  to  go  over  big,  the  divor-  c\xc3\xa9e  being  a  notorious  gold-digger.  The  gossip  didget  around  to  her  soon  after  it  left  the  subject  of  relatives,  and  my  wife  came  in  on  cue  punctually  enough,  but  her  exact  words  were  &quot;He's  such  a  quiet,  unassuming  chap.&quot;  This  time,  I  had  the  presence  of  mind  to  realize  the  quip  was  useless,  and  check  myself.  Another  misfire  followed  almost  immediately.  In  preparation  for  possible  discussion  of  4974616c79,  where  Monica  and  her  fianc\xc3\xa9  planned  to  honeymoon,  I  had  primed  my  wife  to  tell  about  her  own  visit  to  the  Gulf  of  Spezia,  where  the  drowned  Shelley  had  been  washed  up.  'In  a  way,  you  know,  he  was  lucky,&quot;  I  had  planned  to  comment.  &quot;Most  poets  are  washed  up  before  they're  [REDACTED];  She  told  her  story,  but  used  the  words  &quot;where  Shelley  was  found,&quot;  thus  wash-  ing  up  that  mot.  T  was  clear  that  I  would  have  to  ex-  plain  the  system  to  my  wife  in  detail  if  I  was  ever  to  get  the  bugs  out  of  it.  I  decided,  in  fact,  that  I  had  better  re-  veal  in  each  case  what  the  capper  was  to  be,  so  that  she  would  realize  the  im-  portance  of  delivering  her  line  exactly  as  prearranged.  I  did  this  while  we  were  driving  to  our  next  party,  several  evenings  later.  I  had  ducked  her  ques-  tions  about  the  failures  at  the  Anthems',  preferring  to  wait  till  I  had  some  new  material  worked  up  to  hammer  my  point  home  with  before  I  laid  the  whole  thing  on  the  line.  &quot;At  the  Spiggetts'  tonight,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;there's  certain  to  be  the  usual  talk  about  art.  Here's  a  chance  for  you  to  get  in  those  licks  of  yours  about  abstract  painting-isn't  it  high  time  painters  got back  to  nature,  and  so  on.  The  sort  of  thing  you  said  at  the  Fentons'.  You  might  cite  a  few  of  the  more  traditional  paintings,  like  the  portraits  of  Mrs.  Jack  Gardner  and  Henry  Marquand.  Then  turn  to  me  and  ask-now,  get  this,  it's  important-ask,  'Why  can't  we  have  portraits  like  that  any  more?&quot;  &quot;  'Then  what  will  you  say?&quot;  she  asked.  I  slowed  to  make  a  left  turn,  after  glancing  in  the  rear-view  mirror  to  make  sure  nobody  was  behind  me.  &quot;  'It's  no  time  for  Sargents,  my  dear.&quot;  &quot;  My  wife  reached  over  and  pushed  in  the  dash  lighter,  then  sat  waiting  for  it  to  pop,a  cigarette  in  her  hand.  &quot;Of  course  I'll  throw  it  away,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Just  sort  of  murmur  it.&quot;  She  lit  the  cigarette  and  put  the  light-  er  back  in  its  socket.  &quot;Isn't  this  a  little  shabby?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Why?  What's  shabby  about  it?  Isn't  it  better  than  the  conversation  you  have  to  put  up  with  normally-doesn't  it  make  for  something  at  least  acut  above  that?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What's  wrong  with  trying  to  brighten  life  up?'  We  can  turn  it  around  if  you  like.  You  can  take  the  cappers  while  I  feed  you  the  straight  lines-&quot;  &quot;Lord,  no,  leave  it  as  it  is.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  count  on  you,  then?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose,&quot;  she  said,  heaving  a  sigh.  &quot;But  step  on  it.  We're  supposed  to  eat  early  and  then  go  to  that  Shakespearean  little  theatre  in  Norwalk.&quot;  MY  wife  and  I  parted  on  entering  the  Spiggetts'  house.  I  made  off  to  where  a  new  television  comedienne,  named  Mary  Cobble,  was  holding  court  with  a  dozen  or  so  males.  She  was  a  small  blonde,  cute  as  a  chipmunk  and  bright  as  a  dollar.  The  men  around  her  laughed  heartily  at  everything  she  said.  It  was  well  known  in  Westport  that  her  writers,  of  whom  she  kept  a  sizable  sta-  ble,  formed  a  loyal  claque  who  followed  her  to  every  party,  but  it  didn't  seem  to  me  that  a/l  the  men  around  her  could  be  writers.  I  knocked  back  a  few  quick  Martinis  and  soon  felt  myself  a  gay  part  of  the  group.  Once,  I  glanced  around  and  saw  my  wife  looking  stonily  my  way  over  the  shoulder  of  a  man  whose  fame  as  a  bore  was  so  great  that  he  was  known  around  town  as  the  Sandman.  Matters  weren't  helped,  I  suppose,  when,  presently  returning  from  the  buf-  fet  with  two  plates  of  food,  I  carried  one  to  Mary  Cobble  and  sat  down  on  the  floor  in  front  of  her  to  eat  the  other.  At  the  same  time,  I  saw  the  Sandman  fetching  my  wife  a  bite.  Midway  through  this  lap  dinner,  there  was  one  of  those  moments  when     " b"all  conversation  suddenly  stops  at  once.  Lester  Spiggett  threw  in  a  comment  about  a  current  show  at  a  local  art  gal-  lery.  I  saw  my  wife  put  down  her  fork  and  clear  her  throat.  &quot;Well,  if  there  are  any  portraits  in  it,  I  hope  the  things  on  the  canvases  are  faces,&quot;  she  said.  She  looked  squarely  at  me.  &quot;Why  is  it  we  no  longer  have  portraits  that  portray-that  give  you  pictures  of  people?  Like,  oh,  the  'Mona  Lisa,  or  'The  Man  with  the  Hoe,'  or  even  that  'American  Gothic  thing?  Why  is  that?&quot;  Everybody  turned  to  regard  me,  as  the  one  to  whom  the  query  had  obvious-  ly  been  put.  &quot;That's  a  hard  question  for  me  to  answer,&quot;  I  said,  frowning  into  my  plate.  I  nibbled  thoughtfully  on  a  fragment  of  cold  salmon.  &quot;Your  basic  point  is,  of  course,  well  taken-that  the  portraits  we  get  are  not  deserving  of  the  name.  Look  like  somebody  threw  an  egg  at  the  canvas.&quot;  Fuming,  I  became  lost  in  the  ensuing  free-for-all.  Not  so  my  wife,  whom  annoyance  renders  articulate.  She  more  than  held  her  own  in  the  argument,  which  was  cut  short  when  Mary  Cobble  upset  a  glass  oficed  tea.  She  made  some  cheery  remark  to  smooth  over  the  inci-  dent.  The  remark  wasn't  funny,  nor  was  it  intended  to  be  funny,  but  to  a  man  her  retinue  threw  back  their  heads  and  laughed.  Meaning  to  be  nice,  I  laughed,  too,  and  said,  &quot;Well,  it  goes  to  show  you.  A  good  comedienne  has  her  wits  about  her.&quot;  &quot;And  pays  them  well,&quot;  my  wife  re-  marked,  in  her  corner.  (Luckily,  Mary  Cobble  didn't  hear  it,  but  two  or  three  others  did,  and  they  repeated  it  until  it  achieved  wide  circula-  tion,  with  a  resulting  increase  in  our  dinner  invitations.  That,  how-  ever,  was  later.  The  present  problem  was  to  get  through  the  rest  of  the  evening.)  We  had  to  bolt  our  dessert  and  rush  to  the  theatre,  where  they  were  doing  &quot;'King  Lear''  in  Bermuda  shorts,  or  something,  and  my  wife  and  I  took  another  couple  in  our  car,  so  I  didn't  geta  chance  to  speak  to  her  alone  until  after  the  show.  Then  I  let  her  have  it.  &quot;That  was  a  waspish  remark,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  do  you  know  why  you  made  it?  Resentment.  A  feeling  of  being  out  of  the  swim.  It's  be-  cause  you're  not  good  at  repartee  that  you  say  things  like  that,  and  are  bitter.&quot;  &quot;Things  like  what?&quot;  my  wife  asked.  I  explained  what,  and  repeated  my  charge.  In  the  wrangle,  quite  heated,  that  followed  her  denial  of  it,  she  gave  me  nothing  but  proof  of  its  truth.  I  submitted  that  the  idea  of  mine  that  had  given  rise  to  this  hassle,  and  of  which  the  hassle  could  safe-  ly  be  taken  to  be  the  corpse,  had  been  a  cozy  and  even  a  ten-  der  one:  the  idea  that  a  man  and  wife  could  operate  as  a  team  in  public.  &quot;What  could  be  more  domestic?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Domesticity  begins  at  home,&quot;  she  rather  dryly  returned.  I  met  this  with  a  withering  silence. "