 b"DURING  the  drought  summer  of  1936,  I  was  engaged,  as  a  graduate  student,  in  my  first  in-  dependent  ethnographic  research.  I  was  working  with  a  Plains  Indian  tribe  in  western  [REDACTED],  and  luck-and  the  fact  that  I  was  myself  female-brought  me  as  an  interpreter  a  young  woman  of  the  tribe  who  had  a  college  degree  in  sociology.  Her  name  was  Elizabeth  Camp,  and  she  and  I  became,  and  re-  main,  devoted  friends.  The  year  1936was  in  many  ways  the  worst  that  ever  hit  the  Southern  plains.  43616e616461s  had  gone  dry  two  years  earlier,  and  rivers  had  begun  to  dry  up  the  year  before.  In  that  third  summer,  water  had  almost  ceased  to  exist.  I  have  for-  gotten  how  many  months  it  was  since  rain  had  fallen.  The  thermometer  climbed  steadily.  All  the  blue  had  been  scorched  from  the  sky;  it  had  the  drab  colorlessness  of  a  piece  of  faded  and  soiled  blue  denim,  and  seemed  to  us  to  be  stretched  on  an  iron  framework  and  to  press  down  on  our  heads  hour  after  hour  and  day  after  day.  There  was  never  a  cloud  insight;  no  horizon  di-  vided  the  bleached  sky  from  the  baked  earth.  Color  was  gone  from  our  world  except  for  the  crimson  of  a  few  barren  cliffs  that  pitched  down  from  the  level  of  the  plain  to  the  bed  where  the  Washi-  ta  River  had  once  flowed.  No  river  was  there  now;  this  was  August,  and  even  the  muddy  pools  that  earlier  marked  its  bed  had  been  blotted  up  since  early  May.  Cottonwood  and  hack-  berry  trees  beside  the  river  bed  and  the  beds  of  its  tributary  creeks  were  powdered  with  dust.  People-white  peo-  ple-who  could  moved  out  of  that  part  of  the  country.  Some-the  better-off  -had  old  cars  or  trucks,  and  could  transport  their  families  to  [REDACTED].  Others  drifted  to  the  fringes  of  nearby  cities,  where  shack  towns  and  slums  were  growing  up.  Still  others,  who  had  seen  forewarning  in  a  meteor  shower  the  previous  winter,  had  simply  walked  away  sometime,  leaving  the  doors  of  their  houses  open  behind  them.  But  the  Indians  could  not  leave.  Their  only  place  on  earth  was  this  land  that  no  one  else  wanted  just  then.  They  were  landowners  who  could  neither  sell  nor  leasetheir  property  without  the  consent  of  &quot;Wusinton&quot;-and  Wash-  ington,  two  thousand  miles  to  the  north-  east,  had  other  problems  to  cope  with.     When  it  became  evident  that  farming  would  be  impossiblethat  year  and  for  a  number  of  years  to  come,  &quot;W  usinton&quot;  provided  the  Indians  with  cattle.  Why  it  should  have  been  supposed  that  grass  for  the  beasts  to  graze  on  would  grow  where  wheat,  cotton,  and  truck  crops  would  not  is  a  mystery.  Still,  the  cat-  tle-scerubs  that  no  slaughterhouse  would  have  bothered  with-were  issued  to  the  Indians,  and  the  Indians  were  warned  not  to  eat  them  but  to  use  them  for  breeding.  My  home  was  a  hundred  miles  away,  in  the  central  part  of  the  state.  The  city  was  dry  enough,  in  all  conscience,  and  people  were  enjoined  not  to  water  their  lawns  or  wash  their  cars.  But  there  were  trees  there,  and  the  leafy  greenness  gave  some  illusion  of  coolness,  as  did  the  rem-  nants  of  lawns.  Also,  one  could  take  a  bath,  provided  one  did  not  fill  the  tub  too  full,  or  could  wash  one's  hair.  In  the  early  part  of  the  summer,  though  I  was  living  with  the  tribe,  I  made  occasional  trips  back  to  my  home,  or  to  the  university  town  twenty  miles  away  from  it.  Then,  as  the  heat  and  the  brazen  light  clamped  down,  I  had  less  and  less  inclination  to  leave  Elizabeth  and  her  people.  It  was  not  only  the  fas-  cination  of  the  work  I  was  doing,  or  the  dread  of  driving  a  long  distance  in  the  heat,  that  made  me  feel  this  way.  It  was  a  feeling  that  I  was-temporarily,  at  least-a  part  of  their  world,  that  I  ought  to  be  there  and  be  withered,  as  they  were,  by  the  blasts  that  scorched  it.  O,  for  most  of  that  summer,  I  lived  with  Elizabeth  and  her  family  in  her  father's  farmhouse.  There  were  no  crops,  of  course-  nothing  to  show  that  the  place  was  a  farm  rather  than  a  stretch  of  parched  prairie,  except  the  windmill  and  water  tank  that  stood  fifty  feet  from  the  kitchen  door,  and  the  dry  trees  fring-  ing  the  pasture  creek  bed.  Day  and  night,  the  windmill  creaked  and  shud-  dered,  for  wind  was  one  commodity  that  never  failed  us.  -  Probably  the  well  on  the  farmhad  originally  been  located  by  dumb  luck  or  by  dowsing,  as  most  wells  in  that  sec-  tion  of  the  country  were.  However,  the  drillers  had  struck  a  good  flow  of  under-  ground  water,  probably  the  equivalent  of  a  river,  and  for  many  months  in  1936  the  Camp  family  had  water  when  other  people  did  not.  Elizabeth's  stepmother  " b"planted  some  vegetables  near  the  wind-  mill,  and  the  last  dribble  that  came  from  the  faucet  after  a  bucket  or  barrel  had  been  filled  ran  onto  her  cabbages,  onions,  and  beets.  As  the  summer  progressed,  and  other  wells  in  the  vicinity  went  dry,  people  began  to  come  to  Mr.  Camp  for  water.  At  first,  they  came  with  fifty-gallon  oil  drums  to  be  filled.  Then,  as  the  situation  grew  worse,  Mr.  Camp  restricted  them  to  a  five-gallon  milk  can  of  water  at  a  time.  And,  finally,  it  was  a  gallon  apiece,  poured  into  anopen  two-gallon  bucket,  so  that  the  amount  could  be  checked.  Presently,  there  was  no  water  for  any  cattle  except  the  family  milk  cow.  Mr.  Camp  allowed  the  horses  that  drew  the  visitors'  wagons  to  drink  from  the  tank  beside  the  windmill  (for  if  the  horses  died  of  thirst,  how  could  the  peo-  ple  come  to  get  their  water?  ),  but  no  other  beasts  could  share  it.  So  the  bawl-  ing  of  the  cattle  made  the  hours  hideous  until,  one  by  one,  they  died,  Fields  and  roadsides  were  dotted  with  their  desic-  cated,  crow-bait  carcasses,  which  were  not  even  worth  skinning.  It  was  so  dry  they  did  not  even  smell;  they  just  burned  and  stiffened  and  stopped  look-  ing  like  anything  that  had  ever  been  alive.  The  family  and  I  washed  our  hands  before  meals,  and  our  faces  morning  and  evening.  Once  a  week,  Mrs.  Camp  made  a  heroic  stand  against  the  people  driving  up  for  their  share  of  water.  She  would  allow  no  one  to  draw  any  that  day  until  she  had  taken  enough  to  rinse  out  a  few  clothes  and  her  dishcloths.  She  did  not  wash  with  soap,  for  that  would  have  meant  twice  as  much  water,  but  she  insisted  on  squeezing  water  at  least  once  through  a  minimum  family  laundry.  I  sent  my  own  laundry  home,  and  my  mother  mailed  it  back  to  me.  Elizabeth  and  I  decided  that  a  good,  hard  brushing  was  as  healthy  for  your  hair  as  a  shampoo,  any  day.  Still,  the  little  kitchen  garden  got  its  few  drops  each  time  the  faucet  was  opened,  and  the  plants  survived  and  grew.  In  other  years,  they  would  have  been  rooted  up  as  worthless;  now  they  were  amiracle,  and  precious.  I  found  myself  saving  the  last  halfinch  of  water  in  my  drinking  glass,  at  meals,  to  distrib-  ute  among  them  secretly.  One  day,  I  caught  Elizabeth  doing  the  same  thing.  We  grinned  at  each  other.  Another  time,  we  might  have  laughed  aloud;  now  laughing  took  a  lot  of  energy.  ELIZABETH  and  I  slept  on  cots  in  the  same  room.  One  night,  a  burst  of  sharp  cracks  on  the  roof  of  the  house," b"sounding  almost  like  bullets,  brought  both  of  us  upright  in  bed.  &quot;It's  hail!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;It  can't  be  hail,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;It  isn't  cold  enough.&quot;  &quot;Rain,  then,&quot;  I  insisted.  &quot;Listen  to  it.&quot;  We  both  listened  intently,  agreeing  that  it  must  be  rain.  We  thought  the  sound  was  wonderful.  &quot;'This  will  fix  everything,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  Then  she  sighed,  and  added,  &quot;I  wish  Father  had  gone  ahead  and  planted  some  watermelons.  If  they  had  got  this  much  rain,  they'd  still  grow.&quot;  &quot;Wouldn't  watermelon  be  wonder-  ful?&quot;  I  said.  I  stretched  out  on  my  back  in  the  hot  dark,  and  I  could  see,  floating  before  my  eyes,  the  pink  heart  of  a  slice  of  melon,  with  its  jet  buttons  of  seed  and  its  rim  of  mother-of-pearl  and  jade.  &quot;I  wouldn't  even  want  salt  on  mine,&quot;  Elizabeth  murmured,  and  I  knew  she  saw  what  Idid.  &quot;Salt!&quot;  I  sat  up  again  with  a  creak  of  the  bedsprings.  &quot;Why,  just  plain  watermelon-&quot;  The  wail  of  my  springs  was  echoed  from  the  adjoining  room.  I  thought  that  Mrs.  Camp,  awakened  byour  talking,  was  sitting  up  in  her  own  bed  to  listen  to  the  rain.  But  the  thump  of  feet  that  I  next  heard  was  much  too  heavy  and  positive  to  have  come  from  her.  &quot;Your  father's  up,&quot;  I  whispered  to  Elizabeth.  &quot;Something's  wrong,&quot;  she  whispered  back,  and  I  heard  the  rustling  of  her  sheet  as  she,  too,  sat  up.  I  listened  again.  The  windmill  was  creaking  and  straining;  that  was  all  right.  A  wagon  harness  rattled  outside  in  the  dark  somewhere-a  horse  was  shaking  its  head.  That  was  all  right,  too.  Someone  had  come  for  water  now,  at  midnight,  rather  than  during  the  heat  of  the  day.  And  still  the  steady  drumming  beat  out  its  promise  of  well-  being  on  the  roof.  Or  did  it?  There  was  something  wrong-something  was  lack-  ing.  Suddenly  I  realized  what  it  was.  I  could  not  smell  the  rain.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  said  Elizabeth.  I  heard  her  scrambling  in  the  dark  for  her  housecoat  and  slippers,  and  I  did  the  same.  Together,  we  went  out  and  groped  through  the  living  room,  the  dining  room,  and  the  kitchen,  and  onto  the  back  porch,  which  overlooked  the  windmill.  It  was  not  rain  we  had  heard.  The  stars  were  pouring  white  light  down  on  us.  But  the  thumping  went  on.  I  stepped  to  the  edge  of  the  porch,  and  my  foot  slid  on  something.  I  clutched  the  rail  to  steady  myself.  &quot;Look  out!&quot;  I  said  to  Elizabeth,  over " b"my  shoulder,  but  it  was  too  late.  She  caromed  into  me,  and  we  barely  saved  ourselves  from  sliding  down  the  steps.  I  could  see  in  the  starlight  that  there  was  a  kind  of  moving,  furry  covering  on  them.  Below  us,  beside  the  wind-  mill,  we  saw  Mr.  Camp,  and  we  heard  him  speaking  to  someone.  &quot;'This  does  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;This  is  the  end.&quot;  &quot;Better  get  out,&quot;  the  man  he  was  speaking  to  said.  &quot;We're  going.  There's  a  lot  of  people  camping  over  on  Ante-  lope  [REDACTED].  The  springs  there  have  never  gone  dry.  Better  come  and  camp  with  the  rest  of  us.&quot;  &quot;This  well's  never  gone  dry,  either,&quot;  Mr.  Camp  said.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  leave  my  place  while  there's  water  on  it.&quot; &quot;&quot;You  won't  have  water  long,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Might  as  well  pull  out  now.  Your  garden's  gone.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  leave  the  place  while  I  still  have  water-grasshoppers  or  no  grasshoppers,&quot;  Mr.  Camp  replied.  &quot;Grasshoppers!&quot;  I  exclaimed  to  Elizabeth.  &quot;Grasshoppers!&quot;  she  cried  antipho-  nally.  Now  we  knew  what  the  thumping  on  the  roof  was.  At  the  very  moment  when  we  thought  the  worst  was  over,  a  new  blight  had  fallen  upon  us.  &quot;&quot;Yes,  grasshoppers,&quot;  Mr.  Camp  said  flatly,  looking  up  at  us.  &quot;Now  I  know  how  the  children  of  [REDACTED]  felt.  You  girls  go  on  back  to  bed.  There's  nothing  to  see  out  here  in  the  dark  tonight.&quot;  Obediently,  we  fumbled  our  way  back  to  our  room  and  our  beds.   THERE  was  nothing  to  see  in  the  morning,  either,  unless  the  com-  pleteness  of  the  desolation  could  have  been  considered  a  sight.  Not  a  sprig  of  green  was  left  anywhere.  The  kitchen  garden  had  vanished.  Every  leaf  was  gone  from  the  cottonwood  and  hack-  berry  trees.  And  the  grasshoppers  were  still  coming.  They  kept  coming  all  that  day.  After  a  day  or  so,  I  noticed  that  even  though  the  grasshoppers  had  gone,  there  were  fewer  people  coming  for  water.  More  and  more  were  moving  to  the  camp  by  the  springs  along  Ante-  lope  [REDACTED].  The  grasshopper  blight  had  been  the  last  blow  they  could  endure.  Now  not  even  the  hope  that  they  could  still  raise  a  garden  existed  to  keep  them  at  home.  After  another  week,  the  well  failed  us.  In  that  time,  a  number  of  wagons  had  come  and  gone,  their  drivers  letting  children  and  horses  drink  a  last  time  be-  fore  beginning  the  long  twenty-mile" b"haul  across  the  blazing  prairies  to  Ante-  lope  [REDACTED].  Once  or  twice,  it  had  seemed  to  me,  the  water  trickled  reluc-  tantly  from  the  faucet;  I  thought  I  saw  a  hesitation,  almost  a  pause,  in  the  flow.  Each  time,  I  told  myself  not  to  be  an  alarmist,  not  to  borrow  trouble.  Yet  I  was  not  surprised  when  the  water  sim-  ply  ceased  to  run.  &quot;Better  get  ready  to  move&quot;  was  all  Mr.  Camp  said  then,  and  with  one  accord  the  family  began  to  get  ready.  We  started  off  -a  sad  little  proces-  sion,  like  many  other  sad  little  proces-  sions  that  had  crossed  the  prairies  that  summer.  Elizabeth  and  her  stepmother  and  I  travelled  in  the  car  the  university  had  assigned  me  for  my  field  work.  We  carried  the  smallitems  of  camp  equip-  ment,  cooking  utensils,  and  food.  Eliza-  beth's  half  brother  drove  the  old  Ford  farm  truck,  its  gears  shuddering  and  complaining  whenever  he  shifted  them,  as  he  had  to  do  often  on  the  dry  dust  and  sand.  The  truck  was  loaded  with  the  cookstove,  the  tent,  cots,  my  folding  armchair,  my  typewriter,  and  other  bulky  items.  Last  of  all  came  Mr.  Camp,  in  the  wagon,  with  the  family  milk  cow  hitched  behind,  bawling  her  objections.  The  overflow-everything  that  everybody  had  forgotten  in  loading  the  other  vehiclee-was  piled  in  the  wagon.  We  reached  the  camp  at  sunset.  It  was  strung  out-endlessly,  it  seemed-  along  the  creek,  in  a  long  grove  of  trees  whose  leaves  rattled  dryly  in  the  wind.  Some  people  had  set  up  tents,  as  we  did;  others  had  cut  branches  from  the  trees  and  built  themselves  brush  shelters  of  the  kind  their  forebears  had  made  for  tem-  porary  camps.  'There  were  even  a  few  tepees.  But  most  of  the  people  simply  camped  out  in  the  open,  each  family's  possessions  set  in  a  circle  around  it  to  de-  fine  the  limits  of  its  living  area,  and  with  nothing  but  the  trees  to  give  shelter  from  the  sunduring  the  day.  We  were  about  six  miles  from  a  town  where  we  could  buy  food.  Most  people  in  the  camp  were  existing  on  the  savings  of  more  prosperous  years.  Some  walked  in  to  town  when  they  needed  supplies;  others  went  in  wagons.  The  Camps  and  I  used  the  university  car,  for  the  un-  greased  gears  of  the  truck  had  finally  refused  to  work.  From  an  ethnographer's  point  of  view,  the  camp  was  paradise.  Here  I  saw,  in  actual  operation  for  perhaps  the  last  time,  the  camping  customs  of  a  camping  people.  The  bands-the  vari-  ous  social  and  political  units  of  tribal  life,  which  had  almost  ceased  to  exist-drew  together  once  more,  and  people  lived  as" b"their  ancestors  had,  with  the  members  of  their  own  groups.  Tribal  hunting  socie-  ties  revived,  and  served,  just  as  they  had  formerly  served,  as  camp  police.  People  of  all  ages  were  gathered  there,  includ-  ing  many  very  old  men  and  women,  whose  knowledge  of  the  buffalo-hunt-  ing  days  was  encyclopedic,  and  whom  I  could  not  otherwise  have  met  and  ques-  tioned  so  readily.  The  days  were  not  long  enough  for  me  to  record  every-  thing  I  saw  and  heard,  or  to  see  all  that  was  going  on  around  me.  The  camp  police  controlled  the  dis-  tribution  of  water.  Each  family  was  al-  lowed  one  bucketful  morning  and  eve-  ning,  and  twice  a  day  Elizabeth  and  I  were  usually  in  the  line  of  those  who  waited,  moving  nearer  the  spring  a  step  at  atime,  to  draw  their  share.  There  was  no  refrigeration,  and  we  lived  on  beans  and  bacon,  fried  bread  and  cof-  fee-things  that  would  not  spoil  in  the  heat  and  could  be  cooked  in  the  open.  True,  Mrs.  Camp  cooked  our  meals  on  the  transported  kitchen  stove,  not  over  a  campfire,  but  ours  were  standard  camp  menus.  [REDACTED]  morning,  as  Elizabeth  and  I  drove  back  into  camp  with  the  day's  groceries,  we  beheld  a  vision.  A  truck  was  parked  at  the  edge  of  the  camp,  with  people  thronging  around  it.  And  the  truck  was  loaded-heaped,  piled  high-with  jade-green  water-  melons.  Some,  at  the  bottom  of  the  load,  had  split  open  with  the  weight  of  the  fruit  above  them,  and  pink  juice  dripped  down  between  the  planks  of  the  truck  floor.  Thirsty  children  caught  it  in  their  sticky  hands,  and  what  they  missed  made  puddles  of  pink  mud  in  the  dust,  &quot;Do  you  see  what  I  see?&quot;  Elizabeth  cried.  We  jumped  out  of  the  car  and  ran  across  the  scorched  tufts  of  dead  grass,  dust  puffing  up  around  our  feet,  to  join  the  crowd.  &quot;How  much?&quot;  I  called,  and  &quot;Where  are  they  from?&quot;  Elizabeth  shouted  at  the  same  moment.  &quot;Denton,  Texas,&quot;  the  driver  an-  swered,  and  &quot;A  cent  a  pound,  lady.&quot;  The  watermelon  we  staggered  away  with  a  few  minutes  later  cost  me  fifty  cents,  and  it  took  both  of  us  to  carry  it.  &quot;Let's  eat  it  right  now,&quot;  I  suggested  shamelessly,  &quot;and  then  get  some  more  to  take  back  to  the  family.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Elizabeth  agreed.  We  had  no  knife  with  us,  no  hatch-  et-nothing  with  which  to  open  the  melon.  We  simply  dropped  it  on  the  ground,  and  let  it  explode  of  its  own  weight.  Then  we  squatted  beside  it,  scooping  out  handfuls  and  stuffing  them" b"happily  into  our  mouths.  The  children  came  from  beneath  the  truck  and  gath-  ered  around  us,  and  we  scooped  out  great  wet  fistfuls  for  them,  too.  And  when  we  and  they  had  eaten  all  of  that  melon,  right  down  to  the  pearly  white  next  to  the  shell,  we  bought  two  more,  even  larger,  and  lugged  them  over  to  the  car  and  took  them  back  to  the  family.  HIS  is  where  Elizabeth  and  I  usually  end  our  story  of  the  drought  and  the  melons  when  we  tell  it,  but  the  real  ending,  for  me,  came  two  weeks  later,  when  I  returned  to  the  university  to  enroll  for  the  fall  semester.  I  went  there  straight  from  camp,  with-  out  going  home  first.  I  parked  the  car  and  walked  directly  into  the  office  of  my  department,  with  only  a  brief  pause  at  the  drinking  fountain  in  the  hall  on  my  way.  My  professor-the  one  under  whom  I  was  doing  my  major  work-sat  at  his  desk,  absorbed  in  a  new  university  bulle-  tin.  When  he  heard  me  come  up  in  front  of  the  desk,  he  raised  his  head  and  looked  at  me.  &quot;Yes?&quot;  he  said  politely.  &quot;Can  I  do  anything  for  you?&quot;  I  grinned  at  him.  &quot;You  might  ask  me  how  I  got  along  with  my  field  project,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;How  what?&quot;  The  professor's  face  was  a  blank  for  a  moment.  Then  he  looked  startled.  &quot;Why,  I  didn't  recog-  nize  you,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  I'm  not  that  tanned!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  mostly  just  freckles.&quot;  The  professor  rose  and  opened  the  door  of  his  coat  closet,  on  the  back  of  which  hung  alarge  mirror.  He  took  my  arm  and  led  me  close  to  the  glass.  &quot;Look  at  yourself,&quot;  he  said.  There  had  been  no  mirrors  in  the  camp,  and  I  had  lost  the  one  that  had  been  in  my  purse.  Now  I  looked  at  my-  self  for  the  first  time  in  weeks.  Hair  like  excelsior,  curled  and  brittle,  framed  my  face.  The  freckles  had  merged  into  one  huge  freckle,  which  was  blotched  high  on  my  forehead,  where  my  hat  had  covered  it-when  I  remembered  to  wear  a  hat.  My  eyes  squinted;  they  were  mere  slits,  rayed  with  sharply  gashed  wrinkles.  My  whole  face  and  neck  were  bone  thin,  and  the  taut  skin  on  them  was  weathered  like  the  hides  that  cov-  ered  the  skeletons  ofthe  cattlein  the  fields  from  which  I  had  come.  My  face  seemed  to  have  no  age;  it  was  simply  a  mask  baked  into  the  original  contours  of  a  face.  It  was  recognizably  human,  but,  forthe  time  being,  even  to  my  own  eyes,  that  was  the  only  recognizable  thing  about  it.  I  could  feel  moisture  coming  into  my  eyes  as  I  stared  at  myself,  but  I  was  still  too  dry  really  to  cry."