 b"ON  this  particular  icy  Wednesday in  early  January,  Mrs.  [REDACTED]  Evans'  routine  followed  its  nor-  mal  course  for  a  drinking  evening.  Rhiannon,  the  afternoon  help  from  the  village,  safely  gone,  the  sitting-room  fire  compactly  built  up,  curtains  closed  against  the  bluely  frozen  night-all  was  set  for  three  hours  of  slow  pleasure.  The  isolation  of  the  cottage  among  the  cold-  stiffened  pines,  even  the  ordinary  fact  that  it  was  situated  in  a  secret  fold  among  the  interior  hills  of  [REDACTED],  seemed  to  give  an  additional  relish  to  the  coming  session.  [REDACTED]  liked  a  hard  winter:  no  vulgar-  ly  beaming  sun  nagging  at  one  to  go  out  and  get  healthy;  no  reproachful  flowers  to  water  in  the  damned  garden;  no  malign  wasps  or  mosquitoes;  no  birds  yelling  their  little  heads  off  at  the  crack  of  dawn.  Also,  a  bitter  frost,  such  as  bruised  the  air  this  evening,  raised  (she  was  sure  of  it)  a  more  fiery  tang  in  her  favorite  beverage.  She  had  arrived  at  the  connoisseur's  stage  in  such  matters.  At  seven  o'clock,  dressed  in  black  satin,  she  ate  boiled  top-round  beef  with  appreciation,  neglecting  none  of  the  subsidiary  dishes  that  Rhiannon-an  ex-  cellent  cook,  ignorant  village  woman  though  she  was-had  prepared;  there  were  preserved  pears,  a  fat  junket,  local  farm  cheese  and  butter,  home-baked  bread,  and,  finally,  a  slice  of  chocolate  cake.  She  ate  not  so  much  out  of  greed  as  out  of  a  realization,  based  on  experi-  ence,  that  a  solid  foundation  of  food  helped  to  generate  from  whiskey  the  special  rich,  luxuriant  glow  she  de-  sired.  She  would  go  up  to  bed  feeling  a  wonderful  lack  of  contuma-  ciousness  toward  the  world.  At  half  past  seven,  her  bosom  preceding  her  in  royal  solidity,  she  moved  from  the  kitchen  to  the  sitting  room,  unlocked  the  old  press  of  carved  black  oak,  and  drew  out  a  glass  and  two  bot-  tles;  one  bottle  was  a  third  full,  the  oth-  er  unopened.  Her  bosom,  which  was  that  of  a  handsomely  endowed  woman  of  forty,  gave  its  usual  preparatory  heave;  it  suggested  both  a  greeting  and  an  ad-  monishment.  Almost  invariably  she  subjected  her-  self  to  a  strict  practice  of  drinking  exact-  ly  two-thirds  of  a  bottle  on  alternate  evenings  of  the  week  only,  retiringto  bed  immediately  after  the  gitting-room  clock  struck  ten.  It  was  a  discipline  from  which  she  drew  self-esteem  and  the  de-  duction  that  she  was  not  really  going  bad.  On  the  rare  occasions  when  she  yielded  to  temptation  and  stayed  up     until  eleven  finishing  a  whole  bottle,  drastic  scolding  and  punishment-such  as  doing  without  a  meal  or  furiously  working  on  the  neglected  garden-  were  administered  the  next  day.  As  for  the  whiskeyless  evenings,  these,  of  course,  were  hard  to  endure,  and  when,  still  more  rarely,  she  broke  her  rule  com-  pletely  and  enjoyed  two  consecutive  ses-  sions  of  intoxication,  the  lapse  acquired  a  wicked  splendor  that  almost  made  her  topple  over  into  the  decision  to  give  up  her  tenancy  of  Old  Well  Cottage  and  return,  contritely,  to  the  place  she  had  come  from.  The  fire  burned  with  purplish  ener-  gy.  An  oil  lamp  cast  a  clear  glow  from  its  pretty  shade;  under  it,  a  deeply  up-  holstered  chair  took  [REDACTED]'s  body  with  a  companionable  sigh  from  its  springs.  A  lady  of  leisure,  secure  in  her  domain,  she  had  no  difficulty,  at  least  on  such  nights  as  this,  in  enjoying  vicarious  ownership  of  the  charming  old  cottage  and  its  kindred  furnishings.  She  had  rented  it,  two  years  before,  from  a  man  known  locally  as  Shadrach  the  Gas  (he  managed  the  gasworks  in  the  market  town),  and,  because  of  its  isolation  and  the  lack  of  electricity  and  other  main  services,  the  rent  was  most  reasonable.  After  a  few  preliminary  sips-the  whiskey  was  never  tainted  with  other  liquids-she  turned  on  the  battery  wireless.  There  was  a  program  of  rol-  licking  variety  turns.  She  enjoyed  a  good  dirty  laugh,  liked  boisterous  come-  dians  with  red-nosed  anecdotes  of  un-  dignified  disasters.  What  she  couldn't  stand  was  those  women  who  heaved  their  guts  up  in  some  God-awful  wail  about  love  gone  wrong.  One  of  these  upset  the  program  tonight,  and  [REDACTED],  pouring  her  fourth  large  measure  by  then,  shouted  at  the  wireless  cabinet,  &quot;You  silly  cabbage,  serve  you  right  if  he  let  you  down!  We  got  to  fight  the  devils,  my  gal!&quot;  At  nine-fifteen,  a  lecturer  followed  the  variety  turns,  and  she  jeered  good-  humoredly,  &quot;Ancient  Egyptians-they  were  all  like  us,  you  fathead.  You  can't  change  human  nature.&quot;  She  shut  him  off,  lit  the  single  cigarette  she  allowed  herself  on  whiskey  nights,  and,  as  usual,  sat  backpondering  plans.  Always,  after  about  half  a  bottle  had  been  consumed,  problems  acquired  a  roseate  tinge.  They  would  be  solved  with  delicious  ease.  There  was  always  her  sister  Susan,  in  [REDACTED]-Susan  and  her  husband's  expanding  grocery  business  in  [REDACTED];  Susan  who  wanted  a  colleague  experienced  in  business  from the  home  country  to  help;  Susan  who,  though  she  could  be  mean  as  cat's  meat,  valued  her;  Susan  ...  Her  drooping  eyelids  suddenly  opened;  she  sat  bolt  up-  right,  her  eyes  sidling  round  the  room.  Had  a  piece  of  coal  exploded  in  the  grate?  She  bent  down  to  the  low  table  and  poured  the  last  measured  allow-  ance  from  the  second  bottle.  It  was  a  quarter  to  ten.  She  began  to  giggle.  At  teatime,  Rhiannon  had  told  her  more  about  El-  fed,  the  widowed  farmer  who  had  been  asking  questions  in  the  village  about  the  tenant  of  Old  Well  Cottage.  Why  didn't  she  come  down  to  the  chapel  on  Sundays?  He  had  seen  her  many  times  in  the  returning  market  bus,  a  heavily  laden  basket  on  her  knees,  and  her  face  (Rhiannon  herself  enjoyed  the  inquisi-  tive  farmer's  compliment)  &quot;bright  as  a  bunch  of  snapdragons.&quot;  Rhiannon  thought  he  would  soon  be  offering  to  carry  that  heavy  basketthe  quarter  mile  from  the  village  bus  stop  up  to  the  cot-  tage  above  the  slope  of  pines.  [REDACTED],  sipping  her  drink  and  purring  beautifully  inside  now,  let  out  a  guffaw.  Those  bottles  in  the  basket!  After  her  two  years  of  residence,  the  villagers,  even  Rhiannon,  had  not  found  out  about  the  whiskey  in  the  capacious  wick-  er  basket,  which  sat,  displaying  a  crust  of  groceries  and  fruit,  on  her  lap  in  the  bus  after  the  twice-weekly  visit  to  the  mar-  ket  town,  six  miles  away.  But  Rhiannon,  her  only  link  with  the  village,  often  hinted  to  her  that  the  lone  Mrs.  Evans,  although  thought  of  respectfullyasa  dignified  woman  of  means,  still  roused  speculation.  Why  had  she  chosen  to  live  among  strangers  in  such  a  quiet  dis-  trict?  'Tell  the  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  Sychan,&quot;  the  recluse  had  said,  &quot;that  I've  had  my  day  with  the  best  man  that  ever  lived,  and  I've  come  here  to  remember  it  undisturbed  by  other  things.&quot;  When  she  had  arrived,  she  told  Shadrach  the  Gas  that  her  late  husband,  William  Evans,  a  war  casualty,  used  to  motor  her  on  weekends  through  this  wonderful  countryside,  and  that  they  had  decided  to  retire  hereabouts  in  due  course.  Still  dressed  in  black,  even  after  all  that  time  of  widowhood,  she  gave  out  the  flavor  of  a  woman  who  would  mourn  her  loss  forever.  Yet  acceptance  of  her  became  solidified  when  the  vil-  lagers  began  to  refer  to  her  as  Mrs.  Evans  Old  Well,  and  now  she  could  enter  the  bus  without  the  babble  of  voices  dropping.  There  was  a  very  deep  seventeenth-century  well,  still  function-  ing,  near  the  cottage  porch.  The  legend  was  that  a  sinful  wife,  in  far-off,  stricter  days,  had  been  dropped  down  it,  and  " b"her  ghost  was  said  still  to  haunt  the  garden.  Shadrach  the  Gas  pooh-poohed  all  that,  yet  after  buying  and  furnishing  the  cot-  tage  he  had  not  lived  long  there  himself.  At  five  minutes  to  ten,  sheex-  claimed,  still  giggling,  &quot;Elfed  wants  to  carry  my  basket,  does  he!  Well,  his  chance  might  come-if  his  oats  show  a  good  profit  some  year!&quot;  The  giggling  came  to  an  abrupt  stop.  Her  glass  was  empty.  She  frowned.  The  price  of  Scotch!  Thirty-  six  shillings  the  bottle!  Occa-  sionally  a  sort  of  paralysis  gripped  her  in  the  region  of  the  solar  plexus  when  she  approached  her  bank  in  the  market  town.  Oth-  erwise,  she  treated  her  legacy  of  three  thousand  pounds-it  had  arrived,  indeed,  with  a  fairy-  wand  unexpectedness  from  a  bachelor  uncle  struck  down  un-  timely  and  intestate-as  some-  thing  subject  at  any  moment  to  an  equally  unexpected  magic  re-  moval  from  the  granite  building  where  it  lay  in  a  deposit  account  yielding  two  and  a  half  per  cent  interest.  Although  only  a  glance  was  required,  she  found  it  in-  creasingly  difficult  to  examine  the  state  of  her  finances.  Any-  how,  she  could  always  go  back  to  work  at  the  drapery.  Or  disappear-  assuming  she  still  had  the  fare-to  Aus-  tralia.  Beautiful,  beautiful  [REDACTED].  When  the  mantelpiece  clock  began  striking  its  ten  crisp  &quot;ping''s,  she  sat  up  rigid  againand,  arms  folded  across  her  chest,  stared  thunderously  at  the  second  bottle,  now  a  third  empty.  &quot;No,  Bes-  sie!&quot;  she  cried  out.  &quot;No!  You  can't  afford  it.  You've  got  to  go  to  [REDACTED].  Lolling  around  here,  you  big  good-for-  nothing!&quot;  She  thrust  the  cork  in  the  bottle,  gave  it  a  bang  with  her  fist,  and  heaved  herself  up.  Then  came  the  satisfaction  of  lock-  ing  up  the  bottles  and  glass  in  the  press.  Tomorrow  morning,  the  first,  empty  bottle  would  be  dropped  down  the  well.  This  method  of  disposal  amused  her;  she  liked  to  hear  the  faraway  splash.  Perhaps,  when  she  was  safe  in  [REDACTED],  Shadrach  the  Gas  or  another  tenant  might  discovera  deposit  of  four  or  five  hundred  bottles  in  that  choked-up  old  well,  which  was  supposed  to  be  the  resi-  dence  of  a  ghost!  After  the  press  key  had  been  safely  hidden  from  Rhiannon's  prying,  the  usual  buoyant  feeling  of  achievement,  propriety  observed,  and  self-admiration  rewarded  her.  Bed  now!  Sleep  would come  easily-deep,  warm  sleep  in  that  lovely  bed  of  good  linen,  fleecy  blankets,  and  red  eiderdown,  the  world  obliterat-  ed,  What  more  could  a  woman  want?  She  began  to  sing.  She  bolted  the  front  and  back  doors,  still  humming  &quot;Ar  Hyd  y  Nos.&quot;  Ev-  ery  downstairs  window  was  already  fastened.  Not  that  she  was  a  nervous  woman.  Besides,  burglars  never  func-  tioned  in  these  tranquilly  unimportant  parts;  neither  were  tramps  ever  seen.  She  took  the  small  lamp  standing  on  a  table  in  the  hall-a  place  so  cold  that,  despite  the  interior  whiskey  warmth,  she  shivered.  As,  vaguely  un-  steady,  she  mounted  the  crooked  stair-  case  of  blackoak,  the  lamp's  flame  danced  within  the  glass  funnel  under  the  cretonne  shade.  On  the  bulgy,  fortress-  thick  walls,  shadows  danced  clownishly.  Sleepy  though  she  was,  she  still  hummed  the  popular,  dirgelike  old  melody.  HEN  she  opened  the  door  of  the  front  bedroom,  her  attention  was  caught  at  onceby  a  shape  in  the  bed.  Yet  shedid  not  cry  out,  and  the  lamp  did  not  drop  from  her  hand.  She  only  stared  at  the  shape  with  the  same  thun-  derous  intensity  as  that  with  which  she  had  looked  at  the  bottle  when  the  hour  struck.  The  shape-clearly  it  was  that  of  a  man,  with  the  head  visible  on  the  far-  ther  of  the  two  pillows-had  its  back  to  her.  The  old-fashioned  double  bed  stood  against  the  wall,  and  its  occupant  had  taken  the  inner  position.  No  sound  of  breathing  came.  [REDACTED]'s  eyes  roved,  with  an  effort,  to  garments  dropped  on  a  chair.  A  pair  of  shoes  stood  neatly  to-  gether  on  a  rug.  Most  conspicuous  of  all,  a  soft  felt  hat  hung,  rakish-looking,  on  the  knob  of  one  ebony  bedpost.  These  evidences  of  outrageous  in-  trusion  did  not  exert  on  her,  a  married  woman,  the  effect  they  might  have  achieved  with  a  spinster.  Nevertheless,  in  the  long  moments  of  silence  her  face  became  drained  of  its  opulent  color.  A  dim  memory  came  to  her  of  an  old,  now  abandoned  country  custom-caru  y  y  gwel,  it  was  called.  A  suitor  climbed  through  a  bedroom  window-a  ladder  was  usually  left  conveniently  handy-  and,  if  acceptable,  was  allowed  to  stay  an  hour  or  two,  with  marriage  in  view.  It  was  just  possible  that  in  remote  and  unspoiled  villages  like  Sychan  the  cus-  tom  was  still  followed,  if  only  in  a  jesting  manner.  Those  earthy  glances  downstairs  " b" she  got  sometimes  in  the  bus  from  men  old  enough  to  know  better!  Fury  rescued  her.  Her  voice  thick  but  bridling,  she  spoke.  &quot;If  you  don't  leave  my  house  this  instant,&quot;  she  de-  clared,  &quot;I'll  call  the  police.&quot;  At  once,  she  was  aware  ofthe  fatuity  of  this-  no  telephone,  and  thenearest  neighbor  hopelessly  beyond  the  range  of  the  loud-  est  scream.  Slowly,  unalarmed,  the  man  turned  his  head  on  the  pillow.  [REDACTED]'s  free  hand,  opening  and  closing,  clutched  her  satin  dress.  She  still  held  the  lamp;  otherwise,  she  might  have  sunk  to  the  floor.  But  her  legs  buckled  somewhat.  &quot;Will-iam,&quot;  she  stammered.  Her  husband  looked  at  her  with  as-  sessing  curiosity-a  square-headed  man  with  hard,  unblinking  eyes  and  a  mouth  that  had  become  tightened  as  though  from  driving  ruthless  business  transac-  tions.  &quot;What's  that  you  said  about  the  police?&quot;  he  asked,  still  not  budging  from  under  the  covers.  &quot;TI'll-  I'l  call  them,&quot;  she  panted.  &quot;Shouldn't  think  you'd  want  to  do  that.&quot;  He  spoke  with  slow  exactitude,  but  mildly,  as  if  merely  incommoded.  \xc2\xab'There's  only  one  in  the  village,  I  expect,  and  Ae  wouldn't  be  used  to  a  case  like  this-not  in  these  nice,  respectable  parts.&quot;  His  steady  eyes,  not  moving  from  her,  shone  greenish  in  the  lamplight.  &quot;Sit  down,  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  suggested.  &quot;Unless  you're  coming  into  bed?&quot;  He  watched  herturn  and,  with  the  slow,  waddling  movements  ofa  person  exercising  will  power  after  the  petrifac-  tion  of  a  shock,  walk  to  the  high  chest  of  drawers  and  place  the  lamp  on  it.  &quot;What  did  you  think  was  in  your  bed?&quot;  he  asked,  entirely  without  amusement.  &quot;A  wolf?&quot;  And  suddenly,  rapidly,  he  flung  back  the  bedcovers  and  leaped  out-a  short,  solid-fleshed  man  of  ma-  ture  cast,  with  strong,  thick  arms.  He  filled,  with  comfortable  tightness,  the  striped  shirt  he  had  left  on.  [REDACTED]     shrank  back  a  step,  clutching  the  bodice  of  her  dress,  her  eyes  bared.  But  he  did  not  touch  her.  He  onlylocked  the  door,  drew  out  the  key,  and  leaped  back  into  bed,thrusting  the  key  under  the  farther  pillow.  &quot;Brrh!  It's  warmer  in  here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  pity  you  haven't  got  a  stove  in  the  room.&quot;  She  had  watched  with  the  strained  inertia  of  someone  hopelessly  lostin  a  no  man's  land  of  mist.  Then,  carefully  lowering  herself,  she  sat  on  a  hard  chair  placed  against  the  wall  where  the  chest  stood.  A  little  heat,  perhaps  sufficient  for  a  doll's  house,  came  from  the  lamp.  The  room  was  very  cold.  The  sitting  room  downstairs,  the  three  hours  of  cozy  drinking,  already  seemed  remote.  Something  drastic  had  happened.  Her  mind  kept  on  fumbling  toward  realiza-  tion,  but  so  far  all  she  felt  was  that  a  great  black  cloud  had  suddenly  clamped  down  on  the  pretty  cottage.  She  no  longer  looked  at  the  man  in  the  bed.  He  was  saying  something  about  having  come  in  by  the  back  door  after  keeping  watch  on  the  house  for  hours  ..  helping  himself  to  bread  and  cheese  in  the  kitchen  ..  .  examining  the  layout  of  the  house  with  a  torch.  She  made  an  effort  to  clear  a  way  through  the  mud-  dle  in  her  mind.  &quot;How  did  you  find  where  I  was  liv-  ing?&quot;  she  whispered,  at  last.  The  ordi-  nariness  of  the  inquiry  seemed  to  reas-  sure  her.  His  presence  was  perfectly  acceptable  and,  somehow,  logical.  But  still  she  did  not  look  at  him-only  stared  in  turn  at  the  wardrobe,  at  the  dressing  table,  and,  finally,  up  at  the  gently  burning  little  lamp,  as  though  seeing  them  for  the  first  time.  &quot;Took  me  a  long  time  to  track  down  a  pal  of  yours,&quot;  William  replied.  Per-  haps  because  of  his  success  in  this,  he  even  sounded  affable.  &quot;She's  in  furs  now,  Monica  is-a  wholesale  house  in  Cardiff.  I  expect  you  know  about  that.  Cost  me  a  four-quid  dinner  in  the  Angel to  make  her  slip  the  bit  of  information-  pretending  she  wasn't  slipping  it,  of  course.&quot;  He  eased  himself  up,  and  gave  the  pillow  a  pugilist's  blow.  &quot;You  shouldn't  have  written  her  asking  for  that  twenty  quid  you  lent  her,  [REDACTED].  You  must  have  been  drunk  when  you  did  it.&quot;  She  bridled  a  little.  drunk.&quot;  &quot;No?  Well,  it  was  your  tightness  about  money,  then.&quot;  He  chuckled,  with  a  queer,  throaty  sound  she  had  never  heard  from  him  before.  He  was  nota  man  given  to  jokes.  \xc2\xabWait  till  I  get  hold  of  Monica!&quot;  she  said,  her  voice  too  shaky  for  vindictive-  ness.  &quot;You  won't,&quot;  William  said.  She  bent  her  head  as  though  the  strength  of  her  neck  had  dwindled.  There  was  a  long  silence,  and  when,  finally,  she  spoke,  her  sluggishness  sug-  gested  a  lack  of  interest  in  or  focus  on  what  she  was  asking:  &quot;Have  you  still  got  the  restaurant?&quot;  No.  Sold  it  months  ago.  Been  on  the  prowl  since  then.&quot;  He  stretched,  and  snuggled  down  like  any  married  man  in  bed  at  home.  The  heaving  eiderdown  shone  luxuriously  warm.  &quot;Got  a  fair  price  for  the  premises  from  a  big  firm  of  caterers.  They  said  the  good  will  of  the  business  wasn't  worth  much-  your  fault,  [REDACTED].&quot;  She  said  nothing,  and  he,  calm  in  his  deductions,  al-  though  his  tone  seemed  to  imply  long  and  bitter  reveries,  presently  went  on,  &quot;If  you'd  put  the  money  youhad  from  your  Uncle  Charles-and  I  bet  he's  boiling  inhellat  the  thought  you  got  it-if  you'd  put  it  into  the  restau-  rant,  we'd  soon  have  been  well  off,  Bess.  That  scheme  they  had  to  build  afactory  estate  outside  Dinas  has  got  going-the  Government  is  encouraging  it.  Dinas  town  is  going  to  be  a  big  noise  in  a  couple  of  years  or  so.&quot;  She  drew  her  feet,  getting  cold,  under  her  skirt.  &quot;I  don't  get  which  were  \xe2\x80\x98(Why  " b"didn't  you  hold  on  to  the  premises,  then?&quot;  There  was  a  long  pause  before  he  replied.  &quot;I  lost  interest  in  the  business.  I  got  sour,  [REDACTED],  see?  When  I'd  go  down  in  the  morning  to  let  Sally  and  Mrs.  Bevan  in,  and  notice  them  looking  at  me  sidewise,  wondering  about  my  state  of  temper-  well,  I  got  to  hate  myself,  too.  After  you  dida  bunk  from  me,  I  took  to  staying  at  home  all  on  my  own  ...  night  after  night.&quot;  In  his  voice  was  all  the  bleak  solitude  of  the  home  over  the  restaurant,  all  the  desert-  ed  silence  of  the  small-town  street  after  the  shops  closed.  'You  used  to  go  to  meet  the  Cham-  ber  of  Commerce  men  in  the  White  Hart  often  enough,  leaving  me  at  home,&quot;  she  reminded  him.  &quot;You  drove  me  out,  with  your  moods.  You  could  have  kept  me  at  your  side,  loving  as  a  silly  spaniel.&quot;  Still,  he  sounded  only  mildly  concerned  about  all  that  now.  &quot;After  you  bunked  off,  leav-  ing  that  note  of  three  lines  on  the  man-  telpiece,  I  couldn't  get  myself  to  go  to  the  White  Hart  any  more,  knowing  how  all  the  boys  would  push  drinks  on  me  and  slap  me  on  the  back,  cheerful  as  a  lot  of  undertakers.  But  the  money,  [REDACTED],  the  money!  If  you  had  run  off  before  you  got  the  solicitor's  letter  about  your  uncle's  money,  it  wouldn'thave  been  quite  so  bad.  The  thought  ofthe  money  stuck  in  my  gullet.  We  could  have  used  that  money  well,  and  in  ten  years  you'd  have  had  your  jewelry  and  sables  and  ride  about  fat  as  a  duchess.  But,  no!  You  wanted  the  legacy  all  to  yourself.  Yourself,  yourself!&quot;  She  didn't  like  his  further  chuckle.  Although  stupor  still  held  her  body  in-  ert,  her  mind  formulated  a  clear  little  patch  of  opinion.  Sounding  detached  from  any  wish  to  give  offense,  shebe-  gan,  &quot;I  hated  Dinas,  and  you  could  not  have  made  the  restaurant  into  any-  thing.  You're  a  fighter,  I  daresay,  but  you  just  can't  think  big.  You're  not     the  master  type,  William;  you  haven't  got  the  employer's  temperament.  Those  two  waitresses  used  to  laugh  at  you.  After  being  in  a  large  drapery  business  for  fifteen  years,  I  know  what's  what  in  bosses-&quot;  She  stopped,  dimly  aware  of  incautiousness.  &quot;x  good  woman  ought  totryto  make  a  man  feel  larger,  not  smaller,&quot;  he  replied  to  this,  only  a  shade  censori-  ous.  &quot;'You're  a  mean  and  selfish  woman,  [REDACTED].  One  of  the  kind  that  only  wants  a  man  to  keep  her  in  comfort  and  ex-  pects  it  as  her  right-amen  and  no  two  opinions  about  it.&quot;  They  were  approaching  the  old  trou-  ble,  the  ancient  warfare,  the  eternal  trap.  For  some  reason,  she  remembered  hearing,  in  a  Welsh  wireless  talk  on  by-  gone  courting  customs,  how  a  couple  would  be  sewn  inside  a  canvas  sack  to-  getherby  the  girl's  parents  and  left  all  night  as  a  test  of  mutual  suitability.  &quot;I'm  as  God  made  me,&quot;  she  found  her-  self  mumbling.  For  the  first  time,  his  voice  betrayed  a  dark,  glowering  anger.  &quot;I  wonder  what  we  have  schools  and  upbringing  for!  Did  God  set  out  purposely  to  make  you  a  humbug,  a  liar,  a  greedy  hypocrite,  and  a  thief?  Do  you  think  I  didn't  know  how  you  used  to  help  yourself  to  money  in  the  restaurant  till  and  spend  it  in  Cardiff  on  flighty  clothes  that  you  said  you  got  at  wholesale  price?  Ha!  Always  wanting  to  play  the  lady  in  Dinas,  you  shifty  bitch!&quot;  She  did  not  deal  with  this.  It  seemed  unimportant  andnormal  beside  the  fact  of  his  presence  and  the  key  under  the  pillow-unimportant,  even,  in  compari-  son  with  the  fact  of  her  defunct  feet  and  the  moribund  apathy  of  faculties  else-  where  in  her  body.  The  room  was  get-  ting  colder.  Or  had  something  else-  shock  and  fear-reduced  her  stamina?  Whiskey  was  fraudulent;  there  might  be  something  in  the  belief  that  ale  gave  one  more  lasting  warmth  and  energy.  For  a  moment,  she  contemplated  plac-     ing  the  lamp  at  her  feet.  But  she  lacked  the  initiative  for  the  act;  a  rigid  unwill-  ingness  to  budgefrom  the  chair  against  the  wall  governed  her.If  she  made  a  movement,  would  he  spring?  She  sat  with  her  arms  folded  across  her  chest,  as  if  to  retain  the  last  warmth  there,  and  still  shedid  not  look  directly  at  him,  though  her  eyes  sidled  now  and  again  in  the  direction  of  the  bed.  This  silence  was  evenlonger  than  the  others.  She  broke  it.  Again  in  that  reminding  but  not  conciliatory  way,  she  said,  &quot;I  didn't  run  off  with  another  man.  It's  what  they  usually  get  cross  about.&quot;  He  replied  in  the  reflective  manner  of  a  man  who  has  dwelt  with  long  delib-  eration  on  a  problem  or  scheme  but  will  not  reveal  his  final  decision  until  the  time  is  ripe.  &quot;It  would  have  been  better  if  you  had  run  off  with  another  chap.  It  was  just  plain,  cold,  murdering  self-  ishness.&quot;  She  preferred  the  abusive  anger.  &quot;I  can't  think  why  you  were  so  fond  of  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Z  didn't  run  after  you.  I  never  thought  you  much  of  a  catch.  You  got  me  when  I  had  a  nasty  row  over  pay  with  the  firm  I  worked  for  in  Cardiff-the  tykes.  You're  no  hand-  some  oil  painting,  William-&quot;'Again  she  stopped,  vaguely  astonished  at  her-  self.  Did  she  want  him  to  spring?  That  peculiar  chuckle!  He  had  de-  veloped  into  a  different  person,  calcu-  lating,  uncharacteristically  voluble,  chuckling  to  himself.  Had  he  gone  off  his  head?  Why  hadn't  he  called  at  the  front  door,  in  the  normal  way?  The  strange  calculation  of  his  tricks  struck  her  forcibly  now.  He  had  gone  mad!  She  moved  uncomfortably,  and  the  chair  creaked.  &quot;Getting  cold  out  there?  Warm  enough  in  here!&quot;  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  she  mumbled.  &quot;That's  the  worst  of  getting  your-  self  an  outlandish  cottage  for  a  bolt  hole-no  heating  in  the  bedroom  when  " b"a  thing  likethis  happens!  Never  mind;  it  won't  be  a  chill  or  influenza  you'll  be  catching!&quot;  As  though  rejecting  what  she  heard,  she  stared  more  fixedly  at  the  wall.  A  fancy  preoccupied  her  that  the  veins  of  her  feet  had  stiffened  into  sprays  of  icicles  and  it  was  impossible  to  walk.  But  her  mind  kept  on  making  efforts  to  grapple  with  subjects  suitable  and,  in-  deed,  necessary  for  discussion.  Anything  to  break  those  prolonged  silences  that  were  laden  with  something  undeclared.  After  a  while,  she  resumed.  &quot;'You  doted  on  me  too  much,  William.  Your  doting  got  on  my  nerves.  I  don't  think  I  like  men.  I  ought  to  have  married  a  retired  old  man  who  just  wanted  not  to  die  alone.&quot;  A  further  fancy  came  to  her  that,  but  for  the  stupefying  cruelty  of  the  cold,  it  would  be  pleasant  and  fruit,  ful  to  sit  talking  like  this  all  through  the  night.  Matters  could  be  wound  up,  a  personal  bankruptcy  declared  void;  pacified  contestants  might  even  make  amicable  farewells.  But  William  ignored  her  last  obser-  vations.  He  asked,  &quot;What  do  you  do  with  yourself  all  day  in  this  place?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  She  answered  as  if  glad  of  his  apparently  sociable  inquiry.  &quot;At  first,  I  thought  I'd  stay  only  a  few  months.  I  wanted  to  think.  All  my  life  I  promised  myself  atime  to  myself,  with  no  nagging  employer-or  anyone  else,  for  that  matter-to  answer  to.  I  kept  on  trying  to  make  up  my  mind  to  go  to  Susan  in  [REDACTED].  But  somehow  I  couldn't  make  the  move-&quot;  &quot;Ah!&quot;  he  said,  and  chuckled.  &quot;I  eat  well,  and  take  a  little  whiskey  some  evenings.  I  keep  an  afternoon  maid.  I  listen  to  good-class  concerts  and  lectures  on  the  wireless.  The  weeks  go  by  .  .  .&quot;  The  sloth  of  the  slow,  eventless  days  lay  in  her  trailing-away  voice.  &quot;You  mean  you  came  here  to  guzzle.  [REDACTED],  my  Aunt  Fanny!  True,  you've  got  a  lot  of  the  gypsy  in  you.  I'm  not  saying  that's  a  nasty  thing;  it  can  make  a  woman  shine  out  and  set  a  man  ticking  faster  than  usual.  I  bet  when  you'd  finished  guzzling  your  way  through  that  legacy  you'd  have  set  about  hooking  some  well-off  fellow  in  these  parts.  You  know  all  right  there's  some  chaps  that  like  being  hooked  and  done  down.&quot;  &quot;I  intend  going  back  to  the  drapery  in  Cardiff  when  the  money  is  gone,&quot;  she  said  meekly.  &quot;Isn't  there  some  old  buffer  running  after  you  here?  I  see  you've  gota  lot  of  your  looks  left.&quot;  At  this,  she  turned  her  head  and  gazed  at  him.  His  eyes  were  fixed  on  her  as  if  they  had  never  moved  away.  He  had  placed  the  vacant  pillow  on  top  of  his  own,  so  that  his  head  was  propped  up;  he  looked  comfortable  and  warm  but  relentlessly  wide-awake,  the  greenish  glint  of  his  eyes  clear  and  hard.  She  said,  &quot;If  you've  come  here  thinking  of  a  divorce,  William,  there  isn't  anyone  to  name.  But  I  won't  give  you  any  trou-  ble.  I  deserted  you.&quot;  A  glimmer  of  eagerness  had  struggled  into  her  face.  &quot;I  don't  want  a  divorce.  No  need  for  all  that  fuss  and  expense.  Not  now.&quot;  Her  mouth  opened  to  ask  the  obvi-  ous  question-&quot;Why  not  now?&quot;  -but  she  only  looked  at  him  glassily.  She  could  barely  discern  his  head.  Was  the  cold  disabling  her  sight?  Why  was  he  there?  It  no  longer  seemed  shock-  ing  that  he  had  arrived,  with  such  dra-  matic  calculation,  in  her  bed.  But  why?  Why?  She  accepted  the  actual  fact  of  his  presence  now-even,  she  fumbling-  ly  thought,  almost  welcomed  it.  'The  two  dormant  past  years  were  smashed,  and  the  thing  that  had  fugitively  haunt  ed  her  had  taken  on,  at  last,  concrete  stature  and  power.  She  looked  toward  the  bed  as  a  homeless  wanderer  might  look  through  a  window  into  a  firelit  room.  &quot;Come  in,&quot;  he  said,  as  if  aware  of  her  thoughts.  She  did  not  reply  but,  draggingly,  shook  her  head  before  turning  it,  with  an  automaton's  movement,  away  from  the  hazed  bed.  A  few  moments  later,  the  lamp  began  to  fade.  &quot;If  you  give  me  the  key,&quot;  she  said,  quivering  out  of  her  passivity,  &quot;I'll  fetch  oil  from  the  can  in  the  kitchen.&quot;  &quot;No,  [REDACTED].&quot;  Her  remaining  vestiges  of  warmth  and  strength  seemed  to  ebb  with  the  sinking  light.  She  couldn't  even  bring  herself  to  get  up  and  fetch  coats  and  other  garments  from  the  wardrobe  to  wrap  herself  in.  Neither  could  her  mind  dwell  on  the  refusal  of  the  key.  Almost  there  was  a  sense  of  release,  an  elusive,  lapping  seduction,  in  her  resolution  not  to  move  from  the  chair.  I'll  be  found  frozen  to  death  in  the  morning,  she  thought.  In  the  flickering  light,  the  fur-  niture  began  to  look  insubstantial,  with-  drawing  its  familiar  identity;  the  dress-  ing-table  mirror  became  lifeless-an  oval  for  ghosts  to  look  in.  The  last  edge  of  blue  on  the  lamp-  " b"wick  vanished.  She  was  surprised  to  find  herself,  suddenly  conversational,  saying,  &quot;I  often  sit  downstairs  in  the  dark  when  the  lamp  goes  out  and  I  can't  be  bothered  to  fill  it.  I  sit  thinking.  Living  alone  herehas  cured  me  of  fright.  It  isn't  as  if  you're  a  stranger.&quot;  William  said  nothing.  He  was  not  a  stranger?  All  people  were  strangers  in  the  dark.  At  the  window,  where  the  curtains  were  only  half  drawn,  an  anonymous  night  grayness  seeped  in,  but  it  did  not  reach  any  object  in  the  room.  The  last  links  with  fact  and  reality  were  broken.  There  was  not  the  faintest  sound  from  the  frozen  world  outside.  All  natural  things  were  cast  into  the  abeyance  of  this  deepest  and  darkest  hour.  Was  it  midnight?  What  did  it  matter?  Time  mattered  no  more.  The  only  thing  existing-and  it  still  re-  mained  a  mystery-was  the  unseen  element  of  judgment  in  the  room;  she  recognized  it  fully  now  and  waited  for  it  to  declare  itself.  It  belonged  to  the  dark.  She  found  herself  saying,  as  if  testing  this  judgment,  &quot;You  were  silly  to  feel  disgrace  when  I  left  you.  A  woman  that  runs  off  like  that  is  a  good  riddance.  Your  friends  at  the  White  Hart  would  realize  that,  I  expect.&quot;  He  said  nothing.  Had  he  fallen  asleep?  Buried  his  ears  under  the  cov-  ers?  She  could  hear  no  breathing.  Oh,  " b"if  only  he  would  hurl  a  heap  more  of  abuse!  Even  the  daft  chuckle  would  be  better  than  this  silence.  Now  and  again,  her  knees  gave  little  convulsive  jerks,  as  if  making  protest  on  their  own  account.  The  savage  cold  left  her  no  dominion  at  all  over  her  body  now.  Yet  her  mind,  detached  from  her  body,  seemed  to  become  clear  of  its  confusion.  She  heard  her  own  hesitating  voice  from  a  distance.  &quot;William  ...  If  you've  come  wondering  if  I'll  go  back  to  you  .  .  .  it  will  need  some  talking  .  .  .  thinking  about.&quot;  In  her  chest,  a  dead  sort  of  pain  followed  the  hard  breathing  necessary  to  get  the  words  out.  Still  there  was  no  reply.  Her  head  swerved  from  the  direction  of  the  hid-  den  bed  to  the  grayness  at  the  window  space.  She  thought  ofthe  bereft  foot-  hills  and,  beyond,  the  heights  of  the  Brecknock  Beacons  impregnable  with  marble  snow.  All  the  world  was  pin-  ioned  in  stony  silence.  If  only  she  could  hear  the  soft  thud  of  a  pine  cone  falling  into  the  withered  ferns  of  the  garden!  Loneliness,  oblivion,  and  freezing  death  were  all  about  her.  Hours  must  pass  before  a  small,  dim  glimmer  would  crack  the  night.  When  her  mouth  opened  again,  it  felt  grotesquely  not  her  own.  &quot;Wil-  liam  ...&quot;  Her  lower  jaw  seemed  to  lock.  She  sat  pondering.  Blue,  blue  .  ..  Why  did  she  think  of  a  blue,  sun-curled  sea  with  foam  swirl-  ing  on  a  picnic  beach?  Tenby!  'The  day  trip  she  took  to  Tenby  last  sum-  mer  ...  She  saw  a  florist's  shop  filled  with  riotous  blooms  of  July-roses,  sweet  peas,  zinnias,  carnations.  In  a  caf\xc3\xa9,  a  sundae  heaped  with  nuts  and  marsh-  mallow  cream  was  placedbefore  her.  A  man  with  a  sports-club  crest  on  his  blue  blazer  lowered  a  newspaper  and  eyed  her  from  a  face  as  brown  as  a  football.  She  wore  a  cerise  dress  and  a  hat  she  had  just  bought.  Tenby  was  a  good-  class  town-not  like  rough,  coal-mining  Dinas,  where  a  lady  couldn't  really  be  a  lady....  Her  cheekbones  began  twitching.  Tenby  vanished.  Even  the  gray  window  space  had  gone.  Her  body  gave  a  long,  dislocated  jerk;  she  was  aware  of  it  from  afar.  Why  was  she  on  her  feet?  She  did  not  remember  getting  up.  Had  he  spoken?  There  was  no  sense  of  sound  about  her,  and  her  eyeballs  gained  noth-  ing  from  the  dark.  But  she  knew  now  where  she  must  go.  Carefully,  labori-  ously,  her  feet  moved.  She  trudged  without  a  bending  of  her  knees.  Her  body  moved  as  toward  a  command,  blindly  but  without  error.  Her  knee  pressedagainst  the  bed.  &quot;Come  in,&quot;  he  chuckled.  She  heard  the  poplin  swish  of  the  thrown-back  eiderdown.  A  faint  eddy  of  warmth  touched  her  face  briefly.  She  fell  into  the  opened  bed,  in  all  her  clothes.  The  covers  closed  round  her.  But  she  did  not  feel  the  warmth;  the  blankets  seemed  only  to  hold  her  im-  mobile.  When  he  turned  and  pressed  thepillow  over  her  face,  she  quivered  only  once.  The  long,  silent  apathy  of  the  two  past  years  contracted  into  a  massive  strength  of  obliteration,  and,  acquiescent,  she  sank  under  it.  EGHT,  a  pure  morning  light,  was  seeping  into  her  eyes.  But  she  could  not  see  it  clearly.  A  pillow  was  on  her  face.  Pulling  it  away-why  was  it  there?-she  sat  up  in  astonishment.  A  shaft  of  sunlight  came  from  the  space  between  the  curtains.  For  long  mo-  ments,  her  mouth  open  like  a  startled  child's,  she  remained  looking  down  at  the  man  beside  her  in  the  warm  bed.  He  lay  fast  asleep,  mouth  open,  too,  a  patina  of  sweat  on  his  short,  thickly  rooted  nose.  For  the  first  time,  she  rec-  ognized  the  nose  as  a  pugnacious  one.  The  wart  on  his  chin  somehow  made  him  seem  less  sternly  menacing.  Stealthily,  keeping  concentrated  watch  on  his  face,  she  slid  a  flat  hand  under  his  pillow  and  found  the  key.  Then,  with  long  pauses,  she  eased  her-  self  out  of  the  bed.  Her  body,  already  wonderfully  thawed,  felt  abounding  as  she  stood  safely  on  the  woollen  rug.  She  shook  herself  down  like  a  dusty  fowl;  the  black  satin  dress  was  badly  creased.  Her  eyes  did  not  move  from  William's  face  as  she  backed  to  the  door.  She  unlocked  and  opened  the  door  with-  out  noise,  gave  William  a  last  look,  and  crept  out.  When  she  returned,  she  carried  a  tray  that  held  a  teapot,  two  cups,  and  a  plate  of  biscuits.  The  night's  residue  of  sloth  was  off  her  pow-  dered  face;  her  hair  was  tidied.  She  placed  the  tray  on  the  bedside  table,  and  stood  looking  at  William's  far-gone  face  again  before  crossing  to  the  window.  Brass  rings  clanged  brisk-  ly  as  she  flung  back  the  curtains  as  far  as  they  would  go,  releasing  into  the  room  the  full,  crisp  morning.  It  was  still  very  cold,  and  the  light,  spin-  ning  back  from  the  daz-  zling  frost  in  the  garden,  had  the  fiery  bounce  of  diamonds.  Night's  claus,  trophobic  assembly  of  threats  had  slunk  away  and  the  morning  rang  alive  with  victory.  &quot;William!&quot;  At  once,  she  reduced  the  hectoring  shout.  &quot;William!&quot;  There  was  something  abridged,  if  not  obsequious,  in  her  gait  and  manner  as  she  went  to  the  tray  and  poured  " b"the  tea.  &quot;Another  cold  morning,  Wil-  liam!&quot;  She  did  not  look  at  him  now.  But  she  fetched  a  purple  silk  wrap  from  the  wardrobe  and,  as  Clytemnestra  flung  the  net  over  the  warrior  returned  from  Troy,  wrapped  it  round  his  shoul-  ders.  William,  still  a  bit  manacled  in  his  heavy  sleep,  struggled  up  in  the  bed.  [REDACTED]  found  a  pink  woollen  cardigan  for  herself.  As  he  took  the  cup  of  tea  from  her  hand,  he  glanced  at  her  from  under  swollen  lids.  He  was  always  a  thick  sleeper.  She  shook  out  that  other  pil-  low,  gave  it  a  pronounced  scrutiny,  and  placed  it  behind  his  shoulders.  Be-  mused,  he  looked  into  thecup.  &quot;''There's  nothing  in  it  except  tea,&quot;  she  assured  him.  &quot;I've  got  no  use  for  rat  poison.  When  I  want  to  get  rid  of  you,  I'll  shoot  you  like  a  dog.&quot;  She  tittered  as  she  crossed  with  her  own  cup  to  the  chair  on  which  such  hours  of  agony  had  been  endured  the  night  before.  William  tasted  the  tea.  [REDACTED]  swallowed  two  good  mouthfuls  herself,  and  after  a  silence,  which  seemed  neutral,  she  asked,  &quot;How  much  did  you  get  for  the  restaurant  from  those  cater-  ers?&quot;  &quot;Five  thousand  pounds  for  the  lease  of  the  premises,  seven  hundred  for  the  contents.&quot;  They  were  his  first  words.  Had  he  returned  to  his  old  surly  meagreness  of  speech?  &quot;Why,  William,  that's  not  at  all  bad!  Judging  by  the  way  you  talked  last  night,  anyone  would  think  you  had  a  grudge.  You  must  have  fought  them  like  a  man.&quot;  He  glanced  at  her  sidewise.  Some-  thing  lurked  in  his  face;  it  did  not  sug-  gest  anything  to  do  with  smiling.  &quot;What  time  is  it?&quot;  he  asked  abruptly,  and  looked  at  the  soft  felt  hat  still  hanging  on  the  ebony  bedpost.  &quot;About  halfpast  eight.  Plenty  of  time  yet.  You'll  have  to  go  bytwo.  A  woman  from  the  village  comes  then.  I'm  supposed  to  be  a  widow.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  going,&quot;  he  said  slowly.  She  did  not  deal  with  this.  &quot;I  took  a  day  trip  to  Tenby  last  summer,&quot;  she  began,  &quot;and  I  thought  to  myself,  If  Williamhad  adventure  in  him,  this  is  a  nice  place  to  open  a  restaurant  in.  I  like  seaside  places.  ...  What's  the  mat-  ter  with  you?&quot;  she  suddenly  challenged  across  the  room.  &quot;Can't  you  look  me  straight  in  the  eye?&quot;  He  looked  her  straight  in  the  eye.  His  thick,  hard  neck  and  square  head  lunged  out  from  the  purple  wrap,  and  he  growled,  &quot;You  can  count  yourself  lucky  you're  sitting  there  drinking  tea  in  comfort,  like  a  bloody  hypocrite  sozzling  after  a  funeral.&quot;   &quot;Now,  William!&quot;  [REDACTED]  reproved,  not  without  admiration  dipping  in  her  voice.  &quot;Language!&quot;  They  drank  their  tea.  Presently,  ruminative,  he  said,  &quot;The  thought  crossed  my  mind  to  do  you  in.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  tried  to,  William.&quot;  She  swallowed  the  last  drop  of  tea.  &quot;I  could  have  you  up  for  attempted  murder,  William.&quot;  He  looked  with  curiosity  into  the  sharp  blaze  of  light  at  the  window.  &quot;Something  suddenly  broke  inside  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  went  to  sleep.&quot;  &quot;In  your  way,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said,  putting  her  empty  cup  on  the  floor,  &quot;you're  a  good  man,  William.  I  intend  coming  back  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Do  I  want  you?&quot;  Curiosity  still  mused  in  his  voice.  &quot;Yes,  William.  Otherwise  you  wouldn't  have  gone  to  such  trouble  to  nose  me  out  here.  I  like  a  man  to  show  spirit.&quot;  Her  hand  gave  a  large  gesture,  but  the  characteristic  heave  of  her  bosom  was  a  curtailed  one.  &quot;It  was  romantic,  William-you  breaking  in  here,  just  for  me!  It's  like  Romeo  and  Juliet!  Last  night,  when  I  came  in  that  door  with  the  lamp  and  found  it  was  you  in  the  bed,  I  felt  myself  going  dou-  ble  my  size.  ...  Though  I  did  go  weak  in  the  knees,  too,&quot;  she  said  in  after-  thought.  &quot;I  never  believed  you  had  it  in  you,  William.&quot;  &quot;Now,&quot;  he  said,  staring  into  his  empty  cup  as  though  it  might  reveal  the  future,  &quot;you  know  what  I've  got  in  me.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  William,&quot;  she  replied  sober-  ly.  &quot;I  [REDACTED];"