 b"MY  mother's  people  were  not  titled,  but  when  I  think  back  to  them  and  to  my  childhood,  I  understand  that  one  of  their  tacit  con-  cerns  was  maintaining  some  sort  of  kinship  with  a  member  of  the  Italian  nobility.  In  her  family,  there  had  al-  ways  been  the  institution  of  anaunt  who  was  at  least  a  countess.  As  for  my  father's  family,  none  of  them  even  knew  what  it  was  to  care  for  titles.  This  was  so  because  their  traditional  pride  was  that  not  of  landed  but  of  maritime  people.  They  could  have  flourished  a  genealogy  of  old  black-bearded  sea  captains,  the  mere  list  of  whose  ships  lost  at  sea  would  have  been  enough  to  make  my  mother's  country  family,  with  their  spurious  aristocratic  whims,  respectful.  My  mother  herself,  poor  thing,  having  inherited  a  tenderness  for  nobility  from  her  landowning  ancestors,  never  really  had  much  time  to  cultivate  it,  so  numerous  were  the  reverses  and  hardships  of  her  life.  Yet  this  weakness,  combined  withher  faith  in  the  miracles  of  Providence,  often  consoled  her  and  helped  her  to  meet  her  difficult  times  with  courage.  The  family's  last  titled  aunt,a  count-  ess,  I  remember  very  well,  because  I  met  her  for  the  first  and  only  time  ten  yearsago,  just  after  the  end  of  the  war,  though  I  had  known  all  about  her  from  my  earliest  childhood,  much  in  the  way  I  was  made  to  know  the  life,  death,  and  miracles  of  the  chief  saints.  The  Count-  ess  was  not  strictly  an  aunt,  but  my  two  younger  sisters  and  I  spoke  of  her  as  &quot;aunt&quot;  by  habit,  and  itis  not  easy  for  me  to  explain  the  exact  relationship  between  my  motherand  her.  There  was,  of  course,  some  blood  tie;  in  fact,  accord-  ing  to  my  mother,  there  were  two  of  these,  because  somewhere  in  the  family  connection  two  brothers  had  married  two  sisters.  One  of  the  brothers  and  one  of  the  sisters  had,  in  time,  died,  and  the  widow  and  widower  had  end-  ed  by  marrying  each  other.  Our  count-  ess  aunt,  [REDACTED],  was  born  of  one  of  the  original  unions,  and  a  cousin  of  ours,  a  notary,  who  often  came  to  visit  my  mother,  was  born  of  the  second  marriage,  and  was  therefore  the  Count-  ess's  half  brother.  This  circumstance  of  the  Countess's  being  doubly  a  relative  could  only  add  to  the  prestige  my  sisters  and  I  felt  as  custodians  of  the  moral  in-  heritance  that  came  from  having  kin  in  high  places.  Besides  all  this,  our  titled  aunt  was  very  rich.  At  the  death  of  the  Count,  her  husband,  she  had  entered  into  possession  of  an  estate  at  Poggio,  in  Tuscany,  where  she  lived  with  a  son,  Piero,  and  a  daughter,  Matilda,  in  a  sixteenth-  century  villa  surrounded  by  vast  parks  full  of  ancient  lawns,  fountains,  and  avenues  of  cypresses.  Her  Tuscan  hold-  ings  were  as  large  as  all  the  lands  my  mother's  family  had  let  go  after  the  First  World  War.  That  family  lived  with  their  heads  so  much  in  the  clouds  that  none  of  them  noticed  the  devalua-  tion  of  money  that  had  taken  place,  and  they  sold  their  land  in  the  cheerful  con-  viction  that  they  were  making  a  large  profit.  And  so,  while  our  countess  aunt  prospered,  my  mother's  family  steadily  declined.  But  itis  always  a  consola-  tionto  the  poor  to  know  that  they  have  rich  relatives-even  if,  as  almost  always  happens,  the  rich  ones  are  so  avid  that  they  will  not  let  a  crumb  fall  to  the  poor  ones,  preferring  to  give  that  crumb  to  almost  anyone  else.  To  do  otherwise  constitutes  a  dangerous  prec-  edent  and  confirms  a  bond  of  kinship  that  itis  to  the  advantage  of  the  rich  to  ignore.  But,  according  to  my  mother,  such  forgetfulness  was  not  the  custom  of  our  countess  aunt-a  charitable  woman  who  was  bound  to  my  mother  by  mem-  ories  of  their  childhood  together.  If  she  never  sent  gifts-not  even  a  demi-  john  or  so  of  olive  oil  ora  keg  of  Chianti  del  Poggio,  from  her  own  property-  it  was  because,  all  things  considered,  we  were  not  really  too  badly  off.  She  would  not  want  to  put  us  in  the  position  of  having  to  repay  favors,  my  mother  said,  and,  above  all,  it  would  not  be  delicate  to  send  us  the  produce  of  her  own  lands,  as  if  to  remind  us  sar-  castically  that  we,  too,  had  once  been  landowners,  with  products  of  our  own.  These  shadings  of  delicacy  that  my  mother  attributed  to  the  Countess  re-  sulted  in  making  her  more  dear  than  ever  in  the  fantasy  my  sisters  and  I  made  of  her.  My  father  died  in  the  First  World  War,  and  soon  afterward  the  woes  of  disposing  of  my  mother's  family  estate  were  integrated,  so  to  speak,  with  those  of  disposing  of  his.  I  became  head  of  the  family  at  the  age  of  ten  and,  along  with  my  mother  (who  understood  these  problems  no  better  than  I,  at  the  time),  inherited  not  property  but  usufructuary  snares-worthless  bonds,  lapsed  pen-  sions,  mortgages,  rights  of  option,  and  overdue  leases.  These  terms,  learned  in  that  distant  epoch,  can  even  now  knot  my  stomach  whenever  I  hear  them.  In  this  situation,  it  was  natural  that  the  thought  of  our  countess  aunt  should  be-  gin  to  float  like  a  white  cloud  of  spring  on  our  desolate  horizon,  a  promise  of  ever-possible  beneficent  rain  for  our  dried-up  lands.  OWEVER  much  the  Countess  might  be  occupied  in  the  admin-  istration  and  duties  of  her  high  state  (the  phrase  invariably  used  by  her  lead-  en  half  brother,  the  notary,  when  he  called  on  us),  she  never  failed  to  answer  our  Christmas  and  Easter  greetings,  or  to  commemorate  my  mother's  name  day,  the  Feast  of  [REDACTED]  Lucia,  by  send-  ing  her  an  artistic  card,  in  color.  The  card  was  always  a  reproduction  of  some  celebrated  sacred  painting,  and  the  mes-  sage  on  the  back  of  it  always  went  more  or  less  like  this:  &quot;To  my  dear  Lucia,  imploring  upon  her  and  her  youngsters  the  celestial  benedictions  and  the  peren-  nial  assistance  of  her  sainted  namesake;  in  the  memory  of  our  deceased  mothers,  who  were  like  sisters,  and  of  our  own  shared  childhood  at  Breganze,  I  am,  with  the  same  true  and  sisterly  affection,  your  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  for  my  sisters  andme,  meant  [REDACTED]  Salvanelli,  the  Countess  Torrimpetto  del  Poggio  de  Salibassi,  and  when  my  mother  received  one  of  her  cards,  we  complacently  felt  that  for  another  year,  at  least,  we  were  un-  der  her  spiritual  protection.  The  notary,  an  idle,  gossipy,  pedantic  man,  com-  peted  with  all  the  other  relatives  in  esti-  mating  the  gradations  of  the  affection  his  sister  distributed  among  them,  and,  being  capable  of  loving  only  his  habits,  he  loved  us,  by  habit,  from  year  to  year,  simply  as  a  result  of  her  benevolence  toward  us.  He  felt  both  pride  and  jeal-  ousy  for  his  sister,  and  never  forgot  to  remind  us  that  she  was  named  [REDACTED]  in  memory  of  an  earlier  countess  aunt,  [REDACTED]  Marini  di  Valvecchia.  &quot;Now,  she  was  a  countess  of  really  high  lin-  eage,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;so,  of  course,  when  my  sister  was  held  by  her  at     " b"baptism,  it  was  practically  or-  dained  that  she,  in  her  turn,  would  marry  a  count.&quot;  Today,  when  I  look  back  from  such  a  distance,  those  years  between  the  two  World  Wars  seem  at  first  to  have  passed  in  a  breath.  And  yet,  if  I  consider  them  thought-  fully,  I  cannot  help  finding  them  long  and  painful.  Twenty  or  more  years  we  spent  in  Vicenza  in  an  old  house  compounded  of  ancient  books  and  listless  velvet  dra-  peries,  of  stoves  that  gave  off  smoke,  and  of  baroque  wash-  basins  of  cracked  porcelain  that  bore,  stamped  in  blue,  the.  factory  mark  &quot;Excel-  sior!&quot;  And  on  top  of  my  weariness  with  all  this  there  were,  for  me,  my  monoto-  nous  studies  and,  later,  the  dull  routine  of  work  in  a  provincial  of-  fice.  As  for  my  sisters,  who  became  ele-  mentary-school  teachers,  when  they  reached  the  full  bloom  of  their  young  womanhood,  they  didn't  marry,  be-.  cause  they  were  waiting  for  the  Prince  Charmings  who  would  be  worthy  of  our,  and  our  notary  cousin's,  decrepit  customs.  And  so  we  liked  to  listen  to  our  moth-  er  recount  the  serene  events  of  her  childhood,  and  especially  hear  her  tell  stories  of  the  enormous  villa  at  Bre-  ganze.  The  villa  had  seemed  made  to  order  for  the  summer  reunions  of  the  related  families  that  owned  it  in  com-  mon.  Among  them  were  the  parents  of  my  mother  and  those  of  [REDACTED]  Sal-  vanelli,  and,  as  children,  the  two  of  them  had  spent  many  happy  seasons  there  together.  Equally  great  in  the  esteem  of  my  mother  was  Aunt  Ma-  rina's  villa  at  Poggio,  which  my  mother  visited  in  1928  while  on  a  pilgrimage  to  Assisi.  With  her  ties  and  old  affections  thus  freshened,  that  meeting  was  as  vivid  and  immediate  for  her  after  many  years  had  passed  as  when  it  took  place.  She  would  speak  of  Aunt  [REDACTED],  and  of  Piero,  Matilda,  and  the  villa,  with  as  much  minuteness  of  detail  as  if  she  had  just  seen  them  the  evening  before.  There  was  a  fascination  in  hearing  her  tell  of  those  people,  whom  we  otherwise  knew  only  through  the  brief,  tantalizing  reports  of  the  notary,  and  Aunt  Ma-  rina's  greeting  cards.  There  was  a  halo  of  glory  around  the  deeds  of  our  cousins  Piero  and  Matilda  that  was  absolutely  unattainable  by  suchpoor  mortals  as  we  were,  and  it  meant  something  to  us,  in  those  trying  times,  just  to  know  we  had  kinship  with  such  favored  people.  Piero,  for  example,  who  was  five  or  six  years  older  than  I,  worried  my  moth-  er  a  good  deal  because  he  showed  no  in-  clination  toward  marriage,  and  no  in-  terest  in  the  lands  at  Poggio.  He  wanted  only  to  enjoy  life.  Once,  his  mother  had  to  go  and  fish  him  out  of  the  arms  of  a  ballerina  with  whom  he  was  wasting  his  fortune  on  the  beaches  of  the  Adriat-  ic.  &quot;He  really  got  in  deep  that  time,&quot;  it  was  said  of  him,  in  the  family.  &quot;But  with  all  the  responsibility  he'll  have  someday,  if  he  doesn't  have  his  good  times  now,  when  will  he  ever  be  able  to?&quot;  (It  was  evident  that  if  I  were  to  transgress  in  a  similar  way,  I  would  be  excommunicated  by  all  my  relatives  as  a  debauchee  and  degenerate,  for  the  simple  reason  that  I  did  not  have  the  future  responsibility  of  a  title  and  an  in-  heritance.)  My  mother  had  seen  Matilda  when  she  was  fourteen,  and  described  her  to  us  as  a  handsome  and  already  fully  de-  veloped  girl  with  a  mania  for  thorough-  bred  horses.  She  passed  her  time  gallop-  ing  grandlythrough  the  park  of  the  villa  with  her  black  hair  flying  in  the  wind.  And  this,  even  after  nearly  thirty  years,  is  the  only  picture  I  am  able  to  conjure  up  of  my  distant  cousin  Ma-  tilda.  Our  present  no  longer  existed  at  all,  in  those  accounts  of  my  mother's;  it  be-  came,  at  most,  an  insignificant  and  an-  noying  detail  when  it  did  manage  to  get  into  them.  And  the  two  houses-the  Breganze  of  my  mother's  childhood  visits,  and  the  house  of  the  Countess  [REDACTED]  at  Poggio-became  two  per-  manent  pillars  from  which  soared  the  unshakable  aerial  bridge  of  our  imagined  memories.  And  because  we  children  had  never  seen  them,  the  more  my  mother  spoke  of  them,  the  more  miraculous  they  became.  They  seemed  to  us  rather  like  the  Holy  House,  which,  according  to  legend,  was  borne  by  angels  from  Nazareth  to  Loreto,  to  save  it  from  the  hands  of  the  infidels.  As  children,  we  had  seen  the  Holy  House  depicted  in  a  Tiepolo  fresco,  now  destroyed,  that  was  in  the  church  of  the  Barefoot  Monks  in  4974616c79.  Every  time  we  went  to  4974616c79,  it  was  a  ritual  with  my  mother  to  take  us  into  that  church  to  pray.  &quot;Three  Glorias-no  more  than  three,&quot;  she  would  promise  us  each  time.  'There,  inside  the  church,  the  fresco  hovered,  vaporous  and  light  above  our  heads,  the  Holy  House  flying  in  the  midst  of  it.  And  so,  by  a  superimposition  of  images,  the  old  homes  of  my  mother's  stories  seemed  just  as  vaporous  and  mi-  raculous,  just  as  capable  of  being  borne  on  the  wings  of  angels,  and  just  as  dis-  tant  and  out  of  reach  as  the  painting  on  the  church  ceiling.  MY  mother  always  spoke  of  the  villa  of  Breganze  as  if  it  had  been  truly  a  house  borne  through  the  air.  She  saw  it  far  off,  removed  from  reality.  But  the  villa  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]  she  described  con-  cretely-its  grounds,  its  rooms,  and,  above  all,  its  furnishings,  which  she  re-  garded  as  almost  excessively  sumptuous.  In  view  of  this  richness,  she  could  never  reconcile  herself  to  the  fact  that  two  beds  that  had  once  been  in  the  guest  room  of  the  house  at  Breganze  had  end-  ed  up  at  Poggio.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  had  stu-  diously  set  about  getting  them  (though  she  had  no  special  right  to  them)  when  that  house  was  sold  and  the  furniture  apportioned  among  the  owners,  leaving     " b"us  to  inherit  only  the  dresser  belonging  to  the  same  suite.  Inour  family,  this  business  of  inherit,  ed  furniture  was  an  old  wound  that  never  quite  healed,  but  it  did  have  a  hu-  morous  side.  During  visits  exchanged  among  those  of  us  who  still  lived  in  the  Veneto  region  (where  the  family  had  its  origins),  the  guest  would  often  see  in  the  home  of  his  host  some  famifliar  piece.  &quot;Aha!&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;'These  teacups  are  part  of  the  porcelain  service  of  poor  Grandmother  Catina!  How  many  pieces  were  there  in  that  set?  I'm  sick  and  tired  of  seeing  them  turn  up  all  over  the  place.  Wherever  I  go,  those  everlasting  garlands  of  pears  and  apples  and  leaves!&quot;  Or  &quot;Remember  this  table  when  it  was  in  the  kitchen  of  the  old  house  at  Breganze?  No-you  must  have  been  too  young  then.  How  did  it  ever  come  down  to  you?&quot;  That  waswhat  had  happened  to  my  mother.  She  had  seen  those  two  finely  carved  but  simple  beds  in  the  luxurious  villa  of  the  Countess  [REDACTED],  and  since  she  was  used  to  seeing  the  matching  dresser  every  day  in  my  sisters'  room  (my  sisters  slept  on  so-called  Turkish  divans,  which  were  ordinary  cots  with-  out  headboard  or  footb\xc3\xa9ard),  my  moth-  er  never  forgot  those  fine  beds,  there  in  Tuscany.  She  did  not  complain,  but  she  remembered  them,  for,  in  her  infi-  nite  simplicity  and  generosity,  she  never  realized  the  logic  of  this  sort  of  piecemeal  dispersal,  though  she  came  of  a  family  in  which  a  group  of  quarrelling  heirs  had  preferred  to  tear  down  an  enormous  grape-crushing  vat  and  divide  up  the  staves  rather  than  cede  the  whole  thing  to  a  single  one  of  them.  Even  today,  our  notary  cousin  possesses  several  of  those  staves,  and,  deep  in  debt  as  he  is,  they  are  perhaps  the  only  things  he  really  owns.  And  yet,  though  the  same  punctili-  ousness  ran  in  the  veins  of  Aunt  [REDACTED],  the  business  of  the  beds  was  different  from  thatof  the  staves.  &quot;She  had  no  right  legally  to  take  the  beds,&quot;  our  no-  tary  cousin  would  say,  &quot;but  on  the  moral  level  she  had  every  justification.&quot;  To  this  my  mother  would  graciously  assent,  for  the  beds  had  been  in  the  guest  room  of  the  villa  at  Breganze,  and  there  the  old  Countess  [REDACTED]  Marini  di  Val-  vecchia  had  slept  whenever  she  deigned  to  visit.  She  had  always  had  the  two  beds  set  next  to  each  other,  because,  even  in  her  widowhood,  she  insisted  on  sleep-  ing  in  an  immense  matrimonial  bed.  She  needed  the  space,  she  said,  because  her  deceased  husband  often  came  to  keep  her  spiritual  company.  So  who  was  to  contest  the  right  of  the  old  Countess's  namesake  to  thosebeds,  especially  since  she  had  become  a  countess  in  her  turn?  Even  my  sisters,  on  their  traditionless  Turkish  divans,  considered  the  arrange-  ment  irrevocably  just.  HE  theme  of  the  beds,  along  with  that  of  the  Holy  Houses,  ran  through  my  sisters'  and  my  childhood  and  into  our  adult  lives.  Every  time  I  had  totravel  from  the  north,  where  we  lived,  to  the  center  of  4974616c79  (and  this  happened  often  when  I  left  the  office  I  had  been  working  in  and  became  a  journalist),  the  subject  of  the  two  beds  would  crop  up.  &quot;Why  don't  you  stop  off  to  greet  the  Countess?&quot;  my  mother  would  say.  &quot;She'll  put  you  in  the  room  where  she  keeps  the  two  beds.&quot;  And  the  whole  story  would  be  told  again.  Still,  I  never  did  stop  off  at  Poggio.  &quot;How  can  I,  Mama?&quot;  I  would  shout.  &quot;How  can  I?  I'm  not  going  for  pleas-  ure!  I'm  going  for  business,  Mama,  business!&quot;  My  mother,  respectful  of  nothing  that  carried  an  aura  of  business  about  it,  would  answer  that  there  were  always  plenty  of  excuses  for  the  things  one  didn't  want  to  do. But  despite  my  nevergoing  to  strengthen  our  ties  with  the  Countess,  the  artistic  greeting  cards  continued  to  come  with  regularity,  and  occasionally,  embedded  in  the  complimentary  for-  mulas,  there  would  be  some  laconic  bit  of  news  of  that  strange  family.  And  the  news,  even  if  it  was  insignificant,  would  always  seem  exceptional  to  us-above  all,  for  its  capacity  to  touch  off  my  mother's  memory  of  past  events  that  were  linked  to  it.  Her  memories  would  bob  to  the  surface  like  bits  of  cork  from  the  abyss  of  forgotten  waters  where,  among  the  weeds  of  the  bottom,  now  set  in  motion,  they  had  been  trapped  until  that  moment.  &quot;It  really  looks  as  if  Piero  had  straightened  himself  out  and  was  going  to  marry  a  young  lady  from  Florence,&quot;  my  mother  might  announce  to  us.  Then  she  would  add,  &quot;I  am  sorry  for  [REDACTED],  but,  considering  theante-  cedents  of  that  boy,  I  wouldn't  be  sure  of  anything  until  itis  done  and  con-  firmed  by  time.  Piero  reminds  me  of  his  Great-Grandfather  Salvanelli,  who  married  a  fine  woman  of  his  own  class  and  then  left  her  and  the  children  to  go  live  with  a  serving  maid  in  another  of  his  houses.  There  that  poor  child  was  born-that  little  Michele,  whom  God,  in  His  infinite  compassion,  recalled  to  Heaven  before  he  was  grown.  If  he  had  not  been  blessed  by  that  divine  interces-  sion,  what  name  would  he  have  had  as  a  man,  that  poor,  innocent  child  of  sin?&quot;  Sometimes  the  news  was  of  Matilda.  &quot;Matilda  has  left  off  with  her  horses  and  decided  to  breed  dogs,&quot;  my  mother  would  say.  &quot;She  wants  to  raise  them  for  profit,  and  she's  just  as  likely  as  not  to  make  a  go  of  it,  too.  She's  like  her  Aunt  Ghirlandina.  That  one  wasn't  a  woman  but  a  warrior.  Matilda  is  beautiful,  but  she's  cold.  I  doubt  if  she'll  ever  marry.  When  she  realizes  that  her  dogs  are  only  another  caprice,  like  the  horses,  she  will  dedicate  herself  to  the  farm  animals.&quot;     " b"We  even  heard,  sometimes,  of  the  domestic  staff  of  Villa  del  Poggio  and  learned  the  names  and  merits  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]'s  servants.  &quot;Aunt  [REDACTED]  is  very  sad  because  of  the  death  of  her  housekeeper,&quot;  my  mother  might  tell  us.  &quot;She  was  a  sweet  woman.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  has  promoted  Giovanna,  the  maid,  to  that  position.  Giovanna  hasn't  the  style,  of  course,  but  it  will  be  more  economical  for  [REDACTED].  She  is  rich,  that  poor  Ma-  rina,  but  she  has  plenty  of  expenses.&quot;  Later,  elaborating  on  this  point,  my  mother  and  the  notary  cousin  would  weave  so  fine  a  web  of  the  hypothetical  problems  they  believed  Aunt  [REDACTED]  must  face  in  trying  to  spend  her  money  the  best  way  that  they  would  both  end  by  feeling  relieved  at  not  being  in  the  same  situation  themselves.  Their  own  perpetual  problem  was  finding,  day  by  day,  ways  to  acquire  enough  money  to  live  in  decent  tranquillity.  But  both  of  them  considered  this  problem  infinitely  less  pressing  than  her  wealth  was  to  our  countess  aunt.  Such  were  the  gleanings  from  the  artistic  cards  of  Aunt  [REDACTED].  Many  times,  they  were  the  cause  of  mild  argu-  ments  between  my  mother  and  my  sis-  ters,  who  would  say  pointedly,  &quot;Matil-  da-yes,  she  had  a  modern  education,  and  not  a  sentimental  one!&quot;  (They  had  fabricated  a  charming  image  of  their  unknown  cousin,  which  neither  my  mother  nor  the  notary  shared.)  &quot;All  that  glitters  is  not  gold,&quot;  my  mother  would  answer.  The  truth  is  that  after  all  these  stories  and  speculations,  even  if  I  had  had  the  time,  I  would  never  have  stopped  at  Poggio  during  one  of  my  trips  south.  It  was  psychologically  impossible.  Without  having  formulated  the  idea,  I  felt  a  latent  danger  in  meeting  my  countess  aunt  and  her  children-the  danger,  that  is,  of  seeing  destroyed  by  that  meet-  ing  all  those  notions  and  images  that  were,  for  me,  a  large  part  of  my  re-  maining  heritage.  HE  twenty  years  between  wars  was  a  short  time  and  a  long  time.  They  were  twenty  years  of  struggle,  during  which  the  only  good  news  we  had  came  from  Poggio.  That  news  was  always  good,  for  us,  because  it  couldn't  beotherwise;  it  was  news  that  came  in  small  drops  from  the  happy  island  where  Aunt  [REDACTED]  reigned,  and  we  sipped  it  like  a  good  wine.  Then,  shortly  before  the  outbreak  of  the  Second  World  War,  we  heard  through  the  gossip  of  some  relatives  on  the  notary's  side  of  the  family  that  our  cousin  Matilda  had  eloped  with  the  son  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]'s  overseer-an  event  that  my  sisters  and  I  thought  delightful,  though  both  my  motherand  the  notary  were  horrified.  They  agreed  that  it  was  the  result  of  a  bad  education,  but  that,  even  so,  [REDACTED]  did  not  deserve  such  a  humiliation.  However,  their  dismay  was  owing  mostly  to  the  lack  of  any  family  precedents  to  apply  to  Matilda's  case.  Neither  Aunt  Ghirlandina  nor  Great-Grandfather  Salvanelli  could  serve  as  explanation  for  such  extraor-  dinary  behavior.  And  for  my  sisters  and  me  to  supply  excuses  and  extenuations  for  it  would  havebeen  to  hurt  and  sad-  den  my  mother.  So  we  were  silent,  even  though  Matilda's  daring  seemed  exem-  plary  and  heroic  to  us.  Even  it  was  a  thing  possible  only  to  the  rich,  we  re-  flected.  Our  life  continued  to  revolve  like  an  old  wheel  that,  dragged  along  by  an  ass,  rolls  uniformly  and  ceaselessly  around  an  old  well.  The  only  change  (and  it  should  have  made  usthink,  this  inexo-  rable  change)  was  the  passing  of  time  itself,  which  went  by  without  our  no-  ticing  it,  taking  with  it  our  years,  our  youth,  our  real  and  imagined  ills.  And  it  was  like  a  jolt  in  the  path  of  the  old  wheel  of  our  lives  when,  at  the  end  of  twenty  years,  the  Second  World  War  broke  out.  Written  communications  between  my  motherand  our  countess  aunt  were  interrupted  when  the  Allies  invaded  4974616c79,  and  the  Venetian  regions  were  cut  off  from  Tuscany.  There  the  war  bogged  down  inbattles  that  were  pro-  tracted  foot  by  foot,  hill  by  hill.  Aunt  [REDACTED],  at  Poggio,  was  in  the  battle  area  along  the  Gothic  Line.  Separated  from  my  family,  I  was  hiding  out  from  a  Nazi  arrest  order.  Our  home  in  Vicenza  was  destroyed  by  aerial  bomb-  ing;  all  my  books,  the  old  velvet  dra-  peries,  thestoves  that  gave  off  smoke,  and  the  washbasins  with  the  mark  &quot;Ex-  celsior!&quot;  disintegrated  under  two  di-  rect  hits.  My  motherand  sisters  were  unhurt,  and  when  I  finally  rejoined  them,  in  the  spring  of  1945,  our  relief  at  the  war's  end  was  mingled  with  the  knowledge  that  through  all  4974616c79  there  was  hunger  and  distress  and  the  stench  of  burning.  &quot;W  hat  do  you  think  has  be-  come  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]?&quot;  my  sisters  and  I  asked  each  other.  &quot;Could  she  have  lived  through  all  that  fighting  around  Poggio?&quot;  My  mother  was  tranquil.  &quot;Villa  del  Poggio  is  not  a  house  that  a  few  bombs  or  shells  can  destroy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Be-  sides,  let's  not  exaggerate.  It's  always  easierto  save  oneself  in  the  country  than  in  the  city.&quot;  AUNT  [REDACTED],  our  last  countess  aunt,  was  not  dead.  But  neither  was  she  the  Aunt  [REDACTED]  of  whom  my  mother  had  always  spoken-the  sover-  eign  of  vast  holdings  and  the  custodian  of  family  tradition.  Aunt  [REDACTED],  when  I  finally  met  her,  was  another  person,  different  from  what  I  had  imagined  for  so  many  years,  if  only  because  she  was  no  longer  at  Poggio.  The  villa,  despite  the  optimism  of  my  " b"mother,  had  not  survived  the  artillery  fire.  In  the  autumn  of  1945,  I  went,  at  last,  to  find  Aunt  [REDACTED].  The  news  of  her  that  had  reached  us  was  too  in-  direct,  too  vague  and  contradictory,  to  let  me  put  off  the  trip  any  longer.  We  knew  she  was  living  in  Florence-noth-  ing  more.  My  mother  urged  me  to  undertake  it,  having  not  the  slightest  notion  of  the  extreme  difficulties  of  travel  at  the  time.  She  was  assisted  in  her  urgings  by  the  notary,  who,  having  survived  and  found  himself  safe,  did  not  want  the  risk  or  the  expense  of  a  trip  he  could  transfer  to  me.  So,  that  fall,  not  a  day  went  by  that  he  didn't  hint  of  some  new  and  alarming  report  about  Aunt  [REDACTED],  and  press  me  to  start  south,  When  I  finally  set  out,  winter  was  imminent.  The  bridges  across  the  Po  were  made  of  boats  huddled  together,  trains  weren't  running,  and  motor  vehi-  cles  ran  on  the  gravel  of  railroad  beds,  because  the  highways  were  even  less  passable.  There  was  no  certainty  about  the  hours  of  departure  or  arrival  of  any  public  transport;  buses-by  which  I  travelled-were  worn-out  machines  that  had  been  put  back  together  with  that  spirit  of  initiative  and  fantasy  that  will  always  remain  for  me  the  most  pleasant  memory  of  those  times  of  emer-  gency.  Road  blocks  were  frequent  in  the  Emilian  countryside,  erected  by  peasants  without  work  who  had  been  stirred  up  by  the  Communists.  After  leaving  Bologna,  we  had  to  cross  over  the  Apennines  by  the  Porretta  Pass  to  get  to  Florence.  Along  the  way,  the  spectacle  of  the  ruin  of  war  was  in-  cessant-as  incessant  as  the  new  faith  in  life  plainly  felt  by  the  people.  Every-  thing  I  saw,  from  the  hardships  of  travel  to  the  hunger  and  rebellion  of  the  peas-  ants,  mirrored  not  anguish  but  robust-  ness-life  wanting  in  some  way  to  re-  assert  itself,  to  grapple  once  more  with  its  exigencies  and  its  moral  values.  The  people,  shaken  and  saddened,  had  found  themselves,  after  the  experience  of  suf-  fering,  more  vital  than  before.  We  all  felt  that  the  worst  was  over,  and  we  were  animated  by  the  faith,  grounded  in  hope,  that  is  at  the  root  of  human  things.  And  it  was  then,  seeing  what  I  saw  on  my  trip,  that  I  realized  I  had  re-  posed  too  long  within  the  aura  of  the  family's  past.  As  we  entered  Florence,  the  city  ap-  peared  eviscerated  in  the  center,  around  the  Ponte  Vecchio,  but  the  walls  that  were  left  standing  among  the  ruins  seemed  still  warm  with  the  life  of  the  people  who  had  lived  within  them.  There  were  bathtubs  dangling  in  air  and  chimneys  standing  alone;  I  saw  a  night  table  balanced  on  the  lip  of  a broken  floor,  a  lamp  still  clinging  to  it,  and  a  holy-water  font  on  the  wall  above  it.  TRACKED  down  Aunt  [REDACTED]  through  the  family  of  Piero's  wife,  and  finally  found  her  in  an  attic  on  the  Via  Guelfa.  Given  the  situation,  and  the  scarcity  of  lodgings,  her  two  white  rooms  under  the  slanting  eaves  of  the  roof  were  surprisingly  decent.  I  went  up  a  long,  dark  stairway  to  her  door,  and  there,  on  the  landing,  I  looked  out  a  window  at  a  view  that  widened  lumi-  nously  across  an  expanse  of  rooftops  that,  despite  all  that  had  happened,  were  still  the  roofs  of  Florence.  She  was,  as  I  have  said,  another  Aunt  [REDACTED].  She  was  different  from  what  I  had  expected  to  find;  not  worse,  in  any  sense,  but  rather  better-more  individu-  alistic  and  strong.  I  had  always  envi-     " b"sioned  her  as  having  the  physical  characteristics  of  my  mother,  but  I  found  that  actually  she  resem-  bled  her  obnoxious  and  pedantic  half  brother,  the  notary.  They  had  the  same  nose,  the  same  wrin-  kled  eye  pouches,  the  same  gray  eyes.  All  she  had  of  my  mother  was  her  fine  silver-white  hair.  She  was  somewhat  stubby,  and  made  to  seem  swollen  by  a  shapeless  knit-wool  dress.  Over  her  shoulders  she  wore  a  cheap  purple  shawl,  and  this  was  held  together  by  a  gold  pin  in  the  shape  of  a  count's  cor-  onet,  set  with  diamonds  at  its  nine  points.  In  the  little  room  where  she  received  me,  there  were  two  kitchen  chairs,  a  broken-down  armchair  filled  with  bundles  and  papers,  and  a  rare  eight-  eenth-century  console,  its  top  covered  by  a  piece  of  worthless  cracked  mar-  ble,  on  which  stood  a  little  alcohol  burner,  evidently  used  by  Aunt  [REDACTED]  to  cook  her  meals.  &quot;This  was  the  best  I  could  find  after  all  the  commotion,&quot;  she  said  ami-  ably.  We  sat  facing  each  other  in  the  two  kitchen  chairs,  and  she  asked  after  my  mother.  I  was  fascinated,  as  we  talked,  by  her  eyes,  for  now  I  saw  that  the  gray  that  seemed  so  cold  and  lifeless  in  the  notary's  eyes  was  penetrating  and  vital  in  hers.  She  referred  to  her  half  brother  with  a  short  gesture  of  commiseration.  &quot;Write  to  him?&quot;  she  mused  when  I  said  that  he  had  been  hoping  to  hear  from  her.  &quot;Where  should  I  start,  after  all  that  has  happened?  Hasn't  everyone  enough  trouble  of  his  own  without  my  adding  mine?&quot;  After  a  while,  she  made  coffee  for  us  on  the  alcohol  burner.  She  was  sharp,  energetic,  and  restless  in  all  she  did.  \xc2\xabTell  your  mother  and  my  brother  that  I  am  here,  alone  and  well,  after  staying  on  at  Poggio  up  to  the  last  possible  mo-  ment,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;My  children?  My  children  are  what  they  are-the  prod-  uct  of  an  old  race  made  irresponsible  by  too  many  comforts.  I  realize  that  now.  You  were  better  off.  Being  poor,  at  least  you  learned  to  work  and  have  a  head  of  your  own.  Piero  and  Matilda,  no.  Everything  is  destroyed  for  them,  and  they  can't  even  use  their  heads;  she  listens  to  her  husband,  a  Communist,  and  Piero  listens  to  no  one,  If  they  were  only  Communists  from  conviction!  But  no,  they're  Communists  because  they're  afraid,  and  they  think  they  can  save  themselves  that  way.  Idiots!  &quot;You  know,&quot;  she  went  on,  sitting  near  me  again  and  taking  my  hand,  &quot;the  lands  are  still  mine,  for  the  most  part,  and  I  don't  have  the  debts  the  children  have.  They're  up  to  their  necks  in  debt.  That's  why  they're  shouting  for  revolu-  tion,  and  calling  me  a  tyrant  and  a  miser  and  a  robber  of  the  poor.  But  I  was  the  one  who  stayed  on  the  land  with  the  peasants,  to  look  after  my  home  and  my  people,  while  it  rained  bombs.  To  my  self-respecting  peasants,  I'm  still  the  Countess,  because  I'm  a  country  woman  and  the  head  of  Poggio-I  am  one  of  them.  Now  that  the  villa  and  vineyards  are  gone,  my  children  want  to  sell  ev-  erything  that  is  left,  because  they  can't  bear  the  annoyance  of  beginning  again  and  putting  order  among  the  ruins.  But  not  I!  I  won't  sell  afootof  land.  I  will  rebuild  my  property,  stone  by  stone.  This  is  what  your  family  was  faced  with  after  the  other  war,  and  if  today  you  haven't  a  field  to  your  name,  it's  because  they  thought  it  was  too  much  trouble  to  take  care  of  their  fields  and  get  them  producing  again.  Your  grandfather  sold  his  property  so  that  he  could  live  in  the  city.  He  wanted  to  live  on  the  dead  income  from  bonds!  Why,  bonds  are  like  straws  in  the  wind-now  high,  now  low,  all  a  caprice.  The  land,  no,  caro  mio.  Land  is  land,  and  it  stays  still.&quot;  As  she  spoke,  her  features  wrinkled  and  grimaced  in  exasperation.  &quot;I'm  old  and  tired,&quot;  she  continued,  &quot;but  I  haven't  sold  this  [REDACTED];  and  she  tapped  her  head.  &quot;I  think  like  my  father,  and  as  long  as  I  live  I'll  work  only  to  re-  build-rebuild.&quot;  She  became  calmer,  and  her  tone  softened.  &quot;You  never  saw  Poggio,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  was  caught  between  two  fires.  First  I  had  the  Germans  in  the  house,  then  the     " b"others.  They  tore  the  leather  from  my  chairs  to  repair  their  cots,  and  used  my  Flemish  linens  to  clean  their  guns.  They  broke  every  bit  of  porcelain  I  had,  and  spread  it  as  gravel  on  the  drive  they  made  for  their  trucks.  I  stayed  on  through  it  all,  living  in  the  cellar  with  Giovanna.  The  soldiers  ruined  the  in-  side,  and  the  bombs  finished  the  house  itself,  except  for  one  wing,  which  is  still  standing.  This  was  saved,  too,  this  console,&quot;  she  said,  pointing  to  the  piece  with  the  broken  marble  on  its  top.  &quot;And  the  beds!&quot;  she  exclaimed,  almost  gaily.  &quot;''The  beds  of  my  countess  aunt!  Tell  your  mother.  How  we  used  to  laugh  to-  gether  at  the  enormous  bed  that  little  old  Countess  slept  in!&quot;  Aunt  [REDACTED]  suddenly  got  up  and  opened  the  door  to  her  other  room,  and  there  were  the  beds.  They  filled  the  whole  room.  They  had  been  put  to-  gether  to  form  one  huge  triumph  of  a  bed,  and  in  that  attic,  in  that  ruined  city,  transcending  war  and  carnage,  they  conveyed  the  solemnity  and  matri-  monial  grandeur  of  the  bed  once  used  by  the  Counts  of  Valvecchia.  &quot;Now  I  sleep  there,&quot;  my  Aunt  [REDACTED]  conclud-  ed.  &quot;There  I  can  sleep  quietly,  with  quiet  dreams  and  no  remorse.  When  I  die,  they'll  go  to  your  family.  My  children  are  not  worthy  of  them.  Tell  your  mother  this.  And  you-when  will  you  marry?  If  you  don't  marry  and  have  children,  who  will  inherit  these  beds  someday?&quot;  She  was  laughing  jovially,  but  she  was  serious,  Y  mother,  to  whom  I  gave  this  message  on  my  return,  was  made  happy  by  it,  and  immediately  wrote  to  thank  our  countess  aunt.  But  she,  de-  spite  the  letters  of  my  mother  and  the  protests  of  the  notary,  remained  im-  patient  with  all  correspondence.  Her  answers  came  less  and  less  often,  un-  til  they  stopped  altogether,  and  there  were  not  even  postcards  on  Christmas,  Easter,  and  the  Feast  of  [REDACTED]  Lucia.  My  mother  died  in  1950,  understand-  ing,  I  think,  the  silence  of  Aunt  [REDACTED]  but  nevertheless  regretting  the  loss  of  thislast  tie  with  her  childhood.  She  died  in  a  little  modern  apartment,  sur-  rounded  by  what  we  had  been  able  to  dig  out  of  the  rubble  of  our  old  house.  Among  this  residue  was  the  dresser  that  she  hoped  would  someday  sharea  room  once  more  with  its  matching  beds.  But  the  beds  themselves  my  mother  died  without  seeing  again.  My  sisters  lived  on  in  the  little  apart-  ment  after  my  mother's  death,  But  I  left  the  lands  of  my  origin,  tearing  away,  finally,  from  the  useless,  dead  roots  of  my  past.  I  married  eventually,  and  I  now  have  two  daughters,  here  in  this  [REDACTED],  where  I  have  come  to  live.  I  have  informed  my  countess  aunt  of  the  birth  of  each  child,  and  since  I  have  had  no  hint  of  an  answer,  I  am  disposed  to  think  she  is  still  alive,  intent  on  herland  and  on  reconquering  it,  foot  by  foot.  And  I  have  no  doubt  that  when  it  is  time,  the  beds  she  promised  me  will  ar-  rive.  I  am  sure  that,  oneday  or  another,  those  two  beds  will  reach  me  even  if  they  have  to  be  swept  up  into  the  clouds,  like  the  Holy  House  of  Loreto,  to  get  here.  Perhaps  it  is  a  consolation  to  Aunt  [REDACTED]  to  know  that  I  am  here,  and  that,  unlike  her  children,  who  sold  their  heads,  I  can  at  least  claim  to  have  brought  mine  with  me.  And,  bald  and  gray  as  it  now  is,  it  is  one  of  the  few  things  I  really  possess,  along  with  the  experience  of  poverty  that  she  con-  sidered  an  advantage  to  me.  I  have,  too,  the  famous  dresser  that  was  in  the  room  of  my  sisters  in  Vicenza.  Old  and  bat-  tered  by  its  adventures,  it  fell  to  the  younger  of  my  sisters  after  my  mother's  death,  but  I  wanted  it,  and  I  exchanged  a  table  and  two  chairs  for  it,  and  brought  it  to  [REDACTED].  My  daughters  now  use  that  dresser.  They  sleep  at  present,  as  my  sisters  once  did,  in  beds  without  footboard  or  head-  board.  But  they  know  that  when  the  beds  of  my  countess  aunt  arrive,  they  shall  have  them.  'There  is  time.  My  daughters  are  still  children,  and  will  have  to  grow  somewhat  to  occupy  ade-  quately  the  enormous  beds  of  those  de-  funct  Countesses.  My  wife  is  happy  in  anticipation,  and  the  thought  that  my  daughters  will  one  day  sleep  where  my  sisters  were  never  able  to  sleep  is  a  con-  solation  to  me.  How  happy  my  mother  would  be  to  know  that  her  grand-  daughters  will  have  those  beds!  And  what  an  array  of  hopes  she  would  nour-  ish  for  them!  I  would  have  to  tell  her,  &quot;No,  Mama,  put  your  heart  at  rest.  Your  granddaughters  will  not  become  countesses.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  of  Poggio  was  truly  the  last  countess  of  our  fam-  ily.&quot; "