 b"WHEN  I  was  eleven  years  old,  I  was  sent  to  a  boarding  school  for  girls  at  a  place  I  will  call  Lypiatt,  on  the  east  coast  of  England,  a  hundred  miles  from  home.  It  wasn't  at  all  a  bad  school.  We  were  well  fed,  and  of  the  few  rules  only  one  gave  me  any  trouble.  We  were  not  permitted  to  faint.  The  usual  fainting  season  was  the  summer  term,  and  the  place  for  faint,  ing  was  the  seniors'  assembly  hall,  where  evening  concerts  were  given  every  sec-  ond  Tuesday.  Most  of  the  time,  juniors  and  seniors  were  segregated-we  jun-  iors  on  the  sea  front,  in  what  had  once  been  a  luxury-trade  hotel,  the  seniors  in  handsome  red  brick  buildings  a  mile  or  so  inland-but  on  alternate  Tuesday  nights  we  all  came  together  in  the  as-  sembly  hall.  I  doubt  whether  any  of  us  younger  ones  enjoyed  the  concerts  much.  They  began  after  our  normal  bedtime,  and  the  hall  was  not  large  enough  to  accommodate  the  whole  school  in  any  comfort.  On  warm  eve-  nings-and  the  concerts  always  seemed  to  take  place  on  warm  evenings-the  atmosphere  was  often  stifling.  But  to  faint  during  a  concert-or,  for  that  matter,  to  be  left  behind  at  the  hotel  because  you  had  fainted  the  last  time-  was  looked  upon  by  everybody,  teachers  and  pupils  alike,  as  an  appalling  dis-  grace,  akin  to  admitting  yourself  unfit  to  be  out  of  diapers.  My  own  fainting  problem  was,  I  fancy,  worse  than  most  of  the  others',  because  it  arose  twice  as  often.  I  never  felt  like  fainting  at  concerts,  but  during  my  last  term  in  the  junior  section,  when  I  was  thirteen,  it  was  all  I  could  do  not  to  faint  every  Sunday  morning  in  church.  Looking  back  now,  I  realize  that  the  sensation  I  thought  was  faintness  may  not  have  been  anything  of  the  kind,  but  at  the  time  I  was  convinced  that  it  was,  and  only  the  fearof  what  my  peers  would  say  to  me-at  thirteen,  one  is  aperson  of  some  stature  in  a  junior  school-kept  me  from  finding  out  from  experience.  The  school  was  undenominational,  but  once  a  week,  whatever  our  views  or  those  of  our  parents,  we  all  had  to  go  to  church.  The  seniors  had  a  small  chapel  of  their  own;  we  juniors  went  to  churches  in  town.  Every  Sunday  morn-  ing,  Catholics,  Jews,  Presbyterians,  and  various  other  groups  were  driven  off  to  their  placesof  worship  in  a  fleet  of  taxis.  'The  Church  of  England  con-   tingent,  to  which  I  belonged,  walked;  it  was  far  the  largest,  because,  in  accord-  ance  with  normal  British  practice  in  these  circumstances,  it  included  every-  body  left  over.  We  attended  Lypiatt  Cathedral.  The  town  of  Lypiatt  is  built  on  one  of  the  few  hills  that  rise  out  of  the  fenlands.  In  the  Middle  Ages,  Lypiatt  was  a  large  and  important  city,  which  accounts  for  the  size  of  its  great  cathe-  dral,  but  by  the  twentieth  century  it  was  no  bigger  than  many  other  flourishing  market  towns.  The  cathedral  (its  foun-  dation  stone  was  laid  in  1086)  is  at  the  top  of  Lypiatt  Hill.  Several  steep  streets,  two  of  which  are  really  flights  of  long,  shallow  steps,  lead  up  to  it.  The  guides  like  to  describe  it  as  several  cathedrals,  rather  than  one,  for  each  generation  has  either  added  to  the  work  of  its  predecessors  or  torn  down  parts  of  the  structure  and  built  anew.  (One  of  the  men  who  did  a  lot  of  rebuilding  was  a  duke  who  married  Chaucer's  sister-in-law.)  The  domi-  nant  style  is  Gothic,  and  the  outside  is  impressive.  But  the  inside  is  disap-  pointing,  at  first.  Nave  and  transept,  chancel  and  chapel  are  lined  to  the  last  foot  of  wall  space  with  tombs  and  busts  and  carved-marble  figures.  Whole  families  are  depicted  in  these  memorials,  some  of  the  figures  being  larger  than  life-size,  and  all  are  dressed  in  the  cor-  rect  Sunday  clothes  of  their  day.  Wigs,  ruffles,  buckles,  and  crinolines  have  been  carefully  reproduced,  and  here  and  there  among  Victorian  busi-  ness  suits  a  winged  fe-  male  in  a  stone  nightdress  points  firmly  upward.  All  this  weighty  statuary  gives  the  cathedral  a  perpetually  crowded  feeling;  even  when  almost  no  one  is  in  it,  the  place  seems  full  of  people,  and  of  animals,  too.  Several  memori-  al  groups  include  the  family  dog.  There  are  lion  cubs,  falcons,  and  doves;  there  are  even  mice  and  lizards,  and  a  fox  playing  a  harp  on  top  ofa  pillar.  One  of  the  most  notable  character-  istics  of  the  cathedral  is  the  number  of  devils  in  it.  They  are  on  the  window  frames,  in  pier-cap  designs,  on  bosses,  and  on  corbels.  There  is  almost  no-  where  you  can  look  without  seeing  a  small,  wicked  face  looking  back.  Usual-  ly,  little  of  a  devil  is  depicted  besides  his  head,  and  this  is  often  inappropri-  ately  crowned  with  a  halo  of  water-lily  leaves  or  set  off  by  a  rich  bunch  of  grapes.  In  contrast  to  the  expressions  of  colorless  piety  worn  by  the  effigies  " b"crowding  the  aisles,  the  devils'  faces  are  full  of  character.  Most  of  them  are  grinning  broadly,  and  those  thataren't  are  looking  sly,  as  if  they  had  just  heard  a  good  story  that  they  had  not  yet  had  an  opportunity  to  pass  on.  Historians  explain  these  profane  presences  in  ca-  thedrals  by  saying  that  they  are  the  work  of  medieval  cartoonists  who  intended  them  as  caricatures  of  certain  local  citi-  zens.  There  must,  I  think,  have  been  a  great  many  unpopular  people  living  in  Lypiatt  while  its  cathedral  was  being  built.  The  pews  we  juniors  occupied  were  in  the  north  transept.  'They  were  high  and  massive  and  made  of  dark  wood,  and  on  their  ends  were  the  remains  of  carvings  of  the  seven  deadly  sins  and  the  seven  cardinal  virtues,  one  sin  or  one  virtue  to  a  pew.  Cromwell's  sol-  diers  had  defaced  them,  attacking  the  virtues  first.  'There  was  almost  nothing  left  of  Faith,  Hope,  Charity,  [REDACTED],  Temperance,  Chastity,  and  Fortitude,  whereas  one  could  still  see  varying  amounts  of  Pride,  Wrath,  Envy,  Lust,  Gluttony,  Avarice,  and  Sloth.  Avarice  was  the  best  preserved.  He  had  a  wide,  open  mouth,  small  eyes,  and  beautifully  curled  nostrils.  It  was  possible,  if  one  was  careful,  to  balance  one's  collection  penny  on  the  hump  of  his  tongue,  and  leave  it  there  until  the  usher  came  for  it.  From  where  I  liked  to  sit,  next  to  Avarice,  I  could  see  three  devils,  one  mouse,  the  harp-playing  fox,  and  a  small  bear  in  the  act  of  scratching  himself  between  the  ears  with  his  left  front  paw.  If  the  girl  sitting  at  my  end  ofthe  row  two  pews  ahead  of  me  happened  to  be  short,  I  could  also  catch  a  glimpse  of  a  little  dog  that  sat  at  the  foot  of  the  tomb  of  a  family  named  Croker-Pyd-  doke.  This  dog  had  a  pinched,  sad  face,  as  if  attending  on  the  Croker-Pyddokes  for  so  many  decades  had  sapped  all  his  small  vitality.  Beyond  him,  through  an  archway,  I  could  see  an  Etruscan-style  sarcophagus,  on  thetop  of  which  a  stout  middle-aged  couple  reclined  under  a  terra-cotta  counterpane.  'The  counter-  pane  was  too  short  for  them;  all  four  of  their  feet  stuck  out.  In  our  transept,  we  could  hear  very  little  of  a  service,  and  could  see  none  of  it.  The  only  intimation  we  had  that  proceedings  had  started  was  when,  somewhere  far  off,  a  voice  began  to  intone  in  that  plaintive  pitch  peculiar  to  minor  canons.  'This  sound  was  followed  by  the  faint  cries  of  a  choir,  in  whose  tiny  efforts  the  congregation  was  not  expected  to  join.  We  never  thought,  however,  that  the  hours  we  spent  in  Lypiatt  Cathedral  were  dull.  Our  school  discipline  was  based  on  keeping " b"us  on  the  run  all  day  long,  so  we  wel-comed  the  restful  time  in  the  cathedral.  We  stood  or  sat  or  knelt  as  expected,  but  we  felt  as  free  as  if  we  were  not  in  church  at  all.  EPIATT  CaTHEpRAL  had  its  own  dis-  tinctive  smell.  It  was  as  if  the  prayers  of  the  faithful  throughout  his-  tory  had  not  all  ascended  to  God  but  had  become  wedged  in  the  rafters  and  gone  bad  up  there.  Cleaning  a  cathedral  is  an  expensive  business,  and  what  we  smelled  was,  I  suppose,  a  combination  of  dust,  stale  air,  damp  woollen  cloth-  ing,  mothballs,  and  candle  grease.  It  was  this  smell,  more  than  any-  thing  else,  that  first  made  me  want  to  faint.  One  Sunday  morning,  early  in  my  last  summer  term  as  a  junior,  I  was  late  starting  for  church,  and  to  make  sure  of  my  seat  next  to  Avarice  I  ran  most  of  the  way  up  one  of  the  steep  stairway  streets.  I  got  the  seat  all  right,  but  after  I  had  settled  myself  into  it,  breathing  hard,  I  realized  that  the  smell  of  the  place  was  almost  over-  powering.  My  head  ached  and  I  felt  dizzy.  As  the  service  proceeded,  I  felt  better  and  worse  by  turns.  In  the  mid-  dle  of  the  sermon,  the  devils  and  the  bear  and  the  Croker-Pyddoke  dog  be-  gan  to  move.  'The  bear  scratched  him-  self,  the  dog  yawned,  and  one  of  the  devils  winked.  Their  movements  were  extremely  slight-almost  impercepti-  ble-but  they  were  perfectly  clear  to  me,and  I  found  them  fascinating.  I  was  thinking  that  I  had  never  enjoyed  a  sermon  so  much  when  it  occurred  to  me  that  what  was  really  happening  was  not  that  the  animals  and  devils  had  ac-  quired  consciousness  but  that  I  was  about  to  lose  mine.  (One  of  the  more  .f  regular  concert  fainters  had  told  me  that  her  only  warning  was  that  the  floor  beneath  her  feet  seemed  to  move.)  'The  floor  was  steady  enough  in  my  case,  but  all  the  same  I  was  seized  with  panic.  To  faint  now,  at  my  advanced  age,  was  more  than  my  reputation  would  stand.  At  thirteen  years,  one  really  is  too  young  to  have  to  grapple  on  a  weekly  basis  with  the  temptations  of  the  under-  world.  For  the  rest  of  that  term,  I  knew  no  peace.  Every  Sunday  morn-  ing,  some,  if  not  all,  of  the  devils  and  animals  that  I  could  see  scratched,  winked,  shook  themselves,  or  otherwise  made  me  advances  that  I  found  de-  lightful  and  all  but  irresistible.  Some-  times  the  pew  ends  joined  in  (all  that  was  left  of  Lust  was  a  claw,  which  flexed  itself),  and  the  effect  would  have  been  like  a  nightmare  if  I  had  not  found  it  so  enchanting.  Although  I  dared  not  faint,  I  could  not  bring  myself  not  to" b"look  at  the  carvings.  I  always  looked,  hoping  as  I  did  so  that  they  would  come  alive.  I  knew  that  if  I  concentrated  on  listening  to  the  clerical  goings  on  be-  yond  the  archway,  I  should  be  all  right,  but  I  did  not  want  to  be  all  right  that  much.  When  the  devils  and  animals  moved,  they  involved  me,  in  a  way  that  was  more  disturbing  and  more  exhila-  rating  than  any  experience  I  had  previ-  ously  known.  I  longed  to  watch  them  past  the  point  of  safety-that  is,  of  con-  sciousness-but  I  did  not  have  sufficient  courage.  I  could  never  quite  let  go.  I  did  not  tell  any  of  my  friends  what  went  on  in  the  cathedral.  I  doubt  whether,  even  if  I  had  wanted  to,  I  could  have  found  the  words.  Attending  church  became  more  and  more  exhaust-  ing  for  me  as  the  term  progressed-so  much  so  that  the  matron,  a  nearsighted  woman  who  rarely  noticed  whether  we  looked  ill  or  well,  put  me  on  a  special  diet.  N  September,  thinner  for  the  sum-  mer's  experience  inspite  of  the  be-  lated  diet,  I  entered  the  senior  section.  From  then  on,  I  spent  my  Sunday  mornings  in  a  building  designed  to  serve,  without  tangible  aids  to  inspira-  tion,  the  spiritual  needs  of  all.  The  chapel  on  the  senior  campus  was  barren  of  carving  and  ornament,  and  was  per-  manently  filled  with  icy  fresh  air  that  seemed  to  blow  without  impediment  straight  from  [REDACTED].  In  due  course,  I  stopped  thinking  about  the  sins  and  the  devils,  but  I  never  went  inside  Lypiatt  Cathedral  again.  I  do  not  suppose  I  would  ever  have  remembered  the  events  of  that  summer  if  I  had  not  dreamed  of  them,  vividly,  one  night  many  years  later,  in  [REDACTED].  There  I  was,  back  in  theold  cathedral,  sitting  up  close  to  Avarice,  smelling  the  same  heady  smell,  and  hearing  the  same  distant,  religious  noises.  There  were  the  carvings,  just  as  I  had  known  them-  the  sins  and  the  devils,  the  little  dog,  the  couple  in  bed-and  inside  me  there  was  the  same  excitement  and  apprehension.  And  then,  quite  suddenly,  I  realized  that  this  time  I  had  nothing  to  fear.  I  was  married,  and  a  married  woman  is  free  to  faint  as  often  as  she  chooses."