 b"IT  upset  me  a  little  that  my  father  didn't  like  Linda.  He  really  shouldn't  have  told  me,  because  she  was  my  best  friend,  and,  of  course,  I  toldher.  She  didn't  seem  very  affected  by  the  news,  although  I  embroidered  it  a  little,  just  to  make  it  interest  her.  I  could  hardly  understand  that  she  didn't  mind,  I  would  have  minded  ter-  ribly  if  her  father  hadn't  liked  me.  My  father  didn't  like  Linda;  he  said  she  was  sneaky-the  makings  of  a  bitch.  Of  course,  he  said  it  to  comfort  me  when  Linda  had  hurt  me  somehow:  broken  a  date,  or  got  dressed  up  when  she'd  promised  not  to,  or  stayed  home  from  school  without  telling  me  she  was  going  to,  or  neglected  to  call  up  in  the  evening  for  our  nightly  harangue.  I  never  committed  crimes  like  these  against  our  friendship,  and  was  there-  fore  doubly  hurt  when  she  did.  This  was  a  couple  of  years  ago;  we  were  fourteen.  I  would  unhappily  report  to  my  par-  ents  these  bits  of  unfaithfulness,  and  they  would  comfort  me.  Thus  it  came  out  one  night  that  my  father  disliked  Linda.  I  was  somewhat  dismayed,  and  could  hardly  wait  to  discuss  it  with  her.  I  was  just  a  little  pleased,  too.  Linda  called  my  parents  by  their  first  names-Jerry  and  Marian.  My  moth-  er,  who  was  very  fond  of  Linda,  had  invited  her  to  do  so.  My  father  had  not,  but  Linda  assumed  the  privilege-an  assumption  I  found  very  daring.  I  would  not  have  called  her  mother,  and  certainly  never  her  for-  bidding  father,  anything  but  Mr.  and  Mrs.  But  they,  of  course,  were  different.  Not  as  &quot;liberal&quot;  as  my  family,  Linda  called  it.  &quot;See,&quot;  Linda  said  when  I  told  her  what  my  father  had  said.  &quot;That's  what  I  mean.  Daddy  would  never  dream  of  liking  or  not  liking  you.  We're  not  people  to  my  par-  ents.  Jerry  at  least  sees  that  I  have  things  that  are  bad.  I'd  much  rather  your  parents  didn't  like  me  than  have  them  think  I'm  just  a  thing.&quot;  Linda  was  the  one  who  had  first  brought  it  to  my  atten-  tion  that  my  parents  were  &quot;liberal.&quot;  She  always  saw  things  like  that.  I  suppose  that  was  why  she  could  call  them  Jerry  and  Marian,  in-  stead  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  When  I  was  thirteen,  my   mother  (I  had  just  stopped  calling  her  &quot;Mommy&quot;  and  started  &quot;Mother&quot;)  had  hesitantly  suggested  that  I  call  her  and  Daddy  by  their  first  names.  I  had  tried-I  thought  it  was  quite  adult-  and  I  had  failed.  Probably  I  was  too  young  to  cope  with  that  personal  a  re-  lation  with  my  own  parents.  Still,  Linda  impressed  me  terribly.  Linda  was  spending  the  night  with  me  when  I  told  her  my  father  didn't  like  her.  Just  before  we  went  to  sleep,  she  said,  &quot;Anyhow,  I  don't  really  think  it's  true.  I  think  he  does  like  me.  He  prob-  ably  wanted  to  make  you  feel  good.&quot;  We  lay  for  a  moment  pondering  this.  I  said,  &quot;Mm-hmm,&quot;  agreeing.  (My  father's  reason  for  having  said  what  he  did  didn't  matter,  since  I  was  no  longer  hurt.  Linda  and  I  were  intimate  again,  and  I  wanted  everyone  to  love  her  as  I  did.)  Then  she  turned  over  with  her  face  to  the  wall,  curled  up,  and  went  to  sleep.  She  was  always  the  one  to  end  our  conversations  at  night,  even  on  the  phone.  Even  when  I  still  wanted  to  talk.  Linda  always  woke  up  first,  and  she  did  that  next  morning,  although  it  was  a  Saturday.  This  was  because,  at  her  house,  the  younger  children  would  get  up  and  yell,  and  wake  her.  My  father  and  I  usually  slept  late  on  school  holi-  days.  He  was  a  teacher,  so  he  and  I  were  free  to,  while  my  mother  had  to  go  to  work-even  on  Saturdays.  She  re-  sented  it  a  little,  and  she  would  joke  about  it.  It  was  a  great  joke  between  my  father  and  me  that  we  both  &quot;went  to  school.&quot;  By  the  time  I  got  up  that  next  day,  though,  my  father  was  up,  in  his  bath-  robe,  and  he  and  Linda  were  having  breakfast  in  the  kitchen,  without  talking.  Actually,  my  father  was  a  little  embar-  rassed  by  me  and  my  friends.  He  said  that  we  were  too  &quot;bright,&quot;  and  that  he  didn't  mean  &quot;intelligent.&quot;  He  said  this  to  my  mother  once,  to  explain  why  he  had  lost  his  temper  at  Linda's  and  my  giggling;  sometimes,  he  said,  he  be-  came  so  embarrassed  that  he  lost  his  temper.  He  and  Linda  were  drinking  coffee,  which  I  hated.  I  couldn't  get  used  to  it.  It  was  too  bitter.  No  amount  of  cream  and  sugar  could  cover  the  bitterness.  Linda  said  that  if  you  took  enough  cream  and  sugar  in  the  beginning,  to  drown  out  the  terrible  taste,  you  got  used  to  it,  and  finally  you  liked  it.  She  liked  it;  she  drank  coffee  all  the  time  now.  This  was  why  I  said  I  would  take  a  cup.  My  mother  would  have  said,  &quot;But,  darling,  you  don't  like  coffee,&quot;  and  I  would  have  had  to  lie  and  say  I  drank  it  often  away  from  home.  But  my  father  didn't  notice.  He  kissed  me,  and  when  Linda  poured  out  a  cup  of  coffee  and  handed  it  to  me,  he  didn't  pay  any  attention.  I  tried  to  drink  it  as  it  was,  being  much  too  embarrassed  to  load  it  with  cream.  It  was  awful.  Linda  smiled  at  the  faces  I  made.  I  supposed  she  was  being  &quot;bright.&quot;  &quot;Have  a  little  coffee  with  your  sugar,&quot;  she  said  when  I  put  in  the  first  lump,  so  I'd  evenbeen  discouraged  on  the  sugar.  The  coffee  was  bitter.  My  father  laughed  at  Linda's  joke,  which  I  suppose  was  not  as  old  in  his  circles  as  it  was  in  ours.  Pretty  soon  he  went  up-  stairs  to  take  a  bath  and  get  dressed,  and  Linda  said  we  would  do  the  dishes.  We  sang  popular  songs  while  we  did.  ATER  on,  Linda,  wan-  dering  through  the  house  in  her  slip  and  an  old,  old  yellow-and-black  shirt  of  my  father's  that  hung  to  her  knees,  found  the  great  big  silver  cardboard  Christmas  box  in  which  my  mother  kept  old  photo-  graphs.  Linda  had  never  " b"seen  all  those  photographs.  She  would  never  have  found  the  box,  except  that  I  was  in  the  bathtub  and  she  was  poking  around  in  my  mother's  room,  fiddling  with  knobs  and  ashtrays  and  envelopes  and  boxes  until  I  came  out.  Once,  I  had  been  terribly  embarrassed  because  some  friend  to  whom  I  had  been  showing  the  pictures  had  come  across  one,  an  old  brown  snapshot  of  my  mother,  skiing  somewhere  in  Europe,  posing  with  only  ski  pants  on  and  her  breastsbare.  It  was  an  awful  moment-worse  than  the  dis-  covery  of  some  pictures  in  which  both  my  parents  were  at  parties,  leaning  against  dark  walls,  dressed  peculiarly  as  they  did  in  the  twenties,  and  grinning  drunkenly  or  drinking  and  kissing.  The  pictures  were  different  from  the  ones  Linda  and  I  and  our  friends  took  at  parties;  they  were  somehow  more  seri-  ous.  But  the  one  of  my  mother  skiing  practically  naked  was  the  reason  I  had  more  or  less  hidden  the  box.  I  was  afraid  of  that  picture.  Once  in  a  while,  alone,  I  would  go  through  the  box  and  find  it.  My  mother  saw  me  looking  at  it  once,  and  didn't  say  anything.  But  she  had  taken  the  box,  later,  and  put  it  under  lots  of  other  things  on  a  shelf  in  her  room.  She  didn't  understand  that  I,  too,  wanted  to  hide  it.  Linda  found  the  box,  however.  When  I  came  out,  she  was  studying,  briefly,  one  after  another,  a  lot  of  brown  pictures  of  people  I  didn't  even  know.  She  had  put  aside  three:  the  one  of  my  mother  skiing;  a  formal  photograph  of  my  mother  as  a  young  girl  with  long,  long  hair,  her  shoulders  draped  in  scarves,  and  posing  as  though  she  were  looking  at  herself  in  a  mirror,  her  eyes  half  closed  and  her  eyebrows  raised  (she  still  assumed  that  expression  when  she  looked  in  the  mirror);  and  a  snapshot  of  my  father,  at  about  thirty,  with  lots  of  blond  hair  (long  since  gone),  looking  like  a  movie  star.  He  had  been  a  very  handsome  young  man.  She  had  reserved  these  three  pictures  for  discus-  sion  with  me.  I  ignored  them  until  she  was  ready  for  them,  and  we  went  laughing  through  the  rest  of  the  box.  As  she  looked  at  each  picture,  Linda  would  put  it  aside,  onto  the  bed,  and  when  she  finally  finished  the  whole  pile,  she  threw  them  back  into  the  box-all  except  the  threeshe  had  held  out-closed  it,  put  it  on  the  table,  re-  settled  herself,  and  picked  up  the  three  most  interesting  pictures.  I  definitely  agreed  with  Linda  that  they  were  the  three  most  interesting.  &quot;This  is  Jerry,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  Mari-  an,  and  Marian.&quot;  I  desperately  thought  of  telling  her  that  the  woman  skiing  was  not  my  mother,  but  it  quite  obviously  was.  &quot;How  come  your  mother's  not  wear-  ing  anything?&quot;  Linda  said.  I  shrugged  my  shoulders.  &quot;She's  wearing  pants,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  suppose  it  gets  warm  when  you're  skiing.&quot;  &quot;'There's  snow,&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;Yes,  but  that  doesn't  mean  it's  cold.  There's  snow  there  all  summer  long.  The  sun  makes  it  hot.&quot;  &quot;Well,  anyway,&quot;  Linda  said,  &quot;was  she  all  by  herself?&quot;  &quot;Idoubt  it,&quot;  I  said,  suddenly  haughty.  &quot;'You  know  my  parents.&quot;  'Yes,  that's  what  I  mean,&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;My  mother  would  never  go  around  with  no  top  on.  Even  in  the  house.&quot;  She  stared  at  the  picture  for  a  while.  &quot;I  guess  that's  just  the  way  they  are.&quot;  &quot;Well,  she  doesn't  do  it  now,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;No,  but  she  could.  That's  what  I  mean  about  your  parents.&quot;&quot;  She  used  the  word  &quot;liberal&quot;  again,  and  I  picked  up  the  other  picture  of  my  mother,.  Linda  put  aside  the  first,  and  looked  with  me  at  the  second.  &quot;W  hat  is  she  wearing?&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;Is  it  a  formal?&quot;  &quot;No.  That's  the  way  they  used  to  make  them  look,  to  take  pictures.  Some  kind  of  stuff.&quot;  &quot;She  looks  beautiful,&quot;  Linda  said.  Sort  of  aesthetic.&quot;  &quot;She  wasn't  as  fat,&quot;  I  said.  My  fa-  " b"ther  and  I  had  another  joke  against  my  mother-her  weight.  Linda  said,  &quot;She's  not  really  so  fat  now.&quot;  &quot;'That's  because  she  wears  a  girdle.  She  doesn't  look  like  that  any  more.&quot;  We  moved  on  to  the  final  snapshot-  my  father  young  and  handsome,  in  a  tweed  jacket,  leaning  against  an  iron  gate  somewhere.  &quot;I  didn't  know  Jerry  ever  looked  like  that,&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;He  looked  like  Tyrone  Power.&quot;  &quot;I  don'tthink  so,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  think  helooked  better.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.  He  looked  taller  than  he  is  now.  He  looked  awfully  .  .  .  sort  of  sexy.&quot;  She  blushed  a  little,  just  be-  cause  it  was  my  father,  who  now  made  one  think  more  of  Santa  Claus  than  of  sex.  I  laughed.  But  the  picture  was  sort  of  sexy.  &quot;Don't  tell  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  thinks  enough  of  himself  as  it  is.&quot;  This  was  a  joke  between  my  mother  and  me-my  father's  good  opinion  of  himself.  My  mother  would  occasionally  tell  him  he  was  getting  old  and  fat,  and  ask  him  where  his  hair  had  gone.  And  he  would  tell  her,  not  as  jokingly,  that  she  was  fat  and  couldn't  cook  any  better  than  when  they  first  were  married.  All  these  things  I  considered  family  intimacies,  and  I'd  never  told  them  to  anyone-not  even  to  Linda.  &quot;Does  he  mind  getting  old,  really?&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;I  mean,  does  he  talk  about  it?&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  stupid.  I  was  only  kid-  ding.  ...  Well,  I  suppose  everybody  minds.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  because  he  was  so  good-look-  ing  and  everything.  I  wonder  why  he  married  Marian.&quot;  Linda  studied  the  two  pictures  of  my  mother  again.  &quot;I  wonder  if  he  was  there  when  she  was  skiing.  Were  they  married  then?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,  for  God's  sake.  I  certainly  wasn't  there.&quot;  I  was  a  little  insulted.  On  the  other  hand,  I  saw  an  occasion  to  show  how  liberal  they  were,  and  soI  said,  &quot;Maybe  someone  else  took  the  picture,  before  they  were  married.&quot;  I  let  her  think  about  that  for  a  while.  HEN  Linda  finally  put  the  box  of  photos  back  where  she  had  found  it,  she  left  her  three  favorites  out  and  carried  them  downstairs.  They  lay  on  the  coffee  table  in  the  living  room  all  afternoon.  We  were  a  little  bored  with  each  other  after  more  than  twen-  ty-four  hours  together.  My  father  stayed  in  his  study.  It  was  the  kind  of  day  when,  lying  around  the  house  do-  ing  nothing,  you  can  expect  a  head-  ache  before  six.  Linda  said  she  never  got  headaches,  although  occasionally  she  would  complain  of  one.  We  dressed.  The  loud  yellow-and-black  shirt  of  my  father's,  which  Linda  had  worn  all  day  andhad  just  taken  off,  lay  on  a  chair.  It  annoyed  me,  and  I  rolled  it  in  a  ball  and  threw  it  into  the  bot-  tom  of  my  closet.  She  always  wore  it  when  she  slept  overnight,  and  it  was  filthy.  &quot;Do  you  think  your  father  would  give  us  some  cigarettes?&quot;  Linda  said  suddenly.  We  didn't  smoke.  We  had  talked  about  learning  how  to  smoke  sometime  as  we  talked  about  drinking  and  getting  married.  No  three  things  were  further  from  reality,  but  I  caught  Linda's  adventurous  mood.  We  gig-  gled.  &quot;Are  you  kidding?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  cer-  tainly  wouldn't.  They  don't  want  me  to  start  smoking.  Why  shouldhe  give  me  cigarettes?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  wouldn't  they  rather  you  did  it  out  in  the  open  than  behind  their  backs?  You  know  they  would.&quot;  I  did  know  it.  But  I  thought  smoking  wouldn't  be  half  as  exciting  with  a  sanc-  tion  as  it  would  be  doing  it  secretly.  &quot;Well,  I  wouldn't  want  them  to  know,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh,  go  ahead,&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;They  know  you  have  to  start  sometime.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  ask  him  then.  After  all,  I'm  his  daughter,  and  he  might  not  want  to  give  them  to  me.&quot;  &quot;But  you  said  he  doesn't  like  me.  Why  should  he  give  them  to  me?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I'll  go  in  with  you.  But  you  have  to  ask.  He  likes  you,  anyway.  You  said  so  yourself,  last  night.&quot;  So  we  both  went  into  my  father's  study.  Linda  looked  around  the  room  and  saw  a  pack  of  cigarettes  lying  on  the  desk.  My  father  was  waiting  to  hear  the  reason  for  our  visit.  &quot;Daddy,&quot;  I  began,  finally,  having  waited  long  enough  for  Linda.  &quot;Jerry,&quot;  Linda  said,  &quot;do  you  think  we  could  bum  a  pack  of  cigarettes?  &quot;  She  said  it  as  though  we  were  always  bum-  ming  cigarettes.  I  was  sorry,  suddenly,  that  I  had  not  done  the  talking;  some-  how  Linda  now  seemed  the  one  re-  sponsiblefor  the  adventure,  a  position  that  was  to  me  full  of  prestige.  &quot;We'll  pay  you  back  as  soon  as  we  buy  some,&quot;  she  went  on  nonchalantly.  Both  my  father  and  I  stared  at  her.  Then  he  laughed.  &quot;Are  you  two  going  to  start  smoking  already?&quot;  he  said,  and  he  made  a  few  sarcastic  comments,  but,  of  course,  he  finally  gave  in  to  Linda.  When  I  had  declined  to  take  the  risk  of  ask-  ing  him,  I  had  lost  my  importance;  I  stood  behind  Linda  and  echoed  her  arguments,  but  it  was  to  her  that  my  " b"father  surrendered  the  cigarettes.  We  retreated  to  the  living  room  with  our  booty.  As  if  the  whole  thing  were  surreptitious,  I  closed  the  door  behind  us.  I  felt  that  it  would  have  been  better  if  he  hadn't  known.  We  each  took  a  ciga-  rette  and  showed  each  other  that  we  knew  how  to  hold  them,  which  in-  deed  we  did,  simply  from  having  watched  other  peo-  ple.  The  different,  sophis-  ticated  ways  of  holding  a  cigarette  amused  us  for  some  time.  I,  at  least,  was  a  little  afraid  of  lighting  the  thing.  At  last  it  came  to  that,  of  course.  But  neither  of  our  cigarettes  would  stay  lit.  We  would  hold  the  match  to  the  end,  see  the  paper  burn,  puff  briefly  on  the  thing,  get  nothing,  and  see  it  go  out.  We  giggled.  We  were  a  little  ashamed.  While  we  were  trying  to  light  the  cigarettes,  we  didn't  even  bother  holding  them  cor-  rectly.  &quot;I  suppose  you  have  to  really  inhale  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  get  sick?&quot;  Linda  asked  scornfully.  When  we  had  almost  given  up,  my  father  came  in.  &quot;Well,  what  progress?&quot;  he  asked,  sitting  down  and  lighting  a  cigarette.  We  watched  him,  bending  forward  to  discover  the  secret.  &quot;How  many  have  you  smoked  so  far?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;We  can't  light  them,&quot;  I  said,  show-  ing  him  the  charred  end  of  my  cigarette.  &quot;Sure  we  can,&quot;  Linda  said.  &quot;We  haven't  even  hardly  tried  yet.&quot;  I  felt  be-  trayed.  Linda  and  I  had  once  promised  not  to  contradict  each  other's  state-  ments  to  outsiders,  even  if  they  were,  to  us,  patently  false.  &quot;Go  ahead,  light  it,&quot;  I  said  to  her  viciously.  My  father  looked  at  me  curi-  ously,  and  then  gave  his  attention  to  Linda.  She  held  the  cigarette  grace-  fully  between  her  two  fingers,  lit  the  match  while  the  cigarette  was  in  her  mouth,  and  held  it  under  the  charred  end  for  a  few  seconds.  Then,  desper-  ately,  audibly,  she  inhaled.  It  was  a  success.  The  cigarette  even  flared  as,  in  her  astonishment,  she  forgot  to  re-  move  the  match.  She  sophisticatedly  pulled  the  smoking  thing  out  of  her  mouth,  held  her  breath,  and  let  the  smoke  out.  On  the  third  or  fourth  puff,  she  was  able  to  let  it  out  through  her  nose.  I  watched  the  whole  operation  si-  lently,  fascinated.  I  was  quite  out  of  it.  It  was  Linda  alone  who  was  smoking,  and  at  one  point  when,  because  she  was  talking,  she  let  the  cigarette  go  out  in  the  ashtray,  my  father  lit  it  again  for  her.  He  even  held  the  match  gra-  ciously  for  the  long,  long  time  it  took  her  to  get  the  light.  &quot;Thank  you,  Jerry,&quot;  she  said,  and  he  smiled  at  her.  It  seemed  to  me  that  I  had  never  been  in  such  a  smoky  room.  It  was  I,  who  hadn't  even  lit  a  cigarette,  who  finally  got  dizzy  from  the  smoke.  Linda  was  on  her  second  cigarette.  She  seemed  to  be  enjoying  herself  immensely,  talk-  ing  with  my  father  about  what  a  bad  habit  smoking  was.  By  four,  I  had  a  headache.  I  couldn't  wait  until  my  mother  got  home.  I  hoped  she  would  yell  at  my  father  for  letting  the  children  smoke.  But  I  knew  she  wouldn't.  She,  too,  was  so  liberal.  WHEN  my  mother  let  herself  in  the  door,  Linda  was  announcing  that  she  had  to  leave.  I,  for  perhaps  the  first  time,  didn't  argue  with  her  to  stay.  My  mother  came  into  the  room  and  kissed  my  friend,  who  was  say-  ing  goodbye.  My  father  took  her  to  the  door.  He  gave  her,  when  my  mother's  back  was  turned,  the  remain-  der  of  the  pack  of  cigarettes.  When  she  was  gone,  he  went  back  into  his  room  to  continue  working.  In  the  living  room,  I  saw  that  Linda  had  taken  with  her  the  three  pictures  she  had  set  aside.  The  house  seemed  suddenly  very  emp-  ty.  Miserable  asI  had  been  while  she  was  there,  I  wished  Linda  were  back.  After  dinner,  I  asked  my  mother  unhappily  whether  Daddy  really  dis-  liked  Linda.  &quot;No,  of  course  not,&quot;  she  said,  not  knowing  what  I  was  after  and  want-  ing  to  reassure  me  in  my  greatest  friendship.  &quot;How  could  he,  when  she's  your  best  friend?  You  know  we  love  Linda  very  much.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I  think?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;If  you  want  to  know  what  I  think,  I  think  you  like  her  more  than  me.&quot;  My  mother  stared  at  me.  Then  she  laughed.  At  that  point,  my  father  came  in  to  get  a  cigarette  from  my  mother  and  winked  at  me,  as  if  we  had  some  secret.  I  chose  to  ignore  it;  in  any  case,  I  knew  that  my  mother  wouldn't  care  any  more  than  my  father  " b"had  that  Linda  and  I  had  been  smok-  ing.  g\xe2\x80\x9cDaddy  doesn't  have  any  cigarettes,  because  he  gave  his  last  pack  to  Linda,&quot;  I  announced.  My  mother  looked  an-  noyed,  and  we  were  all  silent.  Final-  ly,  she  said  cheerfully  to  both  of  us,  but  as  if  to  my  father  alone,  &quot;Do  you  know  what  your  silly  daughter  has  been  saying?&quot;  We  waited.  &quot;That  we,  her  own  parents,  love  Linda  more  than  we  do  her.&quot;  She  laughed.  My  father  laughed  gaily.  They  began  again  to  reassure  me.  As  he  went  out  of  the  room,  though,  I  saw  my  mother  star-  ing  at  my  father  as  she  did  when  he  made  a  bad  joke  in  front  of  strangers.  He  missed  it.  Monday,  at  school,  Linda  gave  me  back  the  three  pictures.  She  said  she  had  just  wanted  to  show  them  to  her  parents.  I  took  them  home  and  put  the  two  of  my  mother  into  one  of  my  bureau  drawers,  permanently  away  from  the  rest  of  the  family  photos.  I  confronted  my  father  with  the  third-  the  one  of  himself.  &quot;Did  you  really  look  like  that  when  you  were  young?&quot;  I  said.  He  smiled  happily.  &quot;It  doesn't  even  look  like  you  at  [REDACTED];  I  went  on.  &quot;Linda  and  I  think  it  must  be  very  awful  to  get  old.&quot;  He  didn't  answer.  I  knew,  com-  fortably,  that  I  had  hurt  him. "