 b"MY  grandmother  was  a  Quaker.  Was  yours?  I  ask  because  my  anachronistic  faith  is  never  mentioned  without  someone  speak-  ing  up  brightly,  if  vaguely,  &quot;Oh-my  grandmother  was  a  Quaker,  or  some-  thing.&quot;  My  grandmother  was  some-  thing-properly  speaking,  a  Friend-  by  no  means  vague.  Even  now,  years  after  her  death,  the  still  small  voice  of  my  conscience  speaks  in  her  accents  when  it  really  demands  to  be  heard:  &quot;Has  thee  asked  for  Light  to  guide  thee  in  this  matter?&quot;  And  itis  because  she  would  have  what  she  called  a  &quot;concern&quot;  to  protest  the  loss  of  integrity  in  matters  of  conscience  today  that  I  want  to  try  to  recall  her  for  a  moment.  When  I  knew  her,  she  had  given  up  wearing  the  plain  dress  (the  scoop  bon-  net,  and  the  voluminous  gray  garments  patterned  after  those  worn  by  the  earli-  est  Friends,  in  the  seventeenth  century  )  that  a  few  of  the  older  women  Friends  still  wore  in  [REDACTED];  and  there  were  three  family  stories  to  explain  why.  My  mother,  who  adored  her  (al-  though  she  would  never  have  used  that  expression:  &quot;Thee  adores  God,&quot;  she  al-  ways  rebuked  my  extravagance),  said  that  Grandmother  visited  her  milliner  the  day  her  last  bonnet  was  finished     and  saw  that  the  extra-stiff  buckram  out  of  which  it  was  fashioned  hurt  the  woman's  fingers.  That  was  enough  to  make  her  affirm  (Friends  never  swear)  she  would  never  order  another  one.  My  father,  who  loved  to  tease  his  moth-  er  about  her  Quaker  thrift,  said  it  was  because  she  got  a  bill  for  the  bonnet  the  same  day  her  sister  got  a  bill  for  the  downright  worldly  hat  she  had  just  bought,  and  Grandmother's  bill  was  for  exactly  eight  times  as  much.  We  children  preferred  the  doubtless  apoc-  ryphal  story  of  how  she  put  a  sandwich  in  her  bonnet  one  Fifth  day  (Thursday)  when  she  had  to  drive  a  long  distance  to  Quarterly  Meeting.  Before  she  got  hungry,  she  arrived  at  the  Meeting  House,  mounted  to  thetop  bench  of  the  gallery,  where  ministers  and  elders  sit  facing  the  Meeting,  and  was  moved  by  the  Spirit  to  speak.  She  removed  her  bonnet,  as  the  custom  then  was,  handed  it  to  the  woman  Friend  sitting  beside  her,  and  spoke  on  the  text  &quot;I  have  meat  to  eat  thateye  know  not  of.&quot;  Her  com-  panion  sat  eying  the  sandwich  and  later  spread  the  story  about,  and  Grandmoth-  er  was  said  to  have  abandoned  Quaker  bonnets  from  that  day  forth.  Anyway,  Grandmother  as  I  remem-  ber  her  faced  the  Meeting  in  a  tiny  black  velvet  toque  tied  by  a  ribbon  under  her  chin.  In  summer,  when  she  wore  black  straw  boaters,  we  met  on  First  days  in  a  grove  in  the  Poconos  where  there  was  no  gallery,  though  the  signal  for  release,  as  the  restless  young  thought  of  it,  was  even  so,  as  always,  a  firm  handclasp  between  the  head  of  the  Meeting  and  the  elder  next  him.  (The  head  of  the  Pocono  Meeting,  a  vigorous  Friend  whose  militantly  pacifist  convictions  would  never  have  allowed  him  to  be  a  soldier,  told  my  father  one  time  that  he  felt  he  knew  something  of  what  it  must  be  like  to  be  under  fire,  because  of  the  concentrated  battery  of  beady  little  eyes  fixed  on  him  as  the  Meeting's  hour  drew  toa  close.)  Except  for  a  &quot;forth-  right,  downright,  straight-from-the-  shoulder&quot;  message  invariably  delivered  by  him  rather  in  the  manner  of  Teddy  Roosevelt,  the  Meetings  in  the  grove  of  pine,  spruce,  and  hemlock  were  apt  to  be  silent.  Occasionally,  Grandmother  would  rise  to  recite  a  few  of  her  own  verses,  the  ones  I  remember  being  about  vireos  and  hermit  thrushesor  the  tril-  lium  and  gentians  of  our  beautiful  virgin  woods;  but  it  was  the  trees  themselves,  the  wind  in  their  branches,  the  smell  of  the  brown  pine  needles  we  children  sat  on,  that  spoke  most  directly  to  our  childishly  pagan  hearts.  That  collective  meditation  which  Friends  like  my  grand-  mother  called  a  &quot;centering  down&quot;  was  mostly  outside  our  experience.  But  I  know  that  the  &quot;poetic&quot;  concept  of  for-  ests  as  cathedrals  is  by  no  means  strange  to  me.  In  [REDACTED],  where  the  children  who  attended  a  Friends  school  went  to  Meeting  on  Fifth  day  as  well  as  First  day,  there  was  a  different  atmosphere.  &quot;Mother,  is  Samuel  Miffiin  God?&quot;  I  am  supposed  to  have  asked  at  a  tender  age,  in  a  penetrating  whisper.  The  head  of  our  Meeting  was  a  venerable  Friend  with  snow-white  hair,  a  kind  of  arche-  typal  image  of  the  Supreme  Being,  who  filled  me  with  awe.  I  wish  I  could  re-  produce  the  singsong  chant  in  which  he  and  other  elderly  Friends  delivered  their  testimony;  I  suppose  it  was  a  controlled  version  of  inspired  &quot;speaking  with  tongues.&quot;  Equally  awe-filling  for  me  was  a  round  ventilator  in  the  high  ceil-  ing  of  the  bare  white-painted  room,  with  fan-shaped  spokes  leading  to  a  knob  in  the  center.  That  focus  of  light  was  my  hypnotist's  bright  object.  Some-  how  it  became  confused  in  my  mind  with  the  Holy  Ghost-at  best,  a  baffling  conception-and  I  never  entered  the  spacious  quiet  of  the  Meeting  House,  never  took  my  place  onone  of  the  creaking  wooden  benches,  without  a  strangling  fear  that  the  mysterious  Spirit  " b"was  going  to  compel  me  to  testify-to  what?  All  too  soon  I  be-  came  a  self-conscious  adolescent  who  suffered  agonies  of  embarrass-  ment,  especially  dur-  ing  the  midweek  Meet-  ing  attended  by  my  schoolmates,  whenever  Grandmother  roseto  speak.  All  the  same,  I  now  think  I  might  have  slipped  early  into  paths  of  religious  bathos  that  would  have  led  to  the  batty  fanaticism  one  of  my  great-uncles  in-  dulged  in,  if  Grand-  mother  hadn't  been  the  sensible  woman  she  was.  One  summer  I  arrived  in  Pocono  to  visit  her,  shaken  with  a  frenzy  of  fervor  that  had  been  brewed  in  a  religious  conference  I  had  just  gone  to.  I  should  have  known  better,  because  another  deep-  seated  Quaker  conviction  is  that  wor-  ship  must  not  end  in  emotional  thrill  but  must  be  translated  into  action.  Oh,  how  promptly  Quaker  concerns  were  translated  into  action  by  my  competent  mother!  &quot;Now,  dear,  thee  heard  what  Grace  Trueblood  had  to  say  this  morn-  ing  about  the  need  for  help  at  the  Negro  settlement  on  South  Street.  Thee  has  to  go  to  the  dentist  tomorrow.  Thee  can  just  slip  down  there  after  thy  appoint-  ment;&quot;  &quot;thee  can  finish  these  layettes  for  those  poor  German  babies&quot;  (immediate-  ly  after  the  First  World  War,  when  ev-  eryone  hated  Germans);  &quot;we're  giving  up  desserts  to  send  food  to  the  starving  Armenians.&quot;  This  time,  Grandmother  took  my  education  in  hand.  The  descen-  dants  of  some  of  the  slaves  her  father  had  harbored  on  the  [REDACTED]  Railroad  were  always  &quot;in  service&quot;  with  her,  and  when  I  arrived  breathing  holi-  ness,  she  declared  a  general  holiday  and  put  me  in  sole  charge  of  the  kitchen  for  a  solid  week  of  drudgery.  That  fervor  simmered  down  pretty  fast.  A  visit  the  following  winter  from  Great-Uncle  Dave,  the  family  prob-  lem,  finished  the  decompressing  process  in  my  religious  education.  His  erratic  example  was  quite  enough  to  set  my  feet  on  the  orthodox  Quaker  road.  After  a  lifetime  of  unsuccess  in  business,  Uncle  Dave  had  persuaded  himself  that  he  had  a  concern  to  spread  the  Light  in  for-  eign  lands,  and  away  he  had  gone,  with  the  idea  of  living  off  the  land  as  an  itin-  erant  minister.  While  I  was  visiting     Grandmother  in  Pocono,  he  began  cabling  his  family  for  funds.  He  was  a  brother  of  my  dead  grandfather,  there-  fore  no  blood  relation  of  my  grand-  mother  (as  she  was  quick  to  point  out  if  anyone  referred  to  him  as  &quot;thy  broth-  er&quot;  ),  but  his  immediate  family  were  as  hardhearted  as  the  unenlightened  for-  eigners,  and  finally  he  cabled  Grand-  mother.  I  remember  walking  with  her  down  from  her  camp  on  a  hilltop  to  the  nearest  available  telephone,  which  was  in  a  makeshift  box  nailed  to  apine  tree  beside  our  dock.  The  wires  con-  necting  it  with  the  office  of  the  Pocono  Lake  Preserve  were  about  as  relaxed  as  the  strings  connecting  the  cardboard  &quot;phones&quot;  my  little  brother  yelled  to  his  next-door  chum  through,  and  Grand-  mother  sounded  as  if  she  were  hallooing  across  the  lake  when,  after  repeated  twirls  of  the  crank,  she  finally  roused  the  office.  &quot;Now,  Egbert,&quot;  she  shouted  to  the  Preserve  manager,  &quot;I  want  thee  to  call  my  son  in  [REDACTED]  and  tell  him  to  send  his  Uncle  David  a  steamer  ticket  but  no  cash.  Does  thee  understand?  so  casal  I  can't  say  the  fatted  calf  was  killed  when  Uncle  Dave  finally  turned  up  at  our  house  in  [REDACTED]  en  route  to  the  remote  ranch  the  family  was  send-  ing  him  to.  Grandmother  told  me  she  dreaded  his  appearance  at  Meeting,  which,  of  course,  he  couldn't  be  pre-  vented  from  attending.  The  Quaker  principle  of  worship  allows  anyone  moved  by  the  Spirit  to  speak,  but  Uncle   Dave  was  moved  so  constantly  and  socrazily  that  he  was  visited  on  sev-  eral  occasions  by  committees  of  over-  seers.  The  only  time  he  was  effectively  squelched  was  at  the  last  Yearly  Meet-  ing  attended  by  my  grandfather,  his  revered  older  brother.  After  listening  for  a  while  to  Uncle  Dave's  harangue,  Grandfather  rose  from  his  seat  in  the  gallery.  &quot;David  Jones,&quot;  he  said  stern-  ly,  &quot;thy  remarks  are  not  edifying.&quot;  Now  Grandfather  was  gone,  and  Grandmother  doubted  that  anyone  else  could  stop  the  flow  of  Uncle  Dave's  garrulity.  What  saved  us  was  an  unconscious  stroke  of  genius  on  my  mother's  part.  Uncle  Dave  was  staying  at  our  house  because  Grandmother  had  conveniently  taken  to  her  bed  with  a  bad  cold.  He  arrived  on  a  Friday  and  insisted  on  calling  on  his  sister-in-law.  Saturday  he  seemed  to  be  sneezing  rather  a  lot,  and  he  retired  at  the  rancher's  hour  of  eight,  immediately  after  our  early  dinner.  (At  that,  dinner  had  been  pro-  longed  because,  instead  of  allowing  us  the  usual  silent  grace,  he  had  addressed  the  Lord  at  length,  partly  about  Grand-  mother.)  Suddenly  he  appeared  at  the  head  of  the  stairs.  (We  were  all  just  going  to  bed.)  &quot;Elizabeth,&quot;  he  called,  naming  my  mother  in  an  unctuous,  plaintive  tone  that  was  destined  to  be  mimicked  in  our  family  for  years  and  years,  &quot;may  I  have  a  lit-tle  more  cov-  er?&quot;  My  father  gave  Mother  a  mock-  ing,  knowing  glance.  &quot;Freezing  him  out,  Elizabeth?&quot;  he  said.  To  my  moth-     " b"er,  born  a  Southerner,  hospitality  was  so  sacred  an  obligation  that  she  was  in-  capable  of  such  a  ruse,  but  it  worked.  The  next  morning,  Uncle  Dave's  voice  was  gone,  and  we  all  trooped  off  to  Meeting  happily.  HAT  Southern  background  of  Mother's  was  both  a  curse  and  a  blessing.  Our  house  was  always  full  of  visitors-there  was  generally  some  indigent  relative  camped  out  in  the  sewing  room-but  our  food  was  bet-  ter  than  anyone  else's  I  knew,  and  in  addition  to  our  own  spe-  cialties,  like  beaten  biscuit  and  sillabub,  Mother  used  always  to  bring  us  children  samples  of  other  people's  treats.  She  never  went  off  to  a  party  without  car-  rying  a  little  bag,  lined  with  a  napkin,  I  suppose,  and  it  always  came  back  full  of  party  food-cakes  and  can-  dies  and  sandwiches  that  she  popped  into  our  sleepy  mouths.  At  parties  in  our  house  to  which  Grandmother  was  not  invited  (Grandmother  was  a  strict  teetotaller)  wine  was  served,  and  the  reason  our  floating  island  was  so  good  (but  Grandmother  was  zever  to  be  told)  was  that  it  was  spiked  with  Madeira.  Grandmother  just  thought  our  Fanny  was  a  better  cook  than  her  old  William.  Grandmother's  one  touch  of  fanati-  cism  was  on  the  subject  of  liquor,  and  she  got  that  straight  from  Quaker  dis-  cipline.  Advices  &quot;to  be  read  at  a  meet-  ing  held  on  the  first  First-day  in  the  tenth  month&quot;  include  this:  &quot;We  urge  our  members  to  avoid  all  use  of  in-  toxicating  liquors  and  actively  to  up-  hold  the  cause  of  total  abstinence.&quot;  There  wasn't  a  conference  on  temper-  ance  anywhere  in  the  world  that  Grand-  mother  didn't  try  to  uphold  it.  Once  when  she  was  travelling  to  [REDACTED]  with  a  lively  cousin  of  her  own  age,  the  cross-  ing  was  so  rough  that  [REDACTED]  Kate,  an  ardent  teetotaller  according  to  her  own  Inner  Light,  carried  a  flask  of  brandy  in  the  pocket  of  her  capacious  Quaker  skirt  and  took  a  nip  whenever  she  felt  like  it  Grandmother  took  that  to  the  Lord  in  audible  prayer,  but  we  always  thought  [REDACTED]  Kate  got  even  with  her  when  they  finally  reached  [REDACTED].  A  pickpocket  snatched  Grandmother's  purse,  which,  needless  tosay,  she  had  a  firm  grip  on.  When  the  thief  tried  to  run  away,  [REDACTED]  Kate  held  on  to  him  like  grim  death.  &quot;Now,  we're  just  go-  ing  to  kneel  down  right  here,&quot;  she  an-  nounced,  &quot;and  ask  Heavenly  Father  if  He  intends  thee  to  have  this  purse.&quot;  She  would  have  done  it,  too,  if  the  desper- ate  man  hadn't  managed  to  make  his  escape-without  the  purse.  On  other  subjects,  even  those  includ-  ed  in  Quaker  discipline,  Grandmother  was  less  adamant.  She  had  a  young  daughter  with  her  at  a  temperance  con-  ference  in  [REDACTED]  one  time,  who  made  up  her  mind  that  she  was  going  to  the  opera.  When  a  Quaker  maiden  makes  up  her  mind,  it's  set.  I  have  no  doubt  that  Grandmother  prayed  over  Aunt  Marian;  &quot;operas  and  theatrical  plays&quot;  used  to  be  distrusted  by  the  Society  of  Friends.  As  our  &quot;Faith  and  Practice&quot;  manual  says  to  this  day,  &quot;Each  one  must  not  only  take  counsel  of  God  in  respect  to  his  own  forms  of  amusement  but  must  also  take  care  lest  by  his  indulgence  he  cause  a  weaker  companion  to  fall.&quot;  Which  was  the  weaker  companion  in  this  case,  who  shall  say?  Aunt  Marian  obviously  couldn't  go  to  the  opera  alone,  so  they  both  went.  &quot;But,&quot;  Grand-  mother  reported,  &quot;when  the  ballet  came  on,  I  closed  my  eyes.&quot;  Grandmother's  eyes  closed  for  the  last  time  almost  twenty  yearsago.  She  had  lived  a  full  life,  more  than  half  of  it  before  I  knew  her.  Her  husband  had  died  at  an  early  age,  and,  shortly  before  I  was  born,  her  first-born  son  was  killed  by  muggers  as  he  walked  home  late  one  night  from  the  University.  He  was  a  brilliant  student,  his  career  was  just  be-  ginning,  and  his  death  was  so  shocking  that  her  family  expected  my  grand-  mother  to  collapse.  She  had  had  a  grand-  mother  who  also  lost  a  young  husband  (on  his  gravestone  was  carved,  &quot;That  life  is  long,  which  answers  life's  great  end&quot;),  and  whose  youngest  and  most  promising  child  had  died  at  eighteen.  When  my  great-great-grandmother  came  home  from  her  son's  funeral,  she  exclaimed,  &quot;I  will  lay  my  mouth  in  the  dust,  for  he  hath  died;&quot;  and  in  two  weeks  she  was  dead.  Instead  of  collapsing  after  her  son's  death,  my  grandmother  was  upheld  by  a  concern.  Three  Negroes,  who  had  struck  harder  than  they  intended,  were  arrested  for  his  murder.  Friends  do  not  believe  in  capital  punishment.  More-  over,  any  case  involving  racial  discrimi-  nation  is  doubly  challenging  to  a  Quaker  conscience.  Feelingran  very  high  that  the  murderers  should  getthe  death  penalty.  During  the  trial,  my  grand-  mother  wrote  letters  and  made  appeals  for  clemency,  but  public  opinion  was  against  her.  After  the  men  were  con-  victed,  she  went  to  court  to  hear  the  sentence.  It  was  death  byhanging.  When  it  was  pronounced,  she  stood  up  in  the  crowded  courtroom  and  asked  to  be  heard.  She  was  a  little  woman,  she  was  trembling,  and  there  was  an  enor-  mous  sensation,  but  she  marched  up  to  the  bench,  said  who  she  was,  and  stated  her  convictions.  She  pointed  out  that  the  death  of  these  men  couldn't  bring  back  her  son.  She  might  almost  have  been  speaking  in  Meeting,  I  was  told,  her  testimony  came  from  so  &quot;moved  and  overbrimming&quot;  a  state  of  mind.  She  failed  to  save  the  lives  of  the  murderers,  but  she  may  have  saved  her  own  life  by  her  action,  and  she  lived  it  in  cheerful  usefulness  for  many  years.  And  her  testi-  mony  of  love  I  have  a  concern  to  share. "