 b"&amp;  OH,  Mama,  you  don't  want  to  do  that  now,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  She  lifted  her  eyes  from  her  game  of  solitaire  and  gazed  across  the  dining  table  at  her  mother,  whose  upper  lip,  she  noticed,  had  lifted  slightly.  This  often  happened  when  Mama  was  hold-  ing  herself  in  check  until  she  felt  she  could  decently  get  on  with  something  nobody  wanted  her  to  do.  &quot;Well,  I've  got  to  start  sometime,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;I  won't  work  any  longer  than  I  feel  like.&quot;  The  trouble  with  Mama  was  she  was  bored.  She  got  bored  so  easily.  Now,  in  the  very  middle  of  the  evening,  she  must  decide  to  go  up  and  sort  out  the  things  in  Daddy's  desk.  Grief  was  supposed  to  preclude  boredom,  but  obviously  it  was  no  more  effective  against  that  than  it  was  against  hunger.  &quot;Why  don't  you  wait  and  get  one  of  the  boys  to  do  it?&quot;  Elizabeth  asked.  She  moved  a  card,  then  moved  it  back  again.  She  had  forgotten  this  game,  but  the  old  table  reminded  her  of  the  time  when  it  had  been  her  favorite  solitaire.  &quot;I  hate  to  ask  Norbert  to  do  anything  I  can  do  for  myself,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;Now  Daddy's  gone,  he's  worried  stiff  I'll  run  him  ragged.&quot;  She  stood  up  and  delicately  tugged  her  black  dress  down  over  her  plump  hips.  &quot;But  he's  your  own  son,  good  Lord!&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;Well,  it's  really  more  Stella,  her  mother.  It  was  true  that  Norbert's  wife  was  always  afraid  somebody  was  going  to  ask  her  to  do  something.  When  Elizabeth  got  married  and  moved  to  Evanston,  Stella  had  said  she  didn't  blame  her  for  going  a  good  hour  and  a  half  away  from  home,  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  Stella's  feeling  hadn't  been  entirely  unjustified.  Mama  and  Daddy  had  always  found  a  lot  of  things  for  the  children  to  do  for  them,  especially  after  Daddy's  health  began  to  fail  and  he  moved  his  insurance  business  into  the  house.  &quot;Ask  Herbic,  then,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;No,  not  Herbie.&quot;  The  thought  of  her  second  son  made  Mrs.  Tanner  toss  her  head  impatiently.  &quot;I  don't  trust  him.  If  he  came  across  a  little  bill  to  collect,  it  might  go  right  into  his  inside  pocket.&quot;  The  remark  caused  Elizabeth  to  start  a  trifle,  and  Mrs.  Tanner  showed  sud-  den  concern.  &quot;Oh,  now  I've  shocked  you!&quot;  she  cried,  and,  coming  around  the  table,  she  put  her  hand  on  Eliza-  beth's  cheek  and  drew  her  head  against  her  breast.  &quot;Why,  no,  I'm  not  shocked.  Why  should  I  be?&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &gt;  said  &quot;I  think  I  often  shock  you,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;But  I've  never  had  any-  body  but  you  to  talk  to.  You're  the  only  one,  and  we've  always  been  able  to  talk,  haven't  we?&quot;  Elizabeth  covered  the  hand  on  her  cheek  with  one  of  her  own,  and  in  half  a  second  she  and  her  mother  were  in  tears.  All  week,  they  had  been  as  full  as  sponges.  The  light  touch  of  a  hand  would  set  them  drippin,,  a  squeeze  would  bring  down  a  flood.  Mrs.  Tan-  ner  wiped  her  face  and  smiled.  &quot;Why  don't  you  want  me  to  do  it?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;You  don't  want  me  to,  do  you?&quot;  &quot;It's  just...&quot;  Elizabeth  hesitated,  trying  to  think  of  something  other  than  the  real  reason.  The  day  after  Daddy  died,  they  had  been  up  in  the  bedroom  together  while  Mama  was  dressing  to  go  to  the  funeral  parlor.  Mama  had  come  all  at  once  on  a  pair  of  Daddy's  shorts  lying  on  the  closet  floor,  and,  without  thinking,  she'd  snatched  them  up  and  said,  in  a  cross  voice,  &quot;'These  go  in  the  dirty  clothes.&quot;  Then,  remem-  \xc2\xbbbering,  she'd  held  them  out  in  front  of  her  and  burst  into  tears.  &quot;Why,  that's-that's  a  ridiculous  thing  to  say!&quot;  she  had  cried.  Then  she  had  lain  down  on  the  bed,  with  the  shorts  in  her  hand,  and  sobbed  and  laughed.  That  was  the  only  time  she'd  been  hysterical.  &quot;It's  just-&quot;  Elizabeth  repeated,  &quot;just  that  it's  so  dreary  up  in  the  office,  and  going  through  old  papers  is  such  dreary  work,  and-  well,  we're  dreary  enough  without  that,  aren't  we?&quot;  &quot;It  won't  be  dreary,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;I'll  feel  like  I'm  with  Daddy.&quot;  With  both  hands,  Elizabeth  swept  the  cards  together.  It  was  a  useless  game.  She'd  made  a  dozen  mistakes.  There  was  something  wrong  with  the  way  she  remembered  it.  &quot;Don't  put  up  your  cards,  dear,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  come  with  me.&quot;  But  Elizabeth  had  had  no  intention  of  going  up  into  that  gloomy  room,  where  Daddy's  breath  seemed  pressed  into  the  very  walls,  fixed  there  in  the  odor  of  the  smoke  of  twenty  years  of  dead  cigars-an  odor  that  would  stay  in  those  walls,  she  thought,  as  long  as  they  stood.  &quot;Well,  if  you  don't  mind,  I  don't  be-  lieve  I  will,&quot;  she  said.  Her  mother  turned  away  toward  the  stairs.  She  had  the  little,  softly  rounded,  softly  padded  shoulders  of  an  old  woman.  With  tenderness,  Eliza-  beth  watched  her  go,  and  listened  to  " b"her  deliberate  ascent.  Then  her  high  heels  clicked  overhead.  'There  was  the  sound  of  the  desk  being  opened  and  the  scraping  of  a  chair  being  moved  up  to  it.  Now,  Elizabeth  thought,  her  mother  sat  there  enclosed  by  that  odor.  Would  she  be  aware  of  it,  Elizabeth  wondered.  Would  it  puther  in  mind  of  the  thousand  times  she'd  complained  of  his  cigars?  Elizabeth  put  her  cheek  down  on  the  black  surface  ofthe  table.  Her  right  hand,  still  holding  the  deck  of  cards,  just  touched  the  back  of  her  head,  her  left  floated  away  from  her  toward  the  table's  edge.  Breathing  against  the  varnish,  slightly  smelling  it,  she  saw  vague  re-  flections  and  felt  herself  as  floating  in  some  time-locked  lake,  though,  now,  with  Mama  out  of  the  room  and  herself  alone,  the  voice  ofthe  grandfather  clock  came  to  her  with  its  effortless  persist,  ence.  It  stood  in  the  hall  and  could,  in  the  silence  of  other  things,  be  heard  any-  where  in  the  house  except  the  cellar  or  the  attic.  It  could  be,  and  had  been,  either  nuisance  or  consolation,  and  at  present  it  was  mystical  to  her-mean-  ing,  paradoxically,  the  persistence  of  the  void  where  time  and  human  matters  ceased.  And  now  her  mind  went,  as  it  in-  stantly  did  these  days  whenever  present  pressures  released  it,  to  a  dumb  and  senseless  worrying  over  what  Mama  was  going  to  do  with  herself.  Elizabeth  had  come  here  at  word  of  Daddy's  ill-  ness,  and  she  had  stayed  on  this  long,  but  she  could  not  stay  forever.  Mama  had  no  friends,  and  only  a  few  not  very  well-liked  acquaintances.  Often  in  the  past,  foreseeing  this  very  occasion,  Elizabeth  had  begged  her  for  God's  sake  to  get  around  with  people  a  little  more,  but  Mama  preferred  her  own  company  and  had  never  had  time.  So  now  she  would  just  have  to  stay  on  in  this  house,  with  nothing  to  do,  nowhere  to  go,  and  nobody  totalk  to,  for  there  was  no  ques-  tion  of  Mama's  coming  to  live  with  any  of  her  children.  She  thought  Herbert's  wife,  Cora,  an  utter  fool.  'Ten  minutes  in  that  house  sent  Mama  into  fits  of  annoyance,  though  she  didn't  actively  dislike  Cora,  as  she  did  Norbert  s  wife.  As  for  John,  Elizabeth's  husband,  Mama  had  told  him  to  his  face  that  she  found  him  uncomfortable.  He  said  things  she  was  uncertain  about  but  sus-  pected  of  being  hostile.  It  was  so  warm  in  the  room  that  Elizabeth  grew  sleepy.  'The  noise  the  clock  made  touched  her  everywhere  a  finger,  tapping,  coming  as  much  from  the  wood  ofthe  table  as  from  the  air.  What  a  blessing  it  was  that  Mama  and  Daddy  had  given  up  their  old  battle,  had  at  least  looked  and  acted  like  friends,  and-yes,  Elizabeth  was  sureof  it-  felt  like  friends,  during  these  recent  years.  Elizabeth  was  the  oldest  of  the  children  and  had  been  the  last  to  marry,  and  almost  until  the  time  she  left  home,  they'd  been  at  each  other,  on  the  war-  path,  finding  offense  in  everything  and  nothing,  bristling  and  bridling.  It  was  truethat  what  finally  seemed  a  truce  had  shaded  off  into  a  mutual  silence,  but  in  the  silence  they  had  been  friends.  Five  inches  beyond  the  fingers  of  her  extended  arm  laythe  evening  paper.  She  wondered  if  it  was  worth  the  effort  of  shoving  her  arm  those  intervening  inches,  and  decided  to  do  it,  knowing  even  in  the  act  that  she  couldn't  con-  centrate  enough  to  read.  Events,  events,  events.  How  terribly  dangerous  life  was  if  one  took  stock  of  what  was  said  to  be  going  on  everywhere,  every  minute.  A  sound  made  Ehzabeth  start.  She  had  gone  to  sleep.  Her  mother  was  standing  across  the  table  from  her.  Flat  against  her  black  bosom  Mrs.  Tanner  held  a  small,  almost  square  pink  enve-  lope.  &quot;Why,  I  must  have-&quot;  Elizabeth  said,  beginning  a  smile  and  a  sentence  but  stopping  both  at  the  suggestion,  in  her  mother's  face,  of  some  freshly  dis-  covered  perplexity.  Elizabeth  lifted  her  brows  questioningly.  Instead  of  speak-  ing,  Mrs.  Tanner  threw  the  envelope  down  before  her  daughter,  stared  at  it  a  moment,  and  then  lifted  her  eyes  to  Elizabeth's.  Her  lips  were  tightly  pursed.  'This  whole  dumb  show  put  Elizabeth  in  mind  of  a  distressed  dog  who  has  thrown  the  source  of  his  worry  at  his  master's  feet,  but  she  found  noth-  ing  humorous  in  the  fancy.  She  picked  up  the  envelope.  'The  handwriting  on  it  did  not  look  familiar.  Elizabeth  drew  out  the  card  inside  and  looked  at  the  signature.  &quot;Why,  it's  from  Cousin  Bella!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;And  it's  six  years  old!I  never  saw  it,  and  it's  addressed  to  me,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Just  to  me.  Not  to  Daddy  at  all.  Do  you  see  that?&quot;  &quot;Why,  so  it  is,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  She  read:  Dear  Loring:  It  is  Christmastime  and  time  we're  sup-  posed  to  have  good  will  toward  all  our  fellow-men,  and  I  have  been  thinking  of  you  and  how  foolish  it  was  we  ever  quar-  relled.  I  wish  you  would  write  me  a  word  and  say  I  am  forgiven.  I  don't  know  any  more  hardly  what  made  me  say  the  things  I  did  to  you.  I  must  have  been  very  cruel  " b"and  not  a  very  bright  woman  to  want  to  stir  things  up  like  that  over  something  in  which  there  wasn't  so  very  much  truth  anyhow.  If  any  perhaps  only  a  tiny  bit,  and  what  did  it  matter  compared  to  our  friendship,  which  we  might  have  been  having  all  these  years  and  didn't.  Mrs.  Tanner's  face  made  Elizabeth  uneasy,  uncertain  what  tone  to  take.  &quot;Why,  how  interesting,&quot;  she  said,  knowing  even  as  the  words  came  out  that  they  were  not  the  rightones.  &quot;Interesting?  I'd  call  it  touching,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Don't  you  think  it's  touching?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  it  is-very.  And  sad,  too.&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  reached  for  the  card  and  stared  at  it  inquisitively.  &quot;Six  years!  What  ever  do  you  suppose  she  thought,  not  getting  an  answer  in  all  that  time?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  wonder.&quot;  Elizabeth's  tone  was  only  mildly  cogitative.  She  thought  it  was  almost  funny,  this  worry  about  a  lapse  of  six  years,  because  Mama  hadn't  spoken  to  or  written  Cousin  Bella  for  at  least-  well,  how  long  was  it,  actually?  Elizabeth  began  counting  back.  It  was  twenty-no  more  than  twenty-years.  She'd  been  in  fifth  grade,  then-eleven  years  old,  maybe-when  they'd  had  their  fight.  &quot;&quot;Why  do  you  suppose  he  didn't  show  it  to  me?&quot;  her  mother  asked.  &quot;I  just  think  he  didn't  want  to  open  old  wounds.  He  felt  it  might  be  dis-  turbing,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;What  else?&quot;  &quot;But  why  keep  it,  then?&quot;  Mrs.  Tan-  ner  sat  down.  &quot;An  accident,  most  likely.  It  got  stuck  in  with  whatever  it  got  stuck  in  with,  and  just  stayed  around.  You  know  how  that  is.&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  sat  very  straight  and  chewed  her  lower  lip.  &quot;I  could  think  of  other  reasons,&quot;  she  said.  Elizabeth  knew  she  could-saw  she  was  thinking  of  them.  &quot;I  think  I'd  like  a  shot  of  bourbon,  dear,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;It's  nearly  bedtime.  A  shot  at  bedtime  helps  me  sleep.  I'm  getting  rather  in  the  habit  of  it.  You  know  where  it  is?  In  the  side-  board?&quot;  Elizabeth  knew,  of  course,  for  she'd  got  it  out  for  her  mother  every  evening  that  week,  and  every  evening  there  had  been  the  same  little  speech.  &quot;I'll  have  one,  too,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  do,  dear.  It  will  help  you  sleep,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;I  never  really  was  bothered  by  that  business  of  Bella  and  your  father.  I  was  mad  at  her,  though.  I  sure  was.  But  not  for  what  she  thought.  You  know,  she  told  me-  Did  I  ever  tell  you  what  she  told  me?  I  don't  think  I  could  have.  You'd  have  been  too  young  at  the  time.&quot;  &quot;I  was  eleven,&quot;  Elizabeth  called  from  the  kitchen,  where  she  had  gone  to  get  a  pitcher  of  water.  She  was  think-  ing,  in  a  few  minutes  she'll  drop  the  subject.  If  anything  worried  Mama  very  much,  she  always  dropped  it.  It  was  one  of  the  reasons  people  thought  her  callous  or  insensitive,  but  she  wasn't.  She  just  knew  that  if  you  thought  of  anything  too  long,  you  usually  thought  of  something  disagreeable  you'd  have  to  do  about  it,  and  she'd  learned  to  let  go  of  a  thing  before  it  got  at  her  conscience.  It  may  not  be  awfully  admirable,  Eliza-  beth  thought,  but  it's  probably  sensible.  &quot;You  do  have  a  wonderful  memory,  Elizabeth,  dear,&quot;  her  mother  said  as  Elizabeth  came  back  into  the  dining  room.  &quot;I  always  told  you  a  lot  more  than  most  mothers  tell  children,  but-  well,  did  I  tell  you  Bella  had  the  nerve  to  say  Daddy  only  married  me  because  she'd  turned  him  down?  Did  I  tell  you  that?&quot;  &quot;Well,  not  then,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;It  was  later  you  told  me-when  I  was  pregnant  with  Howie.  Don't  you  re-  member?&quot;  And  did  Mama,  she  won-  dered,  recall  how  she  had  told  Bella  (or,  at  any  rate,  had  said  she  had)  that  it  was  a  pity  she  hadn't  seen  fit  to  accept  Daddy,  since  she  obviously  had  all  the  wifely  solicitude  she  accused  Mama  of  lacking?  &quot;But  I  told  you  something  then.  I  know  I  did,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Elizabeth  said-bemused,  for  her  mind  held  a  picture  of  her  mother,  that  morning,  sitting  on  the  floor  in  the  sunlight  by  her  bedroom  window,  with  her  nightdress  drawn  up,  filing  her  toe- nails.  &quot;You  told  me  you  thought  Cousin  Bella  only  came  here  so  much  beca  use  she  was  soft  about  Daddy.  You  said  she  didn't  care  a  stink  about  any  of  the  rest  of  us.&quot;  &quot;  Well,  it  was  so,  &quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;But  I  st  ill  can't  think  how  the  quarrel  got  started  in  the  first  place.&quot;  &quot;It  was  a  Sunday  afternoon,&quot;  Eliza-  beth  said.  &quot;We'd  all  been  out  for  a  ride,  and  we  were  on  our  way  home  and  had  stopped  at  a  crossing.  Bella  was  in  back  with  the  boys,  and  I  sat  between  you  and  Daddy  in  the  front,  and  all  at  once  Daddy  said,  '  Who's  he  think  he's  smil-  ing  at?&quot;  He  meant  the  man  in  the  car  that  had  come  up  alongside.  And  you  said,  'Me.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Oh,  was  that  what  it  was?&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;Yes,  I  remember  that.&quot;  She  half  turned  on  her  chair,  laid  an  arm  across  the  back  of  it,  and  raised  her  handkerchief  to  her  cheek.  Her  pursed  lips  twitched  nervously,  and  she  blinked  her  eyes.  I'm  certainly  being  a  help,  Elizabeth  thought.  She  said,  &quot;Let's  have  one  more  of  these,  and  then  get  to  bed.&quot;  As  she  took  the  bottle  from  the  side-  board  ,  she  saw  in  the  mirror  her  own  face  and,  behind  it,  the  face  of  her  mother-her  own  just  about  the  age  of  her  mother's  when  all  this  was  happen-  ing.  And  when  she  turned  around,  she  saw  tears  squeezing  out  between  her  mother's  tightly  shut  lids  .  Her  face  was  flushed,  and  she  held  her  handker-  chief  pressed  tightly  against  a  corner  of  her  mouth.  &quot;Now  ,  Mama,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  She  " b"laid  her  arm  across  the  little  round  hump  of  her  mother's  shoulders.  &quot;It's  not  Daddy,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;You  think  it's  Daddy,  but  this  time  it's  not.&quot;  &quot;'Then  what?&quot;  Elizabeth  asked,  set-  ting  the  full  shot  glass  down  before  her  mother,  who  barely  touched  it  with  the  fingers  of  her  left  hand,  then  let  her  head  fall  sidewise  onto  her  daughter's  breast.  Elizabeth  looked  down  at  the  white,  slightly  yellowish  hair.  She  began  smoothing  it.  It  was  somewhat  coarse,  crinkly,  and  very  clean.  Oh,  why  had  that  note  had  to  turn  up  at  this  particu-  lar  moment?  That  nuisance  of  a  note!  &quot;It's  Bella,&quot;  her  mother  sobbed.  &quot;I  can't  bear  to  have  her  think  that  I'm  unforgiving.  Do  you  think  I'm  an  un-  forgiving  person,  Elizabeth?  I'm  not,  am  I?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  Elizabeth  said  with  unhesitating  conviction,  and  went  on  stroking  the  harsh,  clean  hair.  It  was  only  because  her  mother  was  thinking  of  death-of  the  time  of  her  own  death,  whenever  that  might  be-that  Bella's  intrusion  had  assumed  importance.  Six  years  ago-one  knew  it-she  would  have  shrugged  and  said  &quot;Hump!&quot;  But  now-  now  it  was  as  if  there  were  real  intention  in  the  note's  delayed  delivery,  a  delivery  timed  for  the  only  moment  it  would  count.  Delayed  by  whom?  By  God?  If  it  was,  Elizabeth  wished  He  hadn't.  Go  away,  God,  she  wanted  to  say,  liking  the  childish  sound  of  the  words.  &quot;Let's  drink  our  drink,  dear,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  forget  about  all  this.  We've  got  so  much  else.&quot;  &quot;So  much  else.  Yes,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Could  you  spare  me  a  cigarette,  Elizabeth?  Have  you  got  enough  to  last  you  through?  I  seem  to  want  one  at  times  like  this-when  I'm  nervous,  or  when  I'm  trying  to  pass  time.  It's  foolish,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;Do  whatever  makes  you  more  com-  fortable.  That's  what  I  say.  Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Tanner.  ELIZABETH  picked  up  the  paper  and  looked  idly  at  the  crossword  puz-  zle.  Now,  sitting  in  silence,  she  and  her  mother  were  back  in  that  odd,  in-be-  tween  kind  of  time  that  seems  like  a  gap  in  the  real  and  ordinary  time  in  which  one  leads  his  everyday  life.  One  didn't  think,  during  such  spaces,  of  dear  hus-  band  John,  or  dear  son  Howie,  or  dear  house,  or  dear  car,  or  dear  friends,  or  dear  anything  else.  Perhaps  this  was  the  real  time,  and  the  other-the  occupied  time-was  made  up.  She  thought  she  could  introduce  a  topic-she  could  say,  &quot;We've  been  thinking  of  California&quot;  (not  that  they  really  had)  but  a  topic  would  goon  half  the  night,  and  she  yearned  for  bed.  Or  she  could  suggest  a  game  of  cooncan,  but  with  Mama  grieving,  as  she  had  to  be,  the  suggestion  would  have  been  indecorous.  It  would  have  been  all  right  perhaps-maybe  only  a  little  worse  than  solitaire-if  it  weren't  for  the  fact  that  Mama  dis-  dained  playing  cards  except  for  money.  She  had  never  played,  and  never  would  play,  for  anything  but  a  stake,  and  to  ask  her  to  play  justas  a  stopgap  would  be  almost  as  bad  as  proposing  to  gamble  during  this  solemn  moment.  Death  was  certainly  common,  yet  the  demands  it  made  on  the  sensibilities  were-well,  just  about  unlimited.  'The  constant  strain  of  determining  what  was  or  what  wasn't  decent!  Exactly,  now,  what  length  of  time  had  to  be  allowed  before  you  could  propose  a  hand  of  cards?  &quot;Well,  it's  bedtime,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  felt  called  upon  to  say  at  last,  and  they  went  up  to  their  rooms.  A  few  minutes  later,  when  Elizabeth  went  into  her  mother's  room  to  perform  the  customary  ritual  of  raising  her  win-  dow  for  her  and  saying  good  night,  she  found  Mrs.  Tanner  already  in  bed.  She  lay  flat  on  her  back,  covers  tochin,  and,  unaided  by  spectacles,  squinted  hard  at  the  white  ceiling.  'The  effort  of  staring  at  nothing  gave  her  a  helpless  look.  &quot;I'm  so  disturbed  about  Bella!&quot;  she  said,  in  a  half  cry.  &quot;I've  thought  and  I've  thought  and  I've  thought!&quot;  She  drew  forth  her  hidden  hands  and  struck  the  coverlet.  &quot;Well,  do  stop  thinking,  dear,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;You  must,  you  know.  What  does  it  matter,  anyhow,  after  all  this  time?  Bella  would  probably  just-&quot;  She  broke  off,  not  wanting  to  say,  &quot;would  probably  just  have  said,  'How  like  her.'  &quot;  &quot;Just  what?&quot;  her  mother  asked.  &quot;Just  have  forgotten  all  about  it  by  now,&quot;  Elizabeth  said.  &quot;But  she  won't  have,  she  won't  have!&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;She'll  think  about  it  every  Christmastime.  Every  Christmas,  when  she  makes  out  her  " b"cards  and  comes  to  my  name  on  her  list,  she'll  think,  Lorine  never  an-  swered.  She'll  think  I'm  cold.  Cold  and  proud  and  unforgiving.  Do  you  think  I  could  write  her  a  note  and  ex-  plain?&quot;  &quot;Would  it  make  you  feel  better?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  if  I'd  feel  better.  I  just  won-  dershould  I.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Well,  perhaps  you  should,&quot;  said  Elizabeth.  &quot;Shall  I  put  out  your  light  now?  You  really  ought  to  stop  thinking,  Mama  dear,  and  try  to  geta  little  sleep.&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  acqui-  esced,  and  Elizabeth  went  back  to  the  little  bedroom,  which  had  been  her  own  all  the  years  the  family  had  lived  in  this  house.  Usu-  ally  she  had  a  page  or  two  of  a  book  before  she  slept,  but  during  this  week  her  mind  had  been  so  much  with  Ma-  ma  that  it  would  not  take  hold  of  words,  and  she'd  just  lain  in  the  dark  and  smoked  ciga-  rette  after  cigarette.  Tonight  it  was  Mama's  past,  not  Mama's  future,  that  kept  her  smoking.  What  a  fuss  Daddy  had  made  that  day  in  the  car!  Mama,  provoked,  was  always  quietly  cynical,  but  Daddy  was  altogether  the  opposite-as  profane  as  could  be.  When  Mama  protested  that  she'd  never  seen  the  man  before,  Daddy  had  wanted  to  know  if  he  was  supposed  to  believe  that  one,  and  Mama  had  said,  &quot;You'd  better  just  go  on  swearing.  Sarcasm  doesn't  suit  you.&quot;  After  that,  she'd  gone  off  into  an  infuriating  silence,  and  none  of  Daddy's  taunts  could  jolt  her  out  of  it.  That  evening,  Bella  had  got  Mama  alone  and  had  told  her  that  the  whole  thing  was  most  unwifely.  Still,  it  wasn't  the  scene  in  the  car  that  had  brought  on  the  real  quarrel  with  Bella.  It  was  the  idiotic  thing  Mama  had  done  afterward-taking  Daddy's  picture  out  of  the  frame  on  her  dresser  and  putting  one  of  J.  [REDACTED]  Kerrigan  in  its  place.  When  asked  why,  all  she  had  ever  said  was  &quot;I  like  J.  [REDACTED]  Kerrigan.  He  appeals  to  me.&quot;  After  that,  Mama  and  Bella  had  the  real  ruction.  Mama  told  her  to  go  away  and  not  come  back.  &quot;Imagine  her  trying  to  tell  me  how  to  treat  the  man  I  married,&quot;  Mama  said  afterward,  and  Elizabeth  remembered  that  it  was  some  such  re-  mark,  made  to  Bella  herself,  that  prompted  Bella  to  make  her  fatal  as-  sertion  about  having  turned  Daddy  down.  So  Bella  went,  and  J.  [REDACTED]  Kerrigan  stayed.  He  stayed  on  for  years,  right  there  in  Daddy's  frame,  and  then  one  day  he,  too,  was  gone,  and  when  Elizabeth  remarked  on  his  disap-  pearance,  Mama's  sole  reply  was  that  she  supposed  it  was  time.  ORNINGS,  Mrs.  Tanner  stayed  in  bed,  and  Elizabeth  brought  her  breakfast  up  to  her.  Elizabeth  would  go  in  first  thing  and  ask  her  mother  if  there  was  anything  that  particularly  tempted  her.  Then  she  would  go  off  to  the  kitch-  en,  and  by  the  time  she  was  back  with  the  tray,  Mama  would  have  washed  and  tidied  herself,  and  would  be  sitting  up  in  bed  in  her  blue  wool  hug-me-tight.  The  order,  the  next  morning,  was  creamed  codfish.  As  Elizabeth  bore  it  in,  its  odor  rising  in  exotic  but  easy  union  with  that  of  hot  coffee  and  fresh  but-  tered  toast,  she  saw  on  her  mother's  face  a  curiously  solemn  look. &quot;Ah,  how  beautiful!&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  exclaimed,  pulling  herself  a  fraction  higher  and  adjusting  the  bed  table.  She  had  a  taste  of  everything  and  a  sip  of  coffee  before  she  spoke  again.  For  a  moment,  it  seemed  that  the  delight  of  these  mingled  flavors  was  about  to  oust  the  solemnity  to  which  she  had  set  her  face,  but  the  solemnity  won.  She  rested  her  hands  on  the  bed  table.  &quot;Last  night,  I  did  some  praying,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  prayed  about  Bella.  I  thought  perhaps  God  would  tell  me  what  to  do.  Some  folks  say  He  will,  you  know.&quot;  Her  voice  was  matter-of-fact,  as  if  she  were  reporting  a  consultation-not  (Elizabeth  felt)  with  the  psychiatrist,  nor  yet  with  the  doctor,  but  with,  say,  the  plumber.  &quot;And?&quot;  Elizabeth  asked,  with  what  she  hoped  was  sufficient  simplicity.  Comment  on  the  unexpectedness  of  her  mother's  resourcefulness  (Elizabeth  had  never  heard  of  her  appealing  for  help  from  that  quarter  before)  would  have  been,  to  say  the  very  least,  not  nice.  &quot;I'm  to  write,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  She  looked  inquisitively  at  Elizabeth,  as  if  to  inquire  into  the  nature  of  all  the  unvoiced  questions  that,  Elizabeth  real-  " b"ized,  must  have  appeared  in  her  own  face.  &quot;I  just  prayed,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  went  on,  &quot;and  when  I  woke  up,  I  knew.&quot;  She  lowered  her  eyes  to  her  food  and  began  to  eat  again.  Elizabeth  stared  and  waited,  but  her  mother  would  not  look  up.  Her  silence  was  like  a  box  into  which  the  whole  question  of  God  and  Bella  had  been  dropped.  The  box  stayed  closed  for  the  rest  of  Elizabeth's  visit.  It  stayed  most  an-  noyingly  closed  on  subsequent  visits  as  well.  There  was  something  just  a  lit-  tle  intimidating  about  what  might  or  might  not  be  mere  forgetfulness  on  Mrs.  Tanner's  part.  What  had  Bella  had  to  say,  Elizabeth  wondered.  Had  what  she  said  been  bad,  or  had  she,in  her  turn,  refused  to  say  anything  at  all?  God's  advice  is  so  often  exactly  the  advice  one  wouldn't  have  taken  had  one  foreknown  its  results.  N  the  fall,  months  later,  Elizabeth  found  courage  to  tackle  the  matter  again.  She  and  her  husband  had  driven  over  from  Evanston,  and  the  whole  family  had  been  at  Herbie's  and  Cora's  for  Sunday  dinner.  The  pleasant  In-  dian-summer  afternoon  had  worn  away,  and  darkness  had  just  fallen.  Out  by  the  alley,  Howie  and  Herbert's  boy,  Frankie,  were  setting  a  bonfire.  &quot;Let's  go  sit  in  the  swing  and  watch  the  kids,&quot;  Mama  said  to  Elizabeth.  &quot;'Take  some  newspaper  to  put  down  on  the  seats,&quot;  Cora  said.  &quot;The  swing's  probably  dusty.&quot;  &quot;And  bring  my  stole,  Elizabeth,&quot;  Mama  said.  &quot;It's  chilly.&quot;  So  there  they  were,  facing  each  other  in  the  basket  swing,  Mama  and  Eliza-  beth.  Mama's  stole  nearly  covered  her.  Her  wrists  were  crossed  over  her  bos-  om,  and  the  fingers  of  her  little  white  hands  lay  winglike  on  the  dark  wool.  Her  ruby  ring  winked  in  the  firelight.  The  question,  when  Elizabeth  put  it,  seemed  to  make  no  sense  to  her.  &quot;What  did  Bella  sey?&quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;Oh-why,  nothing.&quot;  She  waited  a  moment.  &quot;I  didn't  write,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  never  wrote?&quot;  &quot;No.  I  put  it  off,  and  then  I  forgot,  and  then  when  I  remembered  again,  I  got  to  thinking  how  mad  she'd  made  me,&quot;  Mrs.  Tanner  said.  &quot;Not  that  I'm  mad  any  more,  you  understand,  but,  really,  that  was  a  God-damned  dirty  trick,  her  trying  to  make  me  feel  I  could  only  have  Daddy  because  she  allowed  me  to  have  him.&quot;  It  was  a  little  painful  that  Mama  should  take  just  this  line.  She  had  been  so  certain  she  had  to  be  forgiven.  &quot;'Sleeping  dogs?&quot;  Elizabeth  suggested.  Yes.  It  was  clear  that  Mama  did  feel  a  shade  guilty,  though  sheepish  was  per-  haps  a  better  word  for  it.  In  the  alley,  Frankie  and  Howie  made  sounds  like  animals.  They  wrestled  in  the  leaves.  Suddenly  pleased,  Elizabeth  gave  a  lit-  tle  laugh  and  started  the  swing  with  a  movement  of  her  foot.  She  was  pleased  for  Mama-pleased  that  she  hadn't  backed  down.  She  was  more  herself  this  way,  as  solid  as  ever  and  no  larger  than  life.  &quot;Bella  was  never  worth  it,  Mama,&quot;  she  said."