 b"AS  soon  as  he  waked  in  the  morning,  Peter,  age  eight,  felt  a  differ-  ence.  Then  he  remembered  that  his  father  and  mother  were  away-  they  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  very  suddenly  for  the  weekend-and  that  Grandaunt  was  also  away.  His  grandaunt  lived  close  by,  and  always  when  his  parents  had  been  away  she  had  come  to  stay  and  watch  over  the  children.  But  now  she  was  in  a  [REDACTED]  hospital.  No  one  had  come  to  hear  his  prayers  last  night.  This  was  why,  he  thought,  he  felt  a  difference.  His  sister  Noni,  in  the  next  bed,  did  not  notice  a  difference.  As  soon  as  she  waked,  she  proposed  to  come  into  his  bed,  as  usual;  but  he  refused  her  firmly.  He  was  devoted  to  Noni,  and  she  adored  him,  but  at  the  moment  he  did  not  want  adoration.  He  was  preoccupied,  listen-  ing  intently  to  the  household.  Noni  at  six  was  too  young  to  notice  the  dif-  ference.  Certainly,  the  household  wes  dif-  ferent.  It  was  so  different  that  he  could  hardly  recognize  it.  The  cat  next  door  in  the  day  nursery  was  miaowing  loudly  in  a  despairing  voice;  it  had  not  been  let  out  yet.  Down  in  the  kitchen,  below  the  night-nursery  window,  someone  with  a  very  deep  hoarse  voice,  some  old  beggar  perhaps,  was  talking  to  a  dog.  And  this  strange  dog  was  padding  round  the  floor,  rattling  its  claws  on  the  linoleum,  and  uttering  now  and  then  a  little  whine.  What  was  stranger  still  on  this  strange  day  was  that  when  Annie  the  nurse  came  in  five  min-  utes  later  to  get  the  children  up,  Lizzie  the  housemaid  came  with  her.  Lizzie  and  Annie  had  not  been  speaking  for  weeks  past.  But  now  they  came  in  laughing,  and  Lizzie  whis-  pered  something.  Then  she  ran  out  of  the  nursery  and  shouted  down  the  well  of  the  stairs  to  the  cook,  &quot;I  told  Annie  on  you,  Maggie.&quot;  Even  her  voice  was  a  new  voice,  more  like  Mag-  gie's  when  she  was  drunk.  But  Lizzie  didn't  drink.  REAKFAST  in  the  day  nursery  was  delayed,  and  Noni  grew  im-  patient.  She  climbed  into  her  chair  and  beat  on  the  table  with  a  spoon.  Annie,  however,  was  down  in  the  kitchen  telling  some  tale  to  the  beggar,  and  what  was  still  queerer,  she  had  left  the  nursery  doors  wide  open.  The  nurs-  eries,  usually  so  jealously  kept  aloof,  now  seemed  as  public  as  the  back  stairs,  through  which  all  these  peculiar  noises  were  piped  direct  to  the  children.  Peter  sat  at  the  table  listening.  He  frowned.  He  did  not  like  the  difference  in  the  house.  He  felt  a  certain  nervousness,  and  he  also  felt  a  certain  responsibility,  but  for  what,  he  did  not  know.  Suddenly  he  took  the  spoon  out  of  Noni's  hand  and  said,  &quot;Don't  do  that-  it's  rude.&quot;  This  was  unexpected  to  Noni.  Peter  was  usually  kind  toher.  She  flushed  with  pain  and  surprise.  Her  forehead  crinkled  and  the  corners  of  her  mouth  turned  down;  she  was  about  tocry.  But  Peter's  glance  daunted  her.  He  said  severely,  &quot;You're  not  a  baby  any  more.&quot;  Lizzie  came  in  again  when  Annie  brought  the  tray.  The  two  were  gig-  gling  together  again  at  something  that  had  happened  in  the  kitchen.  And  then  Lizzie  shouted  from  the  window  at  Mrs.  Conor,  the  gardener's  wife,  slop-  ping  past  in  the  rain  with  a  sack  over  her  head  and  her  skirt  turned  up  to  the  knees.  Mrs.  Conor  answered  with  cheerful  yells,  and  soon  she,  too,  came  up  to  the  nursery.  She  spent  the  whole  morning  there,  drinking  tea  and  telling  stories  that  made  the  usually  dignified  Annie  explode  through  her  nose  with  protesting  cries,  &quot;Oh,  Mrs.  Conor,  you're  killing  me!&quot;  MRS.  Conor  stayed  all  day.  After  the  children's  dinner,  at  noon,  all  the  staff  gath-  ered  in  the  day  nurs-  cd  ery,  and  there  was  great  laughter  when  Lizzie  was  persuaded  to  ride  the  rock-  ing  horse-not  that  Lizzie  needed  much  persuading.  She  was  a  pale,  high-  breasted  girl,  with  big  gray  eyes  and  a  little  round  mouth,  who  was  dancing  mad,  and  even  when  the  family  were  there  she  would  go  bouncing  through  the  rooms  as  if  she  were  late  for  a  ball.  When  she  was  on  the  horse,  she  laughed  so  much  that  she  nearly  fell  off.  Then  Maggie  pushed  the  horse  to  make  it  rock  harder,  and  Lizzie  gave  a  shriek  like  an  engine  and  began  to  be  angry.  But  when  they  all  laughed  she  stopped  being  angry  and  proposed  a  dance.  So  Annie  played  the  gramophone.  They  did  not  dance,  however;  they  " b"were  tired  of  the  idea  already.  And  they  began  to  make  much  ofthe  chil-  dren.  All  of  them  were  devoted  to  Peter  and  Noni,  and  now  in  the  exuber-  ance  of  their  holiday,  they  were  de-  monstrative,  they  competed  in  affec-  tion.  Lizzie  tickled  Noni  till  she  laughed  herself  crimson,  and  this  almost  pro-  voked  a  scene.  For  Annie,  the  nurse,  taken  suddenly  jealous,  snatched  the  child  away  and  said,  &quot;That's  enough.&quot;  Lizzie  turned  upon  her  and  laughed  in  her  nose,  saying,  &quot;You,  Annie-&quot;  At  that  moment,  Mrs.  Conor,  the  hanger-  on,  who  was  not  quite  of  the  inner  household  but  earned  her  cups  of  tea  by  her  good  stories  and  her  flattery,  made  a  quick  diversion.  She  lifted  Peter  to  her  lap  and  stroked  his  hair,  which  was  as  pale  as  flax.  &quot;Oh,  the  pet-the  spit  of  his  grandda.  And  do  you  know,  my  prince,  that  I've  seen  him?  I've  seen  your  grandda  with  my  own  eyes.&quot;  The  maids  gazed  at  her.  Annie's  breast  was  still  heaving,  and  Lizzie's  little  mouth  was  still  pushed  out  in  scorn,  but  they  were  attentive.  They  knew  that  Mrs.  Conor  had  some  trick  in  hand.  &quot;Come  now,  Mrs.  Conor,&quot;  said  Annie  in  her  downright  way.  &quot;The  old  master  is  dead  this  forty  years.&quot;  &quot;Wasn't  that  the  one  that  drowned  himself  in  the  river?&quot;  Lizzie  asked.  &quot;Forty-three  years,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Conor,  &quot;and  that  was  before  I  was  born,  but  I've  seen  him.&quot;  And  looking  at  the  child,  she  said  to  him,  &quot;And  how  do  you  think  that  was,  my  pet?  How  do  you  think  I  saw  him  that  was  dead?&quot;  Peter  gazed  earnestly  at  Mrs.  Conor,  and  Noni,  who  had  come  to  lean  against  her  brother,  made  big  eyes  round  his  arm.  They  knew  the  ques-  tion  was  not  meant  to  be  answered;  it  was  simply  an  introduction  to  Mrs.  Conor's  story.  &quot;It  was  when  I  was  eight-just  your  age,  my  pet-that  I  saw  him  walk.  He  was  all  in  white,  and  while  he  walked  he  kept  shaking  his  hands  and  the  water  was  dripping  from  him.  And,  bless  you,  I  didn't  know  who  he  was  then,  or  what  it  meant.  But  I  was  frightened,  and  I  ran  to  my  moth-  er,  and  it  was  then  she  told  me  about  theold  master.  And  she  said  if  I  was  to  see  him  again  I  must  cross  myself.&quot;  There  was  a  short  silence.  All  four  of  the  servants  were  gazing  at  the  two  children  to  see  the  effect  of  this  tale.  &quot;And  they  say,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Conor,  &quot;they  say  that  it's  only  a  child  has  ever  seen  theold  master  walk.&quot;  &quot;Was  it  a  ghost?&quot;  Noni  asked  in  a  loud  voice.  &quot;Yes,  indeed.  You  wouldn't  see  him " b"living  when  he  was  dead,  would  you,  pet?&quot;  &quot;Ghosts  are  only  stories,&quot;  Noni  said.  &quot;Pappy  told  me.&quot;  Peter  opened  his  mouth  to  say  the  same  thing.  But  as  he  glanced  up  he  caught  the  maids'  eyes  fixed  upon  him,  and  suddenly  he  was  not  so  sure  that  they  were  playing  a  trick  upon  him.  When  Annie  or  Maggie  codded  him  about  potatoes  that  grew  on  trees  or  the  man  in  the  moon,  they  had  a  laugh  in  them.  They  might  look  grave,  but  you  could  feel  the  laugh.  But  now  there  was  no  laugh,  and  their  grave  faces  had  a  different  gravity.  All  at  once,  he  was  not  so  confident  of  his  father's  assur-  ances,  even  about  ghosts.  Did  his  father  know  that  things  could  be  so  different  at  home  when  he  was  away?  &quot;'There  aren't  such  things,&quot;  Noni  said  indignantly.  But  Peter  looked  at  her  severely,  and  she  turned  red.  &quot;Well  now,&quot;  Mrs.  Conor  said,  &quot;do  you  tell  me  I'm  telling  you  lies?&quot;  The  children  looked  at  her,  and  Peter  said,  &quot;Grandda  fell  in  when  he  was  fishing.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  know  that,&quot;  Mrs.  Conor  said.  &quot;But  if  he  only  fell  in,  why  would  he  walk?&quot;  &quot;Why,  indeed?&quot;  Lizzie  said.  &quot;And  why  only  for  children?&quot;  &quot;Wellnow,&quot;  Mrs.  Conor  said,  &quot;I  wouldn't  know  that  either,  but  isn't  it  the  same.-with  the  fairies?  They  say  it's  only  children  and  naturals  can  see  the  wee  folk.  And  so  you  never  saw  the  like  of  him,  Master  Peter?&quot;  Peter  shook  his  head,  and  Mrs.  Conor  looked  round  at  her  audience.  &quot;If  anyone  were  to  see  the  old  master,  it  would  be  this  one  that's  so  like  him.&quot;  And  suddenly  she  winked.  Mrs.  Conor  ,  was  a  good  winker;  she  could  close  either  eye  without  the  slightest  change  of  expression  on  the  other  side  of  her  face.  That's  why  Peter  saw  only  her  grave  good-natured  countenance,  while  Maggie  and  Lizzie  and  Annie  had  a glimpse  of  enormous  slyness.  Mrs.  Conor  once  more  turned  her  grave  mild  face  toward  Peter.  &quot;'Yes,  my  dear,  you  would  be  the  one,  for  aren't  you  the  spit  of  him?  It's  a  wonder  that  you  .  haven't  seen  him  yet,  for  it's  my  belief  he  crosses  that  back  yard  every  day  of  the  week  on  his  way  from  the  water  to  the  cemetery.&quot;  &quot;What,  Mrs.  Conor?&quot;  Lizzie  said.  &quot;Every  day  of  the  week?  I  wouldn't  like  to  think  that.&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,  indeed,&quot;  said  Maggie,  com-  ing  into  the  game.  Maggie  was  old  and  tired,  and  slow  in  her  mind,  but  still  she  was  ready  to  take  her  part  in  a  good " b"game.  &quot;No,  indeed,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why,  I'd  be  afraid  to  go  into  the  yard  if  I  thought  that.&quot;  &quot;But  then  you  wouldn't  see  him,&quot;  Annie  said.  &quot;It  would  be  only  Master  Peter  here  that  would  see  him.&quot;  &quot;It  was  about  six  o'clock  in  the  eve-  ning  that  I  saw  him,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Conor.  &quot;And  they  said  that  was  the  time  that  he  went  into  the  water.&quot;  There  was  another  long  pause,  and  then  Lizzie  said,  &quot;Well  now,  I  won-  der,  would  Master  Peter  see  him  if  he  looked  at  six  o'clock?&quot;  &quot;It'd  be  a  bit  dark  at  six,&quot;  Maggie  said.  &quot;It'd  have  to  be,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Conor.  &quot;You  don't  think  that  ghosts  will  walk  in  daylight?  But  there,  I'm  not  saying  that  Master  Peter  would  see  his  grand-  da  on  any  day  of  the  week,  dark  as  it  might  be.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Maggie  said.  &quot;It's  only  that  he  might  take  alook  some  evening  if  he  wouldn't  be  afraid.&quot;  &quot;It's  well  he  might  be,&quot;  Lizzie  said.  She  gave  a  deep  sigh  and  gazed  into  the  air  with  her  big  gray  eyes,  imagining  the  terror  of  ghosts.  &quot;He  would  not!&quot;  Annie  cried.  &quot;Would  you,  my  darling?  Would  you  now?&quot;  Peter  made  no  answer  to  this.  He  understood  the  challenge.  He  had  been  challenged  before,  and  usually  in  a  trick,  as  when  Maggie  had  dared  him  to  open  a  parcel,  which,  so  she  said,  might  have  a  bomb  in  it,  and  it  had  let  out  a  jumping  jack,  which  hit  him  on  the  nose.  But  he  had  not  really  believed  that  there  would  be  a  bomb  in  a  parcel.  Who  would  put  bombs  in  parcels?  Ghosts  were  quite  another  thing.  And  it  was  true  that  his  grandfather  had  died  young,  and  tragically.  &quot;Oh,  he's  the  brave  boy  always,&quot;  Mrs.  Conor  said,  and  Maggie  came  in hastily,  &quot;Sure.  There  never  was  any  of  the  family  afraid  of  anything.&quot;  &quot;'Would  you  look  for  your  grand-  da?&quot;  Lizzie  asked,  staring  at  the  boy  with  her  big  eyes.  Peter,  staring  back  and  wondering  at  this  strange  excited  Lizzie,  answered,  'You  mean  in  the  yard?&quot;  &quot;You  wouldn't  have  to  go  in  the  yard,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Conor.  &quot;You  could  see  from  the  kitchen  window.  Aye,  it  would  be  better  from  the  window.&quot;  &quot;And  what  better  day  than  today,  when  themselves  is  out  of  it?&quot;  Lizzie  said.  &quot;It's  stopped  raining,&quot;  Peter  said,  as  if  he  had  not  noticed  Lizzie's  sugges-  tion.  &quot;Can  I  go  to  Willy?&quot;  Willy  was  11  the  garden  boy,  a  close  friend  of  Peter's," b"but  Annie  did  not  always  approve  of  their  meetings,  which,  she  considered,  were  often  too  exciting  for  Peter  and  kept  him  wakeful  at  night.  &quot;There  now,&quot;  Lizzie  muttered.  &quot;I  knew  he'd  get  out  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  you  can  go  to  Willy,&quot;  Mrs,  Conor  said  quickly.  &quot;He'd  be  in  the  cabbages  this  minute.  And  I  tell  you,  why  wouldn't  ye  have  supper  in  the  kitchen,  too-for  a  treat?  I'm  sure  Annie  wouldn't  mind  just  for  today.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes!&quot;  cried  Noni.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  yes  please.&quot;  And  even  Peter,  disturbed  as  he  was  by  the  confusion  in  the  house,  was  pleased  by  this  suggestion.  &quot;Oh,  do,  Annie.  I'd  like  that  very  much,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Sure,  my  pet,&quot;  Annie  said.  &quot;Indeed  and  ye  shall,&quot;  said  Maggie,  winking  at  Mrs.  Conor,  but  so  clumsily  that  Noni  noticed  and  stared  at  her  eye.  Maggie  was  very  red,  and  seemed  about  to  burst.  &quot;And  as  for  ghosts,  Miss  Noni,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Conor,  &quot;sure  your  pappy  may  be  right  after  all.  Why,  I  wouldn't  be  too  sure  myself.  It's  so  long  since  I  saw  one  that  indeed  your  grandda  mightn't  have  been  one  at  all.  There  now,  Mag-  gie,  don't  I  hear  your  kettle?&quot;  And  the  four  rushed  suddenly  out  of  the  room  so  violently  that  they  jammed  on  the  nar-  row  back  stairs  and  Lizzie  gave  a  squeak  of  laughter.  Then,  below,  the  kitchen  door  banged  shut  behind  them.  PETER  paid  no  more  attention  to  their  nonsense.  He  was  too  pleased  with  himself  for  eluding  Mrs.  Conor's  em-  barrassing  proposal.  Joyfully  he  hurried  off  to  see  Willy  in  the  garden.  He  even  allowed  Noni  to  take  his  hand  and  go  with  him,  stipulating  only  that  she  should  not  speak  to  Willy.  Noni  was  perfectly  satisfied  to  be  be-  side  her  darling  and  listen  to  his  con-  versation  with  Willy,  while  the  party  moved  from  the  cabbages  to  the  byre,  the  byre  to  the  pigsty,  the  pigsty  to  the  pump,  where  Willy  completed  his  last  duty  by  filling  the  house  tanks,  so  that,  as  he  said  thoughtfully,  &quot;You  wains  can  have  your  baths  the  night.&quot;  Peter  provided  most  ofthe  talk,  giv-  ing,  for  instance,  a  full  account  ofthe  mammoth  found  in  [REDACTED]  under  the  ice  and  explaining  that  whales  were  really  animals,  and  had  milk.  He  hadn't  had  so  good  a  day  with  Willy  for  a  week,  and  he  started  back  to  the  kitchen  in  the  highest  spirits.  The  reason  the  children  loved  supper  in  the  kitchen  was  that  the  maids,  and  especially  Lizzie,  were  such  good  company  with  their  gossip " b"and  their  jokes.  They  were  always  play-  ing  some  trick  on  each  other  and  laugh-  ing.  Last  time,  Lizzie  had  pulled  Annie's  chair  away  and  caused  her  to  sit  down  hard  on  the  floor.  The  children  had  laughed  until  they  could  not  eat,  and  Lizzie  herself  had  had  to  say  that  they  must  behave  themselves  better  or  they  would  not  be  asked  again.  They  were  laughing  in  recollection  of  this  performance  when  they  came  in-  to  the  kitchen.  But  what  a  surprise!  There  was  no  one  there  but  old  Mag-  gie,  and  the  table  was  not  by  the  stove,  but  pushed  into  the  window  embrasure,  close  against  the  window  itself.  And  when  Maggie  had  placed  them  in  their  chairs,  at  opposite  ends  of  the  table,  she  made  for  the  door.  &quot;Oh,  Maggie,&quot;  Noni  wailed,  &quot;I  want  to  have  supper  with  you  all.&quot;  But  Maggie  muttered  something  about  the  storeroom,  and  went  out,  shutting  the  door  after  her.  Almost  at  the  same  moment,  there  was  a  moaning  cry  from  the  yard,  and  Peter,  who  had  been  put  facing  the  yard  gate  that  led  from  the  front  lawn  and  the  river,  looked  up  and  saw  the  ghost.  It  was  just  coming  through  the  gate.  The  lamp  in  the  kitchen  was  turned  low,  and  the  yard  was  lighted  only  by  the  sky,  which  was  a  pale-green  color.  The  yard,  surrounded  by  barns  and  sta-  bles,  by  the  byre  and  garage,  all  in  dark-  reddish  bricks,  was  paved  with  dark-  blue  cinders;  these  dark  buildings  and  the  dark  cinders  soaked  up  the  light  from  above.  The  air  in  the  yard  seemed  to  be  without  light,  so  that  the  white-  ness  of  the  ghost  was  as  bright  as  a  swan's  feathers  on  a  dark  evening.  The  ghost  was  all  in  white;  a  short  thick  figure  in  a  sheet,  which  was  pulled  over  its  forehead  in  front,  and  which  covered  its  body  and  fell  to  the  ground  so  that  the  creature  did  not  seem  to  have  feet.  When  it  passed  the  gardener's  shed,  it  turned  toward  the  kitchen  window.  And  now  Peter  could  see,  under  the  white  fold  of  the  sheet,  a  face  as  white,  except  that  its  eyes  were  like  enormous  black  holes,  and  its  mouth  was  gray.  This  mouth  was  moving  all  the  time  as  if  crying.  Peter  was  fixed  in  such  fear,  such  horror,  that  he  could  not  take  his  eyes  off  this  face  with  its  weeping  mouth.  He  got  down  slowly  from  his  chair  and  retreated  a  pace  backward;  but  this  brought  him  up  against  the  end  of  the  embrasure,  And  he  stood  there,  fixed,  helpless,  unable  to  move,  speak,  or  think.  &quot;What  are  you  doing,  Peter?&quot;  Noni" b"said,  surprised  at  his  getting  down  from  his  chair.  Then  the  ghost  moaned  again,  more  loudly.  Noni  looked  round,  gave  a  shriek,  and  ran  to  her  brother.  Peter  held  her  tight  and  drew  her  to  one  side-she  hid  her  face  against  his  ribs.  The  ghost  was  now  four  or  five  yards  from  the  window.  Peter  could  see  long  leaves  of  river  weed  glistening  wet  on  its  shoulders  and  the  water  pouring  down  the  white  folds  to  the  ground-  the  eyes  were  shining  palely  in  the  mid-  dle  of  their  great  black  holes.  It  was  staring  at  him  and  shaking  its  hands  all  the  time  as  if  in  grief.  He  thought,  It's  crying-it  wants  to  tell  me  something.  He  was  shivering  in  terror  that  the  crea-  ture  would  speak  to  him,  and  yet  he  could  not  run  away.  He  felt  he  had  to  wait  for  the  message.  The  ghost  took  one  more  step  toward  him  and  gave  another  long  deep  heart-  breaking  moan.  Noni  gripped  Peter  convulsively  and  uttered  shriek  after  shriek.  But  the  ghost's  next  move  was  to  its  right.  With  a  wavering,  wobbling  motion,  it  glided  slowly  toward  the  back  corner  of  the  house,  where  it  suddenly  vanished  behind  the  porch  of  the  scul-  lery.  Almost  at  the  same  moment,  Annie,  Lizzie,  and  Maggie  burst  into  the  kitchen.  Peter,  mechanically  patting  and  stroking  Noni,  gazed  at  them  with  wide  vague  eyes  as  if  he  had  forgotten  their  existence.  Noni  stopped  screaming  and  ran  toward  Annie.  &quot;It  came-it  came-we  saw  it!&quot;  she  cried.  But  the  maids  were  staring  at  Peter,  with  eyes  nearly  as  wide  as  his  own-half  curious,  half  alarmed  at  the  child's  fearfully  white  face  and  crazy  expression.  &quot;What-what  happened  then?&quot;  said  Annie  in  a  stammering  voice.  And  now  Mrs.  Conor,  rather  breath-  less,  came  darting  into  the  kitchen  from  the  scullery.  She  still  had  some  burnt  cork  under  her  right  eye,  but  she  cov-  ered  it  with  her  hand,  so  that  the  chil-  dren  could  not  see  it.  &quot;What's  wrong?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Was  that  Miss  Noni  I  heard?&quot;  &quot;'They  saw  him,  Mrs.  Conor!&quot;  Liz-  zie  exclaimed.  &quot;'They  saw  the  old  mas-  ter  in  the  yard-did  you  ever  hear  the  like  of  that?&quot;  Peter  came  to  himself,  walked  out  of  his  corner,  and  took  Noni's  hand.  &quot;It  was  nothing,&quot;  he  said.  And  his  face  turned  very  red.  &quot;A  ghost,  nothing?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Con-  or.  ''Weren't  you  afeared?&quot;  &quot;We  didn't  see  anything,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  was  only  Noni  being  silly.  You " b"didn't  see  anything,  did  you,  Noni?&quot;  Noni  stared  at  him.  Then  she  slowly  shook  her  head.  She  didn't  know  why  Peter  was  telling  this  enormous  lie,  but  she  was  glad  to  support  him.  He  then  walked  her  slowly  and  with  great  dignity  toward  the  hall  door.  The  maids  parted  and  let  him  go.  Even  Mrs.  Conor  was  taken  aback  by  this  strange-  ly  aloof  Peter.  He  led  Noni  through  the  hall  into  the  drawing  room.  He  seldom  went  to  the  drawing  room  except  on  state  occasions,  in  his  best  clothes.  For  him,  it  was  a  place  of  ceremony,  where  grown-up  persons  of  distinction  con-  ferred  together  in  quiet  tones  and  a  re-  served  manner  upon  important  mat-  ters-births,  deaths,  marriages,  money,  family  affairs.  As  soon  as  they  entered  the  room,  Noni  protested  that  it  was  a  ghost.  &quot;I  saw  it.&quot;  Peter  shut  the  door  firmly  be-  hind  them  and  cut  off  the  excited  chat-  ter  of  the  maids.  Then  he  led  Noni  to  the  middle  of  the  carpet  and  explained  to  her,  kindly  but  gravely,  &quot;Yes,  it  was  grandpapa.  But  don't  talk  to  them  about  it.  They'd  only  laugh  and  he's  our  own  grandpapa.&quot;  "