 b"NOT  long  ago,  when  I  was  in  [REDACTED],  I  bought  myself  a  derby  or  dicer,  a  bowler  or  tit-  fer  or  chapeau  melon-in  other  words,  a  billycock  or  hard  hat,  although  the  shop  where  I  bought  it  prefers  to  call  it  a  coke.  It  was  the  first  I  had  ever  owned,  and  made  me  feel  full  grown  for  the  first  time  in  fifty-one  years,  because  my  father,  like  every  other  New  Yorker  of  his  day,  always  wore  one  when  I  was  aboy.  All  I  have  to  do  now  is  learn  to  shave  with  a  straight  razor  on  a  mov-  ing  railroad  train  and  I  will  satisfy  my  own  time-obscured  image  of  adulthood.  I  liked  the  clerk  who  sold  it  to  me-  so  much,  in  fact,  that  I  let  him  also  sell  me  a  hound's-tooth  tweed  cap.  I  was  surprised  at  myself,  since  I  seldom  wear  caps  nowadays-I  wasn't  even  tempted  to  buy  one  when  they  reappeared  in  the  windows  of  the  smart  New  York  haber-  dashers  a  few  years  ago-but  the  pur-  chase  made  me  remember  that  there  was  a  time  when  I  considered  caps  the  only  virile  form  of  headgear  for  a  fel-  low  of  sub-derby  age.  All  through  high  school,  I  had  refused  to  own  a  non-rigid  hat,  and  I  persisted  in  this  idiosyncrasy  right  on  through  the  second  time  I  was  putout  of  Dartmouth  for  overcutting  chapel.  'This  was  in  the  late  winter  of  my  junior  year.  I  do  not  know  why  I  went  hatless  so  long;  most  of  my  college  contemporaries  wore  flat  hats  when  they  went  home  for  the  holidays.  May-  be  I  meant  to  show  that  I  did  xzot  come  from  a  smooth  prep  school,  but  nobody  would  have  sus-  pected  me  of  that  any-  way.  I  professed  a  simi-  lar  contempt  for  coon-  skin  coats,  but  here,  I  think,  I  was  motivated  by  the  circumstance  that  my  father  was  a  manufacturing  furrier.  I  knew  that  he  would  either  refuse  to  buy  me  a  fur  coat  or  insist  that  I  get  something  smart  and  durable,  like  a  Persian  lamb.  I  feared  this  might  be  conspicuous.  On  the  occasion  of  my  expulsion  from  college-the  first  time  they  threw  you  out  they  called  it  a  separation,  which  was  retrievable,  but  the  second  dismissal,  I  knew,  wasn't-I  felt  that  I  ought  to  buy  an  outer  garment  fit  for  city  wear.  The  one  I  selected  at  Cam-  pion's,  in  Hanover,  was  an  extra-pale-  fawn  gabardine  trench  coat  with  a  belt.  I  was  a  premature  Private  Eye.  I     needed  a  new  cap,  soI  bought  one  with  large  black-and-white  checks.  I  was  eighteen  years  old  and  pretty  big,  but  I  didn't  look  like  a  prizefighter,  as  I  would  have  liked  to,  because  I  wore  thick  glasses.  A  professor  whom  I  had  had  no  opportunity  to  antagonize,  since  I  took  no  courses  with  him,  had  got  me  a  job  on  a  small  maga-  zine  called  the  Granite  Monthly,  in  [REDACTED],  New  Hampshire.  The  maga-  zine  was  owned  by  Mrs.  Robert  Bass,  the  wife  of  a  former  Governor.  She  was  wealthy.  The  thaw  had  not  yet  come,  and  it  was  cold  in  northern  New  England,  but  I  wore  my  new  outfit  down  to  Con-  cord.  It  would  have  made  a  hit  with  the  publisher  of  a  scratch  sheet,  but  Mrs.  Bass  was  unimpressed.  My  em-  ployment  didn't  last  long,  because  I  couldn't  get  interested  in  Oxford  sheep,  a  subject  the  Granite  Monthly  had  chosen  for  me.  I  offered  to  do  a  paper  on  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria  de  Heredia  instead,  but  we  could  come  to  no  agreement  and  soon  parted.  After  the  de  Heredia  im-  passe,  I  went  back  to  Hanover  and  found  several  letters  from  my  father  and  mother,  who  were  off  on  a  Medi-  terranean  cruise  aboard  the  Rotterdam  and  were  not  aware  of  my  unattached  status,  since  I  had  concealed  the  carks  of  care  when  last  in  New  York,  at  the  short  holiday  after  midyears.  I  won  forty  dollars  in  a  crap  game  in  South  Fayerweather  Hall,  al-  though  winning  was  an  unusual  experience  for  me,  and  accepted  prom-  issory  notes  for  my  furniture  and  textbooks,  which  I  sold  at  eviction,  sale  prices  to  other  in-  habitants  of  Sanborn,  where  I  had  roomed.  I  then  bought  a  ticket  for  New  York  and  departed,  secure  in  the  belief  that  my  parents  would  not  be  home  for  eight  weeks  and  that  in  the  interim  I  could  draw  on  any  number  of  people  for  funds  while  I  made  a  success  as  a  short-story  writer.  I  HAD  always  wanted  to  livelike  a  stranger  in  New  York,  where  I  had  had  a  circumscribed,  indigenous  ex-  istence  most  of  my  life,  and  the  next  few  days  were  about  as  near  to  it  as  I  ever  got.  It  isn't  a  hard  thing  to  do,  of  course;  there  are  neighborhoods  in  which  one  can  live  for  years  without  encountering  an  acquaintance.  It's  just " b"that  it  is  such  a  hard  thing  for  a  New  Yorker  to  explain.  Friends  will  accept  the  idea  of  a  withdrawal  to  Nantucket  or  Mallorca  but  not  to,  let  us  say,  Thirty-fifth  Street  between  Fifth  and  Sixth,  where  they  would  be  less  likely  to  see  you.  (That,  in  fact,  is  the  block  I  am  saving  to  disappear  on  when  the  need  arises.)  I  went  to  a  hotel  on  Seventh  Ave-  nue,  in  the  upper  Thirties,  because  no-  body  I  knew  ever  went  there  and  I  had  (|  heard  it  was  fast.  It  was  also  reason-  able.  None  of  the  bellboys  offered  to  |  get  me  liquor  or  a  woman  on  my  ar-  rival,  and  this  surprised  me  at  the  time,  but  now,  as  I  recall  my  appearance,  it  doesn't.  Having  checked  in,  I  tele-  phoned  to  my  father's  younger  brother,  a  lawyer,  to  inform  him  I  had  left  col-  lege  in  order  to  become  a  writer  of  short  stories.  He  asked  me  to  meet  him  for  lunch  at  Mouquin's,  at  Sixth  and  Twenty-eighth,  and  there  I  told  him  that  as  my  parents'  home  was  closed  and  I  saw  no  reason  to  impose  myself  on  him  and  my  aunt,  I  thought  I  might  as  well  stay  at  the  Lancaster,  as  I  shall  call  the  hotel,  where,  I  told  him  in-  accurately,  I  was  getting  a  lot  of  ma-  terial  for  stories.  My  uncle,  as  I  had  thought  he  would,  temporized  until  he  had  had  a  chance  to  talk  things  over  with  his  wife,  in  Bensonhurst.  He  asked  me  where  I  was  going  to  sell  the  stories  and,  as  an  afterthought,  whether  I  had  ever  written  any.  I  told  him  everybody  had  to  begin  sometime,  and  named  several  magazines  I  felt  sure  I  could  sell  to,  once  I  had  written  the  stories.  He  was  a  kind,  vague  man,  always  slightly  in  awe  of  my  father,  who  had  worked  since  he  was  ten  years  old  and  supported  all  his  siblings  until  they  could  get  under  way.  My  uncle  let  me  have  fifty  dollars,  and  I  walked  away  from  the  restaurant  feeling  like  a  man-about-town.  I  do  not  remember  where  I  went  that  afternoon-probably  to  a  vaudeville  show  at  Proctor's  Fifth  [REDACTED],  which  was  at  Twenty-eighth  and  [REDACTED].  It  was  the  evening  that  was  to  become  the  memorable  portion  of  my  day-the  day,  I  like  to  think,  that  I  became  the  last  [REDACTED]  boulevardier.  MOUQUIN\xe2\x80\x99S,  where  I  had  lunched  with  my  uncle  and  often  before  that  with  my  father,  was  a  French  res-  taurant  in  a  sound  tradition.  'The  street  floor  was  a  caf\xc3\xa9  with  leather-covered  banquettes,  marble-topped  tables,  news-  papers  in  wooden  holders  that  hung  on  a  rack,  and  all  the  accompanying  amenities,  ('The  caf\xc3\xa9  ofthe  Lafayette," b"which  disappeared  in  1949,  was  the  last  place  like  it  in  New  York.)  There  was  a  restaurant  upstairs  at  Mouquin's,  but  we  ate  there  only  when  there  wereno  seats  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9.  Mouquin's,  in  the  early  twenties,  used  to  get  a  great  lunch-  eon  crowd  from  the  business  district  around  it,  which  was  much  livelier  thenthan  now.  It  was  the  heart  of  the  fur-and-garment  district  then,  but  has  been  abandoned  to  Greek  wholesale  florists  and  ground-floor  furriers-sub-  contractors  who  are  also,  for  the  most  part,  Greeks.  &quot;It  isn't  a  fine  restaurant,  like  Martin's,&quot;  my  father  used  to  say-  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Martin,  at  Twenty-sixth  and  Fifth,  had  closed  before  World  War  I-&quot;but  it's  all  right  if  you  stick  to  standard  things.&quot;  By  standard  things  he  meant  the  pleats  du  jour-cassoulet  toulousain,  sole  Dugl\xc3\xa9re,  pieds  de  pore  grill\xc3\xa9s  [REDACTED].  Menehoulde,  bouillabaisse  (Fridays),  and  canard  aux  olives.  Pro-  hibition  was  a  more  serious  matter  in  the  early  twenties  than  later,  but  Mou-  quin's  waiters  would  serve  wine  or  spirits  to  any  customer  they  knew,  and  it  was  not  hard  to  scrape  upan  ac-  quaintance  with  them.  There  was  even  a  printed  line  on  the  menu  that  said,  &quot;We  will  continue  to  serve  our  cus-  tomers  as  we  always  have.&quot;  That  was  not  literally  true  except  in  the  evening  and  upstairs.  Liquor  was  served  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  at  noon  in  tea  or  coffee  cups,  be-  cause  in  such  a  crowd  the  waiters  could  not  be  sureof  the  identities  of  all  the  customers.  Mouquin's  at  night  was  a  relatively  quiet  place.  'This  was  due  less  to  pro-  hibition  than  to  changes  in  the  neigh-  borhood.  'The  restaurant,  when  it  opened,  had  been  in  the  center  of  a  gay  night-life  district,  the  Tenderloin,  and  within  a  block  or  two  of  the  best  hotels  in  the  city,  centered  on  Madison  Square.  The  region  directly  west  of  it  had  been  a  run-down  lodging-house  and  brothel  area.  'The  fur  and  garment  industries  had  since  moved  into  this  western  area,  filling  it  with  big  loft  buildings  and  supplying  Mouquin's  with  a  new  luncheon  trade,  but  the  Tender-  loin  and  the  smart  hotels  had  vanished,  leaving  Sixth  [REDACTED]  a  dead  street  at  night.  It  was  this  Mouquin's  &amp;  /e  weilleuse,  uncelebrated  by  the  biogra-  phers  of  Diamond  Jim  Brady  and  Stan-  ford  White,  that  saw  me  enter  with  gabardine  trench  coat  instead  of  opera  cape,  and  checked  cap  in  place  of  col-  lapsible  silk  hat.  I  found  the  marble  tables  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  bare  and  only  a  couple  of  old  French-  men  playing  dominoes  for  vermouths-  cassis  at  one  of  them,  but  I  heard  music" b"in  the  restaurant,  soI  walked  upstairs.  There  were  several  parties  dining  and  several  men,  whom  I  recognized  in-  stantly  as  Babbitts,  dancing  with  women  who  weren't  particularly  young  or  smart.  The  band  was  playing  &quot;Why  Did  I  Kiss  That  Gir?  Why?:  Oh,  Why?  Oh,  Why?&quot;  The  captain,  a  small,  baldfellow  with  gold  teeth  in  the  front  of  his  mouth,  and  Roberto,  my  father's  favorite  waiter,  a  tall  Pied-  montese  with  a  handle-bar  mustache  like  a  Napoleonic  grenadier's,  may  have  been  astonished  to  see  me  there  alone,  but  they  didn't  let  on.  All  the  senior  waiters  worked  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  at  noon.  They  evidently  moved  upstairs  at  night,  while  the  restaurant  luncheon  waiters  either  stayed  home  or  had  other  evening  jobs.  There  wasn't  enough  work  to  go  around.  I  sat  down  at  a  window  table,  one  of  Roberto's,  and  ordered  a  drink.  I  was  an  enthusiastic  and  not  unprac-  ticed  drinker,  having  spent  the  previous  summer  in  [REDACTED]  conscientiously  working  my  way  through  wine  cards  and  Provincial  liquor-store  catalogues  by  trial  and  error,  in  order  to  acquire  the  Continental  polish  I  felt  the  prohibi-  tionists  had  denied  me.  I  wanted  to  be  like  James  Gibbons  Huneker  and  H.  L.  Mencken.  My  tastes  in  mixed  drinks,  which  had  been  unavailable  in  Mont-  real,  were  less  formed.  I  had  a  few  Orange  Blossoms  and  a  few  Old-  Fashioneds,  alternating  them  to  see  which  I  liked  better,  and  then  ordered  a  whopping  dinner,  with,  as  I  remember  it,  the  canard  aux  olives  as  the  main  course.  I  always  talked  French  with  Ro-  berto,  because  it  made  me  feel  more  knowing.  With  dinner,  I  had  a  pint  of  Sauternes,  which  I  had  decided  in  [REDACTED]  was  subtler  and  more  dis-  tinguished  than  champagne.  Sparkling  Burgundy,  I  thought,  topped  the  lot,  and  I  did  not  learn  until  two  summers  later,  in  [REDACTED],  that  I  had  fallen  into  heresy.  I  tried  to  bury  my  taste  for  those  wines  like  the  memory  of  an  em-  barrassing  affair,  and  succeeded,  but  at  the  time  I  owned  the  checked  cap  they  had  a  glorious  effect  on  me.  I  therefore  had  the  Burgundy-a  full  bottle  of  it-after  my  demitasse  and  cognac,  and  began  to  look  harder  at  the  women.  Iliked  most  of  them  no  better  than  at  first  sight,  and  besides  the  com-  pany  they  were  in  showed  they  lacked  discrimination.  Most  of  the  men  seemed  to  be  at  least  forty.  One  woman,  how-  ever,  had  remained  alone  all  evening,  at  a  table  so  placed  that  I  could  not  help  watching  her  pretty  steadily.  She  had  been  summoned  to  the  telephone  twice " b"by  the  waiter  captain,  and  had  returned  smiling  both  times.  Now,  I  fancied,  she  was  smiling  at  me.  She  had  a  short  up-  per  lip,  pulled  back  off  her  teeth-one  of  them  was  gold-so  I  could  not  make  up  my  mind,  until  I  had  finished  the  bottle,  whether  her  expression  was  in  truth  meant  for  me  or  merely  unalter-  able.  She  also  had  a  snub  nose  and  a  thick,  protruding  underlip,  like  a  movie  star  of  those  days,  Mae  Murray.  I  re-  solved  the  question  by  asking  Roberto,  when  he  turned  up  the  empty  bottle,  whether  he  knew  cette  dame  avec  la  dent  d  or,  and  when  he  replied  that  he  did,  I  asked  him  whether  he  thought  she  would  be  offended  if  I  sent  him  to  her  tableto  ask  if  I  might  buy  her  a  drink.  He  said  that  he  was  certain  that  she  would  not,  and  from  a  perceptible  wid-  ening  of  her  grin  I  could  see  that  the  movements  of  her  facial  muscles  were  in  fact  voluntary  and  that  she  had  di-  vined  the  nature  of  our  conversation.  Roberto  went  to  her  table  as  gravely  as  an  ambassador-I  shall  always  remem-  ber  him  with  gratitude  for  not  having  made  fun  of  me-and  returned  saying  that  Madame  would  be  most  happy  if  I  would  joinher.  &quot;I  havebeen  noticing  your  nice  table  manners  all  evening,&quot;  she  said  when  I  sat  down  opposite  her.  &quot;'Your  mother  really  must  have  taken  a  lot  of  trouble  with  you.&quot;  I  couldn't  think  of  a  good  answer,  and  asked  her  if  she  would  like  some  wine.  She  said  no,  it  didn't  agree  with  her,  but  she  would  just  have  a  little  bourbon-and-water.  &quot;I've  been  waiting  here  all  evening  for  a  very  nice  man  who  owns  a  paper  mill,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  seems  there's  some  kind  of  a  paper  millers'  convention  in  town.  The  first  time  he  called  up  he  was  an  hour  late," b"but  he  said  he'd  be  down  right  away;  he  and  some  of  the  other  millers  were  just  having  a  drink  at  a  place  on  Fifty-  second  Street.  The  second  time  he  said  he  was  sorry  but  he  was  too  stiff  to  move,.  What  business  are  you  in?&quot;  I  said  I  wasn't  in  any,  and  she  said  she  was  glad,  because  she  wouldn't  have  to  listen  to  me  talk  about  it.  &quot;It's  all  men  ever  talk  about  to  us,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  we  have  to  pretend  to  be  interest-  ed.  About  how  they  will  fix  the  sales  manager's  wagon  if  they  land  some-  thing  or  other,  because  that  will  show  the  boss  who  is  really  the  old  he-coon,  and  if  they  quit  the  company,  he  may  as  well  kiss  off  the  medium-price  mar-  ket.  Or  sometimes  golf  scores.&quot;  I  told  her  I  thought  she  was  the  only  pretty  woman  in  the  place;  I  couldn't  under-  stand  how  any  man  would  want  to  be  :|  with  the  others.  &quot;They're  all  nice  girls,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  they're  good  listeners.  Ninety  per  cent  of  the  customers  now  just  come  because  their  wives  won't  listen  to  their  troubles.  The  men  who  are  used  to  sporting  girls  are  getting  old,  and  they  don't  want  much  more  than  a  woman  to  talk  to,  even  when  they  go  home  with  her.  Soon  the  whole  town  will  be  full  of  speakeasies  and  kept  women,  but  that  isn't  the  same  thing  as  caf\xc3\xa9s  and  sporting  girls.  A  sporting  girl  isn't  trying  to  kid  anybody.&quot;  She  said  she  lived  in  one  of  a  row  of  brownstone  lodging  houses  on  Twenty-third  Street,  between  Seventh  and  Eighth.  They  have  since  been  torn  down  to  make  way  for  a  small  apart-  ment  house.  I  paid  her  bill,  which  was  considera-  ble  and  left  me  with  little  of  the  money  I  had  got  from  my  uncle  that  day-  so  little  that  I  began  to  sober  up.  She  told  me  to  double  the  fifteen-per-cent  tip  I  started  to  leave,  and  I  obeyed,  try-  ing  to  act  as  if  I  had  just  been  distrait.  I  offered  to  take  her  home  in  a  cab,  but  she  said  we  could  walk  and  she  would  take  me  into  Cavanagh's,  across  from  where  she  lived,  and  buy  me  a  nightcap.  Cavanagh's  was  more  dis-  creet  than  Mouquin's  and  survived  the  thirteen-year  nightmare  of  prohibition.  In  fact,  itis  still  going,  although  it  is  now  under  new  ownership.  Mouquin's  abandoned  the  struggle  against  the  ac-  credited  extortionists  of  the  dry  squad  in  about  1925.  My  companion  gave  all  the  waiters  an  especially  wide  smile  on  leaving.  \xc2\xab&quot;They  take  my  telephone  messages  for  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  just  say  it's  for  Miss  Griffin,  and  they'll  give  me  the  message.  When  I  haven't  much  appe-  tite,  they  coax  me  to  eat.  'Miss  Griffin, " b"you  must  keep  up  your  strength,&quot;  say.  'Don't  let  the  liquor  get  you.  they  &gt;  &gt;  N  the  six-block  walkfrom  Mou-  quin's  to  Cavanagh's,  Miss  Grif-  fin  held  my  forearm,  but  without  ten-  derness.  Her  conduct  toward  me  was,  if  not  maternal,  at  least  elder-sisterly.  Aft-  er  we  had  our  drink  at  Cavanagh's,  I  did  not  know  how  to  proceed  further.  I  felt  at  this  moment  none  of  the  ardor  with  which,  an  hour  or  so  earlier,  I  had  seated  myself  at  her  table,  and  I  felt  a  trifle  guilty  for  having  taken  up  so  much  of  her  time.  It  was  the  same  feeling  I  hadhad  in  shops  where  I  could  not  find  my  right  shirt  size.  In  such  cases,  in  order  not  to  irritate  the  clerk,  I  had  often  come  away  with  a  shirt  a  half  size  too  small  or  an  inch  too  long  in  the  sleeve.  Now,  I  thought,  remem-  bering  what  I  could  of  such.situations  in  Maupassant,  would  have  been  the  time  to  ease  her  disappointment  by  a  lordly  gift.  But,  thinking  back  hard,  I  could  not  recall  whether  I  had  four  dollars  and  seventy-five  cents  or  five  and  a  quarter  left  in  my  pocket.  She  was  going  to  be  disappointed  no  matter  what  I  did.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  I  think  I'll  have  to  leave  you.  You  see,  I'm  in  train-  ing  for  a  track  meet,  and  I  have  to  get  up  at  six  o'clock  in  the  morning  and  run  ten  miles.&quot;  &quot;It's  perfectly  all  right,  darling,&quot;  Miss  Griffin  said.  &quot;You  paid  for  my  dinner,  and  you  didn't  tell  me  any  stories  about  how  you  have  the  linen  buyer  at  Strawbridge's  in  [REDACTED]  right  in  your  pocket.  Just  don't  get  out  of  breath  running.&quot;  The  next  day,  when  I  woke  up  in  my  hotel  room,  I  telephoned  my  uncle  for  more  money,  but  he  said  that  he  had  cabled  to  my  father  in  [REDACTED],  explain-  ing  the  situation;  unfortunately,  he  possessed  an  itinerary  of  the  Mediter-  ranean  cruise,  for  letter-mailing  pur-  poses.  He  said  my  father  had  cabled  back  that  I  was  to  go  and  live  with  him  and  my  aunt  in  Bensonhurst,  where  I  would  have  more  time  for  writing.  In  the  meantime,  I  was  to  have  onlya  waffles-and-coffee-size  allowance.  [REDACTED]  time  when  I  was  in  Cavanagh's  ten  years  ago,  I  thought  I  recog-  nized  a  very  old  waiter  as  the  one  who  had  waited  on  me  when  I  was  a  boule-  vardier  for  a  night,  and  asked  him  if  anybody  there  had  ever  heard  from  Mae  Griffin-not  her  right  name,  of  course,  but  near  it-who  used  to  live  across  the  street  in  the  early  twenties.  I  was  right,  at  least,  about  the  waiter's  vin-  tage.  He  did  remember  her.  &quot;''That  angel,  Miss  Griffin,  do  you  mean?&quot;&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'That  would  never  tip  less  than  twenty  per  cent  even  when  she  was  alone,  and  would  cry  if  she  heard  a  busboy's  wife  had  been  unfaithful?  She  married  an  old  gentleman  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  that  died  and  left  her  enough  money  so  she'll  never  have  to  draw  a  sober  breath.  She  lives  up  in  Scarsdale  now,  with  hersecond  hus-  band.&quot;  I  never  saw  my  black-and-white  checked  cap  after  that  night  at  Mou-  quin's.  I  think  I  must  have  left  it  in  the  upstairs  restaurant."