 b"&amp;BRAVO!&quot;  cried  a  piano  student in  the  first  row  of  Carnegie  Hall.  &quot;Braaa  ...  vo!&quot;  cried  a  rival  pianist  in  the  third  row,  and  he  turned  profile  as  he  rose,  hoping  to  be  recognized.  Guy  Dutour  bowed.  A  girl  with  a  thin  voice  shouted  in  the  balcony;  in  a  second-tier  box,  an  older  woman,  before  tearing  the  gloves  from  her  hands,  adjusted  her  pince-nez  in  order  to  undo  twenty-four  pearl  but-  tons;  and  Justin  Berg,  the  critic,  rose  from  an  anonymous  seat  at  the  back  of  the  orchestra,  lit  a  Player's  cigarette  un-  der  the  nearest  Exit  sign,  and  disap-  peared,  precipitato.  The  applause  moved  toward  Guy  Dutour  like  a  physical  presence,  and  at  the  moment  when  he  felt  it  touch  him  he  bowed  again,  reverently,  concisely.  On  his  platform,  the  conductor  stood  very  still,  smiling  his  absolute  smile,  clapping  politely,  until,  in  a  sputter  of  gymnastics  thatsent  chandelier  reflec-  tions  flying  from  his  diamond  rings,  he  descended,  shook  Guy  Dutour's  right  hand  in  both  of  his,  fell  into  step  for  their  reciprocal  bow,  and  whispered,  lisping  distinctly,  into  the  pianist's  left  ear,  &quot;Splendid,  splendid,  we  sizzled!&quot;  Then,  to  the  tempered  beat  of  the  orchestra's  applause,  the  pianist  and  the  conductor  walked  toward  the  wings,  only  to  return,  unite  their  bows,  and  mop  their  brows.  N  N  7  HILE  Guy  Dutour  was  playing,  his  wife,  Annette,  young  and  pale  and  wearing  her  rose-printed  Givenchy  for  the  first  time,  slit  open  the  door  of  the  soloist's  greenroom,  reached  out,  and  tapped  on  the  attendant's  shoulder  with  a  frail,  pink-tipped  finger.  He  started  and  turned  around,  and  she  handed  him  a  small  florist's  box.  &quot;Please  rid  me  of  this,&quot;  she  said,  and  smiled  her  private  smile.  &quot;If  you  like,  give  it  to  your  wife.  I  am  afraid  the  contents  would  give  Maitre  Dutour  an  attack  of  hay  fever.&quot;  She  quickly  closed  the  door  in  the  face  of  a  draft  that  carried  a  weak  ricochet  of  cadenza,  and  returned,  in  a  murmur  of  taffeta,  to  her  corner  of  the  leather  couch.  She  sat  down,  arranged  the  folds  of  her  skirt,  and  thought  of  that  single  rose  she  had  been  astonished  to  find  in  its  nest  of  waxed  green  paper.  A  single,  deeply  scented,  forced,  deep-red  rose,  and  not  the  trace  of  a  note.  She  re-  treated  into  Agatha  Christie,  and  lis-  tened  with  one  ear  as  the  water  came  to  a  boil  on  an  electric  plate  by  the  up-  right  piano.  Wearing  a  faded  blue  house  dress  and  a  new  pair  of  sneakers,  Gertrude,  Guy  Dutour's  maid  for  sixteen  years,  crept  under  the  thin  three-legged  table  to  dis-  connect  the  current;  then  shebusied  herself  with  pinches  of  tilleul  and  a  tea-  pot.  At  the  other  end  of  the  leather  couch,  Guy  Dutour's  impresario  sighed  and  bent  forward  to  lift  a  bottle  from  the  floor.  As  he  refilled  his  Dixie  cup  with  Pommard  \xc2\xa9'45,  Guy  Dutour's  Pekinese,  Malachite,  who  was  resting  on  her  gros-point  cushion  by  the  window,  inhaled  a  sudden  misery  of  steaming  radiator  heat,  opened  her  right  eye  to  relinquish  a  tear,  and  exhaled  slowly  on  a  faint,  hurt  note,  her  chronic  wheeze,  always  exaggerated  by  the  cli-  matic  hardships  of  the  North  American  tour.  Of  Beethoven's  Piano  Concerto  No.  4  in  G  Major  none  of  them  had  heard  a  note.  N  N  Z  HEN  Guy  Dutour,  accompanied  by  the  conductor,  entered  the  soloist's  greenroom,  Annette  lifted  her  *bright-blue  eyes  from  the  middle  of  a  paragraph  and  said,  &quot;What  a  surprise!  I  did  not  expect  you  so  quickly!&quot;  The  conductor  came  toward  her  with  great  strides  and  broke  in  two  as  he  bent  to  kiss  the  tiny  violet  vein  that  travelled  the  region  behindher  left  ear.  &quot;Salut!&quot;  he  said  in  the  direction  of  Ger-  trude,  who  was  about  to  feed  Guy  Dutour  his  cup  of  tisane.  He  skipped  the  impresario,  since  they  Q  were  not,  this  season,  on  speaking  terms.  When  he  clapped  shut  the  door  of  the  conductor's  greenroom-which  was  adjacent  to  the  soloist's-he  was  greeted  by  his  New  York  physician,  who  sat  under  a  standing  lamp,  reading  Bergson  through  bifocals  rimmed  more  heavily  than  they  need  have  been.  &quot;Ah!  ...&quot;  said  the  conductor,  and  he  bowed  deeply.  &quot;Maestro  Cagliostro!&quot;  He  took  off  his  dinner  jacket,  liberated  a  heavy  gold-rope  cuff  link,  rolled  back  his  sleeve,  and  when  he  had  found  the  nearest  chair,  sacrificed  his  right  arm  to  the  blood-pressure  rites.  The  pump  panted,  and  exhaled.  &quot;Still  treating  Justin  Berg?&quot;  asked  the  conductor.  [REDACTED]  you  ready?&quot;  shouted  Guy  Du-  tour  after  he  had  changed,  be-  hind  a  screen,  intoa  duplicate  dinner  jacket.  &quot;Certainly  not!&quot;  the  conductor-  who  had  packs  up  his  nostrils-shouted  back  from  his  room,  in  a  choked,  dena-  salized  voice.  Unwilling  to  wait  any  longer,  Guy Dutour  gave  Gertrude  the  signal.  An-  nette  and  the  impresario  rose,  and  An-  nette  arranged  the  folds  of  her  skirt.  Gertrude  knocked  on  the  inside  of  the  soloist's  greenroom  door.  The  attendant  immediately  opened  it  to  admit-first  in  line  as  always-a  very  large  woman  dressed  in  black,  a  caryatid-in-mourn-  ing,  the  musician's  friend  and  hostess:  Wilena  Samuels.  Guy  Dutour  was  folded  silently  into  her  giant's  arms  while  high  above  his  shoulder  she  withdrew  from  her  jet-  beaded  reticule  a  moist  handkerchief  round  as  a  doily.  When  she  released  Guy  Dutour,  Annette  moved  into  the  circle  of  her  arms  and  stood  there,  like  the  thin  waterspout  of  a  great  fountain.  &quot;Did  Justin  Berg  sleep?&quot;  Annette  asked.  GERTRUDE\xe2\x80\x99S  evening  having  come  to  an  end,  she  put  on  theold  beaver  coat  Annette  had  given  her  the  pre-  ceding  summer,  picked  up  Malachite  and  her  cushion,  and  softly,  in  her  sneakers,  ran  out  of  the  room  and  down  the  steps  of  the  Fifty-sixth  Street  en-  trance.  As  she  waited  for  a  taxi  under  the  canopy,  the  magnificent  doorman  of  the  Balalaika  waved  at  her  from  un-  der  his  canopy,  and  she  waved  back  with  her  free  arm.  A  gentle  snow  travelled  on  the  bias.  Malachite  sneezed.  &quot;We  are  going  to  the  Hotel  Carlyle!&quot;  Gertrude  had  memorized  and  now  recited  \xc2\xa2  to  the  driver.  When  they  stopped  in  front  of  the  hotel,  she  cried  &quot;Go  back!  Go  back!&quot;  She  had  forgotten  the  suitcase  with  Guy  Dutour's  clothes,  his  toilet  articles,  the  electric  plate,  the  teapot,  and  the  box  of  tilleul.  WILENA SamUELs'  evening  having  just  begun,  small  groups  slowly  formed  under  her  paintings,  some  of  which  were  reputed  to  be  fakes.  &quot;Ad-  mirable!&quot;  said  the  eminent  French  bi-  ographer,  as  he  passed  a  suspect  Juan  Gris,  to  a  couple  walking  in  the  opposite  direction,  who  could  not  tell  whether  he  had  spoken  English  or  French.  &quot;Naturellement,  ce  qui  convient  le  mueux  ou  temp\xc3\xa9rament  de  Maitre  Du-  tour,  cest  'Litz\xc2\xae  et  Chopin,&quot;  he  said,  without  being  asked,  to  the  next  couple,  whom  he  recognized  as  French  because  the  woman  gilded  only  the  very  tips  of  her  hair,  and  the  man,  having  discovered  Space  Shoes,  had  ordered  them  in  patent  leather  for  evening.  Then  he  saw  Guy  Dutour  coming  toward  him,  framed  by  Wilena  Samuels,  who  walked  directly  behind  him.  &quot;A  le  sant\xc3\xa9  de  notre  cher  Maitre,&quot;  he  added,  &quot;le  musicien  sans  peur  et  sans  reproche.&quot;  And  he  raised, " b"rather  too  high,  his  Venetian  glass  with  a  fluted  stem.  Wilena  Samuels,  aware  of  doom  riding  the  air  like  escaping  gas,  introduced  Guy  Dutour  to  a  tall  Eng-  lish  comedienne  who  stood  appropriate-  ly  by.  He  noted  that  she  wore  nothing  under  a  confection  of  black  velvet,  which  was  slit  to  the  knee;  no  jewels  beyond  an  identical  gold  rope  on  each  sun-tanned  wrist;  no  ornaments  save  for  a  single,  forced,  deep-red  rose,  pinned  at  the  height  of  her  Empire  waist.  &quot;Don't  you  hate  critics?&quot;  she  asked,  throwing  away  her  first  line  with  a  sus-  picion  of  a  wink  and  a  curtsy.  &quot;Look  at  her!&quot;  Annette,  with  nar-  rowed  eyes,  nudged  the  French  biog-  rapher.  &quot;She  bows  like  a  chamber-  maid  .&quot;  T  was  almost  one  o'clock  in  the  morning  when  Wilena  Samuels  sat  down  to  supper  under  the  Meissen  chandelier  and  lifted  a  frail  squab's  thigh  between  her  index  finger  and  her  mighty  thumb.  She  helped  herself  to  peas  cooked  together  with  young  let-  tuces  that  held  a  pearl  onion  each,  im-  pr  isoned  in  their  sunless  hearts.  She  realized  with  the  first  mouthful  of  cu-  cumber  and  watercress  salad  that  while  this  might  be  one  of  her  passable  sup-  pers,  it  was  not  one  she  would  enter  in  her  book  under  the  heading  &quot;Tri-  umph,&quot;  or  even  &quot;Great  Success.&quot;  (She  kept  a  record  of  every  one  of  her  supper  parties,  with  diagrams  of  the  seat  ing  ar-  rangement,  comments  on  the  menu,  and  scraps  of  witty  conversation.)  The  cucumbers  had  not  been  diligently  pressed  of  all  their  water  and,  as  a  re-  sult,  did  not  feel  thoroughly  dead  un-  der  the  tooth.  Having  marked  off  her  food  wit  hout  any  sentimentality,  Wil-  ena  Samuels  turned  to  the  conversa-  tion.  After  a  moment,  she  relinquished  her  part  in  the  dialogue  with  the  con-  ductor  (who  broached  a  happy  solilo-  quy),  raised  her  white-wine  glass  ,  and  closed  her  eyes.  Inspired,  no  doubt,  by  the  legend  that  Caruso's  voice  had  shattered  crystal  chandeliers,  she  thought  she  could  tell,  with  the  thin  rim  of  a  glass  pressed  between  her  teeth,  which  way  the  conversation  was  going.  'The  impresario,  who  never  spoke,  was  trying.  &quot;Nice  dress!&quot;  he  told  An-  nette.  &quot;I  had  a  sinister  quarrel  with  Balen-  ciag  a,&quot;  answered  Annette.  &quot;Now  I  go  to  Givenchy.&quot;  Wilena  Samuels  lifted  the  red-wine  glass  to  her  lips.  &quot;Ego!&quot;  said  the  French  biographer.  &quot;Freudian  twaddle!  Musicians,  today,  have  no  ego.  They  have  also  lost  the  art  of  the  grand  gesture.  Do  not  for-  get,&quot;  he  continued  with  a  splendid  movement  of  the  right  hand,  &quot;that  'Litz'  engraved  'G\xc3\xa9nie  Oblige'  on  his  visiting  cards.&quot;  To  the  English  co-  medienne,  who  was  seated  next  to  him,  Guy  Dutour  said  with  sim-  plicity,  &quot;I  know  that  I  have  rarely  played  as  well  as  I  did  tonight.&quot;  &quot;Eau  de  Javel,  per-  oxide,  ammonia,  fol-  lowed  by  sunstroke  ...&quot;  Annette  indicated  her  husband's  dinner  companion  to  the  French  biographer;  he  laughed  a  quick  dry  laugh  when  he  noticed  how  serene  Annette's  eyes  were,  and  he  remem-  bered  the  words  with  which  he  had  written  them  into  his  fictionalized  auto-  biography:  &quot;Ses  yeux  purs  profonds  de  lapis-lazuli,  ses  yeux  mouts  .  .  Mi  Wilena  Samuels  once  more  smelled  door  in  the  air  and,  intent  on  dispelling  it,  rose  like  a  draft  from  her  seat.  No  one  seemed  to  notice-except  the  phy-  sician,  whom  she  shared  with  the  con-  ductor.  He  watched  her  attentively  through  his  bifocals,  head  lowered  and  eyes  raised,  as  she  walked  the  length  of  the  table.  (Four  days  ago  he'd  been  summoned  to  examine  her  heart,  and  had  charged  seventy-five  dollars  for  the  house  call.)  'The  English  comedienne  watched  her  disappear  behind  a  screen  and  heard  her,  beyond  the  dining  room.  &quot;I  like  Wilena,&quot;  she  told  Guy  Dutour.  &quot;But  mind  you,  is  she  really  a  friend?  I  mean  she's  a  friend  of  the  Friendly  Little  Orchestra  Association,  and  she  was  the  best  friend  the  New  Friends  of  Music  ever  had.  She's  everybody's  friend.  And  with  her  zipper  fortune,  a  passion  for  gros  point.  You  know  what  I  mean-no  critical  faculties.&quot;  And  she  leaned  her  bare  leg,  very  gen-  tly,  toward  his,  until  she  felt  one  thin-  ness  of  wool  between  the  bones  of  their  knees.  No  response.  Very  gently,  she  recovered  her  leg,  took  off  her  rose,  and  dropped  it  in  his  water  glass.  No  re-  sponse,  but  then  his  eyes  were  absent,  his  right  hand  was  limp  in  his  lap,  and  the  fingers  of  his  left  exercised  on  the  tablecloth.  &quot;Do  you  know  Justin  Berg?&quot;  he  suddenly  asked.  WILENA  SamUuELs  walked  back  the  length  of  the  table  with  her  cary,  atid's  arms  raised  high,  and  in  each  hand  she  held  a  giant  bottle  opener  in  the  form  of  a  gilded  key,  which  she   had  purchased  at  Haramacher  Schlem  -  mer's.  Upon  reaching  her  seat,  she  gravely  deposited  one  in  front  of  Guy  Dutour,  who  sat  at  her  right,  and  one  in  front  of  the  conductor,  who  sat  at  her  left.  &quot;  Speech! Speech!&quot;  lisped  the  con-ductor.  Wilena  Samuels  took  Guy  Dutour's  left  hand  in  her  right,  and  the  conduc-tor's  right  in her  left.  She  was  deeply  moved.  &quot;  You  boys  hold  the  keys  to  my  heart,  &quot;  she  said.  &quot;  Yours,  tonight,  was  a  triumph!  And  I  feel,  in  my  heart,  that  Justin  Berg,  and  the  other  boys  must  feel  the  way  we  all  do  ,  here  to-night.  &quot;  &quot;  Brav\xc3\xa9l!  &quot;  cried  the  eminent  biog-rapher.  And,  gaily,  they  all  scaled  the  Mont  Blane.  IT  was  a  little  after  nine  o'clock,  in  the  white  bedroom  at  the  Carlyle,  when  the  ring  of  the  telephone  rent  Annette's  morning  sleep;  there  was  hardly  any  sound  at  first-just  the  fleet-  ing  vision  of  a  speedboat  crossing  a  lake  and  fast  approaching  her  shore.  '  Then  she  stirred  in  her  white  satin  bed  with  its  headbo  ard  in  the  shape  of  a  shell.  (Young  and  rather  perfect,  with  her  pale  hair  unknotted,  she  liked,  sim-  ple-mindedly,  to  imagine  herself  rising  from  it  looking  like  Botticelli's  [REDACTED].)  She  let  the  telephone  ring  twice  after  she  removed  the  Flent  from  her  right  ear,  and  thought,  It  is  Wilena.  I  must  chide  her  about  that  blond  clich\xc3\xa9  with  the  red  rose  she  sat  next  to  Guy  last  night.  No,  it  is  Wilena,  but  it's  the  critics-it's  Justin  Berg.  his  ELLO,  my  dear!&quot;  said  Wilena  Samuels  in  her  violent  contralto.  (She  had  been  up  since  seven  o'clock-  she  had  sat  on  a  corner  of  the  Aubusson,  in  what  she  called  her  &quot;nature  suit,&quot;  and  done  attenuated  Yoga;  having  gone  " b"through  her  mail,  she  had  signed  a  small  check  for  the  [REDACTED]  Square  Music  School;  she  had  eaten  yoghurt,  drunk  her  coffee  black,  and  read  the  papers-but  her  real  day  was  just  beginning.)  &quot;About  Justin  Berg,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes?&quot;  Annette  asked,  her  voice  breathy  as  a  child's.  &quot;It's  not  bad,  but  his  heart  isn't  in  it,  except  at  the  beginning.&quot;  And  she  quot-  ed  the  headline-*&quot;  'Dutour,  the  Mas-  ter,  Plays'  &quot;-with  pride,  waited  a  sig-  nificant  moment,  and  started  on  the  text:  &quot;  'Guy  Dutour's  rendition  of  Bee-  thoven's  Fourth  Piano  Concerto-that  most  mysterious  and  poetical  of  the  Master's  works  (which  he  performed  in  Carnegie  Hall  last  night  )-was  skillful-  ly  restrained,  knowingly  conceived,  spir-  ited,  lofty,  and  eloquent  throughout.  The  Andante  con  moto-which  has  no  like  in  the  literature  of  concertos-was  invested  with  an  affecting  elegance,  at  once  subtle  and  meltingly  simple,  and  in  the  last  movement  the  melodies  sang  forth.&quot;  &quot;  In  the  second  paragraph,  Justin  Berg  had  words  of  praise  for  the  conductor.  Annette  registered  &quot;craft,&quot;  &quot;insight,&quot;  &quot;fervent  tempi.&quot;  In  the  third,  he  ap-  praised  the  remainder  of  the  all-Beetho-  ven  program;  Annette  no  longer  lis-  tened.  To  her,  the  review  given  Guy  Dutour  was  a  polite,  cruel  affront.  (Yet  only  two  days  ago,  over  dinner  at  the  Pavillon,  Justin  Berg  had  seemed  as  ardent  a  friend  to  both  of  them  as  ethics  allowed.  Apparently  recovered  from  his  intestinal  illness,  he  had  attentively  eaten  a  large  meal.)  Then  she  heard  Wilena  Samuels.  &quot;Perhaps  I  shouldn't  tell  you,  my  dear,  but  it's  from  the  heart.  You  know  that  Justin  Berg  can't  get  really  excited  about  Guy's  playing  unless  it's  Liszt  or  Chopin.&quot;  Annette  felt  her  pale  cheek  struck  red  by  a  giant  hand.  Wilena  Samuels  was  now  proudly  quoting  from  memory:  &quot;  'Never  before,  in  my  entire  life  have  I  heard  anyone  (not  even  Mr.  Dutour!  )  give  such  an  unearthly  and  tonally  incandescent  ren-  dition  of  Chopin's  E-Minor  Concerto.  The  lyricism  he  brought  to  the  slow  movement  was  nothing  short  of  mi-  raculous;  the  moonlit  romanza  was  sung  with  such  feeling  and  aristocratic  ad-  dress  that  it  evoked  in  this  reviewer's  mind  visions  of  the  great  Polish  poet  himself,  with  its  melancholy  figurations  gliding  through  the  air  like'-some-  thing,  something-'filaments.'  &quot;  To  Annette,  Wilena  Samuels  re- minder  was  a  direct  attack,  and  the  mystery  of  Justin  Berg's  inexplicable  review  was  abruptly  solved;  it  had  been  written-of  this  she  was  certain-un-  der  an  enemy's  direct,  evil  eye.  (As  indefatigable  as  a  courtier,  Annette  was  the  instigator  of  a  thousand  and  one  min-  plots,  and  suspected  everyone  else  of  being  exactly  like  her.  Wherever  she  turned,  the  horizon  appeared  hazy  with  vapors  of  intrigue,  stratagems,  conspira-  cies.)  She  interrupted  Wilena  Samuels  to  ask,  &quot;Have  you  seen  Justin  Berg  since  the  day  before  yesterday?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Sure.  We  had  dinner  that  evening,  and  he  had  poached  eggs  with  me  for  lunch  yesterday,  if  you  want  to  call  that-&quot;  Annette  broke  off  the  connection  with  a  frail,  pink-tipped  finger,  and  lay  still,  the  instrument  dead  on  the  pillow,  next  to  her  ear.  It  was  one  of  her  grave  shortcomings  in  the  sphere  of  musical  diplomacy,  this  lack  of  control  with  the  telephone.  Soon  she  would  have  to  dial,  apologize,  blame  &quot;the  nerves  of  our  North  American  tour,&quot;  and  invent  a  new  dinner  party.  She  reached  toward  the  night  table  for  Agatha  Christie,  but  herhand,  strained  in  midair,  fell  back.  She  felt  ferreted  out,  humiliated,  set  back  in  her  love  for  Guy  Dutour,  (She  " b"might,  at  times,  take  a  sudden  lover,  but  the  nymphlike  fidelity  with  which  she  labored  at  her  husband's  career  had  always  been  beyond  reproach;  inevitably,  she  had  a  tendency  to  praise  herself  for  Guy  Dutour's  every  succes-and  blame  herself  for  his  smallest  failure.)  One  evening,  just  about  a  week  be-  fore,  she  had  sat  on  the  couch  under  the  Juan  Gris  and  talked  so  much,  and  cried  so  much,  late  into  the  night,  that  Wilena  Samuels  had  ordered  her  own  car  to  take  her  back  to  the  hotel,  and,  on  parting,  had  urged  her  favorite  seda-  tive,  like  a  gift  of  money,  into  the  palm  of  Annette's  gloved  hand;  and  she  had  rid-  den  through  the  dark  dawn  behind  the  chauf-  feur's  black  shoulders,  weeping  still,  still  hold-  ing  the  red-and-blue  capsule,  tightly,  inside  her  black  suede  fist.  So  it  was  true,  thought  Annette,  that  a  friend  on  whom  one  depends  must  not  be  al-  lowed  to  catch  the  critical  moment  ....  She  lifted  Agatha  Christie  from  the  night  table,  placed  it  at  the  edge  of  her  bed.  She  would  wear  the  new  nastur-  tium  suit  from  Givenchy  under  her  leop-  ard  coat,  and,  hatless,  go  out  in  the  wind  and  shoot  Justin  Berg-twice,  some-  how-in  the  pit  of  his  intemperate  stom-  ach,  then  walk  east  on  Fifty-seventh  Street  and  up  Fifth  [REDACTED].  The  ele-  vator  man  would  smile  at  her;  the  door  of  Wilena  Samuels  apartment  would  open.  With  her  face  a  shiny  mask.  Wilena  Samuels  would  advance  toward  her,  archaic  in  long  black  chiffon  and  so  large  a  target  that  she,  Annette,  with  the  revolver  still  warm  in  her  crocodile  travelling  bag,  could  not  pos-  sibly  miss  the  renowned,  the  generous,  heart.  Instead,  with  a  frail  finger,  she  pushed  Agatha  Christie  over  the  edge&quot;  of  the  bed,  and  then  she  carefully  dropped  the  instrument  back  in  to  it  s  cradle.  Wilena  Samuels  sat  on  the  edge  of  her  unmade  bed  ,  her  head  bowed.  Ev-  ery  on  ce  in  a  while  she  let  her  chin  drop  onto  her  chest.  Slowly,  she  rolled  her  head  toward  her  left  shoulder,.  Then  she  rolled  it  back,  ve  ry  slowly,  until  she  heard  several  successive,  reassuring  lit-  tle  snaps.  She  rolled  it  toward  her  right  shoulder.  Finally,  her  chin  was  back  on  her  chest.  She  repeated  the  movement  clockwise,  and  heard  more  muffled  snaps.  At  that  moment,  Wilena  Sam-  uels,  who  unconsciously  gave  her  emo-  tions  a  physical  form  and  clothed  them     in  ancient  attitudes,  looked  like  grieving  [REDACTED].  By  trying  to  loosen  the  tightness  at  the  back  of  her  neck,  by  concentrating  on  a  specific  relaxation  exercise,  she  was  trying  to  forget  her  heart;  her  swollen  heart,  grieved,  helpless  yet  protesting  because  it  had  beenonce  more  misunder-  stood;  her  heart,  trying  to  steal  away,  its  irregular  beat  suddenly  faint,  pianis-  simo.  And  then  again,  as  she  rose  to  her  feet,  it  fluttered  and  gave  a  syncopated  jolt.  Her  physician  had  told  her  there  was  no  cause  whatever  for  alarm.  She  thought  of  calling  him.  His  diagnostic  expositions,  and  his  methods  of  treat-  ment  even  more,  often  verged  on  the  absurd;  yet  the  fundamental  in-  sights  from  which  he  worked  were  correct.  He  knew  the  round  of  her  afflictions:  at  least  once  a  day  she  was  struck;  more  often  than  not  she  fell  down;  al-  ways  she  picked  herself  up  and,  totally  dedicat-  ed,  braced  herself  for  her  next  good  deed.  But  of  her  rewards  he  understood  very  little.  For  only  she  could  simultaneously  walk  among  her  idols  and  breathe  the  pure  air  of  her  in-  tentions.  As  she  stood  at  her  bedroom  win-  dow,  a  simple  addition  of  reassuring  familiarities  (sight  of  the  bear  cage  opposite,  in  Central  Park  Zoo,  and  feel  of  the  worn  thin  silk  of  the  carpet  under  her  bare  feet)  gave  her  a  sudden  sense  of  well-being.  Abruptly,  she  felt  restored.  She  thought  of  calling  Guy  Dutour,  but  there  was  so  little  she  could  say.  She  sensed  that  he  would  never  possess  the  classical  reper-  toire,  and  the  knowledge  lay  heavy  on  her  heart;  besides,  an  inadvertent  word  of  criticism  was  enough  to  make  him  cancel  a  concert,  several  concerts,  a  tour.  And  Wilena  Samuels  never  chose  to  inflict  pain  of  any  kind,  certain  that  someone  else  would  come  along  to  do  it  for  her.  She  kept  the  telephone  line  free.  An-  nette  was  proud,  and  would  wait  a  little.  But  any  moment  now  the  lisping  con-  ductor,  who  had  troublegetting  up  in  the  morning  and  blamed  this  on  his  sinus,  would  call  up  and  say,  'Today  the  pain  is  stupefying!  Half  my  face,  like  lead,  and  then  more  lead-bwllets  of  pain  .  .  .&quot;  And  after  him,  the  French  biographer.  R43616e616461TTE  had  removed  the  Flent  from  her  left  ear  and  rung  for  Gertrude,  who  immediately  brought  in  yoghurt,  black  coffee,  and  the  morning  papers.  Gertrude  was  greatly  saddened  by  Justin  Berg's  review,  which  Annette  translated  for  her.  They  read,  trans-  lated,  and  discussed  the  others.  In  the  repeated  laudatory  adjectives  Annette  slowly  began  to  lose  Justin  Berg.  AV43616e616461TTE  and  Gertrude  kept  one  paper  from  Guy  Dutour.  He  un-  derstood  and  did  not  ask  for  it.  Gertrude  brought  his  breakfast  into  the  study,  where  he  invariably  slept  after  a  New  York  concert  or  recital.  He  drank  a  small  glass  of  Apricot  Nectar.  Then  he  ate  a  crouton  of  French  bread,  on  which  he  spread  first  a  thin  layer  of  butter  churned  in  the  electric  blender  and  then  a  layer  of  the  fresh  goat  cheese  Gertrude  bought  at  Fraser  Morris's.  After  hesitating  slightly,  he  ate  his  croissant  dry,  and  drank  a  rather  large  bow!  of  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait.  Then  he  rose  from  the  couch,  slid  his  feet  into  lees-of-wine  gros-point  slippers,  and,  inhis  pajamas,  walked  toward  the  Pleyel.  He  ap-  proached  it  with  all  the  tenderness  he  usually  reserved  for  a  woman  in  the  morning,  if  he  had  ruffled  and  driven  her  a  bit  far  in  his  lovemaking  the  night  before.  Malachite  settled  into  a  crescent  on  her  cushion  by  the  pedals  and  panted  as  she  awaited  her  cue.  Guy  Dutour  started  Chopin's  platitudinous  Nocturne  in  F  Minor,  Opus  55,  No.  1,  and  played  it  with  such  a  virgin  conception  and  such  a  tender,  devoted  heart  that  Malachite  fell  asleep  without  a  wheeze,  and  Ger-  trude,  who  waited  behind  the  door  for  the  end  of  a  phrase  before  she  could  collect  the  breakfast  tray  and  prepare  Malachite  for  her  morning  walk,  stamped  a  sneakered  foot  when  she  felt  the  tears  come. "