 b"THE  great  majority  of  the  American  people  have  enjoyed  the  best  four  years  of  their  lives  under  the  Eisenhower  administration,&quot;  said  Vice-President  Nixon,  ina  speech  at  the  National  Airport  in  [REDACTED].  The  occasion  was  described  as  &quot;a  kick-  off  breakfast,&quot;  from  which  the  Presi-  dent  propelled  Nixon  and  some  other  Republicans  off  into  the  nation  on  speak-  ing  tours.  Nixon  said  exactly  the  same  words  in  a  speech  later  that  same  day,  in  [REDACTED],  the  Times  noted,  and  he  said  them  once  again,  in  Whittier,  [REDACTED],  before  he  went  to  bed  that  night.  The  following  night,  in  Rhinebeck,  New  York,  where  I  have  settled  down,  I,  too,  went  to  bed,  having  spent  only  a  few  minutes  with  the  Times  earlier  in  the  day,  but  I  didn't  sleep.  I  was  kept  awake  by  an  effort  to  ap-  portion  my  life  into  four-year  periods,  beginning  with  1956  and  moving  backward.  To  make  that  effort  was  ob-  viously  the  only  thing  for  a  conscien-  tious  citizen  to  do.  In  order  to  deter-  mine  whether  or  not  you  belong  to  the  great  majority  of  the  American  people,  you  have  to  think  about  the  last  four  years,  1956-52,  and  then  go  back-  ward  through  the  preceding  years  by  fours-1952-48,  1948-44,  1944-40,  and  so  on,  depending  on  how  old  you  are-and  you  have  to  think  about  those  four-year  periods  and  make  upyour  mind,  once  and  for  all,  which  four  were  the  best  four  of  your  life.  I  could  stop  after  the  1912-08  period,  because  I  had  functioned  during  only  three  of  the  preceding  four  years,  1908-04,  and,  of  course,  you  have  to  take  the  whole  four  years  of  an  administration  in  order  to  come  to  a  fair  conclusion  about  Mr.  Nixon's  statement  and  how  you  stand  on  it.  You  can't  take  one  or  two,  or  even  three,  of  the  four  years.  Overlap-  ping,  either  backward  or  forward,  is  not  permitted.  If  the  best  four  years  of  your  life  started,  for  example,  in  1951,  under  Truman,  and  extended  only  un-  til  1955,  at  which  time  you  slid  from  &quot;best&quot;  to  &quot;fair&quot;  or  &quot;cloudy,&quot;  you  can't  use  those  four  years.  Naturally,  you  can  say  to  yourself  and  your  family  that  the  best  four  years  of  your  life  were  one-  fourth  under  Truman  and  three-fourths  under  Eisenhower,  but  you  can't  score  it.  A  spraddled  four-year  period  of  that  sort  doesn't  count.  The  four  years  have  to  be  years  in  whichyou  existed  under  one  elected  President.  These  are  known  as  Presidential  years.  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  turns  out  to  have  an  enormous  advantage  over  every  other  President,  no  matter  how  far  back  you  go.  You  can  take  any  four  years  all  the  way  from  1944  to  1932,  and  if  those  four  were  your  best,  they  were  Presi-  dential  years,  and  they  go  to  Roosevelt.  In  order  for  Truman  or  Hoover  or  Coolidge  to  get  any,  your  best  four  have  to  be  1952-48,  or  1932-28,  or  1928-  24,  with  no  overlapping.  Truman  and  Coolidge  themselves  overlapped,  of  course,  getting  in  as  ex-Vice-Presidents,  but  that  doesn't  mean  you  can.  Wilson,  with  two  full  terms,  1920-12,  offers  more  leeway  to  the  contestant,  but  few  people  are  alive  today  who  can  remem-  ber  distinctly  how  things  were  during  any  given  four  years  of  that  administra-  tion.  Before  Wilson,  there  was  Taft,  with  only  the  four  years  1912-08,  which,  as  I  say,  is  as  far  back  asI  am  allowed  to  go,  because,  although  T.  R.  Roose-  velt  had  four  years,  1908-04,  and  over-  lapped  backward,  on  account  of  McKin-ley  having  been  shot,  I  had  only  three  years  under  him  when  he  was  an  elected  President,  because  I  wasn't  born  until  1905,  and  I  can't  use  those  three  years.  Playing  the  game  squarely,  asI  did  on  the  night  after  Nixon  introduced  it  to  me  and  my  fellow-citizens,  I  was  forced  to  reconcile  myself  to  the  shame-  ful  conclusion  that  the  best  four  years  of  my  life  go  to  Hoover.  I  simply  have  to  accept  the  fact  that  I  not  only  don't  belong  to  the  great  majority  of  Ameri-  can  people  whose  best  four  years  were  spent  under  the  Eisenhower  administra-  tion  but  that  also  I  belong  to  a  minority  so  minute  and  so  palpably  eccentric  that  members  of  it  may  easily  be  open  to  charges  of  disloyalty,  if  not  treason.  Even  certain  friends  and  relatives  of  mine  who  like  Hoover,  who  pay  close  attention  to  everything  he  says  and  does,  who  worship  the  ground  he  walks  on,  don't  go  around  claiming  that  they  had  the  best  four  years  of  their  lives  under  his  administration.  The  ugly  truth  is  that  I  had  a  mag-  nificent  time  and  lived  in  an  extravagant  fashion  to  which  I  was  not  then  accus-  tomed,  and  am  not  now,  almost  from  the  day  Hoover  was  elected  until  Roose-  velt  succeeded  him.  Partly  by  luck  and  partly  by  design,  I  was  asfar  away  from  the  Hoover  administration  as  it  was  pos-  sible  to  get  and  still  stay  on  the  earth,  the  whole  time  from  1932  through  1928.  I  was  in  [REDACTED],  Siam,  which  is  exactly  halfway  around  the  world  from  [REDACTED].  Nixon  said  nothing  about  where  you  have  to  be  living  during  the  best  four  years  of  your  life.  You  only  have  to  be  an  American  citizen.  I  was  one  then,  and,  at  this  moment,  still  am.  IN  some  ways,  I  find  it  awesome  how  Nixon's  speech  got  through  to  me,  and  I  mean  to  me  especially.  I  am  referring  to  the  first  speech  he  made  that  day-the  one  at  the  kickoff.  I  got  up  out  of  bed  about  three  o'clock  in  the  morning,  went  downstairs  and  got  the  Times,  and  then  went  back  to  bed  and  read  every  word  of  the  full  text  of  it,  be-  cause,  having  started  counting  backward  by  fours,  I  wanted  to  find  out  what,  exactly,  had  led  Nixon  up  to  the  statement  that  had  caused  me  to  start  doing  that.  Oratory  has  a  mysterious  power  all  its  own,  which  comes  " b"across  to  the  receptive  individual  even  when  the  speech  in  question  is  only  read  and  the  sound  of  it  can  only  be  imagined.  Nixon's  speech  beg  an  with  an  amusing  anecdote  about  his  daughter  Patricia-  but  I'm  sure  everybody  has  heard  that  story  by  now,  and  in  any  case  it  has  no  bearing  on  the  four-year-period  system.  Consequently,  I  won't  repeat  it  here  .  After  the  laughter  had  trickled  down  to  occasional  explosive  chuckles,  Nixon  said:  May  I  say  that,  Mr.  President,  we  are  glad  to  have  you  here  to  give  us  this  &quot;charge.&quot;  Believe  me,  we  are  privileged  to  carry  it  out.  I  think  that  all  of  us  should  follow  the  advice  of  a  man  who  is  not  a  member  of  the  Republican  party,  but  it  is  good  advice  for  Republicans  or  Demo-  crats,  and  having  in  mind  the  fact  that  as  in  1952  we  are  going  to  work  for  and  we  are  going  to  get  millions  of  Democrats  as  well  as  Republicans  to  support  the  Eisen-  hower  ticket,  I  think  it  is  well  to  quote  the  advice  of  a  Democrat,  which  I  have  always  followed  and  which  I  think  is  the  best  advice  we  can  follow  in  this  campaign.  Al  Smith  used  to  say  over  and  over  again:  &quot;Let's  look  at  the  record.&quot;  And  that  is  what...  But,  as  far  asI  was  concerned,  he  need  have  said  no  more.  The  mention  of  Al  Smith  brought  to  my  mind  the  Presidential  campaign  of  1928,  and  it  was  only  another  pitch  and  a  toss  from  that  to  the  Hoover  administration  and  the  full  realization  of  what  a  lonely  posi-  tion  I  was  going  to  achieve  in  having  to  admit  that  those  four  years  were  the  best  Presidential  years  of  my  life.  It  is  not  true  that  I  left  the  country  because  Hoover,  instead  of  Smith,  was  elected  in  1928.  It  is  only  half  true.  As  a  newspaper  reporter,  I  had  covered  part  of  Al  Smith'  s  campaign  for  the  Herald  Tribune.  I  admired  him  and  wanted  to  see  him  elected  President,  but  for  one  unusual  reason,  along  with  usual  reasons:  I  had  a  notion  that  his  election  would  weaken  the  grasp  that  Presbyterianism  seemed  to  have  on  the  country  and  on  me.  I  was  extremely  self-centered  in  those  days.  I  was  also  restless.  I  was  twenty-three  years  old.  The  boom  was  on,  and  salaries,  even  on  newspapers,  were  princely.  I  was  making  eighty-five  dollars  a  week,  plus  a  weekly  expense  allowance  of  fifteen  dollars  that  could  be  obtained  by  false-  hood  even  when  I  wasn't  out  of  town  on  a  story.  When  I  was  out  of  town  on  a  story,  I  lived  in  a  first-  class  hotel,  signed  for  all  my  meals,  and  carried  a  Malacca  walking  stick  that  I  used  in  New  York  only  in  out-of-the-way  neighborhoods  on  my  day  off.  I  had  saved  several  hundred  dollars,  simply  because  I  had  no  idea  what  to  do  with  it  all.  I  was  trapped  by  security,  and besides the hotel meals were making me feel heavy. On the day Hoover was elected, I decided to take a six-month leave of absence from the tribune and go around the world. Travel, I thought, would be broadening, especially for a journalist with a stick, and I would return after half a year and demand and get a higher salary from the tribune in view of my background of worldly knowledge and experience. Then I would go on dully saving money, and would soon be rich. To accomplish the trip, I borrowed several hundred additional dollars from a friend who had made or thought at the time he had made six thousand of them the day before in the stock market. The market shot up sharply because the election of Hoover was a foregone conclusion. I bought a round-the-world ticket on the Dollar Steamship Lines for something under nine hundred dollars, my first homburg, and a dark overcoat that came down to my shins. My ticket entitled me to stop off anywhere I liked on my way around the world, for as long as I liked. The dollar line went about circling the globe in both directions. I chose to go by way of 43756261, the Panama Canal, [REDACTED], [REDACTED], Yokohama, [REDACTED], 4368696e61, [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED], [REDACTED], and on to [REDACTED], where I intended to stop over for at least a month in order to go up to [REDACTED] and see a lot of it. It dawned on me that I wouldn't need the overcoat or the homburg in many places east of [REDACTED], but I didn't give the matter a second thought. Having no surplus funds once I'd paid for the ticket, the overcoat, and the homburg, I planned to work on American newspapers when I stopped off, or else do correspondence for newspapers at home. With mature forethought, I wrote to American newspaper editors in [REDACTED], 4a6170616e, the [REDACTED], and Siam. I got their names out of Editor & Publisher. I told them I was on my way. There seemed to be no other American newspapers in the [REDACTED], besides those I had written to, except in 4368696e61, and I was going to skip 4368696e61 because that country was crowded with Presbyterian missionaries who were close cousins of mine. All the Dollar steamships, eerily enough, were named after Presidents. It was often called the President line. I got off the [REDACTED] at [REDACTED] in December, and sure enough, got a job the same day at forty-five a week on the [REDACTED] Star-Bulletin. Within a month, I made up my mind to marry a lovely young lady who worked in" b"the  advertising  department  of  the  Star-Bulletin.  Soon  I  resumed  my  trip  around  the  world,  having  sold  the  one  round-the-world  ticket  for  cash  in  or-  der  to  buy  the  two  one-way  tickets  to  Yokohama  on  the  Polk.  I  got  a  job  at  thirty  dollars  a  week  (gold)  on  the  Jepan  Advertiser,  an  American-  owned  English-language  newspaper  in  4a6170616e.  That  summer,  a  deferred,  lengthy  cable  came  to  me  in  4a6170616e  from  the  American  editor  of  the  Bang-  kok  DailyMail,  saying  he  was  leaving  Siam  because  of  ill-health  and  offering  me  his  job,  in  the  name  ofthe  King  of  Siam.  That  was  Prajadhipok,  the  one  who  later  came  to  New  York  to  have  an  eye  operation  and  stayed,  at  a  high  rental,  at  Ophir  Hall,  the  West-  chester  estate  of  the  Herald  Tribune  Reids.  The  King  owned  the  [REDACTED]  Daily  Mail.  He  usually  went  around  barefooted.  So  didthe  foreman  of  the  composing  room,  and  the  reporters  and  desk  men.  I  kept  my  shoes  on,  The  salary  was  one  thousand  dollars  a  month  (gold),  which  seemed  to  me  to  be  about  equal  to  the  income  of  Ogden  Reid  I  when  things  were  going  well,  and  was,  in  fact,  more  than  equal  to  his  income  after  October  and  November  of  that  year  had  gone  by.  That  may  have  been  one  reason  he  was  not  against  renting  Ophir  Hall  to  King  Prajadhipok  in  1931.  I  understand  that  Ogden  Reid  II  is  about  breaking  even  these  days.  In  [REDACTED],  I  received  news  of  what  was  going  on  in  this  country  by  mail,  and  rather  late.  There  was  no  regular  air  service  in  those  days  out  there.  When  some  extraordinary  event  occurred  and  I  learned  of  it  on  the  short-wave  radio,I  would  stretch  the  editorial  budget  by  ordering,  with  the  permission  of  the  King  or  one  of  his  relatives,  a  special  dispatch  from  Reuters  in  [REDACTED]  or  from  the  United  Press  in  [REDACTED].  Almost  all  the  Siamese  I  knew  were  relatives  ofthe  King.  They  were  Royal  Highnesses,  Serene  High-  nesses,  or  simply  Highnesses,  depending  on  the  closeness  of  the  family  tie.  The  prince  who  had  most  to  do  with  the  paper  was  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Svasti  (pronounced  &quot;Sawat&quot;  ).  He  was  the  King's  uncle  and  also  his  father-in-  law,  but  this  is  no  place  to  go  into  that.  After  a  while,  all  thebig  news  stories  from  everywhere  had  to  do  with  eco-  nomics.  When  the  United  [REDACTED]  went  off  the  gold  standard,  I  asked  for  only  fifty  words  from  [REDACTED].  No  matter  how  many  wordswere  ordered,  it  was  difficult  to  make  such  events  under-  standable  or  interesting  to  my  readers.  After  the  first  couple  of  months  in  Siam,  I  wrote  to  my  former  superior,  Stanley  Walker,  who  was  city  editor  of  the  Tribune,  suggesting  that  my  leave  of  absence  be  extended  for  another  few  months  because  I  liked  Siam  and  was  saving  money.  He  replied  saying  all  right,  but  it  wasn't  long  before  he  began  writing  to  me  advising  me  to  extend  the  leaveof  absence  as  long  as  the  King's  purse  held  out.  He'd     had  to  let  most  of  his  reporters  and  desk  men  go,  he  said,  and  the  more  hearty  ones  of  those  were  in  the  apple  business.  The  ones  he'd  managed  to  keep  on  the  payroll  were  not  making  anywhere  near  eighty-five  dollars  a  week,  he  said,  much  less  a  thousand  dollars  a  month  gold.  He  said  he  him-  self  had  gratefully  accepted  a  twenty-  per-cent  cut.  In  Siam,  we  had  a  house,  a  car,  a  chauffeur,  a  cook,  a  butler,  a  coolie  for  heavy  work  around  the  house,  and  a  gardener.  I  kept  a  saddle  horse,  and  a  groom  took  care  of  that.  About  mid-  way  in  the  Hoover  administration,  we  put  on  a  nurse  to  take  care  of  the  baby  that  had  appeared.  The  King's  money  seemed  to  be  inexhaustible.  However,  the  best  four  years  of  my  life  were  about  over.  Soon  after  Roosevelt  was  elected  in  1932,  we  returned  to  New  York  on  the  Taft,  by  way  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  4368696e61,  [REDACTED],  Yokohama,  " b"[REDACTED],  San  Francisco,  the  Panama  Canal,  and  43756261,  and  I  got  my  old  job  back  on  the  Tribune,  but  not  my  old  salary.  Walker  said  the  best  he  could  offer  me  was  sixty  dollars  a  week.  He  said  things  had  changed  during  my  ab-  sence.  Moreover,  the  expense  allowance  had  been  abolished  in  1931  and  hadn't  been  restored.  Roosevelt's  initial  four  years  were  beginning  and,  for  the  first  time,  I  began  to  know  what  it  was  to  be  afraid  of  fear  itself.  I  never  did  get  to  [REDACTED],  and  to  this  day  haven't  seen  [REDACTED].  The  overcoat  lasted  well  into  Roosevelt's  third  term,  and  so  did  the  homburg.  I  threw  the  stick  into  556e6974656420537461746573in  1933.  The  only  thing  I  have  to  add  is  the  observation  that  if  people  didn't  have  thumbs,  it  would  be  easier  to  count  backward  by  fours.  "