 b"THIS  was  a  dinner  party  I  faced  with  more  than  the  usual  reluc-  tance.  Besides  girding  my  loins  forthe  five  or  six  hours  of  continuous  conversation  to  which  custom  maniacal,  ly  commits  us,  I  had  to  steel  myself  to  spend  them  with  a  man  I  couldn't  abide-the  host.  (Why  our  two  house-  holds  had  kept  exchanging  invitations  is  one  of  the  mysteries  ofa  social  system  administered  by  women,  and  I  do  not  feel  equipped  to  discuss  it.)  An  added  hazard  in  all  my  meetings  with  this  egg  had  arisen  from  his  being  an  author,  and  one  who  could  buy  and  sell  me  and  everybody  I  know.  I  bristle  each  time  I  see,  on  my  way  to  my  office  job  in  the  city,  a  fellow-commuter  reading  one  of  his  novels.  They  are  no  good,  those  books.  But  they  sell.  They  have  the  disproportion-  ate  quantities  of  seaminess  that  gain  au-  thors  reputations  as  realists,  and  their  style  is  no  tax  on  the  brain.  They  abound  in  lines  like  &quot;Behind  him  he  could  hear  Dumbrowski's  heavy  breathing&quot;  and  &quot;With  a  bellow  of  mingled  rage  and  pain  he  came  at  him.&quot;  There  are  more  descriptive  stencils  like  &quot;a  thickset  man  with  beetling  brows&quot;  and  &quot;a  small  bird-  like  woman&quot;  than  you  can  shake  a  stick  at,  and  the  frequency  of  &quot;You  mean-?&quot;  inhis  dialogue  indicates  that  he  is  no  pathfinder  there,  either.  Triter  still  is  the  lyric  strain  with  which  the  brutal  realism  is  relieved,  being  marked  by  an  almost  unlimited  useof  the  atmos-  pheric  &quot;somewhere&quot;:  &quot;Somewhere  a  bird  sang,&quot;  &quot;Somewhere  a  woman's  laughter  broke  the  stillness  ofthe  night,&quot;  and  so  on.  Complexity  of  char-  acterization  is  achieved  by  the  sedulous  repetition  of  &quot;part  of  him.&quot;&quot;Part  of  him  wanted  to  so-and-so,  while  another  part  of  him  wanted  to  such-and-such.&quot;  It  goes  without  saying  that  the  &quot;as  if  in  a  dream&quot;  locution  appears  on  every  fourth  page.  As  befits  the  work  of  a  fearless  realist,  the  aspect  of  life  most  abundantly  dealt  with  is  sex.  It  was  this  particular  exaggeration  I  was  reflecting  on  as  my  wife  and  I  drove  over  to  the  party  at  the  home  ofthe  man  in  question,  whom  I  will  call  Dum-  browski  because  it's  so  typical  of  the  names  he  gives  his  characters.  I  groped  for  some  thought  onwhich  to  impale  this  latter-day  obsession  with  the  fre-  quent  and  physical  depiction  of  passion-  an  ironic  phrase  for  it,  which  I  felt  to  be  teasing  the  edge  of  my  mind  if  not  the  very  tip  of  my  tongue.  &quot;Why  does  he  lay  sex  on  so  thick?&quot;  I  finally  asked  my  wife,  who  was  driving  the  car.  I  thought  a  little  conversation  on  the  sub-  ject  might  help  me  snare  that  elusive  conceit.  &quot;He  and  realists  of  that  ilk?  They  have  people  in  and  out  of  bed  like  seals  in  and  out  of  water-affairs  right  and  left,  sex  day  and  night.  Why  is  that?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  they  just  don't  know  the  facts  of  life,&quot;  she  said.  I  lapsed  into  silence,  staring  ahead  through  the  windshield.  We  must  have  gone  a  mile  or  more  before  I  turned  ir-  ritably  to  her  and  said,  &quot;What  the  hell  are  we  going  there  for?  You  don't  like  him  any  better  than  I  do.&quot;  She  shrugged.  &quot;They  owed  us  an  in-  vitation.&quot;  We  slowed  and  entered  the  front  gate  of  the  house  in  which  we  were  to  spend  the  evening.  I  climbed  out  of  the  car  and  made  my  way  unwillingly  up  the  gravel  drive  to  the  door.  HE  house  was  jammed  with  guests.  Dumbrowski,  however,  stood  out  inhis  pink  shirt  and  black  tie,  which,  in  turn,  stood  out  under  his  light-  gray  cashmere  jacket.  He  was  too  tall  and  too  broad-shouldered,  I  noted,  and  his  hair  needed  some  judicious  cut-  ting,  like  his  books.  I  managed  to  steer  clear  of  him  during  the  cocktail  period  and  even  through  dinner,  for  which  the  more  than  thirty  guests  were  distrib-  uted  among  several  small  tables.  Aft-  er  dinner,  though,  the  whole  party  formed  a  unified  group  to  which  mine  host  held  forth  in  typical  fashion-by  which  I  mean  his  way  of  aiming  the  stem  of  his  pipe  at  you  when  making  a  point,  or  (another  favorite  piece  of  business)  swirling  his  brandy  around  in  a  snifter.  A  man  has  a  perfect  right  to  gaze  into  a  brandy  inhaler  and  swirl  the  contents  around  when  making  an  observation,  but  in  that  case  he  ought  to  get  off  something  bet-  ter  than  &quot;I'm  sure  our  ways  must  seem  as  odd  to  them  as  theirs  do  to  us,&quot;  and  &quot;''The  burdens  of  the  Presidency  are  enormous.&quot;  I  had  eaten  and  drunk  heavily,  as  an  alternative  to  hanging  myself  from  the  nearest  chandelier,  and  as  a  result  had  the  hiccups  so  badly  that  for  a  while  I  sounded  like  an  outboard  motor.  Luck-  ily,  I  found  a  chair  in  a  remote  corner  of  the  living  room,  and  went  for  the  most  part  unnoticed.  At  about  half  past  ten,  some  cretin,  a  woman  who  had  just  moved  to  Westport  and  was  socially  on  the  make,  asked  Dumbrowski  to  read  us  a  chapter  of  his  work  in  progress.  He   modestly  refused,  and,  what  with  one  thing  and  another,  was  soon  installed  with  a  sheaf  of  manuscript  in  his  hand  and  a  circle  of  prisoners  around  him.  This  was  a  story,  he  told  us  as  he  stoked  his  pipe  preparatory  to  the  read-  ing,  about  a  burnt-out  prizefighter  who  signs  for  one  last  fight  in  an  attempt  to  get  enough  money  to  marry  a  woman  he  is  in  love  with.  He  is  not  only  badly  beatenbut  gravely  injured,  and  is  taken  to  the  hospital  immediately  following  the  bout.  &quot;  'Stramaglia  knew  that  he  lay  dy-  ing,&quot;  &quot;  Dumbrowski  read,  in  a  voice  that  was  low  and  modulated,  yetvibrant  with  respect  for  the  material.  &quot;  'Part  of  him  wanted  to  die.&quot;  &quot;  See?  &quot;  'Part  of  himwanted  desperately  to  live.  A  great  weariness  assailed  him.  Somewhere  a  cart  rattled  in  the  corridor.  Then  he  was  dimly  aware  that  the  door  of  his  room  had  opened  and  someone  was  sit-  ting  in  the  chair  beside  his  bed.  He  knew  without  opening  his  eyes  that  it  was  Constanza.&quot;  &quot;  A  hush  fell  across  the  room  as,  in  a  pregnant  pause  of  more  than  usual  du-  ration,  Dumbrowski  took  a  last  suck  on  his  pipe  before  setting  it  down  in  an  ash-  tray  at  his  elbow.  There  wasno  deny-  ing  the  emotion  generated  among  his  listeners-a  tension  that  made  even  me  momentarily  leave  off  tallying  the  clich\xc3\xa9s  as  they  fell  from  his  lips.  He  continued  reading:  &quot;'  &quot;Constanza,  I  have  a  request  to  make  that  may  seem  strange  to  you,&quot;  Stramaglia  whispered  thickly,  &quot;but  would  you  get  me  my  gloves?  I'd  like  to  go  out  with  them  011.\xe2\x80\x9d  &gt;  3)  A  snicker  escaped  me  at  the  same  time  that  a  sob  caught  in  my  throat.  In  addition,  I  wasn't  quite  over  the  hiccups,  so  the  resulting  moment  was  one  of  great  confu-  sion  indeed.  Everyone  turned  to  look  at  me.  Dumbrowski  himself  raised  his  head  and  glanced  in  my  direction,  but  he  resumed  reading  almost  immediately,  in  an  effort  to  recover  what  he  could  of  the  spell  he  had  been  weaving.  Fortunately,  he  was  near  the  end  of  the  chapter,  or  ofthe  section  he  had  chosen  to  read,  and  pres-  ently  he  was  putting  his  manuscript  aside,  to  a  ripple  of  compliments  and  hand  clapping.  He  acknowledged  the  applause  smilingly,  then  rose  with  a  brisk  &quot;Well  so!&quot;  and  set  to  work  fresh-  ening  up  people's  drinks.  I  knew  that  I  had  got  his  goat.  And  I  knew,  as  I'm  sure  he  did,  too,  that  the  undercurrent  of  animosity  between  us,  so  long  concealed,  must  break  through  " b"into  open  hostility  very  soon.  Dum-  browski,  at  any  rate,  took  his  revenge  in  short  order.  A  girl  of  about  twenty-  five  launched  a  long  and  detailed  ac-  count  of  the  trouble  she  was  having  finding  a  job  in  New  York.  In  the  course  of  it,  she  asked  three  orfour  of  the  men  present,  including  me,  if  they  couldn't  help.  I  promised  tosee  if  there  were  any  openings  in  my  office.  &quot;Oh,  openings!&quot;  she  exclaimed,  throwing  up  her  hands.  &quot;I'm  talking  about  somebody  just  plain  getting  me  #2.&quot;  Here  Dumbrowski  slipped  in  his  stiletto.  &quot;&quot;You  mustn't  give  the  poor  chap  such  atime,  Nancy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  doesn't  have  any  of  the  kind  of  influ-  ence  you're  talking  about-the  kind  that  cuts  corners  for  people.  He  only  just  works  there  himself.&quot;  I  spent  the  remainder  of  the  evening  spoiling  for  a  fight.  I  prowled  the  living  room  with  highball  after  highball,  glar-  ing  either  at  Dumbrowski,  who  went  from  strength  to  strength  with  one  group  after  another,  or  at  my  wife,  whom  I  saw  in  gay  communion  with  a  succession  of  attentive  males.  &quot;It's  no  wonder,&quot;  I  snapped  elliptically  from  be-  hindher  as  she  sat  on  a  sofa  waiting  for  an  admirer  to  trot  back  with  a  drink  for  her.  &quot;Next  time  you  go  out  with  me,  you'll  wear  a  dress  with  a  top.  I  mean  that.&quot;  Before  she  could  turn  and  ask  for  an  exegesis,  I  was  making  for  a  piano,  at  which  I  sat  for  some  time  pick-  ing  out  chords  of  an  angry  and  atonal  nature.  I  eased  my  feelings  by  review-  ing  some  of  my  adversary's  more  blatant  shortcomings  as  an  artist,  mentally  re-  peatinga  few  of  his  characteristic  ef-  fects.  &quot;Behind  him  he  could  hear  Dum-  browski's  heavy  breathing,&quot;  I  reiterated  amusedly  to  myself,  and  &quot;You  mean-?&quot;  It  was  toward  midnight,  when  the  party  was  boiling  noisily  through  its  cli-  max,  that  he  gave  me  what  I  took  to  be  casus  bellh.  He  was  standing  nearby  with  a  dapper  but  gloomy-looking  man  of  about  forty,  whose  name  I  hadn't  caught.  As  I  watched  them,  it  was  borne  in  on  me  that  they  were  discussing  my  wife,  who  was  chattering  away  to  several  people  in  the  vicinity.  The  two  men  nodded  and  smiled  appreciatively.  'Then  Dumbrowski  said  some-  thing  that  I  gotonly  imperfectly  but  that-  under  the  din,  at  least-seemed  to  have  something  to  do  with  someone's  being  &quot;picked  up  without  any  trouble.&quot;  I  took  a  long  pull  on  my  drink,  rose  from  the  piano  bench,  and  strode  over,  justas  the  other  man  made  off.  &quot;All  right,  Dumbrowski,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  heard  that.&quot;  &quot;Heard  what?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Whatever  you  said.  Shall  we  step  outside?&quot;  He  glanced  into  my  glass.  &quot;Don't  you  think  you've  had  about  enough,  old  boy?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;More  than  enough.  Just  slip  out  through  the  terrace,  shall  we?&quot;  I  sug-  gested,  nodding  toward  a  pair  of  French  doors,  closedagainstthe  autumn  night.  &quot;I'm  sure  I  don't  know  what  the  devil  you're  talking  about.&quot;  &quot;I  think  you  know  what  I'm  talking  about,  Dumbrowski,&quot;  I  said,  fixing  him  with  narrowed  eyes.  He  paused  and  took  me  in  specu-  latively.  &quot;You  hate  my  guts,  don't  you?&quot;  he  said  at  last,  in  low  tones.  &quot;I  would  if  you  had  any.  You  get  'em,  I'll  hate  'em.&quot;  &quot;Why,  you-!&quot;  His  fists  opened  and  shut  at  his  sides.  &quot;I've  got  guests  to  think  about,  but  you  come  back  here  any  time  you  wish,  and  by  God-&quot;   &quot;How's  tomorrow  morning?&quot;  ''That's  fine  with  me.&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  here  with  bells  on,&quot;  I  said.  'That's  a  promise.&quot;  I  AWOKE  the  next  morning,  Sun-  day,  at  eleven  o'clock.  My  head  felt  swollen  to  twice  its  size,  and  as  though  it  had  been  filled  with  concrete.  When  I  tried  to  move  it,  the  room  swam  in  a  steady  circle  from  floor  to  ceiling,  like  the  picture  on  a  television  set  when  it  is  in  need  of  vertical  tuning.  The  condition  cleared  up  after  a  bit,  and  I  got  up  and  doused  myself  with  cold  water,  dressed,  and  went  down  to  the  kitchen,  where  my  wife  was  sitting  over  a  cup  of  coffee  and  the  Times.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  I  said,  drawing  on  a  tweed  jacket,  for  the  day  was  quite  nippy.  &quot;What's  morning  about  it?&quot;  I  helped  myself  to  a  glass  of  cold  orange  juice  from  a  pitcher.  I  drank  it  standing  up,  aware  of  her  watching  me.  &quot;What  in  heaven's  name  happened  last  night?&quot;  she  asked.  (I  had  stalked  out  of  the  party  after  my  skirmish,  pausing  only  long  enough  to  make  sure  she  had  transportation  home,  and  gone  straight  to  bed  on  getting  there  myself,  so  these  " b" were  our  first  words  since  then.)  What  was  that  all  about  between  you  and  Frank?&quot;  &quot;You'd  be  surprised,&quot;  I  answered  acidly,  and  marched  out  of  the  house,  making  directly  for  the  car,  which  I  had  left  parked  in  the  driveway,  the  keys  in  it.  I  sat  inside  the  car  reviewing  the  haz-  ards  of  living  in  a  society  as  complex  as  ours,  The  memory  of  my  grievances  sent  my  temper  flaring  again.  Should  I  keep  my  date  with  Dumbrowski?  Honor-or  at  least  self-respect-de-  manded  that  I  do.  There  seemed  no  alternative.  It  was  as  though  we  had  parted  with  the  understanding  &quot;Fists,  at  dawn.&quot;  It  was  closer  to  noon  when  I  reached  the  Dumbrowskis'.  Nobody  was  stirring  except  the  maid,  who  frowned  uncer-  tainly  when,  standing  on  the  porch  with  my  hands  in  my  coat  pockets,  I  asked  for  the  master.  She  glanced  over  her  shoulder  up  the  vestibule  stairway.  &quot;Are  you  expected?&quot;  she  asked.  I  told  her  that  I  was.  As  we  talked,  I  debated  with  myself  whether  to  leave  a  message  that  I  had  called,  and  go.  Then  a  second-story  window  slid  open  and  Dumbrowski's  head  appeared  be- tween  the  curtains,  his  face  mangled  with  sleep,  and  an  ice  bag  on  his  tousled  hair.  &quot;Oh-that,&quot;  he  said,  remember-  ing.  He  squinted  down  through  the  bright  fall  sunshine  and,  with  the  hand  not  concerned  with  steadying  the  ice  bag,  gathered  the  lapels  ofa  bathrobe  over  his  chest.  &quot;I  can  come  back  later,&quot;  I  said,  squinting  back  up  at  him,  &quot;if  now  isn't  convenient.&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  down.&quot;  His  head  withdrew,  and  the  window  slid  shut.  I  sat  on  the  porch  steps  to  wait,  de-  clining  the  maid's  invitation  to  wait  in-  side.  I  picked  up  a  handful  of  gravel  from  the  drive  and  flicked  the  stones  away  one  by  one  with  my  thumb.  After  about  five  minutes,  the  door  behind  me  opened  and  Dumbrowski  emerged,  clad  in  a  black  turtleneck  sweater  and  denim  slacks.  He  must  have  had  quite  a  night  (my  wife  hadn't  got  home  till  two  o'clock,  I  learned  later),  because  he  looked  like  something  the  cat  dragged  in.  I  sympathetically  murmured  some-  thing  to  that  effect  as  I  rose  to  greet  him,  and  repeated  my  offer  to  let  this  go  till  some  other  time.  &quot;No,  let's  get  it  over  with,&quot;  he  said  doggedly.  &quot;Right,&quot;  I  said,  removing  my  coat  as  I  followed  him  down  the  steps  to  the  yard.  \xe2\x80\x98N7E  squared  away  on  a  width  of  lawn  that  was  concealed  from  the  house  by  a  group  of  birches,  from  which  the  ground  we  stood  on  fell  away  to  a  small  pond  in  which  the  Dumbrowskis  had  once  kept  goldfish.  We  circled  one  another  for  a  minute  or  two,  our  guards  up,  edging  about  forthe  advantage.  There  was  no  doubt  what  that  consisted  in  here;  it  consisted  in  remaining  above  one's  opponent.  &quot;''This  has  been  brewing  for  a  long  time,&quot;  I  observed  as  we  sparred.  &quot;It  was  bound  to  come  to  a  head,&quot;  Dumbrowski  agreed.  He  cocked  his  forward  arm-the  right-a  bit,  and  I  stiffened  my  own  guard,  at  the  same  time  thrusting  out  my  chest  to  give  that  impression  of  pectoral  strength  that  is  always  suggested  in  photographs  of  prizefighters.  &quot;We  don't  cotton  to  one  another,  you  and  I,&quot;  I  went  on.  &quot;And  there  you  have  it.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  like  my  stuff.  I  know  that.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  my  dish  of  tea.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  that  expression,&quot;  Dumbrow-  " b"ski  replied  withunexpected  violence.  &quot;Why  don't  you  come  right  out  and  say  what  you  think?  Not  that  I  don't  know  what  your  dish  of  tea  is.  That  English  lot!  Twitches  and  nuances!&quot;  Here  he  reeled  off  a  string  of  contem-  porary  British  novelists  who  did,  with  uncanny  accuracy,  reflect  my  private  reading  tastes.  &quot;Lint  pickers!&quot;  he  ex-  claimed  in  a  burst  of  spirit.  &quot;All  those  hemidemisemiquavers!&quot;  I  recognized  well  enough  the  animus  of  the  popular  artist  whom  critical  ap-  proval  has  bypassed.  He  was  one  of  those  authors  read  by  hundreds  of  thou-  sands  but  of  whom  no  one  has  ever  heard.  They  have  no  reputation;  they  are  merely  household  words.  Oh,  I  knew  what  was  in  Dumbrowski's  craw  all  right.  But  that  did  not  spare  me  the  comparable  sting  of  having  my  gost  as  a  reader  under  attack.  Now  I  felt  the  urgent  need  to  strike  a  blow.,  &quot;It's  better  than  that  burly  realism,&quot;  I  retorted  hotly.  &quot;And  all  that  sex.  Want  to  know  why  you  chaps  slather  it  on? You  don't  know  the  facts  of  life. He  paused  long  enough  for  the  ex-  quisite  irony  of  this  to  sink  in-I  could  sense  the  shaft  going  home-then  he  lowered  his  head  and  came  at  me  with  a  bellow  of  mingled  rage  and  pain.  I  met  his  charge  by  adroitly  stepping  aside,  more  or  less  executing  what  is  known  in  bullfighting  as,  I  believe,  a  veronica.  He  stumbled  in  his  plunge  and  lost  his  balance,  sprawling  headlong  among  the  birches.  He  got  to  his  feet  and  came  for  me  again.  I  lunged  for-  ward  to  meet  him,  and  we  came  to-  gether,  our  arms  going  like  flails.  It  was  amazing  how  few  blows  found  their  mark-practically  none  at  all.  This  time,  I  tripped  on  a  rock  and     stumbled  against  him,  and,  interlocked,  we  danced  down  the  incline  toward  the  goldfish  pond.  We  fetched  up  short  of  it  only  because,  at  the  conclusion  of  our  career  down  the  grass,  we  clumsily  pulled  each  other  down  in  a  jumble  of  arms  and  legs.  This  had  the  effect  of  converting  the  encounter  into  a  wrest-  ling  match,  and  by  an  accident  of  the  terrain  in  my  favor  I  landed  on  top,  but  so  near  the  water  that  any  attempt  to  alter  our  positions  might  have  meant  disaster  for  both  of  us.  So  I  sat  there  on  Dumbrowski's  chest  for  a  bit.  &quot;This  will  teach  you  to  speak  lightly  of  a  lady's  name,&quot;  I  panted.  &quot;Ridiculous.&quot;  He  brought  the  word  out  between  gasps  of  his  own.  &quot;Never  understood  this-fussing  over  a-com-  pliment  paid  a  woman.&quot;  &quot;Compliment?&quot;  He  nodded.  &quot;Only  told  Feversham  be-sure  go  talk  to  her  if  he  wanted  picking  up.&quot;  &quot;You  mean-?&quot;  I  said.  He  nodded  again.  &quot;Feversham  was  depressed.  So  I  told  him  go  talk  to  her.  She  picks  you  right  up.  Always  thought  " b"so.  Great  fun.  At  least  appreciate  your  taste  in  that.&quot;  I  climbed  off  of  him.  I  turned  away  and  dropped  leadenly  to  the  grass  in  a  sitting  posi-  tion.  I  knew  well  enough  now  what  was  happening,  and  I  of-  fered  no  resistance.  Be-  hind  me  I  could  hear  Dumbrowski's  heavy  breathing.  Somewhere  a  car  backfired,  shatter-  ing  the  morning  still-  ness.  As  if  in  a  dream,  I  gave  my  head  a  shake  and  said,  &quot;It  was  all  a  ghastly  mistake.&quot;  &quot;I'll  accept  that.&quot;  I  could  hear  him  get-  ting  to  his  feet  now.  When  he  spanked  the  dirt  from  his  clothes,  it  was  as  if  the  blows  stung  my  cheeks.  But  when  I  turned  to  look  up  at  him  over  my  shoulder,  his  face  was  twisted  in  a  grin  of  for-  giving  triumph.  Dum-  browski  knew  that  he  had  won;  in  his  eyes  there  was  that  quiet  knowledge.  There  is  no  need  to  relate  the  rest  in  detail:  how  part  of  me  hated  him  while  more  of  me  hated  my-  self;  how  I  rose,  as  if  in  a  trance,  to  dust  off  my  own  clothes;  and  how,  at  last,  Dum-  browski  steered  me  up  the  lawn  to  the  house  and  even  into  it,  my  arm  in  his  viselike  grip.  &quot;Wash  up  in  there,&quot;  he  said,  not  unkindly.  When  I  emerged  from  the  bathroom  he  had  indicated,  he  said,  &quot;Now  come  into  the  kitchen  for  some  coffee.&quot;  We  sat  hunched  over  our  cups  of  strong  black  coffee,  our  arms  along  the  table,  facing  each  other  in  a  new  understanding  that  needed  no  words.  Each  treasured  within  him  the  satisfaction  of  having  stood  up  to  the  other,  yet  respected  the  other  for  having  done  the  same.  Somewhere  a  clock  struck-one-and  I  told  Dumbrowski  that  I  had  to  go.  I  rose  and,  shaking  his  hand,  took  my  leave.  As  I  strode  up  the  walk  to  my  car,  I  knew  a  strange  peace-the  peace  of  a  man  who  has  faced  up  to  what  courage  and  chivalry  demanded,  and  not  flinched.  I  knew  it  was  the  same  with  Dumbrowski.  We  would  never  speak  of  this  again,  yet  we  were  strangely  cleansed.  Part  of  me  regretted  the  in-cident-always  would-but  another,  deeper  part  of  me  would  always  prize  it  for  the  challenge  that  had  come  out  of  it  ...a  challenge  met.  Somewhere  a  duck  quacked.  The  air  was  like  wine.  It  was  with  a  high  heart  that  I  sprang  into  my  car  and  drove-home-to  the  woman  I  loved. "