 b"THE  CROW  AND  THE  SCARECROW  ONCE  upon  a  farm  an  armada  of  crows  descended  like  the  wolf  on  the  fold.  They  were  after  the  seeds  in  the  garden  and  the  corn  in  the  field.  The  crows  posted  sentinels,  who  warned  them  of  theap-  proach  of  the  farmer,  and  they  even  had  an  undercover  crow  or  two,  who     mingled  with  the  chickens  in  the  barn-  yard  and  the  pigeons  on  the  roof,  and  found  out  the  farmer's  plans  in  ad-  vance.  Thus  they  were  able  to  raid  the  garden  and  the  field  when  he  was  away,  and  they  stayed  hidden  when  he  was  at  home.  The  farmer  decided  to  build  a  scarecrow  so  terrifying  it  would  scare  the  hateful  crows  to  death  when  they  got  a  good  look  at  it.  But  the  scare-  crow,  for  all  the  work  the  farmer  put  in  on  it,  didn't  frighten  even  the  youngest  and  most  fluttery  female.  The  maraud-  ers  knew  that  the  scarecrow  was  a  suit  of  old  clothes  stuffed  with  straw  and  that  what  it  held  in  its  wooden  hand  was  not  a  rifle  but  only  a  curtain  rod.  As  more  and  more  corn  and  more  and  more  seeds  disappeared,  the  farmer  became  more  and  more  eager  for  venge-  ance.  One  night  he  made  himself  up  to  look  like  a  scarecrow  and  in  the  dark,  for  it  was  a  moonless  night,  his  son  helped  him  to  take  the  place  of  the  scare-  crow.  This  time,  however,  the  hand  that  held  the  gun  was  not  made  of  wood  and  the  gunwas  not  an  unloaded  cur-  tain  rod  but  a  double-barrelled  twelve-  gauge  Winchester.  Dawn  broke  that  morning  with  a  sound  like  a  thousand  tin  pans  falling.  This  was  the  rebel  yell  of  the  crows  coming  down  on  field  and  garden  like  Jeb  Stuart's  cavalry.  Now  one  of  the  young  crows  who  had  been  out  all  night,  drinking  corn  instead  of  eating  it,  suddenly  went  into  a  tailspin,  plunged  into  a  bucket  of  red  paint  that  was  standing  near  the  barn,  and  burst  into  flames.  The  farmer  was  just  about  to  blaze  away  at  the  squadron  of  crows  with  both  barrels  when  the  one  that  was  on  fire  headed  straight  for  him.  The  sight  of  a  red  crow,  dripping  what  seemed  to  be  blood  and  flaring  like  a  Halloween  torch,  gave  the  living  scarecrow  such  a  shock  that  he  dropped  dead  in  one  beat  less  than  the  tick  of  a  watch  (which  is  the  way  we  all  want  to  go,  mutatis,  it  need  scarcely  be  said,  mutandis).  The  next  Sunday  the  parson  preached  a  disconsolate  sermon,  denouncing  drink,  carryings  on,  adult  delinquency,  front-page  marriages,  golf  on  Sunday,  adultery,  careless  handling  of  firearms,  and  cruelty  to  our  feathered  friends.  After  the  sermon,  the  dead  farmer's  wife  explained  to  the  preacher  what  had  really  happened,  but  he  only  shook  his  head  and  murmured  skeptically  &quot;Con-  fused  indeed  would  be  the  time  in  which  the  crow  scares  the  scarecrow  and  be-  comes  the  scarescarecrow.&quot;  Moral:  All  men  kill  the  thing  they  hate,  too-unless,  of  course,  it  kills  them  first.  IVORY,  APES,  AND  PEOPLE  BAND  of  ambitious  apes  in  Africa  once  called  upon  a  herd  of  elephants  with  a  business  proposition.  &quot;We  can  sell  your  tusks  to  people  for  a  fortune  in  peanuts  and  oranges,&quot;  said  the  leader  of  the  apes.  &quot;Tusks  are  tusks  to  you  and  us,  but  to  people  they  are  merchandise-billiard  balls  and  piano  keys  and  other  things  that  people  buy  and  sell.&quot;  The  elephants  said  they  would  think  it  over.  &quot;Be  here  tomor-  row  at  this  time  and  we  will  swing  the  deal,&quot;  said  the  leader  of  the  apes,  and  the  apes  went  away  to  call  on  some  people  who  were  hunting  for  merchan-  dise  in  the  region.  &quot;It's  the  very  best  ivory,&quot;  the  leader  of  the  apes  told  the  leader  of  the  people.  &quot;One  hundred  elephants,  two  hundred  tusks.  All  yours  for  oranges  and  pea-  nuts.&quot;  &quot;That's  enough  ivory  for  a  small  ivory  tower,&quot;  said  the  leader  of  the  peo-  ple,  &quot;or  four  hundred  billiard  balls  and  a  thousand  piano  keys.  I  will  cable  my  agent  to  ship  your  nuts  and  oranges,  and  to  sell  the  billiard  balls  and  piano  keys.  'The  business  of  business  is  busi-  ness,  and  the  heart  of  the  matter  is  speed.&quot;  &quot;We  will  close  the  deal,&quot;  said  the  leader  ofthe  apes.  &quot;Where  is  the  merchandise  now?&quot;  inquired  the  leader  of  the  people.  &quot;It's  eating,  or  mating,  but  it  will  be  at  the  appointed  place  at  the  appointed  hour,&quot;  replied  the  chief  ape.  But  it  wasn't.  The  elephants  had  thought  it  over,  and  reconsidered,  and  they  for-  got  to  show  up  the  following  day,  for  elephants  are  good  at  forgetting  when  forgetting  is  good.  There  was  a  great  to-do  in  the  marts  of  world  trade  when  the  deal  fell  through,  and  everybody,  except  the  elephants,  got  into  the  liti-  gation  that  followed:  the  Better  Busi-  ness  Bureau,  the  Monkey  Business  Bureau,  the  Interspecies  Commerce  Commission,  the  federal  courts,  the  National  Association  of  Merchandisers,  the  African  Bureau  of  Investigation,  the  International  Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Animals,  and  the  American  Legion.  Opinions  were  hand-  ed  down,  rules  were  promulgated,  sub-  poenas  were  issued,  injunctions  were  granted  and  denied,  and  objections  were  sustained  and  overruled.  'The  Pa-  triotic  League  of  American  Women  Against  Subversion  took  an  active  part  until  it  was  denounced  as  subversive  by  a  man  who  later  withdrew  his  accusa-  tion  and  made  a  fortune  on  the  sale  of  two  books,  &quot;I  Made  My  Bed&quot;  and  &quot;I  Lie  in  My  Teeth.&quot;  The  elephants  kept  their  ivory,  and  nobody  got  any  billiard  balls  or  piano  keys,  or  a  single  nut  or  an  orange.  Moral:  Men  of  all  degrees  should  form  this  prudent  habit:  Never  serve  a  rabbit  stew  before  you  catch  the  rabbit.  OLIVER  AND  THE  OTHER  OS  TRICHES  AN  austere  ostrich  of  awesome  au-  thority  was  lecturing  younger  ostriches  one  day  on  the  superiorityof  their  species  to  all  other  species.  &quot;We " b"were  known  to  the  Romans-or,  rath-  er,  the  Romans  were  known  to  us,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They  called  us  avis  struthio,  and  we  called  them  Romans.  The  Greeks  called  us  strouthion,  which  means  &quot;truthful  one,'  or,  if  it  doesn't,  it  should.  We  are  the  biggest  birds,  and  therefore  the  best.  Anything  any  bird  can  do,  we  can  do  better.&quot;  All  his  listeners  cried  &quot;Hear!  Hear!&quot;  except  a  thoughtful  one  named  Oliver.  &quot;We  can't  fly  backward  like  the  hum-  mingbird,&quot;  he  said  aloud.  &quot;The  hummingbird  is  losing  ground,&quot;  said  the  old  ostrich.  &quot;We  are  going  places,  we  are  moving  for-  ward.&quot;  &quot;Hear!  Hear!&quot;  cried  all  the  other  ostriches  except  Oliver.  &quot;We  lay  the  biggest  eggs  and  there-  fore  the  best  eggs,&quot;  continued  the  old  lecturer.  &quot;The  robin's  eggs  are  prettier,&quot;  said  Oliver.  &quot;Robins'  eggs  produce  nothing  but  robins,&quot;  said  the  old  ostrich,.  &quot;Robins  are  lawn-bound  worm  addicts.&quot;  &quot;Hear!  Hear!&quot;  cried  all  the  other  ostriches  except  Oliver.  &quot;We  get  along  on  four  toes,  whereas  Man  needs  ten,&quot;  the  elderly  instructor  reminded  his  class.  &quot;But  Man  can  fly  sitting  down,  and  we  can't  fly  at  [REDACTED];  commented  Oliver.  The  old  ostrich  glared  at  him  severe-  ly,  first  with  one  eye  and  then  the  other.  &quot;Man  is  flying  too  fast  for  a  world  that  is  round,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Soon  he  will  catch  up  with  himself,  in  a  great  rear-end  collision,  and  Man  will  never  know  that  what  hit  Man  from  behind  was  [REDACTED];  &quot;Hear!  Hear!&quot;  cried  all  the  other  ostriches  except  Oliver.  &quot;We  can  make  ourselves  invisible  in  time  of  peril  by  sticking  our  heads  in  the  sand,&quot;ranted  the  lecturer.  &quot;Nobody  else  can  do  that.&quot;  &quot;How  do  we  know  we  can't  be  seen  if  we  can't  see?&quot;  demanded  Oliver.  &quot;Sophistry!&quot;  cried  the  old  ostrich,  and  all  the  other  ostriches  except  Oliver  cried  &quot;Sophistry!,&quot;  not  knowing  what  it  meant.  Just  then  the  master  and  the  class  heard  a  strange  alarming  sound,  a  sound  like  thunder  growing  close  and  grow-  ing  closer.  It  was  not  the  thunder  of  weather,  though,  but  the  thunder  of  a  vast  herd  of  rogue  elephants  in  full  stampede,  frightened  by  nothing,  fleeing  nowhere.  The  old  ostrich  and  all  the  other  ostriches  except  Oliver  quickly  stuck  their  heads  in  the  sand.  Oliver  took  refuge  behind  a  large  near-  by  rock  until  the  storm  of  beasts  had  passed,  and  when  he  came  out  he  beheld  a  sea  of  sand  and  bones  and  feathers-all  that  was  left  of  the  old  teacher  and  his  disciples.  Just  to  be  sure,  however,  Oliver  called  the  roll,  but  there  was  no  answer  until  he  came  to  his  own  name.  &quot;Oliver,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Here!  Here!&quot;  said  Oliver,  and  that  was  the  only  sound  there  was  on  the  desert  except  for  a  faint,  final  rumble  of  thunder  on  the  horizon.  Moral:  Thou  shalt  not  build  thy  house,  nor  yet  thy  faith,  upon  the  sand."