 b"A  FEW  weeks  ago-bemused,  I  suppose,  by  early  fall,  which  I  came  across  this  year  in  the  form  of  a  geranium  leaf  curled  by  a  light  frost  at  night-I  began  to  be  at-  tracted  backward.  My  college  class  has  by  now  attained  a  certain  age,  and  its  secretary  had  been  pelting  me  with  let-  ters.  &quot;Come  to  Reunion,&quot;  he  kept  say-  ing.  &quot;Homecoming  game.  Relive  your  memories.  Make  reservations.&quot;  But  so  far  I  had  failed  to  answer  him.  The  geranium  is  on  a  window  sill  of  my  apartment.  The  reunion  will  be  eight  or  nine  hundred  miles  to  the  west.  But  the  leaf  and  a  whiff  of  wood  smoke  drifting  up  from  the  basement  in  the  chilly  morning  closed  the  gap  between  them,  and  suddenly  clich\xc3\xa9s  swarmed  in  my  head.  Bright-yellow  elms  and  scarlet  maples,  standing  among  Georgian  buildings  drapedwith  ivy,  rustled  and  dropped  their  leaves.  Girls  of  an  ex-  traordinary  bloom  strolled  past  me  wearing  out-of-date  party  dresses.  Old  friends  in  raccoon  coats  crowded  up  to  me-a  little  anonymously,  perhaps;  I  couldnot  quite  fit  all  their  faces  to  their  names,  but  I  was  so  glad  to  see  them  that,  at  least  for  the  moment,  discrep-  ancies  were  trifles.  I  thought  that  I  must  of  course  make  reservations.  Why  not?  I  could  hardly  wait.  I  telephoned  the  one  classmate  I  see  these  days-the  only  one  I  know  who  lives  in  New  York-  and  made  adate  for  lunch.  I  meant  to  persuade  him  to  go  along  with  me  to  the  reunion,  but  then,  even  before  I  saw  him,  a  circle  of  gray  doubts  be-  gan  to  close  in  on  me.  There  were,  it  appeared,  a  number  of  reasons  why  not.  What  if,  under  the  elms  and  maples  (I  was  walking,  at  the  moment,  up  Fifth  [REDACTED]  under  the  flags),  I  found  only  staid  elderly  men-well,  men  the  next  thing  to  elderly-no  older  than  I,  to  be  sure,  but  older  than  they  once  were?  What  if  the  eyes  of  all  the  girls  had  now  become  incurious?  What  do  you  talk  about  to  a  man  grown  important  in  varnish,  and  stricken  in  years,  who  once  tethered  a  sheep  in  your  room?  The  sheep?  Yes,  but  not  for  long.  I  left  the  [REDACTED],  shuffling,  and  met  my  classmate  in  a  restaurant  on  Fiftv-  first  Street.  His  name  (I  will  say)  is  Owen  Plummer.  In  college  he  longed  to  be  a  hedonist,  but  it  was  not  really  in  his  nature  to  become  one,  though  he  tried  for  a  while  and  the  effort  left  him  with  a  small  bouquet  of  memories  and  a  tendency  to  worry  and  read  Freud.  He  said  he  wanted  no  partof  any  reunion.  I  said,  with  a  sigh,  that  everyone  would  surely  have  changed.  Owen  shook  his  head.  &quot;Probably  nobody  will  have,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That  would  be  worse.&quot;  I  thought  it  certainly  would  be.  What  if  they  should  all  feel  obliged  to  dance  the  black  bottom?  What  if  the  varnish  king  should  show  up  with  another  sheep?  &quot;Would  you  want  to  reunite  with  Howard  Bomash?&quot;  Owen  asked.  I  couldn'thonestly  say  that  I  would.  I  had  forgotten  Howard.  He  had  been  a  cheerful  sort,  but  I  was  not  sure  I  would  want  to  have  him  crack  his  knuckles  for  me  now,  or  make  his  Chinese  face,  Still,  I  wasn't  willing  to  abandon  nostalgia  so  quickly.  &quot;I  find  I  don't  remember  many  of  them,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Maybe  it  would  be  fun.&quot;  You're  having  self-protective  mem-  ory  gaps,  and  you  ought  to  be  grateful,&quot;  Owen  said.  During  the  next  week  or  so,  faces  of  classmates  drifted  in  and  out  of  my  head,  eluding  me  more  often  than  they  let  themselves  be  caught.  On  the  street,  I  would  hear  a  man  speak  or  see  a  woman  gesture,  and  wonder  what  it  was  I  knew,  or  almost  knew,  about  him  or  her.  And  finally  I  began  to  wonder  with  just  whom  or  what,  when  I  came  down  to  it,  I  did  want  to  reunite.  I  GOT  an  answer  of  a  sort  one  night  not  long  ago.  I  am  fortunate,  or  was  that  evening,  in  the  kind  of  apart-  ment  I  live  in.  It  is  big  and  old  and  doomed;  soon  it  will  be  torn  down  and  replaced  by  an  air-conditioned  cliff.  But  in  the  meantime  its  crannies  are  full  of  things  that  I  have  thought  might  come  in  handy,  and  from  among  some  of  these-a  collection  of  memen-  tos  I  once  put  away  on  the  shelf  of  a  " b" small  broom  closet-I  got  out  my  Commence-  ment  program.  I  took  it  to  the  living  room,  and  sat  down  and  began  to  leaf  through  it.  October  rain  blew  against  the  windows.  There,  on  one  page,  were  the  events  of  Class  Day;  there,  on  another,  were  those  of  Baccalaureate  Sunday;  and  on  still  an-  other  was  the  list  of  Candidates  for  the  De-  gree  of  Bachelor  of  Arts.  With  a  queer  tightening  of  the  scalp  and  a  sensation  of  some-  thing  like  disembodi-  ment,  I  skimmed  the  &quot;A&quot;s,.  Names  half-re-  membered  peeped  at  me  and  darted  off  like  children  playing  in  shrubbery.  I  came  to  the  &quot;B&quot;s.  There  was  Howard  Bomash.  (He  was  accomplished  in  a  number  of  ways,  I  re-  membered  now.  He  could  make  a  sound  like  an  infant  with  the  croup,  and  one  like  a  rooster  crowing  far  away,  and  if  a  girl  was  not  dazzled  by  that  time,  he  consid-  ered  her  impervious  to  wit,  and  changed  his  tactics.)  But  it  was  not  Howard  I  was  looking  for.  Beneath  his  name  was  Floyd  Bun-  ting's.  I  hadn't  thought  of  Floyd  in  a  long  time.  He  was  a  tall,  frowzy  boy  who  once  got  both  his  feet  caught  in  a  railing.  He  wanted  to  be  an  actor,  but  he  was  diffident.  He  haunted  the  uni-  versity  theatre  for  a  couple  of  years,  hoping  for  parts  and  not  getting  them,  but  always  preparing  himself  for  the  electric  event  and  for  the  future.  (Of  the  future  he  had  no  doubt;  he  was  shy  only  in  the  present.)  He  had  a  notion  that  if  he  dida  sort  of  goose  step  he  had  invented  as  an  exercise,  he  would  fall  naturally  into  walking  with  grace,  and  he  used  to  practice  the  step  in  corridors  and  on  obscure  campus  paths  whenever  he  thought  nobody  was  watching.  Finally,  someone  let  him  play  a  part  in  the  first  act  of  &quot;As  You  Like  It,&quot;  and  after  rehearsals  began,  though  he  re-  mained  quite  shy,  he  allowed  himself  to  wear  his  topcoat  slung  across  his  shoul-  ders  like  a  cape.  Early  on  the  night  of  the  single  performance  of  the  play,  he  sat  down  to  worry  on  a  railing  back  of  the  theatre,  put  his  feet  between  the  metal  palings,  and  couldn't  get  them  out.  He  stayed  there  writhing  in  the  stocks  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  and  then  the  janitor  found  a  crowbar  and  pried  him  loose.  Floyd  made  his  entrance  only  a  little  late,  but  by  that  time  the  other  actors  were  badly  shaken,  and  the  scene  was  a  disaster.  I  don't  recall  that  Floyd  himself  was  much  upset.  I  suppose  he  just  went  back  to  the  future,  afterward,  as  he  always  did.  Farther  along,  I  came  to  the  name  of  Lyman  Drake.  There  were  people  in  between  whom  I  couldn't  remember  much  about-someone  with  a  loose,  jointed  walk,  someone  with  a  querulous  voice.  I  did  remember  Lyman,  though.  I  recalled  him  with  a  rush-he  was  always  headlong-and  I  supposed,  now  that  I  thought  of  it,  that  he,  too,  must  have  been  off  in  the  future  a  good  deal.  At  least,  wherever  he  spent  his  time,  it  was  seldom  in  the  present;  he  thought  of  the  present  as  jammed  to  the  doors  with  Philistines.  He  was  a  short,  intense  boy,  immensely  agile  and  a  trifle  bald,  who  played  ferocious  tennis  and  worshipped  Dostoevski.  He  used  to  roam  the  dark  streets  of  the  town  on  spring  nights,  wearing  carpet  slippers  for  rebellious  reasons  of  his  own  (though  he  affected  a  great  scorn  of  affectation),  weaving  his  brooding  way  among  wandering  couples  in  love,  and  eventually  dropping  in  on  one  or  an-  other  of  his  friends  to  disclose  his  thoughts.  He  had  one  astonishing  trick:  he  could  fall  in  all  sorts  of  hair-raising  ways-say,  down  a  dozen  steps  or  more-without  hurting  himself.  Once,  when  he  was  a  freshman,  he  did  just  that.  A  fraternity  brother,  an  upper-  classman,  had  sent  him  upstairs  to  fetch  some  phonograph  records.  'They  were  harmless-dance  tunes,  football  songs,  perhaps  even  a  light  classical  or  two,  the  Philistine  kind  of  thing.  Lyman  brought  the  stack  to  the  head  of  the  stairs,  smiled,  and  pitched  himself  down  the  whole  flight,  breaking  most  of  the  records.  For  a  moment,  he  lay  at  the  bottom,  inert  among  the  black  shards,  possibly  dead,  and  then,  as  the  records'  owner  ran  aghast  to  see,  he  rose  nimbly,  released  a  fierce  cultural  glower,  which  managed  to  suggest  that  the  low  qual-  ity  of  the  records  had  caused  his  fall,  and  padded  off  into  the  evening.  I  have  forgotten  whatever  commonplaces  were  in  his  life,  though  I  suppose  he  must  have  eaten,  and  gone  to  classes,  and  occasionally,  if  the  nights  were  damp,  caught  colds.  OWN  the  hall,  a  pane  rattled  admonitions  in  the  wind,  'There  seemed  to  be  sleet  in  the  rain.  The  room  had  grown  chilly.  I  lit  a  fire  in  my  small  fireplace,  put  on  a  dressing  gown,  and  returned  to  my  chair  and  the  Com-  mencement  program.  I  went  on  down  " b"the  list,  and  soon  I  was  finding  that  what  I  remembered  best  about  the  peo-  ple  I  remembered  at  all  was  the  way  they  had  so  seldom  stayed  in  the  present,  where  the  casual  observer  would  have  supposed  they  were.  Leon  McConnell  was  certainly  elsewhere,  except  in  those  commonplace,  disregarded  ways,  and  Edward  Everett  Rich,  and,  of  course,  Owen  himself-Owen  the  Hedonist.  (Owen  never  cared  for  drinking,  but  he  had  a  strong  sense  of  social  fitness.  He  carried  a  small  cylindrical  pill  bottle  filled  with  gin-I  guess  it  held  two  ounces  at  the  most-and  whenever  he  went  to  dances  or  other  functions  where  there  were  girls,  he  washed  the  gin  around  in  his  mouth  and  swallowed  it  just  before  he  arrived,  thus  sustaining  a  modest  reputation  for  worldliness  as  a  man  who  was  forever  drinking  but  carried  it  well.  He  got  to  believing  this  legend  himself,  and  it  gave  him  pleas-  ure,  which  is  what  a  hedonist  seeks.)  I  suppose  it  would  be  fair  enough  to  say  that  all  those  people  were  figments  of  their  own  imaginations-and  of  each  other's,  too,  for  most  of  them  were  friends,  and  each  courteously  sub-  scribed  to  everyone  else's  notion  of  him-  self.I  know  I  always  took  it  on  faith  that  Lyman  was  already  a  true  free  soul,  and  that  Leon  McConnell  was  well  on  his  way  to  making  himself  the  Whole  Man.  It  was  all  he  wanted;  it  was  his  promised  land.  For  most  of  his  last  year,  he  was  tense  and  exultant  about  it.  He  was  poor  and  he  was  a  grind,  though  I  don't  suppose  he  ever  thought  of  him-  self  as  having  been  one  until  the  day  he  decided  to  departmentalize  his  life.  He  had  a  dusty  look,  and  a  tired  sort  of  animation  that  obliged  him  to  laugh  a  good  deal  in  a  high-pitched,  nervous  way,  but  his  eyes  never  went  along  with  the  laugh;  they  were  always  full  of  doubt.  One  autumn  night,  he  asked  me  to  go  on  a  double  date  with  him.  I  guessed  it  was  the  first  date  he  had  ever  had,  but  perhaps  I  was  wrong.  I  didn't  know  him  too  well.  Nobody  did.  I  don't  remember  the  girl,  except  that  she  wasn't  much  taken  with  Leon.  For  an  hour  or  so,  he  couldn't  quit  talking  about  the  fallacies  of  empiricism;  then  he  switched  to  the  verse  forms  of  Wyatt  and  Surrey.  Afterward,  he  was  miser-  able  because  the  girl  wouldn't  see  him  again.  I  ran  into  him  a  few  days  later,  and  the  misery  was  gone.  He  was  full  of  hope.  He  had  thought  through  to  the  rootof  the  trouble.  He  had  always  tend-  ed  to  be  one-sided,  he  said,  and  he  quoted  Aristotle  to  show  how  wrong  that  was.  Now,  he  said  tensely,  happily,  he  would  departmentalize  his  life.  He would  allot  time  for  enjoyment,  time  for  exercise,  time  for  what  he  spoke  of  as  &quot;widely  varied  interests.&quot;  In  the  end,  all  these  were  to  flow  together  into  a  balanced-I  gathered  even  a  Gre-  cian-whole.  After  that,  whenever  I  saw  him,  I  got  inferential  bulletins  on  his  progress.  He  never  mentioned  the  scheme  itself  again,  but  he  always  tried  to  demon-  strate  how  well  it  was  working.  We  talked  for  the  last  time  one  afternoon  just  before  final  exams.  We  had  met  accidentally,  and  Leon  insisted  that  we  have  coffee;  apparently  I  had  come  upon  him  in  a  department  allotted  to  leisure.  He  talked  about  big-league  baseball  with  businesslike  dispatch,  one  eye  on  the  coffee-shop  clock,  and  he  told  a  few  jokes  in  rapid  succession  and  conscien-  tiously  laughed  at  them,  as  I  did.  And  when  the  end  of  the  stipulated  time,  whatever  it  was,  came  around,  he  ex-  cused  himself  politely,  shook  hands,  and  hurried  away  into  the  next  depart-  ment.  MADE  myself  a  mild  drink  and  sat  watching  the  fire,  now  seeing  Edward  Everett  Rich,  in  an  extremity  of  love,  hauling  his  monstrous  old  hand-  wind  phonograph  into  the  cramped  bathroom  of  his  flat,  then  helping  his  girl,  who  must  have  been  more  than  a  little  in  love  herself,  onto  boards  laid  crosswise  of  the  bathtub,  and  hoisting  her  up  and  out  through  a  window  in  the  low  ceiling  that  slanted  above  it.  Out-  side  was  an  eastward-sloping,  moonlit  roof  that  had  a  view  of  several  chim-  neys,  and  he  climbed  out  and  joined  her  there.  He  was  a  good-sized,  solid  boy  with  short  black  hair  and  a  voice  that  was  a  deep  monotone  and  his  cross.  He  desired  beyond  words  to  bea  singer.  He  also  desired  to  be  an  expatriate-he  al-  ready  was  one,  in  all  but  fact-and  had  vowed  to  live  nowhere  but  in  [REDACTED].  And  so,  that  evening,  he  arranged  his  own  tableau  of  [REDACTED]  on  his  own  roof,  and  he  climbed  in  and  out  across  the  tub,  again  and  again  and  again,  to  change  the  records  of  a  complete,  forty-six-side  " b"set  of  &quot;La  Boheme.&quot;  I  guess  he  was  simply  borrowing  on  the  fu-  ture-or,  rather,  ac-  cepting  a  down  pay-  ment  from  it.  In  his  hallway,  near  the  bath-  room,  was  a  window,  three  feet  from  the  floor,  that  opened  onto  the  same  roof,  but  his  longing  for  a  journey  was  too  great  to  let  him  think  of  this  until  the  moon  was  down  and  he  had  returned  from  [REDACTED].  I  stood  up,  glass  in  hand  and  back  to  the  fire,  looking  at  the  fire's  reflections  on  the  wall  and  wondering  what  my  own  future  had  been  at  the  time.  As  far  as  I  could  recall,  it  had  been  compara-  tively  modest.  I  wanted  to  live  in  New  York,  not  on  account  of  any  abstract  romantic  pas-  sion  for  the  city  but  simply  because  of  the  blindingly  un-  commonplace  people  I  would  know  there  and  the  varied-the  widely  varied-interests  I  would  have.  I  ex-  pected  to  take  pleasure  in  them  all.  I  don't  say  Idismissed  the  city  itself.  I  read  about  it  steadfastly,  and,  having  once  paid  it  a  brief  visit,  talked  about  it  whenever  I  possibly  could,  just  to  hear  the  chiming  of  its  names  as  I  pro-  nounced  them:  West  Forties;  Bowl-  ing  Green;  East  [REDACTED];  Coogan's  Bluff;  Delancey  or  Bleecker  or  Little  West  Twelfth;  John  Wanamaker;  the  Met  (Verdi  or  Vermeer);  the  Inter-  borough.  Well,  I  thought,  I  do  live  in  New  York,.  The  wind  had  fallen,  and  I  could  hear  the  ferries  grunting  and  grieving  on  the  river-[REDACTED].  'They  were  guarantors  of  the  fact  that  here  I  was.  And  now  crossing  my  mind's  eye  were  the  visions  that  had  gone  with  the  names,  and  I  once  more  saw  myself,  as  I  used  to,  strolling  in  the  elegant  lobby  of  a  theatre,  encountering  a  fore-  most  architect.  I  had  an  awe  of  archi-  tects.  In  another  moment,  I  saw  myself  (as  I  used  to)  lunching  with  a  world  traveller,  an  urbane  and  grizzled  man,  in  a  little  Italian  restaurant  he  knew.  Next,  I  was  dining  with  an  actor  other  than  Floyd,  worldliness  enveloping  the  table  like  a  vapor,  in  a  little  French  restaurant  he  knew.  There  I  went,  up  Fifth  [REDACTED]  on  a  brilliant  October noon,  greeting  unusual  friends  on  every  side.  (Fifth  [REDACTED]  itself  was  the  most  golden  name  of  all-I  had  actually  seen  it  and  its  flags-and  the  prospect  of  walking  and  nodding  on  it  always  left  me  breathless.)  And,  finally,  another  picture  I  once  had,  of  a  future  beyond  these  futures,  began  to  return  to  me.  In  it,  I  was  standing  before  agrate  fire,  wearing  a  dressing  gown,  glass  in  hand,  on  an  inclement  night,  in  an  old  house-a  ruminant  figure  among  flick-  ering  shadows,  lostin  reverie,  reliving  my  past.  O  there  I  stood,  perfectly  recogniz-  able,  there-here-in  the  future.  At  least,  if  it  wasn't  the  future,  it  had  all  the  earmarks.  I  was  in  front  of  a  fire.  I  was  wearing  a  dressing  gown.  The  house  was  old.  I  reflected  that  I  did,  in  fact,  know  an  architect;  Owen  is  one,  though  he  seldom  mentions  it,  He  com-  plains  about  politics  or  his  rosebushes,  depending  on  the  season.  (I  don't  re-  member  running  into  him  in  any  the-  atre  lobbies.)  I  Aave  met  a  widely  travelled  man,  though  I  have  never  had  a  chance  to  get  to  know  him  well;  he  is  always  travelling.  The  only  actor  I  am  acquainted  with  eats  at  home  with  his  wife.  Isee  people  I  know  on  Fifth  [REDACTED]  once  in  a  while,  though  I  sel-  dom  stop  to  think  how  uncommonplace  they  are  when  we  say  hello.  Still,  I  do  go  there.  I  dopay  taxes  at  the  place  called  Bowling  Green.  I  do  hear  ferries  at  night  on  [REDACTED].  The  ferries  seemed  to  be  hooting  now,  not  grieving-but  hooting  affably.  Apparently  the  trouble  with  the  future  is  the  way  it  behaves  when  it  becomes  the  present.  I  find  myself  breathing  normally  as  I  turn  in  to  Fifth  [REDACTED]  these  days,  October  or  no  October,  flags  or  no  flags-though  I  must  say  I  sometimes  regret  it.  Nevertheless,  the  present  is  a  companionable  place  to  be.  For  all  its  faults,  it  is  where  I  am,  and  it  seems  like  home,  and  (putting  the  Commencement  program  back  on  the  shelf)  I  thought  I  would  just  stay  in  it.  I  would  not  make  reservations.  I  had  already  relived.  Because,  how  do  you  go  about  reuniting  with  figments,  I  wondered.  How  are  you  going  to  re-  turn  from  the  present  to  a  past  made  out  of  the  whole  cloth  of  thefuture? "