 b"IT  has  dawned  on  me  in  recent  years  that  there  are  Presbyterians  who  are  Republicans,  but  when  I  was  growing  up  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  in  the  middle  and  late  nineteen-twenties,  all  the  ones  I  knew  were  Democrats.  I  was  acquainted  with  vast  numbers  of  Presbyterians,  most  of  them  relatives  and  practically  all  of  them  clergymen  or  the  wives  or  sons  or  daughters  of  clergy-  men.  Not  a  single  one  of  them  was  a  Re-  publican.  The  nearest  any  of  them  came  to  becoming  a  Republican  was  when  a  dilemma  of  an  unusual  nature  arose  and  entangled  one  of  my  mother's  brothers-  in-law,  my  Uncle  Addison.  This  was  in  1928,  when  Alfred  E.  Smith  was  the  Democratic  candidate  for  the  Presi-  dency.  My  father's  ancestors  had  originally  settled  in  the  [REDACTED]-in  the  Mohawk  [REDACTED]  of  New  York  and  in  [REDACTED],  New  Jersey-and  it  is  conceivable  that  some  of  them  may  not  have  been  Dem-  ocrats,  but  if  so,  nobody  mentioned it.  My  father's  father  and  mother  left  New  Jersey,  where  his  mother's  father's  father  had  helped  found  the  Presbyterian  seminary  at  Princeton,  and  moved  to  [REDACTED],  where  there  were  no  Republicans.  My  mother's  an-  cestors  had  already  settled  in  [REDACTED]  without  stopping  off  anywhere  else,  and  had  stayed  there.  Her  father,  aclergy-  man,  had  wound  up  in  the  fortunate  position  of  Professor  of  Romance  Languages  at  the  Hampden-Sydney  Theological  Seminary,  where  he  was  able  to  marry  his  daughters,  one  after  another,  to  the  graduates.  A  genealogist  on  my  mother's  side  of  the  family  took  thetroublea  few  years  ago  to  count  up  the  contemporary  kinfolk  of  one  of  my  mother's  earliest  ancestors  in  this  country,  a  lady  named  Mary  Moore,  of  Abb's  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  who  was  kidnapped  by  the  Indians  but  who  got  away  and  married  a  Presbyterian  clergyman.  When  this  genealogist  gave  up  counting,  he  had  around  five  thou-sand  buckled  down  by  name.  He  gave  up  counting  for  a  good  many  reasons,  one  being  the  Presbyterian  system  of  multiplication.  At  one  point  in  his  re-  port,  for  example,  he  notes  dazedly,  &quot;''There  is  some  confusion  as  to  the  Rutherford  woman  who  married  Hugh  Hudson.&quot;  At  any  rate,  when  Mary  Moore  and  her  unconfused  husband  were  flourishing,  there  were  few  United  [REDACTED]  of  [REDACTED],  no  woman's  suffrage,  and  no  Democratic  Party,  but  as  soon  as  the  Democratic  Party  was  organ-  ized,  all  her  direct  and  collateral  de-  scendants  lost  no  time  getting  into  it.  When  I  was  growing  up,  both  the  Presbyterian  Church  as  I  knew  it  and  the  Democratic  Party  as  I  knew  it  were  solidly  filled  with  people  from  my  moth-  er's  side  of  the  family.  My  father's  parents  hadn't  contrib-  uted  much  in  the  way  of  numbers.  There  was  only  my  father  and  his  one  brother,  my  Uncle  George,  in  that  fam-  ily.  My  Uncle  George,  although  he  was  an  insurance  man  and  had  left  [REDACTED]  and  gone  to  live  in  [REDACTED],  must  have  been  a  Democrat,  be-  cause  he  was  frequently  a  guest  at  our  house.  It  wasn't  that  my  mother  wouldn't  have  a  Republican  in  the  house;  it  was  that,  in  order  to  get  into  the  house,  they  had  to  be  Republicans  who  were  born  in  the  [REDACTED],  where  people  didn't  know  any  bet-  ter.  She  treated  them  kindly,  as  if  they  were  afflicted  in  some  way.  They  were  usually  acquaintances  of  my  father,  people  he  had  met  in  his  travels,  and  before  he  invited  them  to  dinner  he  would  tell  my  mother  about  them,  going  into  and  emphasizing  all  their  good  qualities  before  men-  tioning  that  they  were  Re-  publicans.  &quot;Born  in  the  [REDACTED]?&quot;  my  mother  would  ask.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  of  course-born  in  the  [REDACTED],&quot;  my  father  would  say.  When  one  of  my  mission-  ary  cousins  brought  home  a  family  of  Chinese  orphans  who  had  been  born  heathens,  my  mother  treated  them  ex-  actly  the  same  way  she  treat-  ed  Republicans  who  had  been  born  in  the  [REDACTED].  None  of  the  Republicans  who  came  to  the  house  were  Presbyterians.  They  were  all  Congregationalists  or  Episco-  " b"palians  or  Methodists  or  Baptists.  For  many  years  I  wasn't  aware  that  there  was  such  a  thing  as  a  43616e616461ern  Presby-  terian.  I  can't  be  sure  how  my  mother  would  have  treated  a  Presbyterian  who  was  a  Republican  born  in  the  [REDACTED],  but  I  do  know  that  she  had  pretty  well  con-  vinced  herself  that  someday,  when  the  so-called  Presbyterian  Church  [REDACTED]  knuckled  under  to  all  the  differing  views  her  own  Presbyterian  Church  held,  there  would  simply  be  the  one  Presby-  terian  Church,  and  that  in  the  mean-  time  there  was  just  the-  one  Presby-  terian  Church  anyway;  the  other  didn't  really  exist.  As  things  have  turned  out,  she  seems  to  have  been  at  least  half  right.  My  father's  ancestors  didn't  weigh  on  him  as  heavily  as  my  mother's  did  on  her.  Tracing  his  family  into  the  past,  he  had  found  that,  after  the  flurry  over  founding  the  seminary  at  Princeton,  it  petered  out  as  a  main  line  of  Presby-  terian  divines  before  it  got  very  far  back.  The  founder  of  the  McKelway  line  in  [REDACTED]  was  a  mere  doctor  of  medicine,  and  the  founder  of  the  Mohawk  [REDACTED]  family  he'd  married  into-named  Com-  fort-was  some  kind  of  landowner.  My  mother,  on  the  other  hand,  had  all  those  clergymen  and  their  wives  bearing  down  on  her  from  what  she  called  time  immemorial,  and  she  had,  in  addi-  tion,  the  six  sisters  close  around  her,  all  of  them  married  to  Presbyterian  clergy-  men  and  some  of  them  already  the  mothers  of  fresh,  young  Presbyterian  clergymen.  Her  elder,  and  only,  broth-  er,  it  is  true,  had  become  a  doctor  of  medicine,  but  he  had  gone  to  [REDACTED],  which  was  as  far  away  as  he  could  get  and  still  stay  in  the  country.  He  was  pretty  much  in  the  same  vague,  lost  cate-  gory  as  my  Cousin  Frank,  one  of  my  mother's  nephews,  who  had  become  an  Episcopal  clergyman  and  had  gone  to  [REDACTED].  Very  little  was  said  of  Cousin  Frank,  but  his  mother,  my  Aunt  Fanny,  did  say  repeatedly  that  he  was  still  a  Democrat.  IT  was  a  great  strain  on  the  whole  crowd  when  Alfred  E.  Smith  was  trying  to  get  the  Democratic  nomina-  tion.  They  were  for  him  in  principle,  because  he  was  a  liberal,  and  they  liked  his  name,  because  the  father  of  all  those  sisters  had  been  the  Reverend  Dr.  Ben-  jamin  Mosby  Smith.  But  if  the  man  had  to  be  born  in  New  York,  they  wished  he'd  been  born  into  some  plain,  common,  ordinary  Protestant  church.  Then  the  question  of  religion  would  not  have  become  an  issue.  My  mother  and  her  sisters  and  brothers-in-law  and  nephews,  nieces,  and  cousins  were  scornful  of  Protestants  who  said  they  wouldn't  vote  for  a  Roman  Catholic  no  matter  how  good  a  man  he  was;  such  people  were  bigots.  On  the  other  hand,  they  didn't  entirely  trust  the  organiza-  tional  setup  or  the  customs  of  the  Ro-  man  Catholic  Church  in  the  United  [REDACTED].  All  the  sisters,  especially,  were  suspicious  of  the  rules  and  regulations  that  governed  the  private  life  of  Catho-  lic  priests.  The  priests,  they  felt,  were  the  representatives  of  the  Catholic  Church,  just  as  their  husbands  were  the  representatives  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  and  they  thought  the  repre-  sentatives  of  any  church,  no  matter  what  one  it  was,  ought  to  be  allowed  to  marry  like  anybody  else,  instead  of  going  around  in  that  holier-than-thou  State.  &quot;That  was  certainly  one  of  the  im-  portant  reasons  for  our  break  with  the  mother  church,&quot;  my  Aunt  Fanny  re-  marked,  in  one  of  the  interminable  dis-  cussions  that  preceded  the  Democratic  National  Convention  that  summer  of  1928.  \xc2\xab'That  is  one  of  the  great  difficulties,  my  dear,&quot;  put  in  Uncle  Parke,  who  had  a  full  white  beard  and  not  long  be-  fore  that  had  received  an  honorary  de-  gree  from  Oxford  for  his  contribution  to  theology.  &quot;The  Roman  Catholic  Church  has  not  altered  its  basic  con-  ceptions.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  use  that  term  'mother  church,&quot;  Fanny,&quot;  said  my  Aunt  Sophie.  &quot;But  it  was  the  mother  church,  and  it  still  is,&quot;  said  Aunt  Fanny.  &quot;If  it  only  had  some  good,  healthy  schisms,&quot;  my  mother  said.  In  the  end,they  all  seemed  to  adopt  a  kind  of  sympathetic  feeling  toward  Al-  fred  E.  Smith's  church,  as  if  it  was  afflicted.  By  the  time  the  convention  was  held,  they  were  all  for  him-with  the  single  exception  of  Uncle  Addi-  son-and  were  glad  he'd  been  nomi-  nated,  and  hoped  he'd  be  elected.  Uncle  Addison  said  he  hadn't  made  up  his  mind.  Everybody  was  interested  in  Uncle  Addison's  opinion,  butthey  didn't  press  him,  because,  as  it  hap-  pened,  he  was  the  only  one  who  wasn't  a  resident  of  [REDACTED]-he  was  a  resident  of  [REDACTED]-and  consequent,  ly  he  was  the  only  one  who  was  going  to  be  able  to  cast  a  vote  either  for  or  against  the  Democratic  candidate.  To  question  him  too  closely,  they  seemed  to  feel,  would  be  dangerously  close  to  the  undemocratic  practice  of  bringing  pressure  to  bear  on  a  free  and  independ-  ent  voter,.  Although  he  was  not  a  practicing  clergyman,  Uncle  Addison  was  by  far  " b"the  most  pious  of  the  lot,  and  frequently  in  a  turmoil  over  something.  In  thought  he  was  usually  passionate,  fierce,  and  violent,  and  in  action  he  was  unswery-  ingly  meek,  indulgent,  and  humble.  He  was  full  of  Presbyterian  quirks  of  a  sort  that  my  mother  said  were  close  to  being  prejudices.  To  have  prejudices  was  to  be  bigoted,  and  although  my  mother,  who  was  a  careful  critic  of  all  Presby-  terians,  never  said  that  Uncle  Addison  was  a  bigot,  she  frequently  said  that  he  was  on  the  verge  of  being  one.  She  thought  his  teetotalism,  for  example,  was  on  the  verge  of  being  a  bigoted  atti-  tude.  Temperance  in  the  use  of  alcohol,  not  abstention,  was  the  proper  course  for  a  definite,  liberal  Presbyterian  to  follow.  Another  of  Uncle  Addison's  quirks  was  that  he  was,  in  theory,  an  implacable  enemy  of  dogs.  He  contended  that  they  were  too  free  and  easy  in  their  ways  and  had  no  self-control,  and  whatever  number  of  dogs  we  happened  to  have  in  our  house  in  [REDACTED]  when  he  was  visiting  us  gathered  around  his  chair  devotedly  and  watched  him  as  if  he  was  a  seer.  Outdoors,  multitudes  of  strange  dogs  would  come  up  and  greet  him  cordially,  rub  against  his  legs,  sniff  one  another  and  cavort  around,  and  go  along  with  him  wherever  he  was  going.  He  never  did  anything  to  any  ofthe  dogs  indoors  or  outdoors  but  ask  them  please  to  leave  him  alone.  Uncle  Addison  was  Professor  of  Greek  at  [REDACTED]  and  Lee  Univer-  sity,  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  but  was  about  to  retire,  and  in  the  summer  of  1928  he  was  making  us  a  long  visit.  His  gentle,  sweet  wife,  my  Aunt  Em,  had  died  in  her  sleep  the  year  before.  Uncle  Addison  and  Aunt  Em  had  spent  their  honeymoon  in  [REDACTED],  mostly  in  [REDACTED],  and  one  of  his  most  appealing  quirks  was  that  healways  addressed  her  as  &quot;du  liebe  Frau.&quot;  He  also  jumped  up  from  his  end  of  the  dining-room  table  to  pull  out  her  chair  for  her,  even  when  he  had  started  carving  and  she  was  still  carrying  in  the  vegetables.  It  was  part  of  a  lifelong  demonstration  of  un-  ashamed  affection  for  her,  which  my  mother  chose  to  call  uxoriousness.  My  mother  didn't  exactly  pick  on  Uncle  Addison,  but  she  did  keep  trying  to  make  him  a  definite  Presbyterian,  like  every-  body  else,  and  she  found  him  indefinite  in  many  ways.  His  teetotalism,  his  anti-  dog  attitude,  his  uxoriousness,  and  even  his  short,  pointed  goatee  were,  toher,  the  signs  of  indefiniteness.  Whereas     Uncle  Parke's  full  white  beard  just  made  him  look  more  than  ever  like  a  definite  Presbyterian,  Uncle  Addison's  chipper  goatee  gave  him  a  gay,  Conti-  nental  look.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  ever  possessed  you  to  trim  your  beard  that  way,  Brother  Addison,&quot;  my  mother  would  say.  &quot;You  must  have  picked  it  up  in  [REDACTED],  before  you  went  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  Being  the  only  one  ofthe  family  who  had  ever  been  abroad,  he  came  in  for  a  good  deal  of  this  kind  of  thing.  &quot;I  don't  know  where  I  picked  it  up,  Sister  Ruth,&quot;  he  would  tell  her  gaily,  &quot;but  of  one  thing  I  am  certain  sure:  It's  mine,  and  you  can't  have  it,  and  you  can't  change  it,  andyou  can't  change  me.&quot;  Uncle  Addison  abruptly  stopped  call-  ing  Aunt  Em  &quot;du  liebe  Fraw&quot;  when  the  Lusitania  was  sunk.  Before  that,  he  had  been  spiritedly  in  favor  of  our  staying  out  of  the  war,  and  had  agreed  with  Woodrow  Wilson  that  there  was  such  a  thing  as  being  too  proud  to  fight.  He  loved  the  German  people,  the  French  people,  and  the  British  people,  along  with  all  other  people,  and  he  had  hoped  they  would  somehow  settle  their  diffi-  culties  without  too  much  bloodshed.  Most  of  the  time,  he  was  happily  lost  in  antiquity.  'The  way  he  idolized  the " b"Greeks  and  their  civilization  was  an-  other  of  the  quirks  my  mother  didn't  altogether  approve  of.  She  liked  for  her  brothers-in-law  to  be  learned,  but  she  would  have  preferred  Uncle  Addison  to  be  a  Latin  scholar  rather  than  a  Greek  scholar.  She  was  interested  in  the  Greeks  but  doubtful  about  many  of  their  ideas.  It  was  in  Rome,  after  all,  not  [REDACTED],  that  things  had  begun  to  go  in  a  direc-  tion  that  eventually  led  to  the  Presby-  terian  Church.  All  during  the  First  World  War,  Uncle  Addison  refrained  from  calling  Aunt  Em  &quot;du  lie  be  Frau,&quot;  and  it  was  as  if  something  especially  dear  had  gone  out  of  their  house.  For  a  long  time,  he  prayed  for  the  German  people  at  family  prayers,  but  eventually  he  stopped  doing  that,  too,  and  he  con-  fessed  to  my  mother  that  he  was  very  much  afraid  he  had  come  to  hate  the  Germans,  partly  because  of  [REDACTED]  and  partly  because  of  the  atrocities.  She  pointed  out  to  him  that  it  wasn't  neces-  sary  to  hate  them-that  it  didn't  repre-  sent  a  definite,  liberal  Presbyterian  at-  titude.  In  fact,  it  came  close  to  being  on  the  verge  of  a  bigoted  attitude.  The  thing  to  do  was  simply  to  win  the  war  and  get  it  over  with,  so  that  the  Ger-  man  people  could  be  made  to  see  the  error  of  their  ways.  Uncle  Addison's  thoughts,  though,  got  more  and  more  violent,  although  all  he  did  was  buy  Liberty  Bonds  and  adhere  to  the  food-  saving  devices  suggested  by  Herbert  Hoover.  And  when  the  armistice  came,  he  started  calling  Aunt  Em  &quot;du  Hebe  " b"Fraow&quot;  again.  &quot;Brother  Addison,&quot;  my  mother  once  said  to  him,  still  searching  for  the  truth  abouthim,  &quot;I  do  declare  I  sometimes  think  you  are  emotional.&quot;  She  didn't  say  hewas,  only  that  she  sometimes  thought  he  was.  It  was  al-  most  as  bad,  among  those  Presbyterians,  to  be  emotional  as  it  was  to  be  bigoted.  UNCLE  AppIsON,  in  spite  of  every-  thing,  used  to  turn  to  my  mother  more  frequently  than  to  anybody  else,  after  Aunt  Em  died,  when  he  was  per-  plexed.  He  admitted  to  her,  in  front  of  several  other  members  of  the  family,  in  the  early  autumn  of  1928,  that  he  had  about  made  up  his  mind  to  vote  for  Hoover  for  President.  He  had  admired  the  way  Hoover  fedthe  Belgians,  he  said,  and  he  thought  a  humanitarian  engineer  might  be  the  best  kind  of  man  to  lead  the  country  out  of  the  sinful,  booming  postwar  period.  Also,  Hoover  was  in  favor  of  prohibition,  and  so  was  he.  &quot;But  Hoover  is  an  out-and-out  Re-  publican,&quot;  my  mother  said,  aghast.  &quot;I  am  of  the  opinion,  Sister  Ruth,  that  he  is  an  honest  man  and  a  good  Christian.&quot;  &quot;And  so  is  Alfred  E.  Smith,  the  chosen  candidate  of  the  Democratic  Party!  Furthermore,  Brother  Addison,  he  is  a  liberal.&quot;  &quot;But,  Sister  Ruth,  there  is  such  a  thing  as  the  separation  of  church  and  state!&quot;  &quot;Brother  Addison,  that  is  precisely  why  you  must  reE\xc3\xa9xamine  your  attitude  and  be  certain  you  are  making  up  your  mind  on  the  basis  of  reason,  not  prejudice.  You  are  not  living  in  the  Middle  Ages.&quot;  &quot;Nor  am  I  thinking  ofthe  Middle  Ages.  I  am  thinking  ofthe  history  of  Protestantism,  certain  aspects  of  which  were  just  as  dark,  and  it  was  not  so  long  ago.&quot;  &quot;Brother  Addison,  that  is  a  bigoted  attitude,  and  you  know  it.  Out  of  pure  prejudice,  you  are  making  up  your  mind  to  throw  reason  to  the  winds-to  go  galloping  down  on  the  railroad  train  to  the  state  that  gave  birth  to  Thomas  Jefferson,  and  there,  in  the  very  shadow  of  the  tomb  of  Robert  E.  Lee,  cast  your  vote  for  a  Republican!&quot;  &quot;This  issue  has  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  the  War  Between  the  [REDACTED]!&quot;  &quot;Of  course  it  hasn't.  And  it  has  noth-  ing  whatever  to  do  with  religion,  either.  It  has  solely  and  singly  to  do  with  politics!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Sister  Ruth,  please  leave  me  alone  now,and  ask  in  your  prayers  that  God  give  me  the  wisdom  to  make  the  right  decision  and  the  strength  to  carry  it  out!&quot;  Uncle  Addison  was  inhis  eighties  by  that  time,  and  my  mother  argued  from  then  on  that  the  long  train  trip  to  [REDACTED]  wouldn't  be  one  bit  good  for  him.  The  discussion  went  along  until  October,  when,  as  he  was  about  to  pack  his  grip  and  set  off  for  [REDACTED]  to  register  and  vote,  he  came  down  with  one  of  his  bad  colds.  Everybody  thought  it  odd  that  he  had  caught  the  cold,  be-  cause  he  hadn't  been  out  of  the  house  to  get  his  feet  wet,  hadn't  sat  in  a  draft,  or  anything  of  that  sort.  He  simply  came  down  with  it,  all  of  a  sudden.  The  cold  turned  into  bron-  chitis,  adoctor  was  called  in,  and  the  upshot  was  that  Uncle  Addison  didn't  make  the  trip  to  [REDACTED],  and  didn't  vote  one  way  or  the  other  in  that  Presidential  election.  &quot;Just  think  how  remorse,  ful  you'd  be  now,  Brother  Addison,&quot;  my  mother  would  say  to  him  when  the  great  de-  pression  of  the  nineteen-thirties  was  in  full  swing,  &quot;if  you  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  and  cast  your  vote  for  that  Republican!&quot;  &quot;I  am  inclined  to  think  Providence  intervened,&quot;  Uncle  Addison  would  say,  twirling,  with  thumb  and  forefinger,  the  tip  of  his  goatee. "