 b"DRIVING  past  the  Fishers'  house  on  his  way  out  to  the  public  road,  George  Martin  said  to  himself  absent-mindedly,  &quot;There's  Ed-  mund  working  in  his  garden,&quot;  before  he  realized  that  it  was  a  scarecrow.  And  two  nights  later  he  woke  up  sweat-  ing  from  a  dream,  a  nightmare,  which  he  related  next  day,  lying  tense  on  the  analyst's  couch.  &quot;I  was  in  this  house,  where  I  knew  I  oughtn't  to  be,  and  I  looked  around  and  saw  there  was  a  door,  and  in  order  to  get  to  it  I  had  to  pass  a  dummy-a  dressmaker's  dummy  without  any  head.&quot;  After  a  considerable  silence  the  dis-  embodied  voice  with  a  German  accent  said,  &quot;Any  day  remnants?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  think  of  any,&quot;  George  Mar-  tin  said,  shifting  his  position  on  the  couch.  &quot;We  used  to  have  a  dressmaker's  dummy  in  the  sewing  room  when  I  was  a  child,  but  I  haven't  thought  of  it  for  years.  The  Fishers  have  a  scarecrow  in  their  garden,  but  I  don't  think  it  could  be  that.  The  scarecrow  looks  like  Ed-  mund.  The  same  thin  shoulders,  and  his  clothes,  of  course,  and  the  way  it  stands  looking  sadly  down  at  the  ground,  It's  a  caricature  of  Edmund.  One  of  those  freak  acci-  dents.  I  wonder  if  they  realize  it.  Edmund  is  not  sad,  exactly,  but  there  was  a  period  in  his  life  when  he  was  neither  as  happy  or  as  hopeful  as  he  is  now.  Dorothy  is  a  very  nice  woman.  Not  at  all  maternal,  I  would  say.  At  least,  she  doesn't  mother  Edmund.  And  when  you  see  her  with  some  woman  with  a  baby,  she  always  seems  totally  indifferent.  Edmund  was  married  before,  and  his  first  wife  left  him.  Helena  was  selfish  but  likable,  the  way  selfish  people  sometimes  are.  And  where  Edmund  was  concerned,  com-  pletely  heartless.  I  don't  know  why.  She  used  to  turn  the  radio  on  full  blast  at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  when  he  had  to  get  up  at  six-thirty  to  catch  a  commuting  train.  And  once  she  sewed  a  ruffle  all  the  way  around  the  bed  he  was  trying  to  sleep  in.  Edmund  told  me  once  that  her  mother  preferred  her  old-  er  sister,  and  that  Helena's  whole  child-hood  had  been  made  miserable  because  of  it.  He  tried  every  way  he  could  think  of  to  please  her  and  make  her happy,  and  with  most  women  that  would  have  been  enough,  I  suppose,  but  it  only  in-  creased  her  dissatisfaction.  Maybe  if  there  had  been  any  children  ...  She  used  to  walk  up  and  down  the  road  in  a  long  red  cloak,  in  the  wintertime  when  there  was  snow  on  the  ground.  And  she  used  to  talk  about  New  York.  And  it  was  as  if  she  was  under  a  spell  and  wait-  ing  to  be  delivered.  Now  she  blames  Edmund  for  the  divorce.  She  tells  every-  body  that  he  took  advantage  of  her.  Per-  haps  he  did,  unconsciously.  Consciously,  he  wouldn't  take  advantage  of  a  fly.  I  think  he  needs  analysis,  but  he's  very  much  opposed  to  it.  Scared  to  death  of  it,  in  fact  ...&quot;  Step  by  step,  George  Martin  had  managed  to  put  a  safe  distance  between  himself  and  the  dream,  and  he  was  be-  ginning  to  breathe  easier  in  the  com-  placent  viewing  of  someone  else's  failure  to  meet  his  problems  squarely  when  the  voice  said,  &quot;Well-see  you  again?&quot;  &quot;I  wish  to  Christ  you  wouldn't  say  that!  As  if  I  had  any  choice  in  the  mat-  ter.&quot;  His  sudden  fury  was  ignored.  A  fa-  miliar  hypnotic  routine  obliged  him  to  sit  up  and  put  his  feet  over  the  side  of  the  couch.  The  voice  became  attached  to  an  elderly  man  with  thick  glasses  and  a  round  face  that  George  would  never  get  used  to.  He  got  up  unsteadily  and  walked  toward  the  door.  Only  when  he  was  outside,  standing  in  front  of  the  elevator  shaft,  did  he  re-  member  that  the  sewing  room  had  a  door  opening  into  his  mother  and  fa-  ther's  bedroom,  and  at  one  period  of  his  life  he  had  slept  there,  in  a  bed  with  sides  that  could  be  let  down,  a  child's  bed.  'This  informa-  tion  was  safe  from  the  man  inside-un-  less  he  happened  to  think  of  it  while  he  was  lying  on  the  couch  next  time.  That  evening  he  stopped  when  he  came  to  the  Fishers'  vegetable  garden  and  turned  the  engine  off  and  took  a  good  look  at  the  scarecrow.  Then,  after  a  minute  or  two,  afraid  that  he  would  be  seen  from  the  house,  he  started  the  car  and  drove  on.  THE Fishers'  scarecrow  was  copied  from  a  scarecrow  in  [REDACTED].  The  summer  before,  they  had  spent  two  weeks  as  paying  guests  in  a  country  house  in  the  Touraine,  in  the  hope  that  this  would  improve  their  French.  The  improvement  was  all  but  imperceptible  to  them  afterward,  but  they  did  pick  up  a  number  of  ideas  about  gardening.  In  the  potager,  fruit  trees,  tree  roses,  flow-  ers,  and  vegetables  were  mingled  in  a  way  that  aroused  their  admiration,  and  there  was  a  more  than  ordinarily  fanci-  ful  scarecrow,  made  out  of  a  blue  peas-  ant's  smock,  striped  morning  trousers,  and  a  straw  hat.  Under  the  hat  the  stuffed  head  had  a  face  painted  on  it;  and  not  simply  two  eyes,  a  nose,  and  a  mouth  but  a  face  with  a  sly  expression.  The  scarecrow  stood  with  arms  up-  raised,  shaking  its  white-gloved  fists  at  the  sky.  Indignant,  self-centered,  half  crazy,  it  seemed  to  be  saying:  This  is  what  it  means  to  be  exposed  to  experi-  ence.  The  crows  were  not  taken  in.  Effects  that  had  needed  generations  of  dedicated  French  gardeners  to  bring  about  were  not,  of  course,  to  be  imitated  successfully  by  two  amateur  gardeners  in  Fairfield  County  in  a  single  summer.  The  Fishers  gave  up  the  idea  of  mark-  ing  off  the  paths  of  their  vegetable  gar-  den  with  espaliered  dwarf  apple  and  pear  trees,  and  they  could  see  no  way  of  having  tree  roses  without  also  having  to  spray  them,  and  afterwards  having  to  eat  the  spray.  But  they  did  plant  zinnias,  marigolds,  and  blue  pansies  in  with  the  lettuce  and  the  peas,  and  they  made  a  very  good  scarecrow.  Dorothy  made  it,  actually.  She  was  artistic  by  inclination,  and  threw  herself  into  all  such  under-  takings  with  a  childish  pleasure.  She  made  the  head  out  of  a  dish  towel  stuffed  with  hay,  and  was  delighted  with  the  blue  stripe  running  down  the  face.  Then  she  got  out  her  embroidery  thread  and  embroidered  a  single  eye,  gathered  the  cloth  in  the  middle  of  the  face  into  a  bulbous  nose,  made  the  mouth  leering.  For  the  body  she  used  a  torn  pair  of  Edmund's  blue  jeans  she  was  tired  of  mending,  and  a  faded  blue  workshirt.  When  Edmund,  who  was  attached  to  his  old  clothes,  saw  that  she  had  also  helped  herself  to  an  Army  fatigue  hat  from  the  shelf  in  the  hall  closet,  he  exclaimed,  &quot;Hey,  don't  use  that  hat  for  the  scarecrow!  I  wear  it  sometimes.&quot;  &quot;When  do  you  wear  it?&quot;  &quot;I  wear  it  to  garden  in.&quot;  &quot;&quot;You  can  wear  some  other  old  hat  to  garden  in.  He's  got  to  have  something  on  his  head,&quot;  she  said  lightly,  and  made  the  hat  brim  dip  down  over  the  blank  eye.  &quot;When  winter  comes,  I'll  wear  it  again,&quot;  Edmund  said  to  himself,  if  it  " b"doesn't  shrink  too  much,  or  fall  apart  in  the  rain.&quot;  The  scarecrow  stood  looking  toward  the  house,  with  one  arm  limp  and  one  arm  extended  stiffly,  ending  in  a  gloved  hand  holding  a  stick.  After  a  few  days  the  head  sank  and  sank  until  it  was  rest-  ing  on  the  straw  breastbone,  and  the  face  was  concealed  by  the  brim  of  the  hat.  They  tried  to  keep  the  head  up  with  a  collar  of  twisted  grass,  but  the  grass  dried,  and  the  head  sank  once  more,  and  in  that  attitude  it  remained.  The  scarecrow  gave  them  an  eerie  feeling  when  they  saw  it  from  the  bedroom  window  at  twilight.  A  man  standing  in  the  vegetable  garden  would  have  looked  like  a  scarecrow.  If  he  didn't  move.  Dorothy  had  never  lived  in  the  country  before  she  married  Ed-mund,  and  at  first  she  was  afraid.  The  black  windows  at  night  made  her  nerv-  ous.  She  heard  noises  in  the  basement,  caused  by  the  steam  circulating  through  the  furnace  pipes.  And  she  would  sud-  denly  have  the  feeling-even  though  she  knew  it  was  only  her  imagination-  that  there  was  a  man  outside,  look-  ing  through  the  windows  at  them.  &quot;Shouldn't  we  invite  him  in?&quot;&quot;  Edmund  " b"would  say  when  her  glance  strayed  for  a  second.  &quot;Offer  him  a  drink  and  let  him  sit  by  the  fire?  It's  not  a  very  nice  night  out.&quot;  He  assumed  that  The  Man  Outside  represented  for  her  all  the  childish  fears-the  fear  of  the  dark,  ofthe  bur-  glar  on  the  stairs,  of  what  else  he  had  no  way  of  knowing.  Nor  she  either,  probably.  The  Man  Outside  was  simply  there,  night  after  night,  for  about  six  weeks,  and  then  he  lost  his  power  to  frighten,  and  finally  went  away  entire-  ly,  leaving  the  dark  outside  as  familiar  and  safe  to  her  as  the  lighted  living  room.  It  was  Edmund,  strangely,  who  sometimes,  as  they  were  getting  ready  for  bed,  went  to  the  front  and  back  doors  and  locked  them.  For  he  was  aware  that  the  neighborhood  was  changing,  and  that  things  were  happening-cars  stolen,  houses  broken  into  in  broad  day-  light-that  never  used  to  happen  in  this  part  of  the  world.  HE  Fishers  white  clapboard  house  was  big  and  rambling,  much  added  onto  at  one  time  or  another,  but  in  its  final  form  still  plain  and  pleasant-look-  ing.  The  original  house  dated  from  around  1840.  Edmund's  father,  who  was  a  New  York  banker  until  he  re-  tired  at  the  age  of  sixty-five,  had  bought  it  before  the  First  World  War.  At  that  time  there  were  only  five  houses  on  this  winding  country  road,  and  two  of  them  were  farmhouses.  When  the  Fishers  came  out  from  town  for  the  summer,  they  were  met  at  the  railroad  station  by  a  man  with  a  horse  and  carriage.  The  surrounding  country  was  hilly  and  of-  fered  many  handsome  views,  and  most  of  the  local  names  were  to  be  found  on  old  tombstones  in  the  tiny  Presbyterian  churchyard.  Edmund's  mother  was  a  passionate  and  scholarly  gardener,  the  founder  of  the  local  garden  club  and  its  president  for  twenty-seven  years.  Her  regal  manner  was  quite  unconscious,  and  based  less  on  the  usual  foundations  of  family,  money,  etc.  than  on  the  au-  thority  with  which  she  could  speak  about  the  culture  of  delphinium  and  lilies,  or  the  pruning  of  roses.  The  house  was  set  back  from  the  road  about  three  hun-  dred  yards,  and  behind  it  were  the  ten-  nis  courts,  thebig  three-story  barn,  a  guesthouse  overlooking  the  pond  where  all  the  children  in  the  neighborhood  skated  in  winter,  and,  eventually,  a  five-  car  garage.  Back  of  the  pond,  a  wagon  road  went  off  into  the  woods  and  up  onto  higher  ground.  In  the  late  twen-  ties,  when  Edmund  used  to  bring  his  school  friends  home  for  spring  and  fall  weekends  and  the  Easter  vacation,  the  house  seemed  barely  large  enough  to  hold  them  all.  During  the  last  war,  when  the  taxes  began  to  be  bur-  densome,  Edmund's  father  sold  off  the  back  land,  with  the  guest-  house,  the  barn,  and  the  pond,  to  a  Down-  town  lawyer,  who  shortly  afterward  sold  it  to  a  manufacturer  of  children's  underwear.  The  elder  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fisher  started  to  follow  the  wagon  road  back  into  the  woods  one  pleasant  Sunday  after-  noon,  and  he  ordered  them  off  his  property.  He  was  quite  within  his  rights,  of  course,  but  nevertheless  it  rankled.  &quot;In  the  old  days,&quot;  they  would  say  when-  ever  the  man's  name  was  mentioned,  &quot;you  could  go  anywhere,  on  anybody's  land,  and  no  one  ever  thought  of  stop-  ping  you.&quot;  Edmund's  father,  working  from  his  own  rough  plans  and  supervising  the  carpenters  and  plumbers  and  masons  himself,  had  converted  the  stone  garage  into  a  house,  and  he  had  sold  it  to  George  Martin,  who  was  a  bachelor.  The  elder  Fishers  were  now  living  in  the  Virgin  Islands  the  year  round,  be-  cause  of  Mrs.  Fisher's  health.  Edmund  and  Dorothy  still  had  ten  acres,  but  they  shared  the  cinder  drive  with  George  and  the  clothing  manufacturer,  and,  of  course,  had  less  privacy  than  before.  The  neighborhood  itself  was  no  longer  the  remote  place  it  used  to  be.  The  Merritt  Parkway  had  made  all  the  difference.  Instead  of  five  houses  on  the  two-and-a-  half-mile  stretch  of  dirt  road,  there  were  twenty-five,  and  the  road  was  macad-  amized.  Cars  and  delivery  trucks  cruised  up  and  down  it  all  day  long.  In  spite  of  all  these  changes,  and  in  spite  of  the  considerable  difference  be-  tween  Edmund's  scale  of  living  and  his  father's-Dorothy  managed  with  a  part-time  cleaning  woman  where  in  the  old  days  there  had  been  a  cook,  a  wait-  ress,  an  upstairs  maid,  a  chauffeur,  and  two  gardeners-the  big  house  still  seemed  to  express  the  financial  stability  and  social  confidence  and  belief  in  good  breeding  of  the  Age  of  Trellises.  Be-  cause  he  had  lived  in  the  neighborhood  longer  than  anyone  else,  Edmund  some-  times  felt  the  impulses  of  a  host,  but  he  had  learned  not  to  act  on  them.  His  mother  always  used  to  pay  a  call  on  new  people  within  a  month  of  their  set-  tling  in,  and  if  she  liked  them,  the  call  was  followed  by  an  invitation  to  the  Fishers'  fortea  or  cocktails,  at  which  time  she  managed  to  bring  up  the  sub-  ject  of  the  Garden  Club.  But  in  the  last  year  or  so  that  she  had  lived  there,  she  had  all  but  given  this  up.  Twice  her  call  was  not  returned,  and  one  terribly  nice  young  couple  accepted  an  invitation  to  tea  and  blithely  forgot  to  come.  Ed-  mund  was  friendly  when  he  met  his  neighbors  on  the  road  or  on  the  station  platform,  but  he  let  them  go  their  own  way,  except  for  George  Martin,  who  was  rather  amusing,  and  obviously  lonely,  and  glad  of  an  invitation  to  the  big  house.  \xe2\x80\x9cI  AM  sewed  to  this  couch,&quot;  George  Martin  said.  &quot;My  sleeves  are  sewed  to  it,  and  my  trousers.  I  could  not  move  if  I  wanted  to.  Oedipus  is  on  the  wall  over  me,  answering  the  spink-  spank-sphinx,  and  those  are  pussy  wil-  lows,  and  I  do  not  like  bookcases  with  glass  sides  that  let  down,  and  the  scare-  crow  is  gone.  I  don't  know  what  they  did  with  it,  and  I  don't  like  to  ask.  And  today  I  might  as  well  be  stuffed  with  straw.  The  dream  I  had  last  night  did  it.  I  broke  two  plates,  and  woke  up  un-  confident  and  nervous  and  tired.  I  don't  know  what  the  dream  means.  I  had  three  plates  and  I  dropped  two  of  them,  and  it  was  so  vivid.  It  was  a  short  dream  but  very  vivid.  I  thought  at  first  that  the  second  plate-why  three  plates?-  was  all  right,  but  while  I  was  looking  at  it,  the  cracks  appeared.  When  I  picked  it  up,  it  gave;  it  came  apart  in  my  hands.  It  was  planted  with  flowers,  and  " b"it  had  openwork,  and  I  was  in  a  hurry,  and  in  my  hurry  I  dropped  the  plates.  And  I  was  upset.  I  hardly  ever  break  anything.  Last  night  while  I  was  dry-  ing  the  glasses,  I  thought  how  I  never  break  any  of  them.  'They're  Swedish  and  very  expensive.  'The  plates  I  dreamed  about  were  my  mother's.  Not  actually;  I  dreamed  that  they  were  my  mother's  plates.  I  broke  two  things  of  hers  when  I  was  little.  And  both  times  it  was  something  she  had  warned  me  about.  I  satin  the  teacart  playing  house,  and  forgot  and  raised  my  head  suddenly,  and  it  went  right  through  the  glass  tray.  And  the  other  was  an  etched-glass  hurri-  cane  lamp  that  she  prized  very  highly.  I  climbed  up  on  a  chair  to  reach  it.  And  after  she  died,  I  could  have  thought-  I  don't  ever  remember  thinking  this,  but  I  could  have  thought  that  Idid  something  I  shouldn't  have,  and  she  died....  Thank  you,  I  have  match-  es.  ...I  can  raise  my  arm.  I  turned  without  thinking.  I  can't  figure  out  that  dream.  My  stepmother  was  there,  washing  dishes  at  the  sink,  and  she  turned  into  Helena  Fisher,  and  I  woke  up  thinking,  Ah,  that's  it.  They're  both  my  stepmothers!  My  stepmother  never  broke  anything  that  belonged  to  my  mother,  so  she  must  have  been  fond  of  her.  They  knew  each  other  as  girls.  And  I  never  broke  anything  that  be-  longed  to  my  stepmother.  I  only  broke  something  that  belonged  to  my  moth-  er....  Did  I  tell  you  I  saw  her  the  other  day?&quot;  &quot;You  saw  someone  who  reminded  you  of  your  mother?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  saw  Helena  Fisher.  On  Fifth  [REDACTED].  I  crossed  over  to  the  other  side  ofthe  street,  even  though  I'm  still  fond  of  her,  because  she  hasn't  been  very  nice  to  Dorothy,  and  because  it's  all  so  complicated,  and  I  really  didn't  have  anything  to  say  to  her.  She  was  very  conspicuous  in  her  country  clothes.&quot;  He  lit  another  cigarette  and  then  said,  after  a  prolonged  silence,  &quot;I  don't  seem  to  have  anything  to  say  now,  either.&quot;  The  silence  became  unbearable,  and  he  said,  &quot;I  can't  think  of  anything  totalk  about.&quot;  &quot;Let's  talk  about  you-about  this  dream  you  had,&quot;  the  voice  said,  kind  and  patient  as  always,  the  voice  of  his  father  (at  $20  an  hour).  HE  scarecrow  had  remained  in  the  Fishers'  vegetable  garden,  with  one  arm  limp  and  one  arm  stiffly  ex-  tended,  all  summer.  'The  corn  and  the  tomato  vines  grew  up  around  it,  half  obscuring  it  during  the  summer  months,  and  then,  in  the  fall,  there  was  nothing  whatever  around  it  but  the  bare  ground.  The  blue  workshirt  faded  still  more  in  the  sun  and  rain.  'The  figure  grew  frail,  the  straw  chest  settled  and  became  a  middle-aged  thickening  of  the  waist.  The  resemblance  to  Edmund  disap-  peared.  And  on  a  Friday  afternoon  in  October,  with  snow  flurries  predicted,  Edmund  Fisher  went  about  the  yard  carrying  in  the  outdoor  picnic  table  and  benches,  picking  up  stray  flowerpots,  and  taking  one  last  look  around  for  the  pruning  shears,  the  trowel,  and  the  nest  of  screwdrivers  that  had  all  disappeared  during  the  summer's  gardening.  There  were  still  three  or  four  storm  windows  to  put  upon  the  south  side  of  the  house,  and  he  was  about  to  bring  them  out  and  hang  them  when  Dorothy,  on  her  hands     and  knees  in  the  iris  bed,  called  to  him.  &quot;What  about  the  scarecrow?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  want  to  save  it?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  don't  really  care.&quot;  &quot;We  might  as  well,&quot;  he  said,  and  was  struck  once  more  by  the  lifelike  quality  of  the  scarecrow,  as  he  lifted  it  out  of  the  soil.  It  was  almost  weightless.  &quot;Did  the  doctor  say  it  was  all  right  for  you  to  do  that  sort  of  thing?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  ask  him,&quot;  Dorothy  said.  &quot;Oughtn't  you  to  ask  him?&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,&quot;  she  said,  smiling  at  him.  She  was  nearly  three  months  pregnant.  Moonfaced,  serenely  happy,  and  slow  of  movement  (when  she  had  all  her  life  been  so  quick  about  everything),  she  went  about  now  doing  everything  she  had  always  done  but  like  somebody  in  a  dream,  a  sleepwalker.  The  clock  had  been  replaced  by  the  calendar.  Like  the  gardeners  in  [REDACTED],  she  was  dedicated  to  making  something  grow.  As  Ed-  mund  carried  the  scarecrow  across  the  lawn  and  around  the  corner  of  the  house,  she  followed  him  with  her  eyes.  Why  is  it,  she  wondered,  that  hecan  never  bear  to  part  with  anything,  even  though  it  has  ceased  to  serve  its  purpose  and  he  no  longer  has  any  interest  in  it?  It  was  as  if  sometime  or  other  in  his  life  he  had  lost  something,  of  such  in-  finite  value  that  he  could  never  think  of  it  without  grieving,  and  never  bear  to  part  with  anything  worthless  because  of  the  thing  he  hadhad  to  part  with  that  meant  so  much  to  him.  But  what?  She  had  no  idea,  and  she  had  given  some  thought  to  the  matter.  She  was  sure  it  was  not  Helena;  he  said  (and  she  be-  lieved  him)  that  he  had  long  since  got  over  any  feeling  he.once  had  for  " b"her.  His  parents  were  both  still  living,  he  was  an  only  child,  and  death  seemed  never  to  have  touched  him.  Was  it  some  early  love,  that  he  had  never  felt  he  dared  speak  to  her  about?  Some  depriva-  tion?  Some  terrible  injustice  done  to  him?  She  had  no  way  of  telling.  The  attic  and  the  basement  testified  to  his  in-  ability  to  throw  things  away,  and  she  had  given  up  trying  to  do  anything  about  either  one.  'The  same  with  people.  At  the  end  of  a  perfectly  pleasant  evening  he  would  say  &quot;Oh  no,  it's  early  still.  You  mustn't  go  home!&quot;  with  such  fervor  that  even  though  it  actually  was  time  to  go  home  and  the  guests  wanted  to,  they  would  sit  down,  confused  by  him,  and  stay  a  while  longer.  And  though  the  Fishers  knew  more  people  than  they  could  manage  to  see,  he  would  suddenly  remember  somebody  he  hadn't  thought  of  or  written  to  in  a  long  time,  and  feel  impelled  to  do  something  about  them.  Was  it  something  that  happened  to  him  in  his  childhood,  Dorothy  asked  herself.  Or  was  it  something  in  his  temperament,  born  in  him,  a  flaw  in  his  horoscope,  Mercury  in  an  unsympa-  thetic  relation  to  the  moon?  She  resumed  her  weeding,  conscious  in  a  way  that  she  hadn't  been  before  of  the  autumn  day,  of  the  end  of  the  sum-  mer's  gardening,  of  the  leaf-smoke  smell  and  the  smell  of  rotting  apples,  the  hickory  tree  that  lost  its  leaves  before  all  the  other  trees,  the  grass  so  deceptive-  ly  green,  and  the  chill  that  had  descend-  ed  now  that  the  sun  had  gone  down  behind  the  western  hill.  Standing  in  the  basement,  looking  at  the  hopeless  disorder  (&quot;A  place  for  ev-  erything,&quot;  his  father  used  to  say,  &quot;and  nothing  in  its  place&quot;  ),  Edmund  decided  that  it  was  more  important  to  get  at  the  storm  windows  than  to  find  a  place  for  the  scarecrow.  He  laid  it  on  one  of  the  picnic-table  benches,  with  the  head  toward  the  oil  burner,  and  there  it  sprawled,  like  a  man  asleep  or  dead-  drunk,  with  the  line  of  the  hipbone  showing  through  the  trousers,  and  one  arm  extended,  resting  on  a  slightly  higher  workbench,  and  one  shoulder  raised  slightly,  as  if  the  man  had  started  to  turn  in  his  sleep.  In  the  dim  light  it  could  have  been  alive.  I  must  remem-  ber  to  tell  Dorothy,  he  thought.  If  she  sees  it  like  that,  she'll  be  frightened.  The  storm  windows  were  washed  and  ready  to  hang.  As  Edmund  came  around  the  corner  of  the  house,  with  IX  in  one  hand  and  XI  in  the  other,  the  telephone  started  to  ring,  and  Dor-  othy  went  in  by  the  back  door  to  answer  it,  so  he  didn't  have  a  chance  to  tell  her  about  the  scarecrow.  When  he  went indoors,  ten  minutes  later,  she  was  still  standing  by  the  telephone,  and  from  the  fact  that  she  was  merely  contributing  a  monosyllable  now  and  then  to  the  con-  versation,  he  knew  she  was  talking  to  George  Martin.  George  was  as  dear  as  the  day  was  long-everybody  liked  him-but  he  had  such  a  ready  access  to  his  own  memories,  which  were  so  rich  in  narrative  detail  and  associations  that  dovetailed  into  further  narratives,  that  if  you  were  busy  it  was  a  pure  and  sim-  ple  misfortune  to  pick  up  the  telephone  and  hear  his  cultivated,  affectionate  voice.  Edmund  gave  up  the  idea  of  hanging  the  rest  of  the  storm  windows,  and  in-  stead  he  got  in  the  car  and  drove  to  the  village;  he  had  remembered  that  they  were  out  of  cat  food  and  whiskey.  When  he  walked  into  the  house,  Dorothy  said,  &quot;I've  just  had  such  a  scare.  I  started  to  go  down  in  the  cellar-&quot;  &quot;I  knew  that  would  happen,&quot;  he  said,  putting  his  hat  and  coat  in  the  hall  closet.  &quot;I  meant  to  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;The  basement  light  was  burnt  out,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  so  I  took  the  flashlight.  And  when  I  saw  the  scarecrow  I  thought  it  was  a  man.&quot;  &quot;Our  old  friend,&quot;  he  said,  shaking  his  head.  &quot;The  Man  Outside.&quot;  &quot;And  you  weren't  here.  I  knew  I  was  alone  in  the  house  .  .  .&quot;  Her  fright  was  still  traceable  in  her  face  as  she  described  it.  ON  Saturday  morning,  Edmund  dressed  hurriedly,  the  alarm  clock  having  failed  to  go  off,  and  while  Doro-  thy  was  getting  breakfast,  he  went  down  to  the  basement,  half  asleep,  to  get  the  car  out  and  drive  to  the  village  for  the  cleaning  woman,  and  saw  the  scarecrow  in  the  dim  light,  sprawling  by  the  furnace,  and  a  great  clot  of  fear  seized  himand  his  heart  almost  stopped  beating.  It  lay  there  like  an  awful  idiot,  the  realistic  effect  accidentally  en-  couraged  by  the  pair  of  work  shoes  Ed-  mund  had  taken  off  the  night  before  and  tossed  carelessly  down  the  cellar  stairs.  The  scarecrow  had  no  feet-  only  two  stumps  where  the  trouser  legs  were  tied  at  the  bottom-but  the  shoes  were  where,  if  it  had  been  alive,  they  might  have  been  dropped  before  the  person  lay  down  on  the  bench.  I'll  have  to  do  something  about  it,  Ed-  " b"mund  thought.  We  can't  go  on  fright,  ening  ourselves  like  this....  But  the  memory  of  the  fright  was  so  real  that  he  felt  unwilling  to  touch  the  scarecrow.  Instead,  he  left  it  where  it  was,  for  the  time  being,  and  backed  the  car  out  of  the  garage.  On  the  way  back  from  the  village,  Mrs.  Ryan,  riding  beside  him  in  the  front  seat  of  the  car,  had  a  story  to  tell.  Among  the  various  people  she  worked  for  was  a  family  with  three  boys.  The  youngest  was  in  the  habit  of  following  her  from  room  to  room,  and  ordinarily  he  was  as  good  as  gold,  butyesterday  he  ran  away,  she  told  Edmund.  His  mother  was  in  town,  and  the  older  boys,  with  some  of  the  neighbors'  children,  were  playing  outside  with  a  football,  and  Mrs.  Ryan  and  the  little  boy  were  in  the  house.  &quot;Monroe  asked  if  he  could  go  outside,  and  I  bundled  him  up  and  sent  him  out.  I  looked  outside  once,  and  saw  that  he  was  laying  with  the  Bluestones'  dog,  and  I  said,  'Monroe,  honey,  don't  pull  that  dog's  tail.  He  might  turn  and  bite  you.'&quot;  While  she  was  ironing,  the  oldest  boy  came  inside  for  a  drink  of  water,  and  she  asked  him  where  Monroe  was,  and  he  said,  &quot;Oh,  he's  outside.&quot;  But  when  she  went  to  the  door,  fifteen  minutes  later,  the  older  boys  were  throwing  the  football  again  and  Monroe  wasnowhere  in  sight.  The  boys  didn't  know  what  had  happened  to  him.  He  disappeared.  All  around  the  house  was  woods,  and  Mrs.  Ryan,  in  a  panic,  called  and  called.  &quot;Usually  when  I  call,  he  answers  im-  mediately,  but  this  time  there  was  no  answer,  and  I  went  into  the  house  and  telephoned  the  Bluestones,  and  they  hadn't  seen  him.  And  then  Icalled  the  Hayeses  and  the  Murphys,  and  they  hadn't  seen  him  either,  and  Mr.  Hayes  came  down,  and  we  all  started  looking  for  him.  Mr.  Hayes  said  only  one  car  had  passed  in  the  last  half  hour-I  was  afraid  he  had  been  kidnapped,  Mr.  Fisher-and  Monroe  wasn't  in  it.  And  I  thought,  When  his  mother  comes  home  and  I  have  to  tell  her  what  I've  done  ...  And  just  about  that  time,  he  answered,  from  behind  the  hedge!&quot;  &quot;Was  he  there  all  the  time?&quot;  Ed-  mund  asked,  shifting  into  second  as  he  turned  in  to  his  own  driveway.  &quot;I  don't  know  where  he  [REDACTED];  Mrs.  Ryan  said.  &quot;But  he  did  the  same  thing  once  before-he  wandered  off  onme.  Mr.  Ryan  thinks  he  followed  the  Blue-  stones'  dog  home.  His  mother  called  me  up  last  night  and  said  that  he  knew  he'd  done  something  wrong.  He  said  Mummy,  I  was  bad  today.  I  ran  off  on  Sadie.  .  ..'  But  Mr.  Fisher,  I'm  telling  you,  I  was  almost  out  of  my  mind.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  wonder,&quot;  Edmund  said  soberly,  &quot;With  woods  all  around  the  house,  and  as  Mr.  Hayes  said,  climbing  over  a  stone  wall  astone  could  fall  on  him  and  we  wouldn't  find  him  for  days.&quot;  Ten  minutes  later,  she  went  down  to  the  basement  for  the  scrub  bucket,  and  left  the  dooropen  at  the  head  of  the  stairs.  Edmund  heard  her  exclaim,  for  their  benefit,  &quot;God  save  us,  I've  just  had  the  fright  of  my  life!&quot;  She  had  seen  the  scarecrow.  The  tramp  that  ran  off  with  the  child,  of  course,  Edmund  thought.  He  went  downstairs  a  few  minutes  later,  and  saw  that  Mrs.  Ryan  had  picked  the  dummy  up  and  stood  it  in  a  corner,  with  its  degenerate  face  to  the  wall,  where  it  no  longer  looked  human  or  frightening.  Mrs.  Ryan  is  frightened  because  of  the  nonexistent  tramp.  Dorothy  is  afraid  of  The  Man  Outside.  What  am  I  afraid  of,  he  wondered.  He  stood  there  waiting  for  the  oracle  to  answer,  " b"and  it  did,  but  not  until  five  or  six  hours  later.  Poor  George  Martin  called,  after  lunch,  to  say  that  he  had  the  German  measles.  &quot;I  was  sick  as  a  dog  all  night,&quot;  he  said  mournfully.  &quot;I  thought  I  was  dying.  I  wrote  your  telephone  number  on  a  slip  of  paper  and  put  it  beside  the  bed,  in  case  I  did  die.&quot;  &quot;Well,  for  God's  sake,  why  didn't  you  call  us?&quot;  Edmund  exclaimed.  &quot;What  good  would  it  have  done?&quot;  George  said.  &quot;All  you  could  have  done  was  say  you  were  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Somebody  could  have  come  over  and  looked  after  you.&quot;  'No,  somebody  couldn't.  It's  very  catching.  I  think  I  was  exposed  to  it  a  week  ago  at  a  party  in  Westport.&quot;  &quot;I  had  German  measles  when  I  was  a  kid,&quot;  Edmund  said.  &quot;We've  both  had  it.&quot;  &quot;You  can  get  it  again,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;I  still  feel  terrible.  ...&quot;  When  Edmund  left  the  telephone,  he  made  the  mistake  of  mentioning  George's  illness  to  Mrs.  Ryan,  forget-  ting  that  it  was  the  kind  of  thing  that  wasmeat  and  drink  to  her.  &quot;Has  Mrs.  Fisher  beennear  him?&quot;  she  asked,  with  quickened  interest.  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;There's  a  great  deal  of  it  around,&quot;  Mrs.  Ryan  said.  &quot;My  daughter  got  German  measles  when  she  was  carry-  ing  her  first  child,  and  she  lost  it.&quot;  He  tried  to  ask  if  it  was  a  miscarriage  or  if  the  child  was  born  dead,  and  he  couldn't  speak;  his  throat  was  too  dry.  'She  was  three  months  along  when  she  had  it,&quot;  Mrs.  Ryan  went  on,  with-  out  noticing  that  he  was  getting  paler  and  paler.  &quot;The  baby  was  born  alive,  but  it  only  lived  three  days.  She's  had  two  other  children  since.  I  feel  it  was  a  blessing  the  Lord  took  that  one.  If  it  had  lived,  it  might  have  been  an  imbe-  cile.  You  love  them  even  so,  because  they  belong  to  you,  but  it's  better  if  they  don't  live,  Mr.  Fisher.  We  feel  it  was  a  blessing  the  child  was  taken.&quot;  Edmund  decided  that  he  wouldn't  tell  Dorothy,  and  then  five  minutes  later  he  decided  that  he'd  better  tell  her.  He  went  upstairs  and  into  the  bedroom  where  she  was  resting,  and  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  and  told  her  about  George's  telephone  call.  &quot;Mrs.  Ryan  says  it's  very  bad  if  you  catch  it  while  you're  pregnant.  .  ..  And  she  said  some  more.&quot;  &quot;Ican  see  she  did,  by  the  look  on  your  face.  You  shouldn't  have  mentioned  it  to  her.  What  did  she  say?&quot;  &quot;She  said-&quot;  He  swallowed.  &quot;She  said  the  child  could  be  born  an  imbecile.  She  also  said  there  was  a  lot  of  German  measles  around.  You're  not  worried?&quot;  &quot;We  all  live  in  the  hand  of  God.&quot;  &quot;I  tell  myself  that  every  time  I'm  really  frightened.  Unfortunately  that's  the  onlytime  I  do  think  it.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  know.&quot;  Five  minutes  later,  he  came  back  in-  to  the  room  and  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  call  the  doctor?  Maybe  there's  a  shot  you  can  take.&quot;  The  doctor  was  out  making  calls,  and  when  he  telephoned  back,  Dorothy  an-  swered,  on  the  upstairs  extension.  Ed-  mund  sat  down  on  the  bottom  step  of  the  stairs  and  listened  to  her  half  of  the  conversation.  As  soon  as  she  had  hung  up,  she  came  down  to  tell  him  what  the  doctor  had  said.  The  shot  only  lasts  three  weeks.  He  said  he'd  give  it  to  me  if  I  should  be  ex-  posed  to  the  measles  anywhere.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  say  there  was  an  epidemic  of  it?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  ask  him.  He  said  that  it  was  commonly  supposed  to  be  dangerous  during  the  first  three  months,  but  that  the  statistics  showed  that  it's  only  the  first  two  months,  while  the  child  is  be-  ing  formed,  that  you  have  to  worry.&quot;  Moonfaced  and  serene  again,  she  went  to  put  the  kettle  on  for  tea.  Edmund  got  up  and  went  down  to  the  basement.  He  carried  the  dummy  outside,  removed  the  hat  and  then  the  head,  unbuttoned  the  shirt,  removed  the  straw  that  filled  it  and  the  trousers,  and  threw  it  on  the  compost  pile.  The  hat,  the  head,  the  shirt  and  trousers,  the  gloves  that  were  hands,  he  rolled  into  a  bundle  and  put  away  on  a  basement  shelf,  in  case  Dorothy  wanted  to  make  the  scarecrow  next  summer.  The  two  crossed  sticks  reminded  him  of  the  com-  fort  that  Mrs.  Ryan,  who  was  a  devout  Catholic,  had  and  that  he  did  not  have.  The  hum  of  the  vacuum  cleaner  over-  head  in  the  living  room,  the  sad  song  of  a  mechanical  universe,  was  all  the  reassurance  he  could  hope  for,  and  it  left  so  much  (it  left  the  scarecrow,  for  example)  completely  unexplained  and  unaccounted  for. "