 b"ALICE  Dent  felt  that  the  Fullers  A  were  entirely  her  husband's  project.  Left  to  his  own  devices,  he  always  did  everything  in  the  easi-  est  and  most  expensive  way.  Sometime  in  the  middle  of  the  spring,  he  had  gone  in  to  New  York  on  business  and  had  ended  up  at  a  cocktail  party,  where,  after  three  Martinis,  he  had  had  a  sud-  den  idea.  He  had  been  talking  to  Mrs.  Fuller,  also  aguest,  and  it  had  occurred  to  him  that,  as  he  and  Alice  were  go-  ing  to  4974616c79  for  the  summer,  he  could  offer  their  house  in  [REDACTED]  to  the  Fullers.  He  had  done  so,  there  and  then.  It  had  seemed  to  him  a  brilliant  solu-  tion  to  all  the  bother  of  renting  the  place  and  disposing  of  the  pets,  as  well  as  a  splendid  chance  to  make  a  generous  gesture,  for  theFullers  were  poor-or  at  least  they  appeared  to  be  perpetually  down  on  their  luck.  They  were  only  casual  friends  of  the  Dents,  and  neither  Alice  nor  Peter  had  thought  much  about  them  for  years.  All  Alice  remembered  was  that  they  had  several  children,  that  Mrs.  Fuller  painted,  and  that  her  hus-  band,  who  seemed  to  remain  largely  in  the  background  ofthe  family's  life,  worked  in  some  ambiguous  capacity  for  the  Encyclopzdia  [REDACTED].  Never-  theless,  the  offer  had  been  made.  Alice  had  been  horrified  at  first,  and  then  she  had  decided  not  to  take  it  seriously,  be-  lieving  that  the  Fullers  wouldn't,  either,  when  they  considered  the  circumstances  under  which  it  had  been  made.  But  now,  as  the  time  for  the  Dents  to  sail  drew  near,  the  fact  that  the  Ful-  lers  took  it  perfectly  seriously  had  become  all  too  evident.  For  a  week  or  two,  Alice  put  up  what  she  knew  was  a  fight  already  lost.  &quot;'You  realize,  of  course,  that  there's  apt  to  be  no  house  at  all  when  we  get  back,&quot;  she  said  one  night  to  her  husband.  'They  were  both  in  bed,  and  he  was  reading.  There  was  no  answer,  so  she  picked  up  the  volume  of  Gibbon  she  had  laid  down  thoughtfully  a  few  minutes  be-  fore.  She  read  for  some  time,  and  then,  having  finished  with  the  death  of  the  second  Constantine,  she  said,  &quot;Do  you  really  think  we  ought  to  give  it  to  them  just  because  you  don't  know  what  to  do  with  the  cat  and  dog?&quot;  &quot;What  would  we  do  with  the  cat  and  dog?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Put  them  in  a  kennel,  the  way  other  people  do.&quot;  &quot;A  kennel  won't  accept  a  cat,&quot;  Peter  said.  &quot;Mrs.  Fuller  isn't  the  sort  of  per-  son  who  would  take  good  care  of  them,&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;She  isn't  the  sort  of  person  who  would  even  take  care  of  the  house.&quot;  &quot;&quot;What  sort  of  person  is  she,  then?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;She's  the  kind  of  person  who  al-  ways  compliments  people  on  how  well  their  houses  are  kept,  and  then  al-  ways  adds  how  bad  she  is  at  keeping  her  own.  'The  implication  is  that  it's  a  mighty  small  thing  to  be  good  at.  She  sounds  as  though  she  were  not  of  this  world.  She  has  an  original  reaction  to  everything.  She  bores  me.&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  won't  be  here  while  she's  here,  and  we  can  always  have  the  place  cleaned  up  when  we  get  back.&quot;  He  sounded  as  though  it  were  a  fait  ac-  compli,  and  so  it  was.  N  the  Sunday  before  the  Dents  were  to  leave  for  4974616c79,  late  in  June,  the  Fullers  arrived  with  their  four  girls  and  their  little  hairy  dog.  Alice,  sitting  with  Peter  on  the  ter-  race,  watched  as  the  battered  station  wagon  swung  up  the  driveway.  She  could  see  the  children's  bright  faces,  and  momentarily  she  wondered  how  Mrs.  Fuller  had  found  the  time  to  have  them  all.  She  looked,  as  she  smiled  and  waved,  more  eager  and  bright-eyed  than  her  oldest  daughter,  who  was  fif-  teen.  Still,  Alice  decided,  she  couldn't  be  less  than  thirty-six  or  seven.  Mrs.  Fuller  was  driving.  Her  hus-  band,  sitting  palely  beside  her,  man-  aged  somehow  to  look  overex-  posed,  like  a  faded  tintype.  He  was  extremely  blond  andhad  a  hesitant,  gentle  smile.  'The  car  stopped  and  the  girls  piled  out.  They  all  curtsied  to  Alice  and  Peter-a  gesture  that  seemed  at  variance  with  their  blue  jeans  and  faded  T  shirts.  Mrs.  Fuller  got  out,  held  onto  both  the  Dents'  hands,  and  inhaled  great  draughts  of  air.  Mr.  Fuller  got  out  last,  like  an  afterthought.  His  wife  looked  about,  and  the  blue  of  the  sky  was  reflected  in  her  eyes.  She  spoke  in  a  whisper:  &quot;Oh,  I  can't  tell  you-champagne-&quot;  she  said.  She  turned  and  picked  up  a  petal  fallen  from  a  tulip  tree.  She  pressed  it  to  her  lips,  thenlooked  up  at  the  tall  tree.  &quot;Oh,  a  tulip  tree!&quot;  She  drew  out  the  words.  &quot;How  lovely!&quot;  Alice's  apprehension  faded  some-  what.  She  always  felt  a  glow  of  satis-  faction  when  anyone  admired  the  place.  This  time,  the  glow  was  augmented  by  a  sense  of  largess,  from  having  giv-  en  it  away  for  the  summer  to  someone  " b"who  was  obviously  going  to  love  it  but  could  not  possibly  have  afforded  to  rent  it.  The  Fullers  were  hot  and  dusty.  The  children  ran  to  the  swimming  pool,  the  little  dog  yipping  at  their  heels.  &quot;'The  girls'  bathhouse  is  on  the  right!&quot;  Alice  called  after  them.  She  turned  to  Mrs.  Fuller.  &quot;Why  don't  you  have  a  swim,  too,  while  I  get  some  lemonade  for  the  children  and  a  drink  for  us?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'd  love  to,&quot;  Mrs.  Fuller  said.  She  turned  to  the  car,  which  the  two  men  were  unloading.  Only  the  lower  half  of  her  husband  was  visible.  The  rest  of  himwas  deep  in  the  car,  where  he  was  grappling  with  boxes  tied  with  bathrobe  belts  and  odds  and  ends  of  string.  &quot;Darling,  please  get  my  saffron  robe,&quot;  she  said  to  him.  &quot;I'm  going  for  a  swim.&quot;  And  she  walked  off  to  the  pool.  The  men  stacked  the  Fullers  be-  longings  in  the  front  hall  and  joined  Alice  in  the  kitchen,  meaning  to  help  carry  out  the  drinks.  Then  Mr.  Fuller  remembered  the  saffron  robe.  He  went  hurriedly  back  to  the  hall,  scuffed  around  in  theboxes,  found  it,  and  rushed  back  through  the  kitchen,  the  robe  on  his  arm,  looking  apologetic  and  promising  to  return.  &quot;Aren't  they  nice?&quot;  Peter  said.  &quot;And  the  kids  will  have  a  wonderful  time.  I'm  glad  it  worked  out  this  way-  aren't  you?&quot;  He  peered  at  his  wife.  &quot;Well,  aren't  you?&quot;  Between  the  earlier  apprehensions  and  the  recent  glow,  Alice  felt  con-  fused.  She  had  an  impulse  to  start  the  whole  argument  up  again,  but  she  thought  better  of  it  and  said,  &quot;Yes,  I  am  glad,&quot;  adding  merely,  &quot;You  know,  I'd  forgotten-she  speaks  in  shorthand.  I'm  always  wanting  to  finish  her  sen-  tences  for  her.  Her  words  come  out  and  float  around  in  space.  I  keep  feeling  I  should  anchor  them.&quot;  She  picked  up  the  tray  of  glasses  and  bottles,  and,  without  looking  at  Peter,  started  toward  the  outside  door.  Just  then  Mr.  Fuller  cameback  He  re-  lieved  Alice  ofthe  tray  and  offered  to  take  the  ice  bucket  and  the  pitcher  of  lemonade  from  Peter,  too.  Then  the  Dents  and  Mr.  Fuller  walked  in  single  file  out-of-doors  and  up  the  steep  in-  cline  that  led  to  thepool  All  the  girls  and  Mrs.  Fuller  were  in  swimming.  The  saffron  robe  was  lying  on  the  flag-  stones,  by  the  water.  Alice  called  &quot;Lemonade,  children!&quot;  and  went  off  toward  the  bathhouse,  saying  she  would  get  into  her  bathing  suit  while  Peter  mixed  some  Martinis.  When  she  came  out,  she  saw  the  two  youngest  children  standing  near  her  on" b'the  flagstones,  dripping  wet,  their  naked  bodies  glistening  in  thesun.  She  smacked  them  both  playfully  on  the  buttocks,  and  then  she  noticed  thatJes-  sica,  the  oldest,  was  emerging  from  the  -  pool.  She  walked  up  the  shallow  steps  slowly  and  gracefully.  She  had  a  beauti-  ful,  adult  body  with  long  thighs  and  the  high,  firm  breasts  that  only  very  young  women  have.  She  was  altogether  naked  and  completely  unconscious  of  it.  She  walked  up  to  Peter,  who  was  standing  with  his  back  to  her.  He  looked  fright,  fully  incongruous  in  his  slacks  and  jack-  et.  &quot;May  I  have  a  lemonade,  too,  please?&quot;  she  asked.  He  turned  and  had  already  lifted  the  pitcher  to  pour  the  lemonade  for  her  when  suddenly  he  stopped.  An  expres-  sion  of  dumb  astonishment  came  to  his  face,  and  his  hand  shook.  The  girl  was  standing,  erect  and  beautiful,  holding  the  glass  out  to  Peter,  while  his  arm  refused  for  a  long  moment  to  obey  his  command.  Finally,  he  looked  around  as  if  for  affirmation  of  his  senses,  and,  having  concluded  that  what  he  saw  was  not  a  trick  of  his  imagination,  pro-  ceeded  to  pour  the  lemonade  with  de-  termined  concentration.  Alice  was  shocked  only  for  a  mo-  ment;  then  she  accepted  the  ideathat  -  this  lovely  full-grown  girl  should  be  there  beside  her  husband  without  any  clothes  on.  Peter  turned  away  from  the  girl  and  began  busily  explaining  the  pool  pump  to  Mr.  Fuller.  All  the  chil-  dren  were  out  of  the  water  now,  sip-  ping  their  lemonades,  the  three  young-  est  frisking  around  like  shiny  seals  on  the  grass.  Mrs.  Fuller  remained  in  the  pool,  and  the  saffron  robe  was  still  lying  beside  the  steps.  The  saffron  robe,  thought  Alice.  She  recalled  the  haste  with  which  Mr.  Fuller  had  brought  it.  She  walked  to  the  edge  of  the  pool  and  looked  in.  Mrs.  Fuller  was  lazily  swimming  about,  her  naked  body  looking  unreal  and  dis-  torted  beneath  the  surface  of  the  water.  Alice  wanted  to  go  in,  too,  but  she  suddenly  felt  overdressed  in  her  black  knitted  bathing  suit.  She  decided  to  have  a  Martini  first.  She  sat  with  Peter  and  Mr.  Fuller,  watching  the  children.  Jessica  had  thrown  a  towel  over  her  shoulders  and  was  sitting  decorously  with  the  adults.  &quot;Your  drink  is  getting  warm!&quot;  Alice  called  to  the  form  floating  in  the  water.  &quot;Come  and  get  it!&quot;  Mr.  Fuller  was  sitting  on  the  edge  of  his  chair.  Suddenly,  as  his  wife  swam  toward  the  steps,  he  lurched  forward,  and  his  glass  crashed  to  the  terrace.  Alice  and  Peter  glanced  down  to  see  what  had  happened,  and  in  that  in-' b"stant  Mrs,  Fuller  must  have  stepped  from  the  pool.  Looking  up,  Alice  had  time  only  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  her  dis-  appearing  into  the  saffron  robe,  which  Mr.  Fuller  was  holding  for  her.  Alice  was  disappointed.  She  felt  that  the  final  proof  of  her  instinctive  judg-  ment  of  Mrs.  Fuller  had  been  snatched  from  her  by  the  accident  of  a  break-  ing  glass.  If  Mr.  Fuller  had  not  been  so  fast,  they  would  all  have  been  treat-  ed  to  a  vision  of  Mrs.  Fuller  stepping  lightly  over  the  grass,  as  naturally  naked  as  a  lady  out  of  a  Renoir  paint-  ing.  Instead,  she  was  sitting  decently  wrapped  in  the  saffron  robe,  her  children  playing  around  her,  un-  inhibited  and  free.  She  exuded  an  air  of  maternal  warmth  without  indulging  in  any  of  the  conven-  tional  maternal  gestures.  She  did  not  direct  the  children,  she  did  not  caution,  yetshe  seemed  to  be  the  very  center  of  their  orbit.  Mr.  Fuller,  like  a  minor  deity,  now  sat  somewhat  apart,  reading  a  scientific  journal.  When  the  swimmers  had  dressed  and  the  sun  had  gone  down,  the  children  joined  the  grownups  in  the  living  room,  shining  and  clean-looking.  Presently,  they  explored  the  house  from  cellar  to  attic  and  expressed  themselves  as  well  pleased.  Jessica  chose  the  downstairs  bedroom  for  herself,  because,  as  she  said,  she  was  &quot;adolescent,  and  should  have  the  utmost  privacy.&quot;  Jody,  who  was  nine,  remarked  that  adolescence  was  a  bore  and  that  she,  for  one,  was  nevergoing  to  bother  with  it.  The  two  little  ones  wanted  the  master  bedroom,  because  &quot;tomorrow,  when  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dent  leave,  we  can  move  that  great  big  bed  out  on  the  porch  and  see  the  night.&quot;  Alice  made  a  mental  note.  &quot;Tell  them  tactfully  not  to  move  bed,&quot;  it  said,  but  she  never  got  a  chance  to  do  it,  because  from  then  on  things  hap-  pened  too  swiftly.  The  Fullers  tookover  completely,  and  by  dinnertime  Alice  thought  of  herself  as  rather  like  a  chance  visitor  who  had  come  to  spend  the  night  with  this  casual  and  charming  family.  The  conversation  was  gay  and  easy.  Alice  noticed  that  there  were  no  awk-  ward  moments  when  it  had  to  be  toned  down  or  the  subject  changed  for  the  sake  of  the  children.  In  fact,  the  chil-  dren  made  the  conversation;  they  talked  with  familiarity  of  houses  they  had  oc-  cupied  in  [REDACTED]  and  New  [REDACTED]  and  on  Cape  Cod,  and  even  of  a  summer  spent  in  Cannes.  It  seemed  natural  to  them,  since  they  could  never  afford  a  house  in  the  country  for  the  summer  months,  that  someone,  somewhere,  should  be  on  hand  every  year  to  pro- vide  them  with  one.  There  was  no  em-  barrassment;  they  were  not  excessively  grateful;  they  just  took  it  for  granted.  And  all  along  Alice  wondered  if  the  houses  were  ever  the  same  again  once  the  Fullers  had  left.  After  dinner,  Alice  stopped  in  the  kitchen  to  tell  the  cook-who  was  to  leave  the  next  day  for  a  two  months'  job  with  friends  of  the  Dents-what  to  prepare  for  breakfast.  When  she  went  to  the  living  room,  a  little  later,  she  found  her  husband  sitting  on  the  couch  with  the  whole  Fuller  family  clustered  around  him.  They  were  so  deeply  engrossed  in  some  guessing  game,  of  which  he  was  apparent-  ly  the  leader,  that  Alice  stood  for  some  time  unnoticed.  She  straight-  ened  a  lampshade  and  replaced  a  fallen  pillow  on  a  chair.  She  stopped  herself  as  she  was  about  to  pick  up  a  child's  scuffed  shoe.  &quot;Barking  dogs  never  bite!&quot;  shouted  Jessica  triumphantly,  and  there  were  cries  and  applause,  and  the  children  and  Mrs.  Fuller  declared  vehemently  that  Peter  was  a  wonderful  actor.  The  girls  begged  him  not  to  go  to  4974616c79,  and  invited  him  to  spend  the  summer  there  with  them.  At  ten  o'clock,  all  the  Fullers  were  still  downstairs.  Alice  thought  of  the  early  train  she  and  Peter  had  to  catch.  &quot;'When  do  you  children  go  to  bed?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;When  we're  sleepy,&quot;  said  Jenny,  who  was  seven.  At  near  midnight,  when  Alice  was  sitting  at  her  dressing  table,  she  said,  &quot;I  must  admit  the  children  are  darling.  I  really  wouldn't  mind  having  them  for  the  summer  if  I  didn't  think  the  damage  would  be  colossal.&quot;  Peter  walked  over  to  her,  a  military  hairbrush  in  each  hand,  and  said,  &quot;Look,  we've  planned  a  beautiful  trip  abroad,  the  first  we've  had  together.  We're  supposed  to  relax  and  enjoy  it,  but  we  won't  if  you  keep  worrying  about  the  house  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;You're  right,&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;I  won't  think  about  it  again.&quot;  RICE  did  think  about  the  house,  often.  And  whenever  she  did,  she  saw  it  in  a  state  of  complete  disrepair-  the  grass  grown  tall,  the  windows  broken,  the  whole  place  looking  aban-  doned-but  she  tried  to  keep  this  wak-  ing  nightmare  to  herself.  One  day,  Peter  and  Alice  were  standing  in  the  courtyard  of  one  of  the  best-preserved  ruins  at  Pompeii,  The  place  had  an  uncanny  air  of  still  being  lived  in  by  its  original  inhabitants.  The  tourists  wandering  about  seemed  like  " b"solemn  ghosts  intruding  on  some  help-  less  patrician  family.  Peter  was  intense-  ly  moved.  He  had  a  deep  awareness  of  the  lives  that  had  been  lived  there,  the  human  happiness  and  suffering  that  had  gone  on  in  that  house  and  garden,  and  had  been  arrested  and  engraved  there  forever  by  the  great  disaster.  He  looked  at  his  wife,  She  seemed  to  share  his  emotion.  He  felt  as  though  he  were  showing  her  something  that  he  himself  had  discovered  and  unearthed.  He  moved  closer  and  put  his  arm  through  hers.  &quot;This  is  what  I've  wanted  you  to  see,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Think  of  it,  Alice-in  one  of  these  villas  Cicero  lived  and  wrote.&quot;  She  buried  her  head  in  his  sleeve.  &quot;Oh,  Peter!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  wonder  what's  happening  to  our  house.&quot;  BY  mid-August,  the  Dents  felt  that  getting  home  was  going  to  be  one  of  the  high  pointsof  their  summer.  They  cabled  the  Fullers  a  week  ahead  to  say  exactly  when  they  would  be  there.  Their  plane  reached  New  York  at  eleven  o'clock  one  morning,  and  Alice  immediately  telephoned  the  house  to  say  they  had  arrived.  Jody  answered  the  phone  and  said,  &quot;Mother's  asleep.  I'll  give  her  the  message.&quot;  The  Dents  picked  up  their  car  at  the  garage  where  it  was  stored,  lunched  at  an  inn  on  the  way  out,  and  by  two  o'clock  were  bumping  along  their  fa-  miliar  dirt  road.  The  young  maple  and  birch  trees  that  lined  it  made  a  gay  procession  past  which  they  swung  be-  fore  they  turned  in  to  their  gravelled  driveway.  Alice  held  tightly  to  her  hus-  band's  shoulder.  &quot;Oh,  darling,  isn't  it  beautiful?&quot;  she  whispered,  as  if  she  were  seeing  it  for  the  first  time.  The  day  was  hot  and  still.  There  was  no  one  about,  but  the  scene  the  Dents  walked  through  after  they  left  the  car  was  one  of  arrested  activity.  A  child's  gardening  implements  and  red  toy  wagon,  filled  with  gravel  from  the  driveway,  were  lying  in  the  path  that  took  them  to  the  front  terrace.  The  terrace  itself  looked  as  if  it  had  only  just  been  abandoned.  Someone  had  been  eating  breakfast  off  a  tray.  There  were  newspapers  and  magazines,  open  and  face  down,  on  every  chair  and  on  both  the  chaises.  A  row  of  stuffed  toy  animals  leaned  against  the  railing,  and  little  rivulets  of  water  ran  from  their  matted  hair  and  soggy  bodies  to  the  flagstones.  One  of  the  children  had  ob-  viously  set  them  out  in  the  sun  to  dry.  The  Dents  turned  away  from  the  disorder  and  for  a  moment  stood  look-  ing  at  the  patchwork  quilt  of  hillside  that  rose  directly  across  the  valley.  The " b"Kellys'  cows  that  had  always  been  there  were  still  grazing  in  the  pasture,  the  two  dappled  grays  were  still  huddled  under  the  one  apple  tree.  Then  Alice  pressedthefront  doorbell.  There  was  no  sound  in  response.  &quot;Where  can  they  be?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Call  them,  Peter-good  and  loud.  Maybe  they're  upon  the  hill.&quot;  &quot;First  I'll  see  if  their  car  is  in  the  garage.&quot;  He  went  away,  and  came  back  with  long,  unhurried  steps.  &quot;No,  no  one's  at  home,&quot;  he  said.  Alice  felt  anger  mounting.  &quot;They  could  at  least  have  left  a  note  on  the  door  saying  'Welcome  home'  or  'We'll  be  back,&quot;  or  something,&quot;  she  said.  Peter  said,  &quot;There's  no  earthly  rea-  son  we  can't  go  in  anyway.&quot;  &quot;I  feel  as  ifit  would  be  an  invasion  of  privacy,&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;You  know  how  informal  they  are,&quot;  said  Peter.  &quot;They'll  take  it  for  granted  that  we'll  go  in.&quot;  But  the  door  was  locked.  As  Peter  walkedaround  the  house,  trying  the  various  doors,  Alice  looked  about  her  and  wished  that  the  impulse  to  clean  up  were  not  so  strong  and  persistent.  The  scattered  paraphernalia  of  living  seemed  to  be  part  of  a  changed  look  about  the  whole  place.  It  spoke  of  an  unfamiliar  life-one  that  wassomehow,  in  its  way,  more  purposeful  than  the  orderliness  she  herself  had  always  given  to  her  home.  She  heard  Peter  calling  her  from  a  side  door,  which  he  had  found  open.  Then  he  came  through  the  house  and  flung  the  front  door  wide,  with  an  ex-  aggerated  gesture  of  welcome.  &quot;Now  for  a  nice  cup  of  coffee,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  make  it.  You  go  and  change.&quot;  Alice  stood  in  the  hall,  looking  into  the  living  room  and  feeling  even  more  as  though  she  had  stumbled  into  a  strange  house.  All  the  furniture  was  in  place,  yet  somehow  awry.  The  arm-  chairs  and  sofas  seemed  to  sit  casually,  their  pillows  thrown  this  way  and  that,  the  skirts  of  their  slipcovers  sagging  to  the  floor.  There  were  bowls  of  flowers  on  the  tables,  but  they  had  been  there  too  long  and  their  petals  were  fallen  or  faded.  A  comb  and  hairbrush  lay  beside  an  open  box  of  water  colors  on  the  table  in  the  bay  window.  The  cat's  saucer  of  milk  and  a  dish  of  dried-up  dog  food  were  in  a  corner  of  the  hearth.  Books  and  records  and  a  bowl  of  wilted  popcorn  were  on  the  floor  near  the  phonograph.  Alice  walked  into  the  room  and  through  it,  finding  it  dif-  ficult  to  believe  that  she  was  really  home.  She  went  up  to  her  dressing  room.  After  she  had  got  into  a  clean  shirt  and  a  pair  of  slacks,  she  sat  down  at " b"her  little  dressing  table.  The  sight  of  strange  jars,  and  bottles  of  perfume,  of  ointments,  and  a  box  of  face  powder,  open  and  spilled,  the  puff  lying  beside  it,  made  her  get  up  quickly.  She  felt  she  must  not  touch  anything  until  the  Fullers  left,  but  their  belongings  were  everywhere.  They  had  apparently  made  no  preparations  for  leaving.  When  she  joined  Peter,  he  had  put  the  coffee  tray  on  the  table  in  the  bay  window  of  the  dining  room.  There  was  a  tacit  understanding  on  both  their  parts  that  the  homecoming  was  a  failure,  yet  it  was  the  sort  of  thing  that  was  not  discussed,  and  it  made  for  a  kind  of  embarrassment  between  them.  Peter  appraised  his  wife  over  his  cof-  fee  cup.  &quot;You  won't  say  anything  about&quot;-  he  waved  his  hand  to  include  the  whole  house-  &quot;about  all  this?&quot;  He  smiled  ruefully.  &quot;Anyway,  they'll  be  leaving  soon,  and-&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  that  rude,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  what  makes  you  think  they're  leaving?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?  We  told  them  when  we'd  be  back,&quot;  Peter  said.  &quot;Yes,  but  we  didn't  say,  'You  must  leave  when  we  get  back.'  They  don't  seem  to  have  made  a  move  in  that  di-  rection.&quot;  After  coffee,  the  Dents  wandered  out  to  the  terrace,  feeling  lost  and  let  down.  Peter  seemed  to  hold  himself  re-  sponsible  for  the  Fullers  delmquency  &quot;Don't  worry,  dear,&quot;  he  kept  saymg,  and  &quot;We'll  get  it  cleaned  up  in  no  time  after  they  leave.&quot;  &quot;You  know  something  odd?&quot;  Alice  said,  and  hesitated.  &quot;It's  the  silliest  thing,  but  I  think  I'm  jealous.&quot;  &quot;Jealous?  Jealous  of  what?&quot;  Peter  asked.  &quot;Of  this  carefree  mess.  Not  that  I'm  not  dying  to  get  at  it  and  clean  it  up,  but  I  envy  it  just  the  same.&quot;  IT  was  typical  of  Mrs.  Fuller,  Alice  felt,  that  when  she  did  appear,  it  was  when  Alice's  back  was  turned.  She  and  Peter  had  gone  up  to  the  barn  to  look  around.  'They  were  away  only  a  few  minutes,  but  when  they  came  back,  there  were  the  Fullers,  the  girls  surrounding  their  mother,  who  was  seated  at  the  piano  singing  an  English  madrigal.  Two  sacks  of  groceries,  which  they  had  apparently  just  bought,  sat  on  topof  the  piano.  Mr.  Fuller  was  not  in  evidence.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  said  Peter,  as  if  trying  out  his  voice.  The  sound  came  out  small,  but  the  children  heard  him  and  whirled  around.  'They  ran  to  him  and  hugged  and  kissed  him,  and  the  two  youngest  vied  with  one  another,  each  trying  to  cling  to  him  the  longest.  Above  the " b"din  Alice  heard  Jody  saying,  &quot;Mother!  Mrs.  Dent  called  this  morning.  She's  coming  home  today.&quot;  They  all  laughed  at  this.  Mrs.  Fuller  rose,  and,  with  no  sign  of  uneasiness,  said,  &quot;Oh,  how  nice!  You're  back!&quot;  The  children  fetched  the  cat  and  dogs,  and  the  Dents  distributed  the  presents  they  had  brought.  Then  the  three  adults  sat  and  talked  of  the  won-  derful  summer  it  had  been  for  all  of  them  while  the  girls  tried  on  their  Italian  peasant  skirts  and  paraded  around  admiring  them.  Mrs.  Fuller  talked  of  the  neighbors,  with  whom  she  seemed  to  be  on  more  familiar  terms  after  eight  weeks  than  the  Dents  were  after  fifteen  years.  The  day  began  to  wane,  but  Mrs.  Fuller  and  the  children  appeared  to  have  no  plans  for  its  ending.  There  were  no  milestones,  no  set  times  toeat  or  work  or  play.  They  continued  to  chat,  never  ata  loss  for  a  new  topic  or  a  small,  time-consuming  activity.  The  day  travelled  along  its  own  course,  taking  with  it  the  Fullers,  who  floated  on  its  surface,  unaware  of  its  passage.  For  a  while,  Alice  drifted  along  with  them,  but  when  six  o'clock  came  and  Mrs.  Fuller  was  turning  still  another  page  in  her  sketchbook  and  the  little  Fullers  were  nibbling  at  carrots  or  odd  pieces  of  bread  they'd  brought  in  from  the  kitchen,  Alice  felt  a  strong  compul-  sionto  take  things  in  hand.  She  found,  however,  that  a  large  measure  of  her  own  assurance  had  been  lost  in  the  short  time  since  she  had  got  home,  and  she  had  a  vision  of  endless  aimless  days  stretching  out  in  a  slow  procession  be-  fore  her.  Peter  had  gone  out,  saying  vaguely  that  he  wanted  to  look  around  some  more.  He  had  been  gone  for  half  an  hour,  and  Alice  was  beginning  to  feel  desperate  and  trapped  when  she  heard  the  horn  of  their  car.  She  rose  and  went  to  join  her  husband,  whom  she  found  sitting  at  the  wheel  ofthe  car,  in  the  garage.  She  climbed  in  beside  him,  and  they  sat  hemmed  in  by  the  dimness  of  the  place.  Neither  spoke  for  a  moment;  then  Peter  said,  &quot;Alice,  I'm  starving.  Can't  you  whip  up  some  supper?&quot;  Alice  smiled  at  him.  &quot;Oh,  Peter,  thank  you.  Thank  you  for  that  small  request,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  the  first  thing  that's  been  said  to  me  that  makes  me  feel  I'm  home  at  last.  I  saw  some  eggs  on  the  piano.  I'll  fix  you  the  most  beau-  tiful  souffle,  two  stories  high.  Tell  me  something,  Peter.  Am  I  stodgy?&quot;  Peter  said,  &quot;No.  Christ,  I'm  hun-gry! She  went  on,  &quot;You  know,  when  the  Fullers  came,  I  was  critical  of" b"them,  but  now  they've  turned  the  tables  |i  on  me.  'They  make  me  feel  stodgy  and  provincial.&quot;  Peter  asked,  &quot;When  do  they  plan  to  leave?&quot;  &quot;Nothing's  been  said  about  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  let's  go  out  to  dinner,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It'll  be  easier  when  we  get  back.  We'll  just  ask  them  when  theyplan  to  leave.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Peter,I  couldn't!&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;I  suppose  her  husband's  at  work.  May-  be  he'll  come  up  this  weekend  and  they'll  all  go  back  together.&quot;  &quot;Well,  anyway,  let's  eat,&quot;  Peter  said.  &quot;Shouldn't  we  tell  them  we're  go-  ing,  and  when  we'll  be  back?&quot;&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They  won't  expect  it.&quot;  IGHT  had  fallen  when  Peter  and  Alice  returned.  Driving  home  through  the  countryside  in  the  soft  eve-  ning,  Alice  satin  complete  confusion  of  mind.  She  had  just  remembered  that  the  Fullers  had  given  up  their  apart,  ment  in  town  when  they  took  over  the  house  and  that  Mr.  Fuller  had  rented  a  furnished  room  for  the  summer.  The  summer  was  almost,  but  not  quite,  over,  and  very  likely  Mrs.  Fuller's  reason  for  not  getting  ready  to  leave  was  simply  that  she  had  no  place  to  go.  Alice  re-  frained  from  passing  on  to  Peter  this  bit  of  speculation.  After  thecar  was  in  the  garage,  and  as  the  Dents  were  walking  toward  the  lighted  house,  Alice  said,  &quot;All  I  want  is  to  go  to  bed  in  my  own  bed.&quot;  They  went  in  through  a  side  door  and  directly  to  the  living  room.  'There  a  great  change  had  taken  place;  the  room  had  been  stripped  of  all  personal  tokens.  Nothing  was  there  that  bespoke  the  Fullers.  The  place  was  orderly  and  completely  without  character.  It  sug-  gested  nothing  but  emptiness.  The  Dents  looked  at  each  other,  un-  able  to  believe  the  implications  of  the  room.  But  in  the  hall  they  found  evi-  dence  that  the  Fullers  had  not  disap-  peared  by  magic,  that  they  were  still  somewhere  in  the  quiet  house.  A  small,  sad  collection  of  bundles  and  boxes  and  an  old  paper  carton  of  battered  toys  stood  at  the  foot  ofthe  stairs.  Alice  looked  at  this  collection  and  re-  membered  a  scene  from  her  child-  hood-a  family  evicted  from  a  tene-  ment  apartment  in  New  York.  The  tenement  had  been  on  the  edge  of  the  respectable  middle-class  neighborhood  in  which  she  lived.  When  she  had  first  seen  the  family,  on  her  way  to  school,  the  mother  was  sitting  guard  over  her  belongings,  an  infant  in  her  arms,  her " b"two  little  boys  playing  about  the  pile  as  unconcernedly  as  if  the  street  were  their  home.  The  next  morning,  the  woman  and  the  children  were  gone,  but  their  things  had  stayed  there  for  days.  Alice remembered  most  vividly  the  wire  bed- stead,  standing  gaunt  and  naked,  and  how  she  had  hurried  past  it  with  a  feel-  ing  of  shame  at  having  to  trespass  on  a  neighbor's  misfortune,  which  should  have  been  secret.  She  turned  to  Peter,  a  note  of  panic  in  her  voice.  &quot;But  they  can't  go  like  this,  -  like  gypsies  in  the  night.  We  can't  let  them  go  now,  Peter!&quot;  Peter  shook  his  head,  puzzled.  &quot;But  why  didn't  they  tell  us?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  understand.  If  they  planned  to  leave,  why  didn't  they  tell  us?&quot;  ''They've  no  place  to  go,&quot;  said  Alice.  ''They've  only  his  furnished  room  in  town-don't  you  remember?  They  gave  up  their  apartment.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God!&quot;  Peter  groaned.  He  picked  upan  envelope  the  cat  was  push-  ing  under  the  rug  with  one  inquisitive  paw,  and  was  about  to  put  it  on  the  table  from  which  it  seemed  to  have  fall-  en.  Then  he  looked  at  it  closely.  &quot;This  is  for  us,&quot;  he  said.  Alice  peered  at  it  over  his  shoulder.  It  was  addressed  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dent,  in  an  extravagant,  almost  a  foreign  hand.  &quot;It's  her  writing,&quot;  Alice  said.  Peter  opened  it  quickly,  and  they  read  the  note  together.  There  was  no  saluta-  tion.  It  said  simply,  &quot;Sorry,  we  had  to  go  to  bed  early.  The  master  bedroom  is  free.  We're  doubling  up  in  the  guest  room.  We're  leaving  in  the  morning  for  Bar  Harbor.  A  friend  has  kindly  given  us  his  cottage  till  school  opens.  We've  been  so  happy  here.  There  are  a  few  paintings  of  the  house  and  pasture  we  did  this  summer.  We  thought  you  might  like  to  have  them.  They're  in  the  barn.  Till  morning  then,  &amp;  bientot.  Seraphina.&quot;  HEN  Alice  and  Peter  came  down  the  next  morning,  Mrs.  Fuller  and  the  children  were  having  breakfast  on  the  terrace.  They  were  eating  Campbell's  tomato  soup  and  canned  spaghetti,  which,  Jody  ex-  plained,  was  to  have  been  their  supper  the  night  before,  but  because  they  had  gone  to  bed  so  early  they  were  having  their  supper  at  breakfast.  &quot;Don't  you  want  some?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;It's  delicious.&quot;  Peter  quickly  went  to  the  kitchen  to  make  toast  and  coffee.  The  day  was  already  hot  and  sultry,  but  Mrs,  Fuller  and  the  girls  were  in  high  spirits.  They  regarded  the  place  to  which  they  were  going,  and  which  they  had  never  seen," b"adventure.  They  were  confident  that  it  would  be  perfect,  and  as  the  girls  helped  put  boxes  in  thecar  and  ran  back  to  pick  up  forgotten  toys,  they  behaved  altogether  as  though  they  were  going  on  a  picnic.  Finally,  the  station  wagon  was  load-  ed  and  the  last  goodbyes  were  said.  Alice  and  Peter  stood  on  the  terrace,  waving,  until  the  car  turned  out  of  the  driveway  and  disappeared.  They  stayed  there  for  a  while,  looking  at  the  empty  road,  then  slowly  walked  into  the  silent  house.  Alice  was  at  a  loss  where  to  be-  gin.  The  place  seemed  quiet  and  peace-  ful  to  her,  but  entirely  without  prospect.  The  cook  wasn't  due  back  until  Labor  Day.  She  spent  the  day  aimlessly  puttering  about,  straightening  closets,  putting  things  away,  but  she  got  none  of  her  usual  satisfaction  out  of  accomplishing  such  chores.  Late  in  the  afternoon,  as  she  rummaged  in  a  bedroom  closet,  she  came  across  a  number  of  the  Fullers  belongings-an  old  sweater  and  some  jodhpurs  and  worn,  dirty  sneakers-  and  couldn't  decide  whether  they  had  been  discarded  or  forgotten.  Then,  opening  the  door  to  another  closet,  she  discovered  thesaffron  robe.  She  stood  for  a  moment  staring  at  it,  then  took  it  off  the  hanger  and  tried  it  on.  She  turned  to  the  mirror  and  found  that  the  flaunting  color  and  the  medieval  flow  of  the  sleeves  made  her  look  pleasantly  exotic.  She  smiled  at  her  image  and  felt  that  perhaps  there  was  an  aspect  of  herself  that  she  had  missed  completely.  She  let  the  robe  drop  from  her  shoulders,  and  in  an  abstracted  way  she  removed  her  clothes,  wrapped  her-  self  in  the  robe,  and  walked  quickly  out  of  the  house  and  to  the  pool.  It  had  a  quiet,  deserted  look.  The  swallows  flew  by,  dipping  their  beaks  to  drink.  Alice  hesitated  on  the  steps,  looking  at  the  clear  water,  then  turned  and  slowly  walked  into  the  bathhouse.  When  Peter  came,  a  little  later,  tojoin  her  for  their  five-o'clock  swim,  he  saw  the  saffron  robe  lying  on  the  flagstones.  He  looked  at  it  in  a  puzzled  way,  then  walked  to  the  edge  of  the  pool  and  waved  to  her  as  she  swam  lazily  about,  in  her  black  knitted  bathing  suit  and  her  white  rubber  cap."