 b"I  HATED  every  single  one  of  my  sister's  boy  friends.  Each  one  seemed  to  me  more  despicable  than  the  last.  Anyone  who  believes  in  morbid  psychology  is  welcome  to  make  what  he  can  of  this.  Maybe  there  was  some-  thing  morbid  in  it,  but  maybe,  on  the  other  hand,  it  was  just  that  Sue  brought  out  everything  that  was  worst  in  them.  Because  she  was  a  girl  of  considerable  intensity,  and,  for  short  spells  at  least,  shedid  fling  herself  on  young  fellows  in  a  way  that  suggested  to  them  that  she  was  the  sort  of  girl  to  get  you  into  trouble.  Whenever  I  ran  into  her  with  one  of  them,  she  always  had  a  look  of  quiet  triumph,  as  though  she  had  them  in  the  bag,  while  the  boys  put  on  brassy  airs  of  independence  that  were  clearly  a  cover  for  their  panic.  &quot;Go  on!  Hit  me!&quot;  was  what  her  look  seemed  to  say,  but  theirs,  translated,  read,  &quot;I  don't  really  mind  if  she's  tough.&quot;  She  wasn't,  of  course;  that  was  the  joke.  Never,  I  think,  can  there  have  been  a  more  genuinely  innocent  and  disin-  terested  girl,  and  the  things  they  read  into  her  conduct  were  to  me  only  the  reflection  of  their  own  timidity.  She  and  I  quarrelled  all  the  time  about  them,  but  nothing  I  ever  said  made  her  change  her  views  about  the  sort  of  juvenile  delinquent  shepre-  ferred,  and  my  mother,  a  vicarious  ro-  mantic,  tookher  part.  It  reached  such  a  state  with  me  that  if  one  of  the  young  men  even  liked  something  I  liked-a  novel,ora  symphony-I  at  once  began  to  see  weaknesses  in  it.  My  dislikes  were  temporary,  like  Sue's  passions,  for  within  three  months  she  had  forgotten  all  about  the  boy  and  I  had  forgot-ten  completely  that  I  had  ever-God  forgive  me!-described  Mozart  as  a  pansy.  Suddenly,  at  last,  she  started  walking  out  with  a  fellow  I  found  I  could  re-  spect.  Terry  Connolly  was  small,  good-  looking,  well-educated,  with  fair  hair  and  eager  manners.  Though  I  saw  that  he  liked  me,  too,  I  did  not  build  on  it,  because  I  knew  that  he  was  the  sort  of  chap  who  sees  some  good  in  every-  body.  His  father  had  died  when  he  was  young,  leaving  Terry  fairly  well  off  but  with  a  mother  and  sisters  he  could  not  stand,  so,  with  characteristic  independence,  Terry  had  left  home,  got  a  job  in  town,  and  taken  a  flat  for  him-  self  on  the  Western  Road,  on  the  other  side  of  Cork  from  our  house.  He  made  no  secret  of  the  fact  that  he  would  be  glad  to  leave  it  for  a  home  of  his  own,  or  of  his  hope  that  Sue  might  join  him  there.  He  made  this  plain  to  me  the  first  evening  he  and  I  went  for  a  walk  together.  For  the  first  time,  I  found  myself  in  the  position  of  wanting  to  tell  one  of  Sue's  boys  that  I  wondered  if  she  was  really  good  enough  for  him,  and  it  was  a  most  disturbing  experience.  Because  Idid  not  want  to  be  disloyal  to  Terry,  I  couldn't  keep  silent,  but  I  merely  hinted  at  what  I  thought,  trying  at  the  same  time  not  to  be  disloyal  to  Sue,  and  it  was  very  difficult.  Of  course,  I  had  to  concede  that  the  girl  had  good  points.  She  was  warmhearted  and  gen-  erous,  and  intelligent,  so  far  as  a  girl  can  be  intelligent  who  has  never  read  anything  but  what  she  found  lying  around  the  house  and  has  never  had  the  faintest  intention  of  doing  anything  more.  Besides,  she  was  a  first-rate  cook  and  dressmaker  when  the  fancy  took  her,  which  was  usually  at  the  last  possible  moment  before  a  dinner  or  a  dance.  But  at  the  same  time  she  was  not  steady.  She  took  violent  likes  and  dislikes;  she  was  always  on  top  ofthe  world  or  in  the  depths  of  despair,  and  she  kept  poor  Mother  trailing  valiantly  after  her,  up  the  hills  and  down  the  valleys.  On  the  whole,  I  was  probably  more  unfair  to  Sue  than  to  Terry,  but  it  made  no  difference,  because  anything  I  said  in  her  favor  only  confirmed  an  impression  he  already  had,  while  any-  thing  I  said  against  her  enchanted  him.  He  thought  it  delightful.  He  was  the  sort  of  man  who  prefers  to  see  only  the  good  side  of  people  he  likes-a  point  of  view  I  understand,  though  I  am  a  different  sort  myself  and  perhaps  do  sometimes  go  to  the  other  extreme.  Anyway,  that  made  no  difference,  either.  For  some  reason  that  I  still  can-  " b"not  understand,  Sue  re-  fused  to  go  to  the  top  of  the  world  on  his  ac-  count,  as  she  had  done  for  so  many  others,  and  after  a  few  months  she  was  doing  her  moun-  taineering  for  a  com-  mercial  traveller  named  Nick  Ryan,  who  was  easily  the  worst  of  all  her  errorsof  judgment.  He  was  fat,  he  was  smooth,  he  was  know-  ing,  with  a  sort  of  cleri-  cal  obesity,  unction,  and  infallibility,  though  mainly  I  remember  that  he  admired  Proust  and  that  soured  me  on  one  of  my  favorite  authors  for  a  whole  year.  Like  Proust,  he  had  a  moth-  er,  and  like  Proust,  he  never  let  you  hear  the  end  of  her.  This  time  I  really  let  Sue  know  what  I  thought  of  her,  and  she  became  furious.  &quot;'You're  only  say-  ing  that  about  Nick  be-  cause  I  wouldn't  marry  your  pal  Terry  Connolly,&quot;  she  said  indignantly.  &quot;Marry  him?&quot;  I  repeated  scornful-  ly.  &quot;As  if  an  imbecile  like  you  would  have  such  luck.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  you  think  he  didn't  ask  me?&quot;  &quot;Terry?&quot;  I  said  incredulously.  &quot;Yes.  Half  a  dozen  times.&quot;  &quot;And  you  were  fool  enough  to  turn  him  down?&quot;  &quot;I  may  be  a  fool,  but  I'm  not  fool  enough  to  accept  him.&quot;  &quot;Sure,  when  the  child  doesn't  like  him!&quot;  Mother  burst  in,  in  a  pathetic  defense  of  romantic  love.  &quot;Oh,  so  she  doesn't  like  him?  She  doesn't  like  the  one  decent  man  she's  ever  likely  to  meet,  and  she  does  like  a  rat  like  Ryan,  and  you  talk  about  her  likes  and  dislikes  as  though  they  were  laws  of  Nature.  You're  getting  as  bad  as  her.&quot;  &quot;My  goodness,  Jack!&quot;  Mother  said  crossly.  &quot;The  way  yougo  on!  One  would  think  you  wanted  to  tie  her  up  andhand  her  over,  like  they  did  in  the  bad  old  days.&quot;  &quot;You're  quite  sure  they  were  bad?&quot;  I  said,  with  a  sneer.  &quot;Such  airs!&quot;  muttered  Mother,  ad-  dressing  herself  to  the  wall,  as  she  al-  ways  did  when  she  was  beaten.  &quot;His  own  father  wouldn't  say  it  to  me.&quot;   &quot;Maybe  Clare  Noonan  will  have  him,&quot;  Sue  said  maliciously.  &quot;He's  go-  ing  with  her  now.&quot;  This  was  a  double-edged  thrust,  be-  cause  Clare  was  a  girl  I  hadan  eye  on  myself,  and  if  circumstances  had  served  me  to  think  of  a  wife,  I  might  even  have  married  her.  She  was  Sue's  great  friend,  quiet  and  sweet  and  gay,  and  they  made  a  very  good  couple,  because  Clare  would  do  all  the  things  that  Sue  omitted  to  do  and  then  look  up  to  Sue  for  not  doing  them.  &quot;I've  no  doubt  she  will  have  him,&quot;  I  said  with  dignity.  &quot;Then  maybe  you'll  realize  what  a  damn  fool  you  were.&quot;  I  was  wrong  there,  too.  For  all  Clare's  quietness  and  sweetness,  after  a  fewmonths  more  she  turned  Terry  down  flat.  He,  in  his  good-natured  way,  still  continued  to  see  Sue  and  her-  self,  and  whenever  they  were  in  diffi-  culties  for  an  odd  man,  they  called  on  him  in  the  most  lordly  way  in  the  world,  and  he  was  always  there  to  oblige,  always  pleasant  and  alwaysgen-  erous.  It  puzzled  the  wits  out  of  me,  because  they  were  neither  of  them  out-  standing  catches.  They  were  nice  girls,  pretty  girls,  good  girls,  but  neither  was  brilliant  or  a  beauty,  and  in  a  town  like  Cork,  where  marriageable  men  are  scarce,  they  stood  a  remarkably  good  chance  of  not  marrying  at  all.  I  studied  Bo     Terry  closely,  particularly  in  their  com-  pany,  and  saw  nothing  whatever  in  his  manner  they  could  object  to,  so  that  I  ended  by  concluding  that  what  Mother  called  &quot;the  bad  old  days&quot;  when  the  choice  was  made  for  them  by  responsible  relatives  were  the  best  days  that  girls  without  brains  had  ever  known.  One  night  at  the  house,  this  blewup  into  an  open  row.  For  some  reason,  all  Sue's  friends  were  there,  and  I  found  myself  the  only  man.  Sue  and  Clare  were  whispering  at  one  another  over  the  end  of  the  sofa,  and  I  knew  that  they  were  criticizing  Terry,  who  had  now  taken  up  with  yet  a  third  girl.  &quot;Well,  tell  us  what  is  wrong  with  Terry,&quot;  I  said,  bringing  the  whole  group  to  attention.  &quot;Tell  him,  Clare,&quot;  Sue  said  casually.  &quot;He  won't  believe  me.&quot;  &quot;Why  on  earth  should  I  believe  any-  one  who  knocks  round  with  a  chap  like  Nick  Ryan?&quot;  I  asked,  with  a  sniff.  This  was  intended  to  be  a  dirty  blow,  because  I  could  seefor  myself  that  there  were  already  hard  feelings  between  Sue  and  Ryan.  What  Idid  not  know,and  only  discovered  some  weeks  later,  was  that  there  were  also  hard  feelings  be-  tween  Sue  and  Clare.  &quot;Go  on,  Clare!&quot;  said  Sue  grimly.  &quot;Why  don't  you  tell  him?&quot;  Clare  bent  down  and  clutched  her  " b"shins-a  trick  she  had  when  she  was  thinking  hard-and  looked  up  at  me  with  an  innocent  smile.  &quot;I  don't  know  can  I  explain  it,  Jack,&quot;  she  said  timidly.  &quot;It's  just  that  Terry  isn't  attractive  somehow.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  I  said,  smiling  back  at  her.  &quot;Is  that  all?  But  don't  you  think  we  should  define  our  terms,  Clare?  What  do  you  mean  by  attractive?&quot;  &quot;Well,  Jack,  it's  not  so  easy  to  say,  is  it?&quot;  she  went  on,  in  the  same  sweet  childish  tone.  &quot;He's  too  blooming  dull,&quot;  one  of  the  girls,  a  girl  named  Anne  Doran,  said  in  a  loud  voice,  but  I  paid  no  particular  attention  to  this,  as  Anne  was  the  dumbest,  decentest  girl  that  ever  came  out  of  Sunday's  Well.  &quot;Dull?&quot;  I  said  sweetly.  &quot;The  most  intelligent  man  in  Cork  and  you  find  him  dull!&quot;  &quot;Still,  Jack,&quot;  Clare  said,  laughing  up  at  me,  &quot;he  is  a  wee  bit  dull,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;God's  sake,  woman,  the  man  would  bore  you  stiff,&quot;  said  Sue,  with  her  brassiest  air.  &quot;Ah,  no,  Sue.  I  wouldn't  go  as  far  as  that,&quot;  Clare  protested  in  her  sweet  way.  &quot;You're  always  taking  things  to  the  fair,  you  know.  I  know  what  Jack  means,  and,  of  course,  he's  right.  Ter-  ry  is  nice,  and  he  does  talk  well,  what-  ever  'tis  on.&quot;  &quot;Sure,  what  does  that  fellow  want  only  a  wife?&quot;  Anne  said.  &quot;And  what  do  you  want,  Anne?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;An  establishment?&quot;  &quot;But  Anne  is  right,  too,  Jack,&quot;  Clare  said,  pulling  at  my  trousers  to  attract  my  attention.  &quot;You  don't  want  a  man  just  to  want  you  as  a  wife.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  you  want  him  to  want  you  as  a  mistress,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;and  then  make  him  want  to  make  you  his  wife?&quot;  &quot;That's  right,  Jack,&quot;  said  Clare,  who  was  completely  incapable  of  enjoy-  ing  a  joke  and  an  argument  at  the  same  time,  and  settled  for  the  joke.  &quot;I  don't  think  it  is  right,  Clare,&quot;  said  a  big  nunlike  college  girl  with  a  governessy  air  that  delighted  me.  &quot;The  way  it  seems  to  me,  you  don't  like  a  man  because  you  want  to  be  his  wife,  but  you  become  his  wife  because  it's  the  only  way  you  have  of  showing  that  you  like  him.&quot;  &quot;Bunk,  girl!&quot;  bawled  Anne.  &quot;As  if  we  didn't  all  know  it  was  plain  sex!&quot;  HIS  produced  such  a  chorus  of  dissent  that  I  let  them  to  it,  and  only  realized  after  half  an  hour  of  try-  ing  to  get  an  answer  out  of  them  that  they  had  left  me  just  as  wise  as  I  was  before.  All  I  could  see  was  that  here     were  half  a  dozen  nice  girls,  all  look-  ing  for  husbands  in  a  city  where  hus-  bands  were  rare,  and  all  shying  away  like  a  drove  of  sheep  from  the  one  man  whom  another  man  would  instantly  have  selected  as  the  best  husband  any  of  them  could  get;  and  the  only  reason  any  of  them  could  offer  was  that  the  man  was  too  much  in  earnest,  that  he  made  no  secret  of  the  fact  that  he  want-  ed  a  wife  and  chose  only  the  sort  of  girls  who  would  make  good  ones.  It  was  beyond  me.  And  obviously  the  thing  was  catching,  because  when  Clare  had  shaken  herself  free  of  him,  Terry  associated  with  several  other  girls,  and  never  got  anywhere  with  any  of  them.  Meanwhile,  to  my  further  confusion,  Clare,  somehow  or  other,  was  supposed  to  be  cuttingthe  ground  from  under  Sue  in  her  romance  with  Ryan.  Sue  was  dreadfully  upset  by  it.  She  loved  Ryan,  but  she  also  liked  Clare  and  the  gentle  flattery  of  Clare's  imitation  of  her.  I  knew  things  had  come  to  a  crisis  when  Sue  told  me  that  Clare  was  sly.  Things  she  had  said  in  confidence  to  " b"Clare  had  been  repeated  back  to  Ryan,  and  now  he  would  have  nothing  to  do  with  her.  I  found  it  hard  tobelieve  that  Clare  could  possibly  be  as  design-  ing  as  Sue  made  her  out  to  be,  particu-  larly  considering  the  dinginess  of  the  object,  and  I  was  sure  I  was  right  after  I  had  heard  Clare's  version.  According  to  her,  she  had  had  nothing  to  do  with  Ryan  until  she  knew  that  everything  was  over  between  him  and  Sue.  She  knew  herself  that  he  and  Sue  had  had  a  terrible  row  about  his  mother,  and  that  he  had  sworn  it  was  final,  and  all   thethings  Sue  was  now  accusing  Clare  of  having  repeated  had  really  been  said  by  herself  to  Ryan.  &quot;You  know  Sue,  Jack,&quot;  Clare  said  to  me,  with  eyes  that  were  full  of  tears.  &quot;I  know  Sue,&quot;  I  replied,  and  I  saw  her  home  and  comforted  her  as  bestI  could.  But  there  was  no  comforting  Sue,  and  to  all  my  attempts  at  peacemaking  she  listened  in  stony  silence,  her  hands  on  her  knees  like  some  statue  of  a  mourning  goddess.  &quot;You  don't  understand  women,  Jack,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  dead  voice  such  as  might  have  come  from  a  statue.  &quot;You  never  did  andyou  never  will.  Clare  only  wants  to  hold  on  to  you  in  case  Nick  lets  her  down  the  way  he  let  me  down.&quot;  &quot;Thanks  for  suggesting  I  might  act  as  a  substitute,&quot;  I  said  dryly.  &quot;I'm  over-  whelmed.&quot;  &quot;I'm  telling  you  the  truth,  Jack.  You  couldn't  believe  a  word  that  girl  would  tell  you.&quot;  So  Clare  became  engaged  to  Ryan,  whom  she  afterward  married,  and  Sue  took  up  with  someone  else,  though  it  was  quite  clear  that  after  her  break-  down,  as  she  would  probably  have  de-  scribed  it,  she  regarded  herself  as  emotionally  dead  and  incapable  of  ever  loving  again.  When  a  girllike  that  de-  cides  that  her  heart  has  been  broken,  she  usually  makes  her  choice  in  a  most  arbitrary  way.  Why  she  should  have  chosen  Ryan  to  break  her  heart  over,  rather  than  any  of  the  less  revolting  specimens  she  had  known,  I  could  not  imagine,  unless  Clare's  supposed  in-  gratitude  gave  the  affair  something  more  of  the  flavor  of  universal  tragedy.  And  then  oneday  Terry  Connolly  came  back  from  [REDACTED]  engaged.  &quot;So  he  found  somebody  at  last,&quot;  said  Sue  with  malicious  amusement.  It  was  Sue  who  told  me  about  it.  Terry  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  only  for  a  few  days,  at  a  con-  ference,  and  had  met  the  girl  one  night  and  proposed  to  her  the  next.  Even  I  felt  this  was  a  bit  too  precipitate,  and  re-  signed  myself  to  the  worst.  I  wouldn't  say  Sue  was  resigned.  You  might  even  have  said  she  was  pleased.  WE might  both  have  spared  our-  selves  our  doubts.  'The  only  girls  Terry  had  actually  proposed  to  before  had  been  Sue  and  Clare,  and  there  was  nothing  much  wrong  with  either  of  them.  When  I  ran  into  himself  and  Martha,  the  girl  he  was  engaged  to,  in  Patrick  Street  a  few  weeks  later,  the  sight  of  her  knocked  me  flat.  She  had  come  down  to  approve  of  the  house  that  Terry  was  buying  and  to  select  the  furniture  for  it.  She  wasn't  merely  nice,  she  was  stunning-tall  and  thin  and  dark  and  intense,  with  a  deep  husky  voice-and  it  was  obvious,  though  not  in  an  obvious  way,  that  she  worshipped  Terry.  She  didn't  gush;  she  didn't  even  smile;  she  just  turned  to  him  with  a  look  of  wonder,  and  Terry,  with  his  good-natured  air  and  his  pipe,  was  ele-  vated  into  something  almost  super-  natural.  Since  he  had  to  return  to  his  office,  I  escorted  Martha  to  her  hotel  in  King  Street.  We  talked  about  types  " b"of  furniture  for  half  the  way,  and  then  she  suddenly  stopped  dead  and  looked  at  me.  &quot;Jack,&quot;  she  asked,  in  a  husky  whisper,  &quot;do  you  think  I'm  in  my  right  mind?&quot;  &quot;I  hadn't  noticed  anything  wrong,&quot;  I  replied  lightly,  never  having  seen  technique  like  this  before-if  it  was  technique,  which  I  doubted.  &quot;I  mean,&quot;  she  said,  touching  her  breast  with  one  hand  and  with  the  other  pointing  back  up  the  street,  &quot;am  I  mad  or  is  that  fellow  as  good  as  I  think?&quot;  &quot;I  always  thought  him  pretty  good,&quot;  I  said,  with  a  smile.  &quot;Pretty  good?&quot;  she  echoed,  at  a  loss  for  words.  &quot;I  know  you  don't  mean  that,  of  course,&quot;  she  added  hast-  ily.  &quot;I  know  you  were  always  a  good  friend  of  his.  That's  why  I  wanted  to  talk  to  you.  When  I  met  him  at  that  party,  I  nearly  proposed  to  him  myself.  I  said  to  the  girl  near  me,  'I'm  going  to  marry  that  man  or  enter  a  convent.&quot;  And  she  said,  'You'll  have  to  work  quick,  because  he's  only  here  till  Saturday.&quot;  Do  you  be-  lieve  in  religion,  Jack?&quot;  &quot;I  never  thought  much  about  it,&quot;  I  said,  aghast  at  the  way  this  extraor-  dinary  girl  sprang  from  bough  to  bough.  &quot;I  didn't  expect  it  to  happen,  but  I  prayed  that  night  as  I  never  prayed  before  in  my  life.  And  next  night,  I  de-  clare  to  God,  he  proposed  to  me.  On  his  knees.  Terry  Connolly,  I  said.  'Not  in  your  new  trousers..  What  do  you  make  of  that?&quot;  And  then  she  clasped  her  hands  and  seemed  to  rise  on  her  toes  with  the  ecstatic  look  of  a  saint  in  a  stained-glass  window.  &quot;Honestly,  Jack,&quot;  she  said,  resuming  her  walk,  &quot;I  don't  know  am  I  on  my  head  or  my  heels.  When  I  think  that  after  next  month  the  fellow  will  be  my  property  and  I  can  do  anything  I  like  with  him  and  nobody  will  be  able  to  say  anything,  I  feel  I'm  going  mad.  Sure,  how  the  hell  could  I  select  furni-  ture?&quot;  She  and  Terry  were  coming  to  my  house  the  next  evening,  and  I  was  look-  ing  forward  to  it  with  some  satisfaction.  Having  been  crowed  over,  I  felt  I  had  a  crow  coming  to  me.  At  the  same  time,  I  was  surprised  to  find  that  Sue  was  also  glad  they  were  coming.  She  arranged  the  supper  herself,  and  spent an  hour  doing  improbable  things  to  a  low-necked  dress,  and  when  the  visitors  arrived,  she  answered  the  door  looking  fine.  She  and  Martha  disappeared  up  the  stairs  and  left  Terry  and  myself  to  the  whiskey.  When  they  came  down  again,  they  were  as  thick  as  thieves.  Sue  went  out  of  her  way  to  be  angelic  to  Terry,  even  remind  ing  him  tenderly  of  places  that  he  and  she  had  visited  together  and  that  she  thought  he  should  introduce  Mar-  tha  to.  These  remi-  niscences  were  all  new  to  me,  and  I  had  never  given  Sue  credit  for  so  much  observation  and  so  much  poetic  feel  -  ing.  For  a  while,  I  was  even  under  the  impres-  sion  that  she  was  mak-  ing  a  late  attempt  to  cut  Martha  out,  but  this  was  doing  her  a  mascu-  line  injustice.  She  was  merely  giving  Terry  a  big  buildup,  and  in  the  process  she  was  building  something  for  herself.  As  Martha  wasleaving,  she  gave  me  an  embrace  that  almost  made  me  blush.  &quot;I  love  your  sister,  Jack,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  husky  whisper.  &quot;I  know  now  I'm  not  making  it  all  up.&quot;  When  they  had  gone,  Sue  and  I  sat  on  in  the  dusk  over  the  fire,  old  cronies,  really  devoted  to  one  another  yet  always  at  cross-purposes.  I  was  waiting  for  my  crow,  and  Sue  handed  it  to  me.  &quot;God,  isn't  she  lovely?&quot;  she  said,  with  that  generosity  of  sentiment  that  had  so  often  maddened  me  when  ap-  plied  to  men.  &quot;That  fellow  was  born  lucky.&quot;  &quot;She  seems  to  think  that  the  luck  is  all  hers,&quot;  I  said,  and  then  felt  sick,  be-  cause  Sue's  eyes  filled  with  tears.  &quot;Don't  rub  it  in,  Jackie,  there's  a  good  boy,&quot;  she  said,  bending  over  for  a  light,  and  her  eyes  flashed  as  she  frowned  into  the  cup  of  my  palm.  &quot;I  didn't  really  mean  to  rub  it  in,&quot;  I  said  contritely.  &quot;But  after  you  and  Clare  I  was  afraid  that  Terry  might  never  get  a  wife  at  all.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  poor  old  Clare!&quot;  she  said,  blowing  out  a  mouthful  of  smoke.  &quot;I  daresay  she  regrets  it  now.&quot;  &quot;You've  been  seeing  Clare  again,  then?&quot;  I  said,  trying  to  keep  the  sur-  prise  out  of  my  voice.  'Yes.  She  had  tea  with  Terry  and  Martha  in  town  yesterday,  and  I  saw  her  after,  for  supper.&quot;  &quot;Oh!&quot;  I  said.  It  gradually  dawned  on  me  that  Terry's  engagement  had  brought  Sue  and  Clare  together  again,  by  one  of  those  shifts  of  feminine  logic  that  no  man  can  ever  comprehend.  It  was  as  though  the  fact  of  both  having  rejected  him  gave  them  a  sort  of  cor-  porate  interest  in  his  marriage.  Sure,  '  tis  no  use  keeping  up  old  quar-  rels,&quot;  said  Sue.  &quot;You  were  probably  right  about  that  the  whole  time,  and  even  if  you  weren't,  the  poor  girl  didn't  gain  much  by  it.&quot;  &quot;She  certainly  didn't,&quot;  I  agreed.  I  was  relieved.  I  knew  now  that  Martha  would  have  not  one  but  half  a  dozen  ex-sweethearts  of  Terry  's  to  march  in  her  conquering  train,  which  seemed  to  me  just  as  well,  because  I  had  become  so  accustomed  to  Terry's  failures  that  I  wanted  him  to  have  this  resounding  triumph,  which  would  bind  Martha  to  him  forever.  What  I  was  not  prepared  for,  and  really  do  not  understand  even  now,  was  Sue's  belated  devotion  to  Terry.  But  that  was  how  it  happened.  In  the  future  when  broken  hearts  were  the  fashion,  Sue's  would  be  broken  for  him  and  not  for  Ryan,  and  the  places  where  she  had  been  bored  with  Terry  would  be  touched  with  romance  and  pathos.  However,  seeing  that  women  of  Sue's  kind  must  wear  a  broken  heart  for  somebody,  I  daresay  it  may  as  well  be  for  the  man  whose  heart  they  have  all  but  broken."