 b"Miss  Honora  WarsHot's  bed-room  is  pleasant.  Its  walls  are  painted  a  light  blue.  The  high,  slender  posts  of  her  bed  support  a  bare  wooden  frame  that  is  meant  to  support,  in  turn,  a  canopy.  The  familyhas  urged  her  to  have  this  frame  removed,  because  it  has  fallen  several  times  and  might  crash  down  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and  braintheold  lady  while  she  dreams.  She  has  not  heeded  these  warnings  and  sleeps  peacefully  in  her  Damoclean  an-  tique.  Honora  is  waked  this  morning  by  the  whistling  of  the  seven-eighteen  as  it  comes  into  the  station,  and,  still  half  asleep,  she  mistakes  this  sound  for  the  trumpeting  of  an  angel.  She  is  very  re-  ligious  and  has  joined  with  enthusiasm  and  parted  with  bitterness  from  nearly  every  religious  organization  in  Traver-  tine  and  St.  Botolph's.  Hearing  the  train,  she  sees  in  her  mind  an  angel  in  snowy  robes  with  a  slender  trumpet.  She  has  been  called,  she  thinks  cheerfully.  She  has  been  summoned  to  some  un-  usual  task.  She  always  expected  as  much.  She  rises  up  on  her  pillows  to  hear  the  message,  and  the  train  hoots  again.  The  image  of  a  locomotive  replaces  the  angel,  but  she  is  not  very  disappointed.  She  gets  out  of  bed,  dresses,  and  sniffs  the  air,  which  seems  to  smell  of  lamb  chops.  She  goes  down  to  breakfast  with  LJ  a  good  appetite.  She  walks  with  a  stick.  A  fire  is  burning  in  her  dining  room  this  September  morning,  and  she  warms  her  hands  at  this  to  get  the  chill  of  age  out  of  her  bones.  Maggie,  her  cook,  brings  a  covered  dish  to  the  table,  and  Honora,  expecting  lamb  chops,  is  dis-  appointed  to  discover  a  perch.  'This  makes  her  very  irritable-for  she  is  sub-  ject  to  severe  attacks  of  irritability,  night  sweats,  and  other  forms  of  nervousness.  She  does  not  have  to  admit  these  infirmi-  ties,  for  if  she  feels  out  of  sorts,  she  can  throw  a  dish  at  her  cook.  She  bangs  the  metal  cover  against  the  platter  now,  like  a  cymbal,  and  when  Maggie  comes  into  the  room  she  exclaims,  &quot;Perch.  What  ever  made  you  think  I  wanted  perch  for  breakfast?  Perch.  Take  it  away.  Take  it  away  and  cook  me  some  bacon  and  eggs,  if  it's  not  too  much  trouble.&quot;  Maggie  removes  the  fish  and  sighs,  butnot  with  any  real  despair.  She  is  used  to  this  treatment.  People  often  ask  why  Maggie  remains  with  Honora.  Maggie  is  not  dependent  on  Honora-she  could  get  a  better  job  tomorrow-and  she  does  not  love  her.  She  has  been  in  love,  and  what  she  seems  to  recognize  in  theold  lady  is  some  naked  human  force.  Maggie  cooks  bacon  and  eggs,  and  brings  them  to  the  table.  She  hears  the  mailman's  step  on  the  walk,  and  the  let-ters  fall  through  the  brass  slot  and  spill  onto  the  floor.  She  picks  up  the  mail-  there  are  a  dozen  letters-and  puts  them  on  the  table  beside  Honora's  plate.  Ho-  nora  hardly  glances  at  her  mail.  There  may  be  letters  here  from  old  friends,  checks  from  the  Appleton  Trust  Com-  pany,  bills,  pleas,  and  invitations.  No  one  will  ever  know.  Honora  glances  at  the  pile  of  envelopes,  picks  them  up,  and  throws  them  into  the  fire.  Admiring  that  which  is  most  easily  understood,  we  may  long  for  the  image  of  some  gen-  tle  old  woman,  kind  to  her  servant  and  opening  her  letters  with  a  silver  knife,  but  how  much  more  poetry  there  is  to  Honora,  casting  off  the  claims  of  life  the  instant  they  are  made.  When  she  has  stowed  away  her  breakfast,  she  gets  up  and  calls  over  her  shoulder  to  Maggie,  &quot;I'll  be  in  the  garden  if  anyone  wants  me.&quot;  Mark,  her  gardener,  is  already  at  work.  He  comes  to  work  at  seven.  &quot;Good  morning,  Mark,&quot;  Honora  says  gaily,  though  Mark  is  deaf  and  dumb.  Before  she  employed  Mark,  Honora  ran  through  every  gardener  in  the  village.  The  one  before  Mark  was  an  Ital-  ian,  who  behaved  badly.  He  threw  down  his  rake  and  shouted,  &quot;She'sa  no  good  working  for  you,  Missa  Honora!  She'sa  no  good.  She'saplanta  this,  she'sa  pullupa  that,  she'sa  changes  her  mind  every  five  minutes,  she'sa  no  good.&quot;  When  he  finished,  he  put  on  his  coat  and  hat  and  flung  himself  out  of  the  garden,  leaving  Honora  in  tears.  Maggie  took  theold  lady  in  her  arms,  saying,  &quot;You  mustn't  pay  any  attention  to  him,  Miss  Wapshot.  Everybody  knows  what  a  wonderful  woman  you  are.&quot;  Mark,  being  deaf,  is  protected  from  Honora's  interference,  and  when  she  tells  him  to  move  all  the  rosebushes,  she  might  as  well  be  talking  to  a  stone.  It  is  hard  for  Honora  to  get  down  on  her  knees,  but  she  does,  and  works  in  her  garden  until  the  middle  of  the  morning.  Then  she  goes  into  the  house  quietly,  washes  her  hands,  gets  a  hat,  gloves,  and  a  bag,  and  goes  out  through  her  garden  to  the  Four  Corners,  where  she  catches  a  bus  to  Travertine.  Wheth-  er  this  fairly  stealthy  departure  is  cal-  culated  or  not,  no  one  will  ever  know.  If  Honora  asks  people  for  tea  and  is  not  home  when  they,  wearing  their  best  clothes,  arrive,  she  has  not  consciously  done  something  that  will  make  them  feel  ill  at  ease;  she  has  simply  acted  char-  acteristically.  At  any  rate,  a  few  minutes  after  she  leaves  her  garden  a  trust  offi-  cer  of  the  Appleton  bank  rings  her  front  doorbell.  Honora  has  not  signed  " b"a  form  approving  the  bank's  management  of  her  financial  affairs.  The  trust  officer  has  been  told  not  to  leave  St.  Botolph's  until  he  has  her  signature.  He  rings  the  doorbell  for  some  time  before  Maggie  throws  open  a  window  and  tells  him  that  Miss  Wapshot  is  in  the  garden.  'Talking  with  Mark  is  hopeless,  of  course,  and  when  the  trust  officer  rings  the  doorbell  again,  Maggie  shouts  at  him,  &quot;If  she  ain't  in  the  garden,  I  don't  know  where  she's  at,  but  she  might  be  at  the  farm  where  the  other  Wapshots  live.  That's  over  on  [REDACTED].  A  big  house  beside  the  river.&quot;  The  trust  officer  starts  for  [REDACTED]  just  as  Honora  boards  the  bus  for  Travertine.  Honora  doesn't  put  a  dime  into  the  fare  box,  like  the  rest  ofthe  passengers.  As  she  says,  she  can't  be  bothered.  She  sends  the  transportation  company  a  check  for  twenty  dollars  each  Christmas.  They've  written  her,  telephoned  her,  and  sent  representa-  tives  to  her  house,  but  they've  got  nowhere.  The  bus  is  decrepit,  and  the  seats  and  several  ofthe  windows  are  held  together  with  friction  tape.  Jar-  ring  and  rattling,  it  gives,  for  a  ve-  hicle,  an  impression  of  unusual  frailty.  This  is  one  ofthose  lines  that  seem  to  carry  the  leftovers  ofthe  world-  sweet-natured  but  browbeaten  women  shoppers,  hunchbacks,  and  drunks.  Honora  looks  out  the  window,  at  the  river  and  the  houses-at  those  poign-  ant  landscapes  against  which  she  has  played  out  most  of  her  life  and  where  she  is  known  as  the  Wonderful  Honora,  the  Splendid  Honora,  the  [REDACTED]  Honora  Wapshot.  When  the  bus  stops  in  Travertine,  she  gets  off  and  goes  up  the  street  to  Mr.  Hiram's  fish  market.  Mr.  Hiram  is  in  back,  opening  a  crate  of  salt  fish.  Honora  goes  around  and  behind  the  counter  to  where  there  is  a  small  tank  of  sea  water  for  lobsters.  She  puts  down  her  bag  and  stick,  rolls  up  one  sleeve,  and  plunges  her  hand  into  the  tank,  coming  up  with  a  good  four-  pound  lobster  just  as  Mr.  Hiram  walks  in  from  theback.  &quot;Put  that  down,  Miss  Honora!&quot;  he  shouts.  &quot;They  ain't  pegged.  They  ain't  pegged  yet!&quot;  &quot;Well,  they  don't  seem  to  be  doing  me  any  harm,&quot;  says  Honora.  &quot;Just  get  me  a  paperbag.&quot;  &quot;George  Wolf  just  brought  them  in,&quot;  says  Mr.  Hiram,  scurrying  around  for  a  paper  bag,  &quot;and  if  one  of  those  four-pounders  took  ahold  of  you,  you  could  lose  a  finger.&quot;  He  holds  the  paper  bag  open,  and  Honora  drops  the  lobster  into  it,  turns,  and  plunges  her  hand  into  the  tank  again.  Mr.  Hiram  sighs,  but  Honora  comes  up  quickly  with  another  lobster  and  gets  it  into  thebag.  When  she  has  paid  Mr.  Hiram,  she  carries  her  lobsters  out  to  the  street  and  walks  to  the  corner  where  the  bus  is  waiting  to  pick  up  passengers  for  St.  Botolph's.  She  hands  the  bag  of  lobsters  to  the  bus  driver.  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;T'll  be  back  in  a  few  minutes.&quot;  She  starts  for  the  drygoods  store,  but  as  she  walks  by  the  five-and-ten,  the  smell  of  frankfurters  draws  her  in.  She  sits  at  the  lunch  counter.  &quot;Your  frank-  furters  smell  so  delicious,&quot;  she  tells  the  waitress,  &quot;that  I  can't  resist  having  one.&quot;  She  eats  two  frankfurters  and  a  dish  of  ice  cream.  &quot;'That  was  delicious,&quot;  she  tells  the  counter  girl,  and  gathers  up  her  things.  Starting  down  the  street  again  toward  the  bus  stop,  she  notices  the  sign  above  the  Neptune  movie  theatre:  &quot;ROSE  OF  THE  WEST.&quot;  What  harm  can  there  be,  she  thinks,  in  an  old  lady  going  to  a  movie?  But  when  she  buys  her  ticket  and  steps  into  the  dark,  smelly  theatre,  she  suffers  all  the  abrasive  sensa-  tions  of  someone  forced  into  moral  un-  cleanliness.  She  does  not  have  the  cour-  age  of  her  vices.  It  is  wrong,  she  knows,  to  go  into  a  dark  place  when  the  world  outside  shines  with  light.  Itis  wrong,  and  she  is  a  miserable  sinner.  She  buys  a  box  of  popcorn  and  takes  an  aisle  seat  in  the  last  row-a  noncommittal  position  that  seems  to  lighten  her  burden  of  guilt.  She  munches  her  popcorn  and  watches  the  movie  suspiciously.  In  the  meantime,  Maggie  is  keeping  " b"her  lunch  warm  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  her  lobsters,  battling  for  life  in  the  paper  bag,  have  made  the  trip  to  St.  Botolph's  and  are  now  on  their  way  back  to  Travertine.  Mr.  Burstyn,  the  trust  officer,  has  driven  to  West  Farm.  Sarah  Wapshot,  Honora's  first  cousin  by  marriage,  has  been  courteous  and  helpful.  &quot;I  haven't  seen  Honora  myself,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;but  she's  expected.  She's  interested  in  some  furni-  ture  in  thebarn.  She  may  be  there.&quot;  He  walks  down  the  driveway  to  the  barn.  Mr.  Burstyn  is  a  city  boy,  and  the  size  ofthe  barn  and  its  powerful  smells  make  him  uneasy.  A  large  yellow  spider  on  the  barn  floor  comes  straight  toward  him,  and  he  makes  a  wide  circle  around  the  insect.  There  is  a  stair-  case  up  to  the  loft.  Two  of  the  risers  are  broken,  and  a  third  is  about  to  break,  and  when  he  gets  up  into  the  loft  there  is  no  one  there,  although  itis  hard  to  make  sure,  for  the  loft  is  lighted  by  a  single  window  hung  thickly  with  spider  webs  and  drifted  over  with  hayseed.  HONORA  sits  through  the  movie  twice.  When  she  leaves  the  thea-  tre,  she  feels  weary  and  sad,  like  any  sinner.  The  lobby  of  the  theatre  slopes  like  a  kind  of  tunnel  down  toward  the  sidewalk.  There  is  a  small  stretch  here  of  some  slippery  composition  stone,  and  on  it  a  spot  of  water  or  moisture  from  the  iceman's  load  or  a  child's  pop  bottle.  Someone  may  even  have  spat.  Honora  slips  on  this  and  crashes  down  onto  the  stone.  Her  purse  flies  in  one  direction  and  her  stick  in  another,  and  her  three-  cornered  hat  rides  down  over  her  nose.  The  girl,  the  woman-the  hag,  in  fact-in  the  ticket  window  sees  all  of  this,  and  her  heart  seems  to  stop  beat,  ing,  for  she  sees  here,  in  the  fallen  old  woman,  the  ruthlessness  of  time.  She  fumbles  around  for  the  key  to  the  cash  register  and  locks  up  the  money.  Then  she  opens  the  door  to  her  little  tower,  sanctuary,  or  keep,  and  hurries  to  where  Honora  lies.  She  kneels  beside  her.  &quot;Oh,  Miss  Wapshot!&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Dear  Miss  Wapshot!&quot;  Honora  raises  herself  by  her  arms  and  gets  to  her  knees.  Then,  slowly,  she  swings  her  head  around  to  this  Samari-  tan.  &quot;Leave  me  alone,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Please  leave  me  alone.&quot;  The  voice  is  not  harsh  or  imperious.  It  sounds  small,  plaintive,  the  voice  of  a  child  with  some  inner  trouble;  a  plea  for  dignity.  Now  more  and  more  people  come  to  her  side.  Honora  is  still  on  her  hands  and  knees.  &quot;Please  leave  me  alone,&quot;  she  tells  the  gathering.  &quot;Please  mind  your  own  busi-  ness.&quot;  'They  recognize  that  what  she  is  expressing  is  the  privateness  of  pain,  and  " b"they  move  back.  She  straightens  her  hat  and,  using  her  stick  fora  support,  gets  to  her  feet.  Someone  hands  her  the  purse.  Her  dress  is  torn  and  dirty,  but  she  walks  straight  through  the  gathering  to  the  corner  where  the  bus  to  St.  Botolph's  is  waiting.  The  driver  who  brought  her  to  Travertine  earlier  in  the  day  has  gone  home  to  supper  and  has  been  replaced  by  a  young  man.  &quot;What  have  you  done  with  my  lob-  sters?&quot;  Honora  asks  him.  The  bus  driver  tells  her  that  the  lobsters  have  been  delivered,  and  hehas  the  good  sense  not  to  ask  for  her  fare.  So  they  travel  up  the  River  Road  to  St.  Botolph's,  and  Honora  gets  off  at  the  Four  Corners  and  enters  her  garden  by  the  back  gate.  Mark  has  done  a  good  job.  The  paths  and  the  flower  beds  lookneat  in  the  twilight-for  itis  nearly  dark.  The  day  has  pleased  her,  and  she  liked  the  movie.  By  half  closing  her  eyes  she  can  still  see  the  colored  plains  and  the  In-  dians  riding  down  from  the  butte.  Her  kitchen  windows  are  lighted  and  open  on  this  September  night,  and  as  she  ap-  proaches  the  house,  she  sees  Maggie  sit-  ting  at  the  kitchen  table  with  her  young-  er  sister.  She  hears  Maggie's  voice.  'Perch,'  she  says,  rattling  the  dish  cover  and  breathing  smoke  and  fire.  'W  hat  ever  in  the  world  made  you  think  I  wanted  perch  for  breakfast?&quot;  For  weeks  she's  been  telling  me  how  she'd  like  a  bit  of  perch,  and  I  bought  a  couple  from  the  little  Townsend  boy  yesterday  with  my  own  money,  and  I  cooked  them  for  her  nicely,  and  all  the  thanks  I  get  is  this.  'Perch,'  she  says.  'What  ever  made  you  think  I  wanted  perch  for  breakfast!  &quot;  Maggie  is  not  bitter.  Far  from  it;  she  and  her  sister  are  laughing  uproariously  at  the  memory  of  Honora,  who  stands  now  outside  the  lighted  windows  of  her  own  house,  in  the  dusk.  &quot;Well,  then,&quot;  says  Maggie,  &quot;I  hear  Mr.  MacGrath  coming  up  the  walk  and  putting  the  mail  into  the  slot,  and  soI  go  down  the  hall  to  get  her  letters,  and  I  give  them  to  her,  and  you  know  what  she  does?&quot;  Maggie  rocked  back  and  forth  in  her  chair  with  laughter.  &quot;She  takes  these  letters-there  must  be  twelve  of  them  altogether-and  throws  them  into  the  fire.  Oh,  Lord,  she's  better  than  athree-  ring  circus!&quot;  Honora  walks  past  the  window  on  the  soft  grass,  but  they  have  not  heard  her;  they  are  laughing  too  loudly.  Halfway  down  the  house,  she  stops  and  leans  heavily,  with  both  hands,  on  her  cane,  engrossed  in  an  emotion  so  violent  and     43  &quot;Damn  it,  woman,  why  can't  you  let  history  be  my  judge?&quot;  so  strange  that  she  wonders  if  this  feel-  ing  of  loneliness  and  bewilderment  is  what  is  meant  by  the  mysteriousness  of  life.  Poignance  seems  to  drench  her  un-  til  her  knees  are  weak,  and  she  yearns  so  earnestly  for  understanding  that  she  raises  her  head  and  says  halfa  prayer.  Then  she  gathers  her  forces,  enters  the  front  door,  and  calls  cheerfully  down  the  hall,  &quot;It's  me,  Maggie.&quot;  Upstairs  in  her  bedroom,  she  drinks  a  water  glass  full  of  port,  and  while  she  is  changing  her  clothes,  the  telephone  rings.  It  is  poor  Mr.  Burstyn,  who  hastaken  a  room  at  the  Viaduct  House,  which  is  no  place  for  a  respectable  man  to  stay.  &quot;Well,  if  you  want  to  see  me,  come  and  see  me,&quot;  Honora  says.  &quot;I'm  not  very  hard  to  find.  Excepting  to  visit  Traver-  tine,  I  haven't  been  out  of  St.  Botolph's  in  nearly  seven  years.  You  can  go  and  tell  those  men  at  the  bank  that  if  they  want  someone  to  talk  with  me,  they'd  better  get  someone  with  more  gump-  tion  than  it  takes  to  find  an  old  lady.&quot;  Then  she  hangs  up  the  receiver  and  goes  down  to  supper  with  a  good  appe-  tite. "