 b"IN  the  study,  Guy  Dutour,  known  to   the  village  as  &quot;motre  cher  Maitre,&quot;  played  the  &quot;Andante  spianato,&quot;  Opus  22.  When  he  began  the  &quot;Grande  Polonaise  brillante,&quot;  his  lap  dog,  Mala-  chite,  asleep  on  a  cushion  by  the  ped-  als,  raised  her  heavy  Pekinese  head,  opened  her  laminated  idol's  eyes  one  at  a  time,  and  wheezed  appreciation.  Up-  stairs,  in  the  enormous  bedroom  Mme.  de  S\xc3\xa9vign\xc3\xa9  had  occupied  as  a  girl,  his  young  wife,  Annette,  examined  the  pale  curve  of  her  eyebrow  in  a  magnifying  mirror.  She  held  no  tweezers;  she  could  no  more  touch  a  hair  of  her  brow  than  pluck  a  straying  blossom  at  the  edge  of  the  pond.  At  the  kitchen  door,  Guy  Dutour's  maid  of  fifteen  years,  Gertrude,  heard  the  chef's  bicycle  on  the  gravelled  path.  He  dismounted  with  the  bicycle  still  in  motion,  and  Gertrude  caught  the  han-  dle  bars  like  a  bridle.  Once  he  was  over  the  threshold,  she  took  off  his  beret  and  his  trench  coat,  and  handed  him  his  chef's  hat.  It  had  rained  for  two  weeks  now;  sometimes  it  cleared  toward  the  end  of  an  afternoon,  just  long  enough  for  the  sun  to  illuminate  the  landscape,  until  it  looked  like  a  page  from  &quot;Les  Tres  Riches  Heures,&quot;  and  then  it  rained  again.  The  water  screws  weltered  in  the  drowned  wild-strawberry  beds,  a  fresh  downpour  tumbled  the  pink  snails  off  the  raspberry  bushes,  and  the  frogs  were  in  paradise.  The  wind  always  came  from  the  east,  and  on  the  far  hori-  zon  four  cypresses  leaned  to  the  right,  like  the  first  diligent  strokes  in  a  child's   exercise  book.  Annette  watched  them  from  the  window  as  she  twisted  her  pale  hair  into  a  fan-shaped  knot,  in  the  man-  ner  of  the  peasant  women  of  the  county;  then  she  turned  to  her  back-view  mirror  to  secure  it,  high,  with  two  gold  bar-  rettes  from  Cartier's.  In  the  study,  Malachite  lightly  snored  at  the  crescen-  dos  in  the  Mazurka,  Opus  24,  No.  4.  In  the  kitchen,  the  chef's  right  hand  beat  a  rotary  motion  with  a  silver  fork  while  his  left  squeezed  olive  oil  from  a  medicine  dropper.  Then  Gertrude  an-  nounced  lunch.  Eufs  mayonnaise,  es-  calopes  de  veau  Maintenon,  petits  pois,  laitue,  fromage  de  chevre,  mousse  au  chocolat,  and  coffee.  Over  coffee,  Guy  Dutour  addressed  his  wife:  &quot;My  dear,  what  are  your  plans  for  the  afternoon?&quot;  And  Annette  answered,  &quot;A  little  sleep;  perhaps  a  little  read;  then  Gertrude  is  going  to  help  me  hang  the  full-length  mirror.  She  is  going  to  the  post  office  to  get  my  new  Balenciaga.  And  I  must  supervise  the  dinner.  Have  you  forgot-  ten?  We  have  guests  tonight.&quot;  Once  in  the  enormous  bed  and  under  the  vicufia,  Annette  placed  two  small  balls  of  hardened  pink  wax  in  the  shells  of  her  ears,  to  protect  herself  from  the  frogs,  and  fell  intoa  sleep  of  fleeting,  soundless  visions.  In  the  study,  his  slippered  feet  on  the  arm  of  the  couch,  Guy  Dutour  drowsed  over  Simenon's  latest  &quot;Maigret.&quot;  At  the  kitchen  table,  propped  by  cushions,  a  napkin  tied  around  her  neck,  Malachite  ate  cold  chicken  on  Gertrude's  left,  while  at  the  farm  on  the  estate,  Eglantine,  the  farm-  er's  wife,  in  search  of  a  truce  with  the flooded  afternoon,  fed  her  small  twins  vin  ordinaire  from  a  teaspoon  before  putting  them  to  the  breast.  Drunk  in  the  cellar,  her  husband,  Pierre-Emile,  sang  and  lamented  his  sinking  vineyards  as  he  rubbed  Baume  Bengu\xc3\xa9  into  the  joints  of  his  knees.  Guy  Dutour  was  awakened  by  a  little  girl  who  moved  toward  him  jerkily,  her  eyes  strained,  her  face  wet,  delicate,  and  green.  She  held  an  offering  of  sweet  peas  in  one  hand  and  half  a  goat  cheese  in  the  other.  Before  she  attempted  the  poem  dedicated  to  &quot;motre  cher  Ma'tre,&quot;  Guy  Dutour  brought  her  to  the  cushion  by  the  pedals  and  prodded  her  hand  into  a  crescent  of  perfumed  sleeping  fur:  Malachite  opened  one  laminated  eye,  wheezed,  growled,  barked,  and,  in  warning,  bit  the  air  sideways.  When  Gertrude  took  away  the  sob-  bing  little  girl,  Guy  Dutour  sat  down  to  the  piano  and  worked  a  passage  from  the  Mazurka,  Opus  24,  No.  4,  with  infinite  patience,  as  if  he  were  playing  Czerny  back  in  his  sedulous  childhood.  Gertrude,  her  left  hand  on  the  door-  knob,  waited  for  the  end  of  a  phrase  to  bring  in  the  camomile  tea.  As  she  was  about  to  set  the  cup  and  saucer  on  the  rim  of  the  piano,  the  teaspoon  wavered,  rattled,  and  fell  to  the  carpetless  floor.  Gertrude  laughed,  and  her  direct  laugh-  ter,  urgent  and  uniting,  settled  between  them  like  a  conspiracy.  For  Guy  Du-  tour,  the  moment  (sprung  from  the  fluid  mazurka  and  his  right  shoulder  blade,  which  ached  from  playing  in  the  dampness)  converged  on  Gertrude's  back  and  her  smell  (fresh-chopped  tarragon,  delicate  sweat,  and  a  drop  of  eau  de  J  avel).  He  watched  her  wide  back,  stretching  the  blue  lawn  house  dress  as  she  bent  to  pick  up  the  spoon,  and  he  remem-  bered  and  saw  her,  climb-  ing  aboard  trains  with  the  mute  practice  keyboard-  Gertrude,  who  never  inter-  rupted  a  phrase,  and  saved  his  leftover  camomile  to  rinse  her  hair!  'The  chilled  long-  ing,  the  stilled  sadness,  of  the  mazurka  still  held  to  his  fin-  gertips  as  his  hand  gently  went  out  to  her;  his  insured  hand,  kissed  so  often,  came  down  the  length  of  her  spine  and-as  she  straightened,  gripping  her  spoon-over  the  lenient  flesh  of  her  but-  tock.  Through  it  all,  dressed  in  her  new  Balenciaga,  Annette  had  stood  in  the  doorway  like  one  of  those  absurd  appari-  tions  summoned  by  Simenon  " b"to  force  an  improbable  d\xc3\xa9nouement.  Gertrude,  who  saw  her  in  Guy  Dutour's  eyes,  walked  out  of  the  room  and  made  her  way  to  the  kitchen  care-  fully,  like  a  patient  after  adrenalin.  Annette  ran  upstairs,  combed  out  her  pale  hair,  and  put  in  a  phone  call  to  her  lover  in  [REDACTED].  While  waiting,  she  thought  of  her  black  sealskin  coat,  and  decided  that  for  the  coming  season  its  shoul-  ders  should  be  taken  in  a  little,  She  imagined  her  other  furs,  labelled,  hibernating  in  cold  stor-  age.  She  catalogued  them,  simultaneously  wrapping  the  image  of  her  husband  in  infinite  tenderness.  And  she  finished  the  list  with  the  private  little  smile  she  had,  at  times,  smiled  against  the  lapel  of  a  dinner  jacket  when  a  man,  at  a  charity  ball,  complimented  her  on  the  skin  of  her  back  and  shoulders.  She  cancelled  her  call.  Guy  Dutour  had  thrown  a  raincoat  over  his  shoulders,  tucked  Malachite  under  his  arm,  and  run  slowly  to  the  farmhouse,  where  he  now  sat  drinking  his  third  glass  of  Anjou  ros\xc3\xa9  with  Pierre-Emile,  while  Eglantine  rocked  the  twins,  who  slept,  flushed  and  fitful,  grasping  for  air  with  small  mottled  hands.  In  spite  of  her  curiosity-she  sniffed  intrigue  behind  the  unexpected  visit-Eglantine  often  deserted  the  men's  conversation  to  dream  of  a  set  of  dentures  patterned  on  Annette's  small  and  delectable  teeth.  Guy  Dutour  left  them  to  run  his  long  black  Chrysler  through  the  mud  of  the  village;  he  crossed  the  swollen  river,  grazed  and  splashed  the  length  of  wall  by  the  Manoir  de  Vivefontaine,  drove  through  the  brown  countryside,  into  the  forest,  until  he  saw,  posed  like  a  white  nest  in  a  clearing,  the  Chiteau  de  Cyb\xc3\xa9le.  Malachite  whined  and  trem-  bled  by  the  doorstep  as  Guy  Dutour  hesitated,  then  recognized  the  loose  stone  that  the  gatekeeper  had  shown  him.  Underneath  it  was  a  key.  The  door  opened  silently,  and  in  spite  of  her  wheeze,  which  had  amplified  with  the  damp  drive  and  the  new  dust,  Mala-  chite  followed  Guy  Dutour  as  he  tried  the  easy  marble  staircase  and  haunted  the  forsaken  rooms  with  the  idea  of  renting,  perhaps,  for  the  following  summer.  When  he  returned,  Annette  and  her  two  guests,  the  lisping  conductor  and  the  New  York  impresario  who  never  spoke,  were  sitting  down  to  dinner.  Gertrude  served  asperges  sauce  mousse-  line,  poulet  &amp;  Pestragon,  carottes  au  beurre  noir,  and  chicor\xc3\xa9e  &amp;  Pail.  Eglan-  tine,  still  in  search  of  intrigue,  made  her  daily  delivery  in  person.  &quot;Good  eve-  ning,  ladies  and  gentlemen,&quot;  she  said  as  she  slowly  crossed  the  dining  room,  balancing  a  wet  copy  of  France-Soir  on  her  head;  she  carried  the  fresh  goat  cheese  to  the  kitchen,  that  Gertrude  might  bring  it  back  in.  They  had  cr\xc3\xa9me  renvers\xc3\xa9e.  Throughout  dinner,  the  conductor  who  lisped  spoke:  &quot;My  beat...&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My  baton  ...&quot;  &quot;The  way  I  handle  a  musician  .  .&quot;  &quot;My  sinus  will  disappear,  God  forbid,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  day  I  die.&quot;  They  took  their  coffee  into  the  study,  and  Guy  Dutour  sat  down  to  the  piano.  Mala-  chite  slept  through  the  &quot;Andante  spi-  anato,&quot;  Opus  22,  the  &quot;Grande  Polo-  naise  brillante,&quot;  and  the  Etude,  Opus  10,  No.  4.  &quot;Marvellous!&quot;  said  the  New  York  impresario,  over  a  large  cup  of  tilleul.  &quot;Stupendous  and  stupefying!&quot;  said  the  lisping  conductor,  and,  waving  Guy  Dutour  aside,  he  got  up,  rubbed  his  jewelled  hands  together,  walked  toward  the  Pleyel,  and  sat  down.  Annette  excused  herself  and  went  upstairs,  She  called  Gertrude  to  the  enormous  bedroom  and  asked  for  a  pail  of  hot  water.  She  took  her  habitual  cool  bath.  Alone  in  the  bed,  having  found  with  her  feet  the  heat  of  one  ofthree  hot-water  bottles,  Annette  lay  still  among  the  cornflowers  of  her  printed  linen  sheets.  But  she  did  not  sleep.  There  was  an  unexpected  crescendo  in  the  Etude,  Opus  10,  No.  4,  and  the  customary  decrescendo  of  the  chef's  -  bicycle  on  the  gravelled  path.  There  was  the  rain.  There  were  frogs.  There  was  the  old  beaver  coat  she  wore  in  bad  weather,  which  she  would  give  Ger-  trude  as  a  gesture.  There  was  the  dark  mink  she  need  no  longerkeep  for  the  evenings,  because  now  she  would  have  the  sables-the  outrageous,  snuff-col-  ored  sables,  wild  and  more  tender  to  the  skin  of  her  back  than  a  man's  dark  love;  the  sable  coat  would  now  be  hers  because  she  had  forgiven. "