 b"IT  was  the  last  day  of  their  summer,  and  that  evening  Nortonand  his  mother  had  to  go  on  the  train.  In  the  afternoon,  they  went,  with  his  grandmother,  down  to  the  cove,  cross-  ing  the  road  and  winding  down  the  path  through  the  long  grass  and  the  beeches.  They  sat  watching  the  sea  wash  in  and  shatter  on  the  seal-brown  rocks  before  them,  and  tried  to  com-  mit  everything  to  memory.  The  wind  came  in  cold,  from  the  northeast.  The  summer  had  suddenly  dissolved  into  late  autumn.  The  boy-eleven  years  old,  slight,  serious-faced,  withdrawn,  brown  as  a  gypsy-left  the  two  women  in  order  to  lie  on  a  flat  rock,  leaning  on  one  elbow,  looking  down  into  the  whirling  water.  The  stone  was  strangely  cool  after  having  all  summer  been  almost  too  hot  to  touch.  It  was  rough  and  spiny  and  pocked  with  small  round  caves,  craters.  He  wondered  idly  how  even  glaciers  could  scatter  such  big  boulders  so  care-  lessly;  how  something  so  hard  could  get  so  pitted  all  over.  With  one  fingernail  he  picked  at  the  hard  scabs  of  tar  that  some  fisherman  had  spilled  years  before  as  he  calked  his  dory  here.  He  could  hear  the  sea  gulls  squawk-  ing  somewhere  above  him,  and  see  them,  too,  occasionally,  out  ofthecor-  ner  of  his  eye  as  they  drifted  idly  by,  looking  for  an  easy  fish.  There  were  always  gulls.  In  hordes,  they  followed  every  trawler  or  drag-  ger  that  came  in  Gloucester  Harbor.  They  flew  screaming  over  the  wake  ofthe  fisherman,  rising  and  falling,  sometimes  div-  ing  down  after  a  buck-etful  of  fish  heads  and  \\E  guts  thrown  overboard.  E  Sometimes  the  boat  was  so  far  out  Norton  could  hardly  see  it,  but  always  the  cloud  of  birds  was  big  and  noisy  enough  to  be  picked  out.  If  he  woke  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  he  heard,  floating  through  the  window,  the  almost  human  shrieks  of  the  gulls,  all  the  harshness  drowned  out  by  the  wind.  Sambo,  his  dog-his  dog  for  as  long  as  he  was  here-chased  after  them  un-  heeded,  exasperated  by  their  indiffer-  ence,  his  long  black  ears  flying  out  to  either  side,  winging  through  the  air  as  he  leaped  from  rock  to  rock,  barking  joyously.  The  northeast  wind  blew  in  the  slow tolling  ofthe  bell  buoy  and,  deflected  from  the  gull-hung  point,  broke  into  a  hundred  little  crosscurrents.  It  came  from  the  Isles  of  Shoals,  bringing  them  into  sight,  from  far  out  on  the  edge  of  the  sea,  and  from  a  thread  of  smoke  wisping  out  ofthe  funnel  of  some  steam-  er  that  perhaps  was  not  even  there.  The  trickle  of  smoke  seemed  to  stay  stationary  in  the  sallow  sky,  dangling  below  it  the  trace  ofa  boat  never  mov-  ing  or  changing  its  shape  as  the  ocean  swept  past  it.  The  ship  was  like  the  stars  and  the  planets.  Norton  looked  over  his  shoulder  at  his  mother  and  grandmother  sitting  on  ahigher  rock.  His  grandmother  was  very  old,  and  looked  like  a  seagull  on  the  rock.  His  mother  was  old,  too,  but  not  so  old.  She  was  twenty-nine  years  older  than  he  was,  Later  on,  she  would  be  thirty  for  a  while.  The  water  was  unusually  clear-but  dusky,tinged  a  light  green,  like  a  thick  smooth  piece  of  glass  seen  edge  on-  and  the  pale,  barnacled  rock  bottom  appeared  distorted  and  near,  just  be-  yond  the  reflecting  surface.  Dark-olive  strands  of  seaweed  stood  undulating  like  charmed  snakes  on  the  sea  floor.  Leathery  fawn-colored  devil's-aprons,  stretched  out  long  with  the  still  coming  tide,  languished  on  the  ledges,  hardly  moving  with  the  surge  of  the  waves,  though  their  scalloped  edges  waved  in  the  ebb  and  flow.  The  water  with-  drew,  rippling  down  among  the  rocks  like  a  businesslike  brook.  Then  it  collected  itself  up  quietly,  waited,  and  fell  abruptly  with  a  splintering  crash.  An  occasional  cunner,  that  was  a  slimy  dark  brown  almost  indistinguishable  from  its  dark  sur-  roundings,  swam  out  from  between  the  seaweed  to  look  around,  and  then  flitted  back  with  a  nervous  flick  of  its  tail.  They  were  very  hard  to  catch.  They  made  wary  dashes  at  the  hook,  never  staying  near  it  for  very  long,  and  ate  the  bait  from  around  it.  They  were  too  fast  to  be  caught  by  a  quick  jerk  of  the  line  at  the  moment  they  bit,  and  their  nibbles  were  so  light  they  often  managed  to  eat  the  bait  off  his  line  with-  out  his  noticing  until  he  realized  it  had  been  too  long  since  he  had  had  a  bite.  They  could  be  very  annoying.  A  northeaster  was  coming  up, " b"looked  like,  and  then  there  would  be  three  days  of  storm.  Tomorrow  it  would  be  foggy,  and  the  air  wet  or  even  rainy;  and  the  cold  wind  would  blow  it  hard  against  his  face,  if  he  were  go-  ing  to  be  here.  There  would  be  big  waves  in  the  cove,  and  spray  all  over  the  rocks,  even  high  up.  The  tip  of  the  point  would  be  covered  with  breaking  waves  that  were  white  for  hundreds  of  yards  out.  The  rollers  coming  in  slant-  wise  would  hit  the  high  middle  of  the  point  and  splash  up  fifty  or  sixty  feet,  practically  covering  it.  The  Calf's  Hole  would  echo  booming,  black  and  mys-  terious.  The  cove  would  be  a  single  seething,  undulating  mass,  with  little  is-  lands  of  foam  in  it,  and  lobster  pots  pitching  crazily,  and  sometimes  sea  gulls  sliding  easily  down  from  crest  to  trough  and  then  up  again.  When  the  storm  was  over,  there  would  bea  big,  putrid  yel-  low  island  floating  in  the  middle  of  the  cove,  looking  as  ifit  were  made  of  whipped  cream.  On  the  shore,  there  was  always  either  a  big  fish  net  or  a  lobster  pot  or  a  buoy  pulled  loose  from  its  moorings  and  washed  in  by  the  storm.  Little  scraps  of  driftwood  were  sometimes  stuck  in  the  crevices  between  the  rocks,  and  the  beach  always  had  some  round,  sea-worn  pieces  of  colored  glass  on  it  to  look  through  at  the  light.  The  storm  left  a  ring  on  the  sand-  seaweed  and  straw  and  refuse.  Why  straw?  It  didn't  grow  in  the  ocean  and  it  was  a  mighty  strange  thing  for  a  ship  to  be  carrying.  But  it  was  always  there,  just  the  same.  For  a  while,  the  seaweed  on  the  beach  was  wet;  then  it  became  slimy.  But  in  a  few  days  it  got  very  dry  and  crisp,  and  even  stopped  smelling,  and  then  if  he  found  a  horseshoe-crab  shell  he  could  bring  it  home.  Because  then  it  was  decorative,  he  thought,  using  his  grandmother's  word.  &quot;Norton-time  to  go  up.&quot;  His  moth-  er's  voice  hardly  carried  above  the  wind.  He  pretended  that  he  didn't  hear  her.  When  he  was  swimming  under-  water,  there  would  sometimes  be  scratchy  lines,  tracks  in  the  sulfate-green  sand,  which  jiggled  under  the  pattern  of  lines  and  lights  and  shades  that  moved  across  it  like  huge,  elongated  bubbles.  Sometimes  he  would  find  the  end  of  the  tracks:  a  horseshoe  crab  seemingly  hunched  over  something  in  the  sand.  He'd  pick  it  up  by  its  long  spike  of  a  tail,  and  the  crab  would  thrash  about,  trying  to  free  itself  and  doubling  up  like  a  jackknife  on  the  hinge  in  the  middle  of  its  shell.  If  he  got  a  good  grip  on  the  tail,  when  he  got  the  crab  out  of  the  water  he  could  give  it  a  strong  heave  and  watch  it " b"splash  on  its  back  with  a  nice  noise  or  skip  across  the  water  several  times.  And  Sambo  would  go  racing  after  it  as  he  saw  it  splash.  Sambo  would  go  bounding  through  the  water  in  short,  high  leaps,  and  then  swim  with  his  nose  rigidly  above  the  surface,  breathing  spasmodically,  his  eyes  bulging  slightly,  and  looking  as  if  he  thought  he  might  go  under  any  minute  (but  he  could  swim  like  that  for  half  a  mile).  And  when  the  dog  reached  the  place  where  the  crab  had  gone  down,  he  would  swim  about  as  if  he  thought  he  could  catch  the  crab  with  his  feet,  and  when  he  couldn't,  he  would  put  his  head  under  and  dive  down  to  where  his  feet  had  been  and  cast  about,  maybe  coming  up  with  the  crab  and  trying  at  the  same  time  to  shake  the  water  out  of  his  coat.  After  that,  he  would  wheeze  back  to  shore,  like  an  aged  walrus,  and  curl  up  and  go  to  sleep  in  the  sun.  \xc2\xab'Norton,  come  on,  now.&quot;  The  boy's  eyes  focussed  absently  on  the  point,  distant  in  the  present,  com-  ing  closer  slowly,  then  stopping.  No  one  wandered  about  the  few  stark,  tumbled  grout  piles  and  beach  plums  that  stuck  out  ofthe  saw  grass.  The  point  advanced  slowly  in  long  sloping  boulders  into  a  tip  to  meet  the  ravening  tides  that  gradually  consumed  it.  Waves  crashed  in  from  thebay,  and  the  water  rippled  off  into  the  cove  and  broke  into  sullen  little  wavelets  below  him.  And  with  the  feeling  that  he  had  had  enough,  that  he  would  be  able  tore-  member  it,  he  got  up  from  the  rock  and  rejoined  his  mother.  His  grandmother  had  already  gone  up  to  the  house.  They  were  about  to  go  up  also,  since  she  still  hadsome  packing  to  do,  when  they  saw  a  Star  boat,  and  turned  and  waited  -the  boy  and  the  young  woman  he  so  mys-  teriously  resembled;  for  they  did  not  have  the  same  features,  or  eyes,  or  color  of  hair,  or  bone  structure.  The  Star  boat  hurried  across  the  cove  mouth  anxiously,  hounded  by  the  wind;  looked  in  briefly,  distractedly;  and  then  went  on,  its  sail  white  and  flickering  against  the  gun-metal  sea.  While  they  stood  there  watching  it,it  tacked  back  and  forth,  heeling  hard  under  the  heavy  gusts,  until  the  gunwales  raced  in  the  bow  wave,  and  eventually  it  disappeared  around  the  point,  taking,  they  both  felt,  the  last  shreds  of  summer  with  it.  The  dog  barked  with  a  pained  note  in  his  voice;  something  inconsiderate  wouldn't  come  out  of  its  hole.  HEY  got  to  the  station  with  lots  of  time  to  spare,as  usual,  and  his  mother  bought  their  tickets.  'Then " b"she  and  Norton  put  their  bags  on  the  train,  and  his  grandmother  waited  firm-  ly  on  the  platform.  She  never  got  on  the  train  when  she  wasn't  going,  be-  cause  she  was  afraid  the  train  would  start  before  she  could  get  off.  But  they  weren't  allowed  to  get  off,  for  fear  the  train  might  go  without  them.  It  was  just  a  switch  engine  with  sev-  eral  of  theold  maroon  passenger  cars  and  a  baggage  car.  The  inside  of  their  car  was  painted  a  pallid  mocha  and  the  windows  were  very  dirty.  It  was  stuffy,  but  there  was  a  water  cooler,  and  the  reversible  furry  green  seats  smelled  like  his  grandmother's  old  car.  She  stood  outside,  smiling,  waving,  even  though  the  train  hadn't  started.  Several  times,  she  mouthed  a  word:  &quot;WRITE.&quot;  He  did  it  back  at  her,  pointing  vigorously  for  emphasis,  and  she  re-  peated  it,  shaking  her  head.  &quot;Oh,  no,  you.&quot;  Then,  suddenly,  she  and  the  lighted  railway  platform  began  to  drift  slowly  toward  the  sea.  He  blinked.  They  left  the  station  behind,  and  his  grand-  mother  disappeared  into  the  corner  of  the  window,  still  waving,  blowing  kisses.  Norton  moved  to  the  other  side  of  the  train,  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  harbor.  In  early  summer,  when  he  saw  it  through  the  train  window,  it  was  full  of  long,  narrow,  beautiful  yachts.  (The  fishermen  were  at  the  other  end.)  The  engine  gathered  speed.  &quot;Can  you  see  anything?&quot;  his  mother  called  from  across  the  aisle.  &quot;Not  much.&quot;  &quot;&quot;We're  almost  past  the  harbor,&quot;  she  said.  He  looked  back.  It  was  too  dark  to  see  the  few  boats  that  were  left,  with  their  red  and  green  running  lights  out.  There  was  just  a  faint  glimmer  of  wa-  ter  in  the  dark  night.  &quot;Try  to  get  some  sleep,&quot;  his  mother  said  when  he  came  back  to  his  seat.  &quot;We've  a  long  wait  in  [REDACTED],  and  you  won't  want  to  sleep  then.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98O.K~\xe2\x80\x997  The  engine  panted  in  short  puffs,  sounding  overworked.  Suddenly,  for  no  reason,  the  lights  went  out  and  the  car  was  very  black.  It  was  swaying  sick-  eningly  from  side  to  side.  &quot;I  can't  sleep  with  thet  rain  doing  all this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  it  were  daylight,  you  wouldn't  notice  it.  Try  to  sleep,&quot;  she  said.  His  eyes  were  growing  accustomed  to  the  darkness.  With  his  face  pressed  close  to  the  dirty  window,  he  saw  that  they  were  now  high  up  on  an  embank-  ment.  They  would  roll  down  all  that " b'high  hill  and  nothing  would  be  left  of  them.  Level  ground  came,  and  it  was  all  right  for  a  while.  He  saw  a  trestle  ahead.  His  mother  squeezed  his  hand  four  times:  Do-you-love-me?  '