 b"WHEN  my  parents  took  me  to  stay  with  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  I  was  not  toldthat  her  house  was  reputed  to  be  one  of  the  best-haunted  houses  in  Ireland.  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  was  my  first  cousin  twice  removed-re-  moved,  that  is,  by  two  generations  and  asI  was  seven  at  the  time,  I  daresay  they  thought  I  was  not  ripe  for  ghosts.  We  spent  three  weeks  at  Castle  Pink;  most  ofthe  time  it  rained,  and  this  blurred  my  impressions,  for  one  wet  day  in  alarge  country  house  in  which  you  arethe  only  child  is  much  like  an-  other.  How  the  gooseberries  were  ar-  ranged  for  dessert  is  perhaps  what  I  remember  most  clearly,  and  the  butler's  tense,  pale  face  as  he  set  the  edifice  on  the  table.  This  needed  concentration  and  a  steady  hand,  for  they  were  arranged  on  a  wide,  long-stemmed  platter,  first  a  pavement  of  red  gooseberries,  then  a  pavement,  one  gooseberry  less  in  di-  ameter,  of  green  gooseberries,  and  so  on  in  a  diminishing  striped  red-and-  green  cone  till  the  summit  was  topped  off  with  a  single  gooseberry,  red  or  green  as  came  uppermost.  Whether  this  was  a  traditional  Irish  way  of  arrang-  ing  gooseberries  or  whether  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  had  ordained  it  because  she  liked  that  kind  of  Italian  architecture,  I  can't  say;  I  have  never  seen  its  like  elsewhere,  and  I  have  never  had  enough  large,  smooth,  princely  goose-  berries  to  imitate  it  myself.  I  remember,  too,  with  deep  affection  and  intimacy,  a  sedan  chair  that  I  spent  a  great  deal  of  my  time  in.  All  chil-  dren  like  dens,  most  children  like  sumptuos-  ity,  and  I  lurked  in  the  sedan  chair,  delightful-  ly  conscious  that  the  outside  of  my  den  was  gilded  and  painted,  and  that  its  inside  was  pad-  ded,  dusky,  and  smelled  both  mildewy  and  aromatic.  The  sedan  chair  stood  in  a  hall  as  wide  as  a  church  nave,  and  one  winter  night  (as  I  was  told  long  after)  rats  moved  it  half  across  the  floor,  while  other  rats  rang  every  bell  in  the  house  and  trampled  like  the  constabulary.  I  have  never  sat  in  a  sedan  chair  since.  When  we  were  on  our  way  home  and  the  boat  began  to  move  down  the  Liffey,  my  mother  exclaimed,  &quot;Never  again,  George!  Never,  never  again!&quot;  For  though  she  had  been  spared  the  Red  Room,  which  was  so  notorious  that  only  the  toughest  bachelors  or     chance  members  of  the  Royal  Family  were  expected  to  sleep  in  it,  and  though  the  Blue  Room  had  challenged  her  with  nothing  more  positive  than  a  noise  like  a  horse,  she  said,  sighing  its  heart  out,  invisible  hands  sporting  with  her  hair-  brushes,  and  half  a  dozen  barefooted  men  wrestling  in  the  adjacent  dressing  room,  she  had  been  cowed  by  the  gen-  eral  mood  of  acquiescent  panic  that  prevailed  through  the  house;  by  the  fact  that  the  housemaid  bringing  hot-  water  cans  or  what  not  to  the  bedroom  was  always  two  housemaids,  clinging  to  each  other;that  guests  came  down  to  breakfast  looking  as  though  they  had  been  dragged  through  hell  back-  ward;  that  conversations  were  kept  go-  ing  not  merely  with  the  usual  social  obligation  to  keep  up  talk  but  desperate-  ly,  as  if  a  silence  were  an  invocation  to  Pandemonium;  that  everyone  went  about  glancing  behind  him,  listening  with  one  ear  for  something  unspecified,  showing  strong  reluctance  to  move  about  the  house  alone  and  abject  panic  at  the  prospect  of  going  to  bed-every-  one,  that  is,  except  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  She  herself  looked  like  a  spectre,  but  the  spectre  ofa  camel,  for  she  was  extreme-  ly  tall  and  thin  and  walked  with  a  camel's  swaying  rawboned  gait.  Rats,  according  to  her,  accounted  for  half  of  it,  and  the  other  half  was  no  more  than  one  would  expect  ina  country  that  had  been  mismanaged  for  centuries.  For  she  was  absorbed,  as  only  an  Eng-  lishwoman  could  be,  in  doing  her  duty  to  Ireland.  She  stud-  ied  the  Irish  language,  bought  tweeds,  and  brooches  of  the  targe-  like  proportions  asso-  ciated  with  what  was  then  called  the  Celtic  Twilight,  encouraged  creameries,  combatted  tuberculosis,  and  scoured  the  land  on  a  bicycle,  lecturing  about  open  windows  and  Home  Rule.  Though  we  evaded  any  more  visits  to  her  particularly  inspissated  twilight  (&quot;.  .  .  and  make  it  a  good  long  stay,  for  if  the  crossing  makes  Sylvia  sick,  it  would  not  be  worth  your  while  to  come  for  a  mere  week&quot;),  we  met  whenever  she  came  to  [REDACTED].  She  usually  came  over  during  an  Abbey  Theatre  [REDACTED]  sea-  son,  because  it  was  restfulto  sit  among  an  audience  that  felt  no  religious  or  patriotic  call  to  riot  in  the  pit,  and  she  and  my  mother  sometimes  went  out  and  hunted  antiques  together.  It  was  a  combination  of  antiques,  finances,  and  rheumatism  that  finally  persuadedher  to  spend  a  couple  of  years  in  4974616c79  while  Castle  Pink  was  let  to  some  profitable  salmon  fisher  who  might  feel  inclined  to  mend  the  roof.  As  such  people  al-  ways  break  everything  they  touch,  the  best  of  the  furniture  was  to  be  dis-  tributed  among  museums  and  relations:  would  we  mind  housing  a  chair?  It  was  not,  alas,  the  sedan  chair-  though  by  then  I  had  outgrown  the  Den  Age.  It  was  a  black  oak  armchair,  of  the  type  called  Elizabethan,  or,  less  specifically,  massy,  with  an  upright  back  and  a  great  deal  of  carving-a  stately  object,  and  not  altogether  as  un-  comfortable  as  it  looked.  Though  it  was  a  great  deal  more  stately  than  we  were,  and  had  a  marked  appearance  of  being  itself  well  aware  of  this,  and  of  stiffly  moping  over  what  aharsh  fate  had  done  to  it,  by  the  time  my  mother  had  revised  her  drawing  room,  and  led  up  to  it  with  a  Persian  rug,  and  got  rid  of  the  old  settee,  and  bought  a  more  serious-minded  wastepaper  basket,  it  looked,  we  agreed,  very  creditable,  and  by  no  means  as  large  as  when  first  un-  packed.  Unfortunately,  we  had  a  poodle.  While  the  chair  was  still  approaching  us  in  its  packing  case,  my  mother  had  said,  &quot;One  thing  is  categorical.  We  cannot  have  the  poodle  sleeping  in  it.  God  knows  how  we  shall  discourage  him,  but  discouraged  he  must  be.&quot;  Our  poodle  combined  a  soft  heart  and  an  iron  will,  to  a  degree  that  onlyahero  of  some  popular  Edwardian  novel  could  have  equalled,  and  it  was  plain  from  my  mother's  words  that  she  was  al-  ready  laying  some  of  the  onus  of  dis-  couragement  on  an  all-powerful  God,  so  that  if  the  poodle  slept  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]'s  chair,  my  mother  would  not  be  the  only  one  to  blame.  No  blame  was  incurred  by  either  contracting  par-  ty.  When  the  armchair  had  been  in-  stalled,  and  three  or  four  cushions  thrown  into  it  to  allay  its  aspect  of  sombre  reluctance  to  settle  down  with  us,  the  poodle  was  called  in  while  my  mother  stood  by  in  an  easy,  nonchalant  attitude,  looking  categorical.  The  poodle  caught  sight  of  the  chair,  stopped  dead,  and  shuddered  to  his  foundations.  Still  shuddering,  he  cringed  backward  to  the  farthest  corner  of  the  room.  &quot;It  must  seem  quite  enormous  to  him,&quot;  said  my  mother.  She  spoke  withher  usual  easy  infallibility,  but  against  the  deepening  background  of  the  poodle's  discouragement  she  sounded  like  a  wren  singing  under  a  thundercloud.  When  the  poodle  abruptly  hurled  him-  " b"self  against  the  door,  my  father  kindly  let  him  out.  OR  some  days,  the  poo-  dle  went  on  sitting  just  inside  the  door,  even  dur-  ing  teatime,  but  he  gave  up  shuddering,  and  seemed  re-  signed  to  snatching  his  piece  of  cake  out  of  the  air  in-  stead  of  getting  it  from  my  mother's  hand.After  a  week  or  so,  he  even  per-  suaded  himself  thatthere  was  no  harm  in  coming  as  far  as  the  hearthrug.  It  was  from  the  hearthrug  that  he  suddenly  rose  up  one  wet  afternoon  and  advanced,  walking  slowly  on  stiff  legs  and  growling  under  his  breath,  till  he  was  almost  within  touching  distanceof  the  armchair.  There  he  re-  mained,  his  head  stretched  forward,  his  legs  braced  for  attack,  snuffing,  and  exhaling  each  snuff  on  a  growl.  I  remarked  to  my  mother  that  the  chair  seemed  to  be  getting  larg-  er  again.  She  replied  brisk-  ly  that  it  was  a  sad  fate  to  have  a  daughter  with  adenoids.  Hadn't  I  noticed  that  the  chair,  like  every-  thing  else  in  that  awful  house,  smelled  of  mildew?  Naturally  on  a  wet  day  like  this  the  smell  was  stronger,  so  no  wonder  the  poor  dog  objected  to  it.  But  whether  she  was  de-  fending  the  poodle  or  that  handsome  piece  of  furniture  she  was  now  em-  broidering  a  squab  cushion  for,  I  do  not  know.  Neither  ofus  felt  inclined  to  interrupt  the  poodle.  He  was  of-  ficially  gentle  as  a  lamb,  but  he  was  larger  than  a  lamb.  When  he  had  fin-  ished  inhaling  the  smell  of  Castle  Pink  and  saying  what  he  thought  of  it,  he  came  back  to  the  hearthrug  and  lay  down,  looking  as  those  do  who  have  done  their  duty,  however  unavailing,  ly-baffled,  that  is  to  say,  and  residually  morose.  All  this  became  quite  a  regular  per-  formance  of  his,  and  my  mother  took  some  pride  in  it.  Like  the  chair  itself,  it  was  not  the  sort  of  thing  you  would  find  in  every  house.  When  people  came  to  see  us,  they  were  told  that  it  might  happen  while  they  were  there,  and  if  it  did  happen,  if  the  night-blooming  cereus  opened  its  petals  before  theireyes,  they  were  expected  to  enjoy  it.  It  made  no  difference  to  the  poodle,  as  my  moth-er  proudly  insisted,  whether  or  no  the  chair  had  someone  sitting  in  it.  He  did  not  growl  because  he  might  presently  bite,  he  hadn't  a  bellicose  thought  about  him;  he  was  more  psychic  than  usual  poodles,  that  was  all.  To  show  the  truth  of  this,  she  would  sit  down  on  the  lap  of  the  ghost,  or  the  mildew,  or  whatever  it  was  that  the  poodle  took  exception  toso  interestingly,  and,  paying  her  no  atten-  tion  whatsoever,  he  would  keep  up  his  hallucinated  objurgations.  It  was  blood-  curdling.  It  was,  indeed,  more  blood-  curdling,  being  less  explicit,  than  my  mother's  accounts  of  staying  at  Castle  Pink,  But  these  also  helped  to  enter-  tain  our  duller  visitors  and  to  endear  the  chair.  By  the  time  she  had  finished  embroidering  its  squab  cushion,  it  was  so  deeply  endeared  that  she  had  begun  to  think  how  empty  her  life  and  the  poodle's  would  be  when  the  time  came  for  it  to  go  back  to  Ireland.  And  what  decided  her  to  commission  that  flap-  eared  young  Mr.  Wilson  to  make  one  of  his  charcoal  ghouls  of  her  (Mr.  Wil-  son  was  fresh  from  studying  with  Herkomer)  was  the  realization  that  his  strenuoustechnique  would  be  perfect  for  the  chair.  So  she  would  sit  for  her  portrait  in  it,  with  the  devoted  poodle  at  her  feet.  Possibly  the  poodle's  devo-  tion  would  not  stretch  quite  so  far  as  this,  but  Mr.  Wilson  could  easily  make  a  separate  study  of  him  and  put  it  in  where  it  was  wanted,  like  the  Old  Masters.  Having  settled  all  this  with  the  art-  ist,  she  turned  her  energies  to  the  next  undertaking  she  had  in  mind,  which  was  orange  gin.  A  dozen  wide-  mouthed,  high-shouldered  jars  were  bought,  heaven  knows  how  many  oranges  and  how  much  rock  candy,  and  two  dozen  bottles  of  gin-to  be  on  the  safe  side-and  carried  up  to  what  our  house  painter  misguidedly  re-  ferred  to  as  Mrs.  Warner's  boudoir.  (And  when  I  think  of  the  price  of  gin  in  those  enskied  days,  I  wonder  how  anyone  of  my  generation  can  have  the  courage  to  write  reminiscences.)  I  was  breaking  rock  candy  with  a  little  mallet,  my  mother  was  humming  &quot;Ouuvre  tes  yeux  bleus,  ma  mignonne&quot;  and  packing  her  jars,  the  poodle  was  chewing  the  little  tags  of  string  the  sugar  had  candied  on,  when  a  servant  " b"came  in  to  say  that  Mr.  Wilson  was  in  the  drawing  room.  &quot;Drat  the  man!  Of  course  he  would  be  punctual,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;Sylvia,  wash  your  hands  and  go  down  and  en-  tertain  him  while  I  just  finish  this  jar  and  make  myself  presentable.  Make  some  excuse  or  other.  Wash  them  thor-  oughly!&quot;  Mr.  Wilson  rose  from  the  haunted  chair  as  I  entered.  I  begged  him  to  be  seated,  and  explained  that  my  mother  always  lay  down  after  lunch  and  was  lying  down  now,  but  would  come  in  a  moment.  How  we  got  round  from  that  to  the  Rokeby  Venus,  I  do  not  recollect,  but  there  was  ample  time  to  get  there  by  any  route,  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  had  gone  by  before  my  mother  came  in,  looking  presentable,  followed  by  the  devoted  poodle  (who  had  also  been  made  presentable,  by  the  rapid  running  of  a  comb  through  his  tufts),  and  moving  in  an  aura  of  gin.  Again  Mr.  Wilson  rose  from  the  haunted  chair;  again  he  sank  back  into  it.  As  he  did  so,  the  poodle  rushed  for-  ward  and  clenched  his  teeth  in  what  happened  to  be  Mr.  Wilson's  trousers  but  might  just  as  well  have  been  Mr.  Wilson's  leg.  Seizing  him  by  his  newly  combed  tufts,  my  mother  and  I  dragged  him  away.  My  mother  said  it  was  unforgivable.  Mr.  Wilson  said  it  was  nothing,  poor  old  boy,  nothing.  My  mother  reiterated  that  it  was  unfor-  givable,  that  she  would  have  to  speak  to  him  severely,  that  her  only  consolation  was  that  it  would  supply  a  job  for  dear  Mrs.  Hooper,  who  smocked  and  fine-  darned  though  she  was  over  eighty,  and  really  Mr.  Wilson  should  do  a  draw-  ing  of  her-such  wrinkles!  Mr.  Wil-  son  said  that  he  couldn't  think  of  such  a  thing  but  that  he  really  must  meet  Mrs.  Hooper;  Herkomer  had  taught  him  what  one  can  find  in  wrinkles.  He  was  about  to  sit  down  again  when  my  mother  tactfully  diverted  him  toward  the  sofa,  explaining  that  nothing  was  further  from  the  poodle's  natural  dis-  position  than  to  attack  people;  he  was  gentle  as  a  lamb.  It  was  the  chair  he  attacked,  for  undoubtedly  he  saw  some  kind  of  ghost  in  it;  the  chair  had  come  from  a  house  in  Ireland,  etc.  &quot;But  sit  anywhere  else,&quot;  she  concluded,  &quot;and  he  won't  harm  a  hair  of  your  head.&quot;  Mr.  Wilson  sat  down  on  the  sofa.  The  poodle  rushed  at  him  again,  and  bit  him  in  the  calf  of  the  leg.  [REDACTED]  Mr.  Wilson  got  away  in  his  trousers  from  my  mother  I  real-  ly  cannot  say.  But  he  did,  and  for-  gave  us,  and  added  her  to  his  Ghouls  Gallery.  She  did  not  sit  to  him  in  the  chair,  however.  Analyzing  the  affair  of  Mr.  Wilson's  leg,  she  saw  clearly  what  had  gone  wrong.  Mr.  Wilson  should  never  have  sat  in  it  as  if  he  had  done  it  for  weeks,  as  if  it  belonged  to  him.  'The  poodle  resented  this  as  an  impiety.  You  couldn't  blame  the  poor  animal  for  that;  he  was  expressing  his  dumb  version  of  a  religious  conviction,  and  was  no  worse  than  the  Salvation  Army  or  the  Crusaders.  &quot;Better  than  the  Crusaders,&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;'They  slaughtered  a  whole  zoo  in  Constantinople  and  ate  most  of  fc?  &quot;Did  they  really?  The  fiends!  And  then  they  go  and  lie  on  their  backs  in  the  Temple  Church  with  their  legs  crossed,  looking  as  smug  as  pork  pies.  Hypocrites!&quot;  Zealots,  zealots,&quot;  said  my  father  soothingly.  &quot;Zealots  are  not  always  ra-  tional.  What  are  you  going  to  do  about  the  chair-move  it  to  the  boxroom?&quot;  &quot;Move  that  splendid  chair  to  the  boxroom?  And  let  loose  all  its  ghosts  or  whatever  they  are  to  rage  as  they  please  in  the  attics&quot;  No,  no!  If  there  is  a  ghost  in  that  chair,  I'll  keep  it  un-  der  my  eye.&quot;  &quot;Very  well,  my  dear.  But  people  will  sit  in  it.&quot;  No,  they  won't!  T'll  soon  put  a  stop  to  anything  of  the  sort.  Look-isn't  " b"it  a  lovely  color?  I  remembered  in  the  night  that  I  had  it  put  away  in  a  drawer.&quot;  My  mother  displayed  several  yards  of  heavy  velvet  ribbon,  in  her  favorite  shade  of  rose  color;  and  while  we  were  still  about  to  say  that  we  didn't  think  the  poodle  would  take  to  rose-col-  ored  trappings,  she  looped  it  from  one  arm  of  the  chair  to  the  other  and  tied  the  ends  in  one  of  her  inimitable  bows.  &quot;There!  Just  like  the  Victoria  and  Albert.&quot;  Apparently  the  ribbon  had  some  sort  of  exorcising  effect  for  the  poodle,  for  he  paid  no  more  attention  to  the  chair,  except  when  he  rubbed  his  fleas  against  its  carved  legs.  But  other  people  com-  ing  into  the  room  seemed  taken  aback.  For  a  while,  my  mother  remembered  to  explain;  afterward,  they  were  left  to  think  it  out  for  themselves.  IT  was  during  one  of  her  excursions  to  the  Victoria  and  Albert  Museum  that  my  mother  fell  into  conversation  with  a  Mr,  Tatos,  who  was  admiring  a  mazer  that  she  also  admired.  A  man,  and  a  connoisseur,  he  would  have  been  whirled  into  subjection  even  if  she  had  not  known  a  mazer  from  a  milk  bowl;  he  asked  her  to  go  on  with  him  to  Chris-  tie's  salesroom,  and  after  that  gave  her  tea  at  Barbellion's.  Mr.  Tatos's  knowl-  edge  of  antiques  and  works  of  art  had  awed  and  delighted  my  mother  (she  was,  indeed,  extremely  humble  and  ready  to  learn  whenever  there  was  not  a  prior  obligation  to  teach,  direct,  or-  dain,  spring-clean,  and  generally  keep  " b"  us  in  order);  she  ordered  cr\xc3\xa9me  brul\xc3\xa9e  when  he  came  to  lunch.  Mr.  Tatos  was  a  gliding,  insubstantial  man,  dressed,  with  what  my  mother's  French  fashion  paper  called  une  \xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9gance  discrete,  in  a  dark-brown  suit  and  a  mulberry-colored  tic.  He  had  dark-rimmed  eyes  and  a  husky  voice,  and  he  looked  at  my  mother  as  though  he  were  an  intensely  musical  cobra  listening  to  the  snake  charmer's  flute.  As  he  entered  the  room,  he  caught  sight  of  the  chair  (one  could  not  avoid  doing  so),  and  he,  too,  appeared  to  shudder,  though  the  shudder  was  sup-  pressed.  Then,  much  as  the  poodle  had  done,  he  went  into  a  corner  of  the  room,  where  he  looked  for  some  time  at  an  oil  painting.  &quot;Mmm,&quot;  he  said,  a  sad,  soft,  mewing  sound.  &quot;That's  a  very  nice  little  Pater  you've  got  there.  I  shouldn't  think  it's  ever  been  taken  out  of  that  frame,  ei-  ther.  Lovely,  lovely!&quot;  &quot;It  belonged  to  my  grandfather,&quot;  said  she.  &quot;But  I  don'tthink  he  thought  much  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Mmmmmm,&quot;  said  Mr.  Tatos,  mewing  even  more  wistfully.  &quot;What  a  grandfather!  Had  a  Pater  in  an  original  frame,  thought  nothing  of  it,  never  sent  it  to  be  skinned  by  a  restorer,  never  had  the  frame  brightened  up  with  a  lick  of  gold  paint.  What  a  grandfather!  I  never  had  grandfathers  like  that.  That's  a  dear  little  bit  of  Capo  di  Monte.  Very  typical.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  Capo  di  Monte?&quot;  After  some  valuable  hints  on  Capo  di  Monte,  Mr.  Tatos  paused  before  one  of  my  mother's  water  colors,  saying  that  it  was  a  nice  piece  of  color,  and  that  he  could  see  she  understood  brown  madder.  He  also  had  some  flattering  things  to  say  about  a  cameo,  about  the  fire  irons,  about  a  teapot  that  was  cer-  tainly  Lowestoft,  about  a  bowl  that  as  certainly  wasn't,  but  was  interesting,  yes,  very  interesting.  While  my  mother  edged  him  up  the  room  toward  the  chair,  he,  like  the  artist  he  was,  re-  served  his  moment  of  acclamation,  de-  laying  to  say  kind  words  about  the  meaner  beauties  of  the  drawing  room.  Even  when  she  had  got  him  right  up  to  the  chair,  he  broke  back  for  another  study  of  the  bowl  that  wasn't  Lowes-  toft-Longton  Hall,  perhaps,  mmm,  and  it  looked  to  him  as  if  it  had  once  had  a  cover;  had  she  noticed  the  little  traces  of  wear  on  its  rim?  She'd  see  them  very  plainly  if  she'd  use  his  magnifying  glass.  Did  this  come  from  the  grandfather,  too?  Bought  it  at  an  old-clothes  shop  in  Lichfield?  Had  she  in-  deed?  He  must  congratulate  her.  Three  and  sixpence?  Gra-  cious  heavens!  &quot;'Take  care  of  it,&quot;  he  said  beseechingly.  &quot;I  shouldn't  keep  those  nutcrackers  in  it  if  I  were  you.  Really  I  shouldn't.&quot;  Brought  face  to  face  with  the  chair,  he  put  his  magnifying  glass  back  in  his  pocket.  He  looked  at  it.  It  seemed  to  me  that  he  was  more  attentive  to  the  bow  than  to  anything  else.  Be  that  as  it  may,  he  looked  at  the  chair,  and  such  was  his  con-  trol  that  the  only  sign  of  emo-  tion  that  escaped  him  was  a  faint  twiddling  of  his  fingers.  &quot;Did  you  buy  this?&quot;  he  asked,  and  his  voice  was  sombre.  &quot;No.  It  isn't  even  ours.  We're  just  looking  after  it.&quot;  &quot;Thank  God!&quot;  It  was  as  if  the  cobra  had  come  out  of  its  trance  and  spoken  like  a  human  being.  &quot;Thank  God,  I  say!  After  that  bowl  you  bought  for  three  and  sixpence,  it  would  have  broken  my  heart  to  think  that  anyone  had  sold  you  this  mausoleum.  Fifty  years  old  at  the  most,  and  made  in  [REDACTED],  at  that.&quot;  &quot;I  had  doubts  about  it  myself,&quot;  said  my  mother.  He  gave  her  another  glance  of  devoted  admiration,  but  this  time  it  was  plainly  as  from  one  cobra  to  another.  Then  we  went  in  to  lunch.     R  soon  as  my  mother  could  arrange  for  it  (and  she  moved  with  speed  when  she  wished  to),  the  armchair,  with  all  its  supernatural  associations  but  minus  the  rose-colored  velvet  ribbon,  went  to  a  furniture  repository.  There  was  a  lit-  tle  discussion  between  my  father  and  my  mother  as  to  whether  or  not  it  should  be  insured,  and  if  so,  for  how  much.  My  father  got  his  way;  it  was  insured  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]'s  point  of  view,  not  Mr.  Tatos's.  This  was  for-  tunate,  for  within  a  month's  time  a  fire  broke  out  in  the  repository,  and  the  chair  was  consumed.  'That  is  not  quite  the  end  of  the  story;  many  years  later,  Castle  Pink,  built  of  stone,  uninhabited,  and  standing  in  one  of  the  wettest  parts  ofIreland,  set  itself  on  fire  and  was  burned  to  the  ground.  No  one  will  be-  lieve  this,  and  no  importance  attaches  to  anyone's  belief  or  disbelief.  But  it  is  true."