 b"John  Joseph  Frey,  outstanding  student  of  the  [REDACTED]  College  School  of  Engineering,  is  engaged  these  summer  days  as  an  elevator  operator  at  1  Broad-  way.  Young  Mr.  Frey,  who  has  been  the  scholastic  leader  of  every  class  he  has  been  in  but  ong  since  grammar  school,  turned  in  a  perfect  card  of  A's,  or  4.0's,  in  his  sopho-  more  year  at  [REDACTED].  His  formula  is:  &quot;Just  keep  at  it  until  you've  got  it,  that's  all.&quot;  Mr.  Frey  believes  that  industry  is  as  important  as  intelligence  and  he  has  an  ideathat  &quot;a  lot  of  these  fellows  could  do  pretty  well  themselves  if  they  worked.&quot;  -The  Times.  O  one  has  yet  asked  me  about  the  various  jobs  I  held  during  the  years  of  my  preparation  for  life,  or  about  my  grades  in  school,  but  if  the  Times  has  got  down  to  interview-  ing  fellows  who  are  good  students  and  run  elevators  in  the  summer,  then  my  turn's  not  far  off.I  shall  be  ready  when  the  Times  comes  around,  and  I  imagine  the  interview  will  go  more  or  less  as  follows:  RrportTErR:  How  do  you  do,  Mr.  Lemon?  Mx:  How  do  you  do,  sir?  RrportER:  I  understand  that  you  had  a  most  interesting  record  of  sum-  mer  employment  as  a  boy,  and  I  wonder  if  you  would  care  to  answer  a  few  questions  about  that?  Mz:  Certainly.  I  took  my  first  summer  job  at  the  age  of  twelve,  as  a  caddie.  I  made  thirty-five  or  maybe  thirty-  six  dollars,  I  don't  remember  which.  I  was  small  for  my  age,  you  understand.  RrEportTER:  I  see.  Car-  ried  heavy  bags  despite  the  fact  that  you  were  always  a  small  child.  Mr:  Well,  not  always.  Sometimes  I  was  tall  for  my  age,  and  sometimes  I  was  small  for  my  age.  That  year,  I  think,  I  was  small.  RrEporTER:  I  see.  And  what  did  you  do  with  your  earnings?  Mz:  I  invested  it  all  in  Savings  Stamps  and  War  Bonds.  Would  you  like  to  hear  about  my  experiences?  RrEporTER:  Yes,  indeed.  Mz:  Well,  I  quickly  learned  that  when  you're  holding  the  flag  for  a  man  who  is  putting,  you  must  stand  so  that  your  shadow  doesn't  fall  across  the  cup,  and  you  should  hold  on  to  the  flag  it-  self  to  keep  it  from  flapping  and  caus-  ing  a  distraction.  Tricks  like  that.     Around  the  green,  I  was  one  of  the  hottest  caddies  going.  RrporTER:  Very  interesting.  And  off  the  tee?  ME:  Well,  I  didn't  do  so  well  there.  I  never  could  follow  a  ball  if  it  had  been  hit  once  or  twice  and  dirtied  up.  I  always  figured  that  being  able  to  fol-  low  a  ball  is  a  little  like  cracking  your  knuckles.  Either  you  have  it  or  you  don't.  RreporTER:  Yes.  And  what  did  you  carry  away  from  your  experience  as  a  caddie?  Mr:  That  either  you  have  it  or  you  don't.  RrEportTER:  I  see.  And  what  was  your  next  job?  Mr:  For  the  next  three  summers  I  went  to  camp,  but  in  between  camp  sessions  I  sold  magazine  subscrip-  tions.  RrEportER:  Working  in  every  off  moment,  eh?  How  many  did  you  sell?  Mr:  As  I  recall,  I  bagged  one  Col-  ler's,  one  Open  Road  for  Boys,  and  two  years  of  House  &amp;  [REDACTED].  That  carried  a  bonus.  RrEportTER:  I  see.  And  your  next  job?  Mr:  Well,  my  grandfather's  sum-  mer  place  had  come  up  for  sale,  and  a  friend  and  I  persuaded  my  father  that  what  it  needed  to  make  it  present-  able  was  two  full-time  gardeners.  Sohe  sent  us  up  to  this  place  all  byourselves  and  we  spent  July  there.  RrEportTERr:  And  what  did  you  do?  .  &gt;  Mr:  We  pulled  weeds,  and  one  day  we  worked  six-  teen  hours  cleaning  up  the  kitchen.  I  don't  know  why  we  did  that.  ReporTER:  &quot;On  his  own  at  fifteen.&quot;  Was  the  place  sold?  Mz:  Two  years  later,  but  by  then  all  the  weeds  had  grown  back.  RrEportTERrR:  And  whatcame  after  that?  Mr:  Well,  more  weeds.  My  next  job  was  as  a  rosebush  weeder.  That  was  in  a  place  where  my  family  had  rented  a  summer  house,  and  there  was  this  commercial  rose  grower  nearby.  When  I  went  to  see  him  about  a  job,  he  looked  me  over  and  said,  &quot;I  like  the  cut  of  your  jib.&quot;  He  had  fields  and  fields  of  nothing  but  roses,  and  he  hired  a  friend  and  me  to  weed  them.  Have  you  ever  weeded  a  rose?  RrEporTER:  No.  Mz:You  have  to  squat  down,  be-  " b"cause  the  weeds  grow  low,  and  you  have  to  keep  moving  along  each  row,  picking  them  out  by  hand  and  not  getting  stuck  with  prickles.  It's  very  tiring.  ReportTER:  It  must  have  required  a  great  deal  of  diligence.  How  long  did  you  work  as  a  rose  weeder?  Mx:  Half  a  day.  RrporTER:  I  see.  Mr:  My  next  job  was  as  a  sidewalk  salesman.  That  is,  a  salesman  of  side-  walks.  RrportTER:  Oh,  come  on  now,  Mr.  Lemon.  Mz:  No,  it  was,  it  was.  You  see,  the  city  of  Providence-that's  where  I  come  from-was  condemning  a  whole  bunch  of  sidewalks  as  unsafe,  and  so  a  contractor  hired  a  friend  and  me-  same  friend,  incidentally-to  goaround  our  neighborhood  and  persuade  peo-  ple  who  had  bad  sidewalks  that  they  should  replace  them  before  they  were  condemned.  RrportTER:  Well,  that's  very  in-  genious.  Go  on.  Mr:  We  eachtook  half  the  neighbor-  hood.  We'd  walk  around,  and  wher-  ever  we'd  see  a  sidewalk  that  was  buckling,  we'd  walk  up  to  the  door  and  say,  &quot;I  see  your  sidewalk  is  buckling,  Ma'am,  and,  as  you  know,  the  city  is  condemning  buckling  sidewalks.  Would  you  be  interested  in  a  new  one?&quot;  I  sold  a  sidewalk  the  very  first  day,  and  made  twenty  dollars'  commission.  RrEportEr:  What  did  your  friend  make?  Mr:  He  didn't  sell  any,  so  he  didn't  make  anything.  After  that,  we  quit.  RrEportTER:  You  gust?  Mr:  We'd  pretty  well  covered  the  neighborhood,  and  we  couldn't  see  much  future  in  it.  REporTER:  Yes.  Well,  what  did  you  do  the  rest  of  the  summer?  Mr:  We  took  a  trip  across  the  coun-  try.  RrporTER:  Ah.  You  worked  your  way?  Mr:  Well,  that  was  our  plan,  but  we  didn't  begin  to  run  out  of  money  until  [REDACTED],  and  then  we  figured  that  by  skipping  [REDACTED]  we  had  enough  to  get  home.  So  we  came  home.  REporTER:  Well,  let's  get  back  to  the  jobs.  Mr:  My  next  job  was  with  an  in-  surance  company,  and  because  of  the  dignified  nature  of  the  job,  we  were  required  to  wear  hats.  RrportErRr:  Hats?  Mr:  Yes,  hats  A  friend  and  I-  same  friend-worked  there,  and  nei-  ther  one  of  us  owned  a  hat,  so  the  first  " b"day  we  borrowed  two  of  my  father's  panama  hats.  Mine  rested  on  my  ears,  and  I  felt  terrible.  Do  you  know  what  a  seventeen-year-old  looks  like  in  a  pan-  ama  hat?  REportTER:  No.  Me:  Later,  we  got  hats  of  our  own,  and  that  wasn't  any  better.  RrEportEr:  What  did  your  job  en-  tail?  Me:  We  filed  cards.  REportER:  Well,  thank  you  very  much.  That  gives  me  enough  for  my  story Me:  Don'tyou  want  my  formula?  Me:  Just  keep  at  it  until  you've  got  it,  and  if  you  don't  have  it,  drop  it.  ReEporTER:  Thank  you,  Mr.  Lem- on.  Me:  Not  at  all.  I  like  the  cut  of  your  jib.  HE  only  other  thing  is  that  scho-  lastic  business.  I  wasn't  the  scho-  lastic  leader  of  every  class  I  was  in  but  one,  and  I  wasn't  the  scholastic  leader  ofthat  one,  either. "