 b"IT\xe2\x80\x99S  a  sobering  thought,  but  I  guess  I'd  neverhave  known  how  Lady  Diana  Cooper,  third  daughter  of  the  eighth  Duke  of  Rutland  and  widow  of  Alfred  Duff  Cooper,  first  Viscount  Norwich,  feels  about  picnics  if  a  Lon-  don  bootmaker  had  chosen  excelsior  to  wrap  a  shoe  he  was  mailing  overseas  not  long  ago.  The  shoe  in  question,  which  has  the  paradoxical  distinction  of  being  one  of  the  best-travelled  and  least-worn  on  earth,  had  been  shuttling  acrossthe  Atlantic  all  winter  between  the  two  of  us,  attended  by  a  correspond-  ence  almost  as  voluminous  as  the  Shaw-  Terry  letters.  There  was  still  some  crippling  defect  in  the  instep,  however,  and  as  I  wrote  Mr.  Ratisbon,  perhaps  a  bit  floridly,  I  was  fed  up  with  stump-  ing  aroundon  the  backs  of  my  hands  like  a  confounded  gorilla.  Instead  of  taking  advantage  of  such  an  ideal  open-  ing,  he  simply  replied  that  he  was  re-  turning  my  valued  order,  with  altera-  tions  as  discussed,  by  surface  post,  and  begged  to  remain  my  faithful  servant,  etc.,  etc.  In  any  case,  it  was  from  a  page  of  the  Kemsley  newspaper,  the  Sundey  Times,  which  he  used  to  pack  the  shoe  in,  that  I  gleaned  my  insight  in-  to  Lady  Diana's  repug-  nance  for  conventional  picnics  and  the  scope  and  splendor  of  her  own.  Beginning  a  series  of  reminiscences  en-  titled  &quot;'The  Pleasures  of  Living,&quot;  she  issues  a  rather  superfluous  ca-  veat  against  dining  in  cemeteries  and  along  arterial  roads,  and  en-  joins  the  reader  to  avoid  as  picnic  companions  such  kill-joys  as  &quot;the  easily  sunburnt,&quot;  &quot;the  intolerant  wasp-pan-  icker,&quot;  and  &quot;the  fly-  attracter.&quot;  Presumably  the  English  have  some   sort  of  litmus  test  to  de- termine  whether  a  chap  is  fly-prone,  so  that  you  may  cut  him  dead  in  Rotten  Row  well  in  advance,  but  Lady  Diana  doesn't  partic-  ularize.  Instead,  she  launches  into  a  philippic  against  the  yahoos  who  desecrate  picnic  sites-  specifically,  it  turns  out,  those  who  mommixed  -  up  Belvoir,  her  family  seat,  in  days  gone  by.  &quot;They  tumbled  from  chara-  bances,  sprawled  themselves  on  terrace  and  slope,  took  off  their  boots,  let  fall  their  waist-long  hair  and  spread  their  picnics,&quot;  she  wrathfully  recalls.  &quot;They  tucked  into  cold  beef  and  doorsteps,  cold  dumplings,  watercress  and  jam  puffs  and  sluiced  it  all  down  with  bottled  beer.&quot;  No  doubt  the  lady  is  justified  in  disliking  folk  who  ate  her  ancestral  doorsteps;  I  do  think,  never-  theless,  that  anybody  who  could  masti-  cate  one  was  hardly  eccentric  if  he  washed  it  down  with  a  little  beer.  In  lofty  contrast  to  the  foregoing,  Lady  Diana  cites  two  memorable  jun-  kets  she  herself  participated  in,  one  at  Chantilly  and  the  other  on  the  island  of  Ischia.  The  latter  was  truly  bon  ton,  an  exotic  affair  staged  around  a  bonfire  on  a  mountaintop,  where  the  guests  con-  sumed  &quot;salami,  gorgonzola,  pizza  and  finocchio,  raisins  in  vineleaves,  figs  and  raw  ham,  and  cascades  of  Chianti  from  the  straw-jacketed  fiaschi  .  ..  while  the  muleteers  sang  island  laments  and  fought  over  our  crumbs  on  the  precipice  against  the  moon.&quot;  After  which,  I  gath-er,  the  muleteers,  engorged  with  crumbs  and  voting  the  party  the  best  ever,  con-  veyed  the  revellers  down  the  mountain,  taking  extreme  care  not  to  push  anv  of  them  into  chasms.  It  was  the  Chantilly  excursion,  though,  and  its  blithe  revela-  tion  of  what  unlimited  means  and  mon-  umental  gall  can  achieve,  that  pinioned  my  interest.  Some  ten  miles  from  her  home  there,  Lady  Diana  had  spotted  a  deserted  chateau  in  whose  park  was  a  lake,  surrounded  by  classical  statues,  containing  a  folly  boathouse.  The  own-  er  was  an  &quot;unknown  Baron&quot;  who,  in  her  arch  phrase,  &quot;hadn't  said  yes-  though  he  hadn't  said  no-to  my  re-  quest  two  years  before  to  be  allowed  to  trespass.&quot;  Accordingly,  she  and  a  friend  drove  over  one  Sunday  morning  in  a  station  wagon  &quot;loaded  with  dining-  room  chairs  (nothing  of  the  camping  order),  a  carpet,  pictures,  flowers,  china,  glass,  cutlery,  silver  and  best  tablecloth  (an  abandoned  table  for  ten  was  already  there),  soups  and  chickens,  cheeses  and  cake  and  peaches  and  wine  and  ice  (in  an  icebox).&quot;  As  they  were  installing  these  Spartan  indispensables,  the  interlopers  were  startled  by  a  re-  port,  and  learned  from  the  gatekeeper  that  the  baron  was  shooting  that  day.  Braving  the  chance  of  a  load  of  buckshot  in  the  ancestral  seat,  they  completed  their  ar-  rangements  and  stole  away.  Later  in  the  day,  Lady  Diana  lured  her  luncheon  guests  to  the  estate,  hoodwinked  them  into  thinking  they  had  stumbled  on  the  baron's  shooting  lunch,  and  persuaded  them  to  hijack  it.  Several  corn-  balls  in  the  group,  af-  flicted  with  ingrown  scruples,  made  inef-  fectual  protest  but  were  overruled,  and,  Lady  Diana  gleefully  con-  cludes,  &quot;there  was  one  who  believed  to  the  very  end  that  we  were  poachers  and  he  in  a  fairy  tale.&quot;  RDINARILY,  such  rogueries  would  throw  me  into  a  state  of  lacquered  composure,  except  that  by  a  strange  quirk  of  circumstance  they  clar-  ify  an  experience  that  has  puzzled  me  ever  since  I  underwent  it " b"last  spring.  One  Saturday  in  mid-April,  after  a  nine  weeks'  absence  from  my  [REDACTED]  freehold,  I  wheedled  our  Wills-Ste.  Claire  out  of  its  New  York  garage  and  drove  down  to  see  whether  the  mice  there  had  enough  to  eat,  the  paint  was  scaling  off  the  woodwork  on  schedule,  and  the  basement  flooded  properly.  It  was  a  glorious  day,  sun-  shine  and  fleecy  clouds,  and  the  prospect  of  a  serene,  leisurely  afternoon  of  chip-  ping  rust  and  emptying  drains,  with  no  sound  to  break  the  stillness  but  my  own  labored  breathing,  made  me  slightly  heady.  I  hummed  a  stave  from  &quot;'The  Vagabond  King&quot;  asI  swung  into  our  lane.  Halfway  up  it,  I  was  stricken  by  an  obscure  intuition  that  something  was  agley.  Drawn  up  before  the  barn  and  on  the  surrounding  grass  was  a  whole  flotilla  of  cars-Cadillacs,  Jaguars,  Volkswagen  buses,  foreign  sports  cars  innumerable.  A  couple  of  them,  I  ob-  served  as  I  drew  closer,  were  parked  squarely  on  top  of  some  prize  peonies  I  had  been  nurturing,  doubtless  to  shade  them  from  the  sun.  The  next  thing  I  observed  was  that  the  upperdoor  ofthe  barn,  communicating  with  the  hayloft,  hung  open,  and  that  a  young  lady  in  clam-digger  pants  and  a  yellow  halter  was  lolling  out  of  it,  a  cigarette  lazily  dangling  from  her  lips.  As  anyone  who  &quot;I  wish  we'd  never  seen  Mexico.&quot;  is  reasonably  aw  courant  knows,  clam-  digger  pants  are  hideously  inflammable,  and  the  thought  of  the  holocaust  they  might  touch  off  hit  me  right  in  the  solar  plexus.  I  sprang  from  behind  the  wheel  like  the  Mameluke  bey.  &quot;Hey,  what  are  you  doing  up  there?&quot;  I  shouted.  a  sunbath,&quot;  the  baggage  replied  brightly.  &quot;'The  rest  of  them  are  down  at  the  house.  You  go  in  through  that  gate-by  those  lilac  bushes.&quot;  &quot;''The  rest  of  them?&quot;  I  repeated.  ''The  rest  of  whom?&quot;  Before  she  could  reply,  I  became  aware  of  a  confused  up-  roar  in  the  yard,  of  laughter  and  a  babble  of  voices,  but  the  shrubbery  along  the  fence  impeded  my  view  of  the  lawn.  I  headed  back  toward  the  front  gate.  Before  I  had  got  midway,  a  chauffeur  in  spruce  green  livery  inter-  cepted  me.  &quot;Here,  better  move  that  heap  of  yours,&quot;  he  directed  crisply.  &quot;My  boss  wants  the  driveway  kept  clear,  in  case  she  needs  any  last-minute  stuff  for  the  picnic.&quot;  His  boss,  and  hostess  of  the  occasion,  I  managed  to  elicit,  was  a  Mrs.  Knatchbull,  who  was  supervising  matters  somewhere  within,  and  I  went  full  tilt  in  search  of  her.  The  grounds,  to  dignify  the  quarter  acre  of  dandelions  and  crab  grass  contiguous  to  the  house,  BQ  wa  were  en  gala  to  a  degree  undreamed  of  in  my  twenty-five  years  of  residence.  A  striped  marquee  housing  a  bar  had  been  pitched  in  a  convenient  flower  bed,  and  around  it  milled  a  festive  group  in  sports  clothes,  exchanging  noisy  badinage.  A  few  yards  away,  by  the  grape  arbor,  a  hearty  soul  in  a  chef's  cap  and  apron  was  doling  out  shish  kebabs,  hamburg-  ers,  and  other  succulents  from  a  porta-  ble  barbecue.  I  overheard  him  asI  passed  call  out  an  appeal  for  more  kindling,  and  an  assistant,  who  had  just  wrenched  free  one  of  the  uprights  of  the  arbor,  began  splintering  it  into  fire-  wood.  Most  of  the  jollification,  though,  centered  about  the  screened  porch,  which  had  been  pressed  into  serviceas  backstop  for  an  archery  butt.  The  marksmen  engaged  in  trying  to  hit  it  were  fairly  inept,  and  half  their  arrows  lodged  in  the  screens,  but  it  evidently  made  little  difference,  for  gales  of  mer-  riment  and  good-natured  persifiage  at-  tested  to  their  sportsmanship.  It  was  a  scene  to  warp  the  cockles  of  one's  heart.  Once  I  got  into  the  kitchen,  I  re-  alized  that  what  I  had  supposed  was  an  informal  al-fresco  affair  was  something  quite  different.  Amid  an  almost  deaf-  ening  racket,  fouror  five  upper-case  characters  of  a  type  not  usually  visible  " b"around  the  scullery  were  partitioning  cold  fowls,  blending  salads,  and  ladling  out  jellied  soups  and  vichyssoise.  My  petition  for  Mrs.  Knatchbull  went  un-  heeded  as  they  ransacked  the  cupboards  for  seasoning  and  utensils.  A  similar  bustle  of  activity  was  in  progress  in  the  dining  room,  except  that  it  seemed  more  orderly.  Several  young  matrons,  under  the  watchful  eye  of  an  imposing,  dow-  agerlike  party,  were  unloading  china,  cutlery,  and  silver  from  hampers  and  setting  the  table.  Our  pictures  had  been  taken  down  and  replaced  with  chic  canvases  by  I.  Rice  Pereira  and  Mor-  ris  Graves.  Sensing  that  the  overseer  with  the  majestic  bosom  was  the  lady  I  sought,  I  cleared  my  throat  to  speak.  As  if  forewarned,  a  Weimaraner  curled  up  under  the  sideboard  arose,  sniffed  my  leg,  and  emitted  a  bloodcurdling  growl.  &quot;Dagobert-lie  down!&quot;  the  dowa-  ger  snapped.  &quot;Leave  that'  man  alone!&quot;  She  turned  back  to  me,  eyebrows  raised  in  an  anticipatory  smile.  &quot;You  finally  found  us,  did  you?  So  glad  you  could  come.  You're  that  friend  of  Boots  Paleologue-what's  the  name?  Fip-  pinger,  that's  it-Milton  Fippinger.  Well,  Mr.  Fippinger,&quot;  she  went  on  briskly,  &quot;now  you're  here,  suppose  you  make  yourself  useful.  You  might  clear  the  hall  closet  so  we'll  have  a  place  for  our  coats.&quot;  &quot;Couldn't  he  adjust  the  heat  first,  Lydia?&quot;  one  of  her  helperspleaded.  &quot;It's  stifling  in  here.  We  fiddled  with  the  thermostat,  but  the  wretched  thing  pulled  right  out  of  the  wall.&quot;  At  that  moment,  the  phoneon  the  sideboard  rang,  and  I  automatically  started  to  answer  it.  Mrs.  Knatchbull  snatched  the  instrument  from  my  hand.  &quot;Good  heavens,  don't  touch  that!&quot;  she  said  apprehensively.  She  had  merely  borrowed  the  premises,  she  explained,  without  going  through  the  red  tape  of  consulting  the  owner;  nonetheless,  since  he  was  known  to  be  in  absentia,  who-  ever  was  calling  might  wax  suspicious.  Assuring  her  I  was  an  uncanny  mimic  and  knew  the  local  dialect  as  though  I  dwelt  in  the  neighborhood,  I  overrode  her  qualms  and  took  the  receiver.  It  was  the  farmer  adjacent,  mystified  by  the  concentration  of  vehicles  around  our  barn  and  somewhat  piqued  because  he  had  not  been  invited  to  the  funeral.  I  satisfied  him  that  we  were  all  in  robust  health  and  that  he  would  be  alerted  if  there  was  any  spring  planting,  and,  commending  him  for  his  solicitude,  sent  him  back  to  his  churn.  Mrs.  Knatchbull  was  clearly  impressed  with  my  fluency.  You  certainly  handled  that  beauti-  fully,  Milton,&quot;  she  marvelled.  &quot;I  swear,  you  sounded  like  the  owner  him-  self.  Just  the  same,  we'd  better  begin  lunch  before  anyone  else  comes  sniffing  around.&quot;  She  was  handing  me  a  dinner  bell  to  summon  the  guests  when  her  chauffeur  bolted  in,  concern  evident  on  his  face.  &quot;I  hate  to  bother  you,  Mrs.  Knatchbull,  but  I  thought  you  ought  to  know,&quot;  he  panted.  &quot;Something's   wrong  with  the  barn.  'There's  a  big  cloud  of  smoke  pouring  out  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  blast!&quot;  she  said  pettishly.  &quot;This  would  happen  to  me  just  as  my  party  was  starting.  What  in  the  world  shall  we  do?&quot;  &quot;M-maybe  the  smoke  would  blow  away  if  you  opened  all  the  barn  doors,&quot;  I  heard  myself  saying  from  a  great  dis-  tance.  &quot;Or  better  yet-why  not  simply  close  them  so  it  doesn't  show?&quot;  Mrs.  Knatchbull,  triste  as  only  one  persecuted  by  the  Fates  can  be,  shook  her  head.  &quot;No,  no,  the  whole  picnic's  ruined,&quot;  she  said  inconsolably.  &quot;The  next  thing  you  know,  the  place'll  be  swarming  with  volunteer  firemen  and  all  sorts  of  impossible  rustics.&quot;  'Then  " b"her  lips  tightened  in  sudden  decision.  &quot;Get  everybody  back  in  the  cars,  Wohlgemuth,&quot;  she  ordered  her  chauf-  feur.  &quot;Come  on,  girls-we're  all  going  to  the  Pavillon,  where  we  can  dine  graciously  instead  of  like  a  pack  of  squirrels.  I've  never  known  it  to  fail.  These  country  excursions  always  end  disastrously.&quot;  QUARTER  of  an  hour  later,  the  entire  company  and  its  para-  phernalia  had  vanished  like  one  of  Prince  Florizel's  soir\xc3\xa9es  in  &quot;The  New  Arabian  Nights.&quot;  They  did  leave  be-  hind,  however,  agalantine  of  chicken,  a  Smithfield  ham,  and  half  a  caseof  Taittinger  '37,  which  looked  pretty  good  to  the  firemen  by  the  time  they  finished  working  on  the  barn.  As  for  myself,  thus  far  I  haven't  figured  out  exactly  where  I  stand  on  the  afternoon.  I  still  have  two  [REDACTED]  Dutch  stone  gables  with  the  original  hex  signs,  and  an  I.  Rice  Pereira  abstraction  that  ought  to  fetch  a  cool  fifty  dollars  if  I  can  find  the  right  connoisseur.  The  affair  taught  me  one  thing,  though,  and  that  is  to  stay  in  the  city,  where  I  belong.  It  doesn't  pay  to  go  poking  your  nose  into  your  own  business."