 b"THE  season,  Gerald  thought,  was  I  strangely  loaded  with  death.  But  he  had  learned  enough  about  himself  to  suspect  that  the  fact  that  he  thought  this-that  he  was  so  conscious  of  the  cumulative  oppression  of  his  personal  losses  and  the  public  news-  might  mean  his  imagination  was  about  to  play  a  trick  on  him,  the  trick  he  privately  called  &quot;going  through  the  door.&quot;  Gerald  was  more  than  on  the  thresh-  old  of  success,  and  within  the  next  ten  years  was  sure  to  become  a  partner  in  the  law  firm  in  which  he  was  an  asso-  ciate.  In  prep  school  and  college,  he  had  hoped  and  wanted  more  than  anything  else  to  become  a  poet-a  hope  he  did  not  give  up  until  he  was  well  into  his  thirties,  when  the  grind  of  law  school  and  his  long  drudgeries  as  a  junior  as-  sociate  in  a  big  law  firm  had  all  but  put  a  stop  to  the  writing  he  had  kept  up  in-  dustriously  until  then.  Later  on,  as  the  nature  of  his  work  changed  and  became  more  intense,  more  responsible,  but  less  merely  burdensome,  he  had  been  able  to  set  aside  quiet  time-whole  evenings,  Sundays-for  writing.  In  this  his  wife,  Clara,  encouraged  him.  For  several  years,  he  hoped  once  again  for  what  he  described  to  himself  as  the  brush  of  the  wings,  uncertain  whether  he  meant  of  an  angel,  of  inspiration,  or  of  a  muse.  About  the  time  their  son  was  born,  with  a  conscious  sense  of  affectionate,  indulgent  amusement  toward  the  romantic  youth  he  had  once  been,  Ger-  ald  gave  up  his  literary  ambition.  The  wings  would  never  brush  him.  Not  for  him  the  enchanting  or  the  piercing  verse;  his  best  work  would  be  the  clear,  cogent  prose  of  briefs-which,  he  held,  were  a  form  of  art,  and  Clara  agreed  withhim.  A  considerable  part  of  the  work  of  such  firms  as  the  one  Gerald  was  asso-  ciated  with  lies  in  reading  the  future-  forecasting  what,  under  given  circum-  stances,  a  state  or  federal  commission  is  likely  to  decide,  what  the  decision  in  a  pending  case  may  be,  and  what  effect  this  or  that  decision  and  its  later  appli-  cations  might  have  on  the  activities  of  the  firm's  clients,  or  how  governmental  agencies  might  view  a  proposed  venture.  Upon  the  correctness  of  these  predic-  tions  depend  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars.  'The  final  predicting,  usually  styled  &quot;advice,&quot;  is  done  by  the  firms'  partners.  A  junior  associate's  business  is  largely  endless  research,  but  even  the  lowliest  of  them  should  be  ableto  organize  the  data  he  amasses  in  relation  to  the  desired  whole  and  to  spot  the  particularly  significant  items.  Gerald  made  one  bad  slip  during  his  junior  period.  It  was  in  a  minor  matter,  in-  volving  the  probable  outcome  of  a  case  then  being  tried,  which  was  important  to  him  just  because  it  was  minor,  since  he  was  allowed  to  handle  it  entirely  by  himself,  up  to  the  point  of  submitting  to  one  of  the  partners  of  the  firm  a  draft  of  the  advice  Gerald  thought  the  client  should  be  given,  The  judge  be-  fore  whom  the  case  was  being  tried  was  atrabilious  and  had  shown  personal  con-  victions  in  other  cases  about  subjects  that  came  into  the  arguments  on  this  one.  From  this,  Gerald  concluded  that  the  judge,  in  his  thinking,  would  take  a  certain  initial  position,  and  that  led  Gerald  himself  to  arrive,  by  a  tight,  smooth,  logical  sequence,  at  a  final  decision  that  required  advising  the  firm's  client  to  abandon  its  proposal.  The  partner  who  passed  on  his  work  said  it  was  beautiful  and,  in  a  legal  way,  read  like  something  by  Poe.  He  told  Gerald  that  caution,  even  an  ele-  ment  of  pessimism,  was  highly  desir-  able,  but  one  should  not  be  led  into  false  assumptions  on  that  side  any  more  than  on  the  side  of  optimism.  In  this  case,  while  Gerald's  estimate  of  certain  fallibilities  in  the  judge's  makeup  was  not  inaccurate,  he  had  assumed  that  the  judge  would  make  certain  findings  that  any  judge  would  know  that  any  court of  appeals  would  reject.  Gerald  did  his  work  over  in  such  a  manner  as  to  earn  himself  a  word  of  definite  approval.  He  knew  privately  what  had  hap-  pened:  He  had  &quot;gone  through  the  door.&quot;  It  began  in  prep  school,  when  his  civics  class  had  been  taken  through  several  mills  and  a  power  plant.  The  power  plant,  with  its  linked  dynamos,  beautiful,  almost  musical,  cleanly  logi-  cal,  had  enchanted  him.  The  mills-  the  machines  moving  jerkily  and  going  clackety-clack,  and  the  people  who  tended  them  moving  to  the  machine's  unrhythm,  not  going  clackety-clack  audibly  but,  he  was  sure,  in  their  souls  he  had  hated.  That  night  he  wrote  a  sonnet  on  the  dynamos,  and  it  had  turned  out  well.  Then,  though  much  too  tired,  he  tried  to  write  about  the  factories,  and  got  tangled  up  in  remi-  niscences  of  &quot;'The  Song  of  the  Shirt,&quot;  gave  up  and  went  to  bed,  and  dreamed  that  he  went  through  the  door  into  a  mill.  On  either  side  of  him,  ma-  chines  stretched  away  to  the  end  of  a  very  long  hall.  The  machines  had  the  quiet  and  beauty  of  dynamos,  but  they  were  assembly  lines.  They  seemed  as  unattended  as  dynamos  are,  but  he  knew  that  slaves  he  could  not  see  were  moving  about  them.  From  machine  to  machine  passed  the  thing  they  manufactured,  which  was  something  that  should  not  be  made.  'The  machines  impelled  him  and  their  product  down  the  hall  toward  a  farther  door.  Beyond  that  waited  death  and  destruction,  He  waked,  of  course,  before  he  went  through  it.  The  night-  mare  was  all  the  more  terrible  because  it  was  accompanied  by  a  sense  of  per-  fection  and  beauty.  The  dream  recurred  only  twice,  and  in  blurred  form,  but  he  soon  saw  that  there  were  times  when,  awake,  he  was  subject  to  a  kind  of  logic  of  disaster-  when,  having  accepted  the  initial  prem-  ise,  he  was  drawn  on  through  to  an  acceptance  of  the  idea  of  defeat.  His  faulty  analysis  of  that  case  had  taught  him  that  this  trick  of  the  imagination,  this-so  to  speak-&quot;going  through  the  door&quot;  into  the  mill  of  his  nightmare,  could  crop  up  in  his  law  work  and  that  it  behooved  him  to  guard  against  it.  Hence,  in  that  later  season  of  deaths  and  news  of  deaths,  he  was  wary  of  his  own  thought  processes.  In  choosing  a  wife,  he  could  hardly  have  done  better  than  Clara.  She  was  slim,  high-colored,  fine-featured,  with  dark  hair,  long,  dark  lashes,  and  very  blue  eyes.  He  himself  was  well  made,  solid,  on  the  fair  side,  and  pleasant-look-  ing.  They  made  a  good  couple.  She  was  both  likable  and  lovable.  She  was  aesthetically  sensitive,  she  was  percep-  " b"tive  where  her  husband  was  concerned,  and  she  stood  behind  him.  Her  first  pregnancy  end-  ed  in  an  unpleasant  failure,  from  which  it  took  her  some  time  to  recover.  Three  years  later,  she  produced  a  boy.  There  could  be  no  more,  but  the  one  was  triumphant.  The  child  grew.  He  was  not  precocious,  but  he  was  intelligent,  cheerful,  friend-  ly.  He  had  imagination.  That  it  was  anything  more  than  the  unfettered  imag-  ing  natural  to  any  child,  that  here  were  the  makings  of  a  real  writer,  Gerald  re-  fused  tothink.  If  he  himself  had  ever  had  a  successful  creation,  it  was  the  boy,  who,  as  he  passed  his  second  and  then  his  third  birthday,  lighted  their  household.  He  was  the  source  of  endless  trouble,  and  both  his  parents  won-  dered  how  they  had  sup-  ported  the  empty  years  be-  fore  he  came-much  as  Gerald,  in  those  years,  had  wondered  how  he  had  sup-  ported  the  vacancy  of  life  without  Clara.  The  child  seemed  to  be  inherit,  ing  his  mother's  looks  and  his  father's  build-an  excellent  union  of  grace  and  strength.  Gerald  was  incapable  of  the  dullness  of  thinking  of  him  as  totally  a  product  of  himself,  as  a  poem  would  be,  or  as  a  product  of  himself  and  Clara.  Here  was  an  individual,  a  third  person.  He  might  have  inherited  this  physical  feature  and  that  mental  gift,  but  he  was  making  himself;  he  was  infinitely  more  than  a  product.  This  individuality,  this  clearly  defined  singleness  of  a  per-  son  in  his  own  right,  induced  humility,  but  it  did  not  at  all  lessen  the  satisfaction  and  delight  of  having  been  in  some  measure  the  author  of  its  being,  or  of  the  sense  of  mutual  possession  between  him-  self  and  his  son.  Through  their  separate  relationships  with  the  child,  the  parents  found  their  own  relationship  perfected.  Family  life  gained  intensity  and  a  sense  of  constant  newness.  Gerald  wondered  at  times  how  many  of  his  colleagues  and  friends,  in  appearance  as  conformingly  ordinary  as  Clara  and  he,  lived  with  an  equal,  private  excitement.  It  occurred  to  him  occasionally,  at  certain  moments  with  his  son,  when  the  simple  fact  of  his  na-  ture  and  being  as  a  child  seemed  over-  whelming,  that  through  him  he  came  nearer  thanhe  ever  had  through  his   writing  to  knowing  what  the  brush  of  the  wings  was  like-the  wings  ofterror  and  of  exaltation.  When  the  boy  was  three  and  a  half,  in  June,  shortly  after  they  had  moved  to  the  country  for  the  summer,  Gerald's  cousin  Martha  died.  Her  death  was  not  unexpected;  she  had  been  seriously  ill  for  some  time.  'They  had  seen  each  other  only  occasionally  since  they  grew  up,  and  their  correspondence  had  sel-  dom  gonebeyond  an  exchange  of  long-  ish  letters  at  Christmas,  but  they  had  been  close  as  children,  they  communi-  cated  warmly  and  frankly,  and  hergo-  ing  left  him  without  a  single  close  relative.  There  was  a  code  he  would  never  use  again.  'There  were  mental  as-  sociations  that  hereafter  he  would  be  able  to  mention  to  no  one.  It  was  after  thatthat  he  became  con-  scious  of  the  depressing  character  of  the  daily  news.  He  was  unsure  whether,  in  fact,  they  had  entered  one  of  those  extra-  unpleasant  periods  that  occur  from  time  to  time,  or  whether  the  change  was  in  his  sensitivity  to  what  he  read.  He  thought  of  making  a  back  check  of  the  papers  for  the  month  before  his  cousin's  death,  but  did  not  get  around  to  it.  [REDACTED]  and  her  neighbors  were  busy  shooting  up  each  other's  outposts  and  border  settlements,  French  43616e616461Africa  was  all  battle  and  rapine,  and     there  were  riots,  stonings  of  consulates,  burnings  of  houses,  in  a  dozen  coun-  tries.  At  home,  the  governor  of  the  state  had  launched  a  big  drive  forsafety  on  the  highways,  in  cooperation  with  which  the  newspapers  played  up  fatal  accidents  for  all  they  were  worth.  Then  one  of  those  same  accidents  claimed  the  life  of  Todd  Hopkins,  Ger-  ald's  most  intimate  friend.  Todd  and  he  had  gone  to  the  same  prep  school  and  had  liked  each  other  there.  They  had  chosen  different  colleges  and  law  schools,  and  then  been  reunited  in  Ger-  ald's  law  firm.  After  a  lapse  of  years,  old  school  connections  often  prove  false,  even  slightly  embarrassing,  be-  cause  they  no  longer  have  meaning  and  yetthe  wearers  of  the  tie  feel  called  upon  to  keep  making  gestures  as  if  they  did,  In  the  case  of  Gerald  and  Todd,  however,  the  old  association  proved  valid.  They  became  fonder  of  each  other  year  by  year.  Latterly  they  had  worked  together  a  good  deal,  and  in  the  firm  were  recognized  as  an  effec-  tive  team.  Gerald  was  the  more  bril-  liant,  the  one  who  would  first  become  a  partner.  Todd  had  more  humor.  He  was  more  relaxed  under  pressure.  He  had  sweetness  enough  to  show  that  he  ad-  mired  his  friend,  which  was  warming.  It  gave  Gerald  a  sense  of  comfort  and  steadiness  to  work  with  Todd.  He  had  " b"even  felt  close  enough  to  him  to  tell  him  about  the  phenomenon  of  going  through  the  door,  and  at  least  once  Todd  had  spotted  a  line  of  pessimistic  reasoning  in  Gerald's  work  that  sprang  from  it.  His  cousin's  death  had  left  Gerald  with  a  feeling  of  mild  loneliness,  of  a  lid  closed  on  part  of  the  past,  a  fixture  gone  from  his  horizon.  'The  snatching  of  Todd  out  of  his  world  tore  a  hole  in  it.  After  a  day  or  two,  he  was  confront-  ed  with  the  fact  that  in  time  the  edges  would  cease  to  be  jagged,  but  the  hole  would  never  entirely  be  filled.  Clara  had  not  known  Todd  well;  the  Hop-  kinses  lived  year  round  in  New  Jersey,  while  she  and  Gerald  had  chosen  Man-  hattan,  with  a  rented  house  at  the  sea-  shore  in  summer.  For  all  her  real  sym-  pathy,  Gerald  could  not  quite  share  his  memory  or  his  loss  with  her,  but  fell  back  instead  into  a  lonely  internal  dialogue  with  himself.  TODD  HoPrKINs  was  killed  in  Au-  gust.  A  week  after  the  funeral,  a  nasty  virus  swept  through  the  combina-  tion  play  school  and  infant  swimming  class  that  the  boy  went  to  three  days  a  week,  and  he,  too,  came  down  with  it.  The  virus  got  its  work  in  during  a  spell  of  northeasterly  weather  that  kept  the  children  indoors.  Its  course  was  predict-  able.  It  ran  about  a  week,  with  several  days  of  really  high  fever,  stomach  ache,  and  generalized  aches  and  pains.  To-  ward  the  end,  there  were  likely  to  be  nosebleeds.  The  local  pediatrician  was  excellent.  He  told  Clara  what  to  expect;  it  was  an  unpleasant  business  but  no  cause  for  fear.  All  the  same,  it  is  thor-  oughly  upsetting  to  feel  one's  child  furiously  hot  with  fever,  to  have  him  crying  from  what  medical  people  call  &quot;discomfort,&quot;  and  to  be  unable  to  quiet  him  even  with  the  proven  magic  of  holding  and  rocking  him.  On  Wednesday  evening,  when  Ger-  ald  came  home,  Clara  told  him  with  in-  tense  relief  that  the  boy's  temperature  had  dropped.  He  had  eaten  some  gela-  tine.  Gerald  took  a  turn  with  him.  He  was  cheerful,  but  unnaturally  quiet.  You  could  see  how  the  child  had  lost  weight;  his  eyes,  as  blue  as  his  mother's,  were  too  large  for  his  face.  His  father  thought  him  too  beautiful,  alarmingly  so.  He  had  a  nosebleed  early  Thursday  morning.  It  was  Clara  who  first  heard  his  frightened  call  and  went  in  to  him.  She  was  pretty  well  worn  out  by  the  days  just  past,  and  the  sight  of  the  rich  bleeding  was  too  much  for  her,.  Gerald  took  over,  fully  prepared  to  be  late,  to  miss  a  morning  or  a  day  from  work.  He  managed  to  get  his  son  interested  in the  idea  of  the  little  pipes  through  which  blood  runs,  one  of  which  had  broken  and  had  to  get  well,  and  got  him  past  the  fear.  He  sold  him  on  the  cracked  ice.  'The  bleeding  stopped  soon  enough  for  Gerald  to  eat  breakfast  at  the  usual  time.  He  felt  wrung  out  and  was  sur-  prised  at  his  appetite.  He  told  Clara  to  telephone  the  doctor  on  general  princi-  ples,  as  soon  as  he  could  be  reached  at  his  office,  and  went  to  work.  When  Gerald  came  home  that  night,  he  found  that  there  had  been  three  more  nosebleeds,  none  as  severe  as  the  first.  Clara  had  dealt  with  them  competently.  She  was  haggard,  and  he  began  to  worry  lest  she  catch  the  bug,  too.  He  took  his  turn  with  the  boy.  The  fever  had  stayed  down,  although  the  child's  face  was  still  flushed.  He  ate  some  junket.  Then  he  grew  sleepy,  and  his  father  left  him  about  seven.  He  did  not  think  there  would  be  more  bleeding.  Gerald  and  Clara  had  a  cocktail  and  ate  dinner.  Gerald  prescribed  a  glass  of  claret  apiece.  Shortly  after  eight,  they  went  into  the  boy's  room,  and  found  him  drowsily  awake,  and  gave  him  an  aspirin  tablet,  the  pink,  lemony-tasting  kind  you  have  to  hide  lest  children  eat  it  as  candy.  It  was  important  that  he  have  it,  to  keep  his  fever  down  and  insure  his  sleep.  They  also  took  his  temperature,  and  were  relieved  that  it  was  a  hundred  de-  grees  even.  Clara  was  easier  than  she  had  been  when  her  husband  came  home,  but  still  tense,  and  plainly  done  in.  He  told  her  to  take  a  sleeping  pill  and  go to  bed;  he  had  brought  some  work  with  him  and  would  tackle  that  and  listen  for  the  boy.  She  resisted  for  no  good  reason,  and  then  suddenly,  glad-  ly,  gave  in.  GERALD  took  his  work  up  to  the  guest  room,  and  left  the  door  open  and  the  nursery  door  open  a  crack.  He  set  up  a  bridge  table  and  started  in  on  his  pa-  pers.  He  was  just  well  lost  in  the  reading  when  the  boy  cried  out.  Gerald  got  up  and  went  in  to  him,  closing  the  nursery  door  and  switching  on  a  shaded,  fifteen-  watt  bulb  he  had  put  into  a  fixture  when  the  sickness  started.  It  was  another  nosebleed,  not  a  bad  one,  but  the  boy  must  have  been  asleep  and  the  blood  had  run  into  his  throat,  partly  choking  him,  and  he  was  fright-  ened.  Gerald's  first  concern  was  to  quiet  him.  Clara's  pill  would  be  just  about  taking  effect  and  he  did  not  want  her  wakened.  He  and  the  boy  rocked  to-  gether  in  the  rocking  chair.  It  was  an  old  chair  with  an  irritating  squeak  to  which  his  son  was  devoted.  Clara  had  put  a  refilled  ice  bag  in  the  washbasin  in  the  bathroom,  just  in  case.  When  the  boy  was  calm,  Gerald  was  able  to  leave  him,  sitting  in  the  chair  and  holding  Kleenex  to  his  nose,  long  enough  to  run  and  get  it.  What  a  good  little  soldier  the  kid  was,  Gerald  thought  with  a  sudden,  purely  male  pride  as  he  came  back  to  him;  what  a  little  man  when  the  pinch  came.  He  took  the  boy  on  his  lap  again,  and,  rocking,  set  a  fold  of  the  ice  bag  against  the  infantile  little  nose.  The  coolness  of  the  bag  in  his  hand  made  him  sharply  aware  ofthe  warmth  of  the  room,  which  he  found  uncom-  fortable.  The  boy  pushed  the  ice  bag  gently  aside,  leaned  forward,  and  spat  out  a  small  amount  of  blood,  which " b"landed  on  Gerald's  knee.  Gerald  reached  for  the  tis-  sues,  wiped  his  knee,  and  set  the  ice  bag  in  place  again  as  the  small  head  went  back  against  the  crook  of  his  el-  bow.  The  incident  struck  him  as  funny.  He  took  the  piece  of  tissue  the  child  had  been  holding,  which  showed  a  trace  of  blood,  and  gave  him  a  fresh  one.  The  boy  said  softly,  &quot;'Too  much  cold,&quot;  and  Gerald  set  the  bag  on  the  floor.  The  hand  in  which  the  boy  had  been  holding  the  fresh  Kleenex  to  his  nose  lowered  slowly;  the  paper  was  unspotted.  Both  his  hands  went  limp  and  his  eyes  closed.  His  body  re-  laxed  all  over.  Gerald  had  heard  and  read  of  children  going  to  sleep  in  their  par-  ents'  arms,  and  had  been  disappointed  that  it  almost  never  happened  withhim;  the  child  was  too  live,  too  determined  not  to  miss  anything.  Gerald  felt  a  deep  satisfaction  now.  After  a  moment  or  two,  he  felt  the  child's  cheek.  It  was  cool;  it  seemed  much  cooler  than  the  room.  He  felt  the  hands,  and  the  ankles  between  the  snug  cuffs  of  the  pajamas  and  the  slippers;  they  were  chil-  ly.  Making  a  long  arm,  he  got  a  blanket  from  the  bed.  He  kept  on  rocking,  hearing  at  each  backward  swing  the  unfriendly  creak  of  the  chair.  He  could  see  well  by  the  weak  bulb  now,  but  around  everything,  and  especial-  ly  around  the  boy's  face,  was  an  over-  lay  of  shadow.  You  could  hardly  tell  that  he  was  breathing.  He  looked  pale,  but  that  could  be  the  light.  Gerald  had  never  seen  thatface  so  limp.  'There  were  traces  of  blood  around  the  nostril  that  had  bled,  and  below  both  nostrils  a  little  blood  at  the  corners  of  the  mouth,  which  had  fallen  open.  The  dark  lashes  lay  on  the  cheeks,  and  the  shadow  over  the  eyelids.  Of  course  the  aspirin,  which  to  an  in-  fant  of  that  age  was  a  powerful  drug,  had  taken  effect,  all  the  more  strongly  for  having  been  held  off.  You  would  ex-  pectthe  child  to  be  exhausted.  The  nose-  bleeds  had  been  predicted  and  were  not  excessive.  Gerald  himself  felt  cold,  al-  though  he  was  still  conscious  of  the  warmth  of  the  room.  As  the  child  re-  clined,  his  head  slightly  back,  his  nostrils  were  more  important  than  usual  in  his  face.  They  had  an  extraordinary  quali-  ty  of  slackness;  so  had  his  lips,  as  though  the  outlines  of  lips  and  nostrils  had  been  fudged  in  the  drawing.  Limp,  a  pervasive  limpness,  the  eyelids  and  lash-  es,  the  nose,  the  mouth,  the  whole  body.  He  wanted  to  lift  the  blanket  and  look  at  the  hands,  but  could  not.  Those  hands  moved  him  too  much.  He  had  thought  it  funny  when  the  boy  spat  blood,  but  perhaps  it  was  not.  Where  had  that  blood  come  from?  For  a  mo-  ment  he  felt  himself  swirl  and  sink.  There  were  two  impossibilities.  One  was  to  perform  any  act  that  did  not  be-  long  in  the  normal  process  of  quieting  a  child;  the  other  was  to  waken  Clara.  He  went  on  rocking  slowly.  It  was  all  very  well  that  the  various  stages  of  this  illness  had  been  predicted  by  thedoctor;  there  is  always  the  exception.  What  are  the  effects  of  a  hundred  and  four  de-  grees  of  fever,  not  in  the  evening  but  on  waking  in  the  morning?  He  had  entered  the  chain  of  reasoning  along  which  he  had  to  follow,  knowing  that  it  led  in  perfect  beauty  to  an  end  from  which  somehow  he  must  turn  aside  be-  fore  he  reached  it.  A  detached  part  of  his  mind  stated  clearly  that  this  was  pure  emotion,  tinged  with  an  almost  literary  element,  but  that  recognition  was  theoretical  and  ineffectual.  Some-  where  he  had  seena  face  like  this  de-  .  picted.  Or  was  it  carved?  Painted,  he  thought.  He  had  an  unplaceable  mem-  ory  of  a  picture  of  deathly  relaxation.  At  the  time,  it  had  seemed  just  bad,  gruesome  realism.  He  set  himself  to  rock  a  hundred  times,  counting.  His  heart  was  beating  too  hard  and  too  fast,  in  a  way  that  was  alarming  in  itself  and  that  aroused  an  ancient,  feral  certainty  of  danger.  His  stomach  was  moist;  there  was  sweat  on  his  cold  palms.  Eighteen,  nineteen,  twenty  .  ..  His  solitude  was  unutterable,  but  that  was  required  as  he  moved  along  the  silent  links  of  fear.  There  was  noth-  ing  to  do  but  wait  and  find  out,  and  it  was  for  him  alone.  The  child  did  not  stir.  Thirty-five,  thirty-six,  thirty-sev-  en  ...  There  are  wings  in  the  room  now,  he  thought  bitterly-the  dreadful  wings  of  the  dark  angel.  He  needed  Clara  to  the  center  of  his  bowels,  and  he  thanked  God  she  was  not  there.  The  thought  of  the  doctor  never  occurred  to  him.  His  counting  reached  fifty.  By  then,  he  knew  how  close  Todd  was  to  " b"all  this,  and  behind  him  Martha  and  all  the  season's  accumulation  of  death;  but  above  all  these  was  Todd-not  as  an  emissary,  not  as  an  enemy,  but  part  of  the  linkage.  AT  the  seventy-sixth  rock  of  the  chair,  the  boy  let  his  head  fall  over,  so  his  cheek  lay  on  Gerald's  arm.  At  ninety-one,  he  snored  once,  and  thereafter  his  breathing  was  strong  and  moderately  audible.  With  a  giddy  desire  for  laughter,  Gerald  realized  that,  throughout  the  counting,  his  son's  body  had  been  snugly  warm  against  his.  The  seventeenth-century  practice  of  blood-  letting,  he  thought  with  an  inclination  to  giggle,  combined  with  aspirin,  would  produce  a  low  temperature.  He  tucked  the  sleeping  infant  into  bed,  stood  for  a  moment  to  watch  and  listen,  and  then  left  the  room.  He  felt  weak  and  as  if  he  had  been  cleansed  throughout  his  body.  He  went  down-  stairs,  mixed  a  whiskey-and-soda,  and  settled  down  with  the  drink  and  a  smoke,  The  documents  could  go  for  this  evening.  In  half  an  hour  he  would  check  on  the  boy  and  go  to  bed.  He  felt  as  if  he  had  just  completed  a  very  im-  portant,  difficult  piece  of  work.  He  felt  extraordinarily  at  ease.  He  looked  at  his  watch.  He  would  wait  a  full  thirty  minutes  before  looking  in  on  his  son,  al-  though  he  was  magnificently  sleepy. "