 b" PLEASE,  Gussie,  don't  gimme  that  &quot;Guess-who's-on-the-wire?&quot;  bit.  This  here  happens  to  be  a  naw-  fice-namely,  the  Benny  Greenspan  Agency-and  I  don't  like  it  when  my  privitt  seckatary  comes  bargin'  in  and  wants  I  should  play  guessin'  games.  Look,  you  gonna  tell  me  who's  on  the  wire,Gussie,  or  must  I  get  on  my  hind  horse  and  personally  pick  up  the  phone  and  get  the  infimmation  all  by  my-  ~self?  ...  Who?  .  ..  Well,  fa  cryin'  out  loud,  that  is  a  big  supprise!  .  ..  Hello?  Artie!  Artie,  you  old  bastid,  when  did  you  blow  inna  town?  ...  You'  don't  say!  So  tell  me,  kid,  how  long  you  plannin'  to  stay  here  in  Holly-  wood?  .  ..  Oney  two  days?  What  kind  crummy  flesh  peddler  you  got  repre-  sentin'  you  whereby  you  get  a  measly  two-day  deal?  ...  Oh,  I  see.  You're  just  dispensin'  your  things  from  storitch  and  then  flyin'  right  back  again?  ..  .  Ah,  ha,I  get  it!  Well,  I  don't  blame  you,  Artie.  The  way  cur-  rent  conditions  are  today,  you're  better  off  not  work-  in'  in  New  York  than  not  workin'  in  this  town,  which,  believe  me,  is  strickly  from  hunger.  A  regella  morgue,  believe  me!  Artie,  you  won't  hardly  reckanize  this  place  com-  pared  like  it  was  years  ago.  Why,  years  ago  evvey  studio  was  knockin'  out  maybe  fordy,  fifdy  featchis  a  year,  and  I,  personally,  useta  be  busier  than  a  one-  eyed  paperhanger,  'sellin'  properties  here,properties  there,  and  placin'  me  my  clients  on  long-term  con-  tracks  whereby  all  I  hadda  do  was  just  sit  back  and  that  dough  would  come  rollin'  in  hand  over  foot.  Why,  in  the  olden  days  a  person  could  go  way  to  Pomm  Springs  the  week-  end  and  relax  theirselves  nice  and  easy.  Today,  you  know  how  you  relax  to-  day?  Pills!  Artie,  you  never  seen  such  a  pill-hap-  py  town  like  we  got  to-  day,  whereby  evveybody's  turned  hisself  into  a  regella  drug  attic.  In  the  mornin'  you  simply  gotta  take  a  Spansule  Dexedrine  to  keep  your  peep-  ers  wide  open,  and  comes  nighttime  and  you  wish  to  hit  the  sack,  you  gotta  swal-  ly  a  Miltown,  else  you  wind  up  where-  by  the  sheep,  they're  countin'  you.  And  sometimes,  even  when  things  are  good,  they're  no  good,  too.  Now,  I'm  a  person  who  happens  not  to  believe  in  that  carnation  stuff-you  know,  the  Birdie  Murphy  bit-but  I  sure  musta  done  somethin'  wrong  in  my  previous  life,  else  why  should  hard  luck  keep  hooverin'  over  me  alla  time?  Look,  kid,  if  you  got  a  couple  minutes  to  spare,  I  want  you  should  listen  to  this,  and  then  you  tell  me  if  I'm  entitled  to  a  beef  or  not.  ABOUT,  oh,  I'd  say  five,  six  months  ago  this  was,  there  I  am,  I'm  sit-  tin'  in  my  awfice  and  I'm  reviewin'  my  list-the  clients  I  got-and  I'm  goin'  MS  over  the  entire  situation  with  a  fine  tooth.I  figger,  here  I  am,  I'm  repre-  sentin'  some  very  fine  names,  talentwise.  The  oney  trouble  is  a  lotta  my  people,  they're  not  workin'.  Why?  There's  simply  no  activity.  Evvey  studio  I  been  to,  it's  so  quiet  you  could  pick  up  a  pin.  So  what's  the  result?  The  result  is  evvey  single  week  I  got  a  couple  clients  who  are  desertin'  me  like  rats  from  a  drown-  in'  ship.  Not  good,  believe  me.  So  there  I  am,  sittin'  with  my  face  at  half-mass,  wonderin'  why  I  stuck  to  the  flesh-ped-  dlin'  game.  &quot;Benny,&quot;  I'm  sayin'to  my-  self,  &quot;you're  adope.  You're  a  first-class  cluck.  Just  lookit  what's  happened  to  some  of  them  agents  who  started  out  alongabout  the  same  time's  you-guys  like  Harold  Hecht,  Charlie  Feldman,  Leland  Hayward.  You  know  where  they  are  today?&quot;  I  says  to  myself.  &quot;'They  are  independint  producers,  oc-  cupyin'  a  prominent  notch  in  the  in-  dustry,  whereas  you,  you  cloth-head,  what  are  you  occupyin'?  A  reserved " b"seat  right  smack  behind  the  eight  ball  And  while  I'm  sittin'  there,  maulin'  things  over  along  them  lines,  my  door  opens  and  in  comes  Gussie,  my  secka-  tary,  and  she  informs  me  Flag  Fulton  is  outside,  and  he  wishes  he  should  see  me.  Now,  I  don't  hafta  explain  you  who  Flag  Fulton  is.  None  other  than  one  of  the  hottest  stars  in  the  business  today-  a  livin'  gold  mine,  that's  all.  A  couple  more  clients  from  the  similar  ilk  like  Flag  and,  believe  me,  'd  haveone  great  big  headache  removed  offa  my  hands.  Anyways,  I  tells  Gussie  to  send  him  in,  which  she  does,  and  in  comes  Flag  lookin'  very  spit  and  spat,  and,  Artie,  he's  grinnin'  from  one  ear  to  his  other.  &quot;Well,  well,  Flag,&quot;  I  says  to  him,  &quot;you  certainey  are  lookin'  very  chippy  today,  judgin'  the  way  you're  smilin'  and  all.  So  what  is  up,  boy?&quot;  So  he  in-  forms  me  what  is  up-namely,  they  just  ran  a  rough  cut  from  his  latest  pitcha  over  at  Regal,  and  they're  so  ex-  cited  the  results,  R.  D.  wantsa  tear  up  his  old  contrack  and  give  him  a  bran-  new  deal  just  onna  strennth  the  rough  cut  alone,  which  is  why  he's  here,  to  discuss  what  terms  we  should  go  ahead  and  ast  for.  When  I  hears  this  good  news,  right  away  I  starts  to  pert  up,  and  just  when  I'm  about  to  mention  him  a  figger  we  should  demand,  alluva  sudden,  like  a  bolt  from  the  blues,  I  gets  me  a  better  idear.  Why  not  form  our  own  inde-  pendint  outfit?  After  all,  what  a  person  needs  in  this  here  game  is  to  get  hisself  a  hot  property,  and  believe  you  me,  with  a  star  like  Flag  Fulton,  I  got  me  a  property  that's  so  hot  it's  positively  siz-  &quot;Look,  Flag,&quot;  I  says  to  him,  &quot;from  what  you  just  now  informed  me,  I'm  convinced  I  could  get  R.  D.  to  renew  your  contrack  at  more  dough.  And  you  know  somethin'?&quot;  I  says.  &quot;I'm  not  gonna  do  it.  No,  sir!&quot;  So  while  he  sits  there  starin'  at  me  like  I  just  lost  all  my  marbles,  I  says,  &quot;What  for?  Why,  a  guy  in  your  income-tax  bracket,  by  the  time  he's  through  shellin'  out  to  the  govvemint,  what  is  left  you  can  shove  in  your  left  eye  without  you  should  even  blink  yet.  No,  Flag.  What  I'm  gonna  do,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;I'm  gonna  ast  R.  D.  to  ex-  tend  your  present  contrack  at  the  same  terms.  But,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;I'm  gonna  get  him  to  give  permission  you  should  make  one  outside  pitcha  away  from  the  studio.&quot;  &quot;Fa  cryin'  out  loud,  Benny!&quot;  he  starts  hollerin'  on  me,.  &quot;What  kind  deal  is  that?  I'll  still  hafta  pay  exorbent  taxes,  won't  I?&quot;  &quot;Uh-uh,&quot;  I  says.  &quot;This  here  outside  deal  is  gonna  be  made  by  a  com-  pany  which  you  and  me--just  we  two  of  us-are  gonna  form  by  our  own  selves.  Now,  I  got  a  smart  lawyer  who  knows  the  tax  setup  inside  and  outside,  and  we  leave  it  up  to  him  to  work  out  an  angle  whereby  all  the  dough  we  make  comes  out  capital  gains.  'That  means  we  are  taxed  oney  twenny-five  per  cent,  leavin'  us  semny-five  per  cent  net  to  divvy  up  amongst  us.  Waddeya  say  to  that?&quot;  Artie,  all  he  says  to  that  is  nothin'.  He  just  sits  there,  the  quietest  I  ever  heard  him.  &quot;Benny,&quot;  he  finey  says,  &quot;you  wish  my  honest  opinion?&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  I  says.  &quot;After  all,  if  we're  gonna  be  partners,  Flag,  I  want  you  should  aw  ways  shoot  straight  from  the  shoulders  with  me.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Benny,  right  now  you're  my  agent,  and,  as  such,  you  col-  leck  ten  per  cent  my  renumeration,  which  you  are  strickly  entitled  to  and  which  I  don't  grudge  you  one  bit.  But  now,  alluva  sudden,  you're  demandin'  I  should  take  you  on  as  co-star,  and  I  should  share  halfa  the  billin'  and  halfa  the  take.  Why,  is  what  I  wanna  know.  Why?&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  repeats  him.  &quot;On  account  who  thought  up  the  whole,  en-  tire  deal?  Me!  Who's  gotta  hunt  up  material  and  work  with  the  writer  whilst  you  are  busy  shootin'  another  pitcha  at  Regal?  Me!  Who's  gotta  ar-  range  the  financin'  and  get  the  release?  Me!  Believe  me,  Flag,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;f  Burt  Lancaster  ast  Harold  Hecht  why  they  should  be  partners,  they  wouldn'a  made  'Mardy'  and  wouldn'a  won  all  them  Oscars  fa  that  downbeat  item  which  I  thought  sure  would  lay  one  great  big  bomb,  box-awficewise.  Honestly,  Flag,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;I'm  supprised  your  whole  at-  titude.&quot;  I  guess  I  musta  took  the  sails  right  outa  him,  on  account  he  quitens  down  and  suggests  why  not  leave  my  lawyer  get  in  touch  with  his  lawyer,  the  two  should  go  ahead  and  iron  the  whole  thing  out.  &quot;O.K.,  Flag,&quot;  I  says.  'That's  agreeable  by  me.&quot;  AITIE,  lemme  give  you  a  good  piece  advice..  Never-you  hear'-  never  do  no  business  with  no  lawyers  if  you  possibly  can!  Cracked-pots,  the  whole  bunch!  I  tell  you,  by  the  time  them  two  legal  beavers  got  finished  argyin'  each  and  evvey  clause,  months  went  by  and  still  we  got  no  papers  to  sign.  But  the  biggest  thing  we  din  have  was  no  story.  Believe  me,  I  searched  evvey  nook  and  granny  tryin'  to  find  somethin'.  I  wore  my  two  peepers  to  the  bone  readin'  books,  plays,  originals,  magazines,  and  whatnots.  I  figgered  maybe  I  could  dig  me  up  some  germ  we  could  develop  screenwise.  Nothin',  Artie.  But  nothin'!  Well,  now  I'm  really  discouraged.  So  one  night  I'm  sittin'  at  home  thinkin'  how  here  I  am,  right  in  the  mist  the  biggest  thing  in  my  life-namely,  my  own  producin'  unit,  which  it  looks  is  gonna  fold  up  on  me  like  some  accor-  deen  or  other-when,  lo  and  behold,  my  doorbell  rings  and  in  comes  Flag  " b"Fulton,  very  excited-like,  and  he's  wavin'  a  buncha  pages  in  my  kisser.  &quot;Benny!  Benny!&quot;  he's  screamin'.  &quot;I  got  it,  I  got  it!  Here's  a  story,  believe  me,  it's  so  sensational  I  guarantee  you'll  dote  each  and  evvey  word.  Just  wait  till  you  read  this!&quot;  Actors!  To  them  any  piece  writin'  is  simply  great-even  a  couple  lines  on  a  plain  postal  card-so  natchelly  I  takes  what  Flag  is  sayin'  with  a  graina  salts.  Anyways,  he  gizz  me  the  story,  and  first  thing  I  see  is  the  title-&quot;Black  Is  My  Crime.&quot;  Mmm,  I  thinks  to  myself,  not  'bad.  At  lease  it's  got  a  highly  suggestive  title.  Then  I  read  the  first  page,  then  the  next,  and  finey  the  whole  thing,  and  now  I'm\xc2\xbb  the  pardy  what's  excited.  &quot;Flag,  boy,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;I  think  we  got  holt  of  a  sensational  piece  material!  Why,  this  here  is  such  a  movvellous  thriller  and  all,  it  atchel-  ly  curls  the  blood.  [REDACTED];  I  says.  &quot;Re-  fresh  me  somethin'  about  the  writer.  Who  is  he?&quot;  So  he  informs  me  he's  a  43616e616461ren-  type  writer  who  goes  under  the  name  Beauregard  Fremont.  He  come  to  Hol- lywood  a  few  years  ago  to  adopt  his  nov-  el-all  about  the  Civil  War,  but  it  never  got  produced-and  since  then  he's  been  free-lancin'  aroun'  without  he's  got  no  screenplay  credits.  &quot;Right  [REDACTED];  Flag  says,  &quot;he's  split  up  with  his  wife,  and  he's  been  romancin'  my  sister  Ellen,  which  is  howwe  become  acquainted.  I  figger  if  we  buy  the  story,  we  could  kill  off  two  birds  with  the  similar  stone-  namely,  purchase  us  a  great  piece  property,  and  then  Beau  can  go  ahead  and  dispose  his  wife  and  marry  my  sister.  Benny,&quot;  he  says  to  me,  &quot;I'll  lay  twenny-five  Gs  onna  line  right  now  if  you'll  do  likewise.  Why,  fifdy  grand  fa  this  story,  that's  a  regella  steal.&quot;  &quot;Listen,&quot;  I  says.  &quot;If  we're  gonna  com-  mit  larceny,  why  not  commit  it  petty,  whereby  it  don't  cost  us  so  much?  Anyways,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;you  send  this  here  writer  to  me  first  thing  in  the  mornin',  and  we'll  discuss  what  is  a  fair-and-  square  price.&quot;  Well,  sir,  the  follyin'  mornin'  I  come  to  my  awfice,  and,  lo  and  behold,  there  he  is,  this  Fremont  character.  And,  Artie,  I  couldn't  hardly  believe  my  own two  eyes.  Here's  [REDACTED],  a  town  where  good-lookin'  actors  are  a  dime  a  dozen.  So  what  does  this  Ellen  dame  go  ahead  and  pick  on?  An  empty  suit!  A  shrimp!  One  good  wind  and  he'd  disappear  away  entirely.  And  when  he  opened  his  kisser-boy,  oh,  boy,  was  I  agasp!  I  just  couldn't  unnastand  one  goddam  thing  this  cottonhead's  sayin'.  Bein'  he  comes  from  way  down  [REDACTED]  there,  from  [REDACTED]  someplace,  natch-  elly  evvey  word  comes  out  pure  Vir-  ginese,  like  he's  talkin'  in  some  farn  langwitch  or  other.  The  one  thing  that  comes  acrost  very  plain  is  Flag  promised  him  fifdy  thousin'  fa  the  story,  which  is  the  exack  sum  he  insists  on  wantin'.  Artie,  they  say  two  heads  are  better  than  one,  but  not  on  him,  believe  me.  I  talked  and  talked  to  this  double-dome  character  till  I  turned  blue  in  the  face,  but  he  refused  to  budge  one  solitary  inch  in  price.  &quot;O.K.,  Beau.  If  that  is  hom-  much  you  wish,  that's  hommuch  you'll  get.  But  remember,  that  there  dough  is  gonna  be  community  property  that  you'll  hafta  split  up  with  your  current  wife.  I  guess  you  still  must  be  stuck  " b"on  her,  else  you  could  brush  her  off  fa  peanuts,  and  likewise  save  yesself  a  bundle,  taxwise.&quot;  He  opens  his  mouth  and  out  comes  oney  one  word:  &quot;How?&quot;  So  I  tells  him  insteada  takin'  cash  he'll  hafta  divvy  up  with  a  dame  who'll  soon  be  a  total  stranger,  he  should  take  rather  a  small  equity  in  the  company-be  awmost  like  a  partner.  &quot;Beau,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;I'm  prepared  to  give  you  right  now  a  slice  from  any  and  all  the  net  profits  we  make.  Why,  I  wouldn't  be  a  bit  supprised,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;if  your  share  alone  wound  up  a  cool  hundrit  grand  by  the  time  we  exhausted  the  world  mar-  ket  and  disposed  us  the  tele-  vision  rights.  'That's  sure  a  mighty  nice  egg-nest  fa  a  guy  who's  contemplatin'  get-  tin'  hisself  hitched  up  again.  So  what's  it  gonna  be,  Beau?&quot;  I  asts  him.  &quot;A  check  fa  fifdy  thou,  or  you  wish  to  participate  profitwise,  whereby  you  get  income  spread  over  a  five,six  year  period,  give  or  take  a  year?  It's  strickly  up  to  you.&quot;  Artie,  the  words  ain't  hard-  ly  hot  outa  my  mouth  yet  when  he's  beggin'  and  implorin'  I  should  give  him  the  percentitch  deal.  &quot;Beau,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;you're  in,  boy!&quot;  And  I  shakes  his  hand  and  Ihustles  him  out.  NONG  about  this  time,  I  gets  me  a  call  from  my  lawyer;  the  papers  are  all  bein'  typed  up,  and  he,  per-  sonally,  will  be  over  the  house  the  fol-  lyin'  mornin'  to  explain  me  any  ques-  tions  pryin'  on  my  mind.Well,  sir,  now  I  really  am  in  business!  Now  I'm  ready  to  go  ahead  and  negotiate.  Who  with?  Ah,  that's  the  question!  Then  I  figger  maybe  if  I  could  get  me  a  big  publicity  splash  in  the  papers,  rather  than  I  go  roun'  the  studios  my  hat  in  my  mitt,  beggin'  they  should  back  me,  they'll  come  chasin'  my  tail  with  offers  galore.  Logical,  no?  So  I  gets  in  touch  with  Al  Harmon,  the  press  agent,  he  should  give  Louella  an  exclusive,  and  I  mention  him  the  facks,  and  how  Flag  and  me,  we  just  purchased  ourselves  a  terrific  piece  property.  ''You  at  liberty  to  quote  hom-  much  you  paid?&quot;  Al  asts  me.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  I  says,  and  I  mentions  him  a  sum-namely,  one  hundrit  thousin'  smackers.  ...  Yeah,  yeah,  I  know,  Artie,  but  in  this  here  racket  you  gotta  think  big  and  talk  big.  If  I  quoted  him  chicken-feed  money,  right  away  the  studios  are  liable  to  think  we're  a  chick-  en-feed  outfit  and  they'll  lay  off.  Get  my  thought?     Anyways,  the  next  mornin'  I  pick  up  the  Examiner  and  I  turns  to  Louella's  column,  and  there  it  is-the  entire  story  smeared  acrost  the  top.  And  when  I  see  them  figgers-all  them  lovely  goose  eggs-even  though  I,  personally,  know  the  atchel  deal  with  Beau,  still  'n'  all  I'm  highly  impressed.  Very.  I  guess  evveybody  in  town  musta  read  that  story,  on  account  my  phone  keeps  ringin'  incestantly  with  people  callin'  me  up  to  congrajjilate  me,.  or  good-luckin'  me  to  death,  and  all  of  them  astin'  if  I  could  use  them  jobwise.  Artie,  I  musta  be  on  that  there  phone  a  good  two,  three  hours,  and  just  when  I'm  startin'  to  get  dressed,  my  doorbell  rings,  and  who  should  come  breezin'  in  on  me  excep'  Flag  and  his  intendid  brother-law  Beau.  Now,  you'd  think  them  two  creeps  would  be  tickled  silly  with  the  big  break  we  got.  Oh,  no!  Right  away  they  begins  attackin'  me  and  screamin'  on  toppa  their  two  lungs,  callin'  me  all  kinds  names  you'd  oney  find  down  in  a  sewer.  You  lousy,  no-good  skunk!&quot;  Flag  is  hollerin'  on  me.  &quot;Why  dijja  hafta  go  ahead  and  break  up  my  sister's  mar-  ritch?&quot;  Artie,  I'm  so  flappergasted  all  I  could  do  is  stand  there  hangin'  with  my  tongue  out.  I  just  din  know  what  the  hell  he's  talkin'  about,  till  finey  Beau  speaks  up  and  tells  me  the  minute  his  wife  read  that  story  in  the  papers,  she  called  him  up  and  informed  him,  come  hell  and  hot  water,  she's  not  givin'  him  no  divorce.  No,  sir!  She's  not  removin'  her  paws  offa  any  guy  who  can  earn  his-  self  that  big  pile  dough.  &quot;Fa  cryin'  out  loud,  Beau,&quot;  I  says,  &quot;din  you  tell  her  the  story's  a  lotta  poppyrot?  Din  you  tell  her  the  truth?&quot;  &quot;Natchelly,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;But  you  think  she's  gonna  believe  me  when  she  sees  with  her  own  two  eyes  I'm  gettin'  one  hundrit  thousin'  bucks,  plastered  all  over  the  papers?  And  it's  all  your  fault,  you  stinkin'  home-break-  er!&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  I  says.  &quot;I'll  call  her  up  right  now  and  I'll  explain  her  the  en-  tire  situation.&quot;  But  before  I  could  get  me  to  the  phone,  in  comes  my  lawyer,  and  when  he  sees  Flag,  right  away  he  removes  the  contracks  from  his  brief-  case  and  he  says,  &quot;Ah,  the  two  principals  are  here.  Now  we  can  go  ahead  and  concretize  the  deal.&quot;  Well,  that's  all  Flag  hasta  hear!  He  quick  snatches  away  the  papers  and  begins  to  tear  them  up  to  tiny  little  pieces.  &quot;Iwouldn't  be  your  partner,  Benny  Greenspan,&quot;  he  hollers,  &quot;if  you  came  beggin'  me  on  your  two  bent  knees!  In  fack,  I'm  not  even  gonna  be  your  client  no  more!&quot;  And,  Artie,  from  that  day  to  this  I  never  seen  head  nor  tail  from  Mr.  Flag  Fulton.  =  Yes,  sir,  that  gizz  you  a  rough  idear  what  an  agent  hasta  content  with  these  days.  Believe  me,  I  hated  to  see  a  deal  I  sweated  blood  for  blow  up  right  in-  Oh,  justa  minute,  Artie.  My  seck-  atary  just  come  in.  Yeah,  Gussie,  what  is  it?  ...  Oh?  ...  Did  he  say  what  he  wannid  to  talk  to  me  about?  ..  .  Ah,  ha,  I  get  it!  Look,  Artie,  there's  a  call  I  gotta  answer.  I  gotta  inklin'  in  my  bones  it's  another  client  who's  prepared  to  brush  me  off,  so  I  must  hang  up.  Listen,  any  time  you're  in  town,  gizz  a  buzz  and  we'll  go  out  to  dinner  and  tear  us  up  a  steak.  Artie,  it's  sure  a  great  pleas,  ure  talkin'  to  you  again.  .  ..  Right.  .  ..  Right,  Artie.  So  long,  kid. "