 b"THE  ROSE,  THE  FOUNTAIN,  AND  THE  DOVE  and  silent  as  the  moon-except  for  the  Saturday  laughter  of  children  and  the  sound  of  summer  thunder-a  rose  and  a  fountain  grew  restless  as  time  crept  on.  &quot;This  is  our  sorrow:  We're  here  today  and  here  tomorrow,&quot;  sighed  the  rose.  &quot;I  wish  I  were  rootloose  and  fancy-free,  like  the  dove.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  see  what's  in  the  wood,&quot;  the  foun-  \\t  tain  said.  &quot;I  want  to  have  adventures  to  cherish  and  regret.&quot;  He  signalled  the  dove  in  a  cipher  of  sparkle,  and  the  dove  came  down  from  the  sky  and  made  a  graceful  landing.  &quot;What's  in  the  wood?&quot;  the  fountain  asked.  &quot;You  have  wings  and  you  must  know,  for  there's  nowhere  you  cannot  \xc2\xbb&gt;  go.  IN  a  green  valley,  serene  as  a  star  &quot;I  like  to  fly  above  the  green  valley,&quot;  said  the  dove.  &quot;The  green  valley  is  all  I  know,  and  all  I  want  to  know.&quot;  &quot;Stars  fall  in  a  pool  in  the  wood,&quot;  the  rose  declared.  &quot;I  hear  them  sputter  when  they  strike  the  water.  I  could  fish  them  up  and  dry  them  out  and  sell  them  to  aking,  if  I  had  wings  like  you,&quot;  she  told  the  dove.  &quot;I  like  it  where  I  am,&quot;  the  dove  re-  plied,  &quot;flying  above  the  valley.  I  watch  the  stars  that  do  not  fall,  and  would  not  want  to  sell  them.&quot;  &quot;It  is  always  the  same  wherever  one  is,&quot;  complained  the  rose.  &quot;To  my  eye,  it  is  always  changing,&quot;  said  the  dove.  &quot;I  am  weary  of  playing  in  this  one  spot  forever,&quot;  whimpered  the  fountain.  &quot;The  same  old  patterns  every  day.  Help,  help,  anotherspray!&quot;  ''There's  nothing  in  the  wood,  I  think,  but  horned  owls  in  hollow  oaks,&quot;  the  dove  declared,  &quot;and  violets  by  mossy  stones.&quot;  Violence  by  mossy  stones  is  what  I  crave!&quot;  the  fountain  cried.  &quot;I'd  love  to  meet  the  waterfall  in  silver  com-  bat,  and  damned  be  him  who  first  dries  up!  &gt;&gt;  &quot;Ihave  nothing  to  remember  and  nothing  to  forget,&quot;  sighed  the  rose.  &quot;I  waste  my  sweetness  on  the  verdant  air.&quot;  &quot;I  like  it  here&quot;  was  all  the  dove  would  say.  But  the  rose  and  the  foun-  tain  kept  after  him  every  day  of  every  week,  and  when  the  summer  waned,  they  convinced  the  dove  he  loved  the  wood,  admired  horned  owls,  and  ought  to  spend  his  life  salvaging  stars  and  meeting  waterfalls  in  silver  combat.  So  the  dove  flew  away  into  the  wood  and  never  came  back.  There  were  many  varied  rumors  of  the  nature  of  his  end.  The  four  winds  whispered  that  the  dove  had  ceased  to  be  because  of  mossy  stones,  half-hidden  violets,  or  violence,  malicious  waterfalls,  and  owls  in  trees,  but  the  wood  thrush  contended  the  dove  had  died  while  playing  with  burning  stars.  One  thing  was  sure:  The  dove  had  ended  the  way  no  other  dove  had  ever  ended.,  Moral:  He  who  lives  another's  life  another's  death  must  die.  THE  BACHELOR  PENGUIN  AND  THE  VIRTUVOUS  MATE  ONE  spring,  a  bachelor  penguin's  fancy  lightly  turned,  as  it  did  in  every  season,  to  thoughts  of  illicit  love.  It  was  this  gay  seducer's  custom  to  make  passes  at  the  more  desirable  females  after  their  mates  hadgone  down  to  the  sea  to  fish.  He  had  found  out  that  all  the  females  in  the  community  made  a  ritual  of  rearranging  the  sitting-room  furniture,  putting  it  back  where  it  had  been  the  day  before,  and  they  were  only  too  glad  to  have  a  strong  male  help  them  move  the  heavier  pieces.  Their  mates  had  grown  less  and  less  interested  in  @  o  o'  L  housework  and  more  and  more  ad-  dicted  to  fishing,  as  time  went  on.  The  bachelor  penguin  proved  handy  at  put-  ting  on  or  taking  off  screen  doors,  re-  moving  keys  wedged  in  locks  meant  for  other  keys,  and  rescuing  the  fe-  males  from  other  quandaries  of  their  own  making.  After  a  few  visits,  the  feathered  Don  Juan  induced  the  ladies  to  play  Hide-in-the-Dark  with  him,  and  Guess  Who  This  Is?,  and  Webfooty-  Webfooty.  As  the  seasons  rolled  on,the  hand-  some  and  well-groomed  Casanova  be-  came  a  little  jaded  by  his  routinesuc-  cesses  with  the  opposite  sex.  'Then  one  morning,  after  the  other  male  penguins  had  gone  to  the  seashore  to  fish  as  usual,  Don  J.  Penguin  spied  the  prettiestfe-  male  he  had  ever  seen,  trying,  all  by  herself,  to  move  a  sitting-room  sofa  back  to  the  spot  where  it  had  been  the  day  before.  Don  gallantly  offered  to  help  the  matron  in  distress  and  she  gladly  accepted,  with  ashy  look  and  a  faint  blush.  The  next  morning  the  bachelor,  who  knew  how  to  play  his  cards,  came  back  and  helped  the  housepenguin  put  on  the  screen  door,  and  the  following  day  he  fixed  the  broken  catch  of  her  necklace,  and  the  day  after  that  he  tightened  the  glass  top  of  her  percolator.  Each  time  that  he  suggested  playing  Hide-in-the-Dark  or  Guess  Who  This  Is?,  the  object  of  his  desire  thought  of  something  else  for  him  to  fix,  or  loosen,  or  tighten,  or  take  off,  or  put  on.  After  several  weeks  of  this,  the  amorist  began  to  suspect  that  he  was  being  taken,  and  his  intended  victim  corroborated  his  fears.  \xc2\xab&quot;Unless  you  keep  on  helping  me  take  things  off,  and  put  things  on,  and  pry  things  loose,  and  make  things  tighter,&quot;  she  told  the  dismayed  collector  of  broken  hearts,  &quot;I  will  tell  my  mate  about  your  improper  advances  and  your  dishonor-  able  intentions.&quot;  Don  Penguin  knew  that  the  clever  penguin's  mate  was  the  strongest  male  in  the  community  and  also  had  the  shortest  temper  and  the  least  patience.  There  wasn't  going  to  be  any  Hide-in-the-Dark  or  Guess  Who  This  Is?  or  Webfooty-Webfooty.  And  so  he  spent  the  rest  of  his  days  working  for  the  virtuous  and  guileful  lady  of  his  desire,  moving  sofas,  taking  things  off  and  putting  things  on,  loosen-  ing  this  and  tightening  that,  and  per-  forming  whatever  other  tasks  his  fair  captor  demanded  of  him.  His  bow  tie  became  untied,  his  dinner  jacket  lost  its  buttons,  his  trousers  lost  their  crease,  and  his  eyes  lost  their  dream.  He  babbled  of  clocks,  and  of  keys  caught  in  locks,  and  everybody  closed  her  door  when  he  came  waddling  down  the  street  ex-  cept  the  penguin  who  had  taken  him  in  with  a  beauty  as  unattainable  as  the  stars,  and  a  shy  look,  and  a  faint  blush  as  phony  as  a  parrot's  laugh.  One  day  her  mate,  returning  early  from  the  sea,  caught  a  glimpse  of  Don  leaving  the  house,  and  said,  &quot;What  didold  Droop  Feather  want?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  he  washes  the  windows  and  waxes  the  floors  and  sweeps  the  chim-  " b"ney,&quot;  the  female  replied.  &quot;I  believe  he  had  an  unhappy  love  affair.&quot;  Moral:  One  man's  mate  may  some-  times  be  another  man's  prison.  THE  PEACELIKE  MONGOOSE  N  cobra  country  a  mongoose  was  bornone  day  who  didn't  want  to  fight  cobras  or  anything  else.  'The  word  spread  from  mongoose  to  mongoose  that  there  was  a  mongoose  who  didn't  want  to  fight  cobras.  If  he  didn't  want  to  fight  anything  else,  it  was  his  own  busi-  ness,  but  it  was  the  duty  of  every  mon-  goose  to  kill  cobras  orbe  killed  by  cobras.  &quot;Why?&quot;  asked  the  peacelike  mon-  goose,  and  the  word  went  around  that  the  strange  new  mongoose  was  not  only  pro-cobra  and  anti-mongoose  but  in-  tellectually  curious  and  against  the  ideals  and  traditions  of  mongoosism.  &quot;He  is  crazy,&quot;  cried  the  young  mon-  goose's  father.  &quot;He  is  sick,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;He  is  a  coward!&quot;  shouted  his  brothers.  &quot;He  is  a  mongoosexual,&quot;  whispered  his  sisters.  Strangers  who  had  never  laid  eyes  on  the  peacelike  mongoose  remembered  that  they  had  seen  him  crawling  on  his  stomach,  or  trying  on  cobra  hoods,or  plotting  the  violent  overthrow  of  Mon-  goosia.  &quot;I  am  trying  to  use  reason  and  intel-  ligence,&quot;  said  the  strange  new  mongoose.  &quot;Reason  is  six-sevenths  of  treason,&quot;  said  one  of  his  neighbors.  &quot;Intelligence  is  what  the  enemy  uses,&quot;  said  another.  Finally,  the  rumor  spread  that  the  mongoose  had  venom  in  his  sting,  like  a  cobra,  and  he  was  tried,  convicted  by  a  show  of  paws,  and  condemned  to  ban-  ishment.  Moral:  Ashes  to  ashes  and  clay  to  clay,  if  the  enemy  doesn't  get  you  your  own  folks  may. "