 b"WHEN  I  was  a  kid,  there  were  \xe2\x80\x98Ji/  no  such  things  as  holidays  for  me,and  I  have  no  feeling  of  grievance  about  it  because,  in  the  way  of  kids,  I  simply  played  that  I  had  them.  One  year,  my  summer  holiday  was  a  couple  of  nights  I  spent  at  the  house  of  a  friend  of  mine  called  Jimmy  [REDACTED],  who  lived  on  the  other  side  of  the  road  at  the  end  of  our  lane.  His  parents  some-  times  went  away  for  a  couple  of  days  to  visit  a  sick  relative  in  Bantry,  and  he  was  given  permission  to  have  a  friend  in  to  keep  him  company.  I  took  my  holiday  with  great  gravity,  insisted  on  the  loan  of  Father's  old  travelling  bag,  and  dragged  it  myself  down  the  lane,  past  the  neighbors  standing  at  their  doors.  &quot;Are  you  off  somewhere,  Larry?&quot;  asked  one,  &quot;Yes,  Mrs.  Rooney.  Off  for  my  holi-  days  to  the  43616e616461s',&quot;  I  said  cheerfully.  &quot;Wisha,  aren't  you  lucky?&quot;  Lucky?  I  felt  made  for  life.  The  43616e616461s'  house  was  a  big  one,  with  a  long  flight  of  steps  up  to  the  front  door,  which  was  always  kept  shut.  They  had  a  piano  in  the  sitting  room,  a  pair  of  binoculars  on  a  table  near  the  window,  furniture  in  the  bedrooms,  and  an  in-  door  toilet,  on  the  stairs,  which  struck  me  as  the  last  word  in  immodesty.  From  the  window  of  the  bedroom  where  Jimmy  and  I  slept,  you  could  see  the  whole  road  up  and  down,  from  the  quarry  at  the  foot,  with  the  tiny  houses  perched  on  the  edge  of  it,  to  the  open  fields  at  the  other  end,  where  the  last  gas  lamp  rose  against  the  sky.  I  was  up  each  morning  at  the  first  light,  lean-  ing  out  the  window  in  my  nightshirt  and  watching,  through  the  binoculars,  all  the  mysterious  figures  you  never  saw  from  our  lane-policemen,  rail-  way  men,  and  farmers  on  their  way  to  market.  I  admired  Jimmy  almost  as  much  as  I  admired  his  house  and  for  much  the  same  sort  of  reasons.  He  was  a  year  older  than  I,  and  was  well  man-  nered  and  well  dressed,  and  he  would  not  associate  with  most  of  the  kids  on  the  road  at  all.  He  had  a  way  when  any  of  them  joined  us  of  rest-  ing  against  a  wall  with  his  hands  in  his  trousers  pockets  and  listening  to  them  with  a  sort  of  well-bred  smile,  a  knowing  smile,  that  seemed  to  me  the  height  of  elegance.  And  it  was  not  that  he  was  a  softy,  be-  cause  he  was  an  excellent  boxer  and  wrestler,  and  could  easily  have  held  his  own  with  any  of  them  had  he  SMiTS  wished  to.  But  he  didn't.  He  was  su-  perior  to  them,.  He  was-there  is  only  one  word  that  still  describes  it  for  me-  sophisticated.  I  envied  him  his  sophistication,  for  I  knew  that  I  was  always  taken  in  by  the  world  of  appearances.  I  would  take  a  sudden  violent  liking  to  some  boy  and,  when  I  went  to  his  house,  would  like  his  parents  and  his  sisters  as  well,  and  think  how  wonderful  it  must  be  to  have  such  a  home;  but  when  Itold  Jimmy,  he  would  smile  in  that  knowing  way  of  his  and  say  quietly,  &quot;I  believe  they  had  the  bailiffs  in  a  few  weeks  ago.&quot;  And  even  though  I  didn't  know  what  bailiffs  were,  I  would  see  that  I  had  been  deceived  again.  It  was  the  same  with  fellows  and  girls,  too.  Seeing  some  bigger  chap  we  knew  walking  out  with  a  girl  for  the  first  time,  Jimmy  would  say,  &quot;He'd  better  mind  himself;  that  one  is  dyna-  mite.&quot;  And  even  though  I  knew  as  little  of  girls  who  were  dynamite  as  I  did  of  bailiffs,  his  tone  was  sufficient  to  indi-  cate  that  I  had  again  been  taken  in  by  sweet  voices  and  broad-brimmed  hats,  gaslight  and  evening  smells  from  gar-  dens.  Forty  years  later,  I  can  still  measure  the  extent  of  my  admiration,  for  though  my  own  handwriting  is  almost  illegible,  I  sometimes  find  myself  scribbling  idly  on  a  pad  ina  small,  stiff,  perfectly  legi-  ble  hand  that  I  recognize  with  amuse-  ment  as  a  reasonably  good  forgery  of  Jimmy's.  My  admiration  still  lies  there  somewhere,  a  fossil  in  my  memory,  but  Jimmy's  knowing  smile  is  something  I  have  never  managed  to  acquire.  And  it  all  goes  back  to  my  curiosity  about  fellows  and  girls.  As  I  say,  I only  imagined  things  about  them  but  Jimmy  knew.  I  was  excluded  from  knowledge  by  the  world  of  appearances,  that  blinded  and  deafened  me  with  emotion.  The  least  thing  could  excite  or  depress  me.  'The  trees  in  the  morn-  ing  when  I  went  to  early  Mass,  the  stained-glass  windows  in  the  church,  the  blue  streets  at  evening,  with  the  green  flare  of  the  gas  lamps,  the  smells  of  cooking  and  of  perfume,  and  even  the  smell  ofa  cigarette  packet  that  I  had  picked  up  from  the  gutter  and  crushed  to  my  nose-all  kept  me  on  this  side  of  the  world  of  appearances.  Jim-  my,  by  some  right  of  birth  or  breeding,  was  always  at  the  other,  and  I  wanted  him  to  take  me  there.  One  evening,  he  was  listening  to  me  talk  while  he  leaned  against  the  pil-  lar  of  his  gate,  his  pale  neat  hair  fram-  ing  his  pale,  good-humored  face.  &quot;Why  don't  you  come  over  some  night  the  family  is  away,  and  I'll  show  you  a  few  things?&quot;  he  asked  lightly.  &quot;What'll  you  show  me,  Jimmy?&quot;  I  asked  eagerly.  &quot;Noticed  the  new  couple  that's  come  to  live  next  door?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  replied  in  disappointment.  It  wasn't  only  that  I  never  knew  anything;  I  never  noticed  anything.  And  when  he  described  the  new  fam-  ily  who  had  taken  rooms  in  the  house  above  the  43616e616461s',  I  realized  with  cha-  grinthat  I  didn't  know  the  old  family,  either.  &quot;Oh,  they're  a  newly  married  cou-  ple,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They  don't  know  that  they  can  be  seen  from  our  house.&quot;  &quot;But  how,  Jimmy?&quot;  &quot;Don't  look  up  now,&quot;  he  said  with  a  dreamy  smile  while  his  eyes  strayed  past  my  shoulder  in  the  direction  of  the  lane.  &quot;Wait  till  you'regoing.  Their  end  wall  is  onlya  couple  of  feet  from  ours.  You  can  see  right  into  the  bedroom  from  our  attic.&quot;  &quot;And  what  do  they  do,  Jimmy?&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  said  with  a  pleasant  laugh,  &quot;everything.  You  really  should  come.&quot;  &quot;You  bet  I'll  come!&quot;  I  said,  try-  ing  to  sound  tougher  than  I  felt.  FOR  three  evenings  I  stood  under  the  gas  lamp  at  the  footof  our  lane,  till  I  had  identified  the  new  couple.  It  was  not  enough  for  me  to  get  behind  the  world  of  appear-  ances.  I  also  had  to  study  the  ap-  pearances  themselves.  The  husband  was  the  first  I  spotted.  He  came  from  his  work  at  a  regular  hour,  usually  accompanied  from  the  bus  stop  by  an  older  man.  He  was  tall,  with  jet-     " b"black  hair  and  a  big  black  guardsman's  mustache  that  somehow  failed  to  con-  ceal  the  youthfulness  of  his  face.  Usual-  ly  he  stood  for  a  few  minutes  outside  his  door,  chatting-a  black-coated,  bowler-hatted  figure  who  made  large,  sweeping  gestures  with  his  evening  pa-  per  and  sometimes  doubled  up  in  an  explosion  of  loud  laughter.  On  the  third  evening,  I  saw  his  wife.  She  had  obviously  been  waiting  for  him,  looking  from  behind  the  parlor  curtains,  and  when  she  saw  him  she  scurried  down  the  steps  to  join  in  the  conversa-  tion.  She  had  thrown  an  old  jacket  about  her  shoulders,  and  stood  there,  her  arms  folded  as  though  to  protect  herself  from  the  cold  wind  that  blew  down  the  road  from  the  open  country,  while  her  husband  rested  one  hand  fondly  on  her  shoulder.  For  the  first  time,  I  began  to  feel  qualms  about  what  I  had  promised  to  do.  It  was  one  thing  to  do  it  to  people  you  didn't  know  or  care  about,  but  for  me  even  to  recognize  people  like  that  was  to  adopt  an  emotional  attitude  toward  them.  'That  night  I  remained  awake,  thinking  out  the  terms  of  an  anonymous  letter  that  would  put  them  on  their  guard,  till  I  had  worked  my-  self  up  into  a  fever  of  eloquence  and  indignation.  But  I  knew  that  they  would  recog-  nize  the  villain  of  the  letter  and  that  the  villain  would  recognize  me,  so  I  did  not  write  it.  Instead,  I  gave  way  to  fits  of  anger  and  moodiness  against  my  parents.  Yet  even  these  emotions  were  unreal,  because  on  Saturday  night  when  Mother  made  a  parcel  of  my  night-  shirt-I  had  now  become  sufficiently  self-conscious  not  to  take  a  bag-I  near-  ly  broke  down  and  said  I  wouldn't  go.  There  was  something  about  my  own  house  that  night  that  upset  me  all  over  again.  Father  was  sitting  under  the  wall  lamp,  reading  aloud  from  the  paper,  and  Mother,  with  a  shawl  about  her  shoul-  ders,  was  crouched  over  the  fire  in  her  little  wickerwork  chair,  listening,  and  I  suddenly  realized  that  they,  too,  were  part  of  the  world  of  appearances  that  I  had  plotted  to  destroy,  and  as  I  said  good  night,  I  almost  felt  that  I  was  say-  ing  goodbye  to  them  as  well.  But,  once  inside  Jimmy's  house,  I  did  not  care  so  much.  It  always  had  that  effect  on  me,  of  blowing  me  up  to  twice  the  size.  I  tried  to  pick  out  a  tune  on  the  piano  with  one  hand,  and  Jimmy,  hav-  ing  listened  to  me  with  amusement  for  some  time,  sat  down  and  played  it  himself  as  I  felt  it  should  be  played,  and  this,  too,  seemed  to  be  part  of  his  superiority.  &quot;I  suppose  we'd  better  put  on  a  show  of  going  to  bed,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Some-  one  across  the  road  may  notice  and  tell.  They're  in  town.  I  don't  sup-  pose  they'll  be  back  till  late.&quot;  We  had  a  glass  of  milk  in  the  kitchen,  went  upstairs,  and  undressed  and  lay  down,  though  we  put  our  overcoats  by  the  bed.  Jimmy  had  a  pack-  et  of  sweets,  but  he  in-  sisted  on  keeping  them  till  later.  &quot;We  may  need  them  before  we're  done,&quot;  he  said  with  a  smile.  I  noticed  again,  with  admiration,  what  an  orderly  sort  of  chap  he  was.  We  talked  in  bed  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  out  the  light,  got  up  again,  put  on  our  over-  coats  and  socks,  and  tiptoed  upstairs  to  the  attic,  Jimmy  leading  the  way  with  an  electric  torch.  Everything  had  been  planned  as  if  for  a  ceremony.  Two  trunks  had  been  drawn  up  to  the  little  window  to  act  as  seats,  and  there  were  even  cushions  on  them.  Looking  out,  you  could  at  first  see  noth-  ing  but  an  expanse  of  blank  end  wall  topped  with  chimney  stacks,  but  gradu-  ally  you  could  make  out  the  outline  of  a  single  window,  eight  or  ten  feet  below.  Jimmy  sat  beside  me  and  opened  his  packet  of  sweets.  &quot;Of  course,  we  could  have  stayed  in  bed  until  we  heard  them  come  in,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;You  can  usually  hear  them  at  the  front  door,  but  we  might  have  fallen  asleep  or  they  might  have  come  in  quietly.  It's  best  to  make  sure.&quot;  &quot;But  why  don't  they  draw  the  blind?&quot;  I  asked,  my  heart  beginning  to  beat  uncomfortably.  &quot;Because  there  isn't  a  blind,&quot;  he  said  with  a  chuckle.  &quot;Old  Mrs.  MacCarthy  never  had  one,  and  she's  not  going  to  put  one  in  for  lodgers.&quot;  I  envied  him  his  nonchalance  as  he  " b"sat  back  with  his  legs  crossed,  sucking  a  sweet,  as  though  he  were  waiting  in  the  cinema  for  the  show  to  begin.  I  was  scared  by  the  darkness  and  the  mystery,  and  by  the  sounds  that  came  to  us  from  the  road  with  such  extraordinary  clar-  ity.  Besides,  it  wasn't  my  house,  and  I  didn't  feel  at  home  there.  At  any  moment  I  expected  the  front  door  to  open  and  his  parents  to  come  in  and  catch  us.  We  must  have  been  waiting  for  half  an  hour  before  we  heard  voices  in  the  roadway,  the  sound  of  a  key  in  the  lock,  and  a  door  opened  and  shut  soft-  ly.  Jimmy  reached  out  and  touched  my  arm.  &quot;I  think  that's  our  pair,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;Better  not  speak  any  more.  They  might  hear  us.&quot;  I  nodded,  wishing  I  had  never  come.  At  that  moment  a  faint  light  became  visible  in  the  great  expanse  of  black  wall:  a  faint,  yellow  stair  light  that  was  just  sufficient  to  silhouette  the  window  frame  below  us.  Suddenly  the  whole  room  lit  up.  The  man  I  had  seen  in  the  street  stood  by  the  doorway,  his  hand  still  on  the  switch.  I  could  see  it  all  plainly  now-an  ordinary  small,  suburban  bedroom  with  flowery  wall-  paper,  a  colored  picture  of  the  Sacred  Heart  over  the  double  bed  with  the  big  brass  knobs,  a  wardrobe,  and  a  dress-  ing  table.  He  stood  there  till  the  woman  came  in,  removing  her  hat  in  a  single  ges-  ture  and  tossing  it  from  her  into  acor-  ner  of  the  room.  The  man  still  stood  by  the  door.  He  took  off  his  tie  and  struggled  with  his  collar,  his  head  up-  lifted  as  he  made  an  agonized  face.  His  wife  kicked  off  her  shoes,  and  then  sat  on  a  chair  by  the  bed  and  began  to  take  off  her  stockings.  She  seemed  to  be  talking  all  the  time,  because  her  head  was  raised,  looking  at  him,  but  you  couldn't  hear  a  word  she  said.  I  glanced  at  Jimmy.  The  light  from  the  window  below  softly  illuminated  his  face  as  he  sucked  with  tranquil  enjoy-  ment.  The  woman  rose  as  her  husband  sat  on  the  bed,  with  his  back  to  us,  and  began  to  take  off  his  shoes  and  socks  in  the  same  slow,  agonized  way.  At  one  point  he  held  up  his  left  foot  and  looked  at  it  with  what  might  have  been  concern.  She  undressed  in  swift,  jerky  movements,  twisting  and  turn-  ing  and  apparently  talking  all  the  time.  She  crouched  as  she  took  off  her  slip,  and  then  pulled  her  nightdress  over  her  head  and  finished  her  undressing  be-  neath  it.  As  she  removed  her  under-  clothes,  she  seemed  to  throw  them  any-  where  at  all,  and  I  had  the  feeling  that  she  was  haphazard  and  disorderly,  while  the  articles  of  clothing  her  husband  took  off  seemed  to  be  removed  in  order  and  put  where  he  could  find  them  most  readily  in  the  morning.  I  saw  him  take  out  his  watch,  look  at  it  carefully,  wind  it,  and  hang  it  neatly  on  a  nail  over  the  bed.  Then,  to  my  surprise,  she  knelt  by  the  bed,  facing  out  toward  the  window,  glanced  up  at  the  picture  of  the  Sacred  Heart,  made  a  large,  swift  sign  of  the  Cross,  and  then  put  her  face  in  her  hands  and  buried  her  head  in  the  bedclothes,  I  looked  at  Jimmy  in  dismay,  but  he  did  not  seem  to  be  disturbed  by  the     " b"sight.  The  husband,  his  folded  trousers  in  his  hand,  moved  about  the  room  slow-  ly  and  carefully,  as  though  out  of  respect  for  his  wife's  devotions,  and  when  he  pulled  on  the  trousers  of  his  pajamas,  he  turned  away.  Then  he  put  on  his  pajama  jacket  and  knelt  beside  her.  He,  too,  glanced  at  the  picture  over  the  bed  and  crossed  himself,  but  he  did  not  bury  his  face  and  head,  as  she  had  done.  He  knelt  upright,  with  nothing  ofthe  abandonment  suggested  by  her  pose,  and  with  a  composed  expression  that  managed,  ina  curious  way,  to  combine  reverence  with  self-respect.  It  was  the  expression  of  an  employee  who  knew  that  he  might,  like  the  rest  of  humanity,  have  a  few  little  weak-  nesses  but  recognized  that  he  was  somebody  who  deserved  well  of  the  management.  He  finished  his  prayers  before  his  wife,  and  he  crossed  himself  again  slowly,  rose,  and  climbed  into  bed,  glancing  again  at  his  watch  as  he  did  so.  Several  minutes  passedbefore  she  drew  herself  up,  blessed  herself  in  her  wide,  sweeping  way,  and  rose.  She  crossed  the  room  in  a  swift  movement  that  almost  escaped  me,  and  next  mo-  ment  the  light  went  out,  and  it  was  as  if  the  window  through  which  we  had  watched  the  scene  had  disappeared  with  it  and  there  was  nothing  but  a  blank  black  wall  mounting  to  the  chim-  ney  pots.  Jimmy  rose  slowly  and  pointed  the  way  out  to  me  with  his  flash-  light.  HEN  we  got  downstairs,  we  put  on  the  bedroom  light,  and  I  saw  on  his  face  the  virtuous  and  sophisticated  air  of  a  col-  lector  who  has  shown  you  all  his  treasures  in  the  best  possible  light.  Faced  with  that  look,  I  could  not  bring  myself  to  talk  of  the  woman  at  prayer.  I  could  not  have  explained  to  him  how  at  that  moment  everything  had  changed  for  me-how,  beyond  us,  watching  the  young  married  couple  from  ambush,  I  had  felt  someone  else,  watching  us,  and  we  had  at  once  ceased  to  be  observers  and  become  the  ob-  served,  and  the  ob-  served  in  such  an  ig-  nominious  position!  I  wanted  to  pray  myself,  but  I  found  I  couldn't.  Instead,  I  lay  in  bed  in  the  darkness,  cover-  ing  my  eyes  with  my  hand,  and  I  think  that  even  then  I  knew  that  I  should  never  be  sophis-  ticated  like  Jimmy,  never  able  to  put  on  a  knowing  smile,  because  always  beyond  the  world  of  appearances  I  would  see  only  eternity  watching.  &quot;Sometimes,  of  course,  it's  better  than  that,&quot;  Jimmy's  drowsy  voice  said  from  the  darkness.  &quot;You  shouldn't  judge  it  by  tonight.&quot; "