 b"AFTER  the  unpredictable  current  of  living  had  swirled  her  past  the  point  of  death  and  back  into  life  again-and  in  such  an  old  woman,  and  one  so  tired,  the  Mother  Superior's  recovery  seemed  like  a  miracle  to  them  all-and  Dr.  Kennedy,  saying  &quot;Well,  Madam,  you're  not  dead  this  time,&quot;  had  declared  her  out  of  danger,  her  married  sister  was  allowed  to  visit  her  for  a  quar-  ter  of  an  hour.  Into  the  extreme  clean-  liness  and  dispassionateness  of  the  room  Everina  brought  a  smell  of  hot  pave-  ments,  smoke,  and  car  exhaust,  as  if  some  part  of  the  industrial  'Thames-  side  town  had  shoved  in  with  her.  A  large  bouquet  of  white  4368696e61  asters  shook  with  the  pulse  of  her  hand;  her  gray  hair  stuck  out  in  tufts  beneath  a  hat  that  was  too  small  and  too  alert  for  her  broad  emotional  face,  and  as  she  sat  down  a  bus  ticket  dropped  onto  the  floor.  &quot;Oh,  Chrissie,  my  love,  what  a  scare  you've  given  us!  Not  that  I  believed  it.  I  never  did.  I  wasn't  going  to  give  in.  I  just  wouldn't  believe  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  dear.  You  never  had  much  faith,  had  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh!  Oh,  you  wretch!  Well,  I  can  see  you're  yourself  again,  biting  my  head  off  as  usual,  the  same  old  catnip-and  that's  a  comfort.&quot;  Tweaked  back  from  that  imminent  fit  of  weeping,  she  settled  herself  more  squarely  on  the  bentwood  chair,  drew  a  deep  breath  as  if  she  were  about  to  say  a  great  deal,  and,  instead,  remained  silent,  obedient,  and  smiling.  &quot;Well,  Everina.  Go  on,  I  can  see  you're  bursting.&quot;  &quot;Chrissie,  I  am.  I've  got  a  piece  of  news  for  you,  and  thank  God  you're  alive  to  hear  it,  for  it's  good  news  this  time.  Poor  Ellen's  Mary  is  out  ofthe  hos-  pital  and  walking  as  well  as  ever.  And  that's  not  all.  She's  going  to  be  married,  and  I  couldn't  like  him  better  if  I'd  chosen  him  my-  self-the  house  surgeon  at  the  hospital,  and  he  was  in  love  with  her  from  the  moment  he  saw  her  carried  in  all  over  blood  on  a  stretch-  er.  He's  called  Vincent  Jones,  he's  got  five  brothers  and  three  sis-  ters,  his  father's  a  farm-  er  in  Herefordshire,  I've  seen  all  their  pho-  tographs,  and  they've  written  the  nicest  letters.  Such  a  good  steady  young  man!  Even  Ellen's  pleased,  and  she's  coming  out  of  black  for  the  wedding.  In  Oc-  tober,  and  then  he's  going  to  a  practice  in  Cumberland,  the  Lake  country,  think  how  romantic!  Will  you  ever  forget  that  evening  we  went  in  a  boat  on  Ullswater?  And  Chrissie,  best  of  all,  there's  a  house  with  it,  so  she  can  have  all  the  children  she  wants  with-  out  disobliging  anyone.  Five  brides,  maids,  no  less.  'Three  of  ours  and  two  of  his.  I've  tacked  up  our  three's  already-taffeta,  the  color  of  Petit-  Beurre  biscuits,  with  brown  velvet  muffs.  Chrissie,  I'm  just  beginning  to  feel  I  can  enjoy  it!  It  hasn't  really  seemed  true  till  now-now  that  I've  seen  with  my  own  eyes  that  you're  not  dying.  'That's  the  worst  of  being  my  age-your  heart's  all  over  the  place  so!&quot;  To  the  woman  listening,  it  seemed  true  enough  for  her  to  ask,  &quot;And  what's  happening  about  Ellen?&quot;  &quot;Ellen?  Well,  she's  coming  to  me.  After  all,  she's  my  own  daughter-in-  law,  and  she  can't  be  left  alone  with  poor  Billy.  I'm  really  looking  forward  to  Billy;  it's  nice  to  think  there's  one  grandchild  who'll  never  be  anything  but  a  baby.&quot;  &quot;If  you've  no  great  talent  for  faith,  you  make  up  for  it  with  charity.  Now  tell  me  about  yourself.&quot;  &quot;Me?  There's  nothing  to  tell  about  me.  Or  do  you  mean  what  shall  I  wear  for  the  wedding?  Do  you  think  it  would  be  positively  indecent  if  I  wore  pink?  I   do  so  adore  pink,  and  I  shall  never  get  another  chance.&quot;  WHEN  Everina  was  gone-taken  out  after  exactly  fifteen  minutes,  as  if  she  weresome  precise  feat  in  cook-  ery-though  the  room  resumed  its  still-  ness,  the  stillness  was  not  of  the  same  quality.  Listening  had  brought  sounds  into  it-the  creaking  of  the  chair  that  had  been  so  excitedly  sat  on,  the  hoot-  ing  of  the  tugs  on  the  river.  There  had  been  a  night  when  she  thought  the  tugs  were  trying  to  get  her  away,  but  try  as  they  might,  poor  dutiful  creatures,  they  could  not  budge  her  for  the  weight  of  her  limbs  pinned  her  to  the  bed.  And  so  Mary,  God  bless  the  child,  was  going  to  be  married  in  pink.  No,  not  in  pink-what  non-  sense!  -but  she  would  go  in  a  boat  on  Lake  Ullswater  with  a  good  steady  young  man  whose  name  was  Vincent  Jones.  It  was  the  sky  that  would  be  pink,  the  evening  sky;  and  as  the  sunset  faded,  and  the  westward  hills  darkened  and  put  on  cloaks  of  contourless  velvet,  and  every  stroke  of  the  oars  cuta  deeper  swathe  of  darkness,  and  the  ripples  smacked  with  louder,  lonelier  exclama-  tions  against  indistincter  banks,  the  brows  of  the  eastward  fells  would  be  clear  and  detailed  in  a  hoary  light,  like  moonlight,  or  like  a  powdering  of  frost.  But  it  was  moonlight,  and  the  music  had  come  with  it,  dance  music  sounding  in  the  hollow  shell  ofthe  tall  hillsides;  and  now,  as  the  boat  rounded  the  bend,  she  could  see,  behind  the  silhouette  of  the  oarsman,  the  lighted  windows  of  the  house  on  the  shore,  streaming  with  light,  and  flung  open  so  that  the  music  could  be  heard  far  and  wide,  calling  impatiently  for  the  dancers  to  come  to  it.  So  now  she  must  stand  up  in  the  boat  and  dress  herself  in  her  ball  dress.  But  which?  The  boat  was  full  of  them,  a  cargo  of  ball  dresses,  for  she  had  not  been  able  to  decide  among  them  before  she  set  out,so  she  had  brought  them  all  with  her.  It  was  really  rath-  er  silly  to  be  standing  up  in  a  silk  petticoat,  bare-necked  and  bare-  armed  on  such  a  chilly  evening,  dressing  one-  self  on  a  boat  in  the  middle  of  LakeUls-  water,  and  all  because  one  had  not  been  able  to  " b"make  up  one's  mindwhat  to  wear.  Here  was  a  dress  that  would  do  very  nicely.  It  was  made  of  white  lace,  and  the  scarf  that  matched  it  was  sewn  with  milk-white  sequins  in  a  pattern  of  little  Japanese  fish.  But  in  a  ballroom  one  white  dress  is  very  much  like  another,  and  this  dress  hooked  up  at  the  back,  a  difficult  dress  to  get  into  standing  in  a  small  rowing  boat,  so  the  yellow  dress  that  was  narrowly  pleated  like  Greek  statuary  would  be  better,  if  she  could  find  the  scarlet  sandals  that  went  with  it.  When  she  had  found  the  sandals  under  the  bilge  board,  they  were  sop-  ping  wet;  but  here  was  a  charming  pair  of  gray.  slip-  pers,  quite  dry,  and  warm,  too,  being  lined  with  gray  swansdown.  Yes,  that  was  it,  and  the  dress  had  gray  swansdown  round  the  bosom  and  was  the  changing  color  of  blue-gray  hydrangeas.  She  was  halfway  into  it,  and  the  trombones  in  the  band  were  heavily  breathing  out  the  strong  beat  ofa  waltz  measure,  saying,  &quot;GCoom,GCoom,&quot;  in  their  Cum-  berland  accents,  when  she  remembered  that  the  dress  she  wanted  to  wear  was  the  dress  of  pink  tinsel.  But  when  she  had  picked  it  up  from  the  floor  of  the  boat  where  it  lay  glimmering  and  pale  as  the  drowned  [REDACTED],  it  .turned  it-  self  into  a  dress  of  green  velvet  that  had  never  belonged  to  her,  wouldn't  fit  her,  and  had  a  most  inconvenient  fan  fastened  to  it,  that  clattered  like  a  Venetian  blind.  How  tiresome  it  was  to  have  so  many  dresses,  and  to  be  obliged  to  decide  among  them!  And  the  lighted  house  was  now  so  near  (for  the  boatman,  whose  beard  flowed  down  his  waistcoat  like  a  waterfall,  was  row-  ing  faster  and  faster)  that  she  could  see  the  polished  empty  floor  and  the  trombone's  gigantic  shadow  shooting  back  and  forth  across  it.  If  only  there  were  not  so  many  dresses,  if  only  each  had  not  some  small  thing  wrong  with  it,  if  only  she  could  make  up  her  mind!  Well,  at  any  rate,  here  was  a  pair  of  long  white  kid  gloves.  She  was  trembling  so  violently  with  cold  and  fluster  that  she  could  scarcely  pull  them  on.  She  gave  a  tug,  immedi-  ately  a  rent  appeared  in  the  floor  of  the  boat,  and  the  boatman,  growing  thin  as  a  waterweed,  disappeared  through  that  not  even  a  month's  idleness  had  been  ableto  blanch  or  supple.  Prac-  ticed  in  wakings,  she  observed  that  there  was  no  change  in  the  light  of  the  room,  and  that  Sister  Mary  Innocent  must  have  been  standing  there  for  quite  a  minute,  long  enough  for  her  beads  to  have  left  off  swinging  while  she  stood  looking  down  in  quiet  approval  on  an  old  woman  taking  a  little  nap.  &quot;Yes,  I  have  been  asleep.  And  I'm  glad  to  wake  up,  too,  for  I  dreamed  I  was  back  in  the  world  and  obliged  to  choose  what  dress  I  would  put  on.  It  was  most  disagreeable,  most  unsatisfac-  tory.  We  take  God's  mercies  too  much  for  granted,  my  child,  but  I  assure  you,  we  ought  to  be  especially  thankful  for  our  habit.&quot;  Safe  ashore  from  her  dream,  she  felt  inclined  to  go  into  considerably  more  detail,  and  proffer  the  funny  side  of  it  as  well  as  the  spiritual  bouquet.  A  woman  of  her  age,  and  who  had  so  re-  cently  been  nose  to  nose  with  the  King  of  Terrors,  to  be  wobbling  in  a  skiff  in  that  skimpy  petticoat  ...  Lord,  what  is  man,  that  he  boasteth  himself?  But  few  things  are  more  unedifying  than  the  girlishness  of  Superiors,  and  few  would  feel  this  more  correctly  than  Sis-  ter  Mary  Innocent.  So  she  asked  if  Mrs.  Kelly's  flowers  had  been  put  in  the  chapel,  and  if  their  stalks  had  been  snipped  first;  both  answers  being  as  satis-  factory  as  she  had  known  they  would  be,  she  then  said  that  her  nap  had  given  her  quite  an  appetite,  and  that  she  thought  she  would  venture  on  a  poached  egg. "