  A  QUIET  EVENING  IN  HUEH  UETENANGO  English  winter  a  couple  of  years  ago,  I  was  suddenly  seized  with  a  craving  to  wander  about  in  the  warmth  of  Central  America.  So,  being  able  to  leave  my  job  for  a  few  weeks,  I  boarded  a  plane  at  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  one  morose  evening,  and  two  days  later  I  was  in  [REDACTED]  City.  I  chose  [REDACTED]  because  I  had  oncebeen  there  briefly  and  had  always  wanted  to  see  more  of  the  country.  For  the  first  week  or  so,  I  visited  some  of  the  seedy  banana  ports  of  the  Caribbean  and  the  [REDACTED],  where  bored  men  in  big  hats  still  occasionally  pull  guns  on  each  other.  Then  I  went  hunt-  ing  in  jungles  said  to  abound  with  jag-  uar  and  tapir,  but  shot  nothing  more  impressive  than  a  giant  rat.  I  talked  with  shrewd  politicians  in  the  towns  and  cities,  survivors  of  half  a  dozen  revolu-  tions,  and  took  tea  with  exiled  fellow-  countrymen  on  isolated  coffee  planta-  tions.  For  my  final  outing,  I  started  north  by  car  from  [REDACTED]  City  toward  the  remote  and  mountainous  region  around  Huehuetenango,  where,  in  the  foot-  hills  of  the  Cuchuma-  tanes,  the  onslaught  of  the  Spanish  conquistadors  had  faltered  and  col-  lapsed,  and  the  moun-  tain  tribes  were  finally  left  in  peace,  to  live  their  harsh  but  free  life  of  the  Stone  Age,  touched  by  only  the  outward  forms  of  Christianity.  My  driv-  er  was  a  [REDACTED]  City  Indian  named  Calmo,  who  was  also  a  qualified  guide,  supplied  by  the  State  Tourist  Office.  He  was  gentle,  sad-faced,  and  pious,  and  he  divided  his  free  time  in  the  city  between  visiting  churches  and,  although  well  into  middle  life,  admiring  girls.  IN  the  bleak  depths  ofthe  endless  WE  reached  Huehuetenango  dur-  ing  the  afternoon  ofthe  fourth  day,  at  the  end  of  three  hundred  miles  of  infamous  roads  and  stupendous  scen-  ery.  Huchuetenango  turned  out  to  be  a  town  of  iron-roofed  buildings,  with  a  plaza,  a  cathedral,  a  few  other  fine  churches,  squat  houses  iced  over  with  multicolored  stuccoes,  a  hotel,  and  a  great  number  of  pubs  having  such  names  asI  Await  Thee  on  Thy  Re-  turn.  We  went  into  one  of  these  pubs,  sat  down  at  a  table,  and  ordered  beer.  The  woman  who  brought  it  had  a  Ma-     yan  face,  flat-featured  but  handsome,  and  full  of  tragedy.  Calmo  told  her  in  his  most  dignified  way,  &quot;This  I  say  with  all  sincerity.  I  want  to  come  back  to  this  place  and  marry  you.&quot;  'The  woman  said,  &quot;AHA,  bueno,&quot;  shaking  off  the  compliment  as  she  would  a  fly  that  had  settled  on  her  cheek.  She  wore  a  massive  wedding  ring,  and  there  were  several  children  playing  about  on  the  floor.  After  that,  Calmo  and  I  left  the  pub  and  went  into  the  cathedral,  which  faced  the  plaza,  because  Calmo  had  said  he  wanted  to  pray  for  success  in  that  week's  government  lottery.  'The  cathe-  dral  had  just  been  decorated  for  a  pre-  Lenten  festival  with  huge  bouquets  of  imitation  flowers,  their  stiff  petals  var-  nished  and  then  dusted  over  with  pow-  dered  glass.  In  the  center  of  the  nave,  groups  of  Indians  were  lighting  candles  among  patches  of  red  and  white  blos-  soms  they  had  spread  out  on  the  flag-  stones  to  symbolize  the  living  and  the  dead.  There,  with  Christian  symbols  and  in  a  Christian  church,  they  wor-  shipped  in  their  own  way  while  their  shamans  passed  from  group  to  group,  swinging  incense  burners  and  muttering  magical  incantations.  Then  we  went  out  in-  to  the  sunshine  again.  A  shower  of  parakeets  fell  screeching  across  the  sky  above  the  plaza.  The  cor-  roded  green  bell  in  the  cathedral  tower  clanked  five  times,  and  the  sleep-  ers  on  the  stone  benches  around  the  plaza  stirred  a  little  in  the  vast  shade  of  their  sombreros.  Calmo  woke  upan  ice-cream  vender,  bought  a  cone,  tasted  it,  and  then  saidto  me  in  English,  &quot;I  cannot  eat  it.  The  hot  for  my  teeth  is  too  great.&quot;  His  English  so  effectively  stripped  the  mean-  ing  from  his  remarks  that  I  steered  him  back  to  Spanish  whenever  I  could,  He  had  particular  difficulty  in  distinguish-  ing  between  opposites,  such  as  cold  and  heat.  We  returned  to  the  car  and  sat  down  to  decide  what  to  do  with  the  evening.  The  sleepiness  of  the  place  was  begin-  ning  to  paralyze  us.  Nothing  moved  but  the  vultures,  who  flew  low,  waving  their  scarves  of  shadow  over  the  flower  beds  in  the  center  of  the  plaza.  &quot;Yesterday  a  market  day,  tomorrow  a  religious  celebration,  so  that  today  we  have  no  prospect  but  an  early  night,&quot;  Calmo  said.  &quot;There  is  really  nothing  to  do.&quot;  As  he  spoke,  a  man  went  riding  by  on  a  tall,  bony  horse.  The  man,  who  was  doubtless  of  Spanish  descent,  looked  like  an  Englishman  on  his  way  to  a  fancy-dress  ball:  lean,  pink-cheeked,  mildly  aloof  of  expression,  and  wear-  ing  a  costume  of  black  leather  with  silver  facings  which  had  clearly  been  hired  outtoo  often.  He  was  carrying  a  bundle  of  what  looked  like  kitchen  brooms  wrapped  up  in  colored  paper.  Calmo  explained  that  these  were  rock-  ets,  which  he  thought  would  be  used  in  the  next  day's  celebration.  The  clip-  clop  of  the  hoofs  died  away,  and  the  silence  came  down  like  a  curtain.  N  I  entered  my  hotel,  I  noticed  a  sign  over  the  door  that  said  &quot;Dis-  tinction,  Atmosphere  and  Sympathy.&quot;  After  washing  in  my  room,  where  the  towels  were  embroidered  with  the  words  &quot;Sleep  My  Beloved,&quot;  I  went  to  dinner.  The  food  was  American  plan-a  term  that  has  become  an  ac-  cepted  part  of  the  Spanish  vocabulary  of  Central  America.  It  no  longer  re-  fersto  the  system  of  charging  for  ac-  commodation  inclusive  of  meals,  how-  ever;  it  describes  the  food  itself-the  hygienic  but  emasculated  fare  supposed-  ly  preferred  by  American  visitors,  and  now  often  served  in  [REDACTED]  because  of  what  are  believed  to  be  its  medicinal  and  semi-magical  properties.  At  this  meal,  American  plan  included  canned  soup,  spaghetti,  boiled  beef,  milk,  and  canned  [REDACTED]  peaches.  The  milk  was  the  product  of  Contented  Cows,  served  in  the  original  tin.  I  got  through  dinner  as  soon  as  possible.  RESIGNING  myself  to  an  &quot;early  night,&quot;  I  went  to  bed,  but  I  had  hardly  dozed  off  when  I  was  awak-  ened  by  an  explosion.  I  got  up  and  went  to  the  window.  'The  street  below  was  filled  with  people,  all  hurrying  in  the  same  direction  and  chattering  excitedly.  A  siren  wailed  and  a  policeman  on  a  scarlet  motorcycle,  with  eight  front  lights  and  six  rear  ones,  went  past  deaf-  eningly,  snaking  in  and  out  of  the  crowd.  There  was  another  explosion,  and  as  this  was  the  homeland  of  revolu-  tions,  it  was  natural  to  assume  that  one  had  started.  I  dressed  and  went  out  into  the  patio.  The  tumult  showed  no  signs  of  abat-  ing,so  I  walked  down  to  the  plaza,  which  was  now  crowded  with  blank-  faced  Indians  moving  slowly  counter-  clockwise  under  the  lamps,  as  if  stirred  by  some  gigantic  spoon.  I  soon  ran  into   Calmo,  who  told  me  it  looked  as  if  there  were  going  to  bea  fiesta  that  night.  He  couldn't  think  why.  There  was  really  no  excuse  for  it.  Merchants  had  put  up  their  stalls  and  were  offer-  ing  for  sale  tiny  skulls  made  of  sugar,  holy  pictures,  plastic  space  guns,  and  a  bottled  liquid  medicine  for  heart  ailments,  which  is  a  specialty  of  Hue-  huetenango,  and  tastes,  I  discovered  later,  like  inferior  port.  We  found  the  lean  horseman,  whom  we  had  seen  that  afternoon,  using  his  rockets  now,  rather  than  waiting  for  the  celebration  next  day.  He  was  launching  them  in  military  fashion  from  a  wooden  rack-  like  contraption.  'They  were  aimed  so  asto  hiss  alarmingly  low  over  the  heads  of  the  people,  showering  them  with  sparks;  sometimes  the  rockets  cleared  the  building  opposite,  and  sometimes  they  did  not.  On  the  top  of  an  adjoining  building,  a  bandstand  had  been  built,  and  about  this  time  powerful  lights  came  on  in-  side  it  and  nine  gloomy-looking  men  in  dark  suits  entered,  carrying  what  looked  like  several  grand  pianos.  A  moment  later,  these  pieces  of  furniture  had  been  placed  end  to  end  to  form  an  enormous  marimba,  under  an  illuminated  sign  that  said  &quot;Musica  Civica.&quot;  A  cosmic  voice  coughed  electrically  and  announced  that  the  municipal  orchestra  would  have  pleasure  in  rendering  a  selection  of  notable  composers'  works.  Eighteen  hammers  then  came  down  on  the  keys  with  a  resounding  flourish,  and  thegiant  marimba  raced  into  an  athletic  version  of  &quot;If  You  Were  the  Only  Girl  in  the  [REDACTED];  CALMO  and  I  took  refuge  from  the  torrent  of  sound  in  a  nearby  tavern  called  the  Little  Chain  of  Gold.  It  was  a  place  of  great  charm.  In  one  corner  was  a  shrine  of  the  Virgin  Mary  and  in  another  a  newly  installed  juke-  box.  Most  of  the  customers  were  preparados  Indians-those  who  had  done  military  service.  'They  still  wore  their  red-and-blue  Army  uniforms,  which,  Calmo  said,  they  preferred  to  their  tribal  costumes.  He  explained  that  the  main  difference  between  a  prepe-  rado  and  a  tribal  Indian  was  that  the  preparado,  who  had  acquired  a  civilized  taste  for  whiskey,  couldn't  afford  to  get  drunk  as  often  as  an  uncivilized  drinker  of  aguardiente,  a  cheap  liquor.  W  e  drank  the  aguardiente.  It  smelled  of  ether  and  had  a  fierce  laboratory  flavor.  Every  time  the  door  opened,  the  ma-  rimba  music  pressed  on  our  eardrums.  At  last,  it  ended.  Calmo  was  becoming  uneasy.  &quot;In  my  opinion,  it  is  better  to  go,&quot;  he  said,  in  Spanish.  &quot;'These  people  are  very  peace-loving,  but  they  are  getting  drunk,  and  when  they  are  drunk  they  sometimes  assassinate  each  other  in  places  like  this.  Not  for  malicious  rea-  sons,  understand  me,  but  as  the  result  of  wagers  or  to  demonstrate  the  ac-  curacy  of  their  aim  with  the  various  firearms  they  possess.&quot;  We  paid  our  bill  andhad  just  got  up  when  the  door  was  flung  open  and  three  of  the  toughest-looking  desper-  adoes  I  had  ever  seen  reeled  in.  These  were  hard-muscled  Ladinos,  or  half-  breeds,  wearing  huge  machetes  in  their  belts.  For  a  moment,  they  blocked  the  doorway,  eying  the  company  with  sus-  picion  and  distaste;  then  one  of  them  spotted  the  jukebox,  which  is  still  a  rarity  in  [REDACTED].  His  expression  softened  and  he  made  for  our  table,  putting  each  foot  down  carefully,  as  if  afraid  of  blundering  into  quicksand.  He  bowed.  &quot;Forgive  me  for  addressing  you,  [REDACTED];  he  said  to  me,  &quot;but  are  you  familiar  with  the  method  of  manipulat-  ing  the  machine  over  there?&quot;  I  said  I  was.  &quot;Perhaps,  then,  you  could  inform  me  whether  the  selection  of  discs  includes  a  composition  played  by  a  marimba?&quot;  I  went  over  to  the  jukebox.  These  Ladinos,  I  had  heard,  were  still  living  the  frontier  life  of  the  last  century-  a  breed  of  tough,  illiterate  outcasts,  picking  up  a  livelihood  as  best  they  could,  bandits  and  cutthroats  if  pushed  to  it,  ready,  as  it  seemed  from  the  fre-  quent  newspaper  reports,  to  hack  each  other-or  the  lonely  traveller-to  piecesfor  a  few  dollars,  and  yet  with  a  tremendous,  almost  deadly  punctili-  ousness  in  ordinary  matters  of  social  intercourse.  I  studied  the  typewritten  list,  in  Spanish,  on  the  jukebox.  There  were  several  numbers  played  by  marim-  ba  bands.  I  read  the  names  of  these  numbers  to  the  Ladino.  He  looked  re-  lieved.  Then  he  conferred  in  an  under-  tone  with  his  two  companions,  came  back,  bowed  again,  and  handed  me  a  47756174656d616c61n  ten-cent  piece.  &quot;If  you  could  induce  the  machine  to  play  Mortal  Sin'  for  us,  we  should  be  much  indebted.&quot;  From  the  bartender,  I  got  some  United  [REDACTED]  nickels,  which  are  fair-  ly  common  currency  in  [REDACTED],  gave  the  Ladino  five  cents  change,  and  then  put  a  nickel  in  the  slot,  while  all  three  Ladinos  edged  forward,  studi-  ously  casual  but  eager  to  watch  the  inner  workings  of  the  machine,  by  which  their  choice  was  singled  out  and  maneuvered  into  the  playing  position.  &quot;Pecado  Mortal&quot;  turned  out  to  be  a  rollicking  son-a  kind  of  paso  doble-  executed  with  the  desperate  energy  of  which  the  music-makers  of  Central  America  are  so  prodigal.  Calmo  and  I  were  halfwaythrough  the  door  when  I  felt  a  tap  on  my  shoulder.  We  turned,  and  the  principal  bandit  insisted  that  we  join  him  for  a  drink.  &quot;Otherwise,  my  friends  and  I  would  feel  hurt,  Sefiores.&quot;  He  laid  bare  his  teeth  in  a  thin,  bitter  smile.  We  went  back  and  sat  down  again.  While  the  Ladino  was  getting  the  drinks,  Calmo  said,  &quot;In  the  education  of  our  people,  the  most  important  thing  taught  after  religion  is  urbanidad-  good  manners.  Even  those  who  have  no  schooling  are  taught  this.  I  do  not  think  that  we  should  risk  offending  these  men  by  showing  a  desire  to  leave  before  they  do.&quot;  A  moment  later,  our  bandit  was  back  with  a  bottle  of  aguardiente  and  a  hand-  ful  of  salt.  He  poured  some  salt  into  my  palm  and  some  into  Calmo's,  and  -|  stood  over  us  as  we  each  took  a  lick,  between  gulps  of  aguardiente.  The  music  stopped,  and  his  face  clouded  with  disappointment.  Behind  him,  a  second  Ladino  loomed,  swaying  slightly.  He  was  hold-  ing  a  coin.  &quot;Might  I  trouble  you  to  per-  form  the  same  service  for  me,  sir?&quot;  he  asked  politely.  It  seemed  that  this  second  Ladino  wanted  to  hear  &quot;Mortal  Sin&quot;  again.  &quot;It  is  remarkable,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  most  inspiring.  I  do  not  think  it  can  be  bettered.&quot;  F  orTAL  Sn&quot;  had  been  played  five  times,  and  we  were  still  bound  by  the  polite  usage  of  Central  America  to  our  chairs,  still  gulping  down  eguardiente  and  licking  the  salt  off  our  palms,  when  it  suddenly  oc-  curred  to  me  that  it  was  illogical  that  an  electric  train  should  be  rumbling  through  a  subway  immediately  beneath  us.  I  got  up,  grinning  politely  at  our  hosts,  and,  balancing  the  liquid  in  my  glass,  went  to  the  door  and  stepped  out-  side.  The  lamps  in  the  plaza  jogged  about  like  spots  before  my  eyes,  and  then  I  heard  a  noise  like  very  heavy  furniture  being  moved  about  some-  where  in  space.  The  world  shifted  slightly,  softened,  rippled,  and  behind  me  there  was  a  tinkling  of  shattered  glass.  I  felt  a  brief,  unreasoning  stab  of  the  kind  of  panic  that  comes  in  a  night-  mare  when  one  suddenly  begins  a  fall  into  endless  darkness.  Aguardiente  from  my  glass  splashed  on  my  hand,  and  at  that  moment  all  the  lights  went  out,  on  the  plaza  and  in  the  buildings  around  it,  and  the  music  stopped  with  a  defeated  growl.  A  second  later,  Calmo  and  one  of  the  Ladinos  burst  out  through  the  door-  way  and  into  the  sudden  crisp  stillness.  &quot;And  so,  my  friend,  we  must  leave  you  now  to  buy  candles,&quot;  Calmo  was  saying  to  the  Ladino.  &quot;Patience-we  shall  soon  return.&quot;  &quot;But  in  the  absence  of  electricity,&quot;  the  Ladino  grumbled  sadly,  &quot;the  ma-  chine  no  longer  functions.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  they  will  restore  the  light  quickly,&quot;  Calmo  said.  &quot;In  that  case,  we  shall  play  the  ma-  chine  again.  We  will  spend  the  whole  night  drinking  and  playing  the  ma-  chine.&quot;  The  Ladino  waved  and  fell  back  through  the  doorway  of  the  Little  Chain.  Calmo  and  I  moved  off  quickly  un-  der  the  petrified  foliage  of  the  plaza.  Nothing  stirred.  The  world  was  solid  under  our  feet  again.  A  coyote  barked  several  times,  sounding  as  if  it  were  in  the  next  street,  and  a  distant  clock  chimed  sweetly  an  incorrect  hour.  &quot;A  quiet  evening,&quot;  I  remarked.  &quot;With  just  one  small  earthquake  thrown  in.&quot;  &quot;A  tremor,  not  an  earthquake,&quot;  «~  &gt;&gt;  Calmo  said.  &quot;An  earthquake  must  last  at  least  half  a  minute.  This  was  a  shak-  ing  of  secondary  importance.&quot;  Then  he  said  in  English,  &quot;Sometimes  earth-  quakes  may  endure  for  a  minute,  or  even  two  minutes.  In  that  case,  it  is  funny-no,  not  funny.  I  mean  very  serious.&quot; 