 b"TILL  I  was  a  grown  man,  I  could  never  see  precisely  what  was  sup-  posed  to  be  exaggerated  in  the  plots  of  people  like  Dickens.  To  this  day  I  can  still  read  about  some  mysteri-  ous  street  urchin  who  is  brought  up  to  poverty  and  vice  by  a  ragpicker  and  who  turns  out  to  be  the  missing  heir  to  an  earldom,  and  see  nothing  peculiar  about  it.  To  me  it  all  seems  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world.  By  natural  I  mean,  of  course,  something  I  have  been  through  myself.  Having  always  been  Mother's  pet,  I  was  comparatively  grown  up  when  the  truth  about  who  I  really  was  broke  on  me  first.  In  fact,  I  was  already  at  work  as  a  messenger  boy  on  the  railway.  Up  to  that  moment,  I  had  played  with  the  idea  as  I  played  with  a  score  of  other  ideas,  but  suddenly,  almost  in  a  day,  every  other  possibility  dropped  away,  and  I  knew  I  had  nothing  whatever  in  common  with  the  two  commonplace  creatures  with  whom  my  fate  had  be-  come  so  strangely  linked.  And  it  wasn't  their  poverty  only  that  shocked  me,  though  that  was  bad  enough,  or  the  tiny  terrace  house  we  lived  in,  with  its  twelve-foot  square  of  garden  in  front,  its  crumbling  stumps  of  gateposts,  and  low  wall  that  had  lost  its  railing.  It  was  their  utter  commonness,  their  squabbles  about  money,  their  low  friends  and  fatu-  ous  conversations.  You  could  see  that  no  breath  offineness  had  ever  touched  them.  'They  seemed  like  people  who  had  been  crippled  from  birth  and  never  known  what  it  was  to  walk  or  run  or  dance.  Though  I  might  be-for  the  moment,  at  least-only  a  messenger,  I  had  long  spells  when  by  some  sort  of  in-  stinct  I  knew  who  I  really  was,  and  could  stand  aside  and  watch  myself  coming  up  the  road  after  my  day's  work  with  relaxed  and  measured  steps,  turn-  ing  my  head  slowly  to  greet  some  neigh-  bor  and  raising  my  cap  with  a  grace  and  charm  that  came  of  centuries  of  breed-  ing.  Not  only  could  I  see  myself  like  that;  there  were  even  times  when  I  could  hear  an  interior  voice  that  pre-  ceded  and  dictated  each  movement  as  if  it  were  a  fragment  ofa  storybook-  &quot;He  raised  his  cap  gracefully  while  his  face  broke  into  a  thoughtful  smile.&quot;  And  then,  as  I  turned  the  corner,  I  would  see  Father  at  the  gate,  in  his  house  clothes-ragged  trousers  and  vest,  an  old  cap  that  came  down  over  his  eyes,  and  boots  cut  into  something  that  resembled  sandals  and  that  he  in- sisted  on  calling  his  &quot;slippers.&quot;  Father  was  a  creature  of  habit.  No  sooner  was  he  out  of  his  working  clothes  thanhe  was  peppering  for  his  evening  paper,  and  if  the  newsboy  was  five  minutes  late,  Father  muttered  &quot;I  don't  know  what's  coming  over  that  boy  at  all!&quot;  and  drifted  down  to  the  main  road  to  listen  for  him,.  We  lived  in  the  Barrack  quarter  of  Cork,  in  a  square  that  had  not  been  taken  over  by  the  city  council  and  was  as  uneven  as  the  day  the  build-  ers  left  it.  It  was  not  really  asquare  but  only  two  terraces  of  houses  fac-  ing  each  other  across  a  deserted  lot.  The  remaining  two  sides  ofthe  square  were  provided  by  the  houses  on  the  farther  side  of  two  roadways.  When  the  news-  boy  did  at  last  appear,  Father  would  grab  the  paper  from  his  hand  and  al-  most  run  home,  putting  on  his  spectacles  awkwardly  as  he  ran  and  triumphantly  surveying  the  promised  treats  of  the  headlines.  When  he  got  to  our  house,  he  would  stride  through  the  little  hall-  way,  which  was  always  streamingwith  damp,  past  the  parlor  where  nobody  ever  sat,  and  into  the  kitchen.  And  suddenly  everything  would  go  black  on  me,  and  I  would  take  the  chair  by  the  open  back  door  while  Father,  reading  by  the  window,  uttered  little  exclamations  of  joy  or  rage  and  Mother  asked  anxiously  how  I  had  got  on  dur-  ing  the  day.  Most  of  the  time  I  could  reply  only  in  monosyllables.  How  could  I  tell  her  that  nothing  happened  at  work  that  wasn't  as  common  as  thethings  that  happened  at  home;  nothing  except  those  moments  of  blinding  illumination  when  I  was  alone  in  the  station  yard  on  a  spring  morning,  with  sunlight  striking  the  cliffs  above  the  tunnel,  and,  picking  my  way  between  the  rails  and  the  trucks,  I  realized  that  it  was  not  for  long-that  I  was  a  duke  or  an  earl  in  disguise,  and  thatI  had  only  to  be  discovered  for  everything  to  fall  into  its  true  place.  Illumination  came  only  when  I  had  escaped.  Most  often  it  came  when  I  crossed  the  yard  on  my  way  from  work  and  dawdled  in  the  pas-  senger  station  before  the  bookstall,  or  looked  at  a  passenger  train  going  out  and  realized  that  one  day  it  would  take  me  to  my  true  home  and  patrimony.  This  gloomy  withdrawal  used  to  make  Father  mad.  He  was  a  talkative  man,  and  every  little  incident  of  his  day  turned  into  narrative  and  drama  for  him.  He  seemed  forever  to  be  meet-  ing  old  comrades  of  his  army  days  whom  hehadn't  seen  for  fifteen  years,  and  astounding  changes  had  always  tak-  en  place  in  them  in  the  meantime.  When  one  of  his  old  friends  called,  or  even  when  the  woman  from  across  the  " b"square  dropped  in  for  a  cup  of  tea,  he  would  drop  everything,  even  his  newspaper,  to  talk.  His  corner  by  the  win-  dow  leaving  him  no  room  for  drama,  he  would  stamp  about  the  tiny  kitchen  as  he  talked,  pausing  at  the  back  door  to  glance  up  at  the  skyor  by  the  oth-  er  door  to  look  through  the  little  hallway  and  see  who  was  passing  outside  in  the  street.  It  irritated  him  when  I  got  up  in  the  middle  of  all  this,  took  my  cap,  and  quietly  went  out.It  irritated  him  even  more  if  I  read  while  he  and  the  others  talked,  or,  when  some  question  was  addressed  to  me,  put  down  my  book  and  gazed  at  him  blankly.  He  was  so  coarse  in  grain  that  he  regarded  it  as  insolence.  He  had  no  experience  of  dukes,  and  he  had  never  heard  that  interior  voice  that  dictated  my  movements  and  words.  &quot;Slowly  the  lad  lowered  the  book  in  which  he  had  been  immersed  and  gazed  wonderingly  at  the  man  who  called  himself  his  father.&quot;  One  evening  I  was  coming  home  from  work  when  a  girl  spoke  to  me.  She  was  a  girl  named  Nancy  Harding,  whose  elder  brother  I  knew  slightly.  I  had  never  spoken  to  her-indeed,  there  weren't  many  girls  I  did  speak  to.  I  was  too  conscious  of  the  fact  that  though  my  jacket  was  good  enough,  my  trou-  sers  were  an  old  blue  pair  of  Father's  cut  down  and  with  a  big  patch  in  the  seat.  But  Nancy,  emerging  from  a  house  near  the  quarry,  hailed  me  just  as  if  we  were  old  friends  and  walked  with  me  up  the  road.  She  was  eager  and  in-  consequent,  and  her  chatter  bewildered  and  charmed  me.  &quot;I  was  down  getting  the  answers  for  my  homework,&quot;  she  explained.  &quot;I  can't  do  blooming  sums.  Where  were  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  was  at  work,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;Work!&quot;  she  said  in  astonishment.  \xc2\xabTill  this  hour?&quot;  &quot;Eight  to  seven,&quot;  I  said  modestly.  &quot;But  aren't  they  terrible  hours?&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;Ah,  I'm  only  filling  in  time,&quot;  I  ex-  plained  lightly.  &quot;I  don't  expect  to  be  there  long.&quot;  This  was  prophetic,  because  I  was  sacked  a  couple  of  months  later,  but  at  the  time  I  just  wanted  to  make  it  clear  that  if  there  was  any  exploitation  it  was  I  and  not  the  railway  company  that  was  doing  it.  We  walked  slowly,  and  she  stood  under  the  gas  lamp  at  the  end  of  our  square  with  me.  It  was  funny  how,  darkness  or  day,  people  always  stood  under  gas  lamps.  They  were  our  play-  rooms  when  we  were  kids,  our  clubs  when  we  became  older.  Then  I  heard  these  words  running  through  my  head:  &quot;Pleased  with  his  quiet  conversation  and  well-bred  voice,  she  wondered  if  he  could  really  be  the  son  of  the  Delaneys  at  all.&quot;  Up  to  this,  the  voice  had  paid  no  attention  to  other  people;  I  longed  to  repeat  the  experience.  We  met  like  that  a  couple  of  times  when  I  was  coming  home  from  work.  I  was  not  observant,  and  it  wasn't  until  years  after  that  it  struck  me  she  had  been  waiting  for  me  always  at  the  same  house  at  the  same  time.  And  one  eve-  ning  when  we  were  standing  under  our  old  gas  lamp  Italked  enthusiastically  about  some  book,  and  she  wanted  to  borrow  it  from  me.  &quot;I'll  bring  it  with  me  tomorrow,&quot;  I  said.   &quot;Ah,  come  on  and  get  it  now,&quot;  she  said  coaxingly,  and  I  glanced  over  my  shoulder  and  saw  Father  at  the  gate,  his  head  cocked,  listening  for  the  newsboy.  I  felt  suddenly  sick,  but  I  knew  of  no  way  to  get  out  of  my  dilemma,  and  we  walked  up  the  little  uneven  square  to-  gether.  &quot;This  is  Nancy  Harding,  Dad,&quot;  I  said  apologetically.  &quot;I  just  want  to  get  a  book  for  her.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  come  in,  girl,  come  in,&quot;  he  said,  smiling  amiably,  and  we  all  went  into  the  house.  &quot;Sit  down,  can't  you,  while  you're  waiting,&quot;  he  said.  Father's  sociability  almost  caused  him  to  forget  the  newsboy.  &quot;Min,&quot;  he  called  to  Mother,  &quot;you  keep  an  eye  on  the  pa-  per.&quot;  As  I  searched  in  the  front  room  for  the  book,  which  in  my  desperation  I  could  not  find,  I  heard  Mother  go  out  for  the  paper  and  Father  chattering  away  like  mad  to  Nancy,  and  when  I  went  into  the  kitchen,  there  he  was  in  his  old  chair,  the  paper  neglected  on  the  table  beside  him,  telling  an  endless,  pointless  story  about  old  times  in  the  neighborhood.  If  there  was  one  of  Father's  favorite  subjects  I  could  not  stand,  it  was  the  still  wilder  and  more  sordid  life  people  had  lived  in  this  part  " b"of  Cork  when  he  was  growing  up.  He  was  so  pleased  with  her  attention  that  he  was  dramatizing  even  more  than  usual,  and  I  stood  silent  in  the  kitchen  door  with  a  ducal  air  of  scorn  for  several  minutes  before  he  even  noticed  me.  As  I  saw  Nancy  to  the  road,  I  felt  humili-  ated  to  the  depths  of  my  being.  I  no-  ticed  again  that  our  gate  was  only  a  pair  ofbrick  stumps  from  which  the  cement  had  all  fallen  away,  and  that  the  square  was  full  of  washing.  There  were  two  washerwomen  in  the  terrace,  each  with  a  line  of  her  own.  But  that  wasn't  the  worst.  One  eve-  ning  when  I  came  home,  Mother  said  joyously,  &quot;Oh,  your  dad  ran  into  that  nice  little  Harding  girl  on  the  way  from  work.&quot;  &quot;Did  he?&quot;  I  asked  indifferently,  though  feeling  thatI  had  been  kicked  hard  in  the  stomach.  &quot;Oh,  my  goodness!&quot;  Father  said,  lowering  his  paper  for  a  moment  and  crowing.  &quot;The  way  that  one  talks!  Spatter,  spatter,  spatter!  Oh,  by  the  way,  her  Aunt  Lil  used  to  be  a  great  friend  of  your  mother's  at  one  time.  I  thought  there  was  something  familiar  about  the  [REDACTED];  &quot;I'd  never  have  recognized  it,&quot;   Mother  said  solemnly.  &quot;Her  aunt  was  such  a  quiet  little  woman.&quot;  &quot;Oho,  there's  nothing  quiet  about  that  piece,&quot;  Father  said,  but  he  did  not  sound  disapproving.  Father  liked  young  people  who  had  something  to  say  for  themselves-unlike  me.  It  was  bad  enough  not  seeing  Nancy  myself,  but  to  have  her  meet  Father  like  that  inhis  working  clothes  comingfrom  the  manure  factory  down  the  Glen  and  hear  him,  no  doubt,  talking  in  his  ig-  norant  way  about  me  was  too  much.  I  could  not  help  contrasting  Father  with  Mr.  Harding,  whom  I  used  to  see  oc-  casionally  coming  from  work  and  whom  I  looked  at  with  a  respect  that  bordered  on  reverence.  He  was  a  small  man,  al-  ways  very  neatly  dressed,  and  he  usually  carried  his  newspaper  rolled  up  like  a  baton,  and  sometimes  he  hit  his  thigh  with  it  as  he  strode  briskly  home.  One  evening  when  I  glanced  shyly  at  him,  he  nodded  in  his  brusque  way.  Everything  about  him  was  brusque,  keen,  and  soldierly,  and  when  I  saw  that  he  recognized  me,  I  swung  into  step  beside  him  He  was  like  a  military  procession  with  a  brass  band,  the  way  he  always  set  the  pace  for  anyone  who  accompanied  him.  &quot;Where  are  you  working  now?&quot;  he  asked  sharply.  &quot;Oh,  on  the  railway  still,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Just  for  a  few  months  any-  way.&quot;  &quot;And  what  are  you  doing  there?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  just  helping  in  the  office,&quot;  I  replied  lightly.  I  knew  this  was  not  exactly  true,  but  I  hated  to  tell  anybody  that  I  was  only  a  messenger.  &quot;I  study  in  my  spare  time,  of  course,&quot;  I  added.  It  was  remarkable  how  the  speeding  up  of  my  pace  seemed  to  speed  up  my  romancing  as  well.  There  was  something  breathless  about  the  man  that  left  me  breathless,  too.  &quot;I  thought  of  taking  the  In-  dian  Civil  Service  exam,  or  some-  thing  ofthe  sort.  There's  no  future  in  railways.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  there?&quot;he  asked  with  some  surprise.  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  I  answered.  &quot;An-  other  few  years  and  it  will  all  be  trucks.  I  really  only  do  it  as  a  stopgap.  I  wouldn't  like  to  take  any  permanent  job  unless  I  could  travel.  Outside  Ireland,  I  mean.  Languages  are  my  major  in-  terest.&quot;  &quot;Are  they?&quot;  he  asked  with  in-  terest.  &quot;How  many  do  you  know?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  only  French  and  Ger-  man  at  the  moment-  I  mean,  enough  to  get  round  with,&quot;  I  said,  feeling  that  I  wasn't  making  the  right  impression.  Perhaps  to  be  a  proper  linguist  you  needed  to  know  a  dozen  languages.  I  mended  my  hand  asbest  I  could.  &quot;I'm  going  to  do  Italian  and  Spanish  this  winter,  though,  if  I  get  time.  You  can't  get  anywhere  in  the  modern  world  without  Spanish.  After  English,  it's  the  most  spoken  of  them  all.&quot;  &quot;Go  on!&quot;  he  said.  I  wasn't  altogether  pleased  with  the  result  of  that  conversation.  The  quick  march  had  made  me  commit  myself  farther  than  I  liked.  All  I  really  knew  of  foreign  languages  was  a  sort  of  strange  dreamy  pleasure  in  committing  odd  foreign  words  and  phrases  and  scraps  of  poetry  to  memory,  like  echoes  of  some  dream  of  my  lost  fatherland.  Mr.  Harding  had  three  daughters,  all  well-educated.  People  were  always  be-  ing  asked  to  his  house,  and  I  had  been  encouraging  myself  with  the  prospect  of  being  asked  there,  too.  But  if  I  were  invited  now,  it  would  be  mainly  be-  cause  of  my  supposed  knowledge  of  for-  eign  languages,  and  when  Nancy  or  one  of  her  sisters  burst  into  fluent  French  or  German,  my  few  poetic  " b"phrases  would  not  be  much  help.  I  needed  something  more  practical.  I  had  an  old  French  phrasebook,  which  some-  body  had  given  me,  and  I  determined  to  learn  as  much  French  as  I  could.  I  worked  hard  at  French,  spurred  on  byan  unexpected  meeting  with  Nancy's  eldest  sister,  who  suddenly  stopped  and  spoke  to  me  on  the  road.  To  my  as-  tonishment  and  relief,  she  spoke  in  Eng-  lish.  Then  one  evening  when  I  was  on  my  usual  walk,  which  in  those  days  nearly  always  brought  me  somewhere  near  Nancy's  house,  I  ran  into  her  going  in,  and  we  stood  at  the  street  corner  near  her  home.  I  was  pleased  with  this,  because  her  eldest  sister  came  out  soon  afterward  and  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  grab  the  sofa&quot;,&quot;  which  made  Nancy  blush,  and  then  her  father  passed  and  waved  his  hand  at  us.  But  my  pleasure  did  not  last  long,  because  the  sight  of  her  own  father  reminded  Nancy  of  mine.  &quot;I  saw  your  father  again  the  other  day,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  smile  that  hurt  me.  &quot;Did  you?&quot;  I  asked  with  a  sniff.  &quot;What  was  he  talking  about?  His  sol-  diering  days?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said  with  interest.  &quot;Does  he  talk  about  them,too?&quot;  &quot;Does  he  ever  talk  about  anything  else?&quot;  I  replied  wearily.  &quot;It  seems  to  have  been  the  only  thing  that  ever  hap-  penedhim.&quot;  &quot;He  seems  to  know  a  terrible  lot,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He's  managed  to  conceal  it  pretty  well,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  man  is  an  out-  and-out  failure,  and  he's  managed  to  turn  Mother  into  one  as  well.  I  sup-  pose  she  had  any  brains  there  were  between  them-which  wasn't  much,  I'm  afraid.&quot;  &quot;Go  on!&quot;  said  Nancy  with  a  bewil-  dered  air.  &quot;'Then  why  did  she  marry  him?&quot;  Echo  answers  why,'  &quot;  I  said  with  a  laugh  at  being  able  to  get  in  a  phrase  that  had  delighted  me  in  some  story-  book.  &quot;I  suppose  it  was  the  usual  thing.&quot;  And  when  I  saw  her  gaping  at  me  in  wonderment,  I  shrugged  my  shoulders  and  added,  &quot;Lust.&quot;  Nancy  blushed  again.  Well,&quot;  she  said,  making  to  go,  &quot;it's  well  to  beyou,  knowing  what's  wrong  with  him.  God  alone  knows  what's  wrong  with  mine.&quot;  I  was  sorry  she  had  to  go  in  such  a  hurry,  but  all  the  same  I  was  pleased  with  the  impression  of  culture  and  sophistication  I  had  managed  to  con-  vey,  and  I  looked  forward  to  showing  off  when  I  went  to  one  of  the  Har-  dings'  Sunday-evening  parties.  Nevertheless,  it  struck  me  that  they  were  very  slow  about  asking  me,  and  my  evening  walks  past  their  home  took  on  a  sort  of  stubborn  defiance.  It  wasn't  until  weeks  later  that  it  dawned  on  me  I  was  not  being  invited  because  nobody  wanted  me  there.  Nancy  had  seen  my  home  and  talked  to  my  par-  ents,  her  sister  and  her  father  had  seen  me,  and  all  of  them  had  seen  my  cut-  down  trousers  with  the  patch  on  the  seat.  It  mattered  nothing  to  any  of  them  that  I  spoke  French  and  Ger-  man  like  an  angel,  and  that  I  was  liable  to  be  sent  off  to  496e646961  in  the  next  few  months.  'They  did  not  think  I  was  class.  HOSE  were  the  bitterest  weeks  of  my  whole  life.  With  a  sort  of  despair,  in  the  early-winter  evenings,  I  took  my  walk  past  their  house  but  never  saw  anybody,  and  as  I  turned  up  the  muddy  lane  behind  it  and  heard  the  wind  moaning  in  the  branches,  and  31  then  looked  down  across  thesloping  field  to  the  house,  nestling  in  the  hollow  with  the  light  shining  brilliantly  in  the  kitchen,  it  seemed  to  be  full  of  all  the  love  and  beauty  I  would  never  know.  Sometimes,  leaning  over  the  lane  wall  and  watching  it,  it  even  seemed  pos-  sible  that  I  was  not  class,  just  as  they  thought.  At  other  times,  when  I  was  walking  home  by  myself,  tired  and  dis-  pirited,  pride  flared  up  angrily  in  me  again,  and  I  realized  that  when  the  truth  about  me  came  out,  the  Hardings  would  be  the  first  to  regret  the  superior  way  they  had  behaved.  At  such  times  I  always  imagined  myself  making  bril-  liant  loveless  matches  and  then  reveal-  ing  coldly  to  Nancy  that  I  had  never  cared  for  anyone  but  herself.  At  the  lowest  depth  of  my  misery,  I  was  introduced  to  a  girl  named  May  Dwyer,  and  somehow,  from  the  first  moment,  there  never  was  the  least  strain  or  fantasy  between  us.  Fantasy  and  " b"May  would  never  have  gone  together.  She  had  a  directness  of  approach  I  had  never  met  with  before  in  a  girl.  The  very  first  evening  I  saw  her  home,  she  asked  me  in  to  meet  her  parents.  This  did  scare  me,  I  admit,  but  I  promised  to  come  in  another  night,  and  at  once  she  told  me  what  evenings  she  was  free.  It  was  not  forwardness  or  lightness  in  her;  it  was  all  part  of  that  directness  which  made  her  immediately  both  a  companion  and  a  girl.  I  owe  her  a  lot,  for  without  her  I  might  still  be  show-  ing  off  my  French  and  German  to  women  who  attract  me.  Even  when  I  did  go  in  for  a  cup  of  tea,  I  wasn't  unduly  scared,  after  the  first  few  minutes.  Her  father  was  a  long,  sad  civil  servant,  and  her  mother  a  bright,  direct  little  woman  not  un-  like  May  herself,  and  the  pair  of  them  argued  withhim,  whatever  he  said.  This  only  made  him  hang  his  head  lower,  but  suddenly,  after  I  had  been  talking  for  a  while,  he  began  to  argue  with  me  about  the  state  of  the  country.  He  caught  me  out  on  several  points,  and  this  cheered  him  up  so  much  that  he  insisted  on  my  drinking  a  bottle  of  Guinness  with  him.  By  this  time  I  was  in  my  element;  I  always  have  liked  a  good  argument.  &quot;Cripes!&quot;  said  May  when  I  was  leaving.  &quot;Do  you  ever  stop,  once  you  start?&quot;  &quot;I  like  an  intelligent  talker,&quot;  I  said  loftily.  &quot;When  you  hear  as  much  of  my  old  fellow  as  I've  heard,  maybe  you  won't  think  he's  so  blooming  intelligent,&quot;  she  said,  but  she  did  not  sound  very  in-  dignant,  and  I  had  the  impression  that  she  was  really  quite  pleased  at  having  brought  home  a  young  fellow  who  could  entertain  her  father.  It  gave  her  the  feeling  that  she  was  really  all  the  time  an  intellectual  but  had  met  the  wrong  sort  of  fellow  up  to  now.  In  the  years  I  was  courting  her,  we  quar-  relled  like  hell,  but  between  her  father  and  me  it  was  a  case  of  love  at  first  sight.  Then  one  evening  I  ran  into  Nancy  Harding,  whom  I  had  not  seen  for  months.  It  was  an  embarrassing  mo-  ment,  because  I  realized  at  once  that  my  fantasy  had  all  come  true.  If  I  had  not  actually  made  a  brilliant  match,  I  was  as  good  as  caught,  and  yet  she  was  my  first  and  only  love.  &quot;I  hear  you  and  May  Dwyer  are  very  great  these  days,&quot;  she  said,  and  something  in  her  tone  struck  me  as  peculiar.  &quot;I've  seen  quite  a  lot  of  her,&quot;  I  ad-  mitted.  \xc2\xabYou  weren't  long  getting  hooked,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  smile  that  somehow  did  not  come  off.  &quot;I  don't  know  about  being  &quot;hooked,&quot;  as  you  call  it,&quot;  I  said,  getting  on  my  dignity.  &quot;She  asked  me  to  her  house  and  I  went,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  we  know  all  about  it,&quot;  Nancy  said,  and  this  time  there  was  no  mis-  taking  the  malice  in  her  tone.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  tell  me  anything.&quot;  &quot;Because  there's  nothing  to  tell,&quot;  I  replied  with  a  bland  smile.  &quot;And  I  suppose  she  talks  French  and  German  like  a  native,&quot;  said  Nancy.  That  reference  to  the  falsehoods  I  had  told  did  get  home.  &quot;I  don't  honestly  know  what  you're  talking  about,  Nancy,&quot;  I  said  in  a  com-  plaining  tone.  &quot;May  asked  me  to  her  house  and  I  went.  If  you'd  asked  me  to  your  house,  I'd  have  gone  just  the  same  way.  That's  all  there  is  to  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  is  that  all?&quot;  she  asked  in  her  commonest  tone,  and  suddenly,  to  my  astonishment,  I  saw  tears  in  her  eyes.  &quot;And  if  you  had  a  house  like  mine,  you'd  be  glad  to  ask  people  there,  too,  wouldn't  you?  And  sisters  like  mine!  And  a  father  like  mine!  You  can  grouse  about  your  own  old  fellow,  but  if  you  had  one  like  mine,  you'dhave  some-  thing  totalk  about.  Blooming  old  pig,  wouldn't  open  his  mouth  to  you!  'Tis  easy  for  you  to  talk,  Larry  Delaney.  Damn  easy!&quot;  And  then  she  shot  away  from  me  to  hide  her  tears,  and  I  was  left  standing  there  on  the  pavement,  stunned.  Too  really  to  have  done  anything  about  it.  It  had  all  happened  too  sud-  denly,  and  required  too  vast  and  strange  a  readjustment  of  ideas  for  me  to  grass  it  at  all.  I  was  so  astonished  and  upset  that  though  I  was  to  have  met  May  that  night  I  did  not  go.I  went  for  a  lonely  walk  by  myself  to  think  over  what  I  should  do.  In  the  end,  of  course,  I  did  nothing,  and  it  was  not  until  years  later  that  I  even  realized  that  the  reason  I  had  cared  for  Nancy  was  that  she,  like  ny  self,  was  one  of  the  Duke's  children,  one  of  those  outcasts  of  a  lost  father-  and,  who  go  through  life  living  above  and  beyond  themselves,  like  some  image  of  man's  origiral  aspiration,  till  the  day  they  die."