 b"NOT  long  ago,  at  a  friend's  house,  I  heard  &quot;'The  Confederacy&quot;-  a  record  album  of  songs  ofthe  Lost  Cause-for  the  first  time.  The  distinction  I  thus  acquired  of  being  prac-  tically  the  last  American,  and  certainly  the  last  Southerner,  to  hear  it  came  to  me  quite  by  accident;  Ijust  happened  to  have  missed  it  all  along.  Anyway,  after  my  host  had  played  it  through,  he  asked  me  what  I  thought  of  it.  &quot;I  liked  it  all-everything  about  it-except  for  one  part,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;''The  Rebel  yell.&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  Rebel  yell?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;It  just  wasn't  the  yell,&quot;  I  said.  He  looked  at  his  wife.  &quot;I  bet  you  didn't  know  we  had  ol'  Jeb  Stuart  sit-  ting  here,&quot;  he  said.  Then,  turning  to  me  again,  he  asked,  &quot;What  makes  you  think  you  know  so  much  about  the  Rebel  yell,  General?&quot;  &quot;Because  I  happen  to  be  one  of  a  rela-  tive  handful  of  men  who  have  heard  the  Rebel  yell  as  it  should  be  heard-yelled  by  Confederate  soldiers  under  battle  conditions  and  in  authentic  surround-  ings,&quot;  I  told  him  with  dignity.  &quot;Further,  I  had  the  honor  of  participating  in  the  yell  myself  on  several  occasions,&quot;  I  added  untruthfully,  and,  after  a  suitably  dramatic  pause,  went  on  to  explain.  In  1935,  when  I  was  a  third-class-  man  at  the  Virginia  Military  Institute,  somebody  conceived  the  idea  of  inviting  the  corps  of  cadets  to  takepart  in  a  re-  enactment  of  the  Battleof  Chancellors-  ville.  The  Institute  authorities  accepted,  and  we  began  extensive  preparations,  learning  Civil  War  formations  and  practicing  the  various  phases  of  the  battle.  We  were  to  be  the  Confederates,  and  a  bat-  talion  of  Marines  were  to  come  over  from  Quantico  to  portray  the  Union  troops.  Since  the  script  and  history  called  for  them  to  get  beat-  en,  they  were  not  very  en-  thusiastic.  One  day  a  few  weeks  be-  forethe  re\xc3\xa9nactment,  the  cadet  corps  was  marched  out  onto  the  drill  field  and  formed  into  a  hollow  square,  into  which  came  the  Commandant  and  a  wispy  old  gentleman  whom  he  in-  troduced  as  Colonel  Somebody-or-  Other-Ilet's  say  Tolliver-one  of  the  last  survivors  of  Pickett's  Virginians.  There  were  quite  a  few  Civil  War  vet-  erans  still  around  in  1935,  and  by  that  time  a  good  many  former  drummer  boys  had  become  colonels  and  generals.  The  Colonel,  the  Commandant  ex- plained,  had  consented  to  render  the  Rebel  yell  for  us,  so  that  we  could  practice  it  and  be  perfect  in  it  by  the  day  of  the  re\xc3\xa9nactment.  With  that,  he  motioned  to  Colonel  Tolliver,  and  the  Colonel  stepped  forward,  looked  about  him,  cleared  his  throat,  and  then  rared  back  and  yelled.  Considering  the  frailty  of  its  source,  it  was  an  unbelievable  yell,  and  even  aside  from  that  it  was  an  astonishing  one.  It  had  a  keening,  ulu-  lant  quality  that  raised  the  hackles  on  my  neck  and  seemed  to  hang  in  the  air  after  the  yell  was  over,  For  a  second,  we  could  hear  the  echoes  bouncing  off  the  barracks  wall  at  the  far  end  of  the  parade  ground.  The  Commandant  broke  the  ensuing  silence.  &quot;Now,  then,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  Colonel  says  the  Rebel  yell  breaks  down  into  three  parts.  The  first  part  is  the  syllable  'wah,'  the  second,  which  you  accent,  is  'who,&quot;  and  the  third  is  a  long-  drawn-out  'eeee.'  Like  this.&quot;  And  the  Commandant  rared  back  and  yelled.  It  was  a  fairly  good  yell,  as  yells  go,  but  it  couldn't  hold  a  candle  to  Colonel  Tol-  liver's,  and  I  don't  think  it  would  have  been  very  awe-inspiring  even  if  all  of  Pickett's  men  had  yelled  it  that  way.  The  Commandant  tried  it  once  or  twice  more  without  getting  any  better,  Colo-  nel  Tolliver  favored  us  with  a  final,  frightening  blast,  and  they  left.  WE  worked  hard  at  yelling  during  the  next  few  weeks,  and  by  the  time  ofthe  re\xc3\xa9nactment  we  were  fairly  proficient,  but  our  best  was  only  a  pas-  tiche  of  Colonel  Tolliver's.  Even  so,  we  seemed  to  impress  the  peo-  ple  we  yelled  at  from  the  trucks  that  drove  us  down  to  the  battlefield.  The  re-  enactment  took  place  be-  fore  about  fifty  thousand  spectators,  among  them  the  late  Dr.  Douglas  Southall  Freeman,  an  au-  thority  on  the  yell  in  his  own  right,  whom  I  men-  tion  because  years  later  I  heard  him  give  it,  and  noticed  that  he  didn't  sound  much  like  Colonel  Tolliver,  either.  Our  part  in  the  engagement  called  for  us  to  advance  down  a  swale  perhaps  a  mile  long  and,  after  being  beaten  back  once,  to  re-form  and  overrun  the  Union  defenses  manned  by  the  unhappy  Ma-  rines.  'The  battle  opened  with  an  im-  pressively  noisy  and  smoky  cannonade,  after  which  we  advanced  out  of  our  hiding  place  in  a  patch  of  woods  and  moved  toward  the  Union  lines.  In  our" b"rehearsals  over  similar  ground  back  in  [REDACTED],  we  had  been  told  that,  on  signal  from  our  platoon  leaders,  we  were  to  give  our  first  yell  when  we  had  gone  a  certain  distance,  another  when  we  were  about  halfway  to  the  enemy  lines,  and  a  final  one  during  the  last  moments  of  the  charge.  For  some  rea-  son,  though,  we  didn't  do  it;  perhaps  the  platoon  leaders  forgot,  or  perhaps  there  was  too  much  noise  generally,  but  we  advanced  down  the  swale,  assaulted  the  Union  lines,  and  were  thrown  back,  all  without  a  single  yell.  While  we  were  re-forming  forthe  charge  that  was  to  succeed,  I  decided  that  I  had  done  enough  running  for  that  day,  and  soon  after  we  moved  out,  I  slumped  to  the  ground  in  what  I  thought  was  a  fairly  good  imitation  of  a  man  struck  by  a  Mini\xc3\xa9  ball,  and,  from  a  comfortable  position  in  apatch  of  tall  grass,  watched  the  gray  line  of  cadets  break  into  a  trot  as  their  charge  started.  The  trot  became  a  dead  run  over  the  last  hundred  yards  or  so,  and  I  heard  them  begin  to  yell.  It  was  a  high,  tin-  gling  yell  that  would  have  made  Colo-  nel  Tolliver  proud,  and  I  am  certain  the  battlefield  had  heard  its  like  be-  fore-but  it  wasn't  exactly  &quot;Wah-  Who-Eeee,&quot;  and  it  wasn't  being  done  on  command,  and  afterward,  when  I  talked  to  some  of  my  fellow-cadets  who  had  had  energy  enough  tostay  alive  during  the  charge,  they  said  they  didn't  remember  yelling  at  all.  HE  re\xc3\xa9nactment  of  Chancellors-  ville  was  such  a  success  that  it  touched  off  a  wave  of  other  battles,  and  before  I  graduated  from  V.M.I.,  I  fought  and  bled,  in  a  manner  of  speak-  ing,  at  both  First  Manassas  and  Peters-  burg.  As  it  happened,  I  was  not  involved  in  a  charge  on  either  occasion,  but  both  times  I  heard,  from  those  who  were,  a  yell  like  the  one  that  had  risen  above  thedin  of  the  re\xc3\xa9nacted  Battle  of  Chan-  cellorsville.  After  I  left  V.M.I.,  I  didn't  think  much  about  the  Rebel  yell  until  the  real  war,  for  me,  came  along,  and  I  found  myself  briefly  attached  to  the  29th  Di-  vision  in  [REDACTED]  during  the  siege  of  Brest.  The  division  was  made  up  large-  ly  of  Southern  boys.  It  was  a  National  Guard  outfit,  and  was  commanded  at  the  time  by  Major  General  Charles  Gerhardt,  a  West  Pointer  who  had  been  an  expert  polo  player  and,  I  was  told,  had  once  coached  the  Academy  polo  team.  General  Gerhardt  had  his  idio-  syncrasies,  like  everybody  else,  and  in  attempting  to  inject  a  kind  of  varsity  spirit  into  the  29th  Division  he  had" b"thought  up  a  division  combat  yell:  Twenty-nine,  Let's  Go!&quot;  Somebody  told  me,  as  I  remember  it,  that  his  polo  team  had  all  been  members  of  the  Class  of  29,  and  that  this  had  been  their  yell.  Be  that  as  it  may,  the  notion  of  hard-  ened  infantrymen  overrunning  a  Ger-  man  position  while  shouting  &quot;T  wenty-  nine,  Let's  Go!&quot;  like  so  many  college  rooters  struck  me  as  incongruous  and  improbable,  and  so,  sitting  in  a  ditch  out-  side  Brest  one  day  after  an  attack,  I  asked  an  officer  who  had  been  engaged  in  it  if  his  men  had  behaved  like  a  cheer-  ing  section  during  the  final  assault.  He  took  his  helmet  off  and  scrubbed  his  hand  through  his  hair,  &quot;Hell,  no,&quot;  he  said  tiredly.  I  was  struck  by  a  sudden  thought.  &quot;Did  they  yell  at  all?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Sure  they  did,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  the  time,  like  banshees.  I  don't  know  what  it  was,  exactly,  but  I  can  tell  you  one  thing.  It  wasn't  Twenty-nine,  Let's  GO!   I  was  sure  it  wasn't,  and  that  it  wasn't  exactly  &quot;Wah-Who-Eeee,&quot;  ei-  ther,  but  I  had  an  idea  that  if  Colonel  Tolliver  could  have  been  there  he  would  have  recognized  it. "