 b"I TRY  to  keep  a  cheerful  counte-nance,  but  the  fact  is  I  have  been  pretty  sore  for  a  long  time  that  I  have  never  won  any  of  those  journalistic  prizes  that  are  regularly  doled  out,  with  appropriate  fanfare,  on  the  say-so  of  juries  manned  by  Norman  Cousins,  Arthur  Krock,  Allan  Nevins,  and  other  pundits.  I  think  I  know  how  to  fix  it,  however.  The  news  behind  the  news,  a  rattling  good  expos\xc3\xa9-that's  the  ticket.  That's  the  ticket  to  the  thousand-dollar  award,  the  gold  medal,  the  engraved  certificate,  the  first  leg-up  to  member-  ship  in  the  American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Letters,  conveniently  located  on  Audubon  Terrace,  near  [REDACTED]  and  155th  Street.  I  say  &quot;conveniently  lo-  cated&quot;  because  it's  next  to  the  American  Numismatic  Society;  just  up  the  Terrace  from  the  American  Geographical  So-  ciety,  the  Hispanic  Society  of  America,  and  the  Museum  of  the  American  In-  dian,  Heye  Foundation;  and  not  more  than  a  stork's  hop  from  the  Sloane  Hospital  for  Women,  where  your  wife  can  have  a  baby,  the  Harkness  Pavilion  of  the  Columbia  Presbyterian  Medical  Center,  where  you  can  put  the  baby  after  it's  born,  and  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  where  you  can  air  the  baby  later  on,  if  you  want  to  stay  in  the  neighborhood.  The  property  for  the  Audubon  Ter-  race  cultural  colony  was  assembled  by  the  late  Archer  M.  [REDACTED],  a  step-  son  ofthe  late  Collis  P.  [REDACTED].  The  above  statement  could  itself  be  the  news  behind  the  news,  because  Who's  Who  always  put  Archer  down  as  Col-  lis's  son,  not  stepson,  but  I  think  I  can  do  better.  Archer,  who  died  last  winter  ateighty-five,  founded  the  Hispanic  So-  ciety,  was  a  member  of  the  four  other  outfits  in  its  immediate  vicinity,  and  gave  away  his  Fifth  43616e616461house  to  the  National  Academy  of  Design.  The  National  Academy  of  Design  is  just  a  block  north  of  the  Guggenheim  Muse-  um,  whose  new  building  is  being  erected  by  Frank  Lloyd  Wright,  eighty-seven.  Heye  Heye!  -or,  as  it's  pronounced,  Hi  Hil  The  Museum  of  the  American  Indian  was  founded  by  George  G.  Heye,  who  will  be  eighty-two  in  Sep-  tember-not  to  be  confused  with  Clarence  L.  Hay,  atrustee  emeritus  of  the  American  Museum  of  Natural  His-  tory  and  a  director  of  the  Horticultural  Society  of  New  York.  How  I  love  acad-  emies,  museums,  societies,  octogenari-  ans,  and  babies!  Did  you  know  that  we  also  have,  right  in  [REDACTED],  an  American  Academy  of  Safe  Driving  and  an  American  Academy  of  Embalm-  ing  and  Mortuary  Research?  I  suppose  these  academies,  which  would  appear  to  be  at  cross-purposes,  don't  do  much  inter-academy  business,  and  this  brings  me,  after  a  lapse  that  I  hope  the  Messrs.  Cousins,  Krock,  and  Nevins  will  look  upon  as  a  colorful  digression,  to  my  important  news  behind  the  news,  or  expos\xc3\xa9,  involving,  as  it  does,  a  kind  of  cross-purpose  relationship  between  the  municipal  Sanitation  Department  and  the  Department  of  Commerce  and  Public  Events.  One  that  is  being  hap-  pily  solved,  as  we  shall  see.  Y  expos\xc3\xa9,  and  the  vehicle  of  my  coming  good  fortune,  has  to  do  with  the  ticker-tape  parades  that  tradi-  tionally  greet  distinguished  visitors  to  New  York.  The  most  recent  of  these  took  place  last  month;  its  beneficiary  was  President  Sukarno,  of  [REDACTED].  The  news  about  these  parades  follows  a  general  pattern-the  escorted  ride  from  the  Battery  to  City  Hall,  the  Mayor  waiting  on  the  steps,  the  spon-  taneous,  sometimes  wild,  rain  of  paper  from  office  windows  en  route.  Well,  whatever  may  have  been  the  case  in  the  halcyon  days  of  Grover  Whalen,  the  news  behind  the  news  today  is  that  this  rain  would  often  not  be  more  than  a  dribble  if  it  weren't  for  some  fairly  strong-arm,  though  unseen,  tactics.  Per-  haps  not  even  that;  the  skies  might  be  absolutely  clear.  What  luck  that  I  am  able  to  document  this!  I  have  in  my  possession  a  letter,  dated  May  17,  1956,  from  the  office  of  the  Deputy  Commis-  sioner  ofthe  Department  of  Commerce  and  Public  Events  to  Mr.  L.  Porter  Moore,  Executive  Director-Secretary  of  the  Downtown  [REDACTED]  Associa-  tion,  Inc.  I  can't  say  how  I  obtained  this,  because  we  Pulitzer  Prize  seekers  have  to  protect  our  sources,  but  here  it  1s:  DrEar  Mr.  Moore:  Following  your  meeting  with  Commis-  sioner  Patterson  this  morning,  I  am  writ-  ing  to  confirm  our  request  that  you  inform  the  members  of  the  Downtown  Man-  hattan  Association  and  others  in  lower  [REDACTED]  that  continuance  of  enthusi-  astic  welcoming  of  Heads  of  State  with  ticker  tape  parades  is  urgently  desired,  The  custom,  as  established  during  World  War  I,  has  become  famous  around  the  world.  New  York  City's  particular  brand  of  greeting  is  now  anticipated  by  our  dis-  tinguished  guests.  Not  only  is  this  the  wish  of  Mayor  Robert  F.  Wagner,  but  the  United  States  Department  of  State  is  equally  desirous  that  the  custom  be  continued  as  spontane-  ously  as  in  the  past.  Recently  little  ticker  tape  has  been  in  evidence  during  such  parades.  It  is  likely  thatthe  reason  for  this  can  be  traced  to  the  splendid  effort  now  being  made  byour  citizens  to  &quot;Keep  New  York  City  Clean,&quot;  in  response  to  that  campaign.  On  these  infrequent  occa-  sions  of  parades  to  City  Hall,  the  Sanita-  tion  Department's  sweeping  and  cleansing  motorized  apparatus  follows  up  to  make  [REDACTED]  clean  again  a  few  minutes  later.  Your  cooperation  in  augmenting  the  " b"rain  of  ticker  tape  will  be  greatly  appre-  ciated  and  will  foster  international  good  will  inthis  World  Capital.  Sincerely,  Emma  AupEN  A  postscript  reads:  The  next  ticker  tape  parade  will  be  on  May  23  in  honor  of  H.  E.  Dr.  Sukarno,  president  of  the  Republic  of  [REDACTED].  The  parade  will  be  from  the  Battery  to  City  Hall  at  noon.  The  cooperation  of  firms  en  route  is  requested.  This  cooperation  was  forthcoming.  The  Times  was  able  to  report,  anent  President  Sukarno's  welcome,  &quot;He  rode  in  an  open  car  down  [REDACTED]  for  the  city's  traditional  ticker-tape  parade.&quot;  Not  a  word  in  the  Times,  however,  about  the  news  behind  the  news!  In  the  interests  of  establishing  myself  journalis-  tically,  and  showing  up  the  Times,  I  telephoned  Mr.  Moore  and  asked  him  what  really  happened.  His  reply  was:  &quot;Our  Association  has  a  hundred  and  fifty  members-mostly  big  corporations  and  building  owners,  such  as  the  Amer-  ican  Express  Company  and  the  Chase  [REDACTED]  Bank-from  Canal  Street  to  the  tip  of  [REDACTED].  We  found  that  ticker  tape  was  not  coming  down  the  way  it  used  to.  President  Gronchi,  of  4974616c79,  and  President  Berres,  of  Uruguay,  two  dignitaries  who  preceded  President  Sukarno,  gothardly  any  ticker  tape  at  all.  These  foreign  dig-  nitaries  look  forward  to  ticker  tape,  and  they  were  disappointed.  It  makes  an  interesting  display,  and  they  felt  a  little  deprived.  We  looked  into  the  mat-  ter,  after  being  nudged  by  Commission,  er  Patterson's  office,  and  found  that  the  reason  for  the  dearth  of  ticker  tape  is  that  most  brokerage  offices  now  use  electronic  devices  and  don't  have  ticker  tape.  Or  not  much,  anyway.  Some  of  them  have  substitute  ticker-tape  ma-  chines,  for  emergency  use.  'The  Stock  Exchange  has  these,  and  we  made  use  of  them.  We  got  the  Exchange  to  save  up  old  ticker  tape  for  a  week  prior  to  Sukarno's  visit,  and  had  this  put  in  bags  and  delivered  by  Sanitation  Department  trucks  to  the  buildings  along  his  route.  So  the  Sanitation  people  cleaned  up  the  stuff  they  themselves  had  brought  a  while  earlier!  In  future,  we  hope  to  start  the  Exchange  saving  up  ticker  tape  ten  days  ahead  of  a  distin-  guished  visitor.  'This  will  enable  us  to  make  a  really  brave  showing.&quot;  Well,  there  you  are.  'The  World  Capital's  enthusiastic,  spontaneous  tick-  er-tape  parades  are  being  pelted  by  stale  stock-market  quotations,  and  my  name  is  Lincoln  Steffens.  If  President  Sukarno  picked  up  any  of  that  paper  and  acted  on  it  as  an  investor,  he's  a  gone  goose.  That's  no  way  to  improve  relations  with  [REDACTED],  or  with  all  the  other  countries  that  keep  sending  us  dignitaries.  'The  picture  of  the  Chase  [REDACTED]  Bank  handing  out,  or  throwing  out,  misleading  market  prices  is  an  unsettling  one.  I  suggest  that  the  Downtown  [REDACTED]  Association  provide  its  members  with  bundles  of  up-to-date  Wall  Street  Journals  and  a  few  gross  of  shears.  'Then  those  junket-  ing  Presidents,  busy  in  their  Waldorf  suites  with  pots  of  glue,  will  have  some-  thing  to  go  on."