 b"I  WAS  hurrying  down  the  main  street  of  Westport  one  Saturday  afternoon  late  last  fall  when  I  heard  my  name  called,  followed  by  the  words  &quot;as  Ah  live  and  breathe.&quot;  My  friend  Malcolm  Johnsprang  was  coming  toward  me,  hand  extended.  &quot;Haven't  seen  you  in  ages,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Hello,  Malcolm,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Fahn.  How  are  you?  Walking  along  with  distraction's  aspect,  your  ahs  in  a  fahn  frenzy  rolling.  What's  up?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  usual  rat  race,  one  thing  and  another.&quot;  We  stood  on  the  sidewalk,  grinning  disproportionately  at  each  oth-  er.  &quot;Well,  well.  It  must  be  six  months  since  I've  seen  you,  Malcolm,&quot;  &quot;Come  have  a  beer,&quot;  he  proposed,  slinging  an  arm  through  mine.  &quot;Just  sold  two  houses  and  feel  flush.&quot;  He  is  a  real-estate  broker.  I  agreed  willingly  enough,  and  as  he  steered  me  back  half  a  block  in  the  directionI  had  come  from,  I  congratu-  lated  him.  &quot;We  living  in  a  boom  town,&quot;  Mal-  colm  observed,  with  evident  mixed  feel-  ings.  &quot;Thenew  atrocities  are  going  like  hot  cakes  and  ruining  the  landscape  fast  enough  to  drive  the  old  families  out  of  their  beautiful  homes-which  Ah  love,  but  business  is  business,  and  we're  here  to  turn  over  the  split-levels  along  with  the  gems.&quot;  The  tavern  for  which  we  were  headed  now  lay  across  the  street,  and  we  paused  for  a  break  in  the  traffic.  &quot;It's  a  tragedy.  [REDACTED]  is  being  laid  waste.  And  Ah  love  mah  state.&quot;  Malcolm  Johnsprang  is  an  ardent  and  even  chauvinistic  New  Eng-  lander,  if  a  naturalized  one,  with  a  na-  tive  accent  that  is  rather  more  than  vestigial.  He  is  a  bachelor  of  about  thirty,  blond,  handsome  in  a  somewhat  moon-  faced  way.  None  of  our  friends  know  where  Malcolm  was  born,  except  that  it  was  obviously  below  the  Mason  and  Dixon  Line.  The  subject  is  never  men-tioned.  I  once  cited,  in  favorable  com-  parison  with  the  storied  New  England  manors  about  which  he  is  forever  spout-  ing  lore,  the  great  houses  in  Biloxi  and  [REDACTED],  down  around  in  there,  and  was  met  with  a  frozen  stare.  I  sensed  that  I  had  struck  a  taboo,  and  thereafter  watched  my  tongue  in  his  presence.  &quot;When  you  going  to  put  that  lovely  salt-box  of  your  own  on  the  market?&quot;  he  asked  as  we  crossed  the  street.  &quot;It's  a  delightful  place,  but  with  four  kids  and   only  three  bedrooms,  you  ought  to  let  me  get  you  out  of  there  and  into  some-  thing  with  some  room.  Got  a  sweet  old  place  up  Wilton  way  w1th  five  bed-  rooms.&quot;  This  was  not  a  new  gambit.  For  the  two  years  since  the  birth  of  my  fourth  child,  Malcolm  had  been  dying  to  &quot;turn  over&quot;  my  house,  of  which  he  remained  an  admirer  despite  my  protestations  that  it  was  not  authentically  old  but  mostly  additions  around  an  original  cottage.  Its  musk  ofvenerability  had  impressed  Malcolm,  who  took  it  for  granted  that  the  split-levels  discernible  from  my  parlor  window  were  gall  to  my  soul,  when  as  a  matter  of  fact  they  looked  like  the  Promised  Land,  and  it  was  my  plan,  if  ever  I  sold  my  dank  little  gem,  to  move  into  one  as  fast  as  a  van  could  get  me  there.  At  the  bar,  I  listened  silently  while  Malcolm  reeled  off  what  he  had  in  the  way  of  sweet  old  properties.  When  he  got  around  to  the  atrocities  again,  I  pricked  up  my  ears.  He  had  just  been  through  a  model  house  that  was  to  be  thrown  open  for  public  inspection  the  following  week.  ''The  minute  you  walk  in,  you  get  that  smell  of  newness,  you  know?&quot;  he  said,  turning  to  me  as  to  a  kindred  spirit.  I  nodded,  chewing  a  peanut  from  a  bowl  of  them  on  the  bar.  &quot;From  the  entrance  hall,  you  step  intoa  dropped  living  room,  which,  of  course,  has  a  'dining  ell,&quot;  &quot;he  continued  amus-  edly,  &quot;and  from  there  you  go  up  two  steps  to  a  section  where  there's  four  bedrooms  and  a  den.  Downstairs,  behind  the  garage,  there's  the  aboveground  playroom  and  utility  room.&quot;  He  paused  to  finish  off  his  beer.  &quot;I  guess  they  O.K.  for  people  of  a  certain  taste  and  income.&quot;  I  signalled  the  bartender  for  refills.  &quot;You  say  four  bedrooms  and  a  den.  You  could  consider  that  five  bedrooms,  couldn't  you?&quot;  I  said.  You  could.  It's  a  lot  of  house  for  the  money.  Thirty-three  five.&quot;  &quot;My  God!&quot;  I  exclaimed  in  genuin\xc2\xae  surprise.  &quot;'That  is  reasonable.  I  mean  if  the  construction  is  good.&quot;  &quot;Construction's  O.K.  Nobody  builds  them  any  better  than  Spontini.  The  house  is  sound  as  a  nut,  but,  of  course,  totally  devoid  of  chawm.  You  should  see  it!&quot;  I  let  the  subject  drop.  But  everything  Malcolm  had  said  came  back  to  me  the  following  Saturday  evening,  when,  out  " b"of  a  clear  sky,  my  domestic  life  took  a   new  turn,  HE  &quot;clear  sky&quot;  is  more  than  a  little  figurative.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  rained  cats  and  dogs  from  Friday  on.  Saturday  evening,  one  of  the  bedroom  ceilings  sprang  a  leak.  With  the  water  gathering  in  the  saucepans-collecting  simultaneously  in  the  cellar,  as  I  knew  without  having  to  look-my  wife  chose  the  occasion  to  announce  that  she  was  again  expecting.  &quot;Damn,&quot;  I  said  sympathetically.  &quot;Well,  we'll  have  to  move  now.  We'll  just  have  to.&quot;  No  argument  there,  or  over  my  vow  that  it  would  not  be  into  another  old   house-she  was  quick  to  make  that  point  herself.  What  I  wondered  was how  far  we  would  agree  on  what  we  did  want.  She  knew  I  was  sick  of  mak-  ing  repairs,  and  I  knew  she  was  sick  of  a  Currier  &amp;  Ives  kitchen  and  too  little  room,  but  that  was  as  far  as  we  had  ever  compared  notes.  After  sitting  abstractedly  for  some  minutes  in  the  living  room,  to  which  we  had  returned  after  the  hullabaloo,  my  wife  said,  &quot;I've  been  thinking.  Houses  of  this  kind  weren't  planned  with  chil-  dren  in  mind.  Butyou  know  the  kind  they  build  nowadays,  with  an  extra  sort  of  half  floor  downstairs  for  a  playroom?  So  that  end  of  the  main  floor  is  raised  a  little?  So  you  have  to-&quot;  She  held  out  a  hand  horizontally  at  varying  heights,  apparently  unable  to  bring  herself  to  speak  the  words.  &quot;Darling,  you  mean-&quot;  I  began,  getting  out  of  my  chair.  &quot;You  mean  you  like  split-levels,  too?&quot;  She  nodded.  &quot;On  days  like  this,  you  wouldn't  have  kids  tracking  mud  into  the  house.  They'd  come  in  downstairs,  take  off  their  muddy  boots  and  things,  and  stay  down  there.&quot;  &quot;All  five  of  them,&quot;  I  said  affection-  ately,  tousling  her  hair.  &quot;Him,  too,  down  there  with  the  rest,  out  of  the  way.  I  love  him  already.&quot;  MY  wife  and  I  looked  at  Spontini's  house  the  next  day,  liked  it,  and  put  down  a  binder  of  five  hundred  dol-  lars,  applicable  to  the  purchase  of  one  quite  similar.  to  it,  to  be  erected  within  four  months  on  a  nearby  plot  two  acres  in  size.  The  next  step  was  to  go  home  and  pour  a  stiff  highball.  &quot;I  know  what  you're  thinking,&quot;  my  wife  said,  watching  me  make  short  work  of  the  drink.  &quot;What  if  we  don't  sell  this  house  in  time?  But  we  will.  People  do  it  all  the  time-buy  and  then  sell,  I" b"mean.  The  market  is  humming,  every-  one  says  so,  and  besides  we've  got  four  whole  months.&quot;  That  wasn't  what  I  had  on  my  mind  at  the  moment,  though  God  knew  it  was  No.  1  on  my  list  of  headaches.  My  mind  was  on  a  hurdle  that  seemed  scarcely  less  formidable-that  of  telling  Mal-  colm  Johnsprang  what  I  had  done.  I  stewed  about  facing  him  for  the  better  part  of  a  week  before  it  occurred  to  me  how  I  might  cushion  the  blow.  I  would  specify  him  as  the  agent  for  the  brokerage  fee.  This  was  shaving  it  pret-  ty  fine,  since  he  had  derided  the  premises  rather  than  extolled  them,  but  he  had  apprised  me  of  their  existence  and  told  me  to  go  see  for  myself,  and  tech-  nically  that  is  all  an  agent  needdo  to  be  entitled  to  the  commission.  Anyhow,  it  would  be  no  skin  off  my  nose,  since  it  was  Spontini  who  would  have  to  pony  up;  it  wouldn't  actually  be  any  skin  off  Spon-  tini's  nose,  either,  since  houses  are  priced  to  absorb  the  brokerage.  That,  at  the  customary  rate  of  five  per  cent,  would  come  tosixteen  hundred  and  some  dol-  lars.  With  this  amount  lining  his  pock-  ets,  I  felt,  Malcolm  would  be  at  least  tolerant  of  my  move-after,  of  course,  recovering  from  the  shock  of  having  his  Yankee  sensibilities  outraged.  Still,  it  was  with  dread  that  I  con-  templated  the  luncheon  date  I  finally  made  with  him  for  the  following  Satur-  day,  and  after  calling  for  him  at  his  of-  fice  that  noon  I  steered  him  toward  a  place  where  I  knew  they  served  liquor  as  well  as  food.  Once  installed  in  a  booth  withhim,  I  quickly  put  down  a  couple  of  hookers,  leaned  back,  and  said,  &quot;Malcolm,  you've  sold  me  a  house.&quot;  Our  appetizers  had  arrived.  Malcolm  looked  up  from  his  shrimp  cocktail.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  he  asked.  'Those  Spontini  houses  you  were  raving  about  the  other  day.  I  couldn't  wait  to  get  over  and  see  for  myself,  and,  by  George,  they're  everything  you  said.  My  wife  and  I  both  felt  they  were  just  what  we  need,  and  we've  puta  binder  on  one.&quot;  Bent  over  my  own  food,  I  could  sense  his  prolonged  regard.  At  length,  I  was  aware  of  a  shifting  movement  in  his  seat,  and  then  I  heard  him  say,  &quot;Ah  don't  believe  Ah  showed  you  the  proper-  ty  in  question.&quot;  &quot;An  agent  doesn't  have  to,&quot;  I  said  firmly.  &quot;All  he  has  to  do  to  collect  is  tell  a  client  about  a  place.&quot;  &quot;Ah  don'tthink  Ah  even  did  that,  in  the  accepted  sense  of  the  term,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  named  you  as  broker,&quot;  I  said.  This  wasn't  strictly  true,  but  I  intended" b"to  name  him  when  I  signed  the  contract,  in  a  few  days.  &quot;The  law's  the  law.  The  money's  yours.  There's  nothing  you  can  do  about  it.&quot;  His  left  eye  contracted  slightly,  like  a  clam  under  lemon  juice.  The  move-  ment  seemed  part  of  a  faltering  effort  to  get  the  situation-or,  rather,  me-  into  focus.  &quot;Business  is  business,&quot;  he  said  presently,  &quot;but  that  also  implahs-&quot;  My  dander  was  up.  I  leaned  impul-  sively  acrossthe  table  and  brought  it  all  out.  I  said  very  rapidly,  &quot;I  like  new-  ness,  I'm  sick  of  original  beams  and  cobblers'  benches.  What's  more,  I  nev-  er  did  like  them.  I've  been  living  a  lie  for  seven  years-ever  since  I  moved  into  [REDACTED]  and  did  as  the  Romans  did.  Now  I  want  out.  I  want  something  spanking  new.  I  want  to  smell  newness  when  I  walk  in,&quot;  I  went  remorselessly  on,  and  Malcolm  stiffened  against  the  back  of  the  booth  with  his  eyes  shut,  like  a  man  being  electrocuted.  I  threw  the  switch  for  another  charge.  &quot;I  like  split-  levels.  I  like  rustproof  aluminum  com-  bination  storm  windows  and  screens,  that  fit.  I  love  plastics.  I  love  plywood  and  Fiberglas  and  things  that  are  ex-  truded  and  laminated.  I  love  asphalt  tile  and  Vinylite  and  Formica.  And  I  can't  wait  to  get  them.&quot;  I  sat  back,  breathing  heavily.  Even-  tually,  Malcolm  picked  up  his  cocktail  fork,  which  he  had  let  drop,  and  re-  sumed  eating  his  shrimps.  'There  were  two  left.  He  ate  them  with  a  thought-  ful  air,  as  though  he  had  now  recov-  ered.  At  last,  he  sethis  fork  down  and  picked  up  his  water.  He  tooka  swal-  low  and  set  the  glass  down.  &quot;Have  you  seen  Tom?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Tom  who?&quot;  &quot;'Tom  magazine.  They  have  an  article  this  week  on  the  modern  home,  and  there's  a  good  deal  in  it  on  the  split-  level.  You  might  read  it.&quot;  He  moved  his  water  glass  around  the  tabletop,  frowning  a  little.  &quot;Why,  sure,  fellow,  if  you  think  that's  the  ticket  for  you,  more  power  to  you.  'There's  probably  a  lot  to  be  said  for  that  type  of  house  which  usold  mossbacks  up  heah  don't  appreciate.  Sot  in  our  ways,  you  know,&quot;  he  added,  with  an  engaging  grin.  &quot;Any-  how,  Ah  hopeyou  and  your  good  lady  are  going  to  be  happy  in  your  new  home.  Ah  Zxow  you'll  be.&quot;  That  I  felt  like  a  fool  isn't  the  point,  or  that  I  felt  like  a  heel.  The  point  is  what  the  incident  showed  about  Mal-  colm.  I  had  never  really  seen  anyone  behave,  after  the  first  surprise,  so  in-  stinctively  like  a  gentleman,  so  naturally  and  effortlessly  displaying  what  used  to  be  called  good  breeding,  particularly  in" b"another  part  of  the  country-specifical-  ly,  in  that  part  the  dust  of  which  he  sup-  posed  himself  to  have  shaken  from  his  feet.  Now  Malcolm  pushed  his  dishes  aside  and  said,  leaning  forward  with  a  broad  smile,  &quot;The  next  order  of  busi-  ness  is  to  get  your  present  house  off  your  hands,  which  presumably  you  have  to  do  to  swing  this?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;Ah  don't  know  whether  you've  set  an  asking  price,  but  what  do  you  think  of  thirty-one  five?  It's  worth  every  penny  of  it,  in  mah  estimation.&quot;  F  the  scores  of  agents  who  brought  prospective  buyers  to  my  house  in  the  next  few  weeks,  Malcolm  was  far  the  most  articulate.  He  would  enter  ex-  plaining  that  the  black  band  around  the  chimney  went  back  to  Revolutionary  days,  when  the  mark  was  the  sign  of  Tory  sympathies  (news  to  me);  he  would  leave  praising  the  view.  &quot;Stony  fields  against  gently  rolling  hills  is  one  of  the  loveliest  sights  we  have  up  Nawth,&quot;  he  would  say.  He  got  me  an  offer  of  twenty-eight  thousand  the  second  week.  I  turned  it  down,  and  overnight  the  market  went  dead.  There  were  a  number  of  rea-  sons.  First,  bad  weather  and  the  ap-  proaching  holidays  made  a  seasonal  slump.  Second,  the  New  Haven  Rail-  road  went  to  hell  just  then,  scaring  off  the  New  York  commuting  market.  Third,  repair  work  on  the  road  my  house  was  on  made  it  impassable,  and  brokers  couldn't  get  clients  up  to  the  house.  Weeks  passed  with  only  a  smattering  of  lookers.  The  weeks  became  months.  I  woke  up  one  morning  to  find  myself  twenty  days  from  closing  time  on  the  new  house  and  all  my  money  still  tied  up  in  the  old.  Malcolm  arrived  that  evening  for  a  council  of  war.  He  ad-  vised  me  to  ask  Spontini  for  a  month's  extension,  to  reduce  the  asking  price  to  twenty-nine  thousand,  and  to  advertise  in  the  New  York  papers.  A  classified  ad,  I  knew,  would,  in  addition  to  its  own  virtues,  put  me  in  the  way  of  buy-  ers  who  wouldn't  involve  me  in  an  agency  commission,  and  I  could  afford  to  sell  my  place  to  them  froma  thou-  sand  to  fifteen  hundred  dollars  cheaper.  I  put  ads  in  the  Times  and  Tribune  the  next  day.  I  went  to  Spontini  and  he  gave  me  the  thirty  days'  extension.  Three  more  weeks  passed,  and  I  was  into  the  period  of  grace.  However,  there  were  signs  of  spring  in  the  air-  the  favored  mating  time  of  buyer  and  seller-and  also  signs  that  the  New  Haven  was  pulling  itself  together.  I  had  lots  of  answers  to  my  ads,  which  I  re-" b"peated  on  successive  weekends.  But  now  a  new  thing  began  to  puzzle  me.  Malcolm  almost  never  brought  clients  any  more,  nor  did  he  call  up  or  come  by  to  ask  how  we  were  doing,  as  he  for-  merly  had.  &quot;Maybe  he  can't  stand  the  sight  of  human  suffering,&quot;  I  said  sar-  donically  to  my  wife,  and  added  that  he  might  be  turning  out  to  be  a  fair-  weather  friend  after  all.  The  next  week,  we  sold  the  house  for  twenty-seven  thousand  dollars  to  a  couple  from  Long  Island,  who  came  without  an  agent.  It  was  a  &quot;sacrifice,&quot;  as  stated  in  ads,  but  I  was  off  the  hook,  I  phoned  the  news  to  Malcolm,  whom,  in  the  joy  of  relief,  I  found  it  in  my  heart  toforgive.  &quot;Hurrah!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  &quot;Going  to  buy  me  adrink  on  that,  aren't  you?  Let's  have  lunch.  Ah'll  be  out  of  town  next  week,  but  how  about  a  week  from  Saturday?&quot;  &quot;Swell.  Tll  call  you  that  morning,&quot;  I  said.  Our  buyers,  a  young  pair  named  Mackay,  came  on  the  intervening  Sun-  day  to  discuss  some  things  with  my  wife  and  me,  such  as  buying  the  draperies  and  the  carpeting,  and  whatnot.  Over  drinks,  we  all  became  rather  friendly,  and  at  one  point  in  the  amiable  haggling  over  the  price  of  these  extras  Mackay  laughinglysuggested  that  we  ought  to  throw  them  all  in,  since  we'd  saved  the  commission.  &quot;Lucky  for  you,  your  be-  ing  outside  the  town  limits,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Being  out  of  the  agent's  territory,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  showed  us  what  he  had  in  Westport  proper,  but  then  he  said  there  was  this  charming  salt-box  we  ought  to  look  at  before  we  made  up  our  minds.  It  was  just  out  of  his  legal  territory,  so  we  had  to  come  without  him.&quot;  We  were  outside  the  town  limits  but  not,  of  course,  outside  any  agent's  lim-  its.  &quot;Who  was  your  agent?&quot;  I  asked,  as  if  I  didn't  know.  &quot;Malcolm  Johnsprang,&quot;  he  an-  swered,  making  me  feel  like  a  fool  for  the  second-and,  I  hoped,  the  last-time.  HEN  I  picked  Malcolm  up  for  lunch  on  Saturday,  it  was  with  a  check  for  thirteen  hundred  and  fifty  dollars,  made  out  to  him,  in  my  pocket.  As  we  stood  on  a  curb  on  our  way  to  the  restaurant,  waiting  for  a  traffic  light  to  change,  I  said,  &quot;How's  everything,  Malcolm?&quot;  &quot;Fahn.  Well,  ma's  bloodshot.&quot;  &quot;Ma's  bloodshot?&quot;  I  said  softly  as  we  started  across  the  street.  He  pointed  to  his  right  eye,  which  looked  like  a  hot  cinder.  &quot;Better  not " b"get  too  close,  in  case  it's  pinkah,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  the  most  contagious  thing  on  earth.&quot;  &quot;It  looks  too  red  to  be  pinkeye,&quot;  I  said,  springing  out  of  the  path  of  a  truck.  &quot;Hard  to  say  what  makes  an  eye  get  red  like  that.&quot;  There  was  a  constraint  on  his  part  as  well  as  mine,  or  so  it  seemed  to  me  as  we  settled  ourselves  at  a  table.  We  both  ordered  Old-Fashioneds.  As  we  sipped,  we  got  on  the  subject  of  a  book  he  had  been  reading,  and  from  there  onto  the  state  of  current  literature  in  general.  At  one  point,  he  looked  at  me  and  asked  directly,  &quot;What  doyou  think  of  Wil-  liam  Faulkner?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,&quot;  I  said,  hating  all  the  stalling.  &quot;He  seems  to  me  easier  to  reread  than  to  read.&quot;  I  didn't  really  know  what  that  meant,  except  vaguely  that  Faulkner  seemed  better  the  second  time  around,  and  rewarded  study,  and  so  on.  Malcolm  merely  grunted  in  a  neutral  way  and  dropped  the  subject,  satisfied,  I  suppose,  that  no  issue  had  been  taken  with  his  disapproval  of  the  [REDACTED].  When  our  second  drink  had  ar-  rived,  I  drew  the  check  from  my  pocket  and  laid  it  on  the  table  in  front  of  him.  &quot;Here,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  believe  I  owe  you  this&quot;)  He  read  it  with  convincing  blankness.  &quot;Ah  don't  believe  Ah  quite-&quot;  &quot;Now,  look,  let's  not  go  through  all  that  again,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  gave  the  Mackays  some  nonsense  about  the  place  being  out  of  your  territory  to  spare  me  having  to  shell  out.  God  knows  how  many  people  you  did  that  with,  because  &quot;Boy!&quot;  Malcolm  said,  with  a  laugh.  &quot;If  you  knew  what  it  meant  to  me  to  get  those  Mackays  out  of  my  hair!  That  very  afternoon,  Ah  picked  up  another  client  and  sold  him  that  sixty-thousand-  dollar  place  Ah  was  telling  you  about,  in  [REDACTED].  You  keep  your  money,&quot;  he  said,  shoving  it  back  across  the  table.  &quot;I  will  xot  keep  it,&quot;  I  said,  pushing  it  back  again.  &quot;Yow'll  keep  it.&quot;  For  a  while,  the  check  went  back  and  forth  between  us  like  a  puck  between  hockey  players.  &quot;I  don't  want  charity,&quot;  I  finally  snapped,  and  at  that  Malcolm  picked  up  the  check  and  pocketed  it,  laughing  again.  &quot;All  right,  but  Ah  won't  cash  it  just  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;You'll  need  seven  hun-  dred  dollars'  worth  of  screens  alone  on  that  house,  boy,  unless  you're  aiming  to  spend  the  summer  nights  swatting  bugs.&quot;  I  knew  he  would  never  cash  it " b"(just  asI  knew  he  would  never  take  the  commission  from  Spontini).  He  couldn't  revoke  a  fine  gesture  any  more  than  he  could  make  a  bad  one,  Such  a  thing  would  have  gone  against  his  in-  nate  sense  of  form,  or  what  I  might  as  well  unabashedly  call  Honor.  It  was  on  this  score  that  I  experienced  my  most  complete  sense  of  frustration  with  Mal-  colm.  I  didn't  object  to  his  being  come-  lately,  of  course.  The  naturalized  are  often  the  most  patriotic,  just  as  converts  are  the  most  pious,  and  New  England  has  had  its  illustrious  share.  Robert  Frost  came  from  [REDACTED]  to  adopt  it,  and  Mark  Twain  came  from  [REDACTED]  to  adopt  it,  and  many  of  Malcolm's  and  my  friends  have  come  from  other  parts  of  the  country  to  adopt  it,  and  it  seemed  just  too  dreary  to  have  to  say  that  it  was  what  they  brought  that  counted,  not  what  they  got.  Nevertheless,  in  Mal-  colm's  caseI  should  have  welcomed  the  chance  to  make  the  point.  I  wanted  to  shake  him  by  the  shoulders  and  say,  &quot;'You're  the  flower  of  the  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  wanted  to  shake  himand  say,  &quot;You're  the  most  perfect  example  of  a  43616e616461ern  Gentleman  I've  ever  seen.&quot;  But  I  couldn't;  he  was  too  touchy  on  the  sub-  ject  for  me  to  be  able  to  risk  that.  In-  stead,  the  only  polite  thing  for  me  to  do  was  to  sit  and  let  him  race  his  motor.  When  the  waitress  came  up  and  thrust  menus  at  us,  he  consulted  his  for  only  a  moment.  His  face  lit  up  and  he  said,  &quot;Ah,  the  New  England  bawled  dinner  today.  Bring  me  that,  please,  Ma'am?&quot;  &quot;Make  it  two,&quot;  I  said,  handing  my  menu  rather  wearily  back  to  her. "