 b"THE  BAT  WHO  GOT  THE  HELL  OUT  a-  COLONY  of  bats  living  in  a  great  American  cave  had  got  along  fine  for  a  thousand  gener-  ations,  flying,  hanging  head  down,  eat-  ing  insects,  and  raising  young,  and  then  one  year  a  male  named  Flitter,  who  had  fluttered  secretly  out  of  his  room  at  night  and  flown  among  the  haunts  of  men,  told  his  father  that  he  had  de-  cided  to  get  the  hell  out.  The  shocked  father  sent  Flitter  to  Fleder,  the  great-great-grandfather  of  all  the  bats  in  the  cave.  &quot;'You  should  be  proud  of  being  a  bat  among  bats,&quot;  said  old  Fleder,  &quot;for  we  are  one  of  the  oldest  species  on  the  planet,  much  older  than  Man,  and  the  only  mammal  capable  of  true  flight.&quot;  The  discontented  young  bat  was  not  impressed.  &quot;I  want  to  live  like  a  man  among  men,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Men  have  the  best  food,  and  the  most  fun,  and  the  cutest  females.&quot;  At  this,  old  Fleder  stormed  about  the  cave,  squeaking  unintelligibly.  Then  he  recovered  his  calm  and  continued  his  talk.  &quot;A  man  got  into  my  room  one  night,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  managed  some-  how  to  tangle  me  in  his  hair.  It  was  a  shattering  experience,  from  which  I  shall  never  completely  recover.&quot;  &quot;When  men  die  they  go  to  Heaven,  but  when  bats  are  dead  they  are  dead,&quot;  said  Flitter.  &quot;I  want  to  go  to  Heaven  when  I  die.&quot;  This  amused  old  Fleder  in  a  gaunt  and  gloomy  sort  of  way,  and  he  chit-  tered,  quickered,  and  zickered  for  some  moments  before  he  could  say,  &quot;You  have  no  more  soul  than  a  moose,  or  a  mouse,  ora  mole.  You  should  be  glad  that  you  will  never  become  an  angel,  for  angels  do  not  have  true  flight.  One  wants  to  sleep  through  eternity,  not  bumble  and  flap  about  forever  like  a  bee  or  a  butterfly.&quot;  But  Flitter  had  made  up  his  mind,  and  theold  bat's  words  of  wisdom  were  in  vain.  That  night,  the  discontented  young  bat  quit  thebat  colony,  and  flickered  out  of  the  cave,  in  the  confi-  dent  hope  of  giving  up  his  membership  in  the  Chiroptera  and  joining  the  happy  breed  of  men.  Unfortunately  for  his  dream,  he  spent  his  first  night  hanging  head  down  from  the  rafters  of  an  audi-  torium  in  which  a  best-selling  Inspira- tionalist  was  dragging  God  down  to  the  people's  level.  Ushers  moved  silent-  ly  among  the  rapt  listeners,  selling  copies  of  the  speaker's  books:  &quot;Shake  Hands  with  the  Almighty,&quot;  &quot;You  Can  Be  Jehovah's  Pal,&quot;  and  &quot;Have  You  Taken  Out  Eternity  Insurance?&quot;  'The  speaker  was  saying,  &quot;Have  a  little  talk  with  the  Lord  while  you're  waiting  for  a  bus,  or  riding  to  work,  or  sitting  in  the  dentist's  chair.  Have  comfy  chats  with  the  Lord  in  the  little  cozy  corners  of  spare  time.&quot;  Flitter  decided  that  there  was  some-  thing  the  matter  with  the  acoustics,  or  with  his  tragus,  caused  by  hanging  head  down  in  the  presence  of  the  Eternal  Species,  but  when  he  began  flying  about  the  auditorium,  there  was  no  change  in  the  nature  of  the  English  sentences.  'Tell  the  Lord  to  put  it  there,&quot;  the  in-  spired  man  went  on.  &quot;Give  him  your  duke.&quot;  'The  speaker  waved  clasped  hands  above  his  head  and  gazed  up  at  the  ceiling.  &quot;Keep  pitching,  God,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You've  got  two  strikes  on  Satan.&quot;  Flitter,  who  had  never  felt  sick  be-  fore  in  his  life,  felt  sick,  and  decided  to  get  the  air.  After  he  had  got  the  air,  he  realized  that  he  did  not  want  to  become  a  member  of  the  species  Homo  sapiens,  because  of  the  danger  of  bumbling  or  flapping  into  the  Inspirationalist  after  they  had  both  become  angels.  And  so  Flitter  returned  to  the  cave,  and  every-  body  was  astonished  to  see  him,  and  nobody  said  anything,  and  for  a  time  there  was  a  great  silence.  &quot;I've  come  the  hell  back,&quot;  said  Flit-  ter,  meekly.  And  he  resumed,  without  discontent,  the  immemorial  life  of  the  Chiroptera,  flying,  hanging  head  down,  eating  insects,  and  raising  young.  Moral:  By  decent  minds  is  he  ab-  horred  who'd  make  a  Babbitt  of  the  Lord.  THE  WOLF  YHOO  WENT  PLACES  WEALTHY  young  wolf,  who  was  oblivious  of  everything  ex-  cept  himself,  was  tossed  out  of  college  for  cutting  classes  and  corners,  and  he  decided  to  see  if  he  could  travel  around  the  world  in  eighty  minutes.  &quot;''That  isn't  possible,&quot;  his  grandmother  told  him,  but  he  only  grinned  at  her.  &quot;''The  impossible  is  the  most  fun,&quot;  he  said.  She  went  with  him  to  the  door  of  the  old  Wolf  place.  &quot;If  you  go  that  fast,  you  won't  live  00  to  regret  it,&quot;  she  warned  him,  but  he  grinned  again,  showing  a  tongue  as  long  as  a  necktie.  &quot;'That's  an  old  wolves'  tale,&quot;  he  said,  and  went  on  his  reck-  less  way.  He  bought  a  1959  Blitzen  Bear-  cat,  a  combination  motorcar  and  air-  plane,  with  skyrocket  getaway,  cyclone  speedrive,  cannonball  takeoff,  blindall  headlights,  magical  retractable  mono-  wings,  and  lightning  pushbutton  trans-  formationizer.  &quot;How  fast  can  this  crate  go  without  burning  up?&quot;  he  asked  the  Blitzen  Bearcat  salesman.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  the  salesman  said,  &quot;but  I  have  a  feeling  you'll  find  out.&quot;  The  wealthy  young  wolf  smashed  all  the  ground  records  and  air  records  and  a  lot  of  other  things  in  his  trip  around  the  world,  which  took  him  only  78.5  minutes  from  the  time  he  knocked  down  the  Washington  Monument  on  his  takeoff  to  the  time  he  landed  where  it  had  stood.  In  the  crowd  that  welcomed  him  home,  consisting  of  about  eleven  creatures,  for  all  the  others  were  hiding  under  beds,  there  was  a  speed-crazy  young  wolfess,  with  built-in  instantane-  ous  pickup  ability,  and  in  no  time  at  all  the  wolf  and  his  new-found  mate  were  setting  new  records  for  driving  upside  down,  backward,  blindfolded,  hand-  cuffed,  and  cockeyed,  doubled  and  re-  doubled.  One  day,  they  decided  to  see  if  they  could  turn  in  to  Central  Park  from  Fifth  Avenue  while  travelling  at  a  hundred  and  seventy-five  miles  an  hour,  watch-  ing  television,  and  holding  hands.  There  was  a  tremendous  shattering,  crashing,  " b"splitting,  roaring,blazing,  cracking,  and  smashing,  ending  in  a  fiery  display  of  wheels,  stars,  cornices,  roofs,  treetops,  glass,  steel,  and  people,  and  it  seemed  to  those  spectators  who  did  not  die  of  sei-  zures  as  they  watched  that  great  red  portals  opened  in  the  sky,  swinging  in-  ward  on  mighty  hinges,  revealing  an  endless  nowhere,  and  then  closed  be-  hind  the  flying  and  flaming  wolves  with  a  clanking  to  end  all  clanking,  as  if  those  gates  that  we  have  been  assured  shall  not  prevail  had  in  fact  prevailed.  Moral:  Where  most  of  us  end  up  there  is  no  knowing,  but  the  hellbent  get  where  they  are  going.  THE  BLUEBIRD  AND  HIS  BROTHER  T  was  said  of  two  bluebirds  that  they  were  unlike  as  two  brothers  could  be,  that  one  was  a  pearl  in  a  pod  and  the  other  a  pea.  Pearl  was  happy-go-  lucky,  andPea  was  gloomy-go-sorry.  &quot;I  am  in  love  with  love  and  life,&quot;  sang  the  glad  bird.  &quot;I  am  afraid  of  sex  and  flight,&quot;  the  sad  bird.  Pearl  flaunted  his  gay  colors  like  a  bonnie  blue  flag,  and  his  song  was  as  bold  as  the  Rebel  yell.  He  went  South  every  winter  alone,  and  came  [REDACTED]  every  spring  with  a  different  female.  His  gay  philosophy  freed  his  psyche  of  the  stains  offear  and  the  stresses  of  guilt,  and  he  attained  a  serenity  of  spirit  that  few  male  birds  and  even  fewer  male  human  beings  ever  reach.  He  did  not  worry  be-  cause  some  of  his  children  were  also  his  nieces,  the  daughters  of  one  of  his  sisters.  He  sat  loose,  sang  pretty,  and  slept  tight,  in  a  hundred  honey  locusts  and  cher-  ry  trees  and  lilac  bushes.  And  every  winter  he  went  South  alone,  and  every  spring  he  came  [REDACTED]  with  a  different  female.  He  did  not  worry  because  some  of  his  grandchildren  were  also  his  grandnephews,  the  grandsons  of  one  of  his  sisters.  At  sunset  in  summertime,  the  gay  bluebird  flew  higher  than  the  lark  or  the  wild  goose,  and  he  was  pleased  to  note  that,  like  himself,  heaven  wore  blue,  with  a  tinge  of  red.  The  gloomy  bluebird  went  South  alone  in  the  winter  and  came  [REDACTED]  alone  in  the  spring,  and  never  flew  higher  than  you  could  throw  a  sofa.  While  still  in  his  prime  he  developed  agora-  phobia  and  went  to  live  under-  ground,  to  the  surprise  and  dismay  of  families  of  frogs  and  foxes  and  moles  and  gophers  and  sang  crickets  and  toads,  and  of  the  bewil-  dered  dog  who  dug  him  up  one  day  while  burying  a  bone,  and  then  hastily  buried  him  again,  without  ceremony  or  sorrow.  Moral:  It  is  more  dangerous  to  straight-arm  life  than  to  embrace  it.  THE  CLOTHES  MOTH  AND  THE  LUNA  MOTH  CLOTHES  moth  who  lived  in  a  closet  and  had  never  done  anything,  or  wanted  to  do  anything,  ex-  cept  eat  wool  and  fur,  flew  out  of  his  closet  one  twilight  just  in  time  to  see  a  lovely  Luna  moth  appear  on  the  out-  side  of  a  windowpane.  The  Luna  moth  fluttered  against  the  lighted  glass  as  gracefully  as  a  drifting  autumn  leaf,  and  she  was  dressed  in  a  charming  evening  gown.  W  hat  interested  her  was  the  flame  ofa  candle  burning  in  the  room,  burning  on  the  mantelpiece  above  the  fireplace,  but  the  clothes  moth  thought  she  was  making  signs  at  him,  and  he  conceived  a  great  desire  for  her.  &quot;I  have  to  have  you,&quot;  said  the  clothes  moth,  but  the  Luna  moth  laughed,  and   her  laughter  was  like  the  bells  of  elf-  land  faintly  tinkling.  &quot;Go  eat  a  shroud,&quot;  said  the  Luna  moth  haughtily.  &quot;You  are  as  vulgar  as  a  tent  moth,  or  a  gypsy  moth,  and  nowhere  near  as  handsome  as  a  tiger  moth.&quot;  &quot;If  you  come  to  live  with  me,  I  will  feed  you  on  sweaters  and  stoles,&quot;  said  the  clothes  moth,  whose  ardor  was  only  increased  by  thelovely  Luna's  scorn.  &quot;You  are  a  flug,  who  can  flugger,  but  not  fly  or  flutter,&quot;  said  the  Luna  moth,  trying  to  get  through  the  win-  dowpane  and  reach  the  star  on  the  mantelpiece.  &quot;You  can  have  wedding  dresses  and  evening  clothes  and  a  mink  coat,&quot;  pant-  ed  the  clothes  moth,  and  again  the  Luna  moth's  laughter  was  like  the  bells  of  elfland  faintly  tinkling.  &quot;I  live  on  twilight  and  the  stars,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  was  love  at  first  flight,&quot;  the  clothes  moth  protested.  &quot;It  was  love  at  first  flutter.&quot;  The  Luna  moth's  tiny  silvery  tone  became  sharper.  &quot;You  are  a  mulch,&quot;     " b"she  said,  &quot;a  mulbus,  a  crawg,  and  a  common  creeb.&quot;  All  these  words  were  words  a  nice  moth  rarely  uses,  but  they  hadno  effect  upon  the  passion  of  the  clothes  moth.  &quot;I  know  you  have  one  wing  in  the  grave,&quot;  he  toldher.  &quot;I  know  you're  not  long  for  this  world,  and  so  I  must  have  you  as  soon  as  I  can.  A  thing  of  beauty  is  ajoy  for  such  a  little  time.&quot;  The  lovely  Luna  moth  tried  to  cajole  her  admirer  into  opening  the  window-  so  that  she  could  fly  to  the  fascinating  flame  above  the  fireplace,  but  she  did  not  tell  him  this.  She  let  him  believe  that  his  drabgray  lovemaking  had  won  her  heart.  In  his  desire  to  reach  her,  he  flew  against  the  windowpane  time  and  time  again,  and  finally  made  a  small  opening  in  it,  and  then  fluggered  crazily  to  the  floor,  dead  of  a  broken  head  and  wings  and  body.  The  lovely  Luna,  whose  desire  for  the  star  is  a  matter  of  immortal  record,  flew  swift-  ly  and  gracefully  toward  the  candle  on  the  mantelpiece  and  was  consumed  in  its  flamewith  a  little  zishing  sound  like  that  made  by  a  lighted  cigarette  dropped  in  a  cup  of  coffee.  Moral:  Love  is  blind,  but  desire  just  doesn't  givea  good  goddam. "