 b"I  FIRST  came  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  very  young  engaged  girl,  a  regrettable  number  of  years  ago,  in  order  to  see  my  fianc\xc3\xa9  receive  his  Doctor's  de-  gree  at  the  University.  We  drove  down  from  [REDACTED]  in  theold  Stutz  I  owned  in  those  days-arklike,  with  an  H-shift  and  a  right-hand  drive-by  way  of  Culpeper,  over  a  dirt  road  that  was  then  the  northern  approach  to  Charlottesville.  In  Orange  we  stopped  to  spend  the  night  with  the  family  of  one  of  our  prospective  ushers,  in  a  beau-  tiful  old  brick  country  house  with  aro-  mantic  name.  My  imagination,  already  stimulated  by  the  view  of  the  Blue  Ridge,  the  great  thousand-acre  fields,  the  red  clay  and  the  snake  fences  of  the  [REDACTED],  was  utterly  beguiled  by  Lucasta.  Our  bags  were  taken  in  by  a  fat,  shiny,  black,  white-haired  butler  called  Pinky,  who  beamed  and  offered  my  fianc\xc3\xa9  a  drink;  we  were  received  by  the  most  delightful  of  hostesses,  who  called  me  &quot;dear  child;&quot;  into  my  room  as  I  dressed  there  drifted,  through  the  open  window,  the  mingled  scents  of  boxwood  and  honeysuckle.  Supper  was  served  by  the  light  of  a  dozen  candles,  guttering  in  the  light  June  breeze  as  we  ate  tobac-  co-colored  ham,  fried  chicken,  spoon  bread,  yams;  and  for  dessert  Pinky,  in  his  white  coat,  passed  us  ice  cream  made  from  fresh  strawberries  and  solid  cream,  ina  huge  old  ornate  silver  bowl.  It  all  came  close  to  [REDACTED].  After  dinner  we  were  offered  drinks.  I  refused;  at  home,  girls  of  my  age  were  not  allowed  to  drink  anything  except  an  occasional  cocktail,  and  champagne.  &quot;Oh,  come  on,  honey,&quot;  my  fianc\xc3\xa9  said.  &quot;A  little  drinkin'  whiskey  and  branch  water  never  did  anybody  any  harm.&quot;  But  I  really  did  not  want  a  drink,  and  said  so,  Then  the  moment  that  had  to  come  came.  My  hostess,  smiling  charmingly  to  show  it  didn't  matter,  remarked  &quot;Don't  press  her,&quot;  and,  to  me,  &quot;I  can  see  you're  a  real  Yankee.&quot;  My  first  impulse  was  to  look  behind  me  to  see  whom  she  was  speaking  to;  my  second,  to  ask  &quot;Who,  me?&quot;  Actually,  I  did  neither;  but  it  had  simply  never  occurred  to  me  that  I  could  be  called  a  Yankee.  ROUGHT  up  asI  was,  in  a  suburb  twelve  miles  from  [REDACTED],  I  was  quite  a  big  girl  before  I  ever  even  saw  a  real  Yankee.  My  parents'  friends  were  556e6974656420537461746573ians  who  commuted  to  town;  the  tradesmen  in  the  village  were,  for  the  most  part,  Irish;  our  maid  was  Swedish,  our  gardener  was  Italian,  the  farmer  up  the  road,  Mr.  McLeod,  who  was  so  stern  with  his  three  daughters  and  said  if  they  didn't  get  home  by  ten  o'clock  at  night  they  need  never  come  home  at  all,  was  Scotch.  The  other  farm-  ers  were  Irish-Mr.  Sullivan,  Mr.  Mulcahey-except  for  the  fearsome  Mr.  Lee,  who  often  reeled  home  past  our  house  with  tousled  hair  and  bloodied  nose,  and  he  came  from  New  York  State.  Some  of  the  ladies  I  saw  on  Sundays  after  I  was  old  enough  to  stay  through  church  were  real  Yan-  kees,  I  was  told,  and  the  man  who  came  to  chop  our  wood,  Worthy  Barlow,  was  often  referred  to  in  my  hearing  as  a  typical  Yankee;  he  walked  all  the  way  to  and  from  work,  nearly  ten  miles,  to  save  carfare,  and  sometimes  as  he  whacked  away  at  the  wood  on  the  old  chopping  block  we  would  hear  him  muttering,  &quot;If  the  logs  had  heads,  1d  chop  'em  off.&quot;  But  although  I  had  seen  so  few  of  them,  I  had  heard  many  stories  about  real  old  Yankees.  Basically,  '&quot;'Yankees&quot;  38  meant  countrypeople  who  were  of  Eng-  lish  settler  stock.  Their  most  salient  feature  seemed  to  be  that  they  were  characters.  Their  habitat  was  in  par-  ticular  New  Hampshire  and  [REDACTED],  although  they  were  scattered  over  the  rest  of  New  England.  Their  pronuncia-  tion  of  the  English  language  had  a  pecul-  iar  salty  flavor,  as  illustrated  in  one  of  the  earliest  stories  I  was  told,.  My  Uncle  Robbie,  as  a  boy  of  six,  had  been  taken  along  to  call  on  one  of  my  grand-  father's  parishioners,  a  real  old  Yankee  woman.  She  was  sick  in  bed,  and  my  grandmother  made  her  some  tea  while  they  talked.  As  my  grandmother  was  about  to  hand  her  a  cup,  the  old  woman  said,  &quot;I  mostly  drink  it  from  the  sarcer.&quot;  My  Uncle  Robbie,  a  notably  tender-  hearted  child,  thinking  to  put  her  at  her  ease,  felt  it  necessary  to  remark,  &quot;We  say  sarcer,  too.&quot;  Most  real  old  Yankees  were  farmers  or  seafarers  by  the  time  I  was  born,  but  in  my  grandfather's  family,  back  in  the  days  when  some  Yankees  still  went  into  domestic  service,  there  had  been  a  man-  servant  named  Fullum,  many  of  whose" b"tart-tongued  phrases  were  quoted  to  me  as  I  grew  up.  I  have  seen  a  photograph  of  Fullum,  in  his  frock  coat,  with  a  sparse  beard  that  made  him  look  like  Uncle  Sam.  During  the  terrible  potato  famine  in  Ireland,  when  boatloads  of  immigrants  arrived  weekly  in  the  port  of  [REDACTED],  my  grandmother  was  read-  ing  the  newspaper  at  breakfast  one  morning,  and  the  news  made  her  ex-  claim,  &quot;Oh!  How  dreadful!  A  whole  shipful  of  those  poor  people  has  been  drowned!&quot;  Fullum,  who  was  looking  over  her  shoulder  at  the  headlines  in  his  customary  familiar  way,  as  he  passed  the  muffins  commented,  &quot;It  don't  mat-  ter.  They  was  Irish.&quot;  Most  of  the  best  stories  of  the  real  old  Yankees,  in  our  family,  came  from  the  [REDACTED]  County  of  Rhode  Island,  where  my  grandfather  used  to  own  a  summer  house  and  where  my  father  and  his  brothers  had  gone  for  the  summer  as  boys.  My  grandmother  was  by  way  of  being  an  invalid,  and  the  household  was  often  presided  over  by  my  Great-  Aunt  Susan.  There  was  Mr.  Perkins,  whose  chestnut  horse  and  two-wheeled  cart  used  so  often  to  appear  opportunely  on  thelong,  white,  dusty  [REDACTED]  County  roads;  lifts  would  then  be  offered  to  the  little  footsore  boys,  and  they  would  go  rumbling  through  the  flat,  beautiful,  singing  countryside,  drinking  in  the  wisdom  that  emanated  from  Mr.  Per-  kins,  He  was  given  to  making  philo-  sophical  aphorisms,  punctuated  by  ad-  monitions  to  his  horse:  &quot;There's  two  kindsa  strong.  Strong  like  Samson,  and  strong  like  a  skunk.  Git  up,  there,  what  ye  'baout?&quot;  The  little  boys  adored  this  Yankee  character  so  passionately  and  quoted  him  so  reverently  and  incessant-  ly  at  meals-&quot;Mr.  Perkins  says  this&quot;  and  &quot;Mr.  Perkins  says  that&quot;-that  my  grandfather  had  to  make  a  rule:  No  boy  can  mention  Mr.  Perkins  more  than  once  during  dinner.  But  my  Aunt  Susan's  special  friend  and  admirer  was  Mr.  Browning,  he  of  the  long  prophetic  beard,  the  Yankee  ingenuity  at  fixing  anything  at  all;  of  the  unforgettable  twang-&quot;Braown-  in'&quot;  we  pronounced  his  name  in  our  family  years  after  the  old  man  was  dead.  Waal,  Miss  Suse,&quot;  he  remarked  to  my  aunt  on  one  occasion,  &quot;got  to  gwup  t  [REDACTED],  testify  in  some  gret  legal  dewings.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Mr.  Browning!&quot;  Aunt  Susan  exclaimed  in  dismay.  &quot;And  I  was  count-  ing  on  you  to  fix  the  shutters.  Just  say  yes  to  everything  they  ask  you  and  hurry  ,  back  quick.&quot;  Nope,&quot;  he  replied,  &quot;I  ain't  a-going  to  agree  to  nothin'.&quot;  Another  time,  when  Aunt  Susan  asked  Mr.  Browning  to  do  some  job  he  would  really  rather  not  have  done,  he  replied  with  a  brand  of  gallantry  wholly  Yankee,  &quot;Waal,  Miss  Suse,  you  air  a  lady,  and  shall  be  treated  as  sech.&quot;  My  Aunt  Susan  enjoyed  eating  her  meals  out-of-doors,  in  a  day  when  not  many  people  had  acquired  that  habit.  One  fall,  she  stayed  on  in  the  [REDACTED]  County,  and  was  sitting  alone  over  a  late  breakfast  when  she  heard  the  rum-  ble  of  cart  wheels  going  by  down  in  the  road,  and  up  through  the  sharp,  winy  air  of  early  autumn  floated  Mr.  Brown-  ing's  voice,  loudly  addressing  a  deaf  companion:  &quot;Nope,  she  ain't  crazy.  She  likes  her  victuals  that  way.&quot;  Y  first  real  encounters  with  the  Yankees  occurred  at  my  Aunt  Ellen's  on  the  43616e616461Shore,  where  we  went  in  the  summer  to  visit  her  by  the  sea.  There  had  been  a  time  when  that  part  of  the  New  England  coast  was  in-  habited  solely  by  Yankees,  but  now  the  great  majority  of  the  people  near  where  we  lived  were  Finns,  descendants  of  a  large  migration  brought  over  in  the  second  half  of  the  last  century  to  work  the  granite  quarries.  The  old  Yankee  names  survived  in  the  families  of  the  lobster  fishermen;  not  many  of  the  Finns  went  professionally  to  sea.  One  of  the  first  items  on  my  agenda,  as  a  child  arriving  at  the  seashore  each  year,  was  a  visit  to  the  fishhouse  down  on  the  rocks  where  Mr.  Asaph  Bentley  and  Mr.  Washburn  and  Mr.  Starr  sat  mending  their  lobster  pots  while  the  salt  breeze  twitched  at  their  long  white  beards.  They  were  dressed  in  oilskins  and  rubber  hip  boots.  &quot;How  do,&quot;  they  would  gravely  remark  as  I  approached,  my  hands  behind  my  back,  my  pigtails  switching  from  side  to  side;  and  then  we  would  all  lapse  into  a  long  comfortable  silence,  a  Yankee  silence,  broken  only  by  the  occasional  ejection  of  a  stream  of  somebody's  tobacco  juice.  Once  Mr.  Washburn, " b"who  was  the  oldest  and  had  the  longest  beard,  showed  me,  in  June,  an  iceberg,  out  on  the  horizon  through  the  spyglass  that  he  kept  handy.  All  these  gentlemen  went  out  at  daybreak  every  day  in  their  do-  ries,  and  when  I  got  up  in  the  morning  and  looked  out  of  the  sea-  ward  window,  I  would  see  them  coming  home  through  the  mists  that  clung  low  over  the  pale-blue  ocean,  stand-  ing  up  in  their  boats  and  rowing  frontward,  with  stiff,  jerky  jabs  of  the  oars.  Although  they  went  out  in  all  weathers,  none  of  them  could  swim.  If  queried  about  it,  they  would  explain  that  'twarn't  no  sort  of  use;  with  them  hip  boots  on,  they'd  drownd  anyhow.  Mr.  Asaph  Bentley  lived  up  behind  us  on  Bentley  hill,  in  an  old  house  that  had  solid  wooden  sliding  shut-  ters,  originally  installed  to  deflect  Indian  ar-  rows.  In  a  rafter  of  the  attic  was  lodged  a  cannon  ball  shot  from  a  British  frigate  stand-  ing  out  in  the  cove  in  the  War  of  1812,  pre-  sumably  only  to  an-  nounce  its  arrival,  for  Mr.  Bentley's  ances-  tress  of  those  days  had  seen  the  British  tars  come  ashore  shortly  afterward  and  start  rounding  up  the  cows  she  pastured  out  on  the  point.  They  showed  signs  of  being  about  to  take  the  animals  on  board  ship.  Incensed,  Mrs.  Bentley  had  stamped  out  on  the  point  and  demanded  to  see  their  com-  mander  in  person.  'The  sailors  obliging-  ly  brought  him  ashore  in  a  gig,  where-  upon  Mrs.  Bentley  explained  to  him  that  she  could  by  no  means  afford  to  lose  the  source  of  her  children's  milk  and  ofpart  of  her  income.  The  British  commander  quite  saw  the  cogency  of  her  arguments,  and  bade  his  men  desist  at  once.  They  all  rowed  off,  leaving  Mrs.  Bentley  happy  whether  you  want  to  try  the  next  one.&quot;  and  satisfied,  so  their  intentions  could  not  have  been  very  warlike.  But  Mr.  Asaph  Bentley,  who  was  a  widower,  did  not  care  much  for  histori-  cal  recollections  like  this;  he  liked  to  drink.  He  and  his  son,  young  Asaph,  who  worked  &quot;in  to  the  Granite  Com-  pany,&quot;  sat  up  every  night  over  a  bottle  and  an  oil  lamp.  Old  Asaph  got  up  early  to  go  lobstering;  young  Asaph  rose  later,  and  before  leaving  for  town  al-  ways  took  the  scraps  from  their  last  night's  huggermugger  bachelor  meal  out  to  the  hens,  in  whatever  dish  the  food  happened  to  be  in.  This  went  on  for  years,  until  young  Asaph,  atthe  age  of  about  forty,  married.  He  was  con-  sidered  to  have  married  beneath  him-  a  Portugee.  But  the  girl  had  her  good  qualities.  For  one  thing,  she  cleaned  out  that  pigpen  of  a  house.  It  was  gen-  erally  thought  that  the  first  layer  of  " b"dirt  must  have  required  a  shovel,  She  also  began  retrieving  the  dishes  that  for  so  many  years  had  been  taken  out  to  the  hens  and  never  brought  in  again.  &quot;She  digs  'em  up,&quot;  old  Asaph  reported  to  my  Aunt  Ellen,  &quot;and  makes  'em  into  sets.&quot;  In  ashortwhile,  the  Bentley  an-  cestral  china  had  been  reassembled;  old  white  ironstone,  Lowestoft,  Stafford-  shire-things  dating  from  the  eight-  eenth  century.  NTHOUGH  among  the  people  I  grew  up  with  it  was  considered  a  great  compliment  to  be  compared  to  a  Yankee,  to  be  told  one  was  as  shrewd  or  as  thrifty  or  as  honest  as  a  real  old  Yankee,  not  all  the  real  old  Yankees  I  knew  were  admirable  characters.  There  wasJim  Huggins,  down  the  road,  who  married  Maud  Lovett  and  made  her  life  a  hell.  She  had  been  seen,  by  her  neighbors,  running  out  on  the  point  in  the  middle  of  winter  with  her  hair  streaming  and  Jim  Huggins  after  her,  yelling  he  would  kill  her.  Jim  Huggins  was  not  even  thrifty.  He  owned  four  extra  dories  and  left  them  lying  bot-  tom  side  up  on  the  rocks  by  the  cove  with  stones  on  top  of  them  to  hold  them  down  in  a  gale,  until  they  all  rotted  and  fell  apart,  an  actiontanta-  mount  to  blasphemy  of  the  Holy  Ghost  in  those  parts.  But  even  before  the  final  disintegration  of  the  dories  Jim  Huggins  had  taken  off  for  the  bright  lights  of  [REDACTED]  with  a  woman,  leaving  Maud  Lovett  deserted.  Maud  Lovett  belonged  to  the  oldest  family  thereabouts-people  whose  land  had  been  held  originally  by  Indian  grant,  people  who  numbered  among  their  forebears  preachers,  doctors,  law-  yers,  and  who  had  sent  up  members  to  the  legislature  in  [REDACTED].  But  no  more.  The  Lovett  family  had  fallen  upon  evil  days,  particularly  since  they  had  taken  to  marrying  one  another.  Maud's  mother  and  father,  first  cousins,  had  not  spoken  to  each  other-although  they  occupied  the  same  dreary,  dark-green  house  all  through  those  lonely,  frozen  winters  for  twenty  years  Maud's  sister  Ella  went  up  to  St.  Johnsbury  and  got  a  job  working  behind  the  counter  in  the  ten-  cent  store  but  was  dismissed  for  talking  wildly,  whatever  that  may  have  meant.  Its  meaning  became  clearer  after  poor  Maud  Lovett's  desertion  by  her  cruel  husband,  for  she,  too,  began  to  talk  very  wildlyindeed.  She  had  moved  back  in-  to  her  old  home  with  her  silent  parents,  but  all  day  long  she  hung  around  the  small  house  by  the  shore  where  she  had     &quot;Now  get  in  there  and  surprise  everybody,  including  me.&quot;     been  so  unhappy  with  Jim  Huggins.  It  seemed  as  if  she  could  not  bear  to  leave  the  scene  of  her  undoing.  She  would  pop  out  of  the  overgrown  beach-  plum  bushes  as  I  passed  along  the  road  on  my  way  to  go  swimming.  &quot;Seems  I  have  to  stay  araound  here  all  the  time,&quot;  she  would  hiss  at  me.  &quot;Soon's  I  go,  they  come,  with  guns.  Tried  going  in  my  own  house  t'day,  but  they've  got  it  locked,  and  they  watch  everything  I  do.&quot;  It  was  frightening.  It  was  a  great  re-  lief  to  leave  her  behind,  standing  alone  in  the  road  gazing  out  at  the  blank  blue  sea,  and  to  wave  instead  to  Mrs.  Wash-  burn,  who  was  also  of  ancient  family  but  whose  brains  were  perfectly  good.  Mrs.  Washburn  made  delicious-smell-  ing  bread,  and  ginger  cookies  with  which  she  was  not  too  thrifty  when  lit-  tle  girls  passed  by.  She  was  what  my  Aunt  Ellen  called  a  real  Yankee  lady;  she  knew  about  paying  calls,  in  white  gloves,  and  she  was  extremely  proud  of  being,  herself,  a  Starr.  A  Starr  had  once  been  Governor  of  the  Colony.  Mrs.  Washburn's  voice  and  accent  were  the  true  Yankee  article:  dry,  flat,  with  a  nasal  twang;  and  she  was  brief-spoken.  When  she  broke  her  leg  and  was  con-  fined  to  bed,  my  Aunt  Ellen  went  to  see  her.  &quot;Bumped  m'knee,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Washburn.  HESE  memories,  and  more  like  them,  arethe  reason  why,  after  living  happily  for  so  many  years  in  Vir-  ginia,  I  still  tend  to  jump  when  ad-  dressed  as  a  Yankee,  although  of  course  I  have  long  since  realized  that  to  every-  body  except  New  Englanders  &quot;Yankee&quot;  is  a  generic  term  including  me.  That  my  reaction  is  not  without  parallel  in  reverse  was  made  clear  to  me  recently  when  I  read  a  story  from  these  pages  by  Frances  Gray  Patton,  a  43616e616461Carolina  lady,  who  told  how  it  made  her  feel  to  be  called  a  &quot;cracker&quot;  by  an  uninformed  Yankee.  It  made  her  feel,  she  said,  stung.  When  I  am  calleda  Yankee  I  don't  feel  stung;  I  feel  disoriented,  My  head  swims.  I  lose  my  sense  of  identity.I  get  the  feeling  that  instead  of  being  my  usual  conforming,  conventional  self,  I  am  someone  far  more  interesting,  who  speaks  a  pungent,  if  peculiar,  English,  who  is  slightly  dotty,  and  who  is  a  great  character.  I  only  wish  I  were. "