 b"TO  no  one,  however  partial  and  prejudiced,  can  [REDACTED]  ever  have  seemed  more  utterly  the  hub  of  the  Universe  than  it  did  to  me  when  I  was  a  child  in  our  house  twelve  miles  out  in  the  country  and  my  father  would  come  home  from  his  studio  and  do  what  our  family  expression  called  &quot;tell  his  times  and  tell  them  long.&quot;  [REDACTED]  seemed  not  only  central  to  cosmogony,  it  appeared  to  my  infant  mind-be-  guiled  by  my  father's  indubitable  and  antic  faculty  for  telling  a  story-daz-  zling  with  lights,  coruscating  with  wit,  and  giddy  with  gaiety.  Any  realization  that  the  somewhat  bleak  and  drab  city  I  saw  when  I  was  taken  soberly  to  the  dentist  in  no  way  resembled  this  glitter-  ing  metropolis  never  arose  to  trouble  my  englamoured  imagination.  My  father's  [REDACTED]  was  a  [REDACTED]  of  clubs  and  ban-  quets,  of  artists  and  great  hostesses,  of  hansom  cabs  and  famous  wits,  and  I  continued  to  believe  in  it,  dizzily,  for  years.  With  it  for  a  background,  my  own  life  in  the  country  seemed  an  impover-  ished  and  paltry  routine.  I  walked  a  mile  to  and  from  school  every  day,  past  the  jail  in  which  during  most  of  my  child-  hood  Sacco  and  Vanzetti  were  confined.  If  the  weather  was  bad,  I  was  taken  in  a  livery-stable  hack  that  smelled  of  hay,  driven  by  old  Mr.  Harvey,  who  had  a  long  white  beard  and  once  brought  me  a  present  from  his  wife-a  necklace  made  of  seeds  called  Job's-tears  tied  with  a  blue  ribbon.  I  skated,  drearily,  round  and  round  Weed's  Pond  in  the  freezing,  glassy  afternoons  while  a  crimson  sun  hung  low  above  the  horizon,  casting  a  lurid  and  fateful-seeming  radiance  over  the  impassive  snow.  I  was  given  my  supper  and  later  my  bath  by  Miss  Lovejoy,  an  Eng-  lish  lady  who  lived  with  us  in  return  for  the  care  of  me.  Miss  Lovejoy  had  a  strong  British  character  and  demand-  ed  white  pepper  at  meals,  declaring  the  black  to  be  unfit  to  eat.  When  she  came  to  us,  the  First  World  War  was  still  going  on,  and  she  had  a  map  of  Eu-  rope  in  her  bedroom,  in  which  were  stuck  small  flags-pins-marking  the  battle  lines,  which  I  was  not  allowed  to  touch.  On  afternoons   when  I  did  not  skate,  Miss  Lovejoy  took  me  for  long,  long  walks  about  the  coun-  tryside,  miles  and  miles,  past  a  turkey  farm,  and  a  place  where  there  was  an  idiot  girl  who  smiled  frighteningly,  and  a  gate  with  the  sign  &quot;Beware  of  the  Dog.&quot;  After  my  supper,  when  Miss  Lovejoy  gave  me  my  bath,  she  would,  if  she  was  in  good  humor,  sing  to  me,  al-  ways  the  same  song:  &quot;Into  pretty  [REDACTED]  came  an  Irishman  one  day;  As  the  streets  were  paved  with  gold,so  everyone  was  gay.&quot;  This  solecism  bothered  me  terribly,  even  in  the  earliest  days,  when  I  played  with  my  celluloid  swan  and  green  ducks  in  the  old,  footed  bathtub.  But  if  I  object-  ed,  Miss  Lovejoy  would  only  start  to  cry  &quot;Come  along,  come  along,  don't  be  slouchy,&quot;  which  meant  the  end  of  my  nice,  warm  bath.  It  was  generally  afterI  had  been  put,  flat,  clean,  and  still  moist,  into  bed  that  my  father  would  arrive  home  from  his  day  at  the  studio.  My  bed  was  narrow,  with  four  posts  of  a  wood  that  looked  exactly  like  maple  sugar;  I  licked  it  once,  but  the  likeness  did  not  extend  to  taste.  At  the  immense  sound  of  the  front  door  being  opened  and  banged  shut,  the  stamping  off  of  snow  in  the  front  hall,  the  loud  and  genial  shouts  of  arrival,  I  would  shoot  upright  in  my  bed  like  a  jack-in-the-box.  &quot;Papa!&quot;  I  would  call,  and  in  a  few  minutes  his  heavy,  reassur-  ing  tread  would  come  up  the  stairs,  into  my  room,  and  around  the  corner  of  the  wall  to  where  I  could  see  him,  large,  heavy,  with  a  walrus  mustache.  After  embraces,  my  father  would  sit  down  beside  my  bed  to  tell  me  stories.  These  fell,  very  loosely,  into  three  categories,  of  which  I  was  only  faintly  aware:  the  true  stories,  the  legendary  stories,  and  the  stories  that  he  simply  made  up  as  he  went  along  because  he  was  bored  with  the  reality.  I  could  generally  tell,  when  his  eyes  held  a  glazed  look  and  he  began  to  hesitate  and  say  &quot;Aaaaah,&quot;  between  sentences,  that  he  had  taken  off  and  was  careering  among  the  stars.  My  father's  position  vis-a-vis  [REDACTED]  society  was  a  little  different  from  that  of  the  usual  [REDACTED]  gentleman;  although  born  into  the  large  family  of  a  famous  Unitarian  divine,  he  had,  instead  of  go-  ing  to  Harvard  like  his  brothers,  gone  to  [REDACTED]  to  study  art  at  Julien's  and  the  Beaux-Arts.  This  step  was  so  unusual  as  to  have  been  suspect  even  to  his  father,  in  most  things  a  liberal;  my  father  was  not  supplied  with  funds  for  this  doubt-  ful  enterprise,  but  supported  himself  in  [REDACTED]  to  a  large  extent  by  copying.  He  lived  in  the  Rue  des  Saints-P\xc3\xa9res  with  a  group  of  other  young  Americans;  the  ascent  into  the  garret  where  they  slept  was  by  way  of  a  ladder  nailed  against  the  wall,  up  which  the  young  men  would  climb,  a  lighted  lamp  in  one  hand  and  a  pitcher  of  water  in  the  other.  When  my  father  told  it,  the  ascent  was  so  terribly  difficult  that  it  sounded  nigh  onto  impossible;  but  he  always  insisted  they  accomplished  it.  On  his  return  to  [REDACTED],  flushed  with  the  wine  of  art  and  with  that  sense  of  confident  aspiration  which  the  artist  Gainsborough  expressed  on  his  deathbed-&quot;We  are  all  going  to  Heaven,  and  Van  Dyck  is  of  the  com-  pany'&quot;-he  married  my  mother  and  took  a  large  corner  studio  in  the  Fen-  way  Studios.  They  produced  me  and  moved  the  family's  living  arrangements  to  the  country  in  consideration  of  the  benefits  of  fresh  air  to  the  young;  but  my  fa-  ther  continued  to  go  daily  to  town  to  paint  in  his  studio  or  to  teach  at  the  School  of  the  Bos-  ton  Art  Museum,  and  saw,  in  the  social  way,  during  those  ten  or  twelve  years  of  my  childhood,  a  mixture  of  old  friends  from  [REDACTED]  student  days,  old  Bos-  ton  friends  from  even  earlier,  a  number  of  the  great  [REDACTED]  hostesses,  and  a  proportion  of  rag,  tag,  and  bobtail  that  only  my  father  could  have  dredged  up-bor-  rowers  of  five  dollars,  unattractive  models  " b"with  ailing  mothers,  bumptious  painters  without  talent,  and  types  of  the  pure  species  bore,  who  fastened  upon  my  fa-  ther  with  an  unfailing  instinct  for  recog-  nizing  the  kind  heart  and  the  dread  of  wounding.  Not  least  in  the  canon  of  [REDACTED]  stories  were  those  of  the  sheer,  typically  556e6974656420537461746573ian  stupidity,  which  somehow  made  the  enchanted  vision  I  held  no  less  enchanted.  At  the  Tavern  Club  a  very  [REDACTED]  Mr.  S--  was  told  the  riddle  of  &quot;Why  is  a  penny  like  John  the  Baptist&quot;,&quot;  the  answer  to  which  was  &quot;Because  it's  one  cent  by  God.&quot;  Mr.  S--  was  utterly  convulsed  by  this  joke  and  made  off  instantly  for  the  Somerset  Club-he  had  really  been  out  of  water  at  the  Tavern  Club-where  he  repeat-  ed  his  delightful  new  story,  but  with  a  fatal  difference;  for  he  inquired  of  his  audience,  &quot;Why  is  a  nickel  like  John  the  Baptist?&quot;  and  when  they  looked  ex-  pectant  answered  himself,  &quot;Because  it's  five  cents,  God  damn  it.&quot;  The  Tavern  Club  was  mostly  a  place  of  congregation  for  writers  and  news-  papermen.  The  St.  Botolph  Club  was  a  meeting  place  for  many  ofthe  [REDACTED]  artists.  The  Somerset  Club,  to  which  my  father  did  not  belong  but  often  went,  was  of  a  different  stamp.  At  one  stag  dinner,  he  often  said,  repeating  the  story  with  slight  modulations,  changes,  so  that  it  was  almost  like  a  new  story  every  time,  he  had  disgraced  himself  before  the  chief  steward,  or  headwaiter,  of  the  Somerset  Club.  Orders  were  being  tak-  en  for  dessert.  Meringue  glac\xc3\xa9e  was  or-  dered  here,  coupe  aux  marrons  there.  When  the  dining-room  chief  came  to  my  father,  he  inquired  &quot;And  you,  sir?&quot;  My  father  was  devoted  to  strawberry  ice  cream,  which  he  thought  of  by  an-  other  name.  &quot;I  will  have  some  pink  ice  cream,&quot;  he  replied.  The  headwaiter  bel-  lowed  across  the  dining  room  to  the  underwaiter,  in  tones  of  terrible  con-  tempt,  &quot;This  gentleman  will  have  some  pink  ice  [REDACTED];  In  some  versions  of  the  story  the  entire  assemblage  turned  and  stared,  with  frigid  astonishment;  in  others  they  only  laughed.  But  always,  more  than  what  the  Somerset  Club  steward  thought  of  my  father,  the  story  rather  conveyed  what  my  father  thought  ofthe  Somerset  Club.  He  was  fond  of  repeating  the  motto  of  the  Tavern  Club  as  a  model  of  neat  phrase:  &quot;Fill  your  empty  glass;  empty  your  full  glass;  I  cannot  bear  to  see  your  glass  either  empty  or  full.&quot;  But  on  the  whole  he  preferred  the  St.  Botolph  Club,  which  in  an  irreverent  mood  he  would  call  the  St.  Bottles.  It  was  said  that  on  one  occasion  an  Englishman  visiting  [REDACTED]  had  been  put  up  at  the  St.  Botolph  Club  and,  going  into  its  lounge  one  day  about  five,  had  ordered  tea,  The  steward  looked  nonplussed,  but  rallied  quickly;  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  he  said.  There  was  a  long,  long  pause.  The  pause  became  so  long  that  after  an  hour  the  Englishman  felt  justified  in  inquiring  where  in  blazes  his  tea  was.  It  tran-  spired  that  time  had  been  re-  quired  first  to  send  out  to  Pierce's  for  the  tea  and  sec-  ond  to  study,  in  a  recipe  book,  the  rule  for  making  it.  That  world  of  clubs!  To  me  at  home,  hugging  my  knees  in  my  fourposted  bed,  it  wore  an  aura  cosmopolitan,  male,  and  rakish,  altogether  irresistible  and  delightful.  My  father  could  not  have  been  called  by  his  worst  enemy  an  athlete,  so  that  aspect  of  club  life  played  little  part  in  the  stories.  All  I  remem-  ber  ever  hearing  of  the  athletic  side  was  a  silly  song,  which  at  the  time  I  hearkened  to  with  grave  attention:  Dick  Hodgdon's  not  much  at  athletics;  He  can't  even  play  cowboy  pool;  And  they  say  at  the  old  Union  Boat  Club  That  he's  usually  beat,  as  a  rule.  The  [REDACTED]  painters  of  the  day  were  my  father's  principal  companions  in  club  life-Tarbell,  Benson,  Paxton.  How  dashing,  how  major,  those  now  nearly  forgotten  names  sounded  to  me!  Occa-  sionally  a  European  figure  in  the  world  of  art  would  make  an  appearance  in  [REDACTED].  I  remember  my  father  bringing  home  to  spend  the  night  William  Roth-  enstein,  later  knighted.  I  did  not  see  him  until  the  next  morning.  As  I  was  eating  my  porridge  at  the  round  dining-  room  table,  he  entered  with  my  father;  he  looked  like  a  Chinaman,  with  slant-  ing  eyes.  &quot;Oh,  I  love  little  girls!&quot;  he  cried,  and  thrust  his  head  directly  in  front  of  my  face  with  an  extreme,  Ori-  ental  smile.  I  screamed.  Another  visitor  to  [REDACTED]  from  for-  eign  shores  figured  in  a  story  about  the  world  of  the  great  [REDACTED]  hostesses.  This  hostess  had  managed  to  secure  a  real  plum,  a  visiting  celebrity  whom  my  father  always  called,  in  the  story,  Count  Pallavicini,  though  I  doubt  thatthat  was  his  name.  In  his  honor  the  lady  engaged  to  play  at  her  party  the  [REDACTED]  organist  Malcolm  Lang,  both  because  of  Lang's  distinction  and  to  show  off  her  magnifi-  cent  instrument.  About  this  stage  in  the  story  my  father's  eyes  would  become  glassy:  &quot;'The  night  of  the  party  arrived,&quot;  he  would  continue,  &quot;And-aaaaah-&quot;  Lang  performed,  the  applause  was  en-thusiastic,  but  the  lady  wanted  Count  Pallavicini's  personal  expression  of  ap-  preciation  and,  hurrying  up  to  him,  cried,  &quot;Oh,  Count,  wasn't  Mr.  Lang's  playing  superb?&quot;  The  aristocratic  visit-  ing  Italian  replied,  &quot;Yes,  yes,  he  was  well  enough-a.  But  to  playa  ze  organ,&quot;  he  went  on,  waxing  ardent,  &quot;and  man-  age-a  ze  monk,  all  ze  sama  time,  zere  was  ze  genius.&quot;  At  this  juncture  I  would  be  leaning  forward  upon  one  nightgowned  elbow,  in  my  fourposted  bed,  tense.  With  a  child's  unerring  instinct  for  the  human  as  above  the  anecdotal,  I  would  more  than  likely  ask,  &quot;And  what  did  she  say?&quot;  My  father,  the  point  of  his  story  thus  ruined,  would  pull  down  the  corners  of  his  mustache  and  chew  them  in  exasper-  ation.  It  grieved  me  to  annoy  him,  but  I  did  so  long  to  know  what  happened  next.  UT  the  stories  I  loved  best  were  not  really  stories-in  the  sense  of  anec-  dotes-at  all,  but  the  recounting  of  the  glorious,  magic,  Lucullan  evenings  my  father  and  mother  spent  when  they  dined  in  town.  Here  my  fancy  really  soared,  undamped  by  cynicism,  untick-  led  by  humor,  straightinto  the  pure  wild  empyrean.  If  my  parents  had  had  any  idea  what  agonizing  pleasure  they  used  to  give  me  when  they  came  to  bid  me  good  night  on  their  way  out  to  an  eve-  ning  in  town-my  father  in  tails  and  a  boiled  shirt,  my  mother  as  beautiful  as  a  seraph  in  pink  satin  embroidered  with  passementerie,  her  pink  satin  shoes  pointed  at  the  tip  and  with  deeply  curved  French  heels,  her  scarf  spangled  gauze,  her  wrap  changeable  velvet  with  ostrich  feathers  round  the  neck-they  would  surely  out  of  mercy  have  dined  out  con-  tinually.  In  actual  fact,  they  went  out  rather  seldom.  My  father's  best  friend  was  an  archi-     " b"tect,  of  an  old  [REDACTED]  family,  who  had  studied  at  the  Beaux-Arts  in  [REDACTED].  He  and  his  beautiful  golden-haired  Irish  wife,  who  had  been  an  artists'  model  and  whom  I  called  Aunt,  were  fond  of  dining  at  the  [REDACTED]  restaurants,  with  my  parents,  in  a  day  when  restaurant  dining  was  not  frowned  upon  but  unusual,  bohemian.  My  pretend  Uncle  was  a  great  gourmet,  a  connoisseur  of  wines.  I  remember  particularly  that  to  preface  their  little  dinners  he  fa-  vored  vermouth  m\xc3\xa9lang\xc3\xa9.  So  I  was  told;  and  since  no  one  explained  to  me  what  vermouth  m\xc3\xa9lang\xc3\xa9  might  be,  I  thought  of  it  as  pale  green  with  foam  on  top;  nectar,  in  short.  In  the  days  before  there  was  a  me,  they  had  used  to  dine  at  the  old  Thorn-  dike,  famous  for  its  game.  But  the  Thorndike  burned,  I  think,  and  by  the  time  I  began  the  years  of  swallowing  tales  of  [REDACTED]  night  life  in  great  draughts,  it  was  the  Touraine  that  they  chiefly  patronized.  Afterward,  perhaps,  they  would  go  to  a  musical  comedy-  the  two  gay  friends  from  old  [REDACTED]  days  with  their  beautiful  wives,  one  fair,  one  dark.  This  pleasant  custom  they  carried  on  for  years.  My  father  had  the  faculty  for  remembering  the  score  of  all  the  musical  shows  they  saw,  and  while  he  was  taking  his  cold  bath  in  the  morn-  ing,  he  would  render  songs  from  per-  formances  running  far  back  before  my  birth,  until  the  house  rocked:  &quot;Then  meet  me  on  the  beach  at  Narra-  gansett  ...  Country  girls,  city  girls,  Dull  girls,  witty  girls,  All  sorts  of  pretty  girls,  coming  down  to  dive.  When  you  see  the  little  beauts  Sitting  in  their  bathing-suits  You'll  be  glad  that  you're  alive  ...&quot;  or,  more  swooningly,  &quot;Oh,  won't  you  come  and  play  wiz  me  And  stay  wiz  me  Make  hay  wiz  me?  I've  such  a  pretty  way  wiz  me  ...&quot;  I  do  not  think  the  phrase  &quot;make  hay  with  me&quot;  really  appeared  in  the  proper  version  of  this  song,  however.  I  think  my  father  made  it  up,  to  rhyme.  When  (Baw  he  could  not  remember  the  words  of  a  song  and  could  not  think  of  anything  to  rhyme  either,  he  filled  in  with  the  phrase  &quot;my  boys&quot;:  &quot;I  wonder  who's  kissing  her  now.  I  wonder  who's  teaching  her  how.  I  wonder  who's  gazing  into  my  boys,  Yes,  my  boys,  yes,  my  joys!&quot;  so  that  he  could  complete  his  rendition  of  the  songs  that  they  used  to  hear  in  [REDACTED]  theatres  and  music  halls  in  those  nights  of  the  early  century  when  they  would  dine  out.  The  mere  mention  of  meals  being  taken  of  course  made  my  infant  pulse  quicken.  I  would  squirm  with  a  vicari-  ous  greed  in  my  bed  and  interrupt  the  story  by  asking  &quot;And  what  did  you  have  to  eat?&quot;  My  father  did  not  like  being  inter-  rupted.  He  would  shut  his  mouth  and  pull  down  one  corner  of  it,  Sometimes,  in  retaliation,  he  would  then  tease  me  by  intoning  &quot;Well,  first  we  had  so0000p,  and  then  we  had  fiiiish,  and  then  we  had  meeeeeat  ..  .&quot;  But  sometimes  he  would  " b"relent  and  tell  me  about  the  marvels  that  they  had  to  eat  and  drink  at  those  little  dinners-the  game  ducks,  cooked  purple  rare;  the  Chateau  Yquem,  the  Piper  Heidsieck,  the  pit\xc3\xa9  de  foie  gras,  the  Baked  [REDACTED],  the  Danziger  Gold-  wasser,  the,  ah,  the  nightingales'  tongues.  Actually,  in  this  phase  of  the  legend,  it  was  my  own  imagination  that  cre-  ated  the  atmosphere  of  that  glittering,  brilliant,  worldly  [REDACTED]  that  never  was  on  land  or  sea.  After  they  had  gone  out  to  din-  ner-trailing  chiffon  and  the  smell  of  bay  rum-and  I  was  left  in  my  dark  room  to  try  to  go  to  sleep,  my  mind  would  travel  into  the  world  I  fancied  they  had  entered.  Down  Common-  wealth  Avenue  they  swept,  its  double  boulevard  bor-  dered  with  winking  white  lights,  its  great  brownstone  houses  blazing  with  illum-  ination,  front  doors  being  opened  and  shut  continually  by  tall  but-  lers.  Past  the  Public  Gardens  they  pro-  ceeded,  and  down  Boylston  Street,  to  the  restaurant  of  their  choice,  palms  in  the  forecourt  and  flunkies  on  either  hand.  &quot;Table  for  four!&quot;  was  the  cry;  and,  casually,  with  glances  cast  back-  ward  and  the  intimate  exchange  of  bons  mots,they  would  find  their  seats,  be  bowed  to  by  the  major-domo;  the  two  ladies  would  lay  long  white  kid  gloves  carelessly  upon  the  damask  tablecloth.  An  orchestra  played,  behind  potted  plants;  acquaintances-rich,  handsome,  distinguished-nodded  recognition;  the  first  course  was  produced,  on  silver  plat-  ters  with  domelike  covers.  The  words  for  all  these  things  had  been  told  me,  in  the  stories;  but  the  colors,  the  glitter,  the  atmosphere  at  once  rich  and  sparkling,  I  supplied  myself.  Lying  there  in  my  dark  room,  I  would  try  not  to  remember  the  story  about  Mr.  H--.  Mr.  H--  was  one  of  my  father's  dead-beat  friends,  the  sort  of  painter  who  was  always  saying  he  would  &quot;knock  'em  dead&quot;  with  a  new  picture,  and  never  succeeded  in  selling  anything.  He  lived  offlessons  and,  per-  haps,  off  touching  my  father;  I  always  thought  of  him  as  having  a  ragged,  drooping  mustache.  At  one  of  those  lit-  tle  dinners  at  the  Touraine,  my  father  had  seen  H--  across  the  room  and,  in  leaving,  stopped  to  speak.  H--  was  dining  off  rare  roast  beef  and  claret.  &quot;Have  to  treat  myself  to  something  de-  cent  once  in  a  while,&quot;  he  said,  jovially.     &quot;Keeps  my  spirits  up,  you  know.  Mrs.  H--  cooks  up  a  batch  of  macaroni  every  Monday  morning  and  it  lasts  us  the  rest  of  the  week.  She  and  the  little  girl  can  stand  it  but,  by  Gad,  I  can't.  Ga  m  ennuie,&quot;  he  added,  with  a  ghastly  attempt  at  old  [REDACTED]  bonhomie.  I  would  switch  my  mind  sharply  away  from  this  picture,  for  it  was  gloomy,  and  of  all  things  I  feared  gloom,  such  as  I  felt  in  the  air  on  those  occasional  nights  when  my  father's  heavy  footsteps  coming  up-  stairs,  instead  of  turning  into  my  room,  went  along  the  hall  to  my  mother's,  and  I  could  hear  the  low,  urgent  murmur  of  voices  in  there.  Once  I  got  up  and  stole  along  the  hall  and  lis-  tened  to  my  father  telling  my  mother  of  the  discour-  agements  he  encountered  in  the  always  forbidding  field  of  trying  to  be  an  artist  in  [REDACTED].  Since  then,  there  was  always  the  frightful  doubt  in  the  outer  fringes  of  my  mind  about  whether  he  was  happy  after  all,  or  successful,  or  sought-  after.  The  really  awful,  the  unbearable  part  of  the  Mr.  H--  story  was  that  a  few  months  after  the  encounter  in  the  Tou-  raine  Mr.  H--'s  little  girl  died-of  eating  macaroni,  presumably.  It  made  an  unpleasant  stain  upon  the  cloth  of  gold  of  one's  vision  of  [REDACTED]  night  life.  WHEN  I  grew  up  and  began  go-  ing  to  parties  in  [REDACTED]  myself,  it  was  quite  another  world  that  I  en-  countered:  a  sedate  world,  painstakingly  simple,  lined  with  patronesses,  policed  by  chaperones,  decorous,  unostentatious,  A  THEORY  and  pleasant.  But  juxtaposed  ideas  sometimes  do  not  conflict  at  all;  it  was  some  time  before  it  occurred  to  me  that  the  parties  I  attended  bore  little  or  no  relation  to  that  land  of  glitter  and  glory  I  had  imagined  my  parents  going  off  to  when  I  lay  as  a  child  in  my  narrow  fourposter.  I  had,  of  course,  entered  the  real  [REDACTED],  or  a  real  [REDACTED].  My  days  were  passed  in  going  to  morning  practice  ses-  sions  for  the  chorus  of  the  Vincent  Show  in  the  downstairs  ballroom  of  the  Som-  erset  Hotel;  attending  d\xc3\xa9butante  lunch,  eons  at  which  it  was  fashionable  to  rise  before  dessert  and  leave,  taking  the  cen-  terpiece  flowers  with  one;  tea  dancing  to  the  strains  of  &quot;That  Certain  Feeling&quot;  with  Harvard  seniors  at  Shepard's  Colo-  nial;  going  to  dances  in  the  evening  given  at  one  ofthe  hotels  or  at  the  Women's  Republican  Club,  or,  perhaps,  out  at  the  Brookline  Country  Club,  among  surroundings  that  meant  merely  health  and  fresh  air  to  us.  We  wanted  to  be  world-worn  and  decayed,  and  so  we  escaped  to  go  slumming,  wearing  our  most  blas\xc3\xa9  expressions,  at  the  Amer-  ican  House  in  Scollay  Square  or,  our  nerve  up,  down  at  the  Argonauts  Club  on  Rowe's  Wharf.  We  got  to  bed  about  three  and  slept  late,  waking  to  see  that  snow  had  fallenin  the  night.  When  at  last  it  emerged  into  my  con-  sciousness  that  this  life,  though  busy,  was  not  at  all  the  [REDACTED]  of  wit,  gaiety,  and  sparkle  that  my  father's  stories  had,  with  my  collaboration,  created,  the  reali-  zation  was  accompanied  by  a  feeling  of  bewilderment  and  of  resentment.  For  I  was  left  with  a  whole  airy  me-  tropolis  on  my  hands,  shimmering,  inap-  propriate,  iridescent,  fitting  nothing,  as  if  I  held  a  fabulous  ruby  necklace  that  had  been  declared  bogus.  What  could  you  do  with  it?  Where  could  you  put  it? "