 b"F  SCOTT  FITZGERALD  burst  in  upon  our  lives  like  a  meteor,  \xc2\xae  in  the  spring  of  1932.  I  re-  member  my  father  causing  a  stir  at  the  breakfast  table  when  he  announced  that  a  novelist  had  rented  the  other  house  on  our  property-'the  old  house,&quot;  as  we  called  it,  My  mother,  the  reader  of  the  family,  had  heard  the  name  Fitz-  gerald  but  couldn't  recall  anything  he  had  written,  which  was  not  surprising,  for  the  Jazz  Age  had  roared  past  almost  without  our  knowing  it.  La  Paix,  our  twenty-eight-acre  place  on  the  edge  of  [REDACTED],  was  a  cultural  pocket  whose  atmosphere  had  changed  very  little  since  my  grandfather  built  the  old  house  there,  in  1885.  Stolidly  Victorian,  this  house  had  lost  whatever  charm  or  style  it  might  have  once  possessed.  It  was  a ramshackle  affair  of  faded  reds,  browns, and  grays,  with  the  gables  and  heavy  trimmings  and  discordant  bulges  of  the  period,  and  the  whole  thing  girded  round  by  an  open  porch.  A  gold-lettered  sign  over  the  door  said  &quot;Pax  Vobiscum.&quot;  Peaceful  it  certainly  was-no  one  would  deny  that-but  it  was  also  dim,  cavern-  ous,  and,  from  a  child's  point  of  view,  spooky,  and  I  was  glad  we  weren't  living  there  any  more.  A  few  years  before  Fitzgerald  came,  my  fa-  ther  had  built  a  happier  house  on  a  rise  overlooking  the  old  one,  which  now  lay  half  hidden  from  us  in  its  grove  of  ancestral  oaks.  What  odd  surround-  ings  for  Fitzgerald-this  barn  ofa  house  and  these  quietly  antiquated  acres,  to  which  he  came  trail-  ing  sparks  from  another  world!  I  was  eleven  years  old  at  the  time,  and  a  novelist  to  me  meant  a  bearded  sage,  so  that  I  was  little  prepared  for  Fitzgerald's  youthful-  ness.  What  was  I  to  make  of  those  flashing  good  looks,  of  the  saddle  shoes  and  the  dark  Shaker-  knit  sweater  that  gave  him  the  air  of  a  college  athlete  home  for  vacation?  I  decided  privately  that  his  novels  must  not  be  very  good,  but  my  opinion  of  him  went  up  when  I  discovered  his  en-  thusiasm  for  football.  I,  too,  was  a  student  of  the  game,  and  a  rabid  keeper  of  scrapbooks,  my  horizons  being  limited  to  my  alma  mater,  the  Gilman  Coun-  try  School.  Fitzgerald  opened  my  eyes  to  Princeton,  where  a  great  new  coach, Fritz  Crisler,  and  a  bumper  crop  of  freshman  players  foreshadowed  the  Tiger  juggernauts  of  1933-35.  All  I  knew  about  Princeton  was  that  it  had  just  received  into  its  arms  one  of  Gil-  man's  immortals,  a  fullback  named  Pepper  Constable.  I  remember  running  up  the  hill  at  top  speed  to  get  the  Gilman  yearbook  wherein  was  an  Achilles-like  picture  of  Constable,  surrounded  by  his  teammates.  Though  Fitzgerald  showed  a  polite  interest  in  \xc2\xbby  interest,  I  could  not  seem  to  persuade  him  that  here  was  an  authentic  hero.  Gilman  sounded  provincial  to  him;  it  lacked  the  authority  of  Exeter,  say,  or  Kiski,  or  Lawrence-  ville.  With  prep-school  captains  two  and  three  deep  in  every  position  on  this  spec-  tacular  freshman  squad,  Fitzgerald  held  out  little  hope  that  Constable  would  ever  be  heard  from  again.  Of  course  I  was  saddened  by  this,  but  I  kept  the  faith.  Meanwhile,  Fitzgerald  bought  a  football,  which  we  tossed  around  the  lawn  from  time  to  time  when  he  was  feeling  athletic.  Because  I  was  small  for  my  age  and  not  a  fast  runner,  he  was  going  to  make  a  passer  out  of  me.  (He  was  determined  to  make  something  out  of  me,  for  his  instinct  was  always  to  mold,  manipu-  late,  cajole  the  human  ma-  terial  around  him-to  get  it  to  perform  in  one  way  or  another.)  He  gave  me  a  book  by  Barry  Wood  called  &quot;What  Price  Foot-  ball,&quot;  and  he  introduced  me  to  the  Football  An-  nual,  a  marvellous  pub-  lication  full  of  swollen  rhetoric  and  grimacing  All-556e6974656420537461746573s.  That  fall,  he  took  me  to  Princeton  to  see  the  Navy  game.  His  daughter,  Scot-  tie-my  contemporary--  went  with  us,  and  we  ate  a  picnic  lunch,  put  upby  my  mother,  on  the  terrace  in  back  of  Cottage  Club.  Fitzgerald's  \xc3\xa9an  at  going  back  to  his  old  haunts  may  havebeen  wasted  on  me,  butnot  his  uncanny  knowledge  of  the  Princeton  team;  he  had  so  much  specific  information  on  each  play-  er  that  I  suspected  him  of  having  memo-  rized  the  programs  of  the  previous  games.  His  hopes  that  day,  I  clearly  recall,  were  riding  on  a  sophomore  with  the  pungent  name  of  Kats  Kad-  lic-no  ordinary  quarterback  (accord-  ing  to  Fitzgerald)  but  &quot;a  great  field  general,&quot;  a  kind  of  Stonewall  Jackson  " b"with  cleats  on.  Kadlic  happened  to  be  a  pretty  fair  passer  into  the  bargain;  how-  ever,  it  was  his  tactical  genius  that  con-  cerned  my  host,  who  identified  himself  in  some  obscure  way  with  the  brains  that  leavened  Princeton's  brawn.  'The  best  Kadlic  could  arrange  that  afternoon  was  a  scoreless  tie,  but  the  following  fall  Fitzgerald  and  I  saw  him-plus  the  great  freshman  team,  now  sopho-mores and playing on the varsity  overthrow  Columbia,  20-0.  (It  was  the  same  Columbiateam  that  afterward  defeated  Stanford  in  the  Rose  Bowl.)  Unaccountably,  my  old  friend  Pepper  Constable  turned  up  at  fullback,  where  he  played  the  smashing  brand  of  ball  that  I  had  been  telling  Fitzgerald  about.  That  was  only  the  beginning  of  a  splen-  did  career,  for  Constable  went  on  to  captain  Princeton's  undefeated  team  of  1935  and  tobe  mentioned  for  All-  [REDACTED].  By  then,  Fitzgerald  had  moved  away  from  La  Paix,  but  he  sent  me  a  letter  giving  his  version  of  how  this  Gilman  peasant  had  risen  to  high  estate.  &quot;So  far  as  Constable  is  concerned,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  run  him  down.  He's  all  right-not  as  good  as  his  substitute  Rulon-Miller  but  all  right.  And  I'm  glad.  In  fact  I  got  him  elected  Captain-I  came  into  the  room  in  a  black  beard  disguise  during  the  conclave  and  pled  with  them.  'See  here,'  I  said.  'A  good  back  hasn't  come  out  of  Gilman  since  Slagle,  and  they're  starving  for  somebody  to  admire,  them  kids  are.  Pretty  soon  they'll  begin  to  turn  to  dolls  like  &quot;Apples&quot;  Fitzpatrick  and  &quot;Mozart&quot;  Hopney'-  But  I  stopped  myself  at  this  juncture.  I  enclose  Fritz  Crisler's  an-  swer.&quot;  The  enclosure  was  a  letter  from  Crisler-the  two  men  did  correspond  from  time  to  time-and  there  was  a  humorous  postscript  in  Fitzgerald's  handwriting,  which  said,  among  other  things,  &quot;I  have  had  Constable  elected  captain  as  a  favor  to  your  young  friend  Turnbull.&quot;  This  spoofing  tone  was  rather  typical  of  our  relationship.  &quot;Haven't  seen  you  to  really  talk  to  for  such  a  long  time  that  I  scarcely  know  you  except  through  Scottie,&quot;  Fitzgerald  began  a  letter.  &quot;She  tells  me  you  are  a  low-lifer  and  in  trou-  ble  with  the  police  for  passing  some  of  the  Weyerhaeuser  kidnap  jack  but  I  say,  'Don't  believe  it-Andrew  is  all  right,  there  is  nothing  the  matterwith  the  boy  except  his  character,  environ-  ment,  family,  body,  mind,  past,  and  future,  and  he  will  probably  turn  out  O.K.  in  the  end.'  But  what  an  end!&quot;  When  he  found  I  was  interested  in" b"words,  he  used  epithets  on  me  that  sent  me  scurrying  to  the  dictionary.  For  a  while  I  was  &quot;a  transcendent  skald,&quot;  and  when  that  one  wore  out,I  was  &quot;a  mome.&quot;  'The  dictionary  said  merely  that  a  mome  was  a  blockhead,  but  Fitz-  gerald  amplified  this  definition  with  a  quatrain  called  &quot;Momishness,&quot;  which  he  wrote  in  my  autograph  book:  Andrew  Turnbull  has  a  very  Large  and  strange  vocabulary  Tell  me  how  then  does  it  come  About  his  favorite  word  is  &quot;dumb.&quot;  FITZGERALD  lived  at  La  Paix  for eighteen  months,  and  it  was  he  who prevailed  on  my  father  to  build  the  ten-  nis  court.  The  idea  had  previously  been  dismissed  because  of  the  expense,  but  now,  with  two  families  to  profit  by  it,  there  was  a  case  to  be  made,  and  Fitz-  gerald  made  it.  What  resulted  from  his  machinations  was  a  rough-a  very  rough-and  homemade  approximation  of  agrass  court,  which  never  had  all  the  molehills  rolled  out  of  it,  or  all  the  bare  spots  covered  with  turf.  Once  you  got  used  to  its  eccentricities,  however,  you  could  have  a  lot  of  fun  on  it.  Fitzgerald  imported  a  bronzed,  if  aging,  tennis  pro  named  Mr.  Crosby,  who  popped  balls  at  us  children  by  the  hour  in  an  effort  to  build  up  our  ground  strokes.  And  some-  times  Fitzgerald  himself  would  appear,  racket  in  hand,  looking  for  a  doubles  match.  He  played  a  cocky,  aggressive  game,  with  rather  more  form  to  it  than  con-  \xc2\xa9  tent.  Moving  with  instinctive  grace  and  poise,  he  managed  to  look  like  a  tennis  player  even  when  the  ball  cate-  gorically  refused  to  do  his  bidding.  His  serve  was  a  short,  snappy  twist  with  lots  of  wrist  in  it  and  a  contortion  of  the  mouth  that  showed  concentration  and  effort.  He  sliced  his  forehand  unmerci-  fully,  and  I  do  not  remember  that  he  had  any  backhand  at  all.  He  was  hap-  piest  at  the  net,  where  he  could  hit  the  ball  the  hardest  and  it  had  the  shortest  distance  to  go.  I  can  see  him  now  -a   little  paunchy  in  his  white  flannels-  swaggering  up  to  his  alley  and  crouch-ing  professionally  to  await  the  return  of   service.  (His  walk  was  a  self-important  strut  with  a  slight  hunch  of  the  shoul-ders-the  stagy,  dramatic  walk  of  a  man  of  action  come  suddenly  on  the  scene  to  set  things  straight.)  When  playing  op-  posite  me,  he'd  threaten  me  with  &quot;I'll  perforate  you,  Andrew!&quot;-which  he  never  did,  for  all  the  ferocity  of  his  tone.   His  overheads,  if  they  did  not  hit  the  net,  were  apt  to  splatter  harmlessly  out  of  the  court.  A  more  direct  and  satisfactory  outlet " b"for  Fitzgerald's  belligerent  streak  was  boxing.  He  fancied  himself  a  fighter,  and  occasionally  he  would  spar  witha  lean  intellectual  who  used  to  come  out  from  town  to  discuss  Marxism.  The  two  men  squared  off  in  front  of  the  old  house,  where  the  road  circled  a  plot  of  grass  to  form  a  natural  ring.  Watch-  ing  these  contests,  I  could  not  help  feel-  ing  apprehensive  for  Fitzgerald,  whose  physical  condition  was  precarious  at  best.  He  had  an  insubstantial  quality-made  all  the  more  apparent  by  his  gameness-  as  though  one  good  uppercut  might  be  the  end  of  both  his  boxing  and  his  writ-  ing  careers.  But  Fitzgerald  surprised  you;  he  was  quite  capable  of  taking  care  of  himself  for  a  short,  puffy  round  or  two.  Crouching  behind  the  gloves,  which  fortunately  were  of  a  large  and  squashy  make,  he  kept  his  head  up  and  his  eye  on  the  target,  and  moved  for-  ward  with  foolhardy  resolution,  for  by  temperament  he  was  an  infighter.  The  Marxist,  out  of  deference  to  his  host,  may  not  have  pressed  his  physical  ad-  vantage,  but  at  least  he  had  a  busytime  defending  himself.  Fitzgerald  could  never  understand  my  preoccupation  with  wrestling.  At  Gilman,  it  was  a  major  sport,  which  the  students  were  encouraged  to  learn  from  the  timethey  entered,  and  I  was  start-  ing  to  be  successful  at  it  in  a  small  way.  This  did  not  impress  Fitzgerald,  who  refused  to  see  that  grovelling  around  on  a  mat  had  either  glamour  or  utility.  He  would  have  me  know  that  men  of  honor  settled  their  differences  with  their  fists,  and  that  if  I  closed  in  with  a  half  nelson,  I  would  be  accusednot  only  of  cow-  ardice  but  of  ill-breeding.  To  stimulate  my  interest  in  boxing,  he  arranged  a  match  between  me  and  Sammy  Green,  a  little  tough  who  lived  at  the  top  of  our  lane.  Sammy  was  a  red,  stocky,  scar-  faced  lad  who  was  about  my  age,  but  he  seemed  years  older,  because  he  smoked,  drank  coffee,  swore  ruggedly,  and  worked  in  a  grocery  store  in  his  off  hours.  As  we  had  never  liked  each  other,  our  collision  would  have  elements  ofa  grudge  match,  but  that  was  all  part  of  Fitzgerald's  plan.  Looking  back  on  it,  I  doubt  whether  Sammy  was  any  more  eager  to  fight  than  I  was,  yet  Fitzgerald  put  it  up  to  us  in  such  a  way  that  there  was  no  hon-  orable  escape,  and  the  bout  took  place  on  a  summer's  evening  as  the  first  fire-  flies  were  rising  off  the  outdoor  ring.  Fitzgerald  was  all  polished  up  for  the  occasion.  He  had  washed  and  put  on  clean  clothes,  and  as  he  laced  my  gloves  with  those  tremulous  hands  of  his,  he  exuded  the  sharp,  spiced  reek  of  tobacco" b"mixed  with  the  bay  rum  he  used  as  an  after-shave  lotion.  His  bearing  was  seri-  ous,  even  official;  when  he  called  us  to  the  center  of  the  ring  for  our  instruc-  tions,  his  impartial  tone  gave  no  hint  of  the  fact  that  only  an  hour  before  he  had  been  telling  me  precisely  what  I  should  do  to  defeat  Sammy.  The  fight  itself  was  something  of  an  anticlimax.  There  was  much  grunting  and  sweating  and  flailing  of  skinny  arms,  but  with  the  overstuffed  gloves  weighing  us  down,  neither  Sammy  nor  I  landed  a  telling  blow.  After  several  rounds,  Fitzgerald  stopped  the  fight,  called  it  a  draw,  and  vanished  into  the  house.  When  I  fol-  lowed  him  a  few  minutes  later,  he  told  me  that  clearly  I  had  won  but  that  he  hadn't  wanted  to  hurt  Sammy's  feelings  by  saying  so.  Whether  or  not  his  remark  was  true,  a  tenderness  for  the  underdog-the  outsider-was,  I  think,  characteristic  of  Fitzgerald.  Another  incident  comes  to  mind.  'The  meadows  on  one  side  of  our  place  were  bounded  by  a  little  single-  track  railroad,  which  sometimes  brought  us  unwelcome  visitors  from  the  city.  One  balmy  afternoon,  three  youths  from  a  [REDACTED]  slum  wandered  along  the  track,  and,  spying  our  pond,  they  took  off  their  clothes  and  jumped  in  for  what  they  thought  would  bea  refresh-  ing  dip.  This  sort  of  thing  had  hap-  pened  before,  but  the  intruders  had  usually  withdrawn  when  they  found  that  the  pond  was  less  than  two  feet  deep,  with  a  mud  bottom  that  was  a  paradise  for  tadpoles  and  leeches.  These  boys,  however,  were  not  so  easily  dis-  couraged;  they  stayed  on,  splashing  vociferously.  Finally,  my  mother  lost  patience,  and,  coming  out  of  the  house,  she  ordered  them  off  the  place  in  force-  ful  language.  Fitzgerald  must  have  been  watching  this  drama  from  his  shaded  porch,  for  as  the  boys  straggled  off  in  the  direction  of  the  railroad  tracks,  he  called  them  over  to  the  old  house  and  invited  them  to  stay  for  dinner.  Part  of  it,  no  doubt,  was  his  writer's  curiosity  (he  was  starved  for  life  in  those  days),but  also  in  his  gesture  there  was  more  than  a  touch  of  the  good  Samaritan.  Scottie,  my  sister  Eleanor,  and  I  were  pressed  into  service  as  co-  hosts,  and  the  six  of  us  played  games,  organized  by  Fitzgerald,  until  dinner-  time,  when  an  elegant  roast  was  served,  with  Fitzgerald  presiding  at  the  head  of  the  table.  The  boys  were  invited  to  come  back  someday,  and  Fitz-  gerald  was  a  little  nonplussed  when  they  actually  came.  &quot;The  poor  boys  called  on  me  again,&quot;  he  wrote  me  at  camp.  &quot;I  tried  to  discourage  them " b"by  making  them  work,  but  I  think  they  liked  it!&quot;  N  Fitzgerald's  study,  a  back  room  that  we  children  were  seldom  al-  lowed  to  penetrate,  there  was  a  cupboard  that  I  found  particularly  fas-  cinating  because  it  housed  a  rusted  hel-  met  and  bayonet  that  Fitzgerald  had  picked  up  on  a  European  battlefield.  The  helmet  had  a  bullet  hole  through  the  crown  of  it,  and  I  remember  specu-  lating  with  Fitzgerald  as  to  whether  some  of  the  caked  rust  on  the  bayonet  might  not  be  human  gore.  Fitzgerald's  boyish  veneration  for  the  war  he  hadn't  fought  was  something  new  and  strange  in  my  upbringing.  I  had  been  taught  that  war  was  an  outmoded  barbarism,  but  here  was  Fitzgerald  predicting  an-  other  general  conflict  by  1940  and  seeming  rather  cheerful  about  it!  He  owned,  among  other  books  on  the  First  World  War,  two  lavishly  and  horribly  illustrated  volumes  with  a  French  text,  and  as  a  toughening  exercise,  he  sat  me  down  one  day  before  a  group  of  faces  that  belonged  to  living  men,  though  large  sections  of  them  had  been  chewed  away  by  shrapnel.  (Scottie  was  not  allowed  to  look  at  these,  since  she  was  a  girl  and  it  might  shock  her  sensibilities.)  The  next  step  was  to  get  me  inter-  ested  in  firearms.  When  Fitzgerald  of-  fered  to  buy  me  a  .22,  my  father  did  not  knowhow  to  refuse  him,  though  he  made  the  provision  that  we  shouldn't  shoot  any  of  the  wildlife  on  the  place.  For  a  few  days,  that  bright,  oily  little  weapon  was  the  center  of  existence.  We  practiced  on  conventional  targets,  and  when  that  palled,  we  improvised  a  shooting  gallery  with  a  set  of  china  dolls  that  belonged  to  Scottie.  At  this  point,  the  gardener  joined  the  fun,  but  while  he  was  relaxing  between  shots,  the  gun  went  off  and  almost  shot  him  through  the  leg.  It  turned  out  that  the  .22  was  a  hair  trigger,  and  it  had  to  be  con-  demned.  So  ended  Fitzgerald's  efforts  to  bring  some  of  the  austerities  of  war  to  La  Paix.  On  the  intellectual  side,  Fitzgerald  gave  me  a  few  books  in  addition  to  the  one  on  football.I  read  and  enjoyed  &quot;''The  Varmint&quot;  and  &quot;Stover  at  Yale&quot;  on  his  recommendation;  Howard  Pyle's  &quot;Men  of  Iron&quot;  I  never  got  around  to.  When  he  gave  me  &quot;War  and  Peace&quot;  as  a  Christmas  present,  I  began  it  in  good  faith,  spurred  on  by  his  enthu-  siasm,  but  I  soon  lost  momentum  and  have  yet  to  finish  it.  In  retrospect,  I  am  surprised  he  never  steered  me  to  &quot;'The  Red  Badge  of  Courage.&quot;  The" b"&quot;Oz&quot;  books,  which  were  then  mak-  ing  the  rounds  among  children  of  my  age,  he  abhorred.  But  mostlyhe  wasn't  concerned  with  what  I  read;  he  was  concerned  with  my  conduct,  my  actions.  He  was  al-  ways  urging  me  to  do,  to  overcome  my  natural  tendency  to  sit  on  the  side-  lines,  observing.  When  he  heard  I  was  going  out  West  for  the  summer,  he  wrote  me,  &quot;Wish  to  heaven  I  could  see  you  before  yougo  and  would  promise  to  tell  you  zothing  about  life  on  a  ranch  as  Scottie  tells  me  my  moralities  are  becoming  a  strain  (ungrateful  wom-  an-as  if  my  prophecies  have  ever  been  wrong  about  her).  Only  remember-  west  of  the  [REDACTED]  it's  a  little  more  look,  see,act,  a  little  less  rationalize,  comment,  talk.&quot;  And  he  had  no  use  for  crybabies.  My  first  summer  at  camp,  I  was  un-  happy  because  I  failed  to  make  friends,  and  when  I  aired  my  woes,  Fitzgerald  sent  a  sharp  reprimand:  &quot;'Your  mother  told  me  that  you  had  written  a  couple  of  somber  letters  home  and  I  am  both  amused  and  disgusted.  In  trouble  such  as  yours  (of  the  reality  of  which  I  am  by  no  means  convinced)  the  proper  tradition  is  that  the  mouth  is  kept  shut,  the  eyes  are  lowered;  the  personality  tries  to  say  to  itself:  I  will  adjust  and  adapt,  I  can  beat  anything  offered  me;  therefore  I  can  beat  change.&quot;  Anything  short  of  that  would  be  dishonor  to  the  past  and  to  whatever  you  believe  in.  The  mouth  tight  and  the  teeth  and  lips  together  is  a  hard  thing,  perhaps  one  of  the  hardest  stunts  in  the  world,  but  not  a  waste  of  time,  because  most  of  the  great  things  you  learn  in  life  are  in  periods  of  enforced  silence.  Re-  member  to  think  straight;  the  crowd  at  camp  is  probably  right  socially  and  you  are  probably  wrong....&quot;  Thus  spoke  Fitzgerald  the  moralist,  who  was  himself  learning  something  about  &quot;en-  forced  silence.&quot;  During  his  hibernation  at  La  Paix,  he  was  finishing  &quot;Tender  Is  the  Night,&quot;  and  its  lukewarm  re-  ception  would  make  him  feel  more  than  ever  like  a  forgotten  man.  A  greater  sorrow  was  the  incuraile  illness  of  his  wife,  who  was  in  and  out  of  a  nearby  sanatorium.  There  were  also  the  man-to-man  talks  on  the  porch  corner  when-usual-  ly  after  a  siege  of  writing-Fitzgerald  would  emerge  in  kis  bathrobe,  and  we  would  settle  ourselves  in  the  crackly  wicker  chairs  that  went  back  to  my  grandfather's  day,  and  thrash  out  the  moral  dilemmas.  Fitzgerald  was  an  en-  gaging  conversationalist  because,  as  in  the  case  of  Dick  Diver,  &quot;there  was  nev-" b"er  any  doubt  at  whom  he  was  looking  or  talking-and  this  is  a  flattering  at-  tention,for  who  looks  at  us?  -glances  fall  upon  us,  curious  or  disinterested,  nothing  more.&quot;  Fitzgerald  focussed  on  you-even  riveted  on  you-and  if  there  was  one  thing  you  were  sure  of,  it  was  that  whatever  you  happened  to  be  talking  about  was  the  most  im-  portant  matter  in  the  world.  A  further  seduction  was  his  smile-quick,  tight,  and  very  appealing.  It  was  not  so  much  a  smile  as  a  flash  of  confidence  in  you  and  your  mortal  possibilities.  Fitzgerald  would  be  sitting  there  with  a  cigarette  clenched  in  the  fingers  of  his  gesticu-  lating  hand,  with  the  deep  inhales  ooz-  ing  out  of  his  fine-cut  nostrils  (he  belonged  to  that  class  of  smoker  that  seems  to  eat  the  cigarette  rather  than  smoke  it),  and  with  a  faraway  nostalgia  in  his  eyes,  and  suddenly  he  would  start  up  and  swaggertoward  a  table  or  some  other  object  as  though  he  were  going  to  tear  it  apart  with  the  energy  of  his  thought.  Then  he  would  lapse  into  a  preoccupied  silence,  staring  at  the  floor.  He  was  a  short  man,  fairly  heavy  in  the  arms  and  shoulders,  finely  made,  but  going  to  fat.  His  hands  were  white  and  nervous  but  not  delicate,  and  the  long  fingers,  blunt  and  squarish  at  the  ends,  were  invariably  stained  with  nicotine.  What  held  your  attention  in  the  final  analysis  was  his  keen  dramatic  sense,  for  the  attitudes  and  postures  he  struck  were  often  more  profound  than  his  words.  I  do  not  remember  much  of  what  he  said,  but  at  the  heart  of  his  doc-  trine  was  a  kind  of  Emersonian  self-  reliance.  He  had  the  idea  that  I  was  in-  dependent  and  went  my  own  way,  and  felt  that  that  was  good.  He  put  respect  above  popularity.  &quot;My  God,  Andrew!&quot;  he  would  say,  facing  me  with  that  cocky,  shoulder-swinging  stance  of  his.  &quot;Popularity  isn't  worth  a  damn  and  respect  is  worth  everything,  and  what  do  you  care  about  happiness-and  who  does  except  the  perpetual  children  of  this  world?&quot;  FOR  my  sister  and  me  (perhaps  not  for  Scottie,  who  was  too  close  to  him),  there  was  always  something  of  the  magician  in  Fitzgerald.  He  was  the  inventor,  the  creator,  the  tireless  im-  presario,  who  brightened  our  days  and  made  other  adult  company  seem  dull  and  profitless.  It  wasn't  so  much  any  particular  skill  of  his  as  a  quality  of  he  caring,  of  believing,  of  pouring  his  whole  soul  and  imagination  into  what-  ever  he  did  with  us.  His  card  tricks,  for  example,  were  elementary,  as  I  look  back  on  them,  but  he  executed  them" b" with  a  special  deck-white  markings  on  a  black  background-and  with  such  an  air  of  mystery  that  hesoon  had  me  think-  ing  the  deck  was  bewitched.  He  applied  the  same  conviction  to  helping  us  build  an  igloo  once  when  a  blizzard  was  fol-  lowed  by  a  heavy  freeze.  Joining  us  in  his  hat  and  galoshes,  with  his  overcoat  collar  turned  up,  he  showed  us  how  to  cut  the  blocks  of  crusted  snow  and  fit  them  together.  When  thestructure  was  completed,  we  could  all  get  inside.  Fitz-  gerald  couldn't  make  it  last  forever-he  wasn't  quite  enough  of  a  magician  for  that-but  I  do  remember  that  when  the  thaw  set  in,  the  igloo  was  the  last  patch  of  snow  to  disappear  from  the  lawn. "