 b"MRS  GrosvEnor  was  speaking  to  her  dazed  daughter  Elaine.  &quot;Oh  my  poor  girl!  To  lose  your  husband  in  the  midst  of  your  happy  married  life!&quot;  She  drew  a  hand  across  her  forehead  in  her  pained  amazement.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  greater  tragedy  there  could  be  than  the  sudden  death  of  an  adored  husband  and  father.&quot;  They  had  both  had  sleeping  pills  administered  by  the  doctor  at  midnight  after  the  sud-  den  tragedy  occurred,  and  now  this  morning  it  seemed  as  if  Ambrose  Badde-  ley  had  died  only  as  they  woke  up.  Tea  had  been  brought  to  them  in  Mrs.  Grosvenor's  bedroom,  where  they  had  slept  together.  &quot;I  know  I  come  a  long  way  after  you  and  the  children,&quot;  Elaine's  mother  went  on,  &quot;but  Ambrose  and  I  were  real  friends-quite  exceptional  in  our  rela-  tionship,  I  should  think,.  We  were  like  that  together,&quot;  she  said,  clasping  her  hands  in  a  prayerlike  way  and  rocking  them.  &quot;His  going  has  shocked  me  to  my  very  depths.  But  now  it's  not  ourselves  we  have  to  think  of.  It's  the  children.&quot;  &quot;I  just  can't  imagine  how  I'm  going  to  tell  them!&quot;  &quot;'Tell  them?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Grosvenor  uneasily.  &quot;'They  really  mustn't  be  given  the  full  shock.&quot;  &quot;Mother,  you  can't  mean  it  can  be  kept  from  them?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not,  Elaine,  eventually.  But  think,  dear,  of  the  suddenness  for  them.  It's  not  as  if  their  father  had  had  a  long  illness,  and  we  could  have  grad-  ually  accustomed  them  to  the  ideaof  seeing  him  no  more.  But  a  stroke-&quot;  &quot;They've  got  to  know,&quot;  said  Elaine  Baddeley,  swaying  herself,  and  moan-  ing  on  the  last  word.  &quot;You  poor  little  innocents,  you've  got  to  know,&quot;  echoed  Mrs.  Grosvenor,  as  if  the  children  were  actually  beside  her.  &quot;But  oh,  so  much  will  dependon  the  way  it's  done!  A  false  step  and  ir-  retrievable  harm  may  be  done!&quot;  They  discussed  it  tensely.  By  the  time  they  sought  out  the  children,  they  had  reached  precarious  agreement.  But  Julius,  aged  ten,  and  Jean,  aged  eight,  standing  before  them,  seemed  formi-  dably  literal  and  down-to-earth  to  the  two  anxious  women  ready  with  their  evasive  phrases.  &quot;Gone  away?&quot;  said  Julius.  &quot;If  Dad's  gone  away,  why  didn't  he  say  good-  bye?&quot;  &quot;He  had  to  go  suddenly,  dear,&quot;  said  Elaine.  &quot;He  will  have  thought  good-  bye  &quot;How  long's  he  gone  for?&quot;  &quot;A  long  time,  dear.&quot;     &quot;Did  he  want  to  go?&quot;  Jean  asked.  Mrs.  Grosvenor  hastened  to  take  over.  &quot;Oh  yes,  he  wanted  to  go,  be-  cause  he's  very,  very  happy  where  he  is  now.&quot;  The  children  looked  slightly  incredu-  lous.  The  words  seemed  to  fit  their  rol-  licking  puppy  in  its  new  home  better  than  their  somewhat  undemonstrative  father.  &quot;I  bet  Dad  wishes  he  was  back.  When'll  he  be  back,  Mum?&quot;  &quot;Darlings,  something  has  happened  to  your  father,  something  very  natural  and  beautiful,  which  it  would  be  wrong  for  us  to  be  sad  about.  Your  dear  Dad  has  died.&quot;  Jean's  eyes  began  to  fill  with  tears.  Julius  whimpered,  &quot;But  if  Dad  has  died  we'll  never  see  him  any  more.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes  you  will!&quot;  Mrs.  Grosvenor  '  rushed  in.  &quot;You  will  have  a  wonderful  meeting!  The  best  you  ever  had!&quot;  Be-  fore  their  questioning  looks  she  hastened  to  add,  as  if  in  great  happiness,  &quot;A  won-  derful  meeting!  And  Mummie  and  I  will  explain  all  that  to  you,  so  that  you'll  understand.  Not  just  now-but  soon.  Right  now  we've  got  an  exciting  plan  for  the  day  to  tell  you  about.&quot;  For  her  resourcefulness  had  not  been  idle.  To  get  the  children  out  of  the  way  for  the  day  would  be  the  best  plan,  and  the  means  for  that  were  available.  She  herself  lived  here  with  the  Baddeleys,  buther  other  married  daughter,  Sheila,  and  her  husband,  Rich-  ard  Arkwright,  were  guests  in  the  house.  &quot;''They're  dreadfully  shocked;  it  will  be  a  relief  to  them  to  do  anything  to  help,&quot;  Mrs.  Grosvenor  had  report-  ed  to  Elaine.  Their  aunt  and  uncle  would  take  the  chil-  dren  out.  So  now  she  propounded  to  the  two  young  ones  the  treat  that  awaited  them.  A  day's  picnic  excursion  to  the  distant  hills-such  an  announcement  was  like  giving  them  the  moon.  It  was  not  only  the  blue  misty  range  running  across  the  southern  sky  which  entranced  them  in  itself;  it  was  the  beyondness  belonging  so  magically  to  hills  which  made  them  feel  they  were  the  very  gates  of  wonder.  So  this  lovely  spring  day  was  to  give  them  the  rare,  coveted  treat.  But  the  arrangements  were  not  all  plain  sailing.  Later  in  the  morning,  questions  arising  from  the  calamity  made  it  desirable  that  a  man  should  be  around  to  deal  with  them.  So  Richard  Arkwright  would  stay  and,  in- stead,  Mrs.  Grosvenor  would  help  shepherd  the  children.  Then,  sensing  the  possibility  of  getting  things  even  more  to  their  liking,  both  children  began  to  bea  little  difficult.  &quot;I  want  Mummie  to  come,&quot;  said  Julius,  and  his  sister  echoed  him  exactly.  To  their  grand-  mother,  their  &quot;I  want&quot;  or  &quot;I  don't  want&quot;  had  always  a  strong  persuasive  appeal  to  begin  with,  and  then  as  the  words  lingered  in  her  ears  they  tugged  at  her  fondness  so  compellingly  that  it  was  as  if  some  irrevocable  law  had  been  uttered.  But  now  when  the  children  wanted  their  mother  for  the  expedition,  she  could  only  repeat  her  denial,  sorely  tried  by  their  persistence;  and  at  last,  goaded  by  all  the  whys  and  why-nots  of  their  pathetic  little  whining  voices,  on  an  unfortunate  inspiration  she  said,  &quot;Because  Daddy  wants  her.&quot;  The  children,  in  their  puzzlement.  took  her  up  on  it.  How  couldhe  want  her?  What  for?  Their  mother  having  entered  the  room,  they  turned  their  baffled  faces  to  her  for  a  clue.  &quot;What  does  Grannie  mean?  Why  can't  you  come,  Mummie?  You've  got  to!&quot;  The  two  women  could  hardly  bear  to  see  the  eager  delight  with  which  the  chil-  dren  had  greeted  the  plan  being  marred  by  doubt  and  disappointment  without  their  knowing  why.  Mrs.  Grosvenor's  hasty  retreat,  on  thin  ice,  from  her  mis-  take  (&quot;I  only  meant  Daddy  might  want  her  to  do  something  for  him&quot;)  still  left  her  without  an  argument  to  give  them.  The  children's  mother  had  never  be-  lieved  in  turning  their  requests  lightly  aside  as  if  children  were  not  en-  titled  to  the  same  full  and  accurate  explana-  tion  as  grownups.  The  two  women  exchanged  pained  telegraphic  glances.  They  thought  they  were  looking  for  good-sounding  reasons  for  denying  the  children,  but  long  habit  meant  that  they  were  begin-  ning  to  search  for  any  reason  for  in-  dulging  them.  &quot;How  good  it  would  have  been  for  you,  Elaine,  to  have  the  comfort  of  their  company  on  this  day!&quot;  Mrs.  Gros-  venor  said  in  an  aside  to  her  daughter.  Soon  after,  when  little  Jean  was  re-  peating  pathetically,  &quot;I  want  Mummie  to  come  along!,&quot;  Elaine  drew  her  moth-  er  apart  for  a  hurried  and  worried  con-  ference.  &quot;I'm  thinking  of  that  threat  of  asthma  she  had.  I  know  it's  not  come  to  anything  yet,  but-&quot;  &quot;Touching  wood,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Gros-  venor.  &quot;You  know,  Elaine,  if  you  don't  come,  they  may  get  all  sorts  of  ideas  " b"about  what  has  happened-and  we  don't  want  them  to  do  that!&quot;  They  were  both  uncertain  and  miserable.  A  few  minutes  later,  Mrs.  Grosve-  nor  sought  her  daughter  out  once  more  and  said  solemnly,  &quot;Dear,  I  got  into  a  huddle  with  Richard  and  Sheila  about  it.  Taking  everything  into  consideration,  we  think  you  shouldput  your  feelings  aside  and  come  with  the  children.&quot;  And  Elaine,  bewildered,  torn,  agreed.  Mrs.  Grosvenor  hurried  to  the  foot  of  the  stairs  and  called  out,  &quot;It's  all  right,  children!  Mummie  is  coming  along!&quot;  HEY  staggered  to  the  car,  Julius  with  the  hamper.  &quot;Z  wanted  to  carry  that,&quot;  said  Jean.  &quot;Quelle  shame,&quot;  Julius  merely  said,  a  form  of  speech  in-  spired  by  his  determined  resistance  to  learning  French.  Jean  took  the  two  rugs  instead.  'They  could  not  have  borne  not  to  be  porters  to  the  adven-  ture.  And  they  did  not  realize  that  the  sniffs  and  watery  aspect  of  Annie,  the  maid,  as  she  handed  the  basket  over  to  Julius,  was  not  just  a  head  cold;  nor  did  they  have  time  to  notice  that  Maddison,  the  handyman,  working  in  the  garden,  stood  with  his  furrowed  face  bowed  as  they  passed  in  file.  From  the  drawing-  room  window,  beneath  the  drawn-blind  window  above,  the  Arkwrights,  moved  by  the  pathos  of  this  emergency  exit,  could  not  but  watch  the  four  figures  setting  out  on  their  necessary  journey.  Julius,  his  charming  little  face  stretched  forward  to  see  all,  sat  beside  Elaine,  who  drove.  Mrs.  Grosvenor  had  Jean  with  her  in  the  back.  It  was  a  natural  partnering.  No  suggestion  of  favoritism  would  have  applied;  where  both  adults  worshipped  both  children,  such  an  inference  would  have  been  in-  ept.  But  it  did  so  happen  that  when  they  were  a  quartet  the  boy  paired  by  habit  with his  mother  and  Mrs.  Grosvenor  was  apt  to  go  with  arms  entwined  with  Jean,  and  was  more  constantly  gazing  at  her  than  at  the  boy,  ( and  touching  and  ar-  ranging  the  hair  around  the  bewitching  face,  which  was  a  tiny  ver-  sion  of  her  own.  The  nineteen-mile  drive  was  through  en-  chanting  country.  Ev-  ery  exclamation  made  by  the  children  was  tak-  en  up,  echoed,  and  en-  larged  by  the  elders.Hardly  a  crack  of  si- lence  could  appear  in  the  polished  sur-  face  of  voluble  enjoyment.  At  last  they  reached  the  hill,  and  were  able  by  a  roundabout  way  to  drive  almost  to  the  summit,  which  they  then  reached  on  foot.  What  disillusionment  there  might  have  been  for  the  children  if  they  had  still  expected  to  see  visions  of  the  unknown  unfolding!  For  on  this  side  the  land  merely  sloped  away  grad-  ually  from  the  top,  in  ordinary  pasture  and  tillage,  as  if  the  hill-thought  had  been  repudiated.  But  for  the  children  all  their  dream  of  beyondness  was  for-  gotten  in  the  immediacy  of  the  sky,  breeze,  and  turf  ofactual  experience,  and  would  not  be  known  again  till  on  some  future  day  at  home  they  would  suddenly  be  conscious  of  a  blue  mysteri-  ous  barrier  low  in  the  sky.  When,  after  the  children's  arguing  and  choosing,  they  decided  on  their  spot  for  settling,  Mrs.  Grosvenor  spread  the  rugs  while  Elaine  and  the  children  threw  a  ball  about-a  compromise  ball  of  semi-solid  leather,  nearly  as  hard  as  the  boy  would  like  it,  nearly  soft  enough  for  the  girl.  &quot;Good!&quot;  &quot;Well  caught!&quot;  &quot;Brilliant!&quot;  Mrs.  Grosvenor  kept  shouting.  The  chalky  soil  and  short  wiry  grass  were  embroidered  thinly  with  delicate  wildflowers.  At  a  little  distance,  a  round  clump  of  wind-bent  trees  afford-  ed  the  sticks  and  twigs  that  all  four  of  them  joined  in  gathering-for  the  chief  delight  of  a  picnic,  a  fire,  was  included  in  the  program.  They  lit  it  in  the  shal-  low  dell  where  they  had  established  themselves,  and  the  wind  that  blew  across  the  basinlike  dip  took  the  smoke  and  played  fantastic  games  with  it,  as  if  there  were  twenty  breezes,  all  of  a  different  mind.  The  wonderful  meal  finished,  they  lazed  over  a  word  game,  until  the  chil- dren  began  to  lose  concentration,  and  to  move  arms  and  legs  as  if  these  had  suddenly  been  unfastened.  Julius  had  picked  up  a  gull's  quill.  Stealthily  he  drew  it  across  the  back  of  Mrs.  Gros-  venor's  neck  from  behind,  and  quickly  withdrew  it.  Mrs.  Grosvenor  always  threw  her  whole  being  into  playing  up  to  the  children's  pranks,  and  she  was  now  perfect  in  the  role  of  someone  brushing  off  a  tiresome  fly.  The  feather  was  applied  again,  and  Mrs.  Grosvenor  managed  to  put  even  more  energy  and  disgust  into  her  gestures  this  time.  Julius  was  silently  convulsed  at  her  back.  Jean  had  been  a  slightly  detached  onlooker  but  now  had  to  join  inso  successful  an  undertaking;  she  picked  a  bent  of  grass,  and  from  her  side  applied  it  like  a  mosquito  to  Mrs.  Gros-  venor's  hand  lying  on  the  ground.  Mrs.  Grosvenor  put  on  a  marvellous  act  of  someone  pestered  by  a  cloud  of  venom-  ous  insects,  with  violent  shaking-off  movements  of  her  whole  person.  Julius  might  often  seem  to  be  a  grave  little  boy  when  jokes  suitable  to  a  child  left  him  looking  bored.  But  when  something  did  appeal  to  his  sense  of  fun,  his  laughter  went  out  of  his  control.  And  now  when  Mrs.  Gros  venor,  just  at  the  right  moment,  pre-  tended  to  discover  how  wickedly  she  had  been  teased  and  deceived,  his  laugh  ran  down  the  scale  from  top  to  bottom,  came  on  the  incredibly  long  spell  of  the  silence  of  breathlessness,  recovered,  and  started  at  the  top  again-while  Mrs.  Grosvenor  on  a  good  note  of  high  in-  dignation  said,  &quot;Thank  you  for  gnlng  me  such  an  unpleasant  time!  Yes  in-  deed!  Thank  you  very  much!&quot;  &quot;Don't  mensh!&quot;  he  gasped.  As  the  joke  faded  out,  he  already  began  to  wonder  what  else  he  could  do.  A  hawk  hovered  like  a  helicopter  high  in  the  sky,  stationary;  they  watched  it  drop  like  a  stone.  They  watched  white  specks  move  in  a  distant  fold  of  the  hills,  and  turned  them  into  many  things  before  deciding  they  were  sheep.  The  two  AoA  grownups  rarely  spoke  &amp;  to  each  other  directly  Ag\xef\xac\x81  when  with  the  chil-  dren;  they  lost  their own  personalities,  and  assumed  a  slightly  mud-  dled  relationship,  Elaine  seeing  her  mother  only  as  Grannie,  and  Mrs.  Grosvenor  calling  her  daughter  Mummic.   \n\n\n\n\n" b"monly  addressed  Am-  brose  Baddeley  as  Dad-  dy.  &quot;What  time  is  it,  Mummie?&quot;  &quot;Half  past  three,  Grannie.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  think  we  ought  to  be  moving  fairly  soon,  darlings?&quot;  Mrs.  Grosvenor  asked  the  children.  &quot;What  would  you  like  to  do  for  a  last  thing?&quot;  And  Elaine  said,  &quot;Wouldn't     it  be  fun  if  we  had  some  races!&quot;     -as  if  she  and  Mrs.  Grosvenor  would  be  running,  too.  But  the  suggestion  hung  in  the  air.  For  Julius  was  up  to  some-  thing.  It  was  at  first  un-  certain  what.  Seeing  a  dark  smudge  on  Jean's  short  nose,  he  had  drawn  a  toothbrush  mustache  on  his  own  face  with  some  black  ash  from  the  fire,  and  had  thickened  his  eye-  brows.  He  took  a  bit  of  stick  turned  up  at  one  endand  put  the  straight  end  in  his  mouth..  He  then  pretended  to  doze,  nodding  his  head  jerkily.  What  ever  was  the  idea?  How  wretched  for  him,  the  elders  thought,  if  they  let  him  down  and  did  not  immediately  get  his  meaning.  It  was  truly  wonderful  to  see  the  children  happy  and  mirthful  when  they  might,  with  less  good  management,  be  steeped  in  grief.  They  watched  agape,  ready  to  pounce  on  the  little  boy's  in-  tention.  For  Julius  was  now,  as  he  dozed,  letting  the  short  bent  stick  drop  out  of  his  open  mouth  and,  pretending  to  wake  with  a  start,  was  exclaiming  in  a  deep  voice,  &quot;Damn  it,  where's  my  pipe!&quot;  He  took  a  quick  look  to  see  if  there  was  recognition  in  their  faces,  and,  not  finding  it  there,  began  an  en-  core.  He  was  trying  not  to  laugh,  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  effect,  which  made  him  purse  up  his  face  in  a  ludicrous  manner,  but  in  spite  of  this,  and  of  his  small-boy  tiny  features,  and  ears  sticking  out  like  handles  to  his  little  head,  his  aspect  as  he  nodded  conveyed  an  impression  of  his  fatherthe  day  be-  fore,  when  they  had  all  laughed  at  the  incident  he  was  now  guying.  And  as  he  again  said,  &quot;Damn  it,  where's  my  pipe!&quot;  his  intonation  was  reminiscent  of  Ambrose's  then.  His  side  glances  showed  him  dawning  understanding  in  his  grandmother;  he  tasted  the  joys  of success,  and  with  a  child's  aptitude  for  indefinite  repetition  he  began  yet  again.  Suddenly  Jean  gave  an  amused  chuckle.  In  his  third  performance  Julius  thought  to  improve  upon  himself,  and  in  dozing  jerked  his  head  more  grotesque-  ly,  and  woke  up  with  a  bigger  start.  &quot;Damn  it,  where's-&quot;  But  his  own  humor  was  too  much  for  him,  and  he  exploded  into  the  long  peal  of  laughter  that  took  away  his  breath  at  its  lower  end  and  made  his  little  body  sway  about  like  a  violinist's.  His  mother  could  hardly  wait  to  participate  in  any  jest  of  the  little  boy's,  and  her  face  had  begun  to  relax  for  a  responsive  smile  when  she  gave  a  gasp  instead.  &quot;Julius!  Stop,  stop!&quot;  she  cried,  and  burst  into  sobs.  &quot;You  can't  do  that  when  your  dear  Dad  is  dead!&quot;  She  buried  her  face  in  her  hands,  and  Julius,  abashed,  went  to  her  and  whimpered  as  he  tried  to  pull  her  fingers  down.  Mrs.  Grosvenor,  not  dry-eyed.  her-  self  but  never  not  prepared  for  her  office  of  amelioration,  had  the  resourcefulness  now  to  introduce  an  element  of  brisk  packing  and  departure.  &quot;It's  been  a  glorious  picnic.&quot;  Everything  was  gath-  ered  up,  and  the  four  of  them  trooped  down  to  the  car.  The  children  were  tired  and  uneasy  as  they  drove,  rallying  a  little  to  dispute  with  each  other  when  they  were  allowed  to  decide  which  route  should  be  taken  home.  They  set-tled  finally  for  the  way  through  the  vil-  lage  to  their  house,  at  the  far  end.  AS  the  slowed-down  car  passed  through  the  village  street  strewn  with  children,  stragglers  by  the  way  paused  and  stood,  the  men  removing  their  caps  and  lowering  their  eyes.  Women  at  their  cottage  doors  and  standing  outside  the  village  shop  also  bent  their  heads  but  still  cast  glances  of  sorrowing  sympathy  at  the  stricken  fam-  ily,  some  with  tears  in  their  eyes.  As  the  car  passed  in  at  the  drive  of  the  Badde-  leys'  house,  the  handyman,  still  at  his  day's  work,  again  stood  with  his  head  bowed,  as  he  would  when  the  hearse  went  by. "