 b"HOW  pleasant  to  have  travelled  the  world  as  you  have,  Mr.  Renvil!  Six  months  here,  a  year  there-always  moving  on!  We  parsons  are  tied  to  our  parishes  like  watchdogs  to  their  kennels,  barking  once  a  week,  as  best  we  can,  to  keep  away  the  Eternal  Prowler.  Well,  Mr.  Dodd,  I1  should  not  mind  being  tied  to  such  a  spot  as  this.  I  should  like  it  very  much;  one  gets  weary  of  wandering.  I  am  hoping  to  be  able  to  stay  here  permanently;  I  hope  it  will  turn  out  that  way.  Go  back  to  your  chair,  Patricia.  Mr.  Renvil  did  not  come  here  to  be  bothered  by  little  girls.  He  came  here  to  have  tea  with  your  father  and  me.  Oh  please  Mummy,  let  me  sit  with  Mr.  Renvil.  Pattikins,  you  heard  your  mother;  sit  in  your  place  and  show  how  well-be-  haved  you  can  be.  Oh,  but  really,  Mr.  Dodd,  please  don't  disturb  your  little  daughter  on  my  account.  Her  mother  likes  her  to  obey;  I  am  perhaps  a  little  lax  in  that  respect.  Let  me  see-what  were  we  saying?  Oh  yes,  you  really  think  of  staying  here  for  good?  That  will  be  very  nice  for  us,  I'm  sure.  It's  a  lonely  part  of  the  country.  There  are  very  few  people  of  our  sort;  very  few  farmers  for  that  matter-very  few  cottagers,  even.  It  will  be  very  nice  for  me,  Mr.  Dodd,  if  I  am  able  to  stay.  I  have  long  wanted  to  make  my  home  somewhere,  but  something  Mas  always  come  over  me,  call  it  a  sudden  urge  if  you  like,  and  in  a  moment  my  plans  are  changed  and  I  am  off.  Moving  on!  Moving  on!  Well  you  have  certainly  seen  the  world,  no  doubt  about  that!  All  sorts  of  places,  all  sorts  of  people!  When  you  were  in  tropical  parts,  I  suppose  you  saw  savages;  they  have  always  interested  me.  Even  can-  nibals  perhaps?  Savages,  yes,  indeed.  Savages  one  sees  everywhere,  and  not  only  in  the  tropics.  As  to  cannibals  and  cannibalism,  I  can't  pretend  to  be  an  authority  on  that  sort  of  thing.  But  I  have  had  enough  of  the  tropics,  and  of  foreign  countries  altogether.  The  Eng-  lish  countryside  is  unbeatable,  especially  the  southwest.  Your  hills  and  woods  here  are  the  very  best  of  it.  A  garden  like  this  is  my  idea  of  heaven.  It  is  here  I  should  like  to  stay.  Patty,  I  have  told  you  once,  you  must  not  climb  on  Mr.  Renvil.  Mr.  Renvil  did  not  come  here  to  be  climbed  and  clambered  upon.  How  do  you  know  Mr.  Renvil  likes  little  girls?  Not  every-  one  likes  them,  especially  when  they  are  ill-behaved.  Oh,  but  I  do,  Mrs.  Dodd.  I'm  sure  no  one  likes  little  girls  better  than  I  do.  I  think  they  are  absolutely  delicious,  absolutely  delightful.  I  think,  Mary,  you  are  making  too  much  fuss.  Our  guest  has  told  us  he  has  no  objection.  Let  us  do  him  the  courtesy  of  taking  his  word  for  it.  Patty  has  taken  a  great  fancy  to  you,  Mr.  Renvil.  She  is  not  often  so  eager  to  sit  on  anyone's  knee.  It  seems  to  me,  George,  you  are  putting  Mr.  Renvil  quite  on  the  spot,  as  they  say.  Do  you  expect  him  to  come  outwith  it  to  your  face  that  he  finds  the  child  a  nuisance?  I'm  sure  he  is  too  po-  lite  for  that.  I  might  be,  Mrs.  Dodd,  if  it  were  necessary,  but  in  this  case  it  is  not.  I  think  little  girls  are  delectable  creatures,  especially  when  they  are  six  or  seven.  Now,  Mr.  Renvil,  we  are  blunt  people  hereabouts.  Brutally  frank,  as  some  might  put  it.  And  I  couldn't  help  notic-  ing  last  time  you  came  to  see  us-or  was  it  the  first  time,  after  you  met  my  husband  on  the  road?  I  think  it  must  have  been  the  first  time;  I  don't  think  Patty  was  home  last  Tuesday.  Well,  whenever  it  was,  she  had  already  begun  to  clamber  upon  you,  and  it  seemed  to  me  you  were  anxious  to  be  rid  of  her.  When  she  came  climbing  and  squeez-  ing  and  nuzzling,  I'm  sure  I  saw  you  flmch  away.  I  felt  you  were  quite  flus-  tered  and  upset.  My  dear,  I  really  believe  you  are  imagining  things,  and  perhaps  embar-  rassing  our  visitor.  If  Mr.  Renvil  feels  anything  of  that  sort  I'm  sure  he  will  be  candid  enough  to  say  so,  and  Patty  can  go  and  play  with  her  toys.  Yes,  dear,  but  some  people  hesitate  to  say  they  dislike  chil-  dren;  it  is  so  often  said  to  be  the  sign  of  a  bad  heart.  I'm  sure  Mr.  Renvil  is  above  such  a  vulgar  prejudice,  and  I  hope  he  will  give  us  credit  for  being  above  it  our-  selves.  Novelists  and  the  people  who  write  for  the  cinema  find  it  easy  to  iden-  tify  the  villain  of  the  piece  by  giving  him  an  aversion  to  children  and  animals.  They  have  him  kick  a  dog  or  slap  a  child,  and  this,  in  turn,  strengthens  the  popular  misconception.  There  was  some  sort  of  writer  once  staying  in  the  vil-  lage,  Mr.  Renvil,  and  he  explained  it  all  to  us.  It  was  most  interesting.  Chil-  dren,  dogs,  and,  I  think,  cats.  Not  so  much  cats,  dear,  because  so  many  peo-  ple  have  rather  a  horror  of  them.  Lord  Nelson  did,  for  one,  and  all  sorts  of  famous  people.  Dr.  Johnson,  though,  loved  his  cat.  Dr.  Johnson  was  a  great  friend  of  the  Church,  and  now  you  tell  me  he  was  a  cat-lover.  Perhaps  I  should  be  grateful  on  the  first  count,  but  I  have  never  much  liked  the  worthy  Doctor,  and  I  shall  not  change  my  opinion  be-  cause  of  his  fondness  for  cats.  I  hope  you  are  not  a  great  admirer,  Mr.  Ren-  vil.  I  hope  you  don't  think  me  guilty  of  lese  majesty.  Oh  no,  Mr.  Dodd,  not  in  the  very  least,  I  assure  you.  I  myself  could  never  feel  very  warmly  about  Dr.  Johnson.  A  tremendous  mind,  no  doubt,  but  he  is  not  one  of  those  great  figures  I  could  imagine  myself  meeting  and  liking  if  we  were  contemporaries.  I  was  greatly  put  off  when  first  I  read  of  his  eating  habits.  When  I  think  of  a  man  gorging  and  gulping  like  some  ravenous  cannibal,  some  ravenous  animal,  with  his  face  bent  over  almost  into  his  food,  and  the  veins  swelling  out  on  his  fore-  head,  it  makes  me  positively  shudder,  as  if  someone  were  walking  over  my  grave.  Excuse  me,  Mrs.  Dodd,  if  my  description  is  unpleasantly  vivid.  I  am  quoting  almost  exactly  what  I  read.  Oh,  I  don't  shudder  so  easily,  Mr.  Renvil.  I  am  not  one  of  your  sensitive  persons!  I  am  thick-skinned.  I  am  the  practical,  down-to-earth  member  of  the  family.  But  tell  me  frankly,  and  once  and  for  all-are  not  sticky  little  fingers,  and  huggings  and  nuzzlings,  rather  un-  pleasant  to  you?  Because  I  really  thought  I  saw  you  shudder,  just  as  you  describe,  the  first  time  Patty  came  climbing  on  your  knee.  Well,  I  am  not  a  family  man;  I  am  unmarried,  as  you  know.  That  may  make  me  a  little  awk-  ward.  But  as  it  happens  I  have  the  very  greatest  fondness  for  little  girls.  Little  girls  of  six  or  seven-to  me  at  that  stage  they  are  just  atperfection.  They  are  formed  already,  and  still  so  fresh  and  tender,  and  they  have  such  charming  ways.  They  have  not  yet  reached  the  lanky  stage  or  the  scrawny  stage.  They  positively  melt  in  one's  heart.  And  little  boys?  Do  you  like  little  boys  equally?  We  put  Patty  first,  of  course,  but  we  have  often  wished  she  had  a  little  brother.  I  like  little  boys,  Mrs.  Dodd,  but  they  are  so  very  tough  in  these  days,  with  all  the  comic  strips  and  the  cowboy  pictures.  A  little  girl  like  this  one  on  my  knee-I  don't  think  I  could  ask  for  more  than  just  such  a  little  girl.  WELL,  Patty,  it  seems  that  Mr.  Renvil  does  not  mind  you  too  much.  So  I  suppose  you  may  stay  where  you  are  until  he  puts  you  down.  I  know  Mr.  Renvil  likes  me,  Mummy.  I  knew  it  all  the  time.  The  very  first  day  he  came  to  tea  he  whispered  in  my  ear.  He  whispered  he  could  eat  me  up.     " b"I  think  I  know  what  misled  you,  Mrs.  Dodd.  I  have  some  sort  of  little  nervous  twitch  every  now  and  then.  I  some-  times  give  a  little  start  and  shudder.  Why,  yes,  I  just  noticed.  I  think  no  one  would  notice  unless  they  were  watch-  ing  as  I  was-watching,  I  mean,  to  see  if  Patty  was  bothering  you.  I  think  highly  strung  people,  people  of  talent,  often  have  a  little  nothing  of  that  sort.  Like  Lord  Nelson  and  his  aversion  to  cats.  Mr.  Dodd  has  a  cousin  who  is  ex-  tremely  gifted  musically;  it  is  thought  he  could  have  played  at  concerts  had  he  really  taken  it  up.  He  sometimes  starts  almost  out  of  his  chair.  Do  you  like  pussycats,  Mr.  Renvil?  Would  you  rather  have  a  little  girl  or  a  pussycat?  Oh,  a  little  girl,  Patricia.  I  don't  like  cats  at  all.  Would  you  rather  have  a  little  girl  than  a  bunny  rabbit?  Why,  yes,  indeed.  Rabbit  is  quite  nice,  but  I  would  rather  have  a  little  girl.  There  used  to  be  lots  of  bunny  rabbits  but  they  all  died  because  of  a  wicked  disease.  I  think  there  is  one  who  lives  in  the  big  wood  on  thetop  of  the  hill,  but  Daddy  won't  take  me  there.  Now,  Patty,  you  are  always  whining  and  wheedling  to  go  to  the  wood.  Daddy  has  the  parish  to  look  after,  and  Daddy  has  his  sermon  to  write,  and  he  has  told  you  there  are  no  rabbits  there  anyway.  Shall  you  keep  the  house  you  are  liv-  ing  inat  present  if  you  decide  to  stay,  Mr.  Renvil?  I  hardly  think  so.I  shall  probably  look  around  for  something  a  little  larger.  One  never  knows,  of  course;  one's  plans  may  change  at  a  moment's  notice.  But  I  do  sincerely  hope  that  nothing  will  prevent  my  set-  tling  here.  No  more  sudden  urges,  ch?  Well,  we  shall  be  glad  if  you  can  avoid  them.  The  wanderlust,  I  suppose  you  would  call  it?  A  hunger  to  be  moving  on,  moving  on.  I  suppose  so,  Mr.  Dodd.  It's  a  matter  of  fate,  I  suppose.  I  think  you  might  de-  scribe  it  as  a  sort  of  hunger.  Mr.  Renvil,  if  you  had  a  little  girl  would  you  take  her  to  the  wood?  Yes,  my  dear,  I  very  well  might.  I  am  not  clever  enough  to  write  sermons,  so  I  have  more  time  than  your  father.  It  would  be  very  nice  to  take  a  little  girl  to  the  wood.  H,  the  church  clock,  striking  six!  The  sunset  gun,  I  think  they  call  it  in  496e646961  or  somewhere.  We  have  finished  tea  long  ago.  Can  I  persuade  you  to  take  a  glass  of  sherry,  Mr.  Ren-  vil?  An  ap\xc3\xa9ritif,  as  they  say  in  [REDACTED]?  No  thank  you,  Mrs.  Dodd;  I  have  no  need  of  it.  It  is  high  time  I  was  on  my  way.  I  am  walking  this  evening,  and  if  I  am  not  home  by  seven  I  shall  hear  murmuring  in  the  kitchen,  quite  loud,  and  very  gloomy  in  tone.  I  am  most  grateful  for  your  kindness,  Mr.  Dodd.  Thank  you  both  so  much.  And  I  will  try,  indeed  I  will,  to  control  any  sudden  urge.  Patricia,  may  I  kiss  you  goodbye?  Mummy  can  I  walk  up  the  road  with  Mr.  Renvil?  Can  I  walk  with  him  as  far  as  the  wood?  I  could  just  peep  in-  side  and  see  a  great,  big  bunny  rabbit.  Now,  Patty,  Patty,  Pattikins!  I  think  Mr.  Renvil  has  been  more  than  nice  to  you  already.  It  is  time  to  stop  asking  things  and  bothering  him.  It  would  bea  pleasure  to  me,  Mrs.  Dodd.  You  have  no  idea  what  a  pleas-  ure  it  would  be  to  me.  But  it  must  be  at  least  half  a  mile  to  where  the  woods  begin,  and  half  a  mile  back  again.  I'm  sure  those  plump  little  legs  would  not  carry  her  more  than  half  as  far.  And  I  could  hardly  see  you  walking  back  all  alone,  my  dear.  Oh  yes  I  could,  Mr.  Renvil.  I  go  all  by  myself  to  the  village,  and  that  is  farther  than  the  wood.  I  walk  there  and  back  all  by  myself,  all  alone.  Don't  I  Daddy?  Don't  I  Mummy?  Please  Mr.  Renvil,  ask  Mummy  to  let  me  go  with  you  to  the  wood!  Now,  Patty,  that  is  whining  and  wheedling  and  nuzzling  up  all  in  one.  Mr.  Renvil  doesn't  know  what  to  do  with  little  girls  who  cling.  You  are  strangling  him;  you  are  taking  his  breath  away.  Mr.  Renvil  can  hardly  breathe.  Mary,  my  dear,  I  think  we  are  having  altogether  too  much  fuss  over  Patty  this  evening.  'The  child  can  walk  back  by  herself;  Mr.  Renvil  has  said  she  will  be  no  trouble  to  him.  It  is  daylight  still;  we  have  no  bandits  or  wolves  in  this  part  of  the  world.  She  can  be  back  in  half  an  hour  or  so,  in  ample  time  for  her  supper.  She  will  be  off  your  hands  when  you  are  busy,  just  when  she  is  most  trouble  to  you.  Well,  very  well,  if  you  really  don't  mind,  Mr.  Renvil.  All  I  hope  is  that  Patty  is  not  too  much  for  you.  Don't  let  her  give  you  one  of  your  sudden  urges,  just  as  we  are  hoping  you  will  settle  here.  Oh,  as  to  that,  Mrs.  Dodd,  itis  a  matter  of  fate,  a  matter  of  fate.  No  man  can  avoid  his  destiny.  Come,  my  little  dear,  we  will  walk  together  to  the  wood,  and  if  there  is  time  enough  we  will  take  a  tiny  peep  inside  it.  Canwe  really,  Mr.  Renvil?  We'll  see  agreat  big  rabbit.  Goodbye,  Mummy!  Goodbye,  Daddy!  Goodbye,  Patty!  Goodbye,  Patti-  kins!  Goodbye,  Mr.  Renvil! "