 THE  DECISION  OF  INSTINCT  Soon  my  husband  would  return,  abashed.  &quot;He  wouldn't  eat.&quot;  &quot;You  see?&quot;  I  would  say.  After  ten  more  minutes  of  strain,  my  husband  would  put  down  his  book.  &quot;Maybe-if  you  rocked  him?&quot;  &quot;That's  going  to  set  a  precedent.&quot;  &quot;Well,  damn  it,  we  can't  just  sit  here  and  let  him  scream.&quot;  My  husband  was  right;  we  couldn't.  We  weren't  strong  enough.  I  would  go  into  the  bedroom  to  rock  the  child.  As  soon  as  I  picked  him  up,  he  would  smile.  Within  three  or  four  minutes,  he  would  doze  off  in  my  arms,  an  expression  of  sulky  triumph  on  his  face.  I  would  put  him  back.to  bed.  Just  as  I  got  settled  in  the  living  room,  I  would  hear  a  little  sneeze  and  a  bit  of  mewling.  Then  the  yelling  would  begin  again.  &quot;Doesn't  he  have  some  toy?  I  don't  know-bells  or  something?&quot;  my  hus-  band  would  say.  Wearily,  I  would  go  into  the  bed-  room  again  and  fix  a  dangling  jumping  jack  or  a  string  of  beads  above  the  crib.  Alex  would  play  with  it  happily.  Ten  minutes  would  go  by,  and  then  the  wail-  ing  would  begin  again.  It  did  not  stop  at  our  bedtime.  In  the  end,  my  husband  and  I  took  turns  keeping  Alex  quiet  while  the  other  one  of  us  slept.  A  baby  usually  cries  for  some  good  reason,  my  booklet  on  infant  care  said.  It  is  hungry,  wet,  or  dirty,  or  a  pin  may  be  poking  it,  or  it  may  have  rash.  If  none  of  these  things  happens  to  be  the  matter,  the  booklet  concluded,  trust  to  your  instinct.  The  word  &quot;instinct&quot;  left  me  with  a  feeling  of  utter  helplessness.  I  had  never  really  felt  the  moth-  er  instinct  actively  at  work  inside  me.  I  began  to  think  it  had  been  educated  out  of  me,  as  our  sense  of  smell-so  sci-  entists  tell  us-has  been  educated  away  because  we  don't  have  to  depend  on  it.  I  shuddered  to  imagine  what  I  would  have  done  about  bringing  up  my  chil-  dren  if  I  had  been  left  to  my  own  re-  sources,  without  my  booklet  on  infant  care.  Whenever  I  tried  to  dredge  up  a  little  of  that  deep,  involuntary  wis-  dom  that  tells  you  what  to  do  in  a  critical  situation,  I  drew  a  blank.  When  I  could,  I  handed  Alex  over  to  the  maid,  who  paced  the  floor  with  him,  cursing  pleas,  antly  and  chiding  him  for  being  a  bruto.  Fortunately,  Alex's  bad  temper  did     not  infect  his  older  brother,  who  slept  and  ate  on  schedule,  indifferent  to  the  bedlam  around  him.  Rafael's  compla-  cence  struck  me  as  angelic.  When  Alex  wastwo  months  old,  my  husband  had  to  go  out  of  town  for  an  extended  trip.  During  his  absence,  I  got  into  the  habit  of  escaping  after  sup-  per  to  the  Hotel  Belmar  for  an  hour's  peace  and  quiet.  One  windy  summer  evening,  after  my  Scotch  and  my  game  of  cribbage  with  the  concierge,  I  left  for  home  as  usual.  I  remember  hurry-  ing,  for  the  weather  was  working  up  into  a  storm.  I  didn't  want  to  get  caught  in  the  rain.  Our  apartment,  in  a  converted  loft  over  a  stable,  was  on  an  unpaved  street  that  ran  along  the  ocean  at  the  edge  of  town.  We  were  on  the  ocean  side.  On  the  other  side  of  the  street  was  a  long  line  of  fishermen's  huts  without  porches  or  eaves  where  I  could  take  shelter  from  the  rain.  There  were  not  even  any  trees,  because  in  Mazatlan  the  trees  are  behind  the  houses,  in  patios.  I  managed  to  reach  our  doorway,  and  raced  upstairs  just  as  the  wind  began  to  blow  in  earnest.  I  found  the  children  both  asleep.  (Alex,  perversely,  usually  slept  sounder  in  the  midst  of  a  racket.)  Itold  the  maid  to  scamper  home  in  a  hurry.  The  evening  air  had  a  curious  greenish  tinge.  I  got  into  a  housecoat,  picked  up  a  volume  of  Proust,  and  stretched  out  on  the  day  bed  in  the  living  room.  From  there  I  could  look  out  through  a  row  of  low,  open  windows  to  the  beach.  The  “opiates,  great  carrion  birds  that  usually  sat  in  quiet,  gossipy  rows  along  the  sand  at  twilight,  were  flying  dis-  tractedly  about,  almost  colliding  with  each  other  in  their  frantic  circling.  I  dozed  off,  and  a  violent  clap  of  thunder  wakened  me.  I  switched  on  the  light  and  went  into  the  children's  room.  They  were  both  peacefully  asleep.  Big  raindrops  plashed  on  the  tile  roof.  While  I  closed  the  windows,  running  from  room  to  room,  I  noticed  the  palm  trees  on  the  beach  bending  way  over.  Some  of  the  windows  were  stuck,  and  I  wasn't  able  to  close  them  completely.  'The  house  rattled  and  shivered.  I  had  just  stretched  out  on  the  day  bed  agam  when  the  rain  began  to  come  down  in  a  driving  deluge.  I  got  up  and  struggled  with  windows  that  wouldn't  close,  and  cracked  a  window-  pane.  A  second  later,  it  lay  shattered  at  my  feet,  smashed  inward  by  the  force  of  the  wind.  The  rain,  tepid  and  sting-  ing,  hit  me  in  the  face.  As  I  hurried  to  shove  a  table  out  of  the  way,  so  it  wouldn't  get  wet,  the  entire  sweep  of     beach  outside  was  illuminated  by  a  flash  of  sheet  lightning.  With  a  little  pout,  the  lights  went  out.  About  this  time,  I  realized  it  was  no  ordinary  storm.  Though  the  house  was  made  of  cement,  it  might  have  been  an  open  beach  cabafia.  Rain  poured  through  the  broken  window,  and  was  pressed  by  the  hammerlike  gusts  of  wind  through  the  edges  and  crannies  of  the  other  windows.  With  a  crash,  the  front  door  fell  inward,  torn  off  the  hinges.  Lightning  was  crackling  and  glowing  around  me  inside  the  house.  Alarmed,  I  ran  into  the  children's  room  and  shoved  their  cribs  away  from  the  chattering  windowpanes.  I  put  more  covers  on  them  and  aimlessly  tucked  them  in  and  patted  their  heads.  Every  two  or  three  minutes,  there  was  a  bar-  rage  of  thunder,  but  the  children  never  stirred.  I  circled  anxiously  around  the  cribs  until  I  discovered  that  my  bedroom  slippers  were  wetand  the  trailing  hem  of  my  housecoat  was  sopping.  The  floor  was  covered  with  water.  Aided  by  the  lightning,  I  felt  my  way  to  the  kitchen  and  got  the  mop.  I  began  to  mop  the  floor  around  the  two  cribs;  I  swished  the  mop  around  in  the  dark-  ness  until  it  was  heavy  and  dripping.  Then  I  ran  with  it  into  the  living  room  and  squeezed  it  out  the  broken  window.  I  kept  this  up  for  what  seemed  like  hours,  mopping  and  then  wringing  the  mop  out,  always  attacking  the  same  spot.I  trembled  with  apprehension  whenever  one  ofthe  children  moved  or  sighed.  Suddenly,  there  was  a  tear-  ing  sound  from  the  street-the  side  away  from  the  beach-and  I  ran  into  the  kitchen,  which  looked  out  in  that  direction.  Through  the  window  I  could  see  the  vapor  rising  from  a  fallen  palm  tree.  It  had  fallen  across  a  small  [f  cantina,  crushing  it  to  matchwood.  The  roofs  of  many  of  the  other  huts  had  been  ripped  off  and  their  sides  caved  in.  Yet  there  wasn't  a  soul  to  be  seen,  and  the  only  sounds  were  the  heaving  and  roaring  of  the  hurricane.  The  house  itself  swayed  like  a  ship  in  a  high  sea,  breasting  the  wind  and  then  shud-  dering.  I  realized  that  our  loft  apart-  ment  stood  unprotected  and  isolated,  like  a  tower  among  the  huts  surround-  ing  it.  The  wind  was  attacking  it  on  all  sides.  I  decided  I  had  better  get  out.  I  ran  to  the  smashed  window  and  screamed  for  the  stableboy,  who  lived  below.  My  voice  was  drowned  in  the  furor.  I  ran  down  the  stairs  and  out  into  the  storm.  I  wanted  to  get  into    the  stable,  if  I  could.  Since  it  was  closer  to  the  ground,  it  was  not  an  open  target  forthe  wind.  Though  the  stable  en-  trance  wastwo  paces  away  from  ours,  I  was  soaked  with  lukewarm  rain  when  I  reached  it.  I  pounded  on  the  wide  stable  door.  No  one  answered.  I  shook  the  door  and  tried  to  open  it.  It  was  locked.  I  could  hear  the  stomping  and  whinnying  of  the  horses  inside.  But  the  stableboy  wasn't  there.  The  nearest  solid  dwelling  was  half  a  mile  away,  and  I  didn't  know  the  people  who  lived  in  it.  I  decided  that  this  didn't  matter.  I  would  go  there  and  beg  them  to  let  me  in.  I  raced  back  upstairs  to  the  apart,  ment,  grabbed  the  blanket  off  my  bed,  and  rushed  into  the  children's  room.  Brusquely  snatching  up  the  little  one,  I  wadded  him  into  the  blanket,  head  and  all.  He  was  jarred  awake  and  began  to  yell.  He  made  an  enormous,  unwieldy,  :|  squirming  bundle.  Bracing  it  on  my  hip  with  one  arm,  I  prodded  the  other  crib  for  Rafael.  He  was  sodden  with  sleep,  inert.  I  couldn't  lift  him  with  one  arm.  &quot;Get  up!  Wake  up!&quot;  I  shouted,  shaking  him.  Rafael  made  a  little  angry  moan.  I  tried  again  to  lift  him,  by  levering  my  body  against  his  bed.  The  bed  rolled,  and  I  slipped  and  fell  to  the  floor,  into  two  inches  of  water.  Just  then,  the  wind  blew  another  window  in,  in  the  living  room.  I  could  hear  the  tinkling  above  the  little  baby's  caterwauling.  I  tried  many  times,  using  all  my  strength,  but  I  couldn't  hold  both  babies  at  once.  I  knew  that  even  if  I  could  have  managed  to  pick  them  up,  I  wouldn't  have  been  able  to  make  my  way  against  the  storm  with  both  of  them.  I  could  save  only  one  child  at  a  time.  I  never  debated  for  a  moment  which  child  to  save  first.  I  remember  saying  aloud  to  Rafael,  in  a  kind  of  stern,  im-  patient  voice,  &quot;I'll  be  back.&quot;  I  snatched  up  the  other  child  and  ran  down  the  stairs.  I  thought  lightning  was  flash-  ing  directly  into  my  eyes  when  I  opened  the  street  door,  and  I  turned  my  head  away.  I  struck  out  into  the  storm.  After  two  steps,  my  bedroom  slippers  were  sucked  off  my  feet  and  lost  in  the  mud.  I  felt  something  tugging  at  my  shoulder,  as  if  someone  were  dragging  me  back  to  the  apartment.  Someone  was  holding  me,  shouting  at  me.  &quot;Anne!  Anne!  Where  are  you  going?  Are  you  all  right?&quot;  I  turned  and  saw  through  the  curtain  of  rain  the  face  of  the  American  vice-  consul.  &quot;My  God,  girl!  Are  you  mad?&quot;  he  said,  forcibly  dragging  me  backward.  It  was  only  then  that  I  realized  there  was  a  taxi  there,  with  chains  on  and  with  its  two  left  wheels  on  the  gravel  sidewalk.  The  headlights  were  shining  on  my  doorway,  and  the  fender  was  bending  the  fronds  ofthe  fallen  palm  tree.  The  vice-consul  opened  the  taxi  door  and  pushed  me  inside.  &quot;Come  on!  Come  on!&quot;  I  heard  him  saying,  as  if  from  a  long,  wind-tossed  distance.  &quot;I  suspected  the  storm  might  be  worse  in  your  section.  Come  on-  we're  all  at  the  consulate.  It's  safe  there.&quot;  It  was  the  consul  who  ran  upstairs  and  brought  down  my  other  child.  He  bundled  all  three  of  us  snugly  into  the  back  seat,  fussing,  concerned.  &quot;What  on  earth  was  in  your  mind?&quot;  he  asked  several  times,  on  the  way  to  the  consulate.  I  was  busy  trying  to  answer  the  same  question  for  myself.  I  finally  said,  &quot;You  know,  it  wasn't  that  I  liked  Aim  best.  I  didn't  like  him  at  all,  but  he  was  littler,  don't  you  see?&quot; 