 b"IT's staggering  what  they've  done  I  to  cars  since  you've  been  away,&quot;  my  brother  remarked  one  after-  noon  recently.  I  have  been  living  abroad  the  last  four  years,  and  had  come  home  for  a  family  visit.  &quot;No  starter.  No  gears  any  more.  Punctureproof,  tubeless  tires.  A  five-year-old  moron  could  drive  one.&quot;  &quot;Not  with  me  in  it,  he  couldn't,&quot;  said  my  mother  testily.  Ten  years  ago,  she  might  have  made  some  cryptic  com-  ment  about  people  who  bought  cars  be-  fore  they  learned  how  to  drive  them.  But  my  brother  and  I  both  knew  any-  way  that  she  was  thinking  of  a  cross-  country  trip  that  our  family  took  in  1928,  from  our  home  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  to  the  [REDACTED].  I  was  a  girl  of  eight,  and  my  duty  during  the  trip  was  to  look  after  my  two  younger  brothers,  one  five  and  the  other  three.  Mother's  job  was  to  watch  the  map,  #]  keep  an  eye  out  for  road  signs,  and  open  cans  for  our  meals,  which  we  ate  cold  at  the  side  of  the  road.  Father's  job,  as  he  often  pointed  out  when  the  rest  of  us  rebelled  against  the  unequal  portioning  of  labor,  was  to  drive.  &quot;I'll  ls  get  you  there  and  get  you  back,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;That's  my  job.&quot;  Our  car  was  a  1924  Model  T  Ford.  Our  blankets,  tent,  cots,  cooking  uten-  sils,  clothing,  and  food  boxes  were  se-  cured  to  the  outside  of  the  car.  We  took  along  a  case  of  canned  pork-  and-beans,  because  it  gave  Father  a  feeling  of  preparedness;  we  could  sur-  vive  on  pork-and-beans  for  days,  he  used  to  say.  'The  case  was  strapped  to  the  running  board.  The  pork-and-beans  was  for  an  emergency.  The  canned  food  we  actually  ate  we  bought  along  the  way.  The  Model  T  was  my  fa-  ther's  first  car,  and  he  prided  himself  on  the  fact  that  he  had  mastered  its  mechanism  in  three  weeks.  He  referred  to  himself  as  an  all-week  driver,  as  dis-  tinct  from  Sunday  drivers,  women  drivers,  and-worst  of  all-&quot;youths.&quot;  Driving,  he  said,  was  an  art  requiring  perception,  foresight,  and  hair-trigger  responses.  He  spoke  sa  convincingly  that  my  mother  didn't  feel  she  could  qualify  for  the  task.  She  left  it  up  to  him,  and  never  learned  to  drive.  None  of  us  had  been  out  of  the  Kan-  sas  prairies  when  we  rashly  headed  [REDACTED].  When  we  ran  into  mountains  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  we  ran  into  trouble.  Mr.  Schultz,  the  auto  salesman  who  taught  my  father  how  to  drive,  had   neglected  to  instruct  him  in  the  tricks  of  mountain  driving.  There  are  no  mountains  in  [REDACTED].  We  managed  to  get  up  the  first  mountain  without  mishap.  I  was  com-  missioned,  along  with  Mother,  to  watch  for  a  sign  that  would  tell  us  when  we  got  to  the  crest.  I  had  always  imagined  a  mountain  as  something  one  got  to  the  top  of  in  five  minutes  and  slid  down  in  one,  like  the  knolls  where  I  used  to  go  sledding  in  the  snow.  Our  Model  T  took  half  the  morning  toiling  up  count-  less  hairpin  turns,  and  the  boiling  of  the  radiator  resulted  in  long,  nervous  halts,  during  which  Father  periodically  in-  spected  the  stone  he  had  placed  under  one  of  the  back  wheels.  &quot;Look  sharp  for  a  brook.  She's  boil-  ing  again,&quot;  my  father  would  say.  When  my  brothers  or  I  saw  a  stream  and  pointed  it  out,  he  would  stop  the  car,  and  we  would  haul  water  to  put  in  the  radiator  when  it  had  stopped  geyser-  ing.  My  mother,  accustomed  to  the  rolling  wheatland  of  [REDACTED],  would  peek  warily  at  the  rocky  gorges  and  pine-choked  cliff  edges,  remarking  from  time  to  time  that  this  sort  of  country  didn't  seem  sensible.  All  our  nerves  were  frayed  when,  at  last,  we  reached  the  crest  of  the  first  mountain  and  saw  the  sign  &quot;ARTISTS'  LOOKOUT.  ALTI-  TUDE  4000  FT.&quot;  My  father  apparently  shared  my  idea  about  coming  down  a  mountain  in  a  hurry.  Also,  he  thought  he  would  save  gas  by  coasting.  This  was  a  trick  Mr.  Schultz  had  taught  him,  and  he  was  proud  of  it.  We  careered  downhill,  our  brakes  shrieking  at  every  curve.  My  father  would  snap  at  me  tensely,  &quot;An-  nie,  stick  your  head  out  and  see  if  there's  a  car  coming.&quot;  If  I  saw  one,  I  shouted  alarm,  and  we  trembled  and  closed  our  eyes  to.  the  chasm  that  fell  away  at  the  outer  edge  (our  edge)  of  the  road  until  the  oncoming  car  had  passed.  If  there  was  none,  Father  hugged  the  wrong  side  of  the  road.  After  every  curve,  he  would  mutter  breathlessly,  &quot;She  made  it,&quot;  and  at  other  times  I  could  hear  him  reasoning  with  himself:  &quot;I  can  always  ram  her  into  the  moun-  tainside  if  I  have  to.&quot;  T  the  bottom  of  the  mountain,  we  had  to  have  the  brakes  relined.  There  was  a  tourist-cabin  camp  there,,  and  we  put  up  for  the  night,  all  of  us  exhausted  but  proud  that  we'd  made  it  safely.  The  next  day,  there  were  more  " b"mountains,  We  crept  up,  radiator  spout-  ing,  and  swooped  down,  brakes  scream-  ing.  In  each  valley,  we  had  to  have  the  brakes  relined,  at  two  dollars  a  throw.  For  the  first  time,  my  father  began  to  eye  the  Model  T  with  dis-  favor,.  There  was  something  wrong  with  a  car  that  had  to  have  its  brakes  relined  after  every  mountain.  We  had  spent  something  like  twenty-six  dollars  on  new  brake  linings  when  Father  an-  nounced,  &quot;No  more!  We'll  do  the  next  one  without  brakes.&quot;  The  next  mountain  seemed  the  high-  est  of  all.  My  brothers  and  I,  though  we  didn't  understand  much  of  what  went  on,  realized  that  this  time  the  trip  down  was  going  to  be  memorable.  At  the  top,  we  all  got  out  of  the  car,  a  usual  procedure,  while  Father  pointed  out  the  directions  of  [REDACTED]  and  Mary-  land,  and  explained  the  geological  for-  mations  to  us.  However,  there  was  less  heart  in  his  lessons  this  time,  and  finally  he  broke  off  and  went  over  to  Mother.  \xc2\xabThis  is  a  steep  one,&quot;  he  said  apolo-  getically.  xe  My  mother  accused  him  with  her  eyes  but  said  nothing.  &quot;Ida,&quot;  said  my  father,  in  a  strained  tone,  &quot;you  and  I  had  better  do  it  alone,  because-  Well,  we  just  might  not  make  it.  We'll  leave  the  children  here.&quot;  My  mother  agreed  grimly.  She  un-  packed  a  sweater  for  each  ofus  and  folded  them  neatly  on  a  rock  at  the  roadside.  After  rummaging  around  in  her  purse,  she  handed  me  a  roll  of  bills.  Father  pried  open  the  case  of  pork-and-  beans,  took  out  three  cans,  and  handed  one  to  each  of  us.  &quot;We  ought  to  leave  a  change  of  underclothing,&quot;  my  mother  said  to  herself.  &quot;Somebody's  bound  to  find  them  and  see  that  they  get  home  to  your  sister,&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;Now,  Annie,&quot;  he  said,  turning  to  me  with  a  tight  little  smile,  &quot;you're  the  oldest.  You  know  your  Aunt  Hope's  address.  Now,  your  moth-  er  and  I  may  be  killed.&quot;  Both  my  brothers  burst  into  wails,  but  I  was  proud  to  bethe  oldest,  and  I  looked  up  at  my  father,  trying  to  let  him  know  he  could  depend  on  me.  As  soon  as  the  boys  started  to  cry,  Mother  jammed  our  sweaters  back  into  the  suitcase  and  ordered  us  to  climb  into  the  car.  With  her  chin  tilted  high,  she  said  to  my  father,  &quot;The  children  come,  too.  If  we're  going  to  die,  we'll  all  die  together.&quot;  E  solemnly  got  back  into  the  car,  I  in  front,  beside  my  father,  and  the  boys  in  back,  on  either  side  of " b"Mother.  The  car  was  standing  in  a  kind  of  parking  area  for  those  who  wanted  to  contemplate  the  view.  This  safe  expanse  continued  for  about  a  hun-  dred  feet  before  the  road  narrowed,  dipped  sharply,  and  became  a  twisting  downhill  ribbon.  Far  below  I  could  see  the  flashing  asphalt  weaving  in  and  out  among  the  treetops,  doubling  back  again  and  again  upon  itself,  down,  down,  until  it  dropped  into  the  shadowy  valley.  &quot;Well,  we're  off,&quot;  said  my  father  as  he  started  the  engine  and  pushed  in  the  left  pedal.  The  car  began  inching  forward.  &quot;Well,  Annie,&quot;  he  said,  blink-  ing,  and  awkwardly  patted  my  knee.  The  car  nosed  over  the  incline  and  crawled  down  the  first  leg  of  the  first  hairpin.  Father  seemed  to  dread  mak-  inga  positive  move;  the  only  move  he  knew  was  lifting  his  foot  off  thepedal,  which  made  the  car  go  into  high.  He  turned  to  look  at  my  mother,  as  if  he  had  forgotten  all  about  the  slowly  ad-  vancing  movement  of  the  car.  His  look  was  a  sheepish  farewell,  which  also  pleaded  with  her  for  the  signal  to  go  ahead.  But  my  mother  was  icily  star-  ing  out  the  window.  By  the  time  we  reached  the  turn,  the  car  still  had  not  gathered  momentum,  and  I  remember  a  passing  breath  of  sur-  prise.  At  every  other  turn  in  my  ex-  perience,  we  had  ricochetted  around.  But  I  brushed  aside  hope  as  foolish.  If  we  didn't  crash  over  the  edgeon  this  curve,  it  would  be  the  next,  or  the  next.  Yet  I  wasn't  afraid  to  die.  I  felt  tense  and  expectant.  I  was  only  sorry  for  my  mother  and  father,  because  they  seemed  so  upset  about  it.  My  father  guided  the  car  around  theturn,  and  then  suddenly  he  shouted,  &quot;Idal  Idal  We're  saved!&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  my  mother  Said,  in  athin" b"voice.  Her  hands,  which  had  been  clasped  in  her  lap,  flew  apart.  &quot;Ida!&quot;  shouted  my  father,  turning  clear  around  and  grinning  at  her.  &quot;I  don't  need  brakes!  I  can  just  keep  my  foot  on  the  pedal  and  go  down  like  this!  See!&quot;  He  straightened  up  in  his  seat,  laughing  out  loud  and  gripping  the  steering  wheel  as  if  he  would  tear  it  loose  in  his  joy.  &quot;My!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My!  What  a  damn  fine  mechanism!&quot;  "