 b"THIS  is  only  a  story  about  how  I  became  engaged,  but  the  nature  and  ingredients  of  that  event  and  of  the  emotional  transactions  that  im-  mediately  preceded  it  are  so  of  a  piece  with  what  went  before,  and  so  depend  on  it  for  illumination,  that  a  lick  of  autobiography  is  indicated.  I  think  I  can  say  that  my  childhood  was  as  unhappy  as  the  next  braggart's.  I  was  read  to  sleep  with  the  classics  and  spanked  with  obscure  quarterlies.  My  father  was  a  man  steeped  in  the  heavy-  weight  German  philosophers;  his  small  talk  ran  to  the  likes  of  &quot;I  believe  it  was  Hegel  who  defined  love  as  the  ideality  ofthe  relativity  ofthe  reality  of  an  in-  finitesimal  portion  of  the  absolute  total-  ity  ofthe  Infinite  Being.&quot;  I  don't  think  I  need  dwell  further  on  the  in-  fluence  which,  more  than  any  other  single  factor  in  my  life,  inspired  in  me  my  own  conversational  preference:  the  light  aphorism.  I  belonged,  in  my  late  adolescence,  which  I  spent  in  Scranton,  Pennsyl-  vania,  to  a  clique  of  pimpled  boulevar-  diers  who  met  at  a  place  called  the  Samothrace,  a  restaurant  and  ice-cream  parlor  run  by  a  Greek  who  let  us  pull  tables  out  on  the  sidewalk  and  talk  fun-  ny.  Andropoulos,  which  was  his  name,  was  a  prickly  sort  who  was  forever  com-  plaining-especially  when  his  trade  was  slack  and  thelackof  money  in  the  till  made  him  more  irritable  than  usual-  that  this  country  was  materialistic.  Be  that  as  it  may,  we  expatriates-at-home  could  be  seen  at  the  Samothrace  almost  every  evening,  loitering  over  pastry  and  coffee,  or  toying  with  a  little  of  what  the  Greek  called  his  fruit  compost.  I  often  wore  my  topcoat  with  the  sleeves  hanging  loose,  so  that  the  effect  was  like  that  of  an  Inverness  cape,  when  it  was  not  like  that  of  two  broken  arms,  An  earnest  youth  on  the  high-school  debating  squad,  who  got  in  with  our  set  by  mistake  one  soir,  tried  to  interest  me  in  politics  by  speaking  of  the  alarming  layoffs  then  occurring  in  the  Depart-  ment  of  Agriculture.  &quot;I  had  thought,&quot;  I  said,  smiling  around  at  my  disciples  as  I  tapped  a  Melachrino  on  the  lid  of  its  box,  &quot;that  the  Department  of  Agricul-  ture  slaughtered  its  surplus  employees.&quot;  This  attitude  grew  into  a  fin-de-  siecle  one  of  cultivated  fatigue  and  bored  aestheticism,  marked  by  amuse-  ment  with  the  colloquial  main  stream.  I  would  lie  full-length  around  the  house  and  with  a  limp  hand  wave  life  away.  My  mother  took  this  as  an  indication  that  I  had  &quot;no  pep,&quot;  and  urged  a  good  tonic  to  fix  me  up.  &quot;&quot;No,  no,  no,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;That  isn't  what  the  trouble  is.  It's  what  they  call  Decadence.  It's  an  attitude  toward  life.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  horizontal  prod-  uct  of  their  union,  disposed  on  the  living-room  sofa  witha  cigarette.  &quot;He'll  come  to  his  senses.&quot;  &quot;Instead  of  coming  to  one's  senses,&quot;  I  airily  returned,  &quot;howmuch  more  de-  lightful  to  let  one's  senses  come  to  one.&quot;  My  mother,  a  slender  woman  with  a  nimbus  of  fluffy  gray  hair,  next  tried  to  get  me  interested  in  &quot;healthy&quot;&quot;  books,  like  the  jumbo  three-generation  novels  she  herself  &quot;couldn't  put  down.&quot;  &quot;The  books  Mother  cannot  put  down,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;are  the  ones  I  cannot  pick  up.&quot;  &quot;He  is  run-down-now,  I  don't  care!&quot;  my  mother  said.  My  father  stamped  his  foot,  for  he  was  becoming  as  vexed  with  her  as  he  was  with  me.  &quot;It  has  nothing  to  do  with  his  health,&quot;  he  explained  again.  &quot;This  is  a  literary  and  aesthetic  pose.  He's  precious.&quot;  &quot;Mother  has  always  thought  so,&quot;  I  said,  and  laughed,  for  there  were  things  that  brought  out  my  heartier  side.  Such  is  my  memory  of  seventeen.  I  was  slightly  above  medium  height,  reedy,  with  clothes  either  too  casual  or  too  studied.  I  had  a  pinched-in,  pendu-  lous  underlip,  rather  like  the  lip  of  a  pitcher,  which  must  have  conferred  on  me  an  air  of  jocularity  somewhat  at  odds  with  my  intention  to  be  &quot;dry.&quot;  My  best  friend  was  a  high-  school-and,  later,  junior-col-  lege-classmate  named  Nickie  Sherman.  He  needed  a  good  tonic,  too,  being  if  anything  even  more  fin-de-si\xc3\xa9cle  than  I.  &quot;Thomas  Wolfe  was  a  genius  without  tal-  ent,&quot;  he  asserted  between  sips  of  hot  chocolate  at  the  Greek's  one  evening,  speaking  in  a  drawl  suited  to  the  paradox  of  the  statement,  which  was  not  meant  to  be  understood  by  more  than  three  orfour  of  those  who  heard  it.  The  double  dose  of  nuance  entailed  by  Nickie's  visiting  my  house,  as  he  did  sometimes  for  dinner  or  even  overnight,  drove  my  father  to  distrac-  tion,  and  he  literally  took  to  sending  me  upstairs  to  my  room  for  making  epi-  grams  and  paradoxes.  He  said  that  he  was  thinking  not  so  much  of  himself  as  of  my  mother,  to  whom  he  considered  these  subtleties  disrespectful,  because  they  were  hopelessly  over  her  head.  One  evening  just  after  dinner,  for  example,  my  younger  sister  Lila  got  to  teasing  me  about  a  girl  named  [REDACTED]  Chickering,  whom  I  had  been  dating.  My  mother  remarked  that  she'd  have  guessed  I'd  have  preferred  Jessie  Smithers,  because  &quot;Jessie  laughs  at  ab-  solutely  everything  a  person  says.&quot;  'That  is  because  she  has  no  sense  of  humor,&quot;  I  said.  My  father  made  a  truncheon  of  his  Yale  Review.  &quot;I'll  ask  you  to  apolo-  gize  to  your  mother  for  that  remark,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;Because  we  don't  engage  in  repar-  tee  with  the  mother  who  gave  us  life,&quot;  he  said  in  a  florid  burstof  chivalry  that  in  part  arose,I  think,  out  of  his  own  sense  of  guilt  at  having  neglected  her,  leaving  her  to  what  he  eruditely  called  her  &quot;needle-pwah&quot;  while  he  sat  with  his  nose  in  Schopenhauer  or  went  off  on  vacations  by  himself.  &quot;Apologize!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  don't  worry  about  it,  Roe-  buck,&quot;  my  mother  put  in.  &quot;Let  him  talk  over  my  head  the  same  as  I  talked  over  my  father's.  'That's  progress.&quot;  Feeling  perfidy  in  the  form  of  aphorisms  to  be  uncoiling  everywhere  about  him,  my  father  became  angrier  still.  &quot;Explain  to  her  what  that  last  so-  called  paradox  means,&quot;  he  said,  his  face  red  from  a  lifetime  of  bad  claret  and  plain  damn  exasperation.  &quot;My  father  would  have  given  me  short  shrift  if  'd  insulted  my  mother  with  language  fit  for  nothing  buta  Mayfair  drawing  room.  All  this  confounded  lint-picking.  Upstairs!&quot;  he  ordered  with  a  flourish  of  the  Yale  Review.  &quot;Go  on  up  to  your  room,  please,  until  you  can  learn  to  talk  to  your  family  in  considerate  English.&quot;  &quot;But  I've  got  a  date,&quot;  I  ob-  jected.  &quot;'You  should  have  thought  of  that  sooner,&quot;  said  my  father.  Rather  than  waste  precious  time  arguing,  I  hurried  upstairs  to  start  serving  my  sentence.  It  wasn't  until  nine  o'clock,  after  apologizing  for  the  obscurity  of  my  re-  joinder  and  promising  to  engage  in  more  normal  intercourse,  that  I  was  let  out.  By  that  time,  of  course,  I  was  late  for  my  date  with  [REDACTED]  Chickering,  toward  whose  house  I  legged  it,  as  a  consequence,  with  commendable  pep.  CRYSTAL  was  a  girl  of  my  own  age  who  lived  about  a  mile  from  my  house.  She  was  one  -of  the  milk-white  daughters  of  the  moon,  and  it  goes  without  saying  that  I  pursued  the  amorous  life  with  the  same  easy,  half-  spectatorial  air  of  inconsequence  that  I  did  the  intellectual-or  tried  to.  It  wasn't  easy,  for  more  reasons  than  one.  First,  the  atmosphere  around  [REDACTED]'s  house  wasn't  right.  Her  father  was  a  " b"sort  of  homespun  philosopher,  who  con-  ducted  an  advice-to-the-troubled  col-  umn  in  the  local  evening  paper.  He  ran  readers'  letters  and  his  own  counsel,  which  was  usually  packaged  in  maxims.  He  had  volumes  of  these,  all  (in  note-  books  of  his  own)  cross-indexed  under  types  of  trouble.  That  he  was  my  favor-  ite  character  goes  without  saying,  and  I  was  careful  not  to  say  it  either  to  him  or  to  his  daughter.  I  felt  that  one  had  a  lot  of  work  to  do  on  her  before  she  would  understand  why  he  was  one's  favorite  character;  why  he  was  like  those  Currier  and  Ives  prints  which,  having  outgrown  them,  one  laps  the  field  of  Sensibility  to  approach  again  from  behind  and  see  as  &quot;wonderful.&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  often,  not  to  make  any  bones  about  it,  pretty  wonderful  herself,  in  those  days.  The  first  time  I  dropped  the  name  Baudelaire  to  her,  I  had  the  queer  suspicion  thatshe  thought  it  was  the  name  of  a  refrigerator  or  air-condi-  tioner.  But  I  eventually  got  &quot;The  Flowers  of  Evil&quot;  across  by  reading  the  bulk  of  it  to  her  aloud.  On  the  night  my  confinement  made  me  late,  our  fare  was  to  be  something  more  conventional:  I  was  taking  along  a  new  album  of  &quot;Boris  Godunov.&quot;  Setting  the  records  on  the  family  phonograph,  for  her  parents  were  up-  stairs  and  we  had  the  parlor  to  ourselves,  I  asked,  &quot;Do  you  like  'Godunov'?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  answered  from  the  sofa,  where  she  was  settling  herself  with  a  cigarette.  &quot;Which  composition  of  his  is  it?&quot;  I  heard  the  great  ships  baying  at  the  harbor's  mouth,  and  chuckled,  already  aboard-clean  out  of  this.  I  had  that  exhilarating  sense  of  being  a  misfit  that  I  could  taste  almost  anywhere  in  Scran-  ton  and  that  was,  in  a  way,  my  birth-  right.  [REDACTED]  closed  her  eyes  and  listened  to  the  music.  When  the  album  had  been  played  through  and  duly  enjoyed,  we  forgot  about  music  and  got  on  a  variety  of  other  subjects,  among  themmar-  riage  and  families.  &quot;I  suppose  most  peo-  ple  want  that  sort  of  thing,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  know-the  eternal  severities.&quot;  &quot;Everybody  wants  children,  certain-  ly,&quot;  [REDACTED]  answered.  &quot;Don't  you  think  it  would  be  awful  to  go  through  life  without  them?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;There  is  only  one  thing  worse  than  not  having  children,  and  that  is  having  them.&quot;  &quot;Just  what  do  you  mean?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  get  married,&quot;  I  said,  in  clear  enough  tones.  &quot;I  just-  don't-want  to  get  married.&quot;  She  looked  thoughtfully  at  the  floor.  &quot;We're  having  our  first  quarrel,&quot;  she  said,  as  though  noting  a  milestone  in  our  progress.  To  kiss  into  silence  the  lips  from  which  such  bromides  fell,  and  turn  them  to  the  laughter  and  sighs  for  which  thev  were  intended,  seemed  precisely  the  formula  for  tinkling  pleasures,  for  caught  felicities,  for  which  we  were  so  sumptuously  cued  by  nature.  One  eve-  ning  in  midsummer,  I  was  early  for  a  date  we  were  to  spend  at  her  house  with  nobody  home  at  all,  even  upstairs.  Her  folks  were  at  a  testimonial  dinner  for  the  editor  of  the  paper  Mr.  Chicker-  ing  worked  for.  There  was  no  answer  when  I  rang  the  front  doorbell,  and,  following  the  strains  of  the  love  duet  from  &quot;Tristan,&quot;  which  seemed  to  be  coming  from  somewhere  in  back,  I  walked  around  the  house  and  found  [REDACTED]  in  the  back  yard  with  a  portable  phonographon  a  chair.  She  herself  was  stretched  out  in  a  hammock  with  her  eyes  closed  and  one  hand  outflung  above  her  head.  I  had  a  feeling  that  she  had  seen  me  coming,  quickly  set  the  record  going,  and  hurried  back  to  the  ham-  mock  in  time  for  me  to  find  her  lying  on  it  in  a  trance  of  appreciation.  She  was  wearing  yellow  shorts  and  ared  halter,  for  the  weather  was  very  warm.  Her  hair  was  gathered  at  the  back  and  knotted  with  a  red  silk  ribbon.  On  the  grass  beneath  her  was  an  empty  Coke  bottle  with  a  bent  straw  in  it.  She  appeared  at  length  to  become  aware  of  me  standing  there,  and  she  rolled  her  head  toward  me,  her  eyes  fluttering  open.  &quot;Oh,  hello,&quot;  she  said.  I  snapped  a  burning  cigarette  into  the  grass  and  walked  up  to  her,  my  nerves  in  a  trembling  knot.  She  extend-  ed  a  white  hand,  which  I  took  in  both  of  mine  and  ate  like  cake.  She  rolled  her  head  away  with  a  sigh.  &quot;This  music.  Lawrence  Melchior,&quot;  she  said.  On  persuasions  from  myself,  she  eased  out  of  the  hammock  and  onto  a     " b"blanket  lying  on  the  ground  nearby.  She  pulled  the  grass  and,  as  one  who  knew  good  music,  my  hair.  &quot;This  night.&quot;  It  was  darkening,  the  air  wreathed  with  the  musks  of  summer,  as  of  something  crushed  from  the  grape  of  Dusk.  A  moon  hung  like  a  gong  above  the  grove  of  birches  behind  the  house.  The  night  was  a  success,  and  I  went  home  ill  with  fear.  I  spent  the  next  days  scorching  myself  with  one  specu-  lation.  The  sight  of  perambulators  sent  galvanic  shocks  through  me.  I  was  to  wheel  one  through  an  eternity  of  ridi-  cule  because  I  had  succumbed  to  a  sin-  gle  folly-and  that  to  the  music  ofa  composer  whose  works  I  had  termed  mucilaginous.  The  great  ships  would  bay  at  the  harbor's  mouth  nevermore  for  me.  I  heard,  instead,  voices,  local  in  origin  and  of  an  almost  hallucinatory  force:  &quot;Shotgun  wedding,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  Charles  Swallow?  That  guy  who  was  always-?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  the  old  fl\xc3\xa9neur  himself.&quot;  (Fl\xc3\xa9neur:  One  who  strolls  aimlessly;  hence,  an  intel-  lectual  trifler.)  Think  of  a  boulevardier  pushing  a  baby  carriage!  I  hid  in  my  room  with  the  door  locked  most  of  the  time.  Once  I  stood  before  my  dresser  mirror  and  looked  at  myself.  My  face  was  drawn.  It  was  the  face  of  an  alien.  I  contorted  it  into  de-  liberately  gruesome  expressions  of  woe,  so  as  to  give  everything  an  exaggerated  and  theatrical  aspect,  and,  by  this  means,  make  what  I  was  worrying  about  seem  to  have  no  basis  in  fact.  My  grimaces  did  create  an  atmosphere  of  relative  absurdity,  and  I  smiled  bravely.  Of  course  all  this  would  blow  over!  Six  months  from  now  I  would  be  laughing  at  it.  I  had  about  convinced  myself  of  that  when  the  idea  of  tallied  months  struck  me  with  fresh  horror,  and  I  was  back  where  I  started.  The  voices  came  again.  I  tried  at  first  to  drown  them  out  with  a  phonograph  I  had  in  my  room,  but  there  were  no  compositions  that  could  not,  by  de-  plorable  associations,  return  me  swiftly  to  my  crise.  And  the  voices  continued:  &quot;You  mean  that  guy  who  was  always  knocking  convention?&quot;  &quot;The  same.&quot;  &quot;He  seemed  to  be  that  type  they  call  the  carriage  trade.  Hal!  I  guess  now  he-&quot;  Never.  I  would  go  to  Lethe  first,  I  would  twist  wolfsbane.  I  would  slip  into  the  hospitable  earth,  and  among  her  dumb  roots  and  her  unscandalizing  boulders  make  my  bed.  I  WAS  walking  down  the  street,  one  afternoon  during  the  cooling-off  pe-  riod,  when  I  saw  a  sight  that  gave  the  winch  of  agony  a  fresh  turn.  Nickie  Sherman  was  approaching.  He  had  our  Zeitgeist  well  at  heel,  for,  one  hand  in  his  trouser  pocket  and  the  other  swing-  ing  a  blackthorn  stick  he  was  affecting  those  days,  he  drifted  up  and  said  &quot;Hi.&quot;  Stark,  staring  mad,  I  answered  &quot;Hi.&quot;  &quot;What  cooketh?&quot;  o  Suddenly,  instead  of  dreading  the  en-  counter,  I  saw  a  way  of  turning  it  to  advantage.  I  would  remove  the  sting  from  having  to  get  married  (if  such  was  the  pass  things  came  to)  by  taking  the  line  that  that  was  what  I  wanted.  This  would  need  a  little  groundwork,  and  to  lay  it  I  suggested  we  drop  inat  the  Greek's,  which  was  a  block  from  there,  for  some  coffee.  We  did.  The  tables  at  which  it  was  our  wont  to  dally  in  the  cool  of  the  evening  were  in  their  places  outside  (Andropoulos  himself  now  cultivated  the  Continental  touch  we  had  introduced,  and  kept  a  few  tables  in  the  open  air),  but  this  was  the  heat  of  the  day  and  we  went  inside.  Several  women  gabbled  at  a  table  about  a  movie  they  had  been  to.  &quot;Matin\xc3\xa9e  idle,&quot;  I  murmured  to  Nickie  as  we  took  chairs  ourselves.  We  ordered  coffee.  Then  Nickie,  who  had  laid  the  blackthorn  across  an  empty  chair,  asked,  &quot;W  as  ist  lost&quot;  Glancing  around  with  a  matter-  of-factness  into  which  some  note  of  furtiveness  must  also  have  crept,  I  drew  out  cigarettes  and  answered  neg-ligently,  &quot;I've  been  having  an  affair.&quot;  (CAnd?  &gt;&gt;  I  shrugged.  &quot;It  gets  to  be  rather  a  nuisance.  We  pay  for  security  with  boredom,  for  adventure  with  bother.  It's  six  of  one  and  half  a  dozen  of  the  other,  [REDACTED];  I  lit  the  cigarette  and  waved  the  match  out.  &quot;Shaw  makes  matrimony  sound  rather  attractive,  with  that  puritanical  definition  he  has  of  it  somewhere.  I'm  sure  you  remember  it.&quot;  Nickie  watched  Andropoulos  sham-  ble  over  with  our  coffee.  &quot;Shaw  is  great,  up  to  a  point,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  then  one  suddenly  finds  one-  self  thinking,  Oh,  pshaw!&quot;  &quot;He  describes  marriage  as  combining  a  maximum  of  temptation  with  a  maxi-  mum  of  opportunity.  He's  quite  right,  of  course.  It's  the  most  sensual  of  our  institutions,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I've  half  a  notion  to  get  married  myself,&quot;  I  added  va-  grantly,  stirring  my  coffee.  Nickie's  problem  was  to  get  back  into  the  conversation.  I  could  sense  him  mulling  my  gambit  as  he  sipped  his  own  coffee,  keeping  his  dark  eyes  casually  averted.  He  set  his  cup  down  and  cleared  his  throat,  appearing  at  last  to  have  worked  something  out,  and  I  knew  that  what  he  said  next  would  de-  termine  whether  I  would  have  to  blow  my  brains  out  or  not.  -  &quot;Yes.  The  logistics  of  adultery  are  awful.  Matrimony  is  a  garrison,  but     " b"one  that  has  its  appeal  to  a  man  out  bivouacking  every  night,&quot;  said  that  probable  virgin.  Freeze  it  there,  I  told  myself.  I  knew  that  if  a  neat  way  of  putting  a  rebuttal  had  occurred  to  him  first,  instead  ofa  concurrence,  he  would  have  rebutted,  but  it  hadn't,  and  I  was  to  that  extent  in  luck.  My  object  was  to  get  Nickie  into  as  good  a  frame  of  mind  as  possible  for  my  armed  nuptials,  if  any-to  give  him  a  viewpoint  from  which  he  would  see  me  not  as  a  ridiculous  bourgeois  casualty  going  down  the  aisle  but  heathen  to  the  end.  I  had  to  come  out  of  this  making  sense  as  a  boulevardier  who  had  said  &quot;I  [REDACTED];  So  I  said  appreciatively,  &quot;That's  neat,  Nickie.  By  God,  that's  neatly  put.&quot;  &gt;  Next  to  be  prepared  were,  of  course,  my  parents.  They  knew  only  that  I'd  been  seeing  [REDACTED]  Chickering  for  about  a  year,  and  talk  of  wedding  bells  would  fall  rather  unexpectedly  on  their  ears,  aside  from  sorely  disillusioning  them  about  my  plans  to  matriculate  at  Dartmouth  in  the  fall.  Therefore  it  seemed  wise  to  pave  the  way  a  little  by  giving  them  to  understand  that  this  girl  and  I  were  &quot;serious.&quot;  I  let  drop  this  intelligence  when  they  and  I  were  sitting  in  the  living  room  shortly  after  dinner  on  the  day  of  my  passage  with  Nickie  at  the  Greek's.  &quot;I've  fallen  in  love  with  a  girl  I  rather  like,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  suppose  I  shall  marry  eventually.  One  does  that.  One  drifts  into  stability.&quot;  &quot;Upstairs!&quot;  said  my  father.  But  my  mother  clapped  her  hands.  'That's  wonderful!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  She  was  pleased  as  Punch  when  I  as-  sured  her  it  was  the  Chickering  girl,  whom  she  liked  best  after  Jessie  Smith-  ers,  and  told  her  that  we  were  informal-  ly  engaged.  The  act  of  betrothal  showed  pep.  It  showed  downright  spunk,  she  declared,  especially  consider-  ing  that  I  had  no  prospects  whatever  and  had  to  finish  school  first  in  any  case.  &quot;Come  and  sit  by  me,&quot;  she  said.  I  jollied  my  mother  by  joining  her  on  the  sofa,  where  she  straightway  hauled  my  long  legs  up  across  hers,  so  that  I  was  halfway  sitting  on  her  lap,  and  rummaged  in  my  hair  for  old  times'  sake.  &quot;I  remember  when  you  were  a  little  shaver  how  you'd  crawl  across  the  floor  to  where  I  was  talking  on  the  phone,  and  kink  the  cord,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;As  though  you  could  stop  the  conversation     coming  through  it,  the  way  you  can  the  water  in  a  hose.  We  never  knew  whether  you  were  joking  or  serious.  Did  you  really  think  that  cut  off  the  electric-  ity  in  the  wire?&quot;  &quot;Doesn't  it?&quot;  I  inquired  with  wide  eyes.  She  gave  me  a  hug  that  squeezed  a  groan  out  of  me,  like  a  noteout  of  an  accordion.  \xc2\xab&quot;We  thought  for  a  while  you  might  be  feeble-minded,&quot;  my  father  put  in  wistfully  from  the  mantel,  against  which  he  had  backed  to  scratch  a  peren-  nially  itching  spot  between  his  shoulder  blades.  &quot;Well,  all  those  things  come  back  in  a  flood  at  a  time  like  this  is  what  your  mother  means.  I've  done  my  best  for  you-I  believe  God  will  bear  me  out  on  that-but  you  cannot  force  values  on  one  who  will  not  have  them.&quot;  He  fingered  an  onion  wisp  of  beard,  which,  together  with  his  harried  fea-  tures  and  embedded  eyes,  made  him  surprisingly  resemble  the  illustrations  of  depleted  sensibility  in  the  very  literature  with  which  I  outraged  him-Baude-  laire,  Huysmans,  and  the  rest.  &quot;I  had  some  standing  in  the  community  once,  under  other  spiritual  weathers  and  skies,  and  cut  a  fine  figure,  too,  if  I  do  say  so  myself.&quot;  He  drew  a  deep  breath,  and  resumed  almost  immediately,  &quot;And  hu-  mor-where  is  if  today?  In  my  day,  we  would  get  up  to  speak  at  Thanksgiving  banquets,  and  begin,  'A  moment  ago     " b"you  could  have  said  the  sage  was  in  the  turkey.  Now  the  turkey  is  in  the  sage.&quot;  That  was  humor,  I  wish  to  submit.  Well,  I've  tried  to  do  my  best.&quot;  &quot;And  you  have,  Popper,&quot;  I  said,  looking  over  at  him  from  my  mother's  lap.  &quot;I  appreciate  everything  you've  done  for  me.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  tradition  I've  tried  to  give  you,  not  bread  alone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  rest  is  up  to  you.  You  have  brains,  imagination-but  have  you  the  brains  and  the  imagination  to  apprehend  that  these  in  themselves  are  not  enough?&quot;  He  squared  himself  a  little,  and  we  un-  derstood  more  was  coming.  &quot;Imagina-  tion  without  discipline,&quot;  he  said,  looking  the  young  aphorist  steadfly  in  the  eye,  &quot;js  like  a  pillow  without  the  ticking.&quot;  My  cries  of  praise  and  thumps  on  his  back  declared  him  to  be  a  success.  He  pinched  his  nose  and  smiled  modestly  at  the  floor.  &quot;Ah,  well,  perhaps  we  can  manage  a  wedding  gift  of  a  thousand  dollars  when  the  time  comes,&quot;  he  said.  More  thumps  and  outcries  attested  to  the  tide  of  good  feeling  created  by  his  knack  for  the  right  words,  and  after-  ward  he  opened  a  bottle  of  Madeira  and  toasted  my  eventual  departure  from  his  board  in  lambent  words.  So  everything,  on  my  end  at  least,  was  in  readiness;  as  much  in  readiness,  certainly,  asI  could  make  it.  There  re-  mained  now  only  to  await  zero  hour,  as  I  thought  of  the  time  when  I  was  to  learn  my  fate.  That  was  presumably  the  following  Tuesday  evening,  when  I  had  adate  with  [REDACTED].  Then  I  would  " b"learn  whether  it  wasHeaven  or  Hell  for  which  I  was  to  leave  Purgatory.  CRYSTAL  was  upstairs  dressing  when  I  arrived  at  the  Chickering  house  that  night,  so  I  sat  down  in  the  living  room  to  wait.  Her  father  was  there,  in  a  Cogswell  chair,  wearing  slippers  and  reading  the  evening  paper.  He  was  in  shirtsleeves,  but  then,  after  all,  he  was  the  local  shirtsleeve  philosopher.  He  put  the  paper  down  and  regarded  me  with  a  deep  frown.  &quot;I'd  like  to  talk  to  you,&quot;  he  said.  He  was  a  red-haired  man  of  medium  size,  with  green  eyes  magnified  by  the  heavy-lensed  glasses  he  wore.  He  had  been  sunbathing  recently,  and  his  was  the  kind  of  skin  that  never  tans  but  only  turns  the  pink  of  mouthwashes.  He  re-  moved  his  glasses  and  chewed  on  their  bows.  I  was  twiddling  my  thumbs  at  a  rate  not  normally  associated  with  that  act.  &quot;What  about,  Mr.  Chickering?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  think  you  know.&quot;  I  met  this  with  a  gulp  and  the  word  &quot;What?&quot;  brought  out  in  a  dry  treble.  The  ceiling  creaked  as  under  a  footstep  upstairs.  That  foolish  girl  had  confessed  her  condition  to  her  parents,  I  thought  with  panic.  Even  now,  she  and  her  mother  were  up  there,  hysterically  promenading.  Paralyzed,  I  watched  Chickering  thoughtfully  revolve  a  cock-  leshell  ashtray  on  a  table  beside  his  chair.  The  cockleshell  was-like  the  resort  pillows  and  the  wall  thermometers  in  the  shape  of  keys  to  cities,  which  also  heavily  garnished  the  living  room-  souvenir  of  some  past  family  holiday.  Together,  they  left  me  ill  with  premoni-  tion.  Now  I  would  never  board  the  great  ships.  Now  I  would  never  bicycle  down  the  Palatinate  sampling  wines,  never  sit  at  the  captain's  table  opposite     &quot;W  hich  car  have  you  come  to  repossess?  We're  a  two-car  family.&quot;  a  woman  returning  to  the  States  after  some  years  spent  in  a  novel  by  Henry  James.  At  best,  I  would  see  Niagara  Falls  from  the  air;  it  would  look  like  a  kitchen  sink  running  over.  &quot;I  think  we  can  safely  say  that  now  you're  a  young  man  with  a  problem,&quot;  Chickering  said.  &quot;And  there  are  some  folks  who  think  that's  my  field.&quot;  &quot;'There  are?  I  mean,  I  am?  What's  my  problem?&quot;  &quot;Why,  you're  about  to  enter  college  without  any  clear  idea,  I  might  even  say  without  the  least  idea,  what  you  want  to  be  when  you  come  out  of  it-  butcher,  baker  or  candlestick  maker,&quot;  he  said,  in  the  American  grain.  &quot;Now,  wait  a  minute.  I  know  education  is  for  the  mind,  and  all  that.  But  at  the  same  time  a  person  ought  to  have  some  notion  of  where  he  wants  to  head.  And  I  just  want  to  leave  this  thought  with  you  for  what  it  may  be  worth.&quot;  I  was  spared  whatever  piece  of  free  wisdom  he  may  have  had  prepared  for  me  by  the  arrival  of  [REDACTED],  who  just  then  slowly  descended  the  stairway.  She  was  wearing  a  new  dress,  and  she  looked  singularly  radiant.  &quot;Ah,  there  you  are,&quot;  I  said,  rising.  &quot;Shall  we  go?  We're  probably  late  for  the  party  as  it  is.&quot;  We  were  going  to  a  housewarming  only  three  blocks  away,  so  we  walked.  As  we  strolled  toward  our  destination,  [REDACTED]  slipped  a  hand  into  mine,  and  from  time  to  time  turned  to  smile  at  me.  &quot;This  night,&quot;  she  said,  and  took  a  deep  breath.  What  I  died  to  hear  I  feared  to  ask.  At  last  she  said,  &quot;I  suppose  you're  anxious  to  know.&quot;  &quot;Know?&quot;  I  said.  She  stopped  and  turned  to  face  me  on  the  sidewalk.  &quot;You  must  be  out  of  your  mind  with  worry,  the  same  as  I've  been,  so  I  won't  keep  you  on  pins  and  needles  any  longer.  Everything  is  all  right.&quot;  I  was  free-free!  The  very  word  went  winging  and  singing  through  my  head,  like  a  bird  sprung  from  a  cage.  Chains  fell  away  from  me,  doors  opened  in  every  direction.  Flowers  that  had  withered  leaped  to  life.  The  hours  in  Purgatory  were  almost  worth  it,  for  the  joy  of  this  release.  I  that  had  been  dead  lived  again,  the  master  of  my  fate.  I  was  absolutely  and  completely  Free!  I  turned,  seized  her  in  my  arms,  and,  in  an  ecstasy  ofgratitude,  asked  her  to  marry  me."