 b"I  CAN'T.  remember  when  I  heard  my  first  thunderstorms,  but  my  earliest  clear  recollections  of  them  are  centered  on  a  period  of  two  years  or  so  when  I  lived,  as  a  boy,  in  the  Cripple  [REDACTED]  district  of  [REDACTED].  They  are  the  clearer,  perhaps,  because  one  of  the  storms  was  the  occasion  of  the  first  real  quarrel  that  I  can  recall  between  my  mother  and  my  father.  I  was  around  eight  or  nine  years  old  at  the  time  (I  was  seven,  I  know,  when  we  moved  out  there)  and,  asof  course  it  must  do  to  a  boy  from  [REDACTED]  set  down  suddenly  in  the  midst  of  a  real  live  miningcamp,  nearly  everything  about  the  place  fascinated  me:  the  steep,  board-sidewalked  streets  and  the  ham-  mer  of  men's  booted  feet  on  them  as  the  mines'  shifts  changed;  the  mines  fringing  the  town,  their  gaunt  shaft  houses  or  even  gaunter  bare  gallows  frames  squatting  on  their  ever  growing  dumps  of  waste  rock;  the  hills  that  rose  all  around  us-Squaw  Mountain,  Bat-  tle  Mountain,  Bull  Hill,  and  so  on-  green  or  tawny  but  always  treeless,  for  the  camp,  at  some  nine  thousand  feet,  was  just  above  timber  line;  the  spacious  mountain  air,  and  the  feeling  of  reck-  lessness  and  freedom  it  carried  with  it.  I  know  now  that  at  the  time  I  was  there,  around  1907,  the  camp's  fortunes  were  already  beginning  to  wane.  No  new  strikes  were  being  made;  most  of  the  existing  mines  were  gradually  being  bought  up  by  outside  interests  and  either  merged  or  leased  piecemeal  to  individual  adventurers;  the  wilder  days  were  over  and  the  workaday  era  was  setting  in.  It  was  wild  enough  for  me,  nevertheless,  and  when  a  group  of  cowboys  rode  in  from  some  one  of  the  ranches  that  still  operated  in  the  valleys  round  about,  or  a  man  walked  past  with  the  bulge  of  his  gun  showing  plainly  beneath  the  sober  black  coat  he  was  wearing,  when  shots  rang  out  somewhere  off  in  the  town,  late  at  night,  and  I  heard  them  as  I  lay  bedded  in  my  room,  I  watched  or  listened  in  both  awe  and  fascination.  But  there  was  something  disturbing  about  all  this,  too,  and  the  thunder-  storms  were  part  of  this  general  feeling.  We  had  settled  first  in  Victor,  which  was,  next  to  Cripple  [REDACTED]  itself,  the  largest  town  in  the  district.  But  transporta-  tion  in  that  mountainous  region  was  difficult.  The  mines  lay  scattered  ev-  erywhere.  And  since  the  one  my  father  eventually  leased  (it  was  called  the  Lily,  I  remember,  and  was  then  part  of  the  vast  Vindicator  holdings)  lay  some  distance  off  in  the  hills,  we  moved  first  to  the  town  of  Independence  and  then  on  to  the  still  smaller  settlement  of  Christmas  Crossing,  to  get  nearer  to  the  workings.  The  moves,  to  me,  always  meant  trouble.  In  each  town  I  was  the  &quot;new  boy,&quot;  of  course,  as  well  as  an  East-  erner.  I'm  afraid,  since  I  was  still  mother-dominated,  I  was  something  of  a  sissy  as  well.  Children's  ideas  of  the  motivations  behind  the  actions  of  their  elders  are  always  tentative;  for  one  thing,  they  are  toldso  little.  But  I  realize  now  there  was  a  certain  amount  of  dissension  between  my  parents  all  through  that  Cripple  [REDACTED]  period-not  serious  or  ineradicable,  for  they  were  a  deeply  loving  couple,  but,  as  long  as  the  conditions  that  caused  it  existed,  con-  stant.  I,  too,  was  involved  in  it.  The  truth  was  that  my  mother  just  did  not  like  being  there.  An  Easterner,  and  in  her  way  a  true  Victorian-and  a  woman  of  considerable  spirit  to  boot-  she  regarded  the  whole  life  of  the  place,  when  it  wasn't  definitely  menacing,  as  rough,  untutored,  and  vulgar;  and  al-  .  though  it  would  have  been  picturesque  enough  on  a  visit  (as  indeed  it  had  been  at  first,  since  we'd  gone  there  with  no  intention  of  staying),  when  she  learned  that  my  father  had  been  tempted  to  try  mining  himself  for  a  while,  her  attitude  changed.  When  she  found  herself  ac-  tually  immersed  in  it-when  he'd  go  off  with  his  lunch  pail  and  candle  clip,  overalled  like  any  other  miner,  and  come  home  gray  with  dust  and  dried  muck;  when  she  was  forced  to  consort  more  and  more  with  the  other  miners  and  their  wives-her  reaction  must  have  been  desperate  indeed.  She  was  determined  that  I,  at  least,  should  not  be  contaminated,  and  so,  through  most  of  our  stay  there,  she  did  her  best  to  make  me  a  little  island  of  Eastern  propriety  in  that  vast,  roily  sea  of  Western  freedom.  I  wore  knee  pants  and  long  stockings,  correctly,  while  the  other  boys  generally  wore  overalls.  I  was  kept  close  home,  for  the  most  part,   and  not  allowed  to  run  about  too  much,  or  wander,  for  my  mother  was  afraid  that  the  altitude  might  in  some  way  affect  me,and  once  I  was  out  of  her  sight,  her  mind  was  instantly  filled  with  thoughts  of  all  the  other  dread  things  that  might  happen  to  me.  For  fears  rode  her  constantly-not  only  for  my  father,  deep  down  in  the  close  darkness  of  the  mine  workings,  but  for  all  three  of  us-and  these  were  such  a  mixture  of  the  just  and  the  wildly  ex-  aggerated  that  they  laid  her  open  con-  tinually  to  my  father's  teasing  and  still,  occasionally,  provided  her  with  the  meagre  satisfactions  (and  the  frustra-  tions)  of  a  Cassandra.  After  all,  boys-  and  others,  too-now  and  then  did  fall  into  abandoned  mine  shafts,  and  in  the  mines  themselves  men  were  caught  by  the  blast  of  explosions  or  overwhelmed  by  the  fall  of  rock;  hunters  wandering  in  the  hills  were  attacked  by  mountain  lions.  My  father  laughed,  but  I  quivered.  Worst  of  all,  from  the  point  of  view  of  my  own  existence,  I  was  bright  in  my  studies;  and  as  most  of  the  other  kids,  in  that  easygoing  atmosphere,  took  their  schooling  catch-as-catch-can  fashion,  I  was  always  not  only  the  best  but  the  youngest  scholar  in  my  class.  And  I'd  been  brought  up  to  think  that  an  E  on  a  report  card  meant  &quot;Excellence.&quot;  I  think  one  of  the  most  unsettling  experiences  of  my  whole  childhood,  and  certainly  my  first  encounter  with  active  hostility  in  another,  came  in  Victor,  when  one  of  the  older  boys  (blond,  big,  overbearing,  a  Swede,  surely:  I  can  see  him  now)  collared  me  outside  the  old  Garfield  School  at  the  end  of  the  day-  during  which  I  had  come  up  with  the  answer  to  a  question  he'd  stumbled  over,  and  been  praised  by  the  teacher,  Miss  Brooks-and,  with  a  heavy  fist  poised  hammerlike  over  my  yanked-up  face,  told  me,  damn  it,  not  to  be  so  God-  damned  smart,  for  a  change.  Yet  I  don't  think  I  suffered  too  much  from  it  all.  A  boy  of  that  age  can  adjust  to  anything.  I  felt  shamed,  more  than  anything  else,  by  the  other  boy's  anger.  I  was  wrong,  not  he.  I  had  sur-  passeda  natural  norm,  and  had  become,  in  that  sense,  peculiar.  Worse  than  that,  I  had  betrayed  him,  and  through  him  every-  one  else  in  the  school,  by  my  furious  diligence.  And  as  time  went  on  I  learned  to  dodge  too  much  praise  from  the  teachers,  be  less  eager  in  rattling  off  an-  swers  to  classroom  ques-  tions,  and  to  getalong,  at  57.  least,  with  my  school-     " b"mates-to  conform,  in  short.  But  it  left  me  diffi-  dent,  and  a  little  lonely.  I  felt  out  of  place  there.  I  kept  all  this  to  myself,  of  course;  as  my  parents  did  not  confide  in  me,  so-and  so  it  is  always  between  generations-I  could  not  confide  in  them.  Certainly,  till  the  quarrel,  I  had  no  idea  that  either  of  them  was  concerned  about  me.  I  read  a  great  deal,  puz-  zling  my  way  through  books  that  were,  actually,  far  beyond  my  age,  and  if  some  of  this  was  be-  cause  I  hadn't  much  else  to  do,  I  didn't  tell  any-  one,  Like  my  mother,  I  was  frightened  a  little  by  the  strangeness:  of  all  the  many  places  I  lived  in  as  a  child,  Victor  is  the  only  one  where  I  can't  recall  the  name  of  a  sin-  gle  friend  or  companion.  The  thunderstorms,  as  I've  said,  were  part  of  this  general  feeling;  and  these  were  slashing,  flashing  affairs  of  a  kind  of  uproarious  violence  that  I  have  never  seen  equalled  elsewhere,  and  that  somehow  seemed  to  fit  the  very  spirit  of  the  district  itself.  We  encountered  them  first  in  Victor,  and  from  then  on  it  was  a  rare  day,  all  through  that  first  spring  and  summer,  when  we  did  not  have  one.  They  came,  too,  with  a  queer  sort  of  punctuality.  Around  four  o'clock  every  afternoon,  the  sky  would  darken;  clouds-clouds  that  had  seemed  harm-  less  before:  big,  fat,  cottony  sunset  clouds  merely,  lingering  behind  the  peaks-  would  grow,  gather,  tower,  and  then  rush  down  upon  us.  There  would  have  been  rumblings  before,  of  course,  and  the  kind  of  shuddering  light-flash-  ings  that  occur  on  the  periphery  ofthe  heavens.  But  the  storms  came  so  sud-  denly  that  these  were  no  real  warning  or  preparation;  the  clouds,  the  darkness,  the  lightning  came  and  overwhelmed  us  with  an  appalling  swiftnes-and  then  what  fury  would  be  unloosed!  Rain  would  come  first,  torrentially,  and  then  hail,  and  the  hail  would  rip  down  with  such  savage  violence  that  horses,  especially,  were  driven  wild  by  it;it  was  the  accepted  custom  for  their  riders  or  drivers  to  shelter  them  any-  where,  and  I  can  still  recall  seeing  ore  teams  driven  up  onto  the  sidewalks  in  Victor-the  horses  stamping  and  stum-  bling  on  the  unfamiliar  footing  and  the  drivers  standing  at  their  heads,  holding  them  tight-bitted,  people  skirting  them  cautiously-till  the  storm  had  passed.  And  meantime,  through  it  all,  there  were  the  thunder,  the  lightning-the  thunder  loud  enough  almost  to  stun  the  ears,  and  the  lightning  great,  flaring  bolts  whose  very  breadth  and  brilliance  showed  the  closeness  of  their  origin-  and  the  sheeted,  cascading  downpour.  Afterward,  the  sun  shining  again,  the  air  crisp  and  almost  acid  with  ozone,  the  whole  countryside  looking  washed  and  glittering,  I  would  be  allowed  to  go  out  and  sail  wood  chips,  solemnly,  on  the  brown  rush  of  water  that  now  filled  the  deep  gullies  on  either  side  of  the  street.  The  storms,  fortunately,  were  as  brief  as  they  were  violent,  but  to  my  mother  they  were  one  more  menace  to  be  lived  through,  a  sort  of  polarization  of  the  dangers  that  enveloped  us.  My  father,  of  course,  delighted  in  them,  and  so  the  storms  became  one  more  of  the  dividing  points  that  separated  my  mother  and  my  father  all  through  that  period.  I  think  I  sensed  this,  vaguely,  but  I  was  a  long  time  in  realizing  that  I  was  also  involved  in  the  situation.  We  were  at  Christmas  Crossing  by  then,  and  the  storms  had  followed  us;in  a  sense,  it  was  almost  as  if  we  had  climbed  farther  into  them.  For  the  Crossing,  though  it  lay  actu-  ally  on  asaddle  between  two  higher  peaks,  was,  at  close  to  eleven  thousand  feet,  a  sort  of  eminence  of  its  own.  East  and  west,  we  could  look  out  almost  il-  limitably-in  the  early  mornings,  over  a  sea  of  white,  vaporous  clouds  that  still  blanketed  the  valleys  below  while  we  stood  in  bright  sunshine;  through  the  day,  at  the  tumble  of  lesser  hills  and  val-  leys,  dottedhere  and  there  with  towns  and  settlements,  clogged  with  mines  and  these  all  noisy  with  the  sound  of  pumps,  hoists,  and  compressors,  their  steep-roofed  red-  or  black-painted  build-  ings  always  dust-coated-a  view  that  went  on  unhindered  to  the  peaks  of  the  Sangre  de  Cristos,  a  good  seventy  miles  south  and  west  of  us;  and  by  night,  at  the  twinkle  of  lights  from  the  towns  and  the  isolated  ones  from  the  solitary  cabins,  the  hot  smoky  glare  from  the  lights  of  the  mine  shops  below.  We  were  literal-  ly  among  the  clouds  there.  When  the  storms  came,  we  were  among  them,  too;  we  were  even  inside  them,  and  when  one  was  at  its  height  we  had  not  only  the  tumult  without;  in  the  house  itself,  fre-  quently,  static  flowed,  rippling  in  little  livid  green-and-blue  streams  along  the  wiring  and  the  electric  fixtures,  and  ex-  ploding  sometimes  in  midair,  erratically,  in  tiny,  sharp,  crackling  sparks  that  echoed,  in  miniature,  the  great  bursts  of  thunder  and  lightning  outside.  To  my  mother,  this  must  have  been  pretty  much  the  last  straw.  My  father,  naturally,  had  tried  to  prove  to  her  that  the  static  was  definitely  harmless,  as  al-  ready  he  had  brought  to  bear  all  the  usu-     " b"al  arguments  to  convince  her  that  the  bark  of  the  storm,  so  to  speak,  was  far  worse  than  its  bite.  &quot;If  you  hear  the  thunder,&quot;  he'd  say,  &quot;if  you  even  see  the  lightning,  you're  safe.&quot;&quot;  And  she'd  shake  her  head  stub-  bornly.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  see  it,&quot;  she'd  reply.  He  would  stare  at  her  silently,  put  off  for  the  moment  by  her  lack  of  logic,  and  a  little  exasperated.  And  when  a  storm  came-as,  almost  daily,  one  did-having  first  shut  the  doors,  shut  the  windows,  she  would  retreat  to  her  bed-  room,  where,  the  shades  drawn,  a  towel,  often,  over  her  eyes,  she  would  lie  immo-  bile  on  the  bed  till  the  storm  had  passed.  Like  as  not,  I'd  be  in  there  with  her,  not  so  much  either  to  protect  her  or  to  be  protected  asjust  simply  to  be  with  her,  sharing,  at  whatever  distance  and  dimness  of  comprehension,  whatever  it  was  that  went  on  in-  side  her.  My  father,  by  that  time,  probably,  would  be  out  on  the  porch,  for  he  loved  the  storms,  truly,  as  much  as  she  feared  them.  It  seemed,  in-  deed,  almost  as  if  he  were  drawn  to  them;  and  after  standing  for  a  while  at  one  window  or  another  to  mark  the  flashes,  and  then  moving  to  the  doorway  to  see  them  better  (&quot;Fred!  Fred!  Shut  that  door!&quot;  my  mother  would  be  calling  from  her  refuge  in  the  bedroom.  &quot;D\xc2\xbb  you  want  to  kill  usall?&quot;),  he  would  wind  up  on  the  porch,  in  his  own  kind  of  freedom.  I  can  still  see  him  there,  stamping  back  and  forth  as  the  storm  veered,  soaked  with  rain,  perhaps,  as  the  gusts  whipped  in,  but  oblivious-yelling  in  to  us,  sometimes  unintelligibly,  in  sheer  exultation  at  the  might  and  ex-  citement  of  it.  (I  would  have  tiptoed  to  the  door,  by  then,  and  closed  it.)  So,  again,  there  was  division  between  them,  and  I  hovered  uncertainly  in  the  midst  of  it.  But  then  how  can  a  man  describe  the  problems  and  trials  of  his  childhood?  It  seems  to  me  that  a  child  lives  on  the  lower  levels  of  a  tall,  tiered  series  of  adult  experiences,  and  I  re-  member  once,  with  my  father,  in  the  drafting  room  of  the  Vindicator,  being  shown  what  I  even  then  realized  was  the  master  survey  of  the  whole  mine's  workings.  It  is  one  of  those  odd,  isolated  recollections  with  which  everyone's  re-  membrance  is  studded,  but  it  fascinated  me,  for  the  survey  had  been  made  by  &quot;levels,&quot;  duplicating  the  tiers  of  tunnels,  which,  like  the  floors  ofa  building,  took  off  horizontally  from  the  descending  shaft.  Since  the  drawing  had  been  done  on  the  waxed,  almost  transparent  sheets  that  draftsmen  call  &quot;tracing  cloth,&quot;  and  they  were  now  kept  racked  in  a  cabinet  built  specially  for  them,  the  result  was  that  one  could  pull  out  the  survey  of  any  one  level  and  have,  at  a  glance,  a  map  of  its  workings  or,  conversely-and  it  was  this  that  fascinated  me-look  down  through  the  whole  lot  of  them  and  see,  clearly  at  the  top  and  then  more  dimly,  where  one  tunnel  crossed  another  below  it  and  was  crossed,  in  its  turn,  by  the  tun-  nels  above.  So,  it  seems  to  me,  it  is  when  one  looks  back  at  one's  childhood-  through  a  veining  upon  veining  of  pur-  poses  and  cross-purposes,  up  through  which,  too,  the  child  must  struggle  to  reach  manhood  and  comprehension.  All  I  know  now,  really,  is  that  when  the  quarrel  came,  it  came  suddenly-as  suddenly  as  the  storms  and  as  dramati-  cally-and  since  in  the  midst  of  it  my  father  did  a  violent  thing,  and  he  was  a  man  very  slow  to  anger,  I  can  only  conclude  that  it  must  have  been  a  climax  of  other  quarrels,  or  differences  at  least,  which  had  gradually  built  up  to  this  one.  I  know  nothing  of  these.  All  I  know  is  that,  one  day,  in  the  midst  of  a  storm,  my  father  came  in,  grabbed  me  by  the  hand,  and  led  me  out  in  it;  be-  yond  that,  the  rest  is  fragmentary.  But  I  can  still  see  them,  both  suddenly  huge  and  strange  as  they  reared  above  me,  split  apart  and  yet  held,  face  to  face,  by  their  anger:  shouting,  too,  while  the  storm  roared,  and  I  crouched  and  quivered-snatched  at,  maybe,  and  then  snatched  back  again,  though  I  can't  recall  that-between  them.  I  can't  recall  the  voices  or  what  they  were  saying,  though  I  can  imagine  them.  (&quot;You've  gone  crazy  with  this  Western  stuff,  Fred!  You'll  kill  him!&quot;  And  my  father:  &quot;By  God,  Hattie!  You're  ruining  the  boy!&quot;)  And  it  sure-  ly  must  have  been  a  culmination,  for  abruptly  my  father  turned,  and  in  one  of  those  blind  acts  of  meaningless  vio-  lence  that  are  no  more  than  a  vent-  ing,  physically,  of  the  torments  of  anger,  seized  a  bedside  table  that  stood  near  to  his  hand  and  slammed  it  down  on  the  floor  again,  hard,  so  hard,  indeed-for  my  father  was  strong-that  he  smashed  it.  I  can  still  see  it  lying  there,  splintered,  and  the  things  that  had  been  upon  it  (a  book,  maybe,  an  alarm  clock?  I  can't  recall)  tumbling  on  the  floor.  I  can't  recall  the  voices,  but  I  can  imagine  them,  and,  as  I  say,  it  must  have  been  a  culmination,  for  after  that  many  things,  things  affecting  my  own  life,  changed  abruptly,  in  that  magical  way  they  sometimes  do  for  a  child;  and  though  I  was  still  more  restricted  than  the  other  boys  of  my  age,  I  was  allowed  to  wear  overalls,  and  play  duck-on-the-  rock  with  the  other  boys,  and  a  wild  game  of  fox-and-geese  (greatly  expanded,  in  the  Western  fashion  )  that  took  us  some-  times  for  miles  up  and  into  the  hills.  I  was  even  allowed  to  go  down  in  my  father's  mine.  All  I  know  is  that,  suddenly,  I  was  out  on  the  porch  with  my  father,  and  for  a  moment  or  so,  in  the  blast  of  the  storm,  all  I  could  do  there  was  to  stand  against  the  wall  by  the  door,  and  cower.  I  have  an  impression  of  my  father  coming  at  me,  and  I  think  now  that  for  an  instant  he  was  going  to  slap  me.  But  if  so,  he  controlled  himself;  instead,  he  took  me  up  in  his  arms.  He  was  sooth-  ing  me.  &quot;Look  now,  fellow,&quot;  he  was  saying,  or  something  like  that;  I  can't  recall  the  words,  but  I  felt,  and  still  feel,  the  change  in  his  mood.  &quot;It's  not  so  bad  now,  really,  is  it?  Look  at  that  flash,  now,  those  flashes.  Aren't  they  wonderful?  Aren't  they  glorious?&quot;  And  suddenly,  magically,  they  were.  It  was  at  Christmas  Crossing  that  this  happened,  and  I  watched  many  storms  from  that  porch  with  my  father  after-  ward;  afterward,  indeed,  my  mother  watched  some  of  them,  too.  So  it's  the  storms  in  the  aggregate,  so  to  speak,  that  I  remember,  instead  of  this  or  any  other  single  one:  the  great  rush  and  roar  of  them,  and  the  feeling  of  being  envel-  oped  by  a  force  so  majestic,  mighty,  and  impersonal  that  even  its  menace  became  an  exhilaration,  while  the  fact  that  one  was  able  to  stand  and  see  it  in  its  full  power  was  both  a  challenge  and  a  reward.  It  was  a  good  place,  I  felt,  to  be  with  one's  father-most  of  all  when,  at  last,  the  storm  would  be  rolling  out  past  us  (&quot;showing  its  heels  to  us,&quot;  as  my  father  put  it),  its  lightnings  still  stab,  stab,stab,  stabbing  as  fiercely  as  ever  but  now  in  the  regions  beyond  and  be-  low;  and  one  could  feel  its  tensions  re-  laxing  in  the  air  around  us,  as  they  had  already  relaxed  in  the  house  itself."