 b"EVERY  afternoon,  the  barefoot  chaprasst  brought  tea  into  the  lab.  We  used  to  keep  milk  in  the  refrigerator,  along  with  the  blood  sam-  ples,  and  a  sugar  bowl  stood  on  top  of  the  centrifuge.  Lab  equipment  has  such  a  deadpan  international  character;  among  those  bright,  gleaming  pipettes  and  burettes  we  might  well  have  been  anywhere-in  New  York,  [REDACTED],  or  [REDACTED].  But  when  the  chepraess:  showed  up  with  tea,  it  was  clear  that  we  were  in  496e646961.  'There  had  been  a  famine  recently  in  parts  of  Bombay  State.  Narayan  Ghodme  and  I  were  getting  blood  samples  from  people  with  advanced  malnutrition,  to  determine  serum-protein  and  cholesterol  levels  at  three  stages-before,  during,  and  after  treatment.  I  also  planned  to  compare  some  of  our  data  later  on  with  those  on  well-fed  Middle  Westerners  back  home,  people  with  lots  of  fat  in  their  diet.  So  far,  our  project  had  been  going  well.  &quot;I  have  an  idea,&quot;  said  Narayan  one  afternoon,  stirring  his  tea.  &quot;How  about  astudy  on  cancer  incidence  among  water-pipe  smokers?  Do  people  who  use  the  hookah  get  lung  cancer?&quot;  &quot;''That's  been  done.&quot;  I  reached  for  the  sugar.  Narayan  sighed.  &quot;I  would  like  to  keep  some  sort  of  research  going  after  our  project  ends.&quot;  I  felt  sure  that  Narayan  would  think  of  something.  I  had  first  methim  in  New  York,  where  he  had  come  on  a  medical-  research  fellowship,  given  him  by  the  Amer-  ican  foundation  that  was  financing  our  pres-  ent  project.  We  were  using  the  facilities  of  a  lab  attached  to  a  gov-  ernment  hospital.  Narayan  always  had  ideas  for  a  variety  of  projects.  For  example,  he  had  rigged  up  a  ple-  thysmograph  in  a  cor-  ner  of  the  lab,  and  he  fooled  around  with  it  in  spare  moments.  He  was  a  born  scientist.  This  seemed  strange  to  me,  since  he  came  from  a  fairly  conservative  Brahman  family.  I  was  staying  with  them  as  his  guest  (they  weren't  too  conservative  to  take  me  in  with  the  warmest  hospitality  ),  and  I  was  amazed  by  all  the  religious  rituals  that  went  on  in  the  household.  Little  statu-  ettes  ofthe  gods-Shiva,  Ganesha,  Par-  vati-were  always  being  set  up,  anoint,  ed,  and  strewn  with  flowers.  The  Ghodmes  were  wonderful  people.  They  were  all  handsome,  intelligent,  and  af-  fectionate,  but  except  for  Narayan,  they  didn't  have  the  scientific  temper.  Sometimes,  when  he  and  I  sat  drink-  ing  tea  in  the  lab,  I  tried  to  find  out  what  his  own  religious  viewswere.  Once  I  asked  him  if  he  believed  in  re-  incarnation.  For  answer,  he  waved  a  thin  brown  hand  toward  the  lab  equip-  ment  and  said,  &quot;I  believe  in  that.&quot;  &quot;'The  plethysmograph?&quot;  &quot;&quot;No.  Science.&quot;  I  liked  to  badger  him.  &quot;But  at  home  you  take  part  in  the  family  rituals,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  Narayan  shrugged.  &quot;Family  is  one  thing,  science  another.&quot;  &quot;But  by  taking  part  you  give  assent,  don't  you?  Let's  face  it,  Narayan-do  you  want  people  to  go  on  worshipping  elephant-headed  gods?&quot;  Narayan  raised  his  eyebrows.  &quot;What's  wrong  with  elephant-headed  gods?&quot;  I  couldn't  think  of  any  very  sensible  answer,  so  I  dropped  this  line  of  argu-  ment,  and  we  went  to  work  at  the  color-  imeter,.  AT  five  o'clock  each  afternoon,  the  family  chauffeur  appeared  at  the  door.  He  was  barefooted,  like  the  chap-  rassi,  and  looked  rather  seedy  in  his  old  turban.  The  Ghodmes  weren't  rich.  They  were  middle-class  people,  and  the  C  automobile  doubtless  rep-  resented  a  big  investment  for  them.  I  don't  sup-  pose  barefoot  chauffeurs  cost  much,  since  labor  is  cheap  in  496e646961,  but  with  the  gas  and  everything  else,  the  car  must  have  been  expensive  to  main-  tain.  The  family,  how-  ever,  were  all  behind  Narayan.  He  was  the  eldest  son,  their  chief  hope,  and  he  needed  the  car  for  collecting  blood  samples  from  patients  outside  the  hospital.  So  they'd  bought  the  automobile,  an  old  English  model,  and  we  used  to  ride  home  in  it  from  the  lab.  Narayan  was  terribly  proud  of  this  old  car.  He  was  even  proud  of  the  chauffeur,  whose  main  skill,  I  should  say,  lay  in  his  horn-honking.  The  horn  was  one  of  those  rubber-  balloon  affairs  that  have  to  be  sharply  squeezed,  and  the  chauffeur  managed  to  blow  it  loudly  all  the  way  home-  even  when  he  didn't  have  to  blow  it  to " b"clear  a  pathway  through  the  bullocks,  cows,  and  human  beings  that  choked  up  most  of  the  streets.  The  Ghodmes  lived  near  the  edge  of  town  in  a  three-story  house  that  barely  contained  them.  Narayan's  mother,  father,  and  grandmother  had  rooms  on  the  second  floor,  and  Narayan,  his  wife,  and  their  two  children  lived  on  thetop  floor,  along  with  his  two  younger  broth-  ers  and  their  wives  and  children.  I  had  been  given  a  room  on  the  second  floor,  equipped  with  a  bed,  the  only  one  in  the  house.  (Everyone  else  slept  on  mattress  rolls,  which  were  put  away  during  the  day.)  On  the  ground  floor  were  Narayan's  office,  the  kitchen,  and  the  combination  living  room  and  dining  room;  they  all  opened  onto  a  courtyard.  'The  women  of  the  household,  mov-  ing  about  in  flowing  saris,  spent  most  of  their  time  in  the  kitchen,  preparing  chapatties,  stirring  food  in  large  brass  bowls,  grinding  chick-pea  flour  at  a  cir-  cular  stone  hand  mill,  churning  butter-  milk,  and  performing  a  dozen  other  tasks,  all  of  which  looked  picturesque,  Biblical,  and  absorbing.  On  our  return  from  work,  Narayan  and  I  sometimes  found  them  sitting  on  the  kitchen  floor  around  a  mound  of  grain  and  sifting  through  it  with  agile  fingers.  'They  would  pick  out  pebbles  and  bits  of  chaff  and  toss  them  over  their  shoulders  while  the  murmur  of  their  conversation  mingled  with  the  twittering  of  sparrows  attracted  through  the  open  windows  by  the  free  meal,  Usually,  when  Narayan  and  I  en-  tered  the  courtyard,  some  of  the  chil-  dren  would  run  up,  and  Narayan  would  exchange  jokes  with  them-jokes  that  were  generally  incomprehensible  to  me.  I'd  studied  Marathi  a  bit  before  leay-  ing  New  York,  but  I  couldn't  follow  their  rapid  conversation,  soI  just  stood  smiling  vaguely,  like  a  well-meaning  deaf-and-dumb  person.  'Then  we'd  go  into  the  living  room-dining  room,  where  part  of  the  family  would  frequently  be  gathered,  sitting  on  square  wooden  boards  or  strips  of  carpet  on  the  stone  floor;  there  were  no  tables  or  chairs  in  the  room.  After  saying  hello  all  round,  Narayan  would  go  upstairs  and  change  =  his  clothes.  He  would  take  off  the  West-  ern-style  suit  he  wore  to  and  from  the  lab  and  put  on  an  496e646961n  dho#i,  a  baggy  white  garment  rather  like  an  oversized  diaper.  Then  he  would  rejoin  the  family.  In  changing  his  clothes,  he  seemed  to  put  on  a  new  personality.  In-stead  of  an  earnest,  ambitious  scientist, he  would  be  a  genial,  fatherly  fellow;  he  would  hand  out  jokes  and  advice  and listen  with  interest  to  whatever  com- " b"plaints  or  bits  of  gossip  there  might  be.  Some  of  the  Ghodmes  could  speak  Eng-  lish  well,  especially  Narayan's  pretty  wife,  Sita,  and  his  two  younger  brothers.  Much  of  what  they  said  was  to  tease  Narayan  and  me-insinuations  that  we  loafed  at  the  lab.  &quot;Whenever  anyone  drops  in,  you  are  having  tea,&quot;  one  of  the  brothers  might  say.  &quot;Always  tea!  The  rest  of  the  time  you  sleep.  Isn't  that  true?&quot;  (Much  laughter.)  Then  the  other  brother  might  baldly  assert  that  all  our  mysterious  glassware  and  fancy  gadgets  were  just  so  much  window  dressing.:  Sometimes,  I  must  admit,  I  was  afraid  that  they  might  be  right,  in  a  way,  without  knowing  it.  For  science,  like  art,  is  built  on  uncertainty.  It's  hard  to  be  sure  that  one  is  doing  something  worth  while.  I  often  thought  of  the  skeletonlike  patients  we'd  seen  in  the  hospital,  famine  victims  from  outlying  villages.  It  seemed  a  shame  to  draw  blood  samples  from  their  queerly  promi-  nent  veins.  Would  our  research  ulti-  mately  help  these  people?  If  not,  what  good  could  it  be?  BEF  ORE  it  got  dark,  Narayan,  Sita,  and  I  generally  went  for  a  walk.  We  would  stroll  along  quiet  dirt  roads  on  the  outskirts  of  town,  while  the  sun  hung  low  over  the  hills.  The  sky  at  this  time  was  alive  with  little  birds,  who  would  swoop  down,  wriggle  in  the  dust  of  the  road,  shake  their  feathers,  and  fly  away.  Sita  always  seemed  to  be  wearing  a  fresh  sari  on  these  occasions,  and  she  also  wore  little  white  flowers  in  her  jet-black  hair.  She  was  most  attrac-  tive  when  she  was  animated.  Like  many  496e646961n  women,  she  had  a  way  of  waggling  her  head  when  she  wanted  to  emphasize  something.  A  statement  such  as  &quot;It's  very  expensive!&quot;  might  be  ac-  companied  by  a  head  waggle  full  of  ele-  gance  and  verve.  Sita  used  to  show  the  modesty  of  a  good  Hindu  wife  by  walking  a  few  yards  behind  her  husband.  'The  three  of  us  would  set  out  abreast  of  each  other,  but  presently  she  would  drop  behind.  On  our  first  walk,  when  this  happened,  I  suggested  that  we  wait  and  let  her  catch  up.  Narayan  assented.  'The  three  of  us  then  went  on  together,  but  before  long  Sita  dropped  back  once  more,  while  Narayan  and  I  walked  ahead  as  if  she  weren't  there.  I  regarded  this  system  as  unfriendly  and  unfair.  Sometimes,  after  walking  along  with  Narayan,  I  would  turn  round  and  join  Sita.  Narayan,  meanwhile,  kept  going  ahead.  But  after  talking  with  Sita  a  fewmin-  utes  I'd  start  to  feel  uneasy.  Perhaps," b"after  all,  I  shouldn't  be  gossiping  with  my  friend's  wife  while  he  walked  on  alone,  and  no  doubt  the  Hindus  who  passed  us  on  the  road  would  disapprove.  So  I'd  quicken  my  step,  hurrying  Sita  along  to  catch  up  with  Narayan.  Soon  after  we  did  so,  however,  she  would  fall  back  again.  Once,  when  Sita  and  I  were  walking  along  the  road  behind  Narayan,  she  asked  me  with  a  mischievous  waggle  of  the  head,  &quot;Is  it  true  that  young  men  in  your  country  kiss  girls  they  are  not  married  to?&quot;  She  had  seen  it  in  the  movies.  I  said  it  was  true.  With  a  giggle  at  her  own  boldness,  Sita  asked,  &quot;Have  you  done  that?&quot;  I  nodded.  Then  she  shot  me  a  glance  and  asked,  &quot;  How  many  girls?&quot;  &quot;Around  fifty,&quot;  I  said,  without  any  attempt  at  accuracy  of  computation.  Her  hands  flew  up  to  her  face,  and  her  large  black  eyes  looked  bigger  than  ever,.  &quot;No!  You  have  kissed  fifty  girls?&quot;  &quot;  Well,  around  that  number.&quot;  &quot;  Fifty!  &quot;  Sita  waggled  her  head  dazedly.  We  had  caught  up  with  Narayan  by  this  time.  He  frowned,  as  if  he  disap-proved  of  the  giggling  he  had  heard.  Sita,  with  down  cast  eyes,  dropped  be-  hind  us,  and  my  friend  and  I  walked  along  discussing  our  project.  &quot;We  won't  be  able  to  work  a  full  day  to-morrow,  &quot;  Narayan  said.  &quot;It's  Dash-ahara,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;What-another  Hindu  festival?&quot;  Yes,  an  important  one.&quot;  I  frowned.  To  tell  the  truth,  each  of  us  had  some  reservations  about  the  oth-  er.  I  felt  that  Narayan  gave  in  too  much  to  tradition,  while  Narayan,  for  his  part,  felt  that  I  was  sometimes  light-minded.  THE  next  morning,  Narayan  and  I  didn't  set  off  to  work  as  early  as  usual.  I  stood  in  the  doorway  of  his  home  and  watched  flocks  of  school  chil-  dren  go  by  carrying  books  and  slates  heaped  high  with  little  flowers.  Narayan  came  up  beside  me.  &quot;To-  day,  we  worship  tools,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Before  we  go  to  the  lab,  I  must  offer  puja  to  the  automobile.&quot;  Then  I  noticed  that  there  was  an  air  of  expectancy  among  the  women  and  the  children,  who  had  gathered  behind  us.  The  women  wore  gaily  colored  saris.  Narayan's  mother  was  holding  a  large  metal  tray  with  garlands  of  flow-  ers,  some  candy,  coins,  fruits,  and  vari-  ous  other  articles  on  it,  This,  Narayan  said,  was  for  the  puje,  the  ritual  of  worship.  Almost  every  day  is  a  day  for" b"honoring  something  or  other  in  496e646961.  On  one  day,  it's  cows;  on  another,  it's  account  books.  Dashahara,  Narayan  said,  had  been  set  aside  for  the  worship  of  tools,  weapons,  machines,  bicycles,  and  automobiles.  Now  a  sound  of  honking  was  heard  along  the  street,  and  the  family  car  roared  up  in  front  of  the  house.  It  had  been  washed  and  polished,  and  shone  brightly;  the  barefoot  chauffeur  had  on  a  new  turban.  Behind  thefamily  car  came  a  sleek  taxi,  whose  hood  had  been  draped  with  flower  garlands.  Led  by  Narayan,  we  all  walked  over  to  the  cars.  Narayan's  bright-eyed  little  son  Govind  looked  up  at  him  proudly.  The  puja  began.  First,  Narayan's  mother  daubed  some  red  turmeric  pow-  der  on  her  son's  forehead.  Then  Narayan  applied  some  of  the  same  stuff  to  the  hood  of  his  car.  He  promptly  washed  it  off  with  milk  and  substituted  a  smear  of  sandalwood  paste;  then  he  laid  a  flower  garland  on  the  hood  and  scattered  a  handful  of  loose  flowers  over  the  fenders.  After  that,  he  stacked  the  coins  neatly  on  the  hood,  between  a  betel  nut  and  a  banana.  Narayan's  mother  offered  candy  to  everyone  present  and  placed  a  piece  on  the  hood.  'Then  Narayan  handed  a  coconut  to  the  chaut-  feur,  who  bashed  it  on  a  rock  and  splashed  its  milk  liberally  over  the  wind-  shield,  While  all  this  was  going  on,  I  watched  Narayan's  face  to  see  how  he  was  taking  it.  I  wondered  if  he  felt  at  all  foolish,  indulging  in  this  abracadabra  before  his  colleague.  If  he  did,  there  was  no  signof  it.  He  performed  his  priestly  role  with  the  same  grave  earnestness  he  showed  in  carrying  out  some  lab  technique.  The  climax  ofthe  ceremony  came  when  he  joined  his  palms  together  and  bowed  low  to  the  automobile.  His  family  followed  suit;  even  I  couldn't  resist  nodding.  &quot;Well  done!&quot;  I  said  to  him.  &quot;We  can  go  to  the  lab  now,&quot;  he  said  with  composure.  The  chauffeur,  having  appropriated  the  money,  the  betel  nut,the  piece  of  candy,  and  the  banana,  got  behind  the  steering  wheel,  and  Narayan  and  I  crowded  in  beside  him.  'To  my  surprise,  Narayan's  mother  and  Sita  and  sev-  eral  of  the  children  squeezed  into  the  back  seat,  while  the  rest  of  the  family  filled  up  the  taxi  behind  us.  Then  the  chauffeur  blared  his  horn,  and  we  were  off.  &quot;Now  what?&quot;  I  asked  Narayan.  &quot;Some  more  puzas-at  the  lab.  It  won't  be  long.&quot;  On  the  way,  I  noticed  that  most  of" b"the  cars  we  passed  were  decorated  like  ours,  with  loops  of  flowers.  It  was  all  very  festive,  and  the  honking  of  horns  had  a  holiday  ring,  like  the  sound  of  Christmas  bells.  When  our  car  and  the  taxi  reached  the  lab,  everyone  piled  out  and  went  inside.  Narayan's  mother  still  had  her  metal  tray,  which  was  only  about  half  full  now.  The  women  in  their  bright  saris  stood  in  awe  among  the  lab  machines,  the  racks  of  test  tubes,  the  bottles  of  reagents.  Govind  and  the  oth-  er  children  were  hushed  and  solemn-  looking.  And  now  Narayan  went  through  much  the  same  ritual  again.  He  respectfully  daubed  the  refrigerator  with  turmeric  powder,  draped  the  cen-  trifuge  with  a  flower  garland,  and  placed  a  betel  nut  on  topof  the  color-  imeter;  his  mother  scattered  flowers  about  the  lab.  Then  he  took  the  tray,  which  was  now  empty  except  for  some  candles  and  incense  sticks.  He  lighted  the  incense  and  the  candles  and  rotated  the  tray  slowly,  holding  it  aloft,  while  his  mother  rang  a  little  silver  bell;  the  other  women  and  the  children  chanted  in  their  sweet  voices.  I  stood  by  in  amazement.  Presently,  Narayan  put  down  the  tray,  and,  pressing  his  hands  together,  he  bowed,  in  turn,  to  the  re-  frigerator,  the  colorimeter,  the  centri-  fuge,  and  the  plethysmograph.  T  was  all  over.  Narayan's  mother  gave  him  and  me  an  approving  look,  like  a  blessing,  and  walked  out  of  the  lab.  The  others  filed  out  after  her,  with  Sita  givingus  a  parting  head  waggle.  We  were  alone.  I  looked  down  at  the  floor,  all  littered  with  flowers,  and  waited  for  Narayan  to  say  something.  He  found  a  broom  and  began  to  sweep  the  flowers  into  a  corner.  &quot;It  won't  take  long  to  clean  up,&quot;  he  said.  I  found  a  rag  and  got  to  work  on  the  turmeric.  Presently,  I  turned  round,  rag  in  hand,  and  said,  &quot;How  can  you  do  it?&quot;  &quot;Do  what?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;You  said  you  believed  in  science.  I  didn't  know  you  worshipped  it  this  Way.\xe2\x80\x9d  Narayan  shrugged.  &quot;Well,  what  do  you  want  me  to  do?&quot;  \xc2\xabYou're  a  leader  in  the  family.  Can't  you  educate  them?&quot;  Narayan  shook  his  head.  &quot;Never,  as  long  as  my  parents  are  alive.  I  can't  change  their  ways,  or  those  of  my  sis-  ters-in-law.&quot;  &quot;Butwhat  about  your  son?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Someday  Govind  will  learn  that  you  don't  really  believe  in  these  things.  Won't  it  come  as  a  shock  to  him?&quot;  Narayan  walked  to  the  window, " b"where  he  looked  out  in  silence  for  a  while.  Then  heshook  his  head  slowly.  &quot;It  won't  hurt  him,&quot;  he  said.  I  rubbed  away  at  the  turmeric  spots.  &quot;It  beats  me  what  you'll  do  for  the  sake  of  family  harmony!&quot;  I  said.  Narayan  turned;  he  looked  upset,  but  stern,  too.  &quot;Is  anything  more  impor-  tant  than  that?&quot;  I  tossed  my  cleaning  rag  into  a  waste  basket.  &quot;Perhaps  not.  But  the  price  you  pay  is  pretty  damned  high,  isn't  it?&quot;&quot;  &quot;What  price?  Can  any  price  be  too  high  for  family  happiness?  Do  you  know  that  my  mother  offers  prayers  for  us  every  day  at  the  temple?  She  gives  shawls  and  money  to  the  priests.  She's  vowed  to  make  a  pilgrimage  to  the  Himalayas  if  our  research  project  is  a  success.  Could  I  tell  her  that  she's  sim-  ply  wasting  her  time?  Should  I  cause  trouble  between  my  wife  and  my  mother  by  urging  Sita  to  give  up  pujas?  I  could  easily  destroy  our  family  that  way.  You  haven't  really  thought  about  these  questions.&quot;  I  could  see  that  we'd  better  not  go  on  arguing.  We  were  both  becoming  dis-  turbed.  When  the  lab  was  ready  to  work  in,  I  washed  my  hands  at  the  sink  and  said,  &quot;We  do  know  how  to  work  together,  anyway.&quot;  &quot;'That's  right,&quot;  said  Narayan.  He  took  down  his  white  lab  coat  and  gave  me  one  of  his  warm  smiles.  I  opened  the  refrigerator  door.  There  they  were-racks  of  our  neatly  labelled  test  tubes  full  of  the  blood  of  men  who  had  almost  starved  to  death."