 b"MY  father  was  born  in  Truro,  Nova  Scotia,  where  certain  of  his  forebears,  after  being  tarred,  feathered,  and  flung  out  of  Con-  necticut  in  1779  or  thereabouts  for  their  Loyalist  views,  had  gone  to  begin  life  over  again.  My  grandfather-a  would-  be  engineer  turned  reluctant  farmer-  spent  most  of  his  days  inventing  con-  traptions  to  make  farm  work  more  interesting,  and  the  rest  trying  to  es-  cape  from  it,  he  hoped  forever,  by  recovering  pirate  gold.  He  invested  a  good  deal  of  time  and  machinery  of  his  own  invention  in  attempts  to  raise  a  reputed  hoard  of  Captain  Kidd,  meanwhile  leaving  the  hard  routine  of  the  farm  to  his  wife  and  his  chil-  dren,  of  whom  he  had  thirteen.  My  father,  the  eldest  of  the  seven  who  sur-  vived  the  rigors  of  this  childhood,  left  home  as  soon  as  he  could.  At  sixteen,  he  was  sailing  before  the  mast  on  a  tea  clipper,  out  of  Digby  Harbor  to  the  East  Indies,  and  when  he  had  saved  sufficient  money  from  his  voyages  and  from  work  of  many  kinds  ashore,  he  put  himself  through  the  Royal  Military  Col-  lege,  in  [REDACTED],  Ontario,  and  then  went  into  the  Canadian  Army.  Later,  his  two  brothers  followed  him  there,  and  by  the  time  of  the  First  World  War  three  Colonel  FS  Eatons  were  serving  with  \xc2\xa7\xc2\xa7  their  regiments,  and  no  El  farming  Eatons  were  left  in  the  family.  My  mother's  ancestors  were  Loyalists,  too,  who  escaped  to  New  Bruns-  wick,  where,  in  due  time,  my  maternal  grandfather  made  his  fortune  in  lumber  and  groceries.  Like  many  wealthy  Canadians,  he  took  his  family  to  Eng-  land  every  two  or  three  years,  and  after  her  marriage  my  moth-  er  kept  up  the  commuting.  As  a  re-  sult,  my  sister  and  I  were  brought  up  as  much  in  England  as  in  [REDACTED].  We  hadno  settled  home.  We  were  Army  children,  accustomed  to  living  where  our  father  happened  to  be  stationed,  and  to  spending  our  summers  in  Eng-  land  or  with  our  maternal  grandparents  in  New  Brunswick.  We  were  rootless  and  landless-except  for  one  piece  of  property  my  father  owned.  He  obtained  it  under  a  Canadian  forerunner  of  the  [REDACTED]  Bill  of  Rights.  On  November  1,  1902,  Military  Cer-  tificate  No.  123  was  issued  to  Daniel  Izak  Vernon  Eaton,  entitling  him  to  a grant  of  land,  tax-free,  on  account  of  his  services  during  the  Boer  War.  He  was  then  a  young  captain  in  the  Royal  Canadian  Horse  Artillery,  and  had  taken  his  battery  through  the  bloodiest  fighting  of  that  campaign,  winding  up  on  Lord  Roberts'  staff  at  headquarters.  For  this,  he  received  two  medals  and  the  only  piece  of  real  estate  he  ever  would  own.  It  was  one  attempt  of  a  grateful  country  to  reward  her  veterans  prompt-  ly  with  something  tangible,  and  my  father  valued  his  award  for  that  reason.  I  don't  remember  how  old  I  was  when  I  first  was  aware  of  his  talking  about  the  war  and  his  grant  &quot;in  the  wilds  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  was  confused  about  the  Boer  War  from  the  start.  It  was  over  before  I  was  born,  it  was  in  the  category  of  things  that  never  really  hap-  pened,  and  my  father  always  referred  to  it  as  his  &quot;guerrilla  warfare.&quot;  My  geography  primer  showed  a  picture  of  gorillas  swinging  through  the  [REDACTED]  African  jungle,  and  I  got  the  notion  that  he  had  slugged  it  out  with  a  band  of  large  black  monkeys,  probably  swinging,  as  they  did,  through  the  trees.  I  con-  sidered  this  clever  of  him  but  not  re-  markable,  since  he  was  an  all-round  athlete-a  superb  horseman,  expert  skater,  swimmer,  and  box-  \xc2\xa7  er-against  whom  mere  E  gorillas  would  not  have  2  much  of  a  chance.  E  He  was  a  full-time  pro-  fessional  soldier,  of  the  old  I  spit-and-polish  school,  who  &amp;  had  come  up  the  hard  way,  but  he  never  allowed  his  military  career  to  confine  him,  mind  or  body,  too  long  to  barracks.  He  was  often  away  on  missions.  He  went  with  the  Low  Expedition,  for  instance,  travelling  by  dog  team  to  make  the  first  official  maps  of  Labrador,  and  after  Military  Certificate  No.  123  was  issued  in  his  name,  it  apparently  took  the  government  two  years  to  find  him  and  deliver  it.  He  was  &quot;located  on  the  nineteenth  of  April,  1904,&quot;  according  to  the  transcript  of  the  deed.  This  delay  in  reaching  him  may  have  been  because  he  was  in  England  then,  recommended  to  the  Military  Staff  College  in  Camberley  by  Lord  Roberts.  Or  it  may  have  been  because  of  the  leisurely  pace  of  those  days;  it  took  another  three  years  for  the  certificate  to  be  applied  &quot;on  the  north  half  Lot  9,  Concession  2,  Ledger  Township,  156%/4  acres,  District  of  Thunder  Bay,     " b"and  on  the  16th  November,  1907,  patent  issued  therefor.&quot;  HE  wording  of  my  father's  patent  enshrines  a  good  deal  of  world  history.  It  begins  with  a  flourish  that  the  grantor's  great-granddaughter,  the  present  Queen  of  England  and  of  Can-  ada,  can  no  longer  use  in  its  entirety:  EDWARD  THE  SEVENTH,  by  the  Grace  of  God,  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  of  Great  [REDACTED]  and  Ireland  and  of  the  British  Dominions  beyond  the  Seas,  KING,  Defender  of  the  Faith,  Emperor  of  496e646961,  To  all  Whom  these  Presents  shall  come,  GREETING:  Know  ye,  that  We,  of  our  Special  Grace,  certain  Knowledge,  and  mere  Motion,  have  GIVEN  and  GRANT-  ED,  and  by  these  Presents  do  give  and  grant,  under  the  authority  of  an  Act  passed  in  the  First  Year  of  Our  Reign,  Chapter  Six,  and  entitled  An  Act  to  provide  for  the  appropriation  of  certain  lands  for  the  Vol-  unteers  who  served  in  [REDACTED]  Africa  and  the  Volunteer  Militia  who  served  on  the  Frontier  in  1866,  untoDanielIzak  Vernon  Eaton  ...  Neither  EDWARD,  for  all  his  Special  Grace,  certain  Knowledge,  and  mere  Motion,  nor  the  men  who  drew  up  the  patent,  nor  my  father,  who  received  it,  ever  saw  this  land.  'They  had  no  idea  of  the  nature  of  it,  orthe  riches  it  might  contain  or  represent,  but  the  KING  was  taking  no  chances.  In  1907,  land  was  valued  for  lumber,  and  water  for  fish,  so  EDWARD,  doubtless  thinking  of  his  large  tracts  of  unexplored  territory  in  these  terms,  after  describing  the  location  of  the  concession  prudently  GAVE  and  GRANTED  it  to  my  father  ...in  fee  simple  and  all  Mines  and  Minerals  which  are  or  shall  hereafter  be  found  on  or  under  the  same  as  provided  by  Section  Eleven  of  the  Said  Act,  saving,  excepting  and  reserving  unto  [REDACTED],  Our  Heirsand  Successors,  all  Pine  Trees  standing  or  being  on  said  lands,  as  pro-  vided  by  Section  Nine  of  the  said  Act,  and  the  free  use,  passage  and  enjoyment  of,  in,  over  and  upon  all  navigable  waters  which  shall  or  may  hereafter  be  found  on  or  under,  or  be  flowing  through  or  upon  any  part  of  the  said  Parcel  or  Tract  of  Land  hereby  granted  as  aforesaid,  and  re-  serving  also  the  rightof  access  to  the  shores  of  all  rivers,  streams  and  lakes  for  all  vessels,  boats  and  persons,  together  with  the  right  to  use  so  much  of  the  banks  thereof,  not  exceeding  one  chain  in  depth  from  the  water's  edge,  as  may  be  neces-  sary  for  fishery  purposes.  GIVEN  under  the  Great  Seal  of  Our  Province  of  On-  tario,  Witness  His  Honour  Sir  William  Mortimer  Clark,  Knight,  etc.  etc.  Lieu-  tenant-Governor  of  Our  Province  of  On-  tario.  There  were  no  roads  or  railway  sta-  tions  near  my  father's  land.  It  would  have  taken  him  many  weeks  to  get  there,  and  perhaps  the  most  practical  way  would  have  been  to  go  in  winter," b"by  dog  team,  as  he  had  travelled  to  Labrador.  No  doubt  the  reason  he  nev-  er  made  the  attempt  was  that  he  never  had  the  necessary  free  time.  Between  1905  and  1909,  he  was  Director  of  Military  Training  in  [REDACTED],  and  after  that  on  dutywith  his  regiment.  Besides,  I  think  he  had  no  serious  intention,  then,  of  turning  farmer.  It  was  only  during  the  First  World  War  that  he  began  to  talk  about  his  land  seriously,  nostalgically.  He  would  get  to  it,  he  said,  by  dog  or  any  other  team,  see  what  was  there,  and  set  about  clear-  ing  it  himself,  and  then  he  would  send  for  us.  The  time  I  recall  his  talking  most  about  these  plans  was  in  1916.  My  mother  and  sister  and  I  were  in  England  for  the  duration  of  the  war,  and  he  came  there  on  leave  from  his  regiment  in  [REDACTED].  He  spoke  of  what  he  would  do  when  the  war  was  won-characteristically,  he  never  said  &quot;over&quot;-and  he  could  leave  the  Army  and  settle  down  to  farm.  Yes,  he  want-  ed  to  farm,  he  assured  us.  He  said  this  was  not  the  impractical  dream  of  every  retired  soldier,  because  after  all  he  had  farmed  in  the  pre-tractor  days,  and  it  would  be  better  now.  He  drew  us  pictures  of  mooseand  deer  and  bear,  and  a  sketch  of  a  beaver  swimming  in  the  navigable  waters  flowing  through  his  land  while  the  Royal  Family  fishes  on  the  bank.  I  have  this  drawing  with  me;  my  father  gave  Fl  it  to  me  before  he  went  back  to  the  front.  The  caption  beneath  it  runs,  &quot;Portrait  of  EDWARDS  Heirs  and  Suc-  cessors,  His  Majesty  King  George  the  Vth,  Her  Majesty  Queen  Mary,  His  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  of  [REDACTED],  Her  Royal  Highness  the  Princess  Roy-  al,  together  with  their  vessels,  boats  and  persons  [Notice,  Evie,  persons  come  last],  a  chain  from  the  water's  edge.&quot;  The  chain  is  held  by  the  King,  who  looks  a  little  smug.  All  the  faces,  except  perhaps  the  beaver's,  look  a  little  smug.  MY  father  was  killed  at  Vimy  Ridge  in  1917.  Thirty-eight  years  later,  more  than  half  a  century  after  Military  Certificate  No.  123  was  issued,  I  was  the  first  Eaton  to  set  foot  on  his  land.  I  did  not  get  to  it  by  dog  team,  or  even  in  a  train.  I  flew  in  a  comfortable  pas-  senger  plane  from  [REDACTED]  to  43616e616461Arthur,  and  the  roads  I  travelled  from  there  in  the  drive-yourself  car  I  hired  were  two  of  the  finest  in  the  world,  the  King's  Highway  17  and  the  King's  Highway  11.  My  father's  land  is  easy  to  get  to  nowadays.  There  are  few  pine  trees  on  it,  and  no  navigable  rivers-Queen" b"Elizabeth  II  is  welcome  to  what  wood  and  fish  there  are-and  it  is  not  good  farmland,  being  mostly  rock  and  scrub.  Still,  I  think  my  father  would  be  pleased.  I  think  that  he  might  alter  the  expres-  sions  of  the  Royal  faces  in  the  drawing  to  look  more  wistful  than  smug,  for  his  land  is  in  the  District  of  Thunder  Bay,  in  Ontario,  where  over  half  the  claims  for  the  mining  of  precious  metals  in  [REDACTED]  are  now  being  staked  out.  More  than  thirty-five  thousand  claims  were  recorded  during  the  first  seven  months  of  195  5-about  thirty-  five  hundred  more  than  for  the  first  seven  months  of  1954-in  the  terri-  tory  around  my  father's  land.  There  is  uranium  there,  and  also  lithium,  which  EDWARD,  by  a  mere  motion,  GAVE  and  GRANTED  away.  The  exact  amount  that  the  Royal  Family  has  lost  is  not  determined  yet,  but  this  year  I  shall  revisit  my  father's  land,  with  a  Geiger  counter,  a  good  geologist,  and-  I  hope-the  shade  of  my  frustrated  grandfather  to  help  me  in  this  treasure  hunt.  If  I  succeed,  I  shall  furnish  Her  Majesty  with  a  full  report. "