 b"EVERY  now  and  then,  my  friend  Ned  Simpson  would  say  he  was  sick  of  the  City;  he  would  get  out  of  it  before  it  killed  him.  We  did  not  pay  much  attention  to  these  out-  bursts.  All  of  us  hated  the  City-that  is  to  say,  work,  worry,  noise.  But  most  of  us  found  our  holidays  too  long.  After  a  fortnight  away  from  [REDACTED],  we  wanted  to  get  back  to  work,  worry,  and  noise-to  life.  And  when  we  grumbled  at  the  City,  our  wives  would  smile  wise-  ly  or  sadly  and  say  nothing.  But  Ned's  wife  would  cry,  &quot;Then  why  don't  you  leave  it?  Why  do  you  stay?  You  say  yourself  there's  no  need.  And  you're  nearly  sixty.  In  another  year  or  two,  it  will  betoo  late.&quot;  As  our  friend  Grain,  the  tea  man,  says,  Nell  is  a  headlong  woman;  it's  no  good  telling  her.  &quot;Women,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;are  the  everlasting  Bourbons  of  the  world.  'They  never  forget  anything  and  they  never  learn.  All  the  experience  in  the  world  is  no  good  to  'em.  They  start  new  from  the  beginning  every  day.&quot;  We  had  to  agree  that  this  was  true-  of  Nell,  at  least.  But  we  excused  her.  She  was  so  devoted.  She  had  that  special  devotion  seen  only  in  childless  wives.  Ned  was  her  child,  her  only  one,  as  well  as  her  husband,  and  for  years  she  had  complained  that  she  never  saw  the  real  Ned.  Before  work,  he  was  simply  a  concentrated  train  catcher  in  such  a  fury  at  the  timetable  that  he  would  not  speak  to  her,  and  at  night  he  came  back  so  tired  that  he  would  say  at  the  very  door,  &quot;For  God's  sake,  don't  tell  me  things-I'm  all  in.&quot;  When  Nell  spoke  of  retirement,  he  would  ariswer,  to  our  alarm,  &quot;Yes,  why  don't  I  chuck  my  hand  in?  Why  don't  I  put  my  damned  umbrella  through  that  damned  old  station  clock?  I  tell  you  why-because  I've  lost  my  guts.  Because  I've  mothing  left  inside  but  a  comptometer  and  a  lot  of  ticker  tape.  And  what's  it  all  for?  The  City  is  just  a  habit-a  bad  habit.  And  not  so  good  as  dope.  That  makes  you  feel  good  for  a  minute  or  two.  You  get  something  for  your  bargain.&quot;  And  he  swore  he  would  leave  that  half  year.  But  when,  year  after  year,  he  was  still  cursing  the  City,  that  old  vampire,  still  swearing  this  was  his  last  month,  and  still  catching  the  nine-twenty  from  Wimbledon  every  morning,  we  stopped  being  alarmed.  We  smiled  when  Nell  said,  &quot;Ned  is  longing  to  go,  but  he's  had  such  bad  luck.  Always  some  new  crisis  at  the  office.  It's  absolutely  ex-  traordinary.&quot;  Grain  remarked  dryly  that  all  of-  fices,  and  especially  offices  of  commodi-  ty  men,  like  us,  were  extraordinary  in  this  way.  But  Nell  assured  us  that  Ned's  office  was  quite  a  special  case.  Ned  had  never  known  such  a  lot  of  trouble,  what  with  the  change  of  government  and  the  wild  behavior  of  commodities.  &quot;I've  never  known  a  tame  one,&quot;  Grain  said.  &quot;My  God,  Ned  and  his  copper!  I  wish  I  could  shut  him  in  a  cage  for  an  hour  or  two  with  tea.  He'd  know  something  about  commodities  then-if  he  came  out  alive.&quot;  Then,  one  morning,  a  very  wet  morning,  during  a  bus  strike,  Ned  re-  signed.  He  gave  six  months'  notice,  ac-  cording  to  his  contract,  though  he  first  said  he  would  not  stay  another  hour.  The  partners,  sons  of  the  man  who  had  started  the  firm,  with  Ned's  able  assistance,  were  much  disturbed.  Ned  had  practically  run  Ackbee  Electrical  since  old  Ackbee  died,  just  before  the  Second  World  War.  He  had  kept  it  going  during  the  war  and  reconstructed  it  afterwards.  They  said  they  had  not  expected  their  managing  director  to  leave  them  at  sixty-two.  They  begged  him  to  reconsider;  he  was  indispensable,  at  least  for  another  five  years,  until  the  new  overseas  branches  were  in  full  operation.  They  even  went  to  Nell,  and  begged  her  to  use  her  influence.  Money  was  no  object.  They  would  give  Ned  anything  he  asked  for,  on  top  of  his  directorship.  But  Nell  laughed  at  them.  She  had  nev-  er  liked  the  Ackbee  brothers.  She  con-  sidered  thatthey  had  exploited  Ned.  And  she  was  already  looking  for  a  country  cottage.  All  she  and  Ned  want-  ed,  she  said,  was  a  simple  little  place  with  electricity  and  water,  in  an  es-  tablished  garden  with  some  good  trees  and  a  southern  slope.  Both  Ned  and  Nell  were  keen  gardeners;  that  is  to  say,  Nell  would  work  at  their  patch  all  the  week,  and  on  Sundays  Ned  would  criticize  it  and  tell  her  how  much  better  it  would  be  if  it  were  twice  the  size  and  had  better  soil.  And  if  he  could  work  it  himself.  Nell  had  to  have  a  good  garden,  for  Ned's  sake.  But  she  was  not  particular  about  the  house,  except  that  Ned  could  not  bear  Tudor  or  Queen  Anne  and  she  hated  modern.  All  they  wanted  was  a  quiet  little  place  without  any  fake  or  phony  and  with  no  suggestion  whatever  of  a  city  land  agency's  window,  a  tour-  ist  folder,  or  an  architects'  re-  view.  It  must  look,  according  to  Ned,  as  if  it  had  grown  there,  among  the  flowers,  as  if  its  bricks  and  tiles  were  made  of  garden  earth.  It  must  be  mature,  of  course,  but  a  hun-  dred  years  old  would  be  enough.  And  it  must  be  in  first-class  order.  An  old  house  in  bad  order  can  ruin  a  char-" b"tered  accountant.  Yes,  and  perhaps  a  little  glass,  but  no  view  unless  it  was  absolutely  unspoilable-over  the  Green  Belt,  or  National  Trust  land.  And,  oh,  yes,  it  must  be  within  ten  miles  of  town,  for  Covent  Garden.  Nell  wanted  her  operas.  We  told  each  other  the  tale  at  the  golf  club  and  laughed  about  Nell.  We  agreed  that  this  catalogue  was  just  like  Nell;  she  always  demanded  the  earth,  especially  for  Ned.  Grain  took  a  deeper,  more  subtle  view.  Had  Ned  got  cold  feet  and  set  Nell  on  an  impossible  quest?  &quot;We've  got  to  remember  Ned  will  never  admit  he's  made  a  mistake.  This  house  hunt  is  a  get-out.&quot;  We  agreed  that  there  was  something  in  this.  Nell  would  never  find  a  place  to  suit  them  both-not  in  Ned's  life-  time.  We  all  knew  something  about  house  hunting,  especially  for  simple  lit-  tle  places,  in  good  order.  EVERAL  months  went  by.  Nell  had  not  found  her  simple  little  place.  She  was  desperate,  and  amazed.  &quot;It's  absolutely  extraordinary,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;what  people,  quite  nice  people,  will  put  in  advertisements  about  houses.  You  wouldn't  believe  it.  I  went  forty  miles  yesterday  to  see  what  they  called  a  little  gem,  just  redecorated,  all  con-  veniences,  in  a  large  garden  with  a  view  over  the  Thames  valley.  And  do  you  know  what  it  was?&quot;  We  couldn't  imagine.  But  we  had  difficulty  in  af-  fecting  surprise  whenwe  heard  that  the  little  gem  had  twenty-five  rooms,  in  Victorian  Gothic,  and  that  it  over-  looked  a  gasworks  and  backedon  a  goods  yard.  She  did  find  a  nice  little  house,  in  a  builder's  yard;  and  she  also  saw  a  won-  derful  garden,  with  what  was  called  a  gentleman's  desirable  residence,  which  turned  out  to  be  a  wooden  shack  attached  to  an  enormous  vinery,  rotten  as  a  sleepy  pear.  The  six  months  were  up.  There  was  no  house  to  go  to,  and  Ned  asked  what  the  hell  a  man  was  to  do  in  this  goddam  century.  There  was  no  place  left  for  aChristian  to  have  some  peace.  He  supposed  the  idea  was  that  the  goddam  City  had  got  himand  didn't  mean  to  let  go  till  it  had  sucked  the  last  drop  of  his  blood.  But  he'd  show  it.  And  he  told  the  worried  young  partners,  nei-  ther  of  them  much  over  forty,  that  he  couldonly  stay  from  month  to  month  until  his  arrangements  were  made.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  you've  had  four-fifths  of  my  life  and  I  want  a  fraction  for  myself-just  to  feel  what  real  life  is  like.&quot;  He  was  much  excited  by  his  own  boldness  of  decision.  &quot;I'm  sorry  to  let  those  chaps  down,&quot;  he  told  us,  &quot;but  damn  it  all,  it's  now  or  never  for  me.  And  what  was  I  born  for?  What  have  I  got  to  show  for  my  life?  A  lot  of  dirty  paper.  No,  I  want  to  do  something,  create  something,  if  it's  only  a  rockery.  I  have  ideas  about  rockeries.&quot;  And  he  pulled  out  an  advertisement  about  gar-  den  stonework  and  alpines.  He  wanted  us  to  say  &quot;Wonderful,&quot;  but  we  were  too  worried.  Things  were  rather  dicky  in  the  markets  just  then-we  would  miss  Ned  and  his  enthusiasms,  his  feuds,  especially  his  rage  against  theCity.  UT  six  months  later  he  was  still  the  prop  of  Ackbee's.  And  his  retire-  ment  had  become  a  joke.  Nell  was  still  looking.  She  had  discovered,  indeed,  a  very  nice  place,  with  a  good  house  and  garden,  in  a  pretty  valley  with  no  view  except  of  fine  trees.Its  only  fault  was  that  it  was  sixty  miles  from  town  and  rather  expensive.  Ned  would  not  dream  of  it.  &quot;It's  not  the  money;  it's  the  dis-  tance  and  the  train  service,&quot;  he  saidto  us  one  day  at  the  golf  club.  &quot;I'm  not  go-  ing  to  let  Nell  cut  herself  off  from  her  music.  She'd  wither  away-she'd  be  impossible  to  live  with.  Nell  needs  W  ag-  ner  as  a  cow  needs  oil  cake.  No,  no,  no-ten  miles  from  town  is  the  limit.&quot;  &quot;What  did  I  tell  you?&quot;  Grain  asked  us  after  Ned  had  gone,  and  though  we  did  not  want  to  acknowledge  his  superi-  or  acuteness,  we  had  to  agree  that  he  had  been  right.  After  that,  jokes  were  made  about  Ned's  plans  even  in  his  own     " b"hearing.  He  was  asked  if  he  had  or-  dered  the  rock  for  that  rock  garden;  rocks  were  going  up  every  day.  Ned  would  smile  at  this  or  simply  contradict.  Rocks  were  still  cheap  if  you  knew  the  right  man.  Then,  one  afternoon,  we  had  a  large  party  at  the  golf  club.  There  was  a  lot  of  chaff  before  lunch.  Some  stockbrokers  had  joined  us  in  the  bar  and  were  in  a  rollicking  mood.  Commodity  men  like  to  pretend  that  stockbrokers  are  a  frivo-  lous  race  who  never  come  in  contact  with  the  harsh  realities  of  life,  as  one  does,  say,  in  the  corn  or  hide  markets.  This,  of  course,  is  a  trifle  sweeping,  but  it  is  a  fact  that  brokers  do  sometimes,  on  'Change  itself,  indulge  in  horseplay  such  as  would  be  quite  out  of  place  among  potato  merchants,  and  utterly  impossible  among  base-metal  men,  those  Galahads  of  the  High  Quest.  It  must  be  admitted,  too,  that  these  brokers  had  had  a  bad  week  and  were  looking  forward  to  a  worse.  They  were  therefore  full  of  jokes,  of  the  elementary  kind  we  used  to  make  in  the  trenches  of  the  first  war,  be-  fore  a  big  attack.  &quot;Where's  Simpson?&quot;  one  of  them  cried.  &quot;The  great  retirer,&quot;  This  was  a  jobber,  and  he  was  answered  by  a  jobber.  &quot;Retired.&quot;  &quot;My  God.  You  don't  mean  it?  Hold  me  up.&quot;  &quot;For  the  moment,&quot;  said  the  other,  a  little  dried-up  fellow  who,  they  say,  has  been  in  the  City  since  theJubilee  of  '97.  The  first  one,  a  bald,  fat  fellowof  about  sixty,  notoriously  facing  bank-  ruptcy,tipped  the  second  one's  cap  off  and  shouted,  &quot;Forward,  the  Reds!&quot;  The  rest  at  once  joined  in  with  shouts  of  &quot;Up,  the  Arsenal!,&quot;  &quot;Manchester  United!,&quot;  and  played  football  with  the  cap,  so  that  when  Ned  came  into  the  room  he  could  not  get  at  the  bar.  &quot;&quot;Hi,&quot;  he  called,  &quot;this  isn't  'Change.&quot;  The  fat  jobber  kicked  the  cap  out  of  the  window  and  shouted,  &quot;Goal!&quot;  There  were  yells  of  &quot;Foul&quot;  and  &quot;Off-  side,&quot;  and  someone  blew  a  whistle.  Ned  had  now  got  to  the  bar  and  was  brooding  over  a  double  whiskey;  he  growled  to  me,  &quot;Look  at  Fatty-do  you  know  he's  got  a  heart?  He  might  drop  dead  any  minute.&quot;  I  said  perhaps  that  was  what  he  wanted.  The  crowd  of  brokers,  having  argued  for  two  minutes  and  proposed  throwing  the  little  old  man  out  of  the  window  to  find  his  cap,  closed  in  for  drinks.  The  bald  one,  crimson,  and  panting  for  breath  so  that  he  could  hardly  speak,  slapped  Ned  hard  on  the  back  and  croaked,  &quot;The  copper  king  is  offended  by  the  dead-end  kids.&quot;  \xc2\xab''To  hell  with  copper,&quot;  Ned  said,  &quot;and  you  too.&quot;  &quot;'That's  where  we  live,&quot;  said  the  lit-  tle  man,  laughing,  and  showing  a  row  of  china  teeth  like  tombstones.  &quot;But  it's  been  a  bit  hot  this  month.&quot;  &quot;Five  to  one,&quot;  gasped  the  fat  man,  &quot;that  Ned  Simpson  is  here  next  year,  and  still  retiring.  In  quids.&quot;  Ned  was  astonished.  He  turned  red.  &quot;What  the  hell  do  you  mean?&quot;  Then,  suddenly  understanding  the  chap,  he  said,  ''Taken.  Where's  your  fiver?&quot;  &quot;No,  old  boy,&quot;  the  fat  man  said.  &quot;Not  till  you've  retired.  I  mean  really  retired.  Gone.  Skedaddled.  Vanished.  Left  the  City.&quot;  Ned  said  to  the  barman,  &quot;Tom,  put  it  down.  If  I'm  still  at  Ackbee's  at  the  end  of  another  year,  I  pay  Mr.  James  onepound.  And  if  not,  he  pays  me  five.&quot;  We  were  all  quiet  now.  We  realized  the  possible  consequences  of  such  a  chal-  lenge.  Even  the  jobber  was  quiet  for  a moment.  But,  asI  say,  he  was  in  a  don't-care  mood.  He  didn't  cry  off.  And,  in  fact,  he  nearly  won.  It  wasn't  for  another  eleven  months  that  Ned  left  Ackbee's.  One  of  the  partners  had  been  ill,  and  the  other  got  married.  In  sheer  decency,  Ned  explained,  he  had  to  stand  by  the  firm  in  these  difficult  circum-  stances.  But  the  bet  had  sunk  home.  He  kept  cursing  at  that  jobber,  even  after  the  man  went  broke  that  autumn,  and  took  too  much  sleeping  pill  about  a  week  later.  Ned  subscribed  for  the  widow,  but  declared  that  he  would  claim  the  bet  from  the  fund.  Of  course,  he  did  not  do  so.  But  Grain  was  convinced  that  he  had  retired  simply  to  score  off  that  brash  jobber.  &quot;And  that's  pretty  stupid-to  commit  suicide  because  another  suicide  has  chal-  lenged  you  to  do  it.  Because  it  is  suicide.  You'll  see.  Ned  won't  last  two  years  in  retirement.&quot;  Grain,  a  bluff,  honest  fellow  without  much  tact-who,  I  think,  rather  de-  spises  tact-told  Ned  himself,  after  a  business  lunch  at  the  Savoy,  one  of  those  nice,  regardless  lunches  you  get  on  an  expense  account,  that  he  was  a  fool.  He  was  making  theold  mistake  of  all  such  fools.  &quot;If  anyone  was  ever  City,  Ned,  you're  City.  Back,  belly,  and  sides.  The  only  flowers  you  really  care  about  are  stocks.  Your  finest  view  is  St.  Paul's,  your  native  heath  is  the  pavement,  and  your  proper  atmosphere  is  smog.  Coun-  try  air  and  oxygen  will  rot  your  lungs  in  a  year,  and  as  for  peace  and  quiet,  you  will  lie  awake  all  night  praying  to  hear  one  lorry-only  one  heavy  lorry-  change  gear  only  once  and  tell  you  that  there's  still  some  business  goingon  somewhere.&quot;  This  was  within  a  week  of  Ned's  re-     " b"tiring  date.  It's  not  surprising  that  Ned,  who  loves  good  eating  and  drinking  and  who  was  savoring  his  cigar  and  his  brandy,  glared  furiously  at  his  old  friend  during  this  speech.  Then,  all  at  once,  his  brow  cleared.  The  cigar,  the  brandy  were  having  the  right  effect,  the  effect  they  are  meant  to  have  at  a  business  lunch.  And  he  answered  mildly,  &quot;Pl  see  you  all  underground  in  your  smog.&quot;  CTUALLY,  Ned  stayed  three  weeks  beyond  the  date  fixed.  There  was  an  unexpected  crisis.  A  creditor  defaulted.  'The  firm  that  was  buildingthe  [REDACTED]  German  branch  had  a  quarrel  with  the  local  council  and  threw  up  the  contract.  'The  Ackbees,  in  a  panic,  appealed  to  Ned,  and  he  went  on  a  tour  of  all  the  branches  to  make  a  general  report  on  progress  and  pros-  pects.  In  that  same  month,  Nell  found  the  ideal  place.  It  had  not  been  advertised  at  all.  It  belonged  to  an  old  lady  who  was  going  to  retire;  that  is  to  say,  to  live  in  an  hotel.  She  had  vaguely  thought  of  shutting  up  her  cottage,  and  meanwhile  gave  her  housekeeper  notice.  The  house-  keeper  had  a  sister  in  a  shoeshop  where  Nell  took  Ned's  shoes  to  be  mended.  And  the  sister  heard  Nell  say  to  the  pro-  prietress  that  perhaps  she  would  not  be  leaving  the  neighborhood  that  Septem-  ber,  as  she  couldnot  find  a  house  in  the  country.  The  sister  said  nothing  till  Nell  had  gone  home.  She  was  a  woman  of  slow  reactions.  But  the  proprietress  happened  to  meet  Nell  in  a  fish  shop  and  told  her  of  the  cottage.  Nell  drove  down  at  once.  And  the  place  was  almost  exactly  what  she  had,  so  wildly,  demanded-a  sober  box  of  a  house,  built  about  1840,  like  any  estate  cottage  of  that  time,  white-     washed  brick,  with  a  narrow  entrance  passage  thrown  into  the  parlor  to  make  a  hall,  and  a  patched-on  living  room  at  one  end  opening  on  the  garden.  A  mod-  est  house  that  said  only,  &quot;I  have  no  pre-  tensions,  I  am  here  to  be  used-a  place  simply  for  shelter  and  warmth.&quot;  A  house  like  a  faithful  cook.  And  all  in  perfect  order-rich  old  lady's  order.  An  ancient  glasshouse  built  against  the  kitchen  wall,  so  that  it  need-  ed  no  heat,  had  just  been  completely  restored.  The  old  lady  did  not  grow  pot  plants,  but  she  liked  to  take  breakfast  in  the  sun.  Nell  hesitated  when  she  found  that  the  magnificent  view  was  not,  as  the  old  lady  had  said,  over  the  Green  Belt  but  over  a  ducal  estate,  one  of  the  finest  in  the  country,  and  therefore  almost  cer-  tain  to  be  cut  to  pieces  and  turned  into  building  land  as  soon  as  the  duke  died  and  the  Treasury  took  its  eighty  per  cent  of  his  property.  And  the  duke  was  eighty.  But  Ned,  when  he  saw  the  garden,  the  southern  slope,  the  rich,  deep  earth  in  the  borders,  clinched  the  deal.  Nell  was  a  donkey,  he  said;  she  never  knew  when  she  was  well  off.  To  hell  with  safe  views.  No  view  was  safe  in  this  world.  Your  Green  Belts  were  flytraps.  The  damned  old  spiderof  a  government  was  always  hovering  around  ready  to  tie  you  up  in  a  fever  hospital  or  an  airdrome  at  any  moment.  Governments  love  to  break  the  law-it  makes  them  feel  good,  it  makes  them  feel  like  somebody.  And  that's  what  all  governments  were  after.  He  hurled  himself  into  planning,  digging,  planting  before  the  carpets  were  down.  And  that  autumn,  winter,  and  spring,  he  and  Nell  might  have  re-  tired  to  Kamchatka  for  all  we  knew  of    them.  They  did  not  even  fulfill  a  prom-  ise  to  ask  us  to  stay  with  them.  They  did  not  answer  invitations.  Someone  saw  Nell  at  &quot;Gotterdimmerung,&quot;  bliss-  fully  asleep  in  a  stall.  But  I  did  not  set  eyes  on  her  for  a  whole  year-not  till  the  next  May,  when  I  ran  upon  her,  with  sunburned  cheeks  and  shiny  crim-  son  nose,  coming  out  of  a  store  in  Vic-  toria  Street.  She  had  been  inspecting  a  new  motor  mower.  Nell  had  been  a  smart-looking  woman;  Ned  liked  her  to  dress  well.  Now  she  was  wearing  a  broken  felt  hat,  a  corduroy  skirt  bagged  at  the  knees,  and  an  old  tweed  coatthat  might  have  been  Ned's  oldest.  She  looked  like  someone  playing  the  coun-  try  duchess,  except  that  she  was  obvious-  ly  indifferent  not  only  to  her  appearance  but  to  her  situation.  She  was  not  flaunt  ing  country  clothes  in  town;  she  was  treating  town  as  a  country  capital  where  one  went  to  buy  agricultural  machinery.  She  beamed  upon  me  and  apologized  for  not  answering  my  last  letter.  'They  had  been  so  busy.  'They  simply  worked  all  day,  and  at  night  they  were  too  tired  to  write  letters,  Ned  often  fell  asleep  in  his  chair.  What  a  marvellous  life!  How  wonderfully  lucky  they  had  been  in  that  place!  It  was  perfect-perfect.  And  Ned  was  planning  an  orchard-their  own  fruit,  the  latest  bush  apples.  After  all,  as  Ned  said,  he  could  count  on  ten  or  fifteen  years,  so  why  not  grow  trees?  Even  infive  he  would  have  apples  for  market,  enough  to  pay  for  the  garden.  That  day,  and  the  time  at  the  opera,  were  the  only  times  any  of  us  saw  Nell.  And  we  did  not  see  Ned  at  all  till  the  next  winter.  He  had  a  touch  of  ar-  thritis  and  came  up  twice  a  week  for  massage.  Luckily,  he  said,  it  was  a  slack  time  in  the  garden.  And  all  his  new  apple  trees  were  in.  He  and  Nell  were  " b"having  a  bit  of  a  rest  and,  by  Jove,  they'd  earned  it.  Yes,  he  would  have  just  time  to  come  in  for  lunch  at  my  club  in  town  and  meetsome  of  the  crowd.  In  fact,  it  became  a  regular  thing  to  lunch  with  Ned  twice  a  week  at  the  club.  Ned  obviously  looked  forward  to  it.  He  liked  to  tell  us  how  wonderful,  how  exceptional  his  masseur  was;he  would  shake  his  head  over  the  price  of  zinc  and  copper,  and  let  us  know  in  confidence  that  he  had  bad  news  of  the  firm.  These  young  chaps  were  do-  ing  everything  wrong,  taking  fearful  chances.  He  understood  they  were  deep  in  the  red  already.  Typical  of  the  young-they  never  follow  advice.  When  he  had  gone,  Grain  would  say,  &quot;He's  hankering.  He's  sick  of  his  damned  apple  trees,  now  they're  in.  Nothing  to  do  but  watch  'em  grow.  The  trouble  is  Ned  will  never  admit  he's  tired  of  retiring.&quot;  The  rest  ofus  did  not  give  much  at-  tention  to  Grain's  wisdom.  There  was  a  bit  of  a  crisis  on.  My  own  firm,  which  had  gone  rather  too  deep  into  cement  just  before  the  '45  election,  was  now  trying  to  hedge  on  bricks.  And  the  financial  outlook  generally  did  not  help.  It  was  distinctly  gloomy.  BUT  though  things  were  no  better  the  next  winter,  we  were  rather  struck  to  hear  that  Ned's  country  place  was  up  for  sale.  The  garden  was  too  big  for  him  in  his  bad  state  of  health.  It  appeared  that  he  had  been  taking  a  cure-a  series  of  injections-without  any  good  results.  Nell  suddenly  turned  up  in  a  small  hotel  in  the  City.  She  called  me,  and  we  had  a  conference-  one  of  those  long,  serious  conferences  that  Nell  had  always  held  with  Ned's  friends,  about  Ned's  troubles.  &quot;It's  ex-  traordinary,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;how  he's  changed.  Lost  all  his  energy-takes  no  interest  even  in  the  new  trees.  And  I  can't  persuade  him  to  go  to  a  specialist.  He  should  have  an  X-ray-not  that  it  could  be  anything  serious.&quot;  We  skirted  round  this  dangerous  sub-  ject.  Of  course,  I  said,  X-ray  was  sim-  ply  routine  nowadays.  'Yes,  of  course,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  if  I  told  Ned  that,  he'd  suspect  something.  He's  so  extraordinarily  quick  he'd  go  up  in  the  air.  He'd  think  me  crazy.&quot;  It  was  pathetic  to  see  her  worry.  Like  all  women  in  such  a  place,  she  was  sus-  pecting  cancer,  because  that  was  the  biggest  disaster  she  could  imagine.  And  that  was  why  she  could  not  mention  it  as  a  possibility  and  why  I  had  to  suggest  every  other  possibility,  such  as  sup-  pressed  flu  or  a  virus  infection.  I  did  not  know  if  there  was  such  a  thing  as  sup-  pressed  flu,  but  Nell  jumped  at  it.  Ned  hadhad  several  bad  colds,  and  he  was,  by  nature,a  very  strong  man.  If  he  had  flu,  his  constitution  would  certainly  sup-  press  it.  And,  as  everyone  knew,  sup-  pressed  flu  could  turn  to  anything-ab-  solutely  anything.  &quot;But  if  you  want  him  to  have  an  X-ray,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;the  best  thing  to  sug-  gest  would  bea  painless  ulcer.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  have  a  painless  ulcer?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  see  why  not.  If  your  local  G.P.  agrees.  And  I  think  he  would.&quot;  &quot;You  do  notice  that  Ned  is  not  him-  self?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  I  noticed  he  was  a  bit  piano.  But  of  course  Ned  has  always  been  up  and  down.  He  goes  in  for  everything  with  so  much  enthusiasm.&quot;  Nell  did  not  smile.  But  she  warmly  agreed  about  Ned's  going  up  and  down.  She  went  away  clinging  to  this  idea,  yet  determined  to  arrange  the  X-ray.  In  fact,  all  of  us  were  alarmed.  Ned  had  suddenly  become  an  old  man,  tottering  about  with  a  stick,  groaning  about  the  weather.  Nell  sold  most  of  her  very  good  and  much  cherished  furniture,  and  took  a  minute  two-room  service  flat  in  a  vast  warren  near  [REDACTED].  She  and  Ned  couldn't  afford  anything  better.  The  ideal  property  had  fetched  a  miserable  price  on  resale,  because  the  bill  dis-  counter  who  had  bought  it-retiring  to  die  there  of  thrombosis  and  ulcers-dis-  covered  by  divination  that  the  roof  was  full  of  dry  rot.  It  was  a  marvel  it  had  not  fallen  on  Ned's  head.  Old  ladies  don't  worry  about  roofs,  and  the  sur-  veyor  employed  by  Ned  to  report  on  the  place  had*  not,  apparently,  worried  much  either.  He  was  not  buying,  and  besides,  his  torch  lamp  had  failed  before  hereached  the  roof.  Ned  said  only,  &quot;My  own  fault-  never  trust  an  expert.&quot;  Which  meant  that  it  was  not  his  fault.  It  was  the  fault  of  a  world  run  by  slapstick  authorities.  But  Nell  was  haggard  with  guilt.  &quot;I  really  ought  to  have  been  more  care-  ful.  I  was  too  keen  to  get  Ned  settled.&quot;  'She  was  indeed,&quot;  Grain  said  later.  &quot;And  she's  pretty  well  settled  him  for  good.&quot;  Grain  never  actually  said  to  Ned,  &quot;I  told  you  so,&quot;  but  one  day  at  the  club  he  looked  it.  Luckily,  Ned  was  so  de-  pressed  and  so  ill  that  he  did  not  even  notice  his  old  friend's  looks,.  Instead,  he  said  with  amazement,  &quot;Really,  I  have  the  damnedest  luck,  to  get  ill  like  this  the  moment  Iretire.&quot;  &quot;It's  been  noticed  before,&quot;  Grain  said.  &quot;What's  been  noticed?&quot;  &quot;That  men  who  retire  get  these  mysterious  illnesses  and  go  to  pieces.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that  old  tale,&quot;  Ned  said.  &quot;Of  course  they  do,  and  serve  'em  right  if  they  don't  face  the  facts.  A  chap  wants  a  purpose  in  life-a  r\xc3\xa9al  job.&quot;  We  were  all  silent  for  a  moment,  partly  appalled  by  Grain's  remark,  part-  ly  at  a  loss  to  retrieve  it.  And  Ned,  per-  haps  noticing  the  embarrassment  and  grasping  what  it  meant,  said  in  a  mild  tone,  &quot;But  my  illness  isn't  mysterious,  Bob.  I've  got  arthritis.  And  they're  be-  ginning  to  know  something  about  ar-  thritis.  I  really  think  these  injections  are  doing  some  good.&quot;  In  fact,  Ned  soon  began  picking  up.  Nell  had  failed  to  contrive  the  X-ray,  but  now  even  she  felt  that  there  was  no  necessity  for  it.  Ned  was  putting  on  weight,  and  his  language  about  the  gov-  ernment  was  so  bad  that  it  was  an  em-  barrassment  to  have  him  at  the  club.     " b"We  had  several  junior  Ministers  about  since  the  last  election,  anxious  to  know  what  really  makes  the  world  go  round  and  round.  But,  of  course,  Ned  was  there  almost  every  day  now.  He  had  nothing  else  to  do  and  nowhere  else  where  he  could  get  what  he  called  sensi-  ble  conversation.  T  was  a  piece  of  luck  when  he  met  an  old  school  friend  in  the  train  who  was  a  volunteer  helper  at  the  European  Consolidated  Welfare  Central  Office.  It  appeared  that  there  was  a  great  rush  of  work  there,  on  account  of  earth-  quakes  in  [REDACTED]  and  floods  in  4974616c79,  a  wave  of  refugees  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  drought  in  537061696e.  The  job  was  unpaid,  but  it  was  only  for  two  hours  a  morning,  and  you  could  always  stop  if  you  liked.  Ned,  who  speaks  Spanish  and  writes  German,  agreed,  on  these  terms,  to  do  some  translating  three  days  a  week,  and  went  along.  He  continued  to  go  along  while  the  rush  lasted.  Four  old  gentle-  men  handled  correspondence  in  Ger-  man,  French,  Italian,  Finnish,  Danish,  Turkish,  Spanish,  Greek,  and  Armeni-  an.  They  sat  in  an  unheated  cellar  with  rugs  round  their  feet.  &quot;It's  a  scandal,&quot;  Ned  said,  &quot;but  there's  no  doubt  about  the  rush.  And  next  month  I'll  have  a  holiday.  4974616c79  this  time.  Never  seen  the  Italian  gar-  dens.  Fountains-we've  never  done  enough  with  fountains  in  England.&quot;  But  next  month,  by  some  extraordi-  nary  chance,  the  rush  was  worse  than  ever.  There  were  earthquakes  in  4974616c79,  a  drought  in  [REDACTED],  locusts  in  537061696e,  floods  in  [REDACTED],  and  a  new  wave  of  refugees  from  [REDACTED].  Ned  was  in  charge  of  his  room,  and  spent  every  morning  there.  He  had  recruited  a  lieutenant  colonel  of  engineers  who  understood  files,  and  an  ex-undersecre-  taryof  mines  who  knew  a  little  Italian  and  made  excellent  coffee.  Also,  they  had  put  down  a  worn  but  still  entire  rubber  carpet  in  the  cellar,  procured  by  the  colonel  from  the  anteroom  of  his  old  mess,  by  collusion  with  the  quartermas-  ter.  All  were  sworn  to  secrecy  about  this,  but  it  was  a  popular  story  in  the  service  clubs.  Ned  was  getting  very  lame  again,  and  this  attack  did  not  seem  to  yield  to  treatment.  Nell,  bold  as  a  tigress  who  sees  her  cub  in  danger,  went  to  the  Ackbee  firm  and  proposed  they  should  take  Ned  back.  She  would  guarantee  that  her  influence  would  be  decisive  with  him;  he  was  reading  the  metal-  market  review  every  day  at  breakfast.  The  Ackbees  were  alarmed  at  the  very  suggestion.  They  were  polite  but  they  made  it  plain  they  had  no  room  for  Ned-not  at  any  price.  In  fact,  the  young  men,  having  started  on  their  own  policy,  however  reckless,  were  going  to  carry  it  through.  They  were  enjoying  themselves,  and  to  hell  with  experience.  If  they  did  crash,  well,  they  would  have  had  a  go.  And  a  crash  nowadays  is  not  the  end  of  everything.  It  is  often  the  beginning  of  a  merger  and  of  ex-  panded  operations.  That  was  a  year  ago.  Ned  is  now  a  head  of  department  at  the  European  Center.  He  has  all  southern  Europe  on  his  shoulders.  He  catches  the  eight-ten  every  morning,  which  is  an  hour  earlier  than  his  old  morning  train  from  Wim-  bledon,  and  he  limps  home,  more  dead  than  alive,  about  seven,  to  be  cherished  and  nursed  into  bed,  by  a  wife  who  dares  not  open  her  lips.  His  work  is  exhausting,  an  endless  worry;  he  curses  it.  His  amateur  help-  ers  are  keen  but  not  very  competent,  and  they  insist  on  taking  sudden  holidays  at  short  notice.  He  himself  refuseda  holiday  altogether,  saying  he  couldn't  afford  to  be  away.  Things  would  get  out  of  hand  and  he  would  never  get  them  straight  again.  Nell  and  the  doctor  intervened.  So  he  took  a  fortnight,  in  June,  and  with  Nell  made  a  tour  of  Italian  gardens.  I     " b"was  in  Rome  with  my  wife  when  they  arrived  there,  and  we  arranged  to  visit  [REDACTED]  with  them.  Later,  Ned  phoned  that  they  would  meet  us  in  [REDACTED];  they  had  to  make  an  earlystart  because  they  were  flying  to  Milan  in  the  after-  noon.  This  is  how  we  happened  to  see  them  in  [REDACTED]  walking  hand  in  hand  along  the  upper  alley  of  fountains.  We  went  over  to  meet  them,  and  they  looked  startled,  as  if  they  had  notexpected  us-  probably  they  had  forgotten  our  ar-  rangement.  &quot;Isn't  it  marvellous?&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;And  always  more  marvellous  every  time  you  see  it.&quot;  'Yes,  yes.&quot;  Ned  looked  round  at  the  landscapespread  out  below.  'Yes,  marvellous.&quot;  And  you  could  see  him  trying  to  gobble  this  view,  to  possess  it,  in  thirty  seconds.  He  looked  at  his  watch,  then  at  the  fountains-the  hun-  a  -  &amp;  f  dreds  of  fountains,  running,  turning,  springing,  doing  everything  with  water  that  can  be  done-and  then  again  at  his  watch.  &quot;Oh,  Ned,  but  we  needn't  go  yet,&quot;  Nell  said.  &quot;?Fraid  so,  darling.  It's  going  to  be  a  rush  as  it  is.  And  you  know  how  you  hate  a  rush.&quot;  They  made  their  apologies  and  went  off,  limping  together.  For  Nell,  as  she  supported  Ned,  was  swaying  with  him.  She  was  clinging  too  tight.  They  had  only  four  more  days,  and  this  was  all  Ned  would  get  before  Christmas.  Ned  shifted  his  stick  to  look  at  his  watch  again,  and  put  on  the  pace.  His  limp  became  a  kind  of  grotesquedance,  in  which  Nell  was  obliged  to  join.  OW  Nell  does  not  complain  that  she  sees  only  a  cross  husband  all  the  working  year  and  that  her  holidays     are  a  fever;  she  is  too  pleased  to  see  Ned  well,  For  he  eats  like  a  shark  and  sleeps  like  a  log.  Grain  delights  in  what  he  calls  his  cautionary  tale.  And  we  were  inclined  to  agree  that  he  had  been  wise  in  fore-  seeing  the  event.  Then  somehow  it  reached  Nell  and  she  was  very  angry.  One  day  in  the  ladies'  annex  at  my  club  she  tackled  Grain.  She  said  that  it  was  all  nonsense  about  Ned  getting  bored  in  his  retirement.  He'd  never  been  bored  in  his  life.  What  happened  was  that  he  got  ill.  He  got  arthritis.  Perhaps  that  was  due  to  the  change  from  a  cen-  trally  heated  house  to  a  rather  damp  cottage,  but  it  wasn't  Ned's  fault.  Grain  said,  &quot;Yes,  of  course.  It  was  a  specialcase,  not  at  all  typical.&quot;  But  he  said  it  in  such  a  way  as  to  show  us  that  he  was  not  by  any  means  repentant.  And  when  Nell  went  away  at  last,  with  my  wife,  to  their  concert,  he  explained  to  us  that  arthritis  can  bea  nervous  disease.  We  were  silent.  Nell,  after  all,  had  spoken  the  truth,.  Ned  is  not  a  man  to  get  bored  even  with  young  apple  trees.  The  whole  affair,  in  fact,  now  we  really  looked  at  it,  appeared  rather  compli-  cated  and  confusing.  And  the  more  you  thought  of  Ned  and  Nell,  the  more  mysterious  it  became.  It  was  really  im-  possible,  we  agreed,  to  come  to  any  definite  conclusion.  Is  Ned  really,  as  Grain  says,  so  City  that  he  can't  live  anywhere  else?  And  yet  hates  the  City.  Almost  all  real  City  men  do  hate  the  City.  They  hate  and  they  love.  And  then,  one  might  not  be  bored  in  retirement,  but  one  might,  all  the  same,  suffer  some  unexpected  de-  generation,  like  an  old  horse  that  is  taken  to  the  next  county  for  a  change  of  grass.  'There  were  thousands  of  possi-  bilities.  Besides,  though  Grain  treats  us  all  as  if  he  were  our  oldest  friend,  we  all  de-  test  him.  He's  bluff  because  he's  con-  ceited  and  he's  conceited  because  he  has  the  cheapest  kind  of  mind-a  reach-me-  down  set  of  ideas.  He  is  never  in  doubt  about  anything  because  he  never  sees  the  insides  of  anything.  He's  a  closed  file.  Neither  is  he  the  man,  like  poor  old  Ned,  to  take  a  chance,  to  bet  his  life,  to  follow  his  dream.  In  short,  as  my  wife  says,  he's  City  to  the  core.  But  we  have  to  remember  that  my  wife  is  prejudiced.  She  wants  me  to  retire.  "