 b"IN  our  provincial  town  of  Meshed,  in   northeastern  4972616e,  near  the  Rus-  sian-Afghan  border,  when  anyone  left  home  it  was  to  visit  relatives  in  some  neighboring  town  or  to  get  married.  To  go  farther  or  for  a  protracted  visit  was  not  done;  the  poor  were  too  poor,  and  the  rich  were  held  by  their  land.  Except  for  my  father,  who  was  at  times  absent  for  two  or  three  days  look-  ing  after  his  land  and  crops,  no  member  of  our  family  could  be  said  even  to  leave  the  house  with  equanimity.  On  those  rare  occasions  when  my  mother  and  my  three  elder  sisters  returned  social  calls  or  went  to  pray  at  the  mosque,  their  de-  parture  was  attended  by  such  a  pitch  of  excitement  that  a  stranger  might  have  supposed  they  were  setting  out  on  a  long  and  hazardous  journey.  My  mother,  flushed  and  tense,  would  glance  around  apprehensively  as  the  time  came  to  set  out,  and,  after  kissing  me  fervently,  she  would  stand  still  for  a  moment,  her  lips  moving  in  a  silent  prayer  that  com-  mended  me  to  God's  protection  during  her  absence.  One  evening  in  1925,  Father  an-  nounced  in  the  presence  of  my  mother,  my  sisters,  and  the  crowd  of  relatives  who  made  a  variable  but  ever  present  fringe  to  our  family  circle  that  he  was  going  to  send  me  to  study  in  Europe.  The  idea  of  sending  sons  to  Europe  to  be  educated  was  not  unheard  of,  but  no  father  in  our  town  had  done  such  a  hing.  At  that  time,  Europe  and  its  marvels  of  progress  were  spoken  of  with  the  awe,  tempered  by  disbelief,  that  the  West  might  have  felt  centuries  earlier  reading  Marco  Polo.  Father  said  that  once  I  had  finished  my  studies  abroad,  the  family's  bread  would  be  &quot;soaked  in  fat,&quot;  and  he  was  not  joking;  he  ex-  pected  a  European  schooling  to  turn  me  first  into  a  genius  and  then  into  a  millionaire.  (And  I  was  no  less  in  earnest  when  I  assured  my  nurse,  later  that  evening,  that  money  was  so  abundant  in  Europe  I  would  have  no  trouble  sending  her  bagfuls  of  it.)  My  mother,  my  sisters,  and  the  crowd  of  relatives  listened  respectfully,  as  they  always  did  when  Father  spoke,  but  neither  their  listening  nor  their  respect  implied  credence.  'They  had  listened  to  no  less  radical  plans  of  his  before-plans  for  laying  a  water  pipe  from  the  mountains  nearby  to  insure  a  permanent  and  profitable  water  supply  for  the  town,  plans  for  importing  Euro-  pean  livestock  to  improve  his  herds,  plans  for  building  a  glass  factory,  be-  cause  imported  glass  was  so  expensive.  Nothing  had  come  of  any  of  these projects.  If  Mother  seemed  alarmed  this  time,  it  was  because  a  notion  was  be-  ing  bandied  about  that  involved  one  of  her  children.  She  interrupted  Father  to  point  out  my  age  (I  was  barely  seven  ),  hoping,  I'm  sure,  that  this  simple  fact  would  expose  the  whole  idea  of  sending  me  to  Europe  forthe  absurdity  it  was.  Her  glances  in  my  direction-glances  of  compassion  enlivened  by  a  dash  of  conspiracy-were  intended  to  reassure  me:  Nothing  of  the  sort  could  happen.  When  Father  persisted  in  expounding  his  plan,  she  listened  calmly,  with  an  indulgent  smile.  'Then  Father  said  that  I  would  be  sent  off  soon,  and  everyone  was  relieved.  The  whole  family  knew  by  instinct  and  long  experience  that  nothing  was  done  soon  in  4972616e,  and  that  most  projects  of  the  magnitude  of  this  one  never  even  reached  the  brink  of  action.  Merely  deliberating  about  the  action  usually  lasted  for  the  rest  of  the  life  of  the  person  contemplating  it.  But  I  believed  blindly  in  Father's  plan,  though  I  knew  less  about  Europe  than  an  American  child  today  knows  about  the  moon.  For  over  a  year,  the  matter  kept  com-  ing  up;  I  was  to  go  next  week,  next  month,  in  a  few  days.  One  morning,  I  heard  my  nurse  calling  me.  I  was  trapping  sparrows  in  our  garden,  and  I  didn't  answer,  for  fear  of  scaring  the  birds.  I  was  hiding  behind  a  green  card-  board  shield,  holding  one  end  of  a  long  string,  the  other  end  of  which  was  fastened  to  a  short  stick  that  propped  up  a  shallow  basket.  Beneath  and  around  the  basket  I  had  just  finished  spreading  crumbs.  After  the  spar-  rows  had  pecked  their  way  to  the  center,  I  was  going  to  pull  the  string  and  trap  them  underneath  the  basket.  When  I  saw  my  nurse  running  up  the  garden  path,  I  motioned  her  to  be  quiet,  but  she  paid  no  attention  to  my  warning.  &quot;Mohamed  Aga!  Mo-  hamed  Aga!&quot;  she  called.  She  flung  her  arms  about  me,  sobbing.  She  wanted  to  tell  me  I  was  leaving  for  Europe.  Today.  Now.  She  held  me  close,  trying,  it  seemed,  to  condense  into  that  desperate  embrace  all  the  affection  she  would  have  lavished  on  me  if  I  had  been  kept  at  home.  She  whispered  bene-  diction  upon  benediction,  as  if  the  sin  of  omitting  a  single  blessing  from  the  Koran  would  pursue  her  forever  and  perhaps  deprive  me  of  divine  protection  on  my  journey.  The  news  that  I  was  to  set  out  for  Europe  failed  to  impress  me.  The  plan  had  been  talked  of  for  so  long,  and  there  had  been  so  many  false  alarms,  that  I  could  not  respond  now  2s  that  the  excitement  had  a  basis  in  fact.  Other  voices-my  mother's  and  sis-  ters'-were  calling.  A  servant  joined  in,  to  warn  me  that  Father  was  already  waiting.  I  was  taken  into  the  house  and  dressed  in  clean  clothes.  Then  I  was  led  out  to  the  gate,  where  my  mother  and  sisters  stood.  Outside,  I  saw  Father  sit-  ting  in  a  droshky.  His  impatient  frown  emphasized  the  lines  and  wrinkles  on  his  face.  After  a  lifetime  of  supervising  his  land  and  crops  on  foot  and  on  horseback,  his  skin  had  a  parched,  leathery  texture,  which  smoothed  and  brightened  when  he  was  elated  and  relapsed  into  ugly,  petulant  lines  when  he  was  annoyed.  The  servants  prodded  each  other  with  whispers  to  hurry  with  the  luggage  and  the  luncheon  basket.  Their  bustle  ceased  when  I  stopped  in  front  of  my  mother.  I  know  that  she  drew  up  my  face  with  both  her  hands  and  kissed  me,  and  that  I  bent  and  kissed  her  hand,  but  whenever  I  try  to  recall  any  other  de-  tails  of  this  parting  from  my  mother,  the  scene  blurs.  I  am  unable  to  recall  anything  except  my  mother's  face-the  face  that,  as  a  child,  I  used  to  watch  for  hours.  Often  I  would  beg  to  be  al-  lowed  to  remain  in  the  salon  with  her,  rather  than  play  in  the  garden.  I  would  sit  quietly  in  a  corner,  my  eyes  on  her  face,  as  if  by  some  compensatory  ar-  rangement  I  was  being  allowed  to  ac-  cumulate  a  store  of  memories-enough  to  last  the  twenty  years  I  was  to  be  parted  from  her.  I  was  still  gazing  at  her  when  my  father's  impatient  shout  broke  over  us.  I  hurriedly  kissed  my  sisters  and  climbed  into  the  droshky.  Father  commanded  thedriver  to  set  off.  I  risked  Father's  displeasure  by  standing  up  and  looking  back  after  my  mother.  My  sisters  were  leading  her  toward  the  garden  gate.  I  saw  that  she  was  sobbing.  Their  draped  and  veiled  forms  were  moving  slowly,  as  if  they  were  return-  ing  from  a  pilgrimage.  HOUGH  I  was  leaving  home,  Father  was  still  beside  me,  and  the  thrill  of  riding  with  him  in  his  droshky  kept  me  from  thinking  about  the  scene  I  had  just  witnessed.  Being  myself  spared  the  full  impact  of  parting,  I  thought  that  my  mother's  grief  at  part-  ing  from  me  was  like  the  outbursts  of  sorrow  and  woe  that  afflicted  her  on  those  occasions  when  the  mullah  came  to  our  house  and  read  from  the  Koran  about  the  tribulations  of  the  Prophet  and  his  caliphs.  During  those  readings,  our  salon  was  crowded  with  female  relatives.  Isat  next  to  my  mother  but  seldom  dared  to  " b"look  at  her  face.  The  sight  of  her  tear-  stained  cheeks  made  me  cry,  too.  I  felt  it  unjust  that  she  was  made  to  equally  with  the  others  in  the  room  for  sorrows  originated  and  be-  queathed  by  caliphs  long  dead.  If  they  had  to  be  held  up  as  examples  of  pre-  cept  and  conduct,  then  Mother-being  nearest  to  perfection-and  not  the  mullah  should  be  their  mouthpiece.  To  me,  religion  and  daily  conduct  were  as  yet  one  and  the  same,  exemplified  in  Mother's  boundless  grace  and  natural  piety,  of  which  I  was  but  one  of  the  beneficiaries.  I  stared  with  resentment  at  the  mullah,  who  perched  on  his  haunches  on  a  special  pillow  in  front  of  us.  Sometimes  his  recital  induced  in  me  a  peculiar  vacancy  of  mind,.  The  passages  he  recited  were  in  the  origi-  nal  Arabic,  which  I  did  not  under-  stand.  Like  most  4972616en  children,  I  had  begun  to  memorize  the  Koran  as  part  of  my  religious  instruction,  but  without  benefit  of  translation.  I  didn't  understand  a  word  the  mullah  said,  yet  I  knew  it  all  by  heart.  When  I  wasn't  under  the  spell  of  this  curious  juxtaposi-  tion  of  ignorance  and  knowledge,  I  oc-  cupied  myself  by  scrutinizing  the  mul-  lah's  face,  his  black,  hennaed  beard,  and  the  folds  of  his  turban-waiting  for  some  break  in  the  chronometric  swaying  of  his  body  that  accompanied  his  monotonous  reading.  I  was  caught  by  the  even  flow  of  his  voice  and  also  by  the  peculiar  atmosphere  of  the  roomful  of  women  prostrating  their  will  and  spirit  to  his  presence  and  words.  The  mullah's  voice  and  behavior  produced  a  sort  of  hypnosis,  from  which  I  would  be  roused  by  a  woman's  mournful  wail.  When  I  could  bear  it  no  longer,  I  would  throw  a  last  glance  at  Mother  and, with stars  streaming  down  my  face,  run  out  of  the  room,  calling  for  my  nurse.  If  she  failed  to  calm  or  console  me,  she  would  let  me  slip  into  the  dining  room,  where  the  table  was  crowded  with  delicacies  in  honor  of  the  mullah  and  the  guests.  When  the  reading  was  over  at  last,  I  waited  for  a  chance  to  catch  Mother  alone,  and  flung  myself  into  her  arms,  as  if  she  had  survived  some  sorrow-  ful  calamity  and  been  miraculously  re-  stored  to  me.  Her  voice  addressing  the  servants  was  clear,  and  her  features  were  free  from  sadness,  her  eyes  bright,  and  her  thin,  delicate  lips  smiling  as  she  spoke  to  her  guests,  encouraging,  sup-  plicating,  and  prodding  them  to  help  themselves  from  the  heaped-up  platters.  Sitting  next  to  Father  in  the  droshky,  I  assumed  that  my  mother's  sorrow  at  parting  from  me  would  also  be  transi-tory.  We  rode  along  in  silence.  I  don't  know  what  I  expected  of  Father;  per-  haps  the  silence  unnerved  me.  But  sud-  denly  I  was  assailed  by  doubt.  Turning  to  him,  I  said,  &quot;Is  it  the  truth  of  truth  that  we  are  going  to  Europe?&quot;  &quot;Inshallah,  insh  allah  [If  God  wills,  if  God  wills].&quot;  My  father  spoke  reverently,  yet  I  had  heard  him  use  the  word  '&quot;nsh'\xc2\xabe/-  lah&quot;  so  many  times  merely  as  an  excuse  to  put  off  or  avoid  doing  something  that  I  persisted.  &quot;Is  it  really  the  truth  of  truth,  Father?&quot;  I  repeated,  with  a  doubting  inflexion  that,  in  the  matter  of  filial  respect,  went  beyond  the  gen-  erally  permissible.  Father  leaned  back  and  laughed.  &quot;We  are  on  the  way,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  still  you  don't  believe  it.&quot;  I  believed  it  a  long  time  ago,  when  you  said  it  the  first  time,&quot;  I  confessed.  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  you  believe  it  if  we  don't  come  back  tonight?&quot;  Father  said.  &quot;If  we  spend  the  night  in  Ashgabad,  across  the  527573736961n  border?&quot;  I  was  satisfied  with  this,  not  because  of  the  distance-the  527573736961n  border  was  only  thirty  kilometres  away-but  be-cause  we  would  spend  the  night  some-  where  that  wasn't  in  4972616e.  Yet  that  night,  when  I  was  told  we  were  in  [REDACTED],  I  was  so  tired  and  hungry  that  food  and  sleep  mattered  more  to  me  than  where  we  were.  Even  after  we  got  on  a  train  the  next  morning,  I  still  thought  of  the  trip  in  terms  of  hours,  and  I  continued  to  think  that  it  would  be  over  soon  all  during  the  seven  days  and  seven  nights  we  travelled  across  Europe.  HAT  Father  dared  to  set  out  on  such  a  long  journey  without  being  able  to  speak  a  single  foreign  language  is  something  I  shall  never  cease  to  marvel  at.  In  those  years,  railway-station  plat-  forms  were  crowded  with  peasants  selling  bread,  baked  potatoes,  spitted  chickens,  and  all  sorts  of  sweets.  Father  simply  pointed  to  the  victuals  he  wanted,  and  the  peasants  indicated  on  their  fin-  gers  the  number  of  rubles  and  kopecks  he  was  to  pay  them.  On  the  train  through  [REDACTED]  we  were  limited  to  tea  and  zwieback,  which  were  served  day  and  night  and  which  Father  knew  how  to  ask  for  because  the  words  were  the  same  in  4972616en  and  in  527573736961n.  The  tea  was  prepared  by  the  attendant  of  the  first-class  car  in  a  samovar.  As  we  moved  west,  through  [REDACTED],  sta-  tion  platforms  became  more  civilized,  and  we  no  longer  had  broiled  chicken  but  sandwiches  and  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  in  [REDACTED]  (the  inflation  was  at  its  height  then)  we  had  bread  and  weak  tea.  When  we  changed  trains,  in  Mos-  " b"cow  and  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  we  were  shepherded  by  distant  relatives  who  happened  to  be  posted  at  legations  or  consulates  in  those  cities.  In  [REDACTED],  we  were  on  our  own,  and,  as  I  was  told  later,  Father's  first  movements  were  entirely  dependent  on  a  slip  of  paper  with  the  word  &quot;hotel&quot;  written  on  it.  I  have  never  found  out  how  Father  learned  of  the  Theresianische  Akade-  mie,  in  [REDACTED],  or  of  Mahdi  Gassem.  Mahdi  Gassem  was  a  jeweller  who  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  from  4972616e  around  1900.  Thirty  years  later,  he  still  main-  tained  that  he  was  soon  going  back  to  &quot;kiss  the  dust&quot;  of  his  own  beloved  coun-  try.  Father  was  carrying  a  letter  of  in-  troduction  to  Gassem.  Whoever  had  given  it  to  him  had  sensibly  addressed  the  envelope,  so  that  it  needed  only  to  be  stamped  and  dropped  into  a  mailbox,  but  because  of  Father's  suspiciousness,  this  simple  act  was  not  easily  performed.  I  remember  the  long  sign-language  ses-  sion  with  a  hotel  waiter  about  it.  Father  insisted  on  discussing  the  operation.  He  prevented  the  waiter  from  leaving  our  room  with  the  letter  while  at  the  same  time  urging  him  to  mail  the  letter  in  a  hurry.  At  last,  accompanied  by  the  waiter,  who  had  to  change  his  coat  be-  fore  hecould  leave  the  hotel,  we  con-  fided  the  letter  and  our  hopes  to  the  nearest  mailbox.  Father  and  I  spent  the  next  two  days  mostly  walking  either  straight  to  the  right  or  straight  to  the  left  on  coming  out  of  the  hotel,  for  fear  of  losing  our  way.  Early  in  the  morning  of  the  third  day,  our  countryman  showed  up.  Gas-  sem,  a  small  man,  even  for  a  4972616en,  kissed  us  on  both  cheeks,  though  we  had  never  met  him  before.  He  kept  on  looking  at  us  with  a  sort  of  compas-  sionate  concern,  as  if  he  were  startled-  as  no  doubt  he  was-at  finding  two  countrymen  in  [REDACTED],  and  worried  for  fear  our  ignorance  would  lead  us  into  pitfalls.  We  felt  reassured  at  the  sight  of  him.  His  large  dark  eyes  and  his  air  of  welcome  made  him  seem  almost  like  someone  we  knew.  There  was  also  a  certain  tenseness  about  him,  and  that  aura  of  strangeness  that  all  transplanted  people  acquire  in  time,  and  these  two  qualities  signified  to  us  a  familiarity  and  competence  with  foreign  ways.  Gassem  sat  on  the  edge  of  his  chair,  restless  and  ill  at  ease,  as  if  he  were  already  late  for  an  appointment.  After  the  first  cup  of  tea,  which  Father  had  to  force  on  him,  he  insisted  it  was  time  to  go  to  the  Theresianische  Akade-  mie.  He  hurried  us  out  of  the  room  and  down  the  hall,  and  only  after  we  were  in  a  taxi  and  on  our  way  did  he  seem  able  to  relax.  The  Akademie,  which  was  to  be  my  school  and  home  for  the  next  eight  years,  was  an  immense  edifice.  I  could  see  that  Father  was  impressed.  The  uniformed  porter,  with  his  Franz  Josef  mustache,  the  spacious  double  staircase  of  marble,  the  high-ceilinged  corridors  with  large  windows  opening  on  the  ex-  tensive  park  below-all  this  awed  him.  It  was  the  first  time  I  had  ever  seen  Father  walking  as  if  he  didn't  own  the  ground  he  walked  on.  By  the  time  we  entered  the  director's  sitting  room,  with  its  frescoed  ceiling  and  brocaded  chairs,  Father  was  definitely  nervous.  The  director  himself  guided  us  over  the  grounds.  This  honor  was  probably  because  &lt;I  was  a  4972616en.  The  only  other  4972616en  who  had  attended  the  school  was  a  royal  prince  of  the  old  regime,  the  Kadjar  dynasty.  Though  he  had  come  a  generation  earlier,  the  director  still  remembered  him.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  his  noble  descent,  he  wouldn't  have  been  accepted  at  that  time;  the  Akademie,  which  was  found- edby  the  Empress  Maria  Theresa  in  the  eighteenth  century,  was  originally  reserved  for  the  sons  of  nobility.  After  the  First  World  War,  its  portals  were  opened  to  all,  though  at  the  time  I  en-  rolled  titled  names  still  held  the  edge  over  untitled.  Once  we  had  concluded  our  tour  and  returned  to  the  director's  room,  I  could  see  that  Father  was  impatient  to  com-  plete  the  formalities  of  my  enrollment.  The  jeweller  insisted  on  taking  me  out  to  lunch  with  Father  and  him,  and  when  we  returned  at  three,  Father  cut  our  parting  short,  promising  to  return  in  the  evening  to  say  goodbye.  (He  never  came.  Father  had  a  profound  aversion  to  protracting  the  inevitable  when  emotions  were  involved.)  HE  director  took  me  to  a  school-  room  and  placed  me  in  the  charge  of  the  prefect,  an  elderly  man,  who  as-  signed  me  a  desk  and,  since  we  couldn't  communicate,  left  me  alone.  I  had  ar-  rived  during  the  first  study  period  of  the " b"afternoon,  and  was  grateful  for  the  pro-  tection  of  silence  that  surrounded  me.  I  pretended  to  be  taken  up  with  my  new  notebooks,  pencils,  and  erasers  while  stealing  glances  at  the  other  boys-some  twenty-five  of  them-who  were  also  eying  me.  The  room  was  the  largest  I  had  ever  seen,  with  spacious  windows  on  either  side.  A  double  row  of  desks  along  one  wall  faced  the  door,  across  the  room,  leading  to  the  corridor;  a  parallel  row  along  the  opposite  wall  faced  a  door  leading  to  what  I  later  learned  were  the  &quot;night  hall&quot;  and  the  dormitory.  'The  wide  aisle  between  the  rows  of  desks  held  a  ping-pong  table  and  a  billiard  table,  contraptions  I  had  never  seen  be-  fore;  they  puzzled  me  as  much  as  the  large  maps,  the  gravures,  the  etch-  ings  of  Schonbrunn  and  the  Stephens  kirche,  and  the  portrait  of  the  Empress  Maria  Theresa  that  hung  on  the  walls.  When  a  bell  rang,  about  an  hour  later,  I  simply  did  what  the  other  boys  did-I  got  up,  and  pushed  my  chair  in.  When  they  rushed  to  form  a  double  line  facing  the  door  to  the  corridor,  I  wait-  ed  and  then  took  a  place  at  the  tag  end.  We  marched  down  to  the  garden,  where  each  of  the  lower  grades  had  its  assigned  playground.  My  attention  was  divided  between  watching  the  boys  as  they  got  up  a  game  and  surveying  the  large  park,  where  I  could  see  older  boys  scattered  over  various  playgrounds.  In  the  center  ofthe  park  was  what  I  later  learned  was  a  soccer  field  and  in  the  dis-  tance  were  a  number  of  tennis  courts.  Gazing  around,  and  not  paying  too  much  attention  to  where  I  was  stand-  ing,  I  must  have  encroached  upon  our  playing  field  proper,  in  which  a  game-a  variation  of  handball-was  in  progress.  Suddenly  I  was  aware  that  the  boys  on  our  playing  field  were  shouting  at  me  and  gesticulating.  Unable  to  un-  derstand  what  they  were  shouting  or  why,  I  simply  stared.  The  boy  who  was  holding  the  ball  suddenly  launched  it  at  me.  It  hit  me  full  in  the  chest.  I  didn't  know  what  to  make  of  it.  Was  this  part  of  their  game-a  joke,  perhaps-or  a  personal  attack?  If  they  had  gone  on  playing,  I  might  have  been  content  to  remain  puzzled.  But  the  shouts  and  gestures  increased,  and  some  of  the  boys  edged  closer  to  me.  I  felt  that  I  was  facing  a  challenge,  and  that  my  opponent-if  I  had  to  have  one-was  necessarily  the  boy  who  had  thrown  the  ball  at  me.  I  stepped  for-  ward,  and  the  shouts  grew  in  volume.  I  was  about  to  throw  myself  at  my  ad-  versary  when  I  saw  the  boys  suddenly  draw  up  to  attention.  'The  prefect,  standing  nearby,  had  noticed  the  dis-turbance  and  decided  to  interfere.  He  spoke  to  the  boys  in  a  tone  and  manner  that  I  considered  far  too  lenient,  and  then,  turning  to  me,  he  explained  by  sign  language  that  I  must  stay  out  of  a  quadrangle  marked  off  by  white  lines.  I  didn't  understand  the  game,  and  I  was  too  proud  to  stand  and  watch,  on  sufferance,  so  I  walked  off  toward  one  corner  of  the  playground  and  sulked  behind  a  thick  tree  trunk,  calling  on  God  and  Father  to  witness  my  tribula-  tions.  But  presently,  bored  by  this  ex-  cessive  preoccupation  with  myself,  I covertly  resumed  watching  the  boys  play,  till  the  game  broke  up  and  I  saw  them  getting  into  line  again.  Once  more,  I  made  up  the  tail  end  ofthe  line,  and  we  marched  back  to  our  hall,  where  we  settled  down  for  the  six-o'  clock  study  period.  I  began  my  vigil  for  Father's  coming.  Though  I  had  been  assigned  to  the  desk  closest  to  the  entrance  hall,  it  unfortunately  faced  the  other  way,  and  soI  had  to  turn  around  each  time  the  door  was  opened  behind  me,  by  one  of  the  students  coming  from  the  wash-  room,  which  was  located  down  the  cor-  ridor.  Each  opening  of  the  door  added  a  notch  to  my  anxiety  and  apprehension.  Soon  any  noise,  real  or  imaginary,  prompted  me  to  turn  around.  I  was  certain  Father  would  come;  I  was  in  no  condition  to  think  otherwise.  After  a  while,  tears  filled  my  eyes  whenever  " b"the  door  opened  and  closed.  I  tried  not  to  turn  around  precipitately,  and  yet  I  had  to  do  so.  And  each  time  the  opening  of  the  door  framed  the  figure  of  a  boy  and  not  that  of  my  father,  I  felt  a  morbid  rage  at  the  cruel  imposture-as  if  fate  had  apportioned  to  Father  just  so  many  chances  to  open  that  door,  and  the  boys  were  squandering  his  allowance.  I  began  to  weep  without  being  aware  of  it.  Then  I  felt  a  hand  resting  on  my  shoulder,  and  heard  a  voice.  The  prefect  was  standing  next  to  my  desk.  I  rose  to  my  feet,  as  I  had  seen  the  oth-  er  boys  do  when  he  addressed  them.  Though  I  lowered  my  eyes  in  shame,  I  sensed  an  element  of  true  kindness  in  that  elderly  face.  It  was  innocent  of  hypocrisy-of  that  simulated  concern  grownups  so  often  assume  toward  chil-  dren  in  distress.  The  prefect's  gentle,  soothing  voice  was  intimate  and  per-  sonal.  For  me,  it  had  an  intimacy  that  intelligible  words  can  neverhave  but  indistinct  murmurs  sometimes  do.  I  be-  gan  to  shake  with  sobs.  When  I  man-  aged  at  last  to  control  myself,  and  looked  up  again,  he  was  gone.  The  bell  for  dinner  interrupted  my  vigil  for  Father.  Being  entirely  new  to  everything  and  in  no  position  to  take  anything  for  granted,  I  was  afraid  of  being  totally  at  a  loss  unless  I  contrived  to  imitate  my  fellow-students.  As  long  as  we  were  at  our  desks,  their  part  of  the  room  was  a  stage  and  they  were  actors  in  a  performance  I  didn't  under-  stand.  But  now,  as  they  rose  and  start-  ed  for  the  door  to  the  corridor,  I  was  forced  to  join  in  their  performance  without  knowing  my  role  or  the  pur-  pose  of  it.  With  a  feeling  rather  like  that  of  a  bystander  caught  up  in  some  ceremonial  procession  and  unable  to  ex-  tricate  himself,  I  once  again  followed  them-this  time  down  several  long,  dimly  lighted  corridors  and  stairways  and  into  a  vast  dining  room  with  rows  and  rows  of  long  tables,  each  seating  a  dozen  boys.  After  being  assigned  a  place  at  one  of  the  tables,  I  stood  in  silence,  like  the  rest.  I  didn't  know  whether  to  press  my  palms  together  in  front  of  my  chest,  as  some  of  the  boys  did,  or,  like  others,  stand  with  lowered  head.  We  sat  down.  A  plate  of  ham,  sauer-  kraut,  and  potatoes  was  placed  in  front  of  me.  I  had  never  eaten,  smelled,  or  seen  ham,  because  I  had  been  brought  up  to  regard  all  forms  of  pork  as  un-  clean,  and  the  mere  sight  and  smell  of  these  unfamiliar  victuals  overwhelmed  me  with  nausea.  I  have  no  difficulty,  after  twenty  years,  in  summoning  up  that  repugnant  odor:  pungent,  slightly  acid,  and  suggesting  some  strange,  strong  spice  unfit  for  consumption  and  verging  on  the  putrid.  One  of  the  boys,  as  punishment  for  making  a  pellet  of  bread  and  flicking  it  at  another  boy,  had  to  leave  his  dinner  uneaten  and  stand  in  a  corner  facing  the  wall.  I  would  have  given  anything  to  change  places  withhim,  but  I  didn't  have  the  courage  to  imitate  his  breach  of  etiquette.  The  novelty  and  excitement  of  my  first  visit  to  the  dining  room  and  my  violent  reaction  to  my  first  meal  there  crowded  out  of  my  consciousness  all.  thought  of  Father's  visit.  It  wasn't  un-  til  we  were  on  our  way  back  to  our  study  hall  that  it  caught  up  with  me  again.  I  was  suddenly  certain  that  Father  had  come  while  we  were  at  dinner,  and  was  now  waiting  for  me  at  my  desk.  I  ducked  past  the  boys  ahead  of  me  and  " b"rushed  to  open  the  door.  The  room  was  dark.  I  didn't  know  where  the  light  switches  were.  I  would  have  called  out  Father's  name  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  arrival  of  the  other  boys.  I  do  not  know  why  the  prefect  was  not  with  them.  The  boys,  after  lining  up  in  front  of  his  desk  and  standing  at  attention,  relaxed  their  postures,  wait-  ing  for  him.  One  of  them  tapped  me  on  the  shoulder  and  pointed  to  some  maps  on  the  nearest  wall.  I  thought  he  wanted  me  to  look  at  a  map  of  the  world,  but  he  said  &quot;Dc,  da,&quot;  directing  my  glance  to  a  chart  next  to  it,  which  showed  the  races  of  man.  In  the  top  corners  were  a  white  man  with  a  goatee  and  a  redskin  with  feathered  headgear.  A  Negro  and  a  Chinese  with  a  pigtail  filled  the  lower  corners,  and  in  the  cen-ter  was  a  turbaned  head.  The  boy  pointed  again  to  the  picture  in  the  cen-  ter,  and  said  &quot;Du,  du!&quot;  and  grinned  derisively.  That  turbaned  head,  so  like  the  mul-  lah's,  suddenly  revived  and  released  in  me  all  the  unformulated  aversion  and  rage  I  had  experienced  during  those  religious  readings  at  home.  Suddenly,  I  identified  that  turbaned  image  with  Mother's  tears  and  suffering-a  suffer-  ing  that  now,  because  of  my  own,  burst  upon  me  in  a  new  dimension,  and  with  the  impact  of  revelation.  I  flung  my-  self  blindly  at  the  grinning  boy.  Before  I  could  understand  what  was  happening,  I  was  pinned  to  the  floor,  my  arms  and  legs  were  immobilized,  and  I  was  suffocating  under  the  pressure  and  weight  of  the  bodies  piling  upon  me.  Shouts,  collective  and  individual,  reached  me  in  muffled  tones.  Though  I  didn't  know  it  at  the  time,  of  course,  I  was  being  subjected  to  a  Kameratem-  plesch.  &quot;Kamerate&quot;  was  simply  the  name  by  which  grades  were  known  in  the  school,  and  the  slang  word  &quot;plese&quot;  signalized  less  a  beating  than  a  sort  of  free-for-all  roughhouse  in  which  a  newcomer  was  taught  his  place.  The  advantages  of  this  Kameraten-plesch  were,  as  I  found  out  later,  that  no  particular  boy  could  be  held  responsi-  ble  and  that  it  took  the  attackers  a  certain  time  to  release  their  victim  when  the  prefect  called  them  to  order.  When  the  boys  released  me  and  I  got  to  my  feet,  the  prefect  was  sternly  lecturing  the  culprits.  My  churning  rage  made  me  disregard  his  presence.  I  was  looking  for  the  blond  boy  who  had  pointed  to  the  wall  picture,  but  I  couldn't  locate  him.  All  the  blond  boys  looked  alike  to  me,  and  most  of  the  boys  in  the  hall  were  blond.  The  prefect  gestured  for  me  to  fol-  low  him,  and  led  me  out  to  the  wash-  room.  I  was  still  nursing  ideas  of  re-venge,  and  consoled  my  self  with  the  conviction  that  Father  would  take  me  back  home  as  soon  as  I  told  him  what  had  happened.  The  prefect  indicated  by  pantomime  that  I  was  to  wash  my  hands  and  face.  He  made  me  wash  twice,  pointing  to  the  ears  and  neck.  Perhaps  he  wanted  to  help  me  steer  clear  of  further  trouble,  or  to  postpone  the  confusion  and  loneliness  I  would  be  subjected  to  as  soon  as  I  was  again  with  the  other  boys.  THE  prefect  must  have  kept  me  with  him  for  the  better  part  of  the  half-hour  play  period,  or  else  he  cut  the  schedule  short  for  my  sake.  I  had  barely  reached  my  desk  again  when  he  clapped  his  hands-a  signal  that  brought  all  the  boys  to  attention.  At  his  command,  the  boys  lined  up  for  prayers.  The  Catholics  knelt  in  front,  facing  the  night-hall  door,  and  the  Protestants  stood  behind  them,  and  I  stood  last.  Throughout  the  praying,  I  scanned  the  backs  of  the  blond  heads  for  some  telltale  mark  by  which  to  identify  my  enemy.  I  kept  up  my  search  after  we  had  entered  the  dormitory,  where  I  again  followed  what  the  others  did-standing  at  attention  till  dismissed,  folding  my  clothes,  placing  my  shoes  at  the  foot  of  the  bed-until  I  was  safely  in  bed.  And  after  the  lights  were  turned  out,  I  lay  there  in  the  dark  keeping  up  the  pursuit  of  my  blond,  anonymous  assailant,  till  tears  of  impotence  and  humiliation  blurred  my  search.  I  pulled  the  covers  over  my  head  to  stifle  my  sobs,  but  this  confinement  only  height-  ened  my  despair,  which  culminated  in  the  sudden  shocking  notion  that  if  I  were  to  come  face  to  face  with  my  enemy,  he  might  be  bigger  and  stronger  than  I  was,  as  most  of  the  boys  seemed  to  be,  and  that  I  might  lack  the  courage  to  revenge  myself.  Since  the  day  I  left  home,  I  had  prayed  each  night  for  Mother,  Father,  my  sisters,  and  my  nurse.  That  night,  I  forgot  about  them.  I  prayed  for  my-  self  only,  and  pleaded  with  a  fervor  I  had  never  experienced  before  that  God  make  me  the  strongest  boy  in  the  class.  "