 b"SMALL  and  exclusive  as  it  is,  the  Medusa  is  unquestionably  the  best-known  of  [REDACTED]  clubs.  It  is  there,  on  the  first  Friday  of  each  month,  a  circle  of  intimates  gathers,  whose  pleasure  it  is,  after  enjoying  an  admirably  cooked  dinner  accompanied  by  well-chosen  wines,  to  retire  to  the  smoking  room  and  discuss  the  more  in-  teresting  of  the  murders  they  have  hap-  pened  upon  in  the  interval  since  last  they  met.  The  circle  is  well  constituted  for  its  purpose.  Its  regular  members  include  a  leading  barrister,  a  well-known  crim-  inologist,  a  famous  explorer,  an  emi-  nent  psychiatrist  who  makes  a  speciality  of  the  homicidal  impulse,  and  an  ami-  able  nonentity  whose  simple  utterances  are  not  always  unworthy  of  attention.  Others  are  now  and  then  invited  to  join  the  group-a  detective-inspector  from  the  Yard,  a  country  parson,  an  Egyptologist  (for  asps),  a  distinguished  savant  (for  general  purposes),  and,  on  occasional  gala  nights,  a  murderer  in  person.  One  evening  not  long  ago,  the  circle  was  in  full  session.  The  servants  had  removed  the  coffee  cups,  placed  every  man's  favorite  beverage  at  his  elbow,  subdued  the  lights,  and  noiselessly  with-  drawn.  &quot;I  wonder,&quot;  said  the  nonentity  amiably,  &quot;if  there  really  is  such  a  thing  as  'the  perfect  murder.&quot;  What  do  you  chaps  think?&quot;  This  started  the  ball  rolling  with  a  vengeance.  The  explorer  expatiated  on  the  polar  poniard,  or  ice  dagger,  which  has  the  advantage  of  melting  away  and     leaving  no  trace  of  a  weapon.  The  psy-  chiatrist,  contemptuous  of  all  material  agents,  described  methods  of  inducing  suicidal  mania  in  unwanted  spouse  or  obstructive  uncle.  A  celebrated  mycolo-  gist  who  was  present  gave  a  short,  in-  teresting  talk  on  the  non-edible  fungi,  their  use  and  abuse.  &quot;All  this,  however,  is  purely  theo-  retical,&quot;  observed  the  amiable  non-  entity.  &quot;Can't  we  get  down  to  cases?&quot;  &quot;You  are  right,  Smithers,&quot;  said  a  voice  that  had  not  been  heard  for  some  time  in  the  little  symposium.  It  was  that  of  Sir  Barnard  Wigmore,  consult-  ing  pathologist  to  Her  Majesty's  Home  Office,  who  had  been  away  for  several  months  taking  the  cure  at  a  famous  Continental  spa.  &quot;It  is  only  to  be  ex-  pected,  of  course,  that  the  perfect  mur-  der  will  be  concealed  from  our  sight  in  the  very  brightness  of  its  own  per  fection.  It  so  happens,  however,  that  just  before  my  recent  indisposition  I  was  called  on  by  the  Yard  in  connection  with  a  case  that  was  not  only  unique  in  my  own  limited  experience  but  that  possibly  has  no  parallel  in  the  entire  annals  of  crime.  I  wonder  if  you  fel-  lows  would  care  to  hear  about  it?&quot;  Needless  to  say,  a  general  murmur  of  assent  greeted  this  modest  inquiry.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  continued  Sir  Barnard,  first  taking  a  sip  from  a  glass  of  efferves-  cent  liver  salts  that  stood  beside  him.  &quot;Since  we  are  all  friends,  and  since  no  whisper  of  what  passes  here  is  ever  al-  lowed  to  reach  the  ears  of  a  public  al-  ready  overaddicted  to  sensationalism,  I  shall  not  attempt  to  disguise  the  per-sonalities  involved.  The  case  was  that  of  Lady  Jerningham,  who  died  so  sudden-  ly  last  spring.  Whether  by  an  indiscre-  tion  on  the  part  of  her  doctor  or  through  the  gossip  of  the  servants,  her  symptoms  became  generally  known  and  were  widely  discussed.  They  in-  cluded  acute  abdominal  discomfort,  nausea,  dizziness,  spots  before  the  eyes,  and,  finally,  convulsions,  syncope,  and  coma.  Death  supervened  in  less  than  twelve  hours.  &quot;I  need  hardly  remind  you,  gentle-  men,  that  while  symptoms  such  as  these  are  exhibited  in  various  quite  ordinary  forms  of  violent  gastric  disturbance,  and  particularly  in  cases  of  food  poison-  ing  of  an  innocent  nature,  they  are  also  typical  of  the  effects  of  many  types  of  irritant  poisons  criminally  administered.  In  view  of  certain  corollary  circum-  stances  that  were  a  matter  of  common  knowledge,  rumor  was  rife  in  the  clubs,  and  suspicion  fastened  upon  Sir  Jer-  vase  Jerningham,  eleventh  baronet  of  that  name,  and  husband  of  the  unfortu-  nate  lady  in  question.  It  is  generally  known  that  Lady  Jerningham  was  sev-  eral  years  older  than  her  husband,  and  it  was  a  matter  of  frequent  debate  as  to  whether  her  appearance  or  her  per-  sonality  was  the  more  unfortunate.  Moreover,  immediately  before  her  sei-  zure  Sir  Jervase  had  presented  her  with  an  unusually  large  box  of  chocolates.  This  box,  its  contents  about  two-thirds  consumed,  was  found  in  the  unfortunate  lady's  boudoir,  and  preserved  by  the  butler-to  quote  him-'Just  in  case'!  &quot;It  is  not  uncommon  for  a  husband  to  present  a  box  of  chocolates  to  his  wife,  I  have  done  so  myself;  those  of  you  who  are  married  have  doubtless  also  made  such  trifling  gifts,  and  with  mo-  tives  as  innocent  as  my  own.  But  there  is  a  very  widespread  opinion  that  in  instances  where  the  wife  is  so  conspicuously  lacking  in  feminine  charm  as  to  be  unlikely  to  inspire  any  such  gallant  generosity  in  her  spouse,  such  gifts  may  be  suspected  as  indications  of  a  guilt  feeling,  such  as  is  experienced  even  by  the  most  cynical  in  connection  with  an  act  of  infidelity.  I  think  our  eminent  psychi-  atrical  friend  will  probably  confirm  the  prevalence,  if  not  the  validity,  of  this  opinion.&quot;  The  eminent  psychi-  atrist  having  nodded,  Sir  Barnard  resumed  his  nar-  " b"rative.  &quot;Now,  at  that  time  the  name  of  Sir  Jervase  was  linked  by  wagging  tongues  to  that  of  the  celebrated  film  star  Miss  Gloria  Street,  whom,  as  you  probably  know,  hehas  recently  mar-  ried.  Miss  Street  is  a  young  lady  of  outstanding  attractions,  and  this  was  an  outstandingly  large  box  of  choco-  lates,  weighing,  in  fact,  no  less  than  fif-  teen  pounds.  It  was  very  generally  as-  sumed  that  Sir  Jervase  had,  soto  speak,  killed  two  birds  with  one  stone,  wiping  out  both  guilt  feeling  and  wife  with  the  same  expiatory  offering.  'The  daily  press  was  alert  to  capitalize  on  thesensation  and,  in  capitals,  exhorted  [REDACTED]  Yard  to  'GET  A  MOVE  OX.&quot;  &quot;Our  omniscient  journalists  were  not  aware  that  [REDACTED]  Yard  had  moved  already.  The  Commissioner  was  fully  cognizant  of  the  marital  situation  of  the  Jerninghams,  and  I  am  revealing  only  the  most  open  of  secrets  in  telling  you  that  his  eye-gallant,  as  befits  an  old  soldier-had  rested  with  particular  at-  tention  on  Miss  Street.  That  same  eye-  keen,  as  befits  a  chief  of  police-had  observed  with  some  distaste  her  sudden  involvement  with  Sir  Jervase.  The  Commissioner  was  out  to  get  his  man,  and  he  immediately  summoned  me  to  the  Yard,.  The  box  of  chocolates,  of  which  only  a  tHird  remained,  had  been  brought  in  and  placed  upon  his  desk,   'We  have,'  said  he,  'corpse,  choco-  lates,  and  motive.  In  fact,  we  have  two  motives.  Look  on  this  photo'  (showing  me  a  picture  of  Miss  Street,  a  face  capable  of  launching  a  thousand  ships)  'and  on  this!'  (showing  me  one  of  Lady  Jerningham,  who  with  equal  ease  might  have  sunk  them  ).  'If  you  will  oblige  us,'  said  he,  'with  the  formality  of  a  quick  autopsy,  I  think  we  can  at  once  proceed  to  an  arrest.&quot;  &quot;'An  open-and-shut  case,  I  im-  &quot;  'In  the  bag!  We've  not  yet  found  out  where  he  procured  the  chocolates.  But  that's  a  minor  question.&quot;  &quot;'And  one  very  easily  solved,&quot;  I  observed.  'Here  is  the  manufacturer's  name  on  the  box.  This  firm  sells  its  products  only  in  its  own  expensive  shops,  one  of  which  is  in  Bond  Street  and  the  other,  I  believe,  in  Hanover  Square.&quot;  &quot;''The  box  presents  no  problem,'  said  he,  with  a  slight  touch  of  pique  in  his  tone.  'It  was  sold  in  the  Bond  Street  establishment,  at  four  o'clock  last  Thursday  afternoon,  and  to  a  person  well  known  to  the  manageress  as  Sir  Jervase  Jerningham  himself.  The  chocolates  are  another  matter.  A  rep-  resentative  of  the  firm  has  been  here  to  inspect  them,  and  declares  that those  at  present  in  the  box  must  have  been  made  elsewhere  and  substituted  for  the  originals.  Our  men  are  visiting  every  chocolate  factory  in  [REDACTED],  and,  if  necessary,  will  proceed  to  the  Continent.&quot;  &quot;'An  enjoyable  trip,  I  observed,  especially  at  the  taxpayer's  expense!  However,  I  believe  they  are  wasting  their  time.  In  my  opinion,  Sir  Jervase  was  fully  capable  of  making  these  choco-  lates  himself,  and  I  have  very  little  doubt  that  he  did  so.&quot;  &quot;  You  scientists  are  brilliant  fellows,&quot;  retorted  the  Commissioner,  'but  prac-  tical  matters  are  not  always  your  strong  point.  Believe  me,  the  making  of  chocolates  of  this  standard,  like,  in  its  humbler  way,  the  detection  of  crime,  requires  the  touch  of  a  profes-  sional.&quot;  &quot;  'Amateurs  have  been  known  to  distinguish  themselves  in  the  one  field,&quot;  said  I,  with  a  smile,  'and  I  happen  to  know  that  Sir  Jervase  was  no  ordinary  amateur  in  the  other.  Many  years  ago,  I  had  some  slight  acquaintance  with  your  suspect,  and  can  possibly  assist  you  with  a  clue.  He  was  then  in  very  dif-  ferent  circumstances.  He  had  not  yet  succeeded  to  the  title,  or  used  it  as  a  stepping  stone  to  his  cynical  and  mer-  cenary  marriage  to  the  unprepossessing  relict  of  a  [REDACTED]  millionaire.  He  was  extremely  hard  up;  I  myself  was  strug-  gling  to  gain  a  foothold  in  my  profes-  sion;  we  were  both  members  of  a  wide  circle  of  similarly  circumstanced  young  men.&quot;  f  &quot;'And  as  to  the  chocolates?&quot;  inter-  jected  the  Commissioner.  &quot;'I  am  approaching  them,  if  a  little  circuitously.  Jerningham,  like  a  good  many  young  fellows  of  his  sort,  prided  himself  on  his  discernment  as  a  gour-  met  and  his  skill  as  a  cook.  What  is  unfortunately  far  less  common,  in  his  case  these  pretensions  were  justified.  He  was  gifted  by  nature  with  an  ex-  traordinarily  sensitive  palate;  in  fact,  he  possessed  the  equivalent  of  what  music  lovers  term  absolute  pitch.  As  some  fortunate  persons  can  identify  ev-  ery  note  that  contributes  to  a  musical  chord,  so  could  Jerningham  unerringly  distinguish,  in  pilaff,  cessoulet,  or  ra-  gout,  not  merely  the  major  ingredients  but  the  very  minims,  so  to  speak,  of  herb  or  spice,  and  even  the  demisemiquavers  of  the  salt  and  pepper  involved,  asto  the  quality  and  freshness  of  which  he  was  exceedingly  hard  to  please.  His  taste  in  wine  was  no  less  perceptive;  he  could  not  only  unhesitatingly  give  the  " b"name  and  year  of  any  vintage  he  sampled,  but  in  cases  where  he  had  visited  the  vineyard  and  was  acquainted  with  the  staff,  he  could  frequently  identify  the  peasant  who  had  trodden  out  the  grapes.&quot;  &quot;  'Interesting  to  a  wine  lover,&quot;  said  the  Commissioner.  'Personally,  I  pre-  fer  a  good  whiskey.  May  I  ask  to  what  point  all  this  is  leading  us?&quot;  &quot;'I  thought  I  had  mentioned,  my  dear  Commissioner,  that  Jerningham,  not  content  with  his  r\xc3\xa9cleme  as  a  critic,  applied  his  talents  equally  successfully  to  the  creative  side.  Poor  as  he  was  in  those  days,  he  could  produce  positive  symphonies  from  a  few  cheap  cuts  of  meat,  embellished,  of  course,  with  the  most  exquisitely  balanced  flavoring  agents.  It  was  said  that  at  his  table  one  ate  always  too  much,  yet  never  enough,  and  newcomers  were  warned  to  leave  room  for  the  dessert.  His  confectionery  was,  if  anything,  more  deliciously  sub-  tle  than  his  other  dishes,  and  to  him  the  making  of  presentable  chocolates  would  bethe  merest  child's  play.  You  may  be  sure  he  could  easily  disguise  the  flavor  of  whatever  fatal  ingredient  he  may  have  chosen  to  employ,  and  would,  in-  deed,  consider  himself  to  be  lacking  in  taste,  as  well  as  in  discretion,  if  he  neg-  lected  to  do  so.  This  he  could  only  do  if  he  made  the  chocolates  himself.  More-  over,  if  he  stooped  so  low,  artistically,  as  to  introduce  crude  poisons  into  the  centers  of  chocolates  already  manufac-  tured,  he  would  have  had  no  need  to  find  substitutes  for  those  originally  in  the  box.&quot;  &quot;  'Well,  whether  he  made  them  or  not,  he  certainly  gave  them  to  her.  The  woman  is  dead;  the  man  must  hang,  and  since  he  is  such  a  connoisseur,  we'll  try  to  secure  a  worthy  chef  to  prepare  his  last  breakfast.  Meanwhile,  Sir  Barnard,  perhaps  you  will  be  good  enough  to  determing,  in  your  very  different  but  equally  precise  manner,  exactly  what  little  extra  fillip  he  has  added  to  his  latest  recipe.  And,  since  we  are  using  musical  similes  today,  the  organs  are  awaiting  you  in  the  morgue.&quot;  HE  Commissioner's  tone  indi-  cated  that  our  interview  was  at  an  end.  I  withdrew.  In  less  than  twen-  ty-four  hours,  I  was  once  more  seated  at  his  desk.  He  was  in  the  best  of  spirits,  and  permitted  himself  to  rub  his  hands.  'Well,  Sir  Barnard,  what's  the  good  word?  Arsenic?  Cyanide?  Prus-  sic  acid?&quot;  &quot;'I  have  found  no  trace,  Commis-  sioner,  of  any  of  those.  'No,  indeed?  Something  a  little  recherch\xc3\xa9,  perhaps.  After  all,  the  man  is  a  gourmet.  A  product  of  the  gorgeous  [REDACTED]?  A  little  present  from  up  the  Amazon?&quot;  &quot;  'Commissioner,  you  are  getting  no  warmer.&quot;  &quot;  'Tiger  whiskers,  finely  chopped  ?&quot;  No &quot;  Then  what&quot;  &quot;'I  have  found  no  trace  of  any  poison  whatever  .&quot;  &quot;'But  the  woman's  dead.  &quot;  Definitely.  &quot;And  she  ate  the  chocolates.  'No  doubt  about  that.  &quot;Aha  I'll  have  it!  The  chocolotes  were  a  blind.  He  did  the  deed  with  a  sauce  Tartare,  a  b\xc3\xa9arnaise,  some  foreign  kickshaw  of  that  description.  &quot;  &quot;  '  There  was  no  indication  of  poison  of  any  sort,  introduced  by  the  choco-lates  or  anything  else,  in  the  intestines  of  the  late  Lady  Jerningham.  I  am,  accordingly,  returning  them  to  the  morgue.&quot;  No  poison?  You  must  have  missed  it.  &quot;  I  smiled.  &quot;'  It's  all  very  well  to  smile,  Sir  Barnard.  We're  none  of  us  getting  any  younger,  .  Maybe  there  are  new  poisons  in  these  days.  Atomic  stuff  -  something  of  that  sort.  Pardon  the  bluntness  of  an  old  soldier,  but  I  can't  help  thinking  this  may  be  a  case  for  a  younger  man.'  ''To  restore  his  confidence,  I  infused  a  contemporary  note  into  my  reply.  'I  assure  you,  Commissioner,  when  it  comes  to  poisons  I  am  hep.  \xc2\xab\xc2\xab  'When  it  comes  to  murder,  so  am  I.  I  maintain  this  woman  was  mur-  dered.  I  don't  want  to  impugn  your  judgment,  Sir  Barnard,  but  if  you  are  so  sure  these  chocolates  are  innocuous,  I  should  uncommonly  like  to  see  you  eat  one.&quot;  &quot;My  reputation  was  at  stake.  I  reached  for  the  box.  I  took  a  chocolate;  I  looked  it  over;  I  took  a  nibble.  I  must  admit  I  savored  the  sweetmeat  with  great  deliberation;  Sir  Jervase's  accom-  plishments,  both  old  and  new,  were  such  as  to  inspire  respect.  I  encountered,  as  I  expected,  no  bitterness,  no  burning  of  the  tongue,  no  taste  of  almonds.  On  the  other  hand,  there  was  unquestion-  ably  a  novel  flavor,  almost  impossible  to  describe-faint,  elusive,  provocative,  alluring  ..  .  &quot;The  Commissioner  meanwhile  was  watching  me  keenly.  'Feeling  all  right,  Sir  Barnard?&quot;  &quot;  Extremely  well,  thank  you.'  And  I  casually  helped  myself  to  another  chocolate.  &quot;*  'Is  that  so?  Well,  as  an  old  Army  man,  I  never  ask  a  fellow  to  do  any-  thing  I'm  not  prepared  to  do  myself.  With  that,  he  took  up  one  of  the  choc-  olates,  eyed  it  for  a  moment,  then  nibbled,  slowly  at  first,  then  with  mounting  interest  and  speed.  He  reached  for  another.  So  did  I.  &quot;  'Rum  flavor,  said  the  Commis-  sioner  thoughtfully.  &quot;'I  detect  no  taste  of  rum.'  'I  meant  strange.  &quot;'Oh,  quite.&quot;  &quot;By  now,  we  were  on  our  fifth  and  sixth,  respectively.  Silence,  broken  only  " b"by  faint  sounds  of  mastication,  fell  upon  the  austere,  official  room,  its  tall  win-  dows  overlooking  the  Thames.  At  length,  our  eyes  met.  &quot;I  see  it  all  now.'  &quot;'It's  reasonably  clear,  Commis-  sioner.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;The  wretched  woman  couldn't  stop  eating  thema.&quot;  &quot;  &lt;F  xactly.  Would  you  mind  pushing  the  box  a  little  this  way?&quot;  &quot;I  could  stop  if  I  wanted  to.&quot;  &quot;  Could  you?&quot;   'Well  .  .  .  I'll  just  have  one  more.'  &quot;  'So  will  I2  &quot;  'But  we're  eating  the  evidence,  man,  we're  eating  the  evidence!  &quot;  'If  we  could  stop,  it  would  be  evi-  dence  of  the  possibility  of  stopping.  That  would  hardly  sit  well  with  a  jury.&quot;   'So  that  fellow's  going  to  get  away  with  it!  &quot;*  'I  see  little  chance  of  a  successful  prosecution.&quot;  &quot;'Hmm!'  And  the  Commissioner  took  two  at  once.  I  raised  an  eyebrow.  He  flushed.  'It  makes  us  even.&quot;  &quot;Once  more  silence  fell  upon  the  austere,  official  room.  It  was  some  time  before  the  Commissioner  spoke  again,  'I  say,  Sir  Barnard,  have  you  acute  abdominal  discomfort?&quot;  *  Decidedly.  Nausea,  too.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;A  touch  of  dizziness,  I  expect?&quot;  &quot;'And  spots  before  the  eyes.  I'm  rather  glad  there  are  not  too  many  of  these  chocolates  left.  It's  probably  as   well  that  Lady  Jerningham  consumed  ten  pounds  before  she  was  overcome.  I'm  grateful  to  you,  in  a  way,  for  shar-  ing  the  burden  with  me.  We  shall  prob-  ably  escape  convulsions,  syncope,  coma,  and  death.  Really,  this  flavor  is  alto-  gether  too  intriguing!  &quot;Little  more  was  said.  We  finished  the  few  remaining  chocolates,  sighed  with  mingled  relief  and  regret,  and  hastened  to  our  doctors,  and,  later,  to  our  respective  spas.  Sir  Jervase  married  Miss  Street,  and  seems  likely  to  live  happily  ever  after.&quot;  SIR  Barnarp  paused,  sipped  again  at  his  liver  salts,  and  looked  brightly  around.  &quot;Well,  gentlemen,  let  me  have  your  verdict.  Do  you  consider  this  case  deserves  the  title  of  'the  perfect  mur-  There  was  rathera  long  interval  of  pipe-sucking  and  pondering.  &quot;It's  a  murder  all  right,&quot;  observed  the  nonentity  amiably.  &quot;I  suppose  it's  a  matter  of  taste,&quot;  said  the  celebrated  mycologist,  &quot;The  chocolates  fulfilled  their  function.  But,  frankly,  I  feel  there  is  something  more  natural-more  woodsy,  to  use  an  American  expression-about  a  well-  chosen  fungus.&quot;  &quot;Would  it  not  have  been  rather  near-  er  perfection,&quot;  asked  the  eminent  psychiatrist,  &quot;if  Sir  Jervase,  instead  of  combining  merely  material  ingredients,  had  achieved  his  compulsive  effect  by  mental  suggestion,  hypnotic  orother-  wise?  It  would  surely  have  lifted  the  whole  affair  to  a  higher  plane.&quot;  &quot;A  successful  murder,  most  emphat-  ically,&quot;  said  the  famous  explorer.  &quot;Nevertheless,  the  chocolates  did,  in  part  at  least,  remain  in  existence  after  their  purpose  was  accomplished.  Even  granting  that  their  discovery  led  inevi-  tably  to  their  elimination,  a  subtle  touch  I  by  no  means  underrate,  this  seems  to  me  a  fault  of  style.  How  much  better  to  have  employed,  for  example,  a  giant  ice-cream  sundae,  the  residue  of  which  would  havemelted  away  before  sus-  picion  was  aroused,  and  in  a  manner  reminiscent  of  the  polar  poniard,  or  ice  dagger!&quot;  "