 b"AN  intrepid  young  literary  explorer  named  Otto  Friedrich  recently  stumbled  upon  the  body  of  my  work  lying  sprawled  and  unburied  on  the  plain,  and  was  distressed  to  discover  that  it  had  been  ravaged  by  trivia.  Mr.  Friedrich  thinks  that  preoccupation  with  trivia  is  unbecoming  in  a  writer  who  belongs  to  the  Solemn  if  not,  in-  deed,  the  Sombre  tradition  of  American  letters.  (How  do  you  like  it  now,  gen-  tlemen?)  The  critic,  whose  findings  appeared  in  a  periodical  called  Dis-  covery,  detected  what  he  called  my  need  to  write  trivia,  and  shrewdly  coupled  it  with  &quot;a  constant  need  to  make  money.&quot;  By  trivia,  the  author  meant  the  minor  and  the  unimportant  (unless  I  misread  him,  he  included  sex  in  this  category),  ind  not  grammar,  logic,  and  rhetoric,  the  big  trivia  of  the  dictionary  definitions  of  the  word.  I  could  begin  by  insisting  that  Mr.  Friedrich  has  confused  my  armor  with  its  chink,  but  this  might  lead  to  an  in-  tricate  and  turgid  flow  of  metaphor.  It  is  simpler  to  say,  in  another  figure,  that  Trivia  Mundi  has  always  been  as  dear  and  as  necessary  to  me  as  her  bigger  and  more  glamorous  sister,  Gloria.  They  have  both  long  and  amicably  inhabited  a  phrase  of  Coleridge's,  &quot;All  things  both  great  and  small,&quot;  and  I  like  to  think  of  them  taking  turns  at  shooting  alba-  trosses  and  playing  the  bassoon.  Some  notable  trivia,  such  as  the  last  straw,  the  lost  horseshoe  nail,  and  a  piece  of  string,  became  involved  with  larger  issues,  but  my  own,  I  am  afraid,  never  rise  to  such  heights.  They  consist  mainly  of  a  preoccupation,  com-  pulsive  perhaps,  but  not  obsessive,  with  words  and  thealphabet,  and  most  of  them  never  get  into  print.  Their  purpose  is  the  side-tracking  of  worri-  some  trains  of  thought.  The  modern  mind  has  many  shuttles  and  shuntings,  the  principal  one  being,  I  suppose,  the  reading  of  mystery  novels  in  bed,  to  shut  out  the  terrors  of  the  night  and  the  world.  Profound  thought  or  plain  posi-  tive  thinking  does  not  conduce  to  repose.  Every  man,  laying  his  book  aside,  still  has  the  night  and  the  world  to  bypass.  The  late  Bert  Leston  Taylor  used  to  find  comfort  in  contemplating  Canopus,  'a  star  that  has  no  parallax  to  speak  of.&quot;  I  happen  to  get  cold  up  there  in  the  im-     measurable  spaces  of  the  outer  constella-  tions,  and  my  own  system  of  mental  se-  dation  is  more  mundane.  Some  may  ward  off  insomnia  by  re-  citing  poetry  to  themselves,  such  as  Tennyson's  &quot;The  moan  of  doves  in  im-  memorial  elms,  and  murmuring  of  in-  numerable  bees.&quot;  But  this  has  never  worked  for  me,  because  I  invariably  be-  gin  to  take  the  lines  of  a  poem  apart.  A  friend  of  mine,  fighting  off  the  bells  of  Poe  and  avoiding  the  thickets  of  Eliot,  manages  to  doze  off  after  sev-  eral  repetitions  of,  to  set  it  down  in  a  long  ramble,  &quot;In  Xanadu  did  Kubla  Khan  a  stately  pleasure  dome  decree,  where  Alph  the  sacred  river  ran  through  caverns  measureless  to  man  down  to  a  sunless  sea.&quot;  I  tried  thatsev-  eral  times,  discovered  the  solitary  long  O  in  &quot;dome,&quot;  the  six  consecutive  words  containing  R,  and  the  last  seven  R-less  words.  The  dome  seemed  to  stick  up  a  mile  above  the  sunless  sea,  the  rolling  Rs  trickled  away,  and  I  was  left  strand-  ed  in  a  desiccation  of  &quot;.  ..  to  man  down  to  a  sunless  sea.&quot;  A  mariner  so  easily  marooned  in  a  wasteland  of  verse  finds  himself  turn-  ing  away  from,  say,  the  lines  of  Shake-  speare  that  end  &quot;...  how  like  a  god&quot;  and  toward  the  old  Ed  Wynn  gag  that  begins  &quot;How  would  you  like  to  die?&quot;  If  you  don't  happen  to  remember  it,  a  group  of  murderous  gangsters,  armed  with  everything  lethal,  from  a  hangman's  rope  to  an  enormous  bottle  of  poison,  propounded  the  question  to  the  great  comedian.  &quot;In  Gloria  Swanson's  arms&quot;&quot;  was  Mr.  Wynn's  prompt  and  wistful  reply.  I  was  laughing  about  that  ancient  routine  a  few  years  ago  while  ly-  ing  in  a  hospital  bed,  and  my  alarmed  nurse  asked  me  what  was  the  matter.  My  solitary  laughter  has  always  alarmed  my  nurses,  of  whom  I  have  had  more  than  twenty  since  the  silent  artillery  of  time  began  firing  at  me.  I  told  this  particular  nurse  what  I  was  laughing  about,  and  she  thought  it  over  solemnly  for  a  moment.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said  finally,  &quot;to  me  she  is  every  bit  as  attractive  now  as  she  was  when  I  first  saw  her  in  a  silent  film  about  the  French  Foreign  Legion.&quot;  She  pronounced  the  last  word  as  if  it  were  &quot;lesion.&quot;  And  here  I  am  again,  in  the  midst  of  verbal  trivia.  Nurses'  verbal  trivia,  however,  arethe  very  best  trivia,  and  rank  high  in  my  collection.  I  remember  a  Canadian  nurse  who  read  aloud  to  me  fromsome  book  or  other  &quot;.  .  .  that  first  fine  care-  less  rupture,&quot;  and  another  who  shook  me  for  several  long  moments  one  day  in  1940  when,  in  reading  aloud  from  the  &quot;Books&quot;  department  of  an  erudite  journal,  she  paused  to  remark  that  there  were  notices  of  eight  books  about  Mus-  solini.  She  had  come  upon,  it  turned  out,  a  list  of  short  reviews  headed  &quot;Miscellany.&quot;  Nurses  are  wonderful  women  and  dedicated  ministering  angels,  and  they  have  no  time  to  fritter  away  on  the  trivia  of  spelling  and  pro-  nunciation.  When  a  patient  is  lying  at  right  angles  to  his  nurses  and  doctors  and  visitors,  and  considerably  lower-in  more  ways  than  one-than  all  of  them,  he  is  in  the  standard  posture  for  the  onset  of  trivia.  I  have  no  doubt  that  many  a  dark,  seri-  ous  book  has  been  conceived  on  abed,  but  surely  few  of  them  will  outlast  the  wonderful  description  of  wallpaper  that  was  born  in  the  mind  of  Reginald  Gar-  diner  when  he  lay  parallel  to  the  floor  and  at  right  angles  to  everybody.  'The  temper  of  the  supine  patient,  particular-  ly  the  postoperative,  is  capricious  and  unpredictable,  and  forms  one  of  the  best  arguments  for  the  theory  and  prac-  tice  of  minimum  bed  rest.  My  own  habit,  in  bed  at  home  or  in  the  hospital,  of  exploring  words  and  the  alphabet  acts  to  prevent  my  talking  back  to  the  wallpaper,  a  practice  that,  except  in  the  case  of  the  upright  figure,  may  be  more  alarming  than  amusing.  MOST  of  my  hospitalizations  were  during  the  war  years,  when  nurses  were  on  twelve-hour  shifts-a  long  time  to  spend  alone  with  me,  especially  at  night.  Many  nurses  go  on  the  night  shift  because  it  is  supposed  to  be  easier,  but  at  least  one  of  mine  later  asked  to  be  transferred  to  day  duty.  Nurses,  be-  cause  of  their  tight  and  highly  special-  ized  vocabulary,  are  not  very  good  at  word  games.  When  I  told  one  appre-  hensive  nurse,  around  midnight,  that  only  seven  capital  letters  are  wholly  or  partially  enclosed-A,  B,  D,  O,  P,  Q,  and  R-she  promptly  printed  the  entire  alphabet  on  a  sheet  of  paper  and  told  me  that  H,K,  M,  N,  W,  and  X  are  also  partially  enclosed.  She  had,  you  see,  set  them  down  squarely  on  the  lines  of  a  sheet  ofruled  paper.  Nurses  live  by  rule  and  line,  and  they  cannot  think  of  anything  as  hanging  in  the  circumam-  bient  mental  air.  Occasionally,  when  I  hung  a  concept  there  for  one  of  them,  she  would  tiptoe  from  the  room  and  " b"here.  bring  in  the  night  resident  doctor.  &quot;'This  patient,&quot;  as  I  used  to  be  called  with  a  trace  of  irritation,  was  set  down  as  atypi-  cal,  without  significance  or  syndrome.  One  night  I  asked  my  nurse  if  she  could  think  ofa  seven-letter  word  in  which  the  letter  U  appears  three  times.  She  sighed  and  said,  &quot;It's  probably  un-  usual.&quot;  I  told  her  that  it  was  and  it  wasn't,  and  she  slipped  out  ofthe  room,  and  a  short  time  later  Dr.  Conway  came  in.  My  doctors  always  approach  my  bedside  with  an  air  of  bluff  insincerity,  sometimes  humming  a  tune  nervously,  in  an  unsuccessful  effort  to  imitate  casualness.  I  asked  Dr.  Conway  if  he  could  find  the  other  six-letter  word  in  suture.  &quot;It's  right  up  your  alley,  but  then  again  it  certainly  isn't,&quot;  I  told  him.  An  hour  later  he  came  back  to  sav  that  he  couldn't  find  it,  and  I  had  to  spell  it  out  for  him.  Before  many  days  I  had  Dr.  Conway  lying  awake  trying  to  find  a  word  in  which  all  five  vowels  appear  in  order.  Even  when  I  told  him  that  three  of  the  vowels  come  in  direct  sequence  he  couldn't  get  it.  Among  such  words,  to  release  your  own  mind  for  more  profit-  able  researches,  are  &quot;facetious&quot;  and  &quot;abstemious.&quot;  Doctors  go  to  bed-  when  they  can,  which  isn't  often-  in  the  fond  and  sometimes  desperate  hope  that  they  will  be  able  to  sleep,  and  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  that  visit  their  overburdened  minds  are  cogent  ones  in  familiar  combinations,  such  as  T.B.  and  E.S.P.  It  occurred  to  me  that  Dr.  Conway,  who  had  a  hard  time  sleeping,  might  benefit  by  thinking  dreamily  of  the  letter  Y  and  the  soporific  words  for  which  it  stands-yore  and  yarrow,  youth  and  yesterday.  Doctors,  how-  ever,  traditionally  hunt  for  trouble,  and  all  that  Dr.  Conway  got  out  of  Y  was  its  noisy  category  of  yammer  and  yell,  yowl  and  yelp.  This  worried  me,  and  I  suddenly  began  thinking  of  myself  as  doctor  and  Conway  as  patient.  N  is  probably  the  letter  for  you,&quot;  I  told  him,  &quot;and  I'm  sorry  I  didn't  pre-  scribe  it.  But  you  know  how  it  is;  we  have  to  proceed  with  each  subject,  or  patient,  by  a  process  of  trial  and  error.  Some  persons  are  nauseated  by  an  in-  jection  of  codeine-but  react  well  to  demerol.  N  should  be  fine  for  doctors  of  your  temperament,  because  it  is  the  letter  of  nowhere  and  never,  novocain  and  nicotine  and  narcotic.  If  you  drift  " b"into  nightmare  and  nightshade  instead  of  nightingale  and  nar-  cissus,  it  is  significant  but  not  necessarily  alarming.  I  worry  about  my  doctors  when  they  are  undergoing  alphabetical  se-  dation  only  if  they  exhibit  a  tendency  to  slip  too  easily  from  nocturne  and  Nepenthe  into  some  such  sequelae  as  ninety  naked  night  nurses.&quot;  Dr.  Con-  way  seemed  rather  more  dis-  turbed  than  amused  by  my  analysis  of  his  association  prob-  lems.  &quot;I  don't  know  enough  words  beginning  with  N  to  get  very  far,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;N  doesn't  have  very  many  words,&quot;  I  said  soothingly.  &quot;P  rac-  tically  nothing  edible  begins  with  N  and  there  are  almost  no  ani-  mals  at  all  to  keep  .you  awake.  So  you  won't  lie  there  yearning  for  something  to  eat  or  worrying  about  beasts  on  the  prowl.  'The  newt  and  the  narwhal  cannot  be  said  to  prowl,  but  think  of  the  animals  that  inhabit  both  sides  of  N,  in  M  and  O.  The  first  has  many  creatures,  from  the  mas-  todon  to  the  mouse,  and  the  sec-  ond  has  an  oppressively  oleagi-  nous  company  of  cozy  things,  from  the  octopus  to  the  oyster.  But  in  N  your  consciousness  is  nurtured  by  the  letter  of  Nineveh  and  Nirvana,  No  Man's  Land  and  nomad,  Nemo  and  Nod.&quot;  Dr.  Conway  didn't  say  anything,  he  just  went  away.  I  understand  that  he  takes  sleeping  pills  now  in  order  to  sleep,  and  tries  to  think  of  nothing,  includ-  ing  N.  I  WAS  perfectly  content  with  my  aimless  wanderings  in  the  avenues  and  lanes  of  the  alphabet  until  Mr.  Friedrich  brought  up  the  factor  of  value,  or  worth-whileness.  When  Dr.  Alfred  North  Whitehead  died,  the  New  York  Times  described  him  as  &quot;a  supreme  ad-  venturer  in  the  realm  of  the  mind.&quot;  And  now  I  am  afraidthat  in  its  little  piece  about  my  own  passing  that  great  newspaper  may  refer  to  me  as  &quot;just  an-  other  vagabond  in  the  backwoods  of  the  imagination.&quot;  'This  has  taken  the  edge  off  my  supine  meanderings  and  given  my  dreams  a  nasty  turn.  In  one  of  them  I  was  being  hunted  down  like  a  deer  in  a  wooded  wilderness.  Men  like  Lord  Bertrand  Russell,  another  su-  preme  adventurer  in  the  realm  of  the  mind,  kept  firingat  me  from  cover.  In  something  ofa  panic,  I  have  recently  been  trying  to  give  my  nocturnal  thoughts  at  least  the  semblance  of  im- portance.  So  far  this  has  merely  had  the  effect  of  makingthem  a  little  stuffy.  Whereas  I  used  to  drop  off  to  sleep  while  looking  for  quiet  characters  in  B,  I  now  find  myself  trying  to  dis-  cover  something  significant  in  the  curi-  ous  ambivalence,  the  antipathy-affinity  of  C  and  M.  Most  of  the  characters  in  B,  to  get  back  to  them  for  a  moment,  murder  sleep:  the  bugler,  braggart,  blowhard,  blatherskite,  barber,  bowler,  barker,  booster,  bouncer,  bruiser,  and  so  on.  But  their  broken-bottle  barroom  brawl-  ing,  bombast,  bluster,  and  blockbusting  bombardment  of  Babel  and  Bedlam  die  down  when  you  come  upon  the  sub-  dued  figures  of  the  only  truly  quiet  char-  acters  in  the  second  letter  of  the  alpha-  bet-the  butler,  the  bridegroom,  and  the  burglar.  The  first  night  I  came  upon  them,  whispering  and  tiptoeing  in  the  corridors  of  B,  I  fell  asleep  almost  in-  stantly.  Now  I  lie  awake  for  hours,  staring  at  the  ceiling,  becoming  more  and  more  involved  in  what  may  easily  turnout  to  be  the  utterly  meaningless  relationship  of  C  and  M.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  just  barely  possible  that  I  have  got  the  tips  of  my  fingers  on  a  valid  and  valuable  discovery  in  the  field  of  al-  phabetical  relativity.  I  began,  simply  enough,  with  the  discovery  that  C  and M  contain  some  ofthe  greatest  tradi-  tional  antipathetical  entities  of  fact  and  fiction-cat  and  mouse,  cobra  and  mon-  goose,  Capulet  and  Montague.  From  there  I  went  on  to  explore  certain  other  tragic  associations  of  the  two  letters,  Mary  Celeste,  Morro  Castle,  McKin-  ley  and  Czolgosz,  and  Marat  and  Cor-  day.  I  tried  to  get  out  of  the  darker  side  of  the  combination  by  thinking  of  Ma-  donna  and  Child,  Maurice  Chevalier,  and  Christy  Mathewson,  but  then  I  became  wide  awake  and  a  little  sweaty  with  Chamberlain  and  Munich,  and  Capitalism  and  Marxism,  from  which  it  was  a  simple  mental  journey  to  Christian  and  Moslem,  civil  and  mili-  tary,  celibacy  and  marriage,  church  and  monarchy,  classical  and  modern,  chemi-  cal  and  mechanical,  mundane  and  cos-  mic.  My  mind  had  no  sooner  calmed  itself  with  magic  carpet  than  it  leaped  even  wider  awake  with  the  Caine  Mu-  tiny  and  the  Caine  Mutiny  Court  Mar-  tial.  I  soon  realized,as  I  turned  on  the  lights  and  lit  a  cigarette,  that  C-M  clearly  militates  against  that  relaxation  of  posture  and  thought  which  leads  to  unconsciousness.  I  got  into  dozens  of  conjunctions  of  the  two  letters-Mark  and  Cleopatra,  Candida  and  March-  banks,  malice  and  charity,  cow  and  moon,  moth  and  cloth,  mountain  and  " b"climber,  cadets  and  midshipmen,  Mon-  roe  and  colonization,  and  Custer  and  massacre.  I  began  thinking  of  Charles  Martel,  who  checked  the  Moors,  but  found  this  unrelaxing  and  tried  to  settle  back  in  a  cozy  mental  Morris  chair.  And  suddenly  I  was  in  the  midst  of  Martini  cocktail,  maraschino  cherry,  cockles  and  mussels,  mutton  chop;  Chateau  Margaux,  mulled  cider,  Martell  co-  gnac,  chocolate  mousse,  and  Mot  et  Chandon.  This  naturally  brought  on  cholera  morbus.  (Incidentally,  the  chol-  era  morbus  that  killed  President  Zach-  ary  Taylor  was  caused  by  a  surfeit  of  milk  and  cherries.)  I  don't  know  how  I  finally  managed  sleep;  perhaps  it  was  by  thinking  of  the  triumphs  of  the  Count  of  Monte  Cristo,  or  the  whirling  wheels  of  Monte  Carlo,  but  my  unconscious-  ness  did  not  last  long  and  my  dreams  were  troubled.  In  one  of  them  I  was  suddenly  enfiladed  by  the  rifle  fire  of  the  Coys  and  McHatfields.  This  dis-  tortion  brought  me  so  wide  awake  that  I  had  to  get  up  and  dress.  A  few  nights  later,  having  resolutely  shaken  C-M  from  my  mind,  I  turned  to  S  and  W  in  the  hope  that  the  com-  bination  would  be  soft  and  winsome,  soporific  and  wistful,  but  there  is  defi-  nitely  a  dark  basic  twist  in  my  mental  processes  somewhere,  for  I  abruptly shifted  from  a  momentary  contempla-  tion  of  sweet  Williams  to  storm  warn-  ing,  sou  'wester,  windstorm,  waterspout,  and  shipwreck.  I  made  a  hasty  grab  for  E,  with  its  ease,  ephemera,  and  evanes-  cence,  and  then  found  myself,  to  my  dis-  may,  in  the  endless,  eternal,  everlasting,  energetic  enterprise  and  endeavor  of  the  most  restless  letter  of  all  twenty-six.  Once  you  get  into  the  explorations,  ex-  aminations,  excavations,  and  elaborate  edifices  of  E,  a  tranquil  mind  is  impos-  sible.  If  you  make  the  mistake  of  turn-  ing  in  desperation  to  D,  you  are  even  more  disconcerted,  for  its  doves,  desires,  and  dreams  give  way  almost  at  once  to  its  terrible  atmosphere  of  doubt,dread,  decline,  derangement,  decay,  dissolu-  tion,  degradation,  and  its  dire,  dismal  disease,  doom,  and  dusty  death.  If  you  contemplate  the  thousand  depressing  words  that  begin  with  D,  you  will  un-  derstand  why  it  was  necessary  to  follow  delightful  and  delicious  with  delovely  in  the  Cole  Porter  song  lyric.  There  just  aren't  three  genuine  three-syllable  words  that  would  fit  into  the  mood  of  ecstasy,  so  one  had  to  be  invented.  If  from  this  dark,  dolorous,  demented,  de-  structive,  desperate,  and  demoniac  letter  you  look  for  serenity  in  F,  you  find  your-  self  in  both  the  frying  pan  and  the  fire.  F  is  the  letter  of  falter,  foozle,  flunk,  638  flop,  flaw,  feeble,  flounder,  fall,  flat,  and  failure,  of  fake,  falla-  cious,  flimflam,  fishy,  fib,  fob,  foist,  forgery,  facsimile,  and  fabrica-  tion.  'The  fox  of  its  foxfire  is  not  a  fox,  and  the  fire  is  not  fire.  Even  its  fleabane  is  often  false.  It  is  the  flimsy,  fluttery,  finicky,  frantic,  frenetic,  feverish  headquarters  of  flibbertigibbet,  fuddyduddy,  fogy,  fossil,  fourflusher,  frustrated  fe-  male,  and  flabbergasted  fussbudg-  et.  To  sports  it  brings  foul,  fault,  footfault,  fumble,  and  forfeit.  Its  fineness  and  finesse  have  a  filigree  frailty,  and  a  furry  fungus  blurs  its  focus,  making  it  filmy,  fuzzy,  and  foggy.  When  you  come  upon  fame,  family,  fortune,  and  faith  in  these  surroundings,  they  have  a  faint,  furtive,  fragile,  and  almost  fictitious  feeling.  F  brings  the  fin-  gers  to  butterfingers,  the  fly  to  fly-by-night,  the  flash  to  flash-in-  the-pan,  and  the  forsaken  to  god-  forsaken.  Its  friend  is  too  close  to  fiend  for  comfort,  and  it  is  not  re-  assuring  to  realize  that  our  fi-  nances  and  future  keep  such  fear-  ful,  fitful,  fretful,  and  fantastic  company.  F  is  so  flagrantly  flagi-  tious  and  so  flamboyantly  flexuous  that  it  might  easily  drive  any  pa-  tientto  floccillation,  or  at  least  make  him  want  to  rush  out  and  flense  a  whale  with  a  fleam.  If  its  fizzle  doesn't  get  us,  its  fission  may.  G,  if  you  are  still  with  me,  is  no  longer  the  most  gruesome,  gloomy,  and  gory  letter;  its  terrors  have  become  old-  fashioned  with  the  passing  of  the  cen-  turies  and  the  development  of  modern  man.  The  things  that  go  bump  in  G  would  no  longer  frighten  even  Goldi-  locks,  for  who  is  afraid  nowadays  of  ghouls,  ghosts,  goblins,  giants,  gar-  goyles,  griffins,  gorgons,  or  Gargantua  and  Goliath?  If  you  want  to  get  hell's  own  heebie-jeebies  take  H.  This  Cen-  tury  of  Violence  has  invented  new  words  and  combinations  of  words  and  thrown  a  greenish  light  on  old  ones  to  point  up  its  hellions  and  horrors,  and  most  of  them  begin  with  H:  hoodlum,  hooligan,  heel,  hooch,  heroin,  hitch-  hiker,  hotrod,  hijacker,  holdup,  hop-  head,  hipped,  hideout,  hatchetman,  higher-up,  hangover,  hooker,  homicide,  homosexual,  hydrogen,  halitosis,  hys-  teria,  and  [REDACTED].  DON'T  know  whether  or  not  psy-  chiatry  has  explored  the  diagnostic  potential  of  what  it  would  surely  call,  and  perhaps  already  has,  letter  stimulus  and  word  response.  A  simple  way  to  " b"measure  the  degree  of  apprehension,  or  Angst,  in  a  patient  who  keeps  looking  over  his  shoulder  or  glancing  into  the  sky  would  be  the  C-test  or  the  T-test.  I  tried  both  of  them  on  myself  one  night,  with  depressing  results.  All  hell  broke  loose  in  each  of  them  without  warning.  C  has  almost  as  many  words  of  calm  and  comfort  as  of  crisis  and  conflict,  and  the  well-balanced  psycheshould  be  able  to  fall  asleep  while  still  in  the  cate-  gory  of  anodyne,  before  the  bells  of  alarm  have  begun  to  ring.  I  started  out  pleasantly  and  restfully  one  night  like  this:  carillon,  caroller,  cavalcade,  carriages,  cobblestone,  clip-clop,  coun-  tryside,  chickadee,  candytuft,  chimney  corner,  cricket,  chessmen,  cider,  chest-  nuts.  Then  the  trouble  began,  for  C  is  the  letter  of  catcall,  curse,  calumny,  and  contumely.  I  suddenly  found  my-  self  in  the  midst  of  a  loud-mouthed  ex-  change  of  epithets  and  insults,  from  the  old-fashioned  cad  and  cockalorum  up  to  the  present-day  card-carrying  Com-  munist  conspirator  and  cockeyed  Con-  gressional-committee  chairman.  (If  you  can't  fill  in  forty  others,  from  clod-  hopper  to  creep,  you  are  out  of  touch  with  your  times.)  The  imprecations  I  had  bumped  into  in  C  after  such  a  serene  start  instantly  led  to  creak,  crack,  crumple,  crumble,  collapse,  crash,  con-  flagration,  consternation,confusion,  cy-  clone,  collision,  calamity,  catastrophe,  cataclysm,  and  chaos.  Anybody  who  can  doze  off  while  still  thinking  of  clover,  candle,  comforter,  clock,  and  chime  is  living  in  the  alphabetical  past, and  his  state  of  mind  is  probably  even  more  indicative  of  derangement  than  my  own.  There  isn't  a  thing  C  can  do  that  T  cannot  equal  or  surpass.  I  forget  just  how  I  started  out  in  this  promising  let-  ter  of  time  and  truth,  but  in  a  flash  I  was  wandering  among  turtles  and  toad-  stools,  and  then  I  came  to  the  tiny  ter-  mite  and  what  happened  was  far  more  terrible  than  the  crackup  in  the  chimney  corner  of  C:  tremble,  teeter-totter,  tower,  tremor,  temblor,  television,  tele-  phone,  telegraph,  transmission,  topple,  tumble,  twist,  topsy-turvy,  tumult,  tur-  bulent,  turmoil,  thunder,  tempest,  tor-  nado,  tropical  typhoon,  terror,  tantrum,  tirade,  tailspin,  traffic  tieup,  train,  taxi,  truck,  trolley,  tram,  terminal,  trouble,  trial,  tears,  tribulation,  torment,  torture,  triumph.  (I  don't  know  how  that  tri-  umph  got  in  there,  but  probably  my  consciousness  had  taken  as  much  as  it  could.)  It  is  my  intention  to  be  helpful  as  possible  to  my  neighbors  at  the  corner  of  " b"Dread  and  Jeopardy,  and  I  suggest  that  they  play  around  in  P  before  venturing  into  more  menacing  letters.  P  is  a  rather  silly  letter,  given  to  repeating  itself,  and  to  a  strange  assortment  of  games:  ping-  pong,  polo,  pool,  poker,  pedro,  pinochle,  parcheesi,  pussy-wants-a-corner,  post  office,  and  pillow.  'The  sixteenth  letter  of  the  alphabet  has  many  pixies,  great  and  small:  Puck,  Pan,  Pandora,  Peter  Pan,  Pinocchio,  Pollyanna,  Puss  in  Boots,  and  the  Pooh.  No  other  letter  is  quite  so  addicted  to  the  vice  of  allitera-  tion,  and  it  is  possible  that  no  writer  has  ever  lived  who  did  not  think  up  and  mull  over  inhis  mind  at  least  one  title  in  the  same  category  as  Pilgrim's  Prog-  ress,  Pippa  Passes,  Pied  Piper,  Pickwick  Papers,  Peterkin  Papers,  Pride  and  Prejudice,  Prince  and  Pauper,  Poet  and  Peasant,  Pit  and  Pendulum,  Peacock  Pie,  Potash  and  Perlmutter,  and  so  on,  and  on,  and  on,  back  through  the  ages.  I  once  made  up  a  little  man  named  Pendly  in  the  early  years  of  my  con-  stant  need  to  make  money,  and  for  some  reason  or  other,  no  longer  clear  to  me,  I  invented  the  name  of  a  make  of  auto-  mobile  in  the  same  story.  Naturally,  I  fell  into  the  facile  trap  of  repeating  the  P  in  the  title  of  the  story,  which  came  out  &quot;Mr.  Pendly  and  the  Poindexter.&quot;  It  is  because  of  this  confounded  tenden-  cy  that  our  language  is  spotted  with  such  expressions  as  pooh-pooh,  pitter-patter,  pish-posh,  pompon,  pretty  please,  post-  prandial,  party  politics,  pumpkin  papers,  pink  pills,  pale  people,  pip-pip,  pawpaw,  papa,  and  the  awful  like.  IN  conclusion-all  this  thin  slicing  is  getting  us  nowhere-easily  the  most  fecund  and  probably  the  least  frighten-  ing  combination  of  letters  is  S-P.  I  have  been  working  on  it  foryears,  off  and  on,  and  it  has  taken  me  from  Stony  Point  to  Seven  Pines  and  from  swim-  ming  pool  to  South  [REDACTED],  with  hun-  dreds  of  stopoffs  along  the  way.  To  games,  for  example,  it  has  given  south-  paw,  screen  pass,  short  putt,  set  point,  shot  put,  Sunday  punch,  and  &quot;sorry  part-  i  ner.&quot;  Nothing  has  leaped  out  of  this  union  to  scale  my  pajamas  off  or  to  keep  me  awake  very  long.  Right  now,  how-  ever,  I  am  finding  it  a  somnolent  expe-  rience  to  wander  in  W,  with  its  wilder-  ness,  Wonderland,  wabe,  wildwood,  and  Woodland  of  Weir.  There  is  al-  ways  the  danger,  of  course,  of  bumping  into  What's-His-Name  of  [REDACTED],  but  if  you're  lucky  you  can  stay  with  nothing  worse  than  witches  and  war-  locks  until  the  sandman  gets  you.  Pleasant  dreams,  and-imagine  me  forgetting  the  greatest  M-C  of  them  all  until  now-Merry  Christmas. "