 b"ROD Adams knew-and  this  time  he  R  really  knew-that  he  wasn't  the  slightest  bit  tight  when  the  acci-  dent  happened.  'To  be  sure,  it  was  the  holiday  season,  when  parties  erupt  all  over  the  suburban  countryside;  at  the  time,  he  and  Caroline  had  just  been  to  one,  a  cocktail  party  at  the  Bennings',  and  were  on  their  way  over  to  abuffet  supper  at  the  Holts'.  But  all  the  time  they'd  been  at  the  Bennings'  he'd  been  conscious  that  the  roads  were  wet  and  would  probably  get  icy,  come  nightfall,  and  for  once  he'd  held  back  on  his  drinking.  If  thetruth  must  be  told,  he  had  also  comforted  himself  with  the  thought  that  he  could  always  loosen  up  later.  Bet  and  Benny  Holt  always  had  plenty  of  the  stuff  around,  and  they  were  more  his  kind  of  people;  they  were  even  talking  now  of  getting  up  a  riding  club  together.  But  that  fact  didn't  enter  into  it;  the  real  fact  was  that  he'd  just  sat  there,  nursing  his  two  or  three  drinks  and  taking  it  easy-and  when  they'd  come  out  and  found  the  roads  not  only  jcing  a  little  but  with  a  light  fall  of  snow  on  top  of  them  as  well,  he'd  been  damn  well  glad  of  his  caution.  They  were  coming  around  a  wide,  sweeping  curve  about  halfway  over  to  theHolts'  when  the  dog  ran  out  in  front  of  them.  The  dog,  actually,  was  following  an-  other  car,  a  beat-up-looking  black  sedan  that  had  pulled  out  from  a  farmhouse  a  little  way  farther  on  and  headed  toward  them.  There  was  an  instant-that  in-  stant  in  which  the  vision  clears  after  passing  headlights-when  he  saw  it  loping  playfully  along  there,  a  boxer  maybe,  or  maybe  a  big  Irish  terrier,  and  then,  just  as  he  was  cringing  inwardly  at  what  he  already  almost  knew  would  happen,  it  happened:  dazzled,  probably,  and  confused,  the  damned  dog  swerved  out  directly  into  his  light  beam  and  ran,  literally,  head-on  into  the  car.  There  wasn't  a  Chinaman's  chance  to  avoid  it.  He  heard  Caroline  cry  out  &quot;Oh,  my  God!&quot;  and  he  heard  himself  cursing.  But  when  hejabbed  at  the  brakes,  all  that  happened  was  that  the  car  started  skidding  and  sliding.  There  was  a  bump,  and  the  body  tumbled  up  into  the  lights  and  then  out  into  the  darkness;  for  a  few  seconds  after  that  he  had  all  he  could  do  to  keep  the  car  on  the  road.  Fractionally,  the  gray,  light-lit  rectangle  of  a  concrete  culvert  leered  at  him  and  veered  past;  the  dark  slot  of  the  ditch  neared  his  wheels  and  then  slid  away.  Then  he  had  the  car  under  control,  and  they  stopped  at  last;  for  an  appre-  ciable  period,  it  seemed,  the  held,  spuri-  ous  silence  that  always  comes  in  the  night,  in  the  country,  afternoise  and  movement  have  ceased  descended  upon  them.  &quot;Damn,  damn,  damn  farmers!  Why  the  hell  can't  they  keep   their  dogs  off  the  roads?&quot;  he  was  say-  ing.  Caroline  had  hidden  her  face  in  her  hands.  &quot;Might  have  wrecked  the  car,  might  have  killed  us.  Oh,  God  damn  the  damn  dumb  nitwits!  And  now  we'll  probably  have  an  argument  on  our  hands,  or  something,&quot;  he  was  going  on  kind  of  senselessly  when  Caro-  line  threw  her  shoulders  back  suddenly  against  the  seat.  &quot;Oh,  stop!&quot;  she  cried,  and-he  was  already  reaching  across  to  the  glove  compartment  for  the  flashlight-Rod  turned  his  head  and  looked  at  her.  &quot;My  God,  Caroline,  I  wasn't  even  going  fast!&quot;  he  protested.  &quot;You  saw  the  damned  brute  run  out  at  me.  I  did  the  bestI  could.&quot;  She  said  something  like  &quot;Na-a-ah!,&quot;  a  kind  of  sighing  sound,  and  then,  he  on  his  side  and  she  on  hers,  theygot  out  and  walked  back  to  where  the  dog~  was  lying.  Farther  on  down  the  road,  Rod  noticed,  the  other  car  had  stopped.  It  stood  there,  a  black  boxlike  shape  be-  tween  the  flare  of  its  headlights  and  the  steam  of  its  exhaust;  then,  just  as  they  reached  the  dog,  it  began  backing  slow-  ly  toward  them.  The  dog  was  a  boxer,  all  right,  about  a  year  or  so  old  and  a  nice  pup,  too-  good  head,  good  conformation-but  dead,  lying  sidewise  on  the  snow,  though  the  paws  still  twitched  occa-  sionally  and  the  mouth  strained  back  from  the  teeth  in  some  last,  dying  reflex.  They  had  time  to  see  that  much  before  the  other  car  reached  them  and  stopped,  and  a  boy  in  blue  jeans  and  a  Mackinaw  jacket,  a  boy  of  about  seventeen,  got  out.  The  first  thing  he  saw  was  the  dog,  in  the  circle  of  the  flash-light. &quot;Gee,  Flash  he  said,  almost  under  his  breath,  and  he  stood there  a  moment,  just looking.  Caroline  was  crying.  'Then  the  boy  glanced  up  briefly  at  Rod.  &quot;You  know,  first  off,  I  thought  it  was  something  had  hap-  pened  to  you,&quot;  he  said.  Later  on,  Rod  re-  membered,  it  was  one  of  the  few  things  any  of  them  said  to  him  all  the  while  he  and  Caro-  line  were  there.  But  at  the  moment  all  he  could  think  of  was  the  danger  of  the  moments  just  " b"past,  and  Caroline's  crying.  &quot;Damn  near  did,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  might  have  said  more,  only  just  on  the  instant  two  small  boys  appeared,  and  a  few  mo-  ments  later  a  woman,  all  obviously  from  the  farmhouse  up  the  road,  and  from  then  on  things  got  sort  oftangled.  Not  that  there  was  any  trouble,  ever.  It  was  just  that  not  one  of  the  others  paid  any  attention  to  him  or  to  Caroline;  it  was  almost  as  if  they  didn't  exist  for  them,  and  they,  the  family,  stood  talk-  ing  among  themselves  as  if  there  was  a  wall  around  them.  Once,  indeed,  the  oldest  boy  said  something  to  Caroline.  She  had  been  protesting  that  she  loved  dogs-they  had  three  themselves-and  it  hadn't  been  her  husband's  fault;  the  dog  had  just  run  out  at  them.  &quot;He  must  have  been  following  your  car,&quot;  she  said,  and  the  boy  replied  a  little  absent-  ly,  &quot;Yes,  he  does  that  sometimes.  I  can't  seem  to  break  him.&quot;  But  right  after  that  all  the  rest  of  the  family  had  turned  up,  and  from  then  on  they  were  just  ignored.  The  two  youngsters,  of  course,  took  it  hardest.  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  they  wanted  to  know,  though,  of  course,  they  could  see  what  had  happened,  right  before  their  eyes,  and  the  boy  who'd  been  driving  the  car  said-and  it  irked  Rod  a  little-'&quot;'They  got  Flash.&quot;  &quot;Is  he  dead?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  he's  dead,&quot;  said  the  other  so-  berly,  and  at  that  the  youngest  one  started  tocry.  &quot;Get  Clemmie  out  of  here,  Tom,&quot;  said  thebig  one.  Rod  had  to  admit  that  he,  at  least,  was  taking  the  thing  well.  &quot;Take  him  back  to  the  house.&quot;  &quot;But-  you  sure  he's  dead?&quot;  &quot;He's  dead,  all  right.  Take  Clem  back  to  the  house.&quot;  But  the  two  kids  lingered  till  the  woman  came  up,  a  short,  stocky,  red-faced  woman  with  an  apron  on  and  a  man's  coat  flung  over  her  shoulders,  and  the  whole  thing  had  to  be  explained  all  over  again.  And  there  they  were,  all  standing  in  a  ring  around  the  poor  damned  dog,  and  with  Caroline  trying  to  talk,  too,  against  their  blank  inattention:  it  made  Rod  feel  restless.  So  when  the  boy  said  again,  to  the  mother,  &quot;They  got  Flash,&quot;  he  felt  he  had  to  say  something  for  himself.  &quot;Damn  near  got  us,  too,  if  you  know  what  I  mean,&quot;  he  put  in,  &quot;with  him  running  right  out  at  us  that  way.&quot;  But  though  Caroline  didn't  say  a  word  to  that-and  though  actually  he  was  only  repeating  what  she  herself  had  said  just  a  minute  or  so  before-he  could  feel,  really  feel,  her  disapproval,  and  he  added,  and  for  the  matter  ofthat  he  really  meant  it,  &quot;Damn  nice  pup, though,  just  the  same.  [REDACTED]  lines  to  him.  I'm  sorry  it  had  to  happen.&quot;  He'd  been  going  to  say,  too,  &quot;We've  got  some  of  our  own,&quot;  even  though  he  felt  it  would  have  sounded  silly-  after  all,  who  didn't  have  dogs,  in  the  country?-but  it  was  clear  again  that  no  one  of  them  was  listening.  Even  Caroline  had  subsided;  the  woman  had  taken  charge,  and  first  she  sent  the  two  youngsters  packing  and  then  turned  to  the  oldest  one.  &quot;You  get  on,  too,  Frank,&quot;  she  told  him,  and  he  looked  at  her.  &quot;But,  Ma-&quot;  &quot;I'll  take  care  of  Flash.  We'll  have  to  bury  him,  but  we  can  do  that  to-  morrow.  I'll  put  him  in  the  barn  for  tonight.&quot;  She  was  speaking  directly  to  him,  paying  no  attention  to  Rod  or  to  Caroline;  she  had  a  deep,  almost  mas-  culine  voice.  &quot;You  get  on.  I  don't  want  you  to  miss  your  class,  and  you're  late  enough  as  it  is.&quot;  And  though  Caroline  fussed  about  and  protested-&quot;Let  us  help.  Let  my  husband  carry  him,&quot;  she  was  saying-  the  woman  bent  down  and  picked  the  dog  up,  limp  and  sprawling-looking  now,  in  her  arms  and  started  walking  back  toward  the  house.  Carolinefollowed  her,  and  then  Rod,  carrying  the  flashlight,  and  when  they  came  to  the  barn  door,  he  went  ahead  a  little  to  open  it  while  she  waited  with  the  dog  still  in  her  arms.  And  it  was  funny,  but  perhaps  it  was  just  because  she  did  wait  for  that  moment-he'd  been  almost  afraid  she  was  going  to  try  to  do  everything  for  herself  -he  felt  suddenly  impelled  to  say  something.  &quot;I'm  damn  sorry,  you  know.  We  both  are,&quot;  he  said  as  he  loosed  the  latch  and  started  to  push  the  door  open.  After  all,  he'd  been  damn  near  sick  to  his  stomach  back  there  when  he'd  seenthe  dog  flying  up  after  the  bump,  and  so  on;  it  was  that  that  had  riled  him.  &quot;We've  got  dogs,  too,  three  of  'em.  I  know  how  you  must  feel,  all  right,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;And  if  we  can  pay  you  anything-you  know,  not  that  it  was  our  fault,  but  just  something  for  your  kids,  help  'em  get  another  pup,  or  some-  thing-&quot;  The  woman  didn't  even  look  at  " b"him.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  She  had  been  waiting  till  he  got  the  door  open  and  now  she  marched  past  him.  &quot;You  can't  pay  us  anything.  Thanks  for  opening  the  door.&quot;  &quot;Come  on,  Rod,&quot;  he  heard  Caroline  say  tiredly,  from  the  darkness  outside.  HE  row,  when  it  came,  was  as  senseless  as  the  accident.  They  rode  in  silence  for  a  while  after  they  had  got  on  the  road  again,  and  Rod  could  understand  that;  after  all,  they  were  both  upset-Caroline  especially.  But  that  kind  of  silence-two  people  side  by  side  on  acar  seat,  almost  touch-  ing  and  yet  not  speaking-always  made  Rod  restless,  particularly  if  it  was  Caro-  line,  and  after  a  few  minutes,  just  to  be  saying  something,  he  said,  &quot;Well,  Lord,  that  was  something,  wasn't  it?&quot;  &quot;It  [REDACTED];  said  Caroline,  and  though  her  tone  was  odd,  he  took  it  as  any-  way  an  encouragement.  &quot;But,  my  God,  if  they'd  only  keep  their  damn-fool  dogs  off  the  road,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;If  they'd  only  trai  them  a  little!  The  thing  is  they  just  don't  give  a  damn  for  their  animals,  these  farmers.&quot;  She  said  nothing  to  that,  and  Rod  went  on,  &quot;But,  you  know,  it's  a  damn  funny  thing-all  the  years  I've  been  driving,  that's  the  first  dog  I  believe  I've  ever  killed,  the  first  animal,  even.&quot;  &quot;Except  the  puppies,&quot;  said  Caroline,  and  it  was  so  unexpected  that  he  looked  at  her.  ''The  puppies?&quot;  he  repeated.  'Yes,  thepuppies.  Our  puppies.  Or  Trixie's.  The  ones  you  drowned.  Re-  member?  Two  months  ago.&quot;  She  was  talking  in  an  odd,  jerky  fashion,  and  he  was  so  puzzled,  watching  her,  that  he  almost  let  the  car  run  off  the  road.  She  didn't  cry  out  or  even  change  her  expression  while  he  struggled  to  straighten  it  out  again.  &quot;But,  hell,  honey,  those  were  just  mutts.  God  knows  who  the  sire  was!  They  were  no  use  to  anyone!  And  you  said  yourself  at  the  time-&quot;  &quot;I  know.  Yes.  I  know  I  did.  Any-  way,  I  was  willing,&quot;she  said,  and  he  reached  one  hand  over  to  rest  it  briefly  on  her  thigh.  &quot;Soyou  see,  honey.  Take  it  easy,&quot;  he  toldher.  &quot;I  know  it  was  tough,  that  business  back  there;  I  was  damn  near  sick  to  my  stomach  myself  when  I  heard  the  thing  hit.  But  it  was  only  a  dog,  after  all.  They'll  get  another  one,  and  it's  lucky  we  weren't  wrecked,  or  killed,  or  hurt  anyway,  ourselves.&quot;  And  again  she  said  nothing,  and  he  drove  on.  'They  were  almost  at  the  turnoff  to  the  Holts'  when  he  spoke  again.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we'll  have  quite  a  story  to  tell  the  folks  at  the  Holts'  when  we  get  there,  won't  we?&quot;  It  was  then  that  she  really  surprised  him.  Without  looking  at  him,  without  taking  her  eyes  from  the  windshield  and  the  road  ahead,  without  moving  a  mus-  cle,  almost-'&quot;I'm  not  going  to  the  Holts',&quot;  said  Caroline.  ND  so  there  they  were,  on  their  way  home  again,  five  minutes  later,  and  no  party  in  prospect,  but  only  trouble.  For  though  Rod  protested,  and  they  wrangled  (&quot;What!&quot;  he'd  cried.  And  she:  &quot;I  won't  go.  You  can  leave  me  off  here  if  you  want  to.  I  just  won't  go!&quot;  And  he'd  yelled  at  her  finally,  &quot;Youdamn  well  will!&quot;),  it  was  all  kind  of  empty,  somehow.  &quot;What'll  we  tell  them,  then?&quot;  he'd  demanded  once.  &quot;They're  expecting  us.  And,  damn  it,  I  wanted  to  talk  to  them-&quot;  About  getting  the  horses,  he'd     meant,  but  he  hadn't  said  that.  And  anyway  she'd  interrupted.  &quot;Tell  them  anything,&quot;  she'd  said  flatly.  &quot;Tell  them  you  killed  a  dog.&quot;  &quot;And  say  that  was  what  stopped  us?  They'd  laugh  at  us,&quot;  he'd  cried,  and  for  once  she  had  really  looked  at  him.  &quot;You  know,  I  believe  they  would,&quot;  she  had  told  him.  That  was  when  they  were  right  at  the  turnoff  to  the  Holts',  and  it  stopped  him,  somehow.  &quot;What  the  hell  have  you  got  against  the  Holts?&quot;  he  de-  manded.  But  he  was  licked  already,  and  he  knew  it.  A  man  can't  make  a  woman  do  something  she  doesn't  want  to,  or  at  least  Rod  couldn't.  Way  back  in  his  college  days  he  had  sworn  that  he  never  would  plead  with  a  woman,  and  he  never  would  force  one,  either,  and  in  the  end,  instead  of  driving  up  the  road  (and  all  those  cheerful  people,  and  the  lights,  and  the  warm,  lit  rooms,  and  the  drinks-but  there'd  be  plenty  to  drink  back  home),  he  had  backed  and  filled  at  thecrossing  and  then  headed  toward  home  again.  And  meanwhile,  of  course,  then  and  later-or  now  and  then,  anyway,  for  she  had  long  periods  of  silence-they  had  it  hot  and  heavy.  Once  he  tried  to  &quot;make  a  speech,&quot;  as  they'd  called  it  in  the  early  days,  when  they  were  getting  used  to  each  other,  and  in  fact-  was  that  pleading?-he  had  used  the  very  words.  &quot;May  I  make  a  speech?&quot;  he  asked.  She  said  nothing,  and  he  could  feel  his  anger  rising.  But  there  was  some-  " b"thing  here  that  needed  clearing  up,  and  he  tightened  his  grip  on  himself-and  on  the  wheel,  too,  funnily:  he  could  feel  his  fingers  tighten-and,  staring  straight  ahead  up  the  road,  just  as  she  herself  was  doing,  he  began.  &quot;Look  here,  honey,  I  don't  know  whether  you  realize  it,  but  this  thing  back  there  hurt  me,  too.  I  know  Idon't  always  show  my  feelings  like  some  peo-  ple  do;  I  was  brought  up  to  keep  them  under  cover,  keep  a  stiff  upper  lip,  and  all  that.  But  if  you  think  I  like  hitting  a  dog  like  that,  a  nice  pup,  too-I  won-  der  if  the  fools  even  knew  what  a  good-  looking  animal  they  had-well,  damn  it,  you're  crazy.  I  was  damn  near  sick  to  my  stomach  back  there  fora  while.  &quot;But  you'vegot  to  have  some  sort  of  sense  of  proportion  about  the  thing,  too,  Caroline,&quot;  he  went  on,  and  as  she  still  hadn't  said  anything,  he  glanced  quick-  ly  over  at  her  to  see  if  she  was  listening.  But  he  couldn't  be  sure  about  that;  she  was  just  staring  at  the  road  ahead  of  them,  as  before.  &quot;After  all,  it  was  just  a  dog,  and  I'd  kill  ten  dogs  before  I'd  injure  a  human.  I'd  kill  a  hundred  be-  fore  hurting  you.  And  as  I  said  a  while  back  there,  and  damn  it,  it's  true,  they'll  get  another  one.  People  like  that,  farm-  ers  and  farm  people,  they  don't  think  of  animals  the  same  way  we  do;  if  they  did,  they'd  damn  well  take  better  care  of  them.  And-&quot;  &quot;Pay  them  something  and  let  that  take  care  of  it,&quot;  Caroline  put  in,  and  it  was  as  obvious  from  the  dreamy  way  she  spoke  as  from  the  heedless  way  she  interrupted  him  that  she  had  hardly  been  listening  to  him  at  all.  &quot;My  God,  Rod,  do  you  always  have  to  say  the  wrong  thing?  Always?&quot;  And  that  wasn't  the  whole  of  it;  once  started,  it  seemed  she  just  couldn't  stop.  &quot;  If  we  can  pay  you  anything;'  &quot;  it  was  clear  from  her  tone  that  she  was  mimicking  his  voice.  &quot;  'You  know,  damn  it  all,  for  the  kids'  sake-'  Well,  you  did  have  the  grace  to  put  that  in.  But  did  you  see  the  way  the  poor  woman  looked  at  you?  Did  you  hear  the  kids  crying?&quot;  She  was almost  crying  herself  now,  and  it  was  all  silly  and  senseless,  but  there  was  no  way  to  get  at  her.  &quot;Did  you  understand  anything  of  what  it  meant  to  them?&quot;  she  demanded.  &quot;I  know  they  didn't  have  the  grace  to  say  a  decent  word  to  us  when  that  brute  of  theirs  damn  near  wrecked  the  car.  And  us  all  over  the  place  with  them,  bowing  and  scraping!&quot;  &quot;And  you  had  to  put  that  in,  too,  didn't  you?So  they  wouldn't  try  to  sue  us,  or  something,  I  suppose-&quot;  &quot;Hell!&quot;  said  Rod.  &quot;Didn't  you  see  they  didn't  speak  to  us  because  they  couldn't-with  their  dog  lying  dead  at  our  feet?&quot;  &quot;Why,  Christ-&quot;  he  said  then.  This  was  getting  fantastic.  &quot;  (Why,  Christ,&quot;  &quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;Is  that  all  you  can  say?  That  and  'Damn  it'  and  'Damn  it  all'?&quot;  And  there  was  more,  much  more-about  him  and  Ben  Holt  and  Tod  Winthrop  pretending  to  be  country  gentlemen,  and  something  he'd  saidat  the  time  of  the  puppies,  that  " b"if  a  dog  wasn't  a  thoroughbred,  he  didn't  want  it  (well,  damn  it,  he  didn't);  it  was  a  real  outpouring.  He,  of  course,  wasn't  absolutely  silent  him-  self;  there  were  times  when  they  were  almost  shouting  at  each  other.  But  it  was  odd-it  was  just  at  that  moment,  hearing  her  mimicking  him  again,  this  time  even  in  his  way  of  swearing,  that  a  queer  little  feeling  touched  him,  almost  like  a  tremor,  and  the  thought  came  into  his  mind,  heavy  and  hard:  she  doesn't  like  me,  she  just  doesn't  like  me  at  all.  They  were  coming  up  the  road  to-  ward  their  own  house  at  the  time,  and  she  must  have  had  some  feelingherself  about  how  far  she  was  going,  for  when  he  turned  the  car  in  to  their  barn-garage  and  stopped,  she  stopped  talking,  too,  and  turned  to  him.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Rod,&quot;  she  said  quickly.  &quot;I  guess  I'm  upset,  sort  of,  and  I  may  have  said  more  than  I  should  have.  I'll  get  over  it.&quot;  And  then  she  was  out  of  the  car  and  walking fast,  almost  running,  across  the  lawn  toward  the  house.  EACHING  over  to  the  switch,  Rod  turned  off  the  engine,  and  thenput  out  the  headlights.  Well!,  he  thought,  and  then  he  sat  for  a  few  moments  in  the  big  barn  darkness,  not  thinking  of  anything  much,  but  just  sitting.  He  was  sore,  good  and  sore,  at  what  had  hap-  pened,  naturally,  but  beneath  that  there  was  another  feeling,  almost  of  fear.It  wasn't  Caroline's  love  he  was  worried  about,  not  at  that  moment,  anyway.  A  man  wanted  to  be  loved  by  a  woman,  surely,  buthe  wanted  to  be  liked,  and  respected,  as  well,  and  now,  with  all  this  that  Caroline  had  stored  up  against  him-against  him,  and  Ben  Holt,  and  Bet,  too,  for  that  matter;  and  Tod,  and  the  plans  for  the  riding  club;  and  the  pups,  the  damn,  foolish  pups,  and  so  on-well,  it  left  him  empty.  If  a  man  isn't  liked,  he  thought,  and  then  he  let  the  thought  ride  for  a  little  and  got  out  of  the  car.  The  lights  were  on  in  the  house  now,  he  noticed,  and  Caroline  was  inside  there  somewhere-  in  the  hall,  maybe,  taking  off  her  coat  and  her  storm  boots,  or,  having  done  that,  moving  on  into  the  living  room  or  the  kitchen.  But  he  didn't  want  to  go  up  just  yet,  and  instead  he  walked  over  to  switch  on  the  barn  lights.  As  he  swung  about  to  do  so,  he  stumbled  a  little,  and  it  stopped  him  for  a  second.  Was  he  tight,  after  all,  he  wondered.  He  didn't  think  so;  in  fact,  any  other  time  he'd  have  said  that  he  damn  well  knew  so,  and  yet  apparently  Caroline  had  thought  so,  and  now,  curiously,  he  wasn't  sure.  &quot;The  only  reason  you  aren't  drunker  than  you  are  is  because  you  were  saving  it  up  for  the  Holts  and  their  crowd-'your  kind  of  people,'  &quot;  she  had  said,  again  quoting  him-and  there'd  been  just  enough  truth  in  that  to  make  him  wonder.  If  a  man  isn't  liked,  he  thought,  it  takes  away  his  confidence;  at  the  moment  he  just  wasn't  sure  of  anything.  They  kept  the  car  in  the  big  main  bay  of  the  barn,  and  with  the  lights  on,  the  high  roof  and  the  rafters  seemed  to  soar,  high  and  shadowy,  while  the  car,  its  blue  paint  snow-dusted  now  and  glitter-  ing  in  the  illumination,  a  steady  &quot;drip-  drip-drip&quot;  from  the  slush  melting  under  the  fenders,  looked  small  and  yet  some-  how  solid.  At  the  back  were  the  stalls,  used  for  cows  when  the  barn  had  been  used  at  all,  but  which  Tod  had  told  him  would  be  all  right  for  horses-if  they  ever  got  the  riding  club  going,  that  is,  and  got  horses.  He  looked  at  them  and  then  looked  away  again,  and  on  an  impulse  he  walked  up  to  the  front  of  the  car.  There  was  a  dent  there,  all  right,  a  sort  of  bashed-in  place  in  the  ornamen-  tal  grillwork,  where  the  dog  had  hit,  and  he  stood  there  looking  at  it-think-  ing,  though,  as  much  of  Caroline  and  himself  as  of  the  damage.  For  there'd  been  damage  done  there,  too,  real  dam-  age,  and  though  he  knew  she'd  get  over  it,  and  he  would,  too,  there  were  things  about  it  that  would  always  remain;  if  a  man  isn't  liked,  really  liked,  he  thought-well,  what  is  there  left  for  him?  Meantime,  he'd  better  get  that  grille  repaired  first  thing  next  morning.  Thingswere  bad  enough  as  it  was,  without  having  that  as  a  reminder."