 b"EARLY  in  the  preelection  period-looking  back,  itis  hard  to  believe  that  the  late  nineteen-sixties  are  still  so  fresh  in  our  memories-the  boss-  es  of  the  All-American  Party  assembled,  as  usual,  to  pick  their  standard-bearer  for  November.  Though  statesmen  from  widely  scattered  regions  of  the  conti-  nent  were  present,  not  to  mention  the  powerful  Senatorial  bloc  from  Hawaii  and  the  other  islands,  the  first  session  evoked  gratifying  unanimity  on  one  crucial  point.  To  a  man,  those  in  at-  tendance  were  agreed  that  the  public  had  wearied  of  the  type  of  leader  it  had  lived  with  so  long,  or  at  any  rate  the  type  that  impressionable  journalists  had  forso  many  unvarying  years,  in  so  many  con-  ventional  biographical  treatises,  been  solemnly  portraying:  'The  nominating  committee  decided,  accordingly,  to  se-  lect  someone  as  unlike  the  standard  con-  ception  of  a  very  important  public  figure  as  it  could  find,  and  in  no  time  at  all  a  name  emerged  from  the  roster  under  consideration  by  a  subcommittee  on  qualifications  that  seemed,  in  its  bearer's  deviation  from  the  popular  norm,  al-  most  heaven-sent.  John  Forbush  was  the  man.  'To  be-  gin  with,  Forbushhad  been  an  admiral;  no  admiral  had  been  tapped  for  political  eminence  since  Dewey,  and  he  hadn't  got  very  far.  Forbush  was  not  a  ter-  ribly  renowned  admiral.  If  the  public  had  ever  been  served  up  many  stories about  him,  these  would  inevitably  have  related  that  Old  Blunt  Mouth,  as  he  was  known  in  the  Navy-not,  of  course,  to  his  face,  although  he  was  supposed  to  love  the  nickname,  as  indicative  of  affection  nicely  blended  with  respect-  had  an  exterior  tough  as  granite,  but  that  beneath  this  frosty  facade  there  beata  heart  uniquely  soft.  His  deep  but  rarely  demonstrated  sentimentality  toward  all  the  sailors  under  his  com-  mand  would  have  been  mentioned  next.  There  would  have  followed  a  specific  anecdote  illustrating  this  estimable  trait-perhaps  a  paragraph  narrating  how  when  some  yeoman  inadvertent-  ly  made  dates  for  the  same  night  with  two  girls  in  one  liberty  port,  the  crusty  Admiral  had  charitably  rescued  him  from  his  dilemma  by  ordering  an  en-  tire  task  force  diverted  to  another  port,  a  thousand  miles  away,  where  the  yeo-  man's  affairs  were  less  promiscuously  entangled.  &quot;I  was  young  myself  once,&quot;  the  old  man  would  have  been  reported  as  confiding  to  his  exec,  while  permitting  a  sly  wink  to  flit  across  his  grave  coun-  tenance.  Admiral  Forbush  was,  of  course,  not  at  all  like  that.  There  was  no  question  about  his  having  a  granitic  exterior;  the  engaging  thing  about  himwas  that  his  interior  was,  if  anything,  even  flintier.  (When  one  of  his  own  public-relations  officers  was  discovered  about  to  give  out  a  story  puffily  attesting  to  the  Ad-miral's  alleged  superhumanitarianism,  Forbush  had  promptly  had  the  fellow  transferred  to  the  Canal  Zone,  even  though  his  wife  was  expecting.)  On  the  high  seas,  in  actuality,  he  Aad  been  known  as  Old  Blunt  Mouth,  but  he  de-  plored  the  appellation,  less  because  he  doubted  its  accuracythan  because  he  thought  it  impertinent  toward  the  high  position  he  held,  and  he  was  always  on  the  alert  to  apprehend  and  suitably  ad-  monish  anybody  employing  the  tiresome  phrase.  Admiral  Forbush's  attitude  toward  enlisted  men  was  unbendingly  autocratic,  though  fair.  One  time,  his  exec,  thinking  he  had  caught  his  su-  perior  in  a  relatively  pliable  mood,  had  ventured  to  apprise  him  of  an  embarrass-  ing  situation  faced  by  a  romantic  yeo-  man  under  his  sway.  The  Admiral  had  responded  characteristically  by  saying  that  he  had  more  important  things  than  that  on  his  mind,  and  that  as  far  as  he  was  concerned,  the  fellow  could  damn  well  solve  his  own  personal  problems.  &quot;We  were  all  young  ourselves  once,  [REDACTED];  the  exec  had  murmured  tentative,  ly.  &quot;Well,  we're  not  any  longer,&quot;  the  Admiral  had  snapped,  without  alter-  ing  his  facial  expression  one  whit,  and  that  was  the  end  of  that  anecdote.  TO  the  subcommittee  on  qualifica-  tions,  the  Admiral's  service  record  thus  looked  promising  indeed.  Further  investigation  elucidated  other  biographi-  cal  details  that  really  made  the  subcommitteemen's  eyes  bug.  Like  most  other  flag  officers,  For-  bush  had  attended  his  share  of  postwar  banquets.  It  developed  that  he  had  never  archly  com-  plained  in  private  about  the  food  served  to  him  in  public.  Not  a  jot  of  evidence  could  be  found  of  his  having  told  a  single  living  soul  that  he  just  pretended  to  eat  banquet  food  to  be  polite,  or  that  he  was  glad  he  had  an  iron  stomach,  considering.  'The  truth  was  that  at  banquets  he  gener-  ally  ate  everything  placed  in  front  of  him,  with  gusto.  His  only  obtainable  comment  in  this  respect  had  been  made  to  a  chap  seated  next  to  him  on  one  splendid  dais,  who,  seeking  to  draw  him  out  in  reg'lar-feller  conversation,  had  whispered  con-  spiratorially  that  he  sure  had  to  hand  it  to  the  Admiral  for  appearing  to  tackle  banquet  fare  with  so  much  relish.  &quot;Rubbish!&quot;  Forbush  had  replied,  and  for  an  " b"instant  his  companion  had  been  misled  by  this  offhand  choice  of  ex-  clamations  into  deduc-  ing  that  Forbush  was  outwardly  indistin-  guishable  from  every-  one  else  at  the  head  table.  But  the  Admi-  ral's  amplifying  re-  marks  dispelled  this  false  assumption.  &quot;I  don't  mind  this  food  at  [REDACTED];  he  went  on.  &quot;Most  hotel  chefs  cook  a  good  deal  better  than  my  wife  does.  They  ought  to;  that's  what  they're  paid  for.&quot;  The  more  the  sub-  committee  looked  into  Forbush's  eating  and  .  drinking  proclivities,  the  more  excited  it  got.  He  spouted  no  nonsense,  they  quickly  ascertained,  about  sipping  an  Old-  Fashioned-just  one,  ntind  you-before  din-  ner.  To  anyone  who  asked,  he  would  answer  forthrightly  that  he  pre-  ferred  several  Martinis  before  dinner,  and,  when  it  came  to  that,  beforelunch,  too.  They  relaxed  him  and  sharpened  his  appetite  and,  at  least  in  his  own,  possibly  biassed,  esti-  mation,  made  him  wittier.  As  a  corpo-  ration  executive,  following  his  retire-  ment  from  active  duty,  he  had  been  as  busy  as  any  other  man  of  his  sta-  tion  (&quot;My  job  isn't  awfully  interest-  ing,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  it  pays  well&quot;  ),  yet  he  had  never  asserted  that  he  was  so  pressed  for  time  he  just  lunched  austerely  at  his  desk  off  an  egg-salad  sandwich  and  a  glass  of  milk,  He  didn't  especially  care  for  milk,  and  as  for  egg-  salad  sandwiches-'&quot;That's  for  Boy  Scout  picnics,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;if  you're  unlucky  enough  to  get  roped  into  one.&quot;  Sohe  habitually  went  to  a  restaurant  for  lunch  and  lingered  contentedly  over  his  meal  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Moreover,  he  was  suspicious  of  all  his  contempo-  raries  who  claimed  to  be  chained  to  their  desks  at  the  noon  hour  by  heavy  respon-  sibilities.  It  had  been  his  experience  that  between  twelve-thirty  and  two  it  was  extremely  hard  to  rouse  anyone  to  do  any  business  with,  let  alone  anyone's  secretary.  Forbush's  own  secretary,  the  sub-  committee  was  delighted  to  note,  was  not  an  indispensable,  devoted,  self-sacrificing,  middle-aged  woman  who  had  been  with  him  practically  forever,  who  knew  and  good-naturedly  toler-  ated  all  his  little  idiosyncrasies,  who  was  the  only  person  extant  able  to  decipher  his  handwriting,  and  without  whom  he  would  have  felt  lost.  She  was,  on  the  contrary,  a  twenty-two-year-old  Bryn  Mawr  graduate  who,  like  her  predeces-  sor,  had  worked  for  him  only  six  months.  He  invariably  hired  attractive  young  secretaries,  and  they  invariably  left  him,  less  than  a  year  later,  to  get  married,  with  his  blessing.  He  hated  to  be  dependent  on  a  secretary.  As  for  his  handwriting,  it  constituted  no  shining  example  of  disciplined  penmanship,  but  it  was  perfectly  legible.  Anybody  who  could  read  could  make  it  out.  The  discreet  inquiries  made  about  Forbush's  home  life,  while  productive  of  no  startling  intelligence,  were  on  the  whole  encouraging.  It  seemed  that  he  found  it  rather  boring  to  sit  around  night  after  night  in  the  bosom-the  Ad-  miral  had  winced  when  an  interrogator  hit  this  word-of  his  family.  He  ad-  mitted  to  a  genuine  fondness  for  going  out.  Puttering  around  the  kitchen  stove  was,  from  his  viewpoint,  absolute  anathema.  He  didn't  think  he  cooked  even  as  well  as  his  wife  did.  He  had  a  suitable  quota  of  children  and  grand-  children,  and  hegot  along  fine  with  the  lot  of  them,  but  the  grandchildren  sometimes  grated  on  his  nerves,  and  he  made  no  bones  about  saying  so.  It  was  the  Admiral's  wife  who  hap-  pened  to  disclose,  matter-of-factly,  that  her  husband  never  brought  work  home  in  the  evening.  On  being  confronted  with  this  eccentricity,  he  freely  ac-  knowledged  it,  while  two  subcommit-  teemen  looked  at  each  other  and  grinned  broadly.  He  said  it  was  his  hunch  that  most  men  who  lugged  home  heavy  briefcases  bulging  with  thick  reports  never  gave  them  a  glance.  Anyway,  he  added,  he  wouldn't  have  much  time  for  homework,  because  he  needed  and  en-  joyed  a  decent  night's  sleep.  He  knew  as  well  as  any  American  (How  could  an  observant  citizen  help  knowing  it?  )  that  it  was  the  tradition  for  preoccupied  men  of  distinction  to  make  do  with  a  frugal  fouror  five  hours'  sleep  at  night,  and  to  augment  this  scanty  ration  with  day-  time  cat  naps.  Forbush,  though,  had  never  liked  sleeping  at  odd  moments.  He  preferred  eight  hours'  sleep  in  the  dark,  and  even  after  that  much  slum-  ber  would  sometimes  awake  not  re-  " b"freshed  at  all.  He  never  rose  before  seven-thirty,  unless  his  grandchildren  were  visiting  him,  and  not  one  of  his  underlings  had  ever  had  cause  to  com-  plain  that  his  boss  had  the  crotchety  habit  of  badgering  him  at  dawn.  The  Admiral  had  never  taken  the  po-  sition  that  he  would  not  ask  any  man  to  do  anything  he  would  not  do  himself.  He  believed  that  he  lived  in  an  age  of  specialization,  and  that  when  a  specialist  was  called  in  to  do  a  job,  he  should  go  ahead  and  do  it,  period.  Forbush  fre-  quently  had  to  make  speeches,  for  ex-  ample,  and  almost  always  he  declared  himself  perfectly  satisfied  with  the  re-  marks  prepared  for  him  by  a  competent  ghostwriter  whom  he  kept  standing  by  for  just  such  occasions.  Forbush  hardly  ever  changed  his  speech-writer's  words  or  scribbled  his  own  ideas  on  margins.  In  this  connection,.  the  subcommittee  was  reassured  to  discover  that  he  was  no  more  eloquent  when  speaking  informal-  ly  to  a  small  group  than  when  delivering  a  set  address  at  a  large  function.  Indeed,  in  a  small  group  he  was  often  utterly  at  a  loss  for  words,  especially  when  he  felt  tired.  Forbush's  reading  habits  also  came  under  careful  scrutiny,  naturally.  When  the  subcommittee,  tackling  first  things  first,  bluntly  raised  the  critical  issue,  it  got  a  swift  and  blunt  response:  Forbush  could  take  detective  stories  or  leave  them  alone.  It  was  not  altogether  sat-  isfactory  to  find  that  he  had  no  passion-  ate  convictions  about  them,  so  one  zeal-  ous  interviewer  asked,  &quot;Don't  you  find  them  helpful  for  relaxing?&quot;  Admiral  Forbush  was  not  to  be  outmaneuvered.  &quot;I  told  you  before  I  don't  have  any  trouble  relaxing,&quot;  he  said  brusquely.  It  came  out,  furthermore,  that  he  was  not  a  particularly  fast  reader.  A  painstaking  search  unearthed  nothing  to  indicate  that  he  had  ever  been  known  to  glance  at  a  complex  document  and  then,  hours  or  days  later,  astound  his  associates  by  quoting  it  practically  verbatim,  as  if  he  had  a  photographic  memory.  His  memo-  ry  was  no  better  than  average,  and  he  forgot  a  good  deal  of  what  he  heard  or  read.  The  clincher  was  the  subcommittee's  discovery  that  John  Forbush,  influen-  tial  man  though  he  was,busy  man  though  he  was,  never  let  his  wife  buy  his  clothes  for  him.  &quot;What  the  hell,&quot;  the  Admiral  said.  &quot;I  only  buy  a  suit  or  two  a  year,  and  I'm  the  one  who  has  to  wear  them.  She's  got  her  hands  full  with  her  own  wardrobe,  and  anyhow  she  can  never  remember  my  size.&quot;  On  the  dramatic  revelation  by  the  chairman  of  the  subcommittee  of  this  beguiling heterodoxy,  Forbush  was  nominated  by  acclamation.  ELECTION  Day  came  not  long  after  a  protracted,  nationwide  drought,  which  was  terminated  by  a  hard  and  steady  rain  that  began  falling  one  morn-  ing  when  the  Admiral  had  a  tennis  date.  One  of  the  reporters  covering  his  cam-  paign  headquarters  had  already  typed  up  his  account  of  the  candidate's  reac-  tion  to  the  long-awaited  downpour.  &quot;We  sure  can  use  it,&quot;  he  had  Forbush  saying.  When,  instead,  the  Admiral, who  had  already  opened  a  new  can  of  tennis  balls,  looked  out  the  window  and  said  &quot;Damn!,&quot;  the  reporter  was  furi-  ous.  Aggrieved  at  having  to  rewrite  his  copy,  he  avenged  himself  by  quoting  ex-  actly  what  Forbush  had  said.  'The  re-  vised  version  made  front  pages  every-  where,  including  Goa,  and  won  its  author  a  Pulitzer  Prize,  for  never  be-  fore  in  the  annals  of  the  Republic  had  a  manwho  seriously  aspired  to  the  na-  tion's  highest  office  uttered  a  swear-  word-at  least  not  in  print.  'That  one  wayward  monosyllable,  it  turned  out,  cost  Forbush  the  farm  belt,  in  addition,  it  goes  without  saying,  to  the  Bible  belt.  He  was  defeated,  ultimately,  by  a  land-  slide.  Asked  to  say  a  few  words  after  his  manager  conceded,  Admiral  For-  bush  paused  and  composed  his  thoughts,  following  which-once  again  setting  a  national  precedent-he  spoke  them  aloud,  &quot;On  the  record,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;my  opponent  is  an  idiot,  but  then  a  lot  of  the  people  who  voted  for  him  are  idiots,  too,  so  I  guess  they  got  what  they  deserve,&quot; "