 b"ALL  the  Novembers  at  P.  S.  125  were  drenched  in  one  color  for  me,  the  color  in  the  name  of  our  [REDACTED]  neighborhood-Brownsville.  In  that  unadorned,  drafty  labyrinth  of  classrooms  bound  in   dungeon-gray  stone  to  last  forever,  November  was  al-  ways  a  month  of  cheerless  brown,  grow-  ing  darker  and  gloomier  as  fall  shrank  into  winter,  the  distressing  month  when,  as  soon  as  October  was  folded  back  on  the  calendar,  we  began  paying  intense,  if  somewhat  baffled,  homage  to  the  glories  of  Thanksgiving.  Most  ofus  were  the  children  of  im-  migrants  from  Vilna  or  [REDACTED]  or  Odes-  sa,  who  rarely  budged  from  [REDACTED],  and  we  had  to  sing  loud  our  praises  for  the  gathering  of  the  harvest  and  the  prodigal  bounty  of  the  land  as  the  trolley  cars  clanged  by  under  the  windows.  Day  after  day,  whether  our  schoolwork  took  the  form  of  history  or  geography,  drawing  ormusic,  we  devoted  ourselves  to  that  old  556e6974656420537461746573n  holiday  first  con-  ceived,  we  were  told,  in  a  bleak  place  called  New  England,  by  the  Pilgrims,  also  known  as  ancestors.  These  ances-  tors  spoke  English  without  an  accent,  did  not  have  to  pass  through  Ellis  Island  when  they  reached  the  golden  land,  and  had  come  to  these  shores  to  escape  from  religious  persecution.  Something  about  their  religion,  I  assumed,  accounted  for  their  strange  and  stern  addiction  to  brown-brown  hats  and  long  brown  shirts,  brown  trousers,  square-buckled  brown  shoes,  in  which  they  tramped  through  the  brown  wilderness.  This  passion  on  the  part  of  the  Pil-  grims  for  one  drab  color  was  com-  memorated  by  us  with  particular  vigor  and  abundance  during  our  drawing  class.  Down  came  the  multicolored  autumn  leaves  that  had  festooned  the  blackboard  molding,  and  now,  bending  over  our  slanting,  ink-faced  desks,  we  labored  intently,  fingers  deeply  stained  and  arms  splotched  to  the  elbow  with  brown  paint,  making  the  first  Thanks-  giving-the  huge  Pilgrim  family,  at  an  enormously  long  table,  in  the  clearing  they  had  courageously  hacked  out  of  the  ominous  New  England  forest.  With  crayons  and  paints  we  smeared  a  lavish  feast.  In  the  lower  grades,  I  tried  to  be  faithful,  in  my  art  work,  to  the  history-  book  pictures,  but  later  my  idea  of  the  turkey  and  the  feast  came  to  be  inspired  less  by  those  lifeless  line  drawings  than  by  the  November  issue  of  the  Ladies'  Home  J  ournal,  Sometimes  I  snipped  out  the  full-color-photograph  turkeys  and  mounted  them  on  drawing  paper.  Then,  in  the  fanciest  &quot;Old  English&quot;  lettering  I  could  devise,  I  labelled  them  proudly  &quot;We  Gather  Together&quot;  or  &quot;Our  Country  in  Olden  Times.&quot;  There  was  a  song  we  sang  only  in  November-  &quot;We  gather  together  to  ask  the  Lord's  blessing.  He  chastens  and  hastens  His  will  to  make  known.&quot;  We  sang  it  with  loud  and  cheerful  assurance  as  Miss  Johnson  thumped  away  on  a  piano  whose  keys  were  as  stained  as  a  smoker's  teeth.  Like  Christmas  carols  and  making  the  sign  of  the  cross,  this  Thanksgiving  hymn  had  the  lure  of  the  forbidden.  I  would  come  home  on  No-  vember  afternoons,  my  face  hectically  pink  from  the  auturan  air  and  the  grandeur  of  Thanksgiving,  and  sing  &quot;We  Gather  Together&quot;  until  my  moth-  er,  who  would  be  working  on  a  dress  for  me  or  one  of  her  customers  and  never  seemed  to  be  listening,  would  suddenly  hear  &quot;the  Lord's  blessing&quot;  and  exclaim,  &quot;What  kind  ofa  song  is  this  for  a  Jew-  ish  girl  to  sing!  Stop  this  minute,  it's  not  nice  somebody  should  hear  you.&quot;  For  weeks  before  the  holiday  I  brought  the  same  lament  home  from  school  every  afternoon,  as  though  it  were  tucked  in  among  the  schoolbooks  buckled  together  with  the  thick  leather  strap  I  inherited  from  my  brother.  &quot;But  Mama,  why  can't  we  have  turkey  for  Thanksgiving  like  everybody  else?&quot;  &quot;Who's  everybody?&quot;  my  mother  would  say,  without  taking  her  eyes  from  the  sewing  machine.  &quot;The  Feins  eat  turkey  Thanksgiving?  Doris  Levine's  mother  goes  on  the  subway  to  buy  a  turkey  God  knows  where  Thanksgiving?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  honest  to  God,  Ma-  ma.  You're  always  making  be-  lieve  you  don't  understand  one  single  word  I'm  saying.  I  mean  like  556e6974656420537461746573ns  have  on  Thanksgiving,  not  that  dopey  Doris.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  matter,  they're  giving  you  a  vacation  in  school  all  of  a  sudden?  They  forgot  to  give  you  homework,  you  have  to  bother  me  with  stupid  things  when  I'm  busy?&quot;  And  then,  as  her  fingers  guided  the  twittering  needle  down  to  the  end  of  the  seam,  &quot;We  don't  have  enough  our  holidays  for  you?  Eh,  who  knows  even  where  to  buy  a  turkey,  how  much  it  costs.  An  arm  and  a  leg  it  wouldn't  surprise  me.  Go,  mamaleh,&quot;  she  would  say,  with  sudden  tenderness,  stopping  the  machine  and  holding  the  dress  material  to  her  breast,  &quot;go  do  your  homework,  please,  do  me  a  favor.  Headaches  she  has  to  give  me  with  her  turkey  yet.&quot;  I  knew  it  was  useless  to  argue.  I  knew   it  before  I  began  to  try.  But  something  urged  me,  every  November,  to  try  just  this  once  more.  How  easy  it  seemed,  how  easy  and  beautiful  and  right,as  I  pictured  it,  mooning  in  my  room  and  smoking  an  orange  crayon  with  mel-  ancholy  puffs:  the  round  table  in  the  living  room  swelled  with  the  two  leaves  we  dragged  out  from  behind  the  sofa  only  at  Passover  time.  Though  we  didn't  have  a  dining  room,  on  this  day  it  could  be  called  that.  At  four  in  the  afternoon,  all  the  guests  would  as-  semble-my  Uncle  Harry  would  be  there,  and  my  Uncle  Morris,  who  on  this  day  would  forget  to  pinch  my  cheek  black  and  blue  as  he  said,  &quot;And  how's  the  world  treating  you?&quot;  And  their  wives  would  for  once  not  squabble,  my  two  aunts  both  named  Frieda-the  good  Aunt  Frieda  and  the  bad  Aunt  Frieda,  the  one  I  liked  and  the  one  who  never  let  you  sit  on  the  sofa  in  her  house  because  she  kept  the  pillows  puffed  up  like  souffi\xc3\xa9s,  This  day  would  differ  from  other  days  because  on  Thanks-  giving  my  brother  and  I  would  be  glad  tosee  our  cousins,  who  for  a  change  would  not  say  &quot;What  do  you  have  to  take  dopey  violin  lessons  for?&quot;  And  after  we  had  all  kissed  each  other  sweet-  ly,  we  would  sit  down,  with  cheerful  smiles,  around  the  jolly  table  set  ex-  actly  the  way  they  showed  in  the  Ladies'  Home  Journal.  After  we  had  sung  &quot;We  Gather  Together,&quot;  my  mother  would  march  in  from  the  kitchen  at  just  the  right  moment,  holding  the  enormous,  steaming  brown  bird  aloft  on  a  silver  platter,  which  she  placed  rever-ently  in  front  of  my  father,  poised  and  ready  with  a  carving  knife  handed  down,  of  course,  by  ancestors.  Then  Papa  would  begin  to  carve,  with  magnificent,  effortless  skill,  an  art  taught  him  by  his  father,  who  had  learned  it  from  Ais  father.  ...  HEN  I  left  P.  S.  125,  I  gave  up  my  campaigns  for  a&quot;real  556e6974656420537461746573n  Thanksgiv-  ing,&quot;  and  my  unsatisfied  hunger  for  tur-  key  gradually  faded  away.  By  the  time  I  got  to  [REDACTED]  College,  I  blushed  when  my  mother  reminded  me  of  how  I  had  badgered  her  so  about  Thanksgiving.  Though  November  still  had  its  bleakness  and  its  deprivations,  they  were  the  al-  most-grown-up  kind  that  lasted  the  whole  year  round.  In  college,  I  became  ostentatiously  fond  of  the  word  &quot;bour-  geois,&quot;  and  my  friends  and  I  were  con-  stantly  admonishing  each  other  to  &quot;act  mature.&quot;  It  was  important  to  be  seen  absorbed  in  the  Nation  or  the  New  Republic,  and  have  our  superior  taste  " b"noticed  by  the  boys  with  thick  glasses  who  could  recite  &quot;The  Love  Song  of  J.  Alfred  Prufrock&quot;  by  heart.  \xc2\xa9Thanksgiving?&quot;  I  said  airily  when  someone  mentioned  it.  &quot;A  day  off  from  school,  period.  I'll  leave  all  that  rah-  rah-[REDACTED]  stuff  to  the  D.A.R.  You  know  what  T.  S.  Eliot  said-'Patri-  otism  is  the  last  refuge  of  a  scoun-  drel?  &quot;  One  diversion,  however,  suffered  no  change  through  all  the  high-school  and  college  struggles  to  act  mature.  We  never  stopped  going  to  the  movies,  re-  ligiously  and  often.  Though  the  great  political  enlightenment  demanded  our  utmost  gravity,  it  was  still  very  much  in  the  order  of  things  that,  the  night  be-  fore  Thanksgiving,  in  my  sophomore  year  at  college,  I  could  hardly  wait  to  finish  supper  and  go  tosee  the  new  Katharine  Hepburn.  It  was  playing  at  the  Loew'sMecca,  an  overdecorated  edifice  about  ten  blocks  from  my  house.  My  mother  handed  me  half  a  dollar  when  I  got  through  wiping  the  dishes,  and  looked  at  me  distractedly.  &quot;Put  on  a  sweater  under  the  coat,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  shouldn't  get  pneumonia  that's  all  I  need,&quot;  and  sat  down  at  the  sewing  machine  again  before  she  finished  the  sentence.  &quot;I'll  be  home  half  past  eleven,&quot;  I  yelled  back  asI  flew  through  the  kitchen  door  and  started  down  the  two  flights  of  stairs  to  the  street.  It  never  occurred  to  me,  or  to  anyone  in  Brownsville,  to  call  up  and  find  out  when  a  movie  began.  Such  sophistication  was  as  for-  eign  to  us  as  timetables  to  European  peasants,  who,  when  they  have  to  get  somewhere  by  rail,  simply  pack  their  baskets,  put  on  their  shawls  and  hats  and  rough  gloves,  go  to  the  station,  and  wait  stolidly  for  the  next  train  going  to  their  destination,  whenever  it  might  be  coming.  Inside  the  theatre,  I  groped  my  way  to  an  empty  seat  and  settled  into  it  quickly.  The  Katharine  Hepburn  movie  had  already  been  on  for  a  while  when  I  came  in.  When  it  was  over,  instead  of  the  usual  Movietone  News  and  Don-  ald  Duck  and  Coming  Attractions,  the  screen  went  blank.  A  heavily  brocaded  curtain  unfurled  its  draped  red  folds,  lowering  the  heavy  fabric  as  though  this  were  a  real  theatre.  In  the  puz-  zling  silence,  footlights  flared  up.  It  was  strange  to  be  reminded  that  footlights  even  existed  at  the  Loew's  Mecca,  which  had  its  own  crescent  moon  and  Edison  stars  glowing  in  the  royal-blue  sky.  The  audiencetwitched  restlessly  in  the  mohair  seats  and  made  a  sound  of  rain  as  they  crushed  and  dropped  their  candy  papers.  A  brisk  and  dapper  young  man  trotted  out  on  the  stage,  lively  as  a  tap-dancer,  a  microphone  slanting loosely  in  his  hand  like  a  long  gray  javelin.  At  the  center  of  the  stage  he  straightened  the  micro-  phone  firmly  in  front  of  him,  slicked  his  fingers  through  his  hair,  gleaming  gangster-black  with  brilliantine,  and  laughed  suavely.  &quot;Is  everybody  happy?&quot;  he  asked,  his  voice  a  loud  rasp  through  the  microphone.  I  slumped  down  in  my  seat,  yawning  with  morose  contempt  as  the  audience  neighed  obedi-  ently.  The  gaiety  subsiding,  the  dapper  young  man  announced,  &quot;And  now,  ladies  and  gentle-  men,  for  the  big  bona-fide  Thanksgiving  treat.  I  want  you  to  be  absolutely  sure  you  keep  those  valuable  ticket  stubs  right  where  you  have  them  handy.  Tonight,  folks,  the  Loew's  Mecca  is  giving  away-absolute-  ly  free  and  gratis  and  entirely  without  charge-ten  genuine  Thanksgiving  gobblers,  to  the  lucky  holders  of  the  ten  lucky  tickets.  We  have  with  us  tonight  no  one  else  but  Mr.  Milton  Flanken,  manager  of  Loew's  theatres  throughout  the  entire  Borough  of  [REDACTED],  and  Mr.  Flanken,  in  person,  will  pick  out  the  ten  lucky  winners  of  the  Thanks-  giving  turkeys.  Roll  out  the  barrel!&quot;  He  flung  out  his  right  arm,  and  a  natty  little  runt,  dressed  like  the  Philip  Morris  bellhop,  trundled  a  huge  metal  cylinder  on  a  horizontal  spit  out  on  the  stage.  Behind  him,  walking  more  slowly  than  Philip  Morris,  came  a  small,  pot-  bellied  man  who  kept  straightening  his  double-breasted  jacket  nervously  in  the  glaring  light  of  the  stage.  He  wore  steel-rimmed  glasses  and  a  dry  little  mustache,  and  his  sparse  hair  was  neatly  arranged  in  strips  that  latticed  his  bald-  ness.  &quot;Ladies  and  gentlemen,&quot;  the  dapper  young  man  bellowed,  &quot;please  keep  your  ticket  stubs  right  in  your  hands,  and  don't  let  them  get  lost  on  the  floor.  As  the  Chinaman  said,  no  tickie,  no  turkey!  Each  time  Mr.  Flanken  spins  the  barrel  around,  in  person,  he  will  pick  out  a  ticket  and  hand  it  to  me.  And  I  will  read  out  loud  the  lucky  number.  Now  watch  those  tickets,  all  you  lovely  people,  and  when  you  finish  seeing  both  magnificent  features  in  our  special  Loew's  Thanks-  giving  show,  the  winners  should  go  right  to  the  manager's  office  and  take  their  entirely  free  Thanksgiving  turkeys  home  to  their  loved  ones.&quot;  He  shot  his  cuffs,  rode  his  fingers  lovingly  through  his  hair  again,  and  beamed  a  smothering     " b"smile  of  welcome  on  Mr.  Milton  Flan-  ken,  who  cleared  his  throat  twice  before  he  put  two  fingers  timidly  on  the  rim  of  the  cylinder.  He  gave  it  a  slight  shove,  and  flinched  as  the  loose-jointed  drum  clattered  briskly  around  and  around  on  its  spit.  I  rummaged  in  my  coat  pocket  for  a  piece  of  Kleenex,  blew  my  nose  loudly,  and  stared-derisively,  in  case  anybody  was  watching-at  the  ticket  stub  I  pulled  out  with  the  Kleenex,  The  cere-  mony  of  numbers  dragged  on,  but  I  didn't  let  go  of  the  stub.  I  was  ashamed  of  the  slight  leap  of  panic  and  excite-  ment  that  I  felt  each  time  a  number  was  called  out.  For  despite  my  charade  of  boredom,  by  the  time  Mr.  Milton  Flan-  ken  spun  thebarrelforthe  third  num-  ber,  and  a  third  squeal  of  discovery  went  ur  from  still  another  part  of  the  theatre,  I  had  glided  back  to  those  classrooms  of  P.  S.  125  filled  with  the  dry,  discourag-  ing  smells  of  steam  heat,  and  erasers  choked  with  chalk,  and  smeary  white  li-  brary  paste.  I  was  remembering  those  brown  and  turkeyless  Novembers,  filled  with  the  legend  of  the  groaning  board  in  the  New  England  wilderness.  Mr.  Flanken  spun  the  barrel  around  again,  dipped  in  his  clean  fat  fist,  and  the  announcer  called  out  in  his  brazen,  tireless  voice,  &quot;And  last  but  not  least,  Number  Three  Seven  Five  O  Seven  Two.&quot;  No  squeal  of  astonishment  greeted  him  this  time,  and,  squinting  at  my  stub  again,  I  saw  that  the  number  he  had  called  was  mine.  Immediately,  with  roller-coaster  speed,  as  though  the  actors  had  been  kept  waiting  long  enough,  now,  to  get  through  their  last  performance,  Mr.  Flanken  waddled  into  the  wings,  the  bar-  rel  was  shoved  out  of  sight,  and  the  announc-  er  danced  off  with  his  microphone,  yodelling  &quot;Good  night,  and  a  very  merry  Thanksgiv-  ing  to  each  and  every  one  of  you!&quot;  The  foot-  lights  went  off,  the  cur-  tain  divided  and  drew  back  into  its  usual  draped  flounces,  and  the  M-G-M  lion  was  roar-  ing  comfortably  in  the  darkness  once  again.  NEMFUDNED  stolidly  in  my  seat  through  the  second  feature,  through  the  be-  lated  Movietone  News  and  the  first  twenty  minutes  of  Katharine  Hepburn,  and  then,  only  a  little  more  punctually  than  usual,  the  minute  theaction  was  fa-  miliar  I  picked  my  coat  off  my  lap  and  pushed  past  four  sets  of  immobile  knees  to  the  open  aisle.  The  lobby  ofthe  Mecca,  with  its  wide  marble  staircase  and  elegant  greensward  of  Oriental  carpeting,  had  never  seemed  so  formi-  dable  and  huge.  The  precious  stub  pressed  tight  in  my  fist,  I  hurried  up  to  the  first  usher  I  saw  and  asked  him  where  the  manager's  office  was.  I  was  full  of  foreboding  as  I  followed  his  pointing  finger,  sure  there  would  be  something  wrong  with  my  ticket,  all  the  turkeys  already  handed  out,  the  manager's  office  locked  tight.  I  knocked  cautiously  under  the  brass  plate  reading,  &quot;Manager,  N.  Farbstein.&quot;  A  kindly  voice,  not  at  all  what  I  had  expected  to  hear,  told  me  to  come  in,  and  when  I  pushed  the  door  open,  the  office  I  entered  seemed  peculiarly  shab-  by,  after  the  ornate  imperial  splendor  of  the  lobby.  A  sweet-faced,  elderly  man  sat  at  the  desk,  reading  Veriety  and  nudging  an  unlit  cigar  stub  back  and  forth  in  his  mouth  like  a  pendulum.  He  looked  up  at  me  and  said,  &quot;So  what's  on  your  mind,  sweetheart?  You  lost  some-  thing?&quot;  &quot;The  turkey,&quot;  I  said  breathlessly.  &quot;I  won  one  of  the  numbers.  Can  I  get  it  now,  please?&quot;  I  held  out  the  stub,  damp  and  rather  raggedy  by  now,  and  he  tucked  it  casually  into  the  watch  pocket  of  his  vest  without  looking  at  it.  &quot;So  who's  saying  no?  In  the  Mecca  we're  always  glad  to  oblige.  And  be-  tween  you  and  me,  sweetheart,  I'm  telling  you  you're  a  lucky  girl.&quot;  He  put  down  the  copy  of  Veriety,  flicked  the  unlit  cigar  absent-mindedly  into  an  automobile-tire  ashtray,  and  rose  heavily  from  his  chair.  &quot;Fourteen  pounds  these  turkeys  weigh,  not  an  ounce  less  I  guarantee  you,&quot;  he  said  as  he  disappeared  behind  the  half-opened  door.  &quot;Come  here  and  take  a  look,&quot;  I  heard  him  say.  &quot;Don't  be  scared,  they  ain't  going  to  bite  you.Tell  me,  sweet-  heart,  your  mother's  living,  God  for-  bid  it  should  be  different?&quot;  Puzzled,  I  muttered  &quot;Oh,  of  course  she's  living,&quot;  and  followed  to  join  him.  There,  in  a  corner  of  the  office,  I  found  Mr.  Farbstein  staring  with  pleasure  at  two  turkeys  crouching  on  a  mound  of  straw  inside  a  wooden  crate.  Holding  their  scrawny  heads  erect,  they  stared  with  eyes  calm  as  potatoes  right  back  at  him.  &quot;But  it's  alive!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;So  what  do  you  want  it  should  be?  Dead  and  turning  into  poison,  your  whole  family  could  die  from  eating  such  a  turkey?  'It's  alive,&quot;  she  says.&quot;  Laughing  as  he  mimicked  me,  he  struck  a  match  against  his  shoe  and  relit  the  stump  of  cigar.  His  face  dis-  appeared  for  a  minute  in  a  thick  bubble  of  smoke,  and  he  shook  his  head  wearily,  hooking  his  free  thumb  into  his  vest  pocket.  &quot;Turkeys  I  have  to  worry  my  head  about.  What  will  those  smart  no-  goodnicks  think  up  next  in  their  fancy  offices  in  New  York?  Listen,  there  are  only  two  turkeys  left,  so  be  a  good  girl  and  pick  one  out  from  the  box  and  bring  it  home  to  your  mother,  you  should  all  eat  it  in  good  health.&quot;  &quot;But  you  can't  ex-  pect  me  to  just  carry  it  home  like  thet!&quot;  I  wailed.  As  I  hurried  to  his  office,  my  vision  had  been  the  turkey  of  my  childhood  Novembers,  trussed  and  stuffed  and  beautifully  brown,  about  to  be  carved  on  a  silver  platter;  it  had  never  occurred  to  me  that  the  turkeys  were  alive.  &quot;It's  not  going  to  hurt  you,&quot;  Mr.  Farb-  stein  said.  &quot;All  you  have  to  do  is  take  it  up  in  your  hands  and  carry  it  home.  What's  so  hard  about  that,  I'm  asking  " b"you?  You  never  even  picked  up  a  live  chicken  in  your  hands  when  you  go  to  the  mountains?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said  mournfully,  shaking  my  head.  &quot;The  farmer  we  went  to  didn't  have  chickens,  only  cows.&quot;  I  knew  Mr.  Farbstein  was  trying  to  be  nice,  but  I  also  knew  that  I  could  never  bring  my-  self  to  take  that  rustling,  appallingly  alive  bird  in  my  arms  and  carry  it  ten  blocks  home.  I  frowned,  gnawing  ata  fingernail.  Through  a  nearby  door  I  heard  Katharine  Hepburn  announcing  emphatically,  &quot;.  ..  couldn't  be  more  absurd,  my  dear  fellow,  to  imagine  my  loving  you.  Has  it  simply  never  occurred  to  you  .  .  .&quot;  The  audience  laughed  noisily  at  something  she  did  just  then,  and  drowned  out  the  rest  of  her  dev-  astating  rebuttal.  &quot;Wait  a  minute!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;Could  you  wait  just  a  little  while  till  I  take  it  away?  It  won't  take  long.  I'll  call  up  my  mother  and  she'll  come.  I  promise  it  won't  take  long,&quot;  I  repeated,  plead-  ing,  afraid  he  would  now  tell  me  I  couldn't  have  the  turkey  after  all.  &quot;Shame  on  you,&quot;  Mr.  Farbstein  said  reprovingly.  &quot;A  big  girllike  you  can't  take  home  by  herself  a  turkey?  Eh,  such  ideas  they  have  these  days!&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  insisted.  &quot;If  I  say  I  can't,  I  mean  it,  that's  all.  Look-you're  sure  you  won't  give  that  turkey  to  somebody  else  if  I  go  out  to  make  a  phone  call?  Where's  the  phone  booth?  Do  you  have  two  nickels  for  a  dime?&quot;  Desperately,  I  fished  for  the  change  the  ticket-seller  had  given  me,  and  found  it  wedged  in  a  corner  of  my  coat  pocket.  &quot;All  right,  it's  all  right,&quot;  Mr.  Farb-  stein  assured  me  with  an  indulgent  smile.  &quot;So  don't  get  so  excited.  It's  bad  for  the  system.  I  still  got  half  an  hour,  an  hour  maybe,  I  got  to  be  here  yet.  Who  goes  home  early  in  my  line  of  business?  Loew's  wouldn't  go  bank-  rupt  if  you  use  the  phone  here.  Go  ahead,  it's  on  the  house.&quot;  I  dialled  the  number  nervously,  and  as  soon  as  I  heard  my  mother's  sleepy  &quot;Hello?&quot;  I  exclaimed  loudly,  &quot;Mama,  listen!&quot;  &quot;O1,&quot;  she  answered.  &quot;Something  happened.  I  can  tell  something  hap-  pened.  You  hurt  yourself  someplace,  you  had  an  accident.  I  knew  it  even  before  you  called  up.  Tell  me-&quot;  &quot;Mama,  will  you  please-&quot;  &quot;-what's  the  matter!  It's  better  I  should  know.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  Mama.  For  God's  sake  nothing  Ahaeppened.  You  always  think  something  happened  before  you  even  listen.  Will  you  please  let  me  finish?  It's  a  turkey.  I  won  a  turkey  in  the  movies  except  it's  still  alive,  Mama,  it  still  has the  feathers  on  it.  What  am  I  going  to  do?  Were  you  sleeping?&quot;  &quot;Who  sleeps?&quot;  she  answered  testily,  her  voice  normal  again,  and  firm  with  relief  that  catastrophe  had  been  averted  for  the  moment.  &quot;With  children  likeI  have  I  can  sleep?  Crazy  I  can  go,  not  sleep.&quot;  Then  she  added,  with  cozy  cu-  riosity,  &quot;'They  had  a  raffie?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.,  &quot;Well,  sort  of  a  raffle  but  not  exactly.  They  had  ten  lucky  numbers  to  win  the  turkeys,  and  when  the  man  was  calling  out  the  numbers  I  had  the  last  one,  it  was  on  my  ticket.  So  when  the  movie  was  where  I  came  in  I  went  to  the  manager's  office,  Mr. Farbstein  the  manager's  name  is,  and  he's  letting  me  usethe  telephone  in  his  office-  except  it's  alive,  Mama!  How  am  I  going  to  bring  it  home?&quot;  &quot;Hah!&quot;  my  mother  said,  her  voice  sharp  but  amiable.  &quot;Papa  won  a  necktie  once  in  the  Morris  Plan.  You  remember  how  they  had  a  big  jar  with  pennies  in  the  window,  and  he  guessed  the  nearest?  How  many  pennies?  A  nice  necktie,  he  still  has  it.&quot;  &quot;Mama,  will  you  please  listen  and  tell  me  kow  I'm  going  to  get  that  turkey  home?  I  know  about  the  necktie.&quot;  I  could  tell  from  her  voice  she  was  less  pleased  about  the  turkey  than  she  was  at  my  calling  her  and  asking  for  help.  And  she  always  brought  up  the  story  about  Papa  and  the  Morris  Plan  when  she  felt  that  life  was  not  so  bad  after  all.  &quot;Stay  right  there,&quot;  she  ordered.  &quot;It's  a  good  thing  you  called  me  before  I  " b"took  off  the  corset.  I'll  be  there  one-two-three.  Wait  for  me  near  the  ticket  man,  he  shouldn't  start  asking  me  for  money.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  he's  not  even  there  by  now,&quot;  I  said,  relieved  that  she  had  of-  fered  to  come  without  my  wheedling  her.  &quot;O.K.,  fine.  Come  on,  but  don't  take  too  long,  Mama,  please.  Don't  start  having  to  tell  everybody  on  your  way  to  the  bus.&quot;  &quot;This  Mr.  Farb-  stein,  he's  a  nice  man&quot;  Must  be  a  nice  man,  he  lets  you  use  his  tele-  phone  for  nothing.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Mama!  Will  you  please  hang  up  already  and  come  on?  It's  late.  Goodbye.  I'll  wait  right  near  the  box  where  they  take  the  tickets.&quot;  I  put  down  the  receiver  and  found  Mr.  Farbstein  considering  me  with  a  look  of  gentle  reproach  as  he  was  about  to  hold  another  match  to  the  dwindling  cigar.  &quot;You're  a  college  girl?&quot;  he  asked.  I  nodded,  and  began  to  put  on  my  coat.  &quot;My  son  Willie,  he  goes  to  college,  too.  C.C.N.Y.  he  goes.  He  wants  to  be  an  electrical  engineer,  a  good  profes-  sion.&quot;  He  rocked  thoughtfully  back  and  forth  in  the  swivel  chair,  scattering  cigar  ash  that  didn't  always  land  in  the  rubber  tire.  &quot;A  college  girl,  and  right  away  she  has  to  cry  for  her  mother  she  should  take  the  turkey  home.  Amer-  ica!&quot;  &quot;I  don't  see  what  [REDACTED]  has  to  do  with  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Thanks  for  letting  me  usethe  telephone.  I'll  wait  for  my  moth-  er  outside-she'll  be  here  soon,  honest.  Then  we'll  come  back  and  stop  bother-  ing  you.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  a  bother?&quot;  he  said,  and  emptied  the  rubber-tire  ashtray  briskly  into  the  wastebasket,  and  picked  up  Variety.  WENTY  minutes  later,  pacing  impatiently  around  the  deserted  entrance,  I  saw  my  mother  timidly  ap-  proaching  from  the  bus  stop.  The  ticket  taker  had  long  since  gone  home,  and  the  gigantic  gilded  doors  now  stood  wideopen  to  the  sharp  November  air,  ready  for  the  crowd  that  would  come  straggling  out  at  midnight.  My  mother's  winter  coat-the  navy-  blue  one  she'd  had  for  eight  years,  not  the  good  black  one  with  the  mink-dyed  muskrat  collar,  only  five  years  old,  that  she  wore  on  Saturdays  and  holidays-  was  pulled  together  tight  against  the  cold.  She  looked  pale  and  tired,  and  she  looked  around  anxiously  for  me.  Eleven-  thirty  was  very  late  for  my  mother  to  be  out  of  the  house,  to  take  a  bus,  to  be  alone  in  the  street  on  a  disagreeable  winter  night.  Watching  her  walk  to-  ward  me,  I  felt  ashamed  of  my  coward-  ice  and  called  out  gratefully,  &quot;Mama,  here  I  am.&quot;  She  came  up  to  me  and  said,  suspi-  ciously,  &quot;You're  sure  you  didn't  have  an  accident?&quot;  When  we  went  into  his  office,  Mr.  Farbstein  rose  amiably  from  his  swivel  chair  and  said,  &quot;Hello,  hello,  A  lucky  daughter  you  have,  I'm  telling  you.  But  she  has  to  be  like  this?  She  doesn't  want  to  do  something,  right  away  she  has  to  call  up  her  mother  in  the  middle  of  the  night?  A  college  girl-I'm  surprised  such  a  smart  girl  should  be  such  a  baby  she  can't  pick  up  a  turkey  in  her  own  two  hands  and  carry  it  a  couple  of  blocks.&quot;  He  clucked  his  tongue  in  half-  mocking  distress,  and  shook  my  moth-  er's  hand  warmly.  She  sighed  her  agree-  ment,  delighted  with  his  sympathy.  &quot;It's  all  right,  believe  me,&quot;  she  said.  'They  think  a  mother's  good  for  some-  thing  else?  Everything  they  know,  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  dopes,  except  what  they  have  to  know.&quot;  Big  shot,  I  thought  angrily,  hating  Mr.  Farbstein.  Does  he  have  to  get  her started?  I  wanted  to  get  away  from  his  office,  anxious  to  be  out  of  the  Mecca  before  the  movie  ended  and  all  those  people  could  see  us  and  start  laughing  as  we  struggled  with  the  turkey.  &quot;Do  you  have  to  assassinate  my  character  right  this  minute,  Mama?&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  bring  me  up  in  the  country  if  that's  what  you  want  me  to  be  like?&quot;  &quot;Since  when  were  we  millionaires!  Stop  giving  Mr.  Farbstein  a  whole  ar-  gument  when  he  was  so  nice  to  you.&quot;  There  were  still  two  turkeys  left  in  the  crate,  squatting  patiently  on  the  loose  straw.  I  pointed  to  the  smaller  one  and  said,  &quot;Let's  take  that  one.  It  looks  easier  to  handle.&quot;  Mr.  Farbstein  pulled  back  the  un-  attached  slats  at  thetop  of  the  make-  shift  cage,  lifted  the  animal  off  the  straw,  and  started  to  hand  the  prize  over  to  my  mother,  but  she  put  up  her  hand  and  said,  &quot;Wait  just  a  minute.  I  took  along  something  just  in  case.&quot;  She  opened  her  pocketbook  and  pulled  out  a  piece  of  clothesline.  She  knotted  one  end  into  a  noose,  took  the  docile  turkey  out  of  Mr.  Farbstein's  hands,  slipped  the  circle  around  its  wattled  neck.  Still  it  made  no  sound.  My  mother  set  her  pet  down  on  the  bare  floor,  and  gently  tugged  at  the  leash.  &quot;But  Mama,&quot;  I  groaned.  &quot;That's  no  way  to  take  aturkey  anyplace.  It  looks  absolutely  ridiculous.  And  besides,  you  could  almost  choke  it  to  death  like  that  if  it  tries  to  run  away.&quot;  I  could  see,  all  too  clearly,  the  sneering  roughnecks  " b"outside  Hoffman's  Cafeteria,  hooting  their  rude  heads  off  as  we  passed  them  on  the  way  home.  &quot;What  choke?&quot;  she  retorted.  &quot;Mr.  Farbstein,  take  a  look  for  yourself.  The  knot  it's  too  tight?  What's  the  matter,  the  turkey  it  hasn't  got  legs,  it  can't  walk?&quot;  Still  holding  her  end  of  the  rope,  she  puther  hands  on  her  hips  and  looked  at  me  challengingly.  &quot;O.K.,  I'm  waiting.  You  have  some  better  ideas,  my  intelligent  daughter?&quot;  Mr.  Farb-  stein  clucked  again,  smiling  at  my  moth-  er  encouragingly.  My  mother  said,  &quot;Listen,  mamaleh,  it's  the  only  way,  I'm  telling  you.  Believe  me  for  a  change.  Come,  it's  late.  We  have  to  go  home,  it's  a  long  walk.&quot;  Reluctantly  I  muttered,  &quot;Oh,  all  right,&quot;  and  steeled  myself  for  the  hu-  miliating  march  home.  My  mother  turned  to  say  goodbye  to  Mr.  Farbstein,  but  he  cut  short  her  thanks  for  letting  me  use  the  phone.  &quot;It  was  a  pleasure.  With  a  nickel  I  can't  buy  diamonds.  Eat  it  in  good  health,  and  don't  forget  to  go  to  the  movies.  You  should  only  have  such  troubles  the  rest  of  the  year.  Good  night,  good  night.&quot;  As  he  closed  the  door,  the  turkey,  moving  with  an  easy  pace,  strutted  calmly  over  the  threshold  and  began  to  walk  with  us,  wiggling  and  jerking  its  head  in  the  air  as  it  moved,  but  march-  ing  otherwise  like  a  well-drilledcadet,  right  in  step  with  my  mother  and  me.  She  had  wound  the  rope  tight  around  her  hand.  One  leathery  old-man's  claw  followed  the  other  steadily  across  the  luxurious  carpet  meant  for  kings  and  queens  and  the  moviegoers  of  Browns-  ville.  There  was  a  deafening  swell  and  crash  of  music  inside-the  movie  was  coming  to  an  end-and  I  urged  my  mother  to  walk  faster.  Out  in  the  cold  air,  the  wind  rippled  the  turkey's  dark,  metal-colored  feath-  ers.  My  mother  pulled  up  her  collar  close  around  her  neck,  and  I  imitated  her  as  we  left  the  marquee  behind  us.  The  wind  was  blowing  strong  and  cold,  cleaning  the  sidewalks  as  it  swept  news-  papers  and  crushed  cigarette  containers  into  the  gutter.  At  the  first  street  cross-  ing,  the  turkey  made  a  tiny,  gargling  noise,  and  then  was  silent,  its  only  sound  the  gentle  click  of  its  claws  on  the  abandoned  streets.  We  walked  steadily  toward  home,  crossing  Saratoga  and  Strauss,  Herzl,  Amboy,  Hopkinson,  Bristol,  the  bird  obedient  to  our  pace,  stopping  when  we  stopped,  waiting  when  we  waited  for  the  lights  to  change  at  the  street  corners.  All  along  the  wide  avenue,  the  shop  lights  were  offfor  the  night,the  shop  fronts  waiting  in  darkness  for  morning,  when  they  would  again  become  men's  clothing  stores  and  the  Jack  &amp;  Jill  shoe  shop,  Meyer's  Delicatessen  and  the  Little  Oriental  Restaurant.  No  one  at  all  stood  in  front  of  Hoffman's-the  tough  boys,  always  the  last  to  leave,  were  gone  for  the  night.  We  passed  a  few  people  on  the  way,  but  no  one  stopped  to  stare,  no  one  took  time  to  laugh.  Waiting  for  the  light  to  change  at  the  corner  of  Chester  and  Pitkin,  my  mother  looked  down  at  the  bird  and  then  turned  to  me  with  a  hesi-  tant  smile,  her  face  yellow  and  soft  in  the  lamplight  as  a  bus  wheezed  past  us  to  its  stop.  &quot;I  bet  you  don't  even  re-  member  how  you  were  always  such  a  nudnik  about  turkeys  before  you  got  in  junior  high,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  I  remember!  The  things  kids  can  get  hot  and  bothered  about-it's  really  funny,  Mama,  isn't  it?&quot;  I  linked  her  free  arm  through  mine.  &quot;You  know  something?&quot;  &quot;What'&quot;  The  three  of  us  began  to  cross  the  street.  &quot;That  turkey's  so  good-natured  it's  a  shame  we  have  to  eat  it  up.&quot;  My  mother  shrugged  placidly.  &quot;Nu,  that's  life.  I'll  put  it  in  the  bathtub  overnight;  then  in  the  morning  I'll  take  it  to  the  chicken  place  on  Dumont.&quot;  &quot;With  the  rope?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  else?  Surewith  the  rope.&quot;  The  turkey  tapped  its  way  steadily  along  the  street,  and  I  laughed  aloud  in  the  darkness  of  this  last  block  before  home.  I  hugged  my  mother's  arm  tighter  in  mine.  &quot;You  know  something,  Mama?  You're  the  only  one  with  the  real  brains  in  this  family.&quot;  A  furtive  pride  drove  through  me.  &quot;Who  else  would  ever  think  of  a  smart  idea  like  that?&quot;  My  mother  smiled  and  didn't  say  no. "