 b"MONIQUE  first  came  to  me  one  morning  when  I  lay  upstairs,  sweating  with  blackwater  fe-  ver,  in  our  house  on  a  road  just  outside  [REDACTED]-au-Prince.  She  already  knew  my  wife.  I  heard  her  downstairs  asking,  in  French,  &quot;And  Monsieur,  how  is  he  to-  day?&quot;  She  spoke  with  the  sombreness  and  concern  of  a  little  girl  grown  used  to  illness,  trouble,  and  sorrow.  Because  I  was  not  really  very  sick,  it  seemed  to  me  another  of  the  incongruities  of  life  in  [REDACTED]  that  Monique  should  have  enough  sympathy  to  be  able  to  squander  some  on  the  visiting  556e6974656420537461746573ns  in  their  splen-  did  house,  with  its  refrigerator  and  run-  ning  water,  next  door  to  her  family's  clay-and-straw  cail/e.  &quot;May  I  go  up-  stairs,  Madame?&quot;  A  moment  later,  she  was  at  my  open  door,  curtsying,  smiling  with  many  teeth  but  shyly  all  the  same,  and  asking,  &quot;Comment  va  Monsieur?&quot;  &quot;Better,  Monique.  Tell  me,  how  old  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Eleven.  You  will  certainly  be  well  soon,  Monsieur.  This  is  the  fifth  day  already.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  Monique.&quot;  I  sat  up,  and  she  walked  over  and  to  ok  my  hand,  then  curtsied  again  and  went  out.  That  afternoon,  I  felt  a  click  in  my  head,  as  if  I  had  suddenly  switched  off  the  disease,  and  half  an  hour  later  I  was  strong  enough  to  sit  on  the  gallery.  I  felt  grateful  to  Monique.  Skinny  from  rapid  growth,  al-  though  not  tall  for  her  age,  knob-kneed,  barefooted,  and  venturesome,  with  enormous,  watchful  black  eyes  and  with  her  kinky  hair  tied  up  in  little  ribbons,  Monique  was  the  leader  of  the  neighborhood  children,  who  included  her  brother  and  two  sisters  and  my  two  daughters-  Ann,  six,  and  Judy,  four.  She  led  them  all  by  her  imagination,  which  was  both  gay  and  grave,  by  her  weight  of  years,  and  by  the  authority  of  gentleness  and  self-respect,  which  the  children  all  sensed  in  her.  Her  dresses,  faded  to  pastels  by  sun  and  soap,  were  always  neat.  Every  button  and  every  thread-  made  loop  were  in  place.  Once,  I  saw  her  with  her  mother  in  the  ravine  be-  low  our  house,  where  the  Rivicre  Froide  sang  past.  She  was  standing  knee-deep  in  the  stream,  soaping  clothes,  rinsing  them,  spreading  them  on  rocks  to  dry,  and  then  splashing  them  with  water  again  and  again  to  keep  them  from  stiff-  ening.  Her  mother,  shaded  by  a  tat-  tered  parasol,  sat  on  a  rock  and  directed  her.   Monique's  perfect  skin  was  of  a  deep  chocolate,  but  mixed  blood  declared  it-  self  in  her  straight  nose  and  narrow  lips.  Sometimes  a  shiny  black  Oldsmobile  would  park  briefly  in  front  of  her  fami-  ly's  hut,  and  a  lighter-skinned  Negro  man  with  bags  of  English  mints  would  go  inside.  Monique  was  apparently  the  poor  cousin  of  some  family  of  money  and  station.  She  would  share  her  bag  of  candy  with  the  neighborhood  chil-  dren.  After  I  recovered,  Monique,  some-  times  accompanied  by  her  brother  and  sisters,  came  often  to  greet  my  wife  and  me  and  to  ask  permission  to  take  our  daughters  out  into  the  yard  to  play.  She  would  teach  them  French  and  Creole  songs,  patiently  making  them  repeat  the  words  after  her,  and  then  she  would  grasp  their  hands  and  whirl  them  in  a  dance,  as  they  all  sang:  &quot;Rond,  rond,  les  \xc3\xa9coli\xc3\xa9res  Sans  rire  et  sans  parler  Celle  qui  rit  la  premicre  Sortira  du  rang  Un!  deux!  trois!&quot;  I  remember  particularly  one  dance  she  did  with  Ann.  I  was  watching  from  the  gallery,  and  I  tried  not  to  let  them  see  me,  as  I  was  afraid  I  might  disturb  Monique's  gravity,  which  was  deepest  when  she  led  a  younger  child  in  a  dance.  This  dance,  like  the  others,  was  a  modification  of  a  French  chil-  dren's  dance,  one  of  many  intro-  duced  by  the  colonists  and  passed  down  by  their  former  slaves,  who  in  freedom  had  made  the  dances  and  the  songs  their  own.  Monique  bowed;  our  daughter  bowed.  Monique  curtsied;  our  daugh-  ter  curtsied.  Then  they  joined  hands,  singing  and  dancing  in  a  circle:  &quot;Ba-teau,  ba-teau-teau  Mon  bateau  s'est  d\xc3\xa9  fonc\xc3\xa9  A  la  rue  Saint-Honor\xc3\xa9&quot;  Monique  would  also  ask  our  children  riddles  and  tell  them  some  of  the  Ti-  Malice  stories,  which  are  folk  stories,  something  like  Br'er  Rabbit  stories  or  fairy  tales,  and  known  to  all  4861697469an  children.  When  there  was  special  cooking  or  baking  being  done  at  our  house,  Mo-  nique  would  help  peel  the  vegetables  or  beat  the  cake  batter.  When  she  licked  the  spoon  the  first  time,  it  was  for  a  taste  she  had  never  known  before.  And  when  she  bestowed  her  sedate  approval  on  a  cake,  it  seemed  almost  an  act  of  piety.  &quot;Merci,  Madame.  I1  est  tres  bon,  ce  giateau.&quot;  Frequently,  she  took  lunch  with  us.  Meals  were  so  irregular  at  her  home " b"that  it  was  never  necessary  for  her  to  ask  her  mother's  permission.  (Her  father,  if  there  was  one  around,  never  appeared.)  After  lunch,  she  would  in-  sist  on  wiping  the  table  and  sweeping  the  floor.  In  a  land  where  domestics  receive  as  little  as  eight  dollars  a  month,  we  had  servants  underfoot,  but  Mo-  nique  wanted  to  do  some  of  the  house-  work.  Once,  while  wielding  a  broom  taller  than  she  was,  she  sang  in  Creole  probably  the  saddest  child's  song  there  is,  the  only  one  I  know  that  tells  of  a  boy  about  to  commit  suicide:  &quot;I  need  corossol  tea  with  sugar,  Biscuits  and  some  fruit.  My  stomach  hurts  me.  I  am  not  a  glutton,  Maman,  I  am  only  hungry.&quot;  She  never  sang  this  song  with  our  daughters.  Often  she  would  stay  all  day,  and  in  the  evening,  when  she  said  good  night  to  my  wife  and  me,  she  at  first  shook  our  hands.  Before  long,  however,  she  was  reaching  up  and  leaning  forward  to  kiss  our  cheeks.  She  did  this  withsuch  smiling  grace  that  our  embarrassment  was  only  momentary.  One  evening  as  she  left  us,  my  wife  called  after  her,  &quot;Bonsoir,  Ti-moune.&quot;  Monique  smiled  and  ran  across  the  way  to  her  hut,  where  the  oil  wicks  were  already  lit,  and  the  charcoal  smoke  of  her  mother's  stove  sent  up  a  screen  between  our  evening  and  theirs.  &quot;Ti-moune,&quot;  derived  from  the  French  &quot;petit  monde,&quot;  is  a  Creole  word  that  means  &quot;little  one.&quot;  It  is  also  a  word  that  has  to  do  with  a  custom,  now  grad-  ually  passing  in  [REDACTED],  under  which  a  peasant  family  sells  or  gives  its  unwant-  ed  children-the  children  it  cannot  feed-to  a  more  prosperous  landed  or  town-dwelling  family.  'The  #-moune  works  as  a  servant  without  wages,  beginning  at  the  age  of  five  or  some-  times  even  earlier.  'The  word,  partly  because  it  is  ambiguous,  is  not  thought  of  as  being  uncomplimentary,  and  any-  way  there  was  no  doubt  that  my  wife  was  using  it  affectionately.  Monique  understood.  Sometimes  when  Monique  came  to  visit  us,  she  would  take  our  children  into  a  nearby  woods  and  teach  them  the  Creole  names  of  plants  and  trees.  One  afternoon,  Judy  received  some  painful  ant  bites  while  digging  in  a  banana  grove  outside  our  house,  and  Monique  ran  into  the  woods  and  returned  with  an  armful  of  leaves.  She  insisted  on  put-  ting  these  into  our  bathtub  and  then  put-  ting  Judy  in  with  them.  Trained  to  use  drugs  out  of  tubes  and  bottles,  my  wife  and  I  felt  foolish  swishing  a  mess  of  ooz- " b"ing  leaves  about  a  bathtub,  but  when Judy  emerged,  the  irritation  had  disap-  peared.  Monique,  usually  the  most  modest  of  children,  said,  &quot;I  know  the  leaves,  myself,&quot;  and  wriggled  with  pride.  During  the  mango  season,  when  the  trees  are  so  rich  and  heavy  that  even  the  poorest  4861697469an  can  fill  his  stomach,  Monique  showed  Ann  how  to  knock  the  mangoes  down  with  rocks  and  then  how  to  peel  the  luscious  fruit  neatly.  One  day  about  noon,  having  eaten  a  giant  Madame  Francis  mango  and  a  sweetsop,  Ann  came  home  to  say  to  my  wife  and  me,  &quot;I  already  had  my  lunch.  I  had  lunch  with  Monique.&quot;  We  later  thanked  Monique  for  her  hospitality.  Her  pleasure  betrayed  itself  in  her  shy  smile  and  in  the  twisting  of  her  handkerchief.  One  afternoon,  Monique  made  a  rag  doll  from  an  old  dress  while  Ann  watched.  When  it  was  finished,  she  of-  fered  it  to  our  daughter.  Caught  by  sur-  prise  and  delight,  Ann  took  it  and  in  return  gave  her  a  magnificent  plastic  doll  with  swivelling  eyes  of  china  blue-  the  gift  of  an  aunt  when  we  left  the  [REDACTED].  Monique  brought  this  dollto  my  wife  and  asked  if  Ann  would  miss  it.  &quot;Sometimes  a  child  wants  her  own  doll  back,&quot;  she  commented  solemnly.  My  wife  assured  her  that  Ann  had  made  an  excellent  trade.  HAD  come  to  [REDACTED]  on  a  State  De-  partment  fellowship  for  a  year's  study  of  4861697469an  culture,  and  now  the  time  was  almost  up.  We  began  getting  ready  to  leave.  Ann  told  the  news  to  Monique,  but  without  emotion,  for  she  did  not  believe  we  could  really  leave  this  fine  place.  Monique  came  to  my  wife  and  me  for  confirmation.  We  said  yes,  but  we  hoped  to  be  back  someday.  &quot;Ga  me  fait  de  lo  peine,&quot;  she  said  in  her  sedate,  grown-up  way.  &quot;It  grieves  me,  Monsieur  and  Madame.&quot;  The  next  evening,  as  my  wife  and  I  were  having  our  after-supper  coffee  on  the  gallery,  Monique's  mother  walked  over  to  the  foot  of  the  stairway.  Strangely,  it  was  the  first  time  that  we  had  seen  her  at  close  range.  Her  skin  was  quite  light,  and  she  had  what  4861697469ans  call  &quot;bons  chevewx&quot;-straight  hair.  It  was  a  reddish  color.  Her  ap-  pearance  surprised  us.  She  could  almost  have  passed  for  white.  I  had  somehow  never  doubted  that  she  would  have  Monique's  chocolate  color,  and  glimps-  ing  her  from  a  distance  through  a  ba-  nana  grove  or  down  in  the  ravine,  I  had  even  seen  her  as  dark.  She  had  a  thin  face,  tensed  by  poverty  and  anger " b"against  poverty,  with  none  of  the  pa-  tient  resignation  of  the  peasants.  My  wife  asked  her  to  have  coffee  with  us,  saying  that  we  were  pleased  to  meet  her  at  last.  She  thanked  us  and  said  that  she  would  come  up  to  speak  with  us  but  that  she  wouldn't  take  coffee.  When  she  joined  us  on  the  gallery,  we  insisted  that  she  sit  down,  and  she  reluctantly  did,  perching  on  the  edge  of  her  chair.  We  insisted  also  that  she  have  some  coffee,  and  at  last  she  consented.  She  was  an  extraordinary  4861697469an,  hav-  ing  to  be  urged  to  accept  a  cup  of  coffee.  We  made  talk  with  her.  It  was  odd,  of  course,  that  Monique  should  have  spent  so  much  time  in  our  house  with-  out  our  meeting  her  mother,  but  we  had  long  ago  accepted  this  aloofness.  Per-  haps  the  formal  4861697469an  rules  of  poli-  tesse,  under  which  she  would  have  called  on  us  long  before,  had  been  thrown  awry  by  the  presence  of  a  grand  house,  full  of  foreigners,  in  a  settlement  where  a  roof  of  tin  instead  of  straw  is  the  great  signof  coming  up  in  the  world,  Neighborly  gossip  came  hard  to  her.  Her  stiff  perch  on  the  edge  of  the  chair  seemed  to  say  that  only  important  business  could  have  brought  her  to  us.  She  smiled  the  fixed  smile  of  con-  vention;  she  obviously  was  uneasy  among  us-  &quot;556e6974656420537461746573ns!  Blenes!&quot;-  although,  tanned  as  we  were  then,  we  were  hardly  more  blanc  than  she.  When  she  had  finished  her  coffee,  she  put  down  the  cup  and  then  sat  up  very  stiffly  again.  By  this  time,  we  were  as  uncomfortable  as  she  was.  &quot;I  see  that  you  like  my  Monique,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;''Thank  you  very  much.&quot;  The  tone  was  chilling-a  mixture  of  fierce-  ness  and  unction.  &quot;She  is  a  fine  child,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;You  must  be  proud  of  her.&quot;  &quot;Her  French  is  excellent,  isit  not?  I  forbid  Creole  in  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  She's  very  sweet,  Madame,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;She  is  in  perfect  health.  Strong.  A  willing  worker.&quot;  Monique's  mother  folded  her  arms  as  if  challenging  us  to  disagree.  My  wife  and  I  both  understood.  I  gave  a  little  start  of  surprise;  my  wife  began  to  pour  more  coffee,  as  if  stalling  for  time  while  we  figured  out  how  to  respond.  The  woman  did  not  touch  her  coffee.  &quot;Monique  will  never  again  have  such  an  opportunity  to  go  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said,  her  voicesoftening.  &quot;I  have  con-  sidered  and  I  think  you  will  not  mistreat  her-yes?  Therefore,  I  do  not  even  ask" b"a  cadeau,  a  gift,  for  my  other  children.&quot;  I  tried  to  explain  how  impossible  the  suggestion  was.  'There  were  no  &amp;-  mounes  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  I  said.  She  was  not  our  child;  she  had  her  own  mother  and  her  brother  and  sisters;  we  could  not  accept  the  responsibility  of  taking  her  from  her  family  and  country,  even  if  the  laws  permitted  it.  It  was  out  of  the  question.  She  smiled  faintly,  as  if  she  had  al  -  ready  foreseen  these  difficulties,  and  then  she  shrugged  them  off.  &quot;No,  no,  that  is  nothing,&quot;  she  assured  us.  &quot;Mo-  nique  is  very  happy.&quot;  &quot;What?  You  have  said  something  to  her?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  have  already  told  her,  Monsieur.  She  has  heard  that  there  is  ice  on  the  earth  in  your  country,  but  she  knows  you  will  give  her  warm  clothes.  I  am  confident  also.&quot;  -  'You  have  really  told  her  already?&quot;  my  wife  asked.  &quot;Yes,  Madame.&quot;  We  were  astonished  and  miserable.  Could  the  child's  sweetness  have  been  motivated  all  this  time  by  the  hope  of  a  voyage  and  the  sight  of  snow  ,  and  adoption  by  us?  No,  it  was  unthinkable;  she  could  not  have  been  pretending  all  these  months.  I  remembered  her  worried  frown-two  creases  between  the  eyes,  and  the  corners  of  her  mouth  pulled  down-when  Judy  whimpered  over  the  ant  bites.  &quot;How  could  you  say  a  thing  like  that  without  first  asking  us?&quot;  my  wife  de-  manded.  &quot;How  could  you  do  it  to  Monique?  How  could  you,  Madame?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you  liked  her.&quot;  &quot;We  do,  we  do-but  we  can't  take  her  with  us,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;We  can't  adopt  her,  either.  She  wouldn't  be  hap-  py.  Anyway,  we're  not  rich-&quot;  The  woman  looked  scornfully  at  us,  and  then  around  at  the  furniture  of  the  gallery,  the  entire  house.  How,  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  not  rich?  Such  foolishness.  She  smiled  agai  n,  stiffly.  Her  obvious  conviction-that  only  our  selfishness  kept  her  from  getting  what  she  wanted  for  Monique-an-gered  me.  &quot;It  is  completely  impossible!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  is  not  done,  Madame.  &quot;  &quot;But  she  can  wash,  clean,  cook,  run  errands.  She  can  sew  a  little  already.  She  is  very  strong.  She  has  good  charac-  ters  &quot;I  know  that,  Madame.  She's  a  love  -  ly  child.  It's  not  the  point,&quot;  I  said.  She  will  not  complain,  no  matter  what  you  tell  her  to  do.  She  is  good.  I  will  miss  her.  You  cannot  refuse  now.&quot;  She  paused,  fixing  me  righteously  with  her  eyes,  and  then  went  on,  &quot;You " b"will  never  have  to  beat  her  for  laxness,  Monsieur.  She  has  even  learned  some  English  from  your  children.  If  you  have  a  telephone,  she  will  answer  it  for  you.&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]  is  not  [REDACTED],&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'This  is  not  permitted  in  the  United  [REDACTED],&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;Ah!&quot;  Monique's  mother  abruptly  stood  up,  as  if  really  hearing  us  for  the  first  time,  and  stared  down  at  my  wife  and  me.  I  got  to  my  feet.  She  put  her  hands  caressingly,  almost  coquettishly,  to  her  straight,  reddish  hair.  &quot;Ah!&quot;  she  said  again,  smiling  and  bowing,  and  the  resemblance  to  our  lovely,  shy  little  Mo-  nique  made  my  heart  turn.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  see.  You  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  all  like  that.  Because  she  is  black.&quot;  And  she  went  swiftly  down  the  stairs,  and  was  gone.  onIQUE,  of  course,  said  nothing.  During  the  few  days  that  re-  mained,  she  came  to  play  with  our  chil-  dren,  as  always.  She  helped  with  the  packing,  quickly  learning  how  to  fold  clothes  neatly.  On  the  last  day,  when  the  house  was  cluttered  with  trunks  and  crates  and  we  were  waiting  for  the  moving  truck,  she  came  inside  to  wait  with  us.  The  only  difference  in  her  appearance  was  that  she  had  new  ribbons  in  her  hair  and  wore  shoes.  Our  children,  ex-  cited  about  leaving,  hardly  had  time  for  her.  She  stood  quietly  at  one  side  of  the  room.  She  accepted  the  little  gifts  we  had  for  her  and  her  brother  and  sisters  but  did  not  look  at  them.  She  put  them  out-  side  the  front  door  and  returned  to  stand  beside  us.  She  watched  the  truck  come  and  go,  then  walked  outside  with  us  and  watched  us  climb  into  a  friend's  automobile.  At  the  last  moment,  Ann  remembered  her,  and  called  out,  &quot;Bye-  bye,  Monique.&quot;  Leaning  out  of  the  car,  I  lifted  Mo-  nique  to  embrace  her.  My  wife  held  her  for  a  moment.  Ann  said,  &quot;Come  on,  Mommy.&quot;  Monique's  shy  smile  and  brilliant  eyes  were  as  for  any  other  day,  but  instead  of  saying  &quot;Bonsoir,  Monsieur,  bonsoir,  Madame,&quot;  she  said  only  &quot;Adieu,&quot;  and  stood  smiling  and  waving  to  us  until  we  were  far  down  the  road  on  our  way  back  to  [REDACTED]. "