 b"ONE  noontime  late  last  summer,  my  friend  Arthur  Meade  and  I  were  walking  along  Fifth  Ave-  nue,  going  toward  Forty-fourth  Street,  where  I  work.  &quot;Take  Carthage,&quot;  Ar-  thur  was  saying.  &quot;'Take  Troy.&quot;  I  had  been  at  the  dentist's  that  morning,  and  in  the  back  of  my  head  was  the  notion  that  the  drill  was  still  busy  among  my  teeth,  though  this  may  have  been  only  the  effect  of  the  sound  of  the  Fifth  Ave-  nue  Bank  coming  down.  &quot;Take  Jeri-  cho!&quot;  Arthur  shouted.  I  have  known  him  many  years.  He  is  a  bachelor-serious,  square-shaped,  and  gentle-whose  sandy  hair  has  be-  gun  to  thin  and  who  lives  his  tidy,  peaceful  life  alone  in  an  apartment  in  a  solid  old  building  down  near  Gram-  ercy  Park.  I  live  not  far  away,  and  we  do  a  good  deal  of  visiting  back  and  forth.  Ordinarily,  Arthur  is  not  given  to  bad  temper  or  pronouncements,  but  now  he  was  inveighing  against  what  the  real-  estate  writers  in  the  papers  speak  of  as  &quot;improvement&quot;&quot;  (&quot;The  block  is  to  be  improved  with  a  thirty-story  building.  Demolition  begins  at  once&quot;),  contend-  ing  that  New  York  is  the  only  wholly  self-devouring  major  cityin  history.  He  was  saying  that  all  the  other  demolished  cities  were  done  in  by  intruders  or  time  or  nature.  &quot;'Take  Pompeii,&quot;  he  cried  hoarsely,  earnestly,  as  we  stopped  around  the  corner  on  Forty-fourth  Street  to  say  goodbye.  A  great  white  veil  of  non-volceanic  dust  drifted  up  the  [REDACTED].  We  were  standing  in  the  shelter  of  a  resonant  tunnel  of  sheet  metal.  A  little  shower  of  plas-  ter  eddied  in  to  us  and  settled  possessively,  dimming  our  shoes;  a  scrap  of  worn  linoleum  jigged  its  way  between  us  and  went  on  across  the  quaking  sidewalk;  and  a  cement  mixer,  mounted  on  a  truck  named  Fran,  came  up  to  the  edge  ofthe  hole  where  theold  bank  had  been,  snufflied  sharply,  and  vanished  down-  ward  along  a  road  of  boards  and  mud.  I  knew  what  was  troubling  Arthur,  though  he  had  not  mentioned  it  that  day.  He  had  been  given  notice  to  vacate  his  apartment,  which  he  loves.  It  has  ceilings  twelve  feet  high.  (He  is  still  in  it,  though  for  only  another  week  or  two.)  Its  floors  creak  companionably  here  and  there,  under  the  carpets,  and  it  has  mahogany  and  fireplaces.  Arthur  grew  up  in  it,  and  I  really  cannot  blame  him  for  feeling  as  he  does  about  its  end.  He  feels  miserable,  and  every  now  and  then  the  objectivity  he  cultivates  so  anxiously  breaks  down,  and  he  admits  it.  And  though  in  the  past  I  had  always  taken  it  on  myself  to  defend  the  noisy  changing  ofthe  city,  there  on  Forty-  fourth  Street-perhaps  addled  by  the  pneumatic  frenzy,  perhaps  merely  shaken  by  it-I  had  a  sudden,  unnerv-  ing  conviction  that  he  was  right.  I  tried  to  stand  by  my  guns,  to  push  the  regressive  thought  away.  Surely,  I  told  myself,  improvement  in  the  re-  stricted  sense  can  also  be  improvement  in  the  larger.  'There  is  nothing  innately  wrong  with  vinyl,  or  bad  about  ex-  truded  aluminum  alloy.  Conditioned  air  in  New  York  is  much  better  than  air   neat.  I  was  sure  that  I  was  as  prompt  to  regret  the  passing  of  a  stately  house  or  two  as  the  next  person,  but  could  anyone-even  Arthur-deny  the  ad-  vantages  of  hot-dip  galvanized  and  bonderized  windows  forever?  Did  he-  or  I-really  want  to?  We  said  goodbye,  and  I  watched  him  dodge  back  through  thetunnel,  wincing  under  a  series  of  crashes  overhead.  No,  I  certainly  did  not  blame  him.  People  being  evicted  have  a  distaste  forthe  radical  improvement  of  the  property  on  which  they  live,  and  this  gives  them  a  poor  view  of  improvement  generally.  True,  I  could  not  exactly  see  why  I  should  be  sharing  Arthur's.  Nobody  was  about  to  dispossess  me.  I  had  a  lease.  I  believed  in  the  efficacy  of  edge-  to-edge  multiple  accordion  aluminum  insulation.  But  there  it  was.  I  had  turned  my  back  on  progress.  I  did  share  it.  I  REGRESSED  a  good  deal  further  during  the  following  month.  Ar-  thur  helped  me.  He  did  not  know  he  did,  but  one  day,  soon  after  our  chat  there  in  the  plaster  drizzle,  he  raised  a  question  that  has  haunted  me  ever  since,  We  met  unexpectedly,  late  in  the  after-  noon,  at  a  small  gather-  ing  in  an  apartment  in  the  East  Sixties.  Across  the  street  was  a  block  full  of  rubble  surround-  ed  bya  palisade  of  old  doors.  The  day's  activi-  ty  was  subsiding  when  I  arrived.  All  over  town,  the  drills  were  falling  silent.  I  have  noticed  that  a  kind  of  lassitude  comes  on  peo-  ple  with  that  stillness--  a  caving  in.  The  hostess  greeted  me  in  a  low  tone;  all  the  people  in  her  living  room  were  speaking  in  low  tones,  as  if  any  voice  raised  above  a  whisper  would  be  a  shout.  Arthur  was  standing  beside  a  win-  dow.  I  walked  over  to  say  hello  to  him.  He  smiled  worriedly,  and  then  he  asked,  &quot;How  on  earthare  they  go-  ing  to  tear  it  down  the  next  time?&quot;  He  meant  New  York,  of  course.  Well,  it  is  a  ques-  tion.  They  are  certainly  going  to  have  some  trouble.  &quot;Let  me  tell " b"you  what  I  read,&quot;  Arthur  said.  (He  has  been  feeding  his  misery  with  the  advertisements  in  architectural  maga-  zines.)  &quot;I  read  about  a  plastic  floor  that  showed  no  wear  after  twenty  million  people  had  walked  over  it.  Are  they  going  to  break  up  a  floor  like  that  with  hammers?  Maybe  you  know  that  big  em-  bossed-tin  building  over  on  Lexington?&quot;  He  was  speaking  of  the  new  one  on  the  corner  of  Forty-second.  &quot;You  don't  suppose  they  can  beat  it  down  with  a  wrecking  ball,  do  you?\xe2\x80\x9d  I  supposed  not.  I  said  it  looked  as  if  at  most  they  could  bend  it  a  little.  FTER  that  day,  and  Arthur's  question,  I  found  my-  self  inclined  to  brood  and  mumble  at  the  sight  of  the  ruins  and  ail  the  smooth,  pale,  uniform  new  buildings.  How  were  they  going  to  tear  it  down  the  next  time?  I  hadn't  paid  much  attention  to  the  way  they  were  doing  it  this  time,  though  when  Arthur  mentioned  the  ball,  I  found  I  did  remember  it.  I  had  seen  it  at  work  a  couple  of  times-once  on  my  grocer's  building,  once  on  Mark  Twain's.  It  was  persistent,  if  clumsy.  (The  grocer  is  a  stringy,  kind  old  man  who  always  claimed,  until  he  had  his  chance,  that  he  wanted  to  retire  to  [REDACTED].  He  moved  four  blocks  uptown  instead,  and  onsunny  days  he  hangs  around  the  fenced  hollow  where  his  store  was  and  talks  to  any  old  customers  that  come  along.  There  often  used  to  be  a  yellow  light,  like  gaslight,  in  one  of  the  upper  rooms  of  Mark  Twain's  house  that  could,  if  one  wanted  it  to,  give  rise  to  the  pleasant  fancy  that  he  was  still  up  there,  working  away.)  But  could  the  ball,  I  wondered,  or  could  sledge  ham-  mers  disintegrate  plastic  panels  that  are  stronger  than  steel  by  weight  and  un-  harmed  even  by  hurricanes?  I  would  see  men  shovelling  plaster  into  chutes  on  Madison  [REDACTED].  I  would  watch  a  man  carry  a  bundle  of  splintered  lath  to  a  window  on  West  Fiftieth  Street  and  drop  it  down  behind  the  inevitable  wall  of  doors.  I  would  see  him  do  the  same  with  a  chandelier,  a  pane  of  glass.  And  I  would  wonder:  Will  they  be  doing  it  this  way  next  time?  Will  hands  suffice?  One  question  leads  to  another.  Soon  I  began  to  puzzle  about  the  hingeless  doors  themselves.  If  the  wreckers  are  still  using  them  the  next  time,  they  can  have  Arthur's,  of  course.  He  has  about  a  dozen.  They  are  solid  and  tall,  and  would  lend  tone.  But  who,  I  keep  wondering,  used  to  go  in  and  out  of  the  ones  already  there  screening  the  demo-  litions?  Did  I,  by  any  chance?  Who  formerly  waited  for  whom  on  the  far  side  of  them?  Who  slammed  them}?  Who  eased  them  to?  And  eventually  still  another  question  began  to  pick  at  me:  How  is  it  going  to  be  the  next  time?  How  will  it  seem?  Not  the  same,  certainly.  After  all,  it  will  not  be  possibleto  take  down  the  Lafayette  a  second  time.  For  some  rea-  son-I  guess  because  a  girl  I  once  knew  regarded  its  dining  room  as  Heaven,  and  I  could  never  afford  to  make  the  ascension  with  her-it  always  had  a  re-  mote,  voluptuous  shimmer  for  me.  I  miss  it.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  never  was  there,  but  for  a  long  time  it  was,  and  I  knew  it.  It  will  not  be  possible  to  demolish  Arthur's  building,  either,  on  the  next  occasion.  It  may  even  be  some-  what  hard  to  demolish  it  on  this  one.  Its  outer  walls  are  two  feet  thick,  and  the  ball  will  have  a  time  of  it.  I  would  almost  like  to  be  watching,  but  I  know  the  ball  will  win.  In  the  building  with  the  grocer  was  a  tiny  Chinese  laundry-  man,  an  infallible  and  joyous  barometer  after  the  fact.  &quot;Oho!  Oho!  Coo  to-  day!&quot;  he  would  shout  deliriously  if  the  day  was  cool,  and  it  was  always  a  pleas-  ure  to  me  to  have  the  hilarious  fact  veri-  fied.  He  used  to  insist  on  giving  me  a  " b"package  of  cigarettes  at  Christmas.  He  has  been  replaced  with  long-lasting  alu-  minum  sashings,  and  there  is  no  way  of  replacing  him  again.  NO,  plainly  it  can't  be  precisely  the  same  next  time.  At  least,  they,  whoever  they  may  be,  won't  be  able  to  take  away  what  has  already  vanished.  I  do  sometimes  wonder,  though,  if  they  may  be  going  to  take  something  like  it,  some  reinforced-plastic  equivalent,  from  the  people  coming  along-the  ones  who  are  going  to  live  in  the  improvements.  I  happened  over  to  Arthur's  one  Saturday  afternoon  not  long  ago,  and  we  sat  for  a  while  in  the  dimness,  talking.  (Arthur's  living  room  is  shadowy  nowadays,  be-  cause  of  the  improvement  of  the  proper-  ty  next  door.)  I  asked  him  if  he  thought  the  inhabitants  of  the  new  doomed  city  would  care  for  it  as  we  have  cared  for  ours,  and  he  seemed  to  think  so.  &quot;Some  people  can  love  anything,&quot;  he  said.  I  suppose  so.  On  the  whole,  you  love  where  you've  been.  But  still  I  won-  dered.  I  wondered  if  any  place  was  go-  ing  to  do  for  them  what  Fifth  [REDACTED]  down  around  Eighth  Street  did  for  me  when  I  was  new  here.  I  could  walk  there  a  whole  summer  evening,  cruising  slowly.  There  was  always  plenty  of  company-other  walkers,  in  trances  of  their  own.  The  air  was  penetrable,  and  the  Brevoort  caf\xc3\xa9  was  full  of  gifted  peo-  ple  I  could  glance  at  respectfully  in  pass-  ing.  As  I  recall,  the  tops  of  many  taxi-  cabs  were  open,  and  occasionally  there  were  passengers  standing  up  in  them  and  singing.  Big  buses,  with  open  tops  of  their  own,  kept  setting  out.  They  had  the  self-importance,  the  air  of  departure,  of  ships  putting  to  sea,  and  it  was  amaz-  ing  to  think  that  I  had  only  to  step  aboard  to  go  to  the  distant  places  ofthe  city  and  back  again.  The  beige  precipice  that  now  rises  on  that  segment  of  Fifth  [REDACTED]  stands  close  to  the  sidewalk  and  leaves  no  room  for  a  caf\xc3\xa9.  There  are  no  upper  decks  on  the  hurrying  buses.  Space  is  at  a  premium.  The  cabs  are  small,  and  their  tops  are  not  made  to  open;  no  one  stands  up  in  them  and  sings  at  the  lavender  sky.  Ceilings  are  low  all  over.  &quot;For  a  year  or  so,  Ilived  next  door  to  a  stable,&quot;  I  told  Arthur.  &quot;It's  gone,  of  course,  The  advantages  are  hard  to  explain,  but  there  were  some.&quot;  Noth-  ing  more,  I  guess,  than  that  it  was  pleasant  to  hear  the  muffled  clopping  of  the  dray  horses  coming  home  from  work,  walking  up  the  echoing  wooden  ramps  to  their  stalls-a  big  white  one  had  a  window  right  across  from  mine- and,  toward  morning,  the  early  risers  going  out,  sounding  reliable  and  neigh-  borly  in  the  darkness.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  I  wish  it  were  still  there,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  go  back  to  horses  or  Model  T's.  I  don't  particularly  want  to  live  next  door  to  a  stable,  and  I  don't  have  a  thing  in  the  world  against  per-  fect  comfort.  Matched  appliances  are  fine-&quot;  &quot;'You're  being  evicted,  that's  [REDACTED];  Arthur  said.  &quot;'They've  sold  it  out  from  under  you.  You're  being  evicted  just  as  much  as  I  am.&quot;  SO  apparently  I  feel  the  way  Arthur  does  because  I  am  in  his  shoes.  His  home  ground  is  being  improved,  and  so  is  mine.  For  a  long  time,  I  didn't  get  to  lower  Fifth  [REDACTED]  often,  but  when  I  did,  the  magic,  until  recently,  turned  out  to  be  renewable.  The  past,  as  every-  one  knows,  is  gone,  but  you  like  to  be  able  to  put  afinger  on  part  of  it  and  say  you  lived  there.  The  same  goes  for  the  present,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  I  live  there.  I  have  an  investment  in  it.  My  neighbor-  hood  might  seem  spotty  to  anyone  look-  ing  for  beauty  or  distinction,  but  so  far  it  has  been  a  neighborhood.  The  grocer  and  the  laundryman  were  part  of  it,  and  Arthur  still  is.  The  destruction  of  the  city-one's  own  city,  of  one's  time  (Oh,  Alice  Mc-  Collister!  )-is  not  just  a  thing  to  put  up  with  gracefully.  I  say  this  to  Arthur,  and  Arthur  says  no,  it  isn't-you  can  stand  there  in  a  rage  while  you  watch  it  happen,  you  can  grumble  about  it.  &quot;'There's  nothing  to  be  done.  It's  a  question  of  ownership,&quot;  he  says,  veering  toward  fairness,  as  he  tends  to  now  and  then-and,  of  course,  it  is.  'The  people  who  own  it  own  it,  and  that's  that.  They  have  every  right.  But  it  occurs  to  me  that  there  are  still  some  unsettled  ownerships  lying  around,  and  I  must  take  the  matter  up  with  Arthur.  We  must  grumble  about  them.  If  you  own  a  thing,  you  can  say  what's  to  be  done  about  it,  so-for  instance-whom  does  what  air  is  left  belong  to&quot;  Who  owns  my  fading  memory  of  the  buses  setting  out?  Who  owns  the  light  in  Arthur's  living  room?  Who  owns  whatever  did  go  on  behind  those  doors?"