 b"MOST  of  the  men  in  our  bleak  North  of  England  village,  in-  cluding  my  father,  were  em-  ployed  in  the  great  woollen  mills  down  in  the  valley,  but  my  Uncle  William  be-  longed  to  the  lucky  minority.  In  a  large  family  of  children,  of  which  Father  was  the  youngest,  Uncle  William  was  the  only  one  who  hadn't  gone  intoamill  as  a  half-timer  at  the  age  of  ten.  In-  stead,  he  had  enterprisingly  apprenticed  himself  to  the  owner  of  the  solitary  boot-and-shoe  shop,  in  the  High  Street,  explaining  to  his  master  that  hours  of  work  were  of  no  consequence  provided  the  job  had  prospects.  The  proprietor  was  so  pleased  with  Uncle  William's  in-  dustry,  honesty,  and  parsimony  that  he  eventually  gave  him  his  only  child  in  marriage,  made  him  manager  of  the  shop,  and  retired  from  business  to  grow  cucumbers  and  tomatoes  under  glass,  which  he  sold  to  city  greengrocers  at  a  considerable  profit.  Father,  who  liked  a  joke,  once  remarked  to  us  that  Uncle  William's  career  might  have  been  very  different  if  the  shoemaker's  child  had  been  a  lad  instead  of  a  lass;  but,  know-  ing  Uncle  William,  I  felt  sure  he  would  have  contrived  either  to  get  rid  of  the  heir  or  to  cheat  him  out  of  his  inheri-  tance.  Father  believed  Uncle  William  to  be  one  of  the  cleverest  men  alive,  but  this  admiration  was  not  re-  ciprocated.  Uncle  Wil-  liam  regarded  my  father  as  a  dangerous,  irrespon-  sible  fellow  on  whom  good  advice  would  be  wasted  and  in  whose  company  it  was  no  credit  to  be  seen.  Although  Uncle  William  and  Aunt  Edith  lived  in  a  house  not  ten  minutes'  walkfrom  ours,  neither  of  them  ever  called  on  us,  and  we  were  notasked  to  visit  them.  Whenever  I  met  Aunt  Edith  in  the  street,  she  looked  over  my  head.  Yet  Father  could  never  realize  that  we  were  being  despised  and  rejected,  and  when  my  brother  or  I  gave  a  cry  of  rage  and  despair  on  being  told  to  go  to  Uncle  William's  shop,  he  was  puzzled  and  annoyed.  &quot;Our  Wil-  liam's  all  bark  and  no  bite,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;Take  no  notice  of  his  temper-  just  stand  up  to  him.&quot;  But  a  child  was  in  no  position  to  stand  up  to  a  portly  man  of  over  forty,  who  wore  a  great  gold  watch  chain  looped  across  his  waistcoat  and  hated  all children,  regarding  them  as  the  result  of  imprudence.  His  manner  never  varied;  he  was  unpleasant  even  on  the  Sabbath.  Sometimes  when  Father  and  I  were  starting  our  Sunday-morningwalk  over  the  moor,  we  would  meet  UncleWil-  liam  on  his  way  to  church,  where  he  was  a  sidesman,  and  Father  would  cry  jovially,  &quot;How  d'ye  do,  William?  We're  off  to  our  Amelia's-I'll  tell  her  I've  seen  thee,&quot;  and  Uncle  William,  who  preferred  his  sister  Amelia  to  his  youngest  brother,  because  she  had  more  money,  would  give  us  a  grunt  and  a  curt  nod,  and  go  on  his  way  to  church.  &quot;I  don't  see  why  we  have  to  buy  our  shoes  and  clogs  from  William,&quot;  Mother  said  once.  &quot;He  charges  us  full  price,  and  thechoice  isn't  as  big  as  I'd  have  in  a  shop  in  town.&quot;  &quot;Our  William's  stuff  has  quality!&quot;  Father  declared.  &quot;And  when  all's  said  and  done,  he's  my  brother.  Besides,  what  ever  would  he  think  if  we  just  went  there  to  have  our  clogs  and  boots  mended,  and  bought  our  new  ones  somewhere  else?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  what  he'd  think,&quot;  Mother  said.  I  found  out  later  that  she  had  never  forgiven  Uncle  William  for  charging  five  per  cent  interest  on  the  money  he  lent  Father  to  buy  furniture  to  set  up  housekeeping  with.  She  said  it  was  an  awful  thing  for  a  broth-  er  to  do.  She  had  paid  back  the  whole  of  the  loan,  with  interest,  in  less  than  a  year.  Father,  who  was  blithely  indif-  ferent  to  money  and  expected  Mother  to  work  miracles  with  his  modest  wages,  declared  that  Uncle  William  was  a  businessman  first  and  last,  and  we  ought  to  admire  him  for  being  so  sharp.  He  only  wished  Ae  had  a  nose  for  money  like  Uncle  William's-but  then  you  couldn't  expect  such  a  talent  twice  in  one  family.  &quot;Thank  Heaven  for  that!&quot;  Mother  retorted.  I  hated  visiting  my  uncle's  shop,  but  about  once  in  three  weeks  I  was  obliged  to  go  there,  usually  to  accompany  my  small  brother,  who  refused  to  face  Uncle  William  alone.  We  both  wore  leather  clogs  on  weekdays,  and  though  they  were  extremely  comfortable  they  had  a  serious  drawback;  their  wooden  soles  were  shodwith  narrow  strips  of  " b"iron,  like  miniature  horseshoes,  which  sooner  or  later  wore  thin  and  broke.  Mine  lasted  for  months,  but  my  broth-  er's  wore  thin  in  a  few  weeks-especial-  ly  in  winter,  when  he  was  continually  sliding  down  the  streets  on  long  rivulets  of  ice,  or  kicking  the  flagstones  on  dark  nights  to  make  sparks  flash  from  under  his  feet.  &quot;You  must  go  to  your  Uncle  Wil-  liam's  after  school,&quot;  Mother  would  say  when  she  heard  the  click  of  a  broken  clog  iron.  'That  afternoon,  we  would  walk  disconsolately  up  the  darkening  High  Street,  past  the  towered  church  and  the  elm-shaded  vicarage,  and  as  we  neared  the  gaslit  boot-and-shoe  shop,  my  brother  would  grasp  my  hand.  We  would  stare  for  a  while  through  the  il-  luminated  plate-glass  window  at  the  footwear  arranged  around  a  magnifi-  cent  pair  of  riding  boots.  Looking  at  those  superb,  glossy,  black  boots  that  no-  body  ever  bought,  even  we,  who  hated  Uncle  William,  were  aware  that  he  was  a  first-class  craftsman.  Father  said  there  wasn't  a  bootmaker  in  England  to  beat  him.  &quot;Our  William  can  make  boots  fit  for  a  lord!&quot;  he  told  us  proudly.  Unfortunately,  there  wasn't  a  lord  in  the  neighborhood,  and  the  villagers  even  the  lawyer  and  the  doctor-pre-  ferred  to  buy  factory-made  products.  The  families  of  the  two  rich  millowners,  who  could  presumably  have  afforded  to  encourage  Uncle  William's  talent,  bought  all  their  footwear  in  town.  He  must  have  felt  thwarted,  like  any  artist  whose  creative  work  is  unwanted.  My  brother  and  I  saw  him  only  as  a  figure  of  terror.  We  would  stand  out-  side  the  shop  for  at  least  five  minutes,  gathering  courage  to  enter.  &quot;You  go  in  first,&quot;  my  brother  would  whisper.  Realizing  that  it  was  folly  to  stand  looking  at  the  riding  boots  any  longer,  I  would  mount  the  step  and  open  the  door,  and  then,  to  the  accompaniment  of  the  jangling  doorbell,  we  would  walk  across  the  oilcloth  floor  to  the  ma-  hogany  counter.  At  that  hour,  there  were  rarely  any  other  customers,  and  we  would  wait  there  silently,  knowing  that  Uncle  William  could  see  us  through  the  glass-panelled  door  to  the  workroom  in  the  rear  of  the  shop,  and  that  he  would  go  on  working  for  at  least  three  minutes.  As  we  waited,  we  smelled  the  pervasive  smell  of  leather  and  stared  forlornly  at  the  tins  of  polish  and  the  black-bristled  brushes  arranged  in  a  glass  case,  or  at  the  colored  posters  of  saucy  girls  with  skirts  lifted  high  to  show  frothy  petticoats,  black  silk  stockings,  and  tiny,  elegant  shoes.  Presently,  the" b"door  at  the  back  would  open,  and  Un-  cle  William,  having  doffed  his  leather  apron,  would  walk  in,  stand  behind  the  mahogany  counter,  and  stare  down  at  us  as  if  we  were  strangers.  &quot;His  clog  irons  are  broken  again,&quot;  I  would  mutter.  &quot;Well,  off  you  go  upstairs.&quot;  The  white  face,  fat  and  menacing,  would  loom  over  the  counter:  &quot;And  don't  let  me  hear  any  noise!&quot;  My  brother  would  make  a  rush  for  the  stairs,  and  I,  determined  not  to  show  I  was  frightened,  would  follow  slowly.  On  the  floor  above,  Sammy,  my  un-  cle's  old  and  withered  assistant,  whose  surname  we  never  knew,  lived  in  a  world  consisting  entirely  of  clogs.  He  never  mended  boots  or  shoes;  they  were  my  uncle's  prerogative.  All  day  long  and  half  the  evening,  Sammy  cut  and  shaped  the  dull  black  leather  to  fit  the  wooden  soles,  attached  a  bright  brass  strip  to  the  toe  with  gleaming  nails,  and  fixed  the  iron  in  place.  He  paused  in  his  perpetual  creation  of  clogs  only  to  re-  pair  those  that  needed  new  soles  or  fresh  irons.  Anyone  who  merely  needed  irons  just  came  in  and  waited  on  a  wooden  bench  until  the  job  was  done.  &quot;Sit  down,&quot;  Sammy  would  say  as  we  entered.  &quot;And  give  'em  here.&quot;  My  brother  would  nervously  remove  his  clogs  and  hand  them  over.  &quot;You're  a  shocker  wi'  clog  irons,&quot;  Sammy  would  remark  grimly.  Then  he  would  seize  a  pair  of  pincers  and  tear  out  the  nails,  and  the  broken  irons  would  drop  to  the  dusty  floor  with  a  clang.  Having  glanced  at  the  wooden  sole  to  ascertain  its  size,  he  would  get  up  and  walk  stiffly,  his  body  bent  like  a  wind-twisted  tree,  to  the  back  wall,  where  hundreds  of  clog  irons  hung  on  heavy  nails,  select  a  pair  of  the  right  size,  and  go  back  to  his  bench.  We  had  to  sit  in  silence  till  the  repair  was  finished.  The  floor  was  thin,  and  my  uncle,  whether  in  the  shoe-repairing  cubicle  or  in  the  front  of  the  shop,  could  hear  the  smallest  sound  from  above.  Since  the  only  noise  he  could  endure  was  the  clang  of  a  hammer,  we  didn't  even  dare  to  whisper.  Once,  when  I  was  ten  years  old,  my  brother,  an  in-  quisitive  six-year-old,  put  out  his  hand  to  a  box  of  ornate  brass-headed  nails  and  picked  up  a  few  to  examine  them.  &quot;Put  them  nails  down!&quot;  Sammy  shouted.  &quot;They  aren't  playthings!&quot;  &quot;He  wasn't  hurting  them,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;T'll  tan  his  hide  if  he  touches  aught  else!&quot;  Sammy  cried,  knowing  that  he  could  safely  abuse  us.  We  heard  the  wooden  stairs  creak,  and  Uncle  William  appeared  in  the" b"doorway.  &quot;What's  up,  Sammy?&quot;  he  asked  sternly.  &quot;Nought  much-the  lad  was  pick-  ing  up  them  fancy  brass  nails,  and  I  told  him  to  put  'em  back,&quot;  Sammy  said,  looking  slightly  ashamed  of  having  brought  my  uncle  upstairs  when  he  had  merely  meant  to  bully  us.  &quot;He  was  only  looking  at  them,&quot;  I  said  angrily.  &quot;You'd  no  business  to  touch  'em.&quot;  Uncle  William  gripped  my  brother's  shoulder.  &quot;Now  let  me  see  if  you've  got  any  in  your  pockets.  Turn  'em  out!&quot;  The  search  only  produced  four  mar-  bles,  a  piece  of  string,  and  a  cockleshell.  Uncle  gave  a  disappointed  grunt  and  de-  parted  downstairs.  Ten  minutes  later,  when  we  faced  him  across  the  mahog-  any  counter,  I  gave  him  sixpence  and  got  threepence  change,  without  a  word.  When  we  arrived  home,  Father  was  just  putting  on  his  cap  to  leave  the  house.  I  told  him  Uncle  William  had  accused  my  brother  of  stealing  brass  nails  and  that  we  weren't  going  to  his  shop  any  more.  &quot;Rubbish!&quot;  Father  cried,  pulling  his  cap  firmly  over  his  curly  head.  &quot;It  would  be  just  our  William's  idea  of  a  joke.  You're  a  pair  of  softheads!&quot;  &quot;He  made  me  empty  my  pockets,&quot;  my  brother  said  bitterly.  &quot;You  should  have  refused!&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;He  had  no  right  to  ask  you  to  do  such  a  thing.&quot;  She  turned  to  Father.  &quot;You  don't  seem  to  realize  what  Wil-  liam's  like.  If  I'd  my  way,  we'd  never  go  near  the  shop  again.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;You're  as  silly  as  they  are,&quot;  Father  said  angrily.  &quot;I  tell  you,  our  William's  all  right  at  bottom.  You  just  don't  un-  derstand  his  way  o'  talking,  that's  all.&quot;  SO  we  continued  to  have  our  clogs  and  shoes  repaired  at  Uncle  Wil-  liam's  shop,  enduring  his  contemptuous  stares  and  chilly  greetings.  As  my  broth-  er  grew  older,  his  clog  irons  lasted  long-  er,  and  we  went  through  purgatory  only  about  once  in  two  months,  and  when  I  was  eleven  I  was  permanently  promoted  to  shoes,  which  didn't  need  repairing  so  often.  One  day  when  I  was  twelve  years  old,  I  heard  Father  remark  to  Mother,  &quot;I  met  our  William  in  the  Institute  last  night.  He  was  looking  poorly.&quot;  &quot;What  ever  was  he  doing  there?&quot;  Mother  asked,  knowing  that  Uncle  William  couldn't  possibly  have  gone  to  the  Village  Institute  for  a  game  of  bil-  liards  or  a  glance  at  the  newspapers,  since  such  weaknesses  of  the  flesh  were  far  beneath  him.  &quot;He'd  gone  to  see  John  Edwards,  to " b"ask  him  to  take  over  the  shop  for  a  while.  John's  a  good  man  wi'  shoe  leather  and  honest  as  the  day.&quot;  &quot;But  what's  William  going  to  do  while  John's  serving  in  the  shop  and  cobbling  shoes?&quot;  Mother  demanded.  &quot;I  asked  him  that.  It  seems  the  doc-  tor's  ordered  him  to  bed  for  a  week  or  two  and  told  him  to  take  things  quiet.  I  had  to  wring  it  out  of  him-you  know  how  he  hates  to  waste  a  word.&quot;  &quot;I  do,&quot;  Mother  said  coldly.  &quot;You'd  think  every  word  he  uttered  cost  him  sixpence.  What  does  the  doctor  say  is  wrong  with  him?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  like  to  ask,&quot;  Father  said,  &quot;seeing  as  he  didn't  offer  to  tell  me,  But  his  face  was  as  pinched  as  if  he  were  ninety,instead  o'  fifty.&quot;  The  shop  became  a  pleasant  place  aft-  er  John  Edwards  took  it  over,.  When  Mother  bought  me  a  pair  of  Sunday  shoes,  he  fetched  a  dozen  boxes  down  from  the  shelves  and  was  very  particu-  lar  about  finding  a  pair  that  disguised  the  unladylike  length  of  my  feet.  He  said  it  didn't  matter  at  all  that  a  girl's  feet  were  large,  provided  they  stayed  a  nice  shape.  When  Mother  had  bought  me  the  previous  pair,  Uncle  William  had  told  her  there  wasn't  another  twelve-year-old  girl  in  the  village  who  needed  a  size  6,  and  I  vowed  never  to  forgive  him.  But  Father  couldn't  be  made  to  see  that  this  was  an  insulting  remark,  and  told  me  I  made  mountains  out  of  molehills.  &quot;I  ought  to  go  and  visit  our  Wil-  liam,&quot;  Father  said  one  evening  about  a  month  after  John  Edwards  had  taken  over  the  shop.  &quot;We  haven't  been  inside  that  house  for  twelve  years,&quot;  Mother  answered.  &quot;And  Edith  doesn't  even  speak  when  she  passes  me  in  the  street.&quot;  &quot;Well,  it's  your  own  fault!&quot;  Father  cried.  &quot;You  went  and  told  her  what  you  thought  about  our  William  charg-  ing  us  interest,  which  he  had  a  perfect  right  to  do.  No  wonder  they  took  against  you!  But  they've  got  nothing  against  me!&quot;  &quot;''They  don't  care  for  you,  all  the  same,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;If  he's  got  summat  serious,  I  ought  to  go  and  visit  him,&quot;  Father  per-" b"sisted.  &quot;Our  Amelia  called  on  them  last  Saturday  and  she  says  he's  shrivelled  to  a  skeleton.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  wouldn't  go  if  I  were  you,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;I'd  wait  till  I  was  asked.&quot;  &quot;He  isn't  your  brother.  Blood's  thick-  er  than  water,&quot;  Father  said.  &quot;He's  never  been  a  brother  to  you!&quot;  Mother  cried.  &quot;You'd  be  a  hypocrite  if  you  went  to  see  him  now!&quot;  &quot;Then  I'll  be  a  hypocrite  this  very  night,  for  I'm  going  there  this  minute.&quot;  Father  went  into  the  passage  outside  the  living  room,  took  down  his  cap,  and  went  out,  slamming  the  door.  Within  half  an  hour  he  was  back.  He  strode  into  the  living  room,  where  we  were  all  three  sitting  around  the  fire,  and  flung  his  cap  on  the  sofa.  &quot;That  wom-  an's  got  no  more  feeling  than  a  stone!&quot;  he  said,  He  sounded  so  angry  that  I  put  down  my  book  and  listened.  &quot;She  told  me  hae  wasn't  fit  to  see  anybody.  Yet  our  Amelia  saw  him  Sunday,  so  he  wasn't  too  bad  to  be  visited  then.  She  wouldn't  even  let  me  go  inside  the  house!  Me-his  own  brother-had  to  stand  on  the  doorstep!&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  warned  you.&quot;  Mother's  voice  had  a  note  of  satisfaction  in  it.  Now  you'll  know  better  than  to  go  there  again.&quot;  &quot;She  hasn't  got  me  beaten-not  b  a  long  chalk!&quot;  Father  declared.  &quot;I  s'll  ask  Dr.  White  if  I  can  see  our  Wil-  liam,  and  if  he  says  yes,  I'll  tell  her  to  her  face  what  I  think  of  her.&quot;  E  never  believed  Father  would  carry  out  this  threat,  but  he  did.  The  very  next  evening,  he  called  at  the  surgery,  learned  that  Uncle  William  was  suffering  from  a  malignant  growth,  and  asked  if  the  patient  could  be  visited.  Dr.  White  said  a  visit  from  a  brother  wouldn't  make  matters  any  worse,  so  as  soon  as  Father  left  the  surgery,  he  went  straight  to  Uncle  William's  house  and  knocked  on  the  door.  When  Aunt  Edith  opened  it,  Father  said,  &quot;I've  mg  just  seen  Dr.  White,  and  he  says  it's  all  right  for  me  to  see  our  William.  Can  I  come  in?&quot;  Shegave  him  a  look  like  a  knife  thrust,  but  she  let  him  in  and  led  him  upstairs  to  Uncle  William's  P  bedroom.  &quot;'That  bedroom  was  as  cold  as  Christmas,&quot;  Father  said  to  us  when  he  got  home.  &quot;And  there  was  our  Wil-  liam  huddled  up  as  if  he  were  frozen.  He  hadn't  been  shaved  for  God  knows how  long,  and  his  nightshirt  and  pillow  slips  didn't  look  clean  to  me.  My  blood  &quot;  boiled,  but  I  kept  my  temper.  I  just  said  'How  are  ye,  William  lad?&quot;  and  he " b"turned  his  eyes  to  me  and  didn't  answer.  I  felt  a  bit  flummoxed,  what  with  him  staring  in  that  funny  way  and  Edith  watching  me  like  a  cat  at  a  mousehole,  but  I  didn't  let  'em  see  what  I  felt.  I  said  to  Edith,  'Can  I  shave  him?  He'd  feel  better,  but  she  said  no,  John  Ed-  wards  would  do  it.  You'd  think  she'd  have  let  me  shave  him,  wouldn't  you?  I  leaned  over  him  and  I  said,  'I  hope  you'll  soon  be  better,  lad.  I'm  sorry  you're  feeling  so  poorly.&quot;  And  do  you  know  what  he  said?&quot;  Father  stopped,  but  we  knew  the  question  was  purely  rhetorical.  &quot;He  said,  'I  want  our  Leonard  to  shave  me,  Edith.&quot;  You  could  hardly  hear  it,  but  it  was  plain  enough  for  her-she  turned  and  went  for  hot  water  and  a  razor  and  a  towel,  and  I  lathered  him  and  shaved  him.  I  asked  him  if  he  remembered  the  time  when  he  had  pneumonia  and  I  shaved  him  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  I  must  ha'  been  about  sixteen  then,  and  he'd  be  twenty-  six.  It  was  funny,&quot;  Father  said  won-  deringly.  &quot;It  was  just  as  if  all  the  years  had  gone  and  I  was  a  lad  again,  shaving  him.  His  face  had  grown  thin-you  re-  member  how  fat  he  was-and  I  clean  forgot  all  the  bother  there'd  been  about  the  money  he  lent  us,  and  just  remem-  bered  him  as  he  used  to  be  when  we  all  lived  at  home  together.  When  Pd  finished,  he  said,  'Thanks,  Leonard,&quot;  and  I  asked  Edith  if  I  could  come  again,  and  she  said  I  could.  Not  that  she  was  friendly,  mind,  but  she  wasn't  nasty.&quot;  Mother  looked  at  Father's  innocent,  childlike  face  and  said,  &quot;I'm  glad  he  was  pleased  you  went.  But  don't  stay  long  when  you  go-I've  heard  he's  in  a  bad  way,  and  visitors  are  tiring.&quot;  EVERY  night  after  that,  Father  called  at  Uncle  William's,  and  as  a  mark  of  respect  for  the  dying,  he  al-  ways  changed  into  his  second-best  suit  and  Sunday  boots  before  leaving  home.  He  told  us  that  Aunt  Edith  was  looking  after  Uncle  William  better  now,  know-  ing  there  was  somebody  watching  her.  He  had  clean  sheets  and  a  clean  night-  shirt,  and  she  had  taken  the  thin  blankets  off  the  bed  and  put  on  thick  ones.  After  his  good-Samaritan  performance,  Fa-  ther  would  cross  the  road  to  the  Blue  Ball  for  a  glass  of  beer  and  a  gossip.  Everybody  would  inquire  how  Uncle  William  was.  There  were  many  fam-  ily  feuds  in  the  village,  and  to  see  the  end  of  one  was  almost  as  dramatic  as  to  witness  the  beginning.  Father  began  to  take  pride  in  being  so  near  to  the  dy-  ing  man.  He  told  us  anecdotes  about  Uncle  William's  behavior  as  a  boy  that  showed  our  uncle  in  such  a  rosy  light" b"that  we  were  filled  with  disbelief,  es-  pecially  since  we  had  neverheard  these  touching  stories  until  now.  Father  went  to  see  Uncle  William  every  night  for  over  a  manth,  and  then  one  night  when  he  got  there  Uncle  William  was  dead.  &quot;Tears  rolled  down  my  face  as  I  looked  at  him,&quot;  Father  told  us.  &quot;I  couldn't  help  it.  Edith  didn't  cry-she  just  talked  about  the  funeral  arrange-  ments  as  if  she  were  going  to  order  a  load  0\xc2\xb0  coals,  or  suchlike.  She  asked  me  to  be  a  coffin  bearer.&quot;  He  looked  at  Mother.  &quot;She  invited  you  to  the  funeral-told  me  to  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;I  shall  not  go,&quot;  Mother  said,  and  though  Aunt  Amelia  and  two  of  Father's  brothers  all  brought  pressure  to  bear,  telling  her  she  must  attend  the  funeral  simply  to  avoid  a  village  scandal,  she  steadfastly  refused.  &quot;I  never  liked  him,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  he  never  liked  me.&quot;  Father  went  to  the  funeral  looking  very  handsome  in  a  borrowed  black  suit.  He  told  Aunt  Edith  and  the  other  mourners  that  Mother  had  meant  to  come  to  the  funeral  but  had  caught  a  severe  chill  and  was  unable  to  go  out.  &quot;I  couldn't  for  shame  tell  'em  the  truth,&quot;  Father  said  later  to  us.  &quot;No,&quot;  Mother  answered  softly.  &quot;''The  truth's  something  you  never  could  [REDACTED];  &quot;What  ever  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  he  said,  giving  her  a  look  of  rich  indigna-  tion. "