 b"CHARLIE BALLANTINE had  little warning  at  first  of  the  way  things  were  going  with  him,  and  no  one  ever  did  find  out  what  caused  it,  though  the  best  opinion  seemed  to  be  that  it  sprang  from  some  form  of  self-  hypnosis.  Such  early  inklings  as  Charlie  himself  had  were  more  understandable  in  the  light  of  hindsight  than  they  were  at  the  moment  of  happening.  He  saw  nothing  untoward,  for  instance,  in  an  odd  little  incident  that  occurred  one  Sunday  afternoon  that  spring,  at  his  own  apartment.  He  was  at  the  tele-  phone  then,  talking  to  Mary  Mattson,  who  was  trying  to  arrange  a  date  for  a  dinner  party,  and  as  the  phone  was  in  the  foyer  he  was  relaying  pertinent  parts  of  the  conversation  to  his  wife,  who  was  sitting  in  the  living  room,  reading  the  Sunday  paper.  &quot;Speak  up,  Charles,&quot;  she  kept  calling  to  him.  &quot;I  can  hardly  hear  a  word  you're  saying.&quot;  And  when  he  had  hung  up  and  come  back  into  the  room  she  looked  at  him  a  moment  curiously.  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  heaskeda  little  petulantly,  for  at  the  end  he  had  been  almost  shouting  at  her.  &quot;I  don't  know.  You  looked  sort  of,  well,  dim,  for  a  second,  standing  there,&quot;  she  replied.  &quot;'Your  voice  was  dim,  too.  Are  you  all  right,  Charles?&quot;  &quot;Mary  heard  me  all  right,&quot;  he  told  her.  Oddly,  both  then  and  later  his  voice  always  carried  per-  fectly  over  the  telephone.  &quot;I  bet  she  didn't,&quot;  his  wife  replied.  Charlie,  an  importer  of  porcelains  by  profession  and  then  in  his  middle  forties,  was  a  thin,  shy  man,  dark-haired,  studious,  and  self-effacing.  At  the  moment,  he  would  have  been  quite  content  to  let  the  matter  drop,  but  his  wife,  whose  name  was  Marcia,  persisted.  A  large,  handsome  woman  with  what  is  often  called  a  &quot;striking&quot;  figure,  she  had  ordinarily  far  too  practical  an  outlook  on  life  to  be  easily  disturbed  by  anything-except,  possibly,  Charlie's  shortcomings.  Yet  she  looked  at  him  now  a  little  puzzledly.  &quot;Anyway,  you  did  look  dim,&quot;  she  re-  peated.  &quot;It  was  almost-&quot;  and  here,  in  spite  of  herself,  she  laughed.  &quot;It  was  almost  as  if  you  were  fading  away.  Are  you  sure  you're  all  right?&quot;  But  it  was  getting  toward  dusk  at  the  time,  the  hour  when  one  ought  to  put  on  the  lights  and  still  doesn't.  And  Charlie  had  a  slight  cold,  which  might  have  accounted  for  her  failureto  hear     him.  For  the  time,  at  least,  they  thought  nothing  of  it.  In  the  days  that  followed,  a  few  friends  of  his  also  remarked  on  his  appearance.  He  looked  &quot;a  little  frail&quot;  was  the  way  they  usually  put  it,  and  once  old  Mrs.  Morris,  the  bookkeeper  at  Charlie's  office,  after  almost  walk-  ing  right  into  him  in  the  corridor,  stopped,  stared,  and  then  snatched  off  her  glasses  and  stared  at  them.  &quot;Can't  think  what's  come  over  me,  Mr.  B.,&quot;  she  remarked  with  her  dry  little  air.  &quot;For  a  moment,  I  just  didn't  see  you  there  at  all.&quot;  And  a  few  days  later,  Charlie's  secre-  tary,  glancing  up  from  her  pad-he  was  dictating  some  letters  at  the  time-  gaspedsuddenly  and  thenopenly  gaped  at  him.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  Miss  Frazier?&quot;  he  asked  uneasily,  for  hecould  see  that  whatever  was  troubling  her  had  some-  thing  to  do  withhim.  The  next  instant  she  was  covered  with  confusion.  &quot;I  don't  know  what's  got  into  me,  Mr.  Ballantine,&quot;  she  protested.  &quot;I  must  be  seeing  things,  I  guess,  or  something.  But  gollies,  it  was  the  strangest  thing!  For  a  second,  back  there,  I  thought  I  could  see  right  through  you.\xe2\x80\x9d  To  the  various  individuals  concerned,  the  episodes  so  far  had  been  separate,  and  isolated.  But  to  Charlie  himself  they  were  already  vaguely  forming  a  pat-  tern,  and  though  all  this  suggested  so  far  was  that  something  out  of  the  or-  dinary  was  happening  to  him,  it  was  beginning  to  disturb  him.  He  sat  for  a  moment,  staring  at  the  girl  steadily.  &quot;'See  right  through  me?&quot;  he  asked  quietly.  But  that,  of  course,  threw  the  girl  into  greater  confusion  than  ever,  and  it  was  probably  only  the  fact  that  she  was  an  old  hand  with  the  firm  that  made  her  willing  to  continue.  &quot;Well,  not  really,  of  course!&quot;  she  protested,  giggling  nervously.  And  then,  gaining  courage,  &quot;Or,  well,  darn  it,  yes,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;Anyway,  part  of  you.  It  was  the  darnedest  thing!&quot;  It  turned  out,  under  questioning-and  even  that  was  difficult;  &quot;You  don't  really  be-  lieve  it,  do  you,  Mr.  B?&quot;  she  asked  at  one  point-that  it  had  seemed  as  if  his  whole  upper  body  had  just  &quot;faded  away,&quot;  as  she  put  it.  &quot;It  sounds  crazy,  I  guess,  but  it  all  got  smoky  and  hazy,  sort  of,  I  could  see  that  Cunard  lines  poster  right  through  you,  forinstance.  Or  I  thought  I  could.&quot;  She  paused  a  moment  and  looked  at  him  doubtfully.  &quot;I  guess  now  it  was  some  trick  of  the  light,  or  something.  It  must  have  been,  mustn't  it'  But  honestly,  it  was  the  darnedest  thing.  Your  voice  seemed  to  fade,  too.&quot;  In  the  end,  of  course,  they  let  it  go  at  that;  what  else  could  they  do?  But  in  the  days  that  followed  Charlie  noticed  the  girl  glancing  curiously  at  him  occa-  sionally;  and-whether  it  was  because  she  had  told  them  or  for  other  reasons-  he  caught  others  of  the  staff  around  the  office  staring  at  him,  too,.  Indeed,  the  worst  thing  about  the  situation,  as  it  de-  veloped,  was  his  constant  uncertainty  about  whether  people  were  looking  at  him  because  he  was  going  through  one  of  his  &quot;fading&quot;  phases  (as  he  was  even  then  beginning  to  call  them)  or  not-  unless,  possibly,  the  times  when  there  was  no  doubt  whatever  about  the  matter  were  worse.  There  was  the  time,  for  instance,  when  the  man  bumped  into  him  on  Forty-eighth  Street.  He  was  a  big,  husky,  red-faced  fellow,  and  although  the  mishap  was  entirely  his  fault-he'd  come  barging  out  of  a  cigar  store,  quite  regardless  of  who  might  be  in  his  way-  he  took  the  offensive  instantly.  &quot;W  you  look  where  you're  going?&quot;  he  de-  manded-or,  rather,  he  started  to,  for  in  the  midst  of  the  sentence,  as  he  really  faced  Charlie,  he  stopped,  and  his  voice  trailed  off.  His  face  paled  and-big,  husky  as  he  was-he  raised  one  hand  in  an  odd  little  pushing  gesture,  like  a  man  who  is  feeling  his  way  in  the  dark  and  can't  be  sure  just  what  confronts  him.  An  instant  later,  he  was  off  down  the  street,  almost  running,  and  it  wasn't  till  he'd  reached  the  corner-it  was  Lex-  ington  Avenue-that  he  even  looked  back.  Charlie  walked  on  after  him,  some-  what  shaken  himself,  and  when  he  came  to  a  store  with  a  mirror  in  the  window,  a  little  way  farther  on,  he  stopped  and  looked  into  it.  It  was  an  antiques  store,  and  the  mirror  itself  was  one  of  those  Early  American  affairs,  with  a  wide,  gold-leafed  frame,  full  of  carved  curli-  cues,  and  a  spread-winged  eagle,  also  golden,  at  its  top.  The  glass  was  slightly  convex,  which  made  it  difficult  to  focus  on  it  clearly,  and  a  bit  dim  with  dust  and  with  age  as  well;  at  first,  as  Charlie  looked,  he  could  make  out  nothing  in  it,  except  a  bulbously  distorted  reflection  of  the  buildings  across  the  way.  Then,  a  moment  later-and  it  is  impossible  to  describe  the  shock  it  caused  him-he  heard  a  truck  rumbling  down  the  street  behind  himand  saw  its  image,  balloon-  ing  a  little  but  still  unmistakable,  pass  " b"swiftly  acrossthe  glass  he  was  staring  at.  And  thetruck,  he  reminded  himself  instantly,  had  been  behind  him.  Charlie,  if  he  was  there,  should  have  been  visible  on  that  mirror,  too!  And  he  was  there;  there  could  be  no  doubt  of  that.  For  no  reason  that  he  could  have  defined,  Charlie  stepped  back  a  pace  and  glanced  up  and  down  the  sidewalk.  There  was  no  one  in  sight,  on  the  quiet  street,  and  after  standing  a  second  in  what  can  hardly  be  called  thought-it  was  more  a  mixture  of  dull  panic  and  incredulity-he  brought  his  gaze  back  and,  stepping  forward  till  his  body  almost  touched  the  glass  of  the  window,  peered  intentlyat  the  mirror.  In  a  sense,  he  was  willing  himself  to  be  there,  and  this  time,  wonderfully,  re-  wardingly,  he  was  there-hazily,  at  first,  to  be  sure,  but  then,  even  as  he  stared,  more  clearly.  Yet  even  as  the  image  cleared  there  was  still  something  odd  about  it;  it  was  almost  as  if  it  had  grown  on  the  glass,  forming  there  as  he  watched,  and  he  found  himself  wonder-  ing  later:  Was  it  possible  that  he  himself,  so  to  speak,  had  superimposed  himself  there,  by  some  effort  of  the  will  or  the  imagination-as  one  can,  say,  call  up  the  image  of  another,  clearly,  in  a  sense  visibly,  before  the  mind?  And  if  so,  had  it  been  the  same  forces,  oppositely  and  of  course  unconsciously  operating,  that     had  caused  the  disappearance  in  the  first  place?  He  still  didn't  dare  ask  himself  why.  HERE  was,  he  decided  later,  a  good  deal  more  than  a  little  truth  in  these  surmises.  He  was  disappearing,  though  at  first  only  partially  and  inter-  mittently,  and,  as  he  had  suspected,  his  mind  was  directly  involved.  That  time  with  Miss  Frazier,  for  instance,  his  thoughts  had  definitely  been  wandering.  He  had  been  dictatinga  letter  toa  ceramist  whose  factory  he  had  once  visited,  in  the  south  of  [REDACTED],  and  his  mind  had  drifted  momentarily  until  he'd  almost  felt-and  withsuch  a  sense  of  peace,  of  contentment-that  he  was  back  there  again,  sitting  in  the  little  vine-  shaded  arbor  at  the  back  ofthe  plant,  where  the  proprietor  often  took  his  ease  while  a  batch  was  baking  in  the  kilns  in-  side.  At  the  time  of  the  encounter  with  the  man  on  the  street,  he'd  been  thinking  of  a  girl  he  had  known  years  before  in  Buffalo,  and  when  he  had  first  looked  in  the  mirror  afterward  his  mind,  of  course,  had  been  still  on  the  man  and  his  curious  behavior.  And  that  first  time  of  all,  on  the  telephone,  he  had  been  thinking,  even  as  he  talked,  of  how  dull  the  Mattsons  were-great  friends  of  his  wife  though  they  might  be-and  from  that  to  the  days  of  his  youth,  when  his  whole  life  had  seemed  gayer  and  more  promising.  Incredible  as  it  seemed,  then,  it  ap-  peared  that  if  he  wanted  to  stay  visible  he  had  to  keep  his  mind  on  it,  and  it  may  be  added  that  as  time  went  on  this  need  for  constant  concentration  on  himself-  &quot;of  all  people,&quot;  as  Charlie  put  it,  wryly,  to  himself-became  one  of  the  most  an-  noying  aspects  of  the  phenomenon.  Let  his  mind  wander  even  for  a  moment,  and-particularly  on  the  street-he  was  likelyto  find  himself  in  trouble  immedi-  ately;  for  that  reason  the  trips  to  and  from  his  office  became,  eventually,  a  kind  of  dash  along  the  tightrope  of  his  own  frail  ego,  with  an  abyss  of  what  practically  amounted  to  oblivion  on  ei-  ther  side.  All  this,  however,  did  not  emerge  with  precision  for  some  time.  One  dif-  ficulty  encountered  by  a  man  in  the  process  of  vanishing  is  that  it's  next  to  impossible  to  talk  to  others  about  it,  and  Charlie,  perforce,  had  to  do  most  of  his  analyzing  of  the  problem  himself.  His  wife,  almost  inspite  of  herself,  was  a  help,  though.  From  the  start,  Marcia  regarded  the  whole  thing  asa  subter-  fuge  of  some  sort,  cowardly  on  the  face  of  it  and  undoubtedly  aimed  at  her.  But  perhaps  because  of  this  she  was  the  first  to  perceive  the  mind-image  con-  nection,  as  it  might  be  called,  and  it  " b"was  she,  too,  who  finally  got  him  to  go  see  a  doctor.  Charlie  himself  had  been  doubtful  about  that,at  first.  He  didn't  know  what  branch  of  specialized  medicine  he  should  turn  to,  and  he  feared-and  in  that  he  was  right,  for  the  most  part-  that  a  general  practitioner  would  hard-  ly  be  able  to  cope  with  a  man  whose  sole  problem  was  incipient  invisibility.  The  man  he  went  to,  at  last,  was  the  New  York  substitute  for  a  family  doc-  tor-which  meant  that  Marcia  had  been  to  him  twice  in  the  past  three  years,  once  for  a  sort  of  bursitis  in  her  left  elbow  and  once  for  apain  in  her  side  that  she  suspected  had  something  to  do  with  her  kidneys  (it  turned  out  to  be  only  a  pain  in  her  side),  and  he'd  been  called  in  once  when  Charlie  was  in  bed  with  what  threatened  to  be  bronchial  pneumonia.  The  men  met,  then,  more  or  less  as  strangers  in  the  consulting  room;  and  the  doctor,  one  of  those  brisk,  youthful,  efficient  types,  glanced  at  Charlie  coldly  at  first  and  then  war-  ily  as,  rather  diffidently,  he  essayed  to  describe  his  predicament.  &quot;Disappearing?&quot;  the  doctor  repeat-  ed.  He  had  been  jotting  down  notes  on  a  pad  on  the  desk  before  him,  but  now  he  raised  his  pen  from  the  paper.  &quot;'You  mean  you  have  a  sort  of  feeling,  or  something?&quot;  &quot;No,  no.  I  don't  have  it,&quot;  said  Charlie.  &quot;It's  the  others.  And  it's  only  partly.  I  mean-as  far  as  I  can  tell,  that  is-I  only  partly  disappear,  and  just  sometimes.  So  far,  anyway.  But  I'm  worried.&quot;  You  said  'others,'  the  doctor  said,  and  Charlie  saw  his  hand  slide  out  quietly  to  the  push  button  on  his  desk.  &quot;What  others?  And  how  does  it  work?&quot;  And  of  course,  as  usual  (doesn't  the  car's  engine  always  run  perfectly  for  the  garageman,  the  tooth  stop  ach-  ing  when  one  goes  to  the  dentist's?  ),  Charlie  had  the  darnedest  time  demon-  strating  his  symptoms  to  the  doctor.  At  the  start,  that  is;  for  in  the  end,  in  desperation,  with  the  doctor  and  his  nurse  staring  steadilyat  him-she  had  come  in  early  in  the  conversation  and  stood  near  the  door;  the  doctor  sat,  his  chair  pushed  back  a  little,  at  his  desk-  Charlie  wrenched  his  mind  away  from  the  present  and  focussed  it  deliberately  on  the  girl  in  Buffalo.  He  had  been  thinking  of  her  more  and  more,  somehow,  lately.  Her  first name  was  Lois,  he  had  remembered,  and  where  she  was  now  after  all  these  years  was  problematical-married,  maybe,  or  anyhow  he  imagined  so,  and  if  so,  he  hoped  truly  that  she  was  happy;  getting  plump  around  the  waist,  perhaps,  and  also  plumper  in  the  cheeks  and  chin;  but  still,  well,  maybe  as  full  as  ever  of  that  strange,  charming  mixture  of  knowing-  ness,  innocence,  and  gaiety  that  she  had  had  when  he  had  known  her.  He  had  met  her  one  summer  when,  still  in  college,  he  had  driven  West  with  Ned  Fellows  in  Ned's  jalopy,  in  search  of  jobs  and  maybe  adventure,  and  the  two  of  them  had  wound  up  in  Buffalo,  working  in  the  Erie  freight  yards  down  along  the  lake  front,  and  rooming  to-  gether  in  an  ancient  rooming  house  near  therailroad  station,  And  she-  Palancheck,  her  name  was,  Lois  Pal-  ancheck-had  been  a  filing  clerk  in  the  office  of  the  express  company  in  the  yards.  Lois  Palancheck,  blond,  high-  cheekboned;  Polish,  undeniably  (&quot;'You  know  I'm  Polish,  so  you  think  I'm  easy,&quot;  she'd  say),  and,  equally  undeni-  ably,  beautiful:  he  had  spent  most  of  that  summer  trying  to  tame  her,  strangely  wild  and  wise  as  she  was-as  a  wild  bird,  from  its  very  wildness,  is  more  wary,  less  trusting  than  a  tame  one.  Lois,  yes,  Lois  Palancheck;  he  had  even  told  Marcia  about  her  once,  in  the  early  years  of  their  marriage,  though  that  had  been  a  mistake.  Now  he  wondered  what  had  become  ofher.  Meantime,  sitting  there  in  the  doctor's  office,  he  remembered  how,  oneday  toward  the  end  of  summer,  they  had  borrowed  Ned's  car  and  drivenout  along  the  lake  front  to  a  resort  called  Erie  Beach-only  they  hadn't  'paid  much  attention  to  the  roller  coasters  and  the  other  amusements  that  were  out  there.  They  had  sat  on  the  beach,  mak-  ing  promises,  both  still  knowing  it  was  really  goodbye-making  promises  to  wait,  to  write  to  each  other,  to  remem-  ber.  And  they  had  written,  too,  and  hers  had  been  nice  letters,  for  Lois  was  a  high-school  graduate  and  was  taking  bookkeeping,  nights.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  be  just  another  dumb  Polack.  You  wait  and  see,&quot;  she  had  told  him.  But  it  had  been  goodbye.  ...  Lois,  Lois  Palancheck-where  was  Lois  now:  Charlie  had  closed  his  eyes;  he  was  walking  back  along  the  beach  in  the  twilight,  hand  in  hand  with  Lois,  when  he  heard  a  loud  &quot;My  God!&quot;  from  the  doctor  and  a  scream  from  the  nurse,  followed  by  the  sound  of  a  door  slam-  ming.  When  he  opened  his  eyes-and  for  a  moment,  this  time,  he  had  a  little  difficulty  doing  so-he  was  alone  in  the  room  with  the  doctor,  and  the  doctor  " b"was  white  with  astonishment.  &quot;It's  true,  damn  it,  it's  true!&quot;  the  doctor  was  say-  ing.  6  I  HEY  want  me  to  go  to  the  Cooley  Clinic  in  Baltimore,&quot;  Charlie  said  to  his  wife  when  hegot  home  that  evening,  not  without  a  slight  tinge  of  pride.  &quot;You  know,  the  place  where  all  those  big  shots  go  for  their  checkups.  They  want  me  to  have  a  checkup,  too.&quot;  &quot;Baltimore?&quot;  Marcia  commented.  She  was  reading  a  detective  story  at  the  time.  &quot;Isn't  that  where  you  knew  that  girl  you  told  me  about  once?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  That  was  Buffalo,&quot;  said  Charlie,  and  then  he  glanced  at  his  wife  apprehensively.  Had  he  spoken  too  quickly?  But  she,  apparently,  had  not  noticed.  &quot;Well,  wherever  she  was,  don't  go  thinking  of  her  too  much&quot;  was  all  she  said.  &quot;Think  of  yourself  more.  Think  of  me.&quot;  And  she  added,  a  trifle  mali-  ciously,  &quot;If  you  don't,  you  may  vanish  entirely.&quot;  And  yet,  he  wondered  later,  was  that  malice,  really,  or  a  touch  of  that  pre-  science  that  women,  traditionally,  were  supposed  to  have?  For  the  truth  was,  there  was  a  problem  about  Lois.  Un-  considered  before,  now  memories  of  her  were  growing  in  his  mind  constantly,  and  the  fact  seemed  to  be  both  a  presage  and  an  involvement.  Meantime,  for  the  most  part,  his  stay  at  the  Clinic  turned  out  to  be  a  disappointment.  He  got  the  full  treatment  there,  to  be  sure-seven  days  at  the  hospital,  dur-  ing  which  he  underwent  just  about  all  the  tests,  samplings,  and  explorations  that  modern  medical  re-  search  is  capable  of,  from  X-rays  and  ionoscopy  to  basal  metabolism  and  the  Keynes  reaction.  These  disclosed  a  number  of  things  that  were  &quot;wrong&quot;  with  him,  in  the  sense  that  they  differed  from  the  ideal-low  blood  pressure  and  a  fairly  low  blood  count,  a  certain  &quot;waxi-  ness&quot;  of  the  skin,  due  toa  deficiency  in  pigmentation,  a  slight  nitrogen  imbal-  ance,  and  so  on-not  to  mention  an  odd  correla-  tion  between  his  neuro-  and  vascular  responses  (Charlie's  nervous  reac-  tions  seemed  to  vary  as  he  breathed,  and  vice  versa),  which  was  the  one  really  unusual  thing  about  him.  But  all  these,  on  the      whole,  were  hardly  more  than  might  be  discovered  in  the  average,  ordinary  per-  son,  and  though  some  of  them,  partic-  ularly  the  last,  offered  vague  &quot;leads&quot;  to  the  doctors  (they  pondered  long  over  his  nerve  charts,  for  instance,  in  conjunc-  tion  with  the  lack  of  pigmentation),  there  was  none  that  offered  any  real  clue  to  his  condition,  let  alone  suggest-  ing  a  cure.  Charlie  left,  in  the  end,  with  the  doctors  as  bewildered  about  him  as  he  was  himself.  IT  has  been  truly  said,  though,  that  a  man  can  learn  to  live  with  any  afflic-  tion,  from  the  loss  of  a  leg  to  total  blind-  ness,  and  Charlie  had  already  developed  a  number  of  devices  for  getting  along  with  his.  On  the  ground  that  he  was  thereby  saved  from  needless  interrup-  tion,  he  had  a  spring  catch  installed  on  the  door  of  his  office;  controlled  by  a  button  release  on  his  desk,  it  gave  him  a  moment  or  two  to  &quot;collect  himself,&quot;  as  he  put  it,  before  any  intrusion.  In  restaurants,  he  always  sought  out  a  table  at  the  rear,  and  if  possible  in  a  corner,  and  kept  his  mind  firmly  on  himself,  and  the  food  before  him,  while  eating;  on  the  street,  after  some  buffet-  ing,  he  had  learned  to  keep  a  similarly  rigorous  single-mindedness-or,  con-  versely,  if  he  did  let  his  mind  wander,  to  make  sure  no  one  was  coming  his  way.  The  trouble  was,  however,  that  as  time  went  on,  he  came  less  and  less  to  regard  it  as  an  affliction-or,  rather,  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  affliction  was  not  the  tendency  to  vanish,  itself,  but  the  sternness  of  concentration  that  was  constantly  necessary  to  avoid  it.  This, of  course,  might  have  been  ascribed  to  the  &quot;learning  to  live  with  it&quot;&quot;  process  already  mentioned,  but  it  really  went  far  beyond  that;  the  fact  was  that  the  act  of  vanishing  was  becoming  increas-  ingly  attractive.  He  had  learned  by  now  to  recognize  certain  symptoms  that  characterized  its  onset,  so  that  he  was  no  longer  taken  unawares,  so  to  speak,  by  the  condition.  There  was  a  sort  of  &quot;tingling,&quot;  as  he  had  described  it  to  the  researchers  at  the  Clinic,  fol-  lowed  by  a  feeling  of  &quot;falling,  only  through  time  instead  of  space&quot;-while  the  disappearance  itself,  when  he  could  accomplish  it  without  embarrassment,  was  at  once  a  refuge  and  anadven-  ture.  He  could  walk  side  by  side  with  an-  other  person,  unseen  and  of  course  un-  suspected,  and  it  seemed  to  him  that  at  such  times  he  penetrated  far  more  deep-  ly  than  he  would  otherwise  havebeen  capable  of  into  the  other's  thoughts  or  emotions,  not  hearing  or  feeling  them,  exactly,  but  simply  absorbing  them,  with  interest  and  understanding.  He  could  sit  or  stand  unregarded,  watching  the  flow  of  life  around  him  with  a  mixture  of  sympathy  and  detachment  that  had  formerly  been  impossible.  What  it  meant,  in  the  common  phrase,  was  that  it  permitted  him  &quot;to  get  outside  him-  self&quot;  -and  this,  for  a  man  at  his  stage  and  condition  of  life,  was  a  feat  that  had  its  definite,  though  possibly  dangerous,  attractions.  You  live  too  much  in  the  past,&quot;  one  of  the  psychiatrists  at  the  Clinic  had  remarked  to  him  (it  was  he  who  first  offered  the  self-hypnosis  theory  ),  and  though  Charlie,  at  forty-seven,  had  just  about  concluded  that  the  past  was  the  best  place  to  live  in,  he  had  to  con-  fess  there  was  a  certain  shrewdness  in  the  man's  diagnosis.  He  would  have  been  less  ready  to  admit-  openly,  at  least,  for  Char-  lie  had  his  loyalties-the  truth  of  another  of  the  same  man's  observations.  This  was  a  statement,  which  Charlie,  of  course,  did  not  see,  that  the  doc-  tor  made  on  his  clinical  report.  &quot;''The  whole  case,&quot;  he  wrote,  enlarging  on  his  idea  of  autohypnosis,  &quot;is  obviously  a  manifestation  of  a  severe  defense  psy-  chosis.  Though  the  subject  will  not  admit  it,  he  wants  to  escape  from  every-  thing-his  wife,  his  job,  his  life,  everything.  He  is  " b"an  escapist,  almost  per  se,&quot;  He  added,  dryly,  &quot;I  must  admit,  though,  I  have  never  seen  this  or  any  similar  psychosis  manifest  itself  with  such  thoroughgoing  efficiency.&quot;  All  this,  however,  was  the  scientific  side.  All  that  Charlie  knew  was  that  when  he  &quot;let  go&quot;  now,  he  could  relive  times  and  places-that  one  wonderful  month  abroad,  among  the  gray  hills  and  olive  groves  of  Provence;  the  long  sum-  mer  with  Lois  (and  why  was  that  now,  to  him,  so  memorable?  );  walks  and  out-  ings  in  his  college  days;  and  so  on-with  a  vividness  that  was  as  remarkable  as  it  was  delightful.  Charlie  had  his  own  mild  sense  of  humor,  and,  as  he  put  it  to  his  wife  one  day-and  regretted  it:  ''Maybe  you  can  joke  about  this.  I  can't,&quot;  she  told  him  acidly-it  was  the  strain  of  &quot;keep-  ing  up  appearances&quot;  that  was  getting  him  down;  and  though  he  knew  in-  stinctively  that  there  was  a  certain  vague  peril  connected  with  the  practice,  he  was  tempted  more  and  more  to  experi-  ment  with  his  strange  capacity.  Even  in  his  moments  of  &quot;falling,&quot;  he  had  a  sense,  an  intuition,  almost,  that  there  was  a  point  beyond  which  he  must  not  go,  or  he'd  risk  falling  into  regions  that  were  truly  unpredictable,  and  for  a  long  time  he  restrained  himself.  It  was  not  until  oneday  in  May-a  bright,  sunny  day,  too,  clear  and  golden-that  he  yielded  finally  to  the  impulse  and  truly  let  himself  go.  He  was  walking  down  his  own  street  at  the  time,  heading  for  his  office,  and  except  for  a  couple  of  men  just  turn-  ing  into  it  at  the  next  corner  the  block  was  deserted.  And  there  had  been  a  particularly  bitter  outburst  from  Marcia  the  evening  before.  They  had  been  sit-  ting  at  dinner  then,  face  to  face  and,  as  usual,  rather  silent,  and  somehow  or  other  his  mind  had  wandered.  ...  He  hadawakened,  if  that  was  the  word  for  it,  to  find  her  staring  at  him,  glaring  at  him.  &quot;Stop  dimming,  Charles!  Damn  it!  Stop  dimming!&quot;  she  was  shouting  at  him.  And  yet  it  wasn't  that,  either,  exactly.  Charlie  had  his  loyalties,  and  as  he  often  told  himself,  he  had  married  Marcia  with  his  eyes  open.  Even  now,  through-  out  all  his  other  difficulties,  he  retained  a  keen  understanding  of  the  problems  she  must  face,  being  married  to  a  man  who  was  always  on  the  verge  of  dis-  appearing.  More  than  that,  it  was  the  sense  of  being  in  the  midst  of  a  tangle:  Marcia  and  her  complaints  behind  him,  and  ahead  of  him  the  tediousness  of  his  work  at  the  office,  and  not  only  at  the  office,  either,  but  everywhere.  Life  was  dull,dull,  dull;  that  was  the  truth of  it,  and  before  he  knew  what  he  was  doing,  really,  he  turned  his  thoughts  strongly  away-toward  Lois,  though  it  seemed  that  was  only  at  random-and,  truly,  let  himself  go.  There  was  the  tingling  at  first,  then  the  fall,  and  the  fall  got  faster;  and  then,  suddenly,  he  plunged  into  ob-  livion,  but  an  oblivion  so  dark  it  was  al-  most  blinding.  But  before  fear  could  take  hold  of  him  (through  it  all,  oddly,  he  never  felt  fear),  he  was  through  the  black  darkness  and  on  the  other  side;  and  the  other  side,  not  too  surprisingly,  was  the  same  street  he  had  been  walk-  ing  on-only  now,  somehow,  every-  thing  had  a  thinner  look,  as  if  it  had  been  painted  on  glass,  and  the  two  men  he  had  noticed  before  were  closer  to     him,  much  closer,  and  coming  directly  toward  him.  Again,  intuitively,  Charlie  knew  what  to  do.  He  walked  steadily  on,  and  this  time,  as  he'd  somehow  known,  there  was  no  feeling  of  contact,  no  disturbance.  The  men  simply  walked  through  him  and  past  him,  never  stopping  their  conversa-  tion,  and  Charlie,  too-this  time,  really,  he  thought,  on  &quot;the  other  side&quot;-went  on  down  the  street  in  his  own  direc-  tion.  He  had  gone  only  a  pace  or  two,  though,  before  he  felt  a  body  bump  against  his  and  then  heard  a  slight  scur-  rying;  and  while  this  did  not  really  startle  him-it  seemed  to  him,  again  intuitively,  that  there  would  surely  be  others  who  were  invisible-it  still  made  him,  in  a  vague  sort  of  way,  appre-  hensive.  He  might  learn  to  &quot;see&quot;  bet-  ter  later,  he  thought,  in  this  new  world  that  he  was  in,  or  at  least  he  hoped  so,  and  meantime  he  slowed  his  pace,  even  on  the  familiar  street,  to  a  cautious  shuffle,  sliding  one  foot  be-  fore  him  and  then  advancing,  more  or  less  asa  blind  man  might,  or  a  man  in  darkness.  Progressing  that  way,  he  had  almost  come  to  the  corner  before  he  felt  someone  reach  out  (and  it  seemed  the  touch  was  familiar;  was  it  from  that  day  on  the  beach,  longago?  )  and  take  his  hand. "