 b"FATHER  FABRE,  coming  from  the  Fbathroom,  stopped  and  knocked  at  the  pastor's  door;  something  about  the  door  had  said  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  No  sound  came  from  the  room,  but  the  pastor  had  a  ghostly  step  and  suddenly  there  he  was,  opening  the  door  an  inch,  giving  his  new  curate  a  glimpse  of  the  green  eyeshade  he  wore  and  of  the  chaos  in  which  he  dwelt.  Father  Fabre  saw  the  radio  in  the  unmade  bed,  the  correspondence,  pamphlets,  the  folding  money,  and  all  the  rest  of  it-what  the  bishop,  on  an  official  visitation,  barging  into  the  room  and  then  hurriedly  back-  ing  out,  had  passed  off  to  the  attending  clergy  as  &quot;a  little  unfinished  business.&quot;  &quot;'Yes?  Yes?&quot;  said  the  pastor.  &quot;How  about  that  table  you  promised  [REDACTED];  'The  pastor  just  looked  at  him.  &quot;The  one  for  my  room-remember?  Something  to  put  my  typewriter  on.&quot;  &quot;See  what  I  can  do.&quot;  The  pastor  had  said  that  before.  Father  Fabre  said,  &quot;I'm  using  the  radi-  ator  now.&quot;  The  pastor  nodded,  apparently  granting  him  permission  to  continue  using  it.  Father  Fabre  put  down  the  old  inclination  to  give  up.  &quot;I  thought  you  said  you'd  fix  me  up,  Father.&quot;    &quot;See  what  I  can  do,  Father.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNOW?  H  &quot;Busy  now.&quot;  The  pastor  started  to  close  the  door,  which  would  have  been  according  to  the  rules  of  their  little  game,  but  Father  Fabre  didn't  budge,  which  was  not  according  to  the  rules.  &quot;Tell  you  what  I'll  do,  Father,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  just  look  around  in  the  basement  and  you  won't  have  to  bother.  I  know  how  busy  you  are.&quot;  Father  Fabre  had  a  strange  feel-  ing  that  he  was  getting  somewhere  with  the  pastor.  What  he'd  said  so  far  had  been  right,  but  he  had  to  keep  it  up.  &quot;Of  course,  I'll  need  to  know  the  com-  bination.&quot;  He  saw  thepastor  buck  and  shudder  at  the  idea  of  telling  anvone  the  combination  of  the  lock  that  pre-  served  his  treasures.  &quot;Better  go  with  you,&quot;  the  pastor  said,  feeling  his  throat.  Father  Fabre  nodded.  This  was  what  he'd  had  in  mind  all  the  time.  While  the  pastor,  inside  his  room,  was  looking  for  his  collar  (always  a  chance  of  meeting  a  parishioner  on  the  stairs),  Father  Fabre  relaxed  and  fell  to  con-  gratulating  himself.  He  had  been  tough  and  it  had  worked.  The  other  way  had  proved  a  waste  of  time.  After  a  bit,  though,  Father  Fabre  took  another  view  of  the  situation,  knowing  as  he  did  so  that  it  was  the  right  one-that  the  door  hadn't  just  happened  to  shut  behind  the  pastor.  The  man  wasn't  coming  out.  Oh,  that  was  it!  The  pastor  had  won  again.  He  was  safe  in  his  room,  secure  in  the  knowledge  that  his  curate  wouldn't  knock  and  start  the  whole  business  all  over-not  for  a  while,  anyway.  Father  Fabre  went  away.  Going  downstairs,  he  told  himself  that  though  he  had  lost,  he  had  extended  the  pastor  as  never  before,  and  would  get  the  best  of  him  yet.  FATHER  FaBre  sensed  John,  the  janitor,  before  he  saw  him  sitting  in  the  dark  under  the  staircase.  This  was  one  of  his  stations.  He  might  be  found  in  this  rather  episcopal  chair,  which  was  also  a  hall  tree,  or  on  a  box  in  the  furnace  room,  or  in  the  choir  loft  behind  the  organ,  or  in  the  visit-  ing  priest's  confessional.  There  were  probably  other  places,  which  Father  Fabre  didn't  know  about.  John  moved  around  a  lot,  foxlike,  killing  time.  Father  Fabre  switched  on  the  light.  John  pulled  himself  together  and  man-  aged  a  smile,  his  glasses,  as  always,  frosted  over  with  dust,  so  that  he  seemed  to  be  watching  you  through  basement  windows.  &quot;John,  you  know  that  pad-  lock  on  the  door  to  the  church  base-  ment?&quot;  Father  Fabre  asked.  John  nodded.  &quot;It's  not  much  of  a  lock.  Think  we  can  open  it?&quot;  John  frowned.  &quot;A  tap  on  the  side?&quot;  John  shook  his  head.  &quot;No?&quot;  Father  Fabre  asked.  &quot;Sorry,  Father.&quot;  So.&quot;  Father  Fabre  turned  away.  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  you  need  a  hammer,  Father?&quot;  &quot;Don't  think  I'll  need  one.  Sure  you  won't  come  along?&quot;  &quot;Awful  busy,  Father.&quot;  But  John  found  time  to  get  up  and  accompany  Father  Fabre  to  the  iron  staircase  that  led  to  the  church  base-  ment.  'There  they  parted.  Father  Fabre  opened  the  staircase  door  and  snapped  the  light  switch  on  the  wall.  He  wasn't  surprised  when  nothing  hap-  pened.  He  left  the  dooropen  for  light.  A  half  flight  down,  pausing,  he  heark-  ened  to  John's  distant  footsteps,  rapidly  climbing,  and  then  he  went  winding  down  into  the  gloom.  At  the  bottom,  he  sat  down  on  a  step  before  the  locked  door  and  waited.  Soon  he  heard  a  slight  noise  above.  Presently,  rounding  the  last  turn,  de-  scending  into  view,  came  the  pastor.     " b"&quot;Oh,  there  you  are!&quot;  said  Father  Fabre,  rising.  The  pastor  voiced  no  complaint-  and  why  should  he?  He'd  lost  a  trick,  but  Father  Fabre  had  taken  it  honor-  ably,  according  to  the  rules,  in  a  man-  ner  worthy  of  the  pastor  himself.  Father  Fabre  was  up  on  his  toes,  straining  to  see.  The  pastor  was  fool-  ing  with  something  inside  the  fuse  box  on  the  wall,  standing  up  to  it,  his  back  almost  a  shield  against  Father  Fabre's  eyes.  Overhead,  a  bulb  lit  up.  So  that  was  it,  thought  Father  Fabre,  coming  down  to  earth-and  to  think  that  he'd  always  blamed  the  wiring  for  the  way  some  of  the  lights  didn't  work  around  the  church  and  rectory,  recommending  a  general  checkup,  prophesying  death  by  conflagration  to  the  pastor.  Father  Fabre,  rising  again,  saw  the  pastor  screw  in  another  fuse  where  none  had  been  before.  That  would  be  the  one  controlling  the  basement  light.  The  pastor  dealt  next  with  the  door,  dropping  into  a  crouch  to  dial  the  lock.  Father  Fabre  leaned  forward  like  an  umpire  waiting  for  the  pitch,  but  with  the  pastor  hunched  up  to  the  door  as  he  was,  it  was  impossible  to  learn  the  com-  bination.  He  scraped  his  foot  in  disgust,  grinding  a  bit  of  fallen  plaster.  The  pastor's  fingers  tumbled  together.  He  seemed  to  be  listening.  After  a  mo-  ment,  he  began  to  dial  again,  apparent-  ly  having  to  start  all  over.  &quot;''There,&quot;  he  said,  finally.  He  re-  moved  the  lock,  threw  open  the  door,  and  switched  on  the  basement  light,  but  before  he  went  in,  he  stepped  over  to  the  fuse  box.  The  overhead  light  went  out.  Father  Fabre  entered  the  basement;  he  had  been  there  only  once  before,  and  then  not  very  far  inside.  The  pastor  secured  the  door  behind  them.  He  removed  a  black  cap  from  a  convenient  clothes  tree,  and  put  it  on.  Protection  against  the  dust'  Father  Fabre  hadn't  realized  that  the  pastor,  who  now  looked  like  a  burglar  in  an  insurance  ad,  would  care  about  dust.  The  pastor  glanced  at  him.  Quickly,  Father  Fabre  looked  away.  He  gazed  around  him  in  silence.  It  was  impossible  to  decide  what  all  that  he  saw  meant.  On  the  clothes  tree  alone  Father  Fabre  noted  a  cartridge  belt,  a  canteen  stencilled  with  the  letters  &quot;U.S.,&quot;  a  pair  of  snowshoes,  an  old  bicycle  tire  of  wrinkled  red  rubber,  a  beekeeper's  veil.  One  of  Father  Fabre's  first  services  to  the  pastor  had  been  to  help  John  carry  two  workbenches  into  the  basement.  At  that  time,  he  had  thought  the  pastor  must  have  plans  for  a  school  in  which  manual  training  would  be  taught.  Now  he  felt  that  the    pastor  had  no  plans  at  all  for  any  of  the  furniture  and  junk  down  there.  A  few  of  the  unemployed  statues,  when  seen  at  a  distance-those  with  their  arms  extended-appeared  to  be  trying  to  get  the  place  straightened  up,  to  be  carrying  things,  but  on  closer  examina-  tion  they  proved  to  be  preoccupied  with  a  higher  kind  of  order,  and  were  carry-  ing  crosiers.  The  pastor  went  to  a  rack  contain-  ing  billiard  cues,  ski  poles,  and  guns.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  said,  bringing  an  air  rifle  to  Father  Fabre.  Father  Fabre  accepted  the  gun;  he  tipped  it,  listening  to  the  [REDACTED]  shot  bow!-  ing  up  and  down  inside.  &quot;What's  this  for?&quot; Rats &quot;Couldn't  kill  a  rat  with  this,  could  I?  &gt;&gt;  &quot;Could.&quot;  But  Father  Fabre  noticed  that  the  pas-  tor  was  arming  himself  with  a  .22  rifle.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  he  asked  covetously.  &quot;'This  gun's  not  accurate,&quot;  said  the  pastor.  &quot;From  a  shooting  gallery.&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong  with  trapping  'em?&quot;  &quot;Too  smart.&quot;  &quot;How  about  poison?&quot;  &quot;Die  in  the  walls.&quot;  The  pastor  moved  off,  bearing  his  gun  under  his  arm  in  a  way  that  was  supposed  to  assure  safety.  FATHER  FaBRE  held  his  gun  the  way  the  pastor  did,  and  followed  him.  He  could  feel  the  debris  closing  in,  growing  up  behind  him.  The  path  ahead  appeared  clear  only  when  he  looked  to  either  side.  He  trailed  a  fin-  ger  in  the  dust  on  a  tabletop,  revealing  the  grain.  He  stopped.  The  wood  was  maple,  he  thought-maple  oiled  and  aged  to  the  color  of  saddle  leather.  There  were  little  niches  along  its  edges  designed  to  hold  glasses.  The  table  was  round-a  whist  table,  it  might  be-  and  apparently  sound.  Here  was  a  noble  piece  of  furniture  that  would  do  won-  ders  for  his  room.  It  could  be  used  for  his  purposes,  and  more.  That  might  be  the  trouble  with  it.  'The  pastor  was  strong  for  temperance.  It  might  not  be  enough  for  Father  Fabre  to  deplore  the  little  niches.  &quot;Oh,  Father!&quot;  he  called.  The  pastor  retraced  his  steps.  &quot;'This  might  do,&quot;  Father  Fabre  said  grudgingly,  careful  not  to  betray  a  real  desire.  There  was  an  awful  glazed  green  urn  in  the  middle  of  the  table,  which  Father  Fabre  feared  would  leave     " b"scratches  or  a  ring.  A  thing  like  that,  which  might  have  spent  its  best  days  in  a  hotel,  by  the  elevators,  belonged  on  the  floor.  Father  Fabre  wanted  to  re-  move  it  from  the  table,  but  he  controlled  himself.  &quot;Don't  move,&quot;  said  the  pastor.  &quot;Spi-  ire&quot;  Father  Fabre  held  still  while  the  pas-  tor  brushed  it  off  his  back.  &quot;Thanks.&quot;  Father  Fabre  relaxed  and  gazed  upon  the  table  again.  He  had  to  have  it.  He  would  have  it.  But  the  pastor  was  moving  on.  Father  Fabre  followed,  having  de-  cided  to  say  nothing  just  then,  needing  more  time  to  think.  The  important  thing  was  not  to  seem  eager.  &quot;It  isn't  always  what  we  want  that's  best  for  us,&quot;  the  pastor  had  said  more  than  once.  He  loved  to  speak  of  Phil  Mooney-a  class-  mate  of  Father  Fabre's-who  had  been  offered  a  year  of  free  study  at  a  major  secular  university  but  had  been  refused  permission  to  accept  it  by  the  bishop.  Young  Mooney,  as  the  pastor  said,  had  taken  it  so  well.  &quot;This-how  about  this?&quot;  said  Father  Fabre.  He  had  stopped  before  a  night  stand,  a  little  tall  for  typing.  &quot;I  could  saw  the  legs  off  some.&quot;  The  pastor,  who  had  paused,  now  went  ahead  again,  faster.  Father  Fabre  followed  once  more,  wondering  if  he'd  abused  the  man's  sensibilities-some  article  of  the  ac-  cumulator's  creed.  He  saw  a  piano  stool  well-suited  to  his  strategy.  This  he  could  give  up  with  good  grace.  &quot;Now,  here's  something,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wouldn't  mind  having  this.&quot;  He  sounded  as  though  he  thought  he  could  get  it,  too.  The  pastor  glanced  back  and  shook  his  head.  &quot;Belongs  upstairs.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  see,&quot;  said  Father  Fabre  sub-  missively.  There  was  no  piano  in  the  rectory,  unless  that,  too,  was  in  the  pastor's  room.  The  pastor,  obviously  pleased  with  his  curate's  different  tone,  stopped  to  ex-  plain.  &quot;A  lot  of  this  will  go  upstairs  when  we're  through  remodelling.&quot;  Father  Fabre  forgot  himself.  &quot;Re-  modelling?&quot;  he  said,  and  tried  to  get  the  pastor  to  look  him  in  the  eye.  The  pastor  turned  away.  Father  Fabre,  who  suddenly  saw  his  error,  began  to  reflect  upon  it.  There  was  no  material  evidence  of  remodel-  ling,  it  was  true,  but  he  had  impugned  the  pastor's  good  intentions.  Was  there  a  pastor  worth  his  salt  who  didn't  have  improvements  in  mind,  contractors  and  costs  on  the  brain?  The  pastor  and  Father  Fabre  moved  deeper  into  the  interior.  Above  them,  the  jungle  joined  itself  in  places,  now.  Father  Fabre  passed  under  the  full  length  of  a  ski  without  taking  notice  of  it  until  confronted  by  its  triangular  head,  arching  down  at  him.  He  shied  away.  Suddenly  the  pastor  stopped.  Father  Fabre  pulled  up  short,  cradling  his  gun,  which  he'd  been  using  as  a  cane.  Something  coiled  on  the  trail?  &quot;How's  this?&quot;  said  the  pastor.  He  was  trying  the  drawers  of  a  pitiful  old  sideboard  affair  with  its  mirrors  out  and  handles  maimed-a  poor,  blind  thing.  &quot;Like  this?&quot;  he  asked.  He  seemed  to  have  no  idea  what  they  were  searching  for.     McGimiEy  &quot;I  need  something  to  type  on,&quot;  Father  Fabre  said  bluntly.  The  pastor  hit  the  trail  again,  some-  how  leaving  the  impression  that  Father  Fabre  was  the  one  who  was  being  diffi-  cult.  They  continued  to  the  uttermo  st  end  of  the  basement.  Here  they  were  con-  fronted  by  a  small  mountain  of  pam-  phlets.  In  the  bowels  of  the  mountain,  something  moved.  The  pastor's  hands  shifted  on  his  gun.  &quot;They're  in  there,&quot;  he  whispered,  and  drew  back  a  pace.  He  waved  Father  Fabre  to  one  side,  raised  the  gun,  and  pumped  lead  into  the  pam-  ph  lets.  Sput-flub!  Sput-flub!  Sput-  spong-spit!  Father  Fabre  reached  for  his  left  leg,  dropped  to  his  knees,  his  gun  clattering  down  under  him.  He  grabbed  up  his  trouser  leg  and  saw  a  little  hole  bleed-  ing  in  his  calf.  It  hurt  ,  but  not  as  much  as  he  would've  thought.  The  pastor  came  over  to  examine  the  leg.  He  bent  down.  &quot;Just  a  flesh  wound,&quot;  he  said,  straightening  up.  &quot;&quot;You're  lucky.&quot;  &quot;Lucky!&quot;  &quot;Tire,  there,  at  the  bottom  of  the     " b"pile.  Absorbed  most  of  the  firepower.  Bullet  went  through  and  ricochetted.  You're  lucky.  Here.&quot;  The  pastor  reached  out  toward  the  wound.  &quot;Oh,  no!&quot;  said  Father  Fabre,  and  lowered  his  trouser  leg.  'The  pastor  seemed  to  be  surprised  that  Father  Fabre  wouldn't  permit  him  to  pinch  the  bullet  out  with  his  dirty  fingers.  Father  Fabre  stood  up.  The  leg  held  him,  but  he  was  sure  his  walking  would  be  affected.  He  thought  he  could  feel  some  blood  in  his  sock.  &quot;Afraid  I'll  have  to  leave  you,&quot;  he  said.  He  glanced  at  the  pastor,  still  seeking  sympathy.  And  there  it  was,  at  last,  showing  in  the  pas-  tor's  face-some  sympathy,  and  words  were  on  the  way-  No,  caught  again  in  the  log  jam  of  the  man's  mind  and  need-  ing  a  shove  if  they  were  to  find  their  way  down  to  the  mouth,  and  so  Father  Fabre  kept  on  looking  at  the  pastor,  shoving.  &quot;Sorry  it  had  to  happen,&quot;  muttered  the  pastor.  Apparently  that  was  going  to  be  all.  He  was  picking  upFather  Fabre's  gun.  Painfully,  Father  Fabrebegan  to  walk.  Sorry  that  it  had  to  happen!  Any-  one  else,  having  fired  the  shot,  would've  been  only  too  glad  to  assume  the  blame.  What  kind  of  man  was  this?  This  was  a  man  of  very  few  words,  as  everyone  knew,  and  he  had  said  he  was  sorry.  How  sorry,  then?  Sorry  enough?  Father  Fabre  stopped  beside  the  maple  table.  &quot;How  about  this?&quot;  he  asked,  sounding  as  if  he  hadn't  men-  tioned  it  before.  It  was  a  daring  ma-  neuver,  but  he  was  giving  the  pastor  a  chance  to  reverse  himself  without  los-  ing  face,  to  redeem  himself.  The  pastor  was  shaking  his  head.  Father  Fabre  lost  patience.  He'd  let  the  old  burglar  shoot  him  down  and  this  was  what  he  got  for  it.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  he  demanded.  The  pastor  was  looking  down,  not  meeting  Father  Fabre's  eye.  &quot;You  don't  have  a  good  easy  chair,  do  you?&quot;  he  asked.  Father  Fabre,  half  turning,  saw  the  chair  the  pastor  had  in  mind.  There  just  weren't  any  words  for  it.  Father  Fabre  regarded  it  stoically-the  dust     lying  fallow  in  the  little  mohair  fur-  rows,  the  ruptured  bottom-and  didn't  know  what  to  say.  It  would  be  impos-  sible  to  convey  his  true  feelings  to  the  pastor.  The  pastor  really  did  think  that  this  was  a  good  easy  chair.  There  was  no  way  to  get  at  the  facts  with  him.  But  the  proper  study  of  curates  is  pastors.  &quot;It's  too  good,&quot;Father  Fabre  said,  making  the  most  of  his  opportunity.  &quot;If  I  ever  sat  down  in  a  chair  like  that,  I  might  never  get  up  again.  No,  it's  not  forme!  Oh,  thepastor  was  pleased-the  man  was  literally  smiling!  Of  a  self-denying  nature  himself,  famous  for  it  in  the  diocese,  he  saw  the  temptation  that  such  a  chair  would  be  to  his  curate.  &quot;No?&quot;  he  said,  and  appeared,  besides  pleased,  re-  lieved.  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  said  Father  Fabre  briskly,  and  moved  on.  It  might  be  in-  teresting  to  see  how  far  he  could  go  with  the  man-but  some  other  time.  His  leg  seemed  to  be  stiffening.  When  they  arrived  back  at  the  door,  the  pastor,  in  a  manner  that  struck     " b"Father  Fabre  as  too  leisurely  under  the  circumstances,  racked  the  guns,  hung  up  his  cap,  and  boxed  the  dust  out  of  his  knees  and  elbows,  all  the  time  gaz-  ing  back  where  they'd  been-not,  Father  Fabre  thought,  with  the  idea  of  returning  to  the  rats  as  soon  as  he  de-  cently  could,  but  with  the  eyes  ofa  game  conservationist  looking  to  the  future.  &quot;I  was  thinking  I'd  better  go  to  the  hospital  with  this,&quot;  said  Father  Fabre.  He  felt  he  ought  to  tell  the  pastor  that  he  didn't  intend  to  let  the  bullet  remain  in  his  leg.  He  left  the  pastor  locking  up,  and  limped  out  and  up  the  stairs.  &quot;Better  take  the  car,&quot;  the  pastor  called  after  him.  Father  Fabre  &lt;pulled  up  short.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  he  said,  and  limped  on.  The  hospital  was  only  a  few  blocks  away,  but  it  hadn't  occurred  to  him  that  he  might  walk  there.  He  was  losing  every  trick.  Earlier,  he  had  imagined  the  pastor  driving  him  to  the  hospital,  and  the  scene  there  when  they  arrived-  how  it  would  be  when  the  pastor's  in-  difference  to  his  curate's  leg  became     apparent  to  the  doctors  and  nurses,  causing  their  hearts  to  harden  against  him.  But  all  this  the  pastor  had  doubt-  less  foreseen,  and  that  was  why  he  wasn't  going  along.  Theman  was  afraid  of  public  opinion.  AT  the  hospital,  however,  they  only  laughed  when  Father  Fabre  told  them  what  had  happened  to  him,  and  when,  after  they  had  taken  the  bullet  out,  he  asked  if  they  had  to  reportthe  matter  to  the  police.  Just  laughed  at  him.  Only  a  flesh  wound,  they  said.  They  didn't  even  want  to  keep  him  off  the  leg.  It  had  been  a  mistake  for  him  to  ask.  Laughed!  Told  him  justto  change  his  sock.  But  he  arranged  for  the  pastor  to  get  the  bill,  and  on  leaving,  although  he  knew  nothing  would  come  of  it,  he  said,  &quot;I  thought  you  were  re-  quired  by  law  to  report  ell  gunshot  cases.&quot;  When  he  returned  to  the  rectory,  he  found  the  pastor  and  John  talking  soft-  lyin  the  upstairs  hall.  They  said  noth-  ing  to  him,  which  he  thought  strange,  and  so  he  said  nothing  to  them.  He  was  lucky,  he  guessed,  that  they  hadn't  laughed  at  him.  He  limped  into  his  room,  doubting  wheth-  er  John  had  even  been  told  about  the  shooting,  and  closed  the  door  with  a  little  bang.  He  turned  and  stood  still.  Then,  after  a  few  mo-  ments  in  which  he  real-  ized  why  the  pastor  and  John  were  in  the  hall,  he  limped  over  to  the  window-to  the  old  mohair  chair.  Ruefully,  he  recalled  his  false  praise  of  the  chair.  How  it  had  cost  him!  For  the  pastor  had  taken  him  at  his  word.  After  the  shooting  ac-  cident,  the  pastor  must  have  been  in  no  mood  to  give  Father  Fabre  a  table  in  which  he  seemed  only  half  inter-  ested.  Nothing  would  do  then  but  that  the  wounded  curate  be  compensated  with  the  object  of  his  only  en-  thusiasm  in  the  base-  ment-and  damn  the  consequences.  No  one  knew  better  than  the  pastor  where  soft-living  could  land  a  young  priest,  and  yet  there  it  was-luxury  itself,  procured  by  the  pastor  and  dragged  upstairs  by  his  agent  and  now  awaiting  his  curate's  pleasure.  And  to  think  it  might  have  been  the  maple  table!  They  hadn't  done  a  thing  to  the  chair.  The  dust  was  all  there,  every  grain  intact.  They  were  waiting  for  him,  the  pastor  and  John-waiting  to  see  him  sitting  in  it.  He  thought  of  disappointing  them,  of  holing  up  as  the  pastor  had  earlier-so  long  ago.  But  he  just  couldn't  contend  with  the  man  any  more  that  day.  He  didn't  know  how  he'dever  be  able  to  thank  them-John  for  carrying  it  up  from  the  basement,  the  pastor  for  the  thing  itself-but  he  limped  over  to  the  door  to  let  them  in.  Oh,  it  was  a  losing  game!  "