FEAR  BEYOND  REASON  HE  strip  of  Somali  coast  that  I  saw  from  the  terrace  of  my  French  host's  house  at  Obok  was  all  highlights  that  morning-blind-  ing  white  sand  and  incandescent  sea,  under  a  blazing,  colorless  sky.  I  sat  close  to  the  house  wall,  in  a  patch  of  shade  as  dense  and  dark  as  a  plaque  of  metal,  and  though  I  faced  the  water,  I  was  not  looking  at  it;  it  would  have  been  like  looking  at  the  sun.  The  morning  was  very  hot.  Obok,  on  the  [REDACTED]  of  59656d656e,  lies  only  twelve  degrees  north  of  the  equator,  and  all  night  long  the  dry  land  wind,  the  khamsin,  had  blown  with  a  steady  beat,  pelting  us  with  desert  grit  and  heat,  and  polishing  the  stars.  The  day,  when  it  came,  was  airless  as  a  vacuum,  and  bathed  in  the  incredible  light  of  the  African  east  coast.  Out  by  the  reef  that  made  the  harbor,  the  Frenchman's  dhow  lay  at  anchor.  Sounds  from  it  came  drifting  over  the  water-the  light  voices  of  the  Dancali  crew,  who  were  loading  the  fifteen-ton  sailboat  with  supplies  for  our  cruise  to  Arabia,  and  snatches  of  song  from  the  men  who  were  paddling  the  dugout-  the  ship's  tender-back  and  forth  be-  tween  the  dhow  and  the  beach.  I  sat  in  that  patch  of  shade  swelter-  ing  in  the  trousers  and  blouse  of  red  sailcloth  that  I  had  brought  with  me  from  Brittany;  it  was  just  the  right  costume  for  our  cruise,  my  host  had  said.  It  felt  that  morning  like  a  suit  of  sheet  armor,  but  I  was  not  primarily  concerned  with  heat  or  clothes  just  then.  I  was  re-  flecting,  as  I  had  often  reflected  during  the  past  few  months,  that  until  my  trip  to  East  Africa  I  had  lived  a  very  protected  life.  That  year  of  the  early  thirties,  I  had  come  down  from  [REDACTED]  to  study  African  folkways  for  a  piece  of  research  I  was  doing.  The  French-  man,  whom  I  had  met  a  year  earlier  (he  and  his  wife  had  been  spending  the  winter  in  [REDACTED]),  was  a  recognized  authority  in  such  matters.  After  twen-  ty  colorful  years  in  East  Africa,  where  he  had  been  by  turns  navigator,  trader,  and  planter,  he  was  as  much  at  home  on  the  warm  coastal  seas  as  in  the  bush,  and  he  spoke  several  tribal  languages,  in  addition  to  Arabic,  as  fluently  as  his  native  French.  When  he  and  his     wife  had  offered  to  introduce  me  to  &quot;their&quot;&quot;  Africa  and  its  people,  I  accepted  the  invitation  with  alacrity.  For  sev-  eral  months  I  had  been  their  guest  in  Abyssinia,  where  I  lived  on  a  coffee  plantation  the  Frenchman  owned  near  Harar,  and  now,  on  the  eve  of  my  re-  turn  to  [REDACTED],  he  was  to  take  me  across  the  [REDACTED]  of  59656d656e  for  a  glimpse  of  the  Arabian  coast.  On  our  way  to  Obok,  we  had  stopped  at  Djibouti  to  put  his  wife  on  a  ship  for  Marseille.  (He  and  I  were  to  follow  on  the  next  one.)  She  had  categorically  refused  to  take  part  in  the  Arabian  trip.  &quot;As  an  American,  you  may  enjoy  roughing  it  with  a  lot  of  natives,&quot;  she  had  said.  &quot;I  don't.  I  like  at  least  a  mini-  mum  of  comfort.&quot;  I  was  not  expecting  &quot;comfort&quot;  on  a  small-boat  cruise  of  ten  days  or  so.  Be-  sides,  ever  since  I  came  to  the  east  coast  I  had  tried  to  cultivate  what  the  French-  man  called  a  &quot;reasonable&quot;  attitude  to-  ward  all  things  African.  &quot;Take  the  country  for  what  it  is;  it  won't  hurt  you,&quot;  he  had  said  to  me  in  [REDACTED]  the  pre-  vious  winter.  &quot;Above  all,  don't  worry,  or  you'll  get  no  enjoyment  out  of  any-  thing.  You'll  live  encircled  by  fears.&quot;  According  to  him,  most  white  travellers  were  a  bundle  of  fears.  &quot;They  clap  on  a  sun  helmet  when  their  ship  reaches  Port  Said.  If  they  take  it  off,  they  scare  them-  selves  into  a  sunstroke.&quot;  (He  himself  went  bare-  headed  in  the  sun.)  &quot;And  don't  begin  by  poisoning  yourself  with  a  lot  of  shots.  East  Africa  has  a  healthy  climate;  the  sun  kills  the  microbes.&quot;  I  had  followed  his  advice  all  along  the  line,  and  sofar  it  had  worked  out  pretty  well.  In  Abyssinia,  I  had  forced  myself  to  be  &quot;reasonable&quot;  when  the  lepers  at  Harar  plucked  at  my  sleeves  or  clung  to  my  stirrups  with  their  mutilated  hands,  I  had  walked  past  famine  victims  in  the  market  place  of  Dire  Dawa,  tell-  ing  myself  firmly  that  I  had  no  right  to  damn  Moslem  indifference  for  letting  them  die  there  unheeded  since  I  was  not  prepared  to  do  anything  about  them  myself.  When  we'd  sighted  hyenas  at  their  ghoulish  meals  by  the  roadside,  I  had  merely  looked  the  other  way.  Here  on  the  coast,  we  had  run  into  an  epidemic  of  black  smallpox.  In  fact,       it  was  all  around  us.  One  ofthe  crew  of  our  dhow  had  just  died  of  it,  and  we  saw  any  number  of  people  walking  about  with  fresh  pink  scars  on  their  black  skin.  While  we  were  passing  through  Djibouti,  I  had  had  myself  re-  vaccinated-a  precaution  that  even  my  host  agreed  was  sensible.  Unless  it  took,  though,  he  said,  it  would  be  no  protec-  tion.  It  had  not  taken.  But  what  of  that?  Inch  Allah-as  Allah  wills.  &quot;If  you  come  down  with  smallpox,  I  will  take  care  of  you,&quot;  the  Frenchman  said.  I  daresay  he  would  have  been  as  good  as  his  word.  But  had  I  learned  in  Africa  to  cast  off  completely  the  white  man's  baggage  of  apprehensions?  I  was  pondering  this  question  that  morning  on  the  terrace  at  Obok,  as  I  sat  in  the  shrinking  patch  of  shade  watching  Kassim,  one  of  our  Dancali  sailors,  who  was  squatting  on  his  heels  in  the  sun  by  the  terrace  rail  eating  oysters  out  of  a  tamike  (a  five-  gallon  oil  tin).  He  was  prying  the  shells  open  with  the  tip  of  a  long  knife  that  he  had  taken  from  its  wooden  sheath  at  his  belt,  and  lapping  up  their  con-  tents  with  sucking  noises  that  signified  enjoyment.  Every  so  often  he  would  offer  me  an  oyster,  holding  outa  pink-and-lavender  half  shell  cradled  on  his  palm.  Each  time,  I  refused.  I  said  I  wasn't  hungry,  but  the  truth  of  the  matter  was  I  wanted  to  know  where  the  oysters  came  from  before  tasting  them.  Had  he  gathered  them  in  the  harbor?  (Its  beaches  served  the  town  as  a  latrine.)  I  hesitated  to  ask,  partly  because  of  my  sketchy  knowl-  edge  of  coastal  Arabic,  the  lingua  franca  ofthe  region;  partly,  too,  because  I  was  not  sure  of  a  satisfactory  answer  even  if  Kassim  understood  the  question.  But  it  wasn't  only  the  oysters  that  had  set  me  thinking  about  fears  vs.  &quot;rea-  son.&quot;  There  had  also  been  the  sight,  a  few  minutes  earlier,  of  a  file  of  Dancali  women  bringing  water  for  the  dhow  from  an  oasis  a  quarter  of  a  mile  in-  land.  They  carried  it  in  goatskins,  bal-  anced  on  their  heads,  and  they  looked  picturesque  enough-rather  like  the  figures  on  one  of  those  black-and-tan  Greek  vases.  And  presently  I  managed  a  question  about  the  water,  and  re-  ceived  an  answer,  such  as  it  was,  from  the  Dancali.  &quot;Very  good  water,&quot;  Kassim  said,  in-  terrupting  his  business  with  the  shell-  fish.  &quot;Sometimes  it  makes  you  a  little  sick  here.&quot;  He  laid  one  hand  on  his  taut  black  stomach.  &quot;But  not  often.  Water  tamam-very  good.&quot;  Whereupon  he  grinned  and  returned  to  his  feast,  eying  me  between  gulps,  and  I  was  convinced   that  he  understood  perfectly  what  had  prompted  my  question  about  the  water,  and  why  I  would  have  none  of  his  oysters.  His  next  remark  seemed  to  bear  this  out.  Tossing  an  empty  shell  over  the  rail,  Kassim  squinted  out  toward  the  dhow  and  then  pointed  with  his  knife  to  the  eastern  horizon.  &quot;Arabs  bad  men.  Pirates.&quot;  His  glance  came  back  to  me,  and  his  teeth  glinted  in  his  dark  face.  &quot;You  afraid?&quot;  I  shook  my  head  in  an  indignant  re-  flex.  Afraid?  Of  course  not-perhaps  because  &quot;pirate,&quot;  like  &quot;Arab,&quot;  was  so  far  only  a  word;  my  associations  with  either  term  were  purely  bookish.  You  couldn't  be  afraid  of  words.  Balancing  the  knife  on  his  palm,  the  Dancali  surveyed  me  through  half-  closed  lids.  He  had  a  way  of  shutting  his  eyes  that  reminded  me  of  a  bird.  W  hat  he  said  next  was  too  complicated  for  me  to  follow,  though  I  caught  the  words  &quot;Danakil,&quot;  &quot;dhow,&quot;  and  &quot;pirate.&quot;  But  there  was  no  mistaking  the  gesture  as,  still  eying  me,  Kassim  drew  the  back  of  the  long  knife  blade  slowly  across  his  throat.  A  voice  speaking  sharply  from  the  doorway  behind  us  cut  short  the  pan-  tomime.  Kassim  scrambled  to  his  feet  and,  still  with  the  knife  in  his  hand,  vaulted  nimbly  to  the  beach  below,  where  he  sheathed  the  knife  and  joined  the  men  who  were  loading  the  dugout.  The  Frenchman,  who  had  come  up  the  stairs  from  his  workshop  underneath  the  terrace,  stepped  out  on  the  cement.  His  bare  shoulders  glistened  with  sweat,  and  when  he  pushed  back  the  shock  of  gray  hair  from  his  forehead  with  the  back  of  one  hand,  he  left  a  greasy  black  streak  on  his  damp  skin.  &quot;Guzzling  oysters  while  I  do  the  work!&quot;  he  said  in  the  tone  of  a  harassed  housewife.  He  jerked  his  head  toward  where  Kassim  had  been  sitting,  and  wiped  his  hands  on  his  oil-stained  trou-  sers.  &quot;I  told  him  to  see  to  the  loading  of  the  dugout  while  I  finished  with  those  pistons.  Now  look  at  the  imbeciles!  They'll  swamp  her!&quot;  He  shouted  a  string  of  angry  phrases  in  Arabic  to  the  group  at  the  water's  edge,  then  said  to  me,  &quot;And  filling  you  up  withhorror  stories  about  Arabia.  Don't  you  believe  a  word.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  understand  half  of  what  he  said.&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  wouldn't  take  you  there  if  it  weren't  safe,&quot;  said  the  Frenchman.  &quot;Besides,  we'll  have  a  flesh-and-blood  guarantee  with  us.&quot;  He  chuckled,  &quot;Wait  till  you  see  the  rev-  erend  gentleman  who's  coming  along.&quot;  With  that,  my  host  turned  his  back   on  the  beach  and,  hitching  up  his  trou-  sers,  settled  down  on  his  heels  by  the  tin  of  oysters  in  exactly  the  pose  ofthe  Dancali,  bare  feet  flat  on  the  cement,  knees  under  his  chin-an  impossible  posture  for  most  adults  of  white  blood.  He  took  a  jackknife  from  his  hip  pocket,  and  flipped  out  a  blade.  &quot;Have  an  oyster?&quot;  he  asked.  DHOW,  or  sambuk,  is  an  Arab  coasting  vessel,  usually  lateen-  rigged.  Since  ours  had  the  rigging  of  a  cutter,  it  could  not  &quot;lay  its  ears  back&quot;  in  rough  weather.  But  its  build  was  that  ofthe  typical  dhow-low  in  the  waist  and  high  at  the  stern,  with  a  cuddy  aft,  where  the  Frenchman  kept  his  guns  and  maps,  and  a  deck  so  slippery  from  a  protective  coating  of  fish  oil  that  only  bare  soles  could  cling  to  it.  Un-  like  most  coastal  craft  in  those  waters,  our  dhow  had  no  great  eyes  painted  at  the  bow.  (Sailors  there  believe  that  a  ship,  like  any  other  creature,  needs  to  see  where  it  is  going.)  Perhaps  its  name,  Altair,  was  meant  as  a  substitute,  since  the  stars  see  everything.  Until  moonrise,  our  first  night  out-  we  got  under  way  soon  after  dark-I  had  the  stars  for  company.  Beyond  the  reef,  we  found  no  wind;  when  the  engine  that  propelled  us  through  the  |,  pass  had  ceased  its  clatter,  we  lay,  sails  set,  rocking  in  the  swell.  The  crew,  all  but  the  one  at  the  helm,  disappeared  below  deck,  and  the  Frenchman  took  to  his  cuddy-because  of  the  night  chill,  he  said.  There  was  no  chill  that  I  could  detect;  the  air  lay  over  and  around  us  light  and  warm  as  a  down  comforter.  I  spread  a  mat  on  the  strip  of  deck  next  to  the  cuddy  and,  leaning  againstthe  low  bulwark,  looked  up  at  the  stars-  tier  on  tier  of  pointsof  light,  which,  with  the  rolling  of  the  ship,  seemed  to  come  hurtling  down  through  space.  It  made  me  dizzy  to  watch  them.  Behind  me,  the  steersman  sat  on  his  bench,  with  the  long  bar  ofthe  tiller  swinging  at  his  knee.  In  the  starlight,  ||  which  fell  on  his  white  turban  and  picked  out  the  brass  armlet  above  his  elbow,  I  recognized  him  as  Kassim,  at  |  ease  and  watchful,  chin  lifted,  bare  torso  bent  forward,  motionless  as  a  figure-  head.  The  water  lay  only  a  few  feet  below  us,  touching  the  hull  in  a  rippling  line  of  phosphorescence.  A  shaft  of  that  same  green  fire  slanted  down  from  the  rudder-down,  down,  like  a  sounding  line  of  light.  As  I  pulled  myself  up  to  look  over  the  gunwale,  a  long  flashing  streamer  struck  snakelike  through  the  depths,  then  another  and  another.  The      streamers  curved  and  crossed,  in  a  fiery  network.  &quot;Look!&quot;  Icalled  to  the  steersman.  The  pale  blob  of  his  turban  moved  a  fraction.  &quot;Fish,&quot;  he  said  laconically.  As  he  spoke,  a  fin  broke  the  surface  close  by  in  a  shower  ofbubbles,  which  sub-  sided  in  a  trail  of  greenish  foam.  There  was  nothing  now  on  the  smooth,  dark  swell  but  the  reflections  of  the  stars.  And  nothing  was  audible  but  the  faint  creak-  ing  of  the  boom,  until  a  distant  splash-  it  was  more  like  a  crash,  startling  in  its  suddenness-broke  the  silence,  as  if  something  flat  and  sizable  had  struck  the  water.  &quot;Fish,&quot;  said  Kassim  again,  and  yawned.  Perhaps  a  giant  ray,  I  thought;  the  Frenchman  had  told  me  some  of  them  were  as  big  as  a  dining-room  table.  I  stretched  out  on  the  mat,  covering  my  face  with  one  arm  to  shut  out  the  star-  light.  The  bombarding  stars  might  be  an  illusion,  I  reflected,  but  certainly  it  was  no  illusion  that  the  water  under-  neath  us  was  alive.  Fish?  Sharks  too,  perhaps.  I  almost  fancied  that  I  felt  them  scraping  their  gritty  backs  against  the  hull.  But  finally,  lulled  by  the  rock-  ing  of  the  boat,  I  fell  asleep.  I  waked  before  dawn  to  the  whish  of  water  alongside,  and  the  smell  of  wood  smoke  and  coffee.  The  mainsail  was  taut;  we  were  under  way.  Forward,  Ali-the-cook,  a  Somali  house  servant  who  had  come  with  us  from  Abyssinia,  had  lighted  his  fire  in  the  open-air  galley,  aided  by  a  boy.  Each  time  the  boy  broke  a  stick  of  firewood  over  his  knee,  he  let  out  the  traditional  yell  to  show  that  it  was  not  the  mast  or  the  yards  of  rigging  that  had  cracked.  The  Frenchman  had  replaced  Kassim  on  the  steering  bench.  He  sat  huddled  in  a  chamme,  or  shawl,  and  in  the  gray  light  his  face  looked  pinched  and  weary.  &quot;Only  a  touch  of  malaria.  It  won't  last,&quot;  he  said  cheerfully.  &quot;I've  taken  a  fistful  ofquinine.  Ah&quot;-as  the  cook  came  aft  with  the  coffeepot-'&quot;this  will  thaw  us  out.&quot;  The  crew  were  all  on  deck  now-  six  Danakil  and  one  Sudanese,  in  addi-  tion  to  the  Somali  cook.  According  to  the  Frenchman,  there  were  only  three  expert  seamen  in  the  lot:  Abdi,  the  mate,  an  oldish  man  with  a  shrewd,  kindly,  puckered  face;  Kassim,  whom  the  Frenchman  and  Icalled  our  Arabian  Nights  prince  (he  had  the  bearing  and  the  build,  except  for  his  bandy  legs);  and  the  big  Sudanese,  a  heavy,  good-  natured  brute  whose  body  a  Western  athlete  might  have  envied.  The  other  men  were  fill-ins-coastal  fishers  or    desert  herdsmen  recruited  for  the  trip.  One  of  the  younger  Danakil  had  had  his  front  teeth  filed  to  a  row  of  points.  It  gave  him  a  wild  look,  and  I  learned  from  the  cook,  who  was  my  informant  in  such  matters,  that  this  was  still  the  fashion  back  in  the  bush,  though  no  longer  considered  stylish  by  the  more  evolved  populations  of  the  coast.  As  for  the  Sudanese,  Ali  disposed  of  him  with  a  significant  shrug.  He  was  only  a  &quot;stupid  Sudanese,&quot;  one  of  the  race  of  slaves.  While  we  drank  our  coffee,  the  sun  lifted  above  the  horizon  like  a  pale  bal-  loon.  We  felt  its  warmth  at  once.  &quot;If  you  want  to  wash,  I'll  have  a  tamika  of  sea  water  dipped  up  for  you,&quot;  said  the  Frenchman.  &quot;Or  you  can  wait  for  a  swim.&quot;  The  cook,  who  still  stood  by  with  the  coffeepot,  grinned  down  at  me.  &quot;Swim  with  lokham.  Very  nice,&quot;  he  said,  and  went  away  laughing.  The  Frenchman  translated,  and  my  vocabu-  lary  of  east-coast  Arabic  had  acquired  a  new  word-'&quot;shark.&quot;  We  were  following  the  African  shore-stretches  of  tawny  beach,  table-  lands  swimming  in  haze,  and,  cutting  across  the  sky,  the  lavender  peaks  of  the  Mabla.  With  us  went  porpoises  (to  our  crew,  a  porpoise  was  abu  saleam-  he-who-says-good-morning),  diving  under  the  hull  and  caracolling  ahead.  Flying  fish  rose  from  the  water  like  startled  sparrows,  skimmed  over  a  cou-  ple  of  wave  crests,  and  dived  out  of  sight  into  the  third.  Now  and  then,  a  needlefish  shot  off  the  water  in  its  bro-  ken  trajectory-a  series  of  diminishing  arcs,  like  a  skipped  stone.  The  French-  man  gave  orders  to  break  out  the  fish-  ing  gear,  and,  trolling  with  a  big  hook  and  a  red  rag  on  a  length  of  wire,  one  of  the  Danakil  made  our  first  catch-  a  lazy,  thick-bodied  monster  with  knife-  like  barbs  on  its  silver  sides  and  a  mouth-  ful  ofthe  biggest  teeth  I  had  seen  on  any  fish.  It  let  itself  be  knocked  on  the  head  without  a  fight,  and  shed  a  lot  of  blood  on  deck  when  it  was  cut  up.  The  cook  broiled  slices  of  it  for  our  breakfast;  it  tasted  like  beefsteak.  T  midmorning,  we  anchored  for  a  swim  in  the  lee  of  an  island-  a  flat,  rocky  table,  like  an  upheaved  section  of  sea  bottom.  &quot;Keep  an  eye  out  for  sharks,  of  course,&quot;  the  Frenchman  called  over  his  shoulder  as  he  went  be-  low  to  sleep  off  his  malaria.  &quot;Lokham  everywhere,&quot;  Abdi-the-  mate  said  soberly,  and  at  once  dived  overboard.  Kassim,  who  was  poised  on  the  gunwale,  tightening  the  fute(a    knee-length  sarong)  about  his  slim  waist,  gave  me  one  of  his  birdlike  glances  and  remarked  to  the  cook,  who  obligingly  translated,  that  the  shark  could  not  see  Aim,  because  he  was  black,  but  that  Madame  would  shine  under  water  like  the  Ras  Bir  Light.  With  that,  Kassim,  too,  took  a  long  dive  over  the  side.  The  other  men  followed  him-  all  but  the  Sudanese,  who,  it  appeared,  had  reasons  of  his  own  for  being  shark-  shy,  and  the  cook,  who  was  chronically  timid.  He  came  up  behind  me  as  I  stood  hesitating.  &quot;He  says''-indicating  the  Sudanese-&quot;that  the  lokham  is  under  our  keel,  keeping  cool.&quot;  If  so,  I  envied  the  shark;  now  that  we  had  stopped  moving,  it  was  getting  hot  on  deck.  Butwhat  decided  me  to  take  the  plunge  was  the  tamike  of  water  that  the  cook  emptied  over  my  head.  Though  he  meant  it  kindly,  it  did  some-  thing  to  my  pride;  besides,  it  was  no  substitute  for  a  swim.  So  I  joined  the  group  in  the  water.  There  was  no  room  for  fears  in  that  splashing,  shouting  circle  of  amphibians.  By  the  time  they  hoisted  me  to  the  deck  again,  I  had  made  up  my  mind  that  sharks,  like  smallpox  and  the  rest,  were  things  that  a  traveller  could  learn  to  accept.  Abdi-the-mate  was  the  last  to  come  aboard.  He  had  been  down  to  take  a  look  at  the  bottom,  and  he  brought  with  him  a  string  of  black  coral,  and  a  mussel  as  big  as  a  football.  He  had  scarcely  set  foot  on  the  deck  when  the  Sudanese  uttered  a  sharp  cry  and  pointed.  Had  the  shark  really  been  under  the  keel?  At  any  rate,  there  it  was  now,  swimming  alongside-a  long,  tan  torpedo,  probably  not  as  big  as  it  looked  but  quite  big  enough.  It  slid  past  slowly,  nosed  at  the  hook  with  the  red  rag  that  still  dangled  from  the  stern,  then  plunged  and  disappeared  in  deep  water.  Only  the  Sudanese  seemed  per-  turbed;  the  Danakil  saluted  the  shark  with  peals  of  noisy  laughter.  The  lo-  kham,  I  then  learned  from  Ali,  is  always  afraid  of  brave  men;  it  attacks  only  a  tired  swimmer-or  a  Sudanese.  We  were  heading  for  Khor  Angar,  a  shallow  bay  some  thirty  miles  up  the  African  coast,  and  before  we  got  there,  I  heard  other  curious  bits  of  natural  history.  We  started  with  the  sea  serpent.  Abdi-the-mate  told  that  tale  in  a  sober  manner  that  carried  weight.  Once,  in  a  dhow  carrying  a  cargo  of  goats,  asses,  and  camels,  he  had  noticed  something  strange  swimming  in  the  wake  of  the  boat.  At  first,  he  took  it  to  be  a  sea  turtle,  but  instead  it  proved  to  be  a  great  crea-  ture  like  a  dragon,  which  plunged,  mak-  ing  a  whirlpool  of  water  and  stirring  up   the  sand  at  the  sea  bottom.  &quot;I  saw  it  with  my  own  eyes,&quot;  he  said.  The  sight  of  a  pair  of  cachalots,  send-  ing  up  jets  of  spray  that  glistened  in  the  sun  like  distant  sails,  turned  the  talk  to  whales.  These  sultans  of  the  sea  were  not  &quot;bad,&quot;  really,  the  men  insisted,  though  sometimes  they  flipped  over  a  dhow  like  a  chip  of  wood  when  they  rose  to  the  surface.  And  they  opened  triangular  mouths  that  were  as  tall  as  a  sail  and  that  closed  like  traps  on  any-  thing  they  chose  to  pursue.  Everyone  knew  about  Bellil-the-fisher,  a  very  thin  man  whom  a  whale  had  swallowed  one  day,  dugout  and  all.  But  Bellil  had  a  knife;  he  had  cut  his  way  out.  Yes,  in-  deed,  the  story  was  true.  The  whale  swallowed  Bellil  near  Angar;  he  came  out  at  Guardafui.  There  was  also  another  fisherman,  nameless,  whom  a  whale  had  once  gulped  down  &quot;by  accident.&quot;  ('The  cook  contributed  this  one.)  But  the  man  said  a  potent  prayer,  the  whale  hiccuped,  and  out  popped  the  fisher.  He  was  quite  all  right,  not  injured  at  all,  but  his  skin  had  turned  white,  like  that  ofa  drowned  man,  or  one  that  a  shark  had  devoured.  So  we  came  back  to  sharks  again.  Kassim  told  how  he  had  helped  catch  a  big  one  in  the  [REDACTED]  of  Tadjoura.  When  he  and  the  others  with  him  cut  into  its  stomach,  they  found  &quot;pieces&quot;  of  a  man.  &quot;A  whole  leg,  with  a  chain  about  the  ankle,  and  white-white  as  you,&quot;  Kassim  said,  with  a  dip  of  the  chin  in  my  direction.  The  success  of  that  grim  bit  encour-  aged  Kassim  to  go  on.  Did  we  see  that  hole  in  the  rock?  He  pointed  to  a  cliff  beyond  a  stretch  of  beach.  The  hole  was  full  of  bones.  Djinn  lived  there-d  jinn  who  &quot;ate  people.&quot;  I  had  heard  a  good  deal  about  djinn  since  I  came  to  Africa.  They  hung  about  graveyards  and  &quot;bad&quot;  wells.  Up  on  the  plateau,  at  the  Frenchman's  coffee  plantation,  the  Galla  housewives  lighted  their  incense  burners  every  morning  and  smoked  all  four  corners  of  their  huts;  this  was  to  drive  out  the  djinn.  A  djinni  gave  the  gardener  his  bellyache,  and  lamed  the  mule.  (&quot;D  jinn  take  care  of  all  the  catastrophes.  It's  as  good  an  explanation  as  most,&quot;  the  Frenchman  once  told  me.)  So  djinn  &quot;ate  people&quot;?  Kassim  giggled  when  he  assured  me  this  was  true-  but  perhaps  he  believed  it.  &quot;What  does  a  djinni  look  like?&quot;  I  asked.  Kassim  gave  me  one  of  his  veiled  glances,  then,  with  a  grin,  called  my  attention  to  the  mountain  that  cut  across  the  western  sky  in  a  long  straight  line.  At  one  end,  a  pointedneedle  of  rock     stood  up  against  the  sky.  But  it  wasn't  a  rock,  Kassim  said,  laughing.  It  looked  like  a  man,  with  a  turban  and  sword-  but  it  wasn't  a  man.  Again  Kassim  laughed.  &quot;Mountain  named  Djebel  Djinn,&quot;  he  said.  AT  Angar,  we  hoped  to  take  on  the  holy  man  the  Frenchman  had  re-  ferred  toas  &quot;our  guarantee&quot;-a  Dancali  sheik  who  would  go  with  us  to  Arabia.  He  was  a  sheik  in  the  fullest  sense  of  the  word,  since  he  was  both  saintly  and  powerful.  A  kind  of  desert  patriarch,  I  gathered,  and  rich,  with  herds  of  camels,  sheep,  and  goats,  dhows  on  the  sea,  and  houses  and  wives-rich,  too,  the  Frenchman  hinted,  from  a  share  in  the  time-honored  slave  trade,  which  still  trickled  across  the  Red  Sea  to  Arabia,  in  spite  of  the  watchful  British  and  French.  Yet  he  was  a  holy  man,  and  also  very  wise;  he  always  kept  out  of  trouble.  He  came  striding  across  a  bare  stretch  of  sand  as  we  sounded  our  way  into  a  little  bay,  or  éhor,  which  was  the  only  harbor,  and  stood  waiting  while  four  of  us-Kassim,  the  Dancali  with  filed  teeth,  the  Frenchman,  and  I-splashed  our  way  from  a  sandbar,  where  we  had  had  to  land  the  dugout,  through  a  shal-  low  lagoon  fringed  with  mangroves  to  the  beach.  A  wiry,  vigorous  figure,  very  tall  and  black,  with  fine  [REDACTED]  features  and  a  fringe  of  close-clipped  white  beard,  he  wore  a  small  white  skullcap  set  back  on  his  bald  head,  wooden  prayer  beads  about  his  neck,  and  a  spotless,  knee-length  loincloth.  Greeting  us  with  a  black  man's  serene  and  characteristic  dignity,  he  shook  hands  with  the  Frenchman  and  me,  then  held  out  a  hand  to  Kassim  and  the  Dancali;  they  kissed  it  reverently.  After  that,  he  es-  corted  us  to  his  house-the  biggest  of  five  or  six  huts  that  made  up  the  village.  It  was  the  most  modest  of  the  Sheik's  many  establishments,  the  Frenchman  said-a  hut  of  branches  and  sun-  bleached  mats,  which  sat  on  the  sand  like  a  bird's  nest.  Inside  the  hut,  fine  Tadjoura  mats  lay  on  the  sand  floor,  beds  of  tressed  gazelle  hide  stood  against  the  walls,  and  three  wooden  boxes  served  as  seats.  A  handsome  young  woman  in  flam-  ing  Arab  silks,  whom  I  took  to  be  the  Sheik's  wife-or  one  of  his  wives-  brought  us  tea  from  a  kettle  that  hung  over  an  open  fire  outside,  She  also  brought  bowls  of  camel's  milk,  which  I  prudently  declined.  (&quot;It  acts  like  a  purge  when  you're  not  used  to  it,&quot;  the  Frenchman  had  warned  me.)  I  sat  on  a  box  marked  &quot;Sunlight  Soap&quot;  and   sipped  my  tea  while  the  Sheik  and  the  Frenchman  discussed  the  Arabian  cruise.  I  heard  the  word  &quot;haeremieh&quot;  (Arabic  for  &quot;pirates'&quot;)  a  good  many  times,  and  from  thegravity  with  which  the  Sheik  spoke,  I  inferred  he  had  some  doubts  about  the  &quot;reasonableness&quot;  of  our  trip.  &quot;But  he's  coming,&quot;  the  Frenchman  announced  with  satisfac-  tion  at  the  close  of  their  talk.  &quot;You'll  have  nothing  to  worry  about  now.&quot;  I  found  that  last  remark  annoying.  After  my  first  slight  qualms  about  our  drinking  water,  which  I  had  bravely  got  over,  I  hadn't  really  &quot;worried&quot;  about  anything,  except  perhaps  sharks.  That  afternoon,  before  we  putout  to  sea,  the  rest  ofthe  crew  came  ashore  and  the  Sheik  treated  us  all  to  a  feast.  One  of  his  fat-tailed  sheep  was  ritually  bled,  then  boiled  and  served  up  in  basins,  with  a  small  mountain  of  rice.  Along  with  coffee  came  improvised  songs  from  our  crew,  by  way  of  thanks.  Abdi-the-mate  ledoff  with  the  first  one,  addressed,  fit-  tingly,  to  our  host:  &quot;Sheik  Issa  is  great.  He  has  conquered  them  all:  English,  French,  Italians-  People  like  the  sea,  Vast  and  moving.  Like  butter,  he  floats  On  top  of  the  stormy  waves.&quot;  The  sailor  with  the  filed  teeth  sang  to  our  ship,  declaring  with  some  exaggera-  tion  that  &quot;The  Altair  is  swifter  Than  all  other  sambuks.  The  sails  are  silk,  the  rudder  is  pure  gold,  The  Captain  looks  like  a  Turk.&quot;  This  last  for  the  Frenchman.  The  song  also  contained  a  reference  to  me:  &quot;'There  is  a  woman  on  board;  At  first,  I  thought  she  was  a  man,  But  she  was  a  woman  after  all.  She  must  come  from  a  place  where  people  are  nicer  than  ours:  She  gives  us  cigarettes.&quot;  Kassim's  contribution  had  nothing  to  do  with  any  of  us.  Standing  a  little  apart  from  his  mates,  he  fixed  his  eyes  on  the  distant  mountains  and  sang  to  his  absent  sweetheart:  &quot;Like  the  sun  that  comes  up  in  the  morn-  ing,  Like  the  sun  that  goes  down  in  the  evening,  Like  the  goats  coming  in  atnightfall,  Like  the  camel  that  lifts  its  head  against  the  sunset,  The  one  I  love  is  lovely  as  all  these.&quot;  E  embarked  at  sunset  in  a  eu-  phoria  of  muttonand  gorged  stomachs.  As  we  headed  out  toward  the  northeast,  across  the  [REDACTED],  Ali-the-  cook  came  to  squat  beside  me  on  the  roof  of  the  cuddy.  He  pointed  to  the bow,  where  the  Sheik,  his  face  toward  Mecca  and  his  shoulders  draped  in  a  chamma,  was  busy  with  his  prayers.  &quot;Our  Papa,&quot;  Ali  said  comfortably.  That  seemed  to  express  the  sentiment  of  everyone  on  board.  For  the  Altair's  crew  there  was  no  daily  ritual  of  prayers.  &quot;I  can't  have  the  men  on  their  prayer  mats  when  I  need  them  to  tend  sail,&quot;  the  Frenchman  said.  Certainly  that  night  he  kept  them  busy,  what  with  the  racingcurrents  and  the  wind  thattore  through  the  strait  of  Ba-  bel-Mandeb-the  Gate  of  Tears.  Some-  time  before  dawn,  we  sighted  the  long,  flashing  beam  of  the  light  on  Perim  Is-  land,  close  to  the  eastern  shore  ofthe  strait.  Then,  shortly  afterward,  we  made  out  a  dark  triangular  mass  on  our  left-the  headland  of  Sheikh  Said.  At  sunup  came  the  first  clear  glimpse  of  the  Arabian  coast,  straight  and  pale,  topped  by  a  ragged  line  of  peaks.  As  we  approached  the  land,  riding  the  big  rollers  like  a  sea  horse,  a  trough  be-  tween  two  huge  waves  momentarily  un-  covered  a  dripping  rock  only  a  few  yards  off  our  port  beam.  &quot;Well!&quot;  said  the  Frenchman  in  a  surprised  voice.  &quot;I  didn't  know  thet  was  there!&quot;  He  swung  the  Altair's  bow  safely  away,  and  nei-  ther  he  nor  anyone  else  seemed  disturbed  by  the  incident.  After  all,  we  had  not  hit  the  rock,  Allah  be  praised,  so  evidently  it  was  not  &quot;written&quot;  that  we  should  founder  there.  Or  we  might  conclude,  as  the  crew  did,  that  Papa's  presence  sufficedto  ward  away  all  dangers,  in-  cluding  shipwreck.  There  remained  the  pirates.  They  were  no  fiction,  the  Frenchman  grudg-  ingly  admitted.  Roving  bands  of  plun-  derers,  both  on  land  and  on  sea,  had  al-  ways  been  commonplace  along  that  strip  of  coast.  Since  the  end  of  the  First  World  War  they  had  grown  more  an-  noying,  for  now  they  all  had  rifles.  Still,  since  they  were  chary  of  attacking  any  armed  craft,  they  represented  no  real  menace,  my  host  assured  me,  except  to  a  solitary,  beached  sambuk  or  a  defense-  less  crew  of  pearl  fishers.  &quot;And  that  isn't  our  case,&quot;  he  added,with  a  meaning  glance  toward  the  cuddy,  where  his  guns  were  stored.  &quot;Anyhow,  with  the  Sheik  on  board  I  don't  anticipate  trouble.&quot;  I  wondered  then,  asI  wondered  later,  just  what  was  the  secret  of  the  Sheik's  mysterious  prestige;  I  never  had  it  satis-  factorily  explained.  But  the  Frenchman  assured  me  it  was  real.  I  had  to  be  con-  tent  with  that.  All  that  day,  we  skirted  the  shore-  a  waste  of  sand  as  burnt  and  bare  as  the  African  shore  of  the  [REDACTED].  In  an  ex-  posed  anchorage  where  we  spent  a  restless  night,  together  with  three  other  |  sambuks,  we  heard  fresh  news  of  pi-  rates;  within  the  past  week  they  had  attacked  and  looteda  couple  of  fishing  boats.  At  noon  the  next  day,  we  reached  thepoint  on  the  coast  we  were  heading  for-Khor  Uméra,  a  landlocked  bay  that  contained  beds  of  sedef,  the  large  pearl-bearing  oyster.  'That  was  our  chief  reason  for  putting  in  there-the  Frenchman  hoped  to  show  me  pearl  divers  at  work.  (At  one  time,  he  had  been  &quot;interested&quot;  in  pearls.)  We  saw  no  sign  of  divers,  or  of  anything  living,  when  we  entered  the  but  clear,  unbroken  water,  expanses  of  |-  sand  dotted  with  meagre  bushes,  and,  off  to  the  north,  hills  and  towering,  distant  peaks.  The  only  object  that  sug-  gested  man  was  a  heap  ofstones  with  the  blade  of  a  sawfish  wedged  into  it  upright,  strewn  with  wreckage-probably  some  fisherman's  grave,  I  was  told.  When  the  sail  was  lowered  and  the  ||  anchor  down  (two  Danakil  swam  with  which  stood  on  a  sandbar  ||  163  it  to  the  bottom,  to  fix  it  firmly  in  place),  |  _  the  Frenchman  and  Abdi-the-mate  set  up  in  the  bow,  directly  behind  the  bow-  sprit,  a  curious  contraption  that  turned  out  to  be  a  make-believe  cannon.  They  made  it  of  piled-up  wooden  boxes  and  ___  y  a  short  piece  of  pipe,  which  they  lashed  to  thetop  box  so  that  it  protruded  for-  |  _  ward,  pointing  toward  the  bow.  Over  ||  everything  went  ataut  tarpaulin.  &quot;'That's  for  appearances,&quot;  the  French-  |-  man  said,  standing  back  to  survey  his  _  k.  .=  work.  The  Sheik  nodded  benignly;|  -  __  while  the  two  men  set  up  the  fake  gun,  he  had  looked  on  with  the  hint  of  a  &gt;_  smile  on  his  severe  features,  as  if  watch,  =-  ing  small  boys  playing  a  war  game.  It  did  look  like  a  game,  in  the  face  of  |  the  empty  landscape.  Then,  where  there  had  been  only  empty  strand,  we  saw  men.  They  had  materialized  out  of  nowhere.  We  counted  seventeen  lined  up  on  the  beach,  against  a  hillock  of  sand.  The  sun  glint-  ed  on  the  barrels  of  fifteen  guns,  and  picked  out  here  and  there  the  curved    metal  sheath  of  a  dagger.  We  ex-  changed  stares  with  the  newcomers  over  a  hundred  yards  of  &quot;'The  receiving  party,&quot;  the  French-  man  said,  with  a  laugh,  as  a  hail  came  over  the  water.  Someone  in  our  bow  shouted  the  Sheik's  name,  whereupon  the  Altair's  dugout  hit  the  water  with  a  spat.  Papa  lowered  himself  into  it  with  dignity,  and  Abdi-the-mate  pad-  dled  our  ambassador  ashore,  As  they  landed,  a  black  man  who  carried  no  gun  broke  away  from  the  others  and,  running  forward,  stooped  to  kiss  the  Sheik's  extended  hand.  &quot;Probably  some  grateful  slave,&quot;  the  Frenchman  muttered.  Now  a  group  gathered  about  the  tall  figure  in  white,  and  after  a  moment's  parley,  the  whole  party  sat  down  in  a  circle  on  the  sand.  &quot;You  see?&quot;  said  the  Frenchman  again.  I  saw;  apparently  the  charm  had  worked.  He  went  on  to  say  that  he  would  be  the  next  to  land,  after  the  Sheik  had  talkedthings  over  with  the  Arabs.  Then,  if  the  men  seemed  friendly,  Abdi  and  the  dugout  would  return  to  the  ship  for  me.  &quot;You'd  better  put  on  a  turban,  since  you're  wearing  men's  garb,&quot;  he  advised.  &quot;Get  the  cook  to  find  you  a  few  yards  of  white  cloth  in  the  cuddy.  And  don't  try  to  wind  the  turban  yourself.  Let  Ali  do  it  for  you.&quot;  With  that  ad-  monition,  the  Frenchman  left  me,  for  the  dugout  had  swung  about  and  was  heading  for  the  Altair.  By  this  time,  the  ripple  of  excitement  on  board  had  sub-  sided.  Even  Ali-the-cook  looked  re-  assured.  &quot;What's  it  all  about?&quot;  I  asked  him,  when  the  Frenchman  had  joined  the  circle  on  the  sand.  &quot;Gentlemen  say  'Bonjour]  &quot;  Ali  said  in  his  pidgin  French.  &quot;  'You  very  well?&quot;  'Me  very  well&quot;  Everybody  [REDACTED];  I  piously  hoped  so.  A  short  while  later,  the  dugout  drew  alongside  again;  this  time  it  had  come  for  me.  The  cook  adjusted  my  turban  with  a  professional  twist,  and  then  I  clambered  over  the  gunwale  and  Abdi  took  up  his  paddle.  After  the  trip  acrossthe  éhor,  I  felt  extremely  self-conscious  as  I  approached  the  group  over  fifty  feet  of  beach,  with  the  Dancali  at  my  heels,  although  the  men  on  the  sand  pointedly  avoided  looking  at  me.  However,  nothing  pre-  vented  my  looking  at  therm.  Except  for  their  guns,  these  pirates-if  that  is  what  they  were-might  havebeen  a  gang  of  Arab  stevedores,  or  even  the  Red  Sea  stokers  on  the  ship  that  had  brought  me  from  Marseille  to  Djibouti;  they  were  dressed  in  tattered  singlets  and  equally tattered  trousers  or  grimy  futas.  Only  a  few  of  the  men  wore  the  Moslem  skull-  cap.  They  were  not  a  particularly  hard-  looking  lot.  The  Sheik  and  the  Frenchman  made  room  for  me  between  them,  and  I  took  my  place  in  the  circle,  sitting  cross-  legged  like  the  others.  As  the  conversa-  tion  progressed-a  slow  exchange  of  phrases,  punctuated  by  long  silences  I  sat  there  feeling  curiously  detached,  like  a  spectator  at  a  play.  There  was  an  unreal  quality  to  it  all:  the  setting,  the  black  patriarch  in  his  charme,  the  dark-skinned  Frenchman,  who  looked  much  more  like  the  conventional  Arab  than  any  of  that  band  of  desert  vaga-  bonds  did,  and,  for  the  comic  touch,  me  in  my  sailcloth  suit  and  big  turban.  (I  had  no  illusions  about  the  figure  I  must  have  been  cutting  in  Moslem  eyes.)  If  I  had  expected  drama,  this  came  closer  to  comic  opera,  I  decided.  For  all  I  knew,  the  fifteen  guns  might  be  stage  props,  like  our  dummy  cannon.  It  was  very  hot  in  the  sun.  Suddenly,  we  moved  straight  into  the  Arabian  Nights.  (&quot;I  had  to  talk  their  language,&quot;  the  Frenchman  said  after-  ward.)  Whatever  prompted  his  fan-  tastic  tale,  which  he  told  in  Arabic  with  frequent  asides  to  me,  in  French-  whether  it  was  meant  to  augment  our  importance  or  merely  to  account  for  my  curious  costume-1I  learned  with  considerable  amazement  that  I  was  the  central  figure  of  our  party:  a  primcesse  lointaine,  from  over  the  seas,  travel-  ling  on  a  pilgrimage  in  y  ship,  with  a  suite  that  included  a  French  chief  of  staff,  and  a  holy  man  as  chaplain.  I  don't  know  what  our  Sheik  thought  of  it  all;  he  listened  impassively.  If  the  others  were  impressed,  they  didn't  show  it.  It  must  have  been  a  full  hour  before  the  meeting  broke  up.  The  Frenchman,  the  Sheik,  and  I  were  ferried  back  to  the  dhow.  But  the  conclave  was  not  over  yet,  for  next  came  the  return  visit  to  the  Altair.  That,  it  appeared,  was  obligatory.  The  Arabs  stacked  their  arsenal  on  the  sand.  Then,  three  by  three,  Abdi  paddled  them  aboard.  As  they  swarmed  over  the  ship,  the  French-  man  blocked  the  entrance  to  the  cuddy,  and  Kassim,  very  erect  and  martial,  with  a  gun  slung  on  his  bare  shoulder,  stood  guard  over  the  tarpaulin  in  the  bow.  Sheik  Papa  sat  beside  me  on  the  poop  d  e  c  k  ,  p  r  e  s  i  d  i  n  g  o  v  e  r  t  h  e  v  i  s  i  t  w  i  t  h  t  h  e  |  /  $  composure  of  a  potentate.  Watching  our  guests  as  they  pried  |.  and  poked,  I  saw  no  evidence  of  the  famous  Arab  pride  I  had  heard  so  much  about.  Was  it  awe  of  the  Sheik  or  the      effect  of  the  &quot;princess&quot;  story  that  dictat-  ed  their  manner  toward  us-a  whining  servility  that  went  ill  with  the  edged  glances  of  their  black  eyes?  One  expres-  sion  kept  recurring:  &quot;'You  who  are  so  rich  ...we  who  are  so  poor.&quot;  Of  course,  relatively  speaking,  it  was  true.  They  had  only  their  guns.  Finally,  they  took  their  leave,  bearing  away  gifts  of  tea,  sugar,  and  durra  (grain  sorghum),  which  they  accepted  none  too  graciously;  clearly  they  had  hoped  for  more.  When  the  last  of  the  band  had  melted  into  the  landscape,  the  atmosphere  on  board  relaxed  percepti-  bly.  It  was  like  the  letdown  after  a  party.  The  crew  recovered  their  voices  (they  had  been  noticeably  silent  during  the  visit);  the  cook  lit  his  fire  and  brewed  tea  for  everyone;  at  sunset  the  Sheik  spread  his  prayer  mat  in  the  bow  and,  with  lifted  hands,addressed  himself  to  Allah.  While  he  was  still  at  his  prayers,  a  little  dhow  full  of  Somali  pearl  fishers  crept  into  the  to  anchor  beside  us.  They  were  jolly,  friendly  folk,  who  agreed  at  once  to  take  me  pearl  fishing  the  following  morning.  &quot;So  those  were  the  famous  pirates?&quot;  I  asked  the  Frenchman  later,  as  we  sat  drinking  our  tea  on  the  roof  of  the  cuddy.  He  shrugged.  &quot;Coast  riffraff,&quot;  he  said  carelessly,  and  Kassim,  who  was  perched  like  a  cock  on  the  steering  bench  behind  us,  added  a  remark  of  his  own,  which  drew  grins  from  his  listening  mates  but  which  no  one  offered  to  translate.  It  wasn't  &quot;nice,&quot;  the  cook  said  primly.  So  I  added  &quot;pirate&quot;  to  the  list,  already  long,  of  things  that  look  big  until  you  meet  them,  and  concluded  that  the  incident  was  closed.  NIGHT  settled  down  in  utter  quiet  on  the  The  crew,  having  finished  their  supper  of  fish  and  rice,  were  telling  their  stories  again-long,  intricate  tales  from  the  Arabian  Nights,  cruel  but  merry  ones  of  Abu  Nouass,  the  jester,  and  the  usual  jokes  about  &quot;&quot;stupid  Sudanese.&quot;  The  Sheik  slept,  the  Frenchman  and  I  smoked,  and  alan-  tern-like  moon  floated  up  from  the  hori-  zon-only  a  three-quarter  moon,  but  it  lighted  the  sky  like  a  false  dawn.  &quot;How  about  a  stroll  ashore  before  we  turn  in?&quot;  said  the  Frenchman,  tossing  the  end  of  his  cigarette  over  the  gun-  wale.  I  agreed,  though  without  enthu-  siasm;  I  was  perfectly  comfortable  where  I  was.  Moving  quietly,  soas  not  to  disturb  the  sleeper,  we  got  into  the  dugout,  which  still  floated  at  the  stern.  Abdi  swung  himself  down  after  us;  he  deposited  a  gun  carefully  at  his  feet,  and       handed  over  something  that  went  into  the  Frenchman's  trouser  pocket.  As  the  Dancali's  silent  strokes  sent  the  dugout  gliding  toward  the  beach,  the  voices  and  lazy  laughter  ofthe  crew  trailed  after  us  across  the  water.  There  was  no  other  sound.  We  gotout  in  a  black-and-white  moon  world.  Dark  patches  checkered  the  shining  dunes,  and  every  bush  stood  in  its  pool  of  shadow.  We  struck  inland,  the  Frenchman  in  the  lead.  Underfoot,  the  sand  gave  off  invisible  heat  waves,  but  the  air  we  breathed  was  almost  cool.  We  strolled  on  for  perhaps  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  &quot;Belle  nuit,&quot;  said  the  French-  man,  pausing  for  me  to  catch  up  with  him.  &quot;When  I  was  here  ten  years  ago-&quot;  He  broke  off  as  the  Dancali,  who  walked  behind  us,  stepped  forward  to  say  something  in  an  undertone.  Voices?  At  first  barely  audible-Abdi's  ear  was  finer  than  ours-then  gradually  more  distinct.  From  the  sound,  they  were  coming  toward  us.  &quot;Get  back  in  the  shadow,&quot;  said  the  Frenchman.  We  all  crowded  into  the  deep  shade  of  a  bush,  among  spines  and  rubbery  twigs.  As  we  stood  there  wait-  ing,  I  thought  I  heard  footsteps,  but  it  was  only  the  beating  of  my  heart.  Finally,  from  behind  a  confused  clump  ofbushes,  a  row  of  marching  figures  emerged,  all  in  one  plane,  like  shadows  on  a  screen.  They  drew  near  us  slowly,  black  against  the  frosty  sand.  Just  before  they  reached  us,  the  march-  ers  halted.  Had  they  seen  us?  Abdi  stepped  out  in  the  moonlight,  and  a  shout  hailed  him:  &quot;Min?  [Who's  there?  ].&quot;  At  once  came  Abdi's  voice,  &quot;Danakil.&quot;  For  a  few  moments,  he  and  the  marchers'  spokesman  exchanged  re-  marks  across  the  sand,  and  then,  with  a  parting  salutation,  the  file  of  dark  sil-  houettes  moved  on  again.  There  were  perhaps  a  dozen  in  all;  I  made  out  women's  skirts,  men  carrying  burdens  and  long  poles.  The  Frenchman  and  I  remained  in  the  lee  of  our  bush  until  the  murmur  of  voices  died  out.  &quot;Nomads  on  the  march.  Fisher-  men,&quot;  said  the  Frenchman.  &quot;Want  to  go  on?&quot;  I  wanted  anything  but  that.  And  what  was  the  point  in  going  on?  What  were  we  doing  there  anyhow,  walking  to  no  purpose  in  a  landscape  without  form  or  color,  which  closed  around  us  in  a  ring?  &quot;Just  as  you  say,&quot;  I  said  weakly.  My  throat  felt  dry,  and  my  heart  still  kept  up  its  crazy  pounding.  It  drummed  in  my  ears  as  if  someone  were  thumping  a  barrel.  I  had  an  un-  canny  feeling  that  the  Dancali  heard  it,  for  he  came  a  step  closer  and  touched    my  arm.  &quot;Pas  peur,&quot;  he  said  in  a  kind  whisper.  Fear  of  what?  I  shook  off  his  hand  and  plodded  ahead  on  dragging  feet.  At  every  step,  I  seemed  to  sink  deeper  in  the  sand.  I  tried  arguing  with  myself.  What  was  there  to  be  jittery  about?  Not  those  fishers,  surely;  they  were  harmless  folk.  Except  for  them,  there  probably  wasn't  a  soul  within  milesof  us.  Be-  sides,  my  two  companions  were  armed.  But  for  once  reasoning  got  me  nowhere.  &quot;Maybe  this  is  a  heatstroke,&quot;  I  said  to  myself.  Yet  even  as  I  formulated  the  thought,  I  was  perfectly  aware  that  what  ailed  me  had  nothing  to  do  with  heat,  or  malaria,  or  anything  else  that  could  be  explamed  away  ratlonally  Whatever  had  set  it  off,  it  had  me  in  its  grip.  The  Dancali  had  sensed  it,  and  he  was  right.  It  wasn't  fear  of  anything  definite  or  tangible,  though  it  lurked  behind  every  sand  dune  and  in  the  shadow  of  every  bush.  It  was  just  fear.  I  have  never  known  anything  like  it,  except  in  nightmares.  One  would  have  said  that  the  whole  flood  of  childhood  terrors  had  welled  suddenly  out  of  the  night  and  the  past-dread  of  what  hid  in  the  corners  when  the  light  was  turned  out,  of  what  crouched  in  the  closet  and  under  the  stairs,  or  among  the  black  trees  outside  the  window.  I'm  like  a  child  in  the  dark,  I  thought  miserably.  Only  it  wasn't  dark  in  that  moonlit  desert.  We  seemed  to  be  walking  round  and  round.  I  stumbled,  and  the  Dancali  caught  me.  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  said  the  Frenchman,  wheeling  in  his  tracks.  &quot;Madame  fatiguée,&quot;  said  Abdi,  hold-  ing  me  firmly  with  his  hard  black  arm.  I  realized  that  the  Frenchman  was  surveying  me  narrowly.  &quot;Then  we  may  as  well  go  back,&quot;  he  said  with  a  touch  of  irritation  in  his  voice.  &quot;I  only  came  ashore  on  your  account.  I  thought  it  might  amuse  you.&quot;  We  had  covered  about  half  the  dis»  tance  to  the  Zéhor  when  two  rifleshots  rang  out  ahead  of  us-apparently  a  sig-  nal  from  the  Altair.  The  Frenchman  his  step;  then  he  broke  into  a  run  and  dis-  appeared  among  the  dunes.  We  found  him  waiting  for  us  on  the  beach  by  the  dugout,  ih  Kassim  at  his  side.  The  Dancali's  wet  shoulders  shone  like  metal  in  the  moonlight,  and  his  fute  clung  to  his  legs;  he  had  swum  ashore.  &quot;Sheik  very  mad,&quot;  he  said  to  us,  shaking  the  drops  from  his  long  hair.  There  were  lights  on  the  ship,  and  a  ripple  of  voices  came  over  the  water.  Papa  stood  by  the  gunwale  as  we   came  aboard,  immeasurably  tall  and  se-  vere  inhis  draped  chemmae.  He  ad-  dressed  the  Frenchman  sternly.  It  was  a  curious  scene-that  tall,  accusing  fig-  ure  in  the  ring  of  silent  black  faces.  The  lecture  went  on  for  quite  a  while.  The  Frenchman  made  light  of  it  afterward.  ''The  old  boy  was  worried  when  he  woke  up  and  found  us  gone,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;He  thought  we  were  tempting  Providence-with  you  a  'princess,'  and  all  that.  Not  that  you  ran  any  risk;  after  all,  you  weren't  alone.  But  how  would  you  have  liked  it-to  have  pirates  carry  you  off  and  hold  you  for  ransom?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  who  would  have  paid  it,&quot;  I  said.  I  could  laugh  at  my  childish  panic,  now  that  I  was  back  under  Papa's  wing,  in  the  security  of  our  black  family.  Also,  it  was  a  source  of  some  satisfaction  to  learn  that  I  wasn't  the  only  one  who  had  not  been  &quot;reasonable.&quot;  &quot;But  admit  that  you  had  a  famous  scare  back  there  in  the  bush,&quot;  the  Frenchman  said  teasingly.  &quot;Even  Abdi  noticed  it.&quot;  &quot;Tl  admit  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  your  pirates.&quot;  &quot;What  was  it  then-a  djinni?&quot;  That  might  have  been  Kassim's  way  of  putting  it.  But  Abdi-the-mate,  when  consulted,  had  another  explanation  to  offer.  He  gave  me  a  shrewd  glance  out  of  his  kind  old  eyes,  then  wagged  his  head  wisely.  &quot;It  was  the  moon,&quot;  he  said. 