 b"YOU'LL  probably  remember  Brother  Tolsen  and  that  awful  thing  that  happened  when  you  were  a  little  girl,&quot;  my  mother  wrote  me  recently.  Her  fatscript  travelled  the  whole  way  around  the  photograph  and  obituary  she  had  clipped  from  our  Mor-  mon  newspaper.  &quot;'The  killing  wasn't  even  mentioned  at  his  funeral.  All  the  speakers  just  said  what  a  good  man  he  always  was.&quot;  Remember  Brother  Tolsen?  I  looked  at  his  square  jaw  and  his  steady  eyes,  and  it  was  as  if  I  had  seen  him  yesterday.  Well,  I  thought,  another  one  is  gone;  soon  there  won't  be  a  real  Danish  accent  left  in  that  whole  valley.  Mormon  con-  verts  from  [REDACTED]  came  to  [REDACTED]  by  the  thousands  during  the  second  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Now  there  were  only  a  few  survivors.  Not  long  before,  it  had  been  old  Bishop  Petersen  himself  who  had  died.  I  was  with  Bishop  Petersen,  in  his  garden,  the  morning  the  Tolsen  trouble  happened.  My  mother  thought  I  had  a  morbid  interest  in  the  affair,  and  I  guess  I  had.  It  was  the  summer  I  was  nine,  and  I  was  morbid  about  practically  everything.  I  was  absolutely  certain  for  years  afterward  that  two  piles  of  bloody  rabbits'  ears  I  saw  on  the  courthouse  lawn  at  the  time  of  Broth-  er  Tolsen's  trial  had  some-  thing  to  do  with  the  killing  he  was  being  tried  for.  They  hadn't.  They  were  merely  tokens  of  the  fact  that  the  annual  county  rabbit  hunt  had  gone  off  according  to  schedule.  Mother,  who  loves  ac-  curacy,  often  complains  about  the  peculiar  quality  of  my  memories,  and  likely  she's  right.  The  Tolsen  case,  for  instance,  is  apt  to  get  mixed  in  my  mind  with  other  water-  thief  murders  I've  heard  of.  My  mother  sent  me  a  clipping  about  one  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  near  Provo,  just  last  year.  This  man  was  killed  witha  gun,  however,  instead  of  a  shovel,  as  Brother  Tolsen  killed  As  thief,  and  then  the  killer  turned  the  gun  on  himself.  Mother  wrote  on  that  latest  clipping,  &quot;Dad  and  I  don't  see  why  he  had  to  shoot  himself,  too.  Do  you?&quot;  That's  a  very  Western  query.  A  poem  written  by  Thomas  Hornsby  Fer-  ril  begins  &quot;Here  in  [REDACTED]  nothing  is  long  ago  .  .  .&quot;  and  that's  very  Western,  too.  People  out  West  remember  when  important  things  were  settled  violently,  and  they  remember  the  wide,  dry  wastes  gAnoy  tSODA     before  the  mountain  water  was  captured  and  put  to  use.  Even  now,  the  dry  spaces,  where  the  jack  rabbits  hop  through  the  brush  as  thick  as  mites  on  a  hen,  are  always  there,  waiting  to  take  over;  dryness  hugs  the  green  fields,  pushing  in,  only  the  irrigation  ditches  keeping  it  at  bay.  July  was  when  the  Tolsen  trouble  happened.  In  [REDACTED],  that's  when  the  dry  heat  is  most  intense.  Our  whole  valley  floor  is  like  a  spot  on  a  piece  of  paper  when  you  focus  the  sun  on  it  through  a  glass;  you  feel  as  if,  any  second,  it  is  going  to  brown  and  then  smoke  and  then  burst  into  flame.  Around  it  there  are  the  quiet  mountains,  cool  and  blue,  but  long,  dusty  roads  and  scrubby  hills  lie  between  them  and  the  simmering  town.  The  river  is  the  single  link,  flow-  ing  down  between  dusty-leaved  cotton-  woods  from  the  mountains  to  the  people  in  the  valley.  Not  that  I  minded  heat  in  those  days.  There  was  no  need  to  be  hot  when,  on  either  side  of  the  wide  streets,  there  was  cold  water,  brought  from  the  river  by  the  town's  main  ditch  and  diverted  into  smaller  channels  that  ran  along  the  sidewalks.  It  rushed  con-  stantly  there,  between  banks  lined  with  mint  and  grass.  Wearing  huge  black  bloomers  and  white  panty-  waists  with  the  garters  off,  I  spent  most  of  my  sum-  mer  days  in  the  ditches.  Main  Ditch  was  deep  and  lined  with  stones;  when  I  skated  along  it  in  winter-  time,  I  could  hardly  see  over  its  banks.  The  ditches  leading  from  it  along  the  streets  were  shallow,  hav-  ing  perhaps  a  foot  of  water  in  them  at  the  peak  of  the  spring  supply.  Each  household  in  town  had  its  own  dam-often  nothing  more  than  a  couple  of  broad  boards  with  a  short  handle  nailed  to  them-and  its  own  water  turn  when  the  dam  was  put  to  use.  Set  across  the  streams  in  the  street-  side  ditches,  and  packed  in  with  wet  turf,  these  dams  were  sufficient  to  turn  the  water  onto  lawns  and  gardens,  and  nothing  short  of  a  calamity  could  pre-  vent  a  householder  from  putting  in  his  dam  at  the  proper  time.  Every  spring,  the  Water  Master-an  official  of  great  importance  in  a  [REDACTED]  town-provided  each  family  with  a  list  of  Water  Turns,  carefully  worked  out.  We  always  kept  our  list  tacked  inside  the  door  of  the  kitchen  cupboard.  We  children  followed  the  water  like  " b"pioneers,  finding  what  dams  were  in  and  wading  in  the  ditches  where  the  water  was  highest.  We  kept  ourselves  rosy  and  crisp  with  it.  Sometimes  my  grand-  mother  would  go  with  us  and  put  her  feet  into  the  water  to  cool  off.  I  recall  her  saying  many  times  that  Brigham  Young  must  have  been  a  true  prophet,  because  he  had  said  that  [REDACTED]  was  The  Place  right  in  the  middle  of  July,  when  nobody  would  think,  to  look  at  it  with-  out  water,  that  it  would  ever  grow  a  respectable  bean.  It  was  on  the  twenty-  fourth  of  July  that  Brigham  Young  made  his  historic  pronouncement,  and  as  far  as  I  know  not  a  drop  of  rain  has  ever  fallen  to  spoil  the  parades,  the  fire-  works,  and  the  pageants  that  take  place  every  year  on  that  day.  HE  Tolsen  trouble  must  havebeen  on  the  twenty-fifth  of  July,  be-  cause  I  remember  Mother's  saying  I  couldn't  wade  in  the  grass,  which  was  about  to  be  flooded,  unless  I  first  col-  lected  every  burned-out  sparkler  that  had  been  left  on  the  ground  the  night  before.  So,  early  that  morning,  I  was  busily  searching  the  grass  for  wires  when  I  saw  Bishop  Petersen,  whose  dam  was  in,  working  with  the  water  in  his  garden  next  door.  The  full  stream  was  running  into  it,  as  it  would  presently  run  into  ours,  for  our  turn  followed  his.  His  gar-  den,  like  every  other  one  in  [REDACTED],  had  a  series  of  shallow  furrows  between  the  rows  of  vegetables,  and  he  was  damming  them  with  chunks  of  turf  and  opening  one  or  two  at  a  time,  so  that  each,  in  turn,  received  the  stream.  It  was  beau-  tiful  to  see  the  tall  green  vegetables  in  precise  lines  and  the  moving  water  twinkling  between  them.  In  half  a  minute,  I  was  paddling  alongside  Bishop  Petersen.  The  water  in  the  furrows  was  warmer  than  that  in  the  ditches,  and  it  was  glorious  to  feel  the  soft  mud  between  my  toes.  And  I  loved  to  hear  Bishop  Petersen  tell  about  Den-  mark,  from  which  he  had  come  as  a  young  man.  I  asked  him  all  sorts  of  ques-  tions  to  keep  him  talking,  for  his  odd  accent  and  his  laughter  pleased  me.  I  recall  how  the  robins  sang  and  hopped  down  into  the  furrows  as  water  dark-  ened  them  and  lured  out  long,  fat  worms.  Bishop  Petersen  said  that  to  leave  the  lovely  land  of  [REDACTED]  one  had  to  be  very  certain  it  was  to  God's  Kingdom  he  was  coming.  He  himself  had  been  sure  of  it  when  he  heard  about  the  mountain  water,  so  pure,  so  shining,  so  cold,  so  free.  Whenever  his  turn  came  to  speak  at  Testimony  Meeting,  which  followed  Sunday  school  on  the  first  Sunday  of " b"every  month,  he  spoke  about  the  water.  It  was  to  him,  next  to  the  Gospel  itself,  the  unmistakable  sign  of  the  Kingdom.  That  twenty-fifth  of  July,  he  talked  as  usual,  his  white  beard  wobbling  like  an  elf's,  and  now  and  then  I  had  to  turn  my  back  to  prevent  him  from  seeing  that  I  was  smiling.  He  thought  that,  as  one  descended  from  Danes  myself,  I  ought  to  know  that  the  crisp  peas  I  was  picking  and  eating  were  ualmindelig  god  (un-  usually  good).  He  wanted  me  to  repeat  the  phrase,  but  I  couldn't.  The  very  sound  of  most  Danish  words  made  me  giggle  until  I  was  weak.  The  language  bristled  with  &quot;g&quot;s  and  &quot;k&quot;'s  exactly  the  way  Bishop  Petersen  bristled  with  white  whiskers.  Yet  goodness  and  kindness  and  excellent  husbandry  went  along  with  all  thethings  about  him  that  made  me  laugh.  I  loved  him  dearly,  as  my  parents  did,  and  to  most  of  us  to  be  Danish-as  to  be  Mormon-meant  to  be  virtuous,  kind,  and  of  good  report.  Mother  came  out  to  call  me  for  breakfast,  and  she  stood  awhile,  leaning  on  the  fence,  to  talk.  What  she  said  and  what  Bishop  Petersen  replied  is  lost  to  me  now,  but  while  they  talked,  I  saw  Brother  Tolsen  coming.  He  ran  into  the  yard  with  so  urgent  and  desperate  a  look  on  his  usually  cheerful  face  that  even  I  knew  at  once  that  he  was  in  bad  trouble.  &quot;Come  in  now,&quot;  Mother  said  sharply  to  me.  &quot;The  eggs  will  be  cold  already.&quot;  BY  suppertime,  it  was  known  all  over  town  that  Brother  Tolsen  had  killed  a  man.  &quot;But  why  did  he  hit  him  like  that?&quot;  Mother  asked  my  father.  &quot;It's  not  like  Brother  Tolsen  to  strike  anybody.  Such  a  gentle  man!&quot;  &quot;'T  wice  he  had  turned  Brother  Tol-  sen's  water  off  his  fields  in  the  night.  Twice!&quot;  Father  spoke  with  the  patience  of  a  man  obliged  to  explain  violence  to  a  woman.  &quot;Brother  Tolsen  says  he  had  no  notion  of  hitting  so  hard,  but  he  hit  him  with  a  shovel,  after  all.  From  what  I  hear,  it  struck  on  the  edge  and  went  over  the  forehead,  and  one  eye  came-&quot;'  &quot;Finish  your  supper  and  go  out  to  play,&quot;  Mother  said  to  me  severely,  and  to  Father  she  said,  &quot;Is  it  necessary  to  go  into  those  terrible  detailsin  front  of  the  children?  It's  enough  to  curdle  their  souls,  the  way  you  men  tell  it-as  if  you  enjoyed  it!&quot;  It  may  seem  an  odd  thing  to  remem-  ber,  but  I  do  remember  that  I  was  eating  cottage  cheese  that  night.  It  was  made  by  my  mother  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  served  in  great  bowls,  Cream  was  poured  over  it,  and  there  was  a  great, " b"lovely  red  blob  of  jelly  in  the  middle  of  it,  from  which  one  took  a  little  chip  of  a  jewel  with  every  bite,  eating  one  curd  of  the  cheese  at  a  time.  It  was  a  common  summer  supper.  I  also  had  a  bowl  of  fresh  lettuce,  with  cream  and  sugar,  and  I  ate  that  slowly,  too,  leaf  by  leaf.  My  parents  said  no  more  about  Brother  Tolsen  until  I  had  finished  and  gone  outside,  but  I  lingered  on  the  porch  in  the  shadows  of  the  [REDACTED]  creepers.  I  heard  Father  say  how  big  my  ears  were-'&quot;as  big  as  soup  ladles.  She  never  misses  a  thing&quot;-but  he  laughed  when  he  said  it.  It  was  a  family  joke  about  me  and  my  big  ears,  and  how  I  was  as  deaf  as  a  post  when  it  suited  me.  Presently,  they  were  talking  about  the  killing  again-how  the  victim's  head  had  been  bashed  in  and  he  had  been  found  in  a  pool  of  blood  near  Brother  Tolsen's  dam.  I  remember  sitting  there  on  the  porch  and  holding  my  hands  up  against  the  setting  sun.  Sunset  was  huge  and  red  and  terribly  intense  in  July,  over  the  western  hills.  Against  it,  I  could  see  my  own  blood  shining  red  through  my  skin.  Heads  were  brimful  of  blood,  too-I  knew  that  from  nosebleed  and  from  teeth  coming  out,  and  from  the  time  I  hit  a  stump  and  went  over  the  handle-  bars  of  my  bicycle  square  onto  my  skull.  The  man  Brother  Tolsen  had  killed  was  not  very  well  known  to  me,  probably  because,  as  Grandmother  remarked,  he  had  &quot;fallen  away  from  the  faith&quot;  and  didn't  often  come  to  church.  Now,  los-  ing  the  faith,  I  knew,  was  one  of  the  greatest  of  sins,  but  murder  was  worse;  it  was  the  greatest  sin  of  them  all.  And  Brother  Tolsen  I  knew  very  well  in-  deed.  He  was  important  in  our  Ward  of  the  Church,  and  I  had  often  heard  his  testimony  at  meeting,  just  as  I  had  heard  Bishop  Petersen's,  and  in  the  same  delightful  accent.  In  fact,  he  was  so  good  a  speaker  that  I  had  heard  him  more  thanonce  making  sermons  at  funerals.  I  liked  funerals  very  much  then,  and  I  find  them  rather  stimulating  now.  Ob-  viously,  I  have  had  a  blessed  life,  for  I  have  never  yet  seen  the  corpse  of  any-  body  really  close  to  me.  This  experience,  unless  I  have  the  misfortune  to  die  sud-  denly  myself,  is  certainly  coming  to  me,  and  I  know  I  shall  feel  great  sorrow.  But  terror  of  the  sort  some  people  have  described  to  me  I  know  I  shall  never  feel.  The  philosophy  I  learned  as  a  child  made  death  more  fascinating  than  ter-  rible.  The  first  corpse  I  ever  saw  was  the  mother  of  one  of  my  dearest  grade-  school  friends.  She  had  died  in  child-  birth.  I  had  received  fresh  cookies  from " b"her  hands  a  day  or  so  before,  but  now  she  lay  exactly  like  Snow  White,  like  one  dreaming  in  a  lovely  bed,  with  an  infinitely  small  and  doll-like  child  in  the  crook  of  her  arm.  I  stood  and  gazed  at  her  with  awe  and  admiration,  my  friend  beside  me.  After  that,  I  went  to  every  funeral  remotely  connected  with  anybody  I  knew.  They  were  never  forbidden  to  me.  The  corpses  of  men  and  women  alike  were  always  dressed  in  pure  white,  with  bright-green  aprons  cheerfully  em-  broidered  to  look  like  the  fig  leaves  of  the  Garden  of  Eden.  It  was  perfectly  reasonable  to  me  tobelieve  that,  as  I  was  assured,  they  had  just  stepped  &quot;through  the  Veil  between  [REDACTED]  and  Heaven.&quot;  It  seemed  to  me  that  they  were  always  much  handsomer  than  they  had  ever  been  in  life,  in  their  common  house  aprons  or  in  their  overalls  stained  with  manure.  I  pictured  them,  in  their  clean  new  clothes,  walking  slowly  westward  with  the  sun  and  vanishing  in  a  tremen-  dous  scarlet  smile  of  sunset.  I  had  even  seen  something  like  that  in  the  movies,  so  I  suspected  that  the  miracle  happened  notonly  in  [REDACTED]  but  also  in  [REDACTED].  When  Mother  told  me  I  could  not  go  to  the  funeral  of  the  man  Brother  Tolsen  had  killed,  I  was  devastated,  es-  pecially  since  there  were  rumors  that  Brother  Tolsen  himself  would  attend.  He  had  been  in  jail  a  few  hours  and  then  had  been  released  to  attend  to  his  work  until  the  trial.  He  had  a  big  family  and  a  farm,  and  goodness  only  knew,  people  said,  what  would  happen  to  them  if  he  had  to  spend  the  rest  ofthe  summer  in  the  jail.  &quot;But  Mother-&quot;  I  cried,  over  and  over.  &quot;No!  Absolutely  not!&quot;  she  said  each  time.  She  knew  full  well,  of  course,  that  I  had  a  morbid  interest  in  seeing  a  corpse  with  its  head  bashed  in,  and  also  that  I  wanted  to  enjoy  the  spectacle  ofa  man  going  to  the  funeral  of  someone  he  had  knocked  headlong  &quot;through  the  Veil&quot;  with  a  shovel.  In  the  end,  I  was  not  only  forbidden  to  go,  I  was  even  given  a  neighbor's  baby  to  tend,  and  in  agony  of  spirit  I  saw  Mother  and  Father  and  Grand-  mother  and  practically  everybody  else  in  town  go  marching  offto  the  dead  man's  house.  No  sooner  were  they  gone,  how-  ever,  than  I  bundled  the  baby  into  his  buggy  and  pushed  him  rapidly  to  that  street.  There  I  could  at  least  see  all  the  people  standing  around  in  the  yard,  si-  lent  and  serious,  and  I  thought  I  might  catch  a  glimpse  of  Brother  Tolsen  com-  ing  or  going.  Back  and  forth  I  walked,  back  and  forth,  pushing  the  buggy " b"the  heat,  envying  the  people  as  they  filed  slowly  into  the  house  and  slowly  out  again  after  viewing  the  remains.  And  then  I  really  did  see  Brother  Tolsen.  Walking  with  his  wife  and  old-  est  son,  he  passed  so  close  to  me  on  the  sidewalk  that  he  would  have  brushed  against  me  if  I  had  not  drawn  the  buggy  and  myself  quickly  off  onto  the  grass.  He  nodded  to  me  but  did  not  smile,  and  I  thought  he  appeared  much  as  he  al-  ways  did  when  he  went  to  church.  Peo-  ple  looked  down  at  their  shoes  as  he  entered  the  dead  man's  gate,  but  when  he  moved  along  the  walk  toward  the  house,  many  stepped  forward  and  greet-  ed  him.  Between  the  gate  and  the  porch,  he  must  have  stopped  to  shake  hands  twenty  times.  The  front  door  opened  and  he  went  inside,  and  I  found  myself  with  my  stomach  pressed  against  the  fence  to  watch.  I  could  hear  abreeze  of  comment  among  the  people  nearest  me.  &quot;It  won't  be  easy  for  him  to  see  Lena  today.&quot;  &quot;She  knows  it  was  an  accident.&quot;  &quot;But  how  can  she  believe  her  own  husband  would  steal  water?&quot;  Presently,  Brother  Tolsen  and  his  wife  and  son  came  out  of  the  house.  This  time,  he  did  not  pause  to  shake  the  hand  of  anyone  but  walked  quickly  from  the  yard.  Then  the  door  of  the  house  remained  closed  for  awhile,  and  most  ofthe  people  started  toward  the  church,  a  few  blocks  away.  When  Mother  and  Father  and  Grandmother  came  out  of  the  yard,  I  began  to  push  the  buggy  toward  home,  but  I  turned  back  as  soon  as  they  were  out  of  sight.  The  hearse  and  a  leading  car,  filled  with  flowers,  were  waiting  in  front  of  the  house,  and  nobody  was  going  to  deny  me  a  sight  of  the  coffin.  I  heard  someone  say  &quot;Poor  Lena!&quot;  and  the  door  opened  again.  Lena  is  still,  to  me,  a  vision  of  total  sorrow.  She  leaned  forward  as  she  walked  after  the  coffin,  doubled  over  like  a  person  with  a  violent  stomach  ache.  She  was  dressed  in  heavy  black,  with  a  black  veil,  and  I  think  nowhow  hot  she  must  have  been  on  that  blistering  day.  After  she  had  been  carried  off  in  a  car  that  followed  the  hearse,  the  people  who  were  left  went  away,  and  the  whole  house  and  yard  looked  empty  and  bedraggled.  I  walked  back  and  forth,  staring  in.  On  the  path,  just  inside  the  gate,  lay  one  red  rose,  but  I  only  looked  at  it.  I  wouldn't  any  more  have  touched  it  than  I  would  have  stirred  my  finger  in  a  pool  of  blood.  Poor  Lena!  I  remember  thinking  that  now  she  could  never  get  any  glory  in  the  next  world.  In  the  Mormon " b"Church,  every  man  can  aspire  to  some  sort  of  ordination,  but  a  woman's  glory rests  on  her  husband's  virtues,  and  if  she  gets  to  Heaven  at  all,  she  must  do  so  on  the  coattails  of  his  priesthood.  But  not  once,  as  I  recall,  didI  think,  Poor  Brother  Tolsen!  The  two  figures  are  clear  in  my  mind.  Brother  Tolsen  had  looked  sadbut  very  straight  and  digni-  fied  as  he  walked  into  the  house  where  the  corpse  lay,  shaking  hands  with  his  Brethren  as  hewent.  Sister  Lena,  stoop-  ing  and  wild,  had  hidden  her  face  in  her  handkerchief  as  she  was  led  away.  Later,  I  heard  some  talk  of  &quot;poor  Lena,&quot;  who  was  &quot;young  yet,  after  all&quot;  and  &quot;should  marry  a  real  believer,&quot;  but  after  the  funeral  I  never  laid  eyes  on  her  again,  though  I  often  rode  my  bicycle  past  her  house,  and  looked  and  looked.  HE  next  thing  I  remember  about  the  Tolsen  case  is  walking  after  school  with  my  best  friend.  We  went  past  the  courthouse,  where  we  knew  the  jury  was  being  selected,  and  there  were  those  great  piles  of  bloody  rabbits'  ears  on  the  courthouse  lawn,  being  counted.  The  hunters  were  always  divided  into  two  teams,  and  the  losers  had  to  give  the  winners  what  was  called  a  Rabbit  Supper.  I  learned  later,  with  relief,  that  they  did  not  eat  the  ears,  or  even  the  jack  rabbits,  but  had  chicken  pies  at  the  church,  cooked  by  the  women  of  the  Relief  Society.  Nevertheless,  those  piles  ofears  I  see  to  this  day.  That  night,  there  was  talk  at  our  supper  table,  and  on  the  porch  after-  ward,  about  how  difficult  it  had  been  to  findjurors  &quot;without  prejudice.&quot;  The  trial  itself  lasted  only  three  short  after-  noons.  At  home,  it  was  discussed  freely,  and  the  talk  consisted  mostly  of  repeat-  ing  what  character  witnesses  had  said.  There  had  been  no  witness  to  the  killing  itself,  and  Brother  Tolsen  had  given  up  at  once  to  the  authorities:  first  to  his  Bishop,  which  was  entirely  proper  in  all  eyes,  and  then-in  company  with  Bishop  Petersen-to  the  Sheriff.  As  for  Lena,  she  did  not  come  to  the  trial  at  all,  but  was  said  to  have  disappeared  into  that  vast  place  where  there  were  yellow  street-  cars,  blue-coated  policemen,  a  shining  capitol  building,  and  a  merry-go-round  in  Liberty  Park-Great  Salt  Lake  City.  Almost  all  that  was  left  to  be  done  after  the  character  witnesses  were  through  was  to  hear  the  simple  story  told  by  Brother  Tolsen  himself  and  re-  peated  in  the  town  with  nods  of  under-  standing  and  respect.  His  friends  and  neighbors  considered  him  innocent  of  any  real  wrongdoing,  and  in  this  the  jury  soon  concurred.  I  remember " b"Father's  repeating  the  words  of  some-  body  who  had  been  very  important  at  the  trial-probably  Brother  Tolsen's  lawyer.  &quot;If  a  thief  entersa  man's  own  house  in  the  night  and  means  to  rob  him  of  all  he  has,  all  his  clothing  and  all  his  food,  thereby  meaning  to  take  the  very  lives  of  his  wife  and  his  little  children-  then  what  shall  that  householder  do?  Would  his  actions  be  judged  as  malice  aforethought?  Is  it  not  true  that  he  who  steals  water  is  stealing  life  itself?&quot;  It  was  ajoyful  thing  for  Brother  Tolsen's  friends  to  see  him  at  home  again,  and  they  have  all  been  safer  be-  cause  of  him.  There  has  been  no  water-  stealing  that  I  have  heard  of  in  that  valley  since.  One  other  memory  remains.  I  recall  an  evening,  months  after  the  trial  was  over,  when  my  parents  and  I  were  driving  along  the  road  where  his  fields  lay  and  saw  Brother  Tolsen  working  with  the  little  streams  that  were  running  among  his  young  corn.  Father  and  Mother  waved  and  called  to  him.  He  lifted  an  arm  to  answer,  and  I  saw  that  he  held  a  shovel  in  the  other  hand.  &quot;I  wonder  if  he  bought  a  new  shovel,&quot;  I  said  suddenly.  For  a  minute,  the  air  seemed  to  have  gone  dead  about  us,  in  the  peculiar  way  it  sometimes  can,  which  is  so  puzzling  to  a  child.  Then  Mother  turned  to  me  angrily.  &quot;Don't  you  ever  let  me  hear  you  say  a  thing  like  that  again!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Brother  Tolsen  is  a  good,  kind  man!&quot;  So  until  this  very  hour  I  never  have."