 b"THERE  is  no  sense  in  looking  for  trouble,  but  in  any  big,  true  pic-  ture  of  the  city  where  we  all  live  there  is  surely  room  for  one  more  word  on  the  diehards,  the  hangers-on,  the  people  who  never  got  along  and  who  never  gave  up,  the  insatiables  that  we  have  all  known  at  one  time  or  another  I  mean  the  shoestring  aristocrats  of  the  upper  East  Side-the  elegant,  charm-  ing,  and  shabby  men  who  work  for  brokerage  houses,  and  their  high-flown  wives,  with  their  thrift-shop  minksand  their  ash-can  fur  pieces,  their  alligator  shoes  and  their  snotty  ways  with  door-  men  and  with  the  cashiers  in  super-  markets,  their  gold  jewelry  and  their  dregs  of  Je  Reviens  and  Chanel.  I'm  thinking  of  the  Beers  now  -Alfreda  and  Bob-who  lived  in  43616e616461Side  apartment  house  that  Bob's  father  used  to  own,  surrounded  by  sailing  trophies,  autographed  photographs  of  President  Hoover,  Spanish  furniture,  and  other  relics  of  the  golden  age.  It  wasn't  much  of  a  place,  really-large  and  dark-  but  it  was  more  than  they  could  afford;  you  could  tell  by  the  faces  of  the  door-  men  and  the  elevator  operators  when  you  told  them  where  you  were  going.  I  suppose  they  were  always  two  or  three  months  behind  with  the  rent  and  had  nothing  to  spare  for  tips.  Of  course,  Al-  freda  had  been  to  school  in  Fiesole.  Her  father,  like  Bob's,  had  lost  millions  and  millions  and  millions  of  dollars.  All  her  memories  were  thick  inlaid  with  patines  of  bright  gold:  yesteryear's  high  bridge  stakes,  and  how  difficult  it  was  to  get  the  Daimler  started  on  a  rainy  day,  and  picnics  on  the  Brandywine  with  the  du  Pont  girls.  She  was  a  good-looking  woman-  long-faced  and  with  that  New  England  fairness  that  seems  to  state  a  tenuous  racial  claim  to  privilege.  She  looked  im-  perturbable.  When  they  were  on  their  uppers,  she  worked-first  at  the  Steuben  glass  store,  on  Fifth  Avenue,  and  then  she  went  across  the  street  to  Jensen's,  where  she  got  into  trouble  by  insisting  on  her  right  to  smoke.  She  went  from  there  to  Bonwit's,  and  from  Bonwit's  to  Bendel's.  Schwarz's  took  her  on  one  Christmas,  and  she  was  on  the  street-  floor  glove  counter  at  Saks  the  next  Easter.  She  had  a  couple  of  children  between  jobs  and  she  used  to  leave  them  in  the  care  of  an  old  Scotchwoman-  an  old  family  retainer  from  the  good  days  who  seemed  just  as  unable  as  the  Beers  to  make  an  advantageous  adjust-  ment  to  change.  They  were  the  kind  of  people  that  you  met  continually  at  railroad  stations  and  cocktail  parties.  I  mean  Sunday-  night  railroad  stations;  weekend  and  season's-end  places  like  the  junction  at  Hyannis  or  Flemington;  places  like  the  station  at  Lake  George,  or  Aiken  and  Greenville  in  the  early  spring;  places  like  Westhampton,  the  Nantucket  steamer,  Stonington,  and  Bar  Harbor;  or,  to  go  farther  afield,  places  like  Paddington  Station,  Rome,  and  the  [REDACTED]  night  boat.  &quot;Hello!  Hello!&quot;  they  called  across  the  crowd  of  travel-  lers,  and  there  he  would  be,in  his  white  raincoat,  with  his  stick  and  his  homburg,  and  there  she  was,  in  her  mink  or  her  ash-can  fur  piece.  And  in  someways  the  cocktail  parties  where  your  paths  crossed  were  not  so  different,  after  all,  from  the  depots,  junctions,  and  boat  trains  where  you  met.  They  were  the  kind  of  party  where  the  company  is  never  very  numerous  and  the  liquor  is  never  very  good-parties  where,  as  you  drink  and  talk,  you  feel  a  palpable  lassitude  overtaking  any  natural  social  ardor,  as  if  the  ties  of  family,  society,  school,  and  place  that  held  the  group  together  were  dissolving  like  the  ice  in  your  drink.  But  the  atmosphere  is  not  so  much  one  of  social  dissolution  as  of  social  change,  realignment-in  effect,  the  atmosphere  of  travel.  The  guests  seem  to  be  gathered  in  a  boat  shed  or  at  a  railroad  junction,  waiting  for  the  boat  or  the  train  to  depart.  Past  the  maid  who  takes  the  wraps,  past  the  foyer  and  the  fireproof  door,  there  seems  to  lie  a  stretch  of  dark  water,  stormy  water  sometimes-the  cry  of  the  wind,  the  creak  of  iron  sign  hinges  and  the  lights,  the  deckhand  voices,  and  the  soulful  whistling  of  an  approaching  Channel  boat.  One  reason  you  always  saw  the  Beers  at  cocktail  parties  and  railroad  stations  was  that  they  were  always  look-  ing  for  somebody.  They  weren't  looking  for  somebody  like  you  or  me-they  were  looking  for  the  Marchioness  of  Bath-but  any  port  in  a  storm.  The  way  they  used  to  come  in  to  a  party  and  stare  around  them  is  understandable-  we  all  do  it-but  the  way  theyused  to  peer  at  their  fellow-travellers  on  a  sta-  tion  platform  was  something  else.  In  any  place  where  those  two  had  to  wait  fifteen  minutes  or  longer  for  a  public  conveyance  they  would  turn  the  crowd  inside  out,  peering  under  hatbrims  and  behind  newspapers  for  somebody  they  might  happen  to  know.  I\xe2\x80\x99M  speaking  of  the  thirties  and  the  forties  now,  the  years  before  and  after  the  Big  War-years  when  the  Beers'  financial  problems  must  have  been  complicated  by  the  fact  that  their  children  were  old  enough  to  go  to  ex-  pensive  schools.  They  did  some  unsavory  things;  they  kited  checks,  and,  borrow-     " b"ing  someone's  car  for  a  weekend,  they  ran  it  into  a  ditch  and  walked  away,  washing  their  hands  of  the  whole  thing.  These  tricks  brought  some  precarious-  ness  to  their  social  as  well  as  their  economic  status,  but  they  continued  to  operate  on  a  margin  of  charm  and  ex-  pectation-there  was  Aunt  Margaret  in  [REDACTED]  and  Aunt  Laura  in  Bos-  ton-and,  to  tell  the  truth,  they  were  charming.  People  were  always  glad  to  see  them,  for  if  they  were  the  pathetic  grasshoppers  of  some  gorgeous  economic  summer,  they  somehow  had  it  in  their  power  to  remind  one  of  good  things-  good  places,  games,  food,  and  com-  pany-and  the  ardor  with  which  they  looked  for  friends  on  railroad  platforms  could  perhaps  be  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that  they  were  only  looking  for  a  world  that  they  understood.  HEN  Aunt  Margaret  died,  and  this  is  how  I  discovered  that  inter-  esting  fact.  It  was  in  the  spring,  and  my  boss  and  his  wife  were  sailing  for  Naples,  and  I  went  down  to  the  boat  one  morn-  ing  with  a  box  of  cigars  and  a  historical  romance.  The  ship  was  new,  as  I  recall,  with  lots  of  drifters  looking  at  the  sets  of  Edna  Ferber  under  lock  and  key  in  the  library  and  admiring  the  dry  swim-  ming  pools  and  the  dry  bars.  The  pas-  sageways  were  crowded,  and  every  cabin  in  first  class  was  full  of  flowers  and  of  well-wishers  drinking  champagne  at  eleven  o'clock  on  a  gloomy  morning,  with  the  rich  green  soup  of  New  York  Harbor  sending  its  tragic  smell  up  to  the  clouds.  I  gave  my  boss  and  his  wife  their  presents,  and  then,  looking  for  the  main  deck,  passed  a  cabin  or  suite  where  I  heard  Alfreda's  boarding-school  laugh,  The  place  was  jammed,  and  a  waiter  was  pouring  champagne,  and  when  I  had  greeted  my  friends,  Alfreda  took  me  aside.  &quot;Aunt  Margaret  has  departed  this  life,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  we're  loaded  again  ...&quot;  I  had  some  champagne,  and  then  the  all-ashore  whistle  blew-vehe-  ment,  deafening,  the  hoarse  summons  of  life  itself,  and  somehow,  like  the  smell  of  harbor  water,  tragic,  too;  for,  watch-  ing  the  party  break  up,  I  wondered  how  long  Aunt  Margaret's  fortune  would  last  those  two.  Their  debts  were  enor-  mous,  and  their  habits  were  foolish,  and  even  a  hundred  thousand  wouldn't  take  them  far.  This  idea  seems  to  have  stayed  at  the  back  of  my  mind,  for  at  a  heavyweight  fight  at  Yankee  Stadium  that  fall  I  thought  I  saw  Bob  wandering  around  with  a  tray  of  binoculars  to  rent.  I  called  his  name-I  shouted-and  it  wasn't  he,  but  the  resemblance  was  so  striking  that  I  felt  as  if  I  had  seen  him,  or  had  at  least    seen  the  scope  of  the  vivid  social  and  economic  contrasts  in  store  for  such  a  couple.  WISH  I  could  say  that,  leaving  the  theatre  one  snowy  evening,  I  saw  Alfreda  selling  pencils  on  Forty-sixth  Street  and  that  she  would  return  to  some  basement  on  the  West  Side  where  Bob  lay  dying  on  a  pallet,  but  this  would  only  reflect  on  the  poverty  of  my  im-  agination.  In  saying  that  the  Beers  were  the  kind  of  people  you  met  at  railroad  stations  and  cocktail  parties,  I  overlooked  the  beaches.  They  were  very  aquatic.  You  know  how  it  is.  In  the  summer  months,  the  northeastern  coast  up  from  Long  Island  and  deep  into  [REDACTED],  including  all  the  sea  islands,  seems  to  be  trans-  formed  into  a  vast  social  clearing  house,  and  as  you  sit  on  the  sand  listening  to  the  heavy  furniture  of  the  North  Atlan-  tic,  figures  from  your  social  past  appear  in  the  surf,  as  thick  as  raisins  in  a  cake.  A  wave  takes  form,  accelerates  its  ride  over  the  shallows,  boils,  and  breaks,  re-  vealing  Consuelo  Roosevelt  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dundas  Vanderbilt,  with  the  children  of  both  marriages.  Then  a  wave  comes  in  from  the  right  like  a  cavalry  charge,  bearing  landward  on  a  rubber  raft  Lathrope  Macy  with  Emer-  son  Crane's  second  wife,  and  the  Bishop  of  [REDACTED]  in  an  inner  tube.  'Then  a  wave  breaks  at  your  feet  with  the  noise  of  a  slammed  trunk  lid  and  there  are  the  Beers.  &quot;How  nice  to  see  you,  how  very  mice  to  see  you  ...&quot;  So  the  summer  and  the  sea  will  be  the  setting  for  their  last  appearance--  their  last  appearance  for  our  purposes  here,  at  any  rate.  We  are  in  a  small  town  in  [REDACTED]-let's  say-and  decide  to  take  the  family  for  a  sail  and  a  picnic.  The  man  at  the  inn  tells  us  where  there  is  a  boat  livery,  and  we  pack  our  sand-  wiches  and  follow  his  directions  to  a  wharf.  We  find  an  old  man  in  a  shack  with  a  catboat  to  rent,  and  we  make  a  deposit  and  sign  a  dirty  paper,  noticing  that  the  old  man,  at  ten  in  the  morning,  is  drunk.  He  rows  us  out  to  the  mooring  in  a  skiff,  and  we  say  goodbye,  and  then,  seeing  how  dilapidated  his  catboat  is,  we  call  after  him,  but  he  has  already  headed  for  the  mainland  and  is  out  of  hearing.  The  floor  boards  are  floating,  the  rudder  pin  is  bent,  and  one  of  the  bolts  in  the  rudder  has  rusted  away.  The  blocks  are  broken,  and  when  we  pump  her  dry  and  hoist  the  sail,  it  is  rotted  and  torn.  We  get  under  way  at  last-urged  by  the  children-and  sail  out  to  an  is-  land  and  eat  our  picnic.  Then  we  start  home.  But  now  the  wind  has  freshened;  it  has  backed  around  to  the  southwest;  and  whenwe  have  left  the  island,  our  " b"port  stay  snaps,  and  the  wire  flies  up-  ward  and  coils  itself  around  the  mast.  We  take  down  the  sail  and  repair  the  stay  with  rope.  Then  we  see  that  we  are  onan  ebb  tide  and  travelling  rapidly  out  to  sea,  With  the  repaired  stay  we  sail  for  ten  minutes  before  the  starboard  stay  gives,  Now  we  are  in  trouble.  We  think  of  the  old  man  in  the  shack,  who  holds  the  only  knowledge  of  our  whereabouts  in  his  drunken  head.  We  try  to  paddle  with  the  floor  boards,  but  we  can  make  no  headway  against  the  sweep  of  the  tide.  Who  will  save  us?  The  Beers!  They  come  over  the  horizon  at  dusk  i  in  one  of  those  bulky  cabin  cruisers,  with  a  banquette  on  the  bridge  and  shaded  lamps  and  bowls  of  roses  in  the  cabin.  A  hired  hand  is  at  the  helm,  and  Bob  throws  us  a  line.  This  is  more  than  a  chance  reunion  of  old  friends-our  lives  have  been  saved.  We  are  nearly  delirious.  The  hired  hand  is  settled  in  the  catboat,  and  ten  minutes  after  we  have  been  snatched  from  the  jaws  of  death,  we  are  drinking  Martinis  on  the  bridge.  They  will  take  us  back  to  their  house,  they  say.  We  can  spend  the  night  there.  And  while  the  background  and  the  appointments  are  not  so  different,  their  relationship  to  them  has  been  revo-  lutionized.  It  is  their  house,  their  boat.  We  wonder  how-we  gape-and  Bob  is  civil  enough  to  give  us  an  explanation,  in  a  low  voice,  a  mumble,  nearly,  as  if  the  facts  were  parenthetical.  &quot;We  took  most  of  Aunt  Margaret's  money  and  all  of  Aunt  Laura's  and  a  little  something  Uncle  Ralph  left  us  and  invested  it  all  in  the  market,  you  know,  and  it's  more  than  tripled  in  the  last  two  years.  I've  bought  back  everything  Dad  lost-  everything  I  wanted,  that  is.  That's  my  schooner  over  there.  Of  course,  the  house  is  new.  Those  are  our  lights.&quot;  The  afternoon  and  the  ocean,  which  seemed  so  menacing  in  the  catboat,  now  spread  out  around  us  with  a  miraculous  tranquillity,  and  we  settle  back  to  enjoy  our  company,  for  the  Beers  are  charm-  ing-they  always  were-and  now  they  appear  to  be  smart,  for  what  else  was  it  but  smart  of  them  to  know  that  sum-  mertime  would  come  again?  "