 b"THE  thing,  the  spark,  that  set  in  motion  the  train  of  events  that  led  to  my  present  impossible  situation  was  the  experience  of  begin-  ning  to  see  those  little  pails  and  shovels  in  the  windows  of  shops.  Queer  shops  to  see  them  in,  always;  don't  get  the  idea  I  was  visiting  by  the  seaside  when  I  saw  them,  or  in  a  place  likely  to  in-  volve  beach  paraphernalia.  No,  it  was  always  in  our  mountain-locked  [REDACTED]  town  that  I  saw  them,  or  somewhere  equally  far  from  salt  air:  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED];  or  Raleigh.  Yet  there  they  sat  in  the  shopwindows  while  I  stood  outside  staring  with  thatleap  in  my  heart,  almost  like  a  heart  at-  tack:  the  classic,  eternal  pail-and-shovel  set-a  tin  pail  painted  with  nursery  or  circus  figures  and,  accompanying  it,  a  small  tin  shovel  painted  bright  shiny  red.  They  stood  out  of  their  surround-  ings-newsstand  stationery  supplies,  usually,  or  children's  toys-with  a  vi-  brant  and  fateful  significance.  It's  hard  to  explain  how  much  they  meant  to  me-I  was  so  astonished  at  it  myself.  That  pail-round,  jolly,  and  meant  for  containing  marvels;  that  shovel  with  its  miraculously  shiny  red  paint,  latent  with  joy  and  possibilities.  I  would  stand  staring  at  them,  my  heart  still  skipping  beats,  while  slowly  over  me  crept  the  mood  that  they  induced,  boundlessly  confident,  self-contained,  rakish,  pirati-  cal-the  mood,  I  realized  after  a  bit,  in  which  thirty,  oh,  thirty-five,  years  ago  I  used  to  proceed  in  triumph  of  a  morning  down  the  beach  at  Cod  Har-  bor.  In  those  days  I  would  have  been  dressed  in  pink  cotton  rompers  and  an  enormous  straw  hat  as  I  carried  my  unspeakably  potent  pail  and  shovel,  and  accompanied  by  my  mother  in  a  long  white  linen  dress  and  ahat  trimmed  with  a  chiffon  veil.  All  those  things  (my  mother,  too,  poor  darling)  are  dead  and  gone  now;  but  the  feeling-at  once  smug,  daring,  and  as  private  as  a  tight-  ly  sealed  clam-that  a  pail  and  shovel  for  digging  on  the  beach  used  to  give  me  lived  on,  apparently  unmodified,  as  strong  and  buccaneerish  as  ever.  This  feeling,  when  I  looked  at  a  child's  tin  pail  and  shovel  in  the  shopwindow  of  a  hot,  muggy,  dusty  43616e616461ern  town  miles  from  the  sea,  had  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  nostalgia,  the  sharp,  yearning,  sweet  sensation  that  is  weakness;  this  was  a  do-and-dare  feeling,  an  up-and-  at-em  feeling,  strong  and  tough  and  secretive,  and  I  suppose  it  is  this  feel-  ing  that,  in  the  end,  led  to  my  present  predicament.  At  first,  when  I  began  to  notice,  so  vividly,  this  anomaly,  the  pail  and  shovel  in  43616e616461ern  shopwindows,  I  felt  almost  as  if  there  were  something  queer  about  it,  something,  well,  psychic.  I  must  repeat  that  beach  toys  in  such  windows  as  those  seemed  as  much  fantasy  as  a  Surrealist  landscape.  Were  the  pail  and  shovel,  I  even  asked  myself,  really  there?  Of  course  they  were;  and  when  I  finally  got  myself  to  the  point  of  asking  my  husband,  in  a  manner  stud-  iedly  casual,  why  such  things  should  exist  in  inland  shops,  he  replied  with  his  usual  painstaking  patience  at  stupid-  ity  that  they  were  doubtless  for  use  in  children's  sand  piles.  I  had  never  thought  of  that;  instead,  I  had  thought  only  of  Cod  Harbor,  back  in  the  days  when  I  was  a  little  girl  in  New  Eng-  land  and  we  used  to  visit  my  Aunt  Henrietta  at  her  house,  The  Barnacles.  In  those  days  we  travelled  by  train.  As  we  jolted,  jerked,  bucketed  along,  I  sat  beside  my  mother,  on  the  gritty  red  plush  seat,  with  the  window  open  because  the  weather  was  so  hot.  Blasts  as  from  an  oven  came  in  the  window,  laden  with  cinders  from  the  engine.  My  mother  kept  her  veil  down.  Some-  times  I  would  get  a  cinder  in  my  eye;  then  the  rite  was  always  the  same:  &quot;Close  your  eyes,  darling.  Don't  rub  them.  Lift  the  lid  by  theeyelashes  with  your  fingers  and  let  it  slide  up  against  your  lower  lid.  It'll  come  out.&quot;  But  mostly  my  mother  leaned  back  against  the  plush  seatback,  exhausted.  Summer  at  home  meant  gardening,  pickling,  preserving,  canning-great  boxes  of  strawberries  or  of  tomatoes  waiting  on  the  wooden  board  over  the  set  tubs  for  their  turn  to  be  plunged  into  the  cal-  dron  of  scalding  water  that  my  mother  stood  overwith  flushed  cheeks  and  anxious  brow  -besides  the  incessant  household  duties  of  all  year  round-  the  fatiguing  perfectionism  of  enter-taining,  the  inadequate  Irish  servant  girls,  the  unceasing  effort  to  come  up  to  a  rigid  standard  that  was  so  real  that  even  I,  at  six,  could  feel  it,  like  a  pres-  ence  behind  an  arras.  But  now  all  was  to  be  different,  I  knew,  she  knew;  we  were  on  the  train  for  Cod  Harbor.  With  each  mile  the  atmosphere  grew  lighter,  bluer;  and  when  the  conductor  flung  open  the  door  at  the  end  of  the  car  and  called  out  &quot;Say-lum!  Say-Ilum,&quot;  a  burst  of  new  air,  cool  air,  air  vibrant  with  the  smell  of  salt,  came  to  us,  and  our  vaca-  tion  had  begun.  We  rode  to  the  end  of  the  line.  At  Harborport  we  descended  the  steps  of  the  train  into  another  world,  Aunt  Henrietta's  seashore  world.  Mr.  Eas-  ton,  a  scrawny  Yankee  with  a  cloth  cap  and  a  ropy  neck,  drove  us  up  in  a  station  taxi  that  smelled  of  livery  stable.  He  never  spoke.  'The  high  point  of  the  drive,  the  point  that  one  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  seat  for,  came  as  we  rounded  the  long  curve  in  the  road  from  Harborport  and  saw  before  us,  below  us,  like  a  cup  of  blue  water,  like  a  great  blue  stone  set  in  the  pinkrock  cliffs,  Cod  Harbor.  &quot;Oooh,&quot;  we  squealed  in  unison,  year  after  year,  for  this,  too,  was  a  rite.  From  there  it  was  only  a  short  way  to  the  weather-beaten  gray  steps  that  led  up  to  The  Barnacles.  Aunt  Henrietta,  a  tall,  spare,  New  England  lady  with  hair  caught  up  on  top  of  her  head,  as  though  while  run-  ning  at  full  speed  in  a  gale,  would  be  standing  at  the  top  of  the  steps  to  meet  us,  arms  outstretched  and  her  soft,  wrinkled,  face  sweet  with  welcome;  and,  just  behind  her,  Bessie.  Bessie  was  Irish,  but  Bessie  was  different  from  other  maids;  she  was  created  entirely  to  give  me,  personally,  pleasure  in  life.  After  she  had  wrung  my  mother's  hand  and  mine,  wrung  the  corner  of  her  apron,  smiled  all  over  her  beet-red,  shiny  face,  said  of  me,  &quot;Sure,  she's  grown  a  foot,&quot;  she  would  disappear  abruptly  into  the  dark  regions  behind  the  dining  room;  I  knew  why,  and  hugged  myself.  I  was  here.  My  Aunt  Henrietta's  greatest  care,  during  our  visits,  was  to  give  my  mother  the  rest  she  so  needed.  She  always  en-  gaged  an  extra  servant  for  our  visit-a  fat  cook  down  from  [REDACTED]-so  that  my  mother  need  do  nothing,  nothing.  Rest,  darling  Rosa,  rest;  put  your  feet  up;  lean  back;  don't  make  an  effort;  can't  I  bring  you  something,  a  palm  leaf  fan,  an  afghan?  Meanwhile  I  would  be  playing  on  the  floor  with  the  blocks,  the  Aunt  Henri-  etta  blocks.  They  had  beionged  to  three  generations  of  children  and  were  un-  " b"like  ordinary  blocks,  being  plain,  smooth,  natural  wood,  shaped  like  bricks,  with  one,  out  of  the  fifty  or  so,  cut  out  into  a  curve  on  one  side  so  that  it  could  he  used  for  the  top  of  a  bridge,  for  a  pinna-  cle.  Presently  Bessie  would  appear,  as  I  had  known  she  would,  bearing  a  large  pitcher  of  tinkling  lemonade  and  a  plate  of  her  paper-thin  fairy  gingerbread.  This  was  even  more  like  it.  I  set  to,  while  the  ladies  sipped  a  little  from  their  glasses,  and  Bessie  declared,  &quot;Ah,  Miss  Rosa,  it's  terrible  how  Miss  Henrietta  will  go.  She's  been  running  like  the  wild  deer.&quot;  For  my  Aunt  Henrietta,  also,  did  too  much.  All  grown-up  ladies  of  my  acquaintance  did  too  much.  I  listened  calmly,  since  that  was  the  way  the  world  was,  meanwhile  reaching  for  a  fourth  cookie  and  holding  out  my  glass  to  Bessie,  who  cried,  &quot;Ah,  the  little  darlin'!&quot;  as  if  I  had  done  something  remarkable.  I  smiled,  and  went  on  munching.  Aunt  Henrietta's  house  was  large  and  airy  and  stark  white  inside.  The  bedroom  floors  were  covered  from  wall  to  wall  with  straw  matting,  the  bed-  room  walls  were  plain  white  plaster,  and  after  I  had  gone  to  bed-we  carried  candles  up  to  bed  in  that  house-and  before  my  mother  had  come  up  to  join  me,  I  would  lie  in  this  cool,  airy  bubble  of  a  room  with  the  windows  thrown  open  to  the  seashore  night,  to  the  breath-  ing  of  the  sea  in  and  out  against  the  shore,  and  the  far-away  clang  of  the  bell  buoy  off  Cod  Point.  IN  the  morning  Aunt  Henrietta  waked  us  with  a  knock  at  our  white-  painted  door.  &quot;'The  Order  of  the  Bath,&quot;  she  would  call.  &quot;Rosa,  will  you  go  first,  or  Phoebe?&quot;  When  it  was  my  turn  to  go  in  the  bathroom,  I  would  climb  up  on  the  white  wooden  chair  and  look  out  of  the  small,  high-up  window  at  the  morning  sea.  At  that  hour,  about  half  past  seven,  the  lobster  fishermen  would  be  rowing  home  out  of  the  mist,  from  their  pots,  in  dories-standing  up,  row-  ing  frontward,  with  a  stiff,  jerky  mo-  tion.  The  window,  so  high  in  the  wall,  was  like  the  window  in  a  horse's  stall,  I  thought.  It  was  extremely  agreeable  to  imagine  that  one  was  a  horse  looking  out  of  the  window  at  the  ocean.  It  seemed  to  combine  everything  vigorous.  [REDACTED]  was  eaten  off  blue-and-  white  china  in  a  flood  of  sunshine  from  the  eastern  windows.  My  Aunt  Henri-  etta  had  visited  at  one  time  in  Charles-  ton,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  had  adopted  such  of  its  customs  as  fitted  with  hers;  thus  we  had  hominy  with  our  finnan  haddie  for  breakfast.  Here  was  another  rite:  the  instant  Bessie  had  passed  the  hominy,  one  whisked  a  lump  of  butter  into  it,  buriedthe  butter  until  it  was  melted,  and  then  ate  the  buttery,  bland  cereal  with  the  salt  fish.  I  drank  milk;  my  motherand  Aunt  Henrietta  drank  Indian  tea.  Muffins  were  passed,  yel-  low  and  steaming  hot  inside,  and  straw-  berry  and  gooseberry  jams  from  S.S.  Pierce's.  Irose  from  the  breakfast  table  girded  for  the  fray.  My  Aunt  Henrietta's  voice  spoke  the  dulcet,  the  awaited,  words:  &quot;Rosa,  I  thought  it  might  be  nice  if  Phoebe  had  a  new  pail  and  shovel  for  the  beach;  hers  from  last  year  seemed  rather  rusty.&quot;  For  some  reason  that  I  have  never  plumbed,  it  was  thought  suitable  that  I  should  be  given  a  new  pail  and  shovel  every  summer,  and  this  in  a  New  England  world  whose  truest  motto  was  Wear  it  out;  Use  it  up;  Make  it  do.I  would  then  walk  down  the  road  to  Cod  Harbor  village  with  my  Aunt  Henrietta,  to  Trigg's  Store,  where  pails  and  shovels  were  to  be  had.  We  walked  hand  in  hand,  my  stringy  old  aunt  and  I,  along  the  road  between  the  fish  houses  on  the  seaside,  where  the  fishermen  sat  mending  theirnets,  and  the  moors  on  the  upper  side,  redolent  of  wild  roses  and  bayberry  and  sweet  fern.  This  was  the  morning  of  the  world.  &quot;'Morning,  Miss  Hancock,&quot;  the  old  men  in  their  oilskins  would  reply  to  my  aunt's  bow.  &quot;How  is  your  rheumatism,  Mr.  Dan-  forth?&quot;  she  would  inquire.  &quot;Nothin'  extry,  nothin'  extry,&quot;  the  old  fellow  answered.  We  swung  our  hands  and  occasionally  essayed  skipping,  for  Aunt  Henrietta  was  of  an  indomitable  breed  and  one,  moreover,  that  did  not  con-  cern  itself  with  appearances.  'That  a  New  England  spinster,  whom  I,  at  any  rate,  considered  elderly,  should  arrive  flushed  at  Trigg's  Store  with  her  pince-  nez  askew  and  her  hair  even  more  sketchily  suspended  than  ever  was  quite  in  order  to  her;  Miss  Hancock  had  seen  fit  to  skip.  We  stood,  hands  still  en-  clasped,  in  front  of  the  old-fashioned,  paned  show  window:  inside  were  fish  nets,  floats  for  fish  nets  like  huge  glass  bubbles,  reels  of  green  fishing  line,  American  flags  to  wave  on  Independ-  ence  Day  (Aunt  Henrietta  had  her  own  huge  one,  which  we  always  hung  from  the  upstairs  porch  on  the  morning  of  the  Glorious  Fourth),  Rock  of  Gibral-  tar  candy,  rock  candy  on  a  string,  toy  lobster  pots,  spools  of  sewing  cotton,  and,  splendidly  centered  in  the  window,  a  pail  and  shovel,  classic,  immutable,  patterned  with  agreeable  running  chil-  dren  or  clowns,  red-lined,  red-shov-  elled.  Possessed  of  them,  I  swaggered  home.  Later  in  the  morning  came  the  mo-  ment  of  going  to  the  beach.  My  mother,  who  had,  of  course,  been  resting,  took  me.  Her  dress  was  white  linen,  cut  princesse  over  the  hips,  long  and  full-  skirted.  She  wore  a  mushroom-shaped  hat  with  a  chiffon  veil  to  protect  her  skin  from  the  burning  seaside  sun,  and  carried  a  red  cotton  parasol,  which  was  kept,  at  The  Barnacles,  in  the  coat  closet  under  the  stairs,  along  with  the  um-  brellas  and  a  gold-handled  cane.  Ar-  rived  at  the  beach,  she  disposed  herself  upon  a  whitened,  polished  granite  boulder  at  the  top  of  the  slope  of  sand,  adjusted  her  parasol,  leaned  back  upon  her  hand,  and  looked  pensively  out  to  sea  where,  Aunt  Henrietta  always  said,  there  was  nothing  between  us  and  537061696e.  I  myself  then  proceeded  down  the  " b"beach  like  an  infant  Juggernaut,  slow,  deliberate,  and  relentless.  I  must  have  worn  a  variety  of  dresses  during  those  years-I  can  recall  striped  ginghams  and  blue  cotton  cr\xc3\xa9pes-but  those  pink  rompers  are  what  I  chiefly  remember,  which  showsyou  how  far  back  it  all  goes.  Pail  and  shovel  firmly  in  hand,  day  after  day  I  would  approach  the  pros-  pect  of  sand,  sea,  and  sky-a  vast  spec-  tacle,  of  which  I  felt  easily  the  equal  if  not  the  superior.  Words  cannot  express  my  pleased  confidence,  which  verged  on  the  bullying.  The  nearest  is,  the  world,  this  world,  was  my  oyster,  or  perhaps  clam.  That  was  what  it  was  to  bea  child  on  the  beach  at  Cod  Harbor.  Hours  passed.  I  built  sand  castles  surrounded  with  moats  through  which  the  tide  sent  surging  currents,  aque-  ducts  that  carried  the  water  from  one  round  dug-out  pond  to  another.  There  were  probably  other  children,  at  least  sometimes,  but  of  them  I  have  no  memory.  It  was  I  vis-a-vis  the  beach.  I  made  sand  cakes,  round,  golden,  and  studded  with  pebble  plums;  these  sand  cakes  looked  so  delicious  that  I  once  bent  and  took  a  bite  out  of  one,  so  en-  tranced  was  I  by  my  own  creation.  It  was  a  real  shock  to  find  not  warm  savory  plum  cake  in  my  mouth  but  all  that  grit.  Perhaps  it  was  at  such  rare  moments  of  disillusion  as  this  that  I     would  glance  up  the  beach  toward  that  lone,  slight  figure  on  the  rock-pensive,  feminine,  swathed  in  chiffon.  I  was  always  aware  of  her  there,  my  lovely  mother,  so  appreciative  of  the  bits  of  ocean-worn  green  and  purple  glass  I  brought  to  her;  so  tender,  so  exhausted.  After  lunch,  which  I  greeted,  once  I  could  be  pried  away  from  the  beach,  with  the  lusty  appetite  of  a  buccaneer,  we  went  to  our  room  for  rests.  Aunt  Henrietta  was  firm  about  them.  She  was  wonderful  with  children  and  in-  valids;  she  knew  just  what  they  needed.  I  was  supplied  with  picture  books,  with  the  family  blocks,  and  with  AuntHen-  rietta's  button  box,  to  stay  me  asI  flopped  energetically  about  my  narrow  bed  with  its  white  seersucker  bedspread.  My  mother  lay  supine.  Occasionally  she  would  draw  a  long  sigh,  and  I  would  stop  what  I  was  doing,  with  the  beginnings  of  terror.  Those  heart-  rending  sighs!  But  she  never  com-  plained.  At  three  o'clock  we  would  rise,  and  sometimes  we  would  be  rowed  by  Aunt  Henrietta  about  the  harbor  in  a  skiff  painted  pale  blue  with  a  white  " b"inside,  like  the  airy  colors  of  a  bubble.  My  mother  reclined  against  cushions  in  the  stern,  her  hand  trailing  in  the  cold  water,  her  skirts  held  up  with  the  other  hand  from  the  bilge  in  the  bottom  that  swished  fore  and  aft  as  Aunt  Henrietta  rowed  with  a  steady  creak  and  a  squeak  of  the  oarlocks.  I  was  planted  in  the  bow,  facing  front,  like  a  figurehead;  my  spirits,  quite  recovered,  ranged  rakishly  over  the  crests  of  the  little  blue  waves  in  the  direction  of  537061696e,  which  I  couldnot  actually  see  but  took  on  faith,  and  where  it  would  be  nice  to  row  to  one  day.  Or  we  would  go  blueberrying.  The  blueberries  grew  on  low  bushes  up  on  the  moors  above  The  Barnacles,  inter-  spersed  with  wild-rose  bushes,  bay-  berry  bushes,  and  sweet  fern,  dry  and  pungent.  We  picked  into  tin  pails,  and  mine  was,  of  course,  my  glorious  beach  one,shovel  and  all,  since  it  was  wrong  to  part  them;  however,  I  seldom  got  more  than  half  a  cupful.  There  was  too  much  to  look  at.  When  you  stood  up  from  picking,  you  could  see,  over  the  tops  of  the  wild-cherry  trees,  the  sea,  calm,  flat,  and  blue;  the  big  oak  tree  that  grew  by  the  turn  in  the  road  to  the  harbor;  the  chimneys  of  The  Barnacles.  One  did  not  need  a  compass  not  to  get  lost  up  here.  Then  there  were  the  cows  Mr.  Danforth  kept  upon  the  moors.  (It  was  their  milk  I  drank  at  meals.)  They  grazed  beyond  the  stone  wall  that  marked  the  boundary  between  Aunt  Henrietta's  land  and  Mr.  Danforth's.  One  warm,  still,  peaceful  afternoon  I  found  myself,  on  rising  from  a  clump  of  blueberries,  face  to  face  with  a  large,  light-tan  cow,  who  stared  at  me  as  she  chewed  steadily  with  a  rotary  motion.  My  surprise  was  less  than  my  curiosity;  I  advanced  on  the  cow  with  interest  and  a  confidence  bordering  on  the  truculent,  But  at  that  moment  my  mother  saw  us.  &quot;Phoebe!&quot;  she  called.  &quot;Darling!  Mother's  right  here.  Run!&quot;  I  glanced  over  my  shoulder  at  her,  on  the  other  side  of  the  stone  wall,  and  back  at  my  new  acquaintance,  per-  plexed.  &quot;Run  quick!&quot;  the  sweet  voice  cried.  &quot;I'll  help  you  over  the  wall.&quot;  So  I  ran.  I  clambered  over  the  rough  granite  stones,  harsh  with  lichen,  with  my  mother's  gentle  arms  assisting  my  fat  legs.  The  pale-brown  cow  con-  tinued  to  rotate  her  cud  and  to  gaze  after  me  reflectively.  We  ate  the  blueberries  that  night  for  our  supper,  with  sugar  and  cream,  by  the  light  of  four  candles-in  4368696e61-  china  candlesticks-that  had  round  blue-and-white  shades.  In  front  of  me  the  dining-room  dresser  displayed  its  rows  of  china,  all  of  it  blue  and  white:  4368696e61,  Willow,  Copenhagen,  Delft, and  the  onion  pattern.  Outside  in  the  dusk,  the  sea  sighed  as  it  breathed  in  and  out  against  the  beach.  The  foghorn  from  Harborport  began  all  at  once  to  low.  And  by  the  time  we  had  finished  supper  we  were  fogbound;  outside  the  windows  the  fog  pressed  and  billowed  like  surges  of  cotton  wool.  AuntHen-  rietta  rose  and  lighted  a  lamp.  &quot;Smell  the  fog,&quot;  she  said.  And  indeed  the  fog  had  a  special  smell  of  its  own,  like  the  ordinary  saltair  but  stronger,  redolent  of  seaweed,  damp,  and  dead  fish.  I  loved  it.  We  were  in  a  private  world  in  our  nice  snug  house.  The  fire  twinkled  upon  the  hearth,  the  lamp  shone  yellow  and  oily  beside  Aunt  Henrietta  as  she  read  to  me  from  &quot;Treasure  Island,&quot;  and  my  mother  lay,  smiling  faintly,  upon  theparlor  sofa  withher  feet  on  a  newspaper,  resting.  All  too  soon  it  was  time  to  send  me  up  to  our  chilly,  airy,  white  bedroom  with  a  candle  in  a  brass  candle  saucer.  The  shadows  flickered  menacingly  in  the  corners  of  the  room,  which  was  like  Billy  Bones'  room  at  the  Inn,  and  when  I  went  to  brush  my  teeth  the  fog  pressed  against  the  horse-  stall  window  to  get  in.  I  finished  my  ablutions  hastily  and  leapt  into  bed.  I  did  not  dare  to  blow  out  my  candle,  but  left  it  flickering  where  it  stood  on  the  Captain's  table,  occasionally  flaring  sharply,  as  if  someone  had  entered  the  room.  ...  But  I  never  heard  my  mother  come  upstairs,  or  open  the  window,  or  get  into  bed,  so  I  could  not  have  been  very  frightened.  And  in  the  morning  the  sun  was  always  blazing  as  we  followed  the  Order  of  the  Bath  and  descended  the  stairs  to  the  cheerful  dining  room.  Once  more  I  was  my  morning  self,  tough,  hearty,  and  invulnerable,  ready  to  meet  all  comers,  ready  to  advance  on  the  beach  with  my  pail  and  shovel,  tak-  ing  on  sea,  sand,  and  sky  on  my  own  terms.  T  was  these  memories  that  assailed  me  so  violently  as  I  came  across  the  anomalous  sight  of  a  pail  and  shovel  in  an  inland  43616e616461ern  shopwindow;  only,  as  I  have  said,  they  seemed  less  like  memories  than  like  an  upsurge  of  en-  ergy,  bringing  into  my  busy,  humid  43616e616461ern  life  the  smell  of  salt,  the  sight  of  blue  water.  So  you  can  imagine  how  extraordinary  it  seemed,  how  like  the  neat  intermeshing  of  destiny,  when  I  got  the  letter  from  the  Perkins  people  asking  if  I  would  like  to  rent  The  Barnacles,  which  had  once  belonged  to  my  late  aunt.  You  can  see  how  I  can  hardly  be  blamed  for  the  irrational  feel-  ing  that  I  was  meant  to  take  it.  The  pails  and  shovels  had  been  like  a  building-up  to  that  letter.  The  Perkins  people  said  " b"that  they  were  primarily  interested  in  selling,  but  wanted  to  give  me  an  op-  portunity  to  rent  for  a  season  in  hopes  that  I  would  buy  the  old  house,  with  which  they  were  sure  I  had  many  pleas-  ant  associations,  etc.,  etc.  My  husband  nearly  expired  when  he  heard  what  they  wanted  for  rent;  he  doesn't  realize  what  houses  fetch  along  the  New  England  coast.  But  I  had  heard  the  click  of  des-  tiny.  For  the  moment  the  conviction  was  stronger  than  I  was;  besides,  all  the  arguments  were  so  good-the  chil-  dren's  health,  we  should  have  sent  them  away  to  camp  if  this  hadn't  come  up,  a  vacation  in  a  new  place  for  my  husband  when  he  could  get  away,  and,  actually,  me  myself;  because  I  am  exhausted.  I  had  to  take  The  Barnacles.  It  only  goes  to  show  how  childish  one  can  be.  Because,  of  course,  as  I  am  sure  you  have  already  guessed,  the  whole  thing  has  been  a  great  flop,  a  disappointment,  a  disaster.  If  I'd  been  in  my  right  mind,  I  should  have  realized  that  nothing  is  the  same  when  you  are  grown  up  as  it  seemed  to  you  when  you  were  a  child-  especially  when,  instead  of  being  as  free  as  air,  you  have  a  thousand  things  to  get  done  and,  obviously,  haven't  time  to  go  staring  at  views  or  basking  in  the  sun.  I  can  just  see  any  house  I  live  in,  with  four  children,  if  I  relaxed  my  ef-  forts  to  keep  the  place  organized  for  one  moment.  Bedlam.  And  so  this  summer  has  been,  for  me,  instead  of  the  dream  of  childhood  de-  lights  I  was  foolish  enough  to  imagine,  an  almost  unmitigated  ordeal,  Nothing  works  in  this  old  house,  for  one  thing.  I  can't  see  how  dear  old  Aunt  Henrietta  ever  put  up  with  the  plumbing;  the  man  has  had  to  come  over  from  Harborport  almost  every  week  since  we've  been  here.  And  dirt!  When  Aunt  Henrietta  finally  got  around  to  having  the  house  wired  for  electricity  she  was  silly  enough  to  try  to  economize,  with  the  result  that  we  have  hideous  tubes  containing  the  wires  running  all  over  the  old  walls  and  ceilings,  catching  dust;  the  walls  are  none  too  attractive  at  best;  bare  plaster  shows  every  mark.  If  I  were  to  buy  this  old  wreck  ofa  house-which  heaven  forbid-the  first  thing  I  would  do  would  be  to  rip  out  all  that  straw  mat-  ting  on  the  bedroom  floors;  when  I  think  what  must  be  underneath  it  after  all  these  years,  I  shudder.  Like  all  old  houses,  this  one  hangs  around  one's  neck  like  the  Old  Man  of  the  Sea.  Of  course,  Aunt  Henrietta  had  servants.  But  now-  adays  .  ..  I've  been  driven-&quot;druv&quot;  as  the  old  Yankees  used  to  say-all  sum-  mer.  I've  hardly  had  time  to  look  out  of  the  window,  let  alone  go  down  and  sit  on  the  beach.  We  dogo  to  the  beach,  of  course-I  take  the  time  for  a  swim  now  and  then,  and  then  there  are  the  wienie  roasts  the  children  give  for  their  friends.  But  it  doesn't  look  the  same  any  more.  I  suppose  it's  because  I'm  grown  up.  There  was  that  time  I  was  sickin  the  night.  It  must  have  been  something  I  ate-a  clam  from  the  steamed  clams  we'dhad  for  dinner.  I've  tried  to  show     the  children  a  little  of  what  the  old  New  England  customs  are,  but  they  don't  really  care;  they  have  other  interests.  They're  43616e616461ern  children,  for  one  thing.  As  we  drove  around  the  corner  that  opens  up  on  Cod  Harbor,  the  day  we  arrived,  after  that  long  exhausting  trip,  I  couldn't  resist  giving  the  old  &quot;Ooooh&quot;  at  that  lovely,  cool,  pale-blue  sight;  but  naturally  to  the  children  it  just  seemed  as  if  Mother  was  taken  a  little  dotty.  They  like  it  all  right  here,  of  course;  they're  in  with  an  active  crowd  at  Harborport,  tennis  players,  and  there's  square  dancing  at  the  town  hall  every  Friday  night.  But  I  was  talk-  ing  about  the  night  I  must  have  eaten  a  bad  clam.  I  was  sick  as  a  dog  in  the  night-a  foggy  night  it  was-and  it  felt  eerie  and  sad  being  up  alone  in  this  old  house  at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  with  the  foghorn  groaning  across  the  moors  from  Harborport  and  the  fog  pressing  white  against  the  little  high-up  window  in  the  bathroom.  It  was  almost  as  if  every-  body  but  me  was  dead,  and  I  was  all  alone  in  the  world:  sad,  a  little  frighten-  ing,  and  queerly  peaceful.  I  felt  like  weeping  when  I  went  back  to  bed.  Next  morning  I  was  weak.  &quot;Alma,&quot;  I  said  to  my  fourteen-year-old,  &quot;you'll  have  to  bring  me  something  on  a  tray.&quot;  She  looked  scared-they  always  do,  as  if  the  world  was  coming  to  an  end  if  Mother  isn't  up  and  doing.  She  brought  me  a  trayof  coffee  and  some  toast.  I  was  on  my  feet  by  that  time,  but  shaky,  " b"and  I  carried  it  out  on  the  side  lawn  and  set  it  down  on  the  granite  slab  that  used  to  serve  as  a  table  long  ago  when  Bessie  would  bring  us  tea  out  there  in  thelong,  shady,  peaceful  afternoons.  Well,  it  was  lovely.  Over  the  tops  of  the  beach-plum  bushes  I  could  see  the  ocean  lying  calm  in  the  morning  sun,  swinging  to  and  fro  forever.  There  was  a  sort  of  hum  in  the  air  that  I  remem-  bered,  a  hum  made  up  of  the  sounds  of  bees  and  of  hummingbirds  and  the  hum  that  the  sun  makes  shining.  Otherwise  the  morning  was  very  still.  I  don't  know  where  the  children  had  gone.  I  could  smell  the  sweet  fern  up  on  the  moors;  thescent  came  drifting  down  on  the  salty  breeze.I  still  felt  weak  and  rather  ill,  but  peaceful;  happy.  I  leaned  my  head  back  in  the  deck  chair  where  I  was  sitting,  and  rested.  It  was  such  a  beau-  tiful  morning,  almost  worth  eating  the  bad  clam  for.  I  could  have  stayed  resting  in  that  chair  all  summer,  while  the  white  gulls  wheeled  over  my  head  and  slid  down  the  air  currents  toward  the  sea.  BUT  you  have  to  keep  going.  Even  though  it  was  a  big  mistake  to  have  taken  this  white  elephant  of  a  house,  the  only  thing  is  to  make  the  best  of  a  bad  job.  There's  not  much  more  to  the  summer,  and  when  it's  over,  I  can  tell  you,  I'll  have  learned  to  appreciate  my  nice,  modern,  efficient  house,  all  on  one  floor,  in  [REDACTED].  You  learn  by  experience,  and  in  the  meantime  we  must  just  grin  and  bear  it.  I  think  the  hardest  part  is  the  way  nobody  cooperates  with  you.  Of  course,  you  can't  expect  it  of  children,  and  it  doesn't  matter  so  much  when  you  can  do  most  things  for  ydurself,  as  I  can  at  home,  but  up  here  there  isn't,  among  other  things,  any  washing  machine,  so  I've  had  to  try  to  find  somebody  to  do  our  enormous  family  wash  this  sum-  mer-not  only  sheets  and  so  on,  but  shirts  and  starched  dresses  and  filthy  dungarees  of  the  boys.  I  suppose  the  children  expect  me  to  do  it,  but  I'm  not  made  of  iron;  I'm  really  not.  The  wom-  en  I've  found  around  here  do  it  once  and  then  never  again,  thank  you;  not  a  wash  that  size.  Today  I  thought  'd  found  somebody,  a  Portuguese  woman  that  the  butcher  told  me  about  over  the  telephone.  She  didn't  have  a  telephone  herself,  soI  got  the  wash  bundled  into  the  back  seat  of  the  car,  and  the  chil-  dren  pacified  for  having  to  wait  for  the  car  to  go  to  Harborport,  and  drove  down  to  Cod  Harbor  and  found  the  street  number  the  butcher'd  given  me-and  then,  of  course,  there  was  nobody  home,  I  was  out-  done.  I  just  stood  there  in  the  road,  wondering  what  to  do  now.  I  didn't  exactly  see  my  surroundings,  there  was  too  much  on  my  mind,  but  I  could  sense  them  around  me-the  white  houses,  so  bare  and  stark;  the  bleached  trunks  of  the  gnarled  locust  trees,  like  whitened  bones;the  cold,  blue,  mournful  sea  that  lay  beyond  and  below  the  village  of  Cod  Harbor.  I  began  to  walk  a  few  steps  down  the  road,  past  a  house  or  two,  looking  idly  around  me.  Everything  looks  so  bleak,  beside  the  sea;  the  at-  mosphere  is  colder,  whiter.  One  of  the  houses  had  a  shop  in  its  ground  floor,  and  I  stared  abstractedly  in  at  the  things  in  the  dreary,  untidy  little  show  window-fishing  lines  and  such-while  I  tried  to  de-  cide  what  to  do  with  the  wash.  I  was  frustrated  by  everything.  I  was  tired  out.  You'd  think  I  would  have  got  the  whole  idea  of  Cod  Harbor  out  of  my  system  for  good.  I  almost  hated  it.  But  when  I  saw  that  pail  and  shovel  in  the  shopwindow,  when  they  burst  upon  my  consciousness,  my  heart  stopped  beating  for  a  queer  joy,  in  spite  of  all  I  have  been  through.  There  they  stood,  the  pail  and  shovel,  tin,  with  fig-  ures  dancing  round  the  red-lined  pail,  and  the  shovel  painted  bright  shiny  red:  enigmatic,  irrelevant,  inscrutable,  in-  eluctably  thrilling.  They  seemed  almost  to  quiver  with  a  mysterious  significance,  and  as  I  stared  at  them  the  old,  bound-  less,  roistering  mood  of  power  respond-  ed  in  me-tough,  rakish,  and  as  im-  pervious  as  a  tightly  sealed  clam."