 b"SOMETIMES  I  think  that  food, any  food,  never  tastes  so  delicious  again  as  it  did  when  one  was  a  child.  When  I  remember  with  what  pleasure  I  shared  a  Sunday-morning  breakfast  with  my  Grandfather  Bentz,  it  astonishes  me,  since  for  those  break-  fasts  we  had  wieners  and  fried  potatoes.  They  were  called  wieners,or  wiener-  wurst,  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  where  I  visited  my  grandparents,  although  they  were  identical  in  appearance  with  the  sausages  now  called  frankfurters,  or  frankfurts,  or  franks.  The  casing  was  tougher.  Grandmother  was  convinced  that  this  casing  was  actually  the  intes-  tines  of  hogs,  and  she  advised  me  not  to  eat  it.  She  once  showed  me  how  to  split  the  hot  wiener,  bursting  with  steam  from  the  boiling  pot,  and  peel  away  the  casing  with  a  fork.  Grandfather  never  bothered  about  this.  At  our  Sunday-  morning  breakfasts,  which  he  delayed  until  Grandmother  had  gone  to  eleven-  o'clock  Mass  at  St.  Raphael's,  we  ate  the  wieners,  casing  and  all,  in  silent  pleasure,  dipping  the  solid  chunks  in  generous  amounts  of  a  strong  mustard  made  by  a  neighbor,  Mr.  Woebber.  Grandfather  always  went  to  early  Mass,  to  sit  with  his  fellow-members  of  the  Saint  Joseph  Society,  and  to  take  Communion  with  them.  To  Grand-  mother,  whose  parents  were  Irish,  Sunday  morning  Mass  was  many  things,  not  the  least  of  which  was  the  opportunity  to  wear  her  new  hat  and  her  voile  gloves  and  her  Sunday-  dress  of  watered  silk,  and  to  chat  with  her  friends  afterward  on  the  church  steps.  She  would  leave  home  in  a  last-minute  flurry  of  in-  structions  and  violet  cologne.  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  Grandfather  would  say  to  her  as  he  stood  at  the  door  ofthe  frame  house  on  Cecil  Street  to  bid  her  goodbye.  Yes,  he  would  watch  the  roast  in  the  oven,  he  would  takea  look  at  the  catch  on  the  back  screen  door,  he  would  go  out  to  see  the  dropsical  hen,  hiding  gloomily  in  the  chicken  house.  &quot;Yes,  yes.&quot;  And  his  gentle  voice  would  be  filled  with  patience,  a  thin  glaze  over  the  feeling  of  exasperation  he  had  lived  with  for  so  long  that  it  had  become  one  of  the  conditions  of  life,  like  rain,  or  age  itself.  &quot;My  wife,  Cecilia,&quot;  as  Grandfather  called  her,  was  a  volatile,  still  beautiful  woman,  worthy  of  his  patience  and  devotion.  She  had  borne  him  five  children,  whom  he  loved,  but  she  did  talk  a  great  deal.  The  climate  of  conflict  in  which  par-  ents  live-that  balanced  tension  present  in  any  successful  marriage-is  generally  perceived  by  children,  but  they  are  not  always  aware  of  the  atmosphere  in  which  their  grandparents  live.  Not  ev-  ery  child  sees  his  grandparents  often  enough,  or  long  enough  at  any  one  time,  to  realize  that  in  marriage  they,  too,  set  up  what  might  be  called  a  mag-  netic  field,  in  which  they  stand  as  op-  posing  polar  forces.  During  my  first  visits,  which  were  brief,  my  grandpar-  ents  seemed  to  me  more  like  compan-  ions  than  lovers,  often  merely  polite  or  indifferent  to  each  other.  Their  private  conversations  did  not  flare  up  sudden-  ly,  alarmingly,  or  unpredictably  into  quarrelling,  as  the  conversations  of  my  parents  sometimes  did.  But  when  I  was  about  seven  years  old,  I  spent  a  summer  with  them,  and  I  heard  them  quarrel  for  the  first  time.  When  Grandmother  had  gone  to  Mass,  Grandfather  would  remove  the  jacket  of  his  dark  worsted  Sunday  suit  with  deliberation  and  a  sense  of  satis-  faction  and  anticipation  that  even  I  could  feel.  He  would  unhinge  his  cellu-  loid  collar  and  roll  his  sleeves  to  his  elbows  carefully.  Then  he  would  proceed  to  the  kitchen,  where  the  cop-  per  kettle  stood  at  the  back  of  the  gas  range,  and  where  theold  pump  emptied  into  the  scrubbed  zinc  sink,  un-  der  an  enormous  jet-  black  Victorian  picture  frame,  which  he  had  filled  some  years  before  with  his  collection  of  Christmas  cards,  of  the  kind  that  glitter  with  artificial  snow.  Beyond  the  windows,  beyond  the  shutters  folded  back  to  let  in  the  morning  light,  the  grapes  ripened  on  the  arbors  that  covered  the  brick  terrace  and  the  long,  sloping  walk  that  led  to  the  chicken  house.  There,  out  in  the  sunlight,  was  Grandfather's  domain.  While  he  meticulously  peeled  the  chilled  boiled  potatoes  and  sliced  them  thick,  ready  to  drop  into  the  hot  bacon  fat  in  the  iron  skillet  on  the  range,  I  would  sit  on  a  small  bench  at  the  win-  dow,  a  bench  he  had  made  for  me,and  look  out  at  his  little  kingdom.  'The  soft" b"red  bricks  of  the  terrace  and  walk  were  put  down  in  the  familiar  arrow  design.  The  walking  surface  rolled  gently.  There  were  treacherous  spots,  slippery  with  moss,  hidden  by  the  dappled  shad-  ows  of  the  heavygreen  leaves  of  the  grapevines,  in  the  cool  green  tunnel  of  the  walk.  Two  varieties  of  grapes  rip-  ened  in  the  sunlight  above.  There  were  blue  Concords,  and  there  were  light  Catawbas,  like  milk-glass  marbles  flushed  with  pink.  The  white  wine  and  the  red  that  Grandfather  pressed  each  year  from  these  grapes  mellowed  in  old  green  bottles  on  racks  in  the  earthen  cellar  under  our  feet.  Grandfather  was  a  short,  stocky  man  with  high  color,  a  Roman  nose,  a  clipped  mustache,  clear  blue  eyes,  and  a  modest  gravity  of  manner.  He  was  a  tinner  by  trade,  and  he  was  also  a  mer-  chant  in  hardware  with  a  partner  who  was  a  friend  of  his  youth.  Although  he  was  born  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  neat,  small  brick  house  beside  the  Scioto  River  in  Chillicothe,  and  although  his  father  had  died  when  he  was  a  small  boy,  the  racial  pattern  of  his  Alsatian-French  ances-  try  had  persisted  in  him,  as  much  a  part  of  his  being  asthe  migratory  instinct  is  of  a  bird's.  However,  as  I  later  realized,  a  process  of  racial  modification,  which  would  allow  his  grandchildren  to  for-  get  that  they  were  anything  but  Ameri-  cans,  was  beginning  to  be  apparent  in  him  in  small  ways.  To  drink  wine  with  meals,  for  example,  was  a  practice  un-  heard  of  in  his  neighborhood  in  Spring-  field,  and  one  certainly  not  to  be  countenanced  by  his  good,  beer-drink-  ing  Lutheran  neighbors,  the  men  he  knew  as  friends  and  respected  as  busi-  ness  associates.  So,  while  he  made  wine  much  as  his  fathers  had  made  it,  he  fermented  it  with  a  small  amount  of  sugar,  and  it  was  no  longer  meant  for  the  table.  Neither  quite  dry  nor  quite  sweet,  it  served  instead  as  an  excel-  lent  ap\xc3\xa9ritif,  or  as  a  refreshment  to  be  drunk  in  the  afternoon  with  simple  sugared  cakes.  FTER  Grandmother  returned  from  Mass,  glowing  with  the  pleasure  of  her  outing,  the  house  would  be  filled  with  preparations  for  an  enor-  mous  Sunday  dinner,  to  which  guests  were  usually  invited.  Grandmother  would  be  talking  again,  with  Grand-  father  abstract  again,  patient,  his  back  held  firm,  his  mind  presumably  fixed  on  his  own  model  ofrectitude,  Saint  Joseph,  that  ultimate  example  of  man-  ly  forbearance.  And  while  Grandmoth-  er  bustled  from  dining  room  to  kitchen,  Grandfather  would  make  certain  prepa-" b"rations  of  his  own,  which  began  with  the  polishing  of  the  wineglasses.  The  menwho  arrived  with  their  la-  dies  for  dinner  were  those  large  men  one  remembers  from  boyhood,  men  who  wore  watch  fobs  of  gold  mesh,  and  cameo  stickpins  in  their  ties,  and  who  smelled  of  tobacco,  or  bay  rum,  or  leath-  er,  or  horseflesh,.  When  they  had  gath-  ered  in  the  parlor,  Grandfather  would  follow  an  unvarying  routine.  &quot;Shall  we  whitewash  the  cellar,  gentlemen?&quot;  he  would  ask,  his  tone  formal,  a  gleam  of  humor  inhis  eyes.  'The  women  would  shrug  their  plump  shoulders  in  a  gesture  of  helplessness,  or  turn  up  their  eyes  and  make  small,  despairing  noises,  but  the  men  would  chuckle,  and  place  their  \xc2\xabtrong  red  hands  on  their  knees  before  rising,  as  if  for  leverage.  &quot;Dinner  is  almost  ready,  Will!&quot;  Grandmother  would  call  warningly  from  the  dining  room.  Grandfather  disdained  to  turn  his  head.  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  he  would  mur-  mur  absently,  and  then  he  would  lead  the  solemn  march  to  the  cellar,  where  the  men  sat  on  wooden  benches  to  drink  the  wine  in  the  coolhalf  darkness,  with  the  slanting  cellar  door  flung  open  like  a  hatchwayon  the  scented  green  air  ofthe  grape  arbor.  But  if  the  uses  of  the  wine  had  altered  in  my  grandfather's  house,  the  nature  of  wine  itself  was  still  unchanged  in  his  racial  memory.  Wine  was,  after  all,  a  sacrament,  one  of  the  elements,  one  of  the  mysteries  of  life-a  conviction  he  passed  on  to  me  by  the  way  he  first  gave  me  wine  to  taste.  To  begin  with,  wine  was  always  served  in  a  stemmed  glass  ofthe  finest  crystal  the  house  af-  forded,  and  when  I  was  old  enough,  five  or  six,  he  took  from  a  shelf  ofthe  cabinet  called  the  china  closet  one  of  these  glasses  and  polished  it  with  a  worn  linen  napkin  put  aside  for  that  purpose.  In  the  glass  he  put  first  a  half  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Then  he  poured  the  glass  half  full  of  red  wine,  and  filled  it  with  cool  water  from  the  bottle  kept  next  to  the  cake  of  ice  in  the  icebox.  He  held  me  on  his  knee  as  I  drank  it,  and  I  remem-  ber  how  the  glass  felt  in  my  hand.  The  base  was  round  and  smooth,  but  the  stem  was  fluted,  and  the  bowl  of  the  glass  was  cut  deeply  with  a  pattern  of  grapes  and  leaves,  sharp  to  the  fingers,  justas  the  wine  itself  was  to  my  taste-  cool  and  sweet  but  sharp,  and  with  a  heady  scent  of  sun  and  fermented  grapes.  Food  and  wine  were  the  rightful  pleasures  of  life  for  Grandfather,  the  gifts  of  God,  to  be  enjoyed  with  grave  but  unqualified  delight.  Perhaps  itis  for  that  reason  that  I  remember  with" b"such  pleasure  the  Sunday-morning  breakfasts,  with  the  two  of  us  alone  in  the  agreeable  early  heat  of  a  hot  sum-  mer  day,  silent  for  the  most  part,  but  comfortably  silent,  in  a  house  tem-  porarily  free  of  women,  each  of  us  knowing  his  place,  an  old  man  and  a  boy  in  whom  the  same  blood  flowed.  HE  nature  of  the  quarrel  between  my  grandfather  and  my  grand-  mother  that  summer  was  not  clearly  understood  by  me  at  the  time.  I  did  not  try  to  comprehend  it,  because  only  the  fact  of  the  quarrel  itself  had  interest  for  me.  It  gave  me  a  peculiar  sense  of  apprehension,  as  if  my  existence  were  threatened;  as  if,  were  the  quarrel  not  settled,  I  should  cease  to  be,  cancelled  out  in  some  way  by  the  failure  of  their  love.  I  slept  upstairs  in  the  back  bed-  room,  over  the  kitchen,  with  a  window  looking  down  on  the  grapevine-covered  terrace  and  a  window  facing  east  on  an  alley.  There  was  a  hole  in  the  floor  besidethe  bed,  a  round  hole  lined  with  metal,  meant  to  serve,  in  the  wintertime,  as  a  source  of  warmth,  the  heat  rising  from  the  kitchen  range  below.  On  those  nights  when  I  heard  Grandmother  speaking  with  passion  in  the  kitchen,  I  would  slip  out  of  bed  and  lie  on  the  floor  with  my  face  above  the  hole,  held  slight-  ly  to  one  side  of  it,  so  that  if  they  chanced  to  look  up  they  would  not  see  me.  One  night,  after  I  had  been  sent  up  to  bed,  Grandmother,  I  could  see,  was  busy  at  the  stove  and  the  sink,  and  Grandfather,  as  was  his  custom,  was  shaving  in  front  of  the  mirror  that  hung  on  the  wall  beside  the  sink.  He  shaved  at  night  forthe  following  day,  and  he  did  it  deliberately,  as  he  did  all  things,  stropping  his  straight  razor  thoroughly,  testing  the  water  in  the  tin  basin  as  he  added  more  water  from  the  kettle,  lath-  ering  his  shaving  brush  with  absorption.  Grandmother  talked  as  she  moved  about.  I  could  not  hear  her  distinctly;  she  was  aware  that  I  might  not  be  asleep,  or  that  I  might  waken,  and  if  sometimes,  in  the  heat  of  her  discussion,  she  forgot,  and  let  her  voice  rise,  Grand-  father  would  admonish  her  silently,  with  a  forefinger  pointed  toward  the  ceiling.  'That  night,  I  heard  the  name  of  my  Aunt  Ella  mentioned  repeated-  ly-my  headstrong,  impetuous  aunt,  who  had  rushed  into  marriage  shortly  before  and  had  spent  a  good  bit  of  time  since  then  running  about  inside  her  marriage  as  if  it  were  a  cage,  or  a  room  whose  dimensions  were  too  confining  for  her.  Tom,  the  husband,  was  an  ex-  cavalryman,  a  bluff,  red-faced  giant  who  awed  me  to  speechlessness.  And " b"he  was  not  a  Roman  Catholic.  He  had  married  Aunt  Ella  in  a  civil  ceremony,  which  in  the  eyes  of  Grandmother,  and  of  Monsignor  Flaherty,  was  no  mar-  riage  at  all.  Grandmother  longed  to  save  Aunt  Ella  from  her  life  of  sin  while  there  was  still  time,  before  any  children  came.  &quot;If  you  would  speak  to  her,  Will,&quot;  Grandmother  said.  &quot;You  know  how  stubborn  she  is.  And  how  proud.  Just  go  to  her  and  bring  her  home.&quot;  &quot;She  has  made  her  choice,&quot;  Grand-  father  said,  his  gentle  voice  firm,  his  hand  steady  with  the  razor  on  his  cheek.  &quot;She  must  love  him,  or  she  would  come  home  to  us.&quot;  &quot;But,  Will!&quot;  Grandmother  protest-  ed,  holding  the  copper  kettle  in  her  hand,  her  soft  cheeks  pink,  her  beauti-  ful  hair  curled  in  wisps  about  her  face  by  the  heat  ofthe  stove.  &quot;She  is  your  daughter!&quot;  &quot;We  must  not  interfere,&quot;  Grand-  father  said.  &quot;She  is  a  child  no  longer.&quot;  Grandmother  was  very  angered.  Still  holding  the  kettle,  she  went  up  close  to  Grandfather  and  spoke  to  him  with  fury.  &quot;That's  your  way,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Just  stand  there!  Do  nothing!&quot;  Grandfather's  expression  did  not  change.  He  put  his  razor  down  care-  fully,  wiped  the  lather  from  his  face,  and  left  the  kitchen  without  a  word.  Grandmother  stood  still  for  a  moment.  Then  she  put  the  kettle  on  the  range,  covered  her  face  with  her  apron,  and  burst  into  tears.  HE  next  morning,  I  awoke  to  the  sound  of  Grandmother's  laughter.  It  was  Saturday.  Mr.  Caspar,  the  Jewel  Tea  man,  had  come.  I  could  hear  his  voice  in  the  kitchen,  and  I  jumped  from  bed  and  ran  to  the  east  window  to  see  his  hooded  wagon  in  the  alley  below.  When  Mr.  Caspar  left  his  wagon  to  come  into  the  kitchen,  bringing  his  metal  basket  with  its  boxes  of  tea  and  allspice  and  cloves  and  cinnamon,  he  heaved  a  lead  weight  out,  fixed  to  a  chain,  to  keep  the  old  roan  mare  from  straying.  I  saw  her  down  there  now,  her  head  straining  against  the  weight,  her  ancient  yellow  teeth  bared,  as  she  tried  to  reach  the  coarse  grass  that  grew  along  the  edges  of  the  alley.  I  threw  my  clothes  on  and  ran  down  to  help  her,  asI  always  did,  by  pulling  the  grass  and  holding  it  up  for  her  to  eat.  As  I  ran  out  the  door  I  could  see  Grandfather  out  in  back,  cleaning  the  chicken  house,  his  customary  Satur-  day-morning  chore.  After  that,  he  would  scrub  the  interior  of  the  out-" b"house.  Grandfather's  outhouse  was  the  most  superior  outhouse  I  had  ever  seen,  with  its  clean  pine  boards  and  generally  with  a  wasp,  sleepy  and  vexed,  circling  lazily  overhead  in  the  warm  air  that  was  redolent  of  lime.  Best  of  all,  the  inside  of  the  walls  was  papered  with  large  posters  advertising  the  Barnum  &amp;  Bailey  circus,  decorations  that  Grandmother  suffered  in  silent  disapproval.  On  the  posters,  beautiful  ladies  with  faces  of  pink  wax  balanced  on  high  wires,  or  stood  on  tiptoe  on  white  horses  in  full  gallop,  wearing  purple  tights  drawn  up  over  full  thighs  to  impossibly  small  waists,  balancing  themselves  with  Japa-  nese  parasols  carried  over  their  moun-  tainous,  glossy  hair.  After  Mr.  Caspar  had  gone,  we  had  breakfast.  Then,  possibly  forgetful  of  the  tension  of  the  night  before,  or  wish-  ing  to  avoid  more  of  it,  I  persuaded  Grandmother  to  invite  to  lunch  a  neigh-  bor  girl  named  Mary  Lou.  Mary  Lou  and  I  had  sworn  secret  and  undying  devotion  to  each  other  earlier  in  the  summer,  in  a  ceremony  in  which  we  touched  tongues.  Our  days  were  filled  with  the  carrying  out  of  great  dares  and  challenges,  climbing  trees,  running  along  the  tops  of  walls.  When  forced  to  sit  still,  we  whispered  and  giggled.  Grandmother's  cuisine,  aside  from  her  excellent  baking,  was  centered  on  the  potato,  as  befitted  her  Irish  ances-  try.  She  even  said  the  word  differently  from  the  way  I  have  ever  heard  any-  one  else  say  it,  softening  the  consonants  lovingly,  and  she  often  sang  of  the  po-  tato  as  she  went  about  her  work,  her  voice  rich  with  the  heritage  of  County  Cork.  &quot;Oh,  the  praties  grow  so  small,  we  can  eat  them,  skins  and  all,&quot;  she  sang,  and  it  was  not  until  years  later  that  I  knew  the  song  had  a  name  and  a  history,  that  it  was  the  song  of  the  Irish  potato  famine,  and  not  simply  a  tune  she  had  composed  to  entertain  herself  and  me.  Indeed,  we  did  eat  our  praties  skins  and  all,  cut  openon  a  plate,  bathed  in  melted  butter,  and  sprinkled  liberally  with  salt  and  some  of  the  pepper  from  Mr.  Caspar's  wagon.  On  this  day,  we  ate  our  praties  in  silence,  sitting  at  the  large,  round  kitch-  en  table,  which  was  covered  with  a  round  white  cloth  that  fell  over  one's  knees,  With  the  boiled  potatoes  we  had  steamed  fresh  beet  tops,  dressed  with  chopped  onion  and  bacon.  Grandfather  ate  his  food  without  raising  his  eyes  from  his  plate.  Mary  Lou  and  I  giggled  and  dawdled  until  Grandmother,  un-  able  to  bear  the  situation  any  longer,  sprang  up  from  the  table  and  ran  out-  side.  There  she  unaccountably  slammed " b"to  all  the  shutters  of  the  kitchen  win-  dows,  imprisoning  us  in  a  dim  green  light,  as  if  we  lunched  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  Grandfather  ate  on  methodical-  ly  while  Grandmother  came  back  in  and  ran  upstairs  without  a  word  and  changed  into  street  clothes.  When  she  came  down  again,  wearing  her  hat  and  carrying  her  bag  and  gloves,  she  looked  in  at  us  briefly.  &quot;I  will  go  for  her  myself,&quot;  she  said  to  Grandfather,  either  forgetting  that  Mary  Lou  and  I  were  there  or  not  caring.  Then  she  left  swiftly  by  thefront  door,  slamming  the  screen  behind  her.  After  lunch,  Mary  Lou  went  home  somewhat  subdued,  and  I  felt  a  need  to  stay  close  to  Grandfather.  We  cleared  the  table  and  washed  the  dishes,  and  then  he  set  about  preparing  the  boiled  beef  for  dinner,  which  he  quite  often  did  on  a  Saturday.  While  Grandmoth-  er  sometimes  ate  merely  to  keep  going,  Grandfather  loved  food  and  the  prepa-  ration  of  food  for  its  own  sake.  Boiled  beef  was  one  of  his  favorite  dishes.  The  preparation  began  with  a  shin  of  beef,  the  meat  cut  away  from  the  bone.  Meat  and  bone  were  simmered  together  slowly  for  hours,  with  finely  chopped  onion  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf  or  dried  cel-  ery  leaf  and  three  or  four  peppercorns.  Salt,  as  any  cook  knows,  was  not  added  until  later,  to  avoid  toughening  the  meat.  At  dinnertime,  shallow  soup  plates  would  be  set  out  on  dinner  plates  on  the  round  white  cloth,  along  with  a  knife  and  fork  and  spoon.  The  clear,  hot  broth,  from  which  the  fat  had  been  skimmed,  was  then  ladled  into  the  soup  plates,  and  into  this  went  a  big  helping  of  the  boiled  beef.  Horseradish  was  served,  too,  a  spoonful  being  put  on  the  wide,  sloping  rim  of  the  soup  plate.  Watching  Grandfather,  I  would  eat  as  he  ate,  cutting  a  portion  of  beef,  dip-  ping  it  into  the  horseradish,  then  plac-  ing  the  beef  in  the  soupspoon  and  submerging  it  in  the  broth,  so  that  simultaneously  one  had  beef,  broth,  and  horseradish.  And  on  crusty  slices  of  fresh  bread  we  would  spread  the  rich  marrow  from  the  bone.  While  the  beef  simmered,  Grand-  father  and  I  went  out  to  weed  the  kitchen  garden.  'This  garden  was  locat-  ed  on  the  east  side  of  the  grape  arbor  and  the  brick  walk  that  led  to  the  chick-  en  house,  so  it  would  receive  the  morn-  ing  sun.  It  was  a  tidy  garden,  each  vegetable  bed  neat  within  its  lowmar-  gins  of  lichen-covered  limestone.  There  were  lettuces-Black  Simpson  and  a  heading  variety  I  cannot  identify;  pole  beans,  every  tendril  neatly  tied  up  with" b"a  torn  strip  of  soft  old  linen;  beets,  grown  for  their  tops  as  well  as  their  roots;  and  long  rows  of  green  onions,  and  of  radishes,  red  where  they  burst  from  the  ground  and  white  below.  The  garden  soil  had  been  enriched  with  chicken  droppings.  Sometimes,  at  night,  I  would  go  down  through  the  garden  to  say  good  night  to  the  roosters  and  hens,  decorously  asleep  on  their  perches  in  the  low  henhouse.  We  had  finished  weeding  the  garden  and  were  resting  in  the  iron  lawn  chairs  on  the  west  side  of  the  grape  arbor,  in  the  cool  late-afternoon  shade  of  the  plum  tree,  when  Grandmother  came  home  again.  She  came  in  the  front  door,  walked  through  the  house,  and  stood  at  the  back  screen  door  and  called.  Her  voice  was  low,  and  sounded  weary,  I  thought.  &quot;Will,&quot;  she  said.  Grandfather  got  up  without  a  word  and  went  in  to  her.  I  followed,  as  if  I  were  attached  to  him,  to  them,  to  their  conflict,  by  some  invisible  membrane.  I  dared  not  follow  him  into  the  dining  room,  where  Grandmother  had  gone  and  was  waiting,  probably  on  the  small  horsehair  sofa  in  the  corner  by  the  bay  window.  I  stood  in  the  kitchen  uncer-  tainly.  Grandmother  was  crying  softly,  and  at  last  I  heard  her  speak.  &quot;You  were  right,  Will,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  should  not  have  tried  to  interfere.&quot;  There  was  a  pause  then,  filled  with  her  weeping.  &quot;She  loves  him,  Will,&quot;  Grandmother  went  on.  &quot;They  quarrel,  but  she  loves  him.  I  must  resign  myself  to  that.&quot;  Silence  followed,  and  when  Grand-  father  finally  spoke,  it  was  in  his  gentle  way.  &quot;There  now,  Cecilia,&quot;  he  said.  ''Yes,  yes.  Yes,  yes.&quot;  HE  boiled  beef  had  an  unusually  festive  air  about  it  that  evening  at  dinnertime.  Grandfather  served  it  with  the  gravity  and  the  deference  it  de-  served,  and  we  ate  in  the  kitchen  with  the  shutters  open  on  the  twilight,  and  the  fireflies,  and  the  crickets.  While  we  ate,  a  man  came  up  the  alley  noiselessly  on  his  bicycle  to  light  the  Welsbach  mantle  of  the  gas  lamp  on  the  corner.  Grandmother  entertained  us  with  twice-told  tales  of  her  childhood  in  Fay-  ette  County,  [REDACTED].  She  was  born  in  a  log  house  some  miles  out  of  Washing-  ton  Court  House,  the  county  seat,  where  her  father's  rifle  and  his  bullet  molds  hung  over  the  huge  fireplace,  with  its  fire  that  was  never  extinguished,  and  where  at  night  she  slept  on  a  trun-  dle  bed,  pulled  out  from  under  the  bed  of  her  parents.  She  laughed  until  the  tears  came,  remembering  what  a  tom- " b"boy  she  had  been,  an  only  girl  brought  up  with  brothers,  and  how  they  had  all  plagued  poor  old  Mr.  Adams,  the  schoolmaster,  dead  these  many  years  now,  with  a  game  called  &quot;Johnny-  Over,&quot;  in  which,  during  lunch  and  re-  cess  periods,  they  divided  into  two  teams  and  rolled  a  ball  back  and  forth  over  the  peaked  roof  of  the  one-room  school-  house  while  Mr.  Adams  sat  inside  at  his  desk.  Almost  driven  to  distraction  by  the  noise,  he  would  at  last  dash  out,  ringing  his  brass  hand  bell  wildly  for  silence,  and,  delighted  at  their  success,  the  children  would  run  for  cover  in  the  woods.  These  stories,  which  had  the  same  reality  for  me  as  the  fairy  tales  I  had  read  in  Hans  Christian  Andersen,  seemed  to  amuse  Grandfather,  too,  from  the  look  on  his  face.  His  only  verbal  contribution  at  the  dinner  table,  however,  was  the  saying  of  grace,  that  familiar,  unchanging  prayer  that  began,  &quot;Bless  us,  O  Lord,  and  these  Thy  gifts,  which  we  are  about  to  receive  from  Thy  Bounty  .  .  .&quot;  Sitting  there  between  them,  secure  in  their  renewed  devotion,  I  had,  I  think,  forthe  first  time,  afeel-  ing  about  their  relationship  that  it  would  take  me  many  years  to  understand  fully-that  separately  Grandmother's  gaiety,  Grandfather's  quiet  strength  meant  nothing,  and  might  neverhave  existed,  the  gaiety  and  the  strength  be-  ing  qualities  that  flowered  only  in  op-  position  to  each  other.  FTER  dinner,  Grandfather,  with  obvious  relish,  went  to  the  pan-  try  for  the  large  market  basket,  and  while  Grandmother  cleared  the  table  and  washed  the  dishes,  Grandfather  and  I  walked  in  to  the  center  of  town  to  do  the  weekly  shopping.  Each  Satur-  day,  from  the  rich  bottomland  of  the  valley  the  farmers  brought  in  their  produce  in  open  wagons  to  the  plaza,  or  esplanade,  and  wheeled  them  into  places  that  had  become  theirs  by  cus-  tom.  Here,  under  flaring  gaslights,  Grandfather  selected  the  vegetables  he  did  not  grow  in  his  own  garden-  scrubbed  potatoes  gleaming  in  mounds  on  the  open  tail  gates  of  wagons;  cook-  ing  onions,  red  and  yellow;  green  corn,  grown  in  the  earth  where  the  Shawnee  Indians  had  grown  their  corn.  The  farmer,  and  often  his  wife,  stood  by,  sometimes  wearing  the  hat  and  the  bon-  net  of  the  Plain  People.  And  behind  them,  dressed  carcasses  of  beef  hung  on  hooks,  along  with  freshly  slaughtered  pigs,  and  chickens  and  geese,  plucked  and  pale.  Grandfather  shopped  slowly,  undis-" b"turbed  by  the  clamor  and  the  excite-  ment,  the  Saturday-night  air  of  carni-  val.  He  had  a  knowing  eye,  a  sense  of  satisfaction  in  the  proper  contour  or  tex-  ture  or  shape  of  each  potato  or  onion  or  ear  of  corn.  Were  they  not,  after  all,  gifts  from  the  bounty  of  God,  created  to  sustain  us?  And  when  we  finally  left  the  market  place,  there  were  delicacies  in  the  basket,  too-a  link  or  two  of  liverwurst,  a  wedge  of  cheese,  a  half  peck  of  hickory  nuts  saved  from  winter  stores,  to  be  cracked  with  a  tack  ham-  mer  on  the  bottom  of  the  flatiron  at  home  and  used  for  cakes  or  for  that  wonderful  confection  of  powdered  sugar,  butter,  and  cream  known  as  sea  foam.  Walking  home  under  the  heavy  leavesof  the  maple  trees,  going  down  Limestone  Street  and  over  Madison  Avenue  to  Woodlawn,  I  remember,  although  it  is  now  thirty-five  years  ago,  the  unaccountable  feeling  of  sadness  and  loneliness  that  came  over  me.  An  owl  hooted  above  us,  a  train  mourned  in  the  distance,  and  Islipped  my  hand  into  Grandfather's  hand  for  comfort.  While  the  summer  wind  stirred  the  treetops,  I  felt  suddenly,  being  so  young,  that  I  might  never  know  life  in  all  its  richness,  as  Grandfather  knew  it.  Or  it  was  as  if  he  possessed  some  secret,  so  very  simple  he  would  not  be  able  to  impart  it  to  me  if  I  could  not  discover  it  for  myself.  I  think  that  still,  sometimes.  Yet  there  are  moments  when  I  know,  with  a  sense  of  delighted  recognition,  through  a  gesture,  or  a  movement,  or  an  unexpected  timbre  in  my  voice,  that  a  part  of  my  grandfather  lives  inside  me."