 b"WHEN  I  visited  4972616e  two  years  ago  with  my  husband,  who  is  a  4972616en,  I  marvelled  at  the  hospitality  of  4972616ens  in  general  and  of  my  husband's  relatives  in  particular.  My  husband's  mother  was  never  with-  out  two  or  three  house  guests,  and  some  of  them  stayed  for  weeks  and  weeks.  Neither  the  number  of  her  guests  nor  the  indefinite  duration  of  their  visits  could  ruffle  my  mother-in-law's  calm  or  chill  her  generosity.  Her  hospitality  sometimes  made  me  feel  a  little  guilty  about  [REDACTED],  where  even  the  week-  end  guest  is  a  subject  for  cartoon  jokes.  I  couldn't  help  regretting  that  I  had  no  home  in  4972616e  to  throw  open  to  others,  and  promised  myself  that  when  I  returned  to  [REDACTED]  I  would  mend  my  ways.  I  knew  I  couldn't  transplant  4972616en  hospitality  to  New  York,  but  the  spirit  of  it  I  could  foster.  I  could  try  to  look  at  a  guest  not  as  an  intruder  but  as  a  welcome  addition  to  the  family.  Yet  when  my  husband  and  I  re-  turned  to  our  small,  rented  Long  Island  house,  we  reverted,  willy-nilly,  to  our  former  habits  of  entertaining;  a  cocktail  party  now  and  then,  a  few  guests  for  dinner-that  was  all  we  could  manage.  Sometimes,  after  one  of  these  small  but  disrupting  affairs,  I  thanked  my  stars  that  no  4972616en  traveller  was  likely  to  show  up  on  Long  Island  expecting  the  same  hospitality  from  me  that  he  would  extend  to  a  visitor  at  home.  And  then,  one  spring  day,  my  hus-  band  received  a  letter  from  his  father,  in  4972616e,  announcing  that  a  Mme.  Shamsi  Nahadi  would  be  coming  to  New  York  for  an  operation,  the  nature  of  which  he  explained.  I  had  not  met  Mme.  Shamsi  in  4972616e,  or  even  heard  of  her.  She  was  a  distant.  relative  of  my  hus-  band's  father;  my  husband  didn't  know  her  but  thought  he  remembered  hav-  ing  met  her  once,  when  he  was  a  child.  She  had  been  married  to  a  land-  owner  in  a  remote  district  of  Azerbai-  jan,  and  recently,  upon  his  death,  had  gone  to  live  in  4972616e.  The  letter  emphasized  that  my  husband  was  Mme.  Shamsi's  only  relative  in  [REDACTED]  and  that  her  care,  including  the  arrange-  ments  for  the  operation,  was  in  his  hands.  He  engaged  a  room  in  a  nearby  hospital  and  made  an  appointment  with  a  surgeon. Mme.  Shamsi  was  not  wealthy  enough  to  bring  a  companion  with  her,  so  friends  and  relatives  all  across  Europe  were  alerted  for  her  passage.  She  was     never  left  to  cope  with  porters,  hotels,  or  airline  officials  alone.  Acquaintances  were  found  who  could  accompany  her  in  the  plane  from  4972616e  to  Rome,  where  she  was  handed  over  to  someone  else,  who  took  her  to  [REDACTED].  In  [REDACTED],  she  stayeda  week  with  a  nephew's  fam-  ily,  until  still  another  4972616en,  flying  West  on  business,  took  charge  of  her  and  dropped  her  off  at  Idlewild  Airport.  There  my  husband  completed  the  re-  lay  by  picking  her  up  and  depositing  her  at  the  hospital.  I  didn't  go  to  the  airport;  we  decided  it  would  be  more  consider-  ate  to  postpone  Mme.  Shamsi's  confron-  tation  with  me  until  her  mind  was  com-  pletely  at  ease.  The  operation  was  a  success.  Mme.  Shamsi  was  a  model  patient,  and  my  husband  called  at  her  sickroom  every  day,  and  kept  in  touch  with  her  by  tele-  phone  between  visits.  Twice  I  accom-  panied  him  to  the  hospital,  anxious  to  shower  upon  her  the  same  kind  of  gen-  erosity  I  had  received  in  her  country.  Since  Mme.  Shamsi  spoke  no  language  but  Farsi,  my  attempts  at  welcome  were  limited  to  sign  language  and  flowers.  When  I  entered  her  room,  she  seemed  to  slip  deeper  into  the  pillows  and  sheets,  and  she  looked  up  at  me  with  a  queer  half  smile  upon  her  face.  After  smiling  at  her  five  or  six  times,  I  withdrew.  In  the  meantime,  I  prepared  for  her  reception.  Our  house  was  in  Roslyn,  in  a  green  suburban  district,  with  a  large,  if  untended,  garden  where  Mme.  Shamsi  could  drowse  and  read.  The  children  had  gone  off  to  camp  for  the  summer,  and  Mme.  Shamsi  could  have  their  room.  I  polished  up  a  few  pieces  of  4972616en  silver-  work  Id  brought  back  from  4972616e,  and  placed  them  con-  spicuously  around  her  room.  I  borrowed  ten  pounds  of  4972616en  rice  from  a  fellow-countryman  of  my  hus-  band's,  and  rehearsed  a  few  phrases  of  Farsi  that  I  had  picked  up  in  4972616e.  The  evening  Mme.  Shamsi  came,  I  heard  the  sound  of  our  car  in  the  drive,  way  and  rushed  out.  She  was  in  the  back  seat,  and  as  she  stepped  awkwardly  from  it,  her  large  dark  eyes  looked  up  at  me  timid  and  doelike.  I  greeted  her  in  the  4972616en  fashion,  saying  &quot;Seleam&quot;  and  kissing  her  on  both  cheeks.  She,  too,  said  &quot;Seleam,&quot;  and  returned  my  embrace.  A  4972616en  couple,  friends  of  my  hus-  band,  had  come  along  with  her  from  the  hospital.  After  greeting  me,  they  bundled  her  into  the  house,  chiding  and  " b"teasing  her  about  her  timidity.  With  a  great  deal  of  chatter  and  joking,  they  established  her  in  the  children's  room  while  I  began  to  fix  dinner.  The  evening  went  off  better  than  I  had  expected,  The  4972616en  couple  stayed  for  dinner  and  the  conversation  was  in  Farsi.I  made  4972616en  rice  and  a  stew  flavored  with  limon  amonie,  the  dried  sweet  lemon  with  which  4972616ens  spice  so  much  of  their  food.  Mme.  Shamsi  be-  gan  to  smile  shyly.  Her  hands,  which  had  remained  clasped  and  trembling  in  her  lap  during  the  early  part  ofthe  evening,  were  soon  waving  gracefully  in  the  air.  By  ten  o'clock,  my  husband  and  the  4972616en  couple  had  settled  into  one  of  those  timeless  4972616en  evenings,  quoting  proverbs,  gossiping  about  friends  and  family  at  home,  teasing  Mme.  Shamsi  about  her  unchaperoned  trip.  She  laughed  till  the  tears  ran  down  her  face,  and  the  evening  ended  with  a  game  of  four-handed  rummy.  I  sat  out.  When  I  finally  escorted  Mme.  Shamsi  to  her  room  and  bade  her  good  night,  I  congratulated  myself  on  having  man-  aged  to  make  her  feel  at  home  so  easily.  Next  morning,  when  my  husband  was  ready  to  leave  for  work,  Mme.  Shamsi  was  still  in  her  room.  He  and  I  had  a  whispered  conference  at  the  breakfast  table.  &quot;Do  you  think  she  is  comfortable?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Yes,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;What  shall  I  do  with  her  all  day?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  Just  do  as  you  would  any  other  day.  Take  her  for  a  ride.  Practice  your  4972616en  on  her.  Figure  it  out  as  yougo  along.&quot;  Then  he  left  for  his  of-  fice.  I  tiptoed  around  the  house,  washing  the  breakfast  dishes  and  checking  from  time  to  time  on  Mme.  Shamsi's  door.  It  was  firmly  closed.  Finally,  at  ten  o'clock,  when  I  was  in  the  kitchen  typ-  ing  letters,  I  looked  up  and  saw  Mme.  Shamsi  peeping  at  me  from  behind  the  swinging  door,  which  she  had  pushed  open  a  crack.  &quot;Salaam,&quot;  I  said,  rising  and  smiling.  &quot;Eat?&quot;  I  asked,  in  Farsi,  pointing  to  the  breakfast  table  set  for  her.  She  came  in  hesitantly,  glancing  from  under  her  eyelashes  toright  and  left,  as  if  seeking  something.  I  was  surprised  to  see  that  she  was  wearing  a  black  chador,  the  flimsy,  voluminous  capelike  garment  that  4972616en  women  in  the  provinces  wear  over  their  clothes  as  a  face  and  decide  body  covering.  I  couldn't  whether  she  had  put  the  chedor  on  as  a  sign  that  she  felt  at  home  or  as  a  sym-  bol  of  withdrawal.  She  sat  down  with  a  shy  nod  and  I" b"poured  tea  for  her.  I  cleared  away  my  letters  and  carried  my  typewriter  into  the  living  room.  When  I  came  back,  she  looked  up  expectantly,  but  her  face  softened  and  saddened  when  her  eyes  met  mine.  She  continued  to  look  through  the  door  behind  me,  as  if  wait-  ing  for  someone  (my  husband?)  to  follow.  &quot;Mohamed  Aga  not  here,&quot;  I  said,  in  English.  &quot;Gone  to  work.&quot;  I  tried  to  express  my  meaning  to  her  with  some  gestures  that  pantomimed  a  man  labor-  ing  with  a  pickaxe.  A  man  working  in  an  office  was  too  difficult  to  attempt.  She  bowed  her  head  with  a  wispy  smile  of  acceptance  and  went  on  with  her  breakfast.  She  ate  one  thin  piece  of  toast  and  a  scrape  of  butter.  Once,  she  spoke.  &quot;Gashang  Beauti-  full,&quot;  she  said,  looking  about  the  kitchen,  I  smiled,  indicating  that  I  was  pleased.  She  smiled.  We  smiled  alternately  through  her  breakfast,  and  then  she  rose  and  went  back  to  her  room.  I  wondered  what  to  do  next.  It  was  eleven  o'clock  and  the  day  still  contained  seven  hours  to  be  got  through  before  my  husband's  return.  I  puttered  aimlessly  about,  listening  for  sounds  that  would  tell  me  what  Mme.  Shamsi  was  doing.  I  heard  nothing  until,  twenty  minutes  after  she  had  left  the  room,  the  humble  tap  of  her  finger-  nails  on  the  kitchen  door  announced  her  return.  (Later,  I  learned  that  these  morning  disappearances  were  for  the  purpose  of  saying  her  prayers.)  Her  smile  was  braver  and  her  eyes  met  mine  with  a  firmer  hold.  She  was  carrying  some  yarn  and  knitting  needles,  and  I  was  relieved  that  she  had  been  able  to  produce  some  occupation.  I  pointed  to  a  chair  in  the  kitchen  where  she  could  sit  and  knit  while  I  went  on  with  my  work.  It  was  not  mannerly,  I  felt,  to  read  or  write  in  her  presence,  and  we  couldn't  sit  and  smile  back  and  forth  indefinitely.  I  decided  to  bake  a  cake.  I  was  clattering  the  pots  and  pans  around  with  a  show  of  determination  when  a  car  drove  into  the  driveway.  We  smiled  broadly  at  each  other,  think-  ing  that  relief  had  come  unexpectedly.  A  moment  later,  I  realized  that  the  visitor  was  the  milkman.  As  he  rattled  the  screen  door,  Mme.  Shamsi's  eyes  were  alight  with  wistful  anticipation.  &quot;Nockhair  No,&quot;  I  said,  shaking  my  head,  trying  to  tell  her  it  was  not  someone  who  could  alleviate  her  em-  barrassment.  The  milkman  stalked  in  with  his  pound  of  butter  and  bottles  of  milk  and  cream.  He  didn't  notice  Madame" b"Shamsi,  but  she  was  violently  aware  of  him.  A  tremor  of  mistrust  crossed  her  face.  She  raised  the  folds  of  her  chador  to  cover  her  face,  except  for  the  eyes,  which  looked  modestly  down  at  her  knitting  needles.  &quot;Got  some  nice  cottage  cheese  to-  day,&quot;  the  milkman  said  pleasantly.  He  spoke  in  his  normal  tone,  yet  somehow  his  voice  seemed  enormous,  like  a  roar.  He  crashed  his  wire  bottle  frame  down  on  the  kitchen  floor  and  caught  sight  of  Mme.  Shamsi's  motionless  figure  draped  in  black.  He  stared,  and  then  looked  at  me  with  a  question  on  his  face.  I  pretended  not  to  notice  and  said,  &quot;Yes,  I'll  take  some  of  the  cottage  cheese,  and  yoghurt,  if  you  have  it.  Half  a  dozen  jars.&quot;  &quot;Sure  thing,  Ma'am,&quot;  he  said.  He  looked  again  at  Mme.  Shamsi,  a  glanc  e  only,  as  if  to  make  sure  he  had  been  right  the  first  time.  Then,  with  a  stomping  of  feet  and  a  &quot;Nice  day,  isn't  it?,&quot;  he  went  out.  After  that,  Mme.  Shamsi  knit  ted  and  I  baked  the  cake.  For  once,  I  wished  that  there  was  no  such  thing  as  a  cake  mix.  I  would  have  liked  to  be  following  a  long,  complicated  recipe-one  that  would  take  up  the  rest  of  the  morning.  The  morning  dragged  along.  Mme.  Shamsi  seldom  moved.  I  urged  her  to  sit  in  the  garden,  and  she  did,  but  with  a  sorrowful  look  that  made  me  feel  I  had  ordered  her  into  exile.  I  then  sug-  gested  the  living  room,  and  installed  her  in  a  comfortable  chair  beside  the  radio.  But  every  time  I  passed  through  the  living  room  in  my  dusting  and  cleaning  chores  she  got  to  her  feet  and  remained  standing  until  I  sat  down  myself.  We  ate  a  small  lunch  of  leftover  rice  and  stew  from  the  night  before.  Mme.  Shamsi  refused  to  take  a  morsel  until  I  had  helped  myself.  Then  she  picked  out  the  tiniest  pieces  of  meat  and  any  bit  of  gristle  she  could  find.  In  the  afternoon,  I  took  her  for  a  drive.  She  sank  down  in  the  seat  as  if  she  were  hiding  from  the  landscape  in-  stead  of  observing  it.  I  turned  down  a  wooded  side  road,  stopped  the  car,  and  urged  her  to  get  out  and  take  a  short  walk  with  me.  She  had  been  urged  to  exercise.  She  got  out,  but  she  seemed  anxious  to  stay  within  sight  of  the  car.  She  kept  looking  at  me  in  mute  appeal,  as  if  beseeching  me  not  to  abandon  her  in  such  a  forsaken  place.  We  got  back  earlier  than  I  had  planned;  it  was  still  only  five-thirty,  and  I  gave  up  all  efforts  to  entertain  her  and  sat  quietly  beside  her  in  the  living  room.  I  had  managed  to  convey  to  her  the  information  that  my  husband  would" b"be  home  at  six.  Sometimes  she  would  make  a  gesture  or  say  something  that  I  didn't  understand,  and  I  would  smile  helplessly.  Finally,  in  desperation,  I  pointed  to  a  handkerchief  she  was  carry-  ing-a  black-bordered  batiste  one  with  ingenious  embroidery  on  it-and  said  &quot;Gashang.&quot;  And  at  that  moment  we  heard  the  sound  of  a  car  and  smiled  at  each  other  without  embarrassment.  My  husband  brought  more  friends  for  Mme.  Shamsi,  and  again  she  bloomed.  Later,  when  I  went  to  my  room,  I  discovered  that  she  had  left  a  little  package  on  my  pillow.  It,  of  course,  contained  the  handkerchief  I  had  praised.  Next  morning,  at  breakfast,  I  said  to  my  husband,  &quot;I  don't  know  what  to  do  with  her.  Yesterday  was  terrible  for  both  of  us.&quot;  He  was  a  little  annoyed  that  I  had  made  the  error  of  praising  the  handker-  chief.  &quot;You  ought  to  know  better,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  'gashang'  is  one  of  the  few  words  I  know.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  play  cards?&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;What  do  4972616ens  play?&quot;  &quot;Belote,  I  suppose.  You  remember  it  from  4972616e.&quot;  I  remembered  belote  vaguely.  After  my  husband  left  for  work,  and  before  Mme.  Shamsi  came  in  to  breakfast,  I  got  out  the  cards  and  tried  to  recall  the  game.  It  was  a  French  game-some-  thing  like  bridge,  I  remembered,  except  that  two  could  play.  I  dealt  several  hands  to  myself  and  played  them,  until  I  was  pretty  sure  I  had  the  details  right.  I  was  even  able  to  remember  that  in  Farsi  the  king  is  shah,  the  queen,  bibi,  and  the  jack  serbaz-a  soldier.  As  for  identifying  the  suits,  it  would  be  easy,  because  the  4972616ens  use  the  French  names,  tr\xc3\xa9fie,  pigue,  cceur,  and  carreau.  I  didn't  put  the  cards  away  until  I  heard  Mme.  Shamsi  stirring.  After  her  prayers,  Mme.  Shamsi  again  brought  out  her  knitting.  She  had  started  a  sweater  the  day  before,  and  now  it  was  a  quarter  finished.  I  did  my  household  tasks,  and  made  some  prep-  arations  for  dinner.  After  lunch,  I  led  Mme.  Shamsi  to  the  living  room,  where  I  had  placed  the  deck  of  cards  promi-  nently  on  the  coffee  table.  &quot;Belote?&quot;  I  said,  smiling  invitingly.  Her  eyes  shone,  but  she  refused.  I  wondered  if  she  had  misunderstood.  Was  she  unfamiliar  with  the  game  or  merely  being  polite?  In  4972616e,  I  knew,  good  manners  require  that  one  refuse  anything  the  first  time  it  is  offered.  I  got  out  the  card  table,  pulled  up  chairs  for  us,  and  sat  down.  Tucking  her " b"chador  about  her,  she,  too,  sat  down,  and  I  began  to  shuffle  the  cards.  I  cut  them  and  handed  them  to  her  to  deal.  She  cut  them  again  and  handed  them  back.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  I  said,  and  pointed  to  her.  She  declined,  clucking  her  tongue  slightly.  I  raised  my  eyebrows  in  an  appeal,  and  began  to  deal.  She  waited  for  me  to  pick  up  my  cards  before  picking  up  her  own  hand,  but  I  could  tell  by  the  way  she  instantly  sorted  the  cards,  and  by  the  deft  way  she  touched  them,  that  she  knew  the  game  and  had  played  it  often.  At  the  end  of  the  first  hand,  which  she  won,  I  extended  the  score  pad  to  her.  To  my  surprise,  she  took  it  gra-ciously  and  began  to  make  little  squig-  gles  on  it  in  4972616en  script.  We  played  game  after  game,  and  she  kept  score.  She  was  a  good  player.  I  remember  the  soothing  effect  of  our  voices  in  my  ears  as  we  quietly,  monot-  onously  made  our  bids.  Passe,  passe,  pique  atout,  sans-atout-pass,  pass,  spade,  no  trump.  Mme.  Shamsi,  for  the  first  time,  forgot  to  be  shy.  She  taught  me  the  4972616en  numbers  by  hol  ding  up  her  fingers.  She  even  tried  to  show  me  what  yek,  doe,  seh  (one,  two,  three)  looked  like  written  down,  but  I  forgot  them  again  and  again,  and  left  the  scorekeeping  to  her.  She  seemed  to  enjoy  it.  From  time  to  time,  I  glanced  at  my  watch,  appalled  at  the  lagging  hours.  The  sunlight  grew  rosy.  The  sounds  of  the  late-afternoon  traffic  from  North-  ern  Boulevard  reached  us  through  the  draped  and  shaded  windows  in  a  faint,  drowsy  hum.  There  was  utter  stillness  in  the  house  except  for  the  intermittent  bids-club,  spade  ,  trump,  no  trump.  Mme.  Shamsi,  her  veil  falling  loosely  from  her  hair  to  her  shoulders,  smiled  like  a  contented  madonna.  Calmly,  gaily  she  picked  up  each  hand,  frowned  a  little,  studied  it,  made  her  bid,  played  the  hand,  and  recorded  it  in  those  grace-  ful  hieroglyphics  I  didn't  understand.  I  had  the  curious  feeling  that  days,  may-  be  even  weeks,  had  floated  past  un-  noticed-that  I  was  taking  part  in  some  antique  rite.  We  were  still  at  it  when  the  sound  of  my  husband's  car,  again  bringing  visitors  for  Mme.  Shamsi,  in-  terrupted  our  game  and  released  me,  as  if  from  a  spell.  While  Mme.  Shamsi  was  welcoming  her  guests  and  exchanging  gossip,  I  managed  to  slip  aside  with  my  husband.  &quot;How  was  it  today?  Any  easier?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Wonderful.  We  played  cards.&quot;  &quot;Good.  Did  she  like  it?&quot;  &quot;I  think  so-look,&quot;  I  said,  holding" b"out  the  score  pad  with  Mme.  Shamsi's  numbers  on  it.  &quot;She  won,  and  I  thought  maybe  we  could  give  her  a  present  as  a  prize.  I'm  sorry  I  had  to  take  the  hand-  kerchief.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  silly.  Anyway,  we  can  give  her  a  present  without  having  to  justify  it  by  card  hands.&quot;  &quot;I  know  it  sounds  easy,  but  she's  so  polite.  I  can't  offer  her  anything  with-out &quot;Hey!&quot;  my  husband  said.  He  had  been  casually  glancing  over  Mme.  Shamsi's  neatly  written  score  sheet.  &quot;I  thought  you  said  she  won.&quot;  &quot;She  did.&quot;  ''Well,  the  way  she's  added  it  up  here-see,  that's  yours-you've  won.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  but  I  didn't.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  she's  cheated  in  your  favor,  then,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  out  the  num- bers  and  explaining  the  final  scores  to  me.  &quot;But  why?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Politeness,&quot;  my  husband  said.  You'd  better  keep  score  yourself  to-  morrow.&quot;  The  next  day,  we  played  belote  again.  I  kept  score,  and  Mme.  Shamsi  won-really.  The  following  day,  how-  ever,  she  took  the  score  pad  and  secreted  it  within  the  folds  of  her  chador,  with  a  sly  little  laugh,  and  according  to  her  scoring  I  won.  &quot;What  do  I  do  now?&quot;  I  asked  my  husband  that  evening.  He  laughed.  &quot;Well,  tell  me,  Do  I  grab  the  score  pad  or  do  I  let  her  have  it?  Which  is  politer?&quot;  &quot;God  knows,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Just  keep  her  happy.&quot;  The  next  day,  Mme.  Shamsi  hovered  at  the  card  table,  playing  solitaire,  until  I  had  finished  my  morning  chores.  When  I  finally  joined  her,  I  did  so  reluctantly,  dreading  a  scramble  for  the  pencil  and  paper,  but  she  handed  me  the  pad,  with  a  pleading  smile,  and  I  understood.  Mme.  Shamsi  took  her  cardplaying  as  seriously  as  she  took  her  politeness.  There  was  a  mustard  seed  of  vanity  in  her;  she  liked  to  win,  but  not  enough  to  make  me  lose  face.  I  kept  score  and  she  won,  but  the  following  day  she  took  the  pad  again  and  cheated  in  my  favor.  On  the  days  that  followed,  we  tacitly  slipped  into  this  arrangement,  each  keep-  ing  score  on  alternate  days-she  mak-  ing  me  win  games  I  invariably  lost,  and  I  recording  her  victories.  Sometimes  I  would  try  to  entice  her  into  some  other  activity-into  going  shopping  with  me  or  seeing  a  movie.  She  always  complied,  but  her  former  restraint  and  wide-eyed " b"timidity  came  over  her.  Yet  face  to  face  with  me  across  the  card  table  she  could  let  herself  drift  into  a  forgetfulness  as  flattering  as  it  was  fragile.  Between  hands,  we  would  giggle  over  magazine  illustrations,  or  she  would  tease  me  to  try  on  her  chador  to  see  how  comfort-  able  it  was.  And  she  could  act  out  whole  anecdotes  in  a  clever  finger  language,  making  her  ringed  fingers  dance  like  puppets  on  the  tabletop.  But  if  Itried  to  extend  this  casual  intimacy  beyond  the  edges  of  the  card  table,  it  vanished,  suffocated  by  her  self-  consciousness  and  shyness.  Mme.  Shamsi  herself  recognized  the  card  table  as  our  only  meeting  ground,  and  if  I  suggested  that  we  let  a  day  go  by  without  playing  cards,  she  would  point  out,  almost  coquettishly,  that  I  couldn't  honorably  do  that,  because  I  was  ahead,  or  because  she  was  ahead.  Either  way,  we  had  to  go  on.  Her  health  and  spirits  prospered;  visitors  remarked  on  how  splendid  she  looked.  But  I  didn't  fare  so  well,  and  after  about  three  weeks  my  husband  said  to  me  one  night,  &quot;You  look  tired.  What's  the  matter?&quot;  &quot;Nothing  much.&quot;  &quot;I  got  a  letter  from  4972616e  today,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mme.  Shamsi  has  written  Father,  praising  your  hospitality.&quot;  He  looked  at  me  quizzically.  &quot;I  know  it's  hard,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;but  she  ought  to  be  going  home  pretty  soon.&quot;  &quot;When?&quot;  Perhaps  I  spoke  too  eager-  ly,  because  he  appeared  startled.  &quot;I  don't  know.  Soon.  You  remem-  ber  the  people  who  came  to  stay  at  Mother's?  There's  no  way  of  telling  how  long  they'll  hang  around.&quot;  As  an  afterthought,  he  remarked,  &quot;Some-  times  they  stay  on,  you  know,  because  they  think  a  short  visit  would  offend  the  hostess.&quot;  &quot;Doesn't  she  have  a  return  ticket?&quot;  I  asked,  trying  to  keep  the  note  of  de-  spair  out  of  my  voice.  My  husband  brightened.  &quot;Yes.  I  have  it  upstairs.  I'll  check  and  see  if  she's  got  a  reservation.&quot;  He  ran  upstairs  quickly  and  confidently,  but  his  steps  were  slower  on  the  way  down.  He  came  up  to  me  with  a  look  of  apologetic  appeal  on  his  face.  &quot;Well?&quot;  I  said.  He  shrugged.  &quot;Open  date.&quot;  ME.  SHamsI's  contentment  was  a  compliment  to  me,and  I  tried  to  accept  it  as  such,  but  sometimes  in  the  eerie  stillness  of  the  afternoon,  asIsat  down  at  the  card  table,  a  sense  of  wan-  ing  reality  would  overcome  me.  &quot;Atout,&quot;  Mme.  Shamsi  would  say, " b"smiling  at  me  with  her  soft,  shining  eyes.  On  her  face  there  would  be  a  look  of  immediacy  and  expectancy,  as  if  this  were  the  first  time  we  had  ever  sat  down  at  belote.  UMMER  was  over  and  my  children  were  due  back  from  camp  when  my  husband  arrived  home  from  work  one  day  with  the  news  that  he  was  obliged  to  fly  to  [REDACTED]  on  business.  His  departure  seemed  almost  maliciously  timed;  it  fell  on  the  day  of  the  children's  return  and  of  a  long-planned  4972616en  dinner  party  for  Mme.  Shamsi.  When  he  gently  told  her  of  his  trip,  assuring  her  that  his  ab-  sence  wouldn't  be  noticed  and  that  she  would  be  expertly  taken  care  of,  her  sweet  expression  faltered.  Her  eyes  sought  mine,  full  of  distress  and  apology.  She  spoke  anxiously  to  my  husband,  in  Farsi.  He  nodded.  Then  she  took  my  hand  and  said  several  times,  &quot;Bebakhshid,  bacheh!  [Excuse  me,  child!  ]&quot;  My  husband  said,  &quot;Mme.  Shamsi  begs  you  to  forgive  her.  She  would  like  to  stay  here  forever,  she  says.  But  [REDACTED]  is  halfway  to  4972616e,  and  she  says  her  eyes  long  to  look  again  upon  her  own  land.  She  asks  permission  to  come  with  me.&quot;  I  smiled  agreement,  but  I  wasn't  as  happy  as  I  thought  I  would  be. "