 b" SINCE  last  spring-since  just  be-fore  the  third  of  April,  to  be  exact,  for  that  was  when  the  ice  in  Rockefeller  Center  melted  and  the  green  umbrellas  bloomed-I  have  been  dropping  off  pieces  of  excess  mental  baggage,  most  of  which  I  did  not  know  I  had.  I  am  still  not  sure  whether  to  re-  gard  them  as  bits  of  the  past  or  bits  of  the  future,  though  the  past  is  where  they  come  from,  but  in  any  case  I  stumbled  onto  the  first  of  them  during  a  soft  noon  hour  around  the  end  of  March,  and  then,  for  weeks,  found  myself  dis-  covering  and  relinquishing  one  after  another.  I  did  so  grudgingly.  Now,  however,  the  story  is  different.  I  have  come  to  my  senses.  I  am  better  off  without  them.  I  was  meandering  past  the  rink  up  at  the  Center  that  noon.  There  were  skat,  ers  out,  but  the  sight  was  implausible;  there  was  too  much  spring  in  the  air.  They  were  already  as  good  as  gone,  I  thought,  so  I  stopped  for  a  last  look  at  them.  A  doubled-up  young  man  shot  here  and  there  like  a  water  bug.  Two  erect  ladies  circled,  steered,  like  chairs  on  runners,  by  devout  instructors.  A  man  in  a  beret,  his  mouth  sad,  his  hands  behind  him,  moved  mesmerically  through  his  orbit.  And  a  girl  in  blue  tights  and  a  cap  with  a  blue  jouncing  tassel  spun  herself  into  a  blur,  sinking  and  rising  on  one  leg.  A  breeze  stirred  the  flags  on  top  of  the  wall,  the  girl  un-  wound;  she  skated  backward,  resting  her  leg,  and  spun  again,  with  everyone  watching  her,  and  I  thought,  Why,  I  am  never  going  to  figure-skate!  I  cannot  recall  that  I  have  ever  in  my  life  wanted  to  figure-skate,  but  it  had  not  occurred  to  me  before  that  I  would  not,  and  the  notion  brought  with  it  a  tiny  shock,  of  a  kind  I  had  not  previously  coped  with.  There  is  an  age  beyond  which  you  do  not  learn  to  figure-skate.  You  could,  perhaps-even  this  is  far  from  certain-but  you  don't  and  won't.  Never.  Not  ever.  For  a  moment,  I  had  an  impulse  to  look  around  in  the  dim  back  of  my  head  and  see  what  other  things  of  the  sort  were  skulking  there.  I  put  the  tempta-  tion  by  quickly,  but  I  was  already  shak-  en.  I  left  the  rink  at  once.  I  went  up  the  Promenade,  where  spring-though  now  I  scarcely  saw  it-was  arriving  in  hundreds  of  flowerpots.  I  turned  down  Fifth  [REDACTED].  A  fierce  pink  little  man  with  white  hair  came  glaring  out  of  Forty-ninth  Street  and  strode  uptown,  weaving  his  way  intemperately  among  slower  walkers.  His  mustache  bristled upward  and  his  miniature  white  goatee  was  parted  in  the  middle,  after  the  fash-  ion  of  Charles  Evans  Hughes.  He  was  not  done  with  figure-skating,  I  was  sure.  He  was  only  as  old  as  he  felt.  No  girl  in  blue  tights  doing  what  he  would  never-would  forever  not-do  could  unsettle  him.  I  straightened  up-a  bar-  ren  gesture,  if  there  ever  was  one-and  walked  on.  In  the  end,  curiosity  was  too  strong  for  me.  The  impulse  to  find  out  what  other  things  I  would  not  do  returned  that  night,  and  I  looked,  and  there,  of  course,  they  were,  a  great  lot  of  them,  waiting  for  me  in  the  cranial  shadows,  patient  as  cats.  A  limp  piece  of  grocer's  twine  smeared  with  paraffin  was  there.  and  an  old  rabbit  trap,  and  the  &quot;Volga  Boat  Song.&quot;  Don  [REDACTED]  was  there,  though  I  did  not  recognize  him.  I  scout-  ed  out  others,  too,  on  other  nights,  most-  ly  in  the  hours  before  morning,  when  life  shrinks.  I  tried  to  ignore  them.  I  tried  not  to  care;  the  loss  of  something  you  are  long  past  doing  ought  surely  to  be  small.  But  when  you  discover  that  you  will  never,  after  all,  write  by  the  Palmer  Method  (no  lovely  hollow  scrolls,  no  immaculate  slanted  lines),  you  get  a  feeling  that  you  may  have  reached  a  point  of  no  return.  Well,  you  are  supposed  to  take  your  problems  to  your  elders,  and  the  handiest  elder  I  have-handy  because  hehas  a  comfortable  study  in  a  pleasant  suburban  house  and  because  he  is  kind-  is  my  Cousin  David.  He  is  my  elder  by  two  or  three  years,  and  though  he  es-  pecially  enjoys  facing  up  to  problems  that  make  sense  to  him,  he  also  enjoys  at  least  talking  about  those  that  don't.  He  thinks  that  if  only  people  would  apply  themselves,  they  could  all  have  uncluttered  minds,  and  he  tries  to  help  them.  (David's  well-equipped  mind  is  one  of  the  least  cluttered  I  have  known;  his  large  attic,  on  the  other  hand,  contains  nearly  everything  he  has  ever  owned,  and  is  a  mess.)  Anyhow,  when  I  mentioned  that  it  was  depressing  to  be  finished  with  things  I  had  never  really  meant  to  do  or  be,  I  made  no  sense  whatever  to  David,  and  we  were  off.  He  thought  at  first  that  I  was  talk-  ing  about  childhood  fantasies.  I  did  have  my  share  of  these,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  and  I  guess  he  remembers  them  doubt-  fully.  I  recall  one  morning  asking  my  grandmother,  who  was  busy  dusting  her  back  parlor-a  room  full  of  Dres-  den  figures  and  carved  mahogany  chairs-if  I  wasn't  a  descendant  of  Attila  the  Hun.  She  said  I  was;  possibly  she  misunderstood  the  question.  At  any  rate,  her  word  was  sterling  with  me,  and  I  became  one.  But  in  the  course  of  time  I  put  Attila,  and  Robert  the  Bruce,  and  Edward  the  Black  Prince  (all  kins-  men),  behind  me,  and  so  I  was  able  to  tell  David  that  though  what  I  meant  was  related  to  the  fancies  of  my  populous  childhood-was  their  descendant,  so  to  speak-it  wasn't  really  the  same  thing.  O,  I  said,  what  I  meant  was  the  sort  of  thing  that  comes  during  later  years-say,  after  twelve-when  you  learn  to  curb  and  qualify  your  fan-  cies.  &quot;For  instance,&quot;  I  said  to  David,  &quot;did  yow  ever  really  decide  against  a  musical  career?&quot;  He  jumped  a  little,  and  then  he  looked  at  me  reprovingly.  &quot;Why,  I  never  thought  of  myself  as  at  all  musi-  cal,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  where  you  would  get  an  idea  like  that.&quot;  He  seemed  as  troubled  as  if  I  had  accused  him  of  some  abandonment,  some  betrayal  of  his  youth.  &quot;I  don't  think  I  ever  even  Aad  such  an  ambition,&quot;  he  said,  frowning,  searching  his  mind,  shaking  his  head.  &quot;It's  not  precisely  a  question  of  ambi-  tion,&quot;  I  told  him-and  suddenly  there  went  Don  [REDACTED],  discovered  in  my  head  and  gone  in  the  same  instant,  without  anote  of  music  or  a  puff  of  smoke.  I  can't  say  I  had  ever  had  an  ambition  to  sing  Don  [REDACTED].  I  did  once  aspire  to  sing  Radames,  but  he  was  an  early  fancy,  and  I  put  him  aside  early,  knowing  it  was  beyond  me  to  be  a  tenor.  (I  still  whistled  portions  of  &quot;Aida,&quot;  though,  for  a  few  pensive  years,  always  sustaining  the  great  high  notes,  which  would  then  move  me  deep-  ly,  as  one's  own  music  will.)  Anyway,  there  Don  [REDACTED]  had  been  all  along-there  with  the  figure,  skating  and  the  rest-and  now,  with  them,  he  had  left.  I  buried  a  sigh.  &quot;On  second  thought,  and  in  some  cases,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  guess  you  could  say  that  ambi-  tion  is  a  part  of  it.&quot;  For  at  that  moment,  back  in  my  head,  where  things  of  this  order  seldom  show  up  alone  or  relevant-  ly,  a  long  drop  kick  took  its  impossible  course  across  the  bar  of  my  high  school's  goal.  No  kick  of  mine  ever  did,  but  at  least  I  was  aware  that  I  had  wanted  one  to.  &quot;I  used  to  keep  going  out  for  high-  school  football,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;and-&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  you  wanted  to  play  football,&quot;  David  said  kindly.  &quot;'You  were  kind  of  a  shrimp,  you  know.&quot;  This  was  true.  It  was  why  I  would  have  settled  for  being  a  drop-kicker.  &quot;I  thought  you  always  wanted  to  be  a  decadent.&quot;  This  was  also  true,  though  " b"David  mistook  the  period.  It  was  in  first-year  college  that  I  wanted  to  be  a  decadent.  To  girls  taken  aback  by  in-  sinuating  epigrams,  I  was  likely  to  say  &quot;Hom  soit  qui  mal  y  pense.&quot;  Probably  that  was  all  that  was  left  to  me  of  Edward  the  Black  Prince.  But  there  we  were  again.  I  said  I  supposed  I  had  never  really  expected  to  play  football.  It  was  just  that  only  now  had  it  inexorably  come  upon  me  that  never  in  the  world  was  I  going  to.  ND  so  it  runs.  I  know  now  that  I  will  never  be  a  Wondervogel,  I  will  never  be  a  soldier.  I  have  been  a  soldier,  in  the  current  popular  notion,  but  I  will  never  wear  a  pointed  hat  and  rolled  puttees,  as  they  did  in  World  War  I,  or  eat  hardtack,  as  my  grand-  father  used  to  tell  me  he  did  below  Mis-  sionary  Ridge.  And  there  are  things  of  another  sort  that  I  will  not  do.  These  are  minor,  and  not  in  a  class  with  being  a  surgeon  or  a  lumberjack,  but  there  is  a  horde  of  them.  They  are  things  I  could  still  do  but  won't,  because  times  have  changed.  To  stretch  hypothesis  to  the  breaking  point,  I  might  yet  play  the  piano  but  I  know  that  I  will  never  finish  learning  the  &quot;Volga  Boat  Song,&quot;  for  I  have  lost  track  of  Miss  Fabian.  She  was  my  piano  teacher  briefly-a  lovely  girl,  considerably  my  elder-and  it  seemed  to  me  that  if  by  my  progress  with  the  &quot;Volga  Boat  Song&quot;&quot;  I  could  rivet  her  interest  on  me  long  enough,  surely  she  would  be  passing  the  football  field  when  the  drop  kick  went  over  the  goal.  But  we  parted  too  soon.  So  I  will  forever  not  finish  the  &quot;Volga  Boat  Song.&quot;  I  will  never,  after  all,  make  a  rabbit  trap  out  of  crossed  sticks  and  a  carrot  and  a  soapbox,  Im-  possible  as  it  seems  to  me,  now  that  I  think  of  it,  I  will  never  make  candles  out  of  pieces  of  string  dipped  in  paraffin.  (The  New  England  colonists  managed  this,  but  I  could  never  figure  out  how.  Each  time  you  dip  your  string,  the  lit-  tle  bit  of  wax  on  it  melts  off  and  the  same  amount  of  other  wax  sticks  on.)  I  will  never  ride  downhill  sedately  (I  was  not  expecting  flash)  on  skis  made  out  of  barrel  staves,  or  sleep  in  the  cave  I  once  began  to  dig  for  sleeping  in.  I  will  never  make  a  workable  crossbow.  OF  course,  in  the  long  run  not  every-  thing  is  possible,  though  plainly  there  was  a  time  when  it  must  have  seemed  so.  Probably  these  anticipated  feats  shore  a  person  up  fora  while  and  give  him  at  least  a  figmentary  greatness,  whether  or  not  he  is  aware  of  it  or  them.  They  are  like  the  filaments  wandering  in  the  air  that  tiny  worms  hang  floating  on  for  a  few  days  each  spring.  If  you  break  the  gossamer,  the  rider  will  drop  to  the  ground,  but  that  is  where  he  was  headed  any  way.  And  justas  well,  I  expect.  As  I  say,  I  must  be  better  off  without  these  ob-  scure  prospects,  and  David  and  I  have  all  but  quit  discussing  them.  I  am  less  cluttered,  and  he  is  gratified,  and  we  talk  of  solider  matters.  I  was  telling  him  only  the  other  day  of  an  astonishing  old  house  I  have  run  onto  up  in  Dutchess  County.  I  admit  it  presents  problems,  but  still  a  brook  runs  through  it-literally  through  it.  &quot;You  should  hear  the  sound,&quot;  I  said.  The  house  was  built  by  an  odd  rich  man  who  dreamed  of  raising  apples,  but  his  family  held  out  against  him,  and  now  it  stands  abandoned.  I  could  get  it  for  a  song.  It  would  need  a  roof,  but  the  ap-  ple  trees  are  there.  &quot;I  might  make  a  good  thing  out  of  ap-  ples,  one  of  these  days,&quot;  I  said  to  David,  &quot;and  the  view  is  wonderful.  A  man  has  to  put  down  roots.&quot;  &quot;What'llhappen  to  the  Druids?&quot;  David  asked.  I  thought  the  question  per-  haps  a  little  snide.  David  is  doubtful  about  the  house  in  Dutchess  County.  He  thinks  that  I  am  not  cut  out  for  coun-  try  living  and  that  my  roots  are  already  sunk  in  asphalt.  He  says  I  can't  have  both,  and  I  haven't  pressed  the  point.  Of  course,  if  I  were  to  keep  on  living  in  the  city,  that  wouldn't  pre-  clude  travel  (I  never  can  seem  to  get  enough  of  travel),  while  a  really  big  orchard  could  certainly  tie  you  down.  I  did  have  it  in  mind  to  do  a  piece  of  re-  search  on  Druids  someday.  I  imagine  the  place  tostart  would  be  the  British  Museum,  but  that's  what  I'm  going  to  have  to  find  out  for  myself.  All  this  will  bea  number  of  years  hence,  naturally,  and  I  don't  know  what  other  plans  I  may  have  by  then,  soI  guess  the  thing  to  do  meanwhile  is  just  coast.  Of  course,  when  I  do  buy  the  house  I'll  have  to  learn  about  sprays  and  pruning,but  that  kind  of  thing  is  just  part  of  heving  an  orchard. "