 b"I\xe2\x80\x99M  a  great  admirer  of  Marlon  Bran- do,  and  for  that  reason  I  think  he  ought  to  be  more  careful  about  the  girls  he  goes  out  with.  I  don't  mean  they  aren't  nice  girls,  but  when  a  man  has  a  date,  he  sometimes  says  things  and  does  things  that  aren't  intended  to  be  embedded  in  a  magazine  with  a  circula-  tion  of  603,000,  such  as  Glamour,  and  that  is  where  a  good  many  of  Marlon's  remarks  to  and  actions  in  the  presence  ofa  girl  named  Anne  Ford  were  em-  bedded  recently.  In  an  article  entitled  &quot;When  I  Went  Out  with  Marlon  Brando,&quot;  Anne-described  asa  twen-  ty-four-year-old  dark-haired  gamine  with  big  blue  eyes  who  designs  blouses  and  &quot;for  one  winter,  went  out  with  the  famous  actor  as  if  he  were  the  boy  from  next  door'&quot;-says  she  met  Marlon  at  a  small  dinner  party  in  November,  1953.  He  began  to  take  her  out,  and  to  make  remarks  to  her.  Marlon's  conversation  [she  writes]  ...  often  over  the  phone,  consisted  of  abstract  flights  of  fantasy.  Once  he  announced  that  he  was  a  crow,  and  about  to  go  off  on  his  mid-winter  flight  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;I'd  like  to  drop  you  a  postcard,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  these  claws  make  it  so  difficult  to  hold  a  pen.&quot;  Another  time,  when  she  was  in  the  dining  room  of  a  Hoboken  hotel  in  whose  vicinity  &quot;On  the  Waterfront&quot;  was  being  filmed,  he  entered  carrying  a  monstrous  sponge  the  size  of  a  hatbox,  as  pleased  with  this  gift  from  a  local  fisherman  asa  child  with  a  new  ball.  I  told  him  it  was  beautiful,  and  asked  if  he  would  use  it  for  scrubbing  floors.  &quot;No  .  ..  I  shall  put  it  under  a  faucet  of  warm  water,  and  then  sit  on  it  for  hours,&quot;  he  said  ecstatically.  A  man  has  a  perfect  right  to  pre-  tend  to  be  a  crow,  and  to  sit  on  a  sponge  as  long  as  he  pleases,  but  these  projects,  outlined  in  the  privacy  of  a  boy-and-  girl  relationship,  strike  me  as  privileged,  and  for  the  eyes  and  ears  of  Miss  Anne  Ford  only.  Brando  has  had  a  spotty  press  in  the  past,  and  it  will  do  him  no  good  to  have  his  public  visualize  him  as  a  crow  squatting  on  a  wet  sponge  and  trying  to  write  a  postcard  toa  girl  many  years  his  senior.  (Crows  live  to  be  only  four  or  six.)  Now  for  a  couple  of  the  things  Mar-  lon  did  while  with  Anne:  Suddenly  Marlon  emerged,  still  shirt-  less.  from  a  side  door,  danced  the  entire  length  of  the  room,  made  a  demi-disap-  pearance  behind  the  opposite  door,  and  exited  with  a  graceful  arabesque  kick-  without  a  word  of  greeting  or  a  glance  my  way.  A  few  minutes  later  he  reappeared,  fresh  and  shiny  in  brown  corduroy  pants  and  a  yellow  turtleneck  sweater,  and  look-  ing  much  less  imposing  than  hedoes  in  the  movies.  When  Lynne's  mother  the  mother  of  Anne's  roommate  opened  the  door,  she  looked  down  and  saw  a  grotesque  crea-  ture-Marlon  on  his  knees  with  his  navy  officer's  coat  pulled  up  around  his  head.  She  was  appalled  for  a  moment,  but  laughed  in  spite  of  her  fright  when  she  realized  who  it  was.  Marlon  was  em-  barrassed.  He  hadwanted  me  to  go  down  on  my  knees  beside  him-and  we  were  supposed  to  have  looked  like  children,  not  strange  dwarfs.  .  ..  In  an  instant,  Marlon  had  made  a  quick  and  wordless  exit.  on  his  knees  again,  marching  with  mechanically  pumping  arms  like  a  wound-up  toy  soldier.  That  arabesque  was  off  the  record,  and  should  have  stayed  there.  You  can  tell  it  was  off  the  record  because  Mar-  lon  ignored  Anne  while  he  was  execut-  ing  it.  And  if  a  man  doesn't  look  im-  posing  to  a  girl,  why  must  she  shout  it  from  the  housetops?  Anne  may  not  have  looked  imposing  to  Marlon,  but  I  don't  see  anything  about  it  in  Boys'  Life.  As  for  that  second  scene,  in  which  an  embarrassed  crow,  sponge-damp  and  impersonating  an  officer,  scares  the  day-  lights  out  of  a  respectable  woman  by  kneeing  his  way  in  and  out  of  her  apart-  ment,  if  Brando  had  wanted  that  known  he  would  have  incorporated  it  in  one  of  his  pictures.  It's  effective,  and  of  interest  to  ornithologists,  but  I've  just  found  out  in  another  article  on  Bran-  do-&quot;The  Marlon  Brando  Story,&quot;  in  the  May  17th  issue  of  Look-that  &quot;the  new  Brando  [is]  trying  in  his  own  way  to  employ  more  finesse  in  contacts  with  the  press,&quot;  and  I  don't  think  Miss  Ford  is  helping  him  any.  I  suggest  she  give  up  blouse  designing  for  awhile,  join  the  C.I.A.,  and  brush  up  on  security.  She  may  have  some  difficulty  getting  cleared  for  the  job,  but  she's  young,  for  a  non-  crow,  and  the  government  ought  to  make  allowances.  A  little  indoctrination  at  one  of  those  secret  schools  in  Mary-  land,  and  her  beaux  will  breathe  easier.  "