 EXPECTATION  OF  LIFE  ‘  N  JHEN  Sheila  Hennessey  mar-  and  a  queer  old  house  on  Fair  Hill,  and,  ried  Jim  Gaffney,  a  man  twen-  as  if  these  were  not  dr  awbacks  en  ough,  ty  years  older  than  herself,  we  he  was  a  man  with  no  religious  beliefs.  were  all  pleased  and  rather  surprised.  According  to  her  own  story,  she  had  Because  by  the  time  she  married  him  we  had  the  greatest  difficulty  persuading  were  certain  she  would  never  marry  at  him  to  marry  her  at  all,  because  he  had  all.  Her  father  was  a  small  builder  in  the  Gaffney  expectation  of  life  worked  Cork,  and  one  of  the  town  jokers  put  out  over  three  generations,  and  accord-  her  reluctance  to  marry  down  to  a  img  to  this  he  had,  at  the  most,  eight  hereditary  distaste  for  contracts.  years  to  live,  so  he  didn't  think  it  would  She  had  been  keeping  company  with  be  right.  But  when  Matt  asked  her  bit-  a  fellow  named  Matt  S  heridan  off  and  terly  what  she  proposed  to  do  after  that,  on  for  ten  years.  Matt,  who  was  a  quiet  she  only  said,  &quot;Eight  years  with  Jim  chap,  let  on  it  was  because  he  was  in-  would  be  more  to  me  than  a  lifetime  tere  sted  in  a  bit  of  money  her  father  with  anyone  else,&quot;  and  he  knew  that  left  her,  but  really  he  was  very  much  in  -this  was  different  from  the  others.  love  with  her,  and,  to  give  her  her  due,  &quot;Oh,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  wearly.  &quot;I  she  had  been  as  much  in  love  with  him  suppose  I  may  as  well  chuck  my  hand  as  time  an  d  other  young  men  permitted.  in.&quot;  Sheila  had  to  a  pronounced  extent  the  &quot;But  you  will  remain  friends  with  usual  feminine  weakness  for  second  me,  Matt?&quot;  strings.  She  would  suddenly  become  &quot;I  will  not,  Sheila,&quot;  he  replied  flat-  scared  of  the  prospect  of  a  long  life  with  ly.  &quot;The  less  I  see  of  you  from  this  out,  a  quiet  fellow  like  Matt  and  f  or  six  the  better  pleased  I'll  be.  To  tell  you  months  or  so  run  a  tearing  line  with  the  truth,  I  don't  believe  you  give  a  some  young  intellectual.  At  first,  Matt  damn  for  this  fellow  Gaffney.&quot;  resented  it  quietly,  but  later  he  grew  re-  &quot;But  I  do,  Matt.  That's  what  I'm  signed,  and  even  made  fun  of  it:  He  real-  trying  to  explain.  Jim  is  different  to  ize  d  that  the  girl  couldn't  help  it;  that  anyone  else  I've  ever  known.&quot;  was  how  she  was  made.  She  always  felt  &quot;And  what  does  your  mother  say  to  that  she  had  to  have  a  spare  part  in  case  him?&quot;  the  car  broke  down  on  a  lonely  strip  of  &quot;Oh,  Mummy  will  get  used  to  him  road.  And  she  did  get  something  out  of  in  time.&quot;  each  of  those  infatuations.  A  fellow  &quot;If  you'll  excuse  my  saying  so,  Sheila,  named  Magennis  left  her  with  a  really  your  mother  will  do  nothing  of  the  sort.  sound  appreciation  of  Jane  Austen  and  Your  mother  knows  you're  hopelessly  Bach,  and  another,  who  was  not  happy  spoiled  and  hopelessly  neurotic-and  at  home,  taught  her  to  admire  Henry  you  know  it,  too.  If  your  fath  er  was  James  and  persuaded  her  she  had  a  alive,  he  wouldn't  let  you  get  away  with  father  complex.  But  all  of  it.  How  can  you  expect  it  them  had  some  fault,  and  to  end  in  anything  but  Matt,  in  his  quiet,  deter-  trouble?  By  the  time  mined  way,  knew  that  if  you're  forty,  he'll  be  a  only  he  sat  tight  and  gave  doddering  old  man.&quot;  no  sign  of  jealousy  and  &quot;Matt,&quot;  she  said  des-  en  couraged  her  to  talk  about  their  perately,  &quot;I  don't  care  what  he  is.  Can't  faults,  she  would  be  bound  eventuall  y  you  understand  that?&quot;  to  talk  herself  out  of  love  altogether.  It  wasn't  important  whether  Mat  t  Until  the  next  time,  of  course.  But  understood  or  not  so  long  as  he  re-  Matt  had  the  hope  that  one  of  these  mained  her  pro  perty.  Women  are  like  days  she'd  tire  of  her  w  anderings  and  that.  They  hate  to  let  a  man  go,  even  turn  to  him  for  good.  Like  the  rest  of  when  they're  marrying  another  man.  us,  he  realized  that  she  mightn't  marry  &quot;I  understand,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  at  all;  she  was  the  type  of  well-courted,  hotly.  &quot;It's  you  who  don't  understand.  dissatisfied  girl  that  as  often  as  not  ends  You  don't  even  understand  yourself,  up  in  a  convent.  But  he  was  in  no  hurry;  and  I've  wasted  enough  of  my  life  on  she  was  worth  waiting  f  or  and  worth  you.&quot;  taking  a  chance  on.  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  say  th  ings  like  And  no  doubt  she  would  have  mar-  that,  Matt,&quot;  she  said,  and  her  eyes  ried  him  in  the  end  if  she  hadn't  got  the  filled  with  tears.  &quot;I  know  I'm  queer.  I  crazy  notion  of  marrying  Jim  Gaffney,  suppose  I'm  not  normal.  Jack  Mortimer  instead.  Jim  was  in  his  early  fifties,  small  always  said  I  had  a  father  fixation,  but  and  stout  and  good-natured.  He  was  a  what's  a  girl  to  do  if  she  has  one?  I  know     widower,  with  a  grown  son  in  [REDACTED],  a  little  business  on  the  Grand  Parade,  you  think  I  just  strung  you  along  all  those  years,  but  you're  wrong.  I  cared  AUGUST  13,  1955  for  you  more  than  I  did  for  any  of  the  others,  and  if  it  wasn't  for  Jim,  I'd  marry  you  like  a  shot  now.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  if  it  wasn't  for  Jim!&quot;  he  said  scoffingly.  &quot;Then  it  would  be  something  else,  and  I'm  finished  with  the  whole  business.  It's  all  very  well  being  patient,  but  a  man  reaches  a  point  where  he  has  to  protect  himself,  even  if  it  hurts  him-  self  or  somebody  else.  I've  reached  it.&quot;  And  Sheila  knew  that  he  had,  and  that  she  had  no  hope  of  holding  on  to  him.  A  man  who  had  stuck  to  her  for  all  those  years  and  through  all  her  va-  garies  was  not  the  sort  to  be  summoned  back  by  a  whim.  It  was  more  of  a  wrench  than  she  had  anticipated.  She  and  Jim  got  married  and  went  off  to  [REDACTED]  on  their  honeymoon.  Sheila  was  very  happy.  She  had  always  been  fascinated  and  repelled  by  sex,  but  on  their  first  night  on  the  boat,  Jim,  in-  stead  of  making  love  to  her,  as  she  had  expected  him  to,  made  her  sit  on  her  bunk  and  listen  to  a  long  lecture  on  it,  which  she  found  more  interesting  than  any  love-making,  and  before  they  had  been  married  a  week  she  was  making  the  difficult  adjustment  for  herself  and  without  shock.  As  a  companion,  Jim  was  excellent,  because  he  was  ready  to  be  pleased  with  anything;  he  got  just  as  much  pleasure  out  of  small  things  as  big  ones,  and  it  put  her  in  a  good  humor  just  to  see  him  en-  joy  himself.  He  would  sit  in  the  sunlight  outside  a  café,  a  bulky  man  with  a  red  face  and  white  hair,  exulting  over  his  pastries  and  coffee  and  the  spectacle  of  good-looking,  well-dressed  people  going  by  him.  Then  his  face  would  suddenly  cloud  and  he  would  sigh,  remembering  the  tragedy  of  existence  and  the  folly  of  all  those  in  the  world  who  would  not  be  happy  when  they  might.  &quot;And  then  the  whoors  at  home  won't  even  learn  how  to  make  a  cup  of  coffee!&quot;  he  would  declare  bitterly.  The  only  times  he  got  mad  were  when  Sheila,  tall  and  tangential,  moved  too  fast  for  him,  and  he  had  to  shuffle  after  her  on  his  tender  feet,  swinging  his  arms  like  a  runner;  or  when  she  sud-  denly  changed  her  mind  at  a  crossing  and  left  him  in  the  middle  of  the  traffic,  and  he  had  to  run  forward  or  back,  alarmed  and  swearing.  In  his  rage,  he  shouted  and  shook  his  fist  at  the  taxi-  drivers,  and  they  shouted  back  at  him  and  he  didn't  even  know  what  they  were  saying.  Then  he  shouted  at  Sheila,  too,  and  she  promised  to  be  good,  but  she  was  a  born  fidget,  and  whenever  he  left  her  somewhere  for  three  minutes  to  go  to  a  urinal,  he  lost  her,  and  because  all  the  French  he  knew  came  from  the  North  Monastery  and  French  police-  THE  NEW  YORKER  men  only  looked  astonished  when  he  asked  them  a  simple  question,  and  be-  cause,  apart  from  that,  he  regularly  for-  got  the  name  of  his  hotel,  he  was  plunged  into  despair  at  least  once  a  day.  It  was  a  great  relief  to  him  to  get  home  to  Fair  Hill,  and  study  in  books  the  places  he  had  been.  And  Sheila  came  to  understand  how  good  a  good  mar-  riage  could  be,  with  the  inhibitions  of  a  lifetime  breaking  down  and  new  and  more  complicated  ones  taking  their  place.  The  life  Jim  and  Sheila  led  was  exceedingly  quiet.  Each  evening,  Jim  came  puffing  up  the  hill  under  a  moun-  tain  of  coats,  scarves,  and  pullovers,  saying  that  the  damn  height  was  getting  too  much  for  him;  then  he  changed  into  old  trousers  and  slippers  and  lovingly  poured  himself  a  glass  of  whiskey,  the  whiskey  carefully  measured  against  the  light.  Jim  knew  to  a  drop  the  amount  of  spirit  it  needed  to  give  him  the  feeling  of  a  proper  drink  without  slugging  him-  self.  Only  a  man  with  a  steady  hand  could  know  how  much  was  good  for  him.  Moderation  was  the  secret.  Then,  after  supper,  he  put  his  feet  on  the  mantelpiece  and  told  Sheila  the  day's  news  from  town.  About  nine,  they  had  a  cup  of  tea  and,  if  the  night  was  fine,  took  a  short  ramble  over  the  hill  to  get  the  full  view  of  the  illuminated  city  below.  After  that,  theytook  their  baths  and  went  to  bed.  By  this  time,  Jim  was  usually  at  his  best.  The  tension  of  the  day  completely  relaxed,  he  pottered  about  the  house  in  his  pajama  trousers,  scratching  himself  in  elaborate  patterns  and  roaring  with  laughter  at  his  own  jokes.  &quot;Who  the  hell  said  I  had  a  father  fixation!&quot;  Sheila  exclaimed.  &quot;I  didn't  marry  my  father;  I  married  my  baby.&quot;  All  the  same,  she  knew  that  Jim  wasn't  all  that  simple.  Paddy,  his  son,  was  in  [REDACTED],  and  although  Sheila  surmised  that  he  was  something  of  a  disappointment  to  his  father,  she  could  never  get  a  really  coherent  remark  from  Jim  about  him.  It  was  the  same  as  with  his  first  marriage.  He  hardly  spoke  of  it,  except  once  in  a  while  to  say  &quot;Mar-  garet  used  to  think&quot;  or  &quot;a  friend  of  o  Margaret's&quot;-bubbles  rising  from  the  depths  of  a  pool  whose  bottom  Sheila  could  not  see,  and  whose  shadows  she  suspected.  Nor  was  he  much  more  in-  formative  about  less  intimate  matters.  If  he  disliked  people,  he  did  not  want  totalk  about  them,  and  if  he  liked  them,  he  only  wanted  to  say  conventional  things  in  their  praise.  As  a  student  of  Jane  Austen  and  Henry  James,  Sheila  wanted  to  plumb  things  to  their  depths,  and  sometimes  it  made  her  very  angry  when  he  wouldn't  argue.  It  suggested  that  he  did  not  take  her  seriously.  &quot;Begor,  I  don't  know,  Sheila,&quot;  he  would  say  when  she  asked  him  some  subtle  question  about  an  acquaintance,  and  then  he  would  stare  at  her  over  his  reading  glasses,  as  though  he  were  a  very  simple-minded  man,  to  whom  such  difficult  problems  never  occurred.  &quot;And  you  won't  ask  yourself,  I  sup-  pose?&quot;  she  retorted  angrily.  &quot;You  only  want  to  know  people  superficially.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  well,  I'm  a  superficial  sort  of  chap,&quot;  he  would  say,  with  a  benign  smile,  but  she  had  a  furious  feeling  that  22  he  was  holding  out  on  her.  Because  once  when  she  set  out  deliberately  to  madden  him  by  sneering  at  his  super-  ficiality  and  conventionality,  he  lost  his  temper  and  said,  &quot;Superficially  is  a  damn  good  way  to  know  people.&quot;  But  she  knew  that  was  not  what  he  meant,  either.  Whereas  her  plumbing  of  the  depths  meant  that  she  was  continually  changing  the  plane  from  which  she  viewed  people,  he  regarded  only  the  characteristics  that  could  be  handled  |  consistently  on  one  plane.  It  worked,  of  course;  it  maintained  a  stable  relation-  ship  between  him  and  his  friends;  and  she  had  to  admit  that  in  the  end  she  never  knew  what  she  thought  about  anybody.  They  had  other  disagreements,  though  these,  at  first,  were  funny  rather  than  alarming.  Religion  was  an  obses-  sion  with  Sheila,  but  on  the  one  occa-  sion  when  she  got  Jim  to  Mass,  he  only  sighed  as  he  did  at  the  pictures,  and  said  mournfully  as  they  left  the  church,  &quot;'Those  fellows  haven't  changed  in  thir-  ty  years.&quot;  She  did  not  lose  hope  of  con-  verting  him,  if  only  on  his  deathbed,  but  she  realized  that  it  would  have  to  be  effected  entirely  by  the  power  of  prayer.  Precept  and  example  were  equally  lost  on  him.  Besides  this,  there  was  the  subject  of  his  health.  In  spite  of  his  girth  and  weight,  she  felt  sure  he  wasn't  strong.  He  puffed  too  much,  and  in  the  morn-  ings  he  had  an  uproarious  cough,  which  turned  into  a  performance.  She  nagged  him  to  give  up  the  pipe  and  the  whiskey  or  to  see  a  doctor,  but  he  would  do  nei-  ther.  Then  when  she  surprised  him  by  bringing  the  doctor  to  him  when  he  was  in  bed  with  bronchitis,  and  the  doctor  advised  him  to  give  up  smoking  and  drinking  and  take  things  easy,  Jim  only  laughed  as  if  it  were  all  a  great  joke  and  went  on  behaving  in  precisely  the  same  way.  &quot;Moderation  is  the  secret,&quot;  he  said  as  he  measured  his  whiskey  against  the  light.  &quot;The  steady  hand.&quot;  Sheila  had  the  feeling  that  if  he  went  on  like  this,  she  wouldn't  have  him  even  for  the  eight  years  that  the  Gaffney  expectation  of  life  promised  him.  Then,  he  was  untidy  and  casual  about  money,  and  this  was  one  of  the  things  about  which  Sheila  was  meticulous.  &quot;It's  not  that  I  want  anything  for  myself,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  just  that  I  want  to  know  where  I  stand  if  anything  happens  to  you.  I'll  guarantee  Paddy  won't  be  Jong  in  inquiring.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  begor,  you  mightn't  be  so  far  wrong,&quot;  he  said  with  a  great  guffaw.  Yet  he  did  nothing  about  it.  Beyond  the  fact  that  he  hated  to  be  in  debt,  he  didn't  seem  to  care  what  happened  to  his  earnings,  and  the  mon-  I  ey  lay  there  in  the  bank,  doing  no  good  to  any-  body.  He  hadn't  even  made  a  will,  and  when  she  tried  to  get  him  to  make  one,  he  only  smiled.  She  played  the  same  sort  of  trick  on  him  that  she  had  done  when  he  was  ill,  and  invited  his  solicitor  to  supper,  but-possibly  because  the  two  men  had  reached  some  kind  of  understanding  before  this-they  sud-  denly  started  to  giggle  hysterically,  and  everything  she  said  threw  them  into  fresh  roarsof  laughter.  She  had  the  unhappy  feeling  that  they  were  laugh,  ing  at  her.  Jim  actually  had  tears  in  his  eyes,  and  he  wasn't  a  man  who  laughed  inordinately  on  other  occasions.  It  was  the  same  about  insurance.  Once  more,  it  was  not  thatSheila  want-  ed  any  special  provision  for  herself,  but  to  a  girl  who  always  carried  an  identi-  fication  card  in  her  handbag  in  case  of  accidents  it  seemed  disorderly  and  ex-  travagant  to  have  no  insurance  at  all,  even  to  pay  for  one's  own  funeral.  Be-  sides-and  this  was  a  matter  that  wor-  ried  her  greatly-the  Gaffney  plot  was  full,  and  it  was  necessary  to  buy  a  new  plotfor  herself  and  Jim.  He  made  no  protest  about  the  identification  card  she  had  slipped  into  his  wallet,  though  she  knew  he  produced  it  regularly  for  the  amusement  of  his  friends,  but  he  would  not  bear  of  insurance.  He  was  opposed  to  it  because  money  was  con-  tinuously  decreasing  in  value  and  in-  surance  was  merely  paying  good  money  for  bad.  He  told  her  about  a  gravestone  he  had  seen  in  a  West  Cork  cemetery  with  an  inscription  that  ran,  &quot;Here  lie  the  remains  of  Evelyn  Martin  Who.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Evelyn  Martin  Who!&quot;  he  cried,  with  a  roar  of  glee.  &quot;To  make  sureshe  had  the  right  sort  of  grave-  stone,  she  got  it  made  for  herself,  and  stopped  at  the  crucial  point,  and  then  the  whoors  who  came  after  her  didn't  even  bother  to  finish  the  inscription.  There's  foresight  for  you!  Anyway,  you  little  bitch,&quot;  he  growled  good-humoredly,  &quot;&quot;what  the  hell  do  you  always  want  to  be  burying  me  for?  Suppose  I  bury  you,  for  a  change?&quot;  &quot;If  you  do,  you'll  find  my  affairs  in  order,  at  any  rate,&quot;  she  replied  proudly.  \  HEILA  had  sent  postcards  from  [REDACTED]  to  Matt,  in  the  hope  that  he  might  make  things  up,  but  when  she  and  Jim  returned,  she  found  that  Matt  had      y     taken  a  job  in  the  Midlands,  and  it  was  later  reported  that  he  was  walking  out  with  a  shopkeeper's  daughter  who  had  a  substantial  fortune.  A  year  later,  Sheila  heard  of  his  engagement  and  wrote  to  congratulate  him.  He  replied  promptly  and  without  rancor  that  the  report  of  his  engagement  was  previous  and  that  he  was  returning  to  another  job  in  Cork.  Things  had  apparently  not  gone  too  well  between  him  and  the  shopkeeper's  daughter.  Sheila  was  overjoyed  when  he  called  on  them  in  Fair  Hill,  the  same  old  Matt,  slow  and  staid  and  full  of  quiet  fun.  He  was  obviously  glad  to  be  back  in  Cork.  The  Midlands  were  too  tame  even  for  him.  It  was  then  that  Sheila  had  the  great  idea.  Jim  had  an  old  friend  named  Kitty  O'Malley,  a  quiet  girl  with  an  ex-  traordinary  capacity  for  getting  herself  entangled  with  unsuitable  men.  There  had  already  been  a  married  man  who  didn't  like  to  let  her  know  he  was  mar-  ried  for  fear  of  hurting  her  feelings,  a  mental  patient,  and  a  pathological  liar  who  was  engaged  to  two  other  girls  because  he  just  couldn't  stop  himself.  As  a  result  of  all  this,  Kitty  had  a  slight,  ly  bewildered  air,  because  she  felt  there  must  be  something  in  her  to  attract  such  people  but  she  couldn't  imagine  what  it  was.  &quot;Do  you  know,  I've  got  the  perfect  wife  for  you?&quot;  Sheila  said  to  Matt.  &quot;That  so?&quot;  Matt  asked  with  quiet  amusement.  &quot;Who's  that?&quot;  &quot;A  girl  called  O'Malley-a  friend  of  Jim's.&quot;  &quot;Money?&quot;  asked  Matt,  who  persist-  ed  in  his  pretense  of  being  mercenary.  &quot;Not  as  much  as  the  shopkeeper's  daughter,  I'm  afraid.&quot;  &quot;And  you  think  she'd  have  me?&quot;  &quot;Certain,  if  you  let  me  organize  it.  If  she's  left  to  herself,  she'll  choose  an  alcoholic  or  something.  She's  shy,  you  see,  and  shy  girls  never  get  to  be  courted  by  anything  less  dynamic  than  a  mental  case.  You'll  have  to  leave  it  to  me.&quot;  Sheila  had  great  fun  organizing  the  meetings  of  her  two  quiet  friends,  but  to  her  surprise  Jimwas  bored  and  angered  by  her  matchmaking.  After  Matt  and  Kitty  had  been  to  the  house  three  times  and  Sheila  and  he  hadgone  out  to  supper  with  them  once,  he  struck.  Sheila  had  arranged  that  they  were  all  to  go  to  the  pictures  together,  but  he  refused.  &quot;Go  with  them  yourself!&quot;  he  shout-  ed.  &quot;What  the  hell  do  you  want  mixing  yourself  up  in  it  at  all  for?  If  they  can't  do  their  own  courting,  let  them  live  single.&quot;  Sheila  was  downcast,  and  went  to  the  bedroom  to  weep.  Jim  came  up  and  held  her  hand,  talking  about  everything  ex-  cept  the  subject  on  her  mind.  He  rose  after  ten  minutes  and  peered  out  the  window  at  the  view  of  the  city,  which  he  had  loved  from  boyhood.  &quot;What  the  hell  do  they  want  building  houses  up  here  for  and  then  not  giving  you  a  de-  cent  view?&quot;  he  said,  and  sighed.  All  the  same,  she  knew  he  knew  she  was  jealous.  It  was  all  very  well  arranging  a  match  between  Matt  and  Kitty,  but  she  hated  the  thought  ofthe  pair  of  them  going  out  together  and  making  remarks  about  her.  If  Jim  had  only  been  her  own  age,  she  wouldn't  have  minded  what  they  said,  but  he  was  an  old  man  by  comparison  and  might  die  any  day,  leaving  her  alone,  with  Matt  tied  for  life  to  her  friend.  She  could  even  antici-  pate  how  it  would  happen;  she  was  very  good  at  anticipating  things,  and  she  had  noticed  how  in  the  middle  of  the  night  Jim's  face  smoothed  out  into  that  of  a  handsome  boy,  and  knew  that  this  was  the  face  people  would  see  when  he  was  dead.  He  would  lie  like  that  in  this  very  room,  with  a  rosary  bead  between  his  transparent  fingers,  and  Matt  would  take  charge  of  everything,  in  that  firm,  gentle  way  of  his.  He  would  take  her  in  his  arms  to  comfort  her,  and  each  of  them  would  know  that  it  had  come  too  late.  So,  although  she  wanted  him  to  have  Kitty,  she  didn't  want  them  to  be  too  much  together,  and  she  hoped  they  might  not  be  too  precipitate.  'They  were  both  young-only  thirty  or  so-and  it  wouldn't  hurt  them  to  wait.  When  they  did  get  married,  some  six  months  later,  neither  of  them  knew  the  generosity  that  had  inspired  Sheila's  in-  tervention  or  the  grief  of  mind  it  had  caused  her.  She  suspected  that  Jim  knew  it,  though  he  said  no  more  about  it  than  he  did  about  all  the  other  things  that  touched  him  close.  He  made  it  worse  for  her  by  his  ter-  rible  unwillingness  to  tidy  up  his  affairs.  All  that  winter,  he  was  ill,  and  dragged  himself  to  the  shop  and  back,  and  for  three  weeks  he  lay  in  bed-as  usual,  with  a  pipe  in  his  mouth,  which  gave  him  horrible  spasms  of  choking.  It     Ton  SMiTS  wasn'tonly  that  he  had  a  weak  heart.  He  had  a  weak  chest  as  well,  and  one  day  the  bronchitis  would  prove  too  much  for  the  overstrained  heart.  But  in-  stead  of  insuring  himself  or  making  a  will  or  doing  any  of  the  things  you  would  expect  an  old  man  in  ill-health  with  a  young  wife  to  do,  he  spent  his  time  in  bed,  wrapped  in  woollies  and  shawls,  poring  over  plans  of  houses.  He  had  occupied  his  father's  unmanageable  house  on  Fair  Hill  for  twenty  years  without  ever  wanting  to  change  it,  but  now  he  seemed  to  have  got  a  new  lease  on  life.  He  wanted  the  basement,  where  the  kitchen  now  was,  shut  off,  and  one  of  the  first-floor  rooms  at  the  back  of  the  house  turned  into  a  modern  kitchen,  with  the  dining  room  opening  off  it.  Sheila  was  alarmed  at  the  thought  of  such  an  outlay  on  a  house  she  hadno  intention  of  occupying  when  Jim  was  dead.  It  was  all  right  to  live  in  with  him  but  far  too  lonesome  for  a  woman  living  alone,  and  she  knew  that  no  other  man,  unless  he  had  Jim's  awkward  tastes,  would  tolerate  it.  Besides,  she  could  not  dream  of  living  on  in  a  house  that  would  continue  to  remind  her  of  her  loss.  She  could  anticipate  that,  too,  and  see  all  his  things-his  chair,  his  favorite  view,  his  pipes-emptied  of  him.  &quot;But  you  said  yourself  it  was  hell  working  in  that  kitchen,&quot;  he  protest-  24  ed.  &quot;And  it's  awful  to  have  to  eat  there.  It  gives  you  the  horrors  to  go  down  there  after  dark.&quot;  &quot;But  the  money,  Jim!  'Think  of  the  money.&quot;  &quot;We  have  the  money,  girl.  That's  what  you  keep  on  saying  yourself;  it's  lying  there,  doing  no  good  to  anybody.&quot;  &quot;We  might  be  very  glad  to  have  it  one  of  thesedays.  And  if  you  had  to  sell  the  house,  you  could  never  get  back  what  we'd  spent  on  it.&quot;  &quot;Who  the  hellsaid  I  wanted  it  back?&quot;  he  said,  and  snorted.  &quot;I  want  a  house  I  can  live  in  comfortably.  Any-  way,  why  would  I  sell  it?&quot;  She  did  not  like  to  say,  though  he  knew  what  was  on  her  mind,  for  after  a  moment  he  gave  her  a  wicked  little  grin  and  raised  his  forefinger  at  her.  &quot;We'll  make  the  one  job  of  it,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;We'll  build  the  kitchen  and  buy  the  grave  at  the  same  time.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  laugh  at  me,  Jim,&quot;  she  said.  But  he  only  threw  back  his  head  and  roared.  &quot;And  we'll  buy  the  bloody  tombstone  and  get  it  inscribed.  'Sacred  to  the  Memory  of  James  Gaffney,  beloved  husband  of  Sheila  Gaffney  Who.&quot;  I  de-  clare  to  God,  you'll  have  people  writ-  ing  books  on  the  Whos.  The  oldest  family  in  County  Cork!&quot;  She  tried  to  get  him  to  compromise  on  an  upstairs  kitchen  of  an  inexpensive  kind-a  shed  with  a  gas  oven  in  it-  but  Jim  wouldn't  even  listen  to  her.  &quot;Now,  mind  what  I'm  saying,  girl,&quot;  he  said,  lecturing  her  as  he  had  done  on  their  first  night  of  marriage.  &quot;'There's  some  divil  of  meanness  in  Irish  people.  They  could  halve  their  work  and  double  their  pleasure,  but  they'd  sooner  have  their  money  in  the  bank.  Every  winter  they  shiver  with  the  cold,  they  go  out  to  the  haggard  the-  wickedest  night  God  sent,  they  die  in  hundreds,  and  they  let  the  food  go  bad  on  them,  all  sooner  than  put  the  money  into  the  one  business  that  ever  gives  you  a  certain  return-living.  Look  at  that  bloody  city  down  there,  full  of  perishing  ould  misers!&quot;  &quot;But,  Jim!&quot;  she  said  in  dismay.  'You're  not  thinking  of  putting  in  heat-  ing?&quot;  &quot;Why  wouldn't  I?  Who  is  it  that  keeps  complaining  she  can  never  get  warm  up  here?&quot;  &quot;And  a  fridge?&quot;  she  wailed.  &quot;Why  not?  You  like  ice  cream,  don't  you?&quot;  &quot;But,  Jim,  we  haven't  enough  money  to  pay  for  the  kitchen,  as  it  is.&quot;  &quot;We'll  get  it,  we'll  get  it.  You  de-  cide  what  you  want  and  I'll  see  about  the  money.&quot;   And  by  the  following  summer  Jim,  who  was  behaving  as  though  he  would  never  die,  was  planning  to  get  rid  ofthe  old,  improvised  bathroom  downstairs  and  put  in  a  new  one,  of  the  most  expen-  sive  kind,  off  the  bedroom.  &quot;I  tell  you,  Jim,  we  can't  afford  it,&quot;  Sheila  said.  .  &quot;Then  we'll  borrow  the  money,&quot;  he  said  placidly.  &quot;We  can  borrow  on  the  security  of  the  house.  Now  you  really  have  security  to  borrow  on.&quot;  Sheila  hated  the  very  thought  of  get-  ting  into  debt.  It  wasn't  that  she  didn't  appreciate  the  fine  new  kitchen,  with  a  corner  window  that  looked  over  the  hill  and  up  the  valley  of  the  river,  or  wasn't  glad  of  the  refrigerator  and  the  steam  heating;  and  it  was  certainly  not  that  she  wanted  Jim  to  die,  because  she  worried  herself  into  a  frenzy  trying  to  see  that  he  looked  after  himself  and  took  the  medicine  that  relieved  the  strain  on  his  heart.  If  only  somebody  could  have  as-  sured  her  that  Jim  would  live  to  be  eighty,  she  could  even  have  faced  get-  ting  into  debt  to  install  the  new  bath-  room.  No,  it  was  the  nagging  feeling  that  he  had  such  a  short  time  to  live  and  would  die  leaving  everything  in  a  mess,  as  it  was  now,  that  robbed  her  of  any  pleasure  she  might  feel.  She  couldn't  help  seeing  how  differ-  ent  it  was  with  Matt  and  Kitty.  Matt  had  everything  orderly.  It  was  true  that  he  didn't  carry  an  identification  disc  in  case  of  accidents,  but  he  had  as  much  insurance  as  he  could  afford  and  his  will  was  made.  Nothing  was  left  un-  provided  for.  She  couldn't  help  feel-  ZH  \.  ~  ear  -Mor®ts  BmHor  ing  that  Kitty  owed  hera  lot,  and  Kitty  was  inclined  to  feel  the  same.  For  a  girl  with  such  a  spotty  career,  it  was  a  joy  to  be  married  to  a  sweet-natured,  conscientious  man  like  Matt,  who  walked  the  tightrope  of  normality  al-  most  without  even  knowing  that  it  was  a  feat.  Not  that  Sheila  found  so  much  to  complain  about  in  Jim,  apart  from  the  one  monstrous  thing  that  he  was  too  set  in  his  ways.  She  saw  that  no  matter  how  dearly  you  loved  a  man  of  that  age  or  how  good  and  clever  he  was,  it  was  a  mistake,  because  you  could  do  nothing  with  him.  She  did  not  notice  that  Jim's  friends  thought  Jim  was  different,  or  know  that  they  attributed  it  to  her  in-  fluence.  Because  she  couldn't  get  him  to  give  up  smoking,  she  didn't  realize  that  she  might  have  changed  him  in  matters  of  more  importance  to  himself.  For  we  change  people  not  through  the  things  in  them  we  would  want  to  change  but  through  the  things  that  they  would  want  to  change.  What  she  had  given  Jim  was  the  wish  to  live  and  be  happy.  THEN  came  the  tragedy  of  Kitty's  death,  after  the  birth  of  her  second  child.  Sheila  brought  the  children  and  Matt  to  stay  with  them  in  Fair  Hill  until  Matt's  mother  closed  up  her  own  home  and  came  to  keep  house  for  him.  Jim  was  more  shocked  by  this  than  Sheila  had  expected.  He  had  always  been  friendly  with  Kitty,  and  he  went  so  far  asto  advise  Matt  not  to  make  any  ar-  rangement  with  his  mother  but  to  marry  again  as  quick  as  he  could.  Matt  had  no  intention  of  marrying  again,  as  he  told  Sheila,  and  she  knew,  though  he  did  not  say  it,  that  he  would  not  remarry-at  least  until  she  was  free  herself.  And  at  once  she  was  seized  with  impatience,  be-  cause  everything  in  life  happened  out  of  sequence,  as  if  a  mad  projectionist  had  charge  ofthe  film,  and  young  and  neces-  sary  people  like  Kitty  died,  and  old  men  like  Jim,  with  weak  hearts  and  ailing  chests,  dragged  on,  drinking  and  smoking,  coughing  and  wheezing,  and  de-  fying  Providence  and  their  doctors  by  plan-  ning  fresh  changes  in  their  homes.  She  was  horrified  at  the  thoughts  that  came  into  her  mind.  There  were  oc-  casions  when  she  al-  most  hated  Jim,  and  snapped  and  mocked  at  him  for  days,  till  she  pulled  herself  up  and  examined  her  con-  science.  Even  if  Jim  be-  lieved  in  nothing,  Sheila  did,  and  she  wept  as  she  asked  God  to  let  her  see  what  the  cause  of  her  wickedness  was.  For,  however  she  tried,  she  could  find  in  herself  no  real  desire  for  Jim's  death  and  no  real  dis-  like  for  him.  She  felt  that  if  called  on,  she  would  suffer  almost  anything  on  his  behalf.  Yet,  at  the  same  time,  she  was  torment-  ed  by  the  spectacle  of  Matt,  patient  and  uncomplaining,  the  way  he  looked  and  the  way  he  spoke,  and  his  terrible  need  of  her,  and  she  had  hysterical  fits  of  im-  patience  with  her  husband,  older  and  rougher  but  still  smiling  affectionately  at  her,  as  though  he  really  understood  what  was  going  on  in  her  head.  Per-  haps  he  even  did.  Once,  when  he  came  in  the  bedroom  and  saw  her  weeping  there,  he  clutched  her  hand  and  whis-  pered  furiously,  &quot;Ah,  why  can't  you  try  to  live  more  in  the  present?&quot;  She  was  genuinely  surprised,  and  thought  about  it  a  lot.  Because  it  was  the  present  she  was  living  in,  and  it  was  the  present  she  hated.  It  was  he  who  lived  in  the  future-a  future  he  would  never  enjoy.  He  tried  to  curb  himself,  because  he  knew  how  upset  she  became  over  his  plans,  but  the  temp-  tation  was  too  much  for  him,  and  be-  cause  he  thought  the  front  room  might  be  too.  depressing  for  her,  he  had  a  big  picture  window  put  in,  so  that  she  could  enjoy  the  wonderful  view  of  the  city,  and  a  little  terrace  built  outside,  where  they  could  sit  and  have  their  coffee  on  a  summer  evening.  -It  was  all  no  com-  fort  to  Sheila,  who  knew  that  it  was  only  for  a  year  or  two,  and  that  mean-  while  Matt  was  eating  his  heart  out  in  the  little  house  beside  the  river  in  [REDACTED],  waiting  for  Jim  to  die,  so  that  he  could  realize  his  life's  dream.  Then,  to  her  own  astonishment,  she  fell  ill,  and  realized  that  it  might  be  serious.  It  even  became  clear  to  her  that  she  might  not  be  going  to  live.  She  was  not  really  terrified  by  the  thought  of  what  she  had  prepared  herself  for  by  years  of  living  in  the  presence  of  God.  She  was  terrified  and  bewildered  at  the  way  in  which  it  threatened  to  make  a  mockery  of  her  life  and  Matt's.  She  went  to  hospital  in  the  College  Road,  and  every  day  Jim  came  and  sat  with  her,  talking  about  trifles,  till  the  nuns  drove  him  away.  He  had  shut  up  the  house  on  Fair  Hill  and  taken  a  room  near  the  hospital,  so  that  he  could  spend  every  spare  minute  with  her.  She  had  never  seen  a  human  being  so  anx-  jous  and  unhappy,  and  it  diverted  her  in  her  own  pain  to  make  fun  of  him.  She  even  flirted  with  him,  as  she  had  not  done  since  the  days  of  their  court-  ship.  Matt  came  to  see  her,  and  the  very  sight  of  him  filled  her  with  nausea.  How  ever  could  she  have  thought  of  marrying  that  gentle,  devoted,  intelli-  gent  man?  All  she  now  wanted  health  for  was  to  return  to  Fair  Hill  and  make  it  up  to  Jim.  But  as  the  days  went  by  she  knew  with  her  clear,  penetrating  mind  that  she  would  never  go  back  there.  &quot;Jim,&quot;  she  said,  the  day  before  she  died,  &quot;I  want  you  to  know  there  was  never  anybody  but  you.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  he  asked,  trying  to  keep  the  anguish  from  his  face.  &quot;Did  you  think  I  believed  it?&quot;  &quot;I  gave  you  cause  enough,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Promise  me  that  if  I  don't  come  back  you'll  marry  again.  You're  the  sort  that  can't  be  happy  without  someone  to  love.&quot;  &quot;Won't  you  ever  give  up  living  in  the  future?&quot;  he  asked,  with  a  reproach,  ful  smile,  and  then  took  her  hand  and  kissed  it.  T  was  their  last  conversation.  Jim  did  not  marry  again,  though  in  pub-  lic,  at  least,  he  did  not  give  the  impres-  sion  of  a  man  broken  down  with  grief.  On  the  contrary,  he  remained  cheerful  and  thriving  for  the  rest  of  his  days.  Matt  did  not  easily  forgive  him  his  callousness.  