 b"I BORROW  detective  stories  from  I  a  very  small  lending  library  at  the  back  of  one  ofthe  many  gift-and-  card  shops  that  now  crowd  the  Village  streets.  Last  night,  not  being  able  to  find  a  book,  I  stared  around  at  the  shelves  of  hand-woven  baskets,  modern  china,  ce-  ramic  ashtrays,  and  so  on,  and  I  saw  a  house  made  of  playing  cards  but  standing  very  solidly,  because  the  cards  were  slit  so  that  they  fitted  together.  I  bought  a  pack  of  the  cards,  and  then  I  con-  tinued  on  home  to  the  hotel  on  Wash-  ington  Square  where  I  live  at  present.  I  have  two  rooms,  eight  floors  up.  A  clumsy  iron  balcony,  beloved  of  pigeons,  is  built  close  up  against  the  windows  so  that  it  cuts  off  most  of  the  view.  It  was  a  lovely  clear  evening,  and  I  climbed  out  onto  the  balcony  to  take  a  look  at  the  scene  that  it  denied  me.  There,  eight  stories  down,  was  [REDACTED]  Square.  The  sidewalks  that  bound  the  park,  the  paths  that  flow  north,  south,  east,  and  west  from  the  fountain  to  join  the  sidewalks,  and  the  benches  at  the  edge  of  the  grass  all  were  crowded.  On  the  corner  diagonally  across  from  me,  an  ice-cream  man  had  anchored  his  cart-a  square  white  cart,  with  a  tall  umbrella  upright  and  full-  blown  in  stripes  of  red  and  yellow.  Not  far  from  the  ice-cream  cart,  but  on  the  grass,  a  woman  stood  alone,  tossing  her  arms  about.  She  might  have  been  having  a  fit  or  placing  a  curse  by  her  gestures,  but  there  was  a  great  commotion  of  pigeons  around  her,  and  I  judged  that  she  was  feeding  them,  or  that  she  had  fed  them  and  was  explaining  that  the  crumb  bag  was  empty.  A  minute  later,  the  pigeons  rose  up  in  a  crowd  and  swooped  off  between  the  trees.  The  woman  walked  away.  I  heard  lately-it  is  only  a  rumor,  I  suppose-that  there  is  talk  of  cutting  an  underpass  through  [REDACTED]  Square.  I  suppose  that  means  that  part  of  the  Square,  anyway,  will  be  dug  up.  It  will  hardly  look  the  same  after  that.  When  I  first  came  to  New  York,  I  lived  for  a  while  at  the  Holley  Hotel,  on  the  west  side  of  the  Square.  The  Holley  was  torn  down  this  year,  and  lately,  when  I  pass  that  way,  I  see  the  nar-  row  gap-surprisingly  narrow  the  little  old  hotel  used  to  crouch  be-  tween  its  tall  apartment-building  neigh-  bors.  At  the  time  I  lived  there,  only  twelve  years  ago,  a  row  of  worn-looking  studio  buildings  stretched  part  way  across  the  south  side  of  the  Square.  I  thought  those  buildings  were  beautiful  and  romantic,  and  I  used  to  long  for  an  apartment,  or  even  a  room,  in  one  of  them,  but  they  were  always  full  up.  Now  they  are  gone,  and  a  dull-faced  educational  edifice  stands  in  their  places.  At  that  time,  and  later,  I  tramped  in  and  out  of  most  of  the  handsome  old  houses  on  the  north  side  of  the  Square,  looking  for  a  place  to  live.  Some  of  those  houses  were  demolished  to  make  way  for  a  set  of  brand-new,  drearily  uniform  apartments,  and  most  of  the  rest  have  been  turned  into  offices.  The  hotel  in  which  I  now  live  is  elderly,  and  last  night  I  wondered,  not  for  the  first  time,  whether  its  last  days  might  not  be  approaching.  The  pleasant  side  entrance  has  been  sealed  off,  which  is  a  discourag-  ing  sign.  I  climbed  in  off  the  balcony  and  sat  down  on  the  comfortable  little  sofathat  is  the  chief  decoration  of  my  sitting  room.  It  is  a  nice  room,  with  folding  doors  going  into  the  bedroom.  The  fire-  place  no  longer  works,  of  course.  I  took  the  cards  I  had  bought  out  of  their  box  and  looked  at  them.  They  were  the  shape  and  texture  of  playing  cards,  but  instead  -of  the  hearts  and  diamonds  and  all,  these  cards  were  decorated  with  flowers  and  geometric  designs.  I  won-  dered  why  I'd  bought  them.  I  was  never  enthusiastic  about  trying  to  build  houses  with  cards.  I  work  in  a  building  in  midtown.  My  office  is  twenty  stories  up  in  the  air,  and  from  this  eminence  yesterday  morning  I  watched  the  demolition  of  a  red  brick  building  far  below.  I  must  have  stared  down  at  the  roof  of  that  building  a  thou-  sand  times,  but  now  that  it  was  gone,  I  found  I  really  could  not  recall  what  it  looked  like.  In  the  afternoon,  when  I  went  to  lunch,  I  found  a  whole  block  of  Sixth  Avenue  gone,  and  I  hadn't  any  recollection  at  all  of  those  vanished  houses,  except  that  I  thought  they  might  have  been  a  reddish  col-  or.  Or  maybe  they  were  gray.  It  is  very  disconcerting  to  have  a  gap  suddenly  ap-  pear  in  a  spot  where  you  can't  remember  ever  having  seen  a  wall.  The  walls  in  my  hotel  rooms  are  a  bright  green-blue,  a  sort  of  bird's-egg  color,  It  is  a  lovely  color,  although  I  would  never  have  had  the  nerve  to  choose  it  myself  if  I  had  been  painting  the  room.  I  always  liked  white  walls,  but  I  have  grown  very  fond  of  this  cheerful  color.  Now,  looking  at  the  walls,  I  found  myself  thinking  they  should  be  even  brighter,  with  more  blue  in  them,  so  that  they'd  really  assert  themselves.  When?  When  the  hotel  comes  down,  as  it  seems  bound  to  do.  I " b"saw  the  inside  walls  of  the  building  that's  coming  down  below  my  office  today.  Yellow,  green,  brown,  ugly  pale  shades  of  those  three  colors,  the  walls  made  a  poor  show.  'They  looked  sad,  as  though  they  had  never  expected  any-  thing  better  than  to  be  thrown  away.  This  hotel  room  of  mine  won't  look  sad  when  they  take  the  roof  off.  The  ten-  ants  ofthe  towering  apartment  build-  ing  across  the  street  are  going  to  remark  on  this  color.  It  will  never  be  confused  with  the  rubble  that  will  litter  the  floor  here.  I  had  white  walls  in  the  little  Ninth  Street  apartment  that  was  torn  out  from  under  me  last  year  by  the  wreckers.  My  front  windows  peered  up  at  a  big,  flat-  fronted  apartment  building  very  similar  to  the  one  that  faces  me  in  the  hotel  here.  I'm  afraid  my  white  walls  must  have  looked  forlorn  when  they  were  exposed  to  view.  A  blinding  purple  or  a  coat  of  scarlet  might  have  saved  them  from  nonentity.  I  HAD  been  setting  those  grooved  cards  around  on  the  table,  looking  at  their  patterns,  but  now  I  gathered  them  up  and  put  them  back  in  their  box.  It  was  too  much.  The  city  was  tottering  around  me,  the  floor  beneath  my  feet  was  already  shivering  under  the  wreck-  ers'  boots,  so  to  speak,  and  I  was  about  to  build  a  house  of  cards  that  was  guar-  anteed  to  stand.  I  was  irritated  by  the  picture,  but  it  nagged  at  me.  I  wished  I'd  never  seen  the  cards,  with  their  bland,  obvious  little  burden  of  intima-  tions.  Here  I  was  admiring  my  room  because  it  would  look  well  after  the  roof  was  off.  I  was  congratulating  my  room,  and  myself,  because  it  would  make  a  creditable  corpse.  All  my  life,  I  suppose,  I'll  be  scurry-  ing  out  of  buildings  just  ahead  of  the  wreckers,  and  I  can't  afford  to  start  wondering,  every  time  I  have  the  place  painted,  if  the  walls  will  speak  up  after  the  room  has  been  laid  open.  These  cards  might  become  a  craze.  I  can  see  people  all  over  the  city  sitting  in  doomed  apartments  building  houses  of  cards  that  will  last.  And  painting  their  walls  in  noisy  colors  to  astonish  the  ten-  antsof  the  high  buildings  around.  Mass  hysteria  might  set  in,  with  the  house  painters  celebrating.  I'm  going  to  give  these  cards  away.  I'll  give  them  away  separately,  and  pretend  they're  book-  marks.  I  used  to  like  to  play  patience,  though.  I  might  buy  a  set  of  plain  old  playing  cards.  No  reflection,  no  signif-  icance,  no  fancies,  just  patience,  and  the  game  as  Iplay  it,  impatiently,  will  be  quite  enough  for  me. "