 b"IT\xe2\x80\x99S  a  funny  thing,  but  people  don't   seem  to  want  to  help  themselves.  Twice  during  the  past  fifteen  years,  I  have,  with  considerable  fanfare,  pub-  licly  located  alumni  listed  as  &quot;lost&quot;&quot;  by  the  Taft  School,  Watertown,  Connect-  icut.  On  each  occasion-the  second  one  only  a  few  weeks  ago-I  revealed  my  dowsing  formula,  which  consists  of  looking  the  names  up  in  the  phone  book,  the  Social  Register,  and,  in  a  pinch,  Who's  Who.  In  this  way,  I  have  lo-  cated  some  thirty  Taft  men,  at  times  when  the  school,  after  a  good  deal  of  expense  incurred  by  mimeographing,  postage,  paper,  and  secretarial  hours,  had  petitioned  hundreds  of  non-lost  alumni  for  help.  I  now  have  on  my  desk  a  similar  SOS  from  the  Westminster  School  Alumni  Association,  Simsbury,  [REDACTED],  enclosing  a  list  headed  *  'Missing'  Alumni&quot;  and  the  statement: The  Alumni  office  has  no  address  forthe  men  whose  names  are  listed  below.  Any  information  that  you  can  give  us  will  be  most  gratefully  received.  The  fact  that  the  Association  has  encased  the  word  &quot;missing&quot;&quot;  in  quota-  tion  marks  indicates  that  it  isn't  really  sure  these  men  are  missing,  but  this  makes  its  helplessness  all  the  more  hei-  nous.  A  strong  adjective,  but  I  use  it  ad-  visedly.  If  the  prep  schools  of  this  coun-  try  can't  master  the  simplest  techniques  of  research  even  after  they  have  been  pointed  out  to  them,  what  hope  is  there  for  an  intelligent  citizenry?  Must  we  turn  to  the  uneducated  for  leadership?  Do  all  those  New  England  campuses,  all  those  Gothic  and  Colonial  buildings,  all  those  swimming  pools  and  squash  courts  donated  by  rich,  grateful  gradu-  ates  and  parents  have  a  numbing  effect  on  the  privileged  thousands  who  fre-  quent  them,  either  at  great  costto  their  families  or,in  the  case  of  scholarship  boys,  at  great  cost  to  the  families  of  others?  Or  are  these  lads  just  doomed  to  incompetence  from  the  cradle?  What-  ever  it  is-heredity,  environment,  or  a  shattering  combination  of  the  two-  it's  a  poor  show. WELL,  I'll  try  once  more,  and  I  hope  someone  will  pay  some  at-  tention  this  time.  I  have  spent  a  lit-  tle  over  an  hour  on  this  chore,  and  I  have  specifically  located  sixteen  refugees  from  Westminster.  I  could  locate  two  more  by  consulting  out-of-town  Social  Registers  that  I  don't  have  handy, and  I  believe  I  could  put  the  finger  on  a  nineteenth  and  twentieth  by  making  phone  calls  to  their  fathers,  whose  addresses,  along  with  the  sons'  names,  are  in  Who's  Who,  but  in  these  instances  I  think  I'll  simply  point  the  way.  No  one  has  given  me  an  expense  account  for  phone  bills-one  of  these  calls  would  have  to  be  to  [REDACTED]-and  besides  it  might  be  salutary  for  Westminster  to  doan  iota  subscript  of  the  work  itself.  An  iota  subscript  is  a  smidgen,  and  a  smidgen  is  not  much  to  ask  of  an  educational  institution.  Five  of  the  sixteen  are  in  the  Man-  hattan  phone  book.  Ten  of  the  sixteen  are  in  the  New  York  Social  Register.  Four  of  the  sixteen  are  in  the  Wash-  ington,  [REDACTED],  or  [REDACTED]  Register,  which,  unlike  the  Buffalo  and  Cleve-  land  Registers  (these  house  two  of  the  four  men  I  am  going  to  let  Westminster  look  up),  I  have  in  my  reference  library.  This  library  also  includes  a  Social  Regis-  ter  Locator,  which  lists  city  but  not  street  addresses;  that's  how  I  know  about  the  Buffalo  and  [REDACTED]  boys.  One  of  the  sixteen  is  in  Who's  W  ho  in  his  own  right.  (A  library  of  this  sort  costs  less  than  all  that  mimeographing,  etc.)  The  reason  these  citations  add  up  to  twenty  instead  of  sixteen  is  that  four  of  the  men  are  listed  in  two  of  the  afore-  mentioned  reference  volumes.  James  Orr  Denby,  1915,  who  hides  out  in  W  ho's  W  ho  and  the  [REDACTED]  Reg-  ister,  is  at  2315  Bancroft  Place,  N.  W.,  and  has  an  office  at  the  State  Depart-  ment.  Thomas  C.  Wayland,  1913,  [REDACTED]  phone  book  and  New  York  Register,  is  at  115  East  Sixty-seventh  Street.  The  two  other  two-book  men  are  similarly  documented.  Cass  Gilbert  III,  1939,  is  at  625  East  Fourteenth  Street  and  works  in  an  underwriting  firm-clandestinely,  as  far  as  West-  minster  is  concerned-at  90  John  Street.  Francis  E.  Neagle,  Jr.,  1934,  is  at  431  East  Twentieth  Street.  This  is  in  Peter  Cooper  Village,  and  is  in-  terestingly  close  to  two  Taft  men  I  recently  unearthed-Arthur  T.  Gar-  funkel,  at  4  Peter  Cooper  Road,  and  C.  John  Vermilye,  at  511  East  Twen-  tieth  Street.  Sort  of  a  port  of  missing  men  down  there.  Now  for  a  couple  of  straight  tele-  phone-book  lurkers.  Craig  Hammitt,  1928,  has  an  office  at  122  East  43616e616461y-  second  Street,  where  Westminster's  ap-  peals  for  funds  and  invitations  to  the  annual  alumni  dinner  at  the  New  York  Yacht  Club  will  reach  him.  Harry  Ewington  Childs,  1933,  is  holed  up  in  an  apartment  at  750  Park  [REDACTED]  and  " b"in  an  office  at  205  East  43616e616461y-second  Street,  a  few  divining  rods  away  from  Hammitt.  The  two  men  probably  meet  for  lunch,  with  false  beards,  at  the  Commodore.  That  leaves  seven  straight  New  York  Register  men  to  go.  Wil-  liam  Walter  Phelps,  1910,  is  in  Aiken,  South  Caro-  lina.  Elbridge  Adams,  1917,  is  at  Sunninghill,  Rutland,  [REDACTED].  Philip  Avery  Kernan,  1944,  and  his  equally  missing  brother,  Lawrence  Devereux  Ker-  nan,  1947,  are  at  11  Slaytonbush  Lane,  [REDACTED].  Thomas  Jewett  Hallo-  well,  1928,  is  at  [REDACTED]  Salonga  Road,  [REDACTED]  Sa-  longa,  Long  Island.  Brad-  ford  W.  Stiles,  1925,  has  taken  sanctuary  from  his  old  school  at  the  Old  Or-  chard,  [REDACTED]  Lane,  Cold  Spring  Harbor.  Philip  Winston  McKee,  1949,  is  listed  under  his  parents,  the  E.  Bates  McKees,  at  57  Boulevard  Beaus\xc3\xa9jour,  [REDACTED].  As  for  the  extra-  New  York  Register  in-  cumbents,  in  addition  to  Denby,  Walter  Evans  Edge,  Jr.,  1935,  a  son  of  a  former  governor  of  New  Jersey  and  ambassador  to  [REDACTED],  can  be  reached  at  his  parents'  place,  Sunny  Hill  Plantation,  Thomasville,  [REDACTED],  or  at  Landfall  Farm,  Miccosukee,  Flor-  ida,  Sunninghill  and  Sunny  Hill!  What  a  life  some  displaced  persons  lead!  Joseph  Wheeler  Woods,  Jr.,  1949,  is  at  15  Casino  Road,  Marblehead,  [REDACTED].  Charles  L.  Strobel,  Jr.,  1910,  is  at  10  West  Elm  Street,  [REDACTED].  The  Buffalo  and  [REDACTED]  escapists  are,  respectively,  Marshall  Carroll,  Jr.,  1946,  and  William  Ovington  Wick,  1944  (see  Mrs.  H.  C.  Wick).  O.K.  Eighteen  in  the  bag,  and  two  W  ho's  W  ho  sons  in  the  bush.  George  D.  Knopf,  1927,  is  the  son  of  Adolph  Knopf,  of  130  Hardwick  Road,  Red-  wood  City,  [REDACTED],  and  Stanford  University.  His  dad  is  a  former  presi-  dent  of  the  Geological  Society  of  Amer-  ica  and  could  surely  dig  up  his  son.  Adolph  Knopf  is  not  to  be  confused  with  Alfred  Knopf,  the  publisher,  who  can  generally  be  located  lunching  in  the  Cub  Room  ofthe  Stork  Club,  Richard  M.  Biow,  1938,  is  the  son  of  Milton  H.  Biow,  of  118  East  Sixty-second  Street  and  (office)  640  Fifth  [REDACTED].  The  senior  Biow  is  in  the  public-relations  business  and  would  doubtless  not  hesi-  tateto  air  his  son's  whereabouts  to  any  reputable  missing-alumni  seeker,  such  as  Critchell  Rimington,  Westminster  1925,  treasurer  of  the  school's  Alumni  Association,  editor  of  Yachting,  and  the  man  who  makes  Westminster's  annual  Yacht  Club  dinners  possible.  Where  do  you  suppose  Rimington's  office  is?  At  205  East  43616e616461y-second  Street,  in  the  same  building  as  that  of  Childs,  1933!  Hunter  and  quarry  under  the  same  roof,  all  unbeknownst  to  one  another-  or  at  any  rate  to  hunter.  That's  New  York  for  you.  I  HAVE  a  feeling  that  with  a  little  more  diligence  I  could  locate  Wil-  liam  Strong  Cushing,  1903,  a  son  of  the  school's  founder,  the  late  William  L.  Cushing,  and  Gifford  Pinchot  II,  1922,  but  I've  had  it.  Cushing  must  return  to  the  campus  from  time  to  time,  disguised,  perhaps,  as  a  Choate  alumnus,  but  I  haven't  any  leg  men.  A  one-man  missing-persons  bureau  can  do  just  so  much.  If  the  prep  schools  of  the  country  want  to  put  my  services  on  a  paying  basis,  though,  I'll  be  glad  to  expand.  Pinkerton  started  in  a  small  way,  round-  ing  up  petty  counterfeiters. "