 b"THERE  was  a  hole  so  neat  that  it  looked  tailored  in  the  dead  center  of  the  large  round  beige  velours  mat  that  had  been  thrown  on  the  grass  in  the  shade  of  the  venerable  sycamore,  and  through  it  protruded  a  clump  of  mint,  so  chic  in  its  air  of  casualness,  so  piquant  in  its  fragrance  in  the  heat  of  mid-July,  that  Mme.  Floquet,  a  brisk  Greek  in  middle  life,  suggested,  speak-  ing  in  French  with  a  commandingly  eccentric  accent,  that  her  host,  Karl  von  Bubnoff,  M.  le  Baron,  had  contrived  it  all  with  shears  and  trowel  before  his  Sunday  guests  arrived  at  his  manorial  house,  Magnamont,  in  Chantilly.  It  was  quite  too  accidental  to  be  acciden-  tal,  she  declared;  it  was  quite  too  Sur-  realist  to  be  a  happenstance.  Mme.  Floquet  had  the  look  and  the  deport-  ment  of  a  dark  wasp;  her  thin,  sharp  fingers,  crimson-tipped,  fiddled  with  her  bracelets,  made  of  rare  old  coins  (&quot;Oh,  Byzantine,  I  daresay,  or  some-  thing  of  the  sort,&quot;  she  had  said  care-  lessly  to  someone  who  had  admired  them;  one  knew  that  she  knew  perfect-  ly  well  the  pedigree  and  the  value  of  each  of  them),  and  through  smoked  glasses  of  a  rosy  cast  she  gave  her  lightning-paced  regard  to  a  compact  that  had  cunningly  been  made  from  a  tiger  cowrie  shell  and  given  by  M.  le  Baron  to  Mrs.  Preston,  whose  birth-  day  it  was  today.  Mrs.  Preston,  a  Rus-  sian,  was  as  Amazonian  and  fair  as  Mme.  Floquet  was  elfin  and  swart,  and  she  was  the  beneficiary  of  so  large  a  for-  tune,  left  to  her  by  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  hus-  band  (he  had  manufactured  pills),  that  in  certain  quarters  she  was  adored.  (Mme.  Floquet,  who  was  dependent  for  her  livelihood  on  the  largess  of  a  moody  Danish  lover,  had  been  heard  to  remark,  &quot;I  can't  say  that  Tanya  carries  her  money  as  well  as  she  might,  but  that  sort  of  thing-money,  I  mean-can't  be  ignored.  I'd  not  refuse  the  offer  of  the  Koh-i-noor,  even  though  it  wouldn't  be  my  style.&quot;  Because  of  this  forbear-  ance  on  the  part  of  Mme.  Floquet,  she  and  Mrs.  Preston  were  the  best  of  friends,  and  the  little  Greek  had  frequently  accepted  presents  of  slightly  worn  sables  and  the  use  of  second-best  motor-  cars.)  It  was  Mme.  Flo-  quet's  chaffing  tone  that  was  immediately  adopt-  ed  by  the  whole  party.  The  conceit  of  their  host's  rising  before  the     dew  was  dry  and  arranging  this  neat  tatter  and  its  rural  adornment  amused  them,  and,  to  his  delight,  they  ragged  him;  someone  proposed  that  he  had  really  done  it  the  night  before  by  moonlight  and  had  recited  incantations  that  would  endow  t  his  particular  herb  with  magic  properties-black  or  be-  nign,  the  speaker  would  not  care  to  guess.  Rejoicing  in  his  witty  nature,  they  recalled  the  Baron's  f\xc3\xa9te  cham-  p\xc3\xa9tre  of  the  summer  before,  when  there  had  actually  been  jousting  and  tilting,  the  knights  being  jockeys  from  Long-  champ  in  papier-mach\xc3\xa9  armor  executed  by  Christian  Dior.  Someone  else,  re-  turning  to  the  present  joke,  said,  &quot;If  this  were  [REDACTED],  we  could  have  mint  juleps.&quot;  But  Mme.  Floquet,  who  tended  to  be  tutorial,  replied  to  this,  \xc2\xab''Those,  I  believe,  are  made  with  Bour-  bon  whiskey,  and  the  taste  of  that,  I  assure  you,  is  insupportable.  I  had  some  one  day  in  [REDACTED]  by  mistake.&quot;  She  shuddered  and  her  bracelets  sang.  Maggie  Meriwether,  who  was  from  [REDACTED]  and  was  the  only  556e6974656420537461746573n  present,  and  who  was  abroad  for  the  first  time  in  her  young  life,  blushed  at  this  mention  of  her  native  state  and  country  as  if  someone  had  cast  an  aspersion  on  her  secret  lover;  she  was  gravely,  cruel-  ly  homesick.  Her  French,  acquired  easily  and  then  polished  painstak-  ingly  at  Sweet  Briar,  had  forsak-  en  her  absolutely  the  very  mo-  ment  the  Channel  boat  docked  in  Calais,  and  while,  to  her  regret  and  often  to  her  bitter  abase-  ment,  she  had  understood  almost  every-  thing  she  had  heard  since  she  had  been  in  [REDACTED],  she  had  not  been  able  to  utter  a  word.  Not  so  much  as  &quot;Merci&quot;  and  certainly  not  so  much  as  &quot;Merci  beaucoup.&quot;  She  had  been  sure  that  if  she  did,  she  would  be  greeted  with  rude  laughter  (not  loud  but  penetrating),  cool  looks  of  disdain,  or  simply  incom-  prehension,  as  if  she  were  speaking  a  Finnish  dialect.  Her  parents,  who  had  had  to  be  cajoled  for  a  year  into  letting  her  go  to  Europe  alone,  had  imagined  innumerable  dread-  ful  disasters-the  theft  of  her  passport  or  purse,  ravishment  on  the  Orient  Express,  amoebic  dysentery,  abduction  into  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]-but  it  had  never  oc-  curred  to  them  that  their  high-  spirited,  self-confident,  happy  daughter  would  be  bamboozled  into  muteness  by  the  language  of  [REDACTED].  Her  itinerary  pro-  vided  for  two  weeks  in  [REDACTED],  and  she  had  suffered  through one week of it when, like an angel from heaven, an Englishman called Tippy Akenside showed up at her hotel at the very moment when she was about to dissolve in tears and book passage home. She had met Tippy in [REDACTED] at a dinner party. - the English ate awful food and drank awful drinks, but they surely did speak a nice language and had liked him and she would have been pleased to see him again anywhere seeing him in [REDACTED] at the crucial moment had almost caused her to fall in love with him though young men with wavy black hair and bad teeth never appealed to her. He had been wonderfully understanding of her dilemma he had had a similar experience in [REDACTED] when he gone there for a holiday from Eton and the evening before which had begun in Maxims and ended at Le Grand Deigneur with rivers of champagne he had proposed this day in the country as a cheerful relaxation. He was a friend of the Baron and knew most of the people who were to be at the party and he assured her that all of them spoke English. He had promised on his word of honor that he would manage cleverly to make everyone speak it English was ever so smart these days, he said, and to do so without embarrassing her. Tippy's word of honor had proved to be no longer than a nonsense syllable, and his cleverness as a social arbiter evidently existed only in his mind. For English was not being spoken, not even by especially not by Tippy. Not one of the company was French, although they looked it. As for their host, M. le Baron was the son of a Viennese father and half-French, half-Irish mother. Maggie had loathed Tippy Akenside from the moment they got out of his Renault. Looking back, she saw that he was a poor driver not reckless but gawky so that they had made the trip in fits and starts and he had not paid any attention at all to her except for making introductions. Not only was she miserable over the death grip in which the cat had got her tongue she was feeling very country looking although she had thought she looked quite smart when she set out from [REDACTED]. The other ladies had all brought a change a clothes, had taken off their city dresses and their city shoes and were wearing stunning linen shorts and shirts and Italian sandals. They had not however removed their jewels rubies and emeralds and diamonds were" b"visible  at  the  open  necks  of  their  infor-  mal  shirts;  fashionably  crude-cut  gems  of  inestimable  worth  glittered  at  their  wrists  and  ears;  Mrs.  Preston  wore  an  ankle  bracelet  of  star  sapphires.  Maggie,  in  a  tie-silk  print  and  high-heeled  shoes  (and,  oh,  lackamercy  on  us,  stockings!)  and  a  choker  of  cultured  pearls,  could  not  tell  whether  they  were  all  really  not  aware  that  she  was  there  or  whether  they  thought  that  Tippy,  who  was  de-  scended  from  a  long  line  of  eccentrics  (and,  thought  Maggie,  of  traitors),  had  brought  along  his  mother's  tweeny  for  some  sort  of  awful  joke.  She  did  not  know,  that  is,  whether  she  was  invisible  or  whether  she  was  an  eyesore  too  ex-  cruciating  to  look  at.  Certainly  they  were  managing  marvellously  to  rise  above  her  presence.  Maggie  was  sorry  that  she  was  not  enjoying  her  experience,  because  she  was  sure  it  was  a  rich  one  for  a  sim-  ple  country-club  girl  from  [REDACTED].  M.  le  Baron  was  a  handsome,  sparkling  man  whom  many  women,  according  to  Tippy,  wished  to  marry.  All  but  a  few  diehards,  mainly  girls  of  a  greedy  and  romantic  age,  had  sensibly  faced  up  to  the  fact  that  he  would  remain  a  bache-  lor  forever,  because  he  basked  in  a  per-  fectly  rapturously  happy  marriage  to  his  demesne,  this  superb  Palladian  house  that  confronted  a  pool  filled  with  blue  water  hyacinths-a  pool  that  adroitly  became  a  broad  and  gracefully  mean-  dering  stream  where  black  swans  rode  and  charming  bridges  arched  to  de-  bouch  into  charming  paths,  through  acres  and  acres  of  classical  gardens  and  orchards,  up  into  vineyards,  down  into  cow  pastures  and  paddocks.  At  some  dis-  tance  behind  the  house,  within  a  grove  of  oaks  that  dated  back  to  Charlemagne,  there  was  a  famous,  ancient  abbey,  in-  habited  now  not  by  clericals-except  for  the  household  priest-but  by  the  Baron's  aged  French-Irish  mother,  her  aged  brother,  his  aged  manservant,  and  a  bevy  of  aged  handmaidens.  'The  valet  sometimes  played  the  fiddle-badly  but  with  heart-and  the  maids  beauti-  fully  crocheted;  the  brother  and  sister,  who  doted  on  each  other,  played  back-  gammon  almost  unceasingly,  and  both  of  them  cheated  without  a  prick  of  conscience.  It  was  a  supremely  contented  community.  'The  servants  of  Magnamont  were  happy;  the  ten-  ants  were  prosperous  and  exceptionally  fecund;  the  livestock  was  stalwart;  the  fruit  of  the  land  was  unparalleled.  And  all  of  this  harmony  came  about  because  M.  le  Baron  was  so  faithful  to  his  husbandry.  What  he  loved  best  in  the  world  next  to  grooming  and  burnishing  Magna-mont  was  showing  off  Magnamont  to  visitors,  but  he  was  so  sensitive  to  any  slight  upon  his  truelove  that  he  never  forced  her  on  anyone.  'This  reluctance  dated  from  two  episodes,  occurring  within  a  month  of  each  other:  Someone  had  made  a  stupid  joke  about  the  sheep  that  were  wisely  and  thriftily  used  to  keep  down  the  grass  of  the  far  lawns,  and  someone  else,  who  had  had  an  excess  of  drink,  had  gone  a  little  too  far  about  the  topiary  garden,  which,  while  ad-  mittedly  absurd,  was  heirloom  and  sacrosanct.  These  boors,  needless  to  say,  had  neverbeen  asked  back.  If  an  in-  vitation  to  look  athis  dovecotes  or  his  asparagus  beds  had  been  received  with  indifference,  M.  le  Baron's  heart  would  have  bled,  so  he  had  to  be  asked-he  sometimes  even  had  to  be  coaxed-to  conduct  a  tour  of  the  grounds.  Maggie  had  momentarily  warmed  to  this  man,  for  when  Tippy  introduced  them  he  had  smiled  in  the  friendliest  possible  way  and  had  said,  in  Eng-  lish,  &quot;How  nice  of  you  to  come,&quot;  but  then,  when  rotten  Tippy  said,  &quot;Miss  Meriwether  is  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  girl  I  told  you  about  on  the  phone,&quot;  the  Baron  thereafter  addressed  her  in  highly  idiomatic  French  until,  encountering  nothing  but  silence  and  the  headshakes  and  cryptic  groans  that  escaped  her  in-  voluntarily,  he  began  to  pretend,  as  the  others  had  done  from  the  start,  that  she  wasn't  there.  HEY  had  had  a  long  ramble,  for  these  guests  knew  the  way  to  their  host's  heart;  they  had  seen  everything,  including  the  bees,  including  the  Baron's  motherand  uncle,  who  were  swindling  each  other  and  drinking  Jamaica  rum  out  of  minute  silver  goblets.  Maggie  had  not  minded  the  excursion,  tiring  and  baffling  as  it  had  been,  half  as  much  as  she  did  this  present  situation,  when  they  all  sat  in  a  circle  on  the  mat  as  if  they  were  about  to  play  spin-the-plate  and  aim  for  the  clump  of  mint.  They  were  drinking  Martinis  made  with  a  Euro-  pean  and  abominable  exorbitance  of  vermouth.  They  were  drinking  Mar-  tinis,  that  is,  with  the  exception  of  the  Contessa  Giovennazzo,  who,  with  enor-  mous  originality,  had  asked  for  iced  tilleul.  This  woman,  a  vision  in  Shock-  ing  pink  and  violet  and  with  phospho-  rescent  streaks  of  platinum  in  her  black  hair,  discomfited  Maggie  almost  more  than  any  of  the  others,  for  she  talked  so  much  and  so  knowingly  about  the  United  [REDACTED];  she  had  a  great  deal  to  say  about  the  United  Nations  and  about  [REDACTED],  and  she  told  a  significant  anecdote  about  a  senator  of  whom  Mag-  gie  had  never  heard.  From  time  to  time,  Maggie  tried  to  catch  Tippy's  shifty  eye,  and  she  unre-  " b"mittingly  sent  him  an  SOS  by  telepathy.  But  he  was  engaged  in  a  preposterous  recapitulation  of  scenes  in  W.  C.  Fields  movies  with  a  Heer  Dokter  van  Len-  nep,  a  psychoanalyst  who  had  emi-  grated  from  Amsterdam  to  practice  on  Park  [REDACTED],  and  with  a  man  whose  name  Maggie  had  not  caught  and  whose  nationality  or  occupation  or  age  she  could  not  begin  to  determine;  he  was  rather  fat  and  rather  fair  and  rather  seedy  and  rather  melancholy  of  coun-  tenance  (he  was  not  enjoying  the  con-  versation  about  W.  C.  Fields  at  all),  but  since  all  these  things  were  only  rather  true  of  him,  their  opposites  could  just  as  easily  have  obtained.  She  had  never  seen  anyone  so  nondescript;  he  looked  like  a  bundle  that  might  have  contained  anything  on  earth.  Because  of  his  very  lack  of  definition,  she  pinned  her  hopes  on  him.  At  least,  he  wasn't  elegant;  he  did  not  look  rich;  he  did  not  look  well-connected;  not  a  single  scintilla  burst  from  his  soggy,  shaggy  person,  And  she  began,  parenthetically,  to  send  him  a  distress  signal.  The  gossip,  over  these  many,  many  bad  Martinis,  was  global.  The  jokes  (they  laughed  like  mad  and  had  to  wipe  the  corners  of  their  eyes  with  their  monogrammed  handkerchiefs)  presup-  posed  a  knowledge  of  the  early  peccadil-  loes  of  papal  princesses  and  of  deposed  kings  and  demoted  Prussian  generals,  the  sharp  wit  of  footmen  in  embassies  in  Africa,  the  gaucherie  of  certain  spies  and  the  high  style  of  certain  others,  the  moral  turpitude-ghastly,  really,  but  screamingly  funny-of  a  choreographer  in  [REDACTED],  the  line  age  of  a  positively  fascinating  band  of  juvenile  delinquents  that  were  terrorizing  Neuilly-sur-Seine.  Maggie  grew  hotter  and  larger.  The  interminable  day  progressed  from  one  disgrace  to  another,  and  Maggie  Meriwether,  who  once  upon  a  time  had  been  considered  something  of  a  belle,  became  more  and  more  be-  draggled.  Her  stem,  that  green  and  golden  tie  -silk  print,  beg  an  to  look  as  if  it  had  been  dragged  in  by  the  same  cat  that  had  hold  of  her  tongue;  her  roots  were  swollen  (looked  like  pota-  toes,  to  tell  the  truth,  thought  Maggie  wretchedly)  in  too  new  shoes;  and  her  hair,  which  was  thick  and  red-gold  (once  called  &quot;strictly  Maggie's  crown-  ing  glory&quot;),  got  stringy  with  the  heat  and  with  her  emotion  and  looked,  she  knew,  exactly  like  a  dying  dandelion.  What  a  wallflower!  The  more  she  drank,  the  more  trembly  she  got,  and  she  was  obliged  to  refuse  several  courses  at  lunch  because  she  could  not  possibly  have  handled  the  serving  spoons;  she  fancied  that  the  butler  divined  her  diffi-  culty  and  despised  her,  and  she  wished  that  she  could  say  in  withering  French  that  where  she  came  from  horsewhips  were  still  widely  used  on  uppity  servants.  Lunch,  which  was  long,  was  served  at  a  semi  circular  table  on  the  veranda,  so  that  the  party  had  a  view  of  the  pool  and  the  avenues  of  lime  trees  that  flanked  it.  They  started  with  cold  sor-  rel  soup  and  went  on  to  salmon  in  may-  onnaise  and  capers,  to  a  capon  stuffed  with  truffles  and  the  bottoms  of  arti-  chokes;  they  had  asparagus;  they  had  salad;  they  had  melon;  they  had  Brie.  They  toasted  the  birthday  girl  in  sweet  wine,  dry  wine,  champagne;  with  their  coffee,  they  drank  cassis.  Everything,  except  for  the  coffee  beans,  had  been  grown  at  Magnamont.  There  were  two  subjects  of  conversation;  one  was  the  food  they  were  eating  and  the  other  was  the  food  they  had  eaten  at  other  times  at  Magnamont.  'The  nondescript  man,  who  was  sitting  at  Maggie's  right,  recalled,  or  failed  to  recall,  past  entr\xc3\xa9es,  in  mutters.  Mme.  Floquet  chided  him  for  his  mood  with  such  intimate  ill-  humor  that  Maggie  concluded  they  were  related;  the  others  ignored  him  much  as  they  ignored  Maggie.  M.  le  Baron  spoke  to  her  once.  In  English,  he  said  &quot;Do  you  fly?,&quot;  and  when  she  said  that  she  did,  he  grew  cordial  until,  on  further  inquiry,  he  learned  that  she  had  often  been  a  passenger  on  commer-  cial  airplanes,  that  she  was  not  a  pilot.  He  said,  &quot;Too  bad.  You  might  have  enjoyed  flying  one  of  my  gliders  later  on.&quot;  At  this  hideous  proposal,  poor  Maggie's  butterfingers  dropped  the  glass  they  were  holding  and  wine  went  all  over  the  priceless  damask;  the  acci-  dent  was  Olympianly  disregarded  ex-  cept  by  the  butler,  who  scowled  blackly.  The  Baron  turned  to  Mrs.  Pres  ton  and  asked  her  to  recollect  the  menu  he  and  she  had  planned  together  for  the  christening  party  of  his  godson;  it  had  included  a  roebuck  shot  in  [REDACTED].  AFTER  Mme.  Floquet  had  smoked  a  small  cigar,  the  ladies  retired  into  the  house,  to  a  boudoir  that  con-  tained  so  many  mirrors  telling  the  un-  varnished  truth  that  Maggie  seriously  thought  she  might  have  a  fit.  To  add  to  her  concern  about  herself,  the  ladies  dis-  cussed  their  hairdressers  and  their  dress-  makers  and  admired  one  another's  shorts  and  cuffs  and  cuff  links.  Mme.  Floquet  took  a  bath  in  the  Lucullan  chamber  that  adjoined  this  one;  Mrs.  " b"Preston  lay  down  on  a  chaise  with  bella-  donna  packs  on  her  eyes;  the  Contessa  removed  her  maquillage  and  put  on  fresh-she  was  asdeft  and  as  thorough  as  a  topflight  surgeon.  Maggie-poor  kid,  she  thought  of  herself-applied  new  lipstick,  realizing  that  it  was  the  wrong  color  for  her  scarecrow  duds,  and  ran  a  comb  through  her  hopeless  hair,  and  observed  through  tears  that  her  nail  polish  was  chipping  squalidly,  and  then  she  sat  down  asfar  from  the  others  as  possible  and  looked  at  a  copy  of  Country  Life,  although  she  had  lost  her  eyesight  as  well  as  her  power  of  speech.  For  a  very  long  time  indeed  she  glared  blindly  at  a  photograph  entitled  &quot;May  on  the  Westmorland  fells,&quot;  in  whose  foreground  there  were  daffodils  the  size  of  umbrellas,  sheep  the  size  of  buffaloes,  and  lambs  as  big  as  rams,  and  in  whose  background  there  was  a  Hop-o'-My-  Thumb  shepherd  and  a  dog  to  match.  She  memorized,  as  she  had  once  memo-  rized  the  oath  of  allegiance,  the  follow-  ing:  &quot;The  fellside  Herdwick  strain  is  believed  to  have  been  introduced  by  the  Norse  settlers  of  a  thousand  years  ago.&quot;  When  they  had  completed  the  recla-  mation  of  their  pre-lunch  faces,  had  ex-  amined  one  another's  jewels,  and  had  finished  off  some  scandal  of  a  dangerous  turn,  they  went  outside  again  and  climbed  a  flight  of  sturdy  steps  into  a  tree  house  in  a  massive  oak  that  grew  beside  the  pool.  Maggie  Meriwether  tagged  behind  like  a  tug  in  the  wake  of  an  imperial  armada.  Here,  in  the  tree  house,  they  sat  on  brocaded  poufs  around  a  low,  round  table  on  which  stood  a  narghile;  they  thought  about  smoking  it  but  decided  it  was  too  much  trouble.  From  time  to  time  they  glanced  casually  down  at  the  men,  who,  in  bath-  ing  trunks,  were  practicing  tightrope  walking,  perilously,  along  a  rope  strung  across  the  pool.  'The  rope  was  low,  and  a  good  thing  it  was,  since  none  of  them  except  the  Baron  had  even  a  rudimen-  tary  skill  at  this  extraordinary  Sunday  sport.  (On  seeing  the  ladies,  he  had  called  up  that  he  had  decided  against  the  gliders  today  because  the  wind  was  wrong.)  They  fell  into  the  water  fre-  quently  and  came  up  splotched  with  slime,  looking  as  if  they  were  wearing  camouflage.  The  narghile  had  led  the  ladies  to  a  discussion  of  which  narcotics  they  en-  joyed  the  most,  and  for  some  time  they  vivaciously  exchanged  memories  of  their  sensations.  'The  Contessa  had  found  her  nirvana  on  the  shores  of  Lago  di  Garda  when  she  had  combined  smok-  ing  marijuana  with  drinking  cham-  pagne  and  eating  apricots.  Mme.  Flo-  quet  used  demerol  occasionally  and  achieved  noteworthy  effects;  it  tam-  pered  in  the  most  bizarre  way  imagina-  ble  with  her  sense  of  time,  so  that  she  had  once  arrived  for  a  cocktail  party  at  six  o'clock  in  the  morning,  thinking  it  was  six  in  the  afternoon,  and  found  no  one,  of  course,  but  a  flabbergasted  housemaid-people  had  dined  out  on  that  story  for  months.  Mrs.  Preston  liked  everything;  if  she  had  a  slight  preference,  it  was  for  chloral  hydrate  followed  by  vodka;  whenever  she  gave  herself  one  of  these  &quot;Meeky  Feens&quot;  she  had  a  maid  in  waiting  to  remove  all  matches  from  her  immediate  en-  virons,  since  she  had  an  understandable  horror  of  lighting  a  cigarette  in  her  delicious  coma  and  setting  herself  on  fire.  All  of  a  sudden  the  cat  turned  loose  Maggie's  tongue,  and  it  behaved  like  a  jack-in-the-box.  It  said,  in  English,  &quot;Have  you-all  ever  tried  snuff?  You  can  lip  it  or  dip  it  or  sniff  it.  It's  mighty  good  with  sour  mash  and  potato  chips.&quot;  Luckily  for  her,  the  tightrope  broke  just  then  and  there  was  a  good-natured  uproar  from  below,  which  caused  the  ladies  in  the  tree  house  to  clap  their  hands  girlishly.  The  indeterminate  man  without  a  name  had  been  halfway  across  it,  and  when  he  came  spluttering  up  out  of  the  water  of  the  pool,  he  was  wearing  a  hyacinth  exactly  on  top  of  his  head,  like  a  calotte.  Mme.  Floquet  exclaimed,  &quot;What  an  oaf!  What  an  ox!&quot;  Mrs.  Preston  said,  &quot;He  is  really  a  dog  in  ev-  ery  way,&quot;  and  the  Contessa  observed,  &quot;What  bad  manners  he  has  to  spoil  Karl's  tightrope.&quot;  The  stumblebum,  shaking  himself  and  clawing  the  flower  off  his  head,  wore  a  look  of  unspeakable  boredom,  and  Maggie  loved  him,  who-  ever  he  was.  She  even  felt  a  little  better  off  than  he;  at  least  she  had  not  excited  these  recherch\xc3\xa9  dragons  to  call  her  names.  Who  on  earth  could  he  be?  He  looked  like  a  nearly  penniless  school-  master  with  dyspepsia  and  a  tendency  to  catarrh,  and  Maggie  resolved,  if  this  day  went  on  much  longer,  to  make " b"friends  with  him-in  sign  language,  if  necessary.  N  TER  the  men  had  changed  and  a  great  many  more  people  had  ar-  rived,  from  neighboring  estates  (some  bicycled,  some  came  on  horseback,  a  duchess  carrying  a  blue  silk  parasol  ar-  rived  in  a  pony  cart,  and  two  beautiful  princesses  came  on  motor  bikes),  the  guests  returned  to  the  house  to  sit  down  for  tea  around  the  largest  dining  table  in  the  largest  dining  room  Maggie  had  ever  seen.  A  vast  three-tiered  turntable  slow-  ly  and  automatically  revolved,  offering  a  staggering  profusion  of  pastries,  fruits,  cheese,  sandwiches,  candies,  nuts,  hors  d'oeuvres;  there  were  tea  and  coffee  and  lemonade  and  orangeade  and  vinous  and  spirituous  liquors.  There  must  have  been  twenty-five  people  at  that  regal  table,  and  all  of  them  were  talking.  Though  the  din  was  monolingual,  it  was  that  of  Babel;  the  laughter  was  plentiful  and  it  was  French;  the  spoons  made  a  French  clatter  in  the  saucers;  the  bell  in  the  abbey  rang  cing  heures;  the  Dutch  psychoanalyst  from  New  York  sub-  jected  the  duchess,  by  whom  he  was  im-  pressed,  to  a  Gallic  scrutiny  through  his  thick  glasses;  Tippy  Akenside,  flanked  by  the  princesses,  analyzed  Proust.  Not  by  accident,  Maggie  found  her-  self  next  to  her  shabby  counterpart;  she  had  made  a  beeline  for  the  area  in  which  he  was  hovering  like  a  rain  cloud,  and  when  everyone  sat  down,  she  sat  beside  him.  Nearby  were  her  enemies  from  the  tree  house.  The  Contessa,  who  refused  bothfood  and  drink,  had  added  a  Japa-  nese  fan  to  her  costume  and  oscillated  it  before  her  face;  it  did  not  disturb  a  hair  of  her  head.  Mrs.  Preston  fed  ravenous-  ly  and  drank  deeply.  Mme.  Floquet  ate  enough  to  keep  a  bird  alive.  And  all  the  time  they  indulged  or  abstained,  the  three  of  them  kept  their  eyes  glued  on  Maggie's  next-door  neighbor  as  if  they  were  waiting  to  catch  him  out  in  some  egregious  breach  of  etiquette.  They  talked  of  other  matters,  to  be  sure,  but  they  plainly  had  their  minds  on  this  poor,  dim  stick;  he  appeared  to  be  impervious  to  their  dagger  looks,  but  Maggie  sus-  pected  that  he  was  only  putting  up  a  front,  and  finally,  summoning  her  cour-  age,  she  asked  him  in  English,  with  great  compassion,  if  he  had  enjoyed  the  tightrope  walking.  &quot;Filthy  waste  of  time,&quot;  he  said,  giv-  ing  her  a  quick  lookout  of  bleary  eyes.  &quot;I  say,  are  you  an  556e6974656420537461746573n?&quot;  Maggie  took  his  accent  to  be  Scotch.  Suddenly  he  looked  very  Scotch,  and  she  was  much  comforted,  since  her  maternal  grandmother  had  come  from  Aberdeen.  Although  his  question  had  required  a simple  yes  or  no  for  an  answer,  Maggie  replied  at  an  uncontrolled  length,  so  happy  was  she  to  be  reunited  with  her  mother  tongue,  so  grateful  was  she  to  have  her  existence  acknowledged.  She  was  afterward  never  able  to  explain  sat-  isfactorily  to  herself  why  she  had  bragged  so  feelingly  about  the  medical  school  of  Vanderbilt  University  or  why  she  had  delivered  a  short  lecture  on  the  survival  of  ballad-making  among  the  mountain  people  in  the  Cumberland  Plateau-nerves,  she  supposed,  a  logorrhea  coming  as  the  natural  result  of  long  privation.  The  watchful  ladies  gazed  at  her  as  if  she  were  dancing  a  hula  on  the  tabletop,  and  this  further  agitated  her  compulsive  tongue.  She  talked  and  talked.  Theman  did  not  seem  to  be  terribly  interested,  but  neither  did  he  look  away.  His  tumescent  lips  were  slack  and  mauve;  his  pink-rimmed  eyes  bespoke  astigmatism  and  gin;  his  skin  was  dingy,  as  if  he  spent  much  of  his  time  in  dingy  places-the  public  bars  of  railway  sta-  tions,  for  example;  his  fingernails  were  square  and  very  dirty;  he  had  a  huge  wart  under  his  left  ear;  his  cheap  jacket  pinched  him  under  the  arms;  his  shirt  was  limp  and  the  Kelly-green  knit  neck-  tie  he  wore  was  a  disgrace.  He  was  the  most  unprepossessing  of  men.  Fit  com-  pany  for  Maggie  in  her  present  condi-tion:  Ladies,  she  implored  them  silently,  please  look  away.  &quot;I  fancy  the  Civil  War,&quot;  he  said  when  Maggie  had  finished  her  recital.  And  after  he  had  made  this  surprising  statement,  not  designating  what  aspect  of  the  Civil  War  he  fancied-whether  its  literature  or  its  strategy,  its  ideology  or  its  outcome-he  went  on  to  talk  vol-  ubly  about  himself,  as  if,  like  her,  he  had  discovered  that  his  vocal  cords  were,  after  all,  not  totally  paralyzed.  What  Maggie  learned  dumfounded  her.  First  of  all,  he  was  a  student  at  Har-  row  (she  had  thought  him  to  be  no  less  than  thirty  and  probably  closer  to  forty),  but  before  Harrow  he  had  flown  in  the  war  and  had  got  his  &quot;ration  of  Jerrys.&quot;  Evidently  he  had  fancied  this  war,  too-  had  found  &quot;mucking  up  their  damned  munitions  plants  not  half-bad  fun,&quot;  and  had  had  some  &quot;damned  good  whing-  dings  with  your  Commando  chaps.&quot;  He  asked  her  if  she  knew  a  damned  good  cove  from  [REDACTED]  named  Agnew  MacPherson-they  had  kicked  up  one  hell  of  a  shindy  together  in  Oxford  once,  when  they  were  both  on  leave.  School-  ing  was  a  bloody  bore  and  he  would  far  rather  spend  all  his  time,  and  not  just  his  hols,  in  Africa;  he  made  a  vague  joke  about  the  sport  of  kings  being  that  of  hunting  down  the  king  of  beasts  instead  of  those  tuppenny-ha'penny  grouse  on  the  Scottish  moors.  Give  him  a  safari  and  then  another  safari  and  after  that  one  more  safari  and  then  give  him  a  fort-  night  in  [REDACTED]  in  which  to  get  as  drunk  as  a  fiddler  and  pub-crawl  in  the  Cas-  bah.  What  could  be  the  possible  use  of  all  this  damned  footling  Greek  and  algebra?  The  only  bearable  part  of  school  was  going  up  to  town-he  had  a  highly  modified  Bentley  and  it  was  fair-  " b"ly  good  fun  to  give  the  peasants  on  the  road  a  run  for  their  money.  But  [REDACTED]  was  bloody  sad;  the  bottle  clubs  were  mostly  a  bloody  bore  and  closed  too  damned  early.  The  floor  shows  were  bloody  awful  and  there  were  all  those  damned  orchids  around.,  Orchids  were  this  man's  subject.  He  might  be  a  student  of  the  Civil  War,  he  might  be  fulfilled  by  hunting  big  game,  he  might  like  racing  cars,  he  might  have  all  sorts  of  deep-felt  predi-  lections.  But  what  inspired  him  to  ora-  tory  was  his  rabid  aversion  to  orchids,  and  as  he  was  delivering  his  vehement  tirade  against  them,  he  paused  once  to  point  his  spoon  at  Mme.  Floquet  as  if  he  were  going  to  shoot  her.  &quot;''They're  not  so  bad  growing  in  Africa;  but  they're  not  my  cup  of  tea  even  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Anyhow,  I'm  a  fauna  man,  not  a  flora  man-give  me  a  tiger  sooner  than  a  tiger  lily.&quot;  He  seemed  gloomily  addicted  to  this  kind  of  play  on  words.  &quot;And  when  you  have  to  pay  a  quid  for  the  damned  beastly  things  for  a  girl  to  wear  on  her  dress,  it's  too  thick.  They're  not  worth  a  bob,  let  alone  a  quid.  A  quid!  But  do  you  know  there  are  some  women  who  want  you  to  send  them  a  dozen  at  once?&quot;  &quot;Serge!&quot;  remonstrated  Mme.  Flo-  quet  sharply,  and  tried  to  hate  women  who  want  you  to  send  them  orchids,&quot;  he  declared,  and  savagely  de-  voured  the  last  of  his  napoleon.  &quot;I  hate  them  the  most,  but  I  also  hate  women  who  drink  cold  tea  in  the  middle  of  the  night.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  such  an  ass,  Serge,&quot;  said  the  Contessa  Giovennazzo  calmly.  &quot;You'll  make  yourself  ill.&quot;  She  was  not  as  insouciant  as  she  wanted  to  be  thought;  Maggie,  fascinated,  saw  that  her  hand  trembled  as  she  fitted  a  ciga-  rette  into  a  gold  holder,  and  that  with  one  brilliant  eye  she  demolished  Sergewhile  with  the  other  shedid  Mme.  Floquet  in.  &quot;Same  to  you  with  nobs  on,&quot;  said  Serge,  whose  face  now  looked  like  a  garish  batik.  A  vein  stood  out,  thump-  ing,  on  his  temple.  Everyone,  except  a  very  hungryand  very  old  man,  who  was  interested  only  in  his  food,  looked  at  him;  all  conversation  ceased.  As  if  he  had  been  waiting  for  this,  Serge  now  stood  up,  arms  akimbo.  He  said,  &quot;And  I  hate  women  who  gorge  themselves  on  fish.&quot;  Mrs.  Preston,  whose  plate  was  lit-  tered  with  the  heads  and  tails  of  sardines  and  the  rejectedportions  of  eel,  touched  her  low,  Slavic  forehead  with  her  fin-  gertips;  Maggie  had  failed  to  notice  be-  fore  that  her  nails  were  painted  gold.  M.  le  Baron,  directly  across  the  table  from  Serge,  also  rose,  and  faced  his  guest  with  a  smile  of  the  utmost  tolerance  and  affection.  The  genial  host,  the  perfect  host  of  this  mad  tea  party,  he  said,  &quot;I  wish  to  propose  a  toast.&quot;  A  mob  of  min-  ions  materialized  to  fill  glasses  with  champagne.  ''To  Serge,&quot;  said  M.  le  Baron  sono-  rously.  &quot;Our  beloved  prince  among  princes.&quot;  Tippy  Akenside  uttered  his  first  words  of  English.  He  said,  &quot;Hear!  Hear!&quot;  The  company  drank  and  cheered,  and  Serge  let  his  arms  fall  to  his  sides;  he  paled,  and  his  three  ladies  beamed  at  him.  &quot;'To  Sunday  at  Magnamont!&quot;  cried  Heer  Dokter  van  Lennep.  The  exuber-  ant  chorus  was  deafening.  There  were  further  toasts:  to  Tanya  Preston,  because  of  her  birthday;  to  the  duchess,  because  ofa  fabulous  race  horse  she  had  just  bought;  to  the  doctor,  be-  cause  he  had  once  insulted  Jung;  to  M.  le  Baron,  and  to  his  mother,  his  uncle,  his  table,  his  cellar,  his  roses;  to  Mme.  Floquet,  a  love;  to  the  Contessa,  a  beauty;  to  the  princesses  and  the  prin-  cesses'  fianc\xc3\xa9s.  Throughout  this,  Serge  stood  at  Maggie's  side  like  a  bump  on  a  log  except  that  he  was  weeping.  Abruptly,  it  was  all  over,  and  Mag-  gie,  having  no  idea  how  she  had  accom-  plished  it,  found  herself  beside  Tippy  Akenside  inhis  car.  One  of  the  straps  of  her  slip  was  hanging  halfway  down  her  arm  and  it  terminated  in  a  small  gold  safety  pin.  She  did  not  look  back  and  she  did  not  look  at  her  companion.  Exhausted,  she  wondered  how  on  earth  the  young  set  of  [REDACTED]  could  have  " b"imagined  they  were  lively  and  original.  Tippy  was  laughing  hard.  &quot;Just  as  well  you  don't  work  for  the  Marshall  Plan  people,  what?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  most  certainly  is,&quot;  said  Maggie,  prim  inside  despite  her  outward  di-  shevelment.  &quot;Who  was  that  man?&quot;  &quot;Serge?  Poor  Serge.  Simply  a  balmy  Georgian  prince,  only  the  difference  be-  tween  him  and  most  of  them  is  that  he  has  pots  of  money.  Everyone  wants  to  marry  him  and  Ae  wants  to  marry  the  Duchess  of  Kent.&quot;  &quot;He  must  be  thirty-five-and  still  at  Harrow!&quot;  &quot;He's  thirty-three,&quot;  said  Tippy.  &quot;He  was  held  back  by  the  war,  and  then  he  went  crackers  after  it  and  was  in  the  bin  for  years-harmless  but  completely  ga-ga.  How  did  you  like  the  orchids  speech?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it  was  grand,&quot;  said  Maggie.  Tippy  could  hardly  drive  for  laugh-  ing.  &quot;I've  heard  him  give  philippics  on  everything.  You  should  hear  him  do  bubble-and-squeak.&quot;  &quot;I  liked  him,&quot;  said  Maggie.  &quot;Of  course  you  liked  him,&quot;  said  Tip-  py.  &quot;Everyone's  mad  for  mad  old  Serge.&quot;  &quot;I  liked  him  because  he  spoke  English  to  me,&quot;  said  Maggie.  Now  that  she  was  safely  away  from  those  international  clotheshorses  and  had  only  to  contend  with  a  rather  puny  Englishman  whose  cuffs,  she  observed  with  pleasure,  were  none  too  clean,  she  allowed  her  dander  to  get  up.  &quot;I  think  you  are  a  stinker.&quot;  &quot;Good  Lord!  Didn't  you  like  it?&quot;  &quot;Drive  fast,&quot;  commanded  Miss  Mer-  wether.  &quot;Be  as  competent  as  you  can  but  drive  fast.&quot;  &quot;I  em  sorry,  Maggie,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  sounded  it.  &quot;I  thought  you  were  having  a  good  time.  And  you  weren't?&quot;  All  the  way  back  to4672616e6365,  she  cried  with  her  face  in  her  hands.  &quot;They  treated  me  like  an  I  don't  know  what,&quot;  she  blubbered,  &quot;except  forthe  nutty  prince.&quot;  Noblesse  oblige,&quot;  said  Tippy,  with  a  nervous  laugh,  and,  realizing  that  he  had  put  his  foot  in  his  mouth,  nearly  came  a  cropper  with  a  poultry  van.  She  bade  him  goodbye,  not  au  revoir,  at  the  door  of  her  hotel.  THIS  appalling  day,  un-  like  so  many  appalling  days,  had  a  happy  ending.  There  was  a  huge  bouquet  of  sumptuous  summer  flowers  in  Maggie's  room,  and  under  the  vase  was  a  pmeumatique  from  Roger  Carrithers,  who  was  the  older  brother  of  Maggie's  roommate  at  Sweet  Briar;  it  asked  her  to  dine  that  night  with  him  and  friends.  She  leaped  to  the  telephone,  which  heretofore  she  had  avoided  like  an  instrument  of  darkness,  and  in  rapid,  rebel-  lious  French  got  through  to  the  Meurice  and  then  to  Roger's  kind  Tidewater  voice.  The  group  of  six  who  had  dinner  together  that  night  were  all  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  and  they  loved  Maggie's  story,  re-  quiring  her  to  repeat  parts  of  it  over  again,  denying  that  she  had  looked  the  ragamuffin  she  claimed  (&quot;Unthinkable,&quot;  said  Roger  Carrithers,  who  had  been  brought  up  properly.  You  put  them  in  the  shade  and  they  were  jealous&quot;  ),  and  wholehearted-  ly  sympathizing  with  her  predicament.  Taking  the  cue  from  that  eccentric  Baron,  they,  too,  had  toasts.  They  toast-  ed  the  tree  house  and  the  narghile,  the  tightrope  and  the  hyacinth  on  top  of  Serge's  head.  And  they  toasted  Maggie  Meriwether,  the  most  sophisticated,  the  most  cosmopolitan,  the  prettiest  racon-  teur  of  middle  [REDACTED].  "