 b"JAKE  ALEXANDER,  a  big,  fat  colored  man,  half  Scottish,  half  African  Negro,  was  shaking  a  large  pan  of  frying  bacon  on  the  gas  stove  in  the  back  room  of  his  [REDACTED]  print-  ing  shop  when  he  became  aware  that  someone  was  knocking  on  the  door  at  the  front  of  theshop.  The  sizzling  fat  and  the  voices  ofthe  five  men  in  the  back  room  with  him  almost  blocked  out  sounds  from  without,  and  the  knocking  was  of  the  steady  kind  that  might  have  been  going  on  for  quite  a  few  minutes.  He  lifted  the  pan  off  the  flame  with  one  handand  with  the  other  made  an  im-  patient  silencing  gesture,  directed  at  the  bacon  as  well  as  the  voices.  Interpreting  the  movement  as  one  of  caution,  the  men  hurriedly  picked  up  the  tumblers  and  cups  in  which  they  had  been  taking  their  end-of-the-day  brandy  at  their  ease,  and  tossed  the  last  of  it  down.  Little  yellow  Klaas,  whose  hair  was  like  ginger-colored  wire  wool,  stacked  the  cups  and  glasses  swiftly  and  hid  them  behind  the  dirty  curtain  that  covered  a  row  of  shelves.  &quot;Who's  that?&quot;  yelled  Jake,  wiping  his  greasy  hands  down  his  pants.  There  was  a  sharp  and  playful  tattoo,  followed  by  an  English  voice:  &quot;Me,  Alister.  For  heaven's  sake,  Jake!&quot;  The  fat  man  put  the  pan  back  on  the  flame  and  tramped  through  the  dark  shop,  past  the  idle  presses,  to  the  door,  and  flung  it  open.  &quot;Mr.  Halford!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well,  good  to  see  you.  Come  in,  man.  In  the  back  there,  you  can't  hear  a  thing.&quot;  A  young  Englishman  with  gentle  eyes,  a  stern  mouth,  and  flat,  col-  orless  hair,  which  grew  in  an  untidy,  confused  spiral  at  the  crown,  stepped  back  to  allow  a  young  woman  to  enter  ahead  of  him.  Before  he  could  intro-  duce  her,  she  held  out  her  hand  to  Jake,  smiling,  and  shook  his  firmly.  &quot;Good  evening.  Jennifer  Tetzel,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Jennifer,  this  is  Jake  Alexander,&quot;  the  young  man  managed  to  get  in,  over  her  shoulder.  The  two  had  entered  the  building  from  the  street  through  an  archway  lettered  &quot;NEW  ERA  BUILDING.&quot;  &quot;Which  new  era  would  that  be?&quot;  the  young  woman  had  wondered  aloud,  brightly,  while  they  were  waiting  in  the  dim  hallway  for  the  door  to  be  opened,  and  Alister  Halford  had  not  known  whether  the  reference  was  to  the  dis-  covery  of  deep-level  gold  mining  that  had  saved  [REDACTED]  from  the  ephemeral  fate  of  a  mining  camp  in  the  nineties,  or  to  the  optimism  after  the  settlement  of  labor  troubles  in  the  twen-  ties,  or  to  the  recovery  after  the  world  went  off  the  gold  standard  in  the  thir-  ties-really,  one  had  no  idea  of  the  age  of  these  buildings  in  this  run-down  end  of  the  town.  Now,  coming  in  out  of  the  deserted-hallway  gloom,  which  smelled  of  dust  and  rotting  wood  -the  smell  of  waiting-they  were  met  by  the  live,  cold  tang  of  ink  and  the  homely,  lazy  odor  of  bacon  fat-the  smell  of  ac-  ceptance.  'There  was  not  much  light  in  the  deserted  workshop.  'The  host  blun-  dered  to  the  wall  and  switched  on  a  bright  naked  bulb,  up  in  the  ceiling.  The  three  stood  blinking  at  each  other  for  a  moment:  a  colored  man  with  the  fat  of  the  man  ofthe  world  upon  him,  grossly  dressed-not  out  of  poverty  but  obvi-  ously  because  he  liked  it  that  way-in  a'  rayon  sports  shirt  that  gaped  and  showed  two  hairy  stomach  rolls,  the  pants  ofa  good  suit,  misbuttoned  and  held  up  round  the  waist  by  a  tie  instead  of  a  belt,  and  a  pair  of  expensive  sports  shoes,  worn  without  socks;  a  young  Englishman  in  a  worn  greenish  tweed  suit  with  a  neo-Edwardian  cut  to  the  vest  that  labelled  it  a  leftover  from  un-  dergraduate  days;  a  handsome  white  woman  who,  as  the  light  fell  upon  her,  was  immediately  recognizable  to  Jake  Alexander.  He  had  never  met  her  before,  but  he  knew  the  type  well-had  seen  it  over  and  over  again  at  meetings  of  the  Congress  of  Democrats,  and  other  or-  ganizations  where  progressive  whites  met  progressive  blacks.  'These  were  the  white  women  who,  Jake  knew,  persist-  ed  in  regarding  themselves  as  your  equal.  That  was  even  worse,  he  thought,  than  the  parsons  who  persisted  in  regarding  you  as  their  equal.  The  parsons  had  had  ten  years  at  school  and  seven  years  at  a  university  and  theo-  logical  school;  you  had  carried  sacks  of  vegetables  from  the  market  to  white  people's  cars  from  the  time  you  were  eight  years  old  until  you  were  appren-  ticed  to  a  printer,  and  your  first  woman,  like  your  mother,  had  been  a  servant,  whom  youhad  visited  in  a  back-yard  room,  and  your  first  gulp  of  whiskey,  like  many  of  your  other  pleasures,  had  been  stolen  while  a  white  man  was  not  looking.  Yet  the  good  parson  insisted  that  your  picture  of  life  was  exactly  the  same  as  his  own:  you  felt  as  he  did.  But  these  women-oh,  Christ!  -these  women  felt  as  you  did.  They  were  sure  of  it.  They  thought  they  understood  the  humiliation  of  the  pure-blooded  black  African  walking  the  streets  only  by  the  permission  of  a  pass  written  out  by  a  white  person,  and  the  guilt  and  swagger  ofthe  colored  man  light-faced  enough  to  slink,  fugitive  from  his  own  skin,  into  the  preserves-the  cinemas,  bars,  librar-  ies  that  were  marked  &quot;EUROPEANS  ONLY.&quot;  Yes,  breathless  with  stout  sensi-  tivity,  they  insisted  on  walking  the  whole  teeter-totter  of  the  color  line.  There  was  no  escaping  their  understanding.  They  even  insisted  on  feeling  the  re-  sentment  you  must  feel  at  their  identify-  ing  themselves  with  your  feelings  ...  Here  was  the  head  of  a  determined  woman  (last  year  she  would  have  worn  her  black  hair  pulled  tightly  back  into  an  oddly  perched  knot;  this  year  it  was  cropped  and  curly  as  a  lap  dog's),  the  round,  bony  brow  unpowdered  in  order  to  show  off  the  tan,  the  red  mouth,  the  unrouged  cheeks,  the  big,  lively,  hand-  some  eyes,  dramatically  painted,  that  would  look  into  yours  with  such  intelli-  gent,  eager  honesty-eager  to  mirror  what  Jake  Alexander,  a  big,  fat  slob  of  a  colored  man  interested  in  women,  money,  brandy,  and  boxing,  was  feel-  ing.  Who  the  hell  wants  a  woman  to  look  at  you  honestly,  anyway?  What  has  all  this  to  do  with  a  woman-with  what  men  and  women  have  for  each  other  in  their  eyes?  She  was  wearing  a  wide  black  skirt,  a  white  cotton  blouse  baring  a  good  deal  of  her  breasts,  and  earrings  that  seemed  to  have  been  made  by  a  blacksmith  out  of  bits  of  scrap  iron.  On  her  feet  she  had  sandals  whose  nar-  row  thongs  wound  between  her  toes,  and  the  nails  of  the  toes  were  painted  plum  color.  By  contrast,  her  hands  were  neglected-looking-sallow,  un-  manicured-and  on  one  thin  finger  there  swivelled  a  huge  gold  seal  ring.  She  was  beautiful,  he  supposed  with  disgust.  He  stood  there,  fat,  greasy,  and  grinning  at  the  two  vis-  itors  so  lingeringly  that  his  grin  looked  insolent.  Finally  he  asked,  &quot;What  brings  you  this  end  of  town,  Mr..  Halford?  Sightseeing  with  the  lady?&quot;  The  young  Englishman  gave  Jake's  arm  a  squeeze,  where  the  short  sleeve  of  the  rayon  shirt  ended.  &quot;Just  thought  I'd  look  you  up,  Jake,&quot;  he  said,  jolly.  &quot;Come  on  in,  come  on  in,&quot;  said  Jake  on  a  rising  note,  shambling  ahead  of  them  into  the  company  of  the  back  room.  &quot;Here,  what  about  a  chair  for  the  lady?&quot;  He  swept  a  pile  of  handbills  from  the  seat  of  a  kitchen  chair  onto  the  dusty  concrete  floor,  picked  up  the  chair,  and  plunked  it  down  again,  in  the  middle  ofthe  group  of  men,  who  had  risen  awkwardly,  like  zoo  bears  to  the  hope  ofa  bun,  at  the  visitors'  entrance.  &quot;You  know  Maxie  Ndube?  And  Temba?&quot;  Jake  said,  nodding  at  " b"two  of  the  men  who  surrounded  him.  Alister  Halford  murmured  with  po-  lite  warmth  his  recognition  of  Maxie,  a  small,  dainty-faced  African  in  neat,  businessman's  dress,  then  said  inquiring-  ly  and  hesitantly  to  Temba,  &quot;Have  we?  [REDACTED];  Temba  was  a  colored  man-a  mix-  ture  of  the  bloods  of  black  slaves  and  white  masters,  blended  long  ago,  in  the  days  when  the  [REDACTED]  of  Good  Hope  was  a  port  of  refreshment  for  the  Dutch  East  496e646961  Company.  He  was  tall  and  pale,  with  a  large  Adam's  apple,  enormous  black  eyes,  and  the  look  of  a  musician  in  a  jazz  band;  you  could  picture  a  trumpet  lifted  to  the  ceiling  in  those  long  yellow  hands,  and  that  curved  spine  hunched  forward  to  shield  a  low  note.  &quot;In  Durban  last  year,  Mr.  Halford,  you  remember?&quot;  he  said  eagerly.  &quot;I'm  sure  we  met-or  perhaps  I  only  saw  you  there.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  at  the  Congress?  Of  course  I  remember  you!&quot;  Halford  apologized.  &quot;You  were  in  a  delegation  from  the  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;Mis-?&quot;  Jake  Alexander  waved  a  hand  between  the  young  woman,  Maxie,  and  Temba.  &quot;Jennifer.  Jennifer  Tetzel,&quot;  she  said  again  clearly,  thrusting  out  her  hand.  There  was  a  confused  moment  when  both  men  reached  for  it  at  once  and  then  hesitated,  each  giving  way  to  the  other.  Finally  the  handshaking  was  ac-  complished,  and  the  young  woman  seated  herself  confidently  on  the  chair.  Jake  continued,  offhand,  &quot;Oh,  and  of  course  Billy  Boy&quot;-Alister  signalled  briefly  to  a  black  man  with  sad,  blood-  shot  eyes,  who  stood  awkwardly,  back  a  few  steps,  against  some  rolls  of  paper-  &quot;and  Klaas  and  Albert.&quot;  Klaas  and  Albert  had  in  their  mixed  blood  some  strain  of  the  Bushman,  which  gave  them  a  batrachian  yellowness  and  toughness,  like  one  of  those  toads  that  (prehistoric  in  almost  the  same  way  the  Bushman  is)  are  mythically  believed  to  have  sur-  vived  into  modern  times  (hardly  more  fantastically  than  the  Bushman  himself  has  survived)  by  spending  centuries  shut  up  in  an  air  bubble  in  arock.  Like  Billy  Boy,  Klaas  and  Albert  had  backed  away,  and,  as  if  abasement  against  the  rolls  of  paper,  the  wall,  or  the  window  were  a  greeting  in  itself,  the  two  little  colored  men  and  the  big  African  only  stared  back  at  the  masculine  nods  of  Alister  and  the  bright  smile  ofthe  young  woman.  You  up  from  the  [REDACTED]  for  anything  special  now?&quot;  Alister  said  to  Temba  as  he  made  a  place  for  himself  on  a  corner  of  atable  that  was  littered  with  photo-  graphic  blocks,  bits  of  type,  poster  proofs,  a  bottle  of  souring  milk,  a  bow  tie,  a  pair  of  red  braces,  and  a  number  of  empty  Coca-Cola  bottles.  &quot;I've  been  living  in  Durban  for  a  year.  Just  got  the  chance  of  a  lift  to  Jo'burg,&quot;  said  the  gangling  Temba.  \xc2\xa9  JAKE  had  set  himself  up  easily,  leaning  against  the  frontofthe  stove  and  facing  Miss  Jennifer  Tetzel  on  her  chair.  He  jerked  his  head  toward  Temba  and  said,  &quot;Real  ba-  nana  boy.&quot;  Young  white  men  brought  up  in  the  strong  Anglo-  Saxon  tradition  of  the  province  of  Natal  are  often  referred  to,  and  refer  to  themselves,  as  &quot;banana  boys,&quot;  even  though  fewer  and  fewer  of  them  have  any  connection  with  the  dwindling  number  of  vast  banana  estates  that  once  made  their  owners  rich.  Jake's  broad  face,  where  the  bright-pink  cheeks  of  a  Highland  complexion-inherited,  along  with  his  name,  from  his  Scottish  father-showed  oddly  through  his  coarse,  coffee-colored  skin,  creased  up  in  appreciationof  his  own  joke.  And  Temba  threw  back  his  head  and  laughed,  his  Adam's  apple  bobbing,  at  theideaof  himself  as  a  cricket-playing  white  public-school  boy.  &quot;'There's  nothing  like  [REDACTED]  Town,  is  there?&quot;  said  the  young  woman  to  him,  her  head  charmingly  on  one  side,  as  if  this  conviction  was  something  she  and  he  shared.  &quot;Miss  Tetzel's  up  here  to  look  us  over.  She's  from  [REDACTED]  Town,&quot;  Alister  explained.  She  turned  to  Temba  with  her  beau-  ty,  her  strong  provocativeness,  full  on,  as  it  were.  &quot;So  we're  neighbors?&quot;  Jake  rolled  one  foot  comfortably  over  the  other  and  a  spluttering  laugh  pursed  out  the  pinkinner  membrane  of  his  lips.  &quot;Where  did  you  live?&quot;  she  went  on,  to  Temba.  &quot;[REDACTED]  Flats,&quot;  he  said.  [REDACTED]  Flats  is  a  desolate  colored  slum  in  the  bush  out-  side  [REDACTED]  Town.  &quot;Me,  too,&quot;  said  the  girl,  casually.  Temba  said  politely,  &quot;You're  kid-  ding,&quot;  and  then  looked  down  uncom-  fortably  at  his  hands,  as  if  they  had  been  guilty  of  some  clumsy  movement.  He  had  not  meant  to  sound  so  familiar;  the  words  were  not  the  right  ones.  &quot;I've  been  there  nearly  ten  months,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Well,  some  people've  got  queer  tastes,&quot;  Jake  remarked,  laughing,  to     no  one  in  particular,  as  if  she  were  not  there.  &quot;How's  that?&quot;  Temba  was  asking  her  shyly,  respectfully.  She  mentioned  the  name  of  a  social  rehabilitation  scheme  that  was  in  opera-  tion  in  the  slum.  &quot;I'm  assistant  director  of  the  thing  at  the  moment.  It's  con-  nected  with  the  sort  of  work  I  do  at  the  university,  you  see,  so  they've  given  me  fifteen  months'  leave  from  my  usual  job.&quot;  Maxie  noticed  with  amusement  the  way  she  used  the  word  &quot;job,&quot;  as  if  she  were  a  plumber's  mate;  he  and  his  edu-  cated  African  friends-journalists  and  schoolteachers-were  careful  to  talk  only  of  their  &quot;professions.&quot;  &quot;Good  works,&quot;  he  said,  smiling  quietly.  She  planted  her  feet  comfortably  be-  fore  her,  wriggling  on  the  hard  chair,  and  said  to  Temba  with  mannish  frank-  ness,  &quot;It's  a  ghastly  place.  How  in  God's  name  did  you  survive  living  there?  I  don't  think  I  can  last  out  more  than  another  few  months,  and  I've  always  got  my  flat  in  [REDACTED]  Town  to  escape  to  on  Sundays,  and  so  on.&quot;  While  Temba  smiled,  turning  his  protruding  eyes  aside  slowly,  Jake  looked  straight  at  her  and  said,  &quot;Then  why  do  you,  lady,  why  do  you?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know.  Because  I  don't  see  why  anyone  else-any  one  ofthe  people  who  live  there-should  have  to,  I  suppose.&quot;  She  laughed  before  anyone  else  could  at  the  feebleness,  the  philan-  thropic  uselessness  of  what  she  was  say-  ing.  &quot;Guilt,  what-have-you  ..  .&quot;  Maxie  shrugged,  as  if  at  the  mention  of  some  expensive  illness,  which  he  had  never  been  able  to  afford  and  whose  symptoms  he  could  not  imagine.  There  was  a  moment  of  silence;  the  two  colored  men  and  the  big  black  man  standing  back  against  the  wall  watched  anxiously,  as  if  some  sort  of  signal  might  " b"be  expected,  possibly  from  Jake  Alex-  ander,  their  boss,  the  man  who,  like  themselves,  was  not  white,  yet  who  owned  his  own  business,  and  had  a  car,  and  money,  and  strange  friends-some-  times  even  white  people,  such  as  these.  The  three  of  them  were  dressed  in  the  ill-matched  cast-off  clothing  that  all  humble  workpeople  who  are  not  white  wear  in  [REDACTED],  and  they  had  not  lost  the  ability  of  primitives  and  children  to  stare,  unembarrassed  and  unembar-  rassing.  Jake  winked  at  Alister;  it  was  one  of  his  mannerisms-a  bookie's  wink,  a  stage  comedian's  wink.  &quot;Well,  how's  it  going,  boy,  how's  it  going?&quot;  he  said.  His  turn  of  phrase  was  barroom  bon-  homie;  with  luck,  he  could  get  into  a  bar,  too.  With  a  hat  to  cover  his  hair,  and  his  coat  collar  well  up,  and  only  a  bit  of  greasy  pink  cheek  showing,  he  had  slipped  into  the  bars  of  the  shabbier  [REDACTED]  hotels  with  Alister  many  times  and  got  away  with  it.  Alister,  on  the  other  hand,  had  got  away  with  the     same  sort  of  thing  narrowly  several  times,  too,  when  he  had  accompanied  Jake  to  a  shebeen  in  a  colored  location,  where  it  was  illegal  for  a  white  man  to  be,  as  well  as  illegal  for  anyone  at  all  to  have  adrink;  twice  Alister  had  escaped  a  raid  by  jumping  out  of  a  window.  Alister  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  Africa  only  eighteen  months,  as  correspondent  for  a  newspaper  in  [REDACTED],  and  because  he  was  only  two  or  three  years  away  from  undergraduate  escapades,  such  incidents  seemed  to  give  him  a  kind  of  nostalgic  pleasure;  he  found  them  funny.  Jake,  for  his  part,  had  decided  long  ago  (with  the  great  help  of  the  money  he  had  made)  that  he  would  takethe  whole  business  of  the  color  bar  as  humorous.  The  combination  of  these  two  attitudes,  stemming  from  such  immeasurably  dif-  ferent  circumstances,  had  the  effect  of  making  their  friendship  less  self-con-  scious  than  is  usual  between  a  white  man  and  a  colored  one.  'They  tell  me  it's  going  to  be  a  good  thing  on  Saturday  night?&quot;  said  Alister,  in  the  tone  of  questioning  someone  in  the  know,  He  was  referring  to  a  boxing  match  between  two  colored  heavy-  weights,  one  of  whom  was  a  prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9  of  Jake's.  Jake  grinned  deprecatingly,  like  a  fond  mother.  &quot;Well,  Pikkie's  a  good  boy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  tell  you,  it'll  be  some-  thing  to  see.&quot;  He  danced  about  a  little  on  his  clumsy  toes,  in  pantomime  of  the  way  a  boxer  nimbles  himself,  and  col-  lapsed  against  the  stove,  his  belly  shak-  ing  with  laughter  at  his  breathlessness.  &quot;'Too  much  smoking,  too  many  brandies,  Jake,&quot;  said  Alister.  &quot;With  me,  it's  too  many  women,  boy.&quot;  &quot;We  were  just  congratulating  Jake,&quot;  said  Maxie  in  his  soft,  precise  voice,  the  indulgent,  tongue-in-cheek  tone  of  the  prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9  who  is  superior  to  his  patron,  for  Maxie  was  one  of  Jake's  boys,  too-  of  a  different  kind.  Though  Jake  had  decided  that  for  him  being  on  the  wrong  side  ofacolor  bar  was  ludicrous,  he  was  as  indulgent  to  those  who  took  it  seri-  " b"ously  and  politically,  the  way  Maxie  did,  as  he  was  to  any  up-and-coming  young-  ster  who,  say,  showed  talent  in  the  ring  or  wanted  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  and  become  a  singer.  'They  could  all  make  themselves  free  of  Jake's  pocket,  and  his  printing  shop,  and  his  room  with  a  radio  in  the  lower  end  of  the  town,  where  the  building  had  fallen  below  the  standard  of  white  people  but  was  far  superior  to  the  kind  of  thing  most  coloreds  and  blacks  were  accustomed  to.  &quot;Congratulations  on  what?&quot;  the  young  white  woman  asked.  She  had  a  way  of  looking  up  around  her,  question-  ingly,  from  face  to  face,  that  came  of  long  familiarity  with  being  the  center  of  attention  at  parties.  Yes,  you  can  shake  my  hand,  boy,&quot;  said  Jake  to  Alister.  &quot;I  didn't  see  it,  but  these  fellows  tell  me  that  my  divorce  went  through.  It's  in  the  papers  today.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?  But  from  what  I  hear,  you  won't  be  a  free  man  long,&quot;  Alister  said  teasingly,  Jake  giggled,  and  pressed  at  one  gold-filled  tooth  with  a  strong  finger-  nail.  &quot;You  heard  about  the  little  parcel  I'm  expecting  from  Zululand?&quot;  he  asked.  Zululand?&quot;  said  Alister.  &quot;I  thought  your  Lila  came  from  Stellenbosch.&quot;  Maxie  and  Temba  laughed.  &quot;Lila?  Wheat  Lila?&quot;  said  Jake  with  exaggerated  innocence.  &quot;You're  behind  the  Maxie  to  Alister.  &quot;You  know  I  like  them-  well,  sort  of  round,&quot;  said  Jake.  &quot;Don't  care  for  the  thin  kind,  in  the  long  run.&quot;  &quot;But  Lila  had  red  hair!&quot;  Alister  goaded  him.  He  remembered  the  in-  congruously  dyed,  artificially  straight-  ened  hair  on  a  fine  colored  girl  whose  nostrils  dilated  in  the  manner  of  certain  fleshy  water  plants  seeking  prey.  times,&quot;  said  JENNIFER  TETzEL  got  up  and  turned  the  gas  off  on  the  stove,  behind  Jake.  &quot;That  bacon'll  be  like  charred  string,&quot;  she  said.  Jake  did  not  move-merely  looked  at  her  lazily.  &quot;This  is  not  the  way  to  talk  with  a  lady  around.&quot;  He  grinned,  un-  apologetic.  She  smiled  at  him  and  sat  down,  shaking  her  earrings.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  divorced  myself.  Are  we  keeping  you  people  from  your  supper?  Do  go  ahead  and  eat.  Don't  bother  about  us.&quot;  Jake  turned  around,  gave  the  shrunk-  en  rashers  a  mild  shake,  and  put  the  pan  aside.  &quot;Hell,  no,&quot;  h&gt;  said.  &quot;Any  time.  But&quot;-turning  to  Alister-&quot;won't  you  have  something  to  eat?&quot;  He  looked  about,  helpless  and  unconcerned,  as  if  to  indicate  an  absence  of  plates  and  a general  careless  lack  of  equipment  such  as  white  women  would  be  accustomed  to  use  when  they  ate.  Alister  said  quick-  ly,  no,  he  had  promised  to  take  Jennifer  to  Moorjee's.  Of  course,  Jake  should  have  known;  a  woman  like  that  would  want  to  be  taken  to  eat  at  an  496e646961n  place  in  Vrede-  dorp,  even  though  she  was  white,  and  free  to  eat  at  the  best  hotel  in  town.  He  felt  suddenly,  after  all,  the  old  gulf  opening  between  himself  and  Alister:  what  did  they  see  in  such  women-  bristling,  sharp,  all-seeing,  knowing  women,  who  talked  like  men,  who  wanted  to  show  all  the  time  that,  apart  from  sex,  they  were  exactly  the  same  as  men?  He  looked  at  Jennifer  and  her  clothes,  and  thought  of  the  way  a  white  woman  could  look:  one  of  those  big,  soft,  European  women  with  curly  yel-  low  hair,  with  very  high-heeled  shoes  that  made  them  shake  softly  when  they  walked,  with  a  strong  scent,  like  hot  flowers,  coming  up,  it  seemed,  from  their  jutting  breasts  under  the  lace  and  pink  and  blue  and  all  the  other  pretty  things  they  wore-women  with  noth-  ing  resistant  about  them  except,  buried  in  white,  boneless  fingers,  those  red,  pointed  nails  that  scratched  faintly  at  your  palms.  &quot;You  should  have  been  along  with  me  at  lunch  today,&quot;  said  Maxie  to  no  one  in  particular.  Or  perhaps  the  soft  voice,  a  vocal  tiptoe,  was  aimed  at  Alis-  ter,  who  was  familiar  with  Maxie's  work  as  an  organizer  of  African  trade  unions.  'The  group  in  the  room  gave  him  their  attention  (Temba  with  the  little  encouraging  grunt  of  one  who  has  already  heard  the  story),  but  Maxie  paused  a  moment,  smiling  ruefully  at  what  he  was  about  to  tell.  Then  he  said,  &quot;You  know  George  Elson?&quot;  Alister  nodded.  The  man  was  a  white  lawyer  who  had  been  arrested  twice  for  his  par-  ticipation  in  anti-discrimination  move-  ments.  &quot;Oh,  George?  I've  worked  with  George  often  in  [REDACTED]  Town,&quot;  put  in  Jennifer.  &quot;Well,&quot;  continued  Maxie,  &quot;George  Elson  and  I  went  out  to  one  of  the  in-  dustrial  towns  on  [REDACTED]  Rand.  We  were  interviewing  the  bosses,  you  see,  not  the  men,  and  at  the  beginning  it  was  all  right,  though  once  or  twice  the  girls  in  the  offices  thought  I  was  George's  chauffeur-'Your  boycan  wait  out-  side.&quot;  &quot;  He  laughed,  showing  small,  per-  fect  teeth;  everything  about  him  was  finely  made-his  straight-fingered  dark  hands,  the  curved  African  nostrils  of  his  small  nose,  his  little  ears,  which  grew  close  to  the  sides  of  his  delicate  head.  The  others  were  silent,  but  the  young  woman  laughed,  too.  &quot;We  even  got  tea  in  one  place,&quot;  Maxie  went  on.  &quot;One  of  the  girls  came  in  with  two  cups  and  a  tin  mug.  But  old  George  took  the  mug.&quot;  Jennifer  Tetzel  knowingly.  &quot;Then,  just  about  lunchtime,  we  came  to  this  place  I  wanted  to  tell  you  about.  Nice  chap,  the  manager.  Never  blinked  an  eye  at  me,  called  me  Mister.  And  after  we'd  talked,  he  said  to  George,  'Why  not  come  home  with  me  for  lunch?&quot;  So  of  course  George  said,  Thanks,  but  I'm  with  my  friend  here.'  'Oh,  that's  O.K.,'  said  the  chap.  'Bring  him  along.  Well,  we  go  along  to  this  house,  and  the  chap  disappears  into  the  kitchen,  and  then  he  comes  back  and  we  sit  in  the  lounge  and  have  a  beer,  and  then  the  servant  comes  along  and  says  lunch  is  ready.  Just  as  we're  walking  into  the  dining  room,  the  chap  takes  me  by  the  arm  and  says,  'I've  had  your  laughed  again,  " b"lunch  laid  on  a  table  on  the  stoep.  You'll  find  it's  all  perfectly  clean  and  nice,  just  what  we're  having  our-  selves.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Fantastic,&quot;  murmured  Alister,  Maxie  smiled  and  shrugged,  looking  round  at  them  all.  &quot;It's  true.&quot;  &quot;After  he'd  asked  you,  and  he'd  sat  having  a  drink  with  you?&quot;  Jennifer  said  closely,  biting  in  her  lower  lip,  as  if  this  were  a  prob-  lem  to  be  solved  psychologi-  cally.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  said  Maxie.  Jake  was  shaking  with  laughter,  like  some  obscene  Silenus.  There  was  no  sound  out  of  him,  but  saliva  gleamed  on  his  lips,  and  his  belly,  at  the  level  of  Jenni-  fer'Tetzel's  eyes,  was  con-  vulsed.  Temba  said  soberly,  in  the  tone  of  one  whose  good  will  makes  it  difficult  for  him  to  believe  in  the  unease  of  his  situation,  &quot;I  certainly  find  it  worse  here  than  at  the  [REDACTED].  I  can't  remem-  ber,  y'know,  about  buses.  I  keep  getting  put  off  European  buses.&quot;  Maxie  pointed  to  Jake's  heaving  bel-  ly.  &quot;Oh,  I'll  tell  you  a  better  one  than  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Something  that  hap-  pened  in  the  office  one  day.  Now,  the  trouble  with  me  is,  apparently,  I  don't  talk  like  a  native.&quot;  This  time  everyone  laughed,  except  Maxie  himself,  who,  with  the  instinct  of  a  good  raconteur,  kept  a  polite,  modest,  straight  face.  &quot;You  know  that's  true,&quot;  interrupted  the  young  white  woman.  &quot;You  have  none  of  the  usual  softening  ofthe  vowels  of  most  Africans.  And  you  haven't  got  an  Afrikaans  accent,  as  some  Africans  have,  even  if  they  get  rid  of  the  Bantu  thing.&quot;  &quot;Anyway,  I'd  had  to  phone  a  certain  firm  several  times,&quot;  Maxie  went  on,  &quot;and  I'd  got  to  know  the  voice  of  the  girl  at  the  other  end,  and  she'd  got  to  know  mine.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  she  must  have  liked  the  sound  of  me,  be-  cause  she  was  getting  very  friendly.  We  fooled  about  a  bit,  exchanged  first  names,  like  a  couple  of  kids-hers  was  Peggy-and  she  said,  eventually,  'Aren't  you  ever  going  to  come  to  the  office  yourself?'&quot;  Maxie  paused  a  moment,  and  his  tongue  flicked  at  the  side  of  his  mouth  in  a  brief,  nervous  gesture.  When  he  spoke  again,  his  voice  was  flat,  like  the  voice  of  a  man  who  is  telling  a  joke  and  suddenly  thinks  that  perhaps  it  is  not  sucha  good  one  after  all.  &quot;So  I  told  her  I'd  be  in  next  day,  about  four.  I  walked  in,  sure  enough,  just  as  I  said  I  would.  She  was  a  pretty  girl,  blond,  you  know,  with  very  tidy  hair-I  guessed  she'd  just  combed  it  to  be  ready  for  me.  She  looked  up  and  said  'Yes?,'  holding  out  her  hand  for  the  messenger's  book  or  parcel  she  thought  I'd  brought.  I  took  her  hand  and  shook  it  and  said,  'Well,  here  I  am,  on  time-  I'm  Maxie-Maxie  Ndube.  &quot;  &quot;What'd  she  do?&quot;  asked  Temba  eagerly.  The  interruption  seemed  to  restore  Maxie's  confidence  in  his  story.  He  shrugged  gaily.  &quot;She  almost  dropped  my  hand,  and  then  she  pumped  it  like  a  mad  thing,  and  her  neck  and  ears  wen  so  red  I  thought  she'd  burn  up.  Honest-  ly,  her  ears  were  absolutely  shining.  She  tried  to  pretend  she'd  known  all  along,  but  I  could  see  she  was  terrified  someone  would  come  from  the  inner  office  and  see  her,  shaking  hands  with  a  native.  So  I  took  pity  on  her  and  went  away.  Didn't  even  stay  for  my  appointment  with  her  boss.  When  I  went  back  to  keep  the  postponed  appointment  the  next  week,  we  pretended  we'd  never  met.&quot;  'Temba  was  slapping  his  knee.  &quot;God,  I'd  have  loved  to  see  her  face!&quot;  he  said.  Jake  wiped  away  a  tear  from  his  fat  cheek-his  eyes  were  light  blue,  and  produced  tears  easily  when  he  laughed-and  said,  &quot;That'll  teach  you  not  to  talk  swanky,  man.  Why  can't  you  talk  like  the  rest  of  us?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  T'll  watch  out  on  the  'Missus'  and  'Baas'  stuff  in  future,&quot;  said  Maxie.  Jennifer  Tetzel  cut  into  their  laugh-  ter  with  her  cool,  practical  voice.  &quot;Poor  little  girl,  she  probably  liked  you  aw-  fully,  Maxie,  and  was  really  disap-  pointed.  You  mustn't  be  too  harsh  on  her.  It's  hard  to  be  punished  for  not  being  black.&quot;  The  moment  was  one  of  astonish-  ment  rather  than  irritation.  Even  Jake,  who  had  been  sure  that  there  could  be  no  possible  situation  between  white  and  black  he  could  not  find  amusing,  only  looked  quickly  from  the  young  woman  to  Maxie,  in  a  hiatus  betweer  anger,  which  he  had  given  up  long  ago,  and  laughter,  which  suddenly  failed  him.  On  his  face  was  admiration  more  than  anything  else-sheer,  grudging  admira-  tion.  'This  one  was  the  best  yet.  This  one  was  the  coolest  ever.  &quot;Is  it?&quot;  said  Maxie  to  Jennifer,  pull-  ing  in  the  corners  of  his  mouth  and  re-  garding  her  from  under  slightly  raised  eyebrows.  Jake  watched.  Oh,  she'd  have  a  hard  time  with  Maxie.  Maxie  wouldn't  give  up  his  suffering-tempered  blackness  so  easily.  You  hadn't  much  " b"hope  of  knowing  what  Maxie  was  feel-  ing  at  any  given  moment,  because  Maxie  not  only  never  let  you  know  but  made  you  guess  wrong.  But  this  one  was  the  best  yet.  She  looked  back  at  Maxie,  opening  her  eyes  very  wide,  twisting  her  san-  dalled  foot  on  the  swivel  of  its  ankle,  smiling.  &quot;Really,  I  assure  you  it  is.&quot;  Maxie  bowed  to  her  politely,  giving  way  with  a  falling  gesture  of  his  hand.  ASTER  had  slid  from  his  perch  on  the  crowded  table,  and  now,  prodding  Jake  playfully  in  the  paunch,  he  said,  &quot;We  have  to  get  along.&quot;  Jake  scratched  his  ear  and  said  again,  &quot;Sure  youwon't  have  something  to  eat?&quot;  Alister  shook  his  head.  &quot;We  had  &quot;IPs  a  prince  hoped  you'd  offer  us  a  drink,  but-&quot;  Jake  wheezed  with  laughter,  but  this  time  was  sincerely  concerned.  &quot;Well,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  when  we  heard  the  knocking,  we  just  swallowed  the  last  of  the  bottle  off,  in  case  it  was  someone  it  shouldn't  be.  I  haven't  a  drop  in  the  place  till  tomorrow.  Sorry,  chappie.  Must  apologize  to  you,  lady,  but  we  black  men've  got  to  drink  insecret.  If  we'd've  known  it  was  you  two  .  ..&quot;  Maxie  and  Temba  had  risen.  The  two  wizened  colored  men,  Klaas  and  Albert,  and  the  sombre  black  Billy  Boy  shuffled  helplessly,  hanging  about.  Alister  said,  &quot;Next  time,  Jake,  next  time.  We'll  give  you  fair  warning  and  you  can  lay  it  on.&quot;  Jennifer  shook  hands  with  Temba  and  Maxie,  and  called  &quot;Goodbye!     I),  Goodbye!&quot;  to  the  others,  as  if  they  were  somehow  out  of  earshot  in  that  small  room.  From  the  door,  she  suddenly  said  to  Maxie,  &quot;I  feel  I  must  tell  you.  About  that  other  story-your  first  one,  about  the  lunch.  I  don't  believe  it.  I'm  sorry,  but  I  honestly  don't.  It's  too  illogical  to  hold  water.&quot;  It  was  the  final  self-immolation  by  honest  understanding.  'There  was  ab-  solutely  no  limit  to  which  that  under-  standing  would  not  go.  Even  if  she  could  not  believe  Maxie,  she  must  keep  her  determined  good  faith  with  him  by  confessing  her  disbelief.  She  would  go  to  the  length  of  calling  him  a  liar  to  show  by  frankness  how  much  she  re-  spected  him-to  insinuate,  perhaps,  that  she  was  with  him,  even  in  the  need  to  invent  something  about  a  white  man  that  she,  because  she  herself  was  white,  could  not  believe.  It  was  her  last  bid  for  Maxie.  The  small,  perfectly  made  man  crossed  his  arms  and  smiled,  watching  her  out,  Maxie  had  no  price.  JAKE  saw  his  guests  out  of  the  shop,  and  switched  off  the  light  after  he  had  closed  the  door  behind  them.  As  he  walked  back  through  the  dark,  where  his  presses  smelled  metallic  and  cool,  he  heard,  for  a  few  moments,  the  clear  voice  of  the  white  woman  and  the  low,  noncommittal  English  murmur  of  Alis-  ter,  his  friend,  as  they  went  out  through  the  archway  into  the  street.  He  blinked  a  little  as  he  came  back  to  the  light,  and  the  faces  that  confronted  him  in  the  back  room.  Klaas  had  taken  the  dirty  glasses  from  behind  the  curtain  and  was  holding  them  one  by  one  under  the  tap  in  the  sink.  Billy  Boy  and  Albert  had  come  closer  out  of  the  shadows,  and  were  leaning  their  elbows  on  a  roll  of  paper.  Temba  was  sitting  on  the  table,  swinging  his  foot.  Maxie  had  not  moved,  and  stood  just  as  he  had,  with  his  arms  folded.  No  one  spoke.  Jake  began  to  whistle  softly  through  the  spaces  between  his  front  teeth,  and  he  picked  up  the  pan  of  bacon,  looked  at  the  twisted  curls  of  meat,  jellied  now  in  cold  white  fat,  and  put  it  down  again  absently.  He  stood  a  moment,  heavily,  regarding  them  all,  but  no  one  re-  sponded.  His  eye  encountered  the  chair  that  he  had  cleared  for  Jennifer  Tetzel  to  sit  on.  Suddenly  he  kicked  it,  hard,  so  that  it  went  flying  onto  its  side.  'Then,  rubbing  his  big  hands  together  and  bursting  into  loud  whistling  to  accom-  pany  an  impromptu  series  of  dance  steps,  he  said  &quot;Now,  boys!&quot;  and  as  they  stirred,  heplanked  the  pan  down  on  the  ring  and  turned  the  gas  up  till  it  roared  beneath  it. "