 b"SURGICAL  science,  still  achieving,  still  pursuing,  has  successfully  re-  placed  asection  of  the  femoral  artery  in  a  human  leg  with  a  tube  made  of  nylon,  and  the  medical  profession  confidently  prophesies  for  the  near  fu-  ture  a  practicable  aorta  made  of  the  fabric  known  as  orlon.  We  are  all  so  used  to  the  heart  as  a  lyrical  organ,  made  of  the  stuff  that  breaks,  that  a  meta-  phorical  shift  to  a  heart  made  of  the  stuff  that  tears,  or  rips,  or  has  to  be  hem-  stitched,  may  have  a  strange  and  dis-  astrous  effect  on  writers  and  composers.  It  has  already  had  its  effect  on  me,  get-  ting  into  my  daydreams  and  nightmares.  In  one  of  the  latter,  a  bearded  doctor,  fiercely  grinning,  asked  me  &quot;Do  you  know  how  to  tell  your  wife  from  the  children's  toys?&quot;  and  startled  me  wide-  awake  just  before  dawn.  This  fragment  of  dream  was  probably  the  associative  product  of  the  orlon  surgical  technique  and  Eugene  Field's  creatures  of  ging-  ham  and  calico.  (It  wasn't  untillater  that  I  heard  about  the  new  orlon-filled  toys.)  All  I  need  to  make  a  chaos  out  of  my  already  tormented  nights  is  a  dream  world  of  patchwork  girls,  indestructibly  fabricated  females  with  a  disconcerting  froufrou  deep  inside  their  organdie  in  place  of  the  old-fashioned  pulse  beat.  One  night,  I  dreamed  I  was  at  this  party.  A  young  lady  had  been  carelessly  flung  onto  the  sofa  beside  me,  her  long  legs  loosely  intertwined  and  her  stuffing  showing  plainly  at  one  shoulder  seam.  &quot;'You're  losing  your  sawdust,&quot;  Itold  her  anxiously.  &quot;Nonsex,&quot;  she  said,  and  I  suddenly  realized  that  she  and  all  the  other  women  guests  were  dolls.  Such  a  dream  is  known,  to  one  school  of  psy-  chiatrists,  as  a  degradation  dream,  and  it  could  be  construed  as  meaning  that  I  have  reached  the  time  of  life  when  I  seek  to  deny  the  actual-  ity  of  the  American  Woman  and  to  reduce  her  to  the  level  of  an  insentient  plaything.  Actually,  the  latent  meaning  of  this  dream  goes  far  deeper  than  that,  and  consists  of  a  profound  anxiety  on  my  part  as  to  what  would  happen  to  our  world  if  the  stature  of  Woman  decreased.  A  lovely  woman  with  a  taffeta  xiphister-  num  might  conceivably  make  this  artificiality  a  part  of  her  mysterious  allure-I  have  known  the  kind  of  lady  whose  charm  could  even  take  the  ugliness  out  of  a  thrug  sutured  with  silk  to  her  thisbe-but  a  gentleman  of  like  kidney,  let  us  say,  could  surely  never  regain  the  posi-  tion  he  held  in  our  competitive  so-  ciety  before  his  operation.  Man  is  used  to  being  repaired  with  silver  plates  and  pins,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  his  ego  could  long  sustain  a  body  consist-  ing  largely,  or  in  part,  of  dress  mate-  rial.  It  may  be,  then,  that  a  gradual  textilization  of  the  human  species  is  one  of  the  desperate  strategies  of  Nature  in  her  ceaseless  effort  to  save  our  self-  destructive  race  from  the  extinction  of  which  it  seems  so  massively  enamored.  Nature  and  I  have  long  felt  that  the  hope  of  mankind  is  womankind,  that  the  physically  creative  sex  must  eventually  dominate  the  physically  destructive  sex  if  we  are  to  survive  on  this  planet.  The  simplest  things  last  longest,  the  microbe  outlives  the  mastodon,  and  the  female's  simple  gift  of  creativity  happily  lacks  the  ornaments  and  handicaps  of  male  arti-  fice,  pretension,  power,  and  balderdash.  Nature  (I  do  not  say  God,  because  I  think  protective  Providence  washed  Its  hands  of  us  long  ago)  realizes  that  we  have  to  be  turned  into  something  as  du-  rable  as  the  toughest  drygoods  if  we  are  to  endure  the  wear  and  tear  caused  by  the  frightened  tempo  of  our  time.  Men  and  women-the  former  because  they  think  the  Devil  is  after  them,  the  latter  merely  to  hold  their  own-make  the  revolving  doors  of  our  office  buildings  whirl  at  a  dangerous  and  terrifying  rate  of  speed  as  they  rush  lickety-split  to  their  lunches,  return  hellbent  to  their  desks,  and  fling  themselves  recklessly  home-  ward  at  twilight  to  their  separate  sor-  rows.  It  is  the  menwho  are  the  casual-  ties  of  this  pell-mell,  the  men  who  are caught  in  the  doors  and  flung  to  the  floors,  and  it  is  the  women  who  pick  them  up,  or  at  least  itis  the  women  who  pick  me  up.  Once  the  ladies  have  become  compounded  largely  of  bland  but  dura-  ble  textiles,  they  will  outlive  the  once  stronger  sex  even  more  easily  than  they  do  now.  Nature,  prefiguring  the  final  disappearance  of  the  male,  has  aided  science  in  solving  the  problem  of  the  continuation  of  the  human  being  with  her  usual  foresight,  by  establishing  the  ingenious,  if  admittedly  stuffy,  technique  of  artificial  insemination.  It  is  only  a  question  of  time  before  the  male  factor  in  the  perpetuation  of  the  species  be-  comes  a  matter  of  biological  deep  freeze,  an  everlasting  laboratory  culture,  la-  belled,  controlled,  and  supervised  by  women  technicians.  The  male,  continuously  preoccupied  with  his  own  devices  and  his  own  myth-  ical  destiny,  polysyllabically  boasting  of  his  power  and  purpose,  seems  blithely  unconscious  of  the  conspiracy  of  Nature  and  women  to  do  him  in.  He  does  not  seem  to  know  that  he  is  doomed  to  go  out  like  a  light  unless  he  abandons  the  -  weapons  and  the  blueprints  of  annihila-  tion.  Woman  says  little  about  it,  but  she  does  not  intend  to  be  annihilated  by  Man,  even  if  she  has  to  get  rid  of  him  first  to  save  herself.  This  is  not  going  to  be  as  difficult  for  her  to  face  as  one  might  think,  for  her  ancient  dependence  on  the  male  began  slowly  to  turn  into  disdain  about  135  A.D.,  according  to  Dr.  Ru-  dolph  Horch,  who  makes  the  astound-  ing  statement  that  the  female's  sexual  interest  in  her  mate  has  decreased  seven-  teen  and  two-tenths  per  cent  since  Sep-  tember,  1929.  The  female  has  greater  viability  than  the  male,  Dr.  Horch  reminds  us,  and  the  male  knows  this  when  he  puts  his  mind  to  it,  which  he  naturally  does  not  like  to  do.  I  once  asked  a  distinguished  obstetrician  which  he  would  rather  be  called  upon  to  deliver,  male  quintuplets  or  fe-  male  quintuplets.  He  began  with  the  usual  masculine  circumlocu-  tions,  pointing  out  that  there  are  no  dependable  statistics,  on  alarge  scale,  dealing  with  the  relative  viability  of  the  sexes.  &quot;Let  me  put  it this  way,&quot;  I  said. &quot;Two  women  are about  to  give  birth  to  quintuplets,  and  by  means  of  some  hypo-  thetical  prescience  it  has  become  known  that  one  is  going  to  have  five  " b"boys  and  the  other  five  girls.  Which  would  you  rather  deliver  if  you  were  called  upon  to  make  a  choice?&quot;  He  sighed,  seemed  to  turn  a  bit  pale,  but  answered  without  hesitation.  &quot;The  girls,&quot;  he  said.  We  had  been  drinking  at  a  quiet  bar,  and  this  time  we  ordered  double  Scotches  on  the  rocks.  It  may  come  down,  in  the  end,  to  a  highly  dramatic  sex  crisis.  Man  is  for-  ever  discovering  some  new  and  mag-  nificent  miracle  weapon  or  miracle  drug,  and  it  is  possible  that  he  may  soon  stumble  upon  an  undreamed-of  mineral,  of  which  there  will  be  just  enough  in  the  world  to  create  a  drug  that  could  cure  everybody  of  everything  or  to  man-  ufacture  a  bomb  capable  of  blowing  the  planet  into  fragments  the  size  of  43756261.  The  ultimate  struggle  for  possession  of  the  precious  material  would  divide  men  and  women  into  two  warring  camps.  I  have  the  confidence  to  believe  that  the  creative  females  would  defeat  the  de-  structive  males  and  gain  control  of  the  miracle  substance.  I  NO  longer  see  the  faces  of  men  and  women  at  the  parties  I  attend,  or  the  streets  I  walk  along,  or  the  hotel  lobbies  I  sit  in,  but  I  hear  their  voices  more  clearly  than  ever.  The  voices  of  the  women,  it  seems  to  me,  have  taken  on  a  new  and  quiet  quality-a  secret  con-  spiratorial  tone,  the  hopeful  and  reas-  suring  note  of  a  sex  firmly,  and  without  desperation,  dedicated  to  the  concept  and  the  principle  of  not  being  blown  into  fragments,  of  whatever  size,  by  the  machines  and  machinations  of  men.  This  may  be  wishful  thinking,  or  some-  thing  even  more  deep-seated,  common  to  the  mental  processes  of  men  my  age,  but  I  don't  think  so.  I  would  not  be  in  the  least  surprised,  when  I  turn  on  my  radio  some  weekday  night  at  a  quarter  of  eight,  in  the  not  distant  future,  to  hear  the  familiar  voice  of  a  certain  an-  nouncer  saying,  with  a  new  assurance  and,  to  be  sure,  a  new  humility,  &quot;And  now  here  is  Mrs.  Edward  R.  Murrow.&quot;  It  is  likely  that  a  sprinkle  of  words,  as  few  as  those,  will  be  the  means  of  in-  forming  men  that  they  are  headed  for  the  eternal  test  tubes.  (Some  of  us  would  welcome,  for  a  change,  at  whatever  cost,  &quot;It's  Mrs.  Godfrey  time!  And  now  here's  that  woman  herself!&quot;)  It  was  not  so  many  decades  ago  that  Woman  had  no  place  of  her  own  in  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  I  recently  discovered  in  listening  to  a  broadcast  by  a  member  of  the  vanishing  sex  connect-  ed  with  the  firm  that  now  publishes  the  famous  volumes.  He  said  that  if  you  looked  up  &quot;woman&quot;  in  the  old  days  you  found  her  listed  as  follows:  &quot;woman  (see  man).&quot;  He  spoke  lightly  of  this  old  injustice,  this  ancient  slight,  and  there  was  no  foreboding  tremor  in  his  voice.  I'm  sure  it  had  never  crossed  his  mind,  as  it  did  mine  and  those  of  God  knows  how  many  thousands  of  listening  maidens  and  matrons,  that  the  Male  may  get  his  comeuppance  in  afuture  listing  that  will  go  like  this:  &quot;man  (see  woman).&quot;  This  is,  I  reluctantly  recognize,  per-  haps  too  great  a  simplification  of  the  nature  and  the  dilemma  of  human  life.  Our  species  rapidly  wearies  of  annihila-  tions  escaped,  goals  attained,  and  sereni-  ties  assured.  (My  English  style  has  suf-  fered  somewhat  from  a  long  exchange  of  letters  with  Dr.Horch,  and  I  apolo-  gize  for  it.)  Neither  of  the  human  sexes  could  last  very  long,or  want  to  last  very  long,  without  its  greatest  exacerbation,  the  unique  cause  of  its  finest  displays  of  anger,  tears,  sympathy,  solicitude,  ambivalence,  antipathy,  love,  hate,  and  angelic  ministrations.  Even  in  Arcady,  Woman  would  finally  reach  for  the  test  tube  marked  &quot;Male  Off-  spring.  Archaic.&quot;  As  for  my  own  personal  opinion,  it     changes  with  the  changing  of  the  wind  and  the  quarters  of  the  moon.  At  the  moment  of  ending  this  unrewarding  speculation,  I  am  against  the  continu-  ance  of  the  opposite  sex  into  the  awful  realm  of  perpetuity,  because  of  letters  I  keep  getting  from  schoolgirls  explaining  that  they  have  selected  my  life  and  work  as  the,  subject  of  a  required  paper  in  some  English  course  or  other,  and  add-  ing  that  they  have  picked  me  because  they  like  what  I  have  written.  They  then  set  down  a  list  of  questions  for  me  to  answer,  which  almost  invariably  go  like  this:  &quot;What  have  you  written?  Do  you  write  books  or  stories?  What  kind,  if  either?  Where  were  you  born  and  when:  Do  you  write  about  yourself  and  your  family  and  about  what  happens  to  you?  Do  you  do  anything  besides  writ-  ing?  Have  you  ever  thought  of  doing  anything  for  the  theatre?  Do  you  like  dogs?&quot;  Look,  Doctor,  if  you  don't  mind,  I  think  I'll  just  manage  with  the  arteries  I've  got.  Those  are  lovely  orlon  tubes  you  have  there,  but  women  and  children  first.  Thanks  just  the  same.  "