 b"I NEVER  know  exactly  what  the  mail  will  bring.  Mostly,  it's  appeals  for  funds,  invitations  to  public  din-  ners  at  the  Waldorf,  and  letters  from  the  Thomas  Y.  Crowell  Company  addressed:  Spec  People  Mr.  Goeffrey  [sic]  Hellman  but  a  few  weeks  ago  I  got  a  new  kind  of  enclosure-a  forest-green  book  con-  taining  ten  five-by-eleven-inch  [REDACTED]  envelopes,  its  cover  stamped  with  &quot;Family  Estate  File,&quot;  my  name,  and  &quot;CompLimEnts  or  THE  CHasE  Na-  TroNAL  Bank  or  THE  CiITy  or  New  York,&quot;  in  big  gilt  letters.  I  suppose  I  got  this  because,  like  the  people  in  the  Chase  ads,  I  bank  at  the  Chase,  which  is  now  the  Chase  [REDACTED].  &quot;If  any-  thing  should  happen,  your  family's  bur-  den  will  be  lessened  if  full  information  regarding  your  vital  papers  are  [sic]  immediately  available  to  them,&quot;  it  says,  inside  thecover.  &quot;Check  through  this  file  and  start  collecting  or  replacing  the  papers  called  for.&quot;  It  doesn't  really  mean  if  anything  should  happen,  or  even  if  anything  should  happen  to  you.  Suppose  John  Jay  McCloy  resigned  as  board  chairman  of  the  Chase  and  you  got  his  job.  That  would  be  something  happening,  all  right,  but  it  wouldn't  add  to  your  fami-  ly's  burden.  It  would  give  them  a  leg  up,  unless  you're  a  terribly  special  per-  son.  What  is  meant  is  if  anything  should  happen  to  your  vital  organs,  putting  them  out  of  commission  for-  ever.  Bankers  are  eva-  sive,  and  partial  to  euphemisms.  The  envelopes  the  Chase  sent  me  are  more  forthright.  They  bear  the  following  headings:  &quot;Estate  Transfer  Documents.  Follow-  ing  Are  the  Papers  That  Could  Trans-  fer  Your  Estate  to  Your  Heirs;&quot;  &quot;Vital  Certificates  and  Papers.  These  Papers  May  Be  Important  to  You  While  Liv-  ing,  As  Well  As  to  Your  Estate;&quot;  &quot;Employment  Records.  Copies  of  All  Papers  Concerned  with  Your  Employ-  ment;&quot;  &quot;Residence  and  Other  Real  Estate  Papers.  Copies  of  All  Papers  Concerned  with  Your  Home  and  Other  Real  Estate;&quot;  &quot;Business  Owner-  ship  Papers.  Copies  of  All  Papers  Con-  cerned  with  Ownership  of  Your  Busi-  ness;&quot;  &quot;Securities  and  Bank  Accounts.  Include  in  Each  List  Account,  Certifi-  cate  and  Bond  Numbers;&quot;  &quot;Insurance     Policies.  Include  in  Each  List  a  State-  ment  of  Coverage,  Amount  of  Insur-  ance,  Premiums,  Due  Dates,  Etc.;&quot;  &quot;Tax  Returns.  Copies  of  AllLatest  Tax  Returns  and  Lists  of  Tax  Returns  Previously  Filed;&quot;  &quot;Tangible  Personal  Property.  Bills  of  Sale  and  Receipts  Re-  ceived  When  Important  Purchases  Were  Made;&quot;  and  &quot;Other  Valuable  Papers  Not  Listed  in  Previous  En-  velope  Files.&quot;  Boy!  Did  all  this  make  me  feel  Im-  portant  While  Living,  and  even  more  important,  potentially,  posthumously!  I  began  to  study  the  Chase's  present  in  detail,  to  see  whether  I  could  live,  or  die,  up  to  its  expectations.  Its  envelopes  list  seventy  different  categories  of  docu-  ments,  vital  certificates,  papers,  and  records  that  you  are  supposed  to  stuff  them  with.  Estate  Transfer  Docu-ments,  marked  &quot;File  No.  1,&quot;  calls  for  Last  Will  and  Testament,  Trust  Agreements,  Life  Insurance  Settle-  ment  Agreements,  Joint  Tenancy  Deeds  and  Accounts,  Death  Benefit  Plans,  and  Special  Instructions.  I'm  afraid  I  don't  come  out  very  well  on  this  one.  I  have  a  last  will  and,  I  guess,  testament,  but  that's  all.  I  could  dream  up  some  special  instructions,  such  as  &quot;'Please  transfer  my  estate  in  toto  to  Toto,  my  French  poodle,&quot;  but  this  would  give  me  a  mark  of  only  thirty-  three  per  cent.  Even  so,  I'd  have  to  get  a  French  poodle  first,  or  the  instructions  would  be  invalid,  and  I  don't  think  the  city  is  a  good  place  for  animals.  I  don't  think  it's  a  good  place  for  people,  either,  but  my  real  estate  is  here,  and  I  can't  wedge  it  loose.  It's  stuck  right  in  the  ground.  File  No.  2  (Vital  Cer-  tificates  and  Papers)  asks  for  Birth  Certificate,  Military  Service  Papers,  Marriage  Cer-  tificate,  Divorce  Papers,  Citizenship  Pa-  pers,  and  Passports.  I've  got  the  first,  third,  and  sixth  of  these,  and  maybe  the  Chase  would  settle  for  a  letter  from  Wild  Bill  Donovan  thanking  me  for  my  secret  civilian  services  to  O.$.S.  for  the  second.  I've  never  been  divorced,  and  I  don't  think  the  Chase  should  in-  sist  on  divorce  papers  for  a  Family  Estate  File.  That  leaves  citizenship  papers,  but  I  was  born  on  [REDACTED]  Eightieth  Street,  where  they  weren't  giving  any  out.  O.K.  Pass.  I'm  pretty  good  on  the  six  things  re-  quired  in  File  No.  3  (Employment  Records)  and  think  I'll  jump  to  No.  4 " b"(Residence  and  Other  Real  Estate  Papers).  I  can  produce  most  of  the  first  seven  categories  but  not  the  eighth-  Cemetery  Plot  Records.  My  idea  is  to  have  my  ashes  strewn  over  Giovanni's  Restaurant,  where  I  have  spent  so  many  pleasant  hours,  but  I'm  not  sure  the  Board  of  Health-or,  for  that  matter,  Giovanni-will  allow  it.  Some  of  my  relatives  are  buried  out  in  a  mausoleum  in  [REDACTED],  but  I'm  told  that  unless  something  happens  to  me  before  it  hap-  pens  to  several  kinsmen  my  senior,  there  won't  be  any  more  room.  I'm  not  much  ofa  mausoleum  man  anyway.  I  drove  out  there  once  to  look  at  it;  it  was  after  five,  and  the  gate  to  the  cemetery  was  locked,  soI  slipped  through  a  fence  and  began  to  search  for  the  vault.  The  place  has  a  galaxy  of  mausoleums,  and  before  I  could  find  the  right  one,  a  guard  came  up  and  chased  me  away.  I've  had  a  scunner  on  mausoleums  ever  since.  I  haven't  got  a  business,  so  I'll  have  to  leave  File  No.  5  (Business  Owner-  ship  Papers)  empty.  Well,  maybe  not.  One  of  thethings  the  Chase  wants  me  to  start  collecting  for  this  is  &quot;Latest  Financial  Statements.&quot;  As  it  happens,  I  have  a  recent  financial  statement  on  my  desk-the  1954  annual  report  of  the  Amerada  Petroleum  Corporation.  Could  I  slip  this  in,  faute  de  pire?  (I'm  sure  no  business  of  mine  would  be  as  good  as  Amerada's.)  Here's  what  it  says,  in  part:  The  net  profit  for  the  year  after  de-  ducting  all  charges,  including  all  intangible  drilling  costs  and  all  geological  and  geo-  physical  expenditures,  amounted  to  $19,-  777,647.95  or  $6.27  per  share  on  the  3,154,700  shares  outstanding.  How  can  intangible  costs  be  deducted?  How  can  something  you  can't  put  a  finger  on  be  reduced  to  dollars  and  cents?  On  second  thought,  this  state-  ment  isn't  worthy  of  a  Family  Estate  File.  I'll  flunk  No.  5  one  hundred  per  cent.  Zero.  AIL  URE  depresses  me.  I'm  going  toskip  the  rest,  as  not  susceptible  of  reflecting  a  good  showing  on  m  part,  except  for  No.  9  (Tangible  Per-  sonal  Property  ),  on  which  I  think  I  can  do  better  than  O.K.,  and  better  than  that  vague  old  Amerada.  It  may  be  dif-  ficult  to  collect  or  replace  the  bills  of  sale,  but  I  have  all  thepalpable  objects  listed-Automobile,  Radio  and  Tele-  vision,  Piano,Boat,  Kitchen  Appliances,  Works  of  Art,  Furniture  and  Furnish-  ings-so  it's  possible.  I  also  have  a  Stamp  Collection,  which  I  keep  in  three  hatboxes.  It  weighs  eleven  pounds  and,  I  believe,  adds  up  to  an  Important  Pur-  " b"chase.  I've  been  too  busy  copying  out  bond  numbers  to  sort  it  out  and  glue  it  up.  I'm  going  to  add  it  to  the  list  and  put  the  Chase  [REDACTED]'s  eye  out.  If  Mr.  McCloy  doesn't  address  future  envelopes  to  me  with  the  superscription  &quot;Spec  People,&quot;  I'm  going  to  move  back  to  the  Bankers  Trust.  I  banked  with  the  Bankers  Trust  for  twenty-five  years,  and  left  after  one  of  the  guards  at  the  Fifty-seventh  Street  branch  had  said  &quot;Good  morning,  Mr.  Floyd&quot;  to  me  for  twenty-five  years.  I  always  said  good  morning  back,  in  order  to  avoid  a  con-  troversy,  until  one  day  he  followed  his  salutation  up  with  &quot;How's  your  brother,  Mr.  Floyd?&quot;  &quot;Fine,&quot;  I  said,  although  I  have  no  brother.  &quot;Usually  in  the  Adirondacks  this  time  of  year,  isn't  he?&quot;  he  said.  I  felt  I  was  getting  in  too  deep,  and  revealed  my  identity.  &quot;Not  Dr.  Floyd's  boy?&quot;  he  said,  his  face  working.  &quot;Why,  I've  known  you-I  mean  him-since  you-  he-was  this  high.&quot;  He  held  his  hand  four  feet  from  the  floor,  and  I  withdrew  my  account.  I  didn't  want  to  embarrass  him  for  the  next  twenty-five  years.  Five  years  later,  at  a  cocktail  party  in  Wash-  ington,  I  ran  into  an  Englishman  who  said  &quot;Hello,  there,  Floyd.  Jolly  good  evening  the  other  night,  wasn't  it?&quot;  and  burst  into  peals  of  laughter.  I  must  have  a  double.  Maybe  that  Family  Estate  File  was  meant  for  Floyd.  He  probably  has  a  business,  divorce  papers,  stirring  joint-tenancy  deeds,  and  a  decent  col-  lection  of  vital  documents.  If  he'll  give  me  a  ring,  I'll  send  the  damn  book  over,  with  my  compliments."