 b"I  BELIEVE  there  are  no  scientific  investigators  that  actually  call  themselves  psychosemanticists,  but  it  is  surely  time  for  these  highly  special-  ized  therapeuticians  to  set  up  offices.  They  must  not  be  carelessly  confused  with  psychosomaticists,  who  study  the  effects  of  mental  weather  upon  the  ram-  parts  of  the  body.  The  psychosemanti-  cists  will  specialize  in  the  havoc  wrought  by  verbal  artillery  upon  the  fortress  of  reason.  Their  job  will  be  to  cope  with  the  psychic  trauma  caused  by  linguistic  meaninglessness,  to  prevent  the  lan-  guage  from  degenerating  into  gibberish,  and  to  save  the  sanity  of  persons  threatened  by  the  onset  of  polysyllabic  monstrosititis.  We  have  always  been  a  nation  of  categorizationists,  but  what  was  once  merely  a  national  characteristic  is  show-  ing  signs  of  malignancy.  I  shall  not  at-  tempt  to  discover  the  incipient  primary  lesion,  for  I  am  not  a  qualified  research  scholar  in  this  field.  Indeed,  for  having  had  the  impudence  to  trespass  thus  far  I  shall  no  doubt  be  denounced  by  the  classificationists  as  a  fractional  impac-  tionist  (one  who  hits  subjects  a  glancing  blow),  an  unauthorized  incursionist,  a  unilateral  conclusionist,  and  a  presump-  tuous  deductionist.  Our  national  pre-  dilection  for  ponderous  phraseology  has  been  traced  by  one  authority  as  far  back  as  the  awkward  expression  &quot;taxation  without  representation&quot;  (unjust  im-  post).  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  irate  556e6974656420537461746573n  colonists  of  that  period  in  our  history  would  be  categorized  to-  day  as  &quot;anti-taxation-without-represen-  tationists.&quot;  Not  long  ago,  for  the  most  recent  instance  in  my  collection,  Senator  Lyn-  don  Johnson  was  described  by  a  Wash-  ington  newspaperman  as  a  pragmatic  functionalist,  a  term  that  was  used  in  a  laudatory  sense.  It  isn't  always  easy  nowadays  to  tell  the  laudatory  from  the  derogatory  at  first  glance,  but  we  should  be  glad  that  this  Democratic  leader  is  not  a  dogmatic  divisionary  or  an  occlu-  sive  impedimentarian.  The  most  alarm-  ing  incidence  of  verbal  premalignancy  occurs,  of  course,  in  this  very  area  of  politics,  but  let  us  skip  over  such  worn  and  familiar  double-jointedisms  as  creeping  Socialists,  disgruntled  ex-em-  ployees,  ritualistic  liberals,  massive  retaliationists,  agonized  reappraisalists,  unorthodox  thinkers,  unwitting  hand-  maidens  (male),  to  name  only  a  few  out  of  hundreds,  and  take  alook  at  ex-  cessive  prewar  anti-Fascism,  a  colossal  (I  use  the  adjective  as  a  noun,  in  the  manner  of  television's  &quot;spectacular&quot;)  that  was  disgorged  a  few  years  ago.  Here  the  classificatory  degradationists  brought  a  time  element  into  what  might  be  called  the  post-evaluation  of  political  morality.  The  operation  of  this  kind  of  judgment  during  and  after  the  Civil  War  would  have  thrown  indelible  sus-  picion  upon  all  the  Northern  patriots,  including  Abraham  Lincoln,  who  wanted  Robert  E.  Lee  to  take  command  of  the  Federal  Armies  in  the  field.  They  would  be  known  today  as  &quot;overenthu-  siastic  pre-  Manassas  pro-Leeists.&quot;  The  carcinomenclature  of  our  time  is,  to  be  sure,  an  agglomerative  phenom-  enon  of  accumulated  concretions,  to  which  a  dozen  different  types  of  elaborative  descriptivists  have  contribut-  ed-eminently  the  old  Communist  intellectuals,  with  their  &quot;dialectical  ma-  terialists,&quot;  &quot;factional  deviationists,&quot;  &quot;unimplemented  obscurantists,&quot;  and  so  on,  and  so  on.  Once  the  political  termi-  nologists  of  all  parties  began  to  cross-in-  fect  our  moribund  vocabulary,  the  rate  of  degeneration  became  appalling.  Ele-  phantiasis  of  clich\xc3\xa9  set  in,  synonym  atrophied,  the  pulse  of  inventiveness  slowed  alarmingly,  and  paraphrase  died  of  impaction.  Multiple  sclerosis  was  apparent  in  the  dragging  rhythms  of  speech,  and  the  complexion  of  writing  and  of  conversation  began  to  take  on  the  tight,  dry  parchment  look  of  death.  We  have  become  satisfied  with  gangre-  nous  repetitions  of  threadbarisms,  like  an  old  man  cackling  in  a  chimney  corner,  and  the  onset  of  utter  meaning-  lessness  is  imminent.  The  symptoms  of  this  ominous  condi-  tion  show  up  most  clearly  in  the  tertiary  stage  of  &quot;controversial  figure.&quot;  The  most  complicated  specimen  of  this  type  of  modern  556e6974656420537461746573n  is  the  man  of  un-  questionable  loyalty,  distinguished  pub-  lic  service,  and  outstanding  ability  and  experience  who  has  nonetheless  &quot;lost  his  usefulness.&quot;  Actually,  this  victim  of  verbositosis  has  not  lost  his  usefulness,  his  nation  has  lost  it.  It  doesn't  do  the  national  psyche  any  good  to  realize  that  a  man  may  be  cut  off  in  the  full  flower  of  his  usefulness,  on  the  ground  that  that  is  not  what  it  is.  I  trust  I  have  made  the  urgent  need  for  psychosemanticists  apparent,  even  though  I  have  admitted-  ly  become  contaminated  in  the  process,  and  I  doubt  whether  my  own  psycho-  semanticist,  after  treating  me,  will  ever  be  able  to  turn  to  my  wife  and  say  cheer-  fully,  &quot;Madam,  your  husband  will  write  clearly  again.&quot;  EFORE  visiting  my  hypothetical  psychosemanticist  for  a  brief  imaginary  interview,  I  feel  that  I  should  get  something  reassuring  into  this  sur-  vey  of  depressing  ailments  of  the  tongue.  We  have,  then,  cured,or  at  least  sur-  vived,  various  incipient  mouth  maladies     " b"in  the  past.  There  was  a  moment  when  &quot;glob-  aloneyism,&quot;  growing  out  of  the  Timethod  of  wordoggle,  seemed  likely  to  become  epi-  demic,but  it  fortunate-  ly  turned  out  to  be  no  worse  than  a  touch  of  pig  Latin  or  a  slight  case  of  Knock,  Knock,  Who's  There?  Con-  gress  was  not  prepared  to  adopt  the  telescop-  ing  of  words,  which  takes  both  time  and  in-  genuity,  and  unless  an  expression  becomes  ab-  sorbed  by  Congression-  alese,  it  has  little  chance  of  general  survival.  This  brings  me  to  what  may  easily  be  the  direct  cause  of  my  being  bun-  dled  offto  the  psy-  chosemaniticist's  before  long:  the  beating  the  word  &quot;security&quot;  is  tak-  ing  in  this  great,  scared  land  of  ours.  It  is  be-  coming  paralyzed.  This  is  bound  to  occur  to  any  forceful  word  when  it  loses  its  quality  of  af-  firmation  and  is  employed  exclusively  in  a  connotation  of  fear,  uncertainty,  and  suspicion.  'The  most  frequent  use  of  &quot;security&quot;  (I  hate  to  add  to  its  shakiness  with  quotation  marks,  which  have  taken  on  a  tone  of  mockery  in  our  day)  is  in  &quot;security  risk,&quot;  &quot;weakest  link  in  our  chain  of  security,&quot;  and  &quot;lulled  into  a  false  sense  of  security.&quot;  Precision  of  speech  and  meaning  takes  a  small  toss-  ing  around  in  the  last  ofthose  three  phrases.  &quot;Lulled&quot;  is  actually  what  hap-  pens  to  a  nation  after  it  has  been  argued,  tricked,  maneuvered,  reasoned,  coaxed,  cajoled,  or  jockeyed  into  a  false  sense  of  security,  but  the  inflexibility  that  has  descended  upon  us  has  ruled  out  the  once  noble  search  for  the  perfect  word  and  the  exact  expression.  What  Eric  Partridge  calls  &quot;a  poverty  of  linguistic  resource&quot;  is  exemplified  by  the  practical-  ly  exclusive  use  of  two  verbs  in  any  pub-  lic-forum  discussion  of  national  security.  It  is  threatened  or  it  is  bolstered;  I  never  heard  of  its  being  supported,  reinforced,  fortified,  buttressed,  or  shored  up,  and  only  very  rarely  is  it  menaced,  endan-  gered,  or  in  jeopardy.  The  word  &quot;insecurity,&quot;  by  the  way,  seems  to  have  been  taken  over  by  the  psychiatrists  as  their  personal  property.  In  politics,  as  in  penology,  &quot;security&quot;  itself  has  come  to  mean  &quot;insecurity.&quot;  Take,  for  example,  this  sentence:  &quot;He  was  considered  a  'maximum  security&quot;  prisoner  because  of  his  police  record  and  was  never  allowed  out  of  his  cell  block.&quot;  Similarly,  &quot;security  data&quot;  means  data  of  the  kind  calculated  to  scare  the  living  daylights  out  of  you,  if  not,  indeed,  your  pants  off.  I  could  prove  that  &quot;maxi-  mum,&quot;  in  the  case  of  the  prisoner  men-  tioned  above,  really  means  &quot;minimum,&quot;  but  I  don't  want  to  get  us  in  so  deep  that  we  can't  get  out.  'The  present  con-  fused  usage  of  &quot;security&quot;  may  have  originated  with  the  ancient  Romans.  Anyway,  here  is  what  Cassell's  Latin  Dictionary  has  to  say  about  securitas:  &quot;I.  freedom  from  care.  A.  In  a  good  sense,  peace  of  mind,  quiet,  Cic.  B.  In  a  bad  sense,  carelessness,  indiffer-  ence,  Tac.  II.  Transf.,  freedom  from  danger,  security,  Tac.&quot;  VITAL  and  restless  breed  of  men,  given  to  tapping  our  toes  and  drumming  with  our  fingers,  infatu-  ated  with  every  new  crazy  rhythm  that  rears  its  ugly  beat,  we  have  never  truly  loved  harmony,  the  graceful  structure  of  shapes  and  tones,  and  for  this  blind-  ness  and  deafness  we  pay  the  awful  price  of  continuous  cacophony.  It  gets  into  language  as  well  as  music;  we  mug  mel-  ody  for  the  sake  of  sound  effects,  and  the  louder  and  more  dissonant  they  are,  the  better  we  seem  to  like  them.  Our  na-  tional  veins  have  taken  in  the  singing  blood  of  4974616c79,  [REDACTED],  Ireland,  and  [REDACTED],  but  the  transfusion  has  had  no  beneficial  effect.  Great  big  blocky  words  and  phrases  bumble  off  our  tongues  and  presses  every  day.  In  four  weeks  of  purposeful  listening  to  the  radio  and  reading  the  newspapers  I  have  come  up  with  a  staggering  list,  full  of  sound  and  fury,  dignifying  nothing:  &quot;auto-  mation,&quot;  &quot;roadability,&quot;   &quot;humature,&quot;  &quot;motivational  cognition&quot;  (this  baby  turned  up  in  a  series  of  travel  lectures  and  was  never  defined),  &quot;fractionaliza-  tion,&quot;  &quot;varietism,&quot;  &quot;redesegregation,&quot;  &quot;additive,&quot;   &quot;concertization'&quot;'  (this  means  giving  a  concert  in  a  hall,  and  is  not  to  be  confused  with  cinematization  or  televisionization).  'The  colloquial  deformity  &quot;knowledgeable,&quot;  which  should  have  been  clubbed  to  death  years  ago,  when  it  first  began  crawling  about  like  the  late  Lon  Chaney,  has  gained  new  life  in  recent  months.  It  is  a  dented  derby  of  a  word,  often  found  in  the  scrawny  company  of  such  battered  straw  hats  as  &quot;do-gooder,&quot;  &quot;know-how,&quot;  &quot;update,&quot;  &quot;uptake&quot;  (I  recently  uptook  the  iodine  uptake  test  for  thyroidism  ),  and  others  so  ugly  and  strange  I  can't  decipher  them  in  my  notes.  One  of  them  " b"looks  like  &quot;de-egghead,&quot;  which  would  mean  to  disintellectualize  or  mentally  emasculate-a  crippling  operation  ap-  proved  of  byan  alarming  number  of  squash-heads,  in  [REDACTED]  and  else-  where.  During  my  month  of  vigil  and  re-  search,  I  heard  an  able  physiologist  who  has  a  radio  program  say,  quite  simply,  &quot;We  do  not  use  up  all  the  food  we  take  in.&quot;  He  wasn't  allowed  to  get  away  with  that  piece  of  clarity,  however.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  cut  in  his  announcer,  for  the  benefit  of  those  no  longer  able  to  understand  sim-  plicity,  &quot;the  utilization  factor!&quot;  I  turned  from  this  station  to  a  droning  psychologist,  justin  time  to  hear  him  say,  &quot;The  female  is  sometimes  the  sexual  aggressor.&quot;  Here  a  familiar  noun  of  mental  illness  and  military  invasion  was  clumsily  at  work  beating  in  the  skull  oflove  with  a  verbal  bung-starter.  The  sweetheart  now  often  wears  the  fustian  ofthe  sick  man  and  the  Caesar.  In  the  evening,  I  tuned  in  on  one  of  the  space-  patrol  programs  that  gleefully  exude  the  great  big  blockyisms.  Your  astrogation  bank  will  tell  you!&quot;  cried  the  captain  of  a  space  ship  to  another  interplanetary  pilot,  meaning  his  navigational  instru-  ments.  In  a  fairy  tale,  an  astrogation  bank  would  be  a  &quot;star  panel,&quot;  but  the  quality  of  fairy  tale  is  nowhere  to  be  found  in  these  dime  novels  of  the  constellations.  One  Sunday  morning,  my  head  aching  with  &quot;kiss-close&quot;  and  &quot;swivel-  chair-it,&quot;  meaning,  I  guess,  &quot;at  kissing  distance&quot;  and  &quot;maul  it  over  in  your  ex-  ecutive  brain,&quot;  respectively,  I  stumbled  upon  a  small  radio  station  that  had  been  captured  by  a  man  of  God,  ominous  and  squealful,  who  was  begging  his  listeners  to  live  on  their  knees,  not  as  slaves  but  as  supplicants.  'This  particular  funda-  mentalist,  or  maybe  it  is  fundamentali-  tarian,  had  probably  never  heard  of  the  great  protest  &quot;I  would  rather  die  on  my  feet  than  live  on  my  knees.&quot;  But  these  yammering  eschatologists,  and  many  of  their  followers,  haveeven  less  respect  for  the  glory  and  grace  of  English  than  the  unsaved  politicians.  &quot;Let  us  cease  to  sugar-coat,  let  us  cease  to  whitewash,  let  us  cease  to  bargain-counter  the  Bible!&quot;  the  speaker  implored  us.  He  finished  second  in  vulgarity,  I  regret  to  say,to  a  reverend  I  had  heard  earlier  in  the  year,  who  shouted,  &quot;I  didn't  cook  up  this  dish,  God  cooked  it  up.  I'm  just  dishing  it  out  to  ye!&quot;  The  line  between  holiness  and  blasphemy  be-  comes  even  thinner  when  some  of  the  lay  testimonialists  begin  ranting.  &quot;I  own  a  shoe  store  in  New  Jersey,&quot;  one  of  them  confessed,  &quot;but  Jesus  Christ  is  my  senior  partner.&quot;  A  recent  investigation  of  the  worries  and  concerns  of  five  thousand  selected  556e6974656420537461746573ns  revealed  that  we  arepre-  occupied  almost  wholly  with  the  per-  sonal  and  private,  and  are  troubled  only  mildly  by  political  anxieties,  including  the  danger  of  war,  the  state  of  civil  liberties,  and  the  internal  Communist  threat.  This  does  not  come  as  a  surprise  to  me,  since  the  nature  of  our  national  concern  about  Communism  is  proved  to  be  personal  by  such  expressions  as  &quot;anti-  anti-Communists&quot;  and  &quot;anti-anti-anti-  Communists.&quot;  The  first  actually  means  men  who  are  against  men  who  are  against  Communists,  and  the  second,  when  you  unravel  it,  means  men  who  are  against  men  who  are  against  men  who  are  against  Communists.  In  these  wonderful  examples  of  our  love  of  for-  midable  elaborationisms,  concept  and  doctrine  are  put  aside,  and  personalities  take  their  place.  What  we  have  left  is  pure  personalism-a  specific  reactionary  who  is  against  a  specific  liberal  who  is  against  Senator  McCarthy,  let  us  say.  The  multiplicity  of  prefixes,  another  sign  of  linguistic  poverty,  was  touched  with  a  fine  and  healthful  irony  in  Quincey  Howe's  invention  of  the  phrase  &quot;ex-ex-Communist.&quot;  (Many  will  claim  that  for  their  own,  but  Mr.  Howe  got  to  it  first.)  One  would  think  that  556e6974656420537461746573ns  would  be  worried,  or  at  least  concerned,  by  a  man  who  may  have  ceased  to  bea  man  who  may  have  ceased  to  be  a  Communist,  but  the  Worry  Re-  search  I  have  mentioned  showed  that  this  isn'tso.  We  are  worried  about  health,  family  matters.  and  money,  and   we  have  no  time  for  a  man  who  may  be  lying  about  lying.  Incidentally,  a  fairly  new  advertising  slogan,  &quot;The  portable  portable,&quot;  fits  neatly  into  modern  jar-  gon:  the  typewriter  that  you  can  carry  that  you  can  carry.  While  I  was  exploring  the  decline  of  expression  in  [REDACTED],  I  spent  a  week  in  a  hospital.  Medical  science  has  done  much  for  humanity,  but  not  in  the  area  of  verbal  communication.  It  should  undergo  a  prefectomy,  and  have  some  of  its  prefixes  taken  out.  I  should  like  to  see  the  &quot;semi&quot;  removed  from  &quot;semi-  private,&quot;  a  dispiriting  word  that  origi-  nated  in  hospitals;  there  must  be  a  less  depressing  way  of  describing  a  room  with  two  or  more  beds.  I  am  also  for  taking  the  &quot;sub&quot;  out  of  &quot;sub-clinical,&quot;  and  starting  all  over  again  with  the  idea  in  mind  of  making  the  word  mean  something.  Incidentally,  I  discovered  at  the  hospitalthe  difference  between  &quot;to  be  hospitalized&quot;  and  &quot;to  become  hospitalized.&quot;  The  first  means  to  be  placed  in  a  hospital,  and  the  second  has  two  meanings:  to  get  so  that  you  can't  stand  it  in  the  hospital  any  longer,  and  to  like  it  so  much  there  that  you  don't  want  to  leave.  Lying  in  bed  brooding  over  these  matters,  I  turned  on  the  radio  and  heard  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  describe  another  Ameri-  can  as  &quot;an  old-time  A.D.A.  type  of  anti-Jeffersonian  radical&quot;-a  beautiful  specimen  of  bumblery.  Sir  Winston  Churchill,  in  the  exhilarating  years  of  his  public  life,  turned  out  many  phrases  as  sharp  as  stilettos-for  one  example,  &quot;squalid  gamin.&quot;  But  you  can  count  on  your  fingers  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  since  the  Thomas  Paine  of  &quot;the  summer  sol-  dier  and  the  sunshine  patriot,&quot;  who  have  added  bright,clear  phrases  to  our  lan-  guage.  If  you  can  bumble  an  opponent  to  death  why  stab  him  seems  to  be  the  general  feeling  among  our  politicians,  some  of  whom  have  got  through  the  ten  " b"years  since  the  war  ended  with  only  five  adjectives  of  derogation:  naive,  hostile,  unrealistic,  complacent,  and  irrespon-  sible.  All  these  slither  easily,  if  boggily,  into  bumblery,  and  the  bumbler  is  spared  the  tedious  exercising  of  his  mental  faculties.  The  day  I  got  dressed  and  was  about  to  leave  the  hospital,  I  heard  a  nurse  and  an  interne  discussing  a  patient  who  had  got  something  in  his  eye.  &quot;It's  a  bad  city  to  get  something  in  your  eye  in,&quot;  the  nurse  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  the  interne  agreed,  &quot;but  there  isn't  a  better  place  to  get  something  in  your  eye  out  in.&quot;  I  rushed  past  them  with  my  hair  in  my  wild  eyes,  and  left  the  hospital.  It  was  high  time,  too.  HEN  and  if  I  find  a  reputable  psychosemaniticist,  I  want  to  take  up  with  him  something  that  happened  to  me  one  night  more  than  two  years  ago.  It  may  be  the  basis  of  my  etymo-  logical  or  philological  problems,  if  that's  what  they  aree-words,  especially  big  ones,  are  beginning  to  lose  their  mean-  ing  for  me.  Anyway,  I  woke  up  one  summer  night,  from  a  deep  dream  of  peacelessness,  only  to  realize  that  I  had  been  startled  by  nothing  whatever  into  a  false  sense  of  insecurity.  I  had  a  des-  perate  feeling  that  I  was  being  closed  in  on,  that  there  was  a  menace  in  the  woods  behind  my  house  or  on  the  road  in  front  of  it,  watchful,  waiting,  biding  its  time.  A  few  weeks  later  I  bought  a  .38-calibre  Smith  &amp;  Wesson  police  revolver,  which  startled  my  wife  into  a  genuine  sense  of  insecurity.  She  hid  the  gun  somewhere,  and  the  cartridges  somewhere  else,  and  I  still  don't  know  where  they  are.  I  have  often  thought  of  telling  my  psychosemanticist  about  it,  and  I  sometimes  have  the  feeling  that  I  did  call  on  him  and  that  the  interview  went  like  this:  &quot;Doesn't  your  wife's  hiding  the  gun  worry  you?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  would  me,&quot;  he  confessed.  &quot;It  would  what  you?&quot;  I  demanded.  It  seemed  to  disturb  him,.  &quot;W  het  would  what  me?&quot;  he  asked  cautiously.  I  suddenly  couldn't  think  of  a  thing.  I  didn't  even  know  what  what  was,  but  widhlitine     I  had  to  say  something,  so  I  said  some-  thing:  &quot;Ill  fares  the  land,  to  galloping  fears  a  prey,  where  gobbledygook  ac-  cumulates,  and  words  decay.&quot;  I  had  just  reached  that  Goldsmith  paraphrase  when  a  sub-researcher  brought  me  the  news  from  [REDACTED]  that  a  movement  is  afoot  in  the  nation's  capital  to  cut  down  on  bumblery,  clarify  officialese,  and  discourage  certain  plati-  tudes  (but  not  enough),  in  the  wistful  hope  of  bringing  grace  and  meaning  to  the  writing  of  English  by  govern-  ment  employees.  I  was  glad  to  discover  &quot;finalize&quot;  among  the  banned  gargoyles,  but  I  don't  see  how  the  lawyers  in  [REDACTED]  are  going  to  get  along  without  &quot;predecease.&quot;  The  reformers,  by  the  way,  don't  seem  to  know  that  this  monster  spawned  an  equally  clum-  sy  offspring,  &quot;survivorship.&quot;  The  main  reason  for  this  reform  is  to  save  filing  space  andmoney,  but  the  economic  aspect  of  the  project  doesnot  depress  me  too  much.  It  is  a  hopeful  step  in  the  di-  rection  of  sense  and  sanity.  Come  on,  let's  go  out  and  get  a  breath  of  fresh  air."