 b"IT  isn't  often  that  Harper's  Bazaar  throws  a  real  scare  into  me,  but  the  April  issue  has  done  just  that.  It  has  unsettled  me  personally,  and  it  has  scared  me  on  behalf  of  the  women  of  the  country.  The  beauty-reaching  women,  anyway,  and  I  guess  that  takes  in  the  majority.  Here's  some  of  what  it  says,  including  the  scary  part,  in  an  article  entitled  &quot;Reach  for  Beauty&quot;:    ...  Beauty,  or  at  the  very  least  a  decided  attractiveness,  is  within  every  woman's  reach  for  as  long  as  she  wants  to  reach  for  it.  However,  want  she  must.  The  look  of  general  polish,  freshness  and  tone  that  epitomizes  the  current  ideal  of  beauty  is  not  sheerly  dependent  either  on  animal  health  or  even  on  the  unrivaled  cosmetics  of  modern  manufacture.  There  is  a  mo-  mentous.  mystical  agent.  That  is,  the  wish,  the  will,  the  inner  reach  for  beauty.  Beauty  rarely  becomes  a  matter  of  fact  without  being  first  a  matter  of  feeling.  Thus  a  woman  who  holds  herself,  and  moves  and  breathes  in  keeping  with  aprivate  image  of  beauty,  actually  modifies  her  very  shape  and  looks....  Every  good  model,  even  when  she  walks  ..  .  is  doing  far  more  than  simply  perambulate  from  one  place  to  an-  other.  She  is  not  only  walking,  she  is  work-  ing.  The  swing  of  her  stride,  the  carriage  of  her  head,  the  way  she  holds  her  waist  in  small  and  the  end  of  her  spine  tucked  un-  der-by  the  conscious  ordering  of  these  diverse  points  of  posture  and  movement,  she  is  making  the  most  of  the  moment.  There  is  scarcely  anything  anybody  does  all  day  that  may  not  similarly  be  put  to  good  account.  Sitting  at  a  desk,  strolling  the  April  streets  or  the  country  roads,  swimming,  playing  tennis,  pruning  the  box-  wood-each  in  its  way  represents  an  opportunity-in-waiting.  A  little  awareness,  a  little  will,  and  a  deep  longing  to  match  your  looks  to  the  ap-  pealing  April  weather  is  all  that's  needed  to  wrest  from  the  casual  ac-  tivity  a  profound  turnabout  in  your  looks.  Wherever  you  walk  and  whenever  you  sit,  hold  yourhead  as  though  a  thread  attached  it  to  a  star-lifted  well  away  from  the  shoulders  until  your  neck  is  like  the  swan's.  And  lift  your  rib-cage  up  and  away  from  the  hipbones,  so  thatthe  diaphragm  be-  gins  to  seem  long  and  lean  as  a  section  of  python.  Forbear  at  all  times  to  slump,  slouch,  or  loosely  saunter:  to  relax  is  never  to  collapse.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  Z  ELL,  a  working  model  is  one  thing,  but  how  a  girl  can  tuck  under  the  end  of  her  backbone  beats  me.  This  sort  of  flip  would  tax  a  yogi  or  an  osteopath.  Her  spinal  column  shouldn't  have  been  show-  ing  in  the  first  place.  I  believe  there's  a  kind  of  vestigial  tail  there,  but  it's  not  a  feature  that  most  wom-  en  with  a  private  image  of  their  own  beauty  need  to  tuck  in,  or  under;  it  comes  tucked  in.  As  for  those  opportunities-in-waiting,  and  how  their  proper  handling  on  a  mystical  level  can  bring  about  a  pro-  found  turnabout  in  a  lady's  looks  to  make  them  match  the  appealing  April  weather,  why  take  it  for  granted  that  the  lady's  looks  didn't  match  the  weath-  er  to  begin  with?  There's  an  assump-  tion  here  that  the  reader  looked  pro-  foundly  unappealing  before  she  started  to  wise  up  in  Harper's  Bazaar;  that,  lookswise,  she  is  somewhere  back  in  March-tousled,  messy,  and  perambu-  lating  about  like  a  lion.  This  supposi-  tion  is  caddish,  or  bitchy,  as  the  case  may  be.  (The  article  isn't  signed.)  Moreover,  this  matching  your  looks  to  the  month  establishes  a  precedent  in-  imical  to  beauty-reachers.  A  woman  trained  to  look  like  April  in  April  will  try  to  look  like  May  in  May,  for  fear  that  otherwise  she  will  be  turned  in  for  a  new  model.  This  is  O.K.,  but  what  happens  in  November?  She  looks  bleak,  gaunt,  and  quite  possibly  bald,  unless  she  manages  to  grow  some  evergreen  out  of  the  top  of  her  head.  Her  head!  That  brings  me  to  the  part  that  scares  me.  Hold  your  head  as  though  a  thread  attached  it  to  a  star  and  it  damn  well  will  lift  well  away  from  your  shoulders.  It  will,  in  fact,  leave  your  shoulders,  after  stretching  your  neck  to  superswanlike  dimensions,  unless  you  are  extraordinarily  firmly  put  together.  In  this  case,  it  will  be  followed,  heavenward,  by  your  rib-cage,  dia-  phragm,  and  hipbones.  Your  perambu-  lations  will  be  over  for  good,  you  will  never  sit  at  your  desk  again,  your  tennis  court  will  fall  into  desuetude,  and  your  boxwood  will  go  into  an  all-time  slump.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  stars  move  at  a  rate  of  from  ten  to  a  hundred  miles  a  second.  No  head  can  withstand  this  pull.  The  thread  might  snap,of  course,  but  only  after  giving  you  a  nasty,  and  possibly  lethal,  jerk.  Certainly  one  that  would  make  it  impossible  for  you  to  get  the  benefit  of  this  piece  of  advice  in  &quot;Reach  for  Beauty&quot;:  Occasionally,  after  a  water  bath,  lie  on  the  bed  and  take  a  ten-minute  air  bath-  this  is  wonderfully  refreshing  and  a  noted  means  of  dissolving  tension.  It  would  take  more  than  a  ten-min-  ute  air  bath  to  dissolve  tension  after  darn  near  having  your  head  pulled  off  by  a  star.  I  take  an  eight-hour  air  bath(I  wear  a  bathing  suit  consisting  of  a  shirt  and  apair  of  trousers)  sitting  at  my  desk  every  day,  waiting  for  oppor-  tunities,  and  I'm  full  of  tension.  I'm  full  of  tension  because  I  don't  want  to  be  left  in  a  world  of  headless  women.  Even  if  they  leave  long,  lean  sections  of  python  behind,  it's  not  the  same  thing.  Python  does  mot  taste  just  like  chicken,  and  anyway  I'd  rather  see  a  well-headed  woman  loosely  saunter,  or  even  slouch,  than  sup  off  larks'  tongues  at  the  Colony  with  an  unresponsive  rib-cage,  however  upright,  however  shined  up  with  Elizabeth  Arden's  bone  polish.  "