 b"I  PROMISE  you  I hadn't  a  clue,  when  I  unfolded  my  Times  one  recent  morning  at  the  bootblack's,  that  it  would  contain  the  most  electrify-  ing  news  to  come  out  of  [REDACTED]  in  a  generation-the  biggest,  indeed,  since  the  relief  of  Ladysmith.  As  invariably  happens  after  one  passes  forty,  the  paper  sagged  open  to  the  obituary  page;  I  skimmed  it  quickly  to  make  sure  I  wasn't  listed,  and  then,  having  win-  nowed  the  theatrical,  movie,  and  book  gossip,  began  reading  the  paper  as  every  enlightened  coward  does  nowadays,  back  tofront.  'There,  prominently  boxed  in  the  second  section,  was  the  particular  dispatch-terse  and  devoid  of  bravura,  yet  charged  with  a  kind  of  ragged  dignity.  &quot;BRITAIN'S  INDIGENT  LORDS  ASK  EXPENSE  ACCOUNTS,&quot;  it  announced  over  a  [REDACTED]  dateline,  and  went  on,  &quot;Some  peers  are  too  im-  poverished  in  the  highly  taxed  present-  day  welfare  state  to  travel  to  [REDACTED]  and  do  their  duty  without  pay,  the  House  of  Lords  was  told  today.  'The  Upper  House,  shorn  by  the  last  Labor  Government  of  much  of  its  power,  was  debating  its  own  possible  reform.  One  of  its  proposals  was  for  giving  expense  money  to  those  members  who  do  trouble  to  come  to  Westminster.  At  present  the  Lords  get  no  salaries  and  nothing  but  bare  traveling  expenses.  On  an  average  day  no  more  than  one  peer  in  ten  is  present.&quot;  &quot;Well,  well!&quot;  I  exclaimed  involun-  tarily.  &quot;It's  high  time,  if  you  ask  me.&quot;  &quot;What'd  you  say?&quot;  inquired  the  bootblack  with  a  start,  almost  spilling  the  jonquil-colored  dye  with  which  he  was  defacing  my  shoes.  &quot;'This  story  about  the  British  peers,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;Poor  chaps  are  practically  on  the  dole-beggars-on-horseback  sort  of  thing.  Pretty  ironical  situation,  what?&quot;  He  threw  me  a  sidelong  glance,  plainly  uncertain  whether  it  was  safe  to  commit  himself.  &quot;You  a  peer?&quot;  he  asked  cautiously.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  I  do  think  Eng-  land's  in  a  hell  of  a  state  when  your  Gloucesters  and  your  Somersets  have  to  get  down  on  their  knees  and  scrounge  expense  money.&quot;  f  &quot;Yeah,  the  whole  world's  falling  apart,&quot;  he  said,  scratching  his  ear  re-  flectively  with  his  dauber.  &quot;A  couple  of  shmos  like  you  and  me,  we  can't  even  get  up  our  rent,  whereas  them  dukes  and  earls  and  all  those  other  highbinders  over  there  are  rolling  in  dough.&quot;  &quot;But  they're  not,&quot;  I  objected.  &quot;Judging  from  this,  they've  hardly  enough  carfare  to  get  from  their  an-  cestral  seats  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;That's  what  I  said-it's  all  topsy-  turvy,&quot;  he  returned.  Hisinflection  made  it  abundantly  clear  that  he  was  humor-  ing  an  imbecile.  &quot;Look,  should  I  put  some  new  laces  in  here?  'These  are  full  of  knots.&quot;  &quot;I  prefer  them  that  way,&quot;  I  said  icily,  and  retired  behind  the  paper.  The  snub,  though  momentarily  soothing  to  my  ego,  cost  me  dear;  in  retaliation,  he  gave  me  such  a  flamboyant  shine  that  an  old  gorgon  on  the  sidewalk  mistook  me  for  a  minstrel  and  demanded  to  know  where  I  was  hiding  my  tambourine.  Fletcherizing  the  news  item  subse-  quently  in  a  more  tranquil  setting,  it  oc-  curred  to  me  that  while  the  projected  expense  accounts  might  seem  a  godsend  at  first  glance,  they  could  also  be  a  po-  tential  source  of  embarrassment  to  the  noble  lords.  No  matter  how  august  their  lineage,  they  will  eventually  have  to  un-  dergo  the  scrutiny  of,  and  explain  every  last  deduction  to,  a  corps  of  income-tax  ferrets  rated  among  the  keenest  in  the  world.  I  have  been  speculating  about  just  how,  in  these  circumstances,  one  applies  the  thumbscrews  to  a  man  whose  title  dates  back  four  or  five  centuries-  how,  in  other  words,  the  British  tax  in-  quisitor  manages  to  grovel  and  brow-  beat  at  the  same  time.  Obviously,  the  best  way  to  find  out  is  to  secrete  our-  selves  behind  the  arras  at  such  an  ex-  amination.  Softly,  then,  and  remember,  everything  you  see  or  hear  henceforth  is  in  strictest  confidence.  ScEn\xc2\xaeE:  The  office  of  Simon  Auger,  an  inspector  inthe  review  division  of  the  Board  of  Inland  Revenue.  A  small,  cheerless  room  equipped  with  the  stand-  ard  instruments  of  torture-a  desk,  two  chairs,  a  filing  cabinet.  As  adec-  orative  touch  rather  than  for  its  psy-  chological  effect,  someone  has  hung  on  the  wall  a  kiboko,  or  rhinoceros-hide  whip.  When  the  curtain  rises,  Auger,  a  dyspepticof  forty-odd,  is  finishing  a  frugal  lunch  of  [REDACTED]  Rusk,  wheat  germ,  and  parsnips,  a  copy  of &quot;Burke's  Peerage&quot;  propped  up  before  him.  For  the  most  part,  his  face  is  expressionless,  but  occasionally  it  betrays  a  wintry  smile  of  the  kind  observable  in  barracudas.  At  length,  he  sighs  deep-  ly,  stashes  the  book  in  the  desk,  and,  withdrawing  a  bottle  of  Ladysmith's  Instant  Relief,  downs  a  spoonful.  The  phone  rings.  AJGER:  Auger  here  ...  Who?  ...  Ah,  yes.  Please  ask  His  Lordship  to  come  in,  won't  you?  (The  door  opens  to  admit  Llewellyn  Fitzpoultice,  ninth  Viscount  Zeugma.  He  is  in  his  mud-sixties,  ramrod-straight,  affects  a  white  cavalry  mustache  and  a  button-  hole,  and  is  well  dressed  to  the  point  of  dandyism.  Having  fortified  himself  with  four  brandy-and-sodas  at  lunch,  his  complexion-already  bronzed  by  twen-  ty-five  years  in  the  Anglo-Egyptian  537564616e-glows  like  an  old  mahogany  sideboard.)  ZEUGMA  (jauntily):  Hope  I'm  not  terribly  late.  AucER:  Not  at  all.  No  more  than  three-quarters  of  an  hour  or  so.  ZeEuvoma:  Frightfully  sorry.  'This  filthy  traffic,  you  know.  I  defy  anyone  to  find  a  cab  in  Greek  Street.  AucER:  Your  Lordship  was  lunch-  ing  in  Soho?  \xe2\x80\x99  ZEuomMa:  Yes,  I  found  a  ratherde-  cent  little  place  there-Stiletto's.  'They  do  you  quite  well  for  five  guineas  coquilles  St.  Jacques,  snails,  a  tart,  and  a  passable  ros\xc3\xa9.  You  must  try  it  some-  time.  AucER:  I  could  hardly  afford  to,  at  my  salary.  ZEvoma:  Between  ourselves,  I  can't  either,  but  the  Crown  pays  for  it-ha  ha  ha.  (Blandly)  Necessary  business  ex-  pense  in  connection  with  my  duties  in  the  Upper  House.  AucER:  Indeed.  (He  jots  down  a  note.)  By  the  way,  I  believe  I  had  the  pleasure  of  meeting  a  relative  of  yours  about  a  fortnight  ago-the  Right  Hon-  ourable  Anthony  de  Profundis.  ZrugmMma:  Wild  young  cub-Tony.  What's  the  boy  been  up  to?  AuogER:  Little  matter  of  evasion  and  fraud.  He  was  sly,  but  we  specialize  in  those  sly  ones-ha  ha  ha.  (Opening  a  dossier)  Well,  let's  get  on  with  it,  shall  we?  Your  address  remains  the  same,  I  take  it-The  Grange,  Regurgingham-  supra-Mare,  Dotards,  Broome  Abbas,  Warwickshire.  Zeruoma:  That's  right.  But  why  do  you  ask?  AuoEr:  Because  your  nephew  changed  his  unexpectedly  last  week,  if  you  follow  me.  Zrvoma:  I--  I  say,  it  seems  dread-  Afternoon.  " b"fully  warm  in  here.  Could  we  open  a  window?  AucER:  I'm  afraid  not.  Whoever  de-  signed  this  stage  set  forgot  to  include  one.  However,  to  resume.  According  to  your  return,  you  made  thirty-one  trips  here  from  Warwickshire  during  the  last  Parliamentary  session.  ZEUGMA  (muffled):  Whole  ava-  lanche  of  measures  directly  affecting  my  constituency.  Crucial  decisions.  No  time  for  shilly-shallying.  AucER:  I  have  no  doubt.  Still,  in  glancing  over  the  minutes  of  the  Upper  House  I  notice  Your  Lordship  didn't  speak  once  in  all  that  period.  Zevoma:  Blasted  committees  chained  me  down.  Paperwork  from  dawn  to  dark.  Closeted  with  Winnie  weeks  on  end.  Barely  able  to  snatch  a  sandwich.  AUGER:  Yes,  few  of  us  realize  how  unselfishly  [REDACTED]'s  public  men  give  of  their  energy.  Notwithstanding,  you  did  find  time  to  squeeze  in  sixty-three  meals,  excluding  breakfasts,  for  a  total  of  four  hundred  fifty-seven  pounds  thirteen  shillings.  These  were  all  concerned  with  legislative  matters?  ZEUGMA:  Every  blessed  one.  (Splut-  tering)  Confound  it,  are  you  question-  ing  my  word?  AuoER:  I  wouldn't  dream  of  it.  I  was  merely  giving  you  what  we  call  a  surface  probe-to  make  certain  there  was  no  aura  of  peculation,  as  it  were.  Now  suppose  we  cast  an  eye  at  your  hotel  appropriation.  These  five-room  suites  you  habitually  took  at  the  Dor-  chester-weren't  they  a  bit  grandiose  for  an  overnight  stay?  Zeuvoma:  By  Gad,  sir,  if  you  expect  me  to  crawl  into  some  greasy  boarding  house  in  Kensington  and  fry  my  own  kippers-  AugER:  Certainly  not,  certainly  not.  One  can't  conceivably  imagine  Lady  Zeugma  in  such  an  atmosphere.  ZEUGmA  (unwarily):  She  wasn't  with  me-er,  that  is,  I  was  batching  it  most  ofthe  term-  AUGER  (smoothly):  I  see.  And  the  rest  of  the  time  you  shared  the  accom-  modations  with  another  legislator?  ZEUGMA:  Well-uh-in  a  way.  My  staff  secretary-or,  rather,  my  secre-  tarial  adviser.  Mrs.  Thistle  Fother-  ingay,  of  Stoke  Poges.  AuorEr:  Ah,  that  explains  these  miscellaneous  charges-one  hundred  eighteen  quid  for  champagne,  forty-  two  pounds  ten  for  caviar,  and  so  on.  Naturally,  neither  you  nor  Mrs.  Fother-  ingay  ever  partook  of  these  delicacies  paid  for  by  the  state?  ZEUGmA  (struggling  to  dislodge  an  emery  board  from  his  trachea):  N-no,  of  course  not.I  just  kept  'em  on  hand     for  colleagues-for  other  viscounts,  you  understand.  Haven't  touched  a  drop  of  bubbly  in  years.  It's  death  to  my  liver.  AUgER:  Really.  Then  perhaps  you'd  care  to  examine  this  cutting  from  a  re-  cent  issue  of  the  Tatler.  It  shows  you  and  your-ahem-secretarial  adviser  with  upraised  champagne  glasses,  dining  at  the  Bagatelle.  Zrvoma:  Demnition  ...I  say,  old  man,  mind  if  I  pass  it  along  to  Mrs.  Fotheringay?  Women  like  to  preserve  sentimental  slop  like  this.  AucEr:  I  know.  That's  why  I  thought  of  sending  it  to  Lady  Zeugma.  ZEUGMA  (egitatedly):  Wait  a  bit,  let's  not-  We  mustn't  go  off  half-  By  Jove,  I've  just  had  an  absolutely  wizard  idea!  AucErRr:  Amazing  how  they  pop  out  of  nowhere,  isn't  it?  Zruoma:  You  revenue  blokes  have  some  kind  of  fraternal  organization,  don't  you?  I  mean  where  you  take  the  missus  to  Blackpool,  toffee  for  the  kid-  dies,  all  that  tosh?  AUGER:  Quite.  And  if  I  may  antici-  pate  Your  Lordship,  you'd  like  to  make  a  small  donation  to  our  outing  fund.  ZrUgGma:  Why,  how  did  you  guess?  AucEr:  One  becomes  surprisingly  clairvoyant  in  this  line  of  work.  ZeEuvoma:  Fancy  that.  Well,  suppose  you  put  me  down  for  about  five  hun-  dred  pounds.  Needn't  use  my  name,  necessarily.  Call  it  &quot;Compliments  of  a  Friend.&quot;  AUGER:  Very  magnanimous  of  you,  I'm  sure.  ZEUGMA:  Nonsense-live  and  let live's  my  motto.  Let  sleeping  dogs  lie,  I  always  say.  AucER:  Yes,  and  whilst  you're  rak-  ing  up  proverbs,  don't  forget  there's  no  fool  like  an  old  fool.  (He  replaces  the  dossier  in  the  desk,  extends  a  packaged  handkerchief  to  his  illustrious  caller.)  Would  you  care  for  one  of  these?  Your  own  seems  to  be  wringing  wet.  ZEvoma  (undone):  Ah,  yes,  many  tax-that  is,  you're  most  welcome.  Pip-pip.  Cheerio.  (He  exits,  tripping  over  his  stick  and  ricochetting  off  the  fling  cabinet.  Auger's  eyes  crinkle  up  at  the  corners  and  he  hums  two  or  three  bars  of  a  tuneless  little  melody.  Then,  reopening  &quot;Burke'sPeerage,&quot;  he  begins  nibbling  a  carrot  reflectively  as  the  cur-  tain  falls.)"