 b"MY  wife's  Aunt  Chin  was  only an  in-law  of  the  Yu  family,  like  me,  but  where  I  had  noth-  ing  more  in  the  way  of  ancestry  to  offer  than  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  pioneer  forebears,  Aunt  Chin  traced  her  pure  Manchu  descent  from  an  empress  of  4368696e61.  In  1948,  when  I  first  knew  Aunt  Chin,  I  was  a  little  afraid  of  her,  and  we  didn't  really  become  friendly  until  the  summer  of  1949,  six  months  after  Peiping  had  fallento  the  Com-  munists  and  I  had  lost  my  job  at  Tsinghwa  University,  where  I  had  been  teaching  English  for  the  past  two  years.  At  that  time,  my  new  wife,  who  was  the  fourth  daughter  of  the  family,  and  I  took  up  residence  in  a  suite  in  the  Yu  mansion.  Aunt  Chin,  who  was  childless,  had  lived  in  her  own  suite  of  rooms  there  since  her  husband's  death,  some  thirty  years  before.  She  had  used  no  makeup  in  those  thirty  years,  and  she  wore  her  heavy  gray  hair  in  a  severe,  straight-cut  bob.  The  family  respected  her  as  much  for  the  sharpness  of  her  tongue  as  for  the  lustre  of  her  ancestry.  They  also  considered  her  an  authority  on  the  his-  tory  and  lore  of  Peiping,  and,  in  fact,  she  was  an  inexhaustible  well  of  information-  true,  false,  and  ab-  surd-about  the  city.  Aunt  Chin  lived  with  a  companion,  a  widowed  relative,  and  she  kept  cats,  had  asthma,  and  seldom  left  the  house,  or  even  her  own  rooms.  Gambling  and  gossip  were  her  only  recrea-  tions,  and  after  she  and  I  became  friends,  my  wife  and  I  often  played  cards  or  mah-jongg  with  her  most  of  the  night.  Sometimes  she  would  in-  terrupt  these  sessions,  and,  an  asthma  cigarette  in  her  mouth,  a  row  of  ivory  tiles  or  a  deck  of  cards  under  her  fingertips,  she  would  talk.  &quot;I  bought  that  radio  in  1937  to  hear  the  hour-by-hour  news  of  the  4a6170616eese  invasion,&quot;  she  might  say,  indicating  a  cabinet  against  the  wall,  &quot;and  I  haven't  turned  it  on  since.  When  the  4a6170616eese  came  south  from  [REDACTED],  they  en-  tered  4368696e61  through  the  gate  in  the  Great  Wall  at  Shanhaikwan.  Our  stupid  generals  left  the  gate  open,  and  the  dwarfs  marched  through.  If  we  had  closed  that  gate,  the  4a6170616eese  could  never  have  got  into  4368696e61.&quot;     Aunt  Chin  shared  with  many  old-  fashioned  Chinese  an  unquestioning  faithin  walls.  Peiping  has  always  cher-  ished  this  faith,  and  anyone  living  be-  hind  its  massive  walls,  moats,  and  dou-  ble  gates  cannot  entirely  escape  a  sense  of  security,  however  false.  According  to  Aunt  Chin,  Peiping  fell  to  the  Com-  munists  because  someone  opened  the  city  gates  and  let  them  walk  in.  This  was  sufficient  explanation  in  itself,  but  she  would  sometimes  hint  that  she  knew  of  another,  and  even  more  important,  reason,  and  she  would  speak  cryptically  of  the  return  of  Peiping's  magic  luck.  Then  she  would  change  the  subject,  be-  cause  she  prided  herself  on  understand-  ing  things  of  that  sort,  and  felt  that  most  other  people-and  especially  foreign-  ers-couldn't.  What  she  meant  by  her  hints  was,  I  learned,  that  the  magic  power-or,  as  she  called  it,  &quot;Tuck&quot;&quot;-of  the  city  was  re-  turning  to  make  it  once  again  the  capital  of  4368696e61.  For  twenty-one  years,  despite  its  nine-hundred-year  history  as  a  seat  of  authority,  it  had  been  treated  as  an  ordi-  nary  city  by  the  Nationalists.  Peiping  people  have  remained  much  the  same  through  all  their  his-  tory.  'The  Mongols,  the  Tartars,  the  Japa-  nese-coups,  counter-  coups,  and  the  fall  of  empires-have  left  lit-  tle  impression  on  them,  and  the  arrival  of  the  Communists,  who  were,  after  all,  Chi-  nese,  seemed  to  them  not  so  much  a  conquest  as  a  change  of  regime.  Aunt  Chin,  like  all  the  rest  of  us  in  the  family,  was  unfriendly  to  the  Communists,  but  like  many  others  who  op-  posed  their  regime,  she  felt  a  reluctant  pride  at  the  thought  of  the  city's  rising  again  to  its  proper  place.  N  the  eve  of  the  inauguration  of  the  new  Communist  govern-  ment-October  1,  1949,  the  day  on  which  Peiping  was  again  to  become  the  capital-Aunt  Chin,  her  companion,  and  my  wife,  Aimee,  and  I  were  in  Aunt  Chin's  rooms  playing  a  game  called  Losing,  or  Russian  Poker.  &quot;This  gov-  ernment  is  putting  on  new  clothes  to-  morrow,&quot;  Aunt  Chin  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  it  will  be  much  of  a  show?&quot;  Aimee  and  I  said  that  we  thought  it  " b"would  be,  and  we  described  to  her,  as  well  as  we  could,  the  state  of  excitement  the  city  was  in.  Schools,  government  offices,  and  labor  organizations  were  all  working  on  their  contributions  to  the  great  parades  that  were  to  celebrate  the  occasion.  Dance  groups  were  practicing  the  Planting  Dance,  imported  by  the  Communists  from  the  provinces.  Every-  one  was  busy  learning  the  songs  of  the  New  4368696e61,  making  costumes,  and,  be-  cause  the  demonstrations  would  last  into  the  night,  making  lanterns.  The  most  spectacular  preparations  were  centered  on  the  walled  plaza  in  front  of  the  main  gate-the  Gate  of  Heavenly  Peace-of  the  old  Imperial  Palace.  From  a  balcony  high  up  on  the  gate,  Mao  Tse-tung,  all  the  officials  of  the  new  government,  and  the  chiefs  of  those  who  are  now  known  in  4368696e61  as  &quot;democratic  personalities&quot;  (pro-Com-  munist  nonrevolutionaries)  were  to  review  the  parades.  Lesser  &quot;personali-  ties&quot;  were  to  sit  in  grandstands  built  in  front  of  the  gate.  There  had  formerly  been  groves  of  pine  trees  in  the  plaza,  but  these  had  been  removed,  and  where  they  had  stood,  new  concrete  had  been  poured  and  flagstones  laid.  Floodlights  had  been  mounted  on  steel  towers  all  around  the  plaza.  A  famous  pair  of  huge  marble  columns  flanking  the  gate  had  been  moved  back  to  widen  the  road.  Loudspeakers  and  microphones  had  been  installed.  The  flaked  red  wall around  the  plaza  had  been  repainted,  and  festoons  of  colored  lights,  and  ban-  ners-most  of  them  bearing  the  legends  &quot;Long  Live  Chairman  Mao  T'se-  tung!&quot;  and  &quot;Long  Live  the  People's  Republic  of  4368696e61!&quot;-hung  every-  where.  On  the  ramparts  ofthe  palace  wall,  ateither  side  of  the  Gate  of  Heavenly  Peace,  stood  four  tall,  slender  poles,  with  an  immense  banner  of  gossamer  red  silk  hanging  from  each  of  them.  Under  the  eaves  of  the  roofed,  red-and-  gold  gate,  nine  ten-foot-high  silk  lan-  terns  hung.  In  the  middle  ofthe  plaza,  workmen  had  drilled  a  hole  as  big  as  a  well.  It  had  turned  out  to  be  the  founda-  tion  for  a  huge  flagpole,  on  which  now  waved  the  flag  of  the  People's  Repub-  lic-one  large  and  four  small  gold  stars  on  a  red  field.  For  months  after  its  &quot;liberation,&quot;  Peiping  had  gone  about  its  business,  and  the  Communists  had  directed  their  armies  and  administered  their  growing  territories,  while  on  the  gate  hung  a  peeling,  two-story-high  face  of  Chiang  Kai-shek  painted  on  gasoline  tins  that  had  been  flattened  and  soldered  togeth-  er  into  a  sheet.  Now  this  was  down,  and " b"for  the  first  time  in  years  the  gate  could  be  seen  as  its  Ming  architects  had  in-  tended  it  to  be.  When  Mao's  equally  large  picture  had,  inevitably,  been  put  on  display,  it  had  been  hung  on  the  wall  instead  of  on  the  gate.  After  we  had  told  all  this  to  Aunt  Chin,  she  merely  advised  us  to  take  our  umbrellas  along  if  we  were  going  to  see  the  parades  the  next  day.  She  pointed  out  that  it  had  rained  every  time  the  new  government  held  any  sort  of  pub-  lic  demonstration,  and  she  went  on  to  explain  why.  Two  hundred  years  ago,  she  told  us,  the  Emperor  Ch'ien  Lung  travelled  in  disguise  to  the  South  of  4368696e61  by  ship,  and  on  the  way  a  magic  storm  arose,  during  which  the  water  devils,  in  the  shapes  of  animals  of  the  deep-crabs  and  fish  of  all  kinds-rose  up  and  held  the  ship  fast,  intending  to  sink  it  then  and  there.  But  the  Emperor,  revealing  his  true  identity  to  them,  promised  that  if  they  let  the  ship  proceed,  they  would  all  become  government  officials  in  a  future  incarnation,  two  hundred  years  later.  This  satisfied  them,  and  they  released  the  ship  and  sank  down  into  the  sea  again.  The  storm  subsided,  and  the  Em-  peror  continued  on  his  way,  thinking  &quot;  no  more  of  the  incident.  Nevertheless,  an  emperor's  promise  is  sacred  and  may  not  be  broken.  Aunt  Chin  laughed.  &quot;They've  all  become  Communist  offi-  cials,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  they're  really  wa-  ter  devils,  and  that's  why  it  rains  every  time  they  come  out.&quot;  Aimee  and  I  looked  severely  at  her,  and  she  went  on  hurriedly,  &quot;There  are  many  people  in  Peiping  who  really  be-  lieve  that  explains  how  the  Communists  came  to  power,  but,  of  course,  it's  only  a  story.  It  never  happened.&quot;  We  had  her  now;  we  told  her  that  after  trying  to  pass  off  a  story  like  that  she  would  have  to  tell  us  what  she  thought  the  real  reason  was  that,  after  so  long,  Peiping's  magic  power  had  re-  turned,  and  eventually  she  gave  in.  HE  reason,  she  told  us,  lay  at  the  Summer  Palace.  For  some  years,  the  palace  had  been  a  public  park  and  museum,  its  walls  enclosing  about  four  square  miles  of  land,  lake,  and  hills,  northwest  of  Peiping.  I  knew  it  well,  because  its  former  director  had  been  my  good  friend  and  private  pupil,  study-  ing  English,  and  I  had  stayed  there  on  holidays  and  weekends  in  1947  and  1948.  Aunt  Chin  did  not  know  this,  and  I  did  not  tell  her.  The  main  gate.  of  the  palace,  she  explained,  faced  east.  There  was  a  back  gate,  also,  she  said,  facing  north,  which  was  closed  from" b"1911,  when  the  Manchu  Dynasty  fell,  until  1948,  when,  for  some  reason,  it  was  suddenly  opened  by  the  palace  ad-  ministration.  'The  Western  Hills  and  the  great  continental  plateau  to  the  north  ofthe  palace,  she  went  on,  were  the  reservoirs  of  the  luck,  or  power,  of  Peiping,  which  traditionally  flowed  down  from  the  hills,  entered  the  Summer  Palace  through  the  north  gate,  and  went  out  the  main,  east  gate  on  its  way  to  Peiping.  When  the  back  gate  was  closed  in  1911,  the  decline  of  Peiping  had  begun.  When  it  was  reopened  in  1948,  the  luck  had  started  to  flow  again.  This  hadn't  helped  the  Nationalists,  who  were  still  in  power,  because  their  capital  was  Nanking.  But  the  Commu-  nists  had  attached  their  fortunes  to  Peiping's  ascendant  star,  and  they  couldn't  fail  as  long  as  the  gate  remained  open.  Aunt  Chin  was  serious  about  this  story.  It  sprang  from  her  belief  in  the  science,  or  magic,  called  femg-shw,  which  Peiping  had  depended  on  for  cen-  turies.  Until  recent  times,  no  building  in  Peiping  was  constructed  without  its  builders'  first  making  surethat  it  would  conform  to  and  magnify  the  natural  luck  inherent  in  the  land  it  was  to  stand  on.  Feng-shui  is  essentially  a  magic  of  terrain  and  direction,  whose  ancient  practitioners  were  among  the  world's  first  surveyors  and  mapmakers.  Every  private  home  of  any  size  in  Peiping  has  always  had  its  own  special  ferg-shw.  In  the  Yu  mansion,  for  instance,  certain  gates  were  kept  closed  to  prevent  luck  from  running  out,  and  other  gates  were  kept  open  to  allow  luck  to  run  in.  Un-  important  outbuildings  were  built  in  the  southwest  corner  ofthe  property  be-  cause  southwest  was  the  least  lucky  di-  rection.  Even  the  mansion's  sewers  con-  formed  to  its  femg-shus.  When  Aunt  Chin  had  finished  her  story,  I  told  her  that  I  knew  something  she  didn't  about  the  opening  of  that  gate  at  the  Summer  Palace.  Aunt  Chin  wouldn't  admit  that  any  foreigner  could  know  such  a  thing,  so  she  refrained  from  asking  me  questions,  but  I  noticed  that  she  kept  looking  at  me  thoughtfully  dur-  ing  the  rest  of  the  game.  T  five  o'clock  the  next  day,  Aimee  and  I  left  the  house-without  umbrellas-and  set  off  in  pedicabs  for  the  Gate  of  Heavenly  Peace.  At  that  time,  I  was  free  to  go  about  within  the  city  walls  as  I  liked.  Later,  espe-  cially  after  the  outbreak  ofthe  Korean  war,  foreigners  were  put  under  restric-" b"tion.  In  1949,  however,  the  govern-  ment's  attitude  was  not  openly  un-  friendly  to  individual  Americans  but  only  to  the  policies  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  government.  At  the  Avenue  of  Long  Peace,  we  had  to  give  up  our  pedicabs.  The  ave-  nue,  which  crossed  the  plaza  in  front  of  the  Gate  of  Heavenly  Peace,  was  the  parades  main  line  of  march.  When  we  got  there,  a  tremendous  procession  of  soldiers  and  horses,  together  with  American  trucks  and  tanks  that  had  been  captured  from  the  Nationalists,  was  streaming  along  it.  As  we  struggled  through  the  crowds,  it  began  to  grow  dark.  In  about  twenty  minutes,  we  reached  the  western  gate  of  the  plaza  and  discovered  that  only  those  taking  part  in  the  demonstrations  were  being  let  through.  We  stopped  to  rest  against  the  bump-  er  of  a  former  American  Army  truck  pulled  up  against  the  outside  of  the  plaza  wall,  and  resigned  ourselves  to  seeing  the  parades  from  there  and  to  not  see-  ing  the  show  inside  the  plaza  at  all.  But  the  driver  of  the  truck,  hearing  us,  politely  asked  us  to  join  him  on  top  of  his  truck,  where  we  could  easily  see  over  the  wall.  I  went  up  first  and  pulled  Aimee  after  me.  Sitting  on  the  hard,  high  top  of  the  cab,  we  looked  into  the  great  square,  and  found  that  we  had  a  good,  if  distant,  view  of  the  Gate  of  Heavenly  Peace.  Beyond  the  southeast  wall  of  the  plaza  we  could  see  dimly  the  spires  of  churches,  lights  in  the  upper  windows  of  the  Wagons-Lits  Hotel,  and  the  black  frame  of  the  radio  tower  of  the  Ameri-  can  Consulate-landmarks  of  the  old  Foreign  Legation  Quarter.  Thousands  of  people  were  moving  into  the  plaza  and  other  thousands  were  filing  out  of  it.  The  military  parade  had  just  ended,  the  driver  told  us,  and  the  civilian  one  was  about  to  begin.  Flood-  lights  illumined  the  road  before  the  gate,  where  a  workers'  Western-style  brass  band,  tooting  and  squeaking  in-  effectually  against  the  noise  of  the  crowd,  was  already  marching.  Colored  lights  outlined  the  gates  and  the  wall,  and  the  nine  great  lanterns  swinging  under  the  eaves  of  the  gate  glowed  red.  Standing  beneath  them,  the  rulers  of  4368696e61,  spotlighted  and  clearly  visible,  moved  their  heads  and  arms.  They  looked  oddly  stiff  and  mechanical,  like  opera  singers  seen  from  the  third  bal-  cony.  Another  foreign-style  band,  sound-  ing  like  an  Edison  recording  of  Sousa,  marched  through  the  plaza  dressed  in  red-and-blue  toy-soldier  uniforms.  The" b"singers,  who  followed  the  bands,  were  better.  They  came  in  singing  one  of  the  many  rousing  folk  songs  adopted  and  reworded  by  the  Communists:  &quot;The  east  is  red,  and  sun  is  up.  Out  of  the  east  comes  Mao  Tse-tung.&quot;  (Group  singing  was  developed  in  the  early  years  of  the  Sino-4a6170616eese  War,  as  a  morale  builder  in  free  4368696e61,  and  since  then  it  has  been  taken  up  with  such  general  enthusiasm  that  there  is  some  truth  in  the  Commu-  nists'  claim  that  it  is  the  voice  of  modern  4368696e61.)  As  each  group  of  marchers  passed  the  center  ofthe  gate,  they  would  chant,  &quot;Mao  Tse-tung  Chuhsi,  wan  sui!&quot;  (&quot;Long  live  Chairman  Mao  Tse-  tung!&quot;)  The  voice  of  Mao  would  then  an-  swer,  over  the  loudspeakers,  &quot;Chung  Hwa  Jen  Min  Kung  Ho  Kuo,  wan  suil&quot;  (&quot;Long  live  the  People's  Repub-  lic  of  4368696e61!&quot;)  The  crowd  and  the  marchers,  throw-  ing  their  arms  up  again  and  again,  would  roar  back,  &quot;Wan  sui,  wan  sui,  WAN  WAN  SUI!&quot;  (Americans  will  re-  member  this  cheer  as  the  &quot;Banzail&quot;-  literally  meaning  &quot;Ten  thousand  years!&quot;-of  our  recent  4a6170616eese  ene-  mies,  who  have  taken  so  much  of  their  language  from  the  Chinese.)  Dancers-boys  and  girls  dressed  in  scarves  and  turbans  of  colored  silk--  now  entered  the  brightly  lit  area  before  the  gate.  Their  faces  were  heavily  pow-  dered.  Their  lips  were  painted  red  and  their  eyebrows  black.  They  marched  ten  abreast  into  the  plaza,  until  four  or  five  hundred  of  them  filled  the  cleared  space.  Each  dancer  had  a  small  drum  suspended  under  each  arm.  Behind  them,  pulled  by  a  group  of  boys,  came  their  master  drum,  about  five  feet  in  diameter,  mounted  on  wheels  and  sur-  rounded  by  musicians  holding  cymbals,  gongs,  and  temple  blocks  of  resonant  wood.  A  boy  struck  the  great  drum,  and  the  dancers,  in  unison,  took  two  swift  steps  forward,  whirled,  and  began  to  strike  in  rhythm  the  drums  under  their  arms-sometimes  one,  sometimes  both " b"drums  simultaneously.  The  big  drum  beat  out  the  dominant  rhythm,  and  the  temple  blocks  chattered  fast,  then  slow,  then  fast  again.  'The  cymbals  were  struck  on  the  first  beat  of  every  four,  and  the  gongs  on  the  third.  The  dancers  then  began  to  move  in  the  mincing,  swaying  gait  of  the  Plant-  ing  Dance,  their  heads  rolling  as  if  they  were  drunk.  The  steps  were  intricate,  and  were  synchronized  perfectly  with  the  music.  The  dancers  swayed  right,  whirled,  took  two  steps  backward,  one  step  forward,  with  breathtaking  pre-cision.  Of  course,  no  farmer  ever  danced such  a  danceeduring  the  planting  or  at  any  other  season.  I  had  seen  the  real  Planting  Dance  eight  months  before,  when  it  was  first  introduced  into  Pei-  ping,  and  it  was  a  very  dull  dance.  But  government  schools  of  dance,  drama,  and  music  had  had  their  effect  on  the  venerable  steps  of  what  Aunt  Chin  called  &quot;that  vulgar  country  dancing.&quot;  Now,  looking  across  the  plaza,  we  could  see  lanterns  bobbing  along  in  the  darkness  beyond.  They  were  of  every  size,  shape,  and  color,  and  reminded  me  of  the  paper  lanterns  the  Chinese  use  to  represent  the  spirits  of  the  dead  on  the  Buddhist  All  Souls'  Day.  But  these  were  not  spirit  lanterns.  I  didn't  know  what  they  were,  but,  watching  them,  and  re-  membering  our  conversation  with  Aunt  Chin,  I  imagined  them  somehow  as  the  returned  power  of  Peiping  flowing  down  from  the  Western  Hills  through  the  opened  back  gate  of  the  Summer  Palace.  Some  of  the  lanterns  were  made  in  the  shapes  of  Chinese  characters  signi-  fying  congratulation,  happiness,  or  long  life;  others  were  the  red  stars  of  Com-  munism,  or  hammer-and-sickles.  Many  of  the  shapes  were  meaningless  to  me.  We  saw  a  great  number  of  these  carried  into  the  plaza  on  bamboo  poles  of  vary-  ing  lengths.  Suddenly  the  bearers  con-  verged  and  fitted  their  lanterns  together  above  their  heads,  to  form  a  huge  fiery  ship-the  Chinese  ship  of  state-riding  on  glowing  blue-green  waves.  Another  group  of  marchers  swung  their  lanterns  together  as  they  entered  the  plaza,  andformed  a  luminous  red  replica  of  the  Gate  of  Heavenly  Peace.  Other  groups  carried  lanterns  that,  fitted  together,  made  pagodas,  flags,  battleships,  and  tanks,  and  the  continu-  ing  chant  of  &quot;Mao  Tse-tung,  wan  sui,  wan  sui,  WANWAN  SUI!&quot;  mingled  with  the  sound  of  cymbals,  trumpets,  and  drums  rolling  over  the  plaza  and  out  across  the  old  Forbidden  City.  Soon  fireworks  began  to  go  up,  ex-" b"ploding  high  over  the  heads  of  the  marchers  and  the  watching  crowds.  Aimee  and  I  sat  three  hours  on  the  roof  of  the  truck  before  we  at  last  got  down  and  pushed  our  way  toa  quieter  street,  where  we  found  pedicabs,  and  then,  passing  still  more  parading  groups,  made  our  way  home.  We  found  Aunt  Chin  and  her  com-  panion  sitting  under  a  shaded  light  on  a  veranda  that  overlooked  the  garden,  and  watching  the  last  of  the  fireworks  bursting  in  the  sky.  We  joined  them,  and  drank  tea  and  ate  steamed  jujube  corn  bread  while  Aunt  Chin  chatted.  She  had  been  to  the  end  of  the  street  and  had  seen  parts  of  the  parades  pass  by,  and  groups  of  dancers  stopping  to  perform.  &quot;I  never  saw  anything  like  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;All  that  singing  about  Mao  Tse-tung  and  the  people!  You'd  think  nobody  ever  heard  of  people  before!  And  what  kind  of  farmers  were  those  dancers?&quot;  I  explained  that  they  weren't  sup-  posed  to  be  real  farmers,  and  she  turned  on  me.  &quot;Whatever  they  are,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;they  wouldn't  be  tramping  our  streets  singing  about  the  people  at  thetop  of  their  voices  if  someone  at  the  Summer  Palace  hadn't  opened  the  gate  you  were  living  in.&quot;  SO  my  story  of  the  gate  was  out.  Aunt  Chin,  I  surmised,  had  been  at  the  telephone  talking  to  friends  and  the  servants  of  friends  until  she  tracked  it  down,  and  now  that  she  had  finally  glven  in  to  her  curiosity,  I  had  no  objec-  tion  to  tellmg  her  the  whole  of  the  story.  'The  gate  in  question  was  in  the  older  part  of  the  Summer  Palace.  When  I  first  saw  it,  in  1947,  I  told  Aunt  Chin,  it  was  in  bad  repair.  An  apartment  in  its  upper  story  had  at  one  time  been  very  luxuriously  furnished  and  had  been  a  retreat  for  Chien  Lung's  mother,  who  liked  to  sit  there  and  absorb  merit  by  watching  pilgrims  pass  along  the  road  to  the  temples  of  the  Western  Hills.  Aunt  Chin  sniffed.  &quot;She  was  a  very  fine,  devout  woman,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  one  of  my  ancestors.&quot;  'The  whole  upper  floor,  I  went  on,  was  glassed  in,  and  faced  open  country-  side  on  the  north  and  the  pine-shrouded  ruins  of  the  Summer  Palace  on  the  south,  I  had  liked  it  at  once.  My  friend  the  director  had  already  promised  to  give  me,  in  lieu  of  a  fee  for  his  lessons,  a  place  of  my  own  in  the  palace  where  I  could  spend  holidays  and  weekends.  So  far,  he  hadn't  managed  it,  because  the  many  empty  villas  scattered  through  the  grounds  were  spoken  for.  The  " b"grandest  of  these  was  reserved  for  Chiang  Kai-shek,  who  since  thedefeat  of  4a6170616e  had  spent  only  three  days  there.  The  old  imperial  living  quar-  ters  had  been  turned  into  museums  or  leased  as  restaurants  and  summer  hotels.  Until  I  saw  the  apartment  in  the  gate,I  had  found  nothing  for  my  own  use.  At  first,  because  of  the  state  the  place  was  in,  the  director  was  doubtful  about  letting  me  live  there,  but  eventually  he  caught  my  enthusiasm  and  decided  that  it  would  be  a  worth-while  project  to  restore  the  gate  to  something  like  its  original  grandeur.  He  had  it  repainted  a  glittering  Chinese  red,  and  furnished  it  from  the  inexhaustible  palace  ware-  houses.  The  area  around  it  was  cleared  of  weeds  and  of  many  years'  accumula-  tion  of  dirt  and  fallen  leaves.  Even  a  few  of  the  ancient  flower  plots  were  re-  planted.  The  barbed  wire  that  had  been  strung  outside  the  gate  was  re-  moved,  and  so  were  the  locks  and  seals  that  had  been  on  it  for  almost  forty  years.  When  the  whole  place  was  in  order,  I  moved  in,  and  because  a  gate-  keeper  and  an  assistant  gatekeeper  had  been  hired  to  attend  to  my  needs  and  to  watch  the  gate  now  that  it  was  no   longer  barred,  my  friend  decided  that  the  gate  might  as  wellbe  opened  to  the  public.  Like  my  predecessor,  the  Mother  Empress,  I  enjoyed  watching  the  people  go  by.  If,  in  these  modern,  disbelieving  times,  there  were  fewer  pilgrims  pass-  ing  along  the  road,  at  least  there  were  more  tourists.  When  the  Communists  took  over  the  Summer  Palace,  along  with  Peiping,  they  got  my  gate,  too.  I  never  went  back  to  it  except  to  pass  through  it  as  a  tourist  myself.  The  director  retired  to  Peiping,  and  the  new  palace  adminis-  tration  left  the  gate  as  they  had  found it,  open  to  the  public.  The  upper  story,  where  I  had  lived,  was  closed  with  the  furnishings  still  in  it.  ATNT  CHIN  listened  with  her  mouth  open  through  most  of  my  story.  &quot;The  fate  of  Peiping  determined  by  a  foreigner!&quot;  she  cried  when  I  had  fin-  ished.  &quot;'The  fate  of  all  4368696e61  ordained  by  my  nephew-in-law!&quot;  She  sat  for  a  while  thinking,  and  sev-  eral  times  she  appeared  about  to  speak  in  astonishment  or  outrage.  I  knew  it  mustseem  to  her  inconceivably  pre-  sumptuous  of  me  to  have  interfered,  however  inadvertently,  with  the  destiny  of  4368696e61-to  have  restored  the  magic  power  to  Peiping  and  at  the  same  time  to  have  brought  the  dancing  farmers, " b"who  were  not  farmers,  into  the  streets.  In  the  end,  she  kept  her  own  counsel.  Aimee  and  I  sat  sipping  our  lukewarm  tea  in  silence,  and  finally  Aunt  Chin  said  abruptly  that  she  was  going  to  bed.  She  and  her  companion  stood  up,  and  went  down  from  the  veranda  into  the  garden.  I  called  a  good  night  to  them,  and  Aunt  Chin  stopped  and  looked  at  me.  &quot;Good  night,&quot;  she  said.  She  came  back  a  few  steps,  and  I  saw  that  she  appeared  tired,  and  perhaps  puzzled,  but  no  longer  angry.  &quot;I  know  you're  not  really  to  blame,&quot;  she  said,  and  then  she  and  her  companion  disappeared  among  the  trees  and  rocks. "