 b"WILL  Pym  was  a  self-made  man;  that  is,  he  had  started  his  adult  life  without  a  nickel  or  a  con-  nection,  other  than  the  general  friendli-  ness  of  man  to  man,  and  had  risen  to  a  vice-presidency  in  a  rayon-blanket  firm.  He  made  alarge  annual  contribution  to  the  [REDACTED]  settlement  house  that  had  sethis  feet  upon  the  right  path,  and  he  had  a  few  anecdotes  to  tell  about  working  as  a  farmhand  long,  long  ago,  but  his  appearance  and  demeanor  were  those  ofa  well-established  member  of  the  upper  middle  class,  with  hardly  a  trace-hardly  a  trace  ofthe  anxieties  of  a  man  who  has  been  through  a  gruelling  struggle  to  put  some  money  into  the  bank.  It  is  true  that  beggars,  old  men  in  rags,  thinly  dressed  men  and  women  eating  bad  food  in  the  penitential  lights  of  a  cafeteria,  slums  and  squalid  mill  towns,  the  faces  in  rooming-house  win-  dows-even  a  hole  in  his  daughter's  socks-could  remind  him  of  his  youth  and  make  him  uneasy.  He  did  not  ever  like  to  see  the  signs  of  poverty.  He  took  a  deep  pleasure  in  the  Dutch  Colonial  house  where  he  lived-in  its  many  lighted  windows,  in  the  soundness  of  his  roof  and  his  heating  plant-in  the  warmth  of  his  children's  clothing,  and  in  the  fact  that  he  had  been  able  to  make  something  plausible  and  coherent  in  spite  of  his  mean  beginnings.  He  was  always  conscious  and  sometimes  mildly  resentful  of  the  fact  that  most  of  his  business  associates  and  all  of  his  friends  and  neighbors  had  been  skylark-  ing  on  the  turf  at  Groton  or  Deerfield  or  some  such  school  while  he  was  taking  books  on  how  to  improve  your  grammar  and  vocabulary  out  of  the  public  library.  But  he  recognized  this  dim  resentment  of  people  whose  development  had  been  along  easier  lines  than  his  own  as  some  meanness  in  his  character.  Con-  sidering  merely  his  physical  bulk,  it  was  astonishing  that  he  should  have  preserved  an  image  of  himself  as  a  hun-  gry  youth  standing  outside  a  lighted  window  in  the  rain.  He  was  a  cheerful,  heavy  man  with  a  round  face  that  looked  exactly  like  a  pudding.  Every-  one  was  glad  to  see  him,  as  one  is  glad  to  see,  at  the  end  of  a  meal,  the  ap-  pearance  ofa  bland,  fragrant,  and  nourishing  dish  made  of  fresh  eggs,  nut-  meg,  and  country  cream.  Will  had  not  married  until  he  was  past  forty  and  had  moved  to  New  York.  He  had  not  had  the  money  or  the  time,  and  the  destitution  of  his  youth  had  not  been  sweetened  by  much     natural  love.  His  stepmother-wearing  a  nightgown  for  comfort  and  a  flowered  hat  for  looks-had  spent  her  days  sit-  ting  in  their  parlor  window  in  [REDACTED]  drinking  sherry  out  of  a  coffee  cup.  She  was  not  a  jolly  old  toper,  and  what  she  had  to  say  was  usually  bitter  or  obscene.  The  picture  she  presented  may  have  left  with  Will  some  skepticism  about  the  emotional  richness  of  human  involve-  ments.  It  may  have  delayed  his  mar-  riage.  When  he  finally  did  marry,  he  picked  a  woman  much  younger  than  he-a  sweet-tempered  girl  with  red  hair  and  green  eyes.  She  sometimes  called  him  Daddy.  Will  was  so  proud  of  her  and  spoke  so  extravagantly  of  her  beau-  ty  and  her  wit  that  when  people  first  met  her,  they  were  always  disappointed.  But  Will  had  been  poor  and  cold  and  alone,  and  when  he  came  home  at  the  end  of  the  day  to  a  lovely  and  loving  woman,  when  hetook  off  his  hat  and  coat  in  the  front  hall,  he  would  literally  groan  with  joy.  Every  stick  of  furniture  that  Maria  bought  seemed  to  him  to  be  hal-  lowed  by  her  taste  and  charm.  A  foot-  stool  or  a  set  ofpots  would  so  delight  him  that  he  would  cover  her  face  and  throat  with  kisses,  She  was  extravagant,  but  he  seemed  to  want  a  childish  and  capricious  wife,  and  the  implausible  ex-  cuses  that  she  made  for  having  bought  something  needless  and  expensive  aroused  in  him  the  deepest  tenderness.  Maria  was  not  much  of  a  cook,  but  when  she  put  a  plate  of  canned  soup  in  front  of  him  on  the  maid's  night  out,  he  would  get  up  from  his  end  of  the  table  and  embrace  her  with  gratitude.  At  first,  they  had  a  big  apartment  in  43616e616461Seven-  ties.  They  went  out  a  good  deal.  Will  disliked  parties,  but  he  concealed  this  distaste  for  the  sake  of  his  young  wife.  At  dinners,  he  would  look  across  the  table  at  her  in  the  candle-  light-laughing,  talking,  and  flashing  the  rings  he  had  bought  her-and  sigh  deeply.  He  was  always  impatient  for  the  party  to  end,  so  that  they  would  be  alone  again,  in  a  taxi  or  in  an  empty  street  where  he  could  kiss  her.  When  Maria  first  got  pregnant,  he  couldn't  describe  his  happiness.  Every  development  in  her  condition  astonished  him.  He  was  captivated  by  the  preparations  she  made  for  the  baby.  When  their  first  child  was  born,  when  milk  flowed  from  her  breasts,  when  their  daughter  excited  in  her  a  most  natural  tenderness,  he  was  amazed.  The  Pyms  had  three  girls.  When their  third  child  was  born,  they  moved  to  the  suburbs.  Will  was  past  fifty  then,  but  he  carried  Maria  over  the  threshold,  lighted  a  fire  in  the  hearth,  and  observed  all  kinds  of  sentimental  and  amorous  rites  in  taking  possession  of  the  house.  To  tell  the  truth,  he  did  seem,  once  in  awhile,  totalk  about  Maria  too  much.  He  was  anxious  to  have  her  shine.  At  parties,  he  would  stop  the  general  con-  versation  and  announce,  &quot;Maria  will  now  tell  us  something  very  funny  that  happened  at  the  Woman's  Club  this  afternoon.&quot;  Riding  into  town  on  the  commuting  train,  he  would  ring  in  her  opinions  on  the  baseball  season  or  the  excise  tax.  Eating  dinner  alone  in  a  hotel  in  Rochester  or  [REDACTED]-for  he  often  travelled  on  business-he  would  show  the  waitress  a  picture  of  Maria.  When  he  served  on  the  grand  jury,  all  the  other  members  of  the  panel  knew  about  Maria  long  be-  fore  the  session  ended.  When  he  went  salmon  fishing  in  Newfoundland,  he  wondered  constantly  if  Maria  was  all  right.  On  a  Saturday  in  the  early  spring,  they  celebrated  their  tenth  wedding  an-  niversary  with  a  party  at  their  house  in  Shady  Hill.  Twenty-five  or  thirty  people  came  to  drink  their  health  in  champagne.  Most  of  the  guests  were  Maria's  age.  Will  did  not  like  her  to  be  surrounded  by  young  men,  and  he  supervised  her  comings  and  goings  with  a  nearly  paternal  scrutiny.  When  she  wandered  out  onto  the  terrace,  he  was  not  far  behind.  But  he  was  a  good  host,  and  he  held  in  admirable  equilibrium  the  pleasure  he  took  in  his  guests  and  the  pleasure  he  took  in  thinking  that  they  soon  would  all  be  gone.  He  watched  Maria  talking  with  Henry  Bulstrode  across  the  room.  He  supposed  that  ten  years  of  marriage  must  have  left  lines  on  her  face  and  wasted  her  figure,  but  he  could  see  only  that  her  beauty  had  improved.  A  pretty  young  woman  was  talking  with  him,  but  his  admiration  of  Maria  made  him  absent-minded.  &quot;You  must  get  Maria  to  tell  you  what  hap-  pened  at  the  florist's  this  morning,&quot;  he  said.  Late  on  Sunday  afternoon,  the  Pyms  took  a  walk  with  their  children,  as  they  usually  did  when  the  weather  was  fair.  It  was  that  time  of  year  when  the  woods  are  still  bleak,  and  mixed  with  the  smells  of  rotted  and  changing  things  is  an  unaccountable  sweetness-a  per-  fume  as  heavy  as  roses-although  noth-  ing  is  in  flower.  The  children  went  on  ahead.  Will  and  Maria  walked  arm  in  arm.  It  was  nearly  dusk.  Crows  were  calling  hoarsely  to  one  another  in  some  tall  pines.  It  was  that  hour  ofa  spring     " b"day-or  evening-  when  the  dark  of  the  woods  and  the  cold  and  damp  from  any  nearby  pond  or  brook  are  sud-  denly  felt,  when  you  realize  that  the  world  was  lighted,  until  a  minute  ago,  merely  by  the  sun's  fire,  and  that  your  clothes  are  thin.  Will  stopped  and  took  a  knife  from  his  pocket  and  began  to  cut  their  initials  in  the  bark  of  a  tree.  What  sense  would  there  be  in  pointing  out  that  his  hair  was  thin?  He  meant  to  express  love.  It  was  Maria's  youth  and  beauty  that  had  in-  formed  his  senses  and  left  his  mind  so  open  that  the  earth  seemed  spread  out  before  his  eyes  like  a  broad  map  of  reason  and  sensuality.  It  was  her  company  that  made  the  singing  of  the  crows  so  fine  to  hear.  For  his  children,  whose  voices  sounded  down  the  path,  he  held  out  the  most  practical  and  abundant  hopes.  All  that  he  had  ever  been  deprived  of  was  now  his.  e  But  Maria  was  cold  and  tired  and  hungry.  They  had  not  gone  to  bed  until  two,  and  it  had  been  an  effort  for  her  to  keep  her  eyes  open  while  they  walked  in  the  woods.  When  they  got  home,  she  would  have  to  fix  the  sup-  per.  Cold  cuts  or  lamb  chops,  she  won-  dered  while  she  watched  Will  enclose  their  initials  in  the  outline  of  a  heart  and  pierce  it  with  an  arrow.  &quot;Oh,  you're  so  lovely!&quot;  she  heard  him  mur-  mur  when  he  had  finished.  &quot;You're  so  young  and  beautiful!&quot;  He  groaned;  he  took  her  in  his  arms  and  kissed  her  wild-  ly.  She  went  on  worrying  about  the  supper.  N  a  Monday  night  not  long  after  this,  Maria  sat  in  the  living  room  tying  paper  apple  blossoms  to  branches.  She  was  on  the  committee  in  charge  of  decorations  for  the  Apple  Blossom  F\xc3\xa9te,  a  costume  ball  given  for  charity  at  the  country  club  each  year.  Will  was  reading  a  magazine  while  he  waited  for  her  to  finish  her  work.  He  wore  bed-  room  slippers  and  a  red  brocade  smok-  ing  jacket-a  present  from  Maria-  which  bunched  in  thick  folds  around  his  stomach,  making  him  look  portly.  Maria's  hands  moved  quickly.  When  she  had  covered  a  branch  with  blossoms,  she  would  hold  it  up  and  say,  &quot;Isn't  that  pretty?&quot;  Then  she  would  stand  it  in  a  corner  where  there  was  the  be-  ginning  of  a  forest  of  flowering  branch-  es.  Upstairs,  the  three  children  slept.  The  decorations-committee  job  was  the  kind  of  thing  Maria  did  best.  She  did  not  like  to  go  to  early-morning  meetings  on  the  reform  of  the  primary  system,  or  to  poke  her  nose  into  dirty  hospital  kitchens,  or  to  meet  with  other  women  in  the  late  afternoons  to  dis-  cuss  trends  in  modern  fiction.  She  had  tried  being  secretary  of  the  Woman's  Club,  but  her  minutes  were  so  garbled  that  she  had  had  to  be  replaced-not  without  some  hard  feeling.  On  the  evening  of  the  day  when  she  was  re-  lieved  of  her  position,  Will  had  found  her  in  tears,  and  it  had  taken  him  hours  to  console  her.  He  relished  these  ad-  versities,  She  was  young  and  beautiful,  and  anything  that  turned  her  to  him  for  succor  only  made  his  position  more  se-  cure.  Later,  when  Maria  was  put  in  charge  of  the  mink-stole  raffle  to  raise  some  money  for  the  hospital,  she  had  kept  such  poor  records  that  Will  had  had  to  stay  home  from  the  office  for  a  day  to  straighten  things  out.  She  cried  and  he  comforted  her,  where  a  younger  hus-  band  might  have  expressed  some  im-  patience.  Will  did  not  encourage  her  inefficiency,  but  it  was  a  trait  that  he  associated  with  the  fineness  of  her  eyes  and  her  pallor.  While  she  tied  flowers  she  talked  about  the  f\xc3\xa9te,  There  was  going  to  be  a  twelve-piece  orchestra.  The  decora-  tions  had  never  been  so  beautiful.  They  hoped  to  raise  ten  thousand  dollars.  The  dressmaker  had  delivered  her  costume.  Will  asked  what  her  costume  was,  and  she  said  she  would  go  upstairs  and  put  it  on.  She  usually  went  to  the  Apple  Blossom  F\xc3\xa9te  as  a  figure  from  French  history,  and  Will's  interest  was  not  in-  tense.  Half  anhour  later,  she  came  down,  and  went  to  the  mirror  by  the  piano.  She  was  wearing  gold  slippers,  pink  tights,  and  a  light  velvet  bodice,  cut  low  enough  to  show  the  division  of  her  breasts.  &quot;Of  course,  my  hair  will  be  all  different,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I  haven't  decided  what  jewels  to  wear.&quot;  A  terrible  sadness  came  over  Will.  The  tight  costume-he  had  to  polish  his  eyeglasses  to  see  it  better-displaved  " b"all  the  beauty  he  worshipped,  and  it  also  expressed  her  perfect  innocence  of  the  wickedness  of  the  world.  The  sight  filled  poor  Will  with  lust  and  dismay.  He  couldn't  bear  to  disappoint  her,  and  yet  he  couldn't  let  her  flagrantly  pro-  voke  his  neighbors-a  group  of  men  who  seemed  at  that  moment,  to  his  unsettled  mind,  to  be  voracious,  youth-  ful,  bestial,  and  lewd.  Watching  her  pose  happily  in  frontof  the  mirror,  he  thought  that  she  looked  like  a  child-  a  maiden,  at  least-approaching  some  obscene  doom.  In  her  sweet  and  gen-  tle  face  and  her  half-naked  bosom  he  saw  all  the  sadness  of  life.  &quot;You  can't  wear  that,  Mummy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What?&quot;  She  turned  away  from  the  mirror.  &quot;Mummy,  you'll  get  pinched  to  death.&quot;  &quot;Everybody  else  is  going  to  wear  tights,  Willy.  Helen  Benson  and  Grace     Heatherstone  are  going  to  wear  tights.&quot;  &quot;They're  different,  Mummy,&quot;  he  said  sadly.  &quot;They're  very  different.  They're  tough,  hardheaded,  cynical,  worldly  women.&quot;  &quot;What  am  I?'&quot;  You're  lovely  and  you're  innocent,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  don't  understand  what  a  bunch  of  dogs  men  are.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  lovely  and  in-  nocent  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Mummy,  you  don't  mean  that!  You  can't  mean  that!  You  don't  know  what  you're  saying.&quot;  &quot;I  only  want  to  have  a  good  time.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  have  a  good  time  with  me?&quot;  She  began  to  cry.  She  threw  herself  on  the  sofa  and  buried  her  face.  Her  tears  ate  like  acid  into  Will's  resolve  as  he  bent  over  her  slender  and  miserable  form.  Years  and  years  ago  he  had  won-  dered  if  a  young  wife  would  give  him  trouble.  Now,  with  his  eyeglasses  steaming  and  the  brocade  jacket  bunched  up  around  his  stomach,  he  stood  face  to  face  with  the  problem.  How-  even  when  they  were  in  grave  danger-could  he  refuse  innocence  and  beauty?  &quot;All  right,  Mummy,  all  right,&quot;  he  said.  He  was  nearly  in  tears  himself.  ''You  can  wear  it.&quot;  WILL  left  the  next  morning  for  a  trip  that  took  him  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED].  He  called  Maria  on  Tuesday  and  Wednesday  nights,  and  the  maid  said  that  she  was  out.  She  would  be  putting  up  the  decora-  tions  in  the  club,  he  realized.  The  pancakes  he  ate  for  breakfast  on  Thursday  disagreed  with  him  at  once,  and  gave  him  a  stomach  ache  that  none  of  the  many  medicines  he  car-  ried  with  him  in  his  suitcase  could  cure.  Fri-  day  was  foggy  in  Kan-  sas,  and  his  plane  was  grounded  until  late  that  night.  At  the  airport,  he  ate  some  chicken  pie;  it  made  him  feel  worse.  He  arrived  in  New  York  on  Saturday  morning,  had  to  go  di-  rectly  to  his  office,  and  did  not  get  out  to  Shady  Hill  until  late  Saturday  after-  noon.  It  was  the  day  of  the  party,  and  Maria  was  still  at  the  club.  He  spent  an  hour  raking  dead  leaves  from  the  flower  beds  at  the  side  of  the  house.  When  Maria  came  home,  he  thought  she  looked  superb.  Her  color  was  high  and  her  eyes  were  bright.  She  showed  Will  the  costume  she  had  rented  for  him.  It  was  a  suit  of  chain  mail  with  a  helmet.  Will  was  pleased  with  the  costume,  because  it  was  a  dis-  guise.  Exhausted  and  bilious,  he  felt  he  needed  a  disguise  for  the  dance.  When  he  had  bathed  and  shaved,  Maria  helped  him  strap  hin.self  into  his  coat  of  mail.  She  cut  some  ostrich  plumes  off  an  old  hat  and  stuck  them  gaily  into  his  helmet.  Will  went  toward  a  mirror  to  see  him-  self,  but  justas  he  got  there,  the  visor  slammed  shut,  and  he  couldn't  get  it  to  stay  open.  He  went  downstairs,  hold-  ing  on  to  the  banister-the  chain  mail     " b"was  heavy-and  wedged  the  visor  open  with  a  folded  timetable  and  sat  down  to  have  a  drink.  When  Maria  came  down  in  her  pink  tights  and  her  gold  slippers,  Will  rose  to  admire  her.  She  said  that  she  would  not  be  able  to  leave  the  dance  early,  because  she  was  on  the  committee;  if  Will  wanted  to  go  home,  she  would  get  a  ride  with  someone  else.  He  had  never  gone  home  from  a  party  without  her,  and  he  hated  the  idea.  Maria  put  on  a  wrap  and  kissed  the  chil-  dren,  and  they  went  off  to  dinner  at  the  Beardens'.  At  the  Beardens',  the  party  was  large  and  late.  They  drank  cocktails  until  after  nine.  When  they  went  in  to  din-  ner,  Will  sat  beside  Ethel  Worden.  She  was  a  pretty  young  woman,  but  she  had  been  drinkingMartinis  for  two  hours;  her  face  was  drawn  and  her  eyes  were  red.  She  said  that  she  loved  Will,  that  she  always  had,  but  Will  was  looking  down  the  table  at  Maria.  Even  at  that  distance,  he  seemed  to  take  in  some-  thing  vital  from  the  play  of  shadow  upon  her  face.  He  would  have  liked  to  be  near  enough  to  hear  what  she  was  saying.  Ethel  Worden  didn't  make  it  any  easier.  &quot;We're  poor,  Will,&quot;  she  said  sadly.  &quot;Did  you  know  that  we're  poor?  Nobody  realizes  that  there  are  people  like  us  in  a  community  like  this.  We  can't  afford  eggs  for  break-  fast.  We  can't  afford  a  cleaning  wom-  an.  We  can't  afford  a  washing  machine.  We  can't  afford  .  ..&quot;  Before  dessert  was  finished,  several  couples  got  up  to  leave  for  the  club.  Will  saw  Trace  Bear-  den  handing  Maria  her  wrap,  and  got  up  sud-  denly.  He  wanted  to  get  to  the  club  in  time  to  have  the  first  dance  with  her.  When  he  got  outside,  Trace  and  Maria  had  gone.  He  asked  Ethel  Worden  to  drive  overwith  him.  She  was  delighted.  As  he  put  the  car  in  the  parking  lot  at  the  coun-  try  club,  Ethel  began  to  cry.  She  was  poor  and  lonely  and  hungry  for  love.  She  drew  Will  to  her  and  wept  on  his  chain-mail  shoulder,  while  he  lookedout  the  back  windows  of  the  station  wagon  to  see  if  hecould  recognize  Trace  Bearden's  car.  He  wondered  if  Maria  was  already  in  the  club-  house  or  if  she  was  having  trouble  in  a  parked  car  herself.  He  dried  Ethel's  tears  and  spoke  to  her  tenderly,  and  they  went  in.  It  was  late  by  then-it  was  after  mid-  night-and  that  dance  was  always  a  rhubarb.  The  floor  was  crowded,  and  plumes,  crowns,  animal  heads,  and  turbans  were  rocking  in  the  dim  light.  It  was  that  hour  when  the  band  accel-  erates  its  beat,  when  the  drums  deepen,  when  the  aging  dancers  utter  loud  cries  of  lust  and  joy,  seize  their  partners  by  the  girdle,  and  break  into  all  kinds  of  youthful  and  wanton  specialties-the  shimmy,  the  [REDACTED],  hops,  and  belly  dances.  Will  danced  clumsily  in  his  mail.  Now  and  then,  he  glimpsed  Maria  in  the  distance,  but  he  was  never  able  to  catch  up  with  her.  Going  into  the  bar  for  a  drink,  he  saw  her  at  the  other  end  of  the  room,  but  the  crowd  was  too  dense  for  him  to  get  to  her.  She  was  surrounded  by  men.  He  looked  for  her  in  the  loungeduring  the  next  inter-  mission,  but  he  could  not  find  her.  When  the  music  started  again,  he  gave  the  band  ten  dollars  and  asked  them  to  play  &quot;I  Could  Write  a  Book.&quot;  It  was  their  music.  She  would  hear  it  through  the  bedlam.  It  would  remind  her  of  their  marriage,  and  she  would  leave  her  partner  and  find  him.  He  waited  alone  at  the  edge  of  the  floor  through  this  song.  Discouraged,  then,  and  tired  from  his  travelling  and  the  weight  of  his  chain  mail,  he  went  into  the  lounge,  took  off  his  helmet,  and  fell  asleep.  When  he  woke,  a  half  hour  later,  he  saw  Larry Helmsford  taking  Ethel  Worden  out  the  terrace  door  toward  the  parking  lot.  She  was  staggering.  Will  wandered  back  to  the  ballroom,  drawn  there  by  shouts  of  excitement.  Someone  had  set  fire  to  a  feathered  headdress.  The  fire  was  being  put  out  with  champagne.  It  was  after  three  o'clock.  Will  put  on  his  helmet,  propped  the  visor  open  with  a  folded  match  paper,  and  went  home.  Maria  danced  the  last  dance.  She  had  a  drink  from  the  last  bottle  of  wine.  It  was  morning  then.  'The  band  had  gone,  but  a  pianist  was  still  playing  and  a  few  couples  were  dancing  in  the  daylight.  [REDACTED]  parties  were  forming,  but  she  refused  these  invitations  in  order  to  drive  home  with  the  Beardens.  Will  might  be  worried.  After  she  said  goodbye  to  the  Beardens,  she  stood  on  her  front  steps  to  get  some  air.  She  had  lost  her  pocketbook.  Her  tights  had  been  torn  by  the  scales  of  a  dragon.  'The  smell  of  spilled  wine  came  from  her  clothes.  'The  sweetness  of  the  air  and  the  fineness  of  the  light  touched  her.  'The  party  seemed  like  gibberish.  She  hadhad  all  the  partners  she  wanted,  but  she  had  not  had  all  the  right  ones.  The  hundreds  of  apple  blossoms  that  she  had  tied  to  branches  and  that  had  looked,  at  a  dis-  tance,  so  like  real  blossoms  would  soon  be  swept  into  the  ash  can.  The  trees  of  Shady  Hill  were  filled  with  birds-larks,  thrushes,  robins,  crows-and  now  the  air  began  to  ring  with  their  song.  'The  pristine  light  and  the  loud  singing  reminded  her  of  some  ideal-some  simple  way  of  life,  in  which  she  dried  her  hands  on  an  apron  and  Will  came  home  from  the  sea-that  she  had  be-  trayed.  She  did  not  know  where  she  had  failed,  but  the  gentle  morning  light  illumi-  nated  her  failure  piti-  lessly.  She  began  to  cry.  Will  was  asleep,  but  he  woke  when  she  opened  the  front  door.  &quot;Mummy?&quot;  he  asked  as  she  climbed  the  stairs.  &quot;Mummy?  ...  Hello,  Mummy.  Good  morn-  [REDACTED];  She  didn't  reply.  He  saw  her  tears,  the  gash  in  her  tights  and  the  stains  on  her  front.  She  sat  down  at  her  dressing  table,  laid  her  face  on  the  glass,  and  went  on  crying.  &quot;Oh,  don't  ery,  Mummy!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  ery!  I     " b"don't  care,  Mummy.  I  thought  I  would,  but  I  guess  it  doesn't  really  matter.  I  won't  ever  mention  it,  Mummy.  Now,  come  to  bed.  Come  to  bed  and  get  some  sleep.&quot;  Her  sobbing  got  louder.  He  got  up  and  went  to  the  dressing  table  and  put  his  arms  around  her.  &quot;I  told  you  what  would  happen  if  you  wore  that  costume,  didn't  I?'  But  it  doesn't  matter  any  more.  I'll  never  ask  you  anything  about  it.  I'll  forget  the  whole  thing.  But  come  to  bed  now  and  get  some  sleep.&quot;  Her  head  was  swimming,  and  his  voice  droned  on  and  on,  shutting  out  the  noises  of  the  morning.  Then  his  anxious  love,  his  nagging  passion,  were  more  than  she  could  support.  &quot;I  don't  care.  I'm  willing  to  forget  it,&quot;  he  said.  She  got  out  of  his  embrace,  crossed  the  room  to  the  hall,  and  shut  the  guest-  room  door  in  his  face,  DOWNSTAIRS,  sitting  over  a  cup  of  coffee,  Will  realized  that  his  supervision  of  Maria's  life  had  been  any-  thing  but  thorough.  If  she  had  wanted  to  deceive  him,  her  life  couldn't  have  been  planned  along  more  convenient  lines.  In  the  summer,  she  was  alone  most  of  the  time,  except  weekends.  He  was  away  on  business  one  week  out  of  every  month.  She  went  to  New  York  whenever  she  pleased-sometimes  in  the  evening.  Only  a  week  before  the  dance  she  had  gone  into  town  to  have  dinner  with  some  old  friends.  She  had  planned  to  come  home  on  a  train  that  reached  Shady  Hill  at  eleven.  Will  drove  to  the  station  to  meet  her.  It  was  a  rainy  night  and  he  remembered  wait-  ing,  in  a  rather  gloomy  frame  of  mind,  on  the  station  platform.  As  soon  as  he  saw  the  distant  lights  ofthe  train,  his  mood  was  changed  by  the  anticipation  of  greeting  her  and  taking  her  home.  When  the  train  stopped  and  only  Charlie  Curtin-half  tipsy-got  off,  Will  was  disappointed  and  worried.  Soon  after  he  got  home,  the  telephone  rang.  It  was  Maria  calling  to  say  that  she  had  missed  the  train  and  would  not  be  home  until  two.  At  two,  Will  returned  to  the  station.  It  was  still  rainy.  Maria  and  Henry  Bulstrode  were  the  only  passengers.  She  walked  swiftly  up  the  platform  in  the  rain  to  kiss  Will.  He  remembered  that  there  had  been  tears  in  her  eyes,  but  he  had  not  thought  any-  thing  about  it  at  the  time,  Now  he  won-  dered  about  her  tears.  A  few  nights  before  that,  she  had  said,  after  dinner,  that  she  wanted  to  go  to  the  movies  in  the  village.  Will  had  offered  to  take  her,  although  he  was  tired,  but  she  said  she  knew  how  much  he  disliked  movies.  It  had  seemed  odd  to  him  at  the  time  that  before  going  off  to  the  nine-o'clock  show  she  should  take  a  bath,  and  when  she  came  downstairs,  he  heard,  under  her  mink  coat,  the  rustling  of  a  silk  dress.  He  fell  asleep  before  she  returned,  and  for  all  he  knew,  she  might  have  come  in  at  dawn.  It  had  always  seemed  generous  of  her  not  to  insist  on  his  going  with  her  to  meetings  of  the  Civic  Improvement  As-  sociation,  but  how  did  he  know  whether  she  had  gone  off  to  discuss  the  fluorina-  tion  of  water  or  to  meet  a  lover?  He  remembered  something  that  had  happened  in  February.  'The  Woman's  Club  had  given  a  revue  for  charity.  He  had  known  before  he  went  to  it  that  Maria  was  going  to  do  a  dance  express-  ing  the  view  of  the  Current  Events  Committee  on  the  tariff.  She  came  onto  the  stage  to  the  music  of  &quot;A  Pretty  Girl  Is  Like  a  Melody.&quot;  She  wore  a  long  evening  dress,  gloves,  and  a  fur  piece-  the  recognizable  getup  of  a  strip-tease  artist-and,  to  his  dismay,  she  was  given  a  rousing  reception.  Maria  walked  around  the  stage  and  took  off  her  fur  piece,  to  applause,  shouts,  and  some  whistling.  During  the  next  chorus,  she  peeled  off  her  gloves.  Will  pretended  to  be  enjoying  himself,  but  he  had  begun  to  sweat.  With  the  third  chorus,  she  took  off  her  belt.  'This  was  all,  but  the  uproarious  applause  she  had  been  given  rang  again  in  Will's  ears  now  and  made  them  warm.  A  few  weeks  earlier,  Will  had  gone  uptown  for  lunch-a  thing  he  seldom  did.  Walking  down  Madison  Avenue,  hethought  he  saw  Maria  ahead  of  him,  with  another  man.  The  dark-red  suit,  the  fur  piece,  and  the  hat  were  hers.  He  did  not  recognize  the  man.  Acting  impulsively  where  he  might  have  acted  stealthily,  he  had  shouted  her  name-&quot;Maria!  Maria!  Maria!&quot;  The  street  was  crowded,  and  there  was  the  distance  of  half  a  block  between  them.  Before  he  could  reach  the  woman,  she  disappeared.  She  might  have  stepped  into  a  taxi  or  a  store.  That  evening,  when  he  said  to  Maria,  cheerfully  enough,  that  he  thought  he  saw  her  on  Madison  Avenue,  she  an-  swered  crossly,  &quot;Well  you  didn't.&quot;  After  dinner,she  claimed  to  have  a headache.  She  asked  him  to  sleep  in  the  guest  room.  THE  afternoon  of  the  day  after  the  dance,  Will  took  the  children  for  a  walk  without  Maria.  He  lectured  them,  as  he  always  did,  on  the  names  of  the  trees.  &quot;That's  a  ginkgo.  ...  That's  a  weeping  beech.  ...  That  bitter  smell  comes  from  the  boxwood  in  the  hollow.&quot;  It  may  have  been  because  he  had  received  no  education  himself  that  he  liked  to  give  an  educational  tone  to  his  time  with  the  children.  They  re-  cited  the  states  of  the  Union  at  the  lunch  table,  discussed  geology  during  some  of  their  walks,  and  named  the  starsin  the  sky  if  they  stayed  out  after  dusk.  Will  was  determined  to  be  cheerful  this  after-  noon,  but  the  figures  of  his  children,  walking  ahead,  saddened  him,  for  they  seemed  like  live  symbols  of  his  trouble.  He  had  not  actually  thought  of  leaving  Maria-he  had  not  let  the  idea  form-  but  he  seemed  to  breathe  the  atmosphere  of  separation.  When  he  passed  the  tree  where  he  had  carved  their  initials,  he  thought  of  the  stupendous  wickedness  of  the  world.  The  house  was  dark  when  they  came  back  up  the  driveway  at  the  end  of  their  walk-dark  and  cold.  Will  turned  on  some  lights  and  heated  the  coffee  he  had  made  at  breakfast.  'The  telephone  rang,  but  he  did  not  answer  it.  He  took  a  cup  of  coffee  up  to  the  guest  room,  whereMaria  was.  He  thought  at  first  that  she  was  still  sleeping.  When  he  turned  on  the  light,  he  saw  that  she  was  sitting  against  the  pillows.  She  smiled,  but  he  responded  warily  to  her  charm.  &quot;Here's  some  coffee,  Mummy.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.  Did  you  have  a  nice  walk?&quot;  (tYeS.))  &quot;I  feel  better,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  time  is  it.&quot;  &quot;Half  past  five.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  feel  strong  enough  to  go  to  the  Townsends'.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  won't  go.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  wish  you  would,  Willy.  Please  go  to  the  party  and  come  home  and  tell  me  all  about  it.  Please  go.&quot;  Now  that  she  urged  him,  the  party  seemed  like  a  good  idea.  &quot;You  must  go,  Will,&quot;  Maria  said.  'There'll  be  a  lot  of  gossip  about  the  dance,  and  you  can  hear  it  all,  and  then  you  can  come  home  and  tell  me  all  about  it.  Please  go  to  the  party,  darling.  It  will  make  me  feel  guilty  if  you  stay  home  on  my  account.&quot;  At  the  Townsends',  cars  were  parked  on  both  sides  of  the  street,  and  all  the  windows  of  thebig  house  were  brightly  lighted.  Will  stepped  into  the  lamp-  " b"light,  the  firelight,  and  the  cheerful  human  noises  of  the  gathering  with  a  sincere  desire  to  lose  his  heaviness  of  spirit.  He  went  up-  stairs  to  leave  his  coat.  Bridget,  an  old  Irish-  woman,  took  it.  She  was  a  free-lance  maid  who  worked  at  most  of  the  big  parties  in  Shady  Hill,  Her  husband  was  caretaker  at  the  coun-  try  club.  &quot;So  your  lady  isn't  with  you,&quot;  she  said,  in  her  sweet  brogue.  &quot;Ah,  well,  I  can't  say  that  I  blame  her.&quot;  Then  she  laughed  suddenly.  She  puther  hands  on  her  knees  and  rocked  back  and  forth.  &quot;I  shouldn't  tell  you,  I  know,  so  help  me  God,  but  when  Mike  was  sweeping  up  the  park-  ing  lot  this  morning,  he  found  a  pair  of  gold  slippers  and  a  blue  lace  girdle.&quot;  Downstairs,  Will  spoke  with  his  hostess,  and  she  said  she  was  so  sorry  that  Maria  hadn't  come.  Crossing  the  living  room,  he  was  stopped  by  Pete  Par-  sons,  who  drew  him  over  to  the  fireplace  and  told  him  a  joke.  This  was  what  Will  had  come  for,  and  his  spirits  began  to  improve.  But,  going  from  Pete  Parsons  toward  the  door  of  the  bar,  he  found  his  way  blocked  by  Biff  Worden.  Ethel's  story  of  their  neediness,  her  tears,  and  her  trip  to  the  parking  lot  with  Larry  Helmsford  were  still  fresh  in  his  mind.  He  did  not  want  to  see  Biff  Worden.  He  did  not  like  it  thatBiff  could  muster  a  cheerful  and  open  face  after  his  wife  had  been  se-  duced  in  the  Helmsfords'  station  wagon.  &quot;Did  you  hear  what  Mike  Reilly  found  in  the  parking  lot  this  morning?&quot;  Biff  asked.  &quot;A  pair  of  slippers  and  a  girdle.&quot;  Will  said  that  he  wanted  a  drink,  and  he  got  past  Biff,  but  the  en-  trance  to  the  passage  between  the  liv-  ing  room  and  the  bar  was  blocked  by  the  Chesneys.  In  almost  every  suburb  there  is  a  charming  young  couple  designated  by  their  gifts  to  be  an  ambassadorial  pair.  They  arethe  ones  who  meet  John  Mason  Brown  at  the  train  and  drive  him  to  the  auditorium.  'They  are  the  ones  who  organize  the  bumper  tennis  tourna-  ments,  handle  the  most  difficult  cases  in  the  fund-raising  campaign,  and  can  be  counted  on  by  their  hostesses  to  humor  the  bore,  pass  the  stuffed  celery,  breathe  fire  into  the  dying  conversa-  tion,  and  expel  the  drunk.  Their  social  and  family  connections  are  indescribably  rich  and  varied,  and  physically  they  are  models  of  attractiveness  and  fashion-  direct,  mild,  well  groomed,  their  eyes  twinkling  with  trust  and  friendliness.  Such  a  young  couple  were  the  Chesneys.  \xc2\xab&quot;So  glad  to  see  you,&quot;  Mark  Chesney  said,  removing  his  pipe  from  his  mouth  and  putting  a  hand  on  Will's  shoulder.  &quot;Missed  you  at  the  dance  last  night,  although  I  saw  Maria  enjoying  herself.  But  what  I  wanted  to  speak  to  you  about  is  something  of  a  higher  order.  Give  me  a  minute?  As  you  may  or  may  not  know,  I'm  in  charge  of  the  adult-  education  program  at  the  high  school  this  year.  We've  had  a  disappointing  at-  tendance,  and  we  have  a  speaker  coming  on  Thursday  for  whom  I'm  anxious  to  rustle  up  a  sizable  audience.  Her  name  is  Mary  Bickwald,  and  she's  going  to  speak  on  marriage  problems-extra-  marital  affairs,  that  sort  of  thing.  If  you  and  Maria  are  free  on  Thursday,  I  think  you'll  find  it  worth  your  time.&quot;  The  Chesneys  went  on  into  the  living  room,  and  Will  continued  toward  the  bar.  The  bar  was  full  of  a  noisy  and  pleasant  company,  and  Will  was  glad  to  join  it  and  get  a  drink.  He  had  be-  gun  to  feel  like  himself  when  the  rector  of  Christ  Church  bore  down  on  him,  shook  his  hand,  and  drew  him  away  from  the  others.  The  rector  was  a  large  man  and,  un-  like  some  of  his  suburban  colleagues,  not  at  all  wary  of  clerical  black.  When  he  and  Will  met  at  cocktail  parties,  they  usually  talked  about  blankets.  Will  had  given  many  blankets  to  the  church.  He     " b"had  given  blankets  to  its  missions  and  blankets  to  its  shelters.  W  hen  the  shep-  herds  knelt  in  the  straw  at  Mary's  knees  in  the  Nativity  play,  they  were  clothed  in  Will's  blankets.  Since  he  expected  to  be  asked  forblankets,  he  was  sur-  prised  to  hear  the  rector  say,  &quot;I  want  you  to  feel  free  to  come  to  my  study,  Will,  and  talk  to  me  if  anything  is  trou-  bling  you.&quot;  While  Will  was  thanking  the  rector  for  this  invitation,  they  were  joined  by  Herbert  McGrath.  Herbert  McGrath  was  a  banker,  a  wealthy,  irritable  man.  At  the  bottom  of  his  thinking  there  seemed  to  be  an  ap-  prehension-a  nightmare-that  with-  out  the  kind  of  order  he  represented,  the  world  would  fly  apart.  He  despised  men  who  raced  to  catch  the  morning  train.  In  the  &quot;No  Smoking&quot;  car,  it  was  customary  for  people  to  light  cigarettes  as  the  train  approached  Grand  Central  Station,  and  this  infringement  so  irri-  tated  Herbert  that  he  would  tap  his  neighbors  on  the  shoulder  and  tell  them  that  the  smoker  was  in  the  rear.  Mixed  with  his  insistence  on  propriety  was  a  curious  strain  of  superstition.  When  he  walked  along  the  station  platform  in  the  morning,  he  looked  around  him.  If  he  saw  a  coin,  he  would  shoulder  his  way  past  the  other  commuters  and  bend  down  to  get  it.  &quot;Good  luck,  you  know,&quot;  he  would  explain  as  he  put  the  coin  in  his  pocket.  &quot;You  need  both  luck  end  brains.&quot;  Now  he  wanted  to  talk  about  the  immorality  at  the  party,  and  Will  decided  to  go  home.  He  put  his  glass  on  the  bar  and  started  thoughtfully  through  the  passage  to  the  living  room.  His  head  was  down,  and  he  walked  straight  into  Mrs.  Walpole,  a  very  plain  woman.  &quot;I  see  that  your  wife  hasn't  recovered  sufficiently  to  face  the  public  today,&quot;  she  said  gaily.  A  peculiar  fate  seems  to  overtake  homely  women  at  the  ends  of  parties-  and  journeys,  too.  Their  curls  and  their  ribbons  come  undone,  particles  of  food  cling  to  their  teeth,  their  glasses  steam,  and  the  wide  smile  with  which  they  planned  to  charm  the  world  lapses  into  a  look  of  habitual  discontent  and  bitter-  ness.  Mrs.  Walpole  had  got  herself  up  bravely  for  the  Townsends'  party,  but  time  itself-she  was  drinking  sherry-  had  destroyed  the  impression  she  in-  tended  to  make.  Someone  seemed  to  have  sat  on  her  hat,  her  voice  was  strident,  and  the  camellia  pinned  to  her  shoulger  had  died.  &quot;But  I  suppose  Maria  sent  you  to  see  what  they're  saying  about  her,&quot;  she  said.  Will  got  past  Mrs.  Walpole  and  went  up  the  stairs  to  get  his  coat.  Bridget  had  gone,  and  Helen  Bulstrode  was  sitting  alone  in  the  hall  in  a  red  dress.  Helen  was  a  lush.  She  was  treated  kindly  in  Shady  Hill,  Her  husband  was  pleasant,  wealthy,  and  forbearing.  Now  Helen  was  very  drunk,  and  whatever  she  had  meant  to  forget  when  she  first  poured  herself  a  drink  that  day  had  long  since  been  lost  in  the  clutter.  She  rolled  a  little  in  her  chair  while  Will  was  putting  on  his  coat,  and  suddenly  she  addressed  him  copiously  in  French.  Will  did  not  understand.  Her  voice  gotlouder  and  angrier,  and  when  he  got  down  to  the  hall,  she  went  to  the  head  of  the  stairs  to  call  after  him.  He  went  off  without  saying  goodbye  to  anyone.  MARIA  was  in  the  living  room  read-  ing  a  magazine  when  Will  came  in.  &quot;Look,  Mummy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Can  you  tell  me  this?'  Did  you  lose  your  shoes  last  night?&quot;  &quot;I  lost  my  pocketbook,&quot;  Maria  said,  &quot;but  I  don't  think  I  lost  my  shoes.&quot;  &quot;'Try  and  remember,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  isn't  like  a  raincoat  or  an  umbrella.  Peo-  ple  usually  remember  when  they  lose  their  shoes.&quot;  &quot;What  is  the  matter  with  you,  Willy?&quot;  &quot;Did  you  lose  your  shoes?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  wear  a  girdle?&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about,  Will?&quot;  &quot;By  Christ,  I've  got  to  find  out!&quot;  He  went  upstairs  to  their  room,  which  was  dark.  He  turned  on  a  light  in  her  closet  and  opened  the  chest  where  she  kept  her  shoes.  'There  were  a  great  many  pairs,  and  among  them  were  gold  shoes,  silver  shoes,  bronze  shoes,  and  he  was  shuffling  through  the  collection  when  he  saw  Maria  standing  in  the  doorway.  &quot;Oh,  my  God,  Mummy,  for-  give  me!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Forgive  me!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Willy!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;Look  what  you've  done  to  my  shoes.&quot;  WILL felt  all  right  in  the  morning,  and  he  had  a  good  day  in  the  city.  At  five,  he  made  the  trip  uptown  on  the  subway  and  crossed  the  station  to  his  train  automatically.  In  the  train,  he  got  an  aisle  seat  and  scanned  the  asininities  in  the  evening  paper.  An  old  man  was  suing  his  young  wife  for  divorce,  on  the  ground  of  adultery;  the  fact  that  this  story  had  no  power  to  disturb  Will  not  only  pleased  him  but  left  him  feeling  exceptionally  fit  and  happy.  The  train  travelled  north  under  a  sky  that  was  still  spread  with  light.  A  little  rain  had  begun  to  fall  when  Will  stepped  onto  the  platform  at  Shady  Hill.  &quot;Hello,  Trace,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Hello,  Pete.  Hello,  Herb.&quot;  Around  him,  his  neighbors  were  greeting  their  wives  and  children.  He  took  the  route  up  Ale-  wives  Lane  to  Shadrock  Road,  past  rows  and  rows  of  lighted  houses.  He  put  his  car  in  the  garage  and  went  around  to  thefront  and  looked  at  his  tulips,  gleam-  ing  in  the  rain  and  the  porch  light.  He  let  the  fawning  cat  in  out  of  the  wet,  and  Flora,  his  youngest  daughter,  ran     " b" through  the  hall  to  kiss  him.  Some  deep  recess  inhis  spirit  seemed  to  respond  to  the  good  child  and  the  light-filled  rooms.  He  had  the  feeling  that  there  would  never  be  any  less  to  his  life  than  this.  Presently,  he  would  be  sitting  on  a  fold-  ing  chair  in  the  June  sunlight  watching  Flora  graduate  from  Smith.  Maria  came  into  the  hall  wearing  a  gray  silk  dress-a  cloth  and  a  color  that  flattered  her.  Her  eyes  were  bright  and  wide,  and  she  kissed  him  tenderly.  The  telephone  began  to  ring,  for  it  was  that  hour  in  the  suburbs  when  the  telephone  rings  steadily  with  board-meeting  an-  nouncements,  scrapsof  gossip,  fund-  raising  pleas,  and  invitations.  Maria  answered  it  and  he  heard  her  say  &quot;Yes,  Edith.&quot;  Will  went  into  the  living  room  to  make  a  cocktail,  and  a  few  minutes  later  the  doorbell  rang.  Edith  Hastings,  a  good  neighbor  and  a  friendly  woman,  preceded  Maria  into  the  living  room,  protesting,  &quot;I  really  shouldn't  break  in  on  you  like  this.&quot;&quot;  Still  protesting,  she  sat  down  and  took  the  glass  that  Will  hand-  ed  her.  He  had  never  seen  her  color  so  high  or  her  eyes  so  bright.  &quot;Charlie's  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He'll  be  gone  three  weeks  this  trip.  He  wanted  me  to  speak  to  you,  Will,  about  some  apple  trees.  He  meant  to  speak  to  you  before  he  left,  but  he  didn't  have  the  time.  He  can  get  apple  trees  by  the  dozen  from  a  nursery  in  New  Jersey,  and  he  wanted  to  know  if  you  wouldn't  like  to  buy  six.&quot;  Edith  Hastings  was  one  of  those  women-and  there  were  many  of  them  in  Shady  Hill-whose  husbands  were  away  on  business  from  one  to  three  weeks  out  of  every  month.  They  lived-conjugally-the  life  of  a  Grand  Banks  fisherman's  wife,  with  none  of  the  lore  of  ships  and  sailors  to  draw  on.  None-or  almost  none-of  these  wid-  ows  could  be  accused  of  not  having  attacked  their  problems  gallantly.  They  solicited  funds  for  cancer,  heart  trouble,  lameness,  deafness,  and  mental  health.  They  cultivated  tropical  plants  in  a  capricious  climate,  wove  cloth,  made  pot-  tery,  cared  tenderly  for  their  children,  and  did  everything  else  imaginable  to  make  up  for  the  irremediable  absence  of  their  men.  They  remained  lonely  wom-  en  with  a  natural  proneness  to  gossip.  &quot;But  of  course  you  don't  have  to  de-  cide  this  minute,&quot;  Edith  went  on  when  he  didn't  answer  her  question.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  you  really  have  to  decide  un-  til  Charlie  comes  back  from  [REDACTED].  I  mean  there  isn't  any  special  time  for  planting  apple  trees,  is  there?  And,  speaking  of  apple  trees,  how  was  the  fete?&quot;  Will  turned  his  back  and  opened  a  window.  Outside,  the  rain  fell  steadily,  but  he  doubted  then  that  it  was  the  rain  that  had  heightened  Edith's  color  and  made  her  eyes  shine.  He  heard  Maria  reply,  and  thenhe  heard  Edith  ask,  &quot;When  did  you  people  leave?&quot;  She  could  not  keep  the  excitement  out  of  her  voice.  &quot;And  I  understand  that  a  pair  of  slippers  and  a  girdle&quot;  Will  swung  around.  &quot;Is  that  what  " b"you  came  here  to  talk  about?&quot;  he  asked  sharply.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Is  that  what  you  came  here  to  talk  about?&quot;  &quot;I  really  came  here  totalk  about  ap-  ple  trees.&quot;  &quot;I  gave  Charlie  a  check  for  those  apple  trees  six  months  ago.&quot;  &quot;Charlie  didn't  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;Why  should  he?  It  was  all  settled.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  guess  I'd  better  go.&quot;  &quot;Pleasedo,&quot;  Will  said.  &quot;Please  go.  And  if  anyone  asks  how  we  are,  tell  them  we're  getting  along  fine.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Will,Will,  Will!&quot;  Maria  said.  &quot;I  seem  to  have  come  at  the  wrong  time,&quot;  Edith  said.  &quot;And  when  you  call  the  Trenchers  and  the  Farquarsons  and  the  Abbotts  and  the  Beardens,  tell  them  that  I  don't  give  a  good  God  damn  what  happened  at  the  party.  Tell  them  to  think  up  some  gossip  about  someone  else.  'Tell  them  to  imagine  some  filth  about  the  Fuller  Brush  man  or  the  chump  who  delivers  eggs  on  Friday  or  the  Slaters'  gardener,  but  tell  them  to  leave  us  alone.&quot;  She  was  gone.  Maria,  crying,  looked  at  him  so  wantonly  that  he  nearly  choked.  Then  she  climbed  the  stairs  in  her  gray  silk  dress  and  shut  the  door  to  their  room.  He  followed  her  and  found  her  lying  on  their  bed  in  the  dark.  .  &quot;Who  was  it,  Mummy?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Just  tell  me  who  it  was  and  I'll  forget  about  it.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  anybody,&quot;  she  &quot;There  wasn't  anybody.&quot;  &quot;Now,  Mummy,&quot;  he  said  heavily.  &quot;I  know  better  than  that.  I  don't  want  to  reproach  you.  That  isn't  why  I  ask.  I  just  want  to  know  so  I  can  forget  about  it.&quot;  &quot;Please  let  me  alone!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Please  let  me  alone  for  a  little  while.&quot;  said. WAKING  at  dawn  in  the  guest  room,  Will  saw  the  whole  thing  clearly.  He  was  astonished  to  realize  how  the  strength  of  his  feeling  had  obstructed  his  vision.  The  villain  was     &quot;Sir,  allow  me  to  congratulate  you  on  the  benefits  that  are  yours  under  the  new  tax  laws.&quot;  Henry  Bulstrode.  It  was  Henry  who  had  been  with  her  on  the  train  when  she  returned  that  rainy  night  at  two.  It  was  Henry  who  had  whistled  when  she  did  her  dance  at  the  Woman's  Club.  It  was  Henry's  head  and  shoulders  he  had  seen  on  Madison  Avenue  when  he  recognized  Maria  ahead  of  him.  And  now  he  remembered  poor  Helen  Bul-  strode's  haggard  face  at  the  Town-  sends'  party-the  face  of  a  woman  who  was  magried  to  a  libertine.  It  was  her  husband's  unregeneracy  that  she  had  been  trying  to  forget.  The  spate  of  drunken  French  she  had  aimed  at  him  must  have  been  about  Maria  and  Henry.  Henry  Bulstrode's  face,  grin-  ning  with  naked  and  lascivious  mock-  ery,  appeared  in  the  middle  of  the  guest  room.  'There  was  only  one  thing  to  do.  Will  bathed,  dressed,  and  ate  his  breakfast.  Maria  slept  on.  It  was  still  early  when  he  finished  his  coffee,  and  he  decided  to  walk  to  the  train.  He  strode  down  Shadrock  Road  with  the  peculiar  briskness  of  the  aging.  Only  a  few  people  had  gathered  on  the  plat-  form  for  the  eight-nineteen  when  he  reached  the  station.  Trace  Bearden  joined  him,  and  then  Biff  Worden.  And  then  Henry  Bulstrode  stepped  out  of  the  waiting  room,  showed  his  white  teeth  in  a  smile,  and  frowned  at  his  newspaper.  Without  any  warning  at  all,  Will  walked  over  to  him  and  knocked  him  down.  Women  screamed,  and  the  scuffle  that  followed  was  very  confusing.  Herbert  McGrath,  who  had  missed  the  action,  assumed  that  Henry  had  started  it  and  stood  over  him  saying,  &quot;No  more  of  this,  young  man!  No  more  ofthis!&quot;  'Trace  and  Biff  pinned  Will's  arms  to  his  sides  and  quick-stepped  him  down  to  the  far  end  of  the  platform,  asking,  &quot;You  crazy,  Will?  Have  you  gone  crazy?&quot;  Then  the  eight-nineteen  came  around  the  bend,  the  fracas  was  suspended  by  the  search  for  seats,  and  when  the  station-  master  rushed  out  onto  the  platform  to  see  what  was  happening,  the  train  had  departed  and  they  were  all  gone.  The  amazing  thing  was  how  well  Will  felt  when  he  boarded  the  train.  Now  his  fruitful  life  with  Maria  would  be  resumed.  'They  would  walk  on  Sun-  day  afternoons  again,  and  play  word  games  by  the  open  fire  again,  and  weed  the  roses  again,  and  love  one  another  under  the  sounds  of  the  rain  again,  and  hear  the  singing  of  the  crows;  and  he  would  buy  her  a  present  that  afternoon  as  a  signalof  love  and  forgiveness.  He  would  buy  her  pearls  or  gold  or  sap-  phires-something  expensive;  emeralds  maybe;  something  no  young  man  could  afford. "