 b"I  WAS  looking  through  a  cookbook  in  search  of  a  dessert  that  would  be  quick  and  sweet-in  a  hurry  as  usual,  because  when  those  great  boys  come  tramping  into  the  house  for  their  supper  they  want  lots  of  it,  right  away,  and  the  dessert  had  better  be  a  sweet  one.  Bavarian  Cream,  I  read-but  that  takes  time,  stirring  over  hot  water,  and  so  forth.  Baked  Meringue  Custard-  not  sweet  enough.  And  then  my  eye  fell  on  the  next  recipe,  Charlotte  Russe.  I  felt  a  little  tremor  of  joy  in  my  heart  at  the  name,  and  in  spite  of  the  hour,  I  began  reading  through  the  recipe:  &quot;.  .  .  combine  eggs,  salt,  and  sugar.  ...  Cook  until  mixture  coats  spoon  .  .  .  cool  quickly  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Fold  in  the  cream  which  has  been  stiffly  beat-  en.  ...  The  mixture  shouldnot  be  stiff  enough  to  mold.&quot;  Suddenly  I  felt  furi-  ous  at  this  heresy  to  the  Charlotte  Russe  of  my  childhood,  and  I  let  the  book  shut  over  my  thumb  and  sat  thinking  about  the  way  it  was.  Nobody  knows,  nobody  can  know,  how  I  used  to  feel  about  the  party  des-  sert  that  appeared  when  my  father  and  mother  reluctantly,  at  long  intervals  during  the  winter,  gave  a  dinner  party.  Not  stiff  enough  to  mold  indeed!  It  was  molded  in  a  form  with  peaks  and  tur-  rets,  so  that  when  it  was  turned  out  and  stood,  an  object  of  beauty,  coated  with  the  ladyfingers  that  had  lined  the  mold,  it  was  like  a  turreted  white  castle,  like  a  palace  of  sparkling  dream  as  I  walked  round  and  round  it  where  it  was  set  on  the  dining-room  table  to  get  it  out  of  the  hot  kitchen.  In  those  days,  no  icebox  could  have  contained  anything  so  tow-  ering,  so  round,  so  fragile  as  the  Char-  lotte  Russe.  The  table  had  been  enlargedwith  leaves  to  make  a  long  oval,  and  laid  with  special  silver  and  glass  for  the  ap-  proaching  rite.  For  this  was  the  way  I  thought  of  those  decorous  dinner  par-  ties,  which  I  never  witnessed  but  only  heard  from  above  and  clothed  in  my  mind  with  the  veils  of  perfection.  Places  were  laid  for  twelve.  Instead  of  the  plain  glass  water  tumblers  we  used  every  day,  at  each  place  was  set  a  high  goblet  of  glass  cut  in  a  design  of  flower  garlands,  and  beside  it  two  wineglasses,  one  for  claret,  one  for  Moselle.  The  huge  damask  dinner  napkins  were  fold-  ed  in  the  Bishop's  Mitre  shape  and  set  in  the  center  of  the  place  plates-vast,  chilly  white,  ruby-rimmed.  'The  row  of  forks  extended  far  to  the  left  of  each  place.  And  in  the  center  of  all  a  great  epergne  of  ruby  and  clear  glass  was  piled  with  oranges,  pomegranates,  lady     apples,  and  what  my  mother  used  to  call  deathbed  grapes,  big  and  black.  On  either  long  side  of  the  centerpiece  stood  large  cut-glass  bonbon  dishes  with  cov-  ers,  on  high  stems;  these  held  pink  and  white  peppermints  from  S.  S.  Pierce's,  and,  lest  the  effect  be  spoiled,  I  was  not  allowed  to  have  any  until  the  day  after  the  party.  But  I  did  not  care;  I  would  rather  look  than  eat.  I  was  al-  lowed,  earlier,  to  help  lift  the  delicate  sugary  discs  from  the  waxed  paper  lay-  ers  in  the  white  box  that  had  Pierce's  gold  shield  on  the  cover,  and  lay  them  gently  in  the  bonbon  dishes.  There  always  seemed  to  be  just  enough.  On  a  side  table  were  set  out  the  plates  for  dessert-white,  with  a  gadroon  edge,  and  a  single  pink  rose  painted  on  each;  the  rose  was  now  concealed  by  the  thin  glass  finger  bowl,  set  on  a  lace  doily,  flanked  by  a  silver  dessert  fork  and  spoon.  The  finger  bowls  would  not  be  filled-meaning  a  bare  half  inch  of  water-until  just  before  dinner  was  served,  and  then  a  leaf  of  lemon  verbena  would  be  floated  in  each,  to  crush  between  the  fingers  at  the  close  of  the  meal.  Also  at  the  close  of  the  meal  would  be  brought  out  the  de-  canter  set-an  ebony  box  inlaid  with  mother-of-pearl-now  decorating  the  center  of  the  sideboard.  When  the  front  and  top  of  the  box  were  turned  back  on  hinges,  they  disclosed  a  fairyland  of  myriad  tiny  gold-rimmed  glasses  on  stems,  setin  a  gilt  framework  hold-  ing,  at  the  four  corners,  gold-banded  liqueur  decanters  con-  taining  brandy,  cherry  brandy,  apricot  brandy,  and  creme  de  menthe.  The  guests  would  need  such  marvels,  I  thought,  to  sustain  them  after  the  high  point  of  the  dinner  had  been  passed:  the  miracle,  the  ritual  destruction  of  the  Charlotte  Russe.  Its  spires  and  peaks  were  now  snowy  with  whipped  cream  and  sparkling  with  bits  of  red  candied  cherries  and  green  angelica.  Before  the  people  came,  it  would  be  whisked  away  out  into  the  unheated  summer  kitchen,  where  it  was  too  cold  to  keep  it  for  long.  And  then  they  would  enter  the  dining  room,  I  thought-the  ladies  in  their  evening  gowns  with  low  necks  that  showed  a  fascinating  crack  in  front,  the  gentle-  men  in  their  tailcoats  and  glacial  ex-  panses  of  starched  shirt.  They  would  eat,  with  tablespoons,  the  cream  of  tomato  soup  with  the  dab  of  whipped  cream  floating  on  it,  the  oyster  souffle  that  my  mother  would  have  been  pray-  ing  about,  the  roast,  served  carved  in  the  kitchen  a  la  Russe,  with  the  tiny  round  balls  of  potato  covered  with  but-  ter  and  lemon  and  parsley,  and  then  it  would  be  time:  therefore  with  angels  and  archangels  they  would  topple  the  towers  and  eat  the  fragile  and  delicate  substance  of  the  Charlotte  Russe.  Some-  times  there  would  be  a  few  broken  bits  of  it  left  the  next  day,  but  usually  any-  thing  left  over  got  consumed  in  the  kitchen;  except  for  once  or  twice,  I  never  tasted  the  thing  that  looked  more  beautiful,  more  desirable  to  me,  than  any  food  on  earth.  LL  of  this  that  I  have  described  represented  an  enormous  outlay  of  time  and  energy  for  my  mother,  who,  if  she  must  have  a  dinner  party,  wanted  to  have  it  nice.  My  father  cate-  gorically  resented  all  activities  that  took  him  away  from  the  evenings  he  liked  to  spend  reading;  making  dry-  point  etchings,  under  the  unshaded  glare  of  a  blue  bulb,  with  a  diamond-  point  needle;  copying  the  drawings  of  Watteau  in  red  chalk.  I  found  it  almost  incredible  that  they  did  not  enjoy  the  prospect  and  the  performance  of  these  dinner  parties,  which  so  represented  the  great  world  to  me,  but  as  my  father  pulled  on  his  evening  trousers  out  in  his  dressing  room  he  would  call  in  to  my  mother  while,  in  a  camisole,  she  did  her  long  wavy  dark-brown  hair  before  the  oval  mirror  in  her  bed-  room,  &quot;Well,  it  can't  last  more  than  six  hours.&quot;  &quot;Six  hours!&quot;  she  would  cry,  rising  to  the  bait.  &quot;If  they're  asked  at  seven,  it's  bad  form  to  stay  after  half  past  ten.&quot;  My  father  would  wrestle  with  his  boiled  shirt  as  I  stood  in  the  open  door  of  the  dress-  ing  room;  his  stomach  made  the  dress  shirt  buckle  and  bulge.  He  moved  his  shoulders  un-  comfortably  under  his  tailcoat.  &quot;I  be-  lieve  in  dressing  for  dinner  every  night  like  the  British  in  India,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  not  for  a  lot  of  tedious  idiots.  Well,&quot;  he  called  in  again  to  my  mother,  &quot;a  hundred  years  from  now  it  will  all  be  forgotten.&quot;  I  would  have  had  my  supper  earlier,  off  the  kitchen  table,  while  maids  hur-  ried  and  pushed  past  me,  carrying  silver  that  must  be  polished  at  the  last  minute,     " b"carrying  colanders  of  dripping  vege-  tables,  carrying  pots  and  pans  to  the  soapstone  sink  from  the  stove,  which  was  an  old-fashioned  black  coal  range  with  nickel  trimming.  Maids  were  al-  ways  Irish  in  those  days,  and  they  were  all  named  such  names  as  Bridie  and  Lizzie  and  Nelly;  I  remember  there  was  one  named  Norah,  whom  my  mother  would  get  in  for  dinner  parties  because  she  could  bone  shad.  As  I  grew  older,  when  the  guests  ar-  rived  I  was  allowed  to  come  down  and  speak  to  them,  dressed  in  my  dancing-  school  black  velveteen  with  the  Roman-  stripe  sash  run  through  slots.  I  took  the  hand  of  each  ravishing  lady,  each  in-  dulgent  gentleman,  in  turn,  kicking  the  floor  behind  me  with  one  toe  in  lieu  of  a  curtsy.  'The  room  smelled  of  the  fresh  roses  the  ladies  wore  tucked  in  their  tulle  fichus,  and  of  the  things  the  gentle-  men  put  on  their  hair.  'They  all  looked,  to  me,  excited  and  aware  of  the  thrilling  events  before  them-the  unfolding  of  those  napkins,  the  shattering  of  that  Charlotte  Russe;  apotheosized,  and  not  at  all  like  the  torpid  people  I  knew  as  the  parents  of  my  school  friends,  reading  the  Sunday  paper  on  a  late-winter  morning.  Everyone  looked  stimulated,  including  my  parents;  buta  little  canker  of  sorrow  told  me  that  with  them  it  was  not  sincere;  they  were  not  really  thrilled  but  bored  and  wishing  the  dinner  party  were  over.  In  those  days,  at  least  in  our  house,  no  one  was  given  anything  to  drink  before  dinner,  so  I  only  stayed  down  for  a  few  minutes.  Bridie  would  come  to  the  door:  &quot;Dinner  is  served,  mum&quot;  -and  there  began  the  bustle  and  chattering  confusion  of  going  in  to  din-  ner.  I  would  climb  the  stairs  to  my  own  room.  That  was  the  last  I  saw  of  the  dinner  party;  it  was  never  the  custom  in  our  house,  as  I  have  read  it  is  in  some  houses,  for  the  child  to  come  down  for  dessert.  When  I  was  in  bed,  I  would  lie  still,  with  the  window  open  to  the  dark,  snowy  winter  night,  and  let  my  feelings  soar.  I  could  faintly  hear  the  hum  of  conversation  in  the  dining  room  under-  neath  me;  when  the  door  between  the  dining  room  and  the  kitchen  was  opened,  a  burst  of  laughter  would  float  up  the  back  stairs.  The  people  at  the  dinner  party  were  Olympian,  seated  around  a  Parnassian  table  loaded  with  the  fare  of  gods.  I  could  hear  the  foot-  steps  of  the  maids,  hurrying  over  the  wooden  floor  of  the  kitchen  to  wait  upon  them.  They  drank  from  crystal  goblets,  their  napkins  were  vast,  satiny;  their  jokes  were,  surely,  magnificent  and  immortal.  And  in  the  center  of  it  all  was,  for  me,  the  Charlotte  Russe,  borne  into  the  dining  room  at  the  last  by  careful  hands,  inviolate,  and  then  broken  into  with  silver  serving  fork  and  spoon.  I  could  see  it  happening-that  perfection  of  whipped  cream,  cherries,  and  angelica,  its  towers  fallen.  Much  as  I  loved  the  Charlotte  Russe,  I  took  pleasure  in  thinking  of  their  shattering  it.  And  when  I  in  my  turn  became  grown-up-enormous,  invulnerable-  I,  too,  would  sit  at  dinner  parties,  be  passed  exquisite,  trembling  confections,  break  into  them  with  fork  and  spoon  without  even  looking,  my  head  turned  as  I  exchanged  ineffable  witticisms  with  the  gentleman  beside  me.  I  DON'T  need  to  say  that  this  flood  of  recollection  that  came  on  me  as  I  sat  in  the  kitchen  with  the  cookbook  in  my  lap  made  me  late  with  everything  for  the  rest  of  the  afternoon.  The  boys  came  in  before  I  was  half  ready  with  their  supper,  and  no  dessert  made.  I  can't  imagine  what  led  me  to  waste  so  much  time,  because  actually  there's  nothing  I  want  to  do  less  than  unpack  all  that  china  and  glass  that's  been  in  this  attic  ever  since  theold  house  was  broken  up.  And  asfor  making  a  great,  elaborate,  extravagant  dessert,  I  haven't  the  time  or  energy.  I'm  tired  when  I  getthe  dishes  done  at  night,  and  glad  to  follow  Robert  into  the  living  room  and  read  the  evening  paper.  He's  fin-  ished  with  it  by  that  time,  and  the  boys  are  upstairs  doing  their  homework,  and  we  can  be  quiet  and  peaceful  in  the  family  circle,  hoping  to  goodness  no-  body  drops  in."