 b"IN  the  late  winter  of  1943,  when  I   was  a  private  in  the  Eighth  Air  Force,  stationed  in  England,  I  was  sent  to  an  R.A.F.  school  for  several  months,  and  while  I  was  there  I  got  to  know  Charles  Banister  and  his  wife.  Charles  (his  real  name  was  not  Ban-  ister)  and  I  made  friends  belatedly,  long  after  I  was  acquainted  with  most  of  the  other  men  in  our  class,  for  he  was  monu-  mentally  shy.  'The  course  we  were  tak-  ing  was  difficult  and  concentrated.  Those  who  got  through  it  were  to  be-  come  Link  Trainer  instructors  or  else  would  go  on,  for  further  training,  to  the  R.A.F.'s  Ground  Control  school.  We  studied  Navigation,  Theory  of  Flight,  and  Charles'  personal  bogey,  Procedures-the  various  codes  and  flight  patterns  by  which  planes  were  maneuvered  through  the  crowded  air  above  [REDACTED].  I  was  a  radio  operator,  and  so  had  the  advantage  of  previous  training  in  this  line,  which  caused  Charles  to  treat  me,  at  the  outset,  with  unwarranted  deference.  But  he  also  showed  me  all  along  a  remote,  peeping  friendliness,  which  I  understood  came  of  my  being  a  foreigner,  and  of  his  wanting  to  watch  over  and  help  me.  He  had  a  son  of  sixteen  or  so,  and  at  first  I  thought  I  had  never  known  a  man  who  wished  as  much  as  Charles  did  that  he  could  set  a  good  example  as  a  father,  or  one  who  felt  he  was  so  irremediably  not  up  to  it.  He  considered  himself-matter-of-  factly  and  without  much  hope-quite  a  poor  specimen,  but  he  was  patient  with  himself,  and  cheerful,  and  I  saw  him  shaken  only  toward  the  end  of  the  course,  when  I  began  to  suspect  that  what  he  really  meant  when  he  said  he  was  a  poor  model  fer  his  son  was  that  he  was  afraid  he  might  fail  his  wife.  He  seldom  men-  tioned  her.  To  save  time  for  his  studies,  he  stayed  in  a  billet,  like  the  rest  of  us,  during  the  week,  though  he  could  have  lived  in  his  own  house,  ten  or  twelve  miles  away.  (&quot;Minutes  are  golden,&quot;  he  told  me  more  than  once;  he  was  generous  with  maxims.  &quot;We  must  use  them  the  best  we  can,  mustn't  we?&quot;)  And  every  few  eve-  nings  his  wife  would  come  past  the  school,  taking  a  long  way  home  from  the  airplane-parts  factory  where  she  worked.  She  would  arrive  justat  six,  when  classes  let  out,  riding  up  on  her  bicycle-a  small,  brown-eyed,  fine-  featured  woman  with  a  round  and  ap-  pealingly  immature-looking  figure,  like  that  of  a  solid  little  girl.  Since  civilians  couldnot  enter  the  school  building,  she  would  wait  by  an  oak  tree  a  few  yards  down  a  brick  path  from  the  door.  Then  Charles  would  walk  out  to  her  with  his  deliberate,  springing  gait,  and  they  would  nod  to  each  other  and  stand  there  together  for  a  while.  She  came  just  to  look  at  him,  I  judged,  and  to  let  him  look  at  her,  for  they  seemed  to  talk  very  little,  and  they  never,  in  my  sight,  gave  the  least  sign  of  affection.  She  could  have  telephoned  him  if  she  had  wanted  to,  but  she  came,  instead-rain  or  sleet,  wind  or  fog-circuitous  miles  down  country  roads  to  the  school,  and,  after  she  had  stayed  twenty  minutes  or  so,  with  Charles  looming  uncommunica-  tively  over  her,  rode  off  again.  She  al-  ways  came  on  Saturday  evenings,  and  then  he  got  his  own  bicycle  from  the  school's  storeroom  and  went  with  her,  for  he  permitted  himself  Sundays  at  home,  but  even  so  the  two  of  them  always  stood  talking  desultorily  for  a  while  before  they  left,  as  if  after  even  a  brief  separation  they  needed  to  fit  themselves  together  again  first  of  all.  The  invisible  fence  across  which  Charles  and  I  had  been  exchanging  nods  and  half  smiles  for  a  month  gave  way  on  the  day  in  early  March  when  I  had  to  drill  the  class.  Until  about  a  week  be-  fore,  the  military  features  of  the  school  had  been  negligible.  'There  were  per-  haps  thirty-five  students  in  our  class.  The  instructors,  who  were  mostly  tech-  nicians,  or  pilots  grounded  by  injury,  cared  nothing  for  soldierly  dash.  But  there  was  a  sergeant  in  general  charge  of  us,  and  after  three  weeks  of  fretting  he  instituted  a  morning  period  of  close-  order  drill.  I  could  have  got  out  of  it,  as  a  lone  American  who  had  been  trained  in  a  different  system,  but  that  would  have  seemed  like  capitalizing  on  oddity,  so  I  marched  with  the  rest,  finding  the  stamping,  arm-swinging  drill-the  slang  for  it  was  &quot;square-bash-  ing&quot;-strange  and  confusing.  I  had  not  counted  on  the  sergeant's  making  us  take  turns  drilling  the  group,but  he  did.  I  took  mine  when  it  came,  and  made  a  mess  of  it,  and  at  lunchtime  surging  mercy  overwhelmed  Charles'  shyness,  and  he  offered  to  take  me  out  behind  the  school  and  teach  me  proper  square-bashing.  It  was  a  gentle,  earnest  lesson,  and  it  did  both  of  us  good,  if  only  because  from  that  day  on  we  took  to  having  tea  to-  gether  at  the  afternoon  break.  Charles  was  a  bony  man  with  a  small  mustache  and  faded  reddish  hair  that  bristled  in  a  way  he  hated.  He  stuck  it  down  on  his  scalp  with  water,  and  it  always  rose  again  stiffly,  layer  by  layer,  as  it  dried.  His  cap,  that  noon,  stood  precarious-  ly  centered  on  his  cocks-  comb  (he  avoided  wear-  ing  his  cap  on  the  side  of  his  head,  as  pre-  scribed,  though  the  ser-  geant  sometimes  made  him  move  it  there),  and  he  marched  up  and  down  for  a  while  call-  ing  orders  to  himself,  executing  them,  and  every  minute  or  two  coming  anxiously  to  ask  if  I  had  understood  what  he  had  done.  I  was  not  always  certain,  " b"but  I  said  that  I  had,  and  I  tried  a  few  maneuvers,  and  we  ended  the  lesson  soon.  FIRST  heard  about  Charles'  inadequacies  that  same  day,  at  tea.  'The  particular  ones  that  arose  then  were  his  lack  of  busi-  ness  success  and  of  what  he  called  &quot;a  way.&quot;  Men  who  had  it  could  put  themselves  forward  and  be  well  thought  of;  they  could  learn  anything  from  the  tax  structure  to  Procedures  with  great  ease,  and  their  sons  admired  them  asa  matter  of  course.  I  don't  mean  to  say  that  he  was  obsessed  with  these  mat-  ters-we  talked  about  many  other  things,  then  and  later-but  they  ran  through  his  conversation  and  gave  much  of  it  an  overtone  of  polite  regret.  I  learned  in  the  next  week  or  two  that  in  civilian  life  he  worked  in  a  bank;  that  his  wife  was  fond  of  Tchai-  kovsky's  Fourth  Sympho-  ny;  that  his  house  was  paid  for-somewhat  to  his  sur-  prise,  I  believe-and  that  it  had  been  damaged  by  a  bomb;  that  Richard,  his  son,  a  fine  fellow,  was  away  at  school;  and  that  as  a  boy  he  himself  had  not  made  the  best  of  his  op-  portunities.  He  took  nega-  tive  credit  for  Richard's  good  qualities,  seeming  to  consider  them  primarily  the  result  of  his  having  often  been  cautioned  not  to  follow  in  his  father's  footsteps.  &quot;I  tell  Rich,  'Take  warning  from  me,'  &quot;  Charles  would  say,  smiling  over  his  tea  in  the  little  restaurant  we  went  to  down  the  road,  or  looking  up  from  polishing  the  buttons  of  his  jacket  in  the  lavatory  after  lunch.  &quot;I  tell  him,  'Learn  to  laugh.&quot;  There's  good  psy-  chology  in  that.  I'm  rather  a  gloomy  bird,  all  in  all.  You  know,  when  Rich  was  a  little  bit  of  a  thing,  he  came  to  me  with  a  book  of  conundrums  and  jokes  he  was  learning-little  bits  of  jokes-and  I  told  him,  'Thaef'll  stand  you  in  good  stead.  Always  a  fine  thing  to  have  a  joke  or  two  on  the  tip  of  your  tongue.'  Something  I've  never  man-  aged,  meself.&quot;  It  soon  became  clear  that  Charles'  humility  was  as  uncalled  for  as  it  was real.  He  was  agreeable  company  and  laughed  oftener  thanhe  thought  he  did,  he  was  at  least  passable  in  his  school-  work,  which  was  unlike  any  other  work  he  had  everdone,  and  his  home  was  pleasant  and  far  from  being  the  habita-  tion  of  a  failure.  I  was  asked  there  one  Sunday  afternoon  late  in  March,  and  was  shown  through  it,  and  heard  Tchai-  kovsky's  Fourth  Symphony  on  the  gramophone-Charles  listening  with  a  nice  blend  of  pride  in  his  wife  and  doubt  of  the  music  on  his  face,  I  saw  what  the  bomb  had  done  to  the  back  ofthe  house,  which  was  still  only  patched,  because  of  the  materials  shortage,  and  I  also  heard  of  the  morning  the  Banisters  had  awak-  ened  to  see  a  huge  land  mine  swinging  precariously  just  outside  their  bedroom  window,  the  lines  of  its  parachute  caught  in  a  tree.  (&quot;I  must  say  we  got  out  of  the  house  in  a  hurry,  once  we  were  dressed,&quot;  Mrs.  Banister  said.)  And  in  the  prim,  shiny  parlor,  which  was  opened,  I  realized,  only  rarely  and  formally,  we  had  a  tea  full  of  silences  that  were  not  awkward  because  the  Banisters  seemed  not  to  notice  them,  and  were  so  deeply,  gently  cordial  when  conversation  began  again.  Even  then,  however,  they  said  nothing  to  each  other  except  the  most  necessary  com-  monplaces.  Once  or  twice,  I  tried  to  fill  in  the  spaces.  I  admired  three  tiny  porcelain  monkeys  that  sat  beneath  a  lamp  on  a  side  table.  They  were  the  familiar  trio,  hearing,  seeing,  and  speaking  no  evil,  but  they  were  separate  instead  of  joined  in  a  block,  and  were  delicately  made.  Mrs.  Banister  said  that  they  had  belonged  to  her  great-uncle.  &quot;He  brought  them  from  4a6170616e,  I'm  afraid,&quot;  said  Charles  in  a  tone  of  sorrow,  &quot;but  of  course,  that  was  quite  long  ago.&quot;  Early  in  April,  Mrs.  Banister  took  " b"the  flu  and  then  pneumonia.  She  was  terribly  sick,  and  it  seemed  peculiarly  unkind  that  such  a  thing  should  come  on  her  just  when  the  lengthening  days  might  have  made  her  rides  home  from  the  meetings  by  the  oak  tree  a  little  less  dismal.  Charles  gave  up  his  billet  and  spent  the  nights  at  his  house.  During  her  bad  times,  he  answered  questions  about  her  courteously  but  as  briefly  as  possible  and  appeared  to  feel  that  even  the  mention  of  her  illness  might  ag-  gravate  it.  He  became  gaunt,  and  his  mustache,  which  he  had  always  trimmed  as  faithfully  as  he  put  water  on  his  hair,  grew  ragged  and  sad,  and  dipped  into  his  tea.  She  was  ill  a  good  while,  with  at  least  one  relapse  before  she  was  out  of  dan-  ger.  When  that  time  came,  I  looked  for  a  recovery  in  Charles,  too,  but  his  spirits  failed  to  lift  for  more  than  a  little  while,  and  even  after  he  had  returned  to  his  billet  he  looked  as  worried  as  ever.  His  shortcomings  did  obsess  him  now,  and  he  spoke  of  them  constantly,  though  always  as  they  related  to  his  son.  In  the  study  room,  closing  his  navigation  note-  book  and  rubbing  his  eyes,  he  would  say,  &quot;The  word  'science'  comes  from  the  Latin  word  'to  know'-'scire&quot;  I  tell  Rich,  'Knowledge  is  power.  What  a  man  knows,  he  knows.&quot;  I  never  applied  meself  when  I  was  his  age,  and  today  I'm  the  sorrier  for  it.&quot;  He  seemed  to  be  summarizing  himself,  taking  stock  and  finding  his  liabilities  as  extensive  as  he  had  known  they  would  be,  and,  bit  by  bit,  I  discovered  what  was  really  trou-  bling  him  and  bringing  his  pervasive  sense  of  deficiency  to  a  focus:  His  wife  was  still  weak,  and  he  want-  ed  tostay  near  her.  If  he  passed  the  course,  he  would  automatically  become  a  sergeant;  if  he  failed,  he  would  remain  the  equivalent  of  a  private.  He  was  sure  that  if  he  was  a  sergeant  he  could  get  compassionate  posting.  He  was  equally  sure  that  merely  as  a  private  he  could  never  persuade  what  he  always  spoke  of  in  a  large,  collective  way  as  &quot;The  Of-  think  he  saw  himself  pleading  before  an  immense  tribunal-to  give  him  such  a  thing,  and  he  would  then  be  sent  wherever  the  R.A.F.  got  a  notion  to  send  him.  He  had  it  in  mind  that  that  would  be  the  Middle  East.  And  along  with  his  anxiety  he  developed  a  false  heartiness  that  came  strangely  from  him.  &quot;Can't  let  old  Rich  down  now,  can  I?&quot;  he  would  say,  clapping  his  hands,  rubbing  them  together,  smil-  ing  miserably.  &quot;Got  to  show  him  his  old  man  knows  a  thing  or  two,  eh?&quot;  The  course  was  to  end  in  mid-May.  The  fact  that  Charles  had  reached  the    final  stretch  without  being  dropped,  as  many  had  been,  imposed  a  severe  bur-  den  on  him,  and  when  the  time  for  examinations  came,  he  was  simply  frozen  stiff  with  prospective  failure.  HE  examination  in  Procedures,  the  crucial  one  for  Charles,  was  to  be  on  a  Monday  morning,  and  was  the  first  of  the  tests.  I  felt  sure  that  if  he  got  past  it  safely,  relief  would  carry  him  through  the  others.  On  Friday  noon  and  again  on  Saturday,  we  ran  over  the  high  spots,  and  time  after  time  Charles  made  mistakes  he  would  not  have  made  in  class  two  weeks  be-  fore.  He  told  me  that  he  had  decided  to  stay  in  his  billet  over  Sunday.  It  happened,  however,  that  his  room-  mate  stayed  over,  too,  and  Charles,  who  could  study  Procedures  no  other  way  than  aloud  while  pacing,  spent  the  morning  in  mute  dejection  reviewing  Theory  of  Flight.  We  met  for  lunch  by  prearrangement,  and  Charles  said  he  was  going  home  later  in  the  afternoon,  and  asked  if  I  would  go  along  and  work  with  him,  I  could  borrow  his  room-  mate's  bicycle,  and  we  would  have  tea  and  supper,  and  study  Procedures  as  long  as  we  liked,  and  I  would  stay  over-  night.  &quot;I  oughtn't  to  put  it  on  you  like  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know  it's  a  piece  of  cake  for  you,  and  you  needn't  study  at  all.&quot;  I  said  that  Procedures  was  cake  for  nobody,  and  that  I'd  be  glad  to  go.  The  trip  was  largely  a  silent  one,  " b"though  it  was  broken  by  tea,  which  Charles  decided  we  should  have  on  the  road,  because  his  wife  didn't  knowwe  were  coming.  He  thought  she  might  be  upset,  even  so,  but  she  seemed  not  to  be  when  she  saw  us.  She  was  surprised,  but  cheerful  and  brisk,  and  took  us  lightly  to  task  for  not  having  come  straight  on.  Then  she  went  about  preparations  for  supper,  and  Charles  and  I  set  to  work  on  the  code  signals  used  in  instrument  landings.  We  were  in  the  dining  room,which  was  also,  plainly,  the  real  living  room-  the  used  room-of  the  house.  Mrs.  Banister's  chores  took  her  in  and  out  of  there,  and  Charles  regarded  these  forays  uneasily,  as  if  he  thought  she  was  scouting  him.  At  last,  when  she  was  out  of  the  room,  he  proposed  that  we  go  into  the  parlor.  &quot;She  won't  mind,  I'm  sure,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;though  she  would've  once,  I  can  tell  you.  But  she  sits  there  herself  a  good  bit  now,  when  I'm  not  about.&quot;  He  dropped  his  voice  to  a  whisper,  and  nodded  indulgently.  &quot;Keeps  her  warmer.  Since  she  was  ill.  No  draft  from  the  bashed-in  place.  And  she  can't  have  our  heads  for  doing  the  same  as  she  does,  can  she,  now?&quot;  And  then  he  apologizedagain  for  having  asked  me  to  come.  He  said  that  if  I'd  help  him  a  little  longer,  we'd  have  our  supper  and  I  could  go  to  bed,  but  that  he  thought  perhaps  he'd  better  stay  up  all  night.  I  told  him  he  needed  rest  much  more  thanhe  needed  study,  but  this  was  an  idea  he  couldnot  even  consider.  He  led  the  way  to  the  parlor  and  pushed  open  the  sliding  door,  and  as  I  went  into  the  room  I  saw  that  a  photograph  of  Charles-a  young  Charles,  in  a  wooden  frame  the  shape  of  a  heart-now  stood  in  the  place  of  the  three  monkeys  on  the  table.  I  had  not  seen  it  before,  though  I  had  been  in  every  room  of  the  house  on  my  first  visit.  It  was  a  pale-brown,  faded  picture,  and  the  thin  wood  of  the  frame  looked  old  and  dry,  like  that  of  a  wornbrown  shingle.  Its  outer  edge  was  bevelled  and  gently  scalloped,  and  in  each  scallop  was  either  a  small  wooden  rose  or  the  spot  of  dried  glue  where  such  a  rose  had  been.  The  curves  of  the  heart  itself  were  voluptuous.  'They  made  the  long  neck  and  angular  face  they  enclosed  seem  touchingly  austere.  Charles  had  evidently  been  asked,  or  had  felt  re-  quired,  to  strike  a  pose.  He  craned  up  from  the  V  of  the  frame  with  the  alert,  puzzled  air  of  a  hungry  nestling,  but  his  chin  was  lifted-thrust  high  by  a  young  manwho  patently  had  little  thrust  about  him,  though  he  must  surely  have  want-  ed  to  have  it-and  his  gaze  was  inquir-  ing  and  brave.  Charles  saw  the  photograph,  too,  an  instant  after  I  did.  He  was  behind  me.  I  heard  no  special  sound  or  movement  from  him,  but  by  the  very  quality  of  his  silence  I  knew  that  he  was  startled.  A  small  radio  was  on  the  table,  partly  hidden  by  the  picture,  and  a  sewing  basket  was  on  the  seat  of  the  chair  along-  side.  Charles  strode  past  me  and  laid  the  notebooks  he  was  carrying  on  the  sofa.  As  I  followed,  I  heard  steps  al-  most  running  to  the  door,  and  Mrs.  Banister  came  in  looking  astonished.  She  stopped  and  turned  back,  and  then  stood  for  a  protracted  moment,  glanc-  ing  once  or  twice  at  Charles,  who  stared  at  her,  while  the  picture,  un-  acknowledged,  seemed  to  swell  like  a  presence  engulfing  the  room.  'Then  Mrs.  Banister  scooped  up  the  sewing  basket  and  left,  saying  only  that  the  room  was  dirty  and  that  Charles  was  a  queer  one.  &quot;Well!&quot;  Charles  said  to  me.&quot;Well,  now!  I  expect  we  ought  to  get  on  with  it.&quot;  We  both  sat  on  the  sofa,  across  the  room  from  the  photograph,  and  be-  gan  again  to  direct  the  flights  and  landings  of  imaginary  aircraft.  They  went  smoothly  enough  for  a  minute  or  two.  &quot;A  picture  of  meself,&quot;  Charles  muttered  suddenly,  interrupting,  nod-  ding  in  the  direction  of  the  photograph  without  looking  at  it.  &quot;Quite  an  old  one.&quot;  I  said  I  could  see  that  it  was.  The  " b"flights  continued.  &quot;It  was  done  just  be-  fore  we  were  married,  my  wife  and  I,&quot;  Charles  said  presently.  &quot;I  don't  fancy  I've  had  one  done  since.&quot;  I  nodded.  Charles  got  up  and  began  to  pace.  He  was,  for  our  purposes,  a  ground-control  officer,  and  I  was  a  pilot  lost  in  fog.  Using  code  signals  al-  most  absent-mindedly,  he  brought  me  in  from  high  over  the  North  Sea  to  a  theoretical  altitude  of  five  hundred  feet,  a  mile  away  from  my  runway,  and  then  abandoned  the  task.  He  confronted  the  picture  squarely.  &quot;Can't  think  where  it's  been  all  these  years,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  say&quot;-he  turned  to  me-&quot;you'd  best  come  in  and  land  or  you'll  miss  your  supper.&quot;  He  laughed.  I  hadn't  heard  him  do  that  for  weeks,  He  couldn't  seem  to  study  any  more,  and  he  didn't  appear  to  care.  We  went  to  the  dining  room,  leaving  our  note-  books,  and  stood  there  for  a  while,  chat-  ting  and  watching  Mrs.  Banister  set  the  table.  Charles  was  almost  gay-almost  garrulous.  He  talked  about  Procedures,  and  about  all  the  scholastic  trials  and  perils  we  had  suffered  together.  He  was  speaking,  I  suddenly  realized,  as  if  they  were  all  safely  over,  and  I  thought  he  was  coming  as  close  to  boasting  as  he  could,  which  left  him  still  some  distance  short  of  it.  &quot;We'll  have  another  go  at  Procedures  when  supper's  over,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  said  to  his  wife,  &quot;You  must  see  how  this  kind  of  thing  is  done,  you  really  must.&quot;  And  to  me,  &quot;We'll  give  her  the  book,  and  she  can  correct  us  both.  I'd  rather  like  to  try  pilot,  this  time,  and  you  could  be  Coastal  Com-  mand,  and  she'll  be  the  airdrome  at  Hendon.&quot;  And  a  little  later,  whenwe  had  been  upstairs  to  wash  and  were  go-  ing  down,  he  said,  after  a  silence,  &quot;You  know,  sometimes  a  chap  gets  the  wind  up  in  spite  of  himself.  Does  him  no  earthly  good,  does  it?  Confusion  worse  confounded,  and  so  on.  Well,  we'll  see  what  we  shall  see.&quot;  S  it  turned  out,  Mrs.  Banister  was  never,  within  my  knowledge,  the  R.A.F.  airdrome  at  Hendon.  By  the  end  of  supper,  Charles  was  holding  him-  self  wearily  erect  and  blinking  slowly  at  his  wife  and  me.  He  went  to  bed  soon,  apologizing.  &quot;I  shan't  do  at  all  well  tomorrow,&quot;  he  said,  but  he  didn't  seem  greatly  troubled,  and  though,  in  fact,  he  did  not  distinguish  himself,  he  did  get  through  by  a  thin,  sufficient  margin.  I  saw  Mrs.  Banister  only  once  again.  She  came  on  her  bicycle  to  the  school  to  meet  Charles  the  morning  we  gradu-  ated.  He  had  sewn  his  sergeant's  stripes  on  his  sleeve  the  night  before,  his  com-  passionate  posting  had  been  allowed,  and  his  face,  when  I  said  goodbye  to  the  two  of  them  at  the  side  of  the  road,  was  refulgent.  So  was  his  wife's.  We  all  shook  hands,  and  then,  sud-  denly,  she  gave  me  a  small  package  loosely  wrapped  in  tissue  paper.  It  was  the  three  monkeys.  She  said  that  she remembered  my  liking  them,  and  that  she  and  Charles  wanted  to  thank  me  for  helping  him  get  through.  &quot;Nice  of  you  to  come  that  day,  old  man,&quot;  Charles  said.  &quot;I  wouldn't  ever  possibly  have  made  it  alone.&quot;  It  was  preposterous.  I  had  done  noth-  ing.  I  said  so.  Ialso  did  my  best  to  say  that,  in  part,  Charles  had  rescued  him-  self,  and  that,  in  another  sense,  he  had  never  needed  rescue  at  all.  And  as  I  was  jabbering  this  nonsense-lightly  but  convincingly,  I  hoped-I  kept  wish-  ing  that  I  could  at  least  be  allowed  to  mention  the  picture,  and  its  frame,  and  the  place  where  we  had  found  them,  but  of  course  that  was  out  of  the  question.  So  I  still  had  the  monkeys  in  my  hand  when  the  Banisters  rode  away.  &quot;All  the  best!&quot;  Mrs.  Banister  called  back.  &quot;Goodbye!  Thanks  so  much!  Good-  bye!&quot; "