 b"Mrs.  Ira  CHAMPLIN  was  looking  forward  to  spending  the  day  with  her  dear  friend  Ra-  chel  Beckwith,  partly  because  she  was  always  glad  to  see  her  but  especially  be-  cause  this  was  the  day  they  were  to  start  painting  their  tole  trays.  They  had  bought  the  trays  a  week  before  in  a  hobby  shop  in  New  Haven.  Wander-  ing  in  aimlessly  off  the  street,  they  had  stayed  to  snoop.  They  had  been  quite  scornful  of  thefinger  paints,  the  leather-work  kits  that  smelled  of  goats,  the  needle-point  eyeglass  cases,  the  cross-stitch  samplers,  and  the  bits  of  plastic  that  could  be  assembled  into  miniature  sailing  ships,  but  when  they  saw  the  unpainted  tole  trays,  waste-  paper  baskets,  letter  holders,  and  maga-  zine  racks,  all  with  their  designs  stamped  on  them  and  the  colors  indicated  by  neat  little  numbers,  and  the  fascinating  little  containers  of  oil  paints,  and  the  brushes  that  came  with  them,  they  were  frankly  swept  off  their  feet.  After  some  hesitation,  which  they  considered  only  decent  when  laying  out  cold  cash  for  anything,  they  made  their  selections.  Miss  Beckwith  decided  on  a  horse's  head  with  a  glimpse  of  stable  in  the  back-  ground,  handsome  and  bold,  while  Mrs.  Champlin  chose  a  tray  marked  &quot;Chip-  pendale&quot;  and  stamped  with  a  compositionof  two  Japanese  ladies  in  kimonos,  carrying  parasols,  with  a  bridge,  a  pa-  goda,  and  a  mountain  in  the  back-  ground.  They  had  settled  on  trays,  rather  than  on  wastepaper  baskets  or  letter  holders,  because,  as  Mrs.  Champ-  lin  pointed  out,  trays  were  flat.  &quot;As  we  are  beginners,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  we'd  better  start  painting  on  curves.&quot;  They  agreed  to  decorate  their  trays  at  Mrs.  Champlin's  house.  She  lived  by  herself,  and  her  dining-room  table,  cau-  tiously  covered  with  newspapers,  could  be  dedicated  to  art,  and  Mrs.  Champ-  lin  could  eat  in  the  kitchen  until  their  artistic  fever  had  cooled  or  until  the  work  was  finished.  &quot;It  will  probably  take  days,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said.  &quot;And  if  I  didn't  have  Father,  we  could  do  it  chez  moi.  But  you  know  how  he  acted  when  we  made  the  dried  bouquets  last  fall.&quot;  &quot;It's  wonderful  you  still  have  your  father,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said  tactfully.  &quot;I  wish  I  still  had  mine.&quot;  Now  Mrs.  Champlin  looked  at  her  dining-room  table  and  thought  it  looked  quite  professional,  with  two  jelly  glasses  filled  with  turpentine,  an  old  cotton  slip  cut  up  into  rags,  the  paints,  the  brushes,  the  trays,  all  set  neatly  on  it.  She  pulled  the  shades  up  as  far  as  they  would  go,  and  when  theclock  struck  two,  she  went  to  the  front  door,  so  that  she  could  see  Miss  Beckwith's  car  as  it  came  up  the  road.  Mrs.  Champlin's  house  was  built  on  a  slope,  and  the  driveway  that  led  from  the  road  to  the  garage  in  back  was  steep  and  hazardous.  Only  a  month  before,  the  Dugan's  Bakery  truck  had  started  rolling  down  the  drive  at  the  very  moment  its  driver  was  removing  a  pecan  roll  from  the  back  of  the  truck.  Fortunately,  he  had  been  able  to  leap  into  the  cab  and  slam  on  his  brakes,  and  had  only  nicked  the  drainpipe  at  the  side  of  the  house,  instead  of  hurtling  through  the  rosebushes  at  the  end  of  the  drive  and  down  the  embankment  into  the  pond  below.  Shaken  by  this  near  tragedy,  Mrs.  Champlin  had  moved  a  large  stone  onto  the  drive,  so  that  visi-  tors  or  tradesmen  could  park  with  a  front  wheel  of  their  car  against  it.  Seeing  Miss  Beckwith's  small  coup\xc3\xa9  turn  into  the  drive,  she  stepped  outside  and  began  motioning  her  toward  the  stone.  The  car  slid  slowly  to  a  stop.  &quot;Am  I  against  it?&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  called  out  gaily  be-  fore  shutting  off  the  motor,  and  when  Mrs.  Champlin  nodded,  she  turned  the  key  and  climbed  out.  &quot;I  could  have  parked  up  on  the  road.&quot;  &quot;Don't  talk  nonsense,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said.  &quot;You've  seen  the  way  those  maniacs  come  around  that  curve.  I've  lost  three  R.F.D.  boxes  this  year.  You'd  think  the  federal  government  would  have  something  to  say  about  that,  even  if  the  state  does  choose  to  look  the  other  way.  I  notice  the  government  is  fussy  enough  about  the  Zid  of  box  one  can  have,  and  the  size  it  should  be.  They  were  adamant  with  Mary  Forrester  when  she  put  up  one  that  looked  like  a  church,  and  even  had  a  little  light  in  the  steeple,  but  they've  kept  mum  about  mine  being  smashed  to  atoms.&quot;  &quot;All  you  have  to  do  is  look  at  their  post  offices  if  you  want  to  see  how  their  minds  work,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said  as  they  walked  toward  the  house.  &quot;Now,  tell  me,  how  are  our  things?&quot;  &quot;''They're  ready!&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said,  and  led  the  way  into  the  house.  Miss  Beckwith  had  brought  a  smock,  an  affectation  that  Mrs.  Champlin  de-  cided  to  ignore,  and  the  two  women  settled  down  happily  to  their  paintings.  &quot;It's  wonderful,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said,  dipping  her  brush  intovivid  azure  paint.  &quot;I  don't  have  to  concentrate  at  all.&quot;  &quot;I  [REDACTED];  Mrs.  Champlin  frowned,  holding  her  head  to  one  side.  &quot;You  have  a  lot  of  sky,  while  I'm  up  against  all  these  feathery  little  branches  in  this  tree.  I  think  I'll  have  to  use  my  magni-  fying  glass  to  see  these  numbers.&quot;  &quot;You  have  a  lot  of  courage,  Bess,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said  generously.  &quot;I  don't     " b"think  I'd  care  to  tackle  that  snow  trickling  down  the  sides  of  that  volcano.&quot;  She  lifted  her  head,  listening.  &quot;I  think  I  hear  a  deer  crashing  through  your  woods.&quot;  'The  snow  isn't  going  to  be  as  hard  as  the  designs  on  these  parasols.  I'm  really  looking  forward  to  them  as  a  challenge,&quot;  Mrs.  Champ-  lin  said.  &quot;As  for  that  deer  you  think  you  hear,  deer  don't  come  that  close  to  the  house.&quot;  &quot;I  heard  something  large  crashing  through  the  shrubs,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said,  rinsing  her  brush  in  turpentine.  &quot;Something  large  that  snorted.&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin,  who  had  been  admiring  the  rich  purple  and  cerise  paints-  the  numbers  twenty  and  twenty-one-for  the  para-  sols,  started  suddenly  and  pushed  her  chair  back  from  the  table.  &quot;Rachel!&quot;  she  exclaimed  under  her  breath.  &quot;Rachel!&quot;  She  got  up  and  ran  to  the  front  door  while  Miss  Beckwith  stared  after  her.  &quot;Oh,  Rachel!&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said  again,  her  voice  faint.  &quot;Your  [REDACTED];  For  a  moment,  Miss  Beckwith  sat  still,  her  brush  in  her  hand,  and  then  she  put  it  down  and  buried  her  face  in  her  hands.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No.&quot;  She  got  up,  stricken,  and  made  her  way  to  the  front  door.  Mrs.  Champlin  had  opened  the  door,  and  the  two  women  stood  looking  out  onto  the  driveway.  The  bare  branches  ofthe  dogwood  tree  rustled  dryly  in  the  wind,  a  few  leaves  blew  across  the  gravel,  but  the  stone  was  pushed  over  against  one  ofthe  azaleas  that  lined  the  drive,  and  the  car  was  gone.  Mrs.  Champlin  put  her  arm  around  her  friend's  shoulders.  &quot;'Take  hold  of  yourself,  dear,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  go  to  pieces.  I'll  go  have  a  look.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  a  coward,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said.  &quot;I'll  go  with  you.&quot;  They  walked  to  the  drive  and  gazed  down  the  slope.  The  car  sat  in  the  soft  mud  at  the  edge  of  the  pond,  water  up  to  its  hubs.  A  dead  cane  from  a  rose-  bush  had  caught  on  the  rear  bumper,  and  now  floated  out  in  back  of  it  like  a  jaunty  feather.  The  top  was  sprinkled  with  dead  leaves,  and  to  Miss  Beckwith,  who  loved  it,  thecar  looked  cold  and  lonely  sitting  there  in  the  brown  water.  She  moved  away  from  Mrs.  Champlin's  encircling  arm,  and  when  she  spoke  her  voice  was  bitter.  &quot;You  have  a  dreadful  driveway!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  always  been  dreadful!  I  steel  myself  every  time  I  have  to  come  here.  I  get  so  sick  of  inch-  ing  my  way  down  it  and  becking  up  it.  Everyone-everyone  else-has  a  place  to  park  a  car  but  yow!&quot;  She  began  to  cry.  A  sharp  retort  sprang  to  Mrs.  Champlin's  mind,  but,  glancing  at  Miss  Beckwith,  she  didn't  speak.  It's  the  money,  she  thought,  and  understood.  Because  as  faras  money  was  concerned,  she  and  Miss  Beckwith  were  in  the  same  boat;  they  didn't  have  any,  except  for  the  meagre  income  that  trickled  in  and  got  smaller  every  year  because  a  bond  had  to  be  sold  when  the  electric  pump  wore  out  and  a  new  one  had  to  be  in-  stalled,  or  the  water  seeped  into  the  cellar  in  the  spring.  There  were  times  when  Mrs.  Champlin  envied  Anna  Kovak,  who  lived  down  the  road.  Anna  didn't  have  to  keep  up  appearances  for  anybody.  She  threw  her  tin  cans  in  the  back  yard,  put  a  pan  on  the  floor  when  the  roof  leaked,  kept  chickens  that  picked  and  squawked  on  the  lawn,  and  got  a  dollar  an  hour  for  cleaning  cot-     tages  for  the  summer  people.  Mrs.  Champlin  cleaned,  too,  but  not  for  a  dollar  an  hour.  She  even  washed  the  windows,  twenty-four  of  them,  first  doing  them  on  the  inside,  which  was  all  right,  and  then  choosing  a  time  to  do  them  on  the  outside  when  no  one  was  expected.  If  someone  did  catch  her  at  it,  she  would  say,  &quot;I  thought  I'd  get  the  worst  of  this  off  while  the  sun  was  out.  Every  time  I  Aeve  them  done,  it  rains!&quot;  She  didn't  blame  Rachel  Beck-  with  for  paying  to  have  hers  done.  Rachel  couldn't  very  well  sit  on  the  window  sill,  her  backside  hanging  out  over  the  Post  Road  for  everyone  to  see.  Living  back  country,  as  Mrs.  Champlin  did,  had  its  advantages.  People  weren't  so  apt  to  drop  in  and  see  that  she  was  merely  having  a  can  of  creamed  soup  for  supper,  or  that  she  was  sitting  with  just  a  twenty-five-watt  bulb  burning,  listeningto  the  radio,so  that  the  bill  those  pirates  at  the  light  company  sent  wouldn't  be  quite  so  appalling.  Of  course,  there  were  disadvantages,  too,  like  coming  back  to  the  dark  house  at  night,  frightened,  although  she  had  assured  her  hostess  not  fifteen  minutes  before  that  shedidn't  mind  at  all,  she     " b"was  used  to  it.  And  the  hours  that  stretched  from  six,  her  suppertime,  until  eleven,  her  bedtime,  when  it  no  longer  seemed  interesting  to  do  things  by  her-  self  and  she  sat  idle,  shut  in  by  loneli-  ness  and  paralyzed  by  it.  It  was  differ-  ent  when  Ira  was  alive,  she  thought,  when  the  house  was  a  joy  and  a  place  they  came  to  for  weekends  and  vaca-  tions  and  planned  to  spend  their  old  age  in.  They  had  had  a  dream  of  wood  fires,  fresh  vegetables,  comfort  and  beauty,  with  the  house  a  citadel  in  which  they  moved  self-sufficient.  But  with  Ira  gone,  the  dream  had  gone,  though  some  of  the  beauty  remained  in  the  hawthorn  they  had  planted  by  the  stone  wall,  the  syringa  that  seemed  to  hum  itself  when  thebees  dipped  into  its  waxy  blossoms,  and  the  lilac  hedge  that  they  had  planted  by  the  road  twenty  years  ago  and  that  now  every  June  nodded  and  swayed,  heavy  with  blooms.  Ira!  Mrs.  Champlin  thought,  so  keenly  that  she  almost  said  his  name  out  loud.  And  she  knew  that  if  he  were  here  this  mo-  ment,  he  would  laugh  and  tell  them  not  to  fret  and  ask  what  all  the  crying  was  about.  Then  he'd  call  up  the  ga-  rage  and  tell  Johnny  Molnar  to  get  right  out  and  bring  a  towrope.  There'd  be  no  thoughts  of  money.  Mrs.  Champlin  started  to  turn  im-  pulsively  to  Miss  Beckwith  and  say,  &quot;Stop  crying,  Rachel.  I'll  pay  for  it.&quot;  But  she  didn't,  because  she  knew  she  couldn't  afford  to  pay  for  it.  She  simply  couldn't,  that  was  all.  Instead,  she  took  Miss  Beckwith's  arm  and  said,  &quot;Come  on  in  the  house,  Rachel.  There's  no  use  in  your  catching  your  death.  I'll  tele-  phone  Johnny.&quot;  Miss  Beckwith,  drooping,  allowed  herself  to  be  led.  She  sank  down  on  the  couch,  and  Mrs.  Champlin  went  to  the  phone.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  tell  him?&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  asked.  &quot;He  was  furious  when  I  skidded  into  that  tree.  I  don't  know  what  he'll  say  now!&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  gave  the  operator  the  number  of  the  garage  and  waited.  Her  fingers  picked  nervously  at  the  ceramic  pin  at  her  neck.  &quot;Johnny?&quot;  she  said.  Her  voice  had  a  gay,  inconsequential  note  to  it.  &quot;Elizabeth  Champlin.  Johnny,  I'm  afraid  we're  going  to  be  a  great  nuisance  to  you!  It's  Miss  Beck-  with.  Where  are  we?  Why,  we're  at  my  house,  so  you  can  see  it  isn't  so  bad.  No,  not  a  flat.&quot;  She  paused  a  moment,  thinking  what  would  be  the  best  way  to  minimize  the  whole  thing.  &quot;You  know  my  driveway,  Johnny,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;Well,  Miss  Beckwith's  little  coup\xc3\xa9  slid  down  it,  ell  the  way,  and  now  it's  in  the  pond.  Not  fer  in  it,  but  is  it,  and  we  wondered-&quot;  She  stopped  talking  and  held  the  phone  away  from  her  ear.  Then,  after  he  had  finished,  she  thanked  him  and  put  the  telephone  back  on  its  hook.  &quot;He's  coming,&quot;  she  told  Miss  Beck-  with.  &quot;I'm  glad,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said.  &quot;Although  I'm  sick  of  being  disciplined  by  workmen.  Andnow  what  are  you  going  to  do,  Bess?&quot;  &quot;I?&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  asked.  &quot;About  that  driveway.&quot;  ''There's  nothing  I  can  do  about  the  driveway,  Rachel,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said.  &quot;But  I  can  do  something  about  that  curve  on  the  road.  Don't  keep  blaming  my  driveway  for  what  hap-  pened.  Lay  the  blame  where  blame  is  due.  Do  I  have  to  park  in  your  drive?  No!  I  park  in  front  of  your  house,  where  it's  perfectly  safe  even  if  it  is  the  Post  Road.  But  here,  with  that  blind  curve,  it  safe,  so  the  fault  has  nothing  to  do  with  me  or  anything  belonging  to  me.  It's  the  state  road  and  the  state  highway  people  that  are  to blame,  and  I'm  going  to  write  the  com-  missioner!&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  sniffed.  &quot;A  lot  of  good  that  will  do,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  won't  even  see  it.  Someone  in  his  office  will  just  file  it,  and  that  will  be  the  end  of  it.&quot;  &quot;He'll  read  this  letter,&quot;  Mrs.  Champ-  lin  said  positively.  &quot;I  met  a  cousin  of  his  at  a  bridge  tournament  at  the  Lawn  Club  a  couple  of  years  ago,  and  besides,  I'm  going  to  threaten  him!&quot;  &quot;With  what?&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  asked,  still  unconvinced.  &quot;He's  probably  used  to  that!&quot;  &quot;I'll  threaten  him  with  everything  in  the  book,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said,  using  a  phrase  that  she  had  heard  on  the  radio.  &quot;And  I'm  going  to  do  it  now.&quot;  She  went  to  her  desk  and,  getting  out  a  sheet  of  paper  with  the  letterhead  &quot;Mrs.  Ira  Champlin,  Spoondrift,  Mon-  roe,  Connecticut,&quot;  she  started  to  write.  Words  flowed  easily  from  her  pen.  &quot;Sir,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;As  I  sit  here,  a  car  lies  in  the  mud  in  the  pond  below  my  house  which  is  located  on  [REDACTED]  in  the  above  township.  It  lies  there  because  your  road,  [REDACTED],  is  unsafe  for  any-  one  but  the  hoodlums  that  speed  around  the  curve  just  above  the  entrance  to  my  driveway.  In  the  past  year,these  hood-  lums  have  smashed  into  three  of  the  government's  R.F.D.  boxes  at  no  little  inconvenience  to  this  writer.  'These  R.F.D.  boxescould  have  been  human  beings,  as  I,  myself,  stand  in  jeopardy  every  time  I  get  my  mail  from  the  box  which  is  still  standing,  no  thanks  to  you.  " b"I  am  writing  to  insist  that  you  takethe  curve  out  of  this  road,  [REDACTED],  where  it  endangers  my  life,  my  property,  and  government  property.  I  am  sending  a  copy  of  this  request  to  the  Federal  gov-  ernment,  via  my  Congressman  who  was  elected  on  your  Party's  ticket,  and  I  think  it  would  be  wise  for  you  to  take  my  request  under  consideration  unless  you  would  like  a  law  suit  on  your  hands,  as  both  Miss  Rachel  Beckwith  of  this  township  and  myself  are  prepared  to  swear  that  her  car  lies  in  the  pond  due  to  your  criminal  negligence.  I  will  ex-  pect  your  answer  by  return  mail.  My  request:  TAKE  THE  CURVE  OUT  OF  ROUTE  79!  I  hope  you  will  do  your  duty!&quot;  She  paused,  and  then  added,  &quot;By  the  way,  I  met  your  cousin,  Mrs.  Warren  Merriweather,  at  a  duplicate  tourna-  ment  at  the  Lawn  Club  in  New  Haven  where  I  had  top  score.  If  you  see  her,  will  you  remember  me  to  her?&quot;  She  read  the  letter  to  Miss  Beckwith.  &quot;Of  course,  I'm  not  sending  a  copy  to  the  government,  because  I  haven't  any  carbon  paper,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  Ac'l/  never  know  that!&quot;  NTHOUGH  Mrs.  Champlin  had  not  received  a  reply  to  her  letter,  she  was  not  surprised  when,  some  months  later,  she  saw  a  group  of  men  surveying  the  road  in  front  of  her  house.  Nor  was  she  surprised  when  one  of  the  men  knocked  on  the  door  of  her  house  and  explained  that  they  were  go-  ing  to  widen  the  highway  and  take  out  the  curve.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  she  told  him.  &quot;It  was  my  idea.&quot;  &quot;Good!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Then  maybe  they've  let  you  know  that  they're  going  to  have  to  take  five  feet  of  your  land.  That  is,  five  deep  by  twenty  feet  along  the  road.  They'll  pay  you  for  it,  of  course.  Any  idea  how  much  that  would  be  worth  to  you?&quot;  &quot;Not  the  faintest!&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said,  considerably  elated  at  hearing  about  the  money.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  consulting  a  paper  he  held,  &quot;they're  having  to  takea  little  land  here  and  there.  ...  Kovac?&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  nodded.  &quot;They're  taking  some  of  hers,  and  taking  quite  a  piece  from  the  people  who  have  the  kennels  beyond  the  curve.  I  think  the  price  has  been  pretty  much  agreed  on.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said,  not  liking  to  discuss  money,  and  she  was  feeling  so  pleased  that  when  the  young  man  asked  for  a  drink  of  water,  she  gave  him  a  coke  instead.  When  he  had  gone,  she  hurried  to  the  phone  and  called  Miss  Beckwith.  &quot;Well,  Rachel,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  men  are  here  to  take  out  the  curve!&quot;  She  listened  to  her  friend's  wild  congratula-  tions,  smiling.  'Then  she  gave  her  the  real  news.  &quot;And  they're  not  only  taking  out  the  curve  and  widening  the  road  but  they're  paying  me  for  it!  .  .  .  That's  what  I  said-paying  me!  ..  .  No,  dear,  not  for  the  idea  but  for  a  little  piece  of  my  land  they  have  to  snip  off.  I  don't  know  what  they'll  pay  me,  but  whatever  it  is,  it's  pennies  from  Heaven  and  com-  pletely  unexpected!&quot;  In  the  week  that  followed,  she  spent  quite  a  lot  of  time  figuring,  because  the  dictionary  she  owned  only  gave  the  number  of  square  rods  to  an  acre;  since  she  did  not  know  how  many  square  feet  there  were  to  a  square  rod,  her  fig-  uring  just  left  her  confused.  With  the  tape  measure  from  her  sewing  box,  she  went  out  to  the  road  and  measured  five  feet  from  the  edge  of  the  roadway  in  across  her  property,  and  was  happy  to  see  that  the  five  feet  took  in  only  a  small  gully  and  a  patch  of  rather  rank-grow-  ing  grass  that  she  had  always  found  it  a  nuisance  to  keep  trimmed.  She  con-  fided  in  Miss  Beckwith  that  although  Ira  had  paid  only  five  hundred  dollars  an  acre  for  the  land  when  he  bought  it,  over  twenty  years  ago,  she  had  upped  the  price  in  her  figurings  to  what  she  had  heard  they  were  getting  for  land  now-  a  thousand  dollars  for  woodland  and  more  for  cleared  land.  &quot;I  settled  for  twelve  hundred  and  fifty  dollars,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Just  to  be  on  the  conservative  side.  But  even  at  that,  a  hundred  square  feet  doesn't  come  to  anything,  and  I  doubt  if  they  pay  me  much.  But  no  mat-  ter  what  they  give  me,  I'll  take  you  on  " b" a  little  whirl.  Because  it  was  your  mis-  fortune  that  brought  this  whole  thing  to  a  head.&quot;  NMOST  a  month  went  by  before  another  man  came,  with  some  pa-  pers  for  her  to  sign.  She  read  them  care-  fully,  and  since  what  they.  stated  was  clear  enough  to  her,  she  signed  them  without  another  thought.  And  she  was  more  than  gratified  when  the  man  went  on  to  explain  that  beyond  her  house,  to  the  north,  the  road  would  be  widened  on  its  far  side.  &quot;That'll  leave  a  stretch  of  theold  road  next  to  your  driveway,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  give  you  a  nice  little  park-  ing  space.  It  won't  belong  to  you,  of  course,  but  you'll  be  the  only  one  who'll  want  to  use  it.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98  This  news,  by  itself,  was  good  enough,  but  when  a  check  for  a  hundred  dollars  came,  she  almost  fainted.  &quot;A  hundred  dollars  for  that  little  piece  of  ground!&quot;  she  told  Miss  Beckwith.  &quot;Why,  I  won't  even  miss  it!  I  must  say  it's  generous  of  them.&quot;  &quot;Knowing  his  cousin  may  have  some-  thing  to  do  with  it,'  Miss  Beckwith  hinted  darkly.  &quot;'That  and  the  letter  you  wrote.&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin,  who  had  stopped  by  on  her  way  to  the  bank,  laughed  gaily.  &quot;Something  hit  them,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Any-  way,  you  and  I  are  going  on  a  spree  with  part  of  it,  and  then  I'm  going  to  blow  the  rest  on  some  things  I've  been  dying  for.  Will  day  after  tomorrow  suit  you?  Thursday?  I'll  pick  you  up  after  break-  fast,  and  we  can  make  a  day  of  it.  I'll  have  you  home  in  time  for  your  father's  supper.&quot;  THURSDAY  morning  was  clear  and  sunny.  As  Mrs.  Champlin  backed  up  the  driveway,  her  head  out  of  the  window  soas  not  to  back  into  the  azal-  eas,  she  breathed  deeply.  Spring,  she  thought,  was  definitely  in  the  air.  There  was  new  green  on  the  lawn,  some  pale,  crisp  spikes  showed  where  the  daffodils  waited  in  the  ground,  the  branches  of  the  lilacs  glowed  a  russet  red  where  the  leaves  lay  furled  and  sticky,  and  yellow  crocuses  shone  in  the  rose  bed.  She  swung  the  car  out  onto  the  road  and  then  shut  off  the  motor.  She  sat  looking  down  at  the  land  as  it  lay  in  the  morning  sunlight.  The  pond,  gunmetal  gray  all  winter,  now  looked  blue  and  green,  with  dark  shadows  near  the  surface  where  the  lily  pads  were  forming.  Everything  seemed  to  be  waiting-not  to  burst  into  raucous  bloom  but  to  come  out  gently,  modestly,  without  any  show.  Her  eyes  softened,  and  she  hoped  that  God  would  forgive  her  for  ever  feeling  sorry  for  herself.  The  day  sang  on  on  the  same  high  note.  She  didn't  bother  looking  for  a  place  to  park  in  New  Haven  but  paid  seventy-five  cents  to  the  man  in  the  parking  lot  across  the  street  from  the  rear  of  the  Taft.  She  bought  a  beautiful  Belleek  cup  and  saucer  for  Miss  Beck-  with  at  an  antique  shop,  over  her  screaming,  happy  protests,  and,  laugh-  ing  so  hard  that  the  man  who  waited  on  them  thought  them  slightly  touched,  they  picked  out  two  sterling-silver  Saint  Christopher  medals,  for  their  two  cars.  Mrs.  Champlin  bought  a  pale-peach  nylon  slip  for  herself,  and  a  new  elec-  tric  toaster.  At  noon,  famished,  they  ate  lobster  salad  with  mayonnaise,  hot  cinnamon  buns,  and  ice-cream  cake  with  butterscotch  icing.  Then,  still  in  a  fever,  they  went  out  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  hundred  dollars.  It  was  al-  most  four  when  they  got  back  to  the  parking  lot,  laden  with  bundles  and  two  rose  bushes,  brown  now,  their  roots  wet  and  packed  in  burlap,  but  soon  to  send  out  slim  white  buds  if  the  picture  on  the  card  fastened  to  them  could  be  believed.  They  felt  happy,  dazed,  and  glutted  as  they  started  home.  They  didn't  even  talk  much.  &quot;I  don't  even  want  this,&quot;  Miss  Beck-  with  said,  biting  into  a  Fanny  Farmer  butter  cream.  &quot;I'm  just  eating  it.&quot;  She  looked  out  the  window,  the  candy  melt-  ing  in  her  mouth,  her  jaws  moving  slowly.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I  think  was  the  best  part  about  today?&quot;  &quot;The  medals?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  said.  &quot;It  was  not  buying  one  single  thing  we  had  to  fool  with  ourselves.  I  never  said  this  before,  but  I  get  awfully  sick  of  the  things  I  make  myself.  Of  course,  the  trays  were  fun,  even  if  I  did  feel  strange  working  on  mine  after  that  awful  day.  But  I  never  have  liked  eny  sweater  I  ever  made.  They  never  fit.  I  swear  I'd  rather  have  a  machine-made  orlon  one  any  time  than  a  handmade  wool  one.  I  hate  my  crocheted  bed  jacket,  I  hate  the  ceramics  we  did,  and  when  we  finished  the  dried  bouquets,  I  wished  I  could  have  had  a  dozen  roses  from  a  florist.&quot;  &quot;It's  nice  to  have  a  hobby,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said.  &quot;It's  nicer  to  go  out  and  buy  what  you  want,&quot;  Miss  Beckwith  answered.  &quot;And  I  think  I'll  just  give  Father  cold  cereal  for  supper.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Rachel!&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said.  &quot;Poor  old  man!&quot;  And  they  began  to  laugh  again,  and  laughed  until  they  cried.  Miss  Beckwith  got  out  of  the  car  with  her  packages  in  front  of  her  house,  walked  to  the  other  side  of  the  car,  and,  leaning  through  the  window,  kissed  Mrs.  Champlin  on  the  cheek.  &quot;I  had  a  wonderful  day,  Bess,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Real-  ly.&quot;  She  turned  and  hurried  into  the  house.  S  Mrs.  Champlin  neared  her  own  house,  she  saw  a  truck,  a  crane,  and  a  bulldozer  parked  by  her  driveway,  and  she  pulled  up  beside  them.  &quot;Well,  getting  ready  to  start?&quot;  she  called  to  the  menwho  stood  beside  them.,  The  youngest  answered  her,  &quot;To-  " b"morrow.&quot;  She  leaned  out  of  the  car  and  looked  at  the  stakes  they  had  driven  to  mark  where  the  new  road  would  be.  They  marched  in  a  neat,  straight  line  along  the  road,  but  then,  continuing  on,  they  disappeared  behind  the  hedge  of  lilacs.  &quot;What  arethose  markers  doing  there?&quot;  sheasked.  &quot;I  measured  that  myself-five  feet  from  the  edge  of  the  road.&quot;  T  hat  ain't  the  way  to  measure,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;You  got  to  figure  five  feet  in  from  your  boundary  line.  That's  what  the  surveyors  done.&quot;  A  cold  hand  clutched  Mrs.  Champ-  lin's  stomach.  &quot;You're  not  going  to  dig  up  those  lilacs,  are  you?&quot;  sheasked,  her  voice  trembling.  &quot;Are  them  lilacs?&quot;  the  young  man  asked  with  casual  interest.  &quot;I  putaspade  down  and  they  got  some  roots  on  them-as  big  as  my  arm.&quot;  &quot;They're  twenty  years  old,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said.  &quot;They  got  a  real  hold  in  there,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;We'll  have  some  work  getting  them  out.&quot;  He  leaned  for-  ward  and  patted  the  bulldozer  affection-  ately.  &quot;But  this  fellow  can  do  the  job.  He's  got  a  real  bite.&quot;  &quot;See  here,&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said.     &quot;You  can't  dig  them  up.  I  won't  have  it!  You  can  tell  whoever  your  boss  is  I  won't  have  it!&quot;  &quot;Look,  lady,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;I  got  my  orders  .  ..&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  anything  about  your  orders!&quot;  Mrs.  Champlin  said,  her  voice  rising.  ''You  lay  a  finger  on  those  lilacs  and  I'll-&quot;  &quot;Lady,  I  don't  want  no  stink  about  this,  but  I  got  my  orders,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  &quot;Those  are  nice  bushes,  sure-but  it  ain't  a  matter  of  life  and  death.  You  can  plant  some  more,  far-  ther  back.&quot;  &quot;Plant  some  more?&quot;  Mrs.  Champ-  lin  repeated,  and  began  to  laugh  hyster-  ically.  &quot;That  hedge  took  twenty  years  to  grow,  I  tell  you!  Twenty  years!  And  you  tell  me  to  plant  another!  Why,  you  young  fool!  You  silly  young  fool!I  haven't  time!&quot;  She  caught  a  glimpse  of  herself  in  the  car  mirror,  and  in  a  blinding  instant  saw  herself  as  the  young  man  must  be  seeing  her-an  aging  woman  in  a  worn  felt  hat,  wisps  of  gray  hair  blowing  across  her  cheeks,  her  eyes  faded  and  filled  with  tears.  For  a  moment,  she  thought  wildly  of  sending  the  hundred  dollars  back  to  the  state,  but  she  remembered  her  bank  balance-eighty-seven  dollars.  Besides,  she  had  signed  those  papers.  The  fight  went  out  of  her,  her  shoulders  sagged,  and,  leaning  forward,  she  slid  her  car  into  gear.  It  started  with  a  jerk,  and  she  could  hear  the  parcels  slide  back-  ward  on  the  back  seat-the  priceless  parcels  that  had  cost  a  lilac  hedge.  She  turned  in  to  her  driveway  without  look-  ing  back.  The  young  man  stared  after  her.  &quot;Boy!&quot;  he  said  to  the  man  next  to  him.  &quot;It  sure  takes  all  kinds,  don't  it?&quot;  He  took  off  his  cap  and  ran  a  hand  over  his  forehead  as  though  puzzled.  'Then,  shrugging,  he  climbed  onto  the  bull-  dozer.  "