 b"Arthur Dobson held  open  the door  of  the  school  gymnasium  for  his  wife,  then  followed  her  in.  The  smell  of  steam  heat  and  lini-  ment  and  disinfectant  was  the  same  as  it  had  been  twenty  years  before,  and  he  could  hear  the  scurrying,  pounding  feet  of  basketball  players,  punctuated  by  the  :]  sharp  tweets  of  the  referee's  whistle.  It  never  changes,  Dobson  thought.  Every  smell  and  every  sound  is  still  the  same.  He  led  his  wife  past  the  basketball  court,  then  through  another  door  and  up  a  short  flight  of  steps  to  the  gallery  above  the  swimming  pool.  The  room  was  of  white  tile  and  glass  brick,  and  it  was  steaming  hot  and  echoed  hollowly  with  a  noise  of  its  own.  Dobson  and  his  wife  sat  down  behind  a  railing  overlooking  the  pool,  and  Dob-  son  took  off  his  topcoat  and  put  it  on  the  seat  beside  him.  &quot;I'm  getting  nervous  already,&quot;  his  wife  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  they  have  a  chance?&quot;  &quot;All  I  know  is  what  Larry  said,&quot;  Dobson  replied.  &quot;He  didn't  seem  to  think  so,&quot;  &quot;I  don't  really  care,  so  long  as  Larry  wins  his  race,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  think  he'd  die  if  he  didn't  win  it,  with  you  here,  and  all.&quot;  &quot;He  can't  win  it  or  not  win  it,&quot;  said  Dobson.  &quot;He's  in  the  two-hun-  dred-yard  relay,  so  there  are  three  others  with  him.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  but  still  .  ..&quot;  His  wife  took  off  her  coat,  and  peered  down  at  the  green,  transparent  water  of  the  pool.  &quot;It  looks  awfully  long,  doesn't  it?&quot;  she  said.  Dobson  looked  at  the  pool,  and  estimated  that  he  could  swim  about  one  length-maybe  two,  if  he  took  it  easy.  &quot;Long  enough,&quot;  he  said.  Two  lanky,  muscular  figures  wear-  ing  the  bright-blue  trunks  of  the  rival  school  walked  out  of  a  door  at  one  end  of  the  pool  and  dived  flatly  into  the  water,  hitting  it  with  a  double  crack  like  pistol  shots.  Then  more  boys  in  blue  trunks  came  out  and  followed  them,  until  the  whole  squad  was  swimming  up  and  down  the  length  of  the  pool.  At  the  diving  board,  two  boys  took  turns  doing  unbelievably  complicated  dives,  and  Dobson  and  his  wife  watched  them  with  a  kind  of  uneasy  respect.  &quot;It  looks  as  though  Larry  were     right,&quot;  Dobson  said  after  a  while.  &quot;'They  look  pretty  good.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  said  his  wife.  &quot;Much  too  good.&quot;  Then  Larry's  team,  wearing  red  trunks,  appeared  and  dived  into  the  water  and  swam  up  and  down  the  pool.  At  first,  Dobson  had  trouble  recog-  nizing  his  son  among  the  twisting,  thrashing  bodies.  The  boys  all  swam  alike,  with  long,  powerful  strokes,  and  they  made  insane-looking,  bottoms-up  turns  at  either  end  of  the  pool,  and  Dobson  thought  back  on  the  summer,  many  years  ago,  when  he  had  had  some  difficulty  teaching  Larry  to  swim.  As  long  as  Dobson  held  him,  he  would  splash  and  paddle  gleefully,  but  the  minute  Dobson  took  his  hands  away  he  would  become  panic-stricken  and  sink.  It  wasn't  until  children  younger  than  he  had  begun  to  swim  that  Larry,  without  any  help  from  his  father,  took  his  first  strokes.  He's  certainly  improved  since  then,  Dobson  thought.  I  hadno  idea  he  could  swim  this  well.  Even  last  sum-  mer,  he  wasn't  swimming  like  this.  Then  Dobson  looked  at  the  others,  in  the  blue  trunks,  and  they  seemed  to  be  swimming  just  a  little  better.  I  guess  it  always  looks  that  way,  he  thought.  The  other  guys  always  look  frighteningly  good,  even  if  they  aren't.  But  \xc2\xab  this  time  they  ere  bet-  ter-there's  no  getting  around  it.  HEN  the  warm-  up  was  over,  the  two  teams  retired,  and  the  officials  began  ar-  ranging  their  lists  and  checking  their  watches.  It  was  the  final  meet  of  the  season,  the  letter  meet,  and  the  gallery  was  full  of  spectators,  both  students  and  adults.  From  below  came  the  sounds  of  more  spectators,  who  were  standing  or  sitting  along  the  edge  of  the  pool  beneath  the  gallery,  and  the  whole  place  hummed  and  echoed  and  rang  with  noise.  Dobson  removed  his  jacket,  put  it  next  to  his  topcoat,  and  loosened  his  tie.  He  fought  down  an  urge  to  light  a  cigarette,  and  locked  his  hands  together  in  his  lap.  His  wife  reached  across  and  clutched  them  brief-  ly,  and  her  handwas  cold  and  wet.  He  smiled  at  her.  &quot;It's  no  good  worrying  now,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Larry's  race  isn't  un-  til  the  very  last.&quot;  There  was  a  patter  of  applause  as  the  " b"rival  team,  wearing  blue  sweat  suits,  filed  out  and  took  places  on  benches  set  in  three  rows  at  the  shallow  end  ofthe  pool.  A  moment  later,  the  air  was  shat-  tered  with  cheers  and  whistles  as  Lar-  ry's  team,  in  red  sweat  suits,  came  out  and  sat  beside  them.  Presently,  two  boys  from  each  team  peeled  off  their  sweat  suits  and  dived  into  the  pool,  then  pulled  themselves  out,  shook  hands  all  around,  and  waited,  nervously  flapping  their  arms  and  wrists.  Dobson  looked  at  his  son,  who  was  sitting  on  the  back  row  of  benches,  staring  straight  ahead  of  him  and  chewing  a  thumbnail.  I  wish  I  hadn't  come,  Dobson  thought.  I  wish  I'd  made  up  some  excuse  to  stay  at  home.  He  remembered  a  time  when  he  was  young  and  his  father  had  come  to  watch  him  play  football,  and  he  had  spent  the  entire,  miserable  game  on  the  bench.  Parents  should  stay  away  from  athletic  contests,  he  told  himself.  They  ought  to  be  barred  by  law.  Larry  con-  tinued  to  chew  his  thumbnail,  and  Dob-  son  felt  sick.  A  manager  with  a  megaphone  an-  nounced  the  first  event,  which  was  the  fifty-yard  free-style  race,  and  gave  the  names  of  the  contestants.  'The  starter  pointed  a  blank  pistol  upward  and  told  the  boys  to  take  their  marks.  There  was  complete  silence  as  they  stood  in  a  row  at  the  edge  of  the  pool,  gripping  the  rim  with  their  toes.  The  starter  said  &quot;Get  set,&quot;  and  the  boys  crouched,  their  hands  on  a  level  with  their  feet.  There  was  a  pause.  'The  pistol  banged,  and  after  what  seemed  to  Dobson  like  an  un-  naturally  long  wait  the  boys  shot  for-  ward,  cracked  into  the  water,  and  churned  off  down  the  pool.  The  crowd  shouted  and  called  and  cheered  and  chanted,  and  the  noise  swelled  to  a  roar  as  the  swimmers  reached  the  far  end  of  the  pool,  made  their  frantic,  ducking  turns,  and  head-  ed  back  for  the  finish  line.  They  were  almost  indistinguishable  in  the  boiling  spray,  but  the  two  in  the  farthest  lane,  the  ones  in  the  blue  trunks,  pulled  stead-  ily  ahead  in  the  final  yards,  and  finished  first  and  second.  Dobson  settled  back  in  his  seat.  \xc2\xab'That  makes  the  score  eight  to  one  already,&quot;  he  saidto  his  wife.  &quot;This  is  going  to  be  murder.&quot;  But  Larry's  team  placed  first  and  third  in  the  next  event,  and  first  and  second  in  the  one  after  that,  and  some-  how,  unbelievably,  they  managed  to  gain  a  slight  lead.  It  was  never  a  big  enough  lead  to  be  safe,  and  at  one  point  the  score  was  tied,  and  Dobson  saw  and  pitied  the  agony  of  the  one  boy  in  each  event  who  failed  to  score.  Some  drooped " b"forlornly  in  the  gutter,  some  cried,  and  some  had  to  be  helped  from  the  pool  by  consoling  teammates,  who  said  futile  things  to  them  and  patted  them  on  the  bottom  while  they  dragged  themselves  to  the  benches.  As  the  final  event  came  closer,  Dobson  looked  more  often  at  his  son,  and  it  seemed  to  him  that  Larry  was  getting  smaller  and  paler  with  each  race.  I  wish  to  God  he'd  swum  first,  Dobson  thought.  I  wish  it  was  all  over,  so  he  wouldn't  have  to  wait  like  this.  Even  if  he'd  lost,  I  wish  it  was  all  over.  THE  diving  took  a  long  time,  with  each  of  the  four  contestants  doing  six  dives,  and  the  next-to-last  event  was  the  medley  relay  race,  which  Larry's  team  won,  putting  them  ahead,  37-30.  When  the  score  was  announced,  Dob-  son's  wife  gave  a  little  shout  and  grabbed  him.  &quot;We've  won!&quot;  she  cried.  ''They  can't  possibly  catch  us  now!&quot;  &quot;It  looks  that  way,&quot;  Dobson  replied  with  a  certain  amount  of  relief.  &quot;It  certainly  looks  that  way.&quot;  A  student  behind  him  touched  his  arm.  &quot;No,  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;They  can  still  tie  us.  The  last  race  counts  seven  points,  and  there's  no  score  for  second.&quot;  &quot;Oh!&quot;  said  Dobson.  &quot;Damn!&quot;  he  added,  half  to  himself.  He  saw  Larry  and  his  three  team-  mates  strip  off  their  sweat  suits,  jump  into  the  water,  then  climb  out,  shake  hands,  and  stand  around  fluttering  their  hands  and  breathing  deeply.  The  boys  from  the  other  school  did  the  same,  and  they  looked  big  and  unnaturally  husky.  They  didn't  seem  as  nervous  as  the  boys  on  Larry's  team.  The  noise  from  the  crowd  was  such  that  the  manager  had  to  shout  three  times  for  quiet  before  he  could  announce  the  event,  and  when  Larry  was  announced  as  swimming  third  in  the  relay,  Dobson  had  an  odd  feeling  at  the  sound  of  the  name.  His  wife  slid  her  hand  into  his.  &quot;I  don't  think  I'm  going  to  be  able  to  watch,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  tell  me  what  happens.&quot;  The  first  two  swimmers  took  their  marks,  and  a  tense  silence  hung  until  the  crack  of  the  gun.  Then,  as  the  swimmers  leaped  out  at  the  water,  the  spectators  came  to  their  feet  and  shout-  ed  and  cheered  and  stamped,  and  the  noise  grew  and  swelled  until  Dobson  couldn't  hear  his  own  voice.  The  swimmers  thrashed  down  the  pool  and  then  back,  and  the  one  in  red  trunks  was  slightly  ahead  as  they  touched  the  starting  line  andtwo  more  swimmers  sprang  out.  Dobson  didn't  watch  the  second  boys;  all  he  saw  was  Larry,  who  had  moved  up  to  the  start-" b"ing  line,  breathing  in  deep  gulps,  his  eyes  fixed  glassily  ahead  of  him.  An  offi-  cial  squatted  beside  Larry's  feet,  and  Larry  crouched  lower  and  lower  as  his  teammate  in  the  pool  approached  him.  The  red-trunked  boy  was  leading  by  about  two  yards  when  he  reached  the  edge,  and  it  seemed  to  Dobson  that  Larry  was  in  the  air  and  in  the  water  at  almost  the  same  instant.  Then  Dob-  son's  throat  closed  and  he  couldn't  make  a  sound,  but  beside  him  his  wife  was  screaming  and  pounding  the  rail,  her  voice  all  but  lost  in  the  growing  pande-  monium.  Larry  finished  his  lap  three  orfour  yards  ahead,  but  as  the  last  two  swim-  mers  raced  down  and  turned,  the  one  in  blue  trunks  began  to  gain.  He  closed  the  gap  slowly,  and  the  members  of  both  teams  crowded  around  the  finish  line,  jumping  and  beckoning  and  bel-  lowing,  and  then  the  red-trunked  boy  put  on  a  final,  frenzied  spurt  and  held  his  lead  to  the  finish  line.  Larry  and  his  teammates  spilled  into  the  water,  hug-  ging  one  another  and  falling  down  and  shouting,  and  the  blue-trunked  boy  clung  to  the  gutter,  exhausted  and  miserable.  Dobson  sat  back  and  looked  at  his  wife.  &quot;Wow!&quot;  he  said.  And  she  laughed.  Down  below,  members  of  both  teams  clustered  around  the  officials,  and  then,  suddenly,  the  ones  in  blue  leaped  into  the  air  and  shouted,  and  Dobson  saw  a  boy  in  red  trunks  hit  the  water  with  his  fist.  There  was  some  commotion,  and  a  lot  of  noise  from  the  crowd,  and  Dob-  son  was  unable  to  hear  distinctly  what  the  manager  said  through  the  mega-  phone,  but  he  caught  the  words  &quot;Thir-  ty-seven  to  thirty-seven.&quot;  Unbelieving,  he  turned  to  a  student  in  the  crowd.  &quot;What  happened?&quot;  Dob-  son  asked.  &quot;I  couldn't  hear.&quot;  &quot;We  were  disqualified,&quot;  the  student  answered  sourly.  &quot;Dobson  jumped  the  gun.&quot;  For  almost  a  full  minute,  neither  Dobson  nor  his  wife  said  anything.  Then  he  put  on  his  coat  and  helped  her  on  with  hers,  and  as  they  walked  slow-  ly  down  the  stairs  she  took  his  arm.  &quot;What  are  we  going  to  say  to  him?&quot;  she  asked  in  a  small  voice.  &quot;What  can  we  say?&quot;  &quot;I  wish  I  knew,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;I  wish  to  God  I  knew.&quot;  They  went  out  to  the  car,  and  stood  beside  it  smoking  while  they  waited  for  Larry.  Dobson's  mind  was  a  jumble  of  things  he  wanted  to  say,  but  even  as  he  thought  of  them  they  seemed  in-  if  adequate,  and  he  knew  that  none  of" b"them  would  do  any  good.  He  thought  of  going  in  and  seeing  Larry  in  the  locker  room,  and  then  quickly  decided  against  it.  I  guess  it's  best  to  wait  out  here,  he  thought.  He'll  come  out  when  he  wants  to.  FTER  what  seemed  like  an  hour,  Larry  came  out  of  the  gym  and  walked  slowly  toward  them.  His  hair  waswetand  slicked  back,  and  his  eyes  were  red-possibly  from  the  chlorine  in  the  pool,  Dobson  thought,  knowing  that  that  wasn't  the  reason.  Without  a  word,  Larry  opened  a  door  ofthe  car  and  dropped  into  the  back  seat.  Dob-  songot  in  front,  and,  after  a  moment's  hesitation,  his  wife  got  in  back  with  Larry.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  drive  around  for  a  while?&quot;  Dobson  asked  as  he  started  the  engine.  &quot;Whatever  you  say,&quot;  Larry  replied.  &quot;I  don't  care.&quot;  They  drove  through  the  streets  of  the  town  and  then  out  into  the  bleak,  snow-spotted  country.  For  several  min-  utes  nobody  spoke,  and  then  Dobson  cleared  his  throat.  &quot;Would  you  like  me  to  tell  you  something?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  said  Larry,  without  en-  thusiasm.  &quot;When  I  was  in  school,  I  wanted  to  play  baseball,&quot;  Dobson  said.  &quot;More  than  anything  else,  I  wanted  to  make  the  baseball  team.  The  only  trouble  was  I  wasn't  good  enough.  I  got  in  a  couple  of  games  as  a  pinch-hitter,  and  once  they  let  me  play  right  field,  but  I  dropped  the  only  fly  that  came  my  way,  and  they  yanked  me  out.&quot;  He  looked  into  the  rear-view  mirror  and  saw  the  incredulous  expression  on  his  wife's  face.  He  continued,  &quot;The  last  game  in  my  senior  year-the  letter  game-we  were  behind  four  to  three  in  the  ninth  inning.  We  had  a  man  on" b"third,  and  the  coach  sent  me  in  to  bunt  down  toward  first.  On  the  first  ball  pitched,  I  tried  to  bunt,  and  the  ball  hit  my  right  thumb  and  broke  it.  Tech-  nically,  I  was  eligible  for  a  letter,  but  I  never  collected  it.  I  couldn't  look  at  any  of  the  team  again.&quot;  Larry  laughed  shortly.  &quot;I  never  heard  about  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  didn't  tell  many  people,&quot;  Dob-  son  replied,  with  another  look  into  the  rear-view  mirror.  &quot;Butwhat  I'm  get-  ting  at  is  that  these  things  are  horrible  when  they  happen-you  think  you'll  never  live  them  down-but  sooner  or  later  it  gets  so  you  can  bear  to  think  of  them  again.  It  may  take  a  long  while,  but  eventually  it  happens.&quot;  Larry  was  quiet  for  a  minute.  &quot;I  guess  I  was  just  tryingtoo  hard,&quot;  he  said,  at  last.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Dobson  replied.  &quot;And  I  promise  you,  next  year  we  won't  come  up  here  to  watch.&quot;  Larry  looked  at  his  father  in  the  mir-  ror.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  said,  and  smiled."