 b"UNDERNEATH  the  sign  near  the  road  that  read  &quot;Cozy  Nook&quot;  was  a  smaller  sign  informing  passing  motorists  that  here  was  a  tourists'  home.  These  signs  lighted  up  at  night,  but  there  was  still  another  one,  which  did  not;  and  it  spelled  out  &quot;Hospitality.&quot;  The  Cozy  Nook  was  located  on  the  Post  Road,  two  miles  north  of  Monroe,  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  square,  bleak-  looking,  forbidding  building,  covered  with  white  stucco  that  had  crumbled  and  stained  in  the  fogs  that  rolled  in  from  Long  Island  [REDACTED].  In  front,  a  cinder  driveway  circled  two  gasoline  pumps  that  stood  a  few  feet  from  the  entrance,  and  two  rusty  dwarf  cedars  grew  at  either  side  of  the  steps.  In  summer,  a  clump  of  salvia  fought  its  way  up  through  the  gritty  soil  under  the  picture  window.  The  picture  that  the  window  offered  was  not  one  to  inspire  the  view-  er.  It  showed  the  Post  Road,  the  passing  trucks,  a  hot-dog  stand,  a  patch  of  salt  marsh,  and  the  sides  of  a  gully  across  the  way.  No  one  could  get  within  three  feet  of  the  window  on  the  inside,  anyway,  because  of  a-plant  stand,  which  held  dozens  of  plants,  their  leaves  grow-  ing  greedily  and  in  profusion  toward  the  light.  There  were  begonias,  with  blood-colored,  furry,  cannibalistic-look-  ing  leaves  and  tissue-paper  blooms;  phil-  odendron,  with  roots  like  worms,  in  Mason  jars  filled  with  water;  snakelike  sansevieria;  sweet-potato  vines,  sprout-  ing  lushly;  and  African  violets,  tempera-  mentally  flowering  in  pots  wrapped  in  tinfoil.  In  the  midst  of  this  jungle  a  tur-  tle  lived,  lying  on  the  stand  among  the  jars  and  pots.  Leaves  and  damp  earth  were  just  out  of  his  reach,  so  he  existed  in  a  hard,  dry,  uncomfortable  world  with  a  perpetual  mirage  overhead.  A  motorist  on  his  way  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  had  given  him  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Pardee,  proprietors  of  the  Cozy  Nook,  not  in  any  particular  spurt  of  gen-  erosity  but  because  it  was  June  and  the  turtle,  lying  on  some  wilted  grass  in  a  cardboard  box  on  the  front  seat  beside  him,  had  begun  to  smell.  It  still  smelled,  but  its  pungent  odor  was  lost  in  the  other  smells  that  hung  over  the  tourist  home-  the  smell  of  frying  from  across  the  way,  the  overpowering  stench  from  the  ex-  hausts  of  cars,  the  over-all,  pervading,  rotten  scent  rising  from  the  salt  marsh.  The  Pardees  were  used  to  all  these  odors;  their  nostrils  had  been  filled  with  them  for  twenty  years.  They  had  paid  a  good  price  for  the  Cozy  Nook  in  the  mid-  dle  thirties,  and  it  had  been  a  thriving  business  then,  being  the  only  place  be-  tween  New  Haven  and  Saybrook  where  travellers  could  stop  forthe  night  on  a  strictly  transient  basis.  To  be  sure,  there  were  inns  along  the  way,  but  tourists  and  salesmen  were  apt  to  give  them  a  wide  berth,  not  wanting  to  tip  bellboys  and  waiters,  or  pay  too  high  a  price  for  mediocre  meals.  The  Cozy  Nook  pros-  pered  by  offering  only  beds,  clean  sheets,  baths,  and  a  minimum  of  electric  light,  from  a  forty-watt  bulb  in  the  exact  center  of  each  bedroom  ceiling.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Pardee  were  fully  aware  that  their  guests  were  simply  ships  that  passed  in  the  night,  and  in  every  room  there  was  a  card  that  stated,  &quot;Rooms  must  be  va-  cated  by  twelve  noon.&quot;  Luggage  or  no  luggage,  the  patrons  were  asked  to  pay  in  advance,  andno  matter  how  it  rained  or  snowed  outside,  no  matter  how  the  wind  howled,  and  no  matter  how  the  aroma  of  coffee  percolating  in  the  Pardees'  kitchen  tantalized  the  weary  wayfarer,  Mr.  Pardee  had  never  offered  a  steaming  cup  to  anyone,  and  he  was  proud  of  it.  &quot;Can't  start  any  nonsense  like  that,&quot;  he  would  say  to  Mrs.  Pardee,  implying  that  giving  a  cup  of  coffee  was  like  taking  your  finger  out  of  the  dike-catastrophe  would  follow.  When  guests  stopped  by  late  at  night  and,  after  shelling  out  to  Mr.  Pardee,  asked  timidly  where  they  could  geta  sandwich,  he  handed  them  a  line  that  made  him  chuckle  when  he  thought  about  it  afterward.  &quot;You  can  get  something  right  across  the  road,&quot;  he  would  say.  And  then,  as  their  faces  lighted  up,  he  would  add,  &quot;But  it's  closed  now.  Won't  open  up  till  seven  tomorrow  morning.&quot;  The  guests  could  then  crawl  between  their  scrupulously  clean,  if  unironed,  sheets  and  stick  it  out  as  best  they  could.  One  young  man,  arriving  with  his  wife,  refused  to  admit  defeat,  and  told  Mr.  Pardee  that  he  was  going  out  and  bring  back  some  sand-wiches.  Mr.  Pardee  eyed  him  glassily.  &quot;Think  I've  got  nothing  to  do  but  wait  up  all  night  for  you  to  get  back?&quot;  he  asked.  The  young  man,  who  was  newly  married,  and  had  a  stubborn  streak  be-  sides,  banged  out  anyway,  leaving  his  bride  as  hostage,  and  Mr.  Pardee  stayed  with  his  eye  on  her,  watching  the  clock  and  not  speaking,  until  her  husband  re-  turned.  Later,  as  the  travellers  slunk  into  their  room  with  a  paper  bag  full  of  sandwiches  and  coffee,  he  sent  them  a  parting  shot:  &quot;If  I  wanted  crumbs  all  over  the  place,  I'd  serve  food  myself.&quot;  The  young  bride,  cowed,  ate  her  sand-  wich  over  the  washbasin.  There  was  nothing  about  the  Cozy  Nook  to  encourage  anyone  to  linger.  Every  bedroom  contained  a  bed,  cov-  ered  with  a  faded  spread;  a  bureau;  and  a  straight  chair.  The  floor  was  bare  of  rugs,  the  window  was  covered  with  white  net,  and  the  walls  were  painted  a  dead  white.  The  Pardees'  own  quarters  were  not  any  more  lavish.  Their  living  room,  through  which  the  tourists  had  to  pass  to  get  to  their  rooms,  was  a  model  of  austerity  and  neatness,  except  for  the  wild  tangle  of  plants  near  the  window.  It  had  a  stone  fireplace  in  which  there  was  never  a  fire,  a  very  large  radiator  with  a  pan  of  water  on  the  top,  a  small,  cheap  Oriental  rug  in  the  dead  center  of  the  floor,  four  chairs  with  wooden  backs  and  arms  and  tapestried  seats,  a  standing  lamp,  under  which  Mr.  Pardee  sat  and  read  the  papers  his  guests  had  profligate-  ly  left  behind,  and  a  massive  table  with  a  huge  Bible  on  it.  There  was  a  calendar  on  the  wall,  sent  by  the  bank  everyyear  to  its  more  favored  depositors-Mr.  Pardee's  account  was  considerable-  and  an  overhead  chandelier  with  all  but  one  bulb  missing.  Mostly  they  sat  in  the  kitchen,  which  was  not  much  more  comfortable.  A  mammoth  electric  re-  frigerator,  a  huge  electric  stove,  white  cabinets,  an  enamel  table,  and  two  kitchen  chairs  gave  the  room  a  frosty  look.  Mr.  Pardee,  if  he  loved  any-  thing,  loved  this  kitchen.  It  had  taken  the  whole  twenty  years  to  bring  it  to  its  present  state  of  spotless  efficiency.  And  every  person  who  had  slept  under  his  roof  had  helped  pay  for  it.  For  every  two  dollars  taken  in,  fifty  cents  had  gone  clattering  into  a  milk  bottle  that  stood  concealed  behind  a  rank-  growing  begonia  on  the  plant  stand.  At  first,  the  fifty  cents  had  represent-  ed  Mrs.  Pardee's  share  of  the  take-  a  sort  of  payment  for  making  beds,  cleaning  rooms,  washing  linen,  and  scrubbing  bathrooms.  But  when  she  had  accumulated  her  first  two  hundred  dollars,  Mr.  Pardee  had  grandly  added     " b"another  twenty-five  to  it,  I  making  up  the  price  of  the  stove  that  stood  in  the  win-  dow  of  Evart's  Electric  Shop.  Since  then,  it  had  been  understood  between  them  that  Mrs.  Pardee  was  always  saving  for  something,  and  gradually  the  milk  bottle  had  mirac-  ulously  filled  the  kitchen.  Mrs.  Pardee  was  Mr.  Pardee's  second  wife;  his  first  had  stuck  it  out  for  ten  years  and  then  taken  off  for  parts  unknown.  The  cashier  of  the  bank  confided  to  his  sister  that  as  Mr.  Pardee  was  defi-  nitely  \xc2\xbbot  paying  out  any  alimony,  it  sure  looked  like  she  was  the  guilty  party.  In  any  event,  Mr.  Pardee  and  the  Mrs.  Pardee  that  Monroe  knew  arrived  twenty  years  ago  to  take  over  the  Cozy  Nook,  looking  much  as  they  did  today.  She  had  been  a  slim,  blond  shadow  of  a  woman  with  protruding  teeth  then,  and  was  a  slim,  blond  shadow  now.  The  protruding  teeth  had  been  pulled  and  replaced  by  a  straight  set  of  porcelain-white  ones.  She  was  a  quiet  woman,  and  before  she  spoke,  she  would  give  a  quick  glance  in  her  husband's  direction,  as  though  asking  his  permission.  Her  eyes  were  a  pale  blue  and  her  hair  had  faded  to  an  ashy  hue.  She  had  the  dead-white  skin  of  a  woman  who  spends  most  of  her  time  indoors.  Now  and  then  she  was  seen,  a  rose-colored  sweater  over  a  spotless  housedress,  a  tan  beret  cov-  ering  her  head,  riding  to  the  post  office  with  Mr.  Pardee,  or,  dressed  the  same  way,  pinning  the  wet  clothes  to  the  line  in  back  of  the  house.  Whatever  she  had  been  or  done  or  thought  before  she  mar-  ried  had  been  erased  in  the  twenty-odd  years  she  had  lived  with  Mr.  Pardee.  Since  the  Cozy  Nook  prided  itself  on  never  being  closed,  the  Pardees  were,  of  necessity,  tied  together  twenty-four  hours  a  day.  And  in  this  close  association  Mr.  Pardee  had  eaten  Mrs.  Pardee,  nibbling  at  her  little  by  little,  until  noth-  ing  was  left  but  her  shell  and  one  or  two  emotions  that  hid  within  it-such  as  her  passionate  love  for  the  ugly,  threatening  plants  and  the  turtle  that  lived  beneath  them.  Nobody  had  eaten  Mr.  Pardee,  but  as  a  boy  on  his  father's  farm  he  had  been  made  to  work  like  a  slave  from  the  time  he  was  six  until  he  ran  away  at  fifteen.  The  rosy  cheeks  of  boyhood  were  now  florid,  his  sunburned  hair  had  turned  gray,  his  once  callused  hands  were  soft,     and  he  couldn't  have  guided  a  plow  down  a  row  if  you'd  paid  him,  but  in  his  eyes  there  was  still  the  ghost  of  fear  of  poverty,  and  it  looked  out  suspiciously  at  an  easier,  more  affluent  world.  He  had  bought  the  Cozy  Nook  with  money  he  had  scraped  and  saved  to  get,  and  he  had  bought  it  to  make  more  money,  but,  as  he  said,  he  intended  to  make  it  decent.  He  faced  those  two  hazards  of  a  tourist  home,  drunks  and  sinners,  with  his  eyes  open.  It  was  easy  enough  to  spot  the  drunks,  by  smell  and  by  the  fact  that  they  were  apt  to  fall  down,  and  he  turned  them  away  automatically.  Of  course,  if  they  could  walk  and  were  quiet,  that  was  another  matter.  As  a  man  of  business,  Mr.  Pardee  knew  where  to  draw  the  line.  The  sinners,  with  their  laughter  and  brazen  ways,  never  got  by  him.  He  sim-  ply  told  them  the  place  was  full  up.  If  they  were  insistent,  he  looked  them  over  coldly  and  said,  &quot;I  told  you  we're  full  up.  We  ain't.  But  I'm  not  goin'  to  let  you  two  stay.  So  git,  before  I  lose  my  temper.&quot;  THE  Mehusic  Motel  and  Cabins,  hastily  and  haphazardly  erected  on  a  strip  of  marshy  land  just  a  mile  beyond  the  Pardees'  place,  dealt  the  deathblow  to  the  Cozy  Nook.  Although  the  c  abins  looked  as  though  a  stiff  wind  would  blow  them  away,  they  also  looked  jaun-  ty.  Small  pennants  whipping  in  the  breeze  marked  the  gasoline  pumps,  and  there  was  a  sandwich  bar  and  a  soda  fountain  that  obliged  with  setup  s.  There  was  a  juke  box.  There  were  bottle  open-  ers  on  every  bureau,  magazines  and  newspapers  for  sale.  There  was  a  park-  ing  space  for  trailers.  The  cabins  were  not  habitable  in  the  winter,  but  the  motel  stayed  open  full  blast.  43616e616461s  of  revelry  rang  out  from  the  sandwich  bar,  which     did  not  close  until  one  in  the  morning;  the  juke  box  blared;  cars  drove  in  and  out  at  all  hours.  It  was  a  gay,  warm  lit-  tle  hellhole  and  drew  the  respectable  and  the  doubtful  alike.  Anyway,  it  killed  the  Cozy  Nook,  and  Mr.  Pardee  sat  in  his  chair  under  the  light  with  no  papers  to  read,  now  that  he  had  no  guests,  and  tried  to  figure  it  out.  What  puzzled  him  was  how  Providence  could  let  a  God-  fearing  man's  business  go  down  the  drain  while  just  up  the  road  another  man,  the  Devil  at  his  elbow,  raked  in  the  shekels.  Occasionally,  the  Mehusic  own-  er,  when  all  his  rooms  were  filled,  sent  a  customer  to  Mr.  Pardee,  who  took  the  money  and  let  the  wayfarer  stay-  after  looking  him  over,  of  course.  Not  for  a  minute  did  he  lower  his  standards.  But  this  was  a  rare  occurrence,  and  the  Pardees  sat  night  after  night  waiting,  with  nothing  much  to  talk  about  any  more.  In  the  good  old  days,  before  the  Mehusic,  there  had  been  all  sorts  of  in-  teresting  bits  to  discuss.  &quot;You  happen  to  get  a  look  at  that  fellow's  car,  Ellie?&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  would  ask.  &quot;That  fellow  that  was  in  Six?&quot;  &quot;'The  green  Chevyvy?&quot;  Mrs.  Pardee  would  say,  stirring  Vigoro  into  the  watering  can  for  her  plants.  &quot;Red  Chrysler,&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  would  correct  her.  &quot;You  think  he  looked  like  he  could  pay  for  a  car  like  that?&quot;  &quot;I  didn'tnotice  how  he  looked  when  he  come  in,&quot;  Mrs.  Pardee  would  an-  swer,  thoughtfully.  &quot;But  I  did  notice  when  I  took  him  an  extra  towel  that  he  had  a  real  nice  bathrobe.&quot;  &quot;You  took  him  an  extra  towel?&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  would  say,  his  mouth  set.  &quot;They  was  two  in  his  room.&quot;  Now  not  only  was  there  nothing  to  talk  about,  but  the  milk  bottle  was  al-  most  empty,  A  dozen  times  a  day,  Mr.     " b"Pardee  walked  through  the  sixteen  rooms  he  rented  out  to  see  what  was  the  matter  with  them,  but  they  looked  the  same  as  they  always  had.  When  winter  came  and  business  dropped  off  altogether,  the  Pardees  shut  off  all  but  three  of  the  rooms,  put  the  blankets  that  belonged  in  the  closed  rooms  away  in  mothballs,  turned  off  the  radiators,  and  pulled  down  the  shades.  And  all  winter  long  they  satin  the  kitchen  listening  to  the  carsthat  drove  by  and  never  stopped.  Once  in  a  while,  they  sold  some  gasoline,  but  not  often.  &quot;Maybe  if  you  put  up  some  little  flags,  folks  would  know  we  were  open,&quot;  Mrs.  Pardee  suggested.  &quot;People  who  are  out  of  gas  don't  need  little  flags  to  remind  'em  of  it,&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  said.  But  he  printed  a  sign  that  read  &quot;Open,&quot;  and  propped  it  against  the  Ethyl  pump.  ONE  night,  pondering  deeply,  he  had  an  idea.  &quot;It's  them  cussed  motels,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  a  mind  to  take  down  that  tourist  sign  we  got  there  and  put  up  one  that  says  Motel.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;We  got  no  lobby,&quot;  Mrs.  Pardee  said.  &quot;A  lobby  don't  make  a  motel,&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  told  her.  &quot;What  does,  then?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Nothin'  makes  one,&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  said.  &quot;Nothin'  but  the  name.&quot;  Just  then,  there  was  a  ring  at  the  doorbell,  and  Mr.  Pardee  looked  at  his  wife,  almost  smiling.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  and  got  up  to  answer  it.  Before  he  opened  the  door,  he  could  hear  the  peo-  ple  laughing.  The  woman  wore  no  hat,  and  the  cold  wind  blew  her  hair  across  her  face.  She  leaned  against  the  man,  her  arm  linked  through  his,  and  Mr.  Pardee  could  see,  below  her  coat,  the  bright-     red  taffeta  dress  that  blew  about  her  ankles.  Her  shoes  could  hardly  be  called  shoes  at  all-just  a  couple  of  straps  that  twined  around  her  instep,  her  toes  sticking  out  in  front,  her  heels  uncovered  in  back.  Mr.  Pardee  could  tell  at  a  glance  that  here  were  no  weary  tourists  forging  on  to  [REDACTED],  tired  and  ready  for  a  clean  bed  and  a  good  night's  sleep.  Ready  for  bed  you  may  be,  he  thought,  his  spine  stiffening.  But  not  in  my  place.  &quot;Got  a  room  and  bath  for  us,  Mac?&quot;  the  man  asked.  And  then,  turning  to  the  woman  beside  him,  &quot;Like  a  tub  or  a  shower,  Sugar?&quot;  &quot;A  great  big  tub,&quot;  she  said,  squeez-  ing  his  arm.  &quot;With  gallons  and  gallons  of  boiling  water.  I'm  frozen.&quot;  &quot;Frozen,  are  you?&quot;  the  man  asked,  and,  stooping,  kissed  her.  Then  he  turned  back  to  Mr.  Pardee.  &quot;O.K.  A  big  tub.  Open  up,  Mac.&quot;  Suddenly,  a  devil  got  into  Mr.  Par-  dee.  &quot;The  room  we  got  with  a  tub  is  twenty  dollars,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Wow!&quot;  the  man  said.  His  eyes  met  Mr.  Pardee's,  and  they  both  under-  stood.  &quot;O.K.,  Mac.  Open  up.&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  held  the  door  open,  and  the  couple  stepped  into  the  living  room.  Mrs.  Pardee  stood  at  the  kitchen  door,  staring  at  them.  &quot;I'll  tend  to  this,  Ellie,&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  said,  and  she  stepped  back.  He  went  to  the  kitchen  door  and  closed  it.  Then  he  turned  back  to  the  couple.  &quot;Got  to  register,&quot;  he  said,  leading  the  way  to  a  book  that  sat  on  a  small  table  in  the  hall.  &quot;It's  the  law.&quot;  The  woman  giggled.  &quot;Register,&quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Didn't  you  know?&quot;  Picking  up  the  pen,  he  wrote,  &quot;Richard  Roe  and  wife.&quot;  He  turned  to  Mr.  Pardee.  &quot;How's  for  a  couple  of  glasses  and  a  bottle  of  White  Rock?&quot;  &quot;No  White  Rock,&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  said.  &quot;No  nothin'.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;We'll  need  an-  other  glass,  though.  Afraid  of  germs.&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  stood  looking  down  at  the  book.  &quot;Twenty  dol-  lars,&quot;  he  said.  The  man  put  his  hand  in  his  pocket  and  brought  out  some  mon-  ey  fastened  with  a  bill  clip  in  the  shape  of  a  dollar  sign.  He  worked  a  twenty-dollar  bill  loose.  Mr.  Pardee  took  it  quickly  and  slipped  it  into  the  pocket  of  his  trousers.  Then  he  led  the  way  through  the  living  room  and  back  to  Room  4.  At  one  time,  Mrs.  Par-  dee  had  bought  cutouts  of  animals  lambs,  Scotties,  and  horses-and  pasted  them  on  the  doors  of  all  the  rooms.  The  cutouts  were  made  for  nursery  walls  and  they  glowed  in  the  dark.  Room  4  had  a  lamb  on  it.  Mr.  Pardee  threw  open  the  door  and  turned  on  the  over-  head  light.  It  shed  a  feeble  light  on  the  bare  room,  the  uncompromising  bed,  the  bureau  scarf  with  the  crocheted  edge.  &quot;God!&quot;  the  woman  said,  and  for  the  first  time  the  smile  left  her  face.  &quot;You  goin'  out  to  bring  in  your  bags?&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  asked.  &quot;We  forgot  our  bags,&quot;  the  man  said.  He  reached  in  his  overcoat  pocket  and  brought  out  a  pint  of  rye,  which  he  set  down  on  the  white  scarf.  &quot;That'll  be  all.&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  went  out  and  shut  the  door.  He  heard  the  key  turn  in  the  lock.  For  a  minute,  he  stood  there  in  the  hall,  the  lamb  glowing  on  the  closed  door  in  front  of  him.  He  heard  the  man  say,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  honey.  But  that's  the  way  it  is.&quot;  &quot;God,&quot;  the  woman  said  again.  Then  her  voice  softened.  &quot;Well,  what  can  you  do?&quot;  &quot;You're  a  sport,  honey,&quot;  said.  &quot;Hell!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  can  you  do?&quot;  Mr.  Pardee  walked  back  to  the  liv-  ing  room  and  took  the  milk  bottle  from  behind  the  begonia.  He  opened  the  door  to  the  kitchen  and  went  in.  Mrs.  Pardee  was  cutting  out  a  pattern  on  the  kitchen  table.  She  was  making  a  pair  of  flan-  '  the  man  " b"nelette  pajamas  for  him.  He  set  the  milk  bottle  down  on  the  table  and,  reaching  in  his  pocket,  took  out  a  five-dollar  bill  and  slid  it  through  the  neck  of  the  bot-  tle.  &quot;Here  you  are,  Ellie,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Here's  your  twenty-five  per  cent.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  she  said.  The  scissors  clicked  against  the  enamel.  He  stood  there  uneasily,  trying  to  think  of  something  to  say,  the  way  he  al-  ways  did  when  he  had  signed  someone  in-something  like  &quot;Nice  young  cou-  ple,&quot;  or  &quot;Man  says  they've  drove  all  the  way  from  Baltimore&quot;-but  he  could  find  no  words  for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roe.  He  went  to  the  beautiful  refrigerator,  took  out  a  bottle  of  milk,  and  poured  himself  a  glass.  It  had  a  pure,  cold,  bland  taste  in  his  mouth.  &quot;You  better  go  on  to  bed,  Ellie,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  wait  up-\xe2\x80\x997  She  folded  her  sewing  and  put  it  away.  Then  she  came  over  to  him  and  kissed  him  on  the  cheek.  &quot;Good  night,  Howard,&quot;  she  said.  She  left  the  room  without  looking  at  the  milk  bottle.  He  took  his  glass  of  milk  into  the  living  room  and  sat  down  near  the  pic-  ture  window.  It  was  a  black  night,  and  the  cedars  scraped  against  the  house  in  the  wind.  'The  hot-dog  stand  across  the  way  was  dark,  and  the  house  shook  as  the  trucks  rumbled  past.  After  a  half  hour,  he  got  up  and  went  out  to  the  shed  in  back  and  searched  until  he  found  a  board  the  right  size,  a  can  of  black  paint,  a  paintbrush,  and  a  bottle  of  turpentine.  He  carried  them  back  into  the  kitchen,  and  spread  newspapers  on  the  kitchen  table.  Then  he  went  into  the  living  room  and  sat  down  at  the  table  in  front  of  the  Bible.  The  Bible  had  belonged  to  his  father,  and  it  was  the  only  thing  he  had  taken  from  the  farm  after  his  father  died  and  the  place  was  sold.  He  opened  it  for  guidance  and  began  to  read  silently,  his  lips  moving.  &quot;'They  shall  cast  their  silver  in  the  streets,&quot;  he  read,  &quot;and  their  gold  shall  be  removed:  their  silver  and  their  gold  shall  not  be  able  to  deliver  them  in  the  day  of  the  wrath  of  the  Lord.&quot;  He  closed  the  Bible  and  went  back  intothe  kitchen.  T  was  almost  two  hours  later  when  he  finished  painting  the  &quot;For  Sale&quot;  sign,  in  large  black  letters.  He  carried  the  sign  outdoors  and  propped  it  agains.  the  front  of  the  house,  justas  the  front  door  opened  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roe  came  out.  Her  dress  blew  against  the  wet  paint,  but  Mr.  Pardee  didn't  tell  her.  He  stood  back  to  let  them  pass,  and  watched  them  as  they  climbed  into  their  car.  Then  he  went  back  inside,  and  shut  and  locked  the  door.  He  took  the  twenty-dollar  bill  from  his  pocket  and  began  to  tear  it  up.  He  had  never  torn  money  before,  and  he  was  sur-  prised  that  it  was  so  hard  to  do.  Then  he  went  back  into  the  kitchen  and  fished  with  a  fork  until  he  got  his  own  five-  dollar  bill  out  of  the  milk  bottle.  No  use  throwing  good  money  after  bad,  he  thought.  Going  into  the  hall,  he  flicked  off  the  switches  that  lighted  the  signs  &quot;Cozy  Nook&quot;  and  &quot;Tourist  Home&quot;  outside,  so  that  the  place  stood  in  darkness. "