 b"THE  strangest  notions  had  a  way  of  forcing  themselves  into  Rogin's  mind.  Just  thirty-one  and  passa-  ble-looking,  with  short  black  hair,  small  eyes,  but  a  high,  open  forehead,  he  was  a  research  chemist,  and  his  mind  was  gen-  erally  serious  and  dependable.  But  on  a  snowy  Sunday  evening  while  this  stocky  man,  buttoned  to  the  chin  in  a  Burberry  coat  and  walking  in  his  pre-  posterous  gait-feet  turned  outward--  was  going  toward  the  subway,  he  fell  into  a  peculiar  state.  He  was  on  his  way  to  have  supper  with  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e.  She  had  phoned  him  a  short  while  ago  and  said,  &quot;You'd  bet-  ter  pick  up  a  few  things  on  the  way.&quot;  &quot;What  do  we  need?&quot;  &quot;Some  roast  beef,  for  one  thing.  I  bought  a  quarter  of  a  pound  coming  home  from  my  aunt's.&quot;  &quot;Why  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  Joan?&quot;  said  Rogin,  deeply  annoyed.  &quot;That's  just  about  enough  for  one  good  sand-  wich.&quot;  &quot;So  you  have  to  stop  at  a  delicates-  sen.  I  had  no  more  money.&quot;  He  was  about  to  ask,  &quot;What  hap-  pened  to  the  thirty  dollars  I  gave  you  on  Wednesday?,&quot;  but  he  knew  that  would  not  be  right.  &quot;I  had  to  give  Phyllis  money  forthe  cleaning  woman,&quot;  said  Joan.  Phyllis,  Joan's  cousin,  was  a  young  divorc\xc3\xa9e,  extremely  wealthy.  The  two  women  shared  an  apartment.  &quot;Roast  beef,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  what  else?&quot;  &quot;Some  shampoo,  sweetheart.  We've  used  up  all  the  shampoo.  And  hurry,  darling,  I've  missed  you  all  day.&quot;  &quot;And  I've  missed  you,&quot;  said  Rogin,  but  to  tell  the  truth  he  had  been  worry-  ing  most  of  the  time.  He  had  a  young,  er  brother  whom  he  was  putting  through  college.  And  his  mother,  whose  annuity  wasn't  quite  enough  in  these  days  of  inflation  and  high  taxes,  needed  money,  too.  Joan  had  debts  he  was  helping  her  to  pay,  for  she  wasn't  work-  ing.  She  was  looking  for  something  suit-  able  to  do.  Beautiful,  well-educated,  aristocratic  in  her  attitude,  she  couldn't  clerk  in  a  dime  store;  she  couldn't  model  clothes  (Rogin  thought  this  made  girls  vain  and  stiff,  and  he  didn't  want  her  to);  she  couldn't  be  a  waitress  or  a  cashier.  What  could  she  be?  Well,  something  would  turn  up,  and  mean-  time  Rogin  hesitated  to  complain.  He  paid  her  bills-the  dentist,  the  depart-  ment  store,  the  osteopath,  thedoctor,  the  psychiatrist.  At  Christmas,  Rogin  almost  went  mad.  Joan  bought  him  a  velvet  smoking  jacket  with  frog  fasten-  ers,  a  beautiful  pipe,  and  a  pouch.  She  bought  Phyllis  a  garnet  brooch,  an  Italian  silk  umbrella,  and  a  gold  ciga-  rette  holder.  For  other  friends,  she  bought  Dutch  pewter  and  Swedish  glassware.  Before  she  was  through,  she  had  spent  five  hundred  dollars  of  Ro-  gin's  money.  He  loved  her  too  much  to  show  his  suffering.  He  believed  she  had  a  far  better  nature  than  his.  She  didn't  worry  about  money.  She  had  a  marvellous  character,  always  cheerful,  and  she  really  didn't  need  a  psychiatrist  at  all.  She  went  to  one  because  Phyllis  did  and  it  made  her  curious.  She  tried  too  much  to  keep  up  with  her  cousin,  whose  father  had  made  millions  in  the  rug  business.  While  the  woman  in  the  drugstore  was  wrapping  the  shampoo  bottle,  a  clear  idea  suddenly  arose  in  Rogin's  thoughts:  Money  surrounds  you  in  life  as  the  earth  does  in  death.  Superimposition  is  the  universal  law.  Who  is  free?  No  one  is  free.  Who  has  no  burdens?  Every-  one  is  under  pressure.  The  very  rocks,  the  waters  of  the  earth,  beasts,  men,  children-everyone  has  some  weight  to  carry.  This  idea  was  extremely  clear  to  him  at  first.  Soon  it  became  rather  vague,  but  it  had  a  great  effect  never-  theless,  as  if  someone  had  given  him  a  valuable  gift.  (Not  like  the  velvet  smok-  ing  jacket  he  couldn't  bring  himself  to  wear,  or  the  pipe  it  choked  him  to  smoke.)  The  notion  that  all  were  under  pressure  and  affliction,  instead  of  sad-  dening  him,  had  the  opposite  influence.  It  put  him  in  a  wonderful  mood.  It  was  extraordinary  how  happy  he  became  and,  in  addition,  clear-sighted.  His  eyes  all  at  once  were  opened  to  what  was  around  him.  He  saw  with  delight  how  the  druggist  and  the  woman  who  wrapped  the  shampoo  bottle  were  smiling  and  flirting,  how  the  lines  of  worry  in  her  face  went  over  into  lines  of  cheer  and  the  druggist's  receding  gums  did  not  hinder  his  kidding  and  friendliness.  And  in  the  delicatessen,  also,  it  was  amazing  how  much  Rogin  noted  and  what  happiness  it  gave  him  simply  to  be  there.  DELICATESSENS  on  Sunday  night,  when  all  other  stores  are  shut,  will  overcharge  you  ferociously,  and  Rogin  would  normallyhave  been  on  guard,  but  he  was  not  tonight,  or  scarce-  ly  so.  Smells  of  pickle,  sausage,  mustard,  and  smoked  fish  overjoyed  him.  He  pitied  the  people  who  would  buy  the  chicken  salad  and  chopped  herring;  they  could  do  it  only  because  their  sight  was  too  dim  to  see  what  they  were  get-  ting-the  fat  flakes  of  pepper  on  the  chicken,  the  soppy  herring,  mostly  vine-  gar-soaked  stale  bread.  Who  would  buy  them?  Late  risers,  people  living  alone,  waking  up  in  the  darkness  of  the  after-  noon,  finding  their  refrigerators  empty,  or  people  whose  gaze  was  turned  in-  ward.  The  roast  beef  looked  not  bad,  and  Rogin  ordered  a  pound.  While  the  storekeeper  was  slicing  the  meat,  he  yelled  at  a  Puerto  Rican  kid  who  was  reaching  for  a  bag  of  chocolate  cookies,  &quot;Hey,  you  want  to  pull  me  down  the  whole  display  on  yourself!  You,  chico,  wait  a  half  a  minute.&quot;  This  storekeeper,  though  he  looked  like  one  of  Pancho  Villa's  bandits,  the  kind  that  smeared  their  enemies  with  syrup  and  staked  them  down  on  anthills,  a  man  with  toadlike  eyes  and  stout  hands  made  to  clasp  pistols  hung  around  his  belly,  was  not  so  bad.  He  was  a  New  York  man,  thought  Rogin-who  was  from  [REDACTED]  himself-a  New  York  man  toughened  by  every  abuse  of  the  city,  trained  to  suspect  everyone.  But  in  his  own  realm,  on  the  board  behind  the  counter,  there  was  justice.  Even  clem-  ency.  The  Puerto  Rican  kid  wore  a  com-  plete  cowboy  outfit-a  green  hat  with  white  braid,  guns,  chaps,  spurs,  boots,  and  gauntlets-but  he  couldn't  speak  any  English.  Rogin  unhooked  the  cello-  phane  bag  of  hard  circular  cookies  and  gave  it  to  him.  'The  boy  tore  the  cellophane  with  his  teeth  and  began  to  chew  one  of  those  dry  chocolate  discs.  Rogin  recognized  his  state-the  ener-  getic  dream  of  childhood.  Once,  he,  too,  had  found  these  dry  biscuits  de-  licious.  It  would  have  bored  him  now  to  eat  one.  What  else  would  Joan  like?  Rogin  thought  fondly.  Some  strawberries?  &quot;Give  me  some  frozen  strawberries.  No,  raspberries,  she  likes  those  better.  " b"And  heavy  cream.  And  some  rolls,  cream  cheese,  and  some  of  those  rubber-  looking  gherkins.&quot;  &quot;What  rubber?&quot;  'Those,  deep  green,  with  eyes.  Some  ice  cream  might  be  in  order,  too.&quot;  He  tried  to  think  of  a  compliment,  a  good  comparison,  an  endearment,  for  Joan  when  she'd  open  the  door.  What  about  her  complexion?  'There  was  real-  ly  nothing  to  compare  her  sweet,  small,  daring,  shapely,  timid,  defiant,  loving  face  to.  How  difficult  she  was,  and  how  beautiful!  N  Rogin  went  down  into  the  stony,  odorous,  metallic,  captive  air  of  the  subway,  he  was  diverted  by  an  unusual  confession  made  by  a  man  to  his  friend.  These  were  two  very  tall  men,  shapeless  in  their  winter  clothes,  as  if  their  coats  concealed  suits  of  chain  mail.  &quot;So,  how  long  have  you  known  me?&quot;  said  one.  &quot;Twelve  years.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  have  an  admission  to  make,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  decided  that  I  might  as  well.  For  years  I've  been  a  heavy  drinker.  You  didn't  know.  Prac-  tically  an  alcoholic.&quot;  But  his  friend  was  not  surprised,  and  he  answered  immediately,  &quot;Yes,  I  did  know.&quot;  &quot;You  knew?  Impossible!  How  could  you?&quot;  Why,  thought  Rogin,  as  ifit  could  be  a  secret!  Look  at  that  long,  austere,  alcohol-washed  face,  that  drink-ruined  nose,  the  skin  by  his  ears  like  turkey  wattles,  and  those  whiskey-saddened  eyes.  &quot;Well,  I  did  know,  though.&quot;  &quot;You  couldn't  have.  I  can't  believe  it.&quot;  He  was  upset,  and  his  friend  didn't  seem  to  want  to  soothe  him.  &quot;Butit's  all  right  now,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  been  going  to  a  doctor  and  taking  pills,  a  new  rev-  olutionary  Danish  discovery.  It's  a  mir-  acle.  I'm  beginning  to  believe  they  can  cure  you  of  anything  and  everything.  You  can't  beat  the  Danes  in  science.  They  do  everything.  They  turned  a  man  into  a  woman.&quot;  'That  isn't  how  they  stop  you  from  drinking,  is  it?&quot;  &quot;No.  I  hope  not.  This  is  only  like  aspirin.  It's  super-aspirin.  They  call  it  the  aspirin  ofthe  future.  But  if  you  use  it,  you  have  to  stop  drinking.&quot;  Rogin's  illuminated  mind  asked  of  itself  while  the  human  tides  of  the  sub-  way  swayed  back  and  forth,  and  cars  linked  and  transparent  like  fish  bladders  raced  under  the  streets:  How  come  he  thought  nobody  would  know  what  ev-  erybody  couldn't  help  knowing?  And,  as  a  chemist,  he  asked  himself  what  kind  of  compound  this  new  Danish  drug  might  be,  and  started  thinking  about  various  inventions  of  his  own,  synthetic  albumen,  a  cigarette  that  lit  itself,  a  cheaper  motor  fuel.  Ye  gods,  but  he  needed  money!  As  never  before.  What was  to  be  done?  His  mother  was  grow-  ing  more  and  more  difficult.  On  Friday  night,  she  had  neglected  to  cut  up  his  meat  for  him,  and  he  was  hurt.  She  had  sat  at  the  table  motionless,  with  her  long-suffering  face,  severe,  and  let  him  cut  his  own  meat,  a  thing  she  almost  never  did.  She  had  always  spoiled  him  and  made  his  brother  envy  him.  But  what  she  expected  now!  Oh,  Lord,  how  he  had  to  pay,  and  it  had  never  even  occurred  to  him  formerly  that  these  things  might  have  a  price.  Seated,  one  of  the  passengers,  Rogin  recovered  his  calm,  happy,  even  clair-  voyant  state  of  mind.  To  think  of  money  was  to  think  as  the  world  wanted  you  to  think;  then  you'd  never  be  your  own  master.  When  people  said  they  wouldn't  do  something  for  love  or  money,  they  meant  that  love  and  money  were  op-  posite  passions  and  one  the  enemy  of  the  other.  He  went  on  to  reflect  how  little  people  knew  about  this,  how  they  slept  through  life,  how  small  a  light  the  light  of  consciousness  was.  Rogin's  clean,  snub-nosed  face  shone  while  his  heart  was  torn  with  joy  at  these  deeper  thoughts  of  our  ignorance.  You  might  take  this  drunkard  as  an  example,  who  for  long  years  thought  his  closest  friends  never  suspected  he  drank.  Rogin  looked  up  and  down  the  aisle  for  this  re-  markable  knightly  symbol,  but  he  was  gone.  However,  there  was  no  lack  of  things  " b"to  see.  'There  was  a  small  girl  with  a  new  white  muff;  into  the  muff  a  doll's  head  was  sewn,  and  the  child  was  hap-  py  and  affectionately  vain  of  it,  while  her  old  man,  stout  and  grim,  with  a  huge  scowling  nose,  kept  picking  her  up  and  resettling  her  in  the  seat,  as  if  he  were  trying  to  change  her  into  some-  thing  else.  Then  another  child,  led  by  her  mother,boarded  the  car,  and  this  other  child  carried  the  very  same  doll-  faced  muff,  and  this  greatly  annoyed  both  parents.  'The  woman,  who  looked  like  a  difficult,  contentious  woman,  took  her  daughter  away.  It  seemed  to  Rogin  that  each  child  was  in  love  with  its  own  muff  and  didn't  even  see  the  other,  but  it  was  one  of  his  foibles  to  think  he  understood  the  hearts  of  little  children.  A  foreign  family  next  engaged  his  attention.  'They  looked  like  Central  Americans  to  him.  On  one  side  the  mother,  quite  old,  dark-faced,  white-  haired,  and  worn  out;  on  the  other  a  son  with  the  whitened,  porous  hands  of  a  dishwasher.  But  what  was  the  dwarf  who  sat  between  them-a  son  or  a  daughter?  The  hair  was  long  and  wavy  and  the  cheeks  smooth,  but  the  shirt  and  tie  were  masculine.  'The  overcoat  was  feminine,  but  the  shoes-  the  shoes  were  a  puzzle.  A  pair  of  brown  oxfords  with  an  outer  seam  like  a  man's,  but  Baby  Louis  heels  like  a  woman's-a  plaintoe  like  a  man's,  but  a  strap  across  the  in-step  like  a  woman's  No  stockings.  That  didn't  help  much.  The  dwarf's  fingers  were  beringed,  but  without  a  wedding  band.  There  were  small  grim  dents  in  the  cheeks.  The  eyes  were  puffy  and  concealed,  but  Rogin  did  not  doubt  that  they  could  reveal  strange  things  if  they  chose  and  that  this  was  a  creature  of  remarkable  understanding.  He  had  for  many  years  owned  De  la  Mare's  &quot;Memoirs  of  a  Midget.&quot;  Now  he  took  a  resolve;  he  would  read  it.  As  soon  as  he  had  decided,  he  was  free  from  his  consuming  curiosity  as  to  the  dwarf's  sex  and  was  able  to  look  at  the  person  who  sat  beside  him.  THOUGHTS  very  often  grow  fer-  tile  in  the  subway,  because  of  the  motion,  the  great  company,  the  subtlety  of  the  rider's  state  as  he  rattles  under  streets  and  rivers,  under  the  foundations  of  great  buildings,  and  Rogin's  mind  had  already  been  strangely  stimulated.  Clasping  the  bag  of  groceries  from  which  there  rose  odors  of  bread  and  pickle  spice,  he  was  following  a  train  of  reflections,  first  about  the  chemistry  of  sex  determination,  the  X  and  Y  chromosomes,  hereditary  linkages,  the  uterus,  afterward  about  his  brother  as  a  tax  exemption.  He  recalled  two  dreams  of  the  night  before.  In  one,  an  undertaker  had  offered  to  cut  his  hair,  and  he  had  refused.  In  another,  he  had  been  carrying  a  woman  on  his  head.  Sad  dreams,  both!  Very  sad!  Which  was  the  woman-Joan  or  Mother?  And  the  undertaker-his  lawyer?  He  gave  a  deep  sigh,  and  by  force  of  habit  began  to  put  together  his  synthetic  al-  bumen  that  was  to  revolutionizethe  entire  egg  industry.  Meanwhile,  he  had  not  interrupted  his  examination  of  the  passengers  and  had  fallen  into  a  study  of  the  man  next  to  him.  This  was  a  man  whom  he  had  never  in  his  life  seen  before  but  with  whom  he  now  suddenly  felt  linked  through  all  existence.  He  was  middle-  aged,  sturdy,  with  clear  skin  and  blue  eyes.  His  hands  were  clean,  well-  formed,  but  Rogin  did  not  approve  of  them.  The  coat  he  wore  was  a  fairly  ex-  pensive  blue  check  such  as  Rogin  would  never  have  chosen  for  himself.  He  would  not  have  worn  blue  su\xc3\xa9de  shoes,  either,  or  such  a  faultless  hat,  a  cumber-  some  felt  animal  of  a  hat  encircled  by  a  high,  fat  ribbon.  There  are  all  kinds  of  dandies,  not  all  of  them  are  of  the  flaunting  kind;  some  are  dandies  of  re-  spectability,  and  Rogin's  fellow-passen-  ger  was  one  of  these.  His  straight-nosed  profile  was  handsome,  yet  he  had  be-  trayed  his  gift,  for  he  was  flat-looking.  But  in  his  flat  way  he  seemed  to  warn  " b"people  that  he  wanted  no  difficulties  with  them,  he  wanted  nothing  to  do  with  them.  Wearing  such  blue  su\xc3\xa9de  shoes,  he  could  not  afford  to  have  people  treading  on  his  feet,  and  he  seemed  to  draw  about  himself  a  circle  of  privi-  lege,  notifying  all  others  to  mind  their  own  business  and  let  him  read  his  pa-  per.  He  was  holding  a  Tribune,  and  perhaps  it  would  be  overstatement  to  say  that  he  was  reading.  He  was  hold-  ing  it.  His  clear  skin  and  blue  eyes,  his  straight  and  purely  Roman  nose-even  the  way  he  sat-all  strongly  suggested  one  person  to  Rogin:  Joan.  He  tried  to  escape  the  comparison,  but  it  couldn't  be  helped.  This  man  not  only  looked  like  Joan's  father,  whom  Rogin  de-  tested;  he  looked  like  Joan  herself.  Forty  years  hence,  a  son  of  hers,  provided  she  had  one,  might  be  like  this.  A  son  of  hers?  Of  such  a  son,  he  himself,  Rogin,  would  be  the  father.  Lacking  in  dom-  inant  traits  as  compared  with  Joan,  his  heritage  would  not  appear.  Probably  the  children  would  resemble  her.  Yes,  think  forty  years  ahead,  and  a  man  like  this,  who  sat  by  him  knee  to  knee  in  the  hurtling  car  among  their  fellow-crea-  tures,  unconscious  participants  in  a  sort  of  great  carnival  of  transit-such  a  man  would  carry  forward  what  had  been  Rogin.  This  was  why  he  felt  bound  to  him  through  all  existence.  What  were  forty  years  reckoned  against  eternity!  Forty  years  were  gone,  and  he  was  gaz-  ing  at  his  own  son.  Here  he  was.  Rogin  was  frightened  and  moved.  &quot;My  son!  My  son!&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  and  the  pity  of  it  almost  made  him  burst  into  tears.  'The  holy  and  frightful  work  of  the  masters  of  life  and  death  brought  this  about.  We  were  their  instruments.  We  worked  toward  ends  we  thought  were  our  own.  But  no!  The  whole  thing  was  so  un-  just.  Fo  suffer,  to  la-  bor,  to  toil  and  force  your  way  through  the  spikes  of  life,  to  crawl  through  its  darkest  cav-  erns,  to  push  through  the  worst,  to  struggle  under  the  weight  of  economy,  to  make  money-only  to  be-  come  thefatherof  a  fourth-rate  man  of  the  world  like  this,  so  flat-  looking,  with  his  ordi-  nary,  clean,  rosy,  uninteresting,  self-  satisfied,  fundamentally  bourgeois  face.  What  acurse  to  have  a  dull  son!  A  son  like  this,  who  could  never  understand  his  father.  They  had  absolutely  nothing,  butnothing,  in  common,  he  and  this  neat,  chubby,  blue-eyed  man.  He  was  so  pleased,  thought  Rogin,  with  all  he  owned  and  all  he  did  and  all  he  was  that  he  could  hardly  unfasten  his  lip.  Look  at  that  lip,  sticking  up  at  the  tip  like  a  little  thorn  or  egg  tooth.  He  wouldn't  give  anyone  the  time  of  day.  Would  this  perhaps  be  general  forty  years  from  now?  Would  personalities  be  chillier  as  the  world  aged  and  grew  colder?  The  inhumanity  of  the  next  generation  incensed  Rogin.  Father  and  son  had  no  sign  to  make  to  each  other.  'Terrible!  Inhuman!  What  a  vision  of  existence  it  gave  him.  Man's  personal  aims  were  nothing,  illusion.  The  life  force  occupied  each  of  us  in  turn  in  its  progress  toward  its  own  fulfillment,  trampling  on  our  individual  humanity,  using  us  for  its  own  ends  like  mere  dinosaurs  or  bees,  exploiting  love  heartlessly,  making  us  engage  in  the  social  process,  labor,  struggle  for  money,  and  submit  to  the  law  of  pres-  sure,  the  universal  law  of  layers,  super-  imposition  What  the  blazes  am  I  getting  into?  Rogin  thought.  To  be  the  father  of  a  throwback  to  Aer  father.  The  image  of  this  white-haired,  gross,  peevish  old  man  with  his  ugly  selfish  blueeyes  re-  volted  Rogin.  This  was  how  his  grandson  would  look.  Joan,with  whom  Rogin  was  now  more  and  more  dis-  pleased,  could  not  help  that.  For  her,  it  was  inevitable.  But  did  it  have  to  be  inevitable  for  him?  Well,  then,  Rogin,  you  fool,  don't  bea  damned  instrument.  Get  out  ofthe  way!  But  it  was  too  late  for  this,  because  he  had  already  experienced  the  sensa-  tion  of  sitting  next  to  his  own  son,  his  son  and  Joan's.  He  kept  staring  at  him,  waiting  for  him  to  say  something,  but  the  presumptive  son  remained  coldly  silent  though  he  must  have  been  aware  of  Rogin's  scrutiny.  They  even  gotout  at  the  same  stop-Sheridan  Square,  When  they  stepped  to  the  platform,  the  man,  without  even  looking  at  Rogin,  went  away  in  a  different  direction  in  his  detestable  blue-checked  coat,  with  his  rosy,  nasty  face.  HE  whole  thing  upset  Rogin  very  badly.  When  he  approached  Joan's  door  and  heard  Phyllis's  little  dog  Henri  barking  even  before  he  could  knock,  his  face  was  very  tense.  &quot;I  won't  be  used,&quot;  he  declared  to  himself.  &quot;I  have  my  own  right  to  exist.&quot;&quot;  Joan  had  better  watch  out.  She  had  a  light  way  of  bypassing  grave  questions  he  had  given  earnest  thought  to.  She  always  assumed  no  really  disturbing  thing  would  happen.  He  could  not  afford  the  luxury  of  such  a  carefree,  debonair  attitude  himself,  be-  cause  he  had  to  work  hard  and  earn  money  so  that  disturbing  things  would  not  happen.  Well,  at  the  moment  this     " b"situation  could  not  be  helped,  and  he  really  did  not  mind  the  money  if  he  could  feel  that  she  was  not  necessarily  the  mother  of  such  a  son  as  his  subway  son  or  entirely  the  daughter  of  that  aw-  ful,  obscene  father  of  hers.  After  all,  Rogin  was  not  himself  so  much  like  either  of  his  parents,  and  quite  different  from  his  brother.  Joan  came  to  the  door,  wearing  one  of  Phyllis's  expensive  housecoats.  It  suited  her  very  well.  At  first  sight  of  her  happy  face,  Rogin  was  brushedby  the  shadow  of  resemblance;  the  touch  of  it  was  extremely  light,  almost  figment-  ary,  but  it  made  his  flesh  tremble.  She  began  to  kiss  him,  saying,  &quot;Oh,  my  baby.  You're  covered  with  snow.  Why  didn't  you  wear  your  hat?  It's  all  over  its  little  head&quot;  -her  favorite  third-  person  endearment.  &quot;Well,  let  me  put  down  this  bag  of  stuff.  Let  me  take  off  my  coat,&quot;  grumbled  Rogin,  and  escaped  from  her  embrace.  Why  couldn't  she  wait  mak-  ing  up  to  him?  &quot;It's  so  hot  in  here.  My  face  is  burning.  Why  do  you  keep  the  place  at  this  temperature?  And  that  damned  dog  keeps  barking.  If  you  didn't  keep  it  cooped  up,  it  wouldn't  be  so  spoiled  and  noisy.  Why  doesn't  any-  body  ever  walk  him?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it's  not  really  so  hot  here!  You've  just  come  in  from  the  cold.  Don't  you  think  this  housecoat  fits  me  better  than  Phyllis?  Especially  across  the  hips.  She  thinks  so,  too.  She  may  sell  it  to  me.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  not,&quot; Rogin  almost  exclaimed,  She  brought  a  towel  to  dry  the  melt-  ing  snow  from  his  short,  black  hair.  The  flurry  of  rubbing  excited  Henri  in-  tolerably,  and  Joan  locked  him  up  in  the  bedroom,  where  he  jumped  per-  sistently  against  the  door  with  a  rhythmic  sound  of  claws  on  the  wood.  Joan  said,  &quot;Did  you  bring  the  sham-  poo?&quot;  &quot;Here  it  is.&quot;  &quot;Then  I'll  wash  your  hair  before  din-  ner.  Come.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  it  washed.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  come  on,&quot;  she  said,  laughing.  Her  lack  of  consciousness  of  guilt  amazed  him.  He  did  not  see  how  it  could  be.  And  the  carpeted,  furnished,  lamplit,  curtained  room  seemed  to  stand  against  his  vision.  So  that  he  felt  accusing  and  angry,  his  spirit  sore  and  bitter,  but  it  did  not  seem  fitting  to  say  why.  Indeed,  he  began  to  worry  lest  the  reason  for  it  all  slip  away  from  him,  They  took  off  his  coat  and  his  shirt  in  the  bathroom,  and  she  filled  the  sink.  Rogin  was  full  of  his  troubled  emotions; now  that  his  chest  was  bare  he  could  feel  them  even  more  distinctly  inside,  and  he  said  to  himself,  &quot;I'll  have  a  thing  or  two  to  tell  her  pretty  soon.  I'm  not  letting  them  get  away  with  it.  'Do  you  thlnk  he  was  going  to  tell  her,  'that  I  alone  was  made  to  carry  the  burden  of  the  whole  world  on  me?  Do  you  think  I  was  born  just  to  be  taken  advantage  of  and  sacrificed?  Do  you  think  I'm  just  a  natural  resource,  like  a  coal  mine,  or  oil  well,  or  fishery,  or  the  like?  Remem-  ber,  that  I'm  a  man  is  no  reason  why  I  should  be  loaded  down.  I  have  a  soul  in  me  no  bigger  or  stronger  than  yours.  Takeaway  the  externals,  like  the  muscles,  deeper  voice,  and  so  forth,  and  what  remains?  A  pair  of  spirits,  prac-  tically  alike.  So  why  shouldn't  there  also  be  equality?  I  can't  always  be  the  strong  one.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Sit  here,&quot;  said  Joan,  bringing  up  a  kitchen  stool  to  the  sink.  &quot;Your  hair's  gotten  all  matted.&quot;  He  sat  with  his  breast  against  the  cool  enamel,  his  chin  on  the  edge  of  the  basin,  the  green,  hot,  radiant  water  re-  flecting  the  glass  and  the  tile,  and  the  sweet,  cool,  fragrant  juice  of  the  sham-  poo  poured  on  his  head.  She  began  to  wash  him.  &quot;You  have  the  healthiest-looking  scalp,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  all  pink.&quot;  He  answered,  &quot;Well,  it  should  be  white.  There  must  be  something  wrong  with  me.&quot;  &quot;But  there's  absolutely  nothing  wrong  with  you,&quot;  she  said,  and  pressed  against  him  from  behind,  surrounding  him,  pouring  the  water  gently  over  him  until  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  water  came  from  within  him,  it  was  the  warm  fluid  of  his  own  secret  loving  spirit  over-  flowing  into  the  sink,  green  and  foam-  ing,  and  the  words  he  had  rehearsed  he  forgot,  and  his  anger  at  his  son-to-be  disappeared  altogether,  and  he  sighed,  and  saidto  her  from  the  water-filled  hollow  of  the  sink,  &quot;You  always  have  such  wonderful  ideas,  Joan.  You  know?  You  have  a  kind  of  instinct,  a  regular  gift.&quot; "