 b"WHEN,  I  can  hear  you  ask,  did  I  first  hear  of  Lamu,  that  fab-  ulous  entrepot  of  gold  and  ivory,  spice  and  slaves,  off  the  north-  eastern  coastline  of  4b656e7961?  (The  only  reason  I  can  hear  you  is  that  my  ears  de-  tect  sounds  inaudible  even  to  dogs,  and  particularly  semi-rhetorical  questions  about  Lamu.)  Well,  it's  rather  uncanny  you  should  bring  it  up,  for  I  was  just  thinking  that  the  first  I  ever  heard  of  it  was  in  [REDACTED]  last  winter,  a  fort-  night  prior  to  my  arrival  in  East  Africa.  With  an  unerring  instinct  forthe  cul-  de-sac,  I  reached  the  British  capital  at  the  worst  of  all  possible  times-on  a  Friday,  when  everyone  I  knew  there  had  left  for  the  weekend.  If  my  name  had  been  Alexander  Selkirk,  I  couldn't  have  been  more  effectively  marooned.  After  two  days  of  eating  in  snack  bars,  conversing  with  doormen,  and  moon-  ing  into  barred  shopwindows,  I  was  so  triste  that  I  snufflied  when  I  sought  di-  rections  from  passersby,  which  I  did  merely  for  the  brief  companionship  it  afforded.  Sunday  evening,  revolted  at  the  prospect  of  one  more  fish-paste  sand-  wich,  I  entered  an  elegant  restaurant  off  Shaftesbury  Avenue,  a  great,  echo-  ing  mausoleum  with  platoons  of  wait-  ers  in  impeccable  evening  dress,  and  with  pink  side  lights  on  the  walls.  The  place  was  totally  deserted  except  for  one  tableful  of  diners,  and  the  maitre  d'hotel,  instinctively  sensing  my  need  for  sociability,  placed  me  on  the  adjoin-  ing  banquette.  Perhaps  the  five-pound  note  I  slipped  into  his  hand  was  exces-  sive,  but,  lacking  a  diamond  the  size  of  the  Cullinan,  I  had  no  adequate  means  of  expressing  my  gratitude.  The  meal,  of  course,  was  ghastly-  YITH  CHARLENE  BOZEMAN  fried  plaice  smothered  in  cream  sauce,  the  usual  [REDACTED]  sprouts  boiled  be-  yond  cognizance,  and  a  soggy  plum  tart  as  fibrous  as  corrugated  paper.  Still,  I  consumed  it  with  relish,  hoodwinking  myself  into  an  illusion  of  gaiety  by  the  proximity  of  my  neighbors.  'They  were  four  tanned  and  hearty  chaps,  the  sort  whose  aquiline  profiles  and  flashing  teeth  you  see  in  advertisements  for  Eno's  Fruit  Salts  and  Abdulla  Ciga-  rettes,  and  they  primed  themselves  free-  ly  with  claret  as  they  ate.  In  awhile,  they  began  exchanging  reminiscences  of  colonial  life  in  Assam  and  Nyasaland,  and  ultimately,  to  my  delight,  in  4b656e7961,  whither  I  was  bound.  'The  place  above  all  that  had  captured  his  heart,  declared  one  emotionally,  was  an  old  Arab  port  two  hundred  miles  above  4b656e7961,  on  the  Indian  Ocean.  Of  all  the  para-  disiacal  spots  on  earth,  not  even  except-  ing  Bali,  Lamu  was  his  choice.  &quot;Gad,  what  I'd  give  to  stroll  along  that  quay  at  sunset  again!&quot;  he  told  his  companions.  &quot;'Those  feathery  palms  against  the  sky,  the  voices  of  the  boat-  men  drifting  acrossthe  water  ...&quot;  He  went  into  a  long  dithyramb  about  the  ease  and  simplicity  of  life  in  the  town,  the  absence  of  tension,  the  nobility  of  the  inhabitants.  Whether  my  anchorite  existence  of  the  preceding  two  days  had  made  me  especially  suggestible  or  whether  it  was  all  preordained,  I  can't  say,  but  his  words  etched  themselves  on  my  brain.  On  the  plane  that  bore  me  from  Addis  Ababa  to  4b656e7961,  I  consult-  ed  the  East  African  Yearbook  &amp;  Guide,  which  added  two  highlights  to  his  ecstatic  picture.  Lamu  had  once  been  a  rival  of  4b656e7961  as  an  entrepot  of  gold,  ivory,  spice,  and  slaves,  andH.  Rider  believed  to  have  provided  much  of  the  background  for  the  celebrated  novels,  had  occupied  the  post  of  vice-consul  there  in  1884-85.  That  cinched  it  for  me.  If  there  was  any  way  of  getting  there-and  from  my  British  spellbinder's  context  I  gath-  ered  it  was  virtually  inaccessible-I  was  going.  Bullheadedness?  Romanticism?  No,  just  a  man  with  an  ingrained  flair  for  entrepots  and  no  concept  of  his  limi-  tations.  ONCE  I  began  airing  my  id\xc3\xa9e  fixe  around  4b656e7961,  I  discovered  I  might  as  easily  have  projected  a  trip  to  the  moon.  Nobody  had  been  up  to  Lamu  in  years,  said  the  wiseacres;  there  was  no  air  service,  unless  one  chartered  a  plane  at  a  prohibitive  fee,  and  the  coastal  road  was  washed  out  most  of  the  year.  To  be  sure,  a  native  bus  out  of  4b656e7961  car-  ried  passengers  and  mail  in  that  general  direction,  but  this  form  of  locomotion  was  judged  infra  dig  and  altogether  too  rigorous  for  Europeans.  None  of  these  strictures,  naturally,  affected  me  in  the  least.  I  joyously  accepted  them  as  a  challenge  to  my  stamina  and  booked  passage  at  once  on  the  first  plane  next  morning  to  the  coast.  It  was  a  splendid  gesture  of  defiance,  and  I  had  lots  of  time  to  rue  it.  Con-  trary  to  my  blithe  expectations,  the  bus  service  from  4b656e7961  to  Lamu  oper-  ated  on  a  thrice-weekly  basis,  which  meant  an  overnight  sojourn  in  one  of  the  hottest  and  least  endearing  cities  on  earth.  It  also  threw  me  straight  into  the  arms,  figuratively  speaking,  of  Mrs.  Charlene  Bozeman.  I  was  dawdling  through  an  outdated  illustrated  weekly  after  dinner  at  the  Belgrave  Arms,  sip-  ping  a  cup  of  coffee  redolent  of  ether,  when  the  night  clerk  of  the  hotel,  a  natty  young  Goan,  sidled  up  to  me.  Did  I  know  there  was  a  fel-  low-countrywoman  of  mine  here  whom  I  had  known  years  before,  a  charming  person  who  had  recognized  me  and  longed  to  renew  our  acquaintance?  Shyness  had  prevented  her  from  introducing  her-  self-  |  &quot;But  what  nonsense,  my  dear  sir!&quot;  I  ex-  claimed,  jumping  up.  &quot;I'm  the  most  ap-  proachable  of  men!  Your  description  of  the  lady  tallies  exactly  with  thatof  Jetta  Goudal     KqVqrsk)  " b"or  Toby  Wing.  Please  tell  her  that  I'd  be  en-  chanted  to  have  her  join  me  for  an  inex-  pensive  cordial.&quot;  Mrs.  Bozeman  had  obviously  been  lurking  behind  the  arras,  scru-  tinizing  my  reaction,  because  she  came  hur-  tling  out  of  the  lobby  before  I  could  even  blot  the  coffee  from  my  tie.  The  instant  I  saw  her,  I  realized,  too  late,  that  the  Goan  had  led  me  into  a  quicksand.  She  was  a  stout,  kittenish  woman  in  the  late  fif-  ties  with  formidable  dewlaps  and  bleached  hair-one  of  those  unmistakably  affluent  types  before  whose  let-  ters  of  credit  bank  man-  agers  kowtow  like  Bud-  dhists.  &quot;I  know  you'll  never  forgive  my  boldness,&quot;  she  cooed,  subsiding  in  a  flurry  of  bracelets,  &quot;but  I  just  had  to  speak  to  you.  We  met  during  the  war,  in  [REDACTED].  You  were  there  on  a  bond  drive  for  the  Treasury  Department,  and  you  sat  near  me  on  the  dais  at  our  wom-  en's  luncheon.  How's  Max  Factor?&quot;  &quot;I  beg  your  pardon?&quot;  I  said,  be-  wildered.  Though  I  dimly  recalled  the  ordeal  she  alluded  to,  I  couldn't  re-  member  any  cosmetic  expert  in  our  troupe.  &quot;No,  no,  that  wasn't  his  name,&quot;  she  corrected  herself.  &quot;Bromfield-Morris  Bromfield.  The  one  who  wrote  'The  Yearling.  &quot;  &quot;Why,  fine,  I  guess,&quot;  I  said,  decid-  ing  it  was  futile  to  puncture  her  fan-  tasies.  &quot;I  haven't  seen-&quot;  &quot;Of  all  places  to  meet  again,  Mom-  basa,&quot;  she  pursued.  &quot;'You  don't  live  here  now,  do  you?&quot;  I  explained  I  was  in  transit  to  Lamu,  and,  urged  on  by  her  rapt  interest,  incautiously  expatiated  on  its  beauty,  heightening  with  a  few  touches  of  my  own  what  I  had  over-  heard  and  read.  She  thought  it  sounded  fascinating.  &quot;That's  just  the  sort  of  thing  I've  been  looking  for  in  Africa!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;Off  the  tourist  track-  unspoiled.  Do  you  know,  I've  half  a  mind  to  go  along  with  you?&quot;  'Yes,  it's  too  bad  you  can't,&quot;  I  said  hurriedly.  &quot;However,  the  bus  takes  at  least  nine  hours,  and  it's  really  primi-  tive.  Besides,  on  those  tricky  roads  there's  no  guarantee  it'll  get  through.&quot; &quot;'Then  why  don't  we  fly  up?&quot;  she  suggested  brightly.  &quot;With  two  of  us  sharing  expenses,  the  plane  shouldn't  cost  very  much.  Look,  let's  ask  at  the  desk-they're  terribly  helpful  here.&quot;  O  handle  a  woman  witha  bee  in  her  bonnet  requires  an  apiarist  far  more  nimble  than  I,  and  within  a  few  minutes,  dazed  and  shorn  of  initiative,  I  was  submitting  to  a  fait  eccompli.  All  the  arrangements  had  been  effected  in  a  trice.  A  Piper  Cub  would  whisk  us  up  the  coast  the  following  morning,  remain  the  night,  and  return  to  4b656e7961  the  next  day.  In  vain  I  protested  against  such  a  lightning  schedule,  pleaded  with  Mrs.  Bozeman  that  we  would  get  only  the  most  cursory  glimpse  of  Lamu.  She  kept  begging  me  to  understand,  in  the  maddening  tone  one  adopts  with  a  child,  that  our  pilot  had  some  crop-dusting  to  finish  and  couldn't  absent  himself  any  longer.  My  selfish  insistence  that  we  dally  at  Lamu,  she  implied,  was  tanta-  mount  to  plucking  the  bread  from  his  dependents'  mouths.  I  awoke  in  the  middle  of  the  night  racked  by  turbulent  dreams  in  which  I  was  being  engorged  by  a  boa  constrictor,  and  found  I  had  torn  down  the  mosquito  net  and  rolled  up  in  it  like  a  cocoon.  A  suspicion,  as  yet  nebulous,  was  forming  in  my  mind  that  I  should  have  been  less  trustful  with  Mrs.  Bozeman.  Her  behavior  on  the  journey  the  next  day  was,  by  and  large,  unobjectionable;  we  were  both  somewhat  numbed  by  the  immensity  of  the  Indian  Ocean  and  the  frailty  of  the  aircraft,  but  Mr.  An-  nixter,  the  pilot,  a  clerklike  gentleman  with  bifocals  and  briefcase,  was  so  mundane  that  our  qualms  soon  abated.  He  betrayed  no  noticeable  exhilara-  tion  about  Lamu;  indeed,  when  I  solic-  ited  his  opinion  of  it,  he  dismissed  it  as  a  scruffy  little  place,  a  remnant  of  its  past  glory.  &quot;Dead  as  a  doornail,&quot;  he  pronounced.  &quot;Just  a  typical  old  Arab  village  with  crooked  streets,  too  many  flies,  and  a  handful  of  Europeans-remittance  men,  mostly.&quot;  &quot;How  marvellous,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Boze-  man.  &quot;'The  very  opposite  of  [REDACTED].  That's  what  I  came  to  this  country  to  escape-progress.  And  believe  it  or  not,  all  I've  found  here  is  resorts.  Swimming  pools  and  barbecues-people  dressing  for  dinner.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  worry  about  that  at  Lamu,&quot;  Annixter  grunted.  &quot;Wait  till  you  see  the  hotel.  Four  rooms  and  precious  little  plumbing.  Hardly  the  sort  of  thing  Americans  are  used  to,  I  dare-  say.&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  seem  to  understand  we're  a  pioneer  people,  does  he?&quot;  Mrs.  Bozeman  remarked  with  amused  toler-  ance,  and  went  on  to  describe  how,  as  " b"a  girl,  she  had  rendered  maple  sugar,  or  it  may  have  been  chicken  fat,  in  sub-  zero  temperatures  on  her  grandfather's  farm  in  [REDACTED].  Too  polite  to  dispute  the  word  of  a  frontierswoman,  Annixter  shrugged  and  abandoned  the  topic.  About  an  hour  after  we  had  passed  Malindi,  the  only  settlement  of  conse-  quence  in  the  two-hundred-mile  stretch  of  wilderness,  a  sprinkle  of  islands  came  into  view,  the  largest  of  which,  it  de-  veloped,  was  Lamu.  In  the  glimpse  I  caught  of  the  town  as  we  circled  over  it,  it  looked  pretty  ruinous,  and  my  fore-  bodings  multiplied  in  the  launch  that  bore  the  three  of  us  from  the  mainland  to  the  island  itself.  Apart  from  the  exotic  touch  supplied  by  the  half-dozen  dhows  in  the  harbor,  the  port  and  the  molder-  ing  buildings  that  fringed  the  quay  re-  sembled  a  seedy  Mediterranean  fishing  village.  Amid  stupefying  heat,  a  recep-  tion  committee  of  four  pariah  dogs  watched  us  disembark  at  the  jetty  and  escorted  us  along  the  sea  front  to  a  ram-  shackle  two-story  structure  identified  on  its  peeling  facade  as  the  Hotel  Balmoral.  Mrs.  Bozeman,  whose  mood  had  grown  visibly  less  ebullient,  stared  at  the  place  in  dismay.  &quot;You're  not  serious?&quot;  she  demanded  of  Annixter.  &quot;You  mean  this  is  where  we're  going  to  stay?&quot;  &quot;Not  exactly  Claridge's,  is  it?&quot;  he  replied  pleasantly.  &quot;We're  probably  the  first  patrons  they've  had  in  years.  However,  it'll  do  for  the  night,  and  you'll  enjoy  old  MacMurdo,  the  pro-  prictor.  One  of  the  great  characters  of  East  Africa-I  hope  he's  still  func-  tioning.&quot;  His  wish  was  granted;  Mr.  Mac-  Murdo  was  very  much  in  evidence,  a  garrulous  octogenarian  who,  some-  where  in  his  remote  career  as  a  white  hunter,  had  been  gored  by  a  rogue  elephant  and  survived  to  tell  the  tale.  He  was  telling  it  to  a  couple  of  other  gaffers-the  remittance  men,  presuma-  bly-in  the  combined  lobby  and  bar,  and  it  was  an  aeon  before  we  managed  to  communicate  our  desire  for  shelter.  The  old  gentleman  inexplicably  got  it  into  his  head  that  Mrs.  Bozeman  and  I  were  married,  a  complication  that  took  hours  to  unravel,  but  eventually  the  three  of  us  were  staked  out  in  a  series  of  dusty  cubicles  separated  by  wallboard  partitions  and  equipped  with  china  washbowls.  I  made  the  sketchiest  of  ab-  lutions,  descended  to  the  bar,  and  tried  without  conspicuous  success  to  glean  some  information  from  our  host  about  Lamu's  notable  past  or  personalities.  &quot;Rider  Haggard's  brother?&quot;  he  ruminated.  &quot;Bless  you,  lad,  his  house  has  been  dust  these  thirty  years.  The foundation's  next  to  the  wireless  anten-  na,  if  that's  of  any  use  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Is  there  a  bazaar,  or  a  mosque,  or  any  historic  site  one  can  visit?&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said  guardedly,  &quot;in  an-  other  six  weeks  they'll  beloading  man-  grove  poles  for  shipment  to  the  Persian  [REDACTED],  but  right  now  it's  a  bit  slow.  ...  Willyour  wife  be  joining  you  for  tiffin?  I'm  afraid  we've  only  one  portion  of  tinned  pilchard.&quot;  I  decided  to  let  Mrs.  Bozeman  work  out  her  own  salvation,  and  struck  off  through  the  network  of  alleys  behind  the  hotel  toward  the  center  of  town.  Annixter's  sombre  vignette  proved  ac-  curate;  the  population,  Arab  interspersed  with  an  occasional  Indian  shopkeeper  or  African,  looked  rachitic  and  verminous,  and  whatever  putative  glamour  had  in-  vested  Lamu  had  clearly  long  since  van-  ished.  The  only  noteworthy  souvenir  of  its  past  still  visible  was  a  species  of  doorway  characterized  by  carved  flower  patterns  of  considerable  invention,  but,  having  already  seen  these  in  Zanzibar,  I  was  able  to  retain  my  equanimity.  Within  half  an  hour,  I  had  traversed  the  principal  streets,  acquired  enough  trinkets  to  prove  to  skeptics  back  home  that  I  had  gained  my  objective,  and  was  making  for  the  Balmoral  with  sand  in  my  psyche.  The  prospect  of  shooting  the  breeze  until  bedtime  with  Mrs.  Bozeman  so  unnerved  me  that  I  began  considering  desperate  measures.  I  con-  fected  a  heart-rending  saga  about  an  appendicitis  seizure  in  the  market  place  that  required  my  instant  return  to  4b656e7961,  embroidered  it  with  dark  hints  that  if  we  were  to  hesitate  even  momentarily,  I  might  not  survive  the  trip.  ...  And  then  occurred  one  of  those  providential  intercessions  that  sce-  narios  and  converts  are  made  of.  Just  as  I  gained  the  portico  of  the  hotel,  I  heard  shouts  in  the  distance.  Turning,  I  beheld  my  companions  pursuing  me,  their  faces  scarlet  with  exhaustion.  &quot;Damnation,  man,  where  have  you  been?&quot;   Annixter  panted.  &quot;We've  combed  every  inch  of  this  bloody  hole  for  you!  Good  show  you  popped  up  now  or  we'd  have  taken  off  for  4b656e7961  withoutyou.&quot;  I  instinctively  knew  that  if  one  was  dealt  a  handful  of  trumps,  it  was  ob-  ligatory  to  play  them.  I  bathed  Mrs.  Bozeman  in  alook  of  the  most  profound  disillusionment.  &quot;So  that's  how  you  treat  your  war  buddies,  is  it?&quot;  I  demanded  bitterly.  &quot;First  you  whipsaw  me  into  staying  here  only  one  night,  and  then,  after  scarcely  two  hours-&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know.&quot;  She  cut  me  short,  " b"oozing  contrition.  &quot;I  feel  simply  vile  dragging  you  away  like  this,  and  I  wouldn't  blameyou  if  you  never  spoke  to  me  again.  Would  you  be  offended  if  I  paidthe  cost  of  the  charter,  since  the  plane  was  my  idea?&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  goes  againstthe  grain,  but  if  you  insist,  I  suppose  there's  no  way  I  can  prevent  you,&quot;  I  said,  with  a  philo-  sophic  shrug.  &quot;O.K.,  I'll  go  upstairs  and  pack.&quot;  &quot;'You  don't  have  to  come  with  us,  you  know,&quot;  Annixter  put  in,  qualifying  for  the  title  of  most  hateful  man  of  his  generation.  &quot;You'd  have  time  for  plenty  of  sightseeing  here  if  you  took  the  bus  down  day  after  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;Sorry,&quot;  I  said  with  dignity.  &quot;I  ac-  cepted  the  responsibility  of  escorting  this  lady,  and  we  Americans  don't  go  back  on  our  word.  I'll  see  you  here  in  five  minutes.&quot;  &quot;''There,  didn't  I  tell  you  he  was  a  wonderful  person?&quot;  I  heard  Mrs.  Bozeman  say  to  Annixter  asI  departed.  I  didn't  catch  his  reply.  Some  kind  of  monosyllable,  inaudible  even  to  the  pa-  riah  dogs  lounging  around  the  door.  THOUGHT  I'd  seen  the  last  of  my  [REDACTED]  dreamboat  when  we  bade  each  otheradieu  in  4b656e7961  that  evening,  but  we  had  one  final  encoun-  ter  afterward,  though  she  was  unaware  of  it.  Some  three  weeks  later,  dining  with  friends  at  the  New  Stanley  grill  in  4b656e7961,  I  saw  her  enter,  ablaze  with  diamonds  and  leaning  on  the  arm  of  a  youngguardsman  whose  mustaches  would  have  transfixed  Ouida.  The  pair  had  manifestly  been  consorting  with  the  grape,  for  their  eyes  were  glassy  and  they  showed  a  tendency  to  upset  chafing  dishes.  I  froze  as  she  wove  unsteadily  in  my  direction,  convinced  that  a  noisy  re-  union  was  imminent,  but  she  betrayed  no  sign  of  recognition  and  reeled  past.  &quot;Hmm.  Looks  as  if  young  Harrin-  gay's  managed  to  feather  his  nest  again,&quot;  commented  one  of  the  party.  &quot;Who  is  she?  Some  wealthy  tripper,  I  imagine.&quot;  &quot;She'd  damn  well  better  be,&quot;  said  another.  &quot;By  the  time  he  finishes  with  'em,  they're  lucky  to  have  a  passport  left.  Remember  the  Greek  sweetmeat  he  picked  up  in  Pretoria?&quot;  &quot;Come  off  it,  you  chaps.  Our  friend  here  isn't  interested  in  local  scandal,&quot;  a  fourth  broke  in,  turning  to  me.  &quot;You'd  just  mentioned  Lamu,  I  believe.  Did  you  ever  succeed  in  getting  there?&quot;  &quot;Er-no,&quot;  I  said  lamely.  &quot;Why,  is  it  worth  the  trouble?&quot;  He  laughed  pityingly.  &quot;My  dear  boy,  it's  the  eighth  wonder  of  the  world,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mark  you,  I  haven't  been  there  myself,  but  I  know  people  who  have.  Listen.&quot;  I  listened. I  must  say  he  made  it  sound  idyllic.  "