 b"MY  sister  and  I  had  never  seen  snow.  One  winter  day  we  asked  our  mother  if  she  ever  had.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  told  us.  &quot;Nor  do  I  ever  expect  to,  either.  There's  not  a  China-  man's  chance  I'll  ever  get  away  from  these  four  walls,  even  to  go  see  my  sister  in  Lake  Charles.  Not  that  she  wouldn't  cut  me  dead  if  I  did.  I  can  stay  right  here  till  I  drop  in  my  tracks,  for  all  any-  body  cares.  Some  have  and  some  have  not;  some  do  and  some  don't.  No,  in  answer  to  your  question,  I  haven't  ever  seen  it  snow.&quot;  We  were  used  to  these  outbursts.  In  summer,  Mother  would  complain  that  she  had  never  been  out  of  the  heat  and  the  dampness;  she  had  never  had  a  mo-  ment's  rest;  her  lot  was  a  sweltering  Hell  on  earth,  fighting  mosquitoes  and  flies,  and  dripping  sweat  over  an  ironing  board,  and  picking  up  after  two  rotten  girls  and  a  thankless  invalid.  The  in-  valid  was  our  father,  who  had  been  partly  paralyzed  in  an  accident  and  whose  mind  had  been  affected.  Sum-  mer  or  winter,  Mother's  discontent  was  steadfast-reinforced  occasionally  by  flashes  of  vicious  rage.  But  she  was  beau-  tiful.  One  January  night,  in  our  small,  swampy  [REDACTED]  village,  it  snowed.  Early  in  the  evening,  Mother  and  my  sister  and  I  were  in  the  sewing  room,  which  we  two  girls  also  used  as  our  sleeping  and  study  room.  Mother  sat  at  her  machine,  with  her  black  hair  falling  in  a  wild  tangle  about  her  shoulders.  The  glare  of  the  small  machine  lamp  against  her  smooth  olive  skin  heightened  the  per-  petual  flush  of  her  cheeks.  Her  face,  never  still,  was  dominated  by  dark,  res-  tive,  always  wrathful  eyes.  She  shoved  her  knee  against  the  machine's  lever  and  gripped  the  cloth  behind  the  plunging  needle.  She  was  making  a  skirt.  I  remember  the  fabric  well,  for  I  still  have  a  scrap  of  it.  It  was  a  cheap  striped  rayon,  really  too  flimsy  for  a  skirt.  &quot;Come  here,&quot;  she  said,  releasing  the  lever  and  looking  fiercelyat  the  table  where  my  sister  and  I  sat,  each  holding  a  schoolbook.  &quot;Both  of  you.  Mignon!  Musette!&quot;  Those  were  our  improbable  names.  Our  grandmother  had  once  been  a  patron  of  the  New  Orleans  opera.  When  our  mother  married  a  common  laborer,  she  lost  her  family's  favor,  and  she  hadn't  stopped  shortof  the  ludi-  crous  in  a  vain  effortto  regain  it.  And  so  we  had  become  Musette  and  Mignon  so&quot;&quot;  Sims,  after  our  grandmother's  favorite  heroines.  Never  mind  studying,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  want  to  try  this  on  you.&quot;  &quot;On  us  both?&quot;  Mignon  asked.  I  could  have  told  Mother  that  Mi-  gnon  had  not  been  studying  at  all.  In  her  lap  was  a  magazine  in  which  she  kept  cutouts  of  her  favorite  movie  stars  and  glossy  photographs  of  some  of  them.  She  had  one  signed  &quot;''To  Mignon,  good  luck,  William  Powell,&quot;  which  never  ceased  to  impress  me.  Mignon,  who  at  ten  had  Mother's  looks  and  disposition,  was  scornful  of  me.  I  was  threeyears  younger  than  she,  and  I  was  skinny.  She  would  never  let  me  go  through  her  magazine.  Only  Betsy,  a  friend  who  lived  several  blocks  away,  was  allowed  to  do  this;  in  return,  she  would  lend  Mi-  gnon  her  collection  of  paper  dolls-cut-  outs  from  a  Sears,  Roebuck  catalogue.  I  had  no  place  in  their  world,  and  if  I  followed  my  sister  to  the  yard  of  Betsy's  house,  as  I  frequently  did,  and  hung  around  for  long,  Mignon  would  pull  a  cattail  from  the  flower  bed  and  lash  my  legs  until  I  ran  home,  weeping.  &quot;On  you  both,  yes.  I'll  try  it  on  you  both,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Then  I'll  pull  it  over  your  heads,  make  a  sack  of  it,  and  throw  it  in  the  river.&quot;  She  thrust  the  skirt  at  my  sister.  &quot;Don't  sass  me,  Mi-  gnon.  Try  it  on.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  it,&quot;  Mignon  said.  don't  you  give  it  to  Musette?&quot;  'You  both  have  to  try  it.  It's  come  out  too  big  for  one  and  too  little  for  the  other.&quot;  Mignon  stood  up  and  put  on  the  skirt.  Mother  watched  her  a  moment  and  then  struck  the  machine  with  her  fists.  \xe2\x80\x9cWhy You  infernal  machine!  Why  don't  you  work  ea  right?&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;No,  take  it  off,  Mignon!  Throw  it  away!  Take  it  out  of  my  sight!&quot;  Mignon  handed  the  skirt  to  me.  I  didn't  think  it  would  be  necessary  for  either  of  us  to  dispose  of  it,  because  our  mother's  rage  was  building  to  a  pitch  where  she  would  get  rid  of  it  her-  self.  She  would  crumple  it  into  a  wad  and,  rushing  to  the  back  porch,  jam  it  into  the  garbage  can,  and  she  would  keep  an  eye  on  it  until  the  garbage  truck  passed,  so  that  no  foraging  Negro  could  claim  it.  Or  she  would  dash  across  the  yard  to  the  house  that  bulged  with  the  Goudeaux,  our  Cajun  neighbors,  and,  jerking  open  the  screen  door,  burst  in  and  toss  the  wad  at  Mrs.  Goudeaux's  fat,  astonished  face.  &quot;Here,  give  it  to  one  of  them.&quot;  Mother  disdained  to  know  the  Goudeaux  children  by  name,  and  we  " b"were  discouraged  from  playing  with  them.  &quot;It's  a  mess.  Go  on.  Take  it,&quot;  she  would  say,  and  without  waiting  for  thanks  (the  Goudeaux  were  poorer  than  we,  and  were  grateful  even  for  rags),  she  would  storm  away,  banging  the  screen  door  behind  her,  as  if  to  let  the  woman  know  that  if  it  were  not  for  the  existence  of  so  many  Goudeaux  in  the  neighborhood,  her  sewing  would  never  fail,  her  cakes  would  always  rise,  her  children  would  be  as  uncorrupted  as  they  had  been  at  birth.  Like  her  sewing,  her  cooking  was  fre-  quently  the  object  of  her  wrath.  Often  Mignon  and  I  went  to  bed  hungry  be-  cause  she  would  stand  for  no  insult  from  the  contents  of  the  pots  on  her  stove.  If  she  misjudged  the  seasoning  in  a  stew  or  forgot  the  cheese  in  a  souffl\xc3\xa9,  or  if  the  meat  loaf  grew  watery  and  crumbled,  she  would  march  with  the  pot  into  the  bathroom,  screaming  at  us,  &quot;Not  fit  for  a  pig!  Not  even  you  two!&quot;  And  our  dinner  would  be  swiftly  ejected  from  the  house.  PUT  on  the  skirt;  it  bunched  at  the  waist  and  hung  limply  around  my  ankles.  Mother  walked  over  to  me.  She  seized  my  arm,  and  with  her  thimbled  forefinger  she  rapped  me  severely  on  the  head.  &quot;Impossible,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  could  tear  you  limb  from  limb.  It's  impossible  to  fit  anything  on  you.  Give  it  to  me!  I'll  tear  it  to  shreds!&quot;  But  before  she  could  pull  the  skirt  from  me,  her  rage  was  rechannelled.  &quot;Bla-a,&quot;  we  heard.  &quot;Bla-a.&quot;  It  was  my  father's  voice.  Mother's  name  was  Blanche,  but  that  pathetic  bleat  was  the  best  that  he  could  do,  and  it  came  only  at  those  times  when  his  mind  was  clear.  Our  house,  a  twin  of  the  Goudeaux  house  next  door,  was  square,  with  only  five  small  rooms.  The  sewing  room  was  diagonally  across  from  my  parents'  room.  The  other  rooms  were  the  kitchen  and  bathroom  and  the  living  room.  When  my  sister  and  I  were  in  the  house,  our  father  was  never  out  of  ear-  shot.  &quot;What  does  he  want?&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Does  he  think  I'm  going  to  drop  ev-  erything  and  run  in  there?  Doesn't  he  know  I've  got  my  hands  full,  thanks  to  him?  Did  I  ask  for  this?&quot;  I  lowered  my  head  to  discourage  the  tirade  that  usually  followed  such  questions,  and  to  my  immense  relief  she  flung  her  thim-  ble  at  the  machine  and  left  the  room.  I  did  not  want  to  hear  again  the  story  of  my  father's  accident.  Sometimes  when  she  told  me  the  story,  she  would  take  me  on  her  lap,  as  if  she  were  telling  a  bedtime  story,  but  I  could  almost  feel  the  anger  in  her  breast.  &quot;He  made  " b"promises-to  be  an  engineer,  an  oil-  man,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;He  studied  nights.  But  then  that  girder  snapped  its  cable;  it  went  flying  out  at  him,  they  said,  and  if  he  hadn't  ducked,  it  would  have  crushed  him.  But  as  it  was,  it  struck  his  spine.  I  wish  I  had  hold  of  that  girder.  I'd  twist  it  in  my  bare  hands.&quot;  And  she  would  clutch  my  thin  arms  as  if  to  demonstrate.  I  had  been  born  soon  after  the  accident.  I  had  kept  her  in  labor  for  forty-eight  hours,  and  her  story  always  ended  with  the  cry  &quot;A  widow,  a  widow!  I  should  have  been  a  widow!  And  you,  Musette,  poor,  scrawny  Mu-  sette,  you  should  have  been  stillborn.&quot;  She  often  spoke  like  this  to  my  father  during  the  hours  when  she  knew  he  could  not  understand  her  words.  At  night,  lying  in  our  beds  in  the  darkness,  we  could  hear  her  voice.  &quot;How  long  will  it  take  you?  How  long  will  you  take  to  die?&quot;  she  would  ask  him.  In  the  morning,  putting  him  in  his  wheelchair,  tucking  a  light  blanket  about  his  legs,  feeding  him,  she  would  say,  'You  were  going  to  do  so  much.  There  was  nothing  we  wouldn't  see  together.  There  was  no  place  we  wouldn't  go.I  can't  stand  it  any  longer.  Look  at  me,  imbecile.  Blanche,  with  the  lovely  black  hair.  Do  you  see  it?  Do  you  know  what  it  is?  My  hair!  You  don't  even  know  my  hair!&quot;  And,  swinging  her  head,  she  would  wave  her  hair  before  his  eyes.  During  his  rational  hours,  she  would  fuss  over  practical  things.  &quot;Roller  skates!&quot;  she  might  say.  &quot;Musette  wants  everything  her  sister  has.  Even  the  Gou-  deaux  children  have  them.  Should  I  get  her  some  for  Christmas?&quot;  Or  she  would  bring  in  his  tool  chest  and  a  frayed  elec-  tric-iron  cord.  &quot;It  defeats  me.  It  breaks.  Everything  breaks.  Show  mehow  to  fix  it.  Tell  me  how  and  I'll  follow  your  di-  rections.  Tell  me  what  to  do.  Just  tell  me!&quot;  NTER  Mother  had  gone  to  Fa-  ther's  room,  leaving  the  rayon  skirt  with  me,  I  put  it  on  a  chair,  Then  Mignon  and  I  went  in  to  say  good  night  to  him.  It  was  something  that  Mother  felt  we  should  do,  whether  our  father  was  conscious  of  us  or  not.  We  found  him  speaking  to  her,  haltingly,  &quot;Buy  clo-ready-made.&quot;  &quot;Fine!  Even  with  the  installments  on  the  machine,  it's  cheaper  to  make  them,&quot;  Mother  said  bitterly.  &quot;Where's  the  money  for  ready-made  clothes  to  come  from?&quot;  I  could  remember  my  father's  face  only  as  that  of  an  old  man,  twisted  with  pain.  But  Mignon  remembered  him-  or  she  said  she  did-when  he  was  as  handsome  and  smiling  as  he  was  in  the " b" photograph  on  the  living-room  table.  We  said  good  night  and  left  him  to  cope  with  Mother,  whose  face  was  ablaze.  BUT  the  next  morning!  Mother  stood  over  our  bed,  her  face  radiant  and  excited,  and  she  hugged  us.  And  then  she  lifted  me,  still  half  asleep,  to  the  window  ledge.  &quot;The  snow!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Look,  my  baby.  It's  been  snowing  for  most  of  the  night!&quot;  I  could  see  nothing  for  a  moment  in  the  gray  light  (she  must  have  awakened  us  at  dawn),  and  then  I  saw  the  flakes  settling  on  the  window  sill.  &quot;Snow  -white,  wonderful  snow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Every  flake  as  different  as  a  star.  Now  get  dressed,  both  of  you.&quot;  &quot;What  shall  I  wear  to  school?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Oh,  Musette,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  hugged  me  again.  &quot;You  won't  go  to  school  today.  Don't  you  understand?  It's  snowing!  Get  dressed.  Get  dressed  and  go  out  in  it.&quot;  She  laughed,  and  kissed  me  again  and  again.  I  experienced  a  moment  of  fright  at  her  sudden,  un-  familiar  joy.  &quot;Hurry!  Hurry!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;What  do  you  do  in  the  snow?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Mignon  said  importantly.  &quot;You  can  play  with  it.  I'll  show  you.&quot;  Mignon  was  even  going  to  play  with  me!  &quot;'You  can  play  with  the  Goudeaux,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;''They're  already  outside.  Hurry.  You  don't  want  to  miss  any-  thing.&quot;  &quot;With  the  Goudeaux?&quot;  I  asked.  'Yes.  Yes.&quot;  So  this  was  to  be  a  day  of  grace.  The  snow  had  neutralized  the  many-shaded  world  outside.  Dressed  as  warmly  as  possible,  Mignon  and  I  went  out  into  it.  Cautiously,  I  reached  down  and  lifted  a  mound  of  snow  in  my  bare  hands.  I  felt  it  sting,  and  then  I  knelt  down  and  pressed  my  cheek  against  the  snow.  I  lifted  my  face  and  shrieked  with  delight.  The  Goudeaux  children-there  were  six  of  them-dashed  across  the  snow  to  join  Mignon  and  me.  All  day  long,  we  played.  Mignon  never  left  us,  and  even  made  a  pile  of  snowballs  to  hurl  at  the  oldest  Goudeaux  boy.  Today  there  were  no  movie  stars  and  no  paper  dolls  and,  for  some  reason,  no  Betsy.  Today  there  was  no  threat  of  the  Green-Eyed  Man,  an  imaginary  one-eyed  monster  my  sister  used  to  taunt  me  with.  There  was  not  a  moment  of  anger  or  terror  all  day-only  the  gently  falling  flakes,  the  snowballs,  the  squeals  and  laughter,  and  the  Goudeaux's  fat,  ruddy  faces.  Once,  the  youngest  girl," b"four-year-old  Emilie,  said,  &quot;Mama,  she  say  this  don't  happen  but  one  time.  One  time  in  a  lifetime.&quot;  And  all  of  us  fell  on  her,  protesting,  rubbing  her  face  in  the  snow,  until  Emilie,  gasping  for  breath  through  her  chapped  and  grinning  lips,  cried,  &quot;O.K.-unele!  I  say  uncle!&quot;  MOTHER  was  in  and  out  all  day.  She  scraped  some  of  the  clean  snow  from  the  porch  and,  putting  it  in  bowls,  covered  it  with  green  mint  flavor-  ing  for  us  to  eat.  There  was  enough  for  all  the  Goudeaux,  too.  Much  ofthe  time  she  was  with  my  father.  She  had  rolled  his  chair  to  a  front  window,  and  she  sat  close  to  him,  so  that  both  their  faces  were  framed  by  the  win-  dow.  Perhaps  the  glass  softened  his  face;  it  seemed  free  of  pain,  and  his  eyes  shone  as  brightly  as  hers.  She  turned  to  him  often  to  kiss  his  forehead.  And  she  point-  ed  repeatedly,  her  fingertip  flattened  out  against  the  glass,  as  if  the  Seven  Won-  ders  ofthe  World  rode  past  their  vision.  Dinner,  in  the  late  afternoon,  was  a  picnic.  Mignon  and  I  roasted  wieners  and  marshmallows  over  the  potbellied  stove  in  the  living  room.  When  Mignon  held  one  of  the  wieners  in  the  fire  too  long,  Mother  said,  &quot;You  can  eat  them  burnt  to  a  crisp.  A  little  scorch  won't  hurt.&quot;  And  she  laughed.  She  squatted  on  the  floor  between  Mignon  and  me.  And  as  we  ate,  she  got  busy  with  her  scissors,  for  she  had  spread  before  the  fire  the  luckless  rayon  skirt.  &quot;Instead  of  paper  dolls,  I  made  doll  clothes  when  I  was  little,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Get  me  your  doll,  Musette.  I'll  show  you  how  it's  done.&quot;  I  ran  and  got  my  doll,  and  she  fitted  pieces  of  rayon  around  it  and  began  to stitch  them  with  needle  and  thread.  I  watched,  enthralled,  as  she  made  ruffles  for  the  sleeves  and  cut  out  a  tiny  square  for  the  pocket.  &quot;It's  so  easy,  isn't  it?&quot;  she  said  as  she  appliqu\xc3\xa9d  the  pocket  and  hemmed  the  dress  with  rapid  stitches.  Then  she  held  out  the  doll,  and  I  grasped  it  eagerly.  'T  ake  her  outside  and  let  her  play  in  the  snow,&quot;  she  said.  Mignon  and  I  hurried  out  into  the  yard.  Again  we  saw  her  face  at  the  win-  dow.  She  pointed  at  the  doll,  and  I  raced  to  the  window,  holding  it  up  for  our  father  to  see.  She  sat  beside  him,  smiling.  Their  faces  became  dimmer  as  the  day  faded,  until  at  last  the  window  was  dark. "