 b"I  HAVE  before  me  the  current  issue  of  Gentry,  a  two-dollar  quarterly  described  (by  itself)  as  &quot;America's  Fabulous  Magazine  for  Men  That  Sat-  isfies  Our  Appetite  for  the  Truly  Good  Things,&quot;  and  I  have  it  opened  to  a  sec-  tion  entitled  &quot;What  Would  You  Like  to  See  in  an  Automobile?,&quot;  contributed  by  &quot;six  famous  designers,  three  men  and  three  women,&quot;  whom  the  editors  besought  to  tell  what  they  would  like  to  see  in  an  automobile-or,  as  the  first  of  the  six,  Mr.  William  Pahlmann,  put  it,  the  Car  of  the  Future.  I  myself  am  the  possessor  of  a  Car  ofthe  Past  (1950),  but  I  like  to  look  forward,  since  I  have  been  told  this  keeps  you  young,  or  at  least  middle-aged,  so  here  goes.  Mr.  Pahlmann,  who  has  an  office  in  the  Fifties  and  an  out-of-town  connec-  tion  as  furniture  designer  for  the  [REDACTED]  Rapids  Bookcase  &amp;  Chair  Co.,  of  Has-  tings,  [REDACTED],  is  on  the  staff  ofthe  Bride's  School,  and  was  born  in  Pleasant  Mound,  [REDACTED],  wants  less  color  on  the  outside  and  more  on  the  inside.  The  rather  flashy,  two-toned  jobs  that  have  been  rolling  off  the  assembly  line  in  the  last  few  years  [he  writes  |,  and  some  of  the  sharp  putrid  pastels,  quite  often  make  the  people  inside  these  circus  boats  look  a  little  bit  silly.  A  heavy,  bearded  laborer  dashing  to  work  in  a  pale  blue  or  shrimp  pink  car  doesn't  make  much  sense  to  me  and  it  certainly  doesn't  lend  to  the  dignity  of  the  road.  I  prefer  gunmetal  grays,  charcoal  gray-blacks,  brown-blacks,  and  some  deep  blue  colors,  and  black  it-  self.  In  a  sports  car,  I  do  think  whites  and  grays  and  beige  tonesare  all  right;  but  any  of  the  other  pastel  colors  are  a  little  bit  on  the  sharp  side.  I  am  not  quite  sure  what  a  putrid  pastel  is;  Mr.  Harlow  H.  Curtice,  presi-  dent  of  General  Motors,  made  no  refer-  ence  to  this  feature  at  G.M.'s1955  an-  nual  Motorama  press  reception  at  the  Waldorf-Astoria  a  few  weeks  ago.  In  any  case,  I  suspect  Pahlmann  had  in-  tended  to  wind  up  his  sentence  about  decomposed  paints:  &quot;quite  often  make  the  people  inside  ...  smell  a  little  bit  smelly.&quot;  He  was  probably  using  the  $229.50  Midge-tape  recorder  listed  in  the  Gentry  Gift  Guide  (&quot;Fun,  sensible,  too,  for  many  business  endeavors,  as  it  works  on  car,  train  or  plane&quot;)  and  his  brown-black  convertible  hit  a  bump  while  he  was  dictating,  throwing  Midge-tape  off  balance.  As  for  the  heavy,  bearded  laborer,  he  sounds  ter-  ribly  dignified  to  me,  and  I  thigk  his  dignity  would  be  thrown  into  sharper  relief,  if  anything,  by  a  frivolous  casing.  but  I  wonder  how  many  bearded  labor-  ers  read  Gentry,  and  are  in  a  position  to  profit  by  Pahlmann's  warning.  In  fact,  how  many  bearded  laborers  are  there?  Karl  Marx  had  a  beard,  and  this  may  be  what  the  boy  from  Pleasant  Mound  had  in  mind,  but  Marx's  connection  with  labor  was  ideological;  he  never  got  out  on  the  rock  pile,  or  unpleasant  mound,  himself.  &quot;I  don't  understand  why  the  inside  tops  of  cars  should  be  dull  and  uninter-  esting,&quot;  Mr.  Pahlmann  writes,  and  goes  on:  Why  not  have  flowered  ceilings,  or  one  of  woven  fabrics  that  have  a  design  or  tex-  ture  to  them?  Why  shouldn't  the  floor  coverings  have  a  tweedy  lookor  a  small  over-all  design?.  ..  As  far  as  the  seats  are  concerned,  I  rather  like  the  effect  of  permanent  slipcovers.  I  personally  use  this  sort  of  thing,  and,  at  one  time,  used  a  pandanus  cloth  or  straw  as  a  seat  covering.  I  now  have  black  Lurex  in  a  semi-perma-  nent  slipcover.  Figured  carpets  or,  if  it's  possible,  vinyl  tile  could  be  used  over  the  floor  boards;  ...  these...  could  be  stamped  out  of  plastic  or  Fiberglas  with  a  scarified  top.  There  could  be  different  styles  of  interi-  ors.  ...  Why  shouldn't  there  be  subtle  in-  dications  through  hardware,  and  decora-  tive  materials  to  give  acar  an  Empire  look.  or  a  French  Provincial  look,  or  perhaps  even  a  Spanish  look?  Why  shouldn't  there  be  loose  cushions  to  fit  into  the  small  of  the  back?  These  can  be  of  straw  or  of  other  sturdy  materials,  but  they  can  be  bright  [and]  cheerful.  ...  What  is  wrong  with  having  a  scent  of  pine  or  some  other  scent  indicative  of  the  owner?  Well,  as  to  that  last  suggestion,  noth-  ing,  although  it  seems  a  bit  inconsistent  coming  from  a  man  who  denigrates  putrid  pastels.  Liederkranz  is  a  lot  more  indicative  of  many  a  car  owner  than  Knize.  Moreover,  Mr.  Pahlmann  ap-  pears  to  fall  between  the  two  stools  of  permanent  and  semi-permanent  slip-  covers.  Why  is  pandanus  permanent  and  Lurex  semi-permanent,  and  why,  in  the  name  of  all  that's  flowered  and  tweedy,  did  he  abandon  pandanus  if  it's  permanent?  Pandanus  is  an  Asiatic  screw  pine,  and  doubtless  has  an  Empire  look,  left  over  from  the  days  when  [REDACTED]  ruled  the  seas  and  lorded  it  over  496e646961,  Malaya,  and  the  rest.  As  for  the  small  of  the  back,  I'm  all  for  cheer-  ing  it  up.  K.  Now  for  Howard  Ketcham,  the  color  expert,  who  is  Gentry's  second  car-design  authority.  It's  an  ad-  mirable  reflection  of  Gentry's  realiza-  tion  that  one  man's  circus  boat  may  be  another  man's  Truly  Good  Thing  that  Ketcham  was  not  blue-pencilled  for  rec-  ommending  fuchsia-and-peacock-blue  cars,  blue-and-green  cars,  blue-and-lime  cars,  chartreuse-and-coral-pink  cars,  and  orange-and-pink  cars,  with  two-  toned  upholstery  to  match.  No  gun-  metal  gray  for  Ketcham,  and  no  bearded  laborer,  either,  in  his  Car  of  Tomorrow  (&quot;A  deep  throated  roar  of  nuclear  power.  Plastic  seat-enclosing  solar-dome.  A  luggage  rack  which  opens  at  the  of  a  finger.  Television  and  supersonic-impulses  [that]  tell  of  road  conditions  for  a  radiusof  50  miles!&quot;),  whose  picture  shows  a  girl  in  a  bathing  suit  at  the  peacock-blue  steering  wheel,  a  fully  dressed  man  at  her  side.  And  certainly  no  bearded  laborer  for  James  Amster,  Gentry's  next  automotive  dreamer,  whose  visions  include  chased-gold  bumpers,  a  tufted  seat  with  gold-leather-covered  buttons,  and  &quot;wooden  spoked  wagon  wheels,  this  time  .  .  .  in  metal.&quot;  Among  the  ladies,  Dorothy  Liebes,  who  was  once  a  director  of  the  Muse-  um  of  Modern  Art,  wants  a  ceiling  that  looks  like  a  Miro  gone  mad;  Doris  T'il-  lett,  the  mother  of  three,  advises  a  toidy;  and  Bonnie  Cashin,  who  hails  from  Cal-  ifornia,  would  &quot;love  a  striped  top,  say  green  and  white  in  a  green  car,  like  the  gayest  awning  ever.&quot;  Say,  Bonnie,  how  long  would  that  white  stay  gay  under  [REDACTED]  smog  conditions?  \xe2\x80\x98N  Z  ELL,  my  appetite  is  whetted,  if  not  satisfied.  I've  ordered  a  mo-  bile,  nuclear-powered  shower  bath,  with  vinyl  tiles,  Shocking-pink  pandanus  cur-  tains,  a  French  Provincial  solar  dome,  and  spigots  emitting  Caron's  Fleurs  de  Rocaille  scent,  which  Gentry's  Gift  Guide  put  me  on  to.  'This  is  a  hell  of  a  gift  guide,  by  the  way.  It  lists,  and  illustrates,  a  plastic  &quot;milking  goat,&quot;  complete  with  udder,  and  goes  on,  &quot;His  head  bobs  back  and  forth;  he  talks  when  the  collar  ring  is  pulled.  .  ..  He  can  be  used  as  a  most  amusing  liquor  dis-  penser.&quot;  I  guess  I'll  leave  this  out  of  my  car.  I  anticipate  trouble  enough  with-  out  carting  a  confused  goat  around. "