 b" IT  would  be  interesting  to  know  what evil  star  hovers  over  people  who  are  accident-prone.  'Thesepeople  are  the  ones  who  step  on  the  rake  in  the  dark,  or  are  singled  out  by  the  belliger-  ent  drunk,  or  go  through  the  rotted  board  on  the  porch,  and  although  some  of  their  accidents  are  major,  requiring  hospitalization  or  legal  proceedings,  most  are  minor,  as  if  their  star  were  trying  to  drive  them  mad,  rather  than  destroy  them  outright.  Seaman  First  Class  Ansel  Morse  Garvin  was  the  most  accident-prone  man  I  have  ever  known,  but  only  once  during  the  time  I  knew  him  was  he  injured  seriously  enough  to  require  stitches.  It  was  early  in  1944  that  Garvin  came  aboard  the  small  submarine  chas-  er,  or  PC,  of  which  I  was  executive  officer.  He  had  previously  been  on  a  destroyer  that  had  collided  with  an-  other  ship  in  the  [REDACTED]  and  been  cut  inhalf.It  was  the  Navy's  cus-  tom  to  assign  the  survivors  of  marine  disasters  to  whatever  type  of  ship  they  asked  for,  and  Garvin  had  chosen  a  PC.  Neither  he  nor  anybody  else  was  later  able  to  explain  what  had  motivated  this  choice.  Perhaps  he  had  thought  that  there  would  be  less  chance  of  getting  into  trouble  on  a  small  ship,  but  if  that  was  the  case,  he  couldn't  have  made  a  worse  move.  PC  sailors  were  scarred,  wet,  or  bleeding  a  good  part  of  the  time.  When  he  first  came  aboard,  there  seemed  to  be  nothing  to  distinguish  him  from  the  other  seamen  who  arrived  reg-  ularly  as  replacements.  He  was  short  and  mousy,  with  small  eyes  and  a  long,  pointed  nose,  and  he  talked  with  a  pronounced  Ala-  bama  accent.  He  was  quiet,  but  he  got  along  well  with  the  oth-  er  men,  and  there  was  even  an  occasional  sparkle  about  him  that  suggested  he  might  have  a  sense  of  humor.  Most  ofthe  time,  however,  he  performed  his  duties  slowly  and  carefully,  and  he  always  appeared  to  be  concentrating  on  what  he  was  doing.  Garvin's  turn  at  the  wheel  afforded  mild  amusement  to  everyone  within  ear-  shot,  because  when  he  repeated  the  direc-  tions  to  the  helm,  his  accent  gave  a  new  and  wonderful  sound  to  the  numbers.  His  &quot;zero'&quot;  was,  in  fact,  indescribable;  it  sounded  something  like  a  cross  between  a  banshee  wail  and  a  badly  done  bird-  call,  and  the  officer  of  the  deck  would,  whenever  possible,  give  him  a  course  with  at  least  one  zero  in  it,  just  to  hear  him  repeat  it  up  the  speaking  tube.  He  became  known,  behind  his  back,  as  Zero  Four  Zero,  and  later,  just  as  Old  Zero.  The  first  hint  we  had  that  Old  Zero  might  be  laboring  under  a  curse  came  one  day  when  we  were  going  south  to  Key  West  with  a  slow  convoy,  and  the  sea  was  oily  calm.  The  captain  and  I  were  on  the  bridge  wing,  and  on  the  deck  below  us  Garvin  stood  at  the  rail,  staring  quietly  at  the  sea.  There  was  no  wind,  and  scarcely  any  motion,  and  the  only  sounds  came  from  back  aft,  where  a  group  of  seamen  were  chipping  rust  off  the  deck.  Garvin  was  doing  nothing,  he  was  standing  absolutely  still,  but  sud-  denly  his  hat  flew  off  and  sailed  into  the  water.  Without  moving,  he  watched  it  disappear  in  the  ship's  wake,  and  when  it  was  gone  from  sight,  he  spat  once  into  the  sea  and  then  turned  and  went  slowly  down  the  ladder  to  the  crew's  compartment.  The  captain  laughed.  &quot;So  he's  one  of  those,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Last  ship  I  was  on,  we  had  a  man  who  couldn't  keep  a  hat  more  than  three  days.&quot;  &quot;It  didn't  seem  to  bother  him  much,&quot;  I  remarked.  &quot;He's  probably  used  to  it  by  now,&quot;  said  the  captain.  &quot;When  you're  one  of  those,  you  learn  not  to  let  the  little  things  upset  you.&quot;  Garvin  was,  in  fact,  remarkably  calm  about  his  misfortunes.  On  another  trip,  during  general  drills,  three  men  came  scrambling  out  of  ahatch,  one  after  an-  other,  and  the  last  man  up  slammed  the  hatch  shut  and  hurried  off  about  his  duties.  A  couple  of  minutes  later,  there  was  a  clanging  thud,  and  then  slowly  the  hatch  opened  and  Garvin  emerged,  having  run  full  speed  up  the  ladder  and  rammed  his  head  against  the  hatch  cover.  He  ran  off,  tot-  tering  a  bit,  buthe  spoke  no  audible  curses,  and  as  far  as  I  know,  he  dismissed  the  incident  without  even  mentioning  it.  There  was,  however,  a  change  in  his  manner  after  that,.  When  he  first  ar-  rived  on  board,  he  had  seemed  to  be  quietly  optimistic,  possibly  believing  his  curse  had  been  washed  away  with  the  sinking  of  his  previous  ship;  after  he  had  been  with  us  a  month  or  so,  his  attitude  changed  to  one  of  weary  resignation.  I  suppose  he  knew  that  the  best  he  could  hope  for  was  simple  sur-  vival.  Although  he  laughed  more  than  he  had  before,  there  was  a  note  of  des-  peration  inhis  laughter.  T  finally  got  so  a  trip  wasn't  com-  plete  until  something  had  happened  to  Old  Zero.  Most  of  his  accidents  " b"were  slight,  and  for  some  reason  most  of  them  happened  to  his  head,  as  when  he  was  all  but  brained  by  the  barrel  of  a  20-mm.  gun.  While  not  in  use,  the  20-mm.  guns  were  left  pointing  vertically.  To  cock  one,  a  lanyard  was  attached  to  thebase  and  the  barrel  spring,  and  the  gun  was  slammed  into  a  horizontal  position,  the  lanyard  pull-  ing  the  spring  back.  Garvin  was  a  load-  er  on  a  20-mm.,  and  one  night  at  gen-  eral  quarters,  while  he  was  carrying  a  magazine  of  shells,  he  happened  to  be  directly  under  the  barrel  when  the  gun-  ner  slammed  it  down.  It  caught  him  across  the  skull  and  knocked  him  flat  on  his  face  on  the  deck.  From  his  prone  position,  Garvin  said,  &quot;Chrahst,&quot;  then  picked  himself  up,  retrieved  the  maga-  zine,  and  snapped  it  onto  the  gun.  On  another  trip,  when  the  sea  was  rough,  he  bruised  himself  quite  badly  climbing  into  his  bunk,  which  was  the  top  one  in  a  tier  of  three.  This  caused  a  great  deal  of  ribald  laughter,  in  which  he  joined.  For  a  while  afterward,  it  looked  as  though  that  might  have  been  his  accident  for  the  trip,  but  hisstar  had  only  been  warming  up.  Two  days  later,  with  the  weather  getting  worse  all  the  time,  Garvin  was  lying  on  a  bench  in  the  crew's  mess  hall,  probably  trying  to  forget  that  he  had  ever  even  heard  of  the  sea.  Suddenly,  there  was  a  change  in  convoy  course,  and  we  had  to  come  up  to  full  speed  and  head  into  the  waves,  which  made  the  ship  slam  and  pitch  and  buck  like  a  wild  bull.  Garvin  closed  his  eyes  and  clung  tightly  to  the  bench,  and  a  piece  of  a  two-by-four  shoring  lumber,  which  had  been  secured  to  the  over-  head,  came  loose  and  sailed  all  the  way  across  the  mess  hall  and  hit  him  on  the  topofthe  head.  It  knocked  him  un-  conscious,  and  the  pharmacist's  mate  had  to  put  three  stitches  in  his  scalp,  but  he  stood  his  wheel  watch  later  that  night  as  though  nothing  had  happened.  His  voice  in  the  speaking  tube  was  as  cheer-  ful  and  melodious  as  ever.  I  think  he  knew  we  liked  to  hear  his  &quot;zero''s,  and  that  night  he  made  a  special  effort  with  them.  They  were  fantastic.  HE  thing  that  finally  broke  Gar-  vin's  spirit  was  an  accident  he  had  at  Staten  Island.  We  used  to  tie  up  at  Tompkinsville  between  convoys,  and  had  about  a  week  there,  in  which  to  chip  rust,  repaint,  and  repair  whatever  dam-  age  had  been  done  by  the  sea.  One  sunny  morning,  Garvin  was  out  on  the  foredeck  getting  ready  to  use  the  elec-  tric  wire  brush  on  some  rust  patches.  Nearby,  there  was  a  bucket  of  yellow  zinc-chromate  paint,  which  was  used  as  an  undercoating,  to  deter  rust.  A " b"length  of  line  for  lowering  the  bucket  over  the  side  of  the  ship  was  attached  to  its  handle.  Garvin  plugged  the  wire  brush  into  an  outlet,  but  he  had  neg-  lected  to  make  sure  that  the  switch  was  off.  The  next  few  seconds  were  whirl-  ing,  yellow  hell.  The  wire  brush  started  up  with  a  growl;  it  caught  the  line  on  the  paint-bucket  handle  and  swung  line,  bucket,  and  paint  in  a  flashing,  clatter-  ing  arc  all  over  the  forward  part  of  the  ship.  Garvin  was  blinded  by  the  paint,  and  by  the  time  he  had  groped  his  way  to  the  outlet  and  pulled  the  plug,  the  entire  foredeck,  the  three-inch  gun,  the  ammunition  lockers,  the  bridge  wings,  a  part  of  the  dock,  and  most  of  Garvin  were  bright,  dripping  yellow.  I  was  in  the  wardroom  and  heard  the  noise,  and  when  I  got  out  on  deck,  Garvin  had  his  handkerchief  out  and  was  futilely  trying  to  mop  the  paint  off  an  ammunition  locker.  He  had  wiped  his  eyes  clear,  but  the  rest  of  his  face  glistened  with  paint,  and  occasional  drops  fell  from  the  tip  of  his  nose  into  the  yellow  paint  on  the  deck.  He  looked  like  a  large,  sick  canary.  Not  long  after,  he  asked  for  a  trans-  fer.  It  wasn't  that  he  didn't  like  the  people  on  board,  he  said;  it  was  just  that  he  thought  he  might  be  better  off  some-  where  else.  Although  such  transfers  were  usually  discouraged,  as  being  whimsical,  Garvin's  request  was  ap-  proved  by  the  captain.  The  last  I  saw  of  him,  he  was  headed  down  the  gang-  plank,  his  sea  bag  over  his  shoulder  and  a  glassy  look  in  his  eyes.  He  reached  the  dock,  glanced  back  at  the  ship,  and  tripped  over  a  steam  hose."