 b"MY  friend  Mare  Turian  is  a  Swiss vigneron.  Most  people  do  not  think  of  vineyards  when  they  think  of  [REDACTED];  cowbells  and  clocks  and  chocolate,  yes,  but  not  vine-  yards  and  the  mysteries  of  wine.  Yet  wine  is  one  ofthe  oldest  industries  of  the  Swiss.  Legend  has  it  that  the  black-  smith  Helicon  made  his  fortune  in  Rome  and  then  went  back  to  his  native  land  taking  olive  oil,  fruit,  and  the  root  of  a  vine  that  became  the  Roman  ances-  tor  of  all  the  Swiss  white  wines.  Little  by  little,  the  banks  of  the  Rhone  and  the  warm  slopes  of  the  lakes  of  Neuchi@tel  and  L\xc3\xa9man  were  terraced  and  planted  with  vines.  Rain  tore  the  earth  down,  and  men  carried  it  up  the  steep  hillsides  in  baskets  on  their  backs,  mended  the  stone  terraces  every  spring,  hoed,  ferti-  lized,  pinched  back  the  young  shoots,  and  hoped  for  that  not  impossible  good  year  that  hangs  over  every  vineyard  like  a  mirage.  [REDACTED]  Turian's  family  settled  three  hundred  years  ago  at  Satigny,  just  back  of  Geneva,  in  territory  that  was  then  French  and  is  still  passionately  Franco-  phile.  Up  from  the  banks  of  the  Rhone  to  the  stern,  steep  profile  of  the  Jura  climb  the  vineyards,  including  those  of  La  Roselle,  the  Turian  property.  Peo-  ple  who  have  held  the  same  land  over  several  generations,  who  cut  a  crest  in  the  stone  portals  of  their  farms,  the  patrons  who  know  the  taste  of  their  own  wine  and  regard  vine-growing  as  an  art  rather  than  a  trade,  might  be  called  the  aristocracy  of  the  peasantry;  of  such  are  the  Turians.  In  [REDACTED]'s  complex  nature  there  is  one  steadfast  passion-that  of  the  pro-  ducer  ofa  small  wine  who  works  hard  to  make  it  better  each  year,  even  though  this  may  be,  financially  speaking,  a  los-  ing  battle.  For  in  the  Swiss  economy  the  wine  industry  has  been  sacrificed,  and  cheap  wine  imported  from  [REDACTED],  4974616c79,  and  537061696e  floods  the  market,  a  counter  used  in  the  exchange  of  pr  oducts  like  watches,  chocolate,  elec-  trical  power,  and  locomotives.  And,  of  course,  the  Swiss  &quot;name&quot;  wines  have  never  been  able  to  compete  with  the  great  French  ones.  Many  a  vigneron  in  the  valley  of  the  Rhone  has  to  borrow  money  from  the  bank  to  pay  off  his  grape  pickers  at  the  vintage;  many  a  vintage  just  covers  the  year's  debts.  When  I  saw  [REDACTED]  two  years  ago,  he  was  in  severe  financial  straits;  he  was  facing  having  to  sell  land  as  the  only  way  out.  For  such  a  man,  selling  land  can  be  compared  only  to  selling  a  thumb  or  a  hand.  One  can  live  without  a  thumb,  but  the  idea  is  repugnant.  It  is  significant  that  over  the  years  the  village  of  Satigny  has  had  its  share  of  &quot;crimes  of  passion,&quot;  but  the  passion  was  for  land;  someone  was  roused  to  homicidal  fury  over  a  question  of  inheritance  of  those  ancient  vineyards  that  hardly  pay  their  way.  This  fall,  asI  drove  out  from  Geneva  and  came  to  the  rolling  plateau,  brilliant  green  in  the  evening  light  against  the  purple  wall  of  the  Jura,  I  wondered  how  much  of  this  was  still  [REDACTED]'s  and  how  much  he  had  given  up  in  the  two  years  since  my  last  visit.  I  was  full  of  these  thoughts  and  anxieties  when  we  met.  There  he  was,  a  great  oak  ofa  man,  swelling  his  bright-blue  shirt  as  if  he  would  burst  out  of  it,  a  man  in  his  middle  fifties  with  something  of  the  look  of  a  benign  Teddy  bear;  a  Teddy  bear  from  the  front,  in  profile  a  Roman  em-  peror-that  perfectly  straight  nose,  massive  forehead  and  chin;  his  hands,  the  hands  of  a  workman,  capable  of  great  delicacy,  though  black-grained  and  stubby.  Standing  there  in  thick,  muddy  boots,  he  seemed  the  image  of  an  earth-bound  farmer,  but  his  first  words,  after  we  had  greeted  each  other,  were  not  ofthe  weather  or  of  the  pos-  sible  harvest.  His  first  words  were  &quot;Y  ou  know,  the  Duchesse  de  Guermantes  is  dead.&quot;  This  singular  greeting  was  so  perfectly  in  character  that  I  have  been  turning  it  over  in  my  mind  ever  since,  listening  to  its  reverberations.  For,  firmly  rooted  though  he  may  be  on  the  hillside  at  Satigny,  the  world  of  [REDACTED]'s  imagination,  which  constantly  flows  in-  to  the  real  one  and  out  again,  is  tethered  nowhere  and  carries  him,  like  Ariel,  to  the  far  corners  of  the  earth  in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye.  His  inner  life  is  so  rich  in  fantasy  that  at  times  one  feels  that  he  will  vanish  into  it  and  never  be  seen  again.  The  death  of  a  woman  who  had  been  a  model  for  one  of  Proust's  characters  seemed,  of  all  the  events  of  the  summer,  the  one  significant  one  to  [REDACTED].  Here,  for  once,  the  real  world   and  the  world  of  imagination  were  per-  fectly  blended  in  a  news  item.  When  [REDACTED],  standing  at  the  gate,  said  that  the  Duchesse  de  Guermantes  was  dead,  I  knew  that  I  was  back  at  La  Roselle.  The  house  sits  at  the  bot-  tom  ofthe  hill,  where  the  vines  leave  off.  Close  to  the  village  street,  it  is  well  hidden  behind  a  high  wall  and  iron  gate,  and  by  a  linden  tree.  It  was  once  a  convent,  this  high  stone  house  with  its  overhanging  roof,  faded  green  shut-  ters  against  distempered  walls,  rough  cobbled  courtyard  where  theusualblue  and  pink  hydrangeas  in  wooden  tubs  stand  about,  and  just  then  (for  it  was  late  September)  the  foreground  taken  up  with  huge  casks  and  vats  being  cleaned  and  calked  for  the  vintage.  It  is  a  house  that  over  the  last  fifty  years  has  been  softened  and  made  rich  by  the  presence  of  three  women,  and  one  cannot  begin  to  understand  Mare  with-  out  considering  them.  For,  since  he  lost  his  father  when  he  was  a  baby,  his  character  has  been  stamped  by  fem-  inine  influences,  and  thoughhe  radiates  masculine  sunshine,  his  nature  has  a  lunar  aspect,  which  sheds  a  less  obvious  light.  In  the  old  days,  La  Roselle  be-  longed  to  his  aunt,  a  power  in  the  village,  who  delighted  in  gossip  and  ferreted  out  both  sides  of  every  story.  Although  [REDACTED]  lived  with  his  mother  until  her  death,  she  has  always  seemed  a  shadowy  figure.  His  aunt's  powerful  personality  dominated  his  childhood,  and  she  must  have  felt  a  peculiar  tender-  ness  for  him.  As  a  boy,  [REDACTED]  had  trou-  ble  with  one  foot  and  had  to  wear  a  special  boot;  even  now,  his  walk  is  a  rolling  gait,  rather  like  that  of  a  sea  captain  holding  the  deck  in  a  heavy  sea,  but  this  slightly  irregular  walk  is  so  much  a  part  of  his  rhythm  and  per-  sonality  that  it  does  not  seem  like  an  infirmity.  As  a  child,  however,  he  was  set  apart;  when  other  children  were  playing  out-of-doors,  he  was  more  often  than  not  sitting  on  a  stool  at  his  aunt's  side.  'There  he  listened  as  she  read  the  great  French  poets  aloud;  there  he  was  plunged  into  wonder  as  she  passed  him  the  heavy  volumes  of  the  Larousse  En-  cyclopedia,  one  by  one.  Through  his  aunt,  he  learned  pride  in  his  family  and  race,  the  sense  of  being  &quot;somebody,&quot;  and  a  certain  independence  in  relation  to  the  village.  He  has  always  gone  his  own  way.  When  the  vignerons  banded  together  to  form  a  cod\xc3\xa9perative,  he  sold  his  own  equipment  and  became  a  founding  member  of  what  amounts  to  a  small  wine  factory.  But  I  think  [REDACTED]  was  never  entirely  happy  about  this  affair;  the  hope  was  that  by  pooling  resources  " b"and  cutting  costs  the  society  could  produce  wine  cheap  enough  to  compete  with  the  mass  importation  of  gross  French  and  Italian  wines.  But  at  the  cooperative  press,  of  course,  all  the  grapes  are  dumped  in  together,  and  the  incentive  to  improve  thevin-  tage  of  one  hillside  or  another,  the  complex  art  of  the  vigneron  working  with  his  own  wines,  is  lost.  Possibly  [REDACTED]  was  re-  lieved  when,  after  four  years,  the  associates  split  up  over  a  business  matter.  At  any  rate,  he  led  the  minority  opposition  and,  with  a  few  other  vigne-  rons,  finally  withdrew  and  went  back  to  being  the  patron  of  his  own  cellar,  responsible  for  growing,  producing,  and  selling  his  own  wine.  Getting  out  meant  investing  again  in  a  wine  press,  casks,  and  all  the  other  machinery  of  the  vintage,  as  well  as  hiring  his  own  labor,  It  nearly  ended  in  ruin.  But  he  has  certainly  never  regret-  ted  his  decision.  By  it  he  won  back  his  honor;  he  could  open  a  bottle  of  La  Roselle  again,  as  all  the  Turians  had  done  for  three  hundred  years.  He  was  back  in  the  stream  of  his  own  history.  As  a  boy,  under  his  aunt's  influence,  he  had  dreamed  of  a  university  education.  But  there  was  really  no  question  of  choice;  his  mother  needed  help,  and  when  he  was  eighteen  he  took  over  a  man's  re-  sponsibilities  as  manager  of  her  estate.  It  is  just  as  well,  perhaps,  that  a  curiosity  so  childlike  and  various,  so  undogmatic  and  fluid,  has  been  allowed  to  go  its  own  way-that,  like  the  wine  of  La  Roselle,  its  master  is  not  a  factory  product  ed-  ucated  just  like  everyone  else.  One  branch  of  his  grandfather's  fam-  ily  emigrated  to  Uruguay.  Now  and  then,  over  the  years,  one  or  another  of  these  transplanted  cousins  came  back,  homesick  for  the  long  sweep  of  hills  down  to  the  Rhone,  for  the  French  lan-  guage,  for  Satigny  the  village.  They  came  back  bringing  their  tales  of  ad-  venture  and  success;  looking,  in  their  [REDACTED]  clothes,  like  strange,  opulent  birds,  they  came  back  to  dazzle  the  little  boy-  she  came  back.  For  the  second  power-  ful  feminine  influence  in  [REDACTED]'s  life  was  one  of  these  Uruguay  cousins-  Elizabeth,  a  few  years  older  than  he.  She  took  the  boy  under  her  wing,  and  became  the  center  of  his  emotional  life  for  many  years.  When  the  aunt  died  and  [REDACTED],  in  his  early  thirties,  inherited  La  Roselle,  Elizabeth,  at  his  invitation,  took  over  the  upper  floor  for  her  own,  and  spent  months  at  a  time  at  Satigny,  bringing  books,  flowers,  her  beautiful  presence  into  the  cold  stone  house,  and  creating  a  garden  at  the  foot  of  the  vines.  It  was,  no  doubt,  at  this  time  that  [REDACTED]  began  his  long  explorations  of  Proust,  losing  himself  in  dreams  of  that  hot-  house  world  of  experience  and  sensa-  tion  that  Elizabeth  symbolized  for  him.  She  had  come  back  to  Satigny  first  when  he  was  still  a  boy  and  she  was  already-  or  seemed  to  him-a  personage  in  her  own  right.  She  must  have  sensed  under  his  peasant  ways  the  imaginative,  singu-  lar  creature  waiting  for  a  magic  wand  to  wake  him.  And  there  is  no  doubt  that  she  carried  the  wand,  became  his  fairy  princess,  and  for  years  captivated  him,  so  that  as  long  as  she  lived,  he  never  wished  to  marry.  Yet  when  Elizabeth's  sophisticated  friends  came  out  from  Geneva  fora  day  in  the  country,  [REDACTED]  was  too  shy  to  do  more  thanpeep  over  the  wall  at  the  Proustian  world  coming  to  life  in  his  own  domain.  This  some-  what  ambiguous  relationship  with  a  cousin  older  than  he  must  have  in-  tensified  the  split  between  his  two  worlds,  and  although  he  took  Eliza-  beth  into  his  own  circle,  he  remained  an  outsider  in  hers.  He  was  forced  to  build  an  inner  life  for  himself,  a  life  which  found  expression  in  his  own  room  downstairs.  Because  this  is  where  the  secret  side  of  his  life  becomes  visible,  [REDACTED]  rarely  invites  anyone  in.  Ire-  member  vividly  the  first  time  I  saw  it.  I  remember  how  incongruous  the  huge  pair  of  muddy  boots  looked  on  the  soft  elegant  carpet  with  its  design  of  ocean  liners.  (&quot;Fuir!  la-bas  fuir!&quot;)  One  whole  wall  is  covered  with  books  to  the  ceiling;  the  three  others  are  filled  with  paintings  by  contemporary  Swiss  paint-  ers.  The  desk  is  a  rich  disorder  of  literary,  agricultural,  and  political  jour-  nals.  There  are  always  unemptied  ash-  trays,  bearing  the  faint,  sweet  scent  of  his  Dutch  tobacco,  which  fills  the  air  with  a  remembrance  of  hay  and  wild  flowers.  Open  the  door  and  you  are  in  an  artist's  room,  a  poet's  room,  but  " b"hardly  (you  would  have  thought)  the  room  of  a  hard-working  vigneron.  With  his  cousin's  death,  eleven  years  ago,  La  Roselle  was,  for  the  first  time,  without  the  presence  of  a  woman;  it  must  have  seemed  a  desert,  and  [REDACTED]  must  have  felt  himself  moving  through  a  world  that  had  lost  its  meaning.  It  was  not  strange  that  he  turned  a  year  later  to  a  woman  of  Elizabeth's  circle,  to  an  artist.  Happily,  in  Meta  Budry  he  found  awife  whose  imagination,  inde-  pendent  spirit,  and  flair  for  living  matched  his  own.  Meta  and  my  mother  were  students  together  at  an  art  school  in  [REDACTED]  forty  years  ago,  and  it's  through  Meta  that  I  have  come  to  know  La  Roselle.  Nothing  about  this  marriage  in  the  autumn  of  life  is  ordi-  nary.  The  house  is  still  divided  hori-  zontally  into  a  masculine  domain  on  the  ground  floor  and  a  feminine  domain  above  it.  On  the  ground  floor,  [REDACTED]  and  Emilia,  the  Italian  cook,  do  all  the  planning  of  meals  and  the  cooking  for  the  workmen  as  well  as  the  family,  and  here  also  is  the  small,  cozy  dining  room,  which  is  the  heart  ofthe  house.  There  is  a  comfortable  old  sofa  in  the  window,  a  round  table,  an  open  hearth,  two  glowing  still-lifes  on  the  wall,  shelves  of  cookbooks  in  one  corner,  and  on  the  topof  the  highboy,  where  Griboule  chooses  to  eat,  several  cat's  dishes.  Here  every  morning  at  seven  or  before,  the  shutters  are  thrown  back  and  the  day  begins;  here,  during  the  daytime,  the  buyers  come  to  order  a  barrel  of  wine,  which  [REDACTED]  will  deliver  in  his  old  Chrysler  when  he  gets  around  to  it;  here  every  evening  the  baker  leaves  a  big  round  loaf  of  bread  on  the  window  sill;  Griboule  appears  like  a  gray  ghost  at  the  window,  and  [REDACTED]  throws  a  fagot-a  bunch  of  dry  vine  twigs-on  the  open  fire  and  then  a  thick  vine  root,  which  will  burn  half  the  night  when  he  sits  listening  to  plays  and  concerts  over  the  radio  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  This  is  [REDACTED]'s  domain.  Meta's  begins  halfway  up  the  stairs,  which  are  stone.  On  the  landing,  there  is  sure  to  be  a  great  copper  brazierof  flowers.  Meta  is  the  gardener,  bring-  ing  in  sheaves  of  roses,  zinnias,  asters,  and  chrysanthemums,  which  she  will  spend  the  morning  arranging.  Upstairs,  there  is  order  and  grace-an  elegant  drawing  room,  soft  rich  colors,  flowers,  that  small  gray  eminence,  Griboule,  rolled  up  in  a  tight  ball  on  a  fur  throw  on  thebed.  When  [REDACTED]  comes  up  each  morning  at  about  ten,  he  puts  on  felt  slippers  over  his  boots,  and  he  looms here  like  some  primeval  god  making  a  visitation.  He  has  been  out  into  thevine-  yards  to  give  his  orders  to  the  workmen  and  lend  them  a  hand;  he  has  stopped  to  gather  a  plateful  of  ripe  figs  from  the  fig  tree;  he  has  been  over  to  the  barn  across  the  street;  and  now  he  comes  to  squeeze  his  huge  bulk  into  a  Louis  XIV  armchair  and  to  have  a  talk  with  his  wife.  Relaxing,  he  fills  his  pipe,  and  the  fantasies  he  has  been  brewing  since  seven  are  released  in  the  clouds  of  smoke.  Conversation  with  [REDACTED]  is  an  exercise  in  metaphor.  He  throws  his  ideas  into  the  air  like  a  juggler,  slightly  surprised  himself  at  their  shape  and  lightness,  his  eyes  sparkling  suddenly.  For  instance,  once  when  I  was  there,  Griboule  had  been  on  a  night  out,  and  a  mouse  had  found  its  way  into  a  drawer  and  eaten  a  hole  in  a  silk  blouse.  On  being  informed  of  this  domestic  catas-  trophe,  [REDACTED]  was  off  on  the  wings  of  metaphor.  &quot;That  mouse,&quot;  he  an-  nounced  in  a  puff  of  smoke,  &quot;was  an  entrechat.&quot;  When  there  is  a  guest  in  the  house,  a  third  domain  is  opened  up-a  great  attic  room  with  one  wall  knocked  out  to  make  a  long  window,  which  opens  on  the  sweep  of  vines  up  the  hill,  on  the  water  tower,  the  red  tiled  roof  of  the  church,  and  finally  the  cloud-capturing  wall  of  the  Jura.  From  here,  one  can  hear  the  laughter  downstairs,  which  means  that  the  day  has  begun.  Two  years  ago,  when  I  was  staying  at  La  Roselle,  [REDACTED]'s  fantasies  took  the  shape  of  pretending  to  wish  he  had  a  factory  job;  he  would  embroider  the  joy  it  would  be  to  set  out  on  a  bicycle  each  morning  and  go  into  a  quiet,  clean  factory,  without  an  anxiety  or  responsi-  bility  to  bear.  Later,  as  his  financial  predicament  began  to  get  really  frightening  and  the  bailiffs  were  at  the  door,  he  would  dream  of  setting  out  on  foot,  a  knapsack  on  his  back,  to  see  all  the  cathedrals  in  [REDACTED],  sleeping  in  haystacks,  a  volume  of  P\xc3\xa9guy  in  his  pocket.  One  morning  he  said,  &quot;Let's  pay  a  visit  to  Voltaire;  let  us  go  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  and  the  rest  of  the  morning  was  spent  preparing  an  enormous  picnic,  with  at  least  one  hot  dish,  and  at  noon  we  set  off  for  [REDACTED],  for  Ferney-only  to  find  the  gate  locked.  But  what  matter?  We  had  spent  a  whole  day  talking  about  Voltaire,  and  we  could  imagine  Ferney  very  well.  From  [REDACTED]'s  point  of  view,  we  had  actually  been  there.  [REDACTED]  does  nothing  quickly.  He  broods  over  every  plan,  taking  it  out,  putting  it  back  again,  not  to  be  hurried.  The  bailiffs  were  at  the  door,  and  he  could  not  make  up  his  mind  to  sell  land.  " b"Instead-and  this  is  typical-he  sud-  denly  decided,  after  a  long  period  of  rumination,  to  buy.  Borrowing  from  the  bank,  using  his  house  as  security,  he  bought  some  acres  in  a  small  town  that  might  soon  become  a  suburb  of  Geneva.  Such  speculations  require  courage  and  patience,  of  course.  [REDACTED]  waited,  though  to  wait  meant  to  risk  losing  La  Roselle.  But  every  vigneron  must  have  a  gambler  in  him,  and  this  time  the  gamble,  though  fantastic,  has  paid  off.  The  danger  is  past.  [REDACTED]  no  longer  speaks  of  setting  off  with  a  knapsack  on  his  back  as  a  pilgrim  to  [REDACTED],  or  of  working  in  a  factory  for  greater  peace  of  mind.  This  latter  was,  indeed,  the  most  er-  ratic  of  his  fantasies,  for  never  was  a  man  more  addicted  to  his  own  inde-  pendence.  I  have  often  wanted  to  ac-  company  him  through  one  of  his  rich  and  various  days.  What  does  he  do  when  he  sets  off  to  town  with  a  couple  of  barrels  of  wine  to  deliver?  One  morning  I  remember,  he  was  gone  for  hours,  and  when  he  came  back,  he  Sauntered  in  bearing  meringues  for  des-  sert  and  a  little  bag  of  candies  to  suck;  he  announced  that  there  was  a  wonder-  ful  Japanese  movie  to  be  seen.  But  it  turned  out  that  what  he  had  really  been  doing  was  talking  the  bank  into  another  loan  for  another  speculation,  and  on  the  strength  of  this  he  had  stopped  off  to  order  a  chicken  for  a  sick  friend  of  Meta's.  This  brief  encounter  with  ill-  ness  led  him  back  to  his  own  single  and  never  to  be  forgotten  experience  with  flu.  &quot;My  flu,&quot;  he  always  calls  it,  as  one  might  speak  of  &quot;My  journey  to  Mos-  cow.&quot;  If  one  has  the  slightest  cold,  [REDACTED]'s  memories  of  his  flu  flood  back-  of  the  great  time  when  he  lay  in  gran-  deur  &quot;upstairs&quot;  with  a  high  fever.  Was  it  for  weeks?  Was  it  for  days?  At  any  rate,  it  was  fifteen  years  ago,  in  Eliza-  beth's  time.  A  part  of  [REDACTED]'s  day  is  spent  in  the  kitchen;  here  his  imagination  can  go  happily  to  work.  With  the  intransigence  of  the  true  artist,  he  interrupts  Emilia  to  slide  a  just  invented  sauce  in  beside  her  baked  eggplant  or  spaghetti.  He  opens  the  oven  door  &quot;just  to  take  a  look&quot;  when  a  blast  of  air  may  be  fatal  to  a  souffl\xc3\xa9.  He's  always  in  a  good  humor,  always  tasting  whatever  is  in  the  mak-  ing.  Occasionally,  Emilia  has  a  tantrum  and  throws  up  her  hands.  But  no  one  can  be  angry  very  long  with  one  who  wears  the  armor  of  innocence.  Everything  in  the  ordinary  world  of  our  time  works  against  the  kind  of  life  [REDACTED]  chooses  to  lead.  He  takes  on  the  aspect  of  a  legend  for  me  as  soon  asI  find  myself  at  a  distance  from  him,  as   soon  asI  look  back,  because  he  is  like  a  final  explosion  of  individuality  and  char-  acter  under  circumstances  that  will  soon  no  longer  exist,  even  in  Satigny,  where  the  big  factory  for  pressing  anonymous  grapes  dominates  the  village.  I  see  him,  in  my  mind's  eye,  walking  ahead  of  me  between  the  orderly  rows  of  vines  that  come  to  his  thigh,  stopping  to  taste  a  grape  now  and  then,  until  we  reach  thetop  of  the  hill  and  stand  for  a  moment  looking  down  over  the  valley  where  his  parents  and  grandparents  and  great-grandparents  have  worked  the  same  vineyards.  His  bright-blue  shirt,  his  pure  profile  ofa  Roman  emperor  stand  out  alone  in  all  that  green  landscape;  he  looks  as  if  he  were  sur-  veying  an  empire.  What  will  the  vintage  be  like?  Last  year,  on  the  very  day  of  the  grape  picking,  it  snowed;  the  harvest  was  made  in  silence,  the  vintage  ruined  at  the  eleventh  hour.  Two  years  ago,  there  was  a  long  drought,  and  the  grapes  shrivelled.  This  year,  it  rained  buckets  during  July  and  August.  There  was  hope  if  September  proved  sunny,  for  a  gold  September  makes  a  golden  wine,  softens  the  tough  skins  of  the  grapes,  and  makes  them  translucent.  But  Septem-  ber  hesitated  and  then  veered  toward  cloudy  days-a  few  tantalizing  hours  of  sun,  no  more.  Thirty  thousand  litres  of  wine  lie  in  the  long  ranges  of  vines  on     that  hillside,  the  wine  of  La  Roselle.  But  while  I  was  there,  in  those  crucial  days  just  before  the  vintage,  [REDACTED]  nev-  er  looked  at  the  variable  sky  with  im-  patience,  or  grew  sombre  when  it  rained.  Calmly  he  ordered  a  thousand  kilos  of  sugar,  cleaned  and  calked  the  casks,  and  oiled  the  press.  There  is  no  way  of  telling  the  quality  of  this  vintage  yet,  and  so  with  the  patience  of  an  artist  and  the  wisdom  of  a  philosopher,  he  stands  and  waits  for  the  year  of  the  wine  to  turn.  But  in  the  back  of  his  mind,  you  know,  there  is  the  Duchesse  de  Guermantes. "