 b"RICK had  a  hard  time  with  his  dreams  when  he  was  a  boy.  For  a  while,  before  he  started  school,  there  was  hardly  a  night  when  he  didn't  call  out,  and  his  mother  would  come  into  his  room  in  her  nightdress,  put  on  the  light,  and  sit  beside  him  on  the  bed.  &quot;It  was  just  a  bad  dream,&quot;  she  would  say,  pushing  the  hair  back  from  his  forehead.  &quot;Now,  I'll  stay  right  here  until  you  go  to  sleep  again.&quot;  But  she  never  quite  convinced  him  that  he  had  only  been  dreaming.  In  the  morning,  however,  with  the  sunlight  streaming  in  and  the  room  all  light  and  cheery,  he  would  realize  that  it  had  been  a  dream.  When  it  came  to  dispelling  nightmares,  though  his  mother  was  a  comfort,  there  was  nothing  to  take  the  place  of  simple,  uncomplicated  daylight.  Of  course,  as  he  grew  older  and  started  school,  he  did  not  call  for  her  so  often.  She  wasn't  able  to  get  around  too  well  then,  anyway.  She  was  tired  most  of  the  time,  and  the  doctor,  who  came  to  visit  her  once  or  twice  a  week,  kept  her  in  bed  a  good  part  of  each  day.  One  time,  when  Rick  did  call  out  in  the  night,  his  father  came  down  the  hall  in  her  place.  &quot;You've  had  bad  dreams  before,&quot;  he  said,  rather  peevishly.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  be  calling  for  your  mother,  do  you?  Come  on,  now,  back  to  sleep.&quot;  That  was  the  last  time  Rick  called  for  her,  even  though  one  night  he  had  an  awful  scare.  He  saw  a  white  face  looking  at  him  from  across  the  room-a  face  with  a  long  nose,  and  heavy,  sagging  brows  thatpos-  itively  moved  up  and  down.  The  face  leered  at  him  before  it  gradu-  ally  faded  away,  and  he  lay  there  in  terror,  with  the  sheet  pulled  up  to  his  eyes.  But  in  the  morning,  when  he  woke  up  and  looked  across  the  room,  he  saw  only  the  mirror  and,  in  it,  the  reflection  of  a  white  towel  hanging  on  the  gas  jet  just  over  the  head  of  his  bed.  The  towel  must  have  caught  the  moonlight,  he  thought,  and  the  breeze  must  have  swayed  it  enough  to  account  for  the  moving  brows.  He  felt  immensely  relieved  to  see  what  the  white  face  really  was,  and  he  was  al-  most  proud  of  himself.  He  ran  down  to  his  mother's  room  to  tell  her.  She  was  propped  upon  the  pillows,  waiting  for  him,  as  she  was  most  morn-  ings  before  he  went  off  to  school.  &quot;And  you  didn't  even  call?&quot;  she  said,   nodding  her  head  in  admiration,  when  he  finished  his  story.  &quot;You're  getting  to  be  awfully  brave.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  a  face  at  [REDACTED];  he  replied.  &quot;It  was  just  the  towel.&quot;  &quot;But  it  must  have  been  quite  fright-  ening  in  the  dark.&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  too  scared.&quot;  She  smiled,  and  patted  him  on  the  head.  &quot;Do  you  remember  when  you  used  to  call  me  at  night?&quot;  she  asked.  'You  used  to  have  the  worst  dreams-  do  you  remember?&quot;  He  nodded.  &quot;I  didn't  even  know  they  were  dreams,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  helps  a  lot  if  you  know  it  didn't  really  happen.&quot;  &quot;'You  know  what  I  do  now  some-  times?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;What  do  you  do?&quot;  &quot;I  keep  saying  over  and  over  again  it  was  only  a  dream.  Sometimes  I  even  say  it's  a  dream  right  i\xc2\xbb  the  dream!&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;That's  a  handy  trick,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  wish  I  knew  how  to  do  it.&quot;  He  was  really  getting  much  better.  By  the  time  he  was  nine  or  ten,  he  couldcope  with  almost  any  nightmare.  There  were  still  some  bad  moments,  usually  after  he  saw  a  frightening  movie,  but  even  then  he  could  be  al-  most  logical  with  himself.  He  would  keep  repeating  to  himself  that  it  was  his  imagination  or  a  dream  and  that,  &gt;  in  a  few  hours,  it  would  be  morning;  the  room  would  be  sunny  and  bright;  everything  would  be  just  as  he  had  found  it  the  day  before,  and  the  day  before  that,  and  every  day.  In  the  morning,  after  check-  ing  to  make  absolutely  \xc2\xbb  certain  that  nothing  had  been  disturbed,  he  would  go  down  the  hall  and  joke  about  the  nightmare  with  his  mother.  N  October,  shortly  after  his  tenth  birthday,  the  doctor  began  making  daily  visits  to  the  house.  One  morning,  when  Rick  went  down  to  his  mother's  room,  his  father  met  him  in  the  hall  and  told  him  that  it  might  be  better  if  he  waited  until  after  school  to  see  her.  From  that  time  on,  all  through  Novem-  ber  and  December,  he  was  allowed  to  go  into  her  room  only  in  the  afternoons,  and  then  for  but  a  few  minutes.  She  had  grown  very  pale  and  sallow,  and  it  worried  him  terribly.  One  night,  he  " b"dreamed  that  she  had  gone  away.  It  was  the  first  really  bad  dream  he  had  had  in  weeks.  He  dreamed  that  he  was  in  his  bedroom,  looking  for  her;  he  had  been  emptying  his  bureau  drawers  and  getting  in  behind  the  paint-  ed  bookcase  at  the  head  of  his  bed  and  pulling  the  mattress  off  the  bed  trying  to  find  her.  When  he  awoke  in  the  morning,  he  was  still  feeling  the  desperate  tension  ofthe  search.  He  was  almost  afraid  to  look  at  the  book-  case  or  the  bureau  drawers.  But  they  turned  out  to  be  in  order,  and  the  mattress  was  still  on  the  bed.  When  he  passed  her  room  on  the  way  down-  stairs  for  breakfast,  he  stopped  outside  the  closed  door  and  listened  until  he  heard  her  moving  about  in  her  bed.  That  afternoon,  he  told  her  about  his  dream.  &quot;Did  you  really  look  for  me?&quot;  she  asked.  She  spoke  in  a  whisper.  She  no  longer  sat  propped  up  in  bed  but  lay  on  her  side,  facing  him,  her  head  down  on  the  pillow,  her  hair  coiled  loosely  un-  der  her  cheek.  &quot;I  looked  everywhere,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  even  looked  behind  the  bookcase.&quot;  She  smiled  vaguely.  &quot;You  didn't  think  Id  fit  in  there,  did  you?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;You're  just  flattering  me.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  know  where  you  were.  Someone  in  the  dream  told  me  you'd  gone  away.  I  didn't  really  believe  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't  think  I'll  go  away  for  a  while  [REDACTED];  she  said,  still  smiling.  &quot;But  it  was  lovely  of  you  to  look  for  me  so  hard,  anyway.&quot;  Quite  suddenly,  her  eyes  filled  with  tears.  &quot;You're  a  dear,  dear  boy,  Rick,&quot;  she  whispered,  reach-  ing  out  for  his  hand.  &quot;And  I  think  of  you  all  day  long  when  you're  at  school.&quot;  Then  his  father  came  into  usher  him  out.  &quot;Rick's  been  flattering  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He's  been  telling  me  how  nice  and  slim  I  am.&quot;  EARLY  in  January,  she  died.  For  the  previous  week,  his  father  had  been  talking  about  taking  her  to  the  hospital,  and  each  day  when  Rick  came  home  from  school,  he  had  been  almost  afraid  to  look  into  her  room,  fearing  that  she  had  been  taken  away.  But  each  day,  when  he  looked  in,  she  was  there  waiting  for  him.  She  never  did  go  to  the  hospital.  She  died  in  the  room  and  in  the  bed  in  which  she  had  lain  sick  for  so  long.  It  was  a  bitter  day,  with  snow  on  the  ground.  When  Rick's  father  brought  him  home  from  school  in  the  early  afternoon,  there  was  no  trace  of  sun  in  the  sky,  and  his  mother  was  no  longer  there.  That  night,  Rick  sat  on  the  edge  of " b"his  bed,  undressing  himself.  His  move-  ments  were  listless  and  mechanical.  He  had  been  crying  most  of  the  afternoon  and  evening,  and  his  eyes  were  vacant.  He  took  off  hisshirt  and,  still  moving  mechanically,  hung  it  on  a  hanger  on  the  back  of  his  closet  door.  Then  he  slumped  back  on  the  bed  and,  for  a  few  moments,  lay  there  motionless.  He  was  thinking  of  the  strange  hap-  penings  of  the  day.  It  all  seemed  so  unreal  that  he  wondered  if  it  might  not  be  a  dream.  Often,  in  the  very  middle  of  a  dream,  he  had  stoodapart  and  told  himself  that  what  seemed  to  be  hap-  pening  was  not  really  happening.  He  wondered  if  at  that  very  moment,  even  as  he  lay  there,  he  was  simply  act-  ing  apart  in  a  long,  involved  night-  mare  that  would  dissolve  into  nothing  when  the  morning  came.  He  raised  his  hand  in  the  air  and  looked  up  at  it.  He  was  wondering  if  he  actually  had  raised  his  hand  at  all.  Suddenly,  a  curious  light  came  into  his  eyes.  He  sat  up  abruptly  and  glanced  about  the  room.  It  was  in  perfect  order.  His  shoes  were  lined  up  neatly  under  the  bed,  his  shirt  was  on  its  hanger,  his  storybooks  were  all  in  the  bookcase  be-  hind  him.  Cautiously,  slowly,  he  low-  ered  his  feet  to  the  floor  and  stood  up.  He  paused  there,  his  body  rigid,  as  if  he  were  holding  his  breath.  Then,  very  quickly,  he  picked  up  the  shoes  and  deposited  them  lightly  on  the  top  of  his  bureau.  'Then  he  took  down  the  shirt.  He  rolled  it  into  a  ball  and  carried  it  to  the  bookcase.  Pulling  outfour  or  five  of  the  books  from  the  top  shelf  and  letting  them  fall  on  the  floor,  he  made  a  place  and  stuffed  the  shirt  away  in  it.  When  he  was  through,he  glanced  at  the  books  on  the  floor.  He  shrugged,  gave  them  a  careless  prod  with  his  foot,  and  left  them  there.  In  a  minute,  he  was  in  his  pajamas,  the  light  was  off,  and  he  was  under  the  blankets.  He  lay  there  telling  himself  that  in  the  morning  it  would  be  all  bright  and  sunny  in  the  room,  that  he  would  lie  in  bed  remembering  the  strange  things  he  had  done  that  night  in  his  dream.  Then  he  would  look  up  in  the  sunlight  and,  presto,  find  his  shirt  on  its  hanger!  The  books  would  be  on  the  shelf  again  and  the  shoes  underneath  the  bed.  He  might  even  tell  his  mother  what  a  strange  nightmare  he  had  had.  Waiting  forthe  night  and  the  dream  to  end,  he  finally  fell  asleep.  RCK  was  allowed  to  sleep  the  next  morning,  and  it  was  almost  ten  o'clock  when  he  awoke  and  sat  up.  The " b"sky  had  cleared,  and  the  sunlight  and  its  reflection  on  the  snow  filled  the  room  with  dazzling,  dancing  lights.  But  it  was  not  the  neat  room  that  he  usually  found  in  the  morning.  His  shirt  hanger  hung  bare  from  the  back  of  the  closet  door.  His  shoes  were  on  top  of  the  bureau,  and  on  the  floor  by  the  bookcase  there  was  a  loose  pile  of  story-  books.  When  he  saw  the  disorder  of  his  room,  he  sank  back  into  the  pillow  and  closed  his  eyes.  It  was  morning,  he  knew,  but  he  was  not  waking  from  a  dream.  The  day  and  the  night  had  been  real.  'The  marks  of  reality  were  around  him,  and  the  sunlight  could  not  dissolve  them.  "