 b"PETERS  got  through  the  last  ofthe  traffic  in  [REDACTED]'s  environs  and  settled  backwith  the  speed-  ometer  needle  exactly  at  fifty-five,  the  [REDACTED]  speed  limit.  He  didn't  feel  bad.  The  results  of  Harding's  checkup  had  even  persuaded  him  that  he  felt  a  little  better.  &quot;Take  it  easy  for  another  six  months,  and  you  can  go  back  to  the  office.&quot;  The  long  road  ahead  was  gray,  the  sky  was  gray,  thebig  fields  in  winter  were  gray,  and  he  felt  about  as  usual  a  sort  of  gray,  too.  He  was  resigned  to  the  dictum  that  things  had  to  stay  gray  for  a  while  longer  before  he  could  inject  any  fireworks  into  them-God,  even  Harding  didn't  say  he'd  always  have  to  lead  a  gray  life,  always  have  to  drive  at  fifty-five.  Vivian  was  resigned  to  it,  too,  and  would  sit  quietly  beside  him  on  the  trips  up  to  see  Harding  from  their  [REDACTED]  farm.  It  was  probably  harder  on  Vivian,  at  that,  as  a  dynamic  kind  of  woman;  after  all,  it  wasn't  her  ulcer.  This  was  the  first  trip  he'd  taken  to  [REDACTED]  without  her  going  along.  Perhaps  she  couldn't  face  another  long,  gray,  quiet  drive.  Or  perhaps  she  really  did  want  to  do  the  estate  accounts.  Es-  tate  accounts  weren't  very  exciting  either.  Not  a  thing  Vivian  would  choose-if  she  had  any  choice.  Well,  six  months  wasn't  forever.  The  road  rolled  on  over  the  low  rises  between  the  low  gray  fields.  &quot;Starkey-  ville,  15  Mi.&quot;  It  occurred  to  Peters  that  today,  if  he  chose,  he  didn't  have  to  follow  the  road  in  its  cutoff  around  the  town  of  Starkeyville  but  could  drive  straight  ahead  and  takea  look  at  the  place,  after-twenty  years?  Every  time  they  had  driven  to  [REDACTED],  he  hadhad  that  impulse,  as  regular  asa  chronometer,  to  drive  through  Starkey-  ville,  past  the  old  Starkey  house.  It  wasn't  a  thing  he  could  very  well  ex-  plain  to  Vivian-wanting  to  take  a  look  at  his  first  wife's  old  home.  It  was  the  kind  of  impulse  you  kept  private,  none  too  clear  about  its  meaning  yourself.  Why  the  hell  should  he  always  have  an  impulse  to  look  at  a  moldering  old  Victorian  house  that  he'd  known  when  he  was  engaged  toa  girl  who  turned  out  to  be  a  damned  dull  woman?  De  mortuts  nil  nist  bonum.  Well,  nobody  said  Elizabeth  hadn't  been  good.  Good  but  dull,  and  it  wasn't  his  fault  that  she'd  died  of  pneumonia  in  the  days  before  antibiotics.  You  never  knew-or  at  least  a  young  man  never  knew-how  dull  a  pretty  girl  could  turn  out  to  be  until  you'dmarried  her.  &quot;Starkeyville,  5  Mi.&quot;  Should  he  or     shouldn't  he?  Do  I  want  to  or  don't  I  want  to?  Oh,  well,  he  thought,  it  will  be  a  teeny  little  change.  A  teeny  little  adventure,  not  big  enough  to  upset  my  justly  famous  stomach.  Just  something  so  that  for  once  I  don't  drive  right  straight  home  from  Harding's  like  some  kind  of  an  ulcerated  automaton.  I  won-  der  what  the  house  will  look  like  to  me  now.  Probably  awfully  small;  things  always  seem  to  have  shrunk  in  later  years.  Anyway,  different.  It  was  the  first  piece  of  Southern  life  I  had  ever  experienced,  in  those  days,  and  I've  ex-  perienced  an  awful  lot  of  it  since-on  those  papers,  broadcasting  in  Washing-  ton,  on  the  farm.  Here  goes,  anyway.  With  the  faintest  tremor  of  the  heart-that  meant  the  stomach-he  let  the  big  road  fall  away  to  the  right,  and  his  Buick  shoot  straight  up  the  road  to  Starkeyville.  Those  are  the  dark-town  houses,  those  shacks  on  the  left,  his  memory  told  him,  and  straight  ahead  will  be  the  courthouse.  But  I'd  forgotten  how  beautiful  the  damned  approach  is.  The  road  aimed  straight  up  the  hill  to  where  the  venerable  courthouse  sat  at  the  top,  in  the  late-afternoon  light,  dominating  the  quiet  little  town  that  the  traffic  now  avoided.  'The  courthouse  was  pink  brick,  built  in  a  fine  period,  with  slender,  unpretentious  white  pil-  lars.  Back  to  Starkeyville,  his  mind  said  like  a  song.  As  he  mounted  the  hill,  he  slowed  to  let  a  couple  of  middle-aged  women  finish  strolling  across  the  street,  wrapped  in  the  eternity  that  was  Star-  keyville  time.  &quot;Y'all  ought  to  come  down  to  Starkey-  ville  some  time.  We  have  a  real  good  time,  in  Star-  keyville.&quot;  That  was  Eliza-  beth's  voice,  from  long  ago-  sweet  high  intonation  and  all.  And  at  the  top  of  the  hill  you  turned  right  by  the  court-  house  to  go  home.  There  was  Sandler's  Drug-  store,  as  though  preserved  forever  in  amber,  the  amber  sunshine  of  eternal  afternoon.  Inside,  the  ladies  would  be  finishing  their  dopes-&quot;Honey,  I've  got  to  go  on  home  now.  Roddy  will  be  havin'  a  cat  fit.&quot;  The  village  youths  stood  loaf-  ing  in  masculine  grandeur  outside  the  drugstore,  watching  the  girls  in  their  winter  getups  as  they  went  by.  &quot;Hey,  Bitsy.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  Lightfoot.&quot;  An  old  lady  in  a  black  cr\xc3\xa9pe  hat  walked  across  Jef-  ferson  Street  as  Peters  turned  in  to  it;  she  was  reading  a  letter  as  she  crossed.  They  had  a  real  good  time  in  Starkey-  ville.    The  Starkey  house  was  on  Jefferson  Street,  quite  near  to  the  courthouse  end;  he  crawled  along  past  one  shabby,  white,  gingerbread-trimmed,  sprawling  house  after  another.  Which  was  it?  Man  goes  back  to  his  youth  to  find  the  house  where  he  was  married,  and  when  he  gets  there,  he  can't  even  recognize  the  house.  They  were  all  big,  somehow  dignified,  ina  sloppy  way;  oddly  imposing.  He  passed  six,  eight  houses-it  had  been  on  the  right,  at  least  he  was  sure  of  that-and  then  the  old  houses  stopped  and  the  newer,  smaller  houses  began.  Beyond,  over  the  rise  of  the  hill,  he  could  see  the  mountains,  blue  and  dreamy,  there  forever.  The  beautiful  [REDACTED]  moun-  tains,  he  thought,  to  his  surprise,  for  nothing  had  looked  beautiful  for  a  long  time.  He  stopped  the  car  and  lit  a  cigarette,  and  went  on  looking  at  that  misty,  beau-  tiful  horizon.  He  felt  warm  inside.  I  like  it  here.  They  used  to  have  a  real  good  time  in  Starkeyville.  Nothing  much.  The  evenings  in  the  summer  when  the  honeysuckle  was  strong,  and  strolling  down  to  the  drugstore  for  an  evening  dope,  and  the  dances  once  a  week  upstairs  in  the  Town  Hall.  Light-  foot  and  Harvey,  Jack  Robertson  and  Bitsy  and  Elizabeth  ...  Who  else?  The  stars  were  very  big,  and  they  had  a  real  good  time.  The  wedding  was  fun,  too.  Mr.  Grimes  the  preacher  heard  their  vows  under  the  grape  arbor  in  the  yard,  and  old  Duff  was  there,  telling  his  story  about  the  broken-  winded  horse  he  sold  to  a  Yankee,  and  all  the  girls  were  pretty  as  flowers,  and  Great-Aunt  Sallie  [REDACTED]  got  high  as  a  kite  on  the  best  bourbon  out  of  a  silver  tumbler.  I  could  find  the  house,  he  realized  suddenly.  I  only  have  to  look  for  the  grape  arbor.  Out  back,  behind  the  box  al-  ley.  If's  kind  of  falling  down,  but  it's  real  pretty  when  the  grapes  are  ripening.  I  could  find  it  at  once,  and  go  in  and  ring  the  pull  bell,  and  the  door  would  open,  and  it  would  be  old  Wickes  or  else  one  of  the  colored  girls,  and  they'd  show  me  into  the  parlor,  where  it  smells  of  dried  flowers  and  the  fried  chicken  from  dinner,  and  I'd  look  out  through  the  brocade  curtains  with  the  lace  curtains  inside  them,  and  then  I'd  hear  someone  and  turn,  and  it  would  be  Miss  Grace  in  the  doorway.  Elizabeth's  mother.  And  pretty  soon  Aunt  Lee  would  come  in  and  go  sit  in  her  corner,  and  Cousin  Mary  Stuart,  and  Cousin  Betty  May.  I  always  loved  Miss  Grace,  he  thought.  &quot;My  mother's  right  witty.  She  used  to  be  called  the  Pearl  of  " b"Starkeyville.&quot;  I'd  say,  &quot;Hullo,  Miss  Grace.  Do  you  remember  [REDACTED];  And  she'd  say,  &quot;I  reckon  I  remember  my  own  son-in-law.&quot;  I'd  mention  Elizabeth  and  she'd  simplyputher  hand  on  mine.  Peters  ground  his  cigarette  out  in  the  Buick's  ashtray  and  leaned  back.  It  was  so  soft  here,  so  mild.  It  was  as  though  this  hilltop  where  Starkeyville  stood  were  a  magic  circle;  everything  looked  different  from  inside.  The  sun  had  come  out  for  the  last  few  minutes  of  day.  The  sweet  and  rolling  [REDACTED]  country  looked  so  beautiful.  There  wasn't  a  sound;  people  were  in  their  houses  beginning  to  think  about  supper.  Miss  Grace  would  say,  &quot;Honey,  of  course  you'll  stay  to  supper.  We  haven't  got  a  thing  in  the  house,  but  you're  wel-  come  to  what  we  have.&quot;  Not  a  thing  but  a  turkey,  and  a  tobacco-colored,  spicy  ham,  and  collard  greens  and  yams  and  rice  and  poke-  No,  poke  in  summer.  And  the  table  would  be  covered  in  a  vast  white  damask  tablecloth,  with  the  monumental  silver  saltcellars  and  pep-  per  shakers,  and  the  vinegar  and  oil  cruets,  and  the  huge  white  napkins-  his  would  be  clean-and  on  the  walls  would  lean  forward  the  atrocious  oil  paintings  of  Uncle  Absalom  the  Gen-  eral,  and  Uncle  Jeph  the  Colonel,  and  Grandfather  Gordon  Lee  in  his  uniform  of  the  Richmond  Blues.  And  the  one  of  Uncle  Gray,  who  was  killed  at  seven-  teen  at  the  Battle  of  Newmarket.  He  had  always  liked  the  one  of  Uncle  Gray,  that  young,  unformed  face,  its  colors  fading  fast;  the  hope  of  the  family,  cut  off  in  his  prime.  Funny,  he  was  always  the  realest  to  me,  Peters  thought-that  young  [REDACTED]  boy  who  died  at  sev-  enteen.  Miss  Grace  would  say,  &quot;Honey,  you  can't  drive  all  that  long  way  in  the  nighttime  without  something  to  stay  by  you,&quot;  and  she'd  bring  out  the  bour-  bon.  &quot;Just  a  little  toddy.&quot;  And  we'd  sit  around  the  old  room,  all  the  aunts  and  the  cousins-Elizabeth's  aunts  and  cousins-in  the  circle  of  safety  and  peace  that  is  Starkeyville.  But  would  we?  I'd  go  to  the  door,  and  old  Wickes  wouldn't  remember  me,  but  he'd  say,  &quot;Just  a  moment,  sir.  I'll  see  if  Miss  Grace  is  at  home.&quot;  And  I'd  wait,  and  he'd  come  back  and  say,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  sir.  Miss  Grace  has  just  stepped  out.&quot;  Well,  I  could  wait  some  more.  But  she  wouldn't  have  stepped  out,  really.  Or  Id  go  to  the  door,  and  Miss  Grace  would  come  herself.  Tall,  and  homely  as  a  horse,  but  imposing,  some-  how:  &quot;Miss  Grace  Starkey,a  right  wit-  ty  woman-the  Pearl  of  Starkevville.&quot;  And  she  would  just  look  at  me  and  say,  &quot;Good  evenin',  Mr.  Peters.&quot;  What  else  could  she  say?  Could  she  say,  &quot;You  killed  my  daughter,  with  your  neglect  and  your  scoffin',  and  your  stayin'  out  all  night  when  the  baby  was  comin'.  'That  poor  little  baby,  that  nev-  er  saw  the  light  of  day.&quot;  Could  she  say,  &quot;My  daughter  loved  you,  Mr.  Peters,  she  was  a  lovely  girl,  a  simple,  singlehearted  girl,  and  she  gave  you  all  her  heart.  And  you  repaid  her  with  jeerin',  and  belittlin',  and  all  your  grand  intellectual  friends  that  she  wasn't  good  enough  for.  Wit  and  intellect  are  all  very  well,  Mr.  Peters,  but  they  don't  begin  to  compare  with  an  honest  heart  and  a  kind  tongue.  My  daughter  was  the  prettiest  girl  in  Starkeyville,  Mr.  Peters,  and  she  could  have  had  anybody,     but  she  had  to  fall  in  love  with  you.  And  all  that  came  of  it  was  sorrow,  and  tragedy,  and  a  poor  little  dead  baby,  and  a  broken  heart,  and  death.&quot;  No,  Miss  Grace  wouldn't  say  all  that.  She'd  just  say,  &quot;Good  evenin',  Mr.  Peters.&quot;  And  I'd  go  into  that  smelly  old  par-  lor,  and  the  old,  moldering  aunts  and  cousins  would  all  be  sitting  in  their  cor-  ners,  and  the  lace  curtains  would  look  none  too  clean.  And  we'd  talk  about  how  times  have  changed.  Servants:  You  can't  meet  what  they  ask  any  more.  And  food:  A  day's  marketing  takes  ev-  erything  you've  got  in  your  pocketbook.  And  after  awhile  I'd  say,  &quot;Well,  I  must  be  going,&quot;  and  Miss  Grace  would  rise,  old  and  grand  and  completely  off  the  main  road  these  days,  and  say  &quot;Must  you?&quot;  What  have  we  got  to  talk  about?  Why  would  she  want  to  see  me?  PETERS  touched  the  starter,  and  the  engine's  sound  thrummed  into  the  silence.  The  sun  had  dropped  below  the  horizon  now.  He  began  to  drive  very  slowly  out  Jefferson  Street;  farther  on,  it  would  connect  with  the  new  cut-  off  around  Starkeyville.  'The  dusk  crept  up  by  infinite  degrees  over  the  soft  and  lovely  countryside,  all  silent.  He  reached  the  cutoff  and  stopped  at  the  yellow  signboard  by  the  road;  then  he  turned  into  the  traffic.  It  was  strange  how  back  on  the  big  highway  suddenly  the  landscape  was  cold  again,  dusk  gray.  And  he  felt  gray  again  himself.  If  he  could  only  drive  a  little  faster,  but  Harding  said,  &quot;Avoid  tension.&quot;  So  fifty-five  it  was.  He  switched  on  the  parking  lights.  His  heart  went  back  to  Starkeyville,  to  that  circle  of  safety.  What  the  hell  do  I  want,  anyway,  he  asked  himself.  Do  I  imagine  I  want  to  live  in  Starkey-  ville?  I  can  see  Vivian.  And  now  that  I'm  out  of  that  queer  circle  feeling,  I  can  see  there's  nothing  there  for  me,  nothing.  It's  a  backwater  town,  more  now  than  ever.  The  only  thing  that  ever  took  me  there  in  the  first  place  was  Elizabeth.  And  Elizabeth  is  dead.  And  the  fact  remains,  he  added  to  himself,  Elizabeth  was  a  damned  dull  woman.  We  could  never  have  hit  it  off,  even  if  she  had  lived.  He  felt  one  of  the  warning  stabs  he  still  got  sometimes,  and,  without  dimin-  ishing  speed,  reached  in  his  pocket  for  two  Bisodols.  He  slipped  them  inhis  mouth  one  at  a  time,  watching,  as  he  did  so  and  as  thecar  swept  on  down  the  big  road,  the  darkness  gathering  coldly  over  the  gray  fields  on  either  hand.  They  have  a  real  good  time  in  Star-  keyville."