 b"THERE  was  some  talk  of  New  Year's  Eve  in  our  house  the  other  day,  and  it  set  us  all  to  thinking  of  our  last  New  Year's  Eve.  We  spent  it  in  Naples,  4974616c79-or,  to  be  more  precise,  in  Appartamento  336  of  the  Grand  Al-  bergo  de  Londres  on  the  Piazza  Muni-  cipio  in  that  city.  This  was  not  quite  what  we  had  planned.  We  had  been  living  for  a  few  months  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED],  and  we  had  arranged  a  week's  tripto  4974616c79  while  the  children  were  on  holiday.  The  five  of  us,  joined  by  my  mother,  had  gone  by  boat  from  Cannes  to  Naples,  via  Genoa  and  Palermo,  and  although  we  expected  to  spend  three  or  four  days  sightseeing  in  and  around  Naples-Pompeii,  Vesuvius,  Amalfi,  the  regular  guidebook  rounds-we  had  thought  we  would  do  the  whole  thing  up  brown  by  celebrating  the  arrival  of  1954  on  Capri.  &quot;Spend  New  Year's  Eve  at  the  Quisisana,&quot;  a  knowledgeable  friend  in  Cannes  had  said.  &quot;It'll  be  something  you'll  never  forget.&quot;&quot;  We  reserved  rooms  at  the  Quisisana.  We  never  saw  the  place.  We  never  saw  Capri,  owing  to  certain  misfortunes  that  befell  us  in  Naples.  Indeed,  in  a  manner  of  speak-  ing,  we  never  saw  Naples,  either.  W  hat  we  mostly  saw  was  the  gloomy  interior  of  Appartamento  336.  Still,  the  time  we  had  was  memorable.  Not  many  New  Year's  Eves  stand  out  in  my  mind  the  way  December  31,  1953,  does.  Our  troubles  were  largely-in  fact,  entirely-financial.  I  wish  I  had  a  rec-  ord  of  how  much  money  we  took  on  our  trip,  but  I  haven't.  I  had  been  travel-  ling  around  Europe  a  good  deal,  jug-  gling  currencies  like  aSwiss  banker.  The  funds  for  our  Naples  trip  were  partly  in  dollars,  partly  in  French  francs,  partly  in  lire  I  had  left  over  from  a  visit  to  Rome  the  month  before,  partly  in  assort-  ed  other  currencies.  In  any  case,  I  know  that  what  I  took  should  have  been  enough  to  cover  ex-  penses-and  then  some.  I  have  the  heart  and  mind  of  an  account-  ant-I  love  making  audits,  balancing  assets  and  liabilities,  adding  things  up,  making  ad-  vance  estimates-and  I  cheerily  applied  myself  to  the  problem  at  hand.  Having  recently  been  in  4974616c79,  I  knew  pretty  well  what  things  cost.  For  this  trip,  I  planned  generously,  not  to  say  lavishly.  In  a  way,  it  was  to  be  our  farewell  to  Europe,  for  we  were  due  to  return  home  in  January.  Also,  it  was  the  only  real  excursion  our  children  were  to  have  during  their  stay  abroad.  &quot;Let's  make  this  a  real  caper,&quot;  I  said,  and  that  was  what  I  figured  on  as  I  got  thingsready.  I  remember  that  when  I  had  everything  worked  out,  and  all  the  money  in  hand,  I  decided  to  take  along  a  hundred-dollar  traveller's  check  besides.  I  questioned  myown  judg-  ment  on  this,  forI  could  conceive  of  no  emergency  I  had  not  already  reckoned  on.  But  I  already  had  the  check,  the  last  of  an  earlier  series,  and  I  decided  in  fa-  vor  of  taking  it  wher.  I  recalled  that  the  cambios  in  4974616c79  were  selling  francs  at  a  favorable  rate.  Might  as  well  improve  our  lot  by  cashing  it  there,I  told  myself.  I  was  catastrophically  wrong.  My  er-  ror,  as  I  was  shortly  to  learn,  was  in  thinking  of  Naples  as  another  Italian  city.  It  didn't  take  me  long  to  learn  that  Naples  is  a  conspiracy.  I  was  not,  of  course,  ignorant  of  its  reputation.  I  have  a  modest  knowledge  of  history,  and  it  served  to  remind  me,  even  as  I  was  plan-  ning  our  trip,  that  many  of  the  tech-  niques  of  larceny  and  highbinding  that  one  encounters  in  our  own  great  civili-  zation  were  developed  and  refined  over  the  centuries  by  gifted  Neapolitans.  I  expected  to  be  preyed  upon,  and  my  budget  estimate  included  sums  set  aside  for  both  defense  and  tribute.  But  I  was  guilty  of  an  excess  of  pride  and  national  spirit.  Though  I  knew  that  I  had  nat  seen  everything,  I  thought  that  a  man  who  had  spent  most  of  his  life  in  New  York,  who  had  met  up  with  fleecers  and  flummoxers  west-  ward  to  the  blue  Pacific  and  eastward  to  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  would  not  en-  counter  too  much  that  was  unfamiliar  to  him  in  Naples,  a.  city  that  had,  as  I  un-  derstood  it,  already  seen  its  best  days.  How  foolish  I  was,  how  mistaken  my self-confidence  had  been,  I  knew  on  New  Year's  Eve,  as  Isat  despondently  in  Appartamento  336,  my  ears  assailed  by  a  din  comparable  in  volume  to  the  siege  of  Stalingrad,  my  mind  vainly  at-  tempting  to  concentrate  on  the  horrible  thing  before  me-a  writing  table  lit-  tered  with  frayed  and  filthylira  notes  and  addled  scratching  on  the  Londres  stationery.  As  I  awaited,  tremblingly,  the  momentous  year  that  is  now  draw-  ing  to  a  close,  I  was  engaged  in  some  of  the  most  frantic  and  irregular  bookkeep-  ing  in  the  entire  history  of  accountancy.  The  ugly  truth  was  that  the  Neapolitans  had  worked  me  like  creamery  butter.  I  was  suffering  acute  financial  embarrass-  ment.  So  skillfully  and  so  remorselessly  had  they  parted  this  fool  from  his  money  that  there  was  serious  doubt  as  to  wheth-  er  I,  together  with  those  nearest  and  dearest  to  me,  would  be  free  to  board  the  Andrea  Doria  on  the  morning  of  January  2nd  and  return  to  [REDACTED],  where,  I  reflected  fondly,  thievery  was  an  artless,  primitive  thing.  I  was  dealing,  of  course,  with  im-  ponderables.  Who  can  know  how  often  he  is  to  be  cheated?  Was  the  banditry  I  had  thus  far  experienced  to  continue  at  its  present  rate?  Would,  the  holiday  weekend  bring,  perhaps,  a  spirit  of  mer-  cy,  of  live-and-let-live,  to  the  Neapoli-  tans,  or  would  resolutions  be  made  of  increased  flimflamming  efficiency?  How  was  I  to  know?  True,  I  could  work  out  certain  rough  calculations  as  to  what  our  hotel  bill  would  be.  &quot;Quan\xc2\xa32?&quot;  I  had  asked  in  my  phrase-book  Italian  when  we  registered,  and  I  had  been  given  a  basic  figure  that  was  somewhere  on  the  good  side  of  exorbitant.  A  notice  posted  in  the  room  informed  us  of  the  extra  charges-service,  taxes,  heating,  and  so  forth.  But  innkeepers  are  resourceful  men,  and  I  realized  that  any  estimate  I  made  would  be  rough  indeed.  Surely,  the  amount  we  would  be  expected  to  turn  over  to  the  Londres  would  be  greater  than  the  sum  of  the  parts.  My  respect  for  the  management  was  considerable,  What  made  my  situ-  ation  truly  desperate  was  the  fact  that  I  faced  it  on  New  Year's  Eve.  At  almost  any  other  time,  there  would  havebeen  some  way  out.  I  might,  for  ex-  ample,  have  persuaded  the  local  office  of  the  American  Express  Company  to  honor  a  personal  check.  Or  I  might  have  gone  to  the  " b"American  Consulate  and  thrown  myself  on  the  mercy  of  my  government.  Or  I  might  have  wired  my  office  in  New  York  and  tested  the  loyalty  of  my  em-  ployers  with  a  request  for  a  cash  ad-  vance  by  cable.  But  it  was  New  Year's  Eve,  a  Thursday.  The  American  Ex-  press,  the  Consulate,  and  my  office  in  New  York  would  all  be  closed  until  Monday  morning,  by  which  time  we  were  due  back  in  Cannes.  In  Naples,  I  knew  only  one  man,  a  former  Holly-  wood  scenarist  who  had  become  a  suc-  cessful  Italian  book  publisher.  However,  I  had  met  him  only  once  in  my  life,  and  I  did  not  think  I  could  summon  the  nerve  to  arrange  a  second  meeting  for  the  purpose  of  borrowing  money.  I  had  got  into  this  fix  after  spending  less  than  three  days  in  Naples.  We  had  arrived,  flush  in  more  ways  than  one,  on  the  evening  of  December  28th.  We  all  liked  the  idea  of  visiting  Naples  and  had  our  plans  carefully  laid.  On  the  boat,  we  had  picked  up  a  lusciously  illus-  trated  brochure  entitled  &quot;Four  Days  in  Napoli.&quot;  Since  four  days  was  exactly  what  we  had-less  one  night  on  Ca-  pri-we  studied  it  attentively.  It  recom-  mended  a  scheme  for  seeing  the  won-  ders  of  the  city  and  the  region  in  four  separate  swings,  and  we  agreed  to  adopt  it,  with  certain  minor  modifications.  A  copy  of  it  was  on  the  hotel  desk  as  I  totted  up  figures  on  New  Year's  Eve.  It  quoted  Shelley,  as  nearly  as  I  can  remember:  Naples,  thou  Heart  of  men  which  ever  pantest  Naked,  beneath  the  lidless  eye  of  heaven!  HE  first  Neapolitan  we  met  was  the  first  to  fleece  us.  'The  second  was  a  confederate.  ('This  is  a  tautology  of  sorts,  since  all  Neapolitans  are  con-  federates.)  The  first  was  a  dockside  baggage  handler.  He  took  our  bags  from  the  ship  and  moved  them  to  cus-  toms.  When  I  met  up  with  him  there,  I  reached  in  my  pocket  and  fished  out  about  five  hundred  lire-eighty  cents  or  so.  I  knew  this  was  meagre  payment  for  handling  the  baggage  of  six  people,  but  it  was,  as  I  tried  to  explain  and  as  I  am  quite  certain  he  understood,  all  I  had  at  the  moment.  I  had  distributed  a  king's  ransom  in  tips  before  leaving  the  boat,  and  was  awaiting  a  chance  to  buy  more  lire  at  the  pier  exchange.  I  knew  we  would  meet  again  after  customs,  and  I  tried  to  convey  the  notion  that  I  would  reward  him  more  suitably  then.  &quot;Pirz-dopo,&quot;  I  said,  feeling  very  much  of  a  dopo  as  I  said  it  but  being  reason-  ably  certain  that  he,  too,  spoke  basic  Berlitz.  After  inspection,  however,  and  after  my  visit  to  the  exchange,  the  man  was  nowhere  in  sight.  Other  passengers  were  moving  along  nicely  and  getting  into  taxis  or  cars,  but  the  Roveres  were  stuck,  almost  alone,  in  the  great  shed.  Just  as  I  was  about  to  take  some  sort  of  direct  action-carry  the  bags  myself  or  find  another  porter-I  was  approached  by  a  brisk  young  man,  who  addressed  me  by  name  and  in  confident  English.  He  said  he  was  atravel  agent  and  had  been  notified  of  our  arrival  and  of  our  prob-  able  need  for  guidance.  I  thought  this  an  unlikely  story,  but  I  was  glad  to  see  him  anyway.  I  told  him  of  our  problem,  and  he  said  he  would  see  what  could  be  done.  He  went  off,  and  reappeared  in  a  suspiciously  short  time.  Our  porter,  he  said,  was  sulking.  How  sof  Because,  he  said,  I  had  given  him  only  twenty-  five  lire.  Before  I  could  nail  this  lie,  he  had  begun  to  explain  that  my  error  was  not  only  pardonable  but  easily  under-  standable.  As  an  American,  he  said,  I  must  have  thought  of  twenty-five  lire  as  the  equivalent  of  twenty-five  cents  &quot;I  think  you  call  it  one  quarter&quot;-and  this,  unfortunately,  was  not  the  case.  I  wanted  to  point  out  that  this  was  a  double  insult,  but  I  didn't  bother;  I  sim-  ply  listened  as  he  went  on  to  say  that  we  could  assuage  the  porter's  hurt  feelings  with  a  thousand  lire.  'The  sum  did  not  seem  unreasonable-it  was  about  what  I'd  have  given  him  anyway-so  I  forked  it  over.  The  speed  with  which  the  porter  returned  suggested  that  he  had  been  lurking  behind  a  nearby  pillar  the  whole  time.  He  put  the  baggage  on  his  dolly  and  wheeled  it  out  to  the  taxi  stand.  The  rest  of  the  family  boarded  the  conveyance  we  were  taking  to  the  Londres,  and  I  stood  by  while  the  bags  were  being  loaded  in  the  trunk.  As  I  pre-  pared  to  get  in,  after  the  job  was  done,  I  found  the  porter  barring  my  access.  By  this  time,  I  had  a  heavy  wad  of  thousand-  lira  notes  and  a  few  smaller  ones  to  fill  out  the  dollar  value.  Happy  to  be  on  our  way  at  last,  I  did  not  begrudge  the  por-  ter  all  the  bills  of  smaller  denominations.  I  -was  still  in  a  fool's  paradise.  &quot;Get  that  sort  of  thing  on  any  waterfront,&quot;  I  told  my  wife  asI  settled  down  beside  her.  It  was  no  ordinary  cab  that  we  took  to  the  Londres.  Our  friend  the  travel  agent  had  told  us  that  on  thinking  our  problem  over,  in  advance  of  our  ar-  rival,  it  had  occurred  to  him  that  we  might  suffer  discomfort  if  we  had  to  ride  from  dockside  to  the  hotel  in  an  ordinary  Naples  taxi.  He  had  there-  fore  ordered  a  limousine.  It  would  cost  a  trifle  extra,  of  course,  and  we  could  dismiss  it  if  we  wished,  but  it  seemed  to  him  that  we  would  be  better  off  in  a  limousine.  It  seemed  so  to  me,  too.  I  had  no  idea  how  long  a  ride  it  would  be  to  our  hotel,  and  the  Naples  taxis  were  not  very  roomy.  With  all  our  impedi-  menta,  we  would  have  had  to  take  two  " b"of  them,  as  we  had  often  done  before.  The  limousine  hire,  the  agent  said,  would  be  two  thousand  lire-a  little  un-  der  three  and  a  half  dollars.  Fair  enough,  I  said.  The  travel  agent,  who  seemed  to  enjoy  our  company,  sat  up  front  with  the  driver.  The  echo  of  the  slamming  door  had  scarcely  died  away  before  I  heard  him  saying,  &quot;And  this  is  your  hotel,  prima-classe,  one  of  our  finest.&quot;  &quot;Already!&quot;  I  said.  Ah,  yes,  we  had  chosen  well,  the  Londres  was  centrally  located.  Central  or  not,  it  was  handy  for  fishermen;  it  was,  in  fact,  just  across  the  square  from  the  pier,  and  we  could  have  walked  the  distance  in  three  min-  utes.  We  climbed  out  of  the  car  we  had  so  recently  climbed  into.  I  paid  the  driv-  er  the  two  thousand  lire  and  gave  him  a  thousand-lira  note  for  a  tip.  I  had  to  do  this,  since  I  had  nothing  but  thousands  left.  I  made  a  mental  note  to  get  some  change  at  the  first  opportunity.  The  driver  went  off,  the  hotel  porters  took  our  bags,  and  I  found  myself  in  the  lobby  with  the  travel  agent.  He  wanted,  he  said,  to  devote  himself  exclusively  to  us  during  our  stay  in  Naples.  I  explained  that  we  were  an  adventurous  lot  and  would  try  to  get  along  on  our  own.  I  suggested  that  he  give  me  his  card,  so  that  we  could  get  in  touch  with  him  if  our  adventurousness  flagged.  He  gave  me  his  card.  I  gave  him  three  thousand  lire  and  thanked  him.  Appartamento  336,  when  I  reached  it,  was  swarming  with  people-porters,  maids,  bellhops,  and  some  well-dressed  men  I  took  to  be  executives  of  the  Londres  corporation.  From  president  down  to  the  lowest  menial,  each  got  his  thousand  lire.  &quot;For  God's  sake,&quot;  I  said  to  my  wife,  &quot;remind  me  to  get  some  change  in  the  morning.  These  dollar-  and-a-half  tips  could  ruin  a  man.&quot;  I  spoke,  unknowingly,  with  the  voice  of  a  prophet.  We  all  went  to  bed.  FT  ER  breakfast,  which  we  took  in  the  hotel  dining  room,  I  went  to  the  cashier  and  asked  if  he  would  kind-  ly  break  a  few  of  my  thousand-lira  notes  up  into  hundreds  and  five  hundreds.  Of  course,  he  said,  but  would  we  mind  waiting  until  a  bit  later  in  the  morn-  ing?  He  had  not  yet  had  time  to  send  a  courier  to  the  bank,  and  he  had  no  change  on  hand.  Our  time  in  Naples  was  short  enough  anyway,  and  we  de-  cided  not  to  wait.  &quot;You  can  get  change  anywhere,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;Let's  takea  cab  to  the  Museo  Nazionale  and  start  out  from  there.&quot;  This  seemed  reasonable  but  wasn't.  'The  metered  taxi  fare  came  to  two  hundred  and  forty  lire.  Here's  my  chance,  I  thought  asI  yielded  up  one  more  thousand-lira  note  and  stood  awaiting  my  change.  The  driver  ob-  served  my  happy,  expectant  look,  and  it  obviously  pained  him  to  disappoint  me.  He  took  his  wallet  from  his  hip  pocket  and  opened  it  for  my  inspection.  Empty.  I  decided  that  I  had  been  bilked  for  the  last  time.  I  was  not  going  to  tip  seven  hundred  and  sixty  lire  for  a  two-  hundred-and-forty-lira  ride.  We  had  stopped  just  outside  a  small  shop,  and  I  pointed  to  it.  &quot;U\xc2\xbbo  secondo,&quot;  I  said,  as  commandingly  asI  could.  I  went  into  the  shop  and  asked  the  clerk  to  change  a  thousand-lira  note.  I  do  not  know  whetherany  signals  passed  between  clerk  and  driver,  but  I  did  observe  the  clerk  looking  through  the  door  and  see-  ing  the  taxi,  with  my  family  standing  beside  it,  and  I  have  no  doubt  that  he  sized  up  the  situation  for  what  it  was.  He  opened  his  cash  drawer,  picked  out  a  few  notes  and  coins,  and  shrugged.  He  couldn't  make  it.  The  driver  got  his  three-hundred-per-cent  tip.  Naples,  for  us,  was  a  city  in  which  the  cost  of  everything  had  to  be  com-  puted  to  the  nearest-or,  rather,  the  farthest-thousand  lire.  Now  and  then,  we  got  change  by  making  small,  point-  less  purchases,  but  we  ran  through  it  in  no  timeand,  more  often  than  not,  found  ourselves  with  nothing  but  what  we  took  to  calling  G  notes.  Of  course,  we  were  never  stuck  with  the  same  ones  very  long.  I  can  scarcely  begin  to  de-  scribe  the  boldness  and  variety  of  the  techniques  used  to  relieve  usof  them.  There  was,  for  example,  the  matter  of the  double  fare  to  Pompeii.  On  the  morning  of  our  second  day  in  Naples,  we  set  out  for  the  famous  ruins.  We  went  in  a  rickety  sightseeing  bus  that  left  from  the  Piazza  Municipio.  The  round  trip  for  six  was  eighty-four  hundred  lire-or  nine  thousand,  since  the  driver  could  not  make  change.  I  paid  up  cheer-  fully.  &quot;This  will  be  no  ordinary  bus  ride,&quot;  I  told  my  wife.  &quot;It  is  not  space  we  are  to  traverse  but  time.  Fifteen  dollars  is  not  much  for  a  trip  back  across  the  millennia.&quot;  In  anticipation  of  my  ap-  proaching  rendezvous  with  Bulwer-  Lytton,  I  put  all  care  aside  and  prepared  to  enjoy  the  trip.  In  a  few  minutes,  we  were  outside  Naples  and,  to  our  surprise,  witnessing  a  change  of  drivers.  The  new  man  came  aboard  and  started  down  the  aisle  to  collect  fares.  The  first  passen-  ger  he  approached-there  were  perhaps  a  dozen  people  in  the  bus  besides  us-  pointed  out  that  we  had  all  paid  our  fares  in  Naples.  I  could  not  follow  all  the  talk  that  ensued,  but  I  gathered  that  the  new  driver's  point  was  that  the  la-  borer  is  worthy  of  his  hire,  and  that  so  far  no  one  had  paid  his\xc2\xbb  anything.  Our  choice  now  was  between  going  on  to  Pompeii,  at  double  fare,  and  walking  back  to  Naples.  We  and  our  fellow-pas-  sengers  chose  Pompeii.  Even  the  children  of  Naples  had  a  go  at  us.  Still  adhering  slavishly  to  the  advice  of  &quot;Four  Days  in  Napoli,&quot;  we  set  out,  after  our  morning  visit  to  Pompeii,  to  walk  the  length  of  the  Via  Caracciolo.  As  we  gloried  in  the  sights  along  this  splendid  boulevard,  our     " b"advance  was  halted  by  massed  artillery  fire.  Some  fifty  feet  ahead  of  us  was  a  band  of  Neapolitan  urchins  firing  some  sort  of  guided  missiles  that  shot  along  the  sidewalk  at  ankle  elevation.  Un-  familiar  with  this  typeof  ordnance  and,  in  any  case,  uncertain  of  the  enemy's  intent,  I  ordered  my  advance  units  to  pull  back  and  join  the  rest  in  a  defensive  position  afforded  by  a  parked  truck.  Barely  had  my  command  been  obeyed  when  a  youth  of  fourteen  or  so-the  others,  I  judged,  were  a  good  deal  younger  than  that-emerged  from  a  doorway,  strode  briskly  up  to  the  guer-  rilla  lines,  and  arranged  a  cease-fire.  &quot;It's  all  right  now,&quot;  he  called  back  to  us.  We  came  out  from  behind  the  truck,  our  former  assailants  stepped  aside  to  give  us  safe  passage,  and  the  youth  fell  in  alongside  us,  keeping  pace  long  enough  for  me  to  rummage  in  my  pockets  for  a  few  lire.  I  could  not  find  a  few  lire,  but  I  could  find  a  thousand,  which  he  got.  It  was  in  our  home  away  from  home,  the  Londres,  that  the  heaviest  assaults  on  our  stake  were  made.  I  have  spent  more  of  my  life  than  I  like  to  think  about  in  hotels,  and  the  sly,  grasping  ways  of  room  clerks,  bellhops,  busboys,  and  maids  are  as  familiar  to  me  as  the  ways  of  butchers,  bakers,  and  the  rest  are  to  the  housewife.  But  nothing  in  my  long,  rich  experience  had  prepared  me  for  the  ,  staff  of  the  Londres.  To  this  day,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  understand  how  the  entire  working  force  of  that  hotel  managed  to  assemble  outside  our  rooms  every  time  we  left  them.  It  was  a  miracle  of  com-  munication  and  mobilization.  Not  once  did  we  attempt  a  break  from  Apparta-  mento  336  without  finding  our  course  of  egress  lined  with  maids,  porters,  wait-  ers,  valets,  and  various  other  sub-Boniface  types.  They  did   not  &quot;line&quot;  the  corridor  exact-  ly  but,  rather,  were  deployed  in  it  in  such  a  way  that  if  I  averted  my  gaze  from  a  charwoman  whose  eyes  told  me  that  she  needed  money  for  six  un-  dernourished  bembini,  it  fell  upon  the  insolent  countenance  of  a  bellhop  that  clearly  advised  me  that  if  I  wanted  to  hang  on  to  the  possessions  I  had  left  behind  in  the  eppartamento,  I  would  pay  off-and  fast.  I  could  no  more  have  run  that  broken  field  untouched  than  I  could  have  plunged  through  the  Fordham  line  when  it  was  manned  by  the  Seven  Blocks  of  Granite.  My  calcu-  lations  show  that  our  exits  from  the  ep-  partamento  and  our  descent  from  third  floor  to  lobby  cost  on  an  average  seven-  teen  hundred  and  sixty  lire  each.  The  staff  was  somewhat  less  successful  at  rallying  for  our  return  trips,  and  I  do  not  seem  to  have  any  computations  on  the  cost  of  re\xc3\xa9ntering  our  rooms.  But  I  know  that  just  as  we  never  left  the  Lon-  dres  without  paying,  so  we  never  re-  turned  without  being  the  poorer  for  it.  T  was  a  small  transaction  I  had  with  the  man  at  the  Londres  travel  desk  that  revealed  the  Neapolitan  genius  at  its  most  effulgent.  My  mother  was  planning  to  leave  us  on  the  morning  of  December  31st  and  spend  a  few  days  in  Rome.  She  had  been  advised  that  the  trip  was  most  beautiful  by  bus,  and  she  planned  to  make  it  that  way.  Arrange-  mentshad  been  made  in  Cannes,  and  she  was  already  ticketed  when  we  ar-  rived  in  Naples.  But  there  had  been  some  uncertainty  in  the  Cannes  office  of  American  Express  about  the  exact  time  of  the  bus's  departure,  and  we  de-  cided  to  clear  this  up  when  we  got  to  Naples.  The  evening  before  my  mother  was  to  leave,  I  went  down  to  the  travel  desk-paying  theusual  bribes  to  get  there-and  asked  the  agent  on  duty  if  he  would  be  good  enough  to  fill  in  on  her  ticket  the  time  the  bus  was  scheduled  to  leave.  From  the  blank,  incredulous  look  he  gave  me,  one  might  have  thought  I  had  requested  a  brief  discourse  on  Hegelian  dialectical  method.  The  in-  formation  I  sought,  he  said,  was  very  difficult  to  come  by,  and  surely  I  could  not  be  so  unreasonable  asto  expect  him  to  supply  it  at  that  late  hour  of  the  day.  This  was,  as  I  recall,  about  six  o'clock.  Flabbergasted,  I  said  that  I  had  as-  sumed  he  could  just  consult  a  timetable  and  tell  me  when  Bus  169,  or  whatever  it  was,  left  Naples.  I  was  now  favored  with  a  look  of  infinite  condescension  and  pity.  It  would  be  nice  if  things  were  that  simple,  the  agent  said,  but,  alas,  they  were  not.  To  learnthe  hour  of  the  bus's  departure  would  require,  for  one  thing,  patience;  for  an-  other,  hard  work;  and,  for  still  another,  the  exercise  of  influence.  It  was  now  my  turn  to  look  incredulous,  as  this  double-tongue  told  me  in  fruit  peddler's  English  how  lucky  it  was  for  me  that  he  knew  some  people  of  substance  in  Naples.  It  was  barely  possible,  he  said,  that  if  he  exploited  these  associations  of  his  he  might  have  the  good  fortune  to  be  able  to  serve  me  as  I  wished  to  be  served.  It  all  sounded  as  though  I  were  negotiating  the  pur-  chase  of  Cabinet  secrets.  He  said  he  thought-at  least  he  hoped-he  would  be  able  to  offer  me  some  encouragement  by  midnight.  As  his  last  word  on  the  subject,  he  pointed  out  that  to  undertake  my  project  he  would  have  to  make  ex-  tensive  useofthe  telephone.  I  got  the  point;  in  fact,  I  was  way  ahead  of  him.  As  he  was  talking,  I  had  been  toying  with  the  possibility  of  sneaking  around  behind  him  and  snatch-  ing  from  beneath  his  counter  the  stack  of  timetables  I  knew  was  there.  But  there  was  a  kind  of  Old  World  weari-  ness  in  me,  too,  and  I  gave  him  a  few  hundred  lire-I  was  in  change  at  the  moment-and  implored  him  to  do  his  best.  I  snake-hipped  my  way  upstairs,  then  paid  my  family's  way  back  down-  stairs,  to  dinner.  As  we  were  about  to  enter  the  hotel  restaurant,  the  agent  called  me  aside  and  told  me  that,  con-  trary  to  all  his  expectations  and  by  an  almost  unimaginable  strokeof  good  for-  tune,  he  had  been  able,  at  this  early  hour,  to  find  out  when  the  bus  left.  Well,  when,  I  said.  He  smiled  and  began  rifling  some  papers  on  his  counter.  I  could  see  that  it  was  a  case  of  either  twisting  the  brute's  arm  or  ponying  up.  I  chose  the  coward's  way.  E  saw  my  mother  offfor  Rome  in  the  morning.  New  Year's  Eve  was  upon  us,  and  I  had  to  decide  quick-  ly  whether  we  could  afford  Capri.  I  decided  we  could  not.  Indeed,  I  didn't  see  how  we  could  afford  to  do  any-  thing  more  in  Naples.  Mount  Vesuvius  was  on  the  schedule  for  that  day,  and  my  son  and  older  daughter,  who  had  been  on  a  volcano  kick  for  months,  were  looking  forward  to  it  more  than  to  anything  else.  I  had  to  tell  them  the  volcano  was  out.  &quot;Hush,&quot;  I  said  as  they  began  to  whine  and  beef  about  seeing  museums  and  operas  and  statues  of  repulsive  old  cornballs  but  never,  never,  oh,  no,  never  any  craters.  &quot;You  don't  knowwhen  you're  well  off.  There's  a  vice  lord  from  New  York  named  Charles  (Lucky)  Luciano  who's  moved  in  on  this  Vesuvius  thing.  They  say  that  if  you  don't  pay  him  nine  zil-  lion  lire,  you're  as  likely  as  not  to  go  for  a  ride  in  the  boiling  lava.  Maybe  it's  bet-  ter  this  way.&quot;  &quot;You're  so  right,&quot;  my  daughter  said.  I  explained  our  plight,  and  announced  that  we  were  giving  up  sightseeing  and  going  on  short  rations  until  we  boarded  the  Andrea  Doria.  &quot;We  can  afford  three  light  meals  a  day,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  that's  all.&quot;  We  passed  the  day  glumly.  We  took  a  brief  walk  after  breakfast  and  another  after  lunch,  but  it  was  too  cold  for  this  form  of  sightseeing,  and  we  could  afford  no  other.  It  was  along  about  sundown  when  I  was  seized  with  the  realization  that  we  might  very  well  not  have  enough  money  to  pay  our  hotel  bill  and  get  out  of  Naples  on  the  morning  of  January  2nd.  Until  then,  I  had  taken  it  for  granted  that  our  economies  would.  " b"see  us  through,  but  suddenly  I  sensed  that,  even  with  the  spare  traveller's  check,  this  was  by  no  means  certain.  The  thing  that  gave  rise  to  this  and  struck  icy  terror  to  my  heart  was  the  sight  of  a  more  fortunate  resident  of  the  Londres  making  his  getaway.  I  was  at  the  cashier's  desk  for  some  reason-  probably  to  plead  for  change-and  I  caught  sight  ofthe  departing  guest  go-  ing  over  his  bill.  A  glance  was  enough  to  tell  me  that  this  was  a  document  ofa  length  and  complexity  never  dreamed  of  even  by  the  Bureau  of  Internal  Rev-  enue.  Immediately  upon  my  return  to  Appartamento  336,  I  began  my  feverish  audits.  I  asked  my  wife  and  children  to  go  through  all  pockets  and  pocketbooks  in  search  of  currency  in  any  denomina-  tion  from  any  country.  While  this  was  being  done,  I  began  my  efforts  to  strike  an  estimate  of  our  probable  expenses  for  the  thirty-six  hours  we  were  still  to  spend  in  Naples.  &quot;Think,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Think  hard.  We  must  count  the  num-  ber  of  porters  we  are  going  to  need  be-  fore  we  board  ship.  Our  transportation  requirements  must  be  cut  to  the  bone,  and  we  must  figure  their  cost.  We  must  rack  our  brains  to  think  of  the  things  they  are  going  to  put  on  the  hotel  bill.  Believe  me,  these  people  have  racked  their  brains.  There'll  be  things  we've  never  before  heard  of.  I  would  not  be  surprised  to  find  a  percentage  for  wear  and  tear  on  the  rugs.  Probably  a  fare  for  every  elevator  ride.  I  saw  that  other  man's  bill.  It  was  the  size  of  a  census  taker's  chart.  The  one  word  I  caught  was  'sciroppi.  He  was  charged  for  many  thousand  lire's  worth.  In  God's  name,  fetch  the  dictionary  and  see  what  it  is.  Sctroppi  could  make  all  the  differ-  ence  between  our  leaving  on  Monday  and  languishing  here  until  Mrs.  Luce  makes  representations.  How  many  lire  for  five  Swiss  francs?  ...  Sciroppo'  means  'syrup'!?  Who  ever  heard  of  syrups  on  a  hotel  bill?  Oh,  we're  in  for  a  kitty-hopping  all  right,  all  right.&quot;  It  is  a  weakness  of  my  nature  that  I  get  into  these  feverish  states  whenever  my  plans  threaten  to  go  awry.  Our  plight,  after  all,  was  not  as  desperate  as  I  made  it  out  to  be.  At  the  worst,  we  would  have  had  to  stay  over  only  a  day  or  so-until  we  could  get  money  from  New  York  or  Cannes.  It  was  not  as  if  we  had  been  cast  loose  in  a  desert  or  adrift  at  sea.  But  such  calming  thoughts  never  come  to  mind  until  after  a  crisis  is  past.  And  even  if  I  had  been  different-  ly  constituted,  I  would  have  found  it  dif-  ficult  to  entertain  calming  thoughts  at  that  particulartime.  For  as  New  Year's  Eve  settled  over  Naples,  and  as  I  moved  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  realms  of  pure  speculation,  a  clatter  from  outside  began  to  assail  my  ears  and  further  de-  range  my  powers  of  reason.  It  was  a  strange,  wild  noise-not  a  hubbub,  or  what  we  used  to  call  a  Dutch  concert.  It  was  not  the  sound  of  gaiety  or  revel-  ling;in  fact,  human  voices  only  occasion-  ally  punctuated  it.  It  was  rather  as  if  in-  animate  objects-furniture,  machinery,  pipes,  and  the  like--were  dropping,  throwing,  kicking,  and  generally  as-  saulting  one  another.  At  any  rate,  it  had  the  effect  of  increasing  my  anxieties  and  disordering  my  calculations.  T  about  half  past  ten,  after  the  chil-  dren  had  gone  to  bed,  I  decided  that  there  was  no  point  in  any  more  bookkeeping.  I  suggested  to  my  wife  that  we  should  not  let  New  Year's  Eve  pass  wholly  uncelebrated.  &quot;It's  in  the  lap  of  the  gods,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Let's  go  to  the  bar  and  order  one  glass  of  inexpen-  sive  wine.  At  least  we  can  watch  other  people  enjoying  themselves.&quot;  From  the  noise  outside,  growing  in  volume  all  the  time  now,  I  assumed  that  at  last  we  would  be  treated  to  some  of  the  more  ingratiating  Neapolitan  character-  istics.  Although,  as  I  have  said,  the  human  voice  was  not  much  heard  in  the  din,  we  took  it  for  granted  that  the  spirit  behind  it  was  one  of  joy  and  festivity,  and  I  guess  we  both  expected  to  find  the  lobby  and  bar  of  this  prima-  " b"classe  hotel  full  of  people  having  a  bet-  ter  time  than  we  were.  The  lobby  was  empty,  utterly  deserted.  The  bar  was  patronized  by  exactly  two  people-  sailors  from  our  own  Sixth  Fleet,  which  is  attached  to  the  NATO  headquarters  in  Naples.  They  sat  at  a  table  drinking  Italian  beer  and  were  as  much  the  pic-  ture  of  dejection  as  we  were,  We  or-  dered  some  wine  and,  after  a  time,  en-  gaged  them  in  a  spiritless  conversation,  which  elicited  such  information  as  that  one  came  from  Troy,  New  York,  the  other  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED];  that  the  first  was  a  mechanic,  the  other  a  cook;  that  the  Troy  man  was  expect-  ing  an  early  transfer  and  the  [REDACTED]  man  wasn't.  We  went  along  on  that  level  until  my  wife  asked  how  it  was  that  they  had  chosen  to  spend  the  eve-  ning  in  as  dull  afashion  as  this.  &quot;They  must  be  having  a  good  time  some-  where,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Just  listen  to  all  that  noise  outside.&quot;  The  Troy  man  shuddered.  &quot;We  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  why  we're  here.  We  came  in  when  all  that  start-  ed,  and  we  don't  leave  until  morning.  It  wouldn't  be  safe  to.&quot;  &quot;How  is  that?&quot;  one  of  us  asked.  The  inquiry  stimulated  the  only  true  animation  we  had  encountered  up  to  that  point.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  how  it  is,&quot;  the  Troy  mechanic  said.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  all  about  it.  I've  spent  four  years  here,  and  I  think  I  know.  You  see,  these  people  here  are  poor.  [REDACTED]  people,  wonderful  people,  but  poor.  I  guess  you  can  see  that  for  yourselves.  Now,  what  they  do  is  this:  They  put  aside  little  bits  of  money  all  through  the  year.Fifty  lire  here,  a  hundred  there-  everyone  in  the  family  chips  in.  They  save  and  they  scrimp  and  they  do  without  things,  so  they'll  have  a  little  something  by  the  end  of  the  year.  Well,  then  they  go  out  to  the  store  and  they  buy  themselves&quot;-here  he  looked  at  my  wife  and  chose  his  words  with  deli-  cacy-'&quot;they  buy  themselves  a  com-  mode.  A  beautiful  commode,  shiny,  with  roses  painted  on  it.  They  have  real  pretty  commodes  here;  you  just  look  in  the  stores  and  see.  They  get  one  packed  up  nicely,  and  they  take  it  home  very  carefully,  maybe  a  day  or  two  before  the  end  of  the  year.  You  get  the  pic-  ture  now  -all  the  year's  savings  are  tied  up  in  that  commode,  and  they're  very  happy  about  it.  They  look  at  it  and  say  bellissimo,  and  think  to  them-  selves  how  lucky  they  are  to  have  it  by  New  Year's  Eve.  Then&quot;-and  now  our  narrator  became  rather  agitated,  his     voice  loud  and  unsteady-  &quot;then  New  Year's  Eve  comes,  and  they  fling  open  the  win-  dows,  and  they  pitch  the  God-  damned  commode  out  into  the  street.  That's  what  they  do-  they  smash  that  beautiful  thing  into  a  million  pieces.  So  you  see-that's  what's  going  on  out  there  now.  All  the  commodes  in  Naples  are  flying  around.&quot;  Shaken  by  the  mariner's  tale,  we  finished  our  wine,  said  our  farewells,  and  left.  In  the  bar,  a  dreary  but  apparently  well-insulated  place,  we  had  heard  only  faintly  the  crash-  ing  of  commodes  outside.  In  the  deserted  lobby  and  in  our  rooms,  the  roar  now-it  was,  I  should  judge,  about  eleven-  fifteen-was  deafening.  It  had  waked  the  children,  and  it  made  sleep  impossible  for  us.  We  threw  open  the  shutters  to  see  what  we  could  of  the  de-  struction  outside.  Our  rooms  were  not  very  advantageously  located  for  this,  but  we  could  see  perhaps  a  half-dozen  places  where  the  arrival  of  1954  was  being  celebrated  by  the  hurl-  ing  of  objects  to  the  pavement  below.  I  could  not  tell  wheth-  er  any  new  commodes  were  part  of  the  fall-out,  but  doubtless  they  were.  From  what  we  saw  and  heard,  the  sailor  knew  his  Naples  well.  We  stood  gaping  at  the  lunatic  scene  until  about  three  in  the  morning,  when  the  racket  began  to  subside.  Then  we  re-  tired  for  a  few  hours  of  fitful  sleep.  We  lived  frugally  on  New  Year's  Day  and  had  a  long,  untroubled  sleep  that  night.  The  next  morning,  full  of  apprehension,  I  paid  our  way  down-  stairs  for  the  last  time,  went  to  the  cashier's  counter  for  the  last  time,  and  called  for  our  bill.  It  came-the  same  massive  form  I  had  seen  the  other  guest  studying.  I  quickly  looked  at  the  total,  and  discovered  that  it  fell  about  five  dollars  short  of  my  total  holdings.  That  being  the  case,  I  asked  no  questions.  About  four  of  the  five  dollars  went  in  getting  us  and  our  luggage  safely  aboard  the  Andrea  Doria.  In  the  stateroom,  I  sat  down  and  studied  the  bill.  We  had  been  taken  for  five  hundred  lire's  worth  of  syrup. "