 b"NOT  long  ago  there  were  pictures  of  the  Iwo  Jima  flag-raising  memorial  in  the  newspapers  photographs,  that  is,  of  the  bronze  group  that  was  modelled  from  the  photograph  taken  on  43616e616461Suribachi.  I  suppose  there  is  a  sort  of  redundance  in  printing  a  pic-  ture  of  a  sculpture  made  from  another  picture,  but  the  sight  of  the  group  haunt-  ed  me  anyhow,  justas  the  original  pho-  tograph  did-not  because  I  saw  the  flag-  raising,  which  I  didn't,  though  I  was  on  Iwo  Jima  at  the  time,  but  in  a  queer,  reversed  way,  because  when  the  first  photograph  was  taken,  I  was  racing  away  from  43616e616461Suribachi  and  toward  the  front.  Suribachi  was  a  pocket  in  the  rear  that  had  been  cut  off  soon  after  the  landing.  As  a  headquarters  Marine,  I  didn't  have  any  business  going  up  there.  I  was  carrying  an  unopened  package-the  first  mail  I  had  received  since  we  landed,  five  days  before.  I  wanted  to  show  the  package  toa  fellow  in  one  of  the  line  companies-E  Company,  3rd  Battal-  ion,  24th  Marines-whom  I'll  call  Jack  Beardsley.  He  was  a  sergeant  then,  but  when  I  first  made  his  acquaintance,  back  in  boot  camp,  he  had  been  a  cor-  poral.  I  had  quite  a  bit  to  do  with  Jack's  being  on  Iwo,  and  it  seems  only  right  that  I  should  have  been  dodging  around  trying  to  find  him  while  others  (al-  though  I  didn't  know  it  at  the  time)  were  raising  the  flag  on  Suribachi.  I  had  prayed,  literally  and  on  my  knees,  that  he  should  be  sent  into  combat-as  a  fa-  vor  to  him,  I  might  add,  although  it  no  longer  seemed  so  on  D-plus-4.  So  the  least  I  could  do,  I  felt,  was  let  him  share  the  package.  We  had  shared  a  great  many  in  the  past,  and  even  though  all  of  them  had  been  mine  (I  don't  recall  that  Jack  ever  got  a  package  from  home),  I  wanted  to  keep  the  tradition  intact.  Jack  Beardsley  had  been  my  D.I.-  D.I.  is  short  for  Drill  Instructor-at  Parris  Island,  and  it  was  under  his  re-  lentless  hand  that  I  had  learned  to  drill,  in  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  sun.  A  lot  has  been  written  about  how  tough  trainees  had  it  in  boot  camp-about  the  fraternity-  initiation  kind  of  discipline  and  the  hu-  miliating  punishments.  (I  remember that  once  we  had  to  scrub  our  barracks  floor  with  toothbrushes.)  I  won't  add  anything  to  all  that  except  to  say  that  Jack  Beardsley  seemed  to  me  like  a  pro-  fessional  sadist  authorized  by  the  Marine  Corps  to  inflict  as  much  punishment  on  us  as  he  wanted  to.  Jack  was  quite  a  bit  younger  than  I-  seven  or  eight  years,  I'd  say.  He  was  slender,  rather  tall  and  good-looking,  and  unlike  most  of  the  boys  in  our  pla-  toon,  who  came  from  the  [REDACTED],  he  was  a  New  Englander.  He  was  without  a  New  Englander's  reserve,  though.  He  was  terribly  self-confident  and  am-  bitious.  I  didn't  like  him,  but  I  thought  I  saw  in  Jack  what  our  ancestors  must  have  found  in  the  Green  Mountain  Boys-someone  fine  and  honest  under-  neath  a  rough,  cruel  exterior.  The  training  period  lasted  ten  weeks.  I  didn't  mind  the  discipline  too  much,  or  the  confinement-you  get  used  to  that.  What  really  stuck  in  my  craw  was  the  way  Jack  Beardsley  helped  himself  to  the  cookies  and  candy  the  rest  of  us  got  from  home.  There  was  a  regulation  allowing  the  D.I.  to  inspect  packages  for  liquor,  I  suppose.  Most  of  the  fellows  got  packages  at  one  time  or  another,  and  as  Jack  gave  them  out  at  mail  call,  he  would  tell  the  recipients  to  stand  aside  and  wait  until  the  letters  were  dis-  tributed.  Then  he  would  go  to  his  room,  which  was  just  off  the  squad  room,  and  call  them  in,  one  by  one.  They  opened  their  packages,  and  Jack  pretended  to  rummage  through  them  for  contraband.  When  he  had  satisfied  himself  of  their  contents,  he  waved  his  hand.  It  was  then  that  the  trainee  was  expected  to  say,  &quot;Sir  [we  always  &quot;sirred&quot;  the  D.I.],  Private  So-and-So  requests  permission  to  offer  Corporal  Beardsley  some  cookies.&quot;  Magnanimously,  Jack  always  grant-  ed  the  request.  He  would  help  himself  to  a  handful,  put  them  in  his  desk,  and  dismiss  the  man,  who  saluted,  took  one  step  backward,  did  an  about-face,  and  marched  out  as  the  next  man  came  in.  I  was  one  of  the  few  married  men  in  the  barracks,  and  since  I  got  packages  from  both  my  wife  and  my  mother,  I  came  to  know  Jack  Beardsley  rather  better  than  most  of  the  other  boots  did.  Hardly  a  week  went  by  that  I  wasn't  in  his  room  two  or  three  times.  He  always  helped  himself  liberally  to  whatever  turned  up-especially  to  the  cookies  that  my  wife  had  mailed  from  the  Wom-  an's  Exchange  in  New  York-with  the  air  of  one  conferring  a  privilege.  ONE  day,  I  entered  Jack  Beardsley's  room  with  the  customary  votive  offering  and  found  that  his  guard  was  down.  He  told  me  to  stand  at  ease,  " b"which  was  unusual,  and  then,  when  he  had  helped  himself  to  some  macaroons  he  astonished  me  by  saying,  &quot;Sit  down,  Dempsey.&quot;  The  elimination  of  the  word  &quot;Private&quot;  was  a  stunning  concession.  It  suddenly  put  us  on  an  almost  equal  foot-  ing.  Isat  on  his  bed.  &quot;I  suppose  you  guys  think  I'm  a  heel,&quot;  he  began.  &quot;No,  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;We  do  not.&quot;  This  was  true.  We  simply  thought  of  him  as  part  of  the  military  system.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  'sir'  me  in  pri-  vate,&quot;  he  said,  rather  curtly.  &quot;Anyway,  you  won't  be  'sirring'  noncoms  when  you  get  out  of  here.  It's  just  to  give  you  practice.&quot;  &quot;I  understand  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  fellows  ought  to  think  I'm  a  heel.  If  you  don't,  some-  thing's  wrong  with  me.  It's  my  job  to  take  you  knuckleheads  and  turn  you  into  Marines.  In  ten  weeks.  But  don't  think  I  enjoy  it.  I'd  dump  the  whole  thing  in  five  minutes  if  I  could  get  out  of  here.  I  came  in  this  outfit  to  fight.&quot;  I  expressed  sympathy,  and  Jack  went  on.  He  told  me  a  little  about  himself.  He  had  been  red-hot  for  the  Marine  Corps  after  seeing  a  movie  called  &quot;Wake  Island;&quot;  in  fact,  he  had  gone  straight  from  the  movie  to  the  recruiting  office.  He  had  been  twenty  years  old  at  the  time,  and  I  don't  suppose  there's  a  better  age  to  be  a  Marine.  Anyway,  he  was  full  of  the  widely  advertised  esprit,  and  he  took  the  Corps  very  seriously-so  se-  riously,  it  turned  out,  that  they  wouldn't  let  him  fight.  He  had  been  turned  into  a  drill  instructor,  and  his  platoons  were  among  the  best  that  came  out  of  Parris  Island.  But  the  job  had  just  about  bro-  ken  his  heart.  &quot;Here  I  am,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;stuck  in  this  swamp  while  the  rest  of  you  guys  go  out  for  the  glory.&quot;  He  spoke  bitterly.  &quot;I  could  dope  off  and  get  transferred-  that's  the  way  most  of  them  do  it  -but  that's  a  hell  of  a  way.&quot;  And  then  I  found  out  why  he  wanted  totalkto  me.  &quot;You're  going  to  [REDACTED],  Headquarters  Marine  Corps,  in  a  couple  of  weeks.  You  know  that?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;For  indoctrination.&quot;  I  had  applied  for  public-relations  duty,  and  had  been  told  that  the  application  had  gone  through.  You  got  connections?&quot;  he  demand-  ed,  assuming,  I  think,  that  I  must  have,  since  almost  no  one  went  right  from  boot  camp  to  [REDACTED].  Itold  him  I  hadn't-that  I  was  just  lucky  enough  to  be  getting  into  the  kind  of  work  I'd  had  experience  in.  Jack  was  disappointed.  &quot;I  hoped  you  might  of  put  in  a  word  for  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  don't  you  request  a  transfer  to  the  line?&quot;  I  asked.  I  didn't  know  then  how  difficult  it  was  for  a  really  good  man  to  get  out  of  the  job  of  instructor.  &quot;Three  times  I  tried,&quot;  Jack  said.  &quot;No  go.  I  got  a  request  in  now,  but  nothin's  gonna  come  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  could  all  pray,&quot;  I  said  jokingly.  &quot;They  tell  me  it  helps.&quot;  He  stared  at  me.  &quot;You  mean  that?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  kidding,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don'tthink  you  are,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  did  you  mention  it?&quot;  &quot;It  was  just  a  joke,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;It  wouldn't  hurt  to  try,  would  it?&quot;  I  wanted  to  say,  &quot;It  would  only  make  you  look  silly,&quot;  but  he  was  the  D.I.  and  I  didn't  dare  bethat  blunt.  I  shrugged,  hoping  he'd  think  better  of  the  idea.  But  I  could  see,  when  I  went  out  of  his  room  a  few  minutes  later,  that  the  possibility  of  prayer,  which  apparently  had  not  oc-  curred  to  him  before,  had  taken  root.  IGHTS  went  out  in  the  barracks  every  night  at  nine.  'That  evening,  about  ten  minutes  before  nine,  Jack  Beardsley  came  in  and  ordered  us  to  as-  semble  at  one  end.  Then  he  told  us  that  he  had  put  in  for  a  transfer  to  the  line,  and  that  he  expected  us  to  pray,  right  then  and  there,  for  its  approval.  There  were  thirty-two  of  us  in  the  platoon,  and  although  we  felt  like  bursting  into  laughter,  we  didn't  dare;  we  looked  at  him  soberly.  There  was  no  question  but  that  he  had  given  us  a  command.  I  don't  think  many  of  the  boys  were  in  the  habit  of  praying  at  bedtime,  and  it  was  obvious  that  Jack  himself  didn't  know  just  what  to  do.  After  a  moment,  he  looked  at  me.  &quot;Private  Dempsey,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  take  over  the  prayin',  and  the  rest  of  you  knuckleheads  will  do  as  he  says.&quot;  I  certainly  didn't  want  the  job,  and  I  didn't  have  any  idea  what  tosay.  Some  ofthe  men,  I  noticed,  had  bowed  their  heads.  What  I  really  wanted  was  time  to  think.  &quot;We  better  get  down  on  our  knees,&quot;  I  said.  Jack  Beardsley,  who  evidently  didn't  intend  to  do  any  praying  himself,  re-  mained  standing.  The  rest  of  us  knelt.  I  was  brought  up  in  a  church  where  it  is  customary  to  kneel  in  prayer,  and  my  family  had  always  done  so  un-  equivocally,  without  prayer  cushions  and  without  adopting  what  our  rector  used  to  call  the  &quot;Episcopal  squat&quot;  -a  half-  kneeling  position  achieved  by  sliding  part  way  off  the  pew  and  hunching  the  shoulders.  I  was  also  used  to  praying  aloud,  although  not  spontaneously,  and  I  did  the  best  I  could.  I  cannot  recall  more  than  a  few  phrases:  &quot;Grant,  O  Lord,  the  supplica-  tion  of  Corporal  Beardsley  in  his  re-  quest  to  the  authorities.  ...  We  hum-  bly  beseech  thee  to  hear  us  in  this  plea  .  ..&quot;  They  were  almost  all  stereo-  types  purloined  from  the  Book  of  Com-  mon  Prayer.  Then  I  suggested  that  we  all  pray  a  moment  in  silence,  and  when  this  was  done,  I  stood  up.  Jack  Beardsley  looked  at  us  a  little  stupidly.  &quot;All  right,  you  bastards,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'You  can  turn  out  the  lights  and  go  to  bed.&quot;  The  platoon  prayed  for  three  nights,  and  on  the  fourth  day  Jack  Beardsley's  application  was  approved.  The  reaction  of  the  men  was  a  mixture  of  disbelief  and  overwrought  joy.  Jack  made  the  announcement  himself,  and  told  us  he  " b"was  putting  everybody  up  for  pfc.  We  got  off  a  cheer.  Then  Jack  said  there  would  be  no  more  inspection  of  parcels,  and  we  got  off  another  cheer.  Looking  back  on  it,  the  whole  affair  seems  fan-  tastic,  with  everybody  running  around  slapping  everybody  else  on  the  back  be-  cause  we  were  getting  rid  of  the  D..,  and  the  D.I.  himself  carrying  on  like  a  fool  because  he'd  been  assigned  to  a  combat  division.  In  a  couple  of  days,  he  was  gone.  He  went  off  carrying  his  sea  bag  and  look-  ing  as  though  he'd  just  been  made  a  gen-  eral.  His  successor,  an  ex-policeman  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  spent  an  hour  cleaning  out  Jack's  desk.  The  drawers  were  jammed  with  cookies  and  rancid  chocolate  bars.  NEVER  expected  to  see  Jack  Beardsley  again,  but  when  I  was  climbing  into  the  back  of  a  truck  after  some  landing  maneuvers  in  the  Ha-  waiian  Islands,  I  looked  up  and  saw  him  sitting  on  one  of  the  benches  and  leaning  on  his  M-1.  It  was  six  months  since  I  had  left  boot  camp;  I  had  been  &quot;in-  doctrinated&quot;  and  assigned  to  a  division  based  on  the  island  of  Maui.  Jack  recog-  nized  me,  I  knew,  but  he  didn't  say  any-  thing  right  away.  I  think  he  was  afraid  that  any  boot  who  had  trained  under  him  would  be  unfriendly.  D.I.s  were  supposed  to  be  chary  of  such  encounters  in  the  field.  When  he  saw  that  I  held  no  grudge,  he  opened  up.  We  rode  back  to  camp  together,  and  he  told  me  that  he'd  been  sent  to  the  division  directly  from  Parris  Island.  He  had  been  in  action  twice,  and  made  no  bones  about  the  fact  that  most  of  the  glory  had  gone  out  of  the  war  for  him,  and  that,  like  everybody  else,  he  was  looking  forward  to  the  time  when  he  could  go  Stateside.  Neither  one  ofus  mentioned  the  praying  incident-I  guessed  that  he  didn't  want  to-but  when  we  separated  in  camp  to  go  to  our  separate  regiments,  Jack  turned  to  me  and  said,  &quot;Any  packages  from  home,  Dempsey?&quot;  I  laughed,  and  so  did  he.  &quot;Not  yet,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  when  I  get  one  I'll  come  around  and  let  you  open  it.&quot;  I  wasn't  serious,  but  Jack  looked  at  me  intently.  &quot;Is  that  a  promise?&quot;  he  asked,  and  I  had  to  say  'Yes,  absolutely.  A  promise.&quot;  &quot;You  won't  forget?&quot;  he  said.  So  that's  why  I  made  a  trip  to  the  front  to  find  E  Company,  3rd  Battalion,  24th  Marines  just  five  days  after  we  had  landed  on  Iwo.  I  was  being  sentimental,  but  I'd  made  a  promise.  It  had  been  a  joke,  but  it  had  turned  into  something  extremely  important.  I  found  E  Company  on  rocky  ground  about  five  hundred  yards  back  of  the  line.  They  had  gone  into  reserve  the  night  before,  and  had  just  got  their  first  mail,  The  fellows  were  sitting  around  in  shell  holes  cleaning  their  gear  and  read-  ing  letters,  Things  were  quiet  right  then;  there  were  intermittent  bursts  of  gunfire,  but  most  of  it  seemed  to  be  far  to  the  left,  on  the  flank.  I  found  the  company  headquarters  and  asked  for  the  first  sergeant.  Someone  pointed  him  out,  and  I  went  over  to  him.  &quot;I'm  looking  for  Jack  Beardsley,&quot;  I  said.  The  sergeant  squinted.  He  obviously  hadn't  shaved  since  the  landing,  and  his  eyes  were  bloodshot.  I  was  embarrassed,  because  I  suspected  he  knew  I  was  from  Division  headquarters.  &quot;What  d'you  want  with  him?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I've  got  a  package.&quot;  &quot;For  him?&quot;  &quot;No,  it's  mine.  I  wanted  him  to  open  it,&quot;  I  said.  I  knew  it  sounded  silly,  but  it  was  true. I  expected  the  sergeant  to  laugh,  but  he  said,  simply,  &quot;He  can't.&quot;  He  cocked  his  head  in  the  direction  of  a  mangled  tree  some  twenty-five  yards  away.  On  the  ground  were  three  figures  lying  in  a  row,  the  way  men  lie  when  they  have  been  put  there  by  someone  else.  They  were  covered  with  ponchos.  &quot;He  was  on  the  line  with  us  yesterday,&quot;  the  sergeant  said.  &quot;They  found  him  this  morning  and  brought  him  in.  Friend  of  yours?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  was.&quot;  &quot;Want  to  look  at  him?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Thanks  just  the  same.  I've  got  to  go  on  back.&quot;  I  caught  a  jeep  ride  back  to  Division,  and  when  I  got  there,  everyone  was  ex-  cited.  I  found  out  that  the  flag  had  just  gone  up  on  Suribachi.  Morale  was  high,  but  although  I  tried  to  get  into  the  spirit  of  it,  I  couldn't.  And  now  whenever  I  see  a  picture  of  that  flag-raising,  I  try  to  imagine  what  it  would  have  been  like  to  be  on  43616e616461Suribachi  in  person,  but  all  I  see  is  myself  racing  toward  the  front  with  that  package,  and  the  three  men  covered  with  ponchos  under  the  tree.  I  opened  the  package,  finally.  It  had  macaroons  in  it,  and  cookies  from  the  Woman's  Exchange.  They  were  rather  badly  smashed.  "