 b"I  AM  at  present  doing  graduate  work  at  a  Midwestern  state  uni-  versity  that  has  about  fifteen  thou-  sand  students,  well  over  a  thousand  professors,  and  a  football  team  that  wins  every  time,  come  rain  or  shine.  'The  campus  is  huge  and  pretty,  and  would  be  prettier  still  if  so  many  new  buildings  weren't  going  up  all  the  time.  The  pro-  fessors  get  their  pieces  in  the  learned  journals,  and  co-eds  win  beauty  contests,  and  in  another  year  or  two  the  new  li-  brary  building,  with  its  glass  walls,  will  be  completed.  In  short,  I  belong  to  a  very  successful  institution.  Unfortunately  for  me,  I  am  not  one  ofthat  happy  breed  of  people  whom  William  James  called  &quot;the  healthy-  minded.&quot;  So  much  success  wherever  I  turn  makes  me  feel  uncomfortable.  I  don't  like  football  teams  that  are  forever  victorious,  students  who  are  always  smiling,  and  buildings  that  look  as  if  they  never  will  be  haunted.  Now  and  then,  T  catch  myself  yearning  for  some  college  where  at  least  a  staunch  little  band  of  students  regards  life  sourly,  where  pro-  fessors  drink  far  more  than  is  good  for  them,  and  where  the  football  team,  if  it  exists,  has  the  grace  to  lose  at  least  fifty  per  cent  of  its  games.  All  this  morbidness  comes,  I  know,  from  the  fact  that  I  was  educated  at  a  university  that  has  been  declining  slowly  but  steadily  for  the  last  five  hundred  and  forty-three  years.  Relatively  few  people  haveheard  of  the  University  of  St.  Andrews,  at  St.  Andrews,  in  [REDACTED],  partly  because  it's  even  more  decayed  than  Trinity  College,  [REDACTED],  and  partly  because  it  has  hadno  hand  in  the  manu-  facture  of  atomic  bombs,  hydrogen  bombs,  or  other  contraptions.  'The  only  physicist  I  ever  met  there  kept  busy  just  thinking  about  writing  a  biography  of  Isaac  Newton.  The  professors  I  knew  at  St.  An-  drews  didn't  write  monographs;  they  were  too  busy  reading  books  or  slowly  poisoning  themselves  with  drink.  Our  Rugby  team  hardly  ever  won  a  match  (even  Trinity  used  to  beat  us),  and  our  cricket  team  really  was  a  joke.  Our  golf  team,  I  must  say,  was  quite  good,  but  then  a  golf  team  isn't  the  sort  of  thing  that  calls  for  brass  bands,  cheerleaders,  and  so  on.  Even  our  library  wasn't  quite  adequate,  but  neither  professors  nor  students  worried  about  that,  for  the  idea  of  &quot;doing  research&quot;  was  totally  repugnant  to  us  all.  'There  is  aper-  sistent  report  that,  sometime  during  the  last  century,  St.  Andrews,  the  elderly  queen  mother  ofthe  Scottish  universi-  ties,  was  offered,  together  with  Oxford,  [REDACTED],  and  Trinity,  the  right  to  receive  a  copy  of  every  book  published  in  [REDACTED]  and  that  St.  Andrews  declined the  offer  because  it  would  have  no  place  to  put  so  many  books.  I  remember  that  the  historians  at  the  university  suspected  there  were  some  rather  interesting  me-  dieval  documents,  including  papal  bulls,  in  the  library,  but  no  one  seemed  to  be  able  to  find  them.  The  town  of  St.  Andrews  once  had  a  magnificent  cathedral,  too-said  to  have  been  the  finest  north  of  York-but  that's  in  complete  ruin.  The  local  castle,  which  is  also  in  ruin,  and  which  used  to  be  the  palace  of  the  bishops  of  St.  Andrews,  is  now  a  haven  forsleepy  students  and  self-styled  guides;  these-  mostly  ne'er-do-well  townsfolk-know  nothing  of  its  history  but  sponge  on  the  unsuspecting  Americans  who  occa-  sionally  wander  into  town  from  the  golf  course.  Even  one  hundred  and  eighty-two  years  ago,  when  Dr.  Johnson  visited  St.  Andrews,  the  university  had  so  far  de-  cayed  that  the  professors  were  ashamed  to  show  him  all  the  college  buildings.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  Dr.  Johnson  could  not  have  visited  St.  Andrews  at  a  worse  time.  Not  long  before,  the  university  had  got  into  trouble  with  the  authorities  by  supporting,  in  a  halfhearted  sort  of  way,  the  Jacobite  cause,  although  by  that  time  its  hopelessness  was  evident  to  everybody  outside  of  St.  Andrews.  The  University  of  Edinburgh,  of  course,  made  no  such  mistakes,  and  ever  since  the  eighteenth  century  has  taken  advan-  tage  of  St.  Andrews'  courage  and  bad  sense.  S  far  as  I  know,  lost  causes  have  al-  ways  found  a  home  with  my  alma  mater,  and  almost  all  her  graduates,  it  seems,  have  had  the  happy  knack  of  being  on  the  wrong  side.  Her  bull,  or  charter,  came  from  Avignon,  and  long  after  everyone  else  (including  the  French)  had  deserted  the  unfortunate  Avignon  popes,  St.  Andrews  somehow  managed  to  remain  loyal  to  them.  A  Stuart  king  gave  her  the  necessary  royal  sanction,  and  so,  always  at  the  wrong  time,  the  students  and  professorsof  St.  Andrews  supported  a  Stuart.  True,  not  all  the  Stuarts  were  unlucky.  'The  most  successful  of  them  was  probably  James  VI,  but,  unfortunately  for  St.  Andrews,  her  rector  during  his  reign  was  Andrew  Melville,  who,  as  spokesman  of  a  Pres-  byterian  deputation  to  the  King,  had  the  bad  judgment  to  go  and  call  him  &quot;God's  sillie  vassall&quot;  to  his  face.  Later,  when  James  VI  became  James  I  of  [REDACTED],  he  had  Andrew  Melville  locked  up  in  the  Tower  of  [REDACTED],  where,  for  four  years,  he  remained,  Izaak  Walton  tells  us,  &quot;very  angry.&quot;  James'  beautiful  mother,  Mary,  Queen  of  Scots,  was  very     " b"good  to  St.  Andrews,  but  she  was  a  Catholic  when  most  other  Scots  had  been  turned  into  devout  Presbyterians  by  John  Knox,  and  even-  tually  her  head  was  chopped  off  by  one  of Good  Queen  Bess's  ex-  ecutioners.  Then,  there  was  Cardinal  Beaton,  Arch-  bishop  of  St.  Andrews,  and  a  graduate  of  the  university,  who  was  stabbed  to  death  in  1546  by  a  group  of  re-  forming  fanatics.  His  last  words  were  &quot;Fye,  fye,  all  is  gone!,&quot;  and  with  his  death  the  long  decline  of  the  university  began.  Though  she  re-  mained  the  greatest  university  in  the  north  of  [REDACTED]  until  long  after  the  Reformation,  she  never  regained  the   prosperity  that  she  had  enjoyed  under  the  Catholic  bishops.  A  St.  Andrean  who  died  even  more  un-  pleasantly  than  the  Cardinal  was  the  great  Marquis  of  Montrose.  He  was  drawn  and  quartered  because,  with  a  handful  of  courageous  royalists,  he  fought  for  the  Stuart  cause  against  all  of  [REDACTED].  On  his  last  night  on  earth,  he  wrote  the  following  lines:  Scatter  my  Ashes,  throw  them  in  the  Air.  Lord  (since  Thou  know'st  where  all  these  Atoms  are),  I'm  hopeful,  once  Thou'lt  recollect  my  Dust,  And  confident  Thou'lt  raise  me  with  the  Just.  St.  Andrews  is  very  proud  of  Mont-  rose.  His  great  enemy,  Argyll,  the  hated  chief  of  the  Campbells,  was  also  a  St.  Andrean.  He  was  for  a  time  on  the  winning  side,  but  his  training  got  the  better  of  him,  and  in  1661  he  managed  to  get  himself  beheaded.  Another  emi-  nent  graduate,  Graham  of  Claverhouse  (Bonny  Dundee),  beat  the  cowardly  anti-  Jacobites  at  Killiecrankie  in  1689,  but  just  as  the  battle  was  being  won,  he  was  killed.  The  Admirable  Crichton-an  eru-  dite  adventurer  of  the  sixteenth  century,  after  whom  Sir  James  M.  Barrie  later  named  a  character  and  a  play-was  about  the  only  prodigy  St.  Andrews  ever produced.  He  entered  St.  Andrews  in  1570,  when  he  was  ten  years  old,  and  graduated  when  he  was  fifteen.  He  was  so  clever  that  he  outargued  all  the  learned  professors  at  the  College  of  Navarre  while  he  was  still  in  his  teens.  However,  he  was  a  debauchee,  and  at  the  tender  age  of  twenty-two  he  was  killed  in  a  drunken,  back-alley  brawl  in  some  town  in  4974616c79.  His  house  is  now  the  Students'  Union.  AFTER  Bonny  Dundee,  St.  An-  drews  almost  ceased  to  produce  great  failures.  The  first  eminent  man  to  come  from  there  in  about  two  hun-  dred  years  was  Andrew  Lang.  He  was,  I  suppose,  successful  in  his  way,  but  he  could  have  done  very  much  better  if  he  had  stayed  in  [REDACTED].  Instead,  he  de-  cided  to  return  to  St.  Andrews.  There,  in  his  retirement,  he  wrote  fairy  stories  and  histories  of  lost  causes  which  today  are  read  by  no  one  but  old-fashioned  children  and  St.  Andrews  students.  Apart  from  the  &quot;Gaudeamus,&quot;  which  we  always  sang,  the  only  thing  in  verse  that  we  St.  Andreans  ever  both-  ered  to  learn  by  heart  was  a  poem  of  Andrew  Lang'scalled  &quot;Almae  Matres.&quot;  It  isn't  a  very  jolly  piece:  O,  ruined  chapel,  long  ago  We  loitered  idly  where  the  tall  Fresh  budded  mountain  ashes  blow  Within  thy  desecrated  wall:  The  tough  roots  rent  the  tomb  below,  The  April  birds  sang  clamorous,  We  did  not  dream,  we  could  not  know  How  hardly  fate  would  deal  with  us!  The  students  at  the  Midwestern  uni-  versity  where  I  am  now  at  work  are  prone  to  sing,  whenever  they  have  the  chance,  a  song  that  begins,  &quot;Smash  right  through  that  line  of  blue!&quot;  Amidst  such  vigor  and  optimism  I  feel  quite  ill  at  ease,  and  you  can  see  why.  "