 b"FOR  a  long  while  now,  for  many  months,  I  have  been  in  the  grip  of  an  obsession.  True,  I  have  had  periods  of  unconcern,  but  the  fit  always  returns  to  plague  me.  Its  latest  flareup  began  at  a  football  game.  I  had  gone  in  the  most  free  and  cheerful  spirit,  but  again  and  again,  seeing  the  lines  churn  and  the  backs  weave,  I  found  myself  trying  to  recall  a  scene  I  had  witnessed  a  few  evenings  before,  standing  on  a  street  corner  in  the  rain.  And  then,  eventually,  I  remembered  a  pair  of  Madison  [REDACTED]  buses.  One  was  run-  ning  interference  for  the  other.  The  two  of  them  were  charging  side  by  side  down  the  avenue.  The  one  near  the  curb  was  crowded,  its  companion  on  the  outside  empty.  They  pulled  up  at  the  Forty-fourth  Street  stop  so  close  together  that  nobody  could  get  into  the  empty  one,  though  several  prospective  passengers-I  among  them-went  out  into  the  street  and  tried.  Now,  at  the  game,  watching  the  fullback  block  a  player  trying  to  board  the  left  half-  back,  I  saw  the  scene  once  more.  I  saw  people  scattering  like  reluctant  but  scared  pigeons  from  in  front  of  the  buses  when,  still  together,  they  started  up.  I  saw  the  buses  jockeying  furiously  in  the  traffic  to  keep  abreast  for  the  next  stop.  And  there  it  was  again-the  old  ques-  tion  clanging  obsessively  in  my  brain.  Why?  Why  do  buses  do  as  they  do?  What  is  their  purpose?  What  impels  them?  I  have  lately  had  a  partial  answer,  but  it  is  a  doubtful  one,  and  though  I  have  doubtfully  accepted  it,  I  expect  to  go  on,  with  diluted  hope,  reiterating  these  ques-  tions,  which,  I  have  learned,  people  will  seldom  face.  The  most  common  response  is  to  evade  the  question  of  motive  and  sub-  stitute  the  question  of  coexistence-of  how  to  get  onto  buses  at  all.  I  have  a  friend,  a  young  housewife,  the  mother  ofa  four-year-old  boy.  She  occasional-  ly  persuades  him  to  good  works  by  making  him  think  she  wants  him  not  to  do  them,  and  she  is  convinced  that  buses  have  merely  to  be  outwitted,  like  her  son.  She  has  faith  that  if,  instead  of  signalling  a  bus,  she  will  turnher  back  on  it,it  will  stop-long  enough,  at  least,  for  a  spin  and  leap.  As  I  say,  she  is  young,  perhaps  sanguine,  unquestion-  ably  sure-footed.  There  arethose  who  think  that  buses  must  be  propitiated,  like  Norns.  I  once  saw  a  man  with  a  broken  garter  running  for  a  bus  that  was  standing  at  a  cor-  ner.  The  bus  hissed  lightly-they  are  always  hissing-and  its  door  closed.  The  man  reached  down,  tore  the  dangling  garter  off,  threw  it  into  the  street,  and  ran  on  headlong  at  the  bus.  I  have  always  thought  this  not  only  an  act  of  rage  and  haste  but  an  obscure  kind  of  sacrifice.  At  any  rate,  the  bus  quiv-  ered  and  hissed,  the  door  opened,  and  the  man  sprang  aboard.  Among  people  who  will  discuss  mo-  tive  at  all,  ideas  vary.  'Taxi-drivers,  keenly  articulate  onmost  matters,  often  become  quite  otherwise  when  asked  about  buses,  and  I  have  grown  cautious  of  bringing  the  topic  up  with  any  but  the  most  nerveless.  Among  these,  however,  there  is  a  striking  unanimity.  They  say  dogmatically  that  the  one  aim  of  the  buses'  behavior  is  to  clog.  'They  shrug  off  stop-skipping,  passenger-evasion,  passenger-blocking,  asphyxiation,  and  pedestrian-frightening-motives  that  other  groups  consider  paramount-as  mere  by-products  of  this  central  drive  to  clog.  &quot;They  get  five,  ten  blocks  tied  up,  they're  happy  as  a  kid,&quot;  a  cabdriver  told  me  not  long  ago.  I  believe  him,  but  his  is  not  the  whole  answer.  Clogging  and  the  rest  are  only  symptoms.  I  live  a  couple  of  blocks  east  of  Fifth  [REDACTED]  and  go  uptown  to  work  each  day-by  bus  if  I  can  get  one.  And  each  day,  as  I  turn  westward  into  the  block  with  my  stop  at  the  end  of  it,  Isee  a  line  swing  up  the  avenue.  Sometimes  eight  ornine  buses  will  flit  by  while  I  run,  sometimes  only  four  or  five.  Miss-  ing  single  buses  again  and  again  would  seem  merely  one  of  the  routine  perversi-  ties  that  surround  us,  such  as  bringing  on  rain  by  going  out  without  an  um-  brella.  But  regularly  missing  four  to  nine  buses  gives  you  a  sense  of  being  conspired  against  on  a  significant  scale. I  pant  in  the  blue  air,  there  on  the  corner.  I  wait  and  wonder.  (There  is  always  time  for  thought  before  the  next  buses  come.)  Plainly,  these  strings,  these  tandems,  are  not  accidental.  I  used  to  think  they  were.  I  lived  uptown  then,  and  I  sometimes  counted  as  many  as  fourteen  in  a  row  on  Fifth  [REDACTED]  in  the  [REDACTED].  And  I  supposed  that  these  buses  had  started  out  well  spaced,  cour-  teous,  as  inclined  as  not  to  take  on  passengers,  andhad  somehow  got  bunched  up  in  the  traffic.  But  where  I  now  take  my  morning  bus,  they  come  fresh  from  the  starting  point,  six  or  seven  blocks  away,  and  they  come  hang-  ing  onto  each  other's  tails  like  elephants  in  a  circus.  It  seems  clear  that  the  tandem  is  the  basic  maneuver.  All  the  individual  techniques  can  be  ramified  and  infinite-  ly  combined  within  it-evasion  with  suffocation,  clogging  cus:  blocking  cum  skipping.  And  so  on.  The  classic  tandem  has  a  crammed  bus  at  the  head  and  an  empty  one  at  the  rear.  Both  of  these  are  bound  for  the  same  place,  and  in  be-  tween  is  at  least  one  tandem-within-a-  tandem,  bound  elsewhere.  One  evening  last  week,  I  saw  a  small  but  perfect  specimen  headed  downtown.  The  requi-  sitely  bulging  lead  bus  had  stopped  at  Fifth  [REDACTED]  and  Forty-sixth  Street.  It  was  going  to  [REDACTED]  Square.  Be-  hind  it  came  four  buses  headed  for  Pennsylvania  Station.  On  the  end  was  another  [REDACTED]  Square  bus,  visibly  empty.  The  people  on  the  corner  who  wanted  to  go  below  Penn  Station  di-  vided  into  three  groups.  The  first  bur-  rowed  aboard  the  lead  bus,  the  second  waited  for  the  empty  one  to  come  down  to  the  stop,  and  the  third  ran  to  board  it  where  it  stood.  Now,  that  bus  was  not  et  the  bus  stop,  and  so  could  take  no  pas-  sengers.  But  when  the  tandem  started  away-inches  apart,  as  the  custom  is-  the  final  bus  was  able  to  sweep  past  Forty-sixth  Street  with  the  others,  for  the  tandem  Aad  stopped  there.  Why?  I  goon  asking  it.  Many  to  whom  I  put  the  question  toss  it  away  as  one  raised  by  a  man  wasting  his  time  on  chimerical  research.  They  talk  instead  about  their  own  affairs.  I  once  met  a  visiting  Englishman  and  asked  him  if,  as  a  fresh  observer,  he  could  guess  why  buses  go  in  tandems.  &quot;Not  possibly,  old  man,&quot;  he  said,  and  changed  the  subject  to  hunting  wildebeest.  &quot;Run  in  great  herds,  you  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Astonishing  sight.  Off  they  go,  all  together,  crashing  along  as  if  they'd  the  Devil  in  back  of  them,  stopping  for  nothing,  absolutely  nothing.&quot;  " b"I  said  that  if  he  meant  to  draw  a  comparison  with  buses,  I  would  think  hippopotami  an  apt  one,  or  perhaps  rhinoceroses.  &quot;A  comparison?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  I.  After  all,  rhinos  don't  come  at  you  in  herds,  do  they?  One  at  a  time  is  quite  enough,  let  me  tell  you.  Rogue  elephant'll  give  you  a  bit  of  a  lark,  too,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  why  do  buses  do  as  they  do?&quot;  &quot;Old  rhino  gets  a  notion  you're  after  him-something  of  the  sort,&quot;  the  Englishman  said.  &quot;He's  in  a  flap,  I  suppose,  really,  and  you  get  a  rhino  in  a  flap  you  have  got  something.&quot;  I  imagine  he  is  right.  I  have  seen  singlebuses,  and  they  were  always  in  flaps.  One  night  last  summer,  it  was  raining  (buses  are  at  their  most  fractious  in  the  rain),  and  I  was  on  a  half-  empty  one,  southbound  at  a  great  pace  on  Fourth  [REDACTED].  It  made  no  stops  between  Thir-  ty-sixth  Street  and  Eighteenth  except  when  someone  inside  wanted  to  get  out.  Why  it  stopped  then,  I  have  no  clear  idea,  al-  though  I  suppose  there  may  be  some-  thing  about  the  immediacy  of  apassen-  ger  already  aboard-his  yells  and  whimpers-that  causes  a  bus  to  stop,  whereas  people  waving  subaqueously  on  street  corners  are  only  remote,  in-  audible,  and  wet,  like  seaweed.  Anyway,  I  mentioned  this  frantic  bus  to  an  old  acquaintance  of  mine.  His  given  name  is  Nelson,  his  close-cut  hair  makes  him  look  a  good  deal  younger  and  less  astute  than  he  is,  and  he  returns  to  psychotherapy  each  autumn  as  a  bird  goes  [REDACTED],.  &quot;Anxiety  hysteria's  a  tricky  thing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know  a  man  who  can't  stand  to  be  alone.  He's  wild  if  he's  not  in  some  hot  little  huddle  of  people  night  and  day.  Five  gets  you  ten  he  has  expectant  dread.&quot;  Well,  I  suppose  a  tandem  is  a  kind  of  consecutive  huddle,  and  though  Nelson  tends  to  be  imaginative,  I  must  grant  that  buses  out  of  tandem  behave  with  a  special  dementia.  As  I  say,  I  have  seen  solitaries.  I  was  inside  one  going  up  Fifth  [REDACTED]  on  a  Saturday  afternoon  last  May.  It  had  got  stopped  in  the  middle  ofa  block  when  an  elderly  man  wearing  a  clerical  collar  and  carrying  an  armload  of  books  tapped  on  its  door.  The  traffic  moved,  the  bus  moved;  the  man  ran  to  the  stop  at  the  corner,  the  bus  went  past  the  stop.  Traffic  stalled  the  bus  in  the  next  block;  the  man  caught  up  with  it  and  tapped;  the  bus ground  on.  At  the  next  stop,  the  man  appeared  just  as  the  bus  was  moving  away.  He  had  time  for  one  tap.  WHAT  makes  a  bus  behave  as  it  does?  Singly  or  in  herd,  rogue  bus  or  bus-in-huddle,  they  roam  the  city  hiss-  ing  and  unexplained.  I  think  of  the  man  with  the  broken  garter;  ofa  red-faced  man  I  saw  one  summer  evening  solemn-  ly  hit  each  bus  of  a  rolling  tandem  as  hard  as  he  could  with  his  folded  newspaper;  of  the  man  in  the  clerical  collar,  denied  such  expression,  I  suppose,  by  his  cloth;  of  a  dozen  old  women  I  have  watched  glowering  on  corners  and  talking  to  passing  buses  under  their  breath;  of  the  young  woman  I  once  saw  kick  a  bus.  All  of  them,  surely,  would  like  an  answer.  As  I  have  said,  I  do  have  a  partial  one-or,  rather,  Nelson  has.  He  dropped  inat  my  apartment  one  night  not  long  ago  and  told  me  that  he'd  been  giving  a  lot  of  thought  to  buses.  He  said  you  came  out  the  same,  any  way  you  looked  at  them:  the  reason  they're  the  way  they  are  is,  they're  afraid.  So  there  you  are.  It  doesn't  make  sense  in  any  accepted,  know-it-all,  ra-  tional  way,  but  it's  the  only  really  solid,  rock-bottom  answer  I've  heard,  and  until  someone  can  give  me  a  better  one,  I'll  string  along  with  Nelson."