 b"UP  until  I  learned  my  lesson  in  a  very  bitter  way,  I  never  had  more  than  one  friend  at  a  time,  and  my  friendships,  though  ardent,  were  short.  When  they  endedand  I  was  sent  packing  in  unforgetting  indigna-  tion,  it  was  always  my  fault;  I  would  swear  vilely  in  front  of  a  girl  I  knew  to  be  pious  and  prim  (by  the  time  I  was  eight,  the  most  grandiloquent  gangster  could  have  added  nothing  to  my  vo-  cabulary-I  had  an  awful  tongue),  or  I  would  call  a  Tenderfoot  Scout  a  sissy  or  make  fun  of  athletics  to  the  daughter  ofthe  high-school  coach.  These  out-  bursts  came  without  plan;  I  would  sim-  ply  one  day,  in  the  middle  of  a  game  of  Russian  bank  or  a  hike  or  a  conversa-  tion,  be  possessed  with  a  passion  to  be  by  myself,  and  my  lips  instantly  and  without  warning  would  accommodate  me.  My  friend  was  never  more  sur-  prised  than  I  was  when  this  irrevocable  slander,  this  terrible,  talented  invective,  came  boiling  out  of  my  mouth.  Afterward,  when  I  had  got  the  soli-  tude  I  had  wanted,  I  was  dismayed,  for  I  did  not  like  it.  Then  I  would  sadly  finish  the  game  of  cards  as  if  someone  were  still  across  the  table  from  me;  I  would  sit  down  on  the  mesa  and  through  a  glaze  of  tears  would  watch  my  friend  departing  with  outraged  strides;  mournfully,  I  would  talk  to  my-  self.  Because  I  had  already  alienated  everyone  I  knew,  I  then  had  nowhere  to  turn,  so  a  famine  set  in  and  I  would  have  no  companion  but  Muff,  the  cat,  who  loathed  all  human  beings  except,  significantly,  me-truly.  She  bit  and  scratched  the  hands  that  fed  her,  she  arched  her  back  like  a  Halloween  cat  if  someone  kind-  ly  tried  to  pet  her,  she  hissed,  laid  her  ears  flat  to  her  skull,  growled,  fluffed  up  her  tail  into  a  great  bush  and  flailed  it  like  a  bullwhack.  But  she  purred  for  me,  she  patted  me  with  her  paws,  keeping  her  claws  in  their  vel-  vet  scabbards.  She  was  not  only  an  ill-  natured  cat,  she  was  also  badly  dressed.  She  was  a  calico,  and  the  distribution  of  her  colors  was  a  mess;  she  looked  as  if  she  had  been  left  out  in  the  rain  and  her  paint  had  run.  She  had  a  Roman  nose  as  the  result  of  some  early  injury,  her  tail  was  skinny,  she  had  a  perfectly  venomous  look  in  her  eye.  My  family  said-my  family  discriminated  against  me-that  I  was  much  closer  kin  to  Muff  than  I  was  to  any  of  them.  To  tease  me  into  a  tantrum,  my  brother  Jack  and  my  sister  Stella  often  called  me  Kitty  instead  of  Emily.  Little  Tess  did  not  dare,  because  she  knew  I'd  chloroform  her  if  she  did.  Jack,  the  meanest  boy  I  have  ever  known  in  my  life,  called  me  Polecat  and  talked  about  my  mania  for  fish,  which,  it  so  hap-  pened,  I  despised.  The  name  would  have  been  far  more  appropriate  for  him,  since  he  trapped  skunks  up  in  the  foot-  hills-we  lived  in  Adams,  Colorado-  and  quite  often,  because  he  was  careless  and  foolhardy,  his  clothes  had  to  be  buried,  and  even  when  that  was  done,  he  sometimes  was  sent  home  from  school  on  the  complaint  of  girls  sitting  next  to  him.  Along  about  Christmastime  when  I  was  eleven,  I  was  making  a  snowman  with  Virgil  Meade  in  his  back  yard,  and  all  of  a  sudden,  just  as  we  had  got  around  to  the  right  arm,  I  had  to  be  alone.  So  I  called  him  a  son  of  a  sea  cook,  said  it  was  common  knowledge  that  his  mother  had  bedbugs  and  that  his  father,  a  dentist  and  the  deputy  mar-  shal,  was  a  bootlegger  on  the  side.  For  a  moment,  Virgil  was  too  aghast  to  speak-a  little  earlier  we  had  agreed  to  marry  someday  and  become  million-  aires-and  then,  witha  bellow  of  fury,  he  knocked  me  down  and  washed  my  face  in  snow.  I  saw  stars,  and  black  balls  bounced  before  my  eyes.  When  finally  he  let  me  up,  we  were  both  crying,  and  he  hollered  that  if  I  didn't  get  off  his  property  that  instant,  his  father  would  arrest  me  and  send  me  to  Canon  City.  I  trudged  slowly  home,  half  frozen,  crit-  ically  sick  at  heart.  So  it  was  old  Muff  again  for  me  forquite  some  time.  Old  Muff,  that  is,  until  I  met  Lottie  Jump,  although  &quot;met&quot;  is  a  euphemism  for  the  way  I  first  encountered  her.  SAW  Lottie  for  the  first  time  one  afternoon  in  our  own  kitchen,  stealing  a  choco-  late  cake.  Stella  and  Jack  had  not  come  home  from  school  yet-  not  having  my  difficult  disposition,  they  were  popular,  and  they  were  at  their  friends'  houses,  pulling  taffy,  I  suppose,  making  popcorn  balls,  playing  casino,  having  fun-and  my  mother  had  taken  Tess  with  her  to  visit  a  friend  in  one  of  the  T.B.  sanitariums.  I  was  alone  in  the  house,  and  making  a  funny-looking  Christmas  card,  although  I  had  no  one  to  send  it  to.  When  I  heard  someone  in  the  kitchen,  I  thought  it  was  Mother  home  early,  and  I  went  out  to  ask  her  why  the  green  pine  tree  I  had  pasted  on  a  square  of  red  paper  looked  as  if  it  were  falling  down.  And  there,  instead  of  Mother  and  my  baby  sister,  was  this  pale,  conspicuous  child  in  the  act  of  lift,  ing  the  glass  cover  from  the  devil's-food  my  mother  had  taken  out  of  the  oven  an  hour  before  and  set  on  the  plant  shelf  by  the  window.  The  child  had  her  back  to  me,  and  when  she  heard  my  footfall,  she  wheeled  with  an  amazing  look  of  fear  and  hatred  on  her  pinched  and  pasty  face.  Simultaneously,  she  put  the  cover  over  the  cake  again,  and  then  she  stood  motionless  as  if  she  were  un-  der  a  spell.  I  was  scared,  for  I  was  not  sure  what  was  happening,  and  anyhow  it  gives  you  a  turn  to  find  a  stranger  in  the  kitchen  in  the  middle  ofthe  afternoon,  even  if  the  stranger  is  only  a  skinny  child  in  a  moldy  coat  and  sopping-wet  basketball  shoes.  Between  us  there  was  a  lengthy  silence,  but  there  was  a  great  deal  of  noise  in  the  room:  the  alarm  clock  ticked  smugly;  the  teakettle  simmered  patient-  ly  on  the  back  of  the  stove;  Muff,  cross  at  having  been  waked  up,  thumped  her  tail  against  the  side  of  the  terrarium  in  the  window  where  she  had  been  sleep-  ing-contrary  to  orders-among  the  geraniums.  This  went  on,  it  seemed  to  me,  for  hours  and  hours  while  that  tall,  sickly  girl  and  I  confronted  each  other.  When,  after  a  long  time,  she  did  open  her  mouth,  it  was  to  tell  a  prodigious  lie.  &quot;I  came  to  see  if  you'd  like  to  play  with  me,&quot;  she  said.  I  think  she  sighed  and  stole  a  sidelong  and  regretful  glance  at  the  cake.  Beggars  cannot  be  choosers,  and  I  had  been  missing  Virgil  so  sorely,  as  well  as  all  those  other  dear  friends  for-  ever  lost  to  me,  that  in  spite  of  her  fla-  grance  (she  had  never  clapped  eyes  on  me  before,  she  had  had  no  way  of  know-  ing  there  was  a  creature  of  my  age  in  the  house-she  had  come  in  like  a  hobo  to  steal  my  mother's  cake),  I  was  flat-  tered  and  consoled.  I  asked  her  name  and,  learning  it,  believed  my  ears  no  better  than  my  eyes:  Lottie  Jump.  W  hat  on  earth!  What  on  earth-you  surely  will  agree  with  me-and  yet  when  I  told  her  mine,  Emily  Vanderpool,  she  laughed  until  she  coughed  and  gasped.  &quot;Beg  pardon,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Names  like  them  always  hit  my  funny  bone.  There  was  this  towhead  boy  in  school  named  Delbert  Saxonfield.&quot;  I  saw  no  connec-  tion  and  I  was  insulted  (what's  so  funny  about  Vanderpool,  I'd  like  to  know),  but  Lottie  Jump  was,  technically,  my  guest  and  I  was  lonesome,  so  I  asked  her,  since  she  had  spoken  of  playing  with  me,  if  she  knew  how  to  play  Andy-I-  Over.  She  said  &quot;Naw.&quot;  It  turned  out  that  she  did  not  know  how  to  play  any  " b"games  at  all;  she  couldn't  do  anything  and  didn't  want  to  do  anything;  her  only  recreation  and  her  only  gift  was,  and  always  had  been,  stealing.  But  this  [  did  not  know  at  the  time.  As  it  happened,  it  was  too  cold  and  snowy  to  play  outdoors  that  day  any-  how,  and  after  I  had  run  through  my  list  of  indoor  games  and  Lottie  had  shaken  her  head  at  all  of  them  (when  I  spoke  of  parche  si,  she  went  &quot;Ugh!&quot;  and  pretended  to  be  sick  ),  she  suggested  that  we  look  through  my  mother's  bu-  reau  drawers.  This  did  not  strike  me  as  strange  at  all,  for  it  was  one  of  my  favor-  ite  things  to  do,  and  I  led  the  way  to  Mother's  bedroom  without  a  moment's  hesitation.  I  loved  the  smell  of  the  laven-  der  she  kept  in  gauze  bags  among  her  chamois  gloves  and  linen  handkerchiefs  and  filmy  scarves;  there  was  a  pink  fas-  cinator  knitted  of  something  as  fine  as  spider's  thread,  and  it  made  me  go  quite  soft-I  wasn't  soft  as  a  rule,  I  was  as  hard  as  nails  and  I  gave  my  mother  a  rough  time-to  think  of  her  wearing it  around  her  head  as  she  waltzed  on  the  ice  in  the  bygone  days.  We  examined  stockings,  nightgow  ns,  camisoles,  strings  of  beads,  and  mosaic  pins,  keepsake  but-  tons  from  dresses  worn  on  memorial  occasions,  tortoise-shell  combs,  and  a  transformation  made  from  Aunt  Joey's  hair  when  she  had  racily  had  it  bobbed.  Lottie  admired  particularly  a  blue  cloi-  sonn\xc3\xa9  perfume  flask  with  ferns  and  pea-  cocks  on  it.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;this  sure  is  cute.  I  like  thing-daddies  like  this  here.&quot;  But  very  abruptly  she  got  bored  and  said,  &quot;Let's  talk  instead.  In  the  front  room.&quot;  I  agreed,  a  little  perplexed  this  time,  because  I  had  been  about  to  show  her  a  remarkable  powder  box  that  played  &quot;The  Blue  Danube.&quot;  We  went  into  the  parlor,  where  Lottie  looked  at  her  image  in  the  pier  glass  for  quite  a  while  and  with  great  absorption,  as  if  she  had  never  seen  herself  before.  Then  she  moved  over  to  the  window  seat  and  knelt  on  it,  looking  out  at  the  front  walk.  She  kept  her  hands  in  the  pockets  of  her  thin  dark-red  coat;  once  she  took  out  one  of  her  dirty  paws  to  rub  her  nose  for  a  minute  and  I  saw  a  bulge  in  that  pocket,  like  a  bunch  of  jackstones.  I  know  now  that  it  wasn't  jackstones,  it  was  my  mother's  perfume  flask;  I  thought  at  the  time  her  hands  were  cold  and  that  that  was  why  she  kept  them  put  away,  for  I  had  noticed  that  she  had  no  mittens.  Lottie  did  most  of  the  talking,  and  while  she  talked,  she  neveronce  looked  at  me  but  kept  her  eyes  fixed  on  the  ap-  proach  to  our  house.  She  told  me  that  her  family  had  come  to  Adams  a  month  before  from  Muskogee,  [REDACTED],  where  her  father,  before  he  got  tuber-  culosis,  had  been  a  brakeman  on  the  Frisco.  Now  they  lived  down  by  Arapa-  hoe43616e616461,  on  the  west  side  of  town,  in  one  of  the  cottages  of  a  wretched  settle-  ment  made  up  ofpeople  so  poor  and  so  sick-for  in  nearly  every  ramshackle  house  someone  was  coughing  himself  to  death-that  each  time  I  went  past  I  blushed  with  guilt  because  my  shoes  were  sound  and  my  coat  was  warm  and  " b"I  was  well.  I  wished  that  Lottie  had  not  told  me  where  she  lived,  but  she  was  not  aware  of  any  pathos  in  her  family's  situa-  tion,  and,  indeed,  it  was  with  a  certain  boastfulness  that  she  told  me  her  mother  was  the  short-order  cook  at  the  Coman-  che  Caf\xc3\xa9  (she  pronounced  this  word  in  one  syllable),  which  I  knew  was  the  dirtiest,  darkest,  smelliest  place  in  town,  patronized  by  coal  miners  who  never  washed  their  faces  and  sometimes  had  such  dangerous  fights  after  drinking  dago  red  that  the  sheriff  had  to  come.  Laughing,  Lottie  told  me  that  her  mother  was  half  Indian,  and,  laughing  even  harder,  she  said  that  her  brother  didn't  have  any  brains  and  had  never  been  to  school.  She  herself  was  eleven  years  old,  but  she  was  only  in  the  third  grade,  because  teachers  had  always  had  it  in  for  her-making  her  go  to  the  blackboard  and  all  like  that  when  she  was  tired.  She  hated  school  -she  went  to  Ashton,  on  North  Hill,  and  that  was  why  I  had  never  seen  her,  for  I  went  to  Carlyle  Hill-and  she  especially  hated  the  teacher,  Miss  Cudahy,  who  had  a  head  shaped  like  a  pine  cone  and  who  had  killed  several  people  with  her  ruler.  Lottie  loved  the  movies  (&quot;Not  them  Western  ones  or  the  ones  with  apes  in,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Ones  about  hugging  and  kissing.  I  love  it  when  they  diein  that  big  old  soft  bed  with  the  curtains  up  top,  and  he  comes  in  and  says  'Don't  leave  me,  Marguerite  de  la  Mar  &quot;),  and  she  loved  toride  in  cars.  She  loved  Mr.  Goodbars,  and  if  there  was  one  thing  she  despised  worse  than  another  it  was  tapioca.  (&quot;Pa  calls  it  fish  eyes.  He  calls  floating  island  horse  spit.  He's  a  big  piece  of  cheese.  I  hate  him.&quot;)  She  did  not  like  cats  (Muff  was  now  sitting  on  the  mantelpiece,  glaring  like  an  owl);  she  kind  of  liked  snakes-except  cottonmouths  and  rattlers-because  she  found  them  kind  of  funny;  she  had  once  seen  a  goat  eat  a  tin  can.  She  said  that  one  of  these  days  she  would  take  me  downtown-it  was  a  slowpoke  town,  she  said,  a  one-horse  burg  (I  had  never  heard  such  gaudy,  cynical  talk  and  was  trying  to  memorize  it  all)  -if  I  would  get  some  money  for  the  trolley  fare;  she  hated  to  walk,  and  I  ought  to  be  proud  that  she  had  walked  all  the  way  from  Arapahoe  [REDACTED]  today  for  the  sole  soli-  tary  purpose  of  seeing  me.  Seeing  our  freshly  baked  dessert  in  the  window  was  a  more  likely  story,  but  I  did  not  care,  for  I  was  deeply  im-  pressed  by  this  bold,  sassy  girl  from  Ok-  lahoma  and  greatly  admired  the  poise  with  which  she  aired  her  prejudices. Lottie  Jump  was  certainly  nothing  to  look  at.  She  was  tall  and  made  of  skin  and  bones;  she  was  evilly  ugly,  and  her  clothes  were  a  dis-  grace,  not  just  ill-fitting  and  old  and  ragged  but  dirty,  un-  mentionably  so;  clearly  she  did  not  wash  much  or  brush  her  teeth,  which  were  notched  like  a  saw,  and  small  and  brown  (it  crossed  my  mind  that  perhaps  she  chewed  to-  bacco);  her  long,  lank  hair  looked  as  if  it  might  have  nits.  But  she  had  personality.  She  made  me  think  of  one  of  those  self-contained  dogs  whose  home  is  where  his  handout  is  and  who  travels  alone  but,  if  it  suits  him  to,  will  become  the  leader  of  a  pack.  She  was  aloof,  never  looking  at  me,  but  amiable  in  the  way  she  kept  calling  me  &quot;kid.&quot;  I  liked  her  enor-  mously,  and  presently  I  told  her  so.  At  this,  she  turned  around  and  smiled  at  me.  Her  smile  was  the  smile  of  a  jack-o'-  lantern-high,  wide,  and  handsome.  When  it  was  over,  no  trace  of  it  remained.  &quot;Well,  that's  keen,  kid,  and  I  like  you,  too,&quot;  she  said  in  her  downright  Mus-  kogee  accent.  She  gave  me  along,  ap-  praising  look.  Her  eyes  were  the  color  of  mud.  &quot;Listen,  kid,  how  much  do  you  like  me?&quot;  &quot;I  like  you  loads,  Lottie,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Better  than  anybody  else,  and  I'm  not  kidding.&quot;  &quot;You  want  to  be  pals?&quot;  &quot;Do  I!&quot;  I  cried.  So  there,  Virgil  Meade,  you  big  fat  hoot-nanny,  I  thought.  &quot;All  right,  kid,  we'll  be  pals.&quot;  And  she  held  out  her  hand  for  me  to  shake.  I  had  to  go  and  get  it,  for  she  did  not  alter  her  position  on  the  window  seat.  It  was  a  dry,  cold  hand,  and  the  grip  was  severe,  with  more  a  feeling  of  bones  in  it  than  friendliness.  Lottie  turned  and  scanned  our  path  and  scanned  the  sidewalk  beyond,  and  then  she  said,  in  a  lower  voice,  &quot;Do  you  know  how  to  lift?&quot;  &quot;Lift?&quot;  I  wondered  if  she  meant  to  lift  her.  I  was  sure  I  could  do  it,  since  she  was  so  skinny,  but  I  couldn't  imag-  ine  why  she  would  want  me  to.  'Shoplift,  I  mean.  Like  in  the  five-  and-dime.&quot;  I  did  not  know  the  term,  and  Lottie  scowled  at  my  stupidity.     " b"&quot;Steal,  for  crying  in  the  beer!&quot;  she  said  impatiently.  This  she  said  so  loudly  that  Muff  jumped  down  from  the  man-  tel  and  left  the  room  in  contempt.  I  was  thrilled  to  death  and  shocked  to  pieces.  Stealing  is  a  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;You  get  put  in  jail  for  it.&quot;  &quot;Ish  ka  bibble!  I  should  worry  if  it's  a  sin  or  not,&quot;  said  Lottie,  with  a  shrug.  &quot;And  they'll  never  put  a  smart  old  whatsis  like  me  in  jail.  It's  fun,  stealing  is-it's  a  picnic.  I'll  teach  you  if  you  want  to  learn,  kid.&quot;  Shame-  lessly  she  winked  at  me  and  grinned  again.  (That  grin!  She  could  have  taken  it  off  her  face  and  put  it  on  the  table.)  And  she  added,  &quot;If  you  don't,  we  can't  be  pals,  because  lifting  is  the  onlykind  of  playing  I  like.  I  hate  those  dumb  games  like  Statues.  Kick-the-  Can-phooey!&quot;  I  was  torn  between  agitation  (I  went  to  Sunday  school  and  knew  al-  ready  about  morality;  Judge  Bay,  a  crabby  old  man  who  loved  to  punish  sinners,  was  a  friend  of  my  father's  and  once  had  given  Jack  a  lecture  on  the  criminal  mind  when  he  came  to  call  and  found  Jack  looking  up  an  answer  in  his  arithmetic  book)  and  excitement  over  the  daring  invitation  to  misconduct  my-  self  in  so  perilous  a  way.  My  life,  on  re-  flection,  looked  deadly  prim;  all  'd  ever  done  to  vary  the  monotony  of  it  was  to  swear.  I  knew  that  Lottie  Jump  meant  what  she  said-that  I  could  have  her  friendship  only  on  her  terms  (plain-  ly,  she  had  gone  it  alone  for  a  long  time  and  could  go  it  alone  for  the  rest  of  her  life)-and  although  I  trembled  like  an  aspen  and  my  heart  went  pitapat,  I  said,  &quot;I  want  to  be  pals  with  you,  Lottie.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  Vanderpool,&quot;  said  Lottie,  and  got  off  the  window  seat.  &quot;I  wouldn't  go  braggin'  about  it  if  I  was  you.  I  wouldn't  go  telling  my  ma  and  pa  and  the  next-door  neighbor  that  you  and  Lottie  Jump  are  going  down  to  the  five-and-dime  next  Saturday  aft  and  lift  us  some  nice  rings  and  garters  and  things  like  that.  I  mean  it,  kid.&quot;  And  she  drew  the  back  of  her  forefinger  across  her  throat  and  made  a  dire  face.  &quot;I  won't.  I  promise  I  won't.  My  gosh,  why  would  I?&quot;  &quot;That's  the  ticket,&quot;  said  Lottie,  with  a  grin.  &quot;I'll  meet  you  at  the  trolley  shelter  at  two  o'clock.  You  have  the  money.  For  both  down  and  up.  I  ain't  going  to  climb  up  that  ornery  hill  after  I've  had  my  fun.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Lottie,&quot;  I  said.  Where  was  I  going  to  get  twenty  cents?  I  was  going  to  have  to  start  stealing  before  she  even  taught  me  how.  Lottie  was  facing  the  center  of  the  room,  but  she  had  eyes  in  the  back  of  her  head,  and  she  whirled  around  back  to  the  window;  my  mother  and  Tess  were  turning  in  our  front  path.  &quot;Back  way,&quot;  I  whispered,  and  in  a  moment  Lottie  was  gone;  the  swinging  door  that  usually  squeaked  did  not  make  a  sound  as  she  vanished  through  it.  I  listened  and  I  never  heard  the  back  door  open  and  close.  Nor  did  I  hear  her,  in  a  split  second,  lift  the  glass  cover  and  remove  that  cakedesigned  to  feed  six  people.  WAS  restless  and  snappish  between  Wednesday  afternoon  and  Satur-  day.  When  Mother  found  the  cake  was  gone,  she  scolded  me  for  not  keeping  my  ears  cocked.  She  assumed,  naturally,  that  a  tramp  had  taken  it,  for  she  knew  I  hadn't  eaten  it;  I  never  ate  anything  if  I  could  help  it  (except  for  raw  pota-  toes,  which  I  loved)  and  had  been  known  as  a  problem  feeder  from  the  beginning  of  my  life.  At  first  it  oc-  curred  to  me  to  have  a  tantrum  and  bring  her  around  to  my  point  of  view:  my  tantrums  scared  the  living  daylights  out  of  her  because  my  veins  stood  out  and  I  turned  blue  and  couldn't  get  my  breath.  But  I  rejected  this  for  a  more  sensible  plan.  I  said,  &quot;It  just  so  happens  I  didn't  hear  anything.  But  if  I  had,  I  suppose  you  wish  I  had  gone  out  in  the  kitchen  and  let  the  robber  cut  me  up  into  a  million  little  tiny  pieces  with  his  sword.  You  wouldn't  even  bury  me.  You'd  just  put  me  on  the  dump.  Z  know  who's  wanted  in  this  family  and  who  isn't.&quot;  Tears  of  sor-  row,  not  of  anger,  came  in  powerful  tides  and  I  groped  blindly  to  the  bed-  room  I  shared  with  Stella,  where  Ilay  on  my  bed  and  shook  with  big,  silent  weltschmerzlich  sobs.  Mother  followed  me  immediately,  and  so  did  Tess,  and  both  of  them  comforted  me  and  told  me  how  much  they  loved  me.  I  said  they  didn't;  they  said  they  did.  Pres-  ently,  I  got  a  headache,  as  I  always  did  when  I  cried,  so  I  got  to  have  an  aspirin  and  a  cold  cloth  on  my  head,  and  when  Jack  and  Stella  came  home,  they  had  to  be  quiet.  I  heard  Jack  say,  &quot;Emily  Vanderpool  is  the  biggest  polecat  in  the  [REDACTED]  Whyn't  she  go  in  the  kitchen  and  say,  'Hands  up':  He  woulda  lit  out.&quot;  And  Mother  said,  &quot;Sh-h-h!  You  don't  want  your  sister  to  be  sick,  do  you?&quot;  Muff,  not  realizing  that  Lottie  had  replaced  her,  came  in  and  curled  up  at  my  thigh,  purring  lustily;  I  found  myself  glad  that  she  had  left " b"the  room  before  Lottie  Jump  made  her  proposition  to  me,and  in  gratitude  I  stroked  her  unattractive  head.  Other  things  happened.  Mother  dis-  covered  the  loss  of  her  perfume  flask  and  talked  about  nothing  else  at  meals  for  two  whole  days.  Luckily,  it  did  not  occur  to  her  that  it  had  been  stolen-she  simply  thought  she  had  mislaid  it-but  her  monomania  got  on  my  father's  nerves  and  he  lashed  out  at  her  and  at  the  rest  of  us.  And  because  I  was  the  cause  of  it  all  and  my  conscience  was  after  me  with  red-hot  pokers,  I  finally  had  to  have  a  tantrum.  I  slammed  my  fork  down  in  the  middle  of  supper  on  the  second  day  and  yelled,  &quot;If  you  don't  stop  fighting,  I'm  going  to  kill  myself.  Yammer,  yammer,  nag,  nag!&quot;  And  I  put  my  fingers  in  my  ears  and  squeezed  my  eyes  tight  shut  and  screamed  so  the  whole  county  could  hear,  &quot;Shut  up!&quot;  And  then  I  lost  my  breath  and  began  to  turn  blue.  Daddy  hastily  apologized  to  everyone,  and  Mother  said  she  was  sorry  for  carrying  on  so  about  a  trinket  that  had  nothing  but  sentimental  value-she  was  just  vexed  with  herself  for  being  careless,  that  was  all,  and  she  wasn't  going  to  say  another  word  about  it.  I  neverheard  so  many  references  to  stealing  and  cake,  and  even  to  Okla-  homa  (ordinarily  no  one  mentioned  [REDACTED]  once  in  a  month  of  Sundays)  and  the  ten-cent  store  as  I  did  through-  out  those  next  days.  I  myself  once  made  a  ghastly  slip  and  said  some-  thing  toStella  about  &quot;the  five-and-  dime.&quot;  &quot;The  five-and-dime!&quot;  she  ex-  claimed.  &quot;Where'd  you  get  thet  kind  of  talk?  Do  youby  any  chance  have  ref-  erence  to  the  tem-cent  store?&quot;  The  worst  of  all  was  Friday  night-  the  very  night  before  I  was  to  meet  Lottie  Jump-when  Judge  Bay  came  to  play  two-handed  pinochle  with  Dad-  dy.  The  Judge,  a  giant  in  intimidating  haberdashery-for  some  reason,  the  white  piping  on  his  vest  bespoke,  for  me,  handcuffs  and  prison  bars-and  with  an  aura  of  disapproval  for  almost  every-  thing  on  earth  except  what  pertained  directly  to  himself,  was  telling  Daddy,  before  they  began  their  game,  about  the  infamous  vandalism  that  had  been  go-  ing  on  among  the  college  students.  &quot;I  have  reason  to  believe  that  thereare  girls  in  this  gang  as  well  as  boys,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They  ransack  vacant  houses  and  take  everything.  In  one  house  on  Pleasant  Street,  up  there  by  the  Catholic  Church,  there  wasn't  anything  to  take,  so  theytook  the  kitchen  sink.  Wasn't  a  question  of  taking  everything  but-  they  took  the  kitchen  sink.&quot; &quot;What  ever  would  they  want  with  a  kitchen  sink?&quot;  asked  my  mother.  &quot;Mischief,&quot;  replied  the  Judge.  &quot;If  we  ever  catch  them  and  if  they  come  within  my  jurisdiction,  I  can  tell  you  I  will  give  them  no  quarter.  A  thief,  in  my  opinion,  is  the  lowest  ofthe  low.&quot;  Mother  told  about  the  chocolate  cake.  By  now,  the  fiction  was  so  factual  in  my  mind  that  eachtime  I  thought  of  it  I  saw  a  funny-paper  bum  in  baggy  pants  held  up  by  rope,  a  hat  with  holes  through  which  tufts  of  hair  stuckup,  shoes  from  which  his  toes  protruded,  a  disreputable  stubble  on  his  face;  he  came  up  beneath  the  open  window  where  the  devil's  food  was  cooling  and  he  stole  it  and  hotfooted  it  for  the  woods,  where  his  companion  was  frying  a  small  fish  in  a  beat-up  skillet.  It  never  crossed  my  mind  any  longer  thatLottie  Jump  had  hooked  that  delicious  cake.  Judge  Bay  was  properly  impressed.  &quot;If  you  will  steal  a  chocolate  cake,  if  you  will  steal  a  kitchen  sink,  you  will  steal  diamonds  and  money.  The  small  child  who  pilfers  a  penny  from  his  mother's  pocketbook  has  started  down  a  path  that  may  lead  him  to  holding  up  a  bank.&quot;  It  was  a  good  thing  I  had  no  home-  work  thatnight,  for  I  could  not  possibly  have  concentrated.  We  were  all  sent  to  our  rooms,  because  the  pinochle  players  had  to  have  absolute  quiet.  I  spent  the  evening  doing  cross-  stitch.  I  was  making  a  bureau  runner  for  a  Christmas  present;  as  in  the  case of  the  Christmas  card,  I  had  no  one  to  give  it  to,  but  now  I  decided  to  give  it  to  Lottie  Jump's  mother.  Stella  was  reading  &quot;Black  Beauty,&quot;  crying.  It  was  an  interminable  evening.  Stella  went  to  bed  first;  I  saw  to  that,  because  I  didn't  want  her  lying  there  awake  listening  to  me  talking  in  my  sleep.  Be-  sides,  I  didn't  want  her  to  see  me  tear-  ing  open  the  cardboard  box-the  one  in  the  shape  ofa  church,  which  held  my  Christmas  Sunday-school  offering.  Over  the  door  of  the  church  was  this  shaming  legend:  &quot;My  mite  for  the  poor  widow.&quot;  When  Stella  had  begun  to  grind  her  teeth  in  her  first  deep  sleep,  I  took  twenty  cents  away  from  the  poor  widow,  whoever  she  was  (the  owner  of  the  kitchen  sink,  no  doubt),  for  the  trolley  fare,  and  secreted  it  and  the  re-  maining  three  pennies  in  the  pocket  of  my  middy.  I  wrapped  the  money  well  in  a  handkerchief  and  buttoned  the  pocket  and  hung  my  skirt  over  the  middy.  And  then  I  tore  the  paper  church  into  bits-the  heavens  opened  and  Judge  Bay  came  toward  me  with  a  double-barrelled  shotgun-and  hid  the  bits  under  a  pile  of  pajamas.  I  did  not  sleep  one  wink.  Except  that  I  must  have,  because  of  the  stupendous  night-  mares  that  kept  wrenching  the  flesh  off  my  skeleton  and  caused  me  to  come  close  to  perishing  of  thirst;  once  I  fell  out  of  bed  and  hit  my  head  on  Stella's  ice  skates.  I  would  have  waked  her  up  and  given  her  a  piece  of  my  mind  for  leaving  them  in  such  a  lousy  place,  but  then  I  remembered:  I  wanted  #o  com-  motion  of  any  kind.  I  couldn't  eat  breakfast  and  I  couldn't  eat  lunch.  Old  Johnny-on-  the-spot  Jack  kept  saying,  &quot;Poor  Pole-  cat.  Polecat  wants  her  fish  for  dinner.&quot;  Mother  made  an  abortive  attempt  to  take  my  temperature.  And  when  all  " b"that  hullabaloo  subsid-  ed,  I  was  nearly  in  the  soup  because  Mother  asked  me  to  mind  Tess  while  she  went  to  the  sanitarium  to  see  Mrs.  Rogers,  who,  all  of  a  sudden,  was  too  sick  to  have  anyone  but  grownups  near  her.  Stella  couldn't  stay  with  the  baby,  because  she  had  to  go  to  ballet,  and  Jack  couldn't,  be-  cause  he  had  to  go  up  to  the  mesa  and  empty  his  traps.  (&quot;No,  they  can't  wait.  You  want  my  skins  to  rot  in  this  hot-one-day-cold-the-  next  weather?&quot;)  I  was  arguing  and  whining  when  the  telephone  rang.  Mother  went  to  answer  it  and  came  back  with  a  look  of  great  sadness;  Mrs.  Rogers,  she  hadlearned,  had  had  another  hem-  orrhage.  So  Mother  would  not  be  going  to  the  sanitarium  after  all  and  I  needn't  stay  with  Tess.  By  the  time  I  left  the  house,  I  was  as  cross  as  a  bear.  I  felt  aw-  ful  about  the  widow's  mite  and  I  felt  awful  for  being  mean  about  staying  with  Tess,  for  Mrs.  Rogers  was  a  kind  old  lady,  in  a  cozy  blue  hug-me-tight  and  an  old-fangled  boudoir  cap,  dying  here  all  alone;  she  was  a  friend  of  Grandma's  and  had  lived  just  down  the  street  from  her  in  [REDACTED],  and  all  in  the  world  Mrs.  Rogers  wanted  to  do  was  go  back  home  and  lie  down  in  her  own  big  bed-  room  in  her  own  big,  high-ceilinged  house  and  have  Grandma  and  other  members  of  the  Eastern  Star  come  in  from  time  to  time  to  say  hello.  But  they  wouldn't  let  her  go  home;  they  were  going  to  kill  or  cure  her.  I  could  not  help  feeling  that  my  hardness  of  heart  and  evil  of  intention  had  had  a  good  deal  to  do  with  her  new  crisis;  right  at  the  very  same  minute  I  had  been  saying  &quot;Does  that  old  Mrs.  Methuselah  elweys  have  to  spoil  my  fun?&quot;  the  poor  wasted  thing  was  probably  coughing  up  her  blood  and  saying  to  the  nurse,  &quot;Tell  Emily  Vanderpool  not  to  mind  me,  she  can  run  and  play.&quot;  HAD  a  bad  character,I  know  that,  but  my  badness  never  gave  me  half  the  enjoyment  Jack  and  Stella  thought  it  did.  A  good  dealof  the  time  I  want-  ed  to  eat  lye.  I  was  certainly  having  no  fun  now,  thinking  of  Mrs.  Rogers  and  of  depriving  that  poor  widow  of  bread  and  milk;  what  if  this  penniless  woman  without  a  husband  had  a  dog  to  feed,  too?  Or  a  baby?  And  besides,  I  didn't  want  to  go  downtown  to  steal  anything  from  the  ten-cent  store;  I  didn't  want  to  see  Lottie  Jump  again-not  really,  for  I  knew  in  my  bones  thatthat  girl  was  trouble  with  a  capital  &quot;T.&quot;  And  still,  in  our  short  meet-  ing,  she  had  mesmerized  me;  I  would  think  about  her  style  of  talking  and  the  expert  way  she  had  made  off  with  the  perfume  flask  and  the  cake  (how  had  she  carried  the  cake  through  the  streets  without  being  noticed?  )  and  be  bowled  over,  for  the  part  of  me  that  did  not  love  God  was  a  black-hearted  villain.  And  apart  from  these  consid-  erations,  I  had  some  sort  of  ideathat  if  I  did  not  keep  my  appointment  with  Lottie  Jump,  she  would  somehow  get  revenge;  she  had  seemed  a  girl  of  pur-  pose.  So,  revolted  and  fascinated,  brave  and  lily-livered,  I  plodded  along  through  the  snow  in  my  flopping  galoshes  up  toward  the  Chautauqua,  where  the  trolley  stop  was.  On  my  way,  I  passed  Virgil  Meade's  house;  there  was  not  just  a  snowman,  there  was  a  whole  snow  family  in  the  back  yard,  and  Virgil  himself  was  throwing  a  stick  for  his  dog.  I  was  delighted  to  see  that  he  was  alone.  Lottie,  who  was  sitting  on  a  bench  in  the  shelter  eating  a  Mr.  Goodbar,  looked  the  same  as  she  had  the  other  time  except  that  she  was  wearing  an  amazing  hat.  I  think  I  had  expected  her  to  have  a  black  handkerchief  over  the  lower  partof  her  face  or  to  be  wear-  inga  Jesse  James  waistcoat.  But  I  had  never  thought  of  a  hat.  It  was  felt;  it  was  the  color  of  cooked  meat;  it  had  some  flowers  appliqu\xc3\xa9d  on  the  front  of  it;it  had  no  brim,  but  rose  straight  up  to  a  very  considerable  height,  like  a  monument.  Itsat  so  low  on  her  fore-  head  and  it  was  so  tight  that  it  looked,  in  a  way,  like  part  of  her.  &quot;How's  every  little  thing,  bub?&quot;  she  said,  licking  her  candy  wrapper.  &quot;Fine,  Lottie,&quot;  I  said,  freshly  awed.  A  silence  fell.  I  drank  some  water  from  the  drinking  fountain,  sat  down,  fastened  my  galoshes,  and  unfastened  them  again.  &quot;My  mother's  teeth  grow  wrong  way  to,&quot;  said  Lottie,  and  showed  me  " b"what  she  meant:  the  lower  teeth  were  in  front  of  the  upper  ones.  &quot;'That  so-called  trolley  car  takes  its  own  sweet  time.  This  town  is  blah.&quot;  To  save  the  honor  of  my  home  town,  the  trolley  came  scraping  and  groaning  up  the  hill  just  then,  its  bell  clanging  with  an  idiotic  frenzy,  and  ground  to  a  stop.  Its  broad,  proud  cowcatcher  was  filled  with  dirty  snow,  in  the  middle  of  which  rested  a  tomato  can,  put  there,  probably,  by  somebody  who  was  bored  to  death  and  couldn't  think  of  anything  else  to  do-I  dida  lot  of  pointless  things  like  that  on  lone-  some  Saturday  after-  noons.  It  was  the  cus-  tom  of  this  trolley  car,  a  rather  mysterious  one,  to  pause  at  the  shelter  for  five  minutes  while  the  conductor,  who  was  either  Mr.  Jansen  or  Mr.  Peck,  depending  on  whether  it  was  the  a.M.  run  or  the  [REDACTED],  got  out  and  stretched  and  smoked  and  spit,.  Sometimes  the  passengers  got  out,  too,  acting  like  sight-  seers  whose  destination  was  this  sturdy  stucco  gazebo  instead  of,  as  it  really  was,  the  Piggly  Wiggly  or  the  Nelson  Dry.  You  expected  them  to  take  snapshots  of  the  drinking  fountain  or  of  the  Chautauqua  meeting  house  up  on  the  hill.  And  when  they  all  got  back  in  the  car,  you  expected  them  to  exchange  intelligent  observations  on  the  aborigines  and  the  ruins  they  had  seen.  Today  there  wereno  passengers,  and  as  soon  as  Mr.  Peck  got  out  and  began  staring  at  the  mountains  as  if  he  had  never  seen  them  before  while  he  made  himself  a  cigarette,  Lottie,  in  her  tall  hat  (was  it  something  like  the  In-  spector's  hat  in  the  Katzenjammer  Kids?  ),  got  into  the  car,  motioning  me  to  follow.  I  put  our  nickels  in  the  empty  box  and  joined  her  on  the  very  last  dou-  ble  seat.  It  was  only  then  that  she  mapped  out  the  plan  for  the  afternoon,   in  a  low  but  still  insouciant  voice.  The  hat-she  did  not  apologize  for  it,  she  simply  referred  to  it  as  &quot;my  hat&quot;-was  to  be  the  repository  of  whatever  we  stole.  In  the  future,  it  would  be  advis-  able  for  me  to  have  one  like  it.  (How?  Surely  it  was  unique.  The  flowers,  I  saw  on  closer  examination,  were  tulips,  but  they  were  blue,  and  a  very  unset-  tling  shade  of  blue.)  I  was  to  engage  a  clerk  on  one  side  of  the  counter,  asking  her  the  price  of,  let's  say,  a  tube  of  Dag-  gett  &amp;  Ramsdell  vanishing  cream,  while  Lottie  would  lift  a  round  comb  or  a  barrette  or  a  hair  net  or  whatever  on  the  other  side.  Then,  at  a  signal,  I  would  decide  against  the  vanishing  cream  and  would  move  on  to  the  next  counter  that  she  indicated.  The  signal  was  interesting;  it  was  to  be  the  raising  of  her  hat  from  the  rear-'&quot;like  I've  got  the  itch  and  gotta  scratch,&quot;  she  said.  I  was  relieved  that  I  was  to  have  no  part  in  the  actual  stealing,  and  I  was  touched  that  Lottie,  who  was  going  to  do  all  the  work,  said  we  would  &quot;go  halvers&quot;  on  the  take.  She  asked  me  if  there  was  any-  thing  in  particular  I  wanted-she  her-  self  had  nothing  special  in  mind  and  was  going  to  shop  around  first-and  I  said  I  would  like  some  rubber  gloves.  This  request  was  entirely  spontaneous;  I  had  never  before  in  my  life  thought  of  rubber  gloves  in  one  way  or  an-  other,  buta  psychologist-or  Judge  Bay-might  have  said  that  this  was  most  significant  and  that  I  was  planning  at  that  moment  to  go  on  from  petty  " b"larceny  to  bigger  game,  armed  with  a  weapon  on  which  I  wished  to  leave  no  fingerprints.  On  the  way  downtown,  quite  a  few  people  got  on  the  trolley,  and  they  all  gave  us  such  peculiar  looks  that  I  was  chickenhearted  until  I  realized  it  must  be  Lottie's  hatthey  were  looking  at.  No  wonder.  I  kept  looking  at  it  myself  out  of  the  corner  of  my  eye;  it  was  like  a  water-  melon  standing  on  end.  No,  it  was  like  a  tremendous  test  tube.  On  this  trip-  a  slow  one,  for  the  trolley  pottered  through  that  part  of  town  in  a  desultory,  neighborly  way,  even  going  into  areas  where  no  one  lived-Lottie  told  me  some  of  the  things  she  had  stolen  in  Muskogee  and  here  in  Adams.  They  in-  cluded  a  white  satin  prayer  book  (think  of  it!  ),  Mr.  Goodbars  by  the  thousands  ((she  had  probably  never  paid  for  a  Mr.  Goodbar  in  her  life),  a  dinner  ring  valued  at  two  dollars,  a  strawberry  emery,  several  cans  of  corn,  some  shoe-  laces,  a  set  of  poker  chips,  countless  pen-  cils,  four  spark  plugs  (&quot;Pa  had  this  old  car,  see,  and  it  was  broke,  so  we  took  'er  to  get  fixed;  I'll  build  me  aradio  with  'em  sometime-you  know?  Listen  in  on  them  ear  muffs  to  Tulsa?&quot;),  a  Boy  Scout  knife,  and  a  Girl  Scout  folding  cup.  She  made  a  regular  practice  of  go-  ing  through  the  pockets  of  the  coats  in  the  cloakroom  every  day  at  recess,  but  she  had  never  found  anything  there  worth  a  red  cent  and  was  about  to  give  that  up.  Once,  she  had  taken  a  gold  pen-  cil  from  a  teacher's  desk  and  had  got  caught-she  was  sure  that  this  was  one  of  the  reasons  she  was  only  in  the  third  grade.  Of  this  unjust  experience,  she  said,  &quot;The  old  hoot  owl!  If  I  was  drivin'  in  a  car  on  a  lonesome  stretch  and  she  was  set-  tin'  beside  me,  I'd  wait  till  we  got  to  a  pile  of  gravel  and  then  I'd  stop  and  say,  'Git  out,  Miss  Priss&quot;  She'd  git  out,  all  right.&quot;  Since  Lottie  was  so  frank,  I  was  embold-  ened  at  last  to  ask  her  what  she  had  done  with  the  cake.  She  faced  me  with  her  grin;  this  grin,  in  combination  with  the  hat,  gave  me  a  surprise  from  which  I  have  never  recovered.  &quot;I  ate  it  up,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  went  in  your  garage  and  sat  on  your  daddy's  old  tires  and  ate  it.  It  was  pretty  good.&quot;     HERE  were  two  ten-cent  stores  side  by  side  in  our  town,  Kresge's  and  Wool-  worth's,  and  as  we  walked  down  the  main  street  toward  them,  Lottie  played  with  a  Yo-yo.  Since  the  street  was  thronged  with  Christmas  shoppers  and  farmers  in  for  Satur-  day,  this  was  no  ordi-  nary  accomplishment;  all  in  all,  Lottie  Jump  was  someone  to  be  reckoned  with.  I  cannot  say  that  I  was  proud  to  be  seen  with  her;  the  fact  is  that  I  hoped  I  would  not  meet  anyone  I  knew,  and  I  thanked  my  lucky  stars  that  Jack  was  up  in  the  hills  with  his  dead  skunks,  because  if  he  had  seen  her  with  that  lid  and  that  Yo-yo,  I  would  never  have  heard  the  last  of  it.  But  in  another  way  I  was  proud  to  be  with  her;  in  a  smaller  hemisphere,  in  one  that  included  only  her  andme,  I  was  swaggering-I  felt  like  Somebody,  marching  along  be-  side  this  lofty  Somebody  from  Okla-  homa  who  was  going  to  hold  up  the  dime  store.  There  is  nothing  like  Woolworth's  at  Christmastime.  It  smells  of  peanut  brit-  tle  and  terrible  chocolate  candy,  Djer-  Kiss  talcum  powder  and  Ben  Hur  per-  " b"fume-smells  sourly  of  tinsel  and  waxily  of  artificial  poinsettias.  'The  crowds  are  made  up  largely  of  children  and  women,  with  here  and  there  a  de-  liberative  old  man;  the  women  are  buy-  ing  ribbons  and  wrappings  and  Christ-  mas  cards,  and  the  children  are  buying  asbestos  pot  holders  for  their  mothers  and,  for  their  fathers,  su\xc3\xa9de  bookmarks  with  a  burnt-in  design  that  says  &quot;A  good  book  is  a  good  friend&quot;  or  &quot;Sou-  venir  from  the  Garden  of  the  Gods.&quot;  It  is  very  noisy.  The  salesgirls  are  for-  ever  ringing  their  bells  and  asking  the  floorwalker  to  bring  them  change  for  a  five;  babies  in  gocarts  are  screaming  as  parcels  fall  on  their  heads;  the  women,  waving  rolls  of  red  tissue  paper,  try  to  attract  the  attention  ofthe  har-  ried  girl  behind  the  counter.  (&quot;Miss!  All  I  want  is  this  one  batch  ofthe  red.  Can't  I  just  give  you  the  dime?&quot;  And  the  girl,  beside  herself,  mottled  with  vexation,  cries  back,  &quot;Has  to  be  rung  up,  Moddom,  that's  the  rule.&quot;)  There  is  pandemonium  at  the  toy  counter,  where  things  are  being  tested  by  the  custom-  ers-wound  up,  set  off,  tooted,  pound-  ed,  made  to  say  &quot;Maaaah-Maaaah!&quot;  There  is  very  little  gaiety  in  the  scene  and,  in  fact,  those  baffled  old  men  look  as  if  they  were  walking  over  their  own  dead  bodies,  but  there  is  an  atmosphere  of  carnival,  nevertheless,  and  as  soon  as  Lottie  and  I  entered  the  doors  of  W  ool-  worth's  golden-and-vermilion  bedlam,  I  grew  giddy  and  hot-not  pleasantly  so.  The  feeling,  indeed,  was  distinctly  disagreeable,  like  the  begin-  ning  of  a  stomach  upset.  Lottie  gave  me  a  nudge  and  said  softly,  &quot;Go  look  at  the  envelopes.  I  want  some  rubber  bands.&quot;  This  counter  was  relative,  ly  uncrowded  (the  seasonal  stationery  supplies-the  Christmas  cards  and  wrapping  paper  and  stick-  ers-were  at  a  separate  counter),  and  I  went  around  to  examine  some  very  beautiful  letter  paper;  it  was  pale  pink  and  it  had  a  border  of  roses  all  around  it.  The  clerk  here  was  a  cheer-  ful  middle-aged  woman  wearing  an  apron,  and  she  was  giving  all  her  at-  tention  to  a  seedy  old  manwho  could  not  make  up  his  mind  between  mu-  cilage  and  paste.  &quot;'Take  your  time,  Dad,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Compared  to  the  rest  of  the  girls,  I'm  on  my  vacation.&quot;  The  old  man,  holding  a  tube  in  one  hand  and  a  bottle  in  the  other,  looked  at  her  vaguely  and  said,  &quot;I  want  it  for  stamps.  Sometimes  I  write  a  letter  and  stamp  it  and  then  don't  mail  it  and  steam  the  stamp  off.  Must  have  ninety     cents'  worth  of  stamps  like  that.&quot;  The  woman  laughed.  &quot;I  know  what  you  mean,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  get  mad  and  write  a  letter  and  then  I  tear  it  up.&quot;  'The  old  man  gave  her  a  condescending  look  and  said,  &quot;That  so?  But  I  don't  sup-  pose  yours  areof  a  political  nature.&quot;  He  bent  his  gaze  again  to  thechoice  of  adhesives.  This  first  undertaking  was  duck  soup  for  Lottie.  Idid  not  even  have  to  ex-  change  a  word  with  the  woman;  I  saw  Miss  Fagin  lift  up  that  hat  and  give  me  the  high  sign,  and  we  moved  away,  she  down  one  aisle  and  I  down  the  other,  now  and  again  catching  aglimpse  of  each  other  through  the  throngs.  We  met  at  the  foot  of  the  second  counter,  where  notions  were  sold.  &quot;Fun,  huh?&quot;  said  Lottie,  and  I  nodded,  although  I  felt  wholly  dreary.  &quot;I  want  some  crochet  hooks,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Price  therickrack.&quot;  This  time  the  clerk  was  adding  up  her  receipts  and  did  not  even  look  at  me  or  at  a  woman  who  was  angrily  and  in  vain  trying  to  buy  a  paper  of  pins.  Out  went  Lottie's  scrawny  hand,  up  went  her  domed  chimney.  In  this  way  for  some  time  she  bagged  sitting  birds:  a  tea  strainer  (there  was  no  one  at  all  at  that  counter  ),  a  box  of  Mrs.  Carpenter's  All  Purpose  Nails,  the  rubber  gloves  I  had  said  I  wanted,  and  four  packages  of  mixed  seeds.  Now  you  have  some  idea  of  the  size  of  Lottie  Jump's  hat.  I  was  nervous,  not  from  being  her  accomplice  but  from  being  in  this  crowd  on  an  empty  stomach,  and  I  was  getting  tired-we  had  been  in  the  store  for  at  least  an  hour-and  the  whole  en-  terprise  seemed  pointless.  There  wasn't  a  thing  in  her  hat  I  wanted-not  even  the  rubber  gloves.  But  in  exact  proportion  as  my  spirits  descended,  Lot-  tie's  rose;  clearly  she  had  only  been  target-practicing  and  now  she  was  mov-  ing  in  for  the  kill.  We  met  beside  the  books  of  paper  dolls,  for  reconnaissance.  &quot;I'm  gonna  get  me  a  pair  of  pearl  beads,&quot;  said  Lot-  tie.  &quot;You  go  fuss  with  the  hairpins,  hear?&quot;  Luck,  combined  with  her  skill,  would  have  stayed  with  Lottie,  and  her  hat  would  have  been  a  cornucopia  by  the  end  ofthe  afternoon  if,  at  the  very  mo-  ment  her  hand  went  out  forthe  string  of  beads,  that  idiosyncrasy  of  mine  had  not  struck  me  full  force.  I  had  never  known  it  to  come  with  so  few  prelimi-  naries;  probably  this  was  so  because  I  was  oppressed  by  all  the  masses  of  bodies  poking  and  pushing  me,  and  all  the  open  mouths  breathing  in  my  face.  Anyhow,  right  then,  at  the  crucial  time,  I  hed  to  be  alone.  I  stood  staring  down  at  the  bone  hairpins  for  a  moment,  and  when  the  girl  behind  the  counter  said,  &quot;What  kind  does  Mother  want,  hon?  What  color  is  Mother's  hair?,&quot;  I  looked  past  her  and  across  at  Lottie  and  I  said,  &quot;Your  brother  isn't  the  only  one  in  your  fam-  ily  that  doesn't  have  any  brains.&quot;  The  clerk,  astonished,  turned  to  look  where  I  was  looking  and  caught  Lottie  in  the  act  of  lifting  up  her  hat  to  put  the  pearls  inside.  She  had  unwisely  chosen  a  long  strand  and  was  having  a  little  trouble;  I  had  the  nasty  thought  that  it  looked  as  if  her  brains  were  leaking  out.  The  clerk,  not  able  to  deal  with  this  emergency  herself,  frantically  punched  her  bell  and  cried,  &quot;Floorwalker!  Mr.  Bellamy!  I've  caught  a  thief!&quot;  Momentarily  there  was  a  violent  hush-then  such  a  clamor  as  you  have  never  heard.  Bells  rang,  babies  howled,  crockery  crashed  to  the  floor  as  people  stumbled  in  their  rush  to  the  arena.  Mr.  Bellamy,  nineteen  years  old  but  broad  of  shoulder  and  jaw,  was  instant  ly  standing  beside  Lottie,  holding  her  arm  with  one  hand  while  with  the  other  he  removed  her  hat  to  reveal  to  the  overjoyed  audience  that  incredible  array  of  merchandise.  Her  hair  all  wild,  her  face  a  mask  of  innocent  bewilderment,  Lottie  Jump,  the  scurvy  thing,  pretend-  ed  to  be  deaf  and  dumb.  She  pointed  at  the  rubber  gloves  and  then  she  pointed  at  me,  and  Mr.  Bellamy,  able  at  last  to  prove  his  mettle,  said  &quot;Aha!&quot;  and,  still  holding  Lottie,  moved  around  the  counter  to  me  and  grabbed  my  arm.  He  gave  the  hat  to  the  clerk  and  asked  her  kindly  to  accompany  him  and  his  redhanded  catch  to  the  manager's  office.  DON'T  know  where  Lottie  is  now-whether  she  is  on  the  stage  or  in  jail.  If  her  performance  after  our  arrest  meant  anything,  the  first  is  quite  as  likely  as  the  second.  (I  never  saw  her  again,  and  for  all  I  know  she  lit  out  of  town  that  night  on  a  freight  train.  Or  perhaps  her  whole  family  decamped  as  suddenly  as  they  had  arrived;  ours  was  a  most  transient  population.  You  can  be  sure  I  made  no  attempt  to  find  her  again,  and  for  months  I  avoided  going  anywhere  near  Arapahoe  [REDACTED]  or  North  Hill.)  She  never  said  a  word  but  kept  making  signs  with  her  fingers,  ad-  libbing  the  whole  thing.  They  tested  her  hearing  by  shooting  off  a  popgun  " b"right  in  her  ear  and  she  never  batted  an  eyelid.  They  called  up  my  father,  and  he  came  over  from  the  Safeway  on  the  double.  I  heard  very  little  of  what  he  said  because  I  was  crying  so  hard,  but  one  thing  I  did  hear  him  say  was  &quot;Well,  young  lady,  I  guess  you've  seen  to  it  that  I'll  have  to  part  company  with  my  good  friend  Judge  Bay.&quot;  I  tried  to  defend  myself,  but  it  was  useless.  The  manager,  Mr.  Bellamy,  the  clerk,  and  my  father  patted  Lottie  on  the  shoulder,  and  the  clerk  said,  &quot;Poor,  afflicted  child.&quot;  For  being  a  poor,  afflicted  child,  they  gave  her  a  bag  of  hard  candy,  and  she  gave  them  the  most  fraudulent  smile  of  gratitude,  and  slobbered  a  little,  and  shuffled  out,  holding  her  empty  hat  in  front  of  her  like  a  beggar-man.  I  hate  Lottie  Jump  to  this  day,  but  I  have  to  hand  it  to  her-she  was  a  genius.  The  floorwalker  would  have  liked  to  see  me  sentenced  to  the  reform  school  for  life,  I  am  sure,  but  the  manager  said  that  considering  this  was  my  first  of-  fense,  he  would  let  my  father  attend  to  my  punishment.  The  old-maid  clerk,  who  looked  precisely  like  Emmy  Schmalz,  clucked  her  tongue  and  shook  her  head  at  me.  My  father  hustled  me  out  of  the  office  and  out  of  the  store  and  into  the  car  and  home,  muttering  the  entire  time;  now  and  again  I'd  hear  the  words  &quot;morals&quot;  and  &quot;nowadays.&quot;  What's  theuseof  telling  the  rest?  You  know  what  happened.  Daddy  on  second  thoughts  decided  not  to  hang  his  head  in  front  of  Judge  Bay  but  to  make  use  of  his  friendship  in  this  time  of  need,  and  he  took  me  to  see  thescary  old  cur-  mudgeon  at  his  house.  All  I  remember  of  that  long  declamation,  during  which  the  Judge  sat  behind  his  desk  never  taking  his  eyes  off  me,  was  the  warn-  ing  &quot;I  want  you  to  give  this  a  great  deal  of  thought,  [REDACTED]  I  want  you  to  search  and  seek  in  the  innermost  corners  of  your  conscience  and  root  out  every  bit  of  badness.&quot;  Oh,  Air!  Why,  listen,  if  I'd  rootedout  all  the  badness  in  me,  there  wouldn'thave  been  anything  left  of  me.  My  mother  cried  for  days  be-  cause  she  had  nurturedan  outlaw  and  was  ashamed  to  show  her  face  at  the  neighborhood  store;  my  father  was  silent,  and  he  often  looked  at  me.  Stella,  who  was  a  prig,  said,  &quot;And  to  think  you  did  it  at  Christmastime!&quot;  As  for  Jack-  well,  Jack  a  couple  of  times  did  not  know  how  close  he  came  to  seeing  glory  when  I  had  a  butcher  knife  in  my  hand.  It  was  Polecat  this  and  Pole-  cat  that  until  I  nearly  went  off  my  rocker.  Tess,  of  course,  didn't  know  what  was  going  on,  and  asked  so  many  questions  that  finally  I  told  her  to  go  to  Helen  Hunt  Jackson  in  a  savage  tone  of  voice.  Good  old  Muff.  It  is  not  true  that  you  don't  learn  by  experience.  At  any  rate,  I  did  that  time.  I  began  immediately  to  have  two  or  three  friends  at  a  time-to  be  sure,  be-  cause  of  the  stigma  on  me,  they  were  by  no  means  the  \xc3\xa9lite  of  Carlyle  Hill  Grade-and  never  again  when  that  terrible  need  to  be  alone  arose  did  I  let  fly.  I  would  say,  instead,  &quot;I've  got  a  headache.  I'll  have  to  go  home  and  take  an  aspirin,&quot;  or  &quot;Gosh  all  hemlocks,  I  forgot-I've  got  to  go  to  the  dentist.&quot;  After  the  scandal  died  down,  I  got  into  the  Campfire  Girls.  It  was  through  ~  pull,  of  course,  since  Stella  had  beena  respected  member  for  two  years  and  my  mother  was  a  friend  of  the  leader.  But  it  turned  out  all  right.  Even  Muff  did  not  miss  our  periods  of  companionship,  because  about  that  time  she  grew  up  and  started  having  literally  millions  of  kit-  tens."