 b"TO  begin  at  the  beginning,  the  air-  plane  from  [REDACTED]  in  which  Francis  Weed  was  travelling  East  ran  into  heavy  weather.  The  sky  had  been  a  hazy  blue,  with  the  clouds  below  the  plane  lying  so  close  together  that  nothing  could  be  seen  of  the  earth.  Then  mist  began  to  form  outside  the  windows,  and  they  flew  into  a  white  cloud  of  such  density  that  it  reflected  the  exhaust  fires.  The  color  of  the  cloud  darkened  to  gray,  and  the  plane  began  to  rock.  Francis  had  been  in  heavy  weather  before,  but  he  had  never  been  shaken  up  so  much.  The  man  in  the  seat  beside  him  pulled  a  flask  out  of  his  pocket  and  took  a  drink.  Francis  smiled  at  his  neighbor,  but  the  man  looked  away;  he  wasn't  sharing  his  painkiller  with  anyone.  The  plane  had  begun  to  drop  and  flounder  wildly.  A  child  was  crying.  The  air  in  the  cabin  was  overheated  and  stale,  and  Francis'  left  foot  went  to  sleep.  He  read  a  little  from  a  paper  book  that  he  had  bought  at  the  airport,  but  the  violence  of  the  storm  divided  his  attention.  It  was  black  outside  the  ports.  'The  exhaust  fires  blazed  and  shed  sparks  in  the  dark,  and,  inside,  the  shaded  lights,  the  stuffiness,  and  the  window  curtains  gave  the  cabin  an  atmosphere  of  intense  and  misplaced  domesticity.  'Then  the  lights  flickered  and  went  out.  &quot;You  know  what  I've  always  wanted  to  do?&quot;  the  man  beside  Francis  said  suddenly.  &quot;I've  always  wanted  to  buy  a  farm  in  New  Hamp-  shire  and  raise  beef  cattle.&quot;  The  stew-  ardess  announced  that  they  were  going  to  make  an  emergency  land-  ing.  Allbut  the  child  saw  in  their  minds  the  spreading  wings  of  the  Angel  of  Death.  The  pilot  could  be  heard  singing  faintly,  &quot;I've  got  six-  W  pence,  jolly,  jolly  sixpence.  I've  got  sixpence  to  last  me  all  my  life  .  .  .&quot;  There  was  no  other  sound.  The  loud  groaning  of  the  hydraulic  valves  swallowed  up  the  pilot's  song,  and  there  was  a  shrieking  high  in  the  air,  like  automobile  brakes,  and  the  plane  hit  flat  on  its  belly  in  a  cornfield  and  shook  them  so  violently  that  an  old  man  up  forward  howled,  &quot;Me  kidneys!  Me  kidneys!&quot;  'The  stewardess  flung  open  the  door,  and  someone  opened  an  emergency  door  at  the  back,  letting  in  the  sweet  noise  of  their  continuing  mor-  tality-the  idle  splash  and  smell  of  a  heavy  rain.  Anxious  for  their  lives,  they  filed  out  of  the  doors  and  scattered  over  the  cornfield  in  all  directions,  praying  that  the  thread  would  hold.  It  did.  Nothing  happened.  When  it  was  clear  that  the  plane  would  not  burn  or  explode,  the  crew  and  the  stewardess  gathered  the  passengers  together  and  led  them  to  the  shelter  of  a  barn.  They  were  not  far  from  [REDACTED],  and  in  a  little  while  a  string  of  taxis  took  them  into  the  city.  &quot;It's  just  like  the  Marne,&quot;  someone  said,  but  there  was  surprisingly  little  relaxation  ofthat  suspiciousness  with  which  many  Americans  regard  their  fellow-travellers.  In  [REDACTED],  Francis  Weed  got  a  train  to  New  York.  At  the  end  of  that  journey,  he  crossed  the  city  and  caught,  just  as  it  was  about  to  pull  out,  the  com-  muting  train  that  he  took  five  nights  a  week  to  his  home  in  Shady  Hill.  He  sat  with  Trace  Bearden.  &quot;You  know,  I  was  in  that  plane  that  just  crashed  outside  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  came  down  in  a  field  ...&quot;  He  had  travelled  faster  than  the  news-  papers  or  the  rain,  and  the  weather  in  New  York  was  sunny  and  mild.  It  was  a  day  inlate  September,  as  fragrant  and  shapely  as  an  apple.  Trace  listened  to  the  story,  but  how  could  he  get  excit-  ed?  Francis  had  no  powers  that  would  let  him  re-create  a  brush  with  death-  particularly  in  the  atmosphere  of  a  com-  muting  train,  journeying  through  a  sunny  countryside  where  already,  in  the  slum  gardens,  there  were  signs  of  harvest.  Trace  picked  up  his  news-  paper,  and  Francis  was  left  alone  with  his  thoughts.  He  said  good  night  to  Trace  on  the  platform  at  Shady  Hill  and  drove  in  his  second-hand  Volks-  wagen  up  to  the  Blenhollow  neighborhood,  where  he  lived.  HE  Weeds'  Dutch  Co-  lonial  house  was  larger  than  it  appeared  to  be  from  the  driveway.  The  living  room  was  spacious  and  di-  vided  like  Gaul  into  three  parts.  Around  an  ell  to  the  left  as  one  entered  from  the  vestibule  was  the  long  table,laid  for  six,  with  candles  and  a  bowl  of  fruit  in  the  center.  The  sounds  and  smells  that  came  from  the  open  kitchen  door  were  appetizing,  for  Julia  Weed  was  a  good  cook.  The  largest  part  of  the  living  room  centered  around  a  fireplace.  On  the  right  were  some  bookshelves  and  a  piano.  The  room  was  polished  and  tran-  quil,  and  from  the  windows  that  opened  to  the  west  there  was  some  late-summer  sunlight,  brilliant  and  as  clear  as  water.  Nothing  here  was  neglected;  nothing  had  not  been  burnished.  It  was  not  the  kind  of  household  where,  after  pry-  ing  open  a  stuck  cigarette  box,  you would  find  an  old  shirt  button  and  a  tarnished  nickel.  The  hearth  was  swept,  the  roses  on  the  piano  were  reflected  in  the  polish  of  the  broad  top,  and  there  was  an  album  of  Schubert  waltzes  on  the  rack.  Louisa  Weed,  a  pretty  girl  of  nine,  was  looking  out  the  western  win-  dows.  Her  younger  brother  Henry  was  standing  beside  her.  Her  still  younger  brother,  Toby,  was  studying  the  figures  of  some  tonsured  monks  drinking  beer  on  the  polished  brass  of  the  wood  box.  Francis,  taking  off  his  hat  and  putting  down  his  paper,  was  not  consciously  pleased  with  thescene;  he  was  not  that  reflective.  It  was  his  element,  his  crea-  tion,  and  he  returned  to  it  with  that  sense  of  lightness  and  strength  with  which  any  creature  returns  to  its  home.  &quot;Hi,  everybody,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  plane  from  [REDACTED]  .  .  .&quot;  Nine  times  out  of  ten,  Francis  would  be  greeted  with  affection,  but  tonight  the  children  are  absorbed  in  their  own  antagonisms.  Francis  has  not  finished  his  sentence  about  the  plane  crash  before  Henry  plants  a  kick  in  Louisa's  behind.  Louisa  swings  around,  saying  &quot;Dam\xc2\xbb  you!&quot;  Francis  makes  the  mistake  of  scolding  Louisa  for  bad  language  be-  fore  he  punishes  Henry.  Now  Louisa  turns  on  her  father  and  accuses  him  of  favoritism.  Henry  is  always  right;  she  is  persecuted  and  lonely;  her  lot  is  hope-  less.  Francis  turns  to  his  son,  but  the  boy  has  justification  for  the  kick-she  hit  him  first;  she  hit  him  on  the  ear,  which  is  dangerous.  Louisa  agrees  with  this  passionately.  She  hit  him  on  the  ear,  and  she  meant  to  hit  him  on  the  ear,  because  he  messed  up  her  china  collec-  tion.  Henry  says  that  this  is  a  lie.  Little  Toby  turns  away  from  the  wood  box  to  throw  in  some  evidence  for  Louisa.  Henry  claps  his  hand  over  little  Toby's  mouth,  Francis  separates  the  two  boys  but  accidentally  pushes  Toby  into  the  wood  box.  Toby  begins  to  cry.  Louisa  is  already  crying.  Just  then,  Julia  Weed  comes  into  that  part  of  the  room  where  the  table  is  laid.  She  is  a  pretty,  in-  telligent  woman,  and  the  white  in  her  hair  is  premature.  She  does  not  seem  to  notice  the  fracas.  &quot;Hello,  darling,&quot;  she  says  serenely  to  Francis.  &quot;Wash  your  hands,  everyone.  Dinner  is  ready.&quot;  She  strikes  a  match  and  lights  the  six  candles  in  this  vale  of  tears.  This  simple  announcement,  like  the  war  cries  of  the  Scottish  chieftains,  only  refreshes  the  ferocity  of  the  combatants.  Louisa  gives  Henry  a  blowon  the  shoulder.  Henry,  although  he  seldom  cries,  has  pitched  nine  innings  and  is  tired.  He  bursts  into  tears.  Little  Toby  discovers  a  splinter  in  his  hand  and  be-  gins  to  howl.  Francis  says  loudly  that  he  " b"has  been  in  a  plane  crash  and  that  he  is  tired.  Julia  appears  again,  from  the  kitchen,  and,  still  ignoring  the  chaos,  asks  Francis  to  go  upstairs  and  tell  [REDACTED]  that  everything  is  ready.  Francis  is  happy  to  go;  it  is  like  getting  back  to  head-  quarters  company.  He  is  plan-  ning  to  tell  his  oldest  daugh-  ter  about  the  airplane  crash,  but  [REDACTED]  is  lying  on  her  bed  reading  a  True  Romance  magazine,  and  the  first  thing  Francis  does  is  to  takethe  magazine  from  her  hand  and  remind  [REDACTED]  that  he  has  for-  bidden  her  to  buy  it.  She  did  not  buy  it,  [REDACTED]  replies.  It  was  given  to  her  by  her  best  friend,  Bessie  Black.  Every-  body  reads  True  Romance.  Bessie  Black's  father  reads  True  Romance.  There  isn't  a  girl  in  [REDACTED]'s  class  who  doesn't  read  True  Romance.  Francis  expresses  his  detesta-  tion  of  the  magazine  and  then  tells  her  that  dinner  is  ready-  although  from  the  sounds  downstairs  it  doesn't  seem  so.  [REDACTED]  follows  him  down  the  stairs.  Julia  has  seated  herself  in  the  candle-  light  and  spread  a  napkin  over  her  lap.  Neither  Louisa  nor  Henry  has  come  to  the  table.  Little  Toby  is  still  howling,  lying  face  down  on  the  floor.  Francis  speaks  to  him  gently:  &quot;Daddy  was  in  a  plane  crash  this  afternoon,  Toby.  Don't  you  want  to  hear  about  it?&quot;  Toby  goes  on  crying.  &quot;If  you  don't  come  to  the  table  now,  Toby,&quot;  Francis  says,  &quot;I'll  have  to  send  you  to  bed  with-  out  any  supper.&quot;  'The  little  boy  rises,  gives  him  a  cutting  look,  flies  up  the  stairs  to  his  bedroom,  and  slams  the  door.  &quot;Oh  dear,&quot;  Julia  says,  and  starts  to  go  after  him.  Francis  says  that  she  will  spoil  him.  Julia  says  that  Toby  is  ten  pounds  underweight  and  has  to  be  encouraged  to  eat.  Winter  is  com-  ing,  and  he  will  spend  the  cold  months  in  bed  unless  he  has  his  dinner.  Julia  goes  upstairs.  Francis  sits  down  at  the  table  with  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  is  suffer-  ing  from  the  dismal  feeling  of  hav-  ing  read  too  intently  on  a  fine  day,  and  she  gives  her  father  and  the  room  a  jaded  look.  She  doesn't  under-  stand  about  the  plane  crash,  because  there  wasn't  a  drop  of  rain  in  Shady  Hill.  Julia  returns  with  Toby,  and  they  all  sit  down  and  are  served.  &quot;Do  I  have  to  look  at  that  big,  fat  slob?&quot;  Henry  says,  of  Louisa.  Everybody  but  Toby  enters  into  this  skirmish,  and  it  rages  up  and  down  the  table  for  five  minutes.  Toward  the  end,  Henry  puts  his  napkin  over  his  head  and,  trying  to  eat  that  way,  spills  spinach  all  over  his  shirt.  Francis  asks  Julia  if  the  children  couldn't  have  their  dinner  earlier.  Julia's  guns  are  loaded  for  this.  She  can't  cook  two  dinners  and  lay  two  tables.  She  paints  with  lightning  strokes  that  panorama  of  drudgery  in  which  her  youth,  her  beauty,  and  her  wit  have  been  lost.  Francis  says  that  he  must  be  understood;  he  was  nearly  killed  in  an  airplane  crash,  and  he  doesn't  like  to  come  home  every  night  to  a  battlefield.  Now  Julia  is  deeply  committed.  Her  voice  trembles.  He  doesn't  come  home  every  night  to  a  battlefield.  'The  ac-  cusation  is  stupid  and  mean.  Every-  thing  was  tranquil  until  he  arrived.  She  stops  speaking,  puts  down  her  knife  and  fork,  and  looks  into  her  plate  as  if  it  is  a  gulf.  She  begins  to  cry.  &quot;Poor  Mummy!&quot;  Toby  says,  and  when  Julia  gets  up  from  the  table,  drying  her  tears  with  a  napkin,  Toby  goes  to  her  side.  &quot;Poor  Mummy,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Poor  Mummy!&quot;  And  they  climb  the  stairs  together.  The  other  children  drift  away  from  the  battle-  field,  and  Francis  goes  into  the  back  garden  for  a  cigarette  and  some  air.  IT  was  a  pleasant  garden,  with  walks  and  flower  beds  and  places  to  sit.  The  sunset  had  nearly  burned  out,  but  there  was  still  plenty  of  light.  Put  into  a  thoughtful  mood  by  the  crash  and  the  battle,  Francis  listened  to  the  eve-  ning  sounds  of  Shady  Hill.  &quot;Varmits!  Rascals!&quot;  old  Mr.  Nixon  shouted  to  the  squirrels  in  his  bird-feeding  sta-  tion.  &quot;Avaunt  and  quit  my  sight!&quot;  A  door  slammed.  Someone  was  playing  tennis  on  the  Babcocks'  court;  someone  was  cutting  grass.  Then  Donald  Gos-  lin,  who  lived  at  the  corner,  began  to  play  the  &quot;Moonlight  Sonata.&quot;  He  did  this  nearly  every  night.  He  threw  the  tempo  out  the  window  and  played  it  rubato  from  beginning  to  end,  like  an  outpouring  of  tearful  petulance,  lonesomeness,  and  self-pity-of  every-  thing  it  was  Beethoven's  greatness  not  to  know.  The  music  rang  up  and  down  the  street  beneath  the  trees  like  an  appeal  for  love,  for  tenderness,  aimed  at  some  lonely  housemaid-some  fresh-faced,  homesick  girl  from  Galway,  looking  at  old  snapshots  in  her  third-floor  room.  &quot;Here,  [REDACTED],  here,  [REDACTED],&quot;  Francis  called  to  the  Mercers'  retriever.  [REDACTED]  crashed  through  the  tomato  vines  with  the  remains  of  a  felt  hat  in  his  mouth.  [REDACTED]  was  an  anomaly.  His  retriev-  ing  instincts  and  his  high  spirits  were  out  of  place  in  Shady  Hill.  He  was  as  black  as  coal,  with  a  long,  alert,  intel-  ligent,  rakehell  face.  His  eyes  gleamed  with  mischief,  and  he  held  his  head  high.  It  was  the  fierce,  heavily  collared  dog's  " b"head  that  appears  in  heraldry,  in  tap-  estry,  and  that  used  to  appear  on  um-  brella  handles  and  walking  sticks.  [REDACTED]  went  where  he  pleased,  ran-  sacking  wastebaskets,  clotheslines,  gar-  bage  pails,  and  shoe  bags.  He  broke  up  garden  parties  and  tennis  matches,  and  got  mixed  up  in  the  processional  at  Christ's  Church  on  Sunday,  barking  at  the  men  in  red  dresses.  He  crashed  through  old  Mr.  Nixon's  rose  garden  two  or  three  times  a  day,  cutting  a  wide  swath  through  the  Condesa  de  Sastagos,  and  as  soon  as  Donald  Goslin  lighted  his  barbecue  fire  on  Thursday  nights,  [REDACTED]  would  get  the  scent.  Nothing  the  Goslins  did  could  drive  him  away.  Sticks  and  stones  and  rude  commands  only  moved  him  to  the  edge  of  the  terrace,  where  he  remained,  with  his  gallant  and  heraldic  muzzle,  waiting  for  Donald  Goslin  to  turn  his  back  and  reach  for  the  salt.  Then  he  would  spring  onto  the  terrace,  lift  the  steak  lightly  off  the  fire,  and  run  away  with  the  Goslins'  dinner.  [REDACTED]'s  days  were  numbered.  'The  Wrightsons'  German  gardener  or  the  Farquarsons'  cook  would  soon  poison  him.  Even  old  Mr.  Nixon  might  put  some  arsenic  in  the  garbage  that  [REDACTED]  loved.  &quot;Here,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]!&quot;  Francis  called,  but  the  dog  pranced  off,  shaking  the  hat  in  his  white  teeth.  Looking  inat  the  win-  dows  of  his  house,  Francis  saw  that     Julia  had  come  down  and  was  blowing  out  the  candles,  JULIA  and  Francis  Weed  went  out  a  great  deal.  Julia  was  well  liked  and  gregarious,  and  her  love  of  parties  sprang  from  a  most  natural  dread  of  chaos  and  loneliness.  She  went  through  her  morning  mail  with  real  anxiety,  looking  for  invitations,  and  she  usually  found  some,  but  she  was  insatiable,  and  if  she  had  gone  out  seven  nightsa  week,  it  would  not  have  cured  her  of  a  re-  flective  look-the  look  of  someone  who  hears  distant  music-for  she  would  al-  ways  suppose  that  there  was  a  more  brilliant  party  somewhere  else.  Francis  limited  her  to  two  week-night  parties,  putting  a  flexible  interpretation  on  Fri-  day,  and  rode  through  the  weekend  like  a  dory  in  a  gale.  The  day  after  the  airplane  crash,  the  Weeds  were  to  have  dinner  with  the  Farquarsons.  Francis  got  home  late  from  town,  and  Julia  got  the  sitter  while  he  dressed,  and  then  hurried  him  out  of  the  house.  The  party  was  small  and  pleasant,  and  Francis  settled  down  to  enjoy  him-  self.  A  new  maid  passed  the  drinks.  Her  hair  was  dark,  and  her  face  was  round  and  pale  and  seemed  familiar  to  Francis  He  had  not  developed  his  memory  as  a  sentimental  faculty.  Wood  smoke,  lilac,  and  other  such  per-  fumes  did  not  stir  him,  and  his  memory  was  something  like  his  ap-  pendix-a  vestigial  repository.  It  was  not  his  limitation  at  all  to  be  unable  to  escape  the  past;  it  was  perhaps  his  limitation  that  he  had  escaped  it  so  suc-  cessfully.  He  might  have  seen  the  maid  at  other  parties,  he  might  have  seen  her  taking  a  walk  on  Sunday  afternoons,  but  in  either  case  he  would  not  be  searching  his  memory  now.  Her  face  was,  in  a  wonderful  way,  a  moon  face-Norman  or  Irish-but  it  was  not  beautiful  enough  to  account  for  his  feel-  ing  that  he  had  seen  her  before,  in  circumstances  that  he  ought  to  be  able  to  remember.  He  asked  Nellie  Farquarson  who  she  was.  Nellie  said  that  the  maid  had  come  through  an  agency,  and  that  her  home  was  Tr\xc3\xa9non,  in  Normandy-a  small  place  with  a  church  and  a  restaurant  that  Nellie  had  once  visited.  While  Nellie  talked  on  about  her  travels  abroad,  Francis  realized  where  he  had  seen  the  woman  before.  It  had  been  at  the  end  of  the  war.  He  had  left  a  replace-  ment  depot  with  some  other  men  and  taken  athree-day  pass  in  Tr\xc3\xa9non.  On  their  second  day,  they  had  walked  out  to  acrossroads  to  see  the  public  chastise-  ment  of  a  young  woman  who  had  lived  with  the  German  commandant  during  the  Occupation.  It  was  a  cool  morning  in  the  fall.  The  sky  was  overcast,  and  poured  down  onto  the  dirt  crossroads  a  very  discouraging  light.  They  were  on  high  land  and  could  see  how  like  one  another  the  shapes  of  the  clouds  and  the  hills  were  as  they  stretched  off  toward  the  sea.  The  prisoner  arrived  sitting  on  a  three-legged  stool  in  a  farm  cart.  She  stood  by  the  cart  while  the  mayor  read  the  accusation  and  the  sentence.  Her  head  was  bent  and  her  face  was  set  in  that  empty  half  smile  behind  which  the  whipped  soul  is  suspended.  When  the  mayor  was  finished,  she  undid  her  hair  and  let  it  fall  across  her  back.  A  little  man  with  a  gray  mustache  cut  off  her  hair  with  shears  and  dropped  it  on  the  ground.  'Then,  with  a  bowl  of  soapy  water  and  astraight  razor,  he  shaved  her  skull  clean.  A  woman  approached  and  began  to  undo  the  fastenings  of  her  clothes,  but  the  prisoner  pushed  her  aside  and  undressed  herself.  When  she  pulled  her  chemise  over  her  head  and  threw  it  on  the  ground,  she  was  naked.  The  women  jeered;  the  men  were  still.  There  was  no  change  in  the  falseness  " b"or  the  plaintiveness  of  the  prisoner's  smile.  The  cold  wind  made  her  white  skin  rough  and  hardened  the  nipples  of  her  breasts.  The  jeering  ended  gradually,  put  down  by  the  recogni-  tion  of  their  common  humanity.  One  woman  spat  on  her,  but  some  inviola-  ble  grandeur  in  her  nakedness  lasted  through  the  ordeal.  When  the  crowd  was  quiet,  she  turned-she  had  begun  to  cry-and,  with  nothing  on  but  a  pair  of  worn  black  shoes  and  stockings,  walked  down  the  dirt  road  alone  away  from  the  village.  The  round  white  face  had  aged  a  little,  but  there  was  no  ques-  tion  but  that  the  maid  who  passed  his  cocktails  and  later  served  Francis  his  dinner  was  the  woman  who  had  been  punished  at  the  crossroads.  The  war  seemed  now  so  distant  and  that  world  where  the  cost  of  partisan-  ship  had  been  death  or  torture  so  long  ago.  Francis  had  lost  track  of  the  men  who  had  been  with  him  in  V\xc3\xa9sey.  He  could  not  count  on  Julia's  discretion.  He  could  not  tell  anyone.  And  if  he  had  told  the  story  now,  at  the  dinner  table,  it  would  have  been  a  social  as  well  as  a  human  error.  The  people  in  the  Farquarsons'  living  room  seemed  united  in  their  tacit  claim  that  there  had  been  no  past,  no  war-that  there  was  no  danger  or  trouble  in  the  world.  In  the  recorded  history  of  human  ar-  rangements,  this  extraordinary  meet-  ing  would  have  fallen  into  place,  but  the  atmosphere  of  Shady  Hill  made  the  memory  unseem-  ly  and  impolite.  The  prisoner  withdrew  after  passing  the  cof-  fee,  but  the  encounter  left  Fran-  cis  feeling  languid;  it  had  opened  his  memory  and  his  senses,  and  left  them  dilated.  He  and  Julia  drove  home  when  the  party  ended,  and  Julia  went  into  the  house.  Francis  stayed  in  the  car  to  take  the  sitter  home.  Expecting  to  see  Mrs.  Hen-  lein,  theold  lady  who  usually  stayed  with  the  children,  he  was  surprised  when  a  young  girl  opened  the  door  and  came  out  onto  the  lighted  stoop.  She  stayed  in  the  light  to  count  her  text-  books.  She  was  frowning  and  beautiful.  Now,  the  world  is  full  of  beautiful  young  girls,  but  Francis  saw  here  the  difference  between  beauty  and  perfection.  All  those  endearing  flaws,  moles,  birthmarks,  and  healed  wounds  were  missing,  and  he  experi-  enced  in  his  consciousness  that  moment  when  music  breaks  glass,  and  felt  a  pang  of  recog-  nition  as  strange,  deep,  and  wonderful  as  anything  in  his  life.  It  hung  from  her  frown,  from  an  im-  palpable  darkness  in  her  face-a  look  that  impressed  him  as  a  direct  appeal  for  love.  When  she  had  counted  her  books,  she  came  down  the  steps  and  opened  the  car  door.  In  the  light,  he  saw  that  her  cheeks  were  wet.  She  got  in  and  shut  the  door.  &quot;'You're  new,&quot;  Francis  said.  &quot;Yes.  Mrs.  Henlein  is  sick.  I'm  Anne  Murchison.&quot;  &quot;Did  the  children  give  you  any  trou-  ble?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  no.&quot;  She  turned  and  smiled  at  him  unhappily  in  the  dim  dashboard  light.  Her  light  hair  caught  on  the  collar  of  her  jacket,  and  she  shook  her  head  to  set  it  loose.  &quot;'You've  been  crying.&quot;  Yes. &quot;I  hope  it  was  nothing  that  happened  in  our  house.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  it  was  nothing  that  hap-  pened  in  your  house.&quot;  Her  voice  was  bleak.  &quot;It's  no  secret.  Everybody  in  the  village  knows.  Daddy's  an  alcoholic,  and  he  just  called  me  from  some  saloon  and  gave  me  a  piece  of  his  mind.  He  thinks  I'm  immoral.  He  called  just  be-  fore  Mrs,  Weed  came  back.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Lord!&quot;  She  gasped  and  began  to  cry.  She  turned  toward  Francis,  and  he  took  her  in  his  arms  and  let  her  cry  on  his  shoulder.  She  shook  in  his  em-  brace,  and  this  movement  accentuated  his  sense  of  the  fineness  of  her  flesh  and  bone.  The  layers  of  their  clothing  felt  thin,  and  when  her  shuddering  began  to  diminish,  it  was  so  much  like  a  paroxysm  of  love  that  Francis  lost  his  head  and  pulled  her  roughly  against  him.  She  drew  away.  &quot;I  live  on  Belleview  Ave-  nue,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  go  down  Lansing  Street  to  the  railroad  bridge.&quot;  &quot;All  right.&quot;  He  started  the  car.  \xc2\xabYou  turn  left  at  that  traffic  light.  .  ..  Now  you  turn  right  here  and  go  straight  on  toward  the  tracks.&quot;  The  road  Francis  took  brought  him  out  of  his  own  neighborhood,  across  the  tracks,  and  toward  the  river,  to  a  street  where  the  near-poor  lived,  in  houses  whose  peaked  gables  and  trimmings  of  wooden  lace  conveyed  the  purest  feel-  ings  of  pride  and  romance,  although  the  houses  themselves  could  not  have  of-  fered  much  privacy  or  comfort,  they  were  all  so  small.  The  street  was  dark,  and,  stirred  by  the  grace  and  beauty  of  the  troubled  girl,  he  seemed,  in  turn-  ing  in  to  it,  to  have  come  into  the  deep-  est  part  of  some  submerged  memory.  In  the  distance,  he  saw  a  porch  light  burn-  ing.  It  was  the  only  one,  and  she  said  that  the  house  with  the  light  was  where  she  lived.  When  he  stopped  the  car,  he  could  see  beyond  the  porch  light  into  a  dimly-lighted  hallway  with  an  old-fash-  ioned  clothes  tree.  &quot;Well,  here  we  are,&quot;  he  said,  conscious  that  a  young  man  would  have  said  something  different.  She  did  not  move  her  hands  from  the  books,  where  they  were  folded,  and  she  turned  and  faced  him.  There  were  tears  of  lust  in  his  eyes.  Determinedly-not  sadly-he  opened  the  door  on  his  side  and  walked  around  to  open  hers.  He  took  her  free  hand,  letting  his  fingers  in  be-  tween  hers,  climbed  at  her  side  the  two  concrete  steps,  and  went  up  a  narrow  walk  through  a  front  garden  where  dahlias,  marigolds,  and  roses-things  that  had  withstood  the  light  frosts-still  bloomed,  and  made  a  bittersweet  smell  in  the  night  air.  At  the  steps,  she  freed  her  hand  and  then  turned  and  kissed  him  swiftly.  Then  she  crossed  the  porch  and  shut  the  door.  The  porch  light  went  out,  then  the  light  in  the  hall.  A  second  later,  a  light  went  on  upstairs  at  the  side  of  the  house,  shining  into  a  tree  that  was  still  covered  with  leaves.  It  took  heronly  a  few  minutes  to  undress  and  get  " b"into  bed,  and  then  the  house  was  dark.  Julia  was  asleep  when  Francis  got  home.  He  opened  a  second  window  and  got  into  bed  to  shut  his  eyes  on  that  night,  but  as  soon  as  they  were  shut-  as  soon  as  he  had  dropped  off  to  sleep-  the  girl  entered  his  mind,  moving  with  perfect  freedom  through  its  shut  doors  and  filling  chamber  after  chamber  with  her  light,  her  perfume,  and  the  music  of  her  voice.  He  was  crossing  the  Atlan-  tic  with  her  on  the  old  Mauretania  and,  later,  living  with  her  in  [REDACTED].  When  he  woke  from  this  dream,  he  got  up  and  smoked  a  cigarette  at  the  open  win-  dow.  Getting  back  into  bed,  he  cast  around  in  his  mind  for  something  he  de-  sired  to  do  that  would  injure  no  one,  and  he  thought  of  skiing.  Up  through  the  dimness  in  his  mind  rose  the  image  of  a  mountain  deep  in  snow.  It  was  late  in  the  day.  Wherever  his  eyes  looked,  he  saw  broad  and  heartening  things.  Over  his  shoulder,  there  was  a  snow-  filled  valley,  rising  into  wooded  hills  where  the  trees  dimmed  the  whiteness  like  a  sparse  coat  of  hair.  The  cold  dead-  ened  all  sound  but  the  loud,  iron  clank-  ing  of  the  lift  machinery.  The  light  on  the  trails  was  blue,  and  it  was  harder  than  it  had  been  a  minute  or  two  earlier  to  pick  the  turns,  harder  to  judge-now  that  the  snow  was  all  deep  blue-the  crust,  the  ice,  the  bare  spots,  and  the  deep  piles  of  dry  powder.  Down  the  mountain  he  swung,  matching  his  speed  against  the  contours  of  a  slope  that  had  been  formed  in  the  first  ice  age,  seeking  with  ardor  some  simplicity  of  feeling  and  circumstance.  Night  fell  then,  and  he  drank  a  Martini  with  some  old  friend  in  a  dirty  country  bar.  In  the  morning,  Francis's  snow-cov-  ered  mountain  was  gone,  and  he  was  left  with  his  vivid  memories  of  [REDACTED]  and  the  Mauretania.  He  had  been  bitten  gravely,  He  washed  his  body,  shaved  his  jaws,  drank  his  coffee,  and  missed  the  seven-thirty-one.  The  train  pulled  out  just  as  he  brought  his  car  to  the  station,  and  the  longing  he  felt  for  the  coaches  as  they  drew  stubbornly  away  from  him  reminded  him  of  the  humors  of  love.  He  waited  for  the  eight-two,  on  what  was  now  an  empty  platform.  It  was  aclear  morning;  the  morning  seemed  thrown  like  a  gleaming  bridge  of  light  over  his  mixed  affairs.  His  spirits  were  feverish  and  high.  The  image  of  the  girl  seemed  to  put  him  into  a  rela-  tionship  to  the  world  that  was  mysteri-  ous  and  enthralling.  Cars  were  begin-  ning  to  fill  up  the  parking  lot,  and  he  noticed  that  those  that  had  driven  down  from  the  high  land  above  Shady  Hill  were  white  with  hoarfrost.  This  first  clear  signof  autumn  thrilled  him.  An  express  train-a  night  train  from  Buf-  falo  or  [REDACTED]-came  down  the  tracks  between  the  platforms,  and  he  saw  that  the  roofs  of  the  foremost  cars  were  covered  with  a  skin  of  ice.  Struck  by  the  miraculous  physicalness  of  everything,  he  smiled  at  the  passengers  in  the  dining  car,  who  could  be  seen  eating  eggs  and  wiping  their  mouths  with  napkins  as  they  travelled.  The  sleeping-car  com-  partments,  with  their  soiled  bed  linen,  trailed  through  the  fresh  morning  like  a  string  of  rooming-house  windows.  Then  he  saw  an  extraordinary  thing;  at  one  of  the  bedroom  windows  sat  an  unclothed  woman  of  exceptional  beau-  ty,  combing  her  golden  hair.  She  passed  like  an  apparition  through  Shady  Hill,  combing  and  combing  her  hair,  and  Francis  followed  her  with  his  eyes  until  she  was  out  of  sight.  Then  old  Mrs.  Wrightson  joined  him  on  the  platform  and  began  to  talk.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  I  guess  you  must  be  surprised  to  see  me  here  the  third  morning  in  a  row,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  because  of  my  win-  dow  curtains  I'm  becoming  a  regular  commuter.  The  curtains  I  bought  on  Monday  I  returned  on  Tuesday,  and  the  curtains  I  bought  Tuesday  I'm  re-  turning  today.  On  Monday,  I  got  ex-  actly  what  I  wanted-it's  a  wool  tapes-  try  with  roses  and  birds-but  when  I  got  them  home,  I  found  they  were  the  wrong  length.  Well,  I  exchanged  them  yesterday,  and  when  I  got  them  home,  I  found  they  were  still  the  wrong  length.  Now  I'm  praying  to  high  Heaven  that  -Lou:s  O.  Coxz\xc2\xae  the  decorator  will  have  them  in  the  right  length,  because  you  know  my  house,  you  know  my  living-room  windows,  and  you  can  imagine  what  a  problem  they  present.  I  don't  know  what  to  do  with  them.&quot;  &quot;I  know  what  to  do  with  them,&quot;  Francis  said.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Paint  them  black  on  the  inside,  and  shut  up.&quot;  There  was  a  gasp  from  Mrs.  W  right-  son,  and  Francis  looked  down  at  her  to  be  sure  that  she  knew  he  meant  to  be  rude.  She  turned  and  walked  away  from  him,  so  damaged  in  spirit  that  she  limped.  A  wonderful  feeling  enveloped  him,  as  if  light  were  being  shaken  about  him,  and  he  thought  again  of  [REDACTED]  combing  and  combing  her  hair  as  she  drifted  through  the  [REDACTED].  The  realiza-  tion  of  how  many  years  had  passed  since  he  had  enjoyed  being  deliberately  impo-  lite  sobered  him.  Among  his  friends  and  neighbors,  there  were  brilliant  and  gift,  ed  people-he  saw  that-but  many  of  them,  also,  were  bores  and  fools,  and  he  had  made  the  mistake  of  listening  to  them  all  with  equal  attention.  He  had  confused  alack  of  discrimination  with  Christian  love,  and  the  confusion  seemed  general  and  destructive.  He  was  grate-  ful  to  the  girl  for  this  bracing  sensation  of  independence.  Birds  were  singing-  cardinals  and  the  last  of  the  robins.  The  sky  shone  like  enamel.  Even  the  smell  of  ink  from  his  morning  paper  honed  his  appetitefor  life,  and  the  world  that  was  spread  out  around  him  was  plainly  a  paradise.  If  Francis  had  believed  in  some  hier-  archy  of  love-in  spirits  armed  with  hunting  bows,  in  the  capriciousness  of  [REDACTED]  and  Eros-or  even  in  magical  potions,  philtres,  and  stews,  in  scapulae  and  quarters  of  the  moon,  it  might  " b"have  explained  his  suscepti-  bility  and  his  feverish  high  spirits.  The  autumnal  loves  of  middle  age  are  well  pub-  licized,  and  he  guessed  that  he\xc2\xbb  was  face  to  face  with  one  of  these,  but  there  was  not  a  trace  of  autumn  in  what  he  felt.  He  wanted  to  sport  in  the  green  woods,  scratch  where  he  itched,  and  drink  from  the  same  cup.  His  secretary,  Miss  Rain-  ey,  was  late  that  morning-  she  went  to  a  psychiatrist  three  mornings  a  week-  and  when  she  came  in,  Francis  wondered  what  ad-  vice  a  psychiatrist  would  have  for  him.  But  the  girl  promised  to  bring  back  into  his  life  something  like  the  sound  of  music.  The  reali-  zation  that  this  music  might  lead  him  straight  to  a  trial  for  statutory  rape  at  the  county  courthouse  collapsed  his  happiness.  'The  photo-  graph  of  his  four  children  laughing  into  the  camera  on  the  beach  at  Gay  Head  reproached  him.  On  the  letterhead  of  his  firm  there  was  a  drawing  of  the  Laocodn,  and  the  figure  of  the  priest  and  his  sons  in  the  coils  of  the  snake  appeared  to  him  to  have  the  deepest  meaning.  He  had  lunch  with  Pinky  Trabert,  who  told  him  a  couple  of  dirty  stories.  At  a  conversational  level,  the  mores  of  his  friends  were  robust  and  elastic,  but  he  knew  that  the  moral  card  house  would  come  down  on  them  all-on  Julia  and  the  children  as  well-if  he  got  caught  taking  advantage  of  a  baby-  sitter.  Looking  back  over  the  recent  history  of  Shady  Hill  for  some  prece-  dent,  he  found  there  was  none.  There  was  no  turpitude;  there  had  not  been  a  divorce  since  he  lived  there;  there  had  not  even  been  a  breath  ofscandal.  Things  seemed  arranged  with  more  propriety  even  than  in  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven.  After  leaving  Pinky,Francis  went  to  a  jeweller's  and  bought  the  girl  a  bracelet.  How  happy  this  clandestine  purchase  made  him,  how  stuffy  and  comical  the  jeweller's  clerks  seemed,  how  sweet  the  women  who  passed  at  his  back  smelled!  On  Fifth  Avenue,  passing  Atlas  with  his  shoulders  bent  under  the  weight  of  the  world,  Francis  thought  of  the  strenuousness  of  contain-  ing  his  physicalness  within  the  patterns  he  had  chosen.  He  did  not  know  when  he  would  see  the  girl  next.  He  had  the  bracelet  in  his  inside  pocket  when  he  got  home.  Open-  ing  the  door  of  his  house,  he  found  her  in  the  hall.  Her  back  was  to  him,  and  she  turned  when  she  heard  the  door  close.  Her  smile  was  open  and  loving.  Her  perfection  stunned  him  like  a  fine  day-a  day  after  a  thunderstorm.  He  seized  her  and  covered  her  lips  with  his,  and  she  struggled  but  shedid  not  have  to  struggle  for  long,  because  just  then  little  Gertrude  Flannery  appeared  from  somewhere  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  Mr.  Weed  ...&quot;  Gertrude  was  a  stray.  She  had  been  born  with  a  taste  for  exploration,  and  she  did  not  have  it  in  her  to  center  her  life  with  her  affectionate  parents.  Peo-  ple  who  did  not  know  the  Flannerys  concluded  from  Gertrude's  behavior  that  she  was  the  child  ofa  bitterly  divid-  ed  family,  where  drunken  quarrels  were  the  rule.  This  was  not  true.  The  fact  that  little  Gertrude's  clothing  was  rag-  ged  and  thin  was  her  own  triumph  over  her  mother's  struggle  to  dress  her  warmly  and  neatly.  Garrulous,  skinny,  and  unwashed,  she  drifted  from  house to  house  around  the  Blenhollow  neigh-  borhood,  forming  and  breaking  alliances  based  on  an  attachment  to  babies,  ani-  mals,  children  her  own  age,  adolescents,  and  sometimes  adults  Opening  your  front  door  in  the  morning,  you  would  find  Gertrude  sitting  on  your  stoop.  Going  into  the  bathroom  to  shave,  you  would  find  Gertrude  using  the  toilet.  Looking  into  your  son's  crib,  you  would  find  it  empty,  and,  looking  further,  you  would  findthat  Gertrude  had  pushed  him  in  his  baby  carriage  into  the  next  village.  She  was  helpful,  pervasive,  hon-  est,  hungry,  and  loyal.  She  never  went  home  of  her  own  choice.  When  the  time  to  go  arrived,  she  was  indifferent  to  allits  signs.  &quot;Go  home,  Gertrude,&quot;  people  could  be  heard  saying  in  one  house  or  another,  night  after  night.  &quot;Go  home,  Gertrude.&quot;  &quot;It's  time  for  you  to  go  home  now,  Gertrude.&quot;  &quot;You  had  better  go  home  and  get  your  sup-  per,  Gertrude.&quot;&quot;I  told  you  to  go  home  twenty  minutes  ago,  Gertrude.&quot;  &quot;Your  mother  will  be  worrying  about  you,  Gertrude.&quot;  &quot;Go  home,  Gertrude,  go  home.&quot;  There  are  times  when  the  lines  " b"around  the  human  eye  seem  like  shelves  of  eroded  stone  and  when  the  staring  eye  itself  strikes  us  with  such  a  wilder-  ness  of  animal  feeling  that  we  are  at  a  loss.  The  look  Francis  gave  the  little  girl  was  ugly  and  queer,  and  it  frightened  her.  He  reached  into  his  pocket-his  hands  were  shaking-and  took  out  a  quarter.  &quot;Go  home,  Ger-  trude,  go  home,  and  don't  tell  anyone,  Gertrude.  Don't-&quot;  He  choked  and  ran  into  the  living  room  as  Julia  called  down  to  him  from  upstairs  to  hurry  and  dress.  The  thought  that  he  would  drive  Anne  Murchison  home  later  that  night  ran  like  a  golden  thread  through  the  events  of  the  party  that  Francis  and  Julia  went  to,  and  he  laughed  uproari-  ously  at  dulljokes,  dried  a  tear  when  Mabel  Mercer  told  him  about  the  death  of  her  kitten,  and  stretched,  yawned,  sighed,  and  grunted  like  any  other  man  with  a  rendezvous  at  the  back  of  his  mind.  'The  bracelet  was  in  his  pocket.  As  he  sat  talking,  the  smell  of  grass  was  in  his  nose,  and  he  was  wondering  where  he  would  park  the  car.  Nobody  lived  in  theold  Parker  mansion,  and  the  driveway  was  used  as  a  lovers'  lane.  Townsend  Street  was  a  dead  end,  and  he  could  park  there,  beyond  the  last  house.  The  old  lane  that  used  to  con-  nect  Elm  Street  to  the  riverbanks  was  overgrown,  but  he  had  walked  there  with  his  children,  and  he  could  drive  his  car  deep  enough  into  the  brushwoods  to  be  concealed.  'The  Weeds  were  the  last  to  leave  the  party,  and  their  host  and  hostess  spoke  of  their  own  married  happiness  while  they  all  four  stood  in  the  hall-  way  saying  good  night,  &quot;She's  my  girl,&quot;  their  host  said,  squeezing  his  wife.  &quot;She's  my  blue  sky.  After  sixteen  years,  I  still  bite  her  shoulders.  She  makes  me  feel  like  [REDACTED]  crossing  the  Alps.&quot;  The  Weeds  drove  home  in  silence.  Francis  brought  the  car  up  the  drive-  way  and  sat  still,  with  the  motor  run-  sth  haar  de  ning.  &quot;You  can  put  the  car  in  the  garage,&quot;  Julia  said  as  she  got  out.  &quot;I  told  the  Murchison  girl  she  could  leave  at  eleven.  Someone  drove  her  home.&quot;  She  shut  the  door,  and  Francis  sat  in  thedark.  He  would  be  spared  noth-  ing  then,  it  seemed,  that  a  fool  was  not  spared:  ravening  lewdness,  jealousy,  this  hurt  to  his  feelings  that  put  tears  in  his  eyes,  even  scorn-for  he  could  see  clearly  the  image  he  now  presented,  his  arms  spread  over  the  steering  wheel  and  his  head  buried  in  them  for  love.  RANCIs  had  been  a  dedicated  Boy  Scout  when  he  was  young,  and,  re-  membering  the  precepts  of  his  youth,  he  left  his  office  early  the  next  afternoon  and  played  some  round-robin  squash,  but,  with  his  body  toned  up  by  exercise  and  a  shower,  he  realized  that  he  might  better  have  stayed  at  his  desk.  It  was  a  frosty  night  when  he  got  home.  The  air  smelled  sharply  of  change.  When  he  stepped  into  the  house,  he  sensed  an  unusual  stir.  The  children  were  in  their  best  clothes,  and  when  Julia  came  down,  she  was  wearing  a  lavender  dress  and  her  diamond  sunburst.  She  ex-  plained  the  stir:  Mr.  Hubber  was  com-  ing  at  seven  to  take  their  photograph  for  the  Christmas  card.  She  had  putout  Francis'blue  suit  and  a  tie  with  some  color  in  it,  because  the  picture  was  go-  ing  to  be  in  color  this  year.  Julia  was  lighthearted  at  the  thought  of  being  photographed  for  Christmas.  It  was  the  kind  of  ceremony  she  enjoyed.  Francis  went  upstairs  to  change  his  clothes.  He  was  tired  from  the  day's  work  and  tired  with  longing,  and  sit-  ting  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  had  the  effect  of  deepening  his  weariness.  He  thought  of  Anne  Murchison,  and  the  physical  need  to  express  himself,  instead  of  being  restrained  by  the  pink  lamps  on  Julia's  dressing  table,  engulfed  him.  He  went  to  Julia's  desk,  took  a  piece  of  writing  paper,  and  began  to  write  on  it.  &quot;Dear  Anne,  I  love  you,  I  love  @  !.     &lt;/     you,  I  love  you  ..  .&quot;  No  one  would  see  the  letter,  and  he  used  no  restraint.  He  used  phrases  like  &quot;heavenly  bliss,&quot;  and  &quot;love  nest.&quot;  He  salivated,  sighed,  and  trembled.  When  Julia  called  him  to  come  down,  the  abyss  between  his  fan-  tasy  and  the  practical  world  opened  so  wide  that  he  felt  it  affect  the  muscles  of  his  heart.  Julia  and  the  children  were  on  the  stoop,  and  the  photographer  and  his  as-  sistant  had  set  up  a  double  battery  of  floodlights  to  show  the  family  and  the  architectural  beauty  of  the  entrance  to  their  house.  People  who  had  come  home  on  a  late  train  slowed  their  cars  to  see  the  Weeds  being  photographed  for  their  Christmas  card.  A  few  waved  and  called  to  the  family.  It  took  half  an  hour  of  smiling  and  wetting  their  lips  before  Mr.  Hubber  was  satisfied.  'The  heat  of  the  lights  made  an  unfresh  smell  in  the  frosty  air,  and  when  they  were  turned  off,  they  lingered  on  the  retina  of  Francis'  eyes.  Later  that  night,  while  Francis  and  Julia  were  drinking  their  coffee  in  the  living  room,  the  doorbell  rang.  Julia  answered  the  door  and  let  in  Clayton  Thomas.  He  had  come  to  pay  her  for  some  theatre  tickets  that  she  had  given  his  mother  some  time  ago,  and  that  [REDACTED]  Thomas  had  scrupulously  insist,  ed  on  paying  for,  though  Julia  had  asked  her  not  to.  Julia  invited  him  in  to  have  a  cup  of  coffee.  &quot;I  won't  have  any  coffee,&quot;  Clayton  said,  &quot;but  I  will  come  in  for  a  minute.&quot;  He  followed  her  in-  to  the  living  room,  said  good  evening  to  Francis,  and  sat  awkwardly  in  a  chair.  Clayton's  father  had  been  killed  in  the  war,  and  the  young  man's  father-  lessness  surrounded  him  like  an  element.  This  may  have  been  conspicuous  in  Shady  Hill  because  the  Thomases  were  the  only  family  that  lacked  a  piece;  all  the  other  marriages  were  intact  and  productive.  Clayton  was  in  his  second  or  third  year  of  college,  and  he  and  his    " b"mother  lived  alone  in  a  large  house,  which  she  hoped  to  sell.  Clayton  had  once  made  some  trouble.  Years  ago,  he  had  stolen  some  money  and  run  away;  he  had  got  to  [REDACTED]  before  they  caught  up  with  him,  He  was  tall  and  homely,  wore  horn-rimmed  glasses,  and  spoke  in  a  deep  voice.  &quot;When  do  yougo  back  to  college,  Clayton?&quot;  Francis  asked.  &quot;I'm  not  going  back,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;Mother  doesn't  have  the  money,  and  there's  no  sense  in  all  this  pretense.  I'm  going  to  get  a  job,  and  if  we  sell  the  house,  we'll  take  an  apartment  in  New  York.&quot;  &quot;Won't  you  miss  Shady  Hill?&quot;  Julia  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;I  don't  like  it.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  Francis  asked.  &quot;Well,  there's  a  lot  here  I  don't  approve  of,&quot;  Clayton  said  gravely.  &quot;'Things  like  the  club  dances.  Last  Sat-  urday  night,  I  looked  in  toward  the  end  and  saw  Mr.  Granner  trying  to  put  Mrs.  Minot  into  the  trophy  case.  They  were  both  drunk.  I  disapprove  of  so  much  drinking.&quot;  &quot;It  was  Saturday  night,&quot;  Francis  said.  &quot;And  all  the  dovecotes  are  phony,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;And  the  way  people  clut-  ter  up  their  lives.  I've  thought  about  it  a  lot,  and  what  seems  to  me  to  be  really  wrong  with  Shady  Hill  is  that  it  doesn't  have  any  future.  So  much  energy  is  spent  in  perpetuating  the  place-in  keeping  out  undesirables,  and  so  forth-that  the  only  ideaof  the  future  anyone  has  is  just  more  and  morecom-  muting  trains  and  more  parties.  I  don't  think  that's  healthy.  I  think  people  ought  to  be  able  to  dream  big  dreams  about  the  future.  I  think  people  ought  to  be  able  to  dream  great  dreams.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  bad  you  couldn't  continue  with  college,&quot;  Julia  said.  &quot;I  wanted  to  go  to  divinity  school,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;What's  your  church?&quot;  Francis  asked.  &quot;Unitarian,  Theosophist,  Tran-  scendentalist,  Humanist,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;Wasn't  Emerson  a  transcendental-  ist?&quot;  Julia  asked.  &quot;I  mean  the  English  transcendental-  ists,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;All  the  American  transcendentalists  were  goops.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  a  job  do  you  expect  to  get?&quot;  Francis  asked.  &quot;Well,  1d  like  to  work  for  a  publish-  er,&quot;  Clayton  said,  &quot;but  everyone  tells  me  there's  nothing  doing.  But  it's  the  kind  of  thing  I'm  interested  in.  I'm  writing  a  long  verse  play  about  good  and  evil.  Uncle  Charlie  might  get  me  into  a  bank,  and  that  would  be  good  for  me.  I  need  the  discipline.  I  have  a  long  way  to  go  in  forming  my  character.  I  have  some  terrible  habits.  I  talk  too  much.  I  think  I  ought  to  take  vows  of  silence.  I  ought  to  try  not  to  speak  for  a  week,  and  discipline  myself.  I've  thought  of  making  aretreat  at  one  of  the  Episcopalian  monasteries,  but  I  don't  like  Trinitarianism.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  any  girl  friends?&quot;  Francis  asked.  &quot;I'm  engaged  to  be  married,&quot;  Clay-  ton  said.  &quot;Of  course,  I'm  not  old  enough  or  rich  enough  to  have  my  en-  gagement  observed  or  respected  or  any-  thing,  but  I  bought  a  simulated  emerald  for  Anne  Murchison  with  the  money  I  made  cutting  lawns  this  summer.  We're  going  to  be  married  as  soon  as  she  fin-  ishes  school.&quot;  Francis  recoiled  at  the  mention  of  the  girl's  name.  Then  a  dingy  light  seemed  to  emanate  from  his  spirit,  showing  everything-Julia,  the  boy,  the  chairs-in  their  true  colorless-  ness.  It  was  like  a  bitter  turn  of  the  weather.  &quot;We're  going  to  have  a  large  fami-  ly,&quot;  Clayton  said.  &quot;Her  father's  a  terrible  rummy,  and  I've  had  my  hard  times,  and  we  want  to  have  lots  of  chil-  dren.  Oh,  she's  wonderful,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Weed,  and  we  have  so  much  in  common.  We  like  all  the  same  things.  We  sent  out  the  same  Christmas  card  last  year  without  planning  it,  and  we  both  have  an  allergy  to  tomatoes,  and  our  eyebrows  grow  together  in  the  mid-  dle.  Well,  good  night.&quot;  Julia  went  to  the  door  with  him.  When  she  returned,  Francis  said  that  Clayton  was  lazy,  irresponsible,  affect-  ed,  and  smelly.  Julia  said  that  Francis  seemed  to  be  getting  intolerant;  the  Thomas  boy  wasyoung  and  should  be  given  a  chance.  Julia  had  noticed  other  cases  where  Francis  had  been  short-  tempered.  &quot;Mrs.  Wrightson  has  asked  everyone  in  Shady  Hill  to  her  anni-  versary  party  but  us,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Julia.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  why  they  didn't  ask  us?&quot;  (lWhy?7\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Because  you  insulted  Mrs.  W  right-  son.&quot;  &quot;Then  you  know  about  it?&quot;  &quot;June  Masterson  told  me.  She  was  standing  behind  you.&quot;  Julia  walked  in  front  of  the  sofa  with  a  small  step  that  expressed,  Francis  knew,  a  feeling  of  anger.  &quot;I  did  insult  Mrs.  Wrightson,  Julia,  and  I  meant  to.  I've  never  liked  her  parties,  and  I'm  glad  she's  dropped  us.&quot;  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;How  does  [REDACTED]  come  into  this?&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Wrightson's  the  one  who  de-  cides  who  goes  to  the  assemblies.&quot;  'You  mean  she  can  keep  [REDACTED]  from  going  to  the  dances?&quot;  (erS.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  hadn't  thought  of  that.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  knew  you  hadn't  thought  of  it,&quot;  Julia  cried,  thrusting  hilt-deep  into  this  chink  of  his  armor.  &quot;And  it  makes  me  furious  to  see  this  kind  of  stupid  thoughtlessness  wreck  everyone's  hap-  piness.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  I've  wrecked  any-  one's  happiness.&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Wrightson  runs  Shady  Hill  " b"and  has  run  it  for  the  last  forty  years.  I  don't  know  what  makes  you  think  that  in  a  community  like  this  you  can  indulge  every  impulse  you  have  to  be  insulting,  vulgar,  and  offensive.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  very  good  manners,&quot;  Fran-  cis  said,  trying  to  give  the  evening  a  turn  toward  the  light.  &quot;Damn  you,  Francis  Weed!&quot;  Julia  cried,  and  the  spit  of  her  words  struck  him  in  the  face.  &quot;I've  worked  hard  for  the  social  position  we  enjoy  in  this  place,  and  I  won't  stand  by  and  see  you  wreck  it.  You  must  have  understood  when  you  settled  here  that  you  couldn't  expect  to  live  like  a  bear  in  a  cave.&quot;  &quot;I've  got  to  express  my  likes  and  dis-  likes.&quot;  &quot;You  can  conceal  your  dislikes.  You  don't  have  to  meet  everything  head-on,  like  a  child.  Unless  you're  anxious  to  be  a  social  leper.  It's  no  accident  that  we  get  asked  out  a  great  deal.  It's  no  acci-  dent  that  [REDACTED]  has  so  many  friends.  How  would  you  like  to  spend  your  Sat-  urday  nights  at  the  movies  How  would  you  like  to  spend  your  Sundays  raking  up  dead  leaves?  How  would  you  like  it  if  your  daughter  spent  the  assembly  nights  sitting  at  her  window,  listening  to  the  music  from  the  club?  How  would  you  like  it-&quot;  He  did  something  then  that  was,  after  all,  not  so  unaccountable,  since  her  words  seemed  to  raise  up  between  them  a  wall  so  deadening  that  he  gagged:  He  struck  her  full  in  the  face.  She  staggered  and  then,  a  moment  later,  seemed  com-  posed.  She  went  up  the  stairs  to  their  room.  She  didn't  slam  the  door.  When  Francis  followed,  a  few  minutes  later,  he  found  her  packing  a  suitcase.  &quot;Julia,  I'm  very  sorry.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter,&quot;  she  said.  She  was  crying.  &quot;Where  do  you  think  you're  going?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  I  just  looked  at  a  timetable.  There's  an  eleven-sixteen  into  New  York.  I'll  take  that.&quot;  You  can't  go,  Julia.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  stay.  I  know  that.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry  about  Mrs.  Wrightson,  Julia,  and  I'm-&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  about  Mrs.  Wrightson.  That  isn't  the  trouble.&quot;  &quot;What  is  the  trouble?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  love  me.&quot;  &quot;Ido  love  you,  Julia.&quot;  &quot;No,  you  don't.&quot;  &quot;Julia,  I  do  love  you,  and  I  would  like  to  be  as  we  were-sweet  and  bawdy  and  dark-but  now  there  are  so  many  people.&quot;  &quot;You  hate  me.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  hate  you,  Julia.&quot;  \xc2\xabYou  have  no  idea  of  how  much  you  hate  me.  I  think  it's  subconscious.  You  don't  realize  the  cruel  things  you've  done.&quot;  &quot;What  cruel  things,  Julia?&quot;  &quot;The  cruel  acts  your  subconscious  drives  you  toin  order  to  express  your  hatred  of  me.&quot;  &quot;What,  Julia?&quot;  &quot;I've  never  complained.&quot;  &quot;Tell  me.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know  what  you're  do-  ing.&quot;  'Tell  me.&quot;  'Your  clothes.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  the  way  you  leave  your  dirty  clothes  around  in  order  to  express  your  subconscious  hatred  of  me.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  your  dirty  socks  and  your  dirty  pajamas  and  your  dirty  underwear  and  your  dirty  shirts!&quot;  She  rose  from  kneeling  by  the  suitcase  and  faced  him,  her  eyes  blazing  and  her  voice  ringing  with  emotion.  &quot;I'm  talking  about  the  fact  that  you've  never  learned  to  hang  up  anything.  You  just  leave  your  clothes  all  over  the  floor  where  they  drop,  in  order  to  humiliate  me.  You  do  it  on  purpose!&quot;  She  fell  on  the  bed,  sobbing.  &quot;Julia,  darling!&quot;  he  said,  but  when  she  felt  his  hand  on  her  shoulder  she  got  up.  &quot;Leave  me  alone,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  have  to  go.&quot;&quot;  She  brushed  past  him  to  the  closet  and  came  back  with  a  dress.  &quot;I'm  not  taking  any  of  the  things  you've  given  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  leaving  my  pearls  and  the  fur  jacket.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Julia!&quot;  Her  figure,  so  helpless  in  its  self-deceptions,  bent  over  the  suit-  case  made  him  nearly  sick  with  pity.  She  did  not  understand  how  desolate  her  life  would  be  without  him.  She  didn't  understand  the  hours  that  work-  ing  women  have  to  keep.  She  didn't  understand  that  most  of  her  friendships  existed  within  the  framework  of  their  marriage,  and  that  without  this  she  would  find  herself  alone.  She  didn't  un-  derstand  about  travel,  about  hotels,  about  money.  &quot;Julia,  I  can't  let  you  go!  What  you  don't  understand,  Julia,  is  that  you've  come  to  be  dependent  on  me.))  She  tossed  her  head  back  and  covered  her  face  with  her  hands.  &quot;Did  you  say  that  I  was  dependent  on  you?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Is  that  what  you  said?  And  who  is  it  that  tells  you  what  time  to  get  up  in  the  morning  and  when  to  go  to  bed  at  night?  Who  is  it  that  prepares  your  meals  and  picks  up  your  dirty  closet  and     invites  your  friends  to  dinner?  If  it  weren't  for  me,  your  neckties  would  be  greasy  and  your  clothing  would  be  full  of  moth  holes.  You  were  alone  when  I  met  you,  Francis  Weed,  and  you'll  be  alone  when  I  leave,.  When  Mother  asked  you  for  a  list  to  send  out  invita-  tions  to  our  wedding,  how  many  names  did  you  have  to  give  her?  Fourteen!&quot;  &quot;Cleveland  wasn't  my  home,  Julia.&quot;  &quot;And  how  many  of  your  friends  came  to  the  church?  Two!&quot;  &quot;Cleveland  wasn't  my  home,  Julia.&quot;  &quot;Since  I'm  not  taking  the  fur  jacket,&quot;  she  said  quietly,  &quot;you'd  better  put  it  back  into  storage.  There's  an  insurance  policy  on  the  pearls  that  comes  due  in  January.  The  name  of  the  laundry  and  the  maid's  telephone  number-all  those  things  are  in  my  desk.  I  hope  you  won't  drink  too  much,  Francis.  I  hope  that  nothing  bad  will  happen  to  you.  If  you  do  get  into  serious  trouble,  you  can  call  me.&quot;  &quot;Oh  my  darling,  I  can't  let  you  go!&quot;  Francis  said.  &quot;I  can't  let  you  go,  Julia!&quot;  He  took  her  in  his  arms.  &quot;I  guess  I'd  better  stay  and  take  care  of  you  for  a  little  while  longer,&quot;  she  said.  RIDING  to  work  in  the  morning,  Francis  saw  the  girl  walk  down  the  aisle  of  the  coach.  He  was  surprised;  he  hadn't  realized  that  the  school  she  went  to  was  in  the  city,  but  she  was  car-  rying  books,  she  seemed  to  be  going  to  school.  His  surprise  delayed  his  reaction,  but  then  he  got  up  clumsily  and  stepped  into  the  aisle.  Several  people  had  come  between  them,  but  he  could  see  her  ahead  of  him,  waiting  for  someone  to  open  thecar  door,  and  then,  as  the  train  swerved,  putting  outher  hand  to  sup-  port  herself  as  she  crossed  the  platform  into  the  next  car.  He  followed  her  through  that  car  and  halfway  through  another  before  calling  her  name-  &quot;Anne!  Anne!&quot;-but  she  didn't  turn.  He  followed  her  into  still  another  car,  and  she  sat  down  in  an  aisle  seat.  Com-  ing  up  to  her,  all  his  feelings  warm  and  bent  in  her  direction,  he  put  his  hand  on  the  back  of  her  seat-even  this  touch  warmed  him-and,  leaning  down  to  speak  to  her,  he  saw  that  it  was  not  Anne.  It  was  an  older  woman  wearing  glasses.  He  went  on  deliberately  into  another  car,  his  face  red  with  embar-  rassment  and  the  much  deeper  feeling  of  having  his  good  sense  challenged;  for  if  he  couldn't  tell  one  person  from  an-  other,  what  evidence  was  there  that  his  life  with  Julia  and  the  children  had  as  much  reality  as  his  dreams  of  iniquity  in  [REDACTED]  or  the  litter,  the  grass  smell,  and  the  cave-shaped  trees  in  Lovers'  Lane.  Late  that  afternoon,  Julia  called  to  " b"remind  Francis  that  they  were  going  out  for  dinner.  A  few  minutes  later,  Trace  Bearden  called.  &quot;Look,  fellar,&quot;  Trace  said.  &quot;I'm  calling  for  Mrs.  Thomas.  You  know?  Clayton,  that  boy  of  hers,  doesn't  seem  able  to  get  a  job,  and  I  wondered  if  you  could  help.  If  you'd  call  Charlie  Bell-I  know  he's  indebted  to  you-and  say  a  good  word  for  the  kid,  I  think  Charlie  would-&quot;  &quot;Trace,  I  hate  to  say  this,&quot;  Francis  said,  &quot;but  I  don't  feel  that  I  can  do  any-  thing  for  that  boy.  The  kid's  worthless.  I  know  it's  a  harsh  thing  to  say,  but  it's  a  fact.  Any  kindness  done  for  him  would  backfire  in  everybody's  face.  He's  just  a  worthless  kid,  Trace,  and  there's  nothing  to  be  done  about  it.  Even  if  we  got  him  a  job,  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  keep  it  for  a  week.  I  know  that  to  be  a  fact.  It's  an  awful  thing,  Trace,  and  I  know  it  is,  but  instead  of  recommending  that  kid,  I'd  feel  obliged  to  warn  people  against  him-people  who  knew  his  father  and  would  naturally  want  tostep  in  and  do  something.  I'd  feel  obliged  to  warn  them.  He's  a  thief  ...&quot;  The  moment  this  conversation  was  finished,  Miss  Rainey  came  in  and  stood  by  his  desk.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  be  able  to  work  for  you  any  more,  Mr.  Weed,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  can  stay  until  the  seventeenth  if  you  need  me,  but  I've  been  offered  a  whirlwind  ofa  job,  and  1'd  like  to  leave  as  soon  as  possible.&quot;  She  went  out,  leaving  him  to  face  alone  the  wickedness  of  what  he  had  done  to  the  Thomas  boy.  His  children  in  their  photograph  laughed  and  laughed,  glazed  with  all  the  bright  col-  ors  of  summer,  and  he  remembered  that  they  had  met  a  bagpiper  on  the  beach  that  day  and  he  had  paid  the  piper  a  dollar  to  play  them  a  battle  song  of  the  Black  Watch.  The  girl  would  be  at  the  house  when  he  got  home.  He  would  spend  another  eve-  ning  among  his  kind  neighbors,  pick-  ing  and  choosing  dead-end  streets,  cart  tracks,  and  the  driveways  of  aban-  doned  houses.  There  was  nothing  to  mitigate  his  feeling-nothing  that  laughter  or  a  game  of  softball  with  the  children  would  change-and,  thinking  back  over  the  plane  crash,  the  Farquar-  sons'  new  maid,  and  Anne  Murchison's  difficulties  with  her  drunken  father,  he  wondered  how  he  could  have  avoided  arriving  at  just  where  he  was.  He  was  in  trouble.  He  had  been  lost  once  in  his  life,  coming  back  from  a  trout  stream  in  the  north  woods,  and  he  had  now  the  same  bleak  realization  that  no  amount  of  cheerfulness  or  hopefulness  or  valor  or  perseverance  could  help  him  find,  in  the  gathering  dark,  the  path  that  he'd  lost.  He  smelled  the  forest.  The  feeling  of  bleakness  was  intolerable,  and  he  saw  clearly  that  he  had  reached  the  point  where  he  would  have  to  make  a  choice.  He  could  go  to  a  psychiatrist,  like  Miss  Rainey;  he  could  go  to  church  and  confess  his  lusts;  he  could  go  to  a  Dan-  ish  massage  parlor  in  the  West  Seventies  that  had  been  recommended  by  a  sales-  man;  he  could  rape  the  girl  or  trust  that  he  would  somehow  be  prevented  from  doing  this;  or  he  could  get  drunk.  It  was  his  life,  his  boat,  and,  like  every  other  man,  he  was  made  to  be  the  father  of  thousands,  and  what  harm  could  there  be  in  a  tryst  that  would  make  them  both  feel  more  kindly  toward  the  world?  This  was  the  wrong  train  of  thought,  " b"and  he  came  back  to  the  first,  the  psy-  chiatrist.  He  had  the  telephone  number  of  Miss  Rainey's  doctor,  and  he  called  and  asked  for  an  immediate  appoint-  ment.  He  was  insistent  with  the  doctor's  secretary-it  was  his  manner  in  busi-  ness-and  when  she  said  that  the  doc-  tor's  schedule  was  full  for  the  next  few  weeks,  Francis  demanded  an  appoint-  ment  that  day  and  was  told  to  come  at  five,  The  psychiatrist's  office  was  in  a  building  that  was  used  mostly  by  doctors  and  dentists,  and  the  hallways  were  filled  with  the  candy  smell  of  mouth-  wash  and  memories  of  pain.  Francis'  character  had  been  formed  upon  a  series  of  private  resolves-resolves  about  cleanliness,  about  going  off  the  high  diving  board  or  repeating  any  other  feat  that  challenged  his  courage,  about  punc-  tuality,  honesty,  and  virtue.  To  abdicate  the  perfect  loneliness  in  which  he  had  made  his  most  vital  decisions  shattered  his  concept  of  character  and  left  him  now  in  a  condition  that  felt  like  shock.  He  was  stupefied.  The  scene  for  his  miserere  mei  Deus  was,  like  the  waiting  room  of  so  many  doctors'  offices,  a  crude  token  gesture  toward  the  sweets  of  domestic  bliss:  a  place  arranged  with  antiques,  coffee  tables,  potted  plants,  and  etchings  of  snow-covered  bridges  and  geese  in  flight,  although  there  were  no  children,  no  marriage  bed,  no  stove,  even,  in  this  travesty  of  a  house,  where  no  one  had  ever  spent  the  night  and  where  the  curtained  windows  looked  straight  onto  a  dark  air  shaft.  Francis  gave  his  name  and  address  to  a  secre-  tary  and  thensaw,  at  the  side  of  the  room,  a  policeman  moving  toward  him.  &quot;Hold  it,  hold  it,&quot;  the  policeman  said.  &quot;Don't  move.  Keep  your  hands  where  they  are.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it's  all  right,  Officer,&quot;  the  secretary  began.  &quot;I  think  it  will  be-&quot;  &quot;Let's  make  sure,&quot;  the  policeman  said,  and  he  began  to  slap  Francis'  clothes,  looking  for  what-pistols,  knives,  an  icepick?  Finding  nothing,  he  went  off,  and  the  secretary  began  a  nervous  apology:  &quot;When  you  called  on  the  telephone,  Mr.  Weed,  you  seemed  very  excited,  and  one  of  the  doctor's  patients  has  been  threatening  his  life,  and  we  have  to  be  careful.  If  you  want  to  go  in  now?&quot;  Francis  pushed  open  a  door  connected  to  an  electrical  chime,  and  in  the  doctor's  lair  sat  down  heavily,  blew  his  nose  into  a  handker-  chief,  searched  in  his  pockets  for  ciga-  rettes,  for  matches,  for  something,  and  said  hoarsely,  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  &quot;I'm  in  love,  Dr.  Herzog.&quot;  IT  is  a  week  or  ten  days  later  in  Shady  Hill.  The  seven-fourteen  has  come  and  gone,  and  here  and  there  dinner  is  finished  and  the  dishes  are  in  the  dish-  washing  machine.  The  village  hangs,  morally  and  economically,  from  a  thread;  but  it  hangs  by  its  thread  in  the  evening  light.  Donald  Goslin  has  begun  to  worry  the  &quot;Moonlight  Sonata&quot;  again.  Marcato  ma  sempre  pianissimo!  He  seems  to  be  wringing  out  a  wet  bath  towel,  but  the  housemaid  does  not  heed  him.  She  is  writing  a  letter  to  Arthur  Godfrey,.  In  the  cellar  of  his  house,  Francis  Weed  is  building  a  coffee  table.  Dr.  Herzog  recommended  woodwork  as  atherapy,  and  Francis  finds  some  true  consolation  in  the  simple  arithmetic  involved  and  in  the  holy  smell  of  new  wood.  Francis  is  happy.  Upstairs,  lit-  tle  Toby  is  crying,  because  he  is  tired.  He  puts  offhis  cowboy  hat,  gloves,  and  fringed  jacket,  unbuckles  the  belt  studded  withgold  and  rubies,  the  silver  bullets  and  holsters,  slips  off  his  suspend-  ers,  his  checked  shirt,  and  Levis,  and  sits  on  the  edge  of  his  bed  to  pull  off  his  high  boots.  Leaving  this  equipment  in  a  heap,  he  goes  to  the  closet  and  takes  his  space  suit  off  a  nail.  It  is  a  struggle  for  him  to  get  into  the  long  tights,  but  he  succeeds.  He  loops  the  magic  cape  over  his  shoulders  and,  climbing  onto  the  footboard  of  his  bed,  he  spreads  his  arms  and  flies  the  short  distance  to  the  floor,  landing  with  a  thump  that  is  audible  to  everyone  in  the  house  but  himself.  &quot;Go  home,  Gertrude,  go  home,&quot;  Mrs.  Masterson  says.  &quot;I  told  you  to  go  home  an  hour  ago,  Gertrude.  It's  way  past  your  suppertime,  and  your  mother  will  be  worried.  Go  home!&quot;  A  door  on  the  Babcocks'  terrace  flies  open,  and  out  comes  Mrs.  Babcock  without  any  clothes  on,  pursued  by  her  naked  hus-  band.  (Their  children  are  away  at  boarding  school,  and  their  terrace  is  screened  by  a  hedge.)  Over  the  terrace  they  go  and  in  at  the  kitchen  door,  as  passionate  and  handsome  a  nymph  and  satyr  as  you  will  find  onany  wall  in  4974616c79.  Cutting  the  last  of  the  roses  in  her  garden,  Julia  hears  old  Mr.  Nixon  shouting  at  the  squirrels  in  his  bird-feed-  ing  station.  &quot;Rapscallions!  Varmits!  Avaunt  and  quit  my  sight!&quot;  A  miser-  able  cat  wanders  into  the  garden,  sunk  in  spiritual  and  physical  discomfort.  Tied  to  its  head  is  a  small  straw  hat-  a  doll's  hat-and  it  is  securely  buttoned  into  a  doll's  dress,  from  the  skirts  of  which  protrudes  its  long,  hairy  tail.  As  it  walks,  it  shakes  its  feet,  as  ifit  had  fallen  into  water.  &quot;Here,  pussy,  pussy,  pussy!&quot;  Julia  calls.  &quot;Here,  pussy,  here,  poor  pussy  !&quot;  But  the  cat  gives  her  a  skeptical  look  and  stumbles  away  in  its  skirts.  The  last  to  come  is  [REDACTED].  He  prances  through  the  tomato  vines,  holding  in  his  generous  mouth  the  remains  of  an  evening  slip-  per.  Then  it  is  dark;  it  is  a  night  where  kings  in  golden  suits  ride  elephants  over  the  mountains. "