 b"FANNY  was  bending  over,  trying  without  much  hope  to  touch  her  toes,  when  the  baby  began  to  cry  again.  Fanny's  eyes,  always  warm  and  luminous,  turned  warmer  and  more  lu-  minous;  at  that  moment,  with  her  back  bent,  arms  hanging  straight  down,  and  her  head  cocked  to  one  side,  she  slid  back  into  her  childhood  and  its  pleasant-  ly  queer  perspectives.  Somehow,  her  mother  had  always  managed  to  be  irri-  tated  when  Fanny  assumed  such  pos-  tures  (of  course,  her  motherhad  been  practically  the  only  person  who  was  im-  pervious  to  her  beauty);  Fanny  could  almost  feel  the  vaguely  desperate  ma-  ternal  hands  pulling  at  the  back  of  her  dress.  &quot;Stand  up,  Fanny.  Stand  up  this  instant.  You're  making  a  spectacle  of  yourself.&quot;  But  that  was  precisely  what  Fanny  had  wanted  to  do;  she  would  look  at  all  the  faces  turned  toward  her,  and  she  would  Zzow  that  she,  Fanny,  was  bending  over  imitating  a  monkey.  She  could  almost  feel  her  tail.  &quot;It's  me,  Mother!&quot;  she'd  say,  delighted  and  sur-  prised,  and  afterward  her  mother  could  go  on  scolding  her  for  hours  without  ever  penetrating  the  wonderful  foli-  age  of  reveries  and  thoughts  that  had  sprung  up  from  her  successful  maneuver.  The  baby's  voice  in  a  series  of  faint  cries  announced  that  hunger,  like  the  tide,  was  coming  in.  \xe2\x80\x9cIf  that  damn  child  doesn't  shut  up,  I'll  strangle  it!&quot;  Fanny  said.  Hardly  a  second  passed  before  she  jerked  up-  right  in  a  spasm  of  guilt.  Oh,  you  are  a  terrible  person,  she  thought,  and  fled  to  the  mirror,  but,  no,  her  face  was  the  same-kind,  gentle,  and  infinitely  calm.  Fanny  leaned  forward  and  touched  the  spot  on  the  mirror  behind  which  her  lovely  lips  so  provokingly  lurked  un-  touchable.  Soon  the  cries  would  be  de-  manding,  but  now  they  were  gentle-  little  invitations  to  her  mother  to  fondle  her,  to  wade  in  the  baby's  need.  Fanny,  refusing  to  give  up  the  mirror,  sighed  because  she  would  never  know  the  pleas-  ure  that  others  had  touching  her  lips.  The  trouble  with  beauty  was  that  one  could  never  enjoy  it  all  by  oneself  in  private,  and  one  couldn't  goon  forever  imitating  a  monkey  in  public,  and  so  what  was  one  to  do?  &quot;Be  an  actress,&quot;  Fanny  crooned,  standing  beside  her  daughter's  crib.  &quot;Be  an  actress,  wee  thing,  and  be  lovely  on  the  stage,  where  it  earns  you  money,&quot;  she  sang,  in  soft  lullaby  tones.  The  baby  bent  its  tiny  six-week-old  body  in  an arch,  and  the  eyes  flashed  open  for  an  instant,  but  the  figure  at  the  edge  of  the  crib  wasn't  bending  down.  &quot;Poor  poverty-stricken  child!&quot;  Fanny  said.  The  baby  began  to  bawl.  Her  pink  hands  grew  purplish  and  knotted  with  tension;  her  wrinkled  eyelids  pressed  into  her  cheek;  her  almost  nonexistent  nose  distended  in  hungry  rage.  &quot;Grow  up  tough,&quot;  Fanny  whispered.  &quot;Grow  up  tough  and  mean.  Learn  to  get  your  own  way.  Cry  harder.  Make  me  pick  you  up.&quot;  She  bent  over  the  crib,  staring  at  her  tiny  daughter,  hardly  breathing,  waiting  for  the  coercive  pow-  er  of-the  other's  life  to  force  her  to  touch  her,  to  calm  her.  But  the  baby  was  sim-  ply  crying  in  space,  in  some  lonely  uni-  verse  where  everyone  is  separated  and  babies  are  allowed  to  cry.  Poor  Fanny  watched,  being  a  Theban-no,  Spar-  tan-woman  staring  at  her  offspring  exposed  on  a  deserted  hill  while  the  moon  watched  and  said  nothing  Fanny  was  waiting  for  a  sign  from  God  or  one  of  the  gods(an)  omen  would  do)  or  a  flash  of  inspiration-  something  mystical,  like  Saint  There-  sa-that  would  tell  her  what  to  do.  The  baby's  very  destiny  was  at  stake.  Surely  a  child  of  hers  would  have  a  destiny-a  bird  that  came  and  watched  over  it,  a  guardian  fairy  with  no  other  duties,  who  lurked  in  the  shadows  until  mid-  night  and  then  carried  the  child  to  Oberon's  palace,  where  the  walls  were  woven  of  vines  and  inlaid  with  grapes  and  ripe  fruit.  .  .  No,  Fanny  thought,  her  large,  square  hands  joined  in  the  peasant's  gesture  of  hopelessness,  she  didn't  want  a  guardian  spirit;  she  want-  ed  to  devote  her  entire  existence  to  the  child.  The  baby  cried  on,  still  in  its  lonely  void  just  before  Genesis,  before  the  earth  is  formed,  where  nothing  has  been  named  yet,  and  there  is  only  the  moth-  er's  face  and  the  mother's  breast,  like  the  sun  and  the  moon.  But  the  crying  was  softer  now,  temporarily  eased  by  the  orbital  warmth  of  another  presence,  and  Fanny  looked  down,  aware  that  she  was  afraid.  Her  hands  moved  upward  and  pressed  against  her  eyes,  but  the  fear  oozed  through,  in  brighter  and  brighter  streams.  Fanny  impulsively  reached  for  the  baby.  But  I  mustn't  pick  it  up  when  I'm  disturbed,  she  thought.  I'll  frighten  it.  Her  hands  lay  twitch-  ing  near  the  crying  baby's  head.  Just  holding  it  will  comfort  me.  Why  can't  I  think?  Tears  streamed  down  Fanny's  face.  She  withdrew  her  hands  from  the  baby's  crib  and  pressed  them  one  into  the  other,  for  warmth.  She  knew  she  was  over-  ~  tired.  Every  three  hours,  all  through  the  " b"day  and  night,  Fanny  nursed  the  baby.  In  bright  light,  her  face  was  gray  with  fatigue,  and  sometimes  parts  of  her  body  would  begin  to  twitch,  as  her  hands  were  doing  now;  sometimes  it  was  her  leg,  and  sometimes  her  shoulder,  and  she  couldn't  control  them.  &quot;But  I  wanted  to  be  a  mother!&quot;  Fanny  cried.  &quot;At  least,  I  think  I  did.&quot;  She  let  herself  sink  wearily  to  the  floor  until  her  face  peered  at  thebaby's  through  the  bars  of  the  crib.  &quot;Baby,  don't  cry.  Moth-  er's  here.  And  you  just  ate.  I  can't  feed  you  again.  I  haven't  enough  milk  yet,  anyway.  Look,  baby,  Mummy's  making  faces  at  you.&quot;  The  baby  cooed  faintly  between  sobs.  &quot;Please  tell  me  you're  crying  just  for  exercise.  Please?  Tell  me  I  haven't  ruined  you.&quot;  There  were  bottles  for  supple-  mentary  feeding  in  the  icebox  downstairs.  You  takethe  bottle  and  loosen  the  cap  so  the  bottle  won't  explode,  and  put  it  in  a  pan  of  water  and  heat  it.  Then  you  test  it  on  your  wrist.  .  .  .  No,  Fanny  thought  grimly,  I  won't.  The  baby  and  I'll  work  it  out  together.  A  voice  in  the  back  of  her  mind  said,  &quot;You're  being  romantic,  Fanny.  You're  being  silly.  Your  baby's  crying,  and  you  think  silly  thoughts  about  motherhood  and  how  you're  going  to  bea  natural  mother.&quot;  The  voice  was  her  husband's.  &quot;That's  not  true,&quot;  Fanny  said  des-  perately.  &quot;I  don't  think  anything.  I  don't  know  how  to  think.  That's  my  whole  problem.&quot;  Once,  her  husband  had  told  her  (they'd  been  lying  side  by  side  in  bed,  looking  out  their  window  at  a  partic-  ularly  large  and  beautiful  moon),  &quot;Darling,  you're  so  absurdly  romantic.  No  one  else  says  'I  belong  to  you'  and  means  it,  the  way  you  do.  Do  you  know  what  I  think?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Fanny  had  said,  with  an  expression  of  hurtbut  secretly  feeling  pleasure  at  being  the  subject  of  the  dis-  cussion.  &quot;When  you  were  little,  you  never  de-  veloped  defenses,  the  way  normal  people  do.  You  were  too  beautiful.  You  never  had  to  save  yourself.  You  could  always  run  to  someone  and  smile  at  them,  and  they'd  love  you-as  I  do.&quot;  &quot;'That's  not  so,&quot;  Fanny  said.  But  she  remembered  how  her  father's  face  had  softened  when  she  clambered  on  his  knee  and  raised  her  pudgy  hands  for  him  to  kiss.  (&quot;Mummy  says  I'm  a  bad  girl.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  you  are,&quot;  her  father  had  said,  but  he  had  laughed.) &quot;I  was  a  very  lonely  child,&quot;  Fanny  said  to  her  husband,  lying  there  in  the  bright  moonlight.  How  pure  it  is,  she  thought;  if  only  I  could  wear  it.  &quot;Fanny,&quot;  her  husband  cried,  &quot;you  only  say  that  because  you  read  it  some-  where!&quot;  Tears  gathered  in  her  eyes,  in  the  moonlight-because  he  was  right,  and  it  was  depressing.  Since  her  husband  hated  her  to  cry,  she  stuffed  her  hand  into  her  mouth  so  he  couldn't  hear  her.  And  then,  because  she  feared  that  he  might  not  understand  that  she  didn't  blame  him  for  anything,  she  bit  her  ring  finger-pressed  her  teeth  as  hard  as  she  could  until  the  skin  broke  and  the  blood  welled  out  warm  and  soothing.  Fanny  layfor  a  moment  savoring  the  pleasure  of  sacrifice,  and  then  she  turned  and  held  out  her  hand  to  her  husband.  &quot;See  how  much  I  love  you.&quot;  &quot;Fanny!&quot;  he  cried  in  exasperation,  but  the  exasperation  disappeared  in  laughter,  and  he  rolled  over  so  she  could  put  her  arms  around  him-she  was  almost  as  big  as  he  was-and  stroke  him  as  one  strokes  a  dog,  until  he  stopped  worrying  and  lay  warm  and  placid  on  her  shoulder.  &quot;I  deserve  you  because  I  put  up  with  you,&quot;  he  murmured.  BUT  he  is  right,  Fanny  thought  now.  I  have  a  bad  character;  I  have  flaws.  The  baby  was  entranced  with  her  faces.  It  reached  out  its  tiny  hand  and  gripped  her  nose.  The  fingernails  were  sharp  and  scratched  at  the  tender  mem-  brane  in  her  nostrils.  Fanny  smiled  and  made  noises  at  the  baby.  Surreptitiously,  with  one  hand,  she  tested  her  breast,  but  there  wasn't  enough  milk.  &quot;Please  don't  cry  any  more,&quot;  Fanny  said.  &quot;''The  milk  is  almost  here.  Just  a  few  more  minutes.&quot;  She  stood  up  and  lifted  the  baby  and  held  it  on  her  shoulder  and  began  to  walk  around  the  room  with  it,  singing  nonsense  songs.  Outside,  the  sky  was  turning  purple  and  the  locust  trees  down  the  block  were  swaying  delicately.  Soon  her  husband  would  come  home  and  tell  her  what  to  do,  persuade  her  to  usethe  bottled  supplement.  Fanny  was  perspir-  ing  gently.  But  the  baby  was  already  ruined,  of  course;  she  didn't  love  it.  It  was  too  much  trouble.  She  didn't  love  anything.  The  baby  was  riding  on  her  shoulder,  a  strange  little  lump  that  " b"made  noises,  that  she  even  hated.  Fanny  began  to  stride  around  the  room,  and  the  song  she  was  singing  suddenly  marched  into  a  menacing  minor  key:  &quot;Lumpen,  lumpen,  little  lumpen  On  my  shoulder  you  are  bumpen  ...&quot;  The  telephone  rang.  The  baby  gave  a  startled  little  leap.  In  sudden  distaste,  Fanny  half  slung,  half  dropped  the  baby  in  its  crib  and  ran  to  the  telephone;  she  was  going  to  talk  to  the  outside  world.  How  wonderful  telephones  were!  She  flew  down  the  steps.  Behind  her,  the  baby  began  to  make  small  noises.  &quot;She's  just  exercising,&quot;  Fanny  said  aloud,  to  the  hall  mirror.  She  picked  up  the  tele-  phone.  &quot;Oh,  it's  you,  Mother.&quot;  Cars  moved  up  and  down  the  street,  the  shadows  were  sliding  eastward,  and  out  of  the  dining-room  window  the  sun  lay  in  the  west,  ripe  and  glowing.  &quot;No,  I'm  not  tired,  Mother.  I  don't  want  you  to  come  over  and  help.  ..  .  Mother,  please.  ...  Yes,  that's  the  baby  cry-  ing.  ...  Mother,  I  don't  want  that  aw-  ful  nurse  back.  ...  I  don't  care  if  my  waist  hasn't  gone  back  to  normal.  I  mean  I  do  care,  but  not  now....  Mother,  I  have  to  go.  ...&quot;  The  baby  was  bawling  again,  and  her  mother  was  in  the  middle  of  an  expostu-  lation,  but  nothing  mattered,  thank  God,  because  her  breasts  were  full.  Dreamily,  not  thinking,  or  even  know-  ing  what  she  was  doing,  she  slipped  the  receiver  on  its  hook.  It  was  important  to  tiptoe,  to  move  very  quietly,  in  order  not  to  spill  the  happiness.  You  have  to  be  happy  when  you  feed  your  baby;  otherwise,  the  milk  is  poisoned  or  some-  thing.  The  crying  had  such  a  needy  sound,  but  how  could  it  be  desperate  or  fright,  ening  when  she  had  her  milk  full  in  her  breasts?  Fanny's  hands  unfolded  into  the  crib,  like  flowers  opening,  and  nes-  tled  the  baby.  Fanny's  sloppy  dress  slith-  ered  on  her  shoulders  as  she  wiggled,  and  finally  it  fell  free.  One  was  supposed  to  wash  the  nipple  with  boiled  water  and  antiseptic  cotton,  but  &quot;After  all,&quot;  Fanny  whispered,  &quot;Mother's  germs  are  nice  germs.&quot;  The  tiny  head  cradled  itself  in  her  hand;  the  tiny  mouth  clutched  the  nipple.  Fanny  giggled  amiably,  aimless-  ly,  and  settled  herself  in  the  rocker  she'd  bought  in  a  junk  shop  for  two  dollars,  over  her  husband's  objections.  The  chair  began  to  move  gently.  The  baby  sucked.  Fanny  smiled  down  at  her  nether  heart  and  said,  &quot;You'll  give  me  back  to  me,  won't  you?  When  you  don't  need  me.&quot;  And  then  she  laughed,  because  her  daughter  looked  so  fierce  clutching  at  the  nipple  and  eating. "