 b"ONE  of  the  most  tradition-bound  O  and  yet  unpredictable  institu-  tions  in  the  world  is  the  Bod-  leian  Library,  at  the  University  of  Oxford.  'The  Bodleian,  repository  of  countless  medieval  manuscripts,  has  managed  to  adjust  itself  with  remark-  able  composure  to  such  startling  innova-  tions  in  library  life  as  the  invention  of  the  printing  press  and  the  widespread  use  of  movable  type,  but  when  it  comes  to  things  like  plumbing,  the  Bodleian,  as  I  shall  try  to  demonstrate,  has  been  de-  cidedly  evasive.  In  1949,  I  was  a  Fulbright  scholar  doing  research  in  theology  at  Oxford,  and  to  be  able  to  use  both  the  books  and  those  mysterious  areas  marked  &quot;For  Readers  Only&quot;  I  had  to  appear  in  anacademic  gown  before  a  high  of-  ficial  whose  identity  I  never  quite  estab-  lished,  armed  with  credentials  from  the  Principal  of  my  college.  When  these  had  been  duly  accepted,  I  signed  an  intricate  statement  of  promises,  in  re-  turn  for  which  I  was  given  reader  privileges  for  one  term.  At  the  end  of  the  term,  eight  weeks  later,  I  had  to  go  through  the  whole  routine  again.  The  promises  themselves  escape  me  now,  save  for  a  couple,  one  of  them  a  pledge  not  to  introduce  firearms  into  the  building.  Soon  after  I  was  accredited,  I  re-  quested  permission  to  sign  a  book  out  overnight,  so  that  I  could  type  out  some  long  paragraphs  in  my  north  Oxford  flat.  (No  typing  in  the  Bodleian,  need-  less  to  say.)  I  was  coldly  asked  to  recall  one  of  my  promises,  which  was  to  use  books  only  within  the  walls  of  the  li-  brary.  Firearms  could  not  go  in,  books  could  not  go  out-a  balanced  arrangement,  I  decided,  that  was  not  without  a  kind  of  stern  realism.  Afterward,  I  learned  just  &quot;Well  then,  lePs  see.  Does  he  have  a  bagpipe?&quot;  how  rigidly  this  rule  was  enforced.  In  the  seventeenth  century,  Charles  I  came  to  Oxford  and  made  it  his  fortified  headquarters  for  three  and  a  half  tem-  pestuous  years.  He  lived  in  Christ  Church,  kept  his  ammunition  in  New  College,  set  up  a  mint  in  New  Inn  Hall,  maintained  a  powder  mill  in  Belfry  Tower,  and  generally  had  things  his  own  way.  But  there  was  one  thing  that  Charles  I  was  \xc2\xbb#ot  able  to  do  in  Oxford.  On  December  30,  1645,  he  requested  permission  to  takea  book  from  the  Bod-  leian  Library.  The  request  was  turned  down.  The  rule  said  no  book  should  leave  the  library,  and,  king  or  no  king,  the  rule  stood.  Charles  I  did  not  press  the  issue.  Neither,  three  hundred  and  four  years  later,  did  I.  We  both  knew  when  we  were  licked.  To  me,  the  most  exciting  section  of  the  Bodleian  was  Duke  Humphrey's  Library,  where  I  did  my  research.  I  came  upon  it  almost  by  accident.  I  en-  teredthe  Bodleian  from  Broad  Street,  and  presently  emerged  intoa  courtyard.  Most  of  the  doorways  opening  off  it  had  Latin  inscriptions  over  them,  and  in  one  of  the  rooms  (&quot;Schola  Medicinae,&quot;  I  believe  the  inscription  said)  there  was  a  huge  pile  of  building  stones,  which  were  being  used  to  refacethe  exterior.  Other  rooms  were  equally  interesting,  but  all  were  barren  of  books.  About  halfway  around  the  courtyard,  I  found  one  door  that  was  unmarked,  and  reasoned  (I  was  getting  used  to  things  by  then  )  tha  this  was  obviously  the  way  to  the  books.  I  opened  the  door,  confronted  a  steep  stairway,  which  I  mounted  for  four  flights  in  a  sheer  act  of  faith,  and  was  rewarded  by  being  brought  to  Duke  Humphrey's  Library,  with  its  painted  ceiling,  ancient  folios,  and  rare  manu-  scripts.  My  project  for  the  next  few  months  was  to  gather  material  out  of  religious  periodicals  dating  from  1896  to  1921.  These  were  very  dusty.  Few  people,  I  discovered,  had  felt  any  compulsion  to  examine  religious  periodicals  between  those  dates.  As  I  zealously  turned  the  pages,  spreading  the  dust  of  half  a  cen-  tury  to  all  corners  of  the  room,  I  am  afraid  I  was  responsible  for  the  unprece-  dented  attacks  of  coughing  and  sneez-  ing  that  disturbed  the  usually  sepulchral  atmosphere.  RATHER  early  on  the  first  day,  my  hands  became  grimy  from  en-  forced  intimacy  with  the  British  Con-  gregationalist,  the  Christian  World  Pulpit,  the  Expository  Times,  and  the  Examiner.  I  decided  they  had  better  be  washed.  I  walked  over  to  the  res-  " b"ervation  desk,  where  two  girls  were  sitting.  &quot;Would  you  please  tell  me,&quot;  I  asked  one  of  them,  in  a  courteous,  intendedly  British,  and  slightly  embarrassed  whis-  per,  &quot;how  to  get  to  the  men's  lavat'ry?&quot;  &quot;I  beg  your  pardon?&quot;  the  girl  replied.  &quot;Where's  the  men's  washroom?&quot;  I  asked,  a  little  louder  this  time  and  with  no  pretense  of  Anglicized  pronuncia-  tion.  She  frowned,  turned  to  the  other  girl,  whispered  to  her,  and  finally  said  to  me,  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  I  was  surprised,  and  even  a  little  an-  noyed.  Surely  answering  such  questions  was  part  of  her  job.  Just  then,  the  man  employed  to  fetch  the  books  for  Readers  appeared  at  the  desk.  I  put  my  problem  to  him.  Could  he  tell  me  where  to  find  the  men's  washroom?  He  could  indeed,  and  pro-  ceeded  to  do  so  in  such  a  loud  voice  as  to  embarrass  me  acutely.  I  was  stand-  ing  with  my  back  to  most  of  the  room,  and  during  his  monologue  I  imagined  curious  heads  peering  around  the  cor-  ners  of  carrels  or  over  the  tops  of  folio  volumes.  &quot;Well,  [REDACTED];  the  man  said,  as  nearly  as  I  can  remember,  &quot;you  take  those  stairs  there,  and  you  go  down  four  flights  to  the  courtyard,  and  then  you  go  across  to  the  other  side  of  the  courtyard,  diagonal-like,  and  you'll  find  a  little  door  marked  Schola  Linguarum  He-  braicae  et  Graecae.'  Just  go  in  that  little  door,  sir,  and  there  it  is.&quot;  After  mumbling  a  word  of  thanks,  I  went  down  the  stairs,  crossed  the  courtyard,  opened  the  door  marked  &quot;Schola  Linguarum  Hebraicae  et  Grae-  cae,&quot;  and  there,  by  George,  it  was.  I  have  since  reflected  that,  however  in-  appropriate  the  label  over  the  door  may  have  been,  the  Schola,  asI  came  to  call  it,  did  indeed  serve  me  well  during  all  the  weeks  that  I  tangled  with  British  church  history,  until  Ifinally  got  to  my  terminal  researchdateof  December,  1921,  and  could  call  it  quits.  In  disclosing  this  information,  I  am  aware  that  I  may  have  betrayed  a  pre-  ciously  guarded  secret,  for  in  all  the  times  I  washed  the  grime  of  twenty-five  to  fifty  years  of  British  religious  periodi-  cals  off  my  hands,  I  never  once  en-  countered  another  person  in  the  &quot;Schola  Linguarum  Hebraicae  et  Graecac&quot;  ex-  cept,  on  one  occasion,  a  plumber,  who  was  repairing  a  leaky  faucet.  I  ques-  tioned  him,  but  he  could  not  help  me  figure  out  why  the  Bodleian  had  hidden  the  light  of  this  concession  to  modernity  under  so  venerable  a  bushel. "