 b"MY  father  was  a  schoolmaster-  a  rather  naysaying  profession.  In  private  life,  he  redressed  the  balance  by  falling  in  with  my  moth-  er's  wishes  whenever  this  did  not  lead  directly  to  crime  or  public  riot.  So  when  she  wanted  a  holiday  cottage  in  Devonshire  which  should  be  weather-  proof,  vicarproof-in  other  words,  so  discouragingly  sequestered  that  only  tradesmen's  vans  would  think  it  worth  their  while  to  approach  it-with  masses  of  hydrangeas,  sheets  of  gentians,  and  rational  cupboards,  he  bought  a  small  rocky  meadow  under  a  shoulder  of  the  moor,  found  a  steady  architect,  and  told  him  to  build  a  cottage  in  accordance  with  my  mother's  notions.  All  this  concern  about  gentians,  cupboards,  and  inaccessibility  was  ancillary  to  my  moth-  er's  prime  notion-to  explore  the  ravish-  ing  novelty  of  doing  without  any  serv-  ants.  Even  in  that  distant  golden  age  there  was  talk  about  the  Simple  Life,  and  similar  aspirations  were  expressed  by  other  ladies  with  their  proper  com-  plements  of  cooks,  housemaids,  butlers,  and  so  forth;  but  for  the  most  part  wist-  fully,  as  they  also  expressed  a  desire  to  live  on  a  South  Sea  island.  My  mother's  aspirations  had  more  bottom  to  them.  At  one  time  in  her  girlhood,  she  had  somehow  penetrated  into  a  kitchen  and  brought  away  the  conviction  that  cook-  ing  is  the  most  succulent  of  human  pleasures.  There,  too,  she  had  discov-  ered  that  the  food  you  eat  out  of  its  saucepan  tastes  infinitely  better  than  ever  it  does  by  the  time  it  has  been  con-  veyed  to  a  dining  room  and  withered  under  a  conversational  host.  So  the  architect  was  told  to  make  an  L-shaped  kitchen.  The  leg  of  the  L  was  the  kitchen  proper,  with  a  backdoor  open-  ing  from  it,  so  that  if  you  wanted  more  coal  or  a  bay  leaf,  you  could  get  it  with-  out  waste  oftime;  the  remainder  was  what  we  should  now  call  a  dining  al-  cove-though  it  was  about  three  times  as  large  as  any  dining  alcove  of  now,  with  a  bow  window,  a  couple  of  dining-  room  portraits,  and  a  whole  series  of  its  own  peculiar  drafts.  The  drafts  manifest-  ed  themselves  immedi-  ately,  for  our  initial  visit  took  place  in  an  Easter  holiday,  when  all  that  you  could  see  of  the  beauties  of  Devon-  shire  was  gigantic  prim-  roses  looming  through  sheets  of  driving  rain.  And  how  odious  it  would  have  been,  my  mother  said,  if  we  had  brought  any  servants-all  catching  colds,  yearning  for  town  diver-  sions,  and  giving  notice.  As  for  the  drafts,  they  would  go  away  as  soon  as  the  chimneys  had  warmed  up,  and  meanwhile  our  food  would  be  so  deli-  ciously  hot  that  we  should  never  give  a  thought  to  them.  We  were  aparty  of  five-my  father,  my  mother,  our  poodle,  myself-at  that  time  with  my  hair  still  down  my  back  and  conspicu-  ously  less  well-groomed  than  the  poo-  dle's-and  one  of  my  father's  young  men.  My  father's  young  men  were  part  of  our  family  landscape.  No  sooner  had  his  pupils  goneon  to  a  university  than  they  were  irresistibly  drawn  to  come  back  on  visits-to  snatch  the  fearful  joy  of  addressing  him  as  Warner  instead  of  calling  him  Sir,  my  mother  opined,  but  also,  perhaps,  because  they  were  more  attached  to  him  than  they  could  realize  while  they  were  under  his  rod  and  staff.  This  particular  young  man  was  called  Philip.  During  our  first  day  in  the  cottage,  he  and  my  father  were  given  over  to  dynamite,  blasting  holes  for  gentians  to  grow  in,  while  my  moth-  er  and  I  arranged  the  larder  and  calmed  the  poodle.  As  for  our  meals,  they  came,  tranquil  and  luxurious,  out  of  a  hamper.  Cooking  would  begin  on  the  morrow,  said  my  mother.  Breakfast  would  be  porridge  with  Devonshire  cream,  fol-  lowed  by  boiled  eggs.  The  reason  she  adduced  for  this  menu  was  that  she  would  be  too  busy  for  anything  really  ambitious.  'The  real  reason,  however,  was  on  the  kitchen  dresser,  in  the  form  of  a  small  hourglass  whose  sands  would  run  just  so  long  as  it  took  to  boil  an  egg.  This  object  had  aroused  her  strong-  est  passions,  and  for  months  she  had  been  longing  to  use  it.  The  porridge  would  have  been  whol-  ly  successful  if  it  had  not  been  forthe  unamalgamability  of  the  Devonshire  cream.  We  did  our  best  to  be  pleased,  however,  and  looked  forward  to  the  eggs.  No  eggs  could  have  looked  more  promising  than  they  did,  quite  dwarfing  the  eggcups,  but  they  were  so  under-  cooked  as  to  be  uneatable.  &quot;I  can't  un-  derstand  it,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;I  never  took  my  eye  off  the  hourglass.&quot;  My  father  muttered  something  about  /e  mystique.  Philip,  a  courteous  guest,  daresayed  that  the  hourglass  was  timed  to  town  eggs-puny  specimens.  I  re-  marked  that  there  was  still  some  cold  tongue,  and  the  poodle  looked  intensely  agreeing.  But  my  mother  was  not  going  to  be  beaten  at  the  starting  post.  She  fastened  on  Philip's  suggestion;  natural-  ly,  Devonshire  eggs  being  so  much  larger  and  fresher  than  town  eggs,  they  would  take  longer  to  boil.  She  would  try  again,  and  this  time  she  would  run  the  hourglass  twice.  She  did  so.  We  ate  toast,  and  watched  the  sands  running  through,  and  it  seemed  a  long  time  to  wait  for  a  boiled  egg.  These  eggs  came  out  like  hot  marble,  but  we  said  they  were  delicious,  and  ate  them  before  my  mother  could  take  them  away.  Lunch  and  dinner  were  triumphs  of  cookery;  so  were  the  grilled  sausages  next  morning.  But  it  was  obvious  that  the  business  of  the  boiled  eggs  was  prey-  ing  on  my  mother's  mind.  She  was  too  proud  not  to  admit  a  failure,  but  she  deeply  disliked  failing.  On  her  next  essay,  she  decided  to  time  the  eggs  by  her  watch,  four  minutes  exactly.  Unfor-  tunately,  our  poodle  as  a  puppy  had  been  terrified  by  a  life-size  advertisement  for  cod-liver  oil,  and  when  the  postman  came  in  wearing  waders  (it  was,  of  course,  still  raining)  the  poodle  thought  the  deep-sea  diver  had  got  off  the  hoard-  ing  and  come  for  him.  In  the  flurry  that  ensued,  my  mother's  attention  was  diverted.  She  lost  her  count  of  time  and  thought  the  flurry  had  takenlonger  than  it  really  had.  The  eggs  were  snatched  from  the  pot,  and  were  undercooked  HAT  afternoon,  my  father  and  Philip  went  out  fishing.  River  trout  would  be  very  nice  for  breakfast,  and  might  distract  my  mother  from  brooding  on  eggs.  So  they  thought,  though  my  father  should  have  known  my  mother's  undistract-  ible  mind,  once  she  had  )  got  her  teeth  into  any-  f  thing.  She  professed  herself  delighted  with  the  trout,  but  qualified  this  by  asking  who  on  earth  would  clean  them.  My  father  said  he  would  clean  them;  and  after  exclaiming,  &quot;Poor  little  things!&quot;  and  stip-  ulating  that  the  clean-  ing  should  be  done  out  " b"of  doors,  she  appeared  to  give  way.  But  by  the  morning  she  had  decided  that  there  is  not  much  staying  power  in  a  trout,  so  the  trout  would  be  followed  by  boiled  eggs;  and  this  time  she  would  make  sure  that  the  water  was  perform-  ing  what  the  cookery  book  called  &quot;a  full  rolling  boil&quot;  before  the  eggs  were  dropped  in.  The  trout  having  been  eat-  en  as  a  species  of  hors  d'oeuvres,  my  mother  secluded  herself  in  a  cloud  of  steam,  we  glued  our  attention  on  our  watches,  and  for  four  minutes  nothing  was  heard  except  a  tumult  of  boiling.  But  whether  these  four  anxious  min-  utes  were  enough  could  not  be  decided,  because  the  water  had  boiled  so  rolling-  ly  that  all  the  shells  had  cracked,  and  the  eggs  had  been  transmagnified  into  a  sort  of  depraved  froth  and  some  pellets.  As  though  her  mind  had  switched  to  higher  things,  my  mother  said  dreamily,  &quot;Do  you  think  we've  got  a  prayer  book?  I  know  we've  got  dozens  at  home,  but  is  there  one  here?&quot;  My  father  thought  not,  and  asked  what  she  wanted  it  for.  &quot;Oh,  just  the  Fifty-first  Psalm.&quot;  &quot;We've  got  a  Bible,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  prayer-book  translation  is  earlier  than  the  Bible  version.  Would  that  matter?&quot;  It     My  mother  considered.  &quot;I  don't  think  so.  At  any  rate,  let's  try  it!&quot;  When  my  father  came  back  with  a  Bible,  he  inquired  with  controlled  curi-  osity,  &quot;Nora,  what  are  we  going  to  try  the  Fifty-first  Psalm  for?&quot;  &quot;Boiling  the  next  lot  of  eggs  by.  I  remembered  last  night,  when  I  was  thinking  about  it,  that  I  had  read  in  some  old  miscellany  book  or  other  that  in  the  days  before  watches,  when  peo-  ple  had  only  those  worthless  hourglasses  to  depend  on,  they  used  a  psalm  for  boil-  ing  eggs-but  I  couldn't  remember  which.  Now  I've  remembered.  It  was  the  Fifty-first,  for  I  thought  at  the  time,  what  a  gloomy  proceeding.&quot;  I  remembered  reading  something  of  this  sort,  too,  and  said  so.  &quot;Am  I  to  read  it  aloud?&quot;  said  my  father,  having  found  the  place  with  dex-  terity,  &quot;or  must  Iintone  it?&quot;  Neither.  I  shall  read  myself.  You'd  make  it  too  majestic,  for  we've  only  got  middle-sized  eggs  left.  You  can  put  them  in,  and  say  'Go.&quot;  And  then  you  must  stand  there,  ready  to  take  them  out  the  moment  Isay  'Amen.'  &quot;  My  father  handed  over  the  Bible,  put  the  eggs  in,  and  said  &quot;Go.&quot;  My  mother  replied  with  &quot;Have  mercy  upon  me,  O  God,  according  to  Thy  loving  kindness:  according  unto  the  multitude  of  Thy  tender  mercies  blot  out  my  transgres-  sions.  Wash  me  throughly  from  mine  iniquity,  and  cleanse  me  from  my  sin.  For  I  acknowledge  my  transgressions:  and  my  sin  is  ever  before  me  ...&quot;  She  was  overhauling  the  seventh  verse  when  there  came  a  knock  on  the  back  door.  Saying  in  a  rapid  parenthesis,  &quot;They're  all  we  have  left,&quot;  my  mother  went  on  reading,  and  after  another  knock  the  postman  opened  the  door.  Philip  fell  on  his  knees.  I  followed  Philip's  exam-  ple.  Without  comment  the  postman  put  down  some  parcels  and  went  away,  shutting  the  door  unobtrusively.  The  eggs  were  the  best  we'd  achieved,  but  even  so  they  were  a  trifle  overcooked.  &quot;I'm  sure  he  thought  it  was  family  prayers,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;Philip  showed  great  presence  of  mind.  For  we  don't  want  the  postman  thinking  that  we  are  maniacs;  he's  unpunctual  enough  as  it  is.&quot;  &quot;He  might  think  it  a  little  odd  that  we  had  eaten  fish  first,&quot;  objected  my  father.  &quot;Not  in  Lent.&quot;  Though  Philip  was  now  addressing  my  father  as  Warner  as  a  mere  matter  of  course,  he  must  have  kept  some  ves-  tiges  of  piety  and  awe,  for  he  shot  a  glance  of  staggered  admiration  toward  my  mother.  She  saw  it.  She  always  saw  such  glances.  But  she  misunderstood  it,  and  thought  he  was  admiring  her  as  a  cook,  not  as  a  casuist.  &quot;'They're  not  per-  fect  yet,&quot;  she  said  with  modest  pride.  &quot;'Not  quite,  perhaps,&quot;  said  Philip.  &quot;But  now  I've  got  a  slight  theory  about  it.  I  believe  that  the  psalm  should  be  read  in  Latin.  These  traditional  customs  go  a  long  way  back;  they  were  part  of  medieval  culture,  and  medieval  culture  was  mainly  monastic.  If  a  monk  were  boiling  eggs  (and  we  know  that  they  ate  them  either  boiled  or  poached;  fried  eggs  for  some  reason  are  Mediterranean),  he  would  time  them  in  Latin.  Or  so  it  seems  to  me.  At  any  rate,  I  do  think  we  ought  to  experiment.  These  things  are  so  intensely  interesting.  So  unless  there  is  anything  more  important  that  I  can  do,  I  shall  go  into  Exeter  and  buy  a  Vulgate.&quot;  IMED  by  the  Vulgate,  the  eggs  came  out  just  as  they  should,  and  we  went  on  boiling  them  in  Latin  until  my  mother  found  that  she  knew  by  nature  when  they  were  ready.  By  then,  I  had  remembered  which  old  miscellany  book  contained  this  precious  advice,  and  had  looked  it  up.  The  time  prescribed  was  &quot;no  longer  than  whiles  you  can  say  the  Miserere  Psalm  very  leisurely.&quot;  The  extract  was  headed,  &quot;How  Long  to  In-  fuse  Tea.  Sir  Kenelm  Digby's  Meth-  od.&quot; "