 b"IN  the  summer,  when  the  Nudd  family  gathered  at  Whitebeach  Camp,  in  the  Adirondacks,  there  was  al-  ways  a  night  when  one  of  them  would  ask,  &quot;Remember  the  day  the  pig  fell  into  the  well?&quot;  Then,  as  if  the  open-  ing  note  of  a  sextet  had  been  sounded,  the  others  would  all  rush  in  to  take  their  familiar  parts,  like  those  families  who  sing  Gilbert  and  Sullivan,  and  the  recital  would  goon  for  an  hour  or  more.  The  perfect  days-and  there  had  been  hundreds  of  them-seemed  to  have  passed  into  their  consciousness  without  a  memory,  and  they  returned  to  this  chronicle  of  small  disasters  as  ifit  were  the  genesis  of  summer.  The  famous  pig  had  belonged  to  Randy  Nudd.  He  had  won  it  at  the  fair  in  Lanchester  and  brought  it  home,  and  he  was  planning  to  build  a  pen  for  it,  but  Pamela  Blaisdell  telephoned,  and  he  put  the  pig  in  the  tool  shed  and  drove  over  to  the  Blaisdell  place  in  the  old  Cadillac.  Russell  Young  was  playing  tennis  with  Esther  Nudd.  An  Irishwom-  an  named  Nora  Quinn  was  the  cook  that  year.  Mrs.  Nudd's  sister,  Aunt  Martha,  had  gone  to  the  village  of  Macabit  to  get  some  cuttings  from  a  friend,  and  Mr.  Nudd  was  planning  to  take  the  launch  across  to  Polett's  Land-  ing  and  bring  her  back  after  lunch.  A  Miss  Coolidge  was  expected  for  dinner  and  the  weekend.  Mrs.  Nudd  had  known  her  at  school  in  [REDACTED]  thirty  years  earlier.  Miss  Coolidge  had  written  Mrs.  Nudd  to  say  that  she  was  staying  with  friends  in  Glens  Falls  and  could  she  pay  a  visit  to  her  old  schoolmate?  Mrs.  Nudd  hardly  remembered  her  and  did  not  care  about  seeing  her  at  all,  but  she  wrote  and  asked  her  for  the  weekend.  Though  it  was  the  middle  of  July,  from  daybreak  a  blustering  north-  west  wind  had  been  upsetting  every-  thing  in  the  house  and  roaring  in  the  trees  like  a  storm.  When  you  got  out  of  the  wind,  if  you  could,  the  sun  was  hot.  In  these  events  of  the  day  the  pig  fell  into  the  well,  there  was  one  other  prin-  cipal  who  was  not  a  member  of  the  fam-  ily-Russell  Young.  Russell's  father  owned  the  hardware  store  in  Macabit,  and  the  Youngs  were  a  respected  native  family.  Mrs.  Young  worked  as  a  clean-  ing  woman  for  a  month  each  spring,  opening  the  summer  houses,  but  her  po-  sition  was  not  menial.  Russell  met  the  Nudds  through  the  boys-Hartley  and  Randall-and  when  he  was  quite   young,  he  began  to  spend  a  lot  of  time  at  their  camp.  He  was  a  year  or  two  older  than  the  Nudd  boys,  and  in  a  way  Mrs.  Nudd  entrusted  the  care  of  her  sons  to  him.  Russell  was  the  same  age  as  Esther  Nudd  and  a  year  younger  than  Joan.  Esther  Nudd,  at  the  beginning  of  this  friendship,  was  a  very  fat  girl.  Joan  was  pretty  and  spent  most  of  her  time  in  front  of  the  mirror.  Esther  and  Joan  adored  Randy  and  gave  him  money  from  their  allowances  to  buy  paint  for  his  boat,  but  otherwise  there  was  not  much  rapport  between  the  sexes.  Hart-  ley  Nudd  was  disgusted  with  his  sisters.  &quot;I  saw  Esther  yesterday  in  the  bath-  house,  naked,&quot;  he  would  tell  anyone,  &quot;and  she's  got  these  big  rolls  of  fat  around  her  stomach  like  I  don't  know  what.  She's  an  awful-looking  thing.  And  Joan  is  dirty.  You  ought  to  see  her  room.  I  don't  see  why  anyone  wants  to  take  a  dirty  person  like  that  to  a  dance.&quot;  But  they  were  all  much  older  than  this  on  the  day  they  liked  to  remember.  Russell  had  graduated  from  the  local  high  school  and  gone  off  to  college  in  [REDACTED],  and  in  the  summer  of  his  fresh-  man  year  he  had  worked  for  the  Nudds,  doing  odd  jobs  around  the  place.  The  fact  that  he  was  paid  a  salary  did  not  change  his  relationship  to  the  family,  and  he  remained  good  friends  with  Ran-  dall  and  Hartley.  In  a  way,  Russell's  character  and  background  seemed  to  be  the  dominant  ones,  and  the  Nudd  boys  returned  to  New  York  imitat-  ing  his  north-country  accent.  On  the  other  hand,  Russell  went  with  the  children  on  all  their  picnics  to  Hewitt's  Point,  he  climbed  the  mountains  and  went  fishing  with  them,  he  went  to  the  square  dances  at  the  Town  Hall  with  them,  and  in  doing  these  things  he  learned  from  the  Nudds  an  interpreta-  tion  of  the  summer  months  that  he  would  not  have  known  as  a  native.  He  hadno  misgivings  about  so  ingenuous  and  pleasing  an  influence,  and  he  drove  with  the  Nudds  over  the  mountain  roads  in  theold  Cadillac,  and  shared  with  them  the  feeling  that  the  clear  light  of  July  and  August  was  imparting  some-  thing  rare  to  all  their  minds  and  careers.  If  the  Nudds  never  referred  to  the  dif-  ference  between  Russell's  social  position  and  theirs,  it  was  because  the  very  real  barriers  that  they  otherwise  observed  had  been  let  down  for  the  summer  months-  because  the  country,  with  the  sky  pour-  ing  its  glare  over  the  mountains  onto  the  lake,  seemed  a  seasonal  paradise  in which  the  strong  and  the  weak,  the  rich  and  the  poor,  lived  together  peaceably.  THE  summer  the  pig  fell  into  the  well  was  also  Esther's  tennis  sum-  mer  and  the  summer  that  she  became  so  thin.  Esther  had  been  very  fat  when  she  entered  college,  but  during  her  freshman  year  she  had  begun  the  ardu-  ous-and,  in  her  case,  successful-  struggle  to  put  on  a  new  appearance  and  a  new  personality.  She  went  on  a  strict  diet,  and  played  twelve  and  fourteen  sets  oftennis  a  day,  and  her  chaste,  athletic,  and  earnest  manner  never  relaxed.  Rus-  sell  was  her  tennis  partner  that  summer.  Mrs.  Nudd  had  offered  Russell  a  job  again  that  summer,  but  instead  he  had  taken  a  job  with  a  dairy  farmer,  deliver-  ing  milk.  The  Nudds  supposed  that  he  wanted  to  be  independent,  and  they  un-  derstood,  for  they  all  had  Russell'sbest  interests  at  heart.  They  took  a  familial  pride  in  the  fact  that  he  had  finished  his  sophomore  year  on  the  Dean's  list.  As  it  turned  out,  the  job  with  the  dairy  farm-  er  changed  nothing.  Russell  was  fin-  ished  with  his  milk  route  at  ten  in  the  morning,  and  he  spent  most  of  the  sum-  mer  playing  tennis  with  Esther.  He  often  stayed  to  supper.  They  were  playing  tennis  that  after-  noon  when  Nora  came  running  through  the  garden  and  told  them  that  the  pig  had  got  out  of  the  tool  house  and  fallen  into  the  well.  Someone  had  left  the  door  of  the  well  shed  open.  Russell  and  Esther  went  over  to  the  well  and  found  the  animal  swimming  in  six  feet  of  water.  Russell  made  a  slipknot  in  a  clothesline  and  began  fishing  for  the  pig.  In  the  meantime,  Mrs.  Nudd  was  waiting  for  Miss  Coolidge  to  arrive,  and  Mr.  Nudd  and  Aunt  Martha  were  coming  back  from  Polett's  Landing  in  the  launch.  There  were  high  waves  on  the  lake,  and  the  boat  rolled,  and  some  sediment  was  dislodged  from  the  gas  tank  and  plugged  the  feed  line.  The  wind  blew  the  disabled  boat  onto  Gull  Rock  and  put  a  hole  in  her  bow.  Mr.  Nudd  and  Aunt  Martha  put  on  life  jackets  and  swam  the  twenty  yards  or  soto  shore.  [REDACTED].  NuUpp's  part  in  the  narration  was  restrained  (Aunt  Martha  was  dead),  and  he  did  not  join  in  until  he  was  asked.  &quot;Was  Aunt  Martha  really  praying?&quot;  Joan  would  ask,  and  he  would  clear  his  throat  to  say-his  man-  ner  was  extremely  dry  and  deliberate-  &quot;She  was  indeed,  Joany.  She  was  saying  the  Lord's  Prayer.  She  had  never,  up  until  then,  been  a  notably  religious  woman,  but  I'm  sure  that  she  could  be  heard  praying  from  the  shore.&quot;  " b"&quot;Was  Aunt  Martha  really  wearing  corsets?&quot;  Joan  would  ask.  &quot;Well,  I  should  say  so,  Joany,&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  would  re-  ply.  &quot;When  she  and  I  came  up  onto  the  porch  where  your  mother  and  Miss  Coolidge  were  having  their  tea,  the  wa-  ter  was  still  pouring  from  our  clothes  in  bucketfuls,  and  Aunt  Martha  had  on  very  little  that  couldn't  be  seen.&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  had  inherited  from  his  fathera  wool  concern,  and  he  always  wore  a  full  woollen  suit,  as  if  he  were  ad-  vertising  the  business.  He  spent  the  whole  summer  in  the  coun-  try  the  year  the  pig  fell  into  the  well-not  because  his  business  was  running  itself  but  because  of  quarrels  with  his  partners.  'There's  no  sense  in  my  going  back  to  New  York  [REDACTED];  he  kept  saying.  &quot;I'll  stay  up  here  until  September  and  give  those  sons  of  bitches  enough  rope  to  hang  themselves.&quot;  The  cupid-  ity  of  his  partners  and  associates  frustrated  Mr.  Nudd.  &quot;You  know,  Charlie  [REDACTED]  doesn't  have  any  principles,&quot;  he  would  sayto  Mrs.  Nudd  des-  perately  and  yet  hopelessly,  as  if  he  did  not  expect  his  wife  to  understand  business,  or  as  if  the  impact  of  cupidity  was  inde-  scribable.  &quot;He  doesn't  have  any  ethics,&quot;  he  would  go  on,  &quot;he  doesn't  have  any  code  of  morals  or  man-  ners,  he  doesn't  have  any  principles,  he  doesn't  think  about  anything  but  mak-  ing  money.&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  seemed  to  un-  derstand.  It  was  her  opinion  that  people  like  that  killed  themselves.  She  had  known  a  man  like  that.  He  had  worked  day  and  night  making  money.  He  ruined  his  partners  and  betrayed  his  friends  and  broke  the  hearts  of  his  sweet  wife  and  adorable  children,  and  then,  after  making  millions  and  millions  of  dollars,  he  went  down  to  his  office  one  Sunday  afternoon  and  jumped  out  of  the  window.  HARTLEY\xe2\x80\x99S  part  in  the  story  about  the  pig  centered  on  a  large  pike  he  had  caught  that  day,  and  Randy  didn't  enter  into  the  narrative  until  close  to  its  end.  Randy  had  been  fired  out  of  college  that  spring.  He  and  six  friends  had  gone  to  a  lecture  on  Social-  ism,  and  one  of  them  had  thrown  a  grapefruit  at  the  speaker.  Randy  and  the  others  refused  to  name  the  man  who  had  thrown  the  grapefruit,  and  they were  all  expelled.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nudd  were  disheartened  by  this,  but  they  were  pleased  with  the  way  Randy  had  be-  haved.  In  the  end,  this  experience  made  Randy  feel  like  a  celebrity  and  increased  his  already  substantial  self-respect.  The  fact  that  he  had  been  expelled  from  col-  lege,  that  he  was  going  to  work  in  Bos-  ton  in  the  fall,  made  him  feel  superior  to  the  others.  The  story  did  not  begin  to  take  on  weight  until  a  year  after  thepig  in-  cident,  and  already  in  this  short  time  alterations  had  been  made  in  its  form.  Esther's  part  changed  in  Russell's  fa-  vor.  She  would  interrupt  the  others  to  praise  Russell.  &quot;You  were  so  wonder-  ful,  Russell.  How  did  you  ever  learn  to  make  a  slipknot?  By  [REDACTED],  if  it  hadn't  been  for  Russell,  I'll  bet  that  pig  would  still  be  in  the  well.&quot;  The  year  before,  Esther  and  Russell  had  kissed  a  few  times,  andhad  decided  that  even  if  they  fell  in  love  they  could  never  marry.  He  would  not  leave  Macabit.  She  could  not  live  there.  They  had  reached  these  conclusions  during  Es-  ther's  tennis  summer,  when  her  kisses,  like  everything  else,  were  earnest  and  chaste.  The  following  summer,  she  seemed  as  anxious  to  lose  her  virginity  as  she  had  been  to  lose  her  corpu-  lence.  Something-Russell  never  knew  what-had  happened  in  the  winter  to  make  her  ashamed  of  her  inexperience.  She  talked  about  sex  when  they  were  alone.  Russell  had  got  the  idea  that  her  chastity  was  of  great  value,  and  he  was  the  one  who  had  to  be  persuaded,  but  then  he  lost  his  head  quickly  and  went  up  the  back  stairs  to  her  room.  After  they  had  become  lovers,  they  continued  to  talk  about  how  they  could  never  marry,  but  the  impermanence  of  their  relation-  ship  did  not  seem  to  matter,  as  if  this,  like  everything  else,  had  been  enlight-  ened  by  the  innocent  and  transitory  sea-  son.  Esther  refused  to  make  love  in  any  place  but  her  own  bed,  but  her  room  was  at  the  back  of  the  house  and  could  be  reached  by  the  kitchen  stairs,  and  Russell  never  had  any  trouble  in  getting  there  without  being  seen.  Like  all  the  other  rooms  of  the  camp,  it  was  " b"unfinished.  The  pine  boards  were  fra-  grant  and  darkened,  a  reproduction  of  a  Degas  and  a  photograph  of  Zermatt  were  tacked  to  the  walls,  the  bed  was  lumpy,  and  on  those  summer  nights,  with  the  June  bugs  making  the  screens  resound,  with  the  heat  of  the  day  still  caught  in  the  boards  of  theold  camp,  with  the  parched  smell  of  her  light-  brown  hair,  with  her  goodness  and  her  slenderness  in  his  arms,  Russell  felt  that  this  happiness  was  inestimable.  They  thought  that  everyone  would  find  out,  and  that  they  were  lost.  Esther  did  not  regret  what  she  had  done,  but  she  didn't  know  how  it  would  end.  They  kept  waiting  for  trouble,  and  when  nothing  happened,  they  were  per-  plexed.  Then  she  decided  one  night  that  everyone  must  know  about  it,  but  that  everyone  understood.  'The  thought  that  her  parents  were  young  enough  at  heart  to  understand  this  passion  as  innocent  and  natural  made  Esther  cry.  &quot;Aren't  they  wonderful  people,  dar-  ling?&quot;  she  asked  Russell.  &quot;Did  you  ever  know  such  wonderful  people.  I  mean  they  were  brought  up  so  strictly,  and  all  of  their  friends  are  terribly  stuffy,  and  isn't  it  wonderful  that  they  un-  derstand?&quot;  Russell  agreed.  His  respect  for  the  Nudds  was  deepened  by  the  thought  that  they  could  overlook  con-  vention  for  something  larger.  But  both  Esther  and  Russell  were  mistaken,  of  course.  No  one  spoke  to  them  about  their  meetings  because  no  one  knew  about  them.  It  never  once  occurred  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nudd  that  anything  like  that  was  going  on.  HE  fall  before,  Joan  had  married  suddenly,  and  gone  out  to  Min-  neapolis  to  live.  'The  marriage  did  not  last.  She  was  in  Reno  by  April,  and  had  her  divorce  in  time  to  return  to  White,  beach  Camp  for  the  summer.  She  was  still  a  pretty  girl,  with  a  long  face  and  fair  hair.  No  one  had  expected  her  to  re-  turn,  and  the  things  in  her  room  had  been  scattered.  She  kept  looking  for  her  pictures  and  her  books,  her  rugs  and  her  chairs.  When  she  joined  the  others  on  the  porch  after  supper,  she  would  ask  a  lot  of  questions.  &quot;Has  any-  one  a  match?&quot;  &quot;Is  there  an  ashtray  over  there?&quot;  &quot;Is  there  any  coffee  left?&quot;  &quot;Are  we  going  to  have  drinks?&quot;  &quot;Is  there  an  extra  pillow  around?&quot;  Hartley  was  the  only  one  to  answer  her  ques-  tions  kindly.  Randy  and  his  wife  were  there  for  two  weeks.  Randy  still  borrowed  money  from  his  sisters.  Pamela  was  a  slight,  dark  girl  who  did  not  get  on  with  Mrs.  Nudd  at  all.  She  had  been  brought  up  in  [REDACTED],  and  Mrs.  Nudd,  who  had  spent  all  her  life  in  [REDACTED],  1  sometimes  thought  that  this  might  account  for  their  dif-  ferences.  &quot;I  want  the  truth,&quot;  Pamela  often  said  to  Mrs.  Nudd,  as  if  she  suspected  her  mother-in-law  of  telling  lies.  &quot;Do  you  think  pink  looks  well  on  me?&quot;  she  would  ask.  &quot;I  want  the  truth.&quot;  She  disap-  proved  of  Mrs.  Nudd's  man-  agement  of  Whitebeach  Camp,  and  on  one  occasion  tried  to  do  something  about  the  waste  that  she  saw  every-  where.  Behind  Mrs.  Nudd's  garden  there  was  a  large  cur-  rant  patch,  which  the  hired  man  mulched  and  pruned  every  year,  although  the  Nudds  disliked  currants  and  never  picked  them.  One  morning,  a  truck  came  up  the  driveway  and  four  men,  strangers,  went  into  thepatch.  The  maid  told  Mrs.  Nudd,  and  she  was  on  the  point  of  asking  Randy  to  drive  the  strangers  away  when  Pamela  came  in  and  ex-  plained  everything.  &quot;The  currants  are  rotting,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;so  I  told  the  man  in  the  grocery  store  that  he  could  pick  them  if  he'd  pay  us  fifteen  cents  a  quart.  I  hate  to  see  waste  .  .  .&quot;  This  incident  troubled  Mrs.  Nudd  and  every-  one  else,  although  they  could  not  have  said  why.  UT  at  its  heart  that  summer  was  like  all  the  others.  Russell  and  &quot;the  children&quot;  went  to  Sherill's  Falls,  where  the  water  is  gold;  they  climbed  Macabit  Mountain;  and  they  went  fish-  ing  at  Bates's  Pond.  Because  these  ex-  cursions  were  yearly,  they  had  begun  to  seem  like  rites.  After  supper,  the  family  would  go  out  onto  the  open  porch.  Often  there  would  be  pink  clouds  in  the  sky.  &quot;I  just  saw  the  cook  throw  out  a  dish  of  caulifiower,&quot;  Pamela  would  say  to  Mrs.  Nudd.  &quot;I'm  not  in  a  position  to  correct  her,  but  I  hate  to  see  waste.  Don't  you?&quot;  Or  Joan  would  ask,  &quot;Has  anyone  seen  my  yel-  low  sweater?  I'm  sure  I  left  it  at  the  bathhouse  but  I've  just  been  down  there  and  I  can't  find  it.  Did  anyone  bring  it  back?  That's  the  second  sweater  I've  lost  this  year.&quot;  Then  for  a  time  no  one  would  speak,  as  if  they  had  all  been  unshackled  by  the  evening  from  the  stern  laws  of  conversation,  and  when  the  talk  began  again  it  would  continue  to  be  trifling;  it  would  involve  the  best  ways  of  calking  a  boat,  or  the  differ-  ence  in  comfort  between  buses  and  trol-  ley  cars,  or  the  shortest  ways  of  driving  into  [REDACTED],  The  darkness  would  come  into  the  soft  air  as  thickly  as  silt.  Then  someone,  speaking  of  the  sky,  would  remind  Mrs.  Nudd  of  how  red  the  sky  had  been  the  night  the  pig  fell  into  the  well.  &quot;You  were  playing  tennis  with  Esther,  weren't  you,  Russell?  That  was  Esther's  tennis  summer.  Didn't  you  win  the  pig  at  the  fair  in  Lanchester,  Randy?  You  won  it  at  one  of  those  things  where  you  throw  baseballs  at  a  target.  You  were  always  such  a  good  athlete.&quot;  The  pig,  they  all  knew,  had  been  won  in  a  raffle,  but  no  one  corrected  Mrs.  Nudd  for  her  slight  alteration  in  the  narrative.  She  had  recently  begun  to  praise  Randy  for  distinctions  that  he  had  never  enjoyed.  This  was  not  con-  scious  on  her  part,  and  she  would  have  been  confused  if  anyone  had  contradict,  ed  her,  but  now  she  would  often  re-  call  how  well  he  had  done  in  German,  how  popular  he  had  been  in  boarding  school,  how  important  he  had  been  to  the  football  team-all  false,  good-heart-  ed  memories  that  seemed  aimed  at  Randy,  as  if  they  might  hearten  him.  &quot;You  were  going  to  build  a  pen  for  the  pig,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  were  always  such  a  good  carpenter.  Remember  that  bookcase  you  built?  Then  Pamela  called  you  up,  and  you  drove  over  there  in  the  old  Cadillac.&quot;  MISS  Coormper  had  arrived  on  that  famous  day  at  four,  they  all  re-  membered.  She  was  a  spinster  from  the  Middle  West  who  made  a  living  as  a  church  soloist.  'There  was  nothing  re-  markable  about  her,  but  she  was,  of  course,  very  different  from  the  easy-  going  family,  and  it  pleased  them  to  think  that  they  excited  her  disapproval.  " b"When  she  had  been  settled,  Mrs.  Nudd  took  her  out  onto  the  porch  and  Nora  Quinn  brought  them  some  tea.  After  Nora  served  the  tea,  she  took  a  bottle  of  Scotch  out  of  the  dining  room  surreptitiously  and  went  up  to  her  attic  and  began  to  drink.  Hartley  returned  from  the  lake  with  his  seven-pound  pike  in  a  pail.  He  put  this  in  the  back  hall  and  joined  his  mother  and  Miss  Coolidge,  attracted  by  the  cookies  on  the  table.  Miss  Coolidge  and  Mrs.  Nudd  were  recalling  school  days  in  [REDACTED]  when  Mr.  Nudd  and  Aunt  Martha,  fully  dressed  and  soaking  wet,  came  up  onto  the  porch  and  were  in-  troduced.  'The  pig  had  drowned  by  this  time,  and  Russell  didn't  get  it  out  of  the  well  until  suppertime.  Hartley  loaned  him  a  razor  and  a  white  shirt,     and  he  stayed  for  supper.  'The  pig  was  not  mentioned  in  front  of  Miss  Coolidge,  but  there  was  a  lot  of  talk  at  the  table  about  how  salty  the  water  tasted.  After  supper,  they  all  went  out  on  the  porch.  Aunt  Martha  had  hung  her  corsets  to  dry  in  her  bedroom  win-  dow,  and  when  she  went  upstairs  to  see  how  they  were  drying,  she  noticed  the  sky  and  called  down  to  the  others  to  look  at  it.  &quot;Look  at  the  sky,  everybody,  look  at  the  sky!&quot;  A  moment  earlier,  the  clouds  had  been  shut;  now  they  be-  gan  to  discharge  worlds  of  fire.  The  glare  that  spread  over  the  lake  was  blinding.  &quot;Oh,  look  at  the  sky,  Nora!&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  called  upstairs  to  the  cook,  but  by  the  time  Nora,  who  was  drunk,  got  to  the  window,  the  illusion  of  fire  had  gone  and  the  clouds  were  dull,  and,  thinking  that  she  might  have  misunderstood  Mrs.  Nudd,  she  went  to  the  head  of  the  stairs  to  ask  if  there  was  some-  thing  they  wanted.  She  fell  down  the  stairs  and  upset  the  pail  with  the  live  pike  in  it.  T  this  point  in  the  story,  Joan  and  Mrs.  Nudd  laughed  until  they  wept.  They  all  laughed  happily  ex-  cept  Pamela,  who  was  waiting  impatiently  for  her  part  in  the  narra-  tive.  It  came  immedi-  ately  after  the  fall  down-  stairs.  Randy  had  stayed  at  the  Blaisdells  for  sup-  per  and  had  returned  to  the  camp  with  Pamela  while  Hartley  and  Rus-  sell  were  trying  to  get  Nora  into  bed.  They  had  news  for  every-  body,  they  said;  they  had  decided  to  get  mar-  ried.  Mrs.  Nudd  had  never  wanted  Randy  to  marry  Pamela,  and  their  news  made  her  sad,  but  she  kissed  Pam-  ela  tenderly  and  went  upstairs  to  get  a  dia-  mond  ring.  &quot;Oh,  it's  beautiful!&quot;  Pamela  said  when  she  was  given  the  ring.  &quot;But  don't  you  need  it?'  Won't  you  miss  it?  Are  you  sure  you  want  me  to  have  it?  Tell  me  the  truth  ...&quot;  Miss  Coolidge,  who  had  been  very  quiet  un-  til  then  and  who  must  have  felt  very  much  a  stranger,  asked  if  she  could  sing.     AL  the  long  discussions  that  Russell  had  had  with  Esther  about  the  im-  permanence  of  their  relationship  did  not  help  him  that  autumn  when  the  Nudds  went  away.  He  missed  the  girl  and  the  summer  nights  in  her  room  pain-  fully.  He  began  to  write  long  letters  to  Esther  when  he  got  back  to  [REDACTED].  He  was  troubled  and  lonely  as  he  had  never  been  before.  Esther  did  not  an-  swer  his  letters,  but  this  did  not  change  the  way  he  felt.  He  decided  that  they  should  become  engaged.  He  would  stay  on  at  college  and  get  a  Master's  degree,  and  with  a  teaching  job  they  could  live  in  some  place  like  [REDACTED].  Esther  did  not  even  answer  his  pro-  " b"posal  of  marriage,  and  in  desperation  Russell  telephoned  her  at  college.  She  was  out.  He  left  a  message  to  call  him  back.  When  she  had  not  called  him  by  the  next  evening,  he  telephoned  her  again,  and  when  he  got  her  this  time,  he  asked  her  to  marry  him.  &quot;I  can't  marry  you,  Russell,&quot;  she  said  impatient-  ly.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  marry  you.&quot;  He  hung  up  miserably  and  was  lovesick  for  a  week.  Then  he  decided  that  Esther's  refusal  was  nother  decision,  that  her  parents  had  forbidden  her  to  marry  him-a  conjecture  that  was  strengthened  when  none  of  the  Nudds  returned  to  Macabit  the  next  summer.  But  Russell  was  mistaken.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nudd  took  Joan  and  Esther  to  Cali-  fornia  that  summer,  not  to  keep  Esther  away  from  Russell  but  because  Mrs.  Nudd  had  received  a  legacy  and  had  decided  to  spend  it  on  the  trip.  Hartley  took  a  job  in  [REDACTED]  at  a  summer  camp.  Randy  and  Pamela-Randy  had  lost  his  job  in  [REDACTED]  and  taken  one  in  Worcester-were  having  a  baby  in  July,  and  so  Whitebeach  Camp  was  not  opened  at  all.  HEN  they  all  came  back.  A  year  later,  on  a  June  day  when  a  horse  van  was  bringing  the  bays  up  to  the  Macabit  Riding  Stable  and  there  were  a  lot  of  motorboats  on  trailers  along  the  road,  the  Nudds  returned.  Hartley  had  a  teaching  job,  so  he  was  there  all  sum-  mer.  Randy  took  two  weeks  without  pay  so  that  he  and  Pamela  and  their  baby  could  be  there  for  a  month.  Joan  had  not  planned  to  come  back;  she  had  gone  into  partnership  with  a  woman  who  owned  a  tearoom  at  Lake  George,  but  she  quarrelled  with  her  partner  early  in  this  venture,  and  in  June  Mr.  Nudd  drove  to  the  lake  and  brought  her  home.  Joan  had  been  to  a  doctor  that  winter  because  she  had  begun  to  suffer  from  depressions,  and  she  talked  freely  about  her  unhappiness.  &quot;You  know,  I  think  the  trouble  with  me,&quot;  she  would  say  at  breakfast,  &quot;is  that  I  was  so  jealous  of  Hartley  when  he  first  went  to  board-  ing  school.  I  could  have  killed  him  when  he  came  home  that  year  for  Christmas,  but  I  repressed  all  of  my  animosity  ..  .&quot;  &quot;Remember  that  nurse,  maid,  O'Brien?&quot;  she  would  ask  at  lunch.  &quot;Well,  I  think  O'Brien  warped  my  whole  outlook  on  sex.  She  used  to  get  undressed  in  the  closet,  and  she  beat  me  once  for  looking  at  myself  in  a  mirror  when  I  didn't  have  any  clothes  on.  I  think  she  warped  my  whole  out-  look  .  ..&quot;  &quot;I  think  the  trouble  with  me  is  that  Grandmother  was  always  so  strict,&quot;  she  would  say  at  dinner.  &quot;I  never  had  the  feeling  that  I  gratified her.  I  mean  I  got  such  bad  marks  at  school,  and  she  always  made  me  feel  so  guilty.  I  think  it's  colored  my  at-  titude  toward  other  women  .  ..&quot;  &quot;You  k43616e616461;  she  would  say  on  the  porch  after  supper,  &quot;I  think  the  whole  turn-  ing  point  in  my  life  was  that  awful  Trenchard  boy  who  showed  me  those  pictures  when  I  was  only  ten  ...&quot;  These  recollections  brought  her  a  mo-  mentary  happiness,  but  half  anhour  later  she  would  be  biting  her  finger-  nails.  Surrounded  all  her  life  by  just  and  kindly  people,  she  was  having  a  hard  time  finding  the  causes  of  her  ir-  resolution,  and,  one  by  one,  she  blamed  the  members  of  her  family,  and  their  friends,  and  the  servants.  Esther  had  married  Tom  Dennison  the  previous  fall,  when  she  returned  from  [REDACTED].  This  match  pleased  everyone  in  the  family.  'Tom  was  pleas-  ant,  industrious,  and  intelligent.  He  had  a  freshman  job  with  a  firm  that  manu-  factured  cash  registers.  His  salary  was  small,  and  he  and  Esther  began  their  marriage  in  a  cold-water  tenement  in  [REDACTED]  Sixties.  Speaking  of  this  ar-  rangement,  people  sometimes  added,  &quot;'That  Esther  Nudd  is  so  courageous!&quot;  When  the  summer  came  around,  Tom  had  only  a  short  vacation,  and  he  and Esther  went  to  Cape  Cod  in  June.  Mr.  and  Mrs,  Nudd  hoped  that  Esther  would  then  come  to  Whitebeach  Camp,  but  Esther  said  no,  she  would  stick  it  out  in  the  city  with  Tom.  She  changed  her  mind  in  August,  and  Mr.  Nudd  drove  to  the  junction  and  met  her  train.  She  would  only  stayfor  ten  days,  she  said,  and  this  would  be  her  last  summer  at  Whitebeach  Camp.  Tom  and  she  were  going  to  buy  a  summer  place  of  their  own  on  Cape  Cod.  When  it  was  time  for  her  to  go,she  telephoned  Tom,  and  he  told  her  to  stay  in  the  country;  the  heat  was  awful.  She  tele-  phoned  him  once  a  week  and  stayed  at  Whitebeach  Camp  until  the  middle  of  September.  Mr.  Nudd  spent  two  or  three  days  of  every  week  that  summer  in  New  York,  flying  down  from  [REDACTED].  For  a  change,  he  was  pleased  with  the  way  his  business  was  going.  He  had  been  made  chairman  of  the  board.  Pamela  had  her  baby  with  her,  and  she  complained  about  the  room  they  were  given.  Once,  Mrs.  Nudd  over-  heard  her  in  the  kitchen,  saying  to  the  cook,  &quot;Things  will  be  very  different  around  here  when  Randy  and  I  run  this  place,  let  me  tell  you  ...&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  spoke  to  her  husband  about  this,  and  they  agreed  to  leave  White-  beach  Camp  to  Hartley.  &quot;That  ham  only  came  to  the  table  once,&quot;  Pamela  would  say,  &quot;and  I  saw  her  dumping  a  dish  of  good  shell  beans  into  the  gar-  bage  last  night.  I'm  not  in  a  position  " b"to  correct  her,  but  I  hate  to  see  waste.  Don't  you?&quot;  Randy  worshipped  his  thin  wife,  and  she  took  full  advantage  of  his  protection.  She  came  out  onto  the  porch  one  evening  when  they  were  drinking  before  din-  ner,  and  sat  down  beside  Mrs.  Nudd.  She  had  the  baby  in  her  arms.  &quot;Do  you  always  have  supper  at  seven,  Granny?&quot;  she  asked.  Yes  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  can't  get  to  the  table  at  seven,&quot;  Pamela  said.  &quot;I  hate  to  be  late  for  meals,  but  I  have  to  think  of  the  baby  first,  don't  I?&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  can't  ask  them  to  hold  dinner,&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  hold  dinner  for  me,&quot;  Pam-  ela  said,  &quot;but  that  little  room  we're  in  is  terribly  hot,  and  we're  having  trou-  ble  getting  Binxey  to  sleep.  Randy  and  I  love  being  here,  and  we  want  to  do  ev-  erything  we  can  to  make  it  easy  for  you  to  have  us  here,  but  I  do  have  to  think  of  Binxey,  and  as  long  as  he  finds  it  hard  to  get  to  sleep,  I  won't  be  able  to  be  on  time  for  meals.  I  hope  you  don't  mind.  I  want  to  know  the  truth.&quot;  &quot;If  you're  late,  it  won't  matter,&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  said.  &quot;That's  a  beautiful  dress,&quot;  Pamela  said,  to  end  the  conversation  pleasantly.  &quot;Is  it  new?&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  dear,&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  said.  &quot;Yes,  it  is  new.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  beautiful  color,&quot;  Pamela  said,  and  she  got  up  to  feel  the  material,  but  some  sudden  movement  made  by  her  or  by  the  baby  in  her  arms  or  by  Mrs.  Nudd  brought  Pamela's  cigarette  against  the  new  dress  and  burned  a  hole  in  it.  Mrs.  Nudd  caught  her  breath,  smiled  awkwardly,  and  said  that  it  didn't  mat-  ter.  &quot;But  it  does  matter!&quot;  Pamela  ex-  claimed.  &quot;I  feel  awfully  about  it.  I  feel  awfully.  It's  all  my  fault,  and  if  you'll  give  me  the  dress  I'll  send  it  to  Worcester  and  have  it  rewoven.  I  know  a  place  in  Worcester  where  they  do  wonderful  reweaving.&quot;  Mrs.  Nudd  said  again  that  it  didn't  matter,  and  tried  to  change  the  subject  by  asking  if  it  hadn't  been  a  beautiful  day.  &quot;I  insist  that  you  let  me  have  it  re-  woven,&quot;  Pamela  said.  &quot;I  want  you  to  take  it  off  after  dinner  and  give  it  to  me.&quot;  Then  she  went  to  the  door  and  turned  and  held  the  baby  up.  &quot;Wave  bye-bye  to  Granny,  Binxey,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Wave  bye-bye,  Binxey  do  it.  Baby  do  it.  Baby  wave  bye-bye  to  Granny.  Binxey  wave  bye-bye.  Wave  bye-bye  to  Granny.  Baby  wave  bye-bye  ..  .&quot;  But  none  of  these  disturbances  changed  the  rites  of  summer.  Hartley  took  the  maid  and  the  cook  to  Mass  at  St.  John's  early  every  Sunday  morning  and  waited  for  them  on  the  front  steps  of  the  feed  store.  Randy  froze  the  ice  cream  at  eleven.  It  seemed  as  if  the  sum-  mer  were  a  continent,  harmonious  and self-sufficient,  with  a  peculiar  range  of  sensation  that  included  the  feel  of  driv-  ing  the  old  Cadillac  barefoot  across  a  bumpy  pasture,  and  the  taste  of  water  that  came  out  of  the  garden  hose  near  the  tennis  court,  and  the  pleasure  of  pulling  on  a  clean  woollen  sweater  in  a  mountain  hut  at  dawn,  and  sitting  on  the  porch  in  the  dark,  conscious  and  yet  not  resentful  of  a  sensation  of  being  caught  up  in  a  web  of  something  as  tan-  gible  and  fragile  as  thread,  and  the  clean  feeling  after  a  long  swim.  HE  Nudds  didn't  ask  Russell  to  Whitebeach  Camp  that  year,  and  they  carried  on  the  narration  without  his  help.  After  his  graduation,  Russell  had  married  Myra  Hewitt,  a  local  girl.  He  had  given  up  his  plans  for  getting  a  Mas-  " b"ter's  degree  when  Esther  refused  to  marry  him.  He  now  worked  for  his  father  in  the  hardware  store.  The  Nudds  saw  him  when  they  bought  a  steak  grill  or  some  fishing  line,  and  they  all  agreed  that  he  looked  poorly.  He  was  pale.  His  clothes,  Esther  noticed,  smelled  of  chicken  feed  and  kerosene.  They  felt  that  by  working  in  a  store  Russell  had  disqualified  himself  as  a  figure  in  their  summers.  This  feeling  was  not  strong,  however,  and  it  was  largely  through  in-  difference  and  the  lackof  time  that  they  did  not  see  him.  But  the  next  summer  they  came  to  hate  Russell;  theytook  Russell  off  their  list.  Late  that  next  spring,  Russell  and  his  father-in-law  had  begun  to  cut  and  sell  the  timber  on  Hewitt's  Point  and  to  slash  a  three-acre  clearing  along  the  lake  front  in  preparation  for  a  large  tourist,  camp  development,  to  be  called  Young's  Bungalow  City.  Hewitt's  Point  was  across  the  lake  and  three  miles  to  the  south  of  Whitebeach  Camp,  and  the  de-  velopment  would  not  affect  the  Nudds'  property,  but  Hewitt's  Point  was  the  place  where  they  had  always  gone  for  their  picnics,  and  they  did  not  like  to  see  the  grove  cut  and  replaced  with  tourist  hutches.  They  were  all  bitterly  disap-  pointed  in  Russell.  They  had  thought  of  him  as  a  native  who  loved  his  hills.  They  had  expected  him,  as  a  kind  of  foster  son,  to  share  their  summery  lackof  interest  in  money,  and  it  was  a  double  blow  to  have  him  appear  mercenary  and  to  have  the  subject  of  his  transactions  the  grove  on  Hewitt's  Point,  where  they  had  en-  joyed  so  many  innocent  picnics.  But  it  is  the  custom  of  that  country  to  leave  the  beautiesof  nature  to  women  and  ministers.  The  village  of  Macabit  stands  on  some  high  land  above  a  pass  and  looks  into  the  mountains  of  the  north  country.  The  lake  is  the  floor  of  this  pass,  and  on  all  but  the  hottest  morn-  ings  clouds  lie  below  the  front  steps  of  the  feed  store  and  the  porch  of  the  Fed-  erated  Church.  The  weather  in  the  pass  is  characterized  by  what  is  known  on  the  coast  as  a  sea  turn.  Across  the  heart  of  a  hot,  still  day  will  be  drawn  a  shadow  as  deep  as  velvet,  and  a  bitter  rain  will  ex-  tinguish  the  mountains;  but  this  con-  tinuous  displacement  of  light  and  dark,  the  thunder  and  the  sunsets,  the  conical  lights  that  sometimes  end  a  storm  and  that  have  been  linked  by  religious  artists  to  Godly  intercession,  have  only  accen-  tuated  the  indifference  of  the  secular  male  to  his  environment.  When  the  Nudds  passed  Russell  on  the  road  with-  out  waving  to  him,  he  didn't  know  what  he  had  done  that  was  wrong.  That  year,  Esther  left  in  September.  She  and  her  husband  had  moved  to  a  suburb,  but  they  had  not  been  able  to  swing  the  house  on  Cape  Cod,  and  she  had  spent  most  ofthe  summer  at  White-  beach  Camp  without  him.  Joan,  who  was  going  to  take  a  secretarial  course,  went  back  to  New  York  with  her  sister.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nudd  stayed  on  until  the  first  of  November.  Mr.  Nudd  had  been  deceived  about  his  success  in  business.  His  position  as  chairman  of  the  board,  he  discovered  much  too  late,  amounted  to  retirement  with  a  small  pension.  There  was  no  reason  for  him  to  go  back,  and  he  and  Mrs.  Nudd  spent  the  fall  taking  long  walks  in  the  woods.  Gaso-  line  rationing  had  made  that  summer  a  trying  one,  and  when  they  closed  the  house,  they  felt  that  it  would  be  a  long  time  before  they  opened  it  again.  Short-  ages  of  building  materials  had  stopped  construction  on  Young's  Bungalow  City.  After  the  trees  had  been  cut  and  the  concrete  posts  set  for  twenty-five  tourist  cabins,  Russell  hadn't  been  able  to  get  nails  or  lumber  or  roofing  to  build  with.  WHEN  the  war  was  over,  the  Nudds  returned  to  Whitebeach  Camp  for  their  summers.  They  had  all  been  active  in  the  war  effort;  Mrs.  Nudd  had  worked  for  the  Red  Cross,  Mr.  Nudd  had  been  a  hospital  orderly,  Randy  had  been  a  mess  officer  in  [REDACTED],  Esther's  husband  had  been  a  lieutenant  in  Europe,  and  Joan  had  gone  to  Africa  with  the  Red  Cross,  but  she  had  quarrelled  with  her  superior,  " b"and  had  hastily  been  sent  home  on  a  troopship.  But  their  memories  of  the  war  were  less  lasting  than  most  memo-  ries,  and,  except  for  Hartley's  death  (Hartley  had  drowned  in  the  [REDACTED]),  it  was  easily  forgotten.  Now  Randy  took  the  cook  and  the  maid  to  Mass  at  St.  John's  early  on  Sunday  morning.  They  played  tennis  at  eleven,  went  swimming  at  three,  drank  gin  at  six.  &quot;'The  children'&quot;-lacking  Hartley  and  Russell-went  to  Sherill's  Falls,  climbed  Macabit  Mountain,  fished  in  Bates's  Pond,  and  drove  the  old  Cadil-  lac  barefoot  across  the  pasture.  The  new  vicar  of  the  Episcopal  chapel  in  Macabit  called  on  the  Nudds  the  first  summer  after  the  war  and  asked  them  why  they  hadn't  had  services  read  for  Hartley.  They  couldn't  say.  The  vicar  pressed  the  point.  Some  nights  later,  Mrs.  Nudd  dreamed  that  she  saw  Hartley  as  a  discontented  figure.  The  vicar  stopped  her  on  the  street  later  in  the  week,  and  spoke  to  her  again  about  a  memorial  service,  and  this  time  she  agreed  to  it.  Russell  was  the  only  per-  son  in  Macabit  she  thought  she  should  invite.  Russell  had  also  been  in  the  Pa-  cific.  When  he  returned  to  Macabit,  he  went  back  to  work  in  the  hardware  store.  The  land  on  Hewitt's  Point  had  been  sold  to  real-estate  developers,  who  were  now  putting  up  one-  and  two-  room  summer  cottages.  The  prayers  for  Hartley  were  read  '  on  a  hot  day  at  the  end  of  the  sea-  son,  three  years  after  he  had  drowned.  To  the  relatively  simple  service,  the  vicar  added  a  verse  about  death  at  sea.  Mrs.  Nudd  derived  no  comfort  what-  ever  from  the  reading  of  the  prayers.  She  had  no  more  faith  in  the  power  of  God  than  she  had  in  the  magic  of  the  evening  star.  Nothing  was  accomplished  by  the  service,  so  far  as  she  was  con-  cerned.  When  it  was  over,  Mr.  Nudd  took  her  arm,  and  the  elderly  couple  started  for  the  vestry.  Mrs.  Nudd  saw  Russell  waiting  to  speak  to  her  outside  the  church,  and  thought:  Why  did  it  have  to  be  Hartley?  Why  not  Russell?  She  had  not  seen  him  for  years.  He  was  wearing  a  suit  that  was  too  small  for  him.  His  face  was  red.  In  her  shame  at  having  wished  a  living  man  dead  (for  she  had  never  experienced  malevolence  or  bitterness  with-  out  hurrying  to  cover  it  with  love,  and,  among  her  friends  and  her  family,  those  who  re-  ceived  her  warmest  generosity  were  those  who  excited  her  im-  patience  and  her  shame),  she  went  to  Russell  impulsively  and  took  his  hand.  Her  face  shone  with  tears.  &quot;Oh,  it  was  so  good  of  you  to  come;  you  were  one  of  his  best  friends.  We've  missed  you,  Russell.  Come  see  us.  Can  you  come  tomorrow?  We're  leaving  on  Sat-  urday.  Come  for  supper.  It  will  make  it  seem  like  old  times.  Come  for  supper.  We  can't  ask  Myra  and  the  children  because  we  don't  have  a  maid  this  year,  but  we'd  love  to  see  you.  Please  come.&quot;  Russell  said  that  he  would.  The  next  day  was  windy  and  clear,  with  a  heartening  lightness,  a  multiplic-  ity  of  changes  in  its  moods  and  its  lights-a  day  that  belonged  half  to  sum-  mer,  half  to  autumn,  precisely  like  the  day  when  the  pig  had  drowned.  After  lunch,  Mrs.  Nudd  and  Pamela  went  to  an  auction.  The  two  women  had  reached  a  reasonable  truce,  although  Pamela  still  interfered  in  the  kitchen  and  looked  on  Whitebeach  Camp  im-  patiently  as  her  just  inheritance.  Randy,  with  the  best  will  in  the  world,  had  be-  gun  to  find  his  wife's  body  meagre  and  familiar,  his  desires  as  keen  as  ever,  and  so  he  had  been  unfaithful  to  her  once  or  twice.  'There  had  been  accusations,  a  confession,  and  a  reconciliation,  and  Pamela  liked  to  talk  all  this  overwith  Mrs.  Nudd,  searching,  as  she  said,  for  &quot;the  truth&quot;  about  men.  Randy  had  been  left  with  the  children  that  afternoon  and  had  taken  them  to  the  beach.  He  was  a  loving  but  impatient  father,  and  from  the  house  he  could  be  heard  scolding  Binxey.  &quot;When  I  speak  to  you,  Binxey,  I  don't  speak  to  you  be-  cause  I  want  to  hear  the  sound  of  my  own  voice,  I  speak  to  you  because  I  want  you  to  do  what  I  say!&quot;  As  Mrs.  Nudd  had  told  Russell,  they  had  no  maid  that  summer.  Esther  was  doing  the  house-  work.  Whenever  anyone  suggested  getting  a  cleaning  woman,  Esther  would  say,  &quot;We  can't  afford  aclean-  ing  woman,  and  anyhow  I  don't  have  anything  to  do.  I  don't  mind  doing  the  housework,  only  I  just  wish  you  all  would  remember  not  to  track  sand  into  the  living  room  ...&quot;  Esther's  husband  had  spent  his  vacation  at  Whitebeach  Camp,  but  he  had  returned  to  work  long  since.  Mr.  Nudd  was  sitting  on  the  porch  in  the  hot  sun  that  afternoon  when  Joan  came  out  to  him  with  a  letter  in  her  hand,  She  smiled  uneasily  and  began  to  speak  in  an  affected  singsong  that  al-  ways  irritated  her  father.  &quot;I've  decided  that  I  won't  drive  down  with  you  to-  morrow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I've  decided  that  I'll  stay  here  for  a  little  while  longer,  Daddy.  After  all,  there's  nothing  for  me  to  do  in  New  York.  I  have  no  reason  to  go  down,  have  I?  I  wrote  to  Helen  Parker,  and  she's  going  to  come  up  and  stay  with  me,  so  that  I  won't  be  alone.  I  have  her  letter  righthere.  She  says  that  she'd  like  to  come.  I  thought  we  would  stay  here  until  Christmas.  I've  never  been  here  in  the  winter  before  in  all  these  years.  We're  going  to  write  a  book  for  children,  Helen  and  I.  She's  going  to  draw  the  pictures,  andI'm  going  to  write  the  story.  Her  brother  knows  a  publisher,  and  he  said-&quot;  &quot;Joan,  dear,  you  can't  stay  here  in  the  winter.&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  spoke  gently.  &quot;Oh,  yes  I  can,  yes  I  can,  Daddy,&quot;  Joan  said.  &quot;Helen  understands  that  it  isn't  comfortable.  I've  written  her  all  about  that.  We're  willing  to  rough  it.  We  can  get  our  own  groceries  in  Macabit.  We'll  take  turns  walking  into  the  village.  I'm  going  to  buy  some  firewood  and  a  lot  of  canned  goods  and  some-&quot;  &quot;But  Joan,  dear,  this  house  wasn't  built  to  be  lived  in  dur-  ing  the  winter.  The  walls  are  thin.  The  water  will  be  turned  off.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  we  don't  care  about  the  water-we'll  get  our  water  out  of  the  lake.&quot;  &quot;Now,  Joan,  dear,  listen  to  me,&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  said  firmly.  &quot;You  cannot  stay  here  in  the  winter.  You  would  last  about  a  week.  I  would  have  to  come  up  here  and  get  you,  and  I  don't  want  to  close  this  house  twice.&quot;  He  had  spoken  with  an  edge  of  impatience,  but  now  reason  and  affection  surged  " b"into  his  voice.  &quot;Think  of  how  it  would  be,  dear,  with  no  heat  and  no  water  and  none  of  your  family.&quot;  &quot;Daddy,  I  want  to  stay!&quot;  Joan  cried.  &quot;I  want  to  stay!  Please  let  me  stay!  I've  planned  it  for  so  long.&quot;  &quot;You're  being  ridiculous,  Joan,&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  cut  in.  &quot;This  is  a  summer  house.&quot;  &quot;But  Daddy,I'm  not  asking  very  much!&quot;  Joan  cried.  &quot;I'm  not  a  child  any  more.  I'm  nearly  forty  years  old.  I've  never  asked  you  for  any-  thing.  You've  always  been  so  strict.  You  never  let  me  do  what  I  want.&quot;  &quot;Joan,  dear,  please  try  to  be  reasonable,  please  at  least  try  to  be  reasonable,  pleasetry  and  imagine-&quot;  &quot;Esther  got  everything  she  wanted.  She  went  to  Europe  twice;  she  had  that  car  in  col-  lege;  she  had  that  fur  coat.&quot;  Suddenly,  Joan  got  down  on  her  knees,  and  then  sat  on  the  floor.  The  move-  ment  was  ugly,  and  it  was  meant  to  en-  rage  her  father.  &quot;I  want  to  stay,  I  want  to  stay,  I  want  to  stay,  I  want  to  stay!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Joan,  you're  acting  like  a  child!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;Get  up.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  act  like  a  child!&quot;  she  screamed.  &quot;I  want  to  act  like  a  child  for  a  little  while!  Is  there  anything  so  terrible  about  wanting  to  act  like  a  child  for  a  little  while?  I  don't  have  any  joy  in  my  life  any  more.  When  I'm  unhappy,  I  try  to  remember  a  time  when  I  was  happy,  but  I  can't  remember  a  time  any  more.&quot;  &quot;Joan,  get  up.  Get  upon  your  feet.  Get  upon  your  two  feet.&quot;  &quot;I  can't,  I  can't,  I  can't,&quot;  she  sobbed.  &quot;It  hurts  me  to  stand  up-it  hurts  my  legs.))  &quot;Get  up,  Joan.&quot;  He  stooped  down,  and  it  was  an  effort  for  the  old  man  to  raise  his  daughter  to  her  feet.  &quot;Oh,  my  baby,  oh,  my  poor  baby!&quot;  he  said,  and  he  put  his  arm  around  her,  &quot;Come  into  the  bathroom,  and  I'll  wash  your  face,  you  poor  baby.&quot;  She  let  him  wash  her  face,  and  then  they  had  a  drink  and  sat  down  to  a  game  of  checkers.  RUSSELL  got  to  Whitebeach  Camp  at  halfpast  six,  and  they  drank  some  gin  on  the  porch.  The  liquor  made  him  garrulous,  and  he  began  to  talk  about  his  war  experiences,  but  the  atmosphere  was  elastic  and  forgiving,  and  he  knew  that  nothing  he  did  there  that  night  would  be  considered  wrong.  They  went  outside  again  after  supper,  although  it  was  cool.  The  clouds  had  not  colored.  In  the  glancing  light,  the  hillside  shone  like  a  bolt  of  velvet.  Mrs.  Nudd  cov-  ered  her  legs  with  a  blanket  and  looked     at  the  scene.  It  was  the  most  enduring  pleasureof  these  years.  There  had  been  the  boom,  the  crash,  the  depression,  the  recession,  the  malaise  of  imminent  war,  the  war  itself,  the  boom,  the  inflation,  the  recession,  the  slump,  and  now  there  was  the  malaise  again,  but  none  of  this  had  changed  astone  or  a  leaf  in  the  view  she  saw  from  her  porch.  &quot;You  know,  I'm  thirty-seven  years  old,&quot;  Randy  said.  He  spoke  importantly,  as  if  the  passage  of  time  over  his  head  was  singular,  interest-  ing,  and  a  dirty  trick.  He  cleaned  his  teeth  with  his  tongue.  &quot;If  I'd  gone  back  to  [REDACTED]  for  my  reunion  this  year,  it  would  have  been  my  fifteenth.&quot;  &quot;'That's  nothing,&quot;  said.  &quot;Did  you  know  that  the  Teeters  have  bought  the  old  [REDACTED]  place?&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  asked.  &quot;There's  a  man  who  made  a  fortune  in  the  war.&quot;  He  stood,  turned  the  chair  he  was  sitting  in  upside  down,  and  pounded  at  the  legs  with  his  fist.  His  cigarette  was  wet.  When  he  sat  down  again,  the  long  ash  spilled  onto  his  vest.  &quot;Do  I  look  thirty-seven?&quot;  Randy  asked.  &quot;Do  you  know  that  you've  men-  tioned  the  fact  that  you're  thirty-seven  eight  times  today?&quot;  Esther  said.  &quot;I've  counted  them.&quot;  &quot;How  much  does  it  cost  to  go  to  Eu-  rope  in  an  airplane?&quot;  Mr.  Nudd  asked.  The  conversation  went  from  ocean  fares  to  whether  it  was  pleasanter  to  come  into  a  strange  city  in  the  morning  or  the  evening.  Then  they  recalled  odd  names  among  the  guests  who  had  been  at  Whitebeach  Camp;  there  had  been  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Peppercorn,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Starkweather,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Freestone,  the  Bloods,  the  Mudds,  and  the  Parsleys.  That  latein  the  season,  the  light  went  quickly.  It  was  sunny  one  minute  and  dark  the  next.  Macabit  and  its  mountain  range  were  canted  against  the  after-  glow,  and  for  a  while  it  seemed  un-  imaginable  that  anything  could  lie  be-  yond  the  mountains,  that  this  was  not  the  end  ofthe  world.  The  wall  of  pure  and  brassy  light  seemed  to  beat  up  from  infinity.  Then  the  stars  came  out,  the  earth  rumbled  downward,  the  illusion  of  an  abyss  was  lost.  Mrs.  Nudd  looked  around  her,  and  the  time  and  the  place  seemed  strangely  important.  This  is  not  an  imitation,  she  thought,  this  is  not  the  product  of  custom,  this  is  the  unique  place,  the  unique  air,  where  my  children  have  spent  the  best  of  themselves.  The  realization  that  none  of  them  had  done  Esther  well  made  her  sink  back  in  her  chair.  She  squinted  the  tears  out  of  her  eyes.  What  had  made  the  summer  always  an  island,  she  thought;  what  had  made  it  such  a  small  island?  What  mistakes  had  they  made?  What  had  they  done  wrong?  They  had  loved  their  neigh-  bors,  respected  the  force  of  modesty,  held  honor  above  gain.  Then  where  had  they  lost  their  competence,  their  free-  dom,  their  greatness?  Why  should  these  good  and  gentle  people  who  sur-  rounded  her  seem  like  the  figures  in  a  tragedy?  &quot;Remember  the  day  thepig  fell  into  the  well?&quot;  sheasked.  The  sky  was  dis-  colored.  Below  the  black  mountains,  the  lake  rana  rough  and  deadly  gray.  ''Weren't  you  playing  tennis  with  Esther,  Russell?  That  was  Esther's  ten-  nis  summer.  Didn't  you  win  the  pig  at  the  fair  in  Lanchester,  Randy?  You  won  it  at  one  of  those  things  where  you  throw  baseballs  at  a  target.  You  were  always  such  a  good  athlete.&quot;  They  all  waited  graciously  for  their  turn.  They  recalled  the  drowned  pig,  the  launch  on  Gull  Rock,  Aunt  Martha's  corsets  hanging  in  the  win-  dow,  the  fire  in  the  clouds,  and  the  blus-  tering  northwest  wind.  'They  laughed  helplessly  at  the  place  where  Nora  fell  down  the  stairs.  Pamela  cut  in  to  recall  the  announcement  of  her  engagement.  After  this,  they  recalled  how  Miss  Coo-  lidge  hadgone  upstairs  and  returned  with  a  briefcase  full  of  music,  and,  standing  by  the  open  door,  so  thatshe  could  getthe  light,  had  performed  the  standard  repertoire  of  the  rural  Protestant  Church.  She  had  sung  for  more  than  an  hour.  They  couldn't  stop  her.  During  her  recital,  Esther  and  Rus-  sell  left  the  porch  and  went  up  to  the  field  to  bury  the  drowned  pig.  It  was  cool.  Esther  held  a  lantern  while  Rus-  sell  dug  the  grave.  They  had  decided  then  that  even  if  they  were  in  love  they  could  never  marry,  because  he  wouldn't  leave  Macabit  and  she  would  never  live  there.  When  they  got  back  to  the  porch,  Miss  Coolidge  was  singing  her  last  selec-  tion,  and  then  Russell  left  and  they  all  went  to  bed.  The  story  restored  Mrs.  Nudd  and  made  her  feel  that  all  was  well.  It  had  exhilaratedthe  rest,  and,  talking  loudly  and  laughing,  they  went  into  the  house,  Mr.  Nudd  lighted  a  fire  and  sat  down  to  play  checkers  with  Joan.  Mrs.  Nudd  passed  a  box  of  stale  candy.  It  had  be-  gun  to  blow  outside,  and  the  house  creaked  gently,  like  a  hull  when  the  wind  takes  up  the  sail.  The  room  with  the  people  in  it  looked  enduring  and  secure,  although  in  the  morning  they  would  all  be  gone."