 b"LAST  summer,  travelling  in  Europe,  took  a  bus  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED],  by  way  of  Provence.  The  trip  lasted  less  than  three  days,  and  I  was  sorry  when  it  ended.  'Thetime  passed  pleasantly,  the  country  was  all  I  had  hoped  it  would  be,  the  weather  was  wonderful,  if  warm,  and  my  com-  panions-mostly,  like  myself,  women  travelling  for  pleasure-were  almost  all  agreeable.  Leaving  [REDACTED]  early  on  a  Tuesday  afternoon,  we  stopped  the  first  night  in  Nevers.  Wednesday,  we  reached  Avi-  gnon,  and  on  Thursday  evening,  hav-  ing  lunched  in  Aix-en-Provence,  we  arrived  in  [REDACTED].  'The  bus  was  in  excel-  lent  condition,  and  the  driver  was  good  at  his  job.  Small  and  brown,  he  wore  a  neat  white  linen  duster  and  dark  glasses,  and  he  maintained  his  spirits  by  midmorning  and  late-afternoon  breaks  at  bistros  along  the  way,  a  custom  the  passengers  all  came  to  welcome  eagerly.  There  was  also  a  hostess  on  the  bus-a  dark,  pretty  French  girl  in  her  mid-twenties,  who  managed  our  various  languages  with  facility  and  charm.  We  were  a  companionable  crowd,  as  I  have  said,  despite  our  national  and  linguistic  differences.  My  immediate  neighbor  was  a  woman  from  [REDACTED]  Town-a  widow  of  about  my  age,  with  a  teen-aged  son,  a  year  or  two  younger  than  my  own.  She  was  friendly,  and  after  the  first  exploratory  exchanges  we  found  ourselves  talking  as  if  we'd  known  each  other  for  years.  Across  the  aisle  from  us  was  an  elderly  woman  from  [REDACTED],  who  said  she  was  making  the  same  trip  she'd  made  fif-  ty  years  before,  as  a  bride.  Behind  me  was  a  rather  young  woman  from  New  York.  She  was  too  well  dressed  for  a  bus  trip,  and  would  have  been  beauti-  ful  but  for  the  tired  lines  around  her  mouth  and  eyes.  'There  were  two  other  Americans-a  good-looking  ash-blond  schoolteacher  from  [REDACTED]  and  a  [REDACTED]  girl  who  worked  in  a  law  office  in  New  York.  On  the  other  side  of  the  aisle  from  me,  a  little  behind  the  [REDACTED]  wom-  an,  was  a  French  family  on  holiday-a  mother,  dressed  in  black,  and  three  grown  daughters.  'There  was  another  family  group  toward  the  rear  of  the  bus-a  Swedish  father  and  mother,  and  their  fourteen-year-old  son.  Speaking  no  French,  and  only  enough  English  to  return  a  greeting,  they  kept  large-  ly  to  themselves,  reading  aloud  by  turns  from  a  Swedish  guidebook  and  trac-  ing  the  progress  of  the  bus  on  a  map.  There  was  only  one  other  man  among  the  passengers.  He  was  a  young  [REDACTED]  American  who,  upon  entering  the  bus  and  seeingthe  blond  schoolteacher,  had  seated  himself  directly  across  the  aisle  from  her,  disregarding  the  seat  the  hostess  had  assigned  to  him.  She  knew  he  had  done  it  deliberately,  and,  with  nice  Gallic  understanding,  she  changed  her  seating  chart  and  said  nothing  about  It.  Inone  of  the  rear  seats,  near  the  Swedish  family,  was  a  middle-aged  Finnish  woman,  who  occupied  herself  with  writing  notes  in  a  small  leather-  covered  book.  I  didn't  hear  her  speak  to  any  of  the  other  passengers  until  the  last  day;  she  was  aloof,  without  being  un-  friendly,  and  somewhat  mystifying  to  the  rest  of  us.  But  there  was  another  wom-  an,  seated  behind  the  French  family,  whose  behavior  set  her  apart,  and  whose  origins  were  difficult  to  determine.  She  was  elderly,  with  a  kind  of  heavy  dignity  that  gave  her  something  of  the  appearance  of  a  stuffed  owl.  It  was  evi-  dent  that  she  had  once  been  handsome.  Her  eyes  were  large  and  dark,  and  her  skin,  in  spite  of  its  delicate  network  of  wrinkles,  was  fine  and  white.  Her  hair  was  dyed  black  and  was  inadequately  pinned  in  an  imposing  but  precarious  coiffure.  Her  dress  was  peculiar-it  is  hard  to  describe,  except  to  say  that  it  was  black  and  that  it  sagged.  She  wore  outmoded  shoes,  and  black  cotton  stockings  that  kept  fall-  ing  down.  Her  jewelry,  of  which  there  was  a  good  deal,  was  heavy  costume  stuff.  In  her  ears  were  enormous  imitation  pearls;  a  flesh-colored  chiffon  scarf  was  wound  several  times  around  her  throat;  and  she  always  wore  a  pair  of  soiled  white  cotton  gloves.  I  decided  at  first  that  she  looked  Ital-  ian-that  she  might  be  a  faded  and  famous  maerchesa-but  the  hostess  later  told  me  she  was  French  and  had  lived  a  long  time  in  [REDACTED],  She  had  just  returned  from  there,  the  hostess  said,  having  flown  to  [REDACTED]  only  a  few  days  before.  She  looked  tired,  and  old,  and  ill,  and  she  seemed  from  time  to  time  to  have  trouble  getting  her  breath.  She  moved  slowly,  her  legs  unsteadily  stiff.  She  spoke  to  none  of  us,  sitting  by  herself" b"in  the  bus  and  at  a  table  of  her  own  during  meals.  She  held  herself  pain-  fully  erect,  and  there  was  distinction  even  in  her  shabbiness.  And  she  carried  about  with  her  a  small  handbag,  keep-  ing  it  in  her  lap  or  on  the  seat  beside  her,  and  handling  it  carefully,as  if  it  were  of  great  value.  It  was  an  ordinary  little  blue  bag,  such  as  airlines  sometimes  provide  for  their  passengers,  with  a  zip-  per  fastening,  which  she  never  com-  pletely  closed.  From  time  to  time,  she  would  peer  into  the  bag  or  poke  about  in  it  with  her  white-gloved  hands.  T  was  not  surprising,  all  things  con-  sidered,  that  the  elderly  French-  woman  aroused  the  curiosity  of  the  other  passengers.  While  the  rest  of  us  chatted  back  and  forth  in  one  lan-  guage  or  another  and  exchanged  bits  of  information  from  our  experience  or  from  our  guidebooks,  she  remained  si-  lent.  It  wasn't  that  she  seemed  un-  friendly.  It  was  as  if  she  simply  did  not  expect  to  be  included  in  our  conversa-  tion,  and,  having  nothing  to  say  herself,  didn't  listen  to  it.  She  did  speak,  when  occasion  de-  manded,  with  the  hostess,  who  helped  her  off  and  on  the  bus  eachtime  we  stopped.  We  were  frequently  delayed  by  her  because  she  moved  so  slowly,  and  at  these  times  the  hostess  would  tryto  hurry  her  along-an  attempt  that  made  little  difference  in  the  time  it  took  to  get  her  to  her  place,  but  affected  her  most  uncomfortably.  She  would  wheeze  alarmingly  for  fully  ten  minutes  after-  ward,  sitting  pressed  back  against  the  seat,  her  eyes  closed,  and  her  gloved  hands  firmly  holding  the  partly  opened  bag  on  her  lap.  From  the  first  afternoon,  we  all  dis-  cussed  her,  referring  to  her  merely  as  Madame.  We  wondered  who  she  was,  what  circumstances,  other  than  age,  had  made  her  as  she  was,  and  whether  there  would  be  anyone  to  look  after  her  when  she  got  to  wherever  it  was  she  was  go-  ing.  But  the  thing  we  were  most  curi-  ous  about  was  what  she  carried  in  the  little  blue  bag.  At  first,  we  thought  it  must  be  money,  or  supplementary  pieces  of  the  cheap,  heavy  jewelry  she  wore,  but  there  was  something  about  the  way  she  carried  the  bag  that  presently  made  us  feel  its  contents  were  more  fragile  or  more  precious  than  that.  Then,  on  the  second  day,  Mrs.  Seton,  the  woman  from  New  York,  said  she  would  ask  the  hostess,  and  she  did,  as  we  were  about  to  return  to  the  bus  after  our  late-afternoon  stop.  I  didn't  hear  the  result  of  the  conver-  " b"sation  until  dinnertime  that  night,  in  Avignon.  The  party-except  for  Ma-  dame-was  seated  at  several  small  tables  grouped  together  in  a  corner  of  our  hotel  dining  room.  Madame  sat  alone  some  distance  away.  The  French  fam-  ily  had  one  table,  the  Swedish  family  and  the  lone  and  silent  Finnish  woman  another,  and  the  [REDACTED]  American  and  the  teacher  from  [REDACTED]  a  third.  The  lady  from  [REDACTED]  and  my  [REDACTED]  Town  friend  had  decided  to  eat  in  their  rooms.  I  found  myself  with  Mrs.  Seton  and  the  girl  from  [REDACTED].  We  talked  for  a  few  moments,  and  then  set  about  ordering  dinner.  Since  this  was  Avignon,  the  occasion  seemed  to  call  for  Chateauneuf  du  Pape,  and  after  some  discussion  we  succeeded  in  select-  ing  a  bottle  to  be  shared  among  us.  The  girl  from  [REDACTED],  who  had  all  along  been  trying  to  get  ice  put  into  her  drinks,  now  advised  the  waiter  that  the  wine  should  be  served  cold.  She  spoke  a  loud,  determined  French,  but  even  so  she  did  not  succeed  in  making  herself  under-  stood.  The  dining  room  opened  on  a  central  court  roofed  by  an  arbor,  where  the  vines  were  already  showing  dark  fruit.  The  night  air  was  fragrant;  a  breeze  moved  in  the  leaves.  Mrs.  Seton  lit  a  cigarette,  the  girl  went  on  giving  in-  structions  to  the  waiter,  and  as  I  settled  back  comfortably  in  my  chair,  I  saw  that  Madame,  too,  had  marked  her  arrival  in  Avignon  by  ordering  an  im-  pressively  dusty  bottle.  When  the  [REDACTED]  girl  at  last  re-  leased  the  waiter,  she  turned  to  Mrs.  Seton  and  asked  abruptly  what  she  had  found  out  about  Madame's  bag.  Mrs.  Seton  glanced  across  the  room  at  Madame  and  said,  &quot;You'd  never  guess.  It's  a  rat-a  little  white  rat.  At  least,  that's  what  the  hostess  thinks,  though  she's  never  actually  seen  it.&quot;  &quot;A  white  rat?&quot;  'The  girl's  voice  rose.  &quot;She'll  hear  you,&quot;  Mrs.  Seton  said.  &quot;Yes.  She  brought  it  all  the  way  from  [REDACTED]  with  her.&quot;  &quot;But  how  could  she?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;You  aren't  allowed  to  carry  animals  around  with  you  from  country  to  country  like  that.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  nobody  knew  she  had  it,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Seton.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  the  hostess  found  out.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  believe  it,&quot;  said  the  girl.  &quot;I  simply  don't  believe  it.&quot;  HEN  Mrs.  Seton,  the  girl,  and  I  were  eating  our  dessert,  the  French  family,  having  already  finished  dinner,  stopped  by  for  a  minute  to  chat.  The  [REDACTED]  girl  spoke  up  at  " b"once.  &quot;Mrs.  Seton  says  Madame  has  a  white  rat  in  her  bag,&quot;  she  told  them.  &quot;What  do  you-&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  quite  say  that,&quot;  Mrs.  Seton  broke  in.  &quot;I  only  said  the  hostess  that's  what's  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Mon  Dieu!&quot;  said  the  French-  woman,  rolling  her  eyes,  and  her  three  daughters  giggled.  The  youngest  asked,  in  careful  Eng-  lish,  &quot;'The  rat  accompanies  her,  in  the  little  bag?&quot;  &quot;Well,  why  not?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Seton  impatiently.  &quot;Some  people  have  cats,  some  people  have  rats.&quot;  The  mother  made  throaty  sounds  of  disbelief,  and  tapped  her  head  to  indicate  that  certainly  the  woman  was  mad,  and  the  girl  from  [REDACTED]  suddenly  pushed  her  chair  back,  rose,  and  said,  &quot;I'm  go-  ing  to  find  out.&quot;  She  was  gone  before  we  could  stop  her,  and  in  a  moment  she  was  across  the  room,  in  front  of  Madame.  We  couldn't  hear  what  she  said,  for  her  back  was  toward  us,  but  I  could  see  the  old  woman's  face  and  the  look  ofsur-  prise  that  crossed  it.  A  second  later,  the  look  of  surprise  turned  momentarily  to  fear,  and  then  to  the  remote,  withdrawn  expression  she  usually  wore.  She  said  something,  and  reached  out  to  the  bag,  which,  as  always,  stood  on  the  table  near  her,  and  put  it  protectively  in  her  lap.  The  girl  stood  looking  down  at  her  a  moment,  then,  turning  slowly,  came  back  to  our  table.  &quot;She  says  she  doesn't  have  a  white  rat,&quot;  she  told  us.  &quot;What  did  you  say  to  her?&quot;  asked  Mrs.  Seton.  &quot;What  do  you  think  I  said  to  her?&quot;  the  girl  answered.  &quot;I  asked  her  if  she  had  a  white  rat  in  her  bag,  and  she  said  'No.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Is  that  all  she  said?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;All  she  said  was  'Nom,'  just  like  that-and  then  she  got  scared,&quot;  said  the  girl.  We  all  looked  across  the  room.  Ma-  dame's  table  was  empty.  She  had  left  her  dessert  unfinished,  and  half  the  wine  still  in  the  bottle.  &quot;I  hope  you're  satisfied  now,&quot;  Mrs.  Seton  said  to  the  girl,  and,  nodding  good  night  to  me,  she  left  the  table  quickly.  I  saw  that  the  girl  was  disturbed,  but  at  the  moment  I  could  think  of  nothing  consoling  to  say  to  her,  so  I  wished  her  good  night  and  went  out  for  a  look  at  Avignon  before  going  to  bed.  HE  next  morning,  the  breeze  of  the  night  before  had  become  a  warm,  uneasy  wind.  'This,  the  hostess " b"told  us,  was  the  mistral.  It  might  go  on  for  days,  she  said,  blowing  dust  and  discomfort  until  everyone's  nerves  rebelled  against  it.  And,  in  fact,  there  already  seemed  to  be  a  certain  tense-  ness  among  us  as  we  climbed  aboard  the  bus.  The  driver  was  impatient  to  be  off,  and  the  usually  pleasant  voice  of  the  hostess  had  an  edge  to  it  as  she  tried  to  hurry  us.  Inevitably,  Madame  was  the  last  to  appear.  She  mounted  the  steps  of  the  bus  with  difficulty,  and  the  bus  started  before  she  reached  her  seat.  She  stumbled,  catching  hold  of  the  back  of  my  seat  with  her  free  hand.  I  rose  and  took  her  arm.  &quot;Permettez,&quot;  I  said.  She  was  breathing  heavily,  and  her  hair  was  damp  with  perspiration.  For  a  moment,  she  seemed  surprised,  and  even  a  little  fearful;  then  she  collect,  ed  herself,  smiled  at  me,  and  said,  some-  what  breathlessly,  &quot;Merci,  Madame.  Merci.&quot;  I  steered  her  to  therearofthe  bus,  and  when  she  reached  her  seat,  she  sat  down  abruptly,  with  a  clatter  of  beads  and  bracelets.  She  nodded  her  thanks  to  me  again,  and  I  returned  to  my  own  place.  It  grew  warmer  minute  by  minute.  The  wind  kept  blowing,  and  even  though  the  bus  windows  were  closed,  our  lips  felt  dry  and  our  throats  dusty,  making  us  grateful  for  the  prospect  of  refreshment  at  the  midmorning  stop  at  Arles.  While  we  were  there,  we  all  hur-  ried  through  the  Cathedral  and  the  Cloisters  of  St.  Trophime,  and  a  few  of  us  climbed  the  ruins  of  the  Roman  arena,  from  which  we  could  see  the  red  tiled  roofs  of  the  town,  and  the  blue  Rhone.  The  sun  burned  down,  and  everywhere  in  the  golden  heat  was  the  chirrup  of  the  cicadas  of  Provence.  When  we  stopped  for  lunch  at  Aix-  en-Provence,  Madame  ate  hers  at  a  table  of  her  own,  as  always,  but  it  seemed  to  me  that  there  was  something  different  about  her,  now,  although  I  could  not  determine  at  first  what  it  was.  She  looked  the  same-perhaps  a  little  more  dishevelled  than  usual,  but  the  heat  could  account  for  that.  I  decided  finally  that  she  had  a  new  air  of  de-  termination.  By  the  time  we  started  off  again,  the  heat  had  become  almost  unbearable,  and  some  of  us  tried  to  nap,  but  comfort  was  impossible.  Outside,  the  sky  burned  blue.  The  fields  were  no  longer  green  but  golden,  and  the  mountains  were  brown  in  the  distance.  Once,  the  taciturn  Finn-  ish  woman  startled  us  all  by  coming  forward  to  ask  the  hostess  some  question" b"concerning  the  countryside  through  which  we  were  passing.  She  hadn't  spoken  before,  except  to  the  Swedish  family,  but  when  the  hostess  answered  her  question,  she  suddenly  spoke  elo-  quently  and  at  some  length.  Her  face  was  intense,  her  eyes  shining.  &quot;It  is  more  beautiful  thananything  I  have  ever  seen  before,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;This  is  where  I  shall  come  to  retire,  when  itis  time.&quot;  Then  she  went  back  to  her  seat  and  sat  silent  again,  her  spare  shoulders  erect,  looking  out  of  her  window.  It  was  late  in  the  afternoon  when  we  made  our  last  stop  before  reaching  [REDACTED].  We  went  into  a  small  hotel-I  am  not  certain  of  the  town-in  groups.  The.  uneasiness  of  the  morning  had  given  way  to  a  kind  of  excitement  as  we  came  near  the  end  of  our  trip,  and  sev-  eral  of  the  combinations  were  new.  The  woman  from  [REDACTED]  had  joined  the  French  family.  The  [REDACTED]  African  woman  and  I  were  comparing  the  land-  scape  with  that  of  our  own  homes.  But  the  schoolteacher  and  the  [REDACTED]  Ameri-  can  were  still  side  by  side.  We  all  went  through  the  hotel  and  out  into  a  garden  at  the  back  of  it-a  kind  of  courtyard,  arbor-covered,  where  thick  green  vines  provided  protection  from  the  sun.  We  sat,  in  our  groups,  at  tables  along  the  sides  of  the  gar-  den.  In  the  center,  in  an  open  space,  was  a  long  trestle  table,  with  benches  beside  it,  and  it  was  at  this  table  that  Madame,  with  her  bag,  as  always,  in  her  hand,  took  her  seat.  She  seemed  to  have  chosen  the  center  of  the  stage  deliberately.  Although  she  was  having  her  customary  difficulty  breathing,  and  was  obviously  suffering  from  the  heat,  she  settled  herself  pur-  posefully.  She  gave  her  order  to  the  single  waiter,  and,  placing  the  blue  bag  on  the  table,  began  to  remove  its  contents.  First,  she  brought  out  a  black  fan  and  laid  it  down.  We  were  familiar  with  this  fan;  she  had  used  it  almost  con-  tinuously  during  the  past  two  days.  Next,  with  something  of  a  flourish,  she  shook  out  an  ordinary  white  table  nap-  kin,  and  spread  it  before  her.  She  moved  the  bag  close  to  the  napkin  and,  holding  it  open  with  her  left  hand,  reached  into  it  with  her  right  and  brought  her  hand  out  closed.  There  seemed  to  be  a  cord  or  heavy  ribbon  wound  around  her  wrist.  She  put  both  hands  together,  lowered  them  to  the  cloth,  and  gently  opened  them.  'There,  on  the  napkin,  was  a  mouse.  As  we  could  see  for  ourselves,  now,  it  was  neither  a  rat  nor  white.  It  was  a  little  gray  mouse  with  twitching  whisk-" b"ers  and  a  long  pinkish  tail.  For  a  mo-  ment,  he  sat  where  she'd  put  him;  then  he  scurried  across  the  napkin,  sniffing  as  he  went.  When  he  reached  the  edge,  he  stopped,  turned  right,  and  hurried  along  the  hem.  He  did  not  leave  the  napkin.  Whether  the  cord,  which  was  fastened  to  a  ring  around  his  neck,  made  going  afield  impossible,  or  he  recognized  the  edge  of  the  cloth  as  a  boundary,  we  couldn't  tell,  but  he  continued  to  go  around  his  territory  with  interest  and  speed,  until  he  tired.  Then  he  stopped  and  crouched.  We  all  watched  fascinated.  Madame  sat  quiet,  paying  no  attention  to  the  ex-  citement  she  was  causing.  Picking  up  her  fan,  she  stirred  the  air  about  her  face  with  it  briskly,  and  then,  very  gently,  waved  it  over  the  mouse,  who  remained  quite  still.  When  the  drinks  we  had  ordered  came,  Madame  drank  hers  slowly,  after  first  pouring  a  little  of  it  on  the  napkin  in  front  of  the  mouse.  He  walked  over  the  wet  spot,  hesitated,  and  went  back  across  the  napkin  to  her  hand.  He  sniffed  again,  and  then  ran  up  her  arm  to  her  shoulder,where  he  settled.  The  buzz  of  conversation  at  the  other  tables  died  down.  I  could  hear  Ma-  dame's  breathing  above  the  drone  of  the  cicadas.  She  began  to  talk  to  the  mouse,  in  breathy  whispers.  I  don't  know  what  she  said,  but  I  knew  that  they  were  words  of  tenderness  and  love.  I  heard  the  girl  from  [REDACTED]  say,  &quot;Of  all  the  ridiculous  things!&quot;  Mrs.  Seton,  at  the  table  next  to  me,  was  murmuring,  over  and  over,  &quot;Oh,  the  poor  thing,  the  poor  old  thing!&quot;  Quite  without  having  planned  to,  I  got  up,  and  suddenly  found  myself  standing  beside  Madame.  Neither  she  nor  the  mouse  had  moved.  &quot;The  pauvre  souris,&quot;  I  said.  Madame  started  at  the  sound  of  my  voice,  but  when  she  turned  and  saw  me,  she  answered,  in  English,  'Yes,  poor  little  mouse,  he  suffers  from  the  heat,  like  me.&quot;  I  watched  the  tiny  gray  sides  move  in  and  out  and  the  whiskers  quiver,  and  I  reached  out  to  touch  the  mouse  with  my  fingers.  She  stopped  me.  &quot;Please,  Ma-  dame,  do  not  touch  him,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'Your  hands  are  not  protected,  and  he  has  sharp  teeth.&quot;  That,  of  course,  was  the  reason  she  wore  the  white  cotton  gloves.  I  drew  back  and  said  I  was  sorry.  Madame  waved  away  my  apology.  She  was  smil-  ing.  &quot;You  are  not  afraid  of  my  little  mouse,  Madame?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No,  I'm  not  afraid  of  him,  but  I've  never  seen  a  mouse  like  that  be-" b"fore,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He's  so  well  behaved!&quot;  &quot;He  has  been  bien  \xc3\xa9lev\xc3\xa9,  this  mouse,&quot;  she  said  fondly.  &quot;I  can  tell  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  he  likes  you.&quot;  &quot;But  of  course,  we  are  old  friends,  we  two.&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  seem  to  be  afraid,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  no,  he  has  much  courage,  this  one,&quot;  said  Madame.  The  mouse  ran  down  her  arm  and  sat  quiet  in  her  hand,  looking  at  me.  &quot;Do  you  take  him  with  you  like  that  all  the  time?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;But  yes,  Madame,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why  not?  It  is  not  good  to  be  without  any-  one.&quot;  &quot;But  a  dog,  or  a  cat,  perhaps-&quot;  &quot;Would  be  a  better  pet,  you  think?&quot;  said  Madame.  &quot;No,  not  for  me.&quot;  She  cradled  the  mouse  in  her  hand,  rocking  it  gently  back  and  forth.  &quot;It  is  not  al-  ways  permitted  to  keep  a  dog  or  cat,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;but  who  needs  to  know  that  you  have  a  mouse?&quot;  She  smiled  and  nodded,  and  gently  put  the  mouse  back  in  the  blue  bag."