 b"OF  the  house  where  we  lived  until  I  was  four  I  can  remember  only  certain  effects  of  light,  but  I  can  remember  it  very  well  in  terms  of  where  the  light  came  in.  It  is  as  if  those  infant  years  were  lived  in  a  dark  box  with  holes  cut  in  it;  the  holes,  the  arrangement  of  the  holes,  what  I  saw  outside  the  holes  are  all  that  remains.  For  example,  I  can  remember  my  grandfather,  who  died  when  I  was  not  quite  three,  as  an  immense  shape  fill-  ing  the  oblong  of  the  front  door.  I  am  part  way  down  a  flight  of  stairs;  my  mother  stands  at  the  bottom  opening  the  door,  but  we  are  shadowy  and  I  feel  rather  than  see  us.  What  I  am  looking  at  is  that  huge  silhouette-he  was  six  feet  four-against  the  outdoor  sunshine  ofthe  porch,  the  path,  the  garden.  It  is  the  same  with  my  nursery.  I  lie  in  my  crib  in  the  left-hand  rear  corner  of  the  dark  cube;  there  are  two  win-  dows,  rectangles  of  light  that  fades  and  is  brought  up  again.  One  window  is  on  the  left-hand  wall  and  the  other  is  straight  ahead  of  me.  Somebody  comes  and  picks  me  up  in  his  arms  and  carries  me  to  the  left-hand  win-  dow.  Is  it  my  father?  My  father  was  a  witty  man,  with  his  own  sense  of  humor.  Years  later,  at  the  end  of  the  First  World  War,  we  watched  the  vic-  tory  march  of  the  Yankee  Division  from  the  win-  dows  of  an  apartment  at  the  corner  of  Beacon  Street  and  Charles,  where  the  parade  was  to  start.  A  good  many  people  were  in-  vited  to  sit  by  these  win-  dows,  and  I  think  I  was  the  only  child.  As  the  pa-  rade  began,  the  thrilling  moment  when  General  Edwards'  horse  stepped  proudly  forward  across  the  line  in  front  of  the  orderly  ranks  ofthe  troops,  a  young  mother  who  was  one  of  our  company  began  to  berate  herself  for  not  having  brought  her  six-  months-old  baby,  so  that  she  could  hold  him  up  to  the  unforgettable  sight.  &quot;He's  too  young  to  re-  member  it,&quot;  someone  con-  soled  her.  &quot;But  I  could  have  told  him  later,  'You  saw  the  parade  of  the  returning  Yankee  Di-  vision,'  *  she  insisted.  &quot;Never  mind,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;You  can  tell  him  he  saw  it  anyway.&quot;  My  father  used  to  pick  me  up  from  my  crib  in  that  dim,  forgotten  room  and  carry  me  to  the  left-hand  window.  It  is  dark  outside,  but  not  the  darkness  of  indoors-a  luminous  dark.  Far  away  across  the  fields  shine  hundreds  of  lights,  white  and  twinkling  and  incandescent.  &quot;Look,&quot;  my  father  says.  &quot;See  the  stars.&quot;  Only,  in  point  of  fact,  they  were  not  the  stars.  I  am  sure  that  he  must  have  sometimes  shown  me  the  real  stars  in  the  sky,  but  it  was  a  family  joke  as  I  grew  up  that,  held  in  my  father's  arms  at  the  window  looking  east,  I  had  point-  ed  to  the  lights  of  Readville,  a  nearby  slummy  mill  town,  and  said,  in  baby  talk,  &quot;Stars.&quot;  He  had  preferred  not  to  contradict  me,  andhad  continued  to  call  my  attention  on  other  nights  to  these  other  stars.  &quot;The  Readville  stars&quot;&quot;  -it  was  a  family  byword.  (When  I  was  sixteen  and  went  to  stay  at  a  New  York  hotel  with  my  mother,  she  walked  over  to  the  window  the  night  we  ar-  rived  and  stood  looking  down  the  length  of  Park  [REDACTED].  &quot;What  are  you  looking  at?&quot;  I  asked  asI  unpacked  my  bag  at  the  back  of  the  room.  &quot;The  Readville  stars,&quot;  she  said.  It  means  anything  shin-  ing,  exciting,  glamorous.)  Then  I  was  four,  and  we  moved  to  another  house.  I  remember  the  first  night  there.  I  am  eating  my  supper  at  the-child-size  table,  in  my  new  nursery;  there  is  a  piece  of  clean  white  oilcloth  tacked  over  the  black  tabletop,  making  it  quite  new.  My  new  wallpaper  is  blue,  with  little  white  lozenges  in  a  pattern.  Beside  me  in  the  wall  is  something  I  have  never  seen  before-a  black  iron  grillwork  through  which  comes  heat.  It  is  a  register.  It  is  as  though  in  that  move  from  one  house  to  another,  in  one  day,  the  focus  had  shifted  entirely.  I  am  look-  ing  at  the  inside  of  my  room  for  the  first  time.  It  is  as  if  the  lights  had  gone  on,  inside  the  house.  I  GREW  up  and  left  home  and  went  to  work.  In  my  early  twenties,  I  went  to  4974616c79  for  a  time.  It  was  the  era  of  Mussolini.  His  stencilled  silhouette,  that  jowly  profil  perdu,  was  on  every  hoarding,  every  stucco  wall.  But  of  politics  I  knew  nothing  and  cared  less,  and  I  had  been  given  a  black  silk  shirt  by  a  commendatore  beau,  and  gone  dancing  in  Florence  with  a  Fascist  Mil-     " b"anese  of  exalted  lineage,  and  walked  along  the  Lung'Arno  by  moonlight  with  an  admirer  who,  as  he  passed  acquaintances,  exchanged  the  straight-  armed  Roman  salute.  Giovenezza!  I  was  full  of  giovaemezze  and  excitement  as  I  was  driven  in  a  hired  Fiat  from  Siena  to  Rome.  We  passed  rosy  hill  towns  out  of  medieval  woodcuts  as  we  sped  along,  and  white  oxen  with  horns  six  feet  from  tip  to  tip.  To  one  side,  across  the  romantic  countryside,  a  ruined  castle  would  appear  suddenly.  My  driver  spoke  no  English  and  I  only  the  most  rudimentary  Italian,  so  we  drove  in  silence.  I  was  busy  being  in  love  with  4974616c79.  What  a  place!  I  planned  how  I  would  have  a  cap  made  of  black  felt,  with  a  black  silk  tassel  falling  over  one  eye,  to  wear  with  my  trophy  black  shirt.  They  would  look  very  smart  with  a  gray  tailored  suit.  The  twilight  deepened  as  we  drove,  and  night  fell,  and  then,  as  we  rounded  a  curve  or  mounted  a  rise,  I  saw  stretched  before  us  a  million  faraway  lights,  shining  in  the  dusk.  Stars,  I  thought  in  my  intoxication,  the  blaze  of  stars.  My  driver  turned  his  head  slightly  and  spoke  out  ofthe  corner  of  his  mouth.  &quot;E  Roma,&quot;  he  said.  NOW  it  is  years  later,  and  I  live  in  a  house  that  has  no  view  at  all,  since  our  43616e616461Carolina  town  is  set  in  a  cup  in  the  mountains,  and  all  the  stars  that  can  be  seen  arethe  real  stars  directly  overhead.  However,  the  inside  of  my  house  is  charming  to  look  at-  dark-green  walls  downstairs,  with  white  woodwork,  and  upstairs,  lighter  colors.  In  one  bedroom  I  have  a  blue  paper  that  reminds  me  of  the  paper  in  my  old  nurs-  ery,  in  that  second  house-the  first  room  I  ever  really  looked  at.  But  it  made  me  sad  the  other  day  when,  as  I  was  remembering  those  things,  I  recognized  that  youthful     blindness  that  could  be  so  dazzled  by  a  black  shirt,  so  light-struck  by  Rome  at  dusk.  I  was,  in  fact,  depressed;  it  gave  me  an  uneasy  feeling  that  I  might  still,  at  my  age,  be  thrilling  to  some  spectacle  that  was,  really,  only  Read-  ville  stars.  I  must  confess  that  I  wor-  ried  about  it;  I  searched  myself-oh,  for  several  days.  But  as  one  grows  older,  one  learns  not  to  allow  oneself  to  become  de-  pressed.  Activity  is  the  cure.  I  invited  several  people  to  lunch,  several  people  to  dinner.  The  table  looked  lovely.  I  was  quite  overwhelmed  by  compliments  on  the  food.  Mrs.  Harbridge  asked  me  to  head  a  committee  to  investigate  local  fiscal  policies;  Mr.  Jameson  asked  me  to  be  his  assistant  in  the  Blood  Bank  work.  I  had  no  idea  people  thought  so  highly  of  me.  It  was  most  gratifying.  So  that  today,  far  from  being  depressed,I  feel  just  fine,  in  the  swim,  definitely  set  _  up.  Almost,  I  might  say,  excited. "