 b"BY  the  Saturday  afternoon  last  win-  ter  when  the  twenty  American  ladies  publicized  as  the  Arte-  misses,  a  hunting  safari  composed  ex-  clusively  of  girls,  deplaned  at  4b656e7961  to  begin  their  historic  jaunt  through  East  Africa,  the  tension  around  the  New  Stanley  Hotel  was  such  that  you  could  have  heard  a  pin  drop.  While  awaiting  their  arrival  there,  I  inadvertently  dropped  one,  with  which  I  was  fasten-  ing  some  money  inside  my  jumper,  and  the  reverberations  awoke  the  bellboys  snoozing  near  the  elevator.  It  was  ob-  viousthat  despite  their  pretense  of  in-  difference  they,  and  indeed  the  whole  male  population  of  the  colony,  were  keyed  up  to  a  fantastic  pitch,  for  it  was  not  every  day  thata  galaxy  of  beauties  understood  to  rival  Rosemary  Theby  and  bulging,  in  addition,  with  hard  currency  descended  on  the  frontier  metropolis.  All  over  4b656e7961,  husbands  were  cooking  up  spurious  excuses  like  toothache  and  overdue  gas  bills  to  hus-  tle  downtown  for  a  dekko  at  the  new-  comers.  From  the  bars  frequented  by  the  military,  the  upcountry  settlers,  and  other  technical  bachelors  there  came  the  whiplike  report  of  cuffs  being  shot  and  the  sound  of  heavy  breathing.  My  presence  in  thelobby,  however,  was  motivated  by  neither  sensuality  nor  greed  but  altruism.  Several  months  earlier  in  New  York,  prior  to  departing  for  4b656e7961,  I  had  met  the  young  person  who  conceived  and  organized  the  jun-  ket-a  symmetrical  titian-haired  cup-  cake  named  Bella  Parmechenee.  Bella,  a  drumbeater,  or  flack,  employed  bya  luggage  corporation,  had  inserted  in  a  fashion  magazine  a  teaser  ad  calling  for  footloose  and  adventuresome  maidens  to  join  her  in  an  African  safari  complete  with  white  hunter,  and  the  response  had  been  overwhelming.  As  we  nibbled  our  parfaits  at  Rumpelmayer's-for  both  of  us,  by  a  coincidence,  were  rigidly  abstemious-I  chose  a  bold  means  of  cementing  our  friendship.  Was  there,  I  asked  candidly,  any  foundation  to  the  ru-  mor  that  she  had  filched  her  idea  from  a  proj-  ect  called  the  All-  Girl  Safari,  which  had  been  announced  some  months  before?  Her  answer  was  forthright  and  uncompromising.  With  a  spirited  ges-  ture  of  denial,  whose  imprint  I  can  still  feel  AR  TEMISSES  on  my  cheek,  she  at  once  disposed  of  the  canard  and  created  an  atmos-  phere  of  healthy  camaraderie.  After  our  second  parfait,  all  shyness  fled  and  she  expressed  trepidation  at  the  lone-  liness  ahead  on  the  Dark  Continent,  the  prospect  of  no  friendly  face  to  wel-  come  her  troupe.  Reacting  with  instinc-  tive  gallantry,  and  perhaps  somewhat  dizzied  by  chocolate  sauce,  I  offered  to  act  as  a  one-man  reception  committee.  Bella  was  ecstatic,  so  much  so  that  she  overturned  her  glass-that  is,  the  glass  the  parfait  was  in.  She  insisted  I  ac-  company  the  girls  on  the  last  week  of  their  tour-a  motor  excursion  through  [REDACTED]  and  a  voyage  up  Lake  Albert  to  the  Murchison  Falls.  &quot;But  wouldn't  it  be-harumph-  deuced  unconventional?&quot;  I  demurred.  &quot;One  fellow  alone  with  so  many  girls,  without  any  chaperon.  I'm  not  sure  my  wife  would  approve-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  come  on,  be  a  man,&quot;  she  said  impatiently.  &quot;You  only  live  once.  You  don't  want  people  to  think  you're  a  milksop,  do  you?&quot;  The  taunt  decided  me;  rather  than  have  Bella  bruit  it  about  every  sweet-  shop  in  Gotham  that  I  was  craven,  I  gave  in,  and  we  parted  with  a  buoyant  pledge  to  meet  under  African  skies.  NOW  that  our  reunion  was  nigh,  I  resolved  to  be  watchful.  It  would  not  do  to  cheapen  myself,  to  let  Bella  and  her  charges  fondle  or  caress  me  publicly.  If  they  showed  signs,  as  I  feared  they  might,  of  being  overcome  by  a  kissing  bug,  I  would  suggest  ad-  journing  to  some  clubbier  locale,  where  I  could  remonstrate  with  each  individu-  ally  and  recall  her  to  her  senses.  Sud-  denly,  from  the  portico  of  the  hotel  I  heard  a  confused  uproar,  like  a  flash  flood  approaching,  and  above  it  the  bab-  ble  of  female  voices.  A  moment  later,  a  horde  of  the  most  extraordinary  women  boiled  into  the  lobby,  elbowing  and  tumbling  each  other  aside  in  their  anxiety  to  be  first  at  the  re-  ception  desk.  They  were  all  shapes  and  sizes,  and,  both  en  masse  and  singly,  conveyed  a  stag-  gering  lack  of  charm.  They  were  clad  in  tunics,  whipcords,  and  jodhpurs  that  missed  musical  comedy  by  onlya  few  sequins;  their  faces,  which  had  been  slept  in  on  a  series  of  flying  machines,  were  putty-colored  with  fatigue  and  oversmoking;  and  they  all  moved  in  a  fighter's  crouch,  girding  their  massive  loins  to  battle  for  whatever  perquisites  they  were  entitled  to.  I  circled  the  hil-  lock  of  mink  coats,  cameras,  ukuleles,  and  cosmetic  kits  they  had  discarded,  and  found  Bella,  in  a  state  of  near  hysteria,  trying  to  pacify  several  of  the  more  clamorous.  &quot;But  you  have  to  room  with  her,  at  least  for  tonight,&quot;  she  was  pleading  desperately.  &quot;I  can't  help  it  if  she  snores.  ...  Darling,  you  couldn't  have  left  your  jewels  in  [REDACTED]-we  never  stopped  there.  ...  Ask  the  clerk;  there  must  bea  place  to  get  your  hair  done.  ...  Well,  if  you  think  it's  ma-  laria,  take  an  aspirin,  take  a  drink-  take  arsenic,  for  all  I  care  ...&quot;  From  the  blank  stare  my  greeting  evoked,  I  suspected  Bella  had  forgot-  ten  our  orgy  chez  Rumpelmayer,  but  a  thimbleful  of  grenadine  in  the  lounge  soon  restored  her  memory,  and  she  pro-  ceeded  to  fill  me  in  on  the  odyssey  thus  far.  The  women  ranged  in  age  from  thirty  to  sixty-eight  (with  a  preponder-  ance  in  the  late  forties);  all  but  four  were  married,  divorced,  or  widowed;  and-other  than  what  they  had  gleaned  from  &quot;The  Snows  of  Kilimanjaro&quot;  and  &quot;King  Solomon's  Mines&quot;  -they  were  unhampered  by  any  knowledge  of  Afri-  can  geography,  woodcraft,  or  hunting.  In  fact,  said  Bella,  she  doubted  that  any  of  them  had  ever  fired  a  gun-ex-  cept,  she  added  generously,  ata  hus-  band.  All  sorts  of  feuds  had  been  ger-  minating  en  route;  certain  ladies  felt  that  they  had  been  overlooked  by  the  photographers  at  the  airports,  others  complained  that  they  found  the  publicity  demeaning  and  unpalatable.  New  cliques  formed  hourly,  backbit-  ing  and  acrimony  were  rife,  and  the  forthcom-  ing  safari  into  Tan-  ganyika,  patently,  was  destined  to  be  a  sock-  dolager.  &quot;Well,  I'll  see  you  when  you  get  back  from  it-that  is,  if  you're  not  gored  by  a  buffalo,&quot;  I  said,  en-  deavoring  to  lighten  " b"her  mood.  &quot;Meanwhile,  should  you  run  into  trouble  or  need  help,  I'll  be  on  the  headwaters  of  the  Juba  River,  visiting  a  tribe  ruled  by  a  strange  white  god-  dess.&quot;  &quot;How  near  is  that  to  where  we're  going?&quot;  asked  Bella.  &quot;A  thousand  miles  north,&quot;  I  said  regretfully.  &quot;Beastly  luck,  isn't  it?  Oh,  well,  chin  up-you're  not  dead  yet.&quot;  I  sped  out  of  the  hotel  by  a  side  door  and,  during  the  remainder  of  the  Artemisses'  stay  in  4b656e7961,  managed  to  avoid  any  embroilment.  Our  next  encounter  was  a  fortnight  later,  when  Bella  rangup  to  announce  the  expedition's  return  and  invite  me  to  inspect  its  trophies.  Apparently,  the  trip  had  been  a  stimulating  one,  for  her  voice  sounded  breathless.  &quot;You'll  adore     Tanganyika,&quot;  she  burbled.  &quot;The  most  primitive  country-real  rugged  tureen.  And  the  animals!  I  can't  wait  to  tell  you.&quot;  Awesome  as  I  found  the  five  buffalo  heads,  the  two  dozen  antelope  horns,  and  the  other  meat  products  exultantly  shown  me,  I  was  even  more  spellbound  by  the  behavior  of  the  huntresses.  There  was  no  bloody  nonsense  about  manners  in  divvying  the  spoils;  each  snatched  up  whichever  pelt  or  skull  she  thought  would  make  the  best  souvenir,  regard-  less  of  who  had  bagged  it,  and  defended  it  with  the  virulence  of  a  bobcat.  One  pair,  indeed,  got  into  so  sulphurous  a  dispute  over  a  zebra  hide  that  a  mule  skinner  standing  near  me  crimsoned  and  left  the  premises.  In  the  face  of  such  open  dissension,  I  supposed  the  group  would  disband  now  that  the  sa-  fari  was  finished,  yet,  oddly  enough,  the  ladies  seemed  revivified.  'The  following  day,  they  whizzed  off  on  a  rubberneck  tourof  Zanzibar,  and  thereafter  of  the  eastern  [REDACTED].  Presently,  I  received  a  chit  from  Bella  mailed  in  Ruanda-  Urundi.  Quoting  my  promise  quixoti-  cally  made  over  the  parfaits,  she  be-  sought  me  to  meet  her  party  at  awhistle  stop  called  Katwe,  in  westernmost  [REDACTED].  The  decision  was  a  trying  one,  and  I  paced  the  floor  a  whole  night  through.  Could  I  betray  the  trust  this  fragile,  copper-crested  child  with  the  alluring  shape  reposed  in  me?  My  chevalier's  code  held  no  alternative,  especially  since  she  was  picking  up  the  tab.  When  the  sun  was  again  at  the  meridian,  I  was  winging  over  Lake  Victoria.  EEP  in  the  Queen  Elizabeth  Na-  tional  Park,  [REDACTED]'s  newest  game  reserve,  I  came  to  Katwe.  It  turned  out  to  bea  half-completed  motel  on  a  barren  knob  of  ground  overlook-  ing  Lake  Edward,  and  the  Artemisses'  motorcade  had  paused  there  to  refuel  and  change  lipsticks.  Enforced  prox-  imity  and  their  intensive  tourism  had  exacerbated  my  compatriots  to  a  homi-  cidal  degree.  Only  two  or  three  were  still  on  speaking  terms;  the  glances  the  ladies  exchanged  throbbed  with  hatred,  and  one  after  another  drew  me  aside  to  pour  out  grievances.  'The  fabled  Watusi  were  not  as  tall  as  Bella  had  led  them  to  believe,  and  the  pygmies  not  as  tiny,  and  evil-smelling  to  boot.  The  food  in  the  [REDACTED]  was  inferior,  the  scenery  insipid,  and  the  gorillas  non-  existent.  &quot;And  as  for  that  friend  of  yours,  or  whatever  she  is,&quot;  one  of  them  said,  glar-  ing  venomously  at  Bella  and  extracting  the  last  possible  drop  of  innuendo,  &quot;she's  a  two-faced,  selfish,  brazen,  schem-  ing__\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Please,&quot;  I  said,  with  icy  dignity.  &quot;As  a  guest  of  Miss  Parmechenee's,  I  refuse  to  discuss  her  behind  her  back.  Besides,&quot;  I  pointed  out,  to  keep  their  boilers  up  to  pressure,  such  a  pretty  back,  don't  you  think?  So  slim  and  willowy,  unlike  most.&quot;  The  three-day  drive  to  the  shores  of  Lake  Albert  that  followed  is  possibly  the  most  tedious  journey  in  my  recol-  lection,  which,  if  massaged,  can  yield  up  some  pippins.  I  rode  in  the  lead  car  of  the  caravan,  with  Bella,  a  garrulous  matron  from  [REDACTED]  Rapids  named  Crabshaw,  and  an  indigenous  chauffeur  dazed  by  protracted  expesure  to  her  voice.  Mrs.  Crabshaw  had  girdled  the  " b"globe  endless  times-always  at  the  captain's  table,  natural-  ly-and  anecdotes  spouted  from  her  lips  in  a  geyser  as  unfailing  as  Old  Faithful.  Her  reminiscences  of  General  Douglas  MacArthur,  whom  she  doted  on,  whiled  away  many  an  hour  as  we  ground  up  and  down  the  foothills  of  the  Ruwenzori  Range.  Our  bivouac  the  first  night  was  a  hotel  at  Fort  Portal  romanti-  cally  called  the  Mountains  of  the  Moon.  Dinner  was  a  gay  affair;  our  whole  group  sat  at  a  long  table-with  some-  one  at  the  head  of  it  whose  identity  is  his  own  business-  and  the  sallies  and  backchat  were  audible  to  a  whole  roomful  of  starchy  British  colonials.  Midway  through  the  meal,  a  Mrs.  Gonister  created  a  diversion  by  wrest-  ing  a  plate  of  cold  cuts  from  her  neighbor.  The  manage-  ment  was  able  to  subdue  the  two  before  they  could  plunge  their  forks  into  each  other's  eyeballs,  but  it  was  touch  and  go  for  a  minute.  Our  leave-taking  next  morning  had  a  similar  touch  of  drama.  Just  as  we  were  embarking,  Mrs.  Spurgeon,  a  hyperthyroid  Midwestern  type  who  owned  a  chain  of  beauty  shops,  was  overtak-  en  by  a  crise;  all  her  notes,  the  material  she  was  amass-  ing  for  a  series  of  travel  articles  in  her  home-town  paper,  had  disappeared.  Since  the  bulk  of  her  companions,  so  to  speak,  had  like  journalistic  tieups,  they  were  automatically  suspected  of  swiping  it,  and  even  I  was  not  ex-  cepted.  Fuming  like  so  many  barn-  yard  turkeys,  the  ladies  paraded  about,  daring  Mrs.  Spurgeon  to  suggest  they  submit  to  a  search.  The  air  was  thick  with  threats  of  hairpulling,  of  action  for  slander.  Fortunately  for  us,  if  not  for  the  newspaper  readers  of  southern  [REDACTED],  the  missing  diary  came  to  light  in  a  glove  compartment,  and  the  storm  clouds  passed  over.  The  objective  that  night  was  a  place  called  Masindi,  and  we  reached  it  without  any  major  lesions,  although-  thanks  to  the  voluble  Mrs.  Crab-  shaw-somewhat  nicked  by  flying  en-  nui.  Owing  to  overcrowded  conditions  in  the  hotel,  I  shared  quarters  there  with  an  engineer  in  the  Public  Works  De-  partment,  a  strange,  sunken-eyed  zombie  out  of  a  Universal  horror  film.  He  had  a  waxen  face,  and  a  black  spade  beard  like  Henri  Landru's,  and  was  visi-  bly  piqued  by  the  sight  of  my  seraglio,  as  he  assumed  the  Artemisses  to  be.  He  made  all  sorts  of  conversational  feints,  seeking  to  ascertain  whether  I  was  a  Moslem,  or  the  head  of  an  obscure  re-  ligious  cult,  or  someone  engaged  in  the  [REDACTED]  American  export  trade.  I  was  really  in  no  position  to  enlighten  him.  At  that  point,  the  outlines  were  begin-  ning  to  shift  and  blur.  WwENTY-FOUR  hours  later,  aboard  the  twin  steam  launches  Murchi-  son  and  Livingstone,  we  chugged  out  of  Butiaba,  on  Lake  Albert,  toward  the  mouth  of  the  Victoria  Nile.  The  vessel  I  shared  with  eight  of  the  nymphs,  the  Murchison,  had  achieved  a  certain  du-  bious  r\xc3\xa9cleome  shortlybefore,  having  borne  Mr.  Hemingway  back  from  his  epochal  crash.  Our  feeling  of  glamour  intensified  when  we  entered  the  tortu-  ous,  reed-choked  waterways  interlacing  the  delta,  for  this  was  the  locale  of  &quot;'The  African  Queen,&quot;  and  the  girls  were  in-  spired  to  frequent  and  comic  impersona-  tions  of  Katharine  Hepburn.  Luckily,  the  advent  of  millions  of  gnats  drove  them  to  their  bunks  after  dinner,  which  gave  Bella  and  me  an  interlude  alone  on  the  upper  deck.  I  was  amazed  to  find  her  an  erudite,  astute  individual,  not  in  the  least  giddy,  as  I  had  thought,  but  filled  with  an  enormous  and  restless  curiosity.  To  satisfy  it  under  the  condi-  tions  was  clearly  out  of  the  question,  as  the  captain  was  forever  poking  his  snoot  in  on  some  trumped-up  pretext;  how-  ever,  we  did  squeeze  in  an  informal  astronomy  lesson,  and  a  perusal  of  our  palms  that  foretold  events  in  no  way  germane  to  this  narrative.  'That  they  subsequently  failed  to  come  true  does  not  invalidate  the  science  ofpalmistry.  I  feel  that  we  in  the  Occidental  world  have  much  left  to  learn.  The  hippos,  elephants,  crocodiles,  " b"and  aquatic  birds  on  the  riverbank  were  so  numerous  in  the  morning  that  it  was  difficult  to  moor,  but  we  finally  put  in  at  a  landing  stage  below  the  Murchison  Falls  and  began  the  slow  trek  upward  to  the  renowned  cataract.  The  ascent,  through  a  precipitous  gorge  and  under  a  burning  sun,  was  toilsome,  and  the  ladies  gave  off  a  sustained  peevish  whine,  like  the  skirl  of  bagpipes.  It  did  no  good  for  me  to  remind  them  that,  apart  from  Bella,  they  were  all  overweight  and  shockingly  flabby,  and  that  if  they  as-  pired  to  catch  a  man,  they  had  jolly  well  better  put  their  backs  into  it.  Their  re-  action  was  most  disturbing.  Panting,  their  faces  mottled  with  fury,  they  re-  viled  me-a  typical  instance  of  feminine  ingratitude.  &quot;It  shows  you  how  thin  the  veneer  of  civilization  really  is,&quot;&quot;  I  said  ag-  grievedly  to  Bella.  &quot;Dash  it  all,  I  didn't  come  here  to  be  abused.  I  accepted  your  invitation  in  good  faith.&quot;  &quot;I  know  I  wonder  about  human  nature,&quot;  she  said  with  quick  sympathy.  &quot;But  try  to  bear  with  them,  won't  you?  Whatever  happens,  you  mustn't  leave  us  now.&quot;  Frankly,  the  thought  had  never  en-  tered  my  head,  as  there  was  nowhere  to  go,  and  while  the  women  were  manifestly  irresponsible,  their  sheer  size  protected  one  against  marauding  animals.  With  a  steadfast  assurance  to  Bella  that  she  could  rely  on  me,  I  spurred  the  column  on,  and  at  length,  utterly  spent,  we  gained  the  top  of  the  falls.  It  was  a  prodigious  spectacle,  one  of  the  truly  rewarding  sights  of  a  lifetime.  For  minutes  on  end,  I  stood  reverently  contemplating  the  torrent  as  it  thundered  four  hundred  feet  in-  to  the  Dantesque  abyss  and  trying  to  imagine  the  rapture  Sir  Samuel  Baker  must  have  felt  when  he  first  beheld  it  ninety  years  before.  Then,  mute  with  exaltation,  I  returned  to  the  stunted  tree  under  whose  shade  the  ladies  had  congregated  and  were  grumpily  fan-  ning  themselves.  They  were  in  a  bale-  ful  mood.  &quot;An  outrage,  an  absolute  swindle,&quot;  one  of  them  snapped.  &quot;Dragging  us  all  this  distance  for  a  lousy  little  trickle  like  that.  I  wouldn't  give  you  two  cents  for  it.  Why,  out  where  I  come  from,  we've  got  a  waterfall-&quot;  &quot;I  thought  it  was  going  to  be  another  Niagara,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Crabshaw  indig-  nantly.  &quot;There  isn't  even  a  bench  to  sit  down  on,  or  an  attendant.  No  won-  der  they  don't  get  any  tourists.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  and  now  we  have  to  walk  all  the  way  back,&quot;  chimed  in  Mrs.  Gonis-  ter.  &quot;All  but  Her  Highness,  there,  that  is.  She's  got  someone  who's  probably  fool  enough  to  carry  her  down.&quot;  I  walked  over  to  the  rock  where  Bella  sat,  head  in  hands,  and  bowed.  &quot;Permit  me,  queride,&quot;  I  said,  and  swung  her  up  on  my  shoulder.  She  wasn't  as  light  as  she  looked,  and  the  climb  down  almost  killed  me,  but  I  figured  it  was  worth  it.  They  none  of  them  addressed  a  word  to  me  the  rest  of  the  trip,  and  that's  the  sort  of  thing  money  can't  buy.  I  read  an  interesting  piece  in  the  paper  the  day  they  left-  said  they'd  had  a  wonderful  time  and  were  all  coming  back  next  year,  with  their  husbands.  O.K.-I'll  be  waiting  in  the  lobby  of  the  New  Stanley.  A  party  ofthat  size  might  be  pretty  un-  wieldy,  of  course,  and  one  of  us  might  have  to  drop  out.  Never  mind  who.  Let's  cross  that  bridge  when  we  come  to  it. "