 b"OUR  school  was  in  the  heart  of  the  O  country,  miles  from  the  nearest  town.  'This  gave  the  teachers  an  initial  advantage,  because  before  you  even  got  to  a  railway  station,  youhad  the  prefects  on  your  track.  Two  fellows  I  knew  once  got  as  far  as  Mellin,  a  town  ten  miles  off,  intending  to  join  the  Brit-  ish  Army,  but,  like  fools,  the  first  thing  they  did  in  Mellin  was  go  to  a  hotel,  so  they  were  caught  in  bed  in  the  middle  of  the  night  by  prefects  and  got  the  father  andmother  ofa  beating.  I  think  they  must  have  been  inspired  by  a  legend  of  two  fellows  who  did  actually  get  on  a  boat  for  England  and  were  never  heard  of  again,  but  that  was  before  my  time,  and  in  those  days  escapes  were  probably  easier.  By  the  time  I  got  there,  the  pre-  fects  had  a  telescope  mounted  on  the  tower,  and  took  turns  at  watching  for  fellows  trying  to  get  away.  You  had  to  be  pretty  tough.  There  were  hundreds  of  students,  and  most  of  them  were  the  sons  of  small  farmers.  You  wouldn't  have  much  chance  of  keeping  the  lock  on  your  locker  from  being  broken  unless  you  belonged  to  a  gang  yourself.  I  belonged  to  a  very  good  gang,  and  we  were  fairly  well  able  to  look  after  ourselves.  Of  course,  as  Mother  said,  it  wasn't  a  good  school,  but  what  else  could  she  do  on  the    small  allowance  she  got  from  Father?  One  day,  a  new  boy  came  up  to  me.  His  name  was  Francis  Cummins,  and  it  seemed  he  came  from  Ballymore  in  Cork,  like  me.  I'd  never  met  him  there,  but  it  didn't  make  any  differ-  ence.  It's  funny  how  you  feel  to-  ward  a  fellow  from  your  own  place  in  a  school  like  that.  At  home,  he  might  be  the  last  fellow  you'd  ever  want  totalk  to.  I  don't  think  I'd  have  wanted  to  talk  to  Francis  Cummins  if  I'd  met  him  in  Cork.  He  was  a  funny,  solemn  kid  with  a  head  that  was  toobig  for  his  body,  and  his  people  intended  him  for  the  priesthood.  You  could  see  he'd  make  a  good  priest,  too,.  He  never  wanted  to  do  anything  wrong,  like  breaking  out,  or  smoking,  or  playing  cards,  and  he  was  a  marvel  at  the  music.  You  had  only  to  whistle  a  tune  to  him  and  he'd  play  it  on  the  piano  for  you  afterward.  He  could  write  it  down,  too,  notes  and  all.  Even  the  toughs  in  school  let  Francis  alone.  He  was  a  fellow  you  couldn't  get  into  a  wax,  no  matter  how  hard  you  tried.  He  took  it  all  with  a  smile,  as  if  he  couldn't  believe  you  were  serious,  so  there  was  no  satisfaction  in  trying  to  make  him  mad.  He  was  always  hanging  around  me,and  the  fellows  in  my  gang  didn't  like  it.  He  criticized  them  for  curs-  ing  and  fighting,  and,  as  they  said,  we   might  as  well  have  had  a  prefect  around.  But  he  didn't  seem  to  care  what  they  thought,  and  I  never  had  the  heart  to  tell  him  clear  off.  After  all,  he  was  from  my  own  place,  and  they  didn't  know  the  feeling  that  came  over  me  at  times  when  I  thought  of  it,  and  of  home  and  of  Susie.  Sometimes  I'd  dream  of  it,  and  wake  up  thinking  of  it,  and  then,  all  day,  it  would  haunt  me  in  snatches,  till  I  felt  like  throwing  myself  on  the  bed  and  bawling.  Of  course,  there  was  another  reason,  though  it  wasn't  the  main  one,  I  would  like  you  to  understand  that.  'There  wasn't  a  week  of  Cumming  life  when  he  didn't  get  a  parcel  from  home.  And  it  was  surprising  the  things  his  people  sent  him-tinned  meat  and  tinned  fruit,  and  sardines,  and  everything.  The  school  grub  was  never  much  at  the  best  of  times,  and  even  then  it  left  me  with  a  roaring  appetite.  When  I  wasn't  think-  ing  of  home,  I  was  thinking  of  food.  Cummins  always  shared  with  me,  though  he  wouldn't  share  so  quick  with  the  other  fellows,  because  he  knew  they  didn't  like  him.  He  liked  sharing  with  me,  and  it  was  a  sop  to  my  conscience,  when  I  got  to  feeling  ashamed  of  the  way  I  was  always  cadging  from  him,  that  he  positively  seemed  to  enjoy  it.  He  used  to  lecture  me  like  an  old  school-  mistress,  and  measured  the  stuf  all  out,  down  to  the  last  candy  in  the  box.  &quot;I'll  give  you  just  one  slice  of  cake  now,&quot;  he'd  say.  &quot;Ah,  come  on!&quot;  I'd  say.  &quot;You  won't  take  it  with  you.&quot;  &quot;But  if  I  give  it  to  you  now,  you'll  eat  it  all.  Look,  if  I  give  you  one  slice  now,  and  an-  other  slice  tomorrow,  and  another  on  Sunday,  then  you'll  have  cake  three  days  instead  of  one.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  good  of  that  if  I'm  still  hun-  gry?&quot;  I'd  say.  &quot;But  you'll  only  be  hungrier  tomorrow  night,&quot;  he'd  say,  wag-  ging  his  head  over  me.  &quot;You're  a  queer  fellow,  Mick.  If  youhad  your  own  way,  you'd  never  have  anything  at  all.  I'm  only  speaking  for  your  good.&quot;  You  could  see  from  the  way  'that  fellow  preached  that  he  was  " b"bound  to  be  a  priest.  He  was  al-  ways  thinking  of  your  good,  and  sometimes  it  made  me  so  mad  that  I  nearly  hit  him.  Once,  for  in-  stance,  the  two  of  us  were  in  the  grounds  together,  and  I  brought  him  around  to  the  priests'  garden.  The  priests  had  smashing  apples  of  their  own,  and  we  never  saw  them,  only  what  we  could  pinch.  &quot;Keep  nix,  now,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  just  want  a  few  apples,&quot;  I  said,  shinning  up  the  wall.  &quot;Mick!&quot;  he  wailed.  &quot;Do  you  mean  steal  them?&quot;  I  didn't  even  bother  to  reply  to  that.  I  was  now  so  obsessed  with  the  idea  ofthe  apples  that  I  didn't  care  what  happened.  &quot;But,  Mick,  what'll  I  say  if  I'm  caught?&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Ah,  say  what  you  like.&quot;  Then,  asI  was  picking  the  ap-  ples  hastily,  I  heard  him  call  again,  and  sawhim  looking  over  the  wall  with  a  distracted  look.  'There  were  real  tears  in  that  fellow's  eyes.  By  this  time,I  had  stuffed  my  pockets  and  was  beginning  to  put  others  inside  my  pullover.  &quot;Mick,  Mick,  aren't  you  fin-  ished  yet?&quot;  he  bawled.  &quot;Shut  up  and  don't  get  us  all  caught,  you  fool!&quot;  I  whispered  back  at  him.  &quot;But,  Mick,  it's  a  sin.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  what?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  sin.  I  know  'tis  only  venial,  but  you  shouldn't  do  it.&quot;  I  didn't  bother  to  reply  to  him,  but  I  was  raging  mad.  I  coolly  finished  packing  apples  wherever  I  had  room  for  them,  and  then  got  back  over  the  wall.  &quot;Now,  see  here,  Cummins,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  any  more  of  your  old  talk.  I'm  going  to  do  exactly  what  I  like,  and  I'm  not  going  to  be  stopped  by  suckers  like  you.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;But  it's  true,  Mick,&quot;  he  said,  wring-  ing  his  hands.  &quot;It's  a  sin.  You  know  it's  a  sin,  and  you'll  have  to  tell  it  in  confes-  sion.&quot;  &quot;I  will  not  tell  it  in  confession,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  if  I  find  you  did,  I'll  knock  your  blooming  head  off.&quot;  I  was  so  upset  that  I  could  hardly  enjoy  the  apples.  It  wasn't  worth  it  to  me,  I  declare  to  God!  UT,  all  the  same,  we  continued  friends.  Every  week,  Francis  got  a  parcel,  and  every  week,  I  got  some  of  it.  It  was  a  puzzle  to  me  how  he  got  so  much,  for  none  of  the  fellows  I  knew  got  a  parcel  oftener  than  once  a  month,  and  I  hardly  got  one  a  term.  Of  course,  his  parents  kept  a  little  shop  in  the  Main  Street,  so  they  wouldn't  mind  so  much  making  up  a  parcel,  and  anyway  they  could  get  things  for  cost  price,  but  even  allowing  for  that  it  was  remarkable  the  way  they  never  forgot  him,  and  were  always  thinking  up  new  things  to  send  him.  The  previous  Christmas,  they  had  given  him  apiano  accordion.  It  struck  me  as  peculiar,  because  if  they  cared  all  that  much  for  him,  you'd  think  they  would  keep  him  at  home,  more  particu-  larly  when  he  was  an  only  child.  It  beat  me  to  guess  why  they  sent  him  away  at  all.  A  wild  fellow  like  me,  in  a  house  with  two  other  kids,  you  could  see  why  Mummy  wouldn't  want  me  around  the  place;  besides  that  it  was  better  for  me  to  be  at  school.  T  the  end  of  the  term,  Cummins  parents  came  in  thecar  for  him  and  I  went  back  with  them.  I  was  looking  forward  to  it  a  lot,  but  it  wasn't  much  fun.  His  father  was  a  quiet  little  man  with  a  gray  mustache  and  tin  spectacles,  and  his  mother  a  fat,  roundy  woman  with  an  awful  lot  of  old  talk.  Then,  one  day  during  the  holidays,  Susie  and  I  went  up  to  his  place  for  tea.  His  father  was  behind  the  counter  with  his  hat  on  his  head.  It  was  the  first  time  I  saw  Cummins'  toys,  and  they  knocked  me  endwise.  There  was  a  wonderful  " b"air  pistol  there  thatI  knew  cost  pounds.  We  went  out  into  the  garden  and  start-  ed  shooting  with  it.  I  wanted  that  pistol.  I  wanted  it  real  bad,  and  I  couldn't  see  why  he  wouldn't  offer  it  to  me  straight-  away.  &quot;But  I  practice  with  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  practice  for?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;When  you'rea  priest,  you  won't  be  able  to  shoot.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Because  priests  aren't  left  shoot  any-  body.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  all  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  lend  it  to  you  for  the  holidays.&quot;  But  he  sounded  very  sad,  as  though  he  really  liked  that  gun.  I  couldn't  understand  it.  Besides,  I  knew  he  wasn't  going  to  get  it  back.  We  had  tea  in  a  front  room  over  the  shop.  Mr.  Cummins  stayed  downstairs,  but  his  wife  was  there.  When  it  was  over,  Francis  and  Susie  played  the  piano,  and  his  mother  talked  to  me  about  school.  I  thought  at  first  she  was  jok-  ing,  and  I  laughed  at  the  things  she  said,  but  then  I  began  to  realize  that  she  was  serious.  &quot;Oh,  isn't  it  a  wonderful  thing  for  you  to  be  going  to  a  beautiful  school  like  that,  Michael?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Ah,  I  suppose  it's  not  too  bad.&quot;  'The  grounds  are  solovely,  and  the  house  is  so  lovely  inside!  And  then  you  have  thechapel  beside  you,  to  go  there  whenever  you  like.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  I  said,  though  the  chapel  was  the  last  place,  in  the  world  where  the  fancy  ever  took  me  to  go,  unless  I  had  to.  &quot;And  the  priests  are  so  lovely!  Oh,  I  thought  Father  Murphy  was  a  beauti-  ful  man.&quot;  &quot;He's  all  right,&quot;  I  said,  though  I  wondered  whether  she'd  think  Murphy  was  as  beautiful  as  all  that  if  she  saw  him  with  a  cane  in  his  hand,  hissing  and  snarling  as  he  chased  one  of  us  around  the  classroom,  flogging  him  on  the  bare  legs.  &quot;And  having  such  nice,  gentlemanly  friends,  instead  ofthe  young  savages  there  are  around  here.&quot;  I  said  nothing  at  all  to  that.  There  was  nothing  I  could  say  to  it.  In  all  my  days  in  Ballymore,  I  had  never  seen  sav-  ages  like  the  two  Corbetts,  from  Lon-  donderry,  or  Barrett,  from  Clare.  But  I  could  see  she  was  in  earnest.  She  didn't  know  any  better.  There  they  were,  her-  self  and  her  husband,  small  shopkeepers  who  had  never  known  anything  better  than  a  small  house  on  a  terrace,  and  they     nearly  died  with  grandeur  thinking  of  the  grounds  and  the  lake  and  the  tennis  courts,  just  like  any  gentleman's  resi-  dence,  and  the  orchestra  and  the  private  chapel,  all  laid  on  for  a  boy  like  Francis.  Of  course,  they  must  have  thought  it  was  Heaven.  And  when  I  thought  about  it  afterward,  I  saw  that  instead  of  trying  to  be  rid  of  Francis,  they  were  probably  breaking  their  hearts  at  having  to  part  with  him  at  all,  and  doing  it  only  because  they  thought  they  were  giving  him  ad-  vantages  that  they  didn't  get  themselves.  It  made  me  rather  sorry  for  them,  being  taken  in  like  that  by  appearances.  Francis  was  the  one  I  couldn't  under-  stand.  I  knew  if  I  had  a  mother  and  father  like  that,  you  wouldn't  catch  me  in  that  school  for  a  week.  I'd  soon  make  them  see  the  trouble  they  were  putting  me  through.  At  first,  I  thought  maybe  Francis  thought  it  was  a  fine  place,  too,  but  then  I  saw  that  couldn't  be  true.  He  was  far  too  smart  for  that.  No,  Francis  was  probably  putting  up  with  it  for  the  sake  of  his  vocation,  and  when  he  was  homesick,  or  fellows  jeered  at  him,he  probably  went  to  the  chapel  and  offered  it  up.  It  was  all  wonderful  to  me,  be-  cause  when  I  got  homesick  or  mad,  I  just  waited  till  lights  were  out  and  then  " b"started  to  cry,  but  I  knew  Francis  was  a  queer  sort  and  different  from  me.  I  mentioned  it  to  Mummy  and  she  was  amused.  I  also  told  her  all  about  the  parcels  and  the  accordion  and  the  air  pistol,  with  some  sort  of  vague  notion  that  if  only  she  knew  the  way  other  parents  behaved,  she  might  change  to-  ward  me.  But  she  only  said  that  Irish  shopkeepers  were  rotten  with  money  and  didn't  know  how  to  spend  it  on  themselves,  and  if  only  my  father  would  give  her  the  money,  I  could  go  to  the  best  college  in  Ireland.  [REDACTED]  the  same,  the  first  week  after  we  got  back,  there  was  a  parcel  for  me.  I  felt  a  bit  ashamed,  thinking  that  I'd  been  cadging,  and  that  perhaps  Mummy  was  telling  thetruth  when  she  said  that  Daddy  didn't  give  her  enough  money,  but  I  didn't  worry  too  much  about  that.  It  was  a  real  relief  to  be  able  to  show  off  a  bit  in  front  of  the  other  fellows.  &quot;Do  you  want  anything?&quot;  Cummins  asked  that  evening.  &quot;I  have  a  parcel,  if  you  do.&quot;  &quot;I  have  a  parcel  of  my  own,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Come  on  and  grab.&quot;  &quot;Don't  beeating  it  all  now,&quot;  he  said,  almost  in  a  wail.  &quot;'You  won't  have  any  left.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  what's  the  difference?&quot;  I  said,  and,  of  course,  by  the  following  night  I  was  scrounging  from  him  again.  &quot;Jay,  Michael,  you're  an  awful  fel-  low!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  told  you  what  was  go-  ing  to  happen.  How  are  you  going  to  live  when  you  grow  up  if  you  never  keep  anything?&quot;  &quot;Time  enough  to  think  of  that  when  I  am  grown  up,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  where  you're  wrong,  Michael,&quot;  he  said,  shaking  his  head  sad-  ly.  &quot;Now  is  the  time  for  you  to  get  into  good  habits,  instead  of  waiting  till  'tis  too  late.  And  you  won't  learn  anything.  If  you'd  even  learn  the  piano,  I  could  teach  you.&quot;  That  fellow  was  a  born  preacher.  But  no  amount  of  preaching  could  change  me.  That  was  the  sort  I  was-come  day,  go  day,  God  send  Sunday-and  it  didn't  really  make  much  difference,  be-  cause  he  always  had  enough  for  both  of  us.  HE  parcels  continued  to  arrive  for  me.  Then,  on  the  fourth  week,  Anthony  Harty  was  standing  there,  gaping  with  the  rest  of  the  gang  at  the  marvels  that  came  out.  Harty  was  a  mean,  miserable  specimen  that  never  got  anything,  and  he  was  mad  jealous  of  me.  &quot;Jay,  Dunphy,  'tis  well  to  be  you!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Last  year,  you  never  got  any-  thing,  and  now  look  at  you!&quot;  \xc2\xabThat's  only  because  my  mother  didn't  know  about  the  grub  in  this  place,&quot;  I  said  confidently.  &quot;Are  you  sure  'tis  she's  sending  them?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  Harty?&quot;  I  asked,  getting  real  mad.  &quot;Just  because  you  never  get  anything  yourself!&quot;  &quot;?Tisn't  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  that's  not  the  writing  on  your  letters  from  home.&quot;  &quot;Why  would  it  be?&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;I  suppose  'tis  the  shopkeeper's!&quot;  &quot;I  think  'tis  the  same  writing  as  on  Cummings'  parcels,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  what's  wrong  with  itifit  is?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  suppose  she  could  order  them  there,  couldn't  she?&quot;  &quot;Inever  said  she  couldn't,&quot;  he  said  sulkily.  &quot;I'm  only  telling  you  what  I  think.&quot;  I  couldn't  believe  it,  yet  at  the  same  time  I  could  get  no  further  pleasure  from  the  parcel.I  gave  some  of  the  fel-  " b"lows  chocolate  and  put  the  rest  in  my  locker.  Then  I  went  out  and  skulked  away  under  the  trees.  It  was  a  dull,  misty  day,  and  I  was  as  gloomy  as  the  day.  I  still  could  not  bring  myself  to  believe  that  there  wasn't  a  simple  ex-  planation  of  it  all,  or  that  Mother  hadn't  come  to  some  arrangement  with  the  Cumminses  about  parcels,  but  I  had  had  a  letter  from  her  and  she  had  said  nothing  of  any  parcels.  I  couldn't  talk  to  anybody  about  it,  but  that  night  after  lights-out  I  twisted  and  turned  madly  in  bed,  and  the  more  I  turned,  the  clearer  I  saw  that  the  parcels  had  been  from  Cummins'  parents,  and  not  from  Mummy  at  all.  They  were  so  ignorant  that  they  wouldn'teven  know  there  was  anything  wrong  in  sending  them.  It's  hard  for  me  now  to  understand  the  state  to  which  I  was  reduced,  but  I  was  more  humiliated  than  I  had  ever  been  in  my  life  before.  Though  I  hadn't  realized  it,  I  had  been  buoyed  up  for  weeks  less  by  the  grub  than  by  the  idea  that  Mummy  cared  as  much  for  me  as  Cummins'  parents  cared  for  him;  I  had  been  filled  with  love  for  her,  and  now  all  the  love  was  turning  back  on  me,  and  I  realized  that  I  hated  her.  And  not  only  her  but  the  Cumminses.  I  saw  that  I  had  been  pitying  Francis  Cummins  be-  cause  he  was  weak  and  priggish  and  be-  cause  his  parents  were  only  poor,  igno-  rant  shopkeepers  who  didn't  know  a  good  school  from  a  bad  one,  and  all  the  time  he  and  his  parents  had  been  pitying  me  because  I  had  no  one  to  care  for  me  as  his  parents  cared  for  him.  I  could  imagine  the  three  of  them  talking  of  Mummy  and  me  the  way  we  had  talked  of  them.  The  only  difference  was  that  their  view  of  it  was  right  and  mine  was  wrong.  I  was  the  one  who  deserved  pity.  &quot;What  are  you  crying  for,  Dunphy?&quot;  the  chap  in  the  next  bed  asked  me.  The  beds  were  ranked  so  close  together  you  couldn't  even  cry  in  peace.  &quot;I'm  not  crying,&quot;  I  said,  between  my  teeth.  EXT  day,  I  bundled  up  what  re-  mained  of  the  parcel  and  took  it  to  Cummins'  dormitory.  I  had  intended  to  leave  it  and  walk  out,  but  he  was  there,  sitting  on  his  bed,  and  I  had  to  say  something.  &quot;'That's  yours,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  if  you  ever  do  a  thing  like  that  again,  I'll  kill  ou.&quot;  &quot;What  did  I  do,  Michael?&quot;  he  asked,  getting  pale.  &quot;Your  mother  sent  me  that  parcel.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  send  it,  though,  did  I?&quot;  &quot;No,  but  you  told  them  to.  Who asked  you  to  interfere  in  my  business,  you  dirty  little  spy?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  a  spy,&quot;  he  said,  getting  agitated.  &quot;You  are  a  spy.  Pretending  my  mother  isn't  as  good  as  yours-a  dirty  old  shopkeeper!&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't,&quot;  he  said  hotly.  &quot;I  never  said  a  word  against  your  mother.&quot;  &quot;What  did  he  do  to  you,  Dun-  phy?&quot;  one  of  the  fellows  asked,  doing  the  big  shot  and  taking  Cummings'  part.  &quot;He  got  his  people  to  send  me  parcels,  as  if  I  couldn't  get  them  myself  if  I  wanted  them!&quot;  I  shouted,  with  tears  in  my  eyes.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  that's  nothing  to  cry  about.&quot;  &quot;Who's  crying?&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;I'm  not  crying!  I'll  fight  him  and  you  and  the  best  man  in  the  dormitory!&quot;  I  waited  a  moment,  and  then  rushed  out,  because  I  knew  that  I  was  crying.  I  went  to  the  john  and  had  my  cryout  there,  on  the  seat.  I  cried  because  I  had  thought  that  I  was  keeping  my  secret  so  well,  and  that  no  one  but  myself  knew  how  little  toughness  and  insubordination  there  was  in  me,  and  then  Cummins  had  come  along  and  pried  it  out,  After  that,  I  could  never  be  friendly  with  him  again.  It  would  have  been  like  living  naked."