 b"I  SEE  by  an  advertisement  in  a  year-  old  magazine  I  came  across  clean-  ing  out  my  [REDACTED]  cellar  that  a  big  hotel  chain  has  bought  the  old  Copley-  [REDACTED]  in  [REDACTED]  and  renamed  it  the  Sheraton-[REDACTED].  This  seems  to  me  ab-  surd.  It  was  called  the  Copley-[REDACTED]  because  it  is  on  Copley  Square.  My  own  early  life  was  so  bound  up  with  the  Copley-[REDACTED]  that  I  feel  now  very  much  as  if  someone  insisted  that  I  call  my  mother  Mrs.  Sheraton.  My  earliest  Copley-[REDACTED]  memory  is,  I  think,  of  Miss  Macomber's  dancing  class,  to  which  I  went  when  I  was  about  twelve.  No,  from  even  before  that  there  are  echoes;  whispers  of  the  small  stringed  orchestra  playing  among  the  palms  as  I  sit  with  my  feet  dangling  above  the  marble  floor  and  am  treated  to  an  ice-  raspberry  or  orange-and  something  called  petits  fours.  I  have  been  taken  to  a  matin\xc3\xa9e  to  see,  from  a  box,  John  Craig  and  Mary  Young  do  &quot;Romeo  and  Juli-  et&quot;  at  the  [REDACTED]  Street  [REDACTED].  The  orchestra  is  playing  a  waltz  called  &quot;Les  Patineurs,&quot;  and  the  petits  fours  are  beautiful-green,  pink,  and  white;  dia-  mond-shaped  and  square-but  why  &quot;fours&quot;?  Because  there  are  four  cor-  ners,  or  what?  I  sit  comfortably  munch-  ing,  and  looking  with  favor  at  the  palmy     &quot;Pardon  me.  Have  you  seen  a  deer  go  by  with  an  arrow  sticking  in  him?&quot;  scene  before  me:  this,  then,  is  the  great  world,  and  very  nice.  But  by  the  time  I  began  to  go  to  Miss  Macomber's  some  faint  glaze  of  social  comparisons  had  obscured  my  conscious-  ness,  and  I  was  aware  that  Miss  Ma-  comber's  was  not  the  last  word  in  [REDACTED]  dancing  classes.  'The  last  word  was  Foster's  classes,  held  at  the  Somer-  set,  out  on  Commonwealth  Avenue.  Was  it  this  that  lent  such  a  poignant,  somehow  heartbreaking  quality  to  those  late  afternoons?  Outside,  the  street  lights  are  being  turned  on  in  the  early-  falling  dusk  along  Dartmouth  Street,  [REDACTED]  Avenue,  St.  James  Avenue.  Inside  the  vast,  marble,  worldly  Copley-  [REDACTED],  the  little  girls  are  having  their  pink  taffeta  and  blue  satin  sashes  retied  in  the  dressing  room  down  the  corridor  from  the  ballroom.  The  moment  comes,  and  we  edge  out  into  the  corridor,  where  the  boys  wait  in  their  blue  serge  suits.  With  somebody  (who?  )  directing  us,  we  form  couples  to  march  up  the  steps  and  into  the  smaller  ballroom,  where  Miss  Macomber  stands  awaiting  us  in  a  peacock-blue  taffeta  dress  and  bronze  kid  slippers.  The  lady  at  the  piano  is  playing  &quot;Won't  You  Wait  Till  the  Cows  Come  Home?&quot;  We  mince  or  shamble  across  the  shining  parquet;  the  boys  bow,  the  girls  curtsy,  and  then  we  hurry,  with  relief,  away  to  reassemble  strictly  according  to  sex  on  the  gilt  chairs  along  the  wall,  until  Miss  Ma-  comber  gives  the  order  &quot;Boys,  choose  partners  for  the  Slide  Polka.&quot;  At  one  end  ofthe  room,  a  few  mothers  sit-  my  mother  among  them-in  their  furs,  their  dark-blue  suits  neatly  fitted  over  the  bust,  their  plumed  hats.  Because  of  the  tragic,  romantic  air  of  the  whole  thing,  it  is  a  relief  to  me  when  it  is  over  and  I  am  taken  across  Dart-  mouth  Street,  on  our  way  home,  to  S.S.  Pierce's,  its  lights  blazing  out  in  the  Back  Bay  twilight,  where  I  can  walk  round  and  round  the  circular  dis-  play  counter  covered  with  party  favors  while  my  mother  sits  ordering  Califor-  nia  pea  beans  and  a  five-pound  stone  crock  of  strawberry  jam  at  the  grocery  counter.  But  the  memories  of  that  dancing  class  are  not  all  tragic  in  atmosphere.  There  was  the  afternoon  that  I  won  the  Elimination  Prize  with,  as  partner,  a  boy  named  Sidney  Shurtleff  (who  is  now  alandscape  architect  and  has  changed  Ais  name  to  Shurcliff).  The  Elimination  Contest  was  a  part  of  the  cotillion  that  marked  the  last  dancing  class  of  the  season.  Favors  were  given  out,  to  be  handed,  grudgingly,  to  the  girls  by  the  boys;  I  think  the  last  figure  in  the  cotillion  was  the  Elimination  Contest.  In  principle,  it  was  like  musical  chairs.  Each  couple  was  given  a  number,  and  we  all  danced-the  fox  trot,  the  one-step,  the  slide  polka-and  then  ab-  ruptlythe  music  would  cease,  and  Miss  Ma-  comber  would  call  out  a  few  numbers  drawn  from  ahat  and  the  cou-  ples  holding  those  num-  bers  sat  down.  The  last  couple  left  dancing  won.  Sidney  and  I  were  the  last  couple  left  dancing,  and  side  by  side  we  marched  the  length  of  the  small  ball-  room  to  receive  our  prizes.  I  do  not  re-  member  what  the  prizes  were.  I  remember  the  tune  the  lady  at  the  piano  was  playing  as  we  danced  all  alone  the  full  circuit  of  the  ball-  room,  as  victors-a  tune  from  the  First  " b"World  War  called  &quot;Babes  in  the  Wood.&quot;  That  last  clumsi-  ly  danced  circuit-for  we  had  not  won  our  prize  because  of  any  talent,  any  superiority  whatsoever,  only  by  chance-  was  the  high  point  of  my  life  up  to  then.  I  tasted  triumph.  HE  next  set  of  memo-  ries  I  bear  ofthe  Copley-  [REDACTED]  are  very  different  from  these  in  mood.  I  must  have  been  fourteen.  I  had  be-  gun  going  to  Miss  Winsor's  School,  out  in  Longwood,  and  I  found  it  hard  to  make  friends;  as  far  as  I  could  fig-  ure  at  that  age,  my  total  in-  ability  to  play  basketball  or  field  hockey  was  the  cause  of  my  unpopularity.  Some  sort  of  instinct,  right  or  wrong,  caused  me  to  begin  stopping  in  at  the  Copley-[REDACTED]  on  my  way  home  from  school,  in  search  of  a  kind  of  com-  fort,  in  search  of  a  kind  of  distraction.  For  here  I  would  sit,  in  the  main  lobby,  opposite  to  the  huge  marble  desk,  dressed  in  my  thick,  untidy  school  clothes,  my  galoshes,  with  my  plaid  schoolbag  huddled  into  the  thronelike  chair  with  me,  and  watch  what  seemed  to  me  the  worldly  and  wealthy  conducting  their  fascinating  lives  at  the  Copley-[REDACTED].  In  from  the  Dartmouth  Street  entrance  would  hurry  a  bell-  boy,  or  two  bellboys,  laden  down  with  expensive  luggage,  fol-  lowed  -by  a  blond  woman  in  a  fur  coat,  or  a  close-shaven  man  in  a  check  waistcoat,  or  a  dark,  romantic-look-  ing  lady  all  in  black  and  attended  by  what  seemed  to  be  a  governess  with  two  or  three  rich,  well-dressed  children-important  children,  children  with  lives.  Occasionally  I  would  get  up  and  go  down  the  corridor  to  the  ladies'  room,  not  so  much  because  I  needed  to  as  that  there  I  found  myself  not  two  feet  away  from  beautiful,  expensively  dressed  women  who  talked  to  each  other  busily  about  their  approaching  engagements.  I  would  wash  my  hands,  taking  a  long  time  about  it,  and  listen  to  some  lovely  girl  saying,  &quot;We're  going  to  [REDACTED]  Fri-  day,  on  the  He.  ..  .&quot;  Then  I  would  go  back  to  my  throne  in  the  lobby  to  watch  some  more  people  make  their  entrances.  All  thetime,the  stringed  orchestra   would  be  playing  waltzes,  behind  in  the  palm  court-fast  and  sweet  and  queerly  nostalgic.  It  was  almost  as  if  this  were  the  only  life  I  had.  THE  final  stage  of  my  relationship  with  the  Copley-[REDACTED]  takes  up  where  &quot;Babes  in  the  Wood&quot;  left  off-  on  a  note  of  triumph.  I  am  a  [REDACTED]  d\xc3\xa9butante-a  popular  [REDACTED]  d\xc3\xa9bu-  tante-going  to  those  larger  balls  which  are  held  here,  and  which,  compared  with  the  dances  at  the  Somerset,  some-  how  never  seem  quite  quite.  The  Somer-  set  is  definitely  quite  quite.  But  now  I  go  to  all  those  dances,  too.  My  triumph  is  almost  complete;  I  have  not  had  to  do  anything  to  achieve  it,  it  just  came,  as  I  grew  older  and  had  my  hair  shingled  and  began  being  told  I  danced  well  and  that  I  looked  like  Greta  Garbo.  I  feel  a  little  superior  toward  balls  at  the  Cop-  ley-[REDACTED].  Back  in  the  old  dressing  room  again  Now  it  is  thronged  with  girls:  girls  in  knee-length  evening  dresses,  girls  with  rigid  gold  slave  necklaces  around  their  slender,  immature  throats,  girls  in  silver  kid  slippers  and  ostrich  leis  and  Chanel  bracelets  and  pearls-pearls  twisted  once  close  around  the  neck  and  left  swinging  down  almost  to  the  waist.  The  most  beautiful  girl  of  our  year  is  in  black  velvet,  with  a  flesh  chiffon  bosom;  she  gazes  as  though  sightlessly  into  the  big  mirror  as  she  applies  eye-  shadow  to  those  fabulous  eyelids.  Some-  one  says,  &quot;I  hear  you  made  the  Vincent.  Congrats.&quot;  Mixed  through  the  crowd,  as  though  for  their  own  protection,  are  the  pills-  the  girls  with  glasses,  the  girls  in  pink  taffeta  dresses,  the  girls  who  played  field  hockey  so  terribly  well  at  Miss  Win-  sor's.  Later  in  the  evening  they  will  retire  here  to  the  dressing  room  after  a  " b"few  too  many  circlings  of  the  ballroom  in  the  same  man's  arms,  to  wait  alone  until  they  summon  courage  to  issue  forth  once  more.  And  here,  like  birds  of  a  feather,  chattering  together  of  Sher-  ry's  and  the  Meadowbrook,  are  the  New  York  girls-a  little  taller  than  anyone  else,  more  glamorous,  more  un-  attainable,  because  they  come  from  New  York.  They  all  make  the  same  joke-  &quot;'The  best  thing  about  Beantown  is  the  Merchants  Limited  going  home.&quot;  New  York!  It  is  the  as  yet  unconquered,  the  next  world.  We  drift  out,  d\xc3\xa9gag\xc3\xa9,  a  little  blas\xc3\xa9,  to  find  the  Harvard  men  with  whom  we  came.  Tails  they  wore  in  those  days.  The  small  ballroom  and  the  big  ball-  room  are  thrown  open  together  to  me  now,  and  Billy  Lossez's  orchestra  is  playing.  He  has  a  banjo  man  who  is  supposed  to  be  hot  stuff  and  who  has  written  a  song,  called  &quot;Afraid  of  You,&quot;  that  is  rumored  to  have  been  inspired  by  one  of  the  d\xc3\xa9butantes.  Which?  But  the  great  Lossez  specialty  is  &quot;Je  Ne  Sais  Pas  Quoi  Faire,&quot;  delicate,  a  little  melan-     choly;  you  sing  it,  in  your  best  low,  hoarse  voice,  into  your  partner's  ear  in  the  moment  before  the  next  man  cuts  in.  &quot;Do  you  belong  to  the  Spee  or  the  A.D.?&quot;  &quot;Isn't  Hope  divine?&quot;  &quot;How  about  coming  tea  dancing  with  me  here  tomorrow?&quot;  Tea  dancing  at  the  Cop-  ley-[REDACTED]-that  was  another  facet  of  this  coming-out  diamond.  But  tonight  is  a  ball,  given  by  one  of  the  hunting  people  out  at  Myopia  for  their  lumpy  daughter.  'The  great  thing  is  to  be  able  to  dance  in  a  corner,  with  your  own  private  stag  line.  The  New  York  boys  arethe  best  dancers-they  are  snaky.  But  you  are  nice  to  everybody;  it  pays.  One  dismal,  damp-palmed  pip-  squeak  always  says  the  same  thing  as  he  " b"cuts  in-&quot;Greetings!&quot;  My  friends  and  I  call  him  Greetings.  This  is  a  really  smooth  dance,  they  are  serving  supper  throughout,  with  champagne  continuously.  We  d\xc3\xa9bu-  tantes  are  only  allowed  to  drink  cham-  pagne.  But  some  ofthe  boys  carry  hip  flasks,  and  the  girls  who  are  wild  ac-  cept  a  sip  from  the  flask  when  they  go  to  sit  out.  That  is  another  category  of  girl-the  girls  who  go  the  limit,  There  are  only  a  few  of  them  and  they  are  mentioned  with  bated  breath.  I  have  met  a  new  man.  He  is  tall  and  rather  an  awkward  dancer,  but  I  know  all  about  him;  he  is  a  big  man  in  the  Porcellian.  After  cutting  back  several  times,  he  asks  me  if  I  would  like  to  sit  out,  and  I  am  delighted  to.  We  go  to  one  ofthe  small  writing  rooms;  the  girls  with  their  beaux  wan-  der  in  and  out.  &quot;Hello,  Sarah.&quot;  &quot;Uh,  hello.&quot;  &quot;Hello,  Lily,  Joe.&quot;  The  hour  is  timeless.  Outside,  the  Back  Bay  is  fast  asleep.  Down  the  street,  Childs  is  drowsing,  we  will  go  there  for  pancakes  later.  Only  here  is  life  going  on,  to  the  tune  of  &quot;Je  Ne  Sais  Pas  Quof  Faire.&quot;  &quot;Darling,  are  you  coming  to  my  dance  the  twelfth?&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  miss  it.&quot;  'There  are  three  dances  on  the  twelfth-at  the  Somerset,  here,  and  at  the  Women's  Republican  Club.  My  new  beau  says,  &quot;Have  you  ever  seen  a  loof?&quot;  I  say,  &quot;Never  actually,  but  I've  al-  ways  imagined  what  one  must  look  like.&quot;  &quot;'There  must  be  hundreds  of  them,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;So  many  people  seem  to  be  aloof.&quot;   At  one  of  the  writing  desks,  we  take  turns,  there  in  the  sitting-out  room  at  half  past  two  in  the  morning,  at  draw-  inga  loof.  It  has  three  eyes,  a  pointed  head;  its  tongue  sticks  out  permanently.  &quot;Aren't  you  ever  going  to  come  back  on  the  floor?&quot;  some  man  passing  asks  me,  but  I  say  &quot;I'm  busy  drawing  a  loof.&quot;  &quot;A  whet?&quot;  We  laugh,  and  here  my  memories  fade  away,  and  end.  T  is  these  memories  that  make  the  Copley-[REDACTED]  seem  to  me  like  a  showy,  faintly  second-rate,  meretricious  mother  that  nonetheless  did  give  me  a  kind  of  life.  You  can't  make  my  mother  into  somebody  different  by  suddenly  be-  ginning  to  call  her  Mrs.  Sheraton.  But,  if  I  know  the  556e6974656420537461746573ians,  they  will  keep  right  on  calling  theold  hotel  the  Copley-[REDACTED]  anyway. "