 b"AFTER  the  Communists  took  Pei-ping,  in  January,  1949,  the  front  courts  and  rooms  of  the  Yu  family  mansion  were  occupied  by  soldiers,  and  horses  were  set  to  graze  in  its  famous  garden.  'The  presence  of  the  soldiers  would  have  been  trouble  enough  for  the  family,  but  they  also  had  the  task  of  keeping  old  Mr.  Yu,  my  wife's  father,  who  was  confined  by  mortal  illness  to  the  rooms  of  his  private  courtyard,  from  knowing  of  it.  He  was  a  statesman  who  had  once  been  Chief  Justice  of  the  Chinese  Supreme  Court,  and  the  family  felt  that  if  he  should  learn  of  such  an  invasion  ofthe  privacy  of  his  home,  his  last  days  would  be  days  of  defeat  instead  of  days  spent  in  the  peaceful  contemplation  of  a  respected  career.  Anticipating  his  death,  and  the  yearlong  period  of  mourning  that  would  follow  it,  Aimee  and  I  had  married  rather  hurriedly,  but  because  of  her  father's  illness  and  the  disruption  ofthe  house,  we  continued  to  live  apart.  Four  days  after  our  wedding,  Mr.  Yu  died  without  ever  knowing  that  his  beloved  garden  had  been  desecrated  and  that  his  mansion  and  fortune  were  collapsing.  The  mansion,  containing  more  than  a  hundred  rooms,  as  well  as  innu-  merable  courtyards  and  corridors,  was  an  enormous,  sprawling  building,  sur-  rounded  by  a  garden  and  various  out-  buildings,  the  whole  estab-  lishment  being  enclosed  by  a  wall.  Between  the  fall  of  Peiping  and  Mr.  Yu's  death,  the  family  main-  tained  his  courtyard  and  rooms  as  they  had  always  been  (and  one  large  hall  was  restored  for  Aimee's  and  my  wedding),  but  everywhere  else  in  the  house  they  did  their  best  to  conceal  any  evidence  of  their  re-  maining  wealth.  Windows  that  had  cracked  during  the  bombardment  of  the  city  were  left  unrepaired.  Car-  pets  were  removed  and  hid-  den,  along  with  paintings,  porcelains,  silk  cushions,  and  tapestries.  There  were  about  twenty-five  members  of  the  family  living  in  the  house  at  the  time-Aimee,  her  two  brothers  and  eight  sisters,  with  their  wives  or  husbands,  and  children,  as  well  as  several  aunts  and  uncles-and  they  all  did  what  they  could  to  increase  the  air  of  destitu-  tion.  Cooking  stoves  were  moved  into  the  larger  halls,  and  ashes  were  scat-  tered  on  the  floors.  One  of  my  wife's  sisters  found,  in  a  storeroom,  a  rusty  ice-cream  freezer,  which  looked  me-  chanical  and  proletarian,  and  put  it  in  the  middle  of  the  main  hall.  And,  as  a  final  touch,  Ninth  Sister,  the  young,  est,  came  home  one  day  with  a  sock-  knitting  machine.  The  machine  was  a  boxed  mecha-  nism  entirely  mysterious  to  me.  It  was  operated  by  a  crank,  and  protruding  from  the  top  of  the  box  were  long  needles,  set  in  a  circle.  A  skein  of  yarn  was  put  into  the  machine,  and  when  it  was  cranked,  a  knitted  cylinder  came  off  the  needles.  As  far  as  I  could  make  out,  you  just  stopped  cranking  even-  tually,  sewed  up  one  end  of  the  cylin-  der,  and  somehow  got  a  serviceable  sock,  but  I'm  sure  there  must  have  been  more  to  the  operation  than  that.  Any-  way,  the  family  agreed  that  the  ma-  chine  looked  wonderful  beside  the  ice-  cream  freezer,  and,furthermore,  they  all  felt  that  it  allowed  them  to  tell  the  Communists  that  they  expected  to  earn  a  living  by  making  socks.  I  don't  think  all  this  camouflage  fooled  anyone.  Although  the  family  did succeed  in  making  the  place  almost  un-  livable,  they  would  have  had  to  burn  it  to  the  ground  to  keep  even  the  stupidest  police  inspector  from  knowing  that  the  beams  and  pillars  were  of  the  finest  cedar  and  mahogany,  and  that  the  tiles  of  the  floors  rivalled  in  blackness  and  smoothness  those  of  the  Imperial  Pal-  ace.  And  I  am  sure  they  would  even  then  have  had  to  commit  suicide  en  bloc  to  hide  the  fact  that  they  were  people  trained  in  the  art  of  spending  money.  Actually,  they  might  have  saved  themselves  a  good  deal  of  trouble,  be-  cause  they  reversed  the  process  and  re-  stored  the  house  when  the  old  man  died.  They  decided  to  give  him  a  funeral  in  orthodox  grand  style,  and  this  decision  led  them  to  feel  that  they  wanted,  after  all,  to  hold  on  to  their  standard  of  living  as  long  as  they  could.  They  had  already  restored  the  Hall  of  Ancient  Pines  at  the  time  Aimee,  the  Fourth  Miss  Yu,  and  I  were  married-an  event  that  auto-  matically  gave  me  the  designation  of  Fourth  Brother-and  most  of  the  rest  of  the  job  was  done  for  the  funeral.  WAS  with  friends  on  the  night  of  old  Mr.  Yu's  death.  Aimee  tele-  phoned  me.  When  I  arrived  at  the  mansion  gate,  the  Communist  soldiers  were  milling  uncertainly  about  the  front " b"courtyard,  aware  that  something  had  happened  inside  the  house.  A  servant  told  me  Aimee  was  at  the  well  in  the  garden,  and  I  set  out,  by  way  of  a  small  door  in  the  courtyard  wall,  to  look  for  her.  It  was  a  moonless  night  and  the  garden  was  very  black.  A  wind  was  shak-  ing  the  high  trees  and  rustling  through  the  bamboo.  'Thinking  of  the  old  man  newly  dead,  I  might  have  been  uneasy  had  it  not  been  for  the  very  ordinary  horses  ofthe  soldiers  stamping  at  their  tethers  in  the  darkness  all  around  me.  A  white  stone  path  that  began  at  the  door  ran  past  the  well,  and  I  had  fol-  lowed  it  for  a  considerable  distance  when  I  was  startled  to  see  someone  in  white  coming  toward  me,  carrying  what  looked  like  a  raised  umbrella.  Then  I  heard  the  figure  call,  in  Aimee's  voice,  &quot;David,  is  that  you?&quot;  As  she  came  closer,  I  could  see  that  she  really  was  carrying  an  umbrella,  and  a  pail  of  water  besides.  Her  white  dress,  I  knew,  was  mourning  attire.  &quot;''The  dead  must  be  washed  with  water  drawn  at  night,&quot;  she  said  when  I  asked  what  she  was  doing.  &quot;''The  water  must  not  be  touched  by  the  light  of  the  sky,  even  the  night  sky.  It  is  a  custom.&quot;  We  walked  back  to  the  door  of  the  main  courtyard  together,  past  the  bam-  boo  and  the  trees  and  the  horses.  I  wanted  to  say  something  comforting,  but  Aimee  looked  capable  and  in  con-  trol  of  herself,  and  I  could  think  of  nothing  that  seemed  right.  When  we  had  gone  through  the  door,  I  heard  weeping  and  singing.  Aimee  stopped,  and  then  suddenly  began  crying,  &quot;Ai  yal  Ai  yo!&quot;  and  went  toward  the  main  hall.  I  followed,  feeling  bewildered  and  wondering  if,  as  a  Fourth  Brother,  I  should  cry  out,  too.  HE  whole  family  and  about  twen-  ty  Buddhist  monks  were  gathered  in  the  hall.  Aimee  folded  her  umbrella  and  surrendered  her  bucket  to  one  of  her  aunts,  who  carried  it  away.  'The  relatives,  including  a  number  of  people  I  had  never  seen  before,  were  dressed  in  hemless  gowns  of  white  muslin  and  were  moaning  and  wailing.  The  monks  were  chanting  the  Feast  of  the  Dead,  and  were  making  a  good  deal  of  noise  with  gongs,  wooden  blocks,  and  bells.  Aimee  brought  me  a  white  sash  and  tied  it  around  my  waist  under  my  suit  coat,  and  told  me  to  sit  down.  The  only  people  making  no  outcry  or  other  noise  were  the  servants,.  I  saw  one  of  them  going  out  of  the  hall  with  the  rusty  ice-  cream  freezer  in  his  arms.  The  sock-  knitting  machine  was  already  gone.  Other  servants  were  cleaning,  laying  carpets,  or  polishing  furniture.  The  wall  mirrors,  of  which  there  were  many,  had  been  covered  with  sheets  of  white  paper.  Actually,  the  old  man's  death  had  come  as  no  shock  to  the  family.  It  had  been  expected,  and  they  knew  that  Mr.  Yu  would  never  have  been  able  to  ap-  prove  of  &quot;New  4368696e61,&quot;  and  that  in  a  short  time  the  inviolability  of  his  own  courtyard  would  have  been  shattered.  They  felt  he  was  better  out  of  it-hon-  ored  in  death  rather  than  humiliated  in  life.  And  partly  because,  in  their  relief,  they  also  felt  guilty,  and  partly  because  they  were  uncertain  of  their  own  future,  they  had  decided  that  theold  man's  funeral  was  to  be  a  sort  of  symbol  of  the  past  as  he  had  known  it-a  last  flar-  ing  of  gold-and-red  pomp  before  they  should  all  be  submerged  in  the  drab  puritanism  of  the  revolution.  After  I  had  sat  with  the  mourners  for  some  time,  Aimee  took  me  outside  into  the  cool  night  air.  She  explained  that  what  I  had  been  witnessing  was  the  first-night  wake,  and  that  it  would  go  on  until  morning.  As  a  member  of  the  family,  I  had  honored  her  father  by  be-  ing  present,  but  as  a  foreigner,  I  was     not  expected  to  stay  the  whole  time.  She  told  me  that  the  ceremonies  of  the  funeral  would  last  for  fortydays,  but  that  the  most  elaborate  rites  would  take  place  on  the  third  day.  Then  she  walked  with  me  through  the  still,  empty  court-  yard.  The  family  was  waiting,  she  said,  for  the  coffin,  which  was  being  brought  from  the  ancestral  family  temple  in  the  North  City.  Her  father  had  bought  it,  as  the  custom  was,  many  years  before,  and  the  wood,  a  kind  of  teak,  was  of  a  quality  and  thickness  now  unobtainable.  Every  month  for  at  least  twenty  years,  a  fresh  layer  of  lacquer  had  been  put  on  it.  We  walked  on,  and  justas  we  reached  the  main  gate,  the  immense  coffin  arrived,  on  the  shoulders  of  six  bearers,  its  surface  black  and  sparkling  in  the  light  from  their  lanterns.  One  end  of  it  was  high,  made  to  look  like  the  stern  of  a  Chinese  junk,  and  its  sides  had  been  shaped  like  those  of  a  boat,  to  enable  it  to  cleave  the  black  waters  where  the  dead  travel.  As  it  came  slid-  ing  darkly  through  the  gate,  the  Com-  munist  soldiers,  most  of  whom  had  been  recruited  from  superstitious  peasant  stock,  drew  back,  muttering,  their  eyes  wide.  Aimee  touched  the  coffin  as  it  passed,  and  a  moment  later  we  said  good  night.  I  walked  away,  and,  out-  side  the  huge  gate,  turned  back  and  saw  her  standing  there,  looking  ghostlike  in  her  white  robe,  watching  me.  The  soldiers  were  in  clumps  about  her,  though  they  did  not  stand  too  close,  and  I  could  still  see,  behind  her,  the  dark  shape  of  the  coffin  receding  into  the  darkness.  N  the  three  days  before  the  climax  of  the  funeral  rites,  the  Yu  mansion  changed  considerably.  Over  all  the  tiled  outdoor  courts,  box-shaped  roofs  of  reed  matting,  looking  something  like  large  sheds,  were  erected  on  bamboo  scaffold-  ing.  Framed  panes  of  brightly  painted " b"glass  were  set  in  the  sides  of  these,  above  the  level  ofthe  surrounding  buildings  and  galleries.  In  this  way  almost  an  acre  of  open  courts  was  changed  into  lofty  rooms  smelling  of  straw  and  filled  with  golden-yellow  dust.  I  was  in  the  house  early  on  the  second  morning,  when  a  Communist  cadre  came.  In  Western  usage,the  term  ap-  plies  to  a  number  of  men  forming  the  skeleton  of  a  larger  group,  but  it  is  the  approved  Chinese  Communist  designa-  tion  for  one  man  acting  as  a  sort  of  political  commissar.  'This  man  arrived  just  as  the  workmen  were  beginning  the  day's  construction  and  cleaning.  He  strode  angrily  about  the  courts  watch-  ing  the  bustle,  and  after  he  had  asked  the  workmen  (most  of  them  profes-  sional  funeral  caterers  and  descendants  of  funeral  caterers,  who  took  pride  in  their  work  and  charged  enormous  prices)  what  they  were  doing  and  how  much  they  were  getting  paid,  he  joined  the  soldiers  and  conferred  with  them.  Presently,  they  produced  from  some-  where  a  flaking  blackboard,  and  for  the  next  hour  the  main  courtyard  rang  with  Communist  hymns.  The  cadre  wrote  the  first  lines  on  the  blackboard,  and  the  soldiers  shouted  them  and  went  on  from  there.  &quot;Out  of  the  East  comes  the  sun,  out  of  the  East  comes  Mao  Tse-tung,&quot;  they  sang.  &quot;In  Red  Leaf  Village,  the  land-  lords  are  gone.  Ai  yal  The  farmers  dance  and  sing.  Red  Warriors  liberate  the  south.  The  people  are  throwing  flowers  at  their  feet.&quot;  When  the  soldiers  were  done  sing-  ing,  they  took  out  the  paper-bound  Communist  catechisms  that  they  all  car-  ried  and,  in  response  to  the  questions  of  the  cadre,  read  aloud  in  their  flat  coun-  try  accents.  &quot;What  is  the  place  of  the  soldier  in  New  4368696e61?&quot;  ''The  soldier  protects  the  people  and  drives  the  running  dogs  of  imperialism  from  our  shores.&quot;  &quot;What  is  the  Soviet  Union?&quot;  &quot;'The  Soviet  Union  is  4368696e61's  big  brother  and  is  helping  us  drive  the  im-  perialist  reactionaries  into  the  sea.&quot;  After  quite  a  lot  of  this,  the  soldiers  all  sat  down  on  the  folding  campstools  they  carried  strapped  to  their  packs,  and  the  cadre  began  barking  out  a  lecture  on  the  evils  of  bureaucratic  capitalism  and  amassed  wealth.  &quot;All  this  is  the  old,  evil  4368696e61,&quot;  he  said.  He  waved  his  arms  as  if  to  sweep  away  the  mansion  and  the  workmen.  The  soldiers  glared  about  them.  &quot;All  these  people  employed  for  one  dead  old  man  is  a  reactionary  crime  against  New  4368696e61!&quot;  The  soldiers  stirred,  and  snarled  at  the  workmen.  &quot;But  wait!&quot;  the  cadre  cried.  &quot;They  are  doomed!  We  need  not  even  push  them!  They  are  already  dying  from  their  own  inner  decay.&quot;  'The  soldiers  smiled  complacently.  &quot;Watch  them  and  learn!&quot;  said  the  cadre.  THE  climactic  third  day  was  bed-  lam.  Since  the  principal  rooms  of  the  Yu  mansion  were  in  a  direct  line,  separated  by  courtyards,  and  their  main  doors  had  been  removed  and  the  court-  yard  gates  opened,  one  could  look  down  a  huge  vista  filled  with  wild  but  purpose-  ful  disorder.  In  some  of  the  courtyards,  the  ca-  terers  had  set  up  tables  for  refreshments.  In  others,  great  bouquets  of  paper  flow-  ers  and  life-size  paper  figures  of  horses  and  servants,  for  the  equipage  of  Mr.  Yu  in  the  other  world,  were  being  pre-  pared.  Thesewould  later  be  burned,  to  send  them  on  their  way.  Meanwhile,  ingots  of  gold  paper,  also  forhis  use,  were  kept  blazing  in  an  iron  brazier.  A  drum  at  the  main  gate,  so  huge  that  the  man  beating  it  had  to  stand  on  a  ladder,  was  struck  at  intervals  to  announce  the  arrival  of  guests-two  beats  for  a  man,  one  for  a  woman.  In  two  courtyards,  there  were  chanting  monks  and  Bud-  dhist-temple  orchestras  composed  of  gongs,  drums,  trumpets,  racks  of  bells,  and  pipes  of  Pan.  The  Communist  soldiers,  dressed  in  uniforms  of  Yenan  yellow,  sat  doggedly  in  the  midst  of  the  turmoil,  eating  pickled  radishes  and  cooking  vegetables  over  a  coal-ball  fire.  (Coal  balls  are  made  by  mixing  coal  dust  and  mud.  They  make  a  good  fire,  but  they  leave  enormous  clinkers.)  And  in  and  out  of  halls  and  courtyards,  through  clouds  of  incense,  wandered  the  guests.  'There  were  the  Chinese  ones,  the  declining  aristocracy  of  Peiping-  silk-gowned  ancient  men  with  those  elegant  beards  that  only  the  Chinese  can  grow;  their  slender,  white-faced,  po-  maded  sons;  and  their  first  wives,  second  wives,  concubines,  and  mistresses,  smell-  ing  faintly  of  sandalwood,  face  powder,  and  soap.  There  were  also  foreign  guests,  who,  in  sunglasses  and  slacks,  and  loaded  down  with  cameras,  tripods,  and  light  meters,  seemed  to  be  every-  where  at  once,  snapping  pictures.  Most  of  them  were  friends  of  mine,  whom  the  family  had  been  happy  to  invite  for  the  express  purpose  of  getting  pictures  of  the  occasion  taken,  and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  pictures  were  to  have  a  kind  of  historical  value.  Though  nobody  realized  it  at  the  time,  this  was  to  be  the  last  of  the  great  funerals  for  which-  along  with  dust,  duck,  and  opera-  Peiping  was  famous.  Thereafter,  the  new  government  simply  reassessed  the  property  of  any  family  foolish  enough  to  produce  the  money  for  a  funeral  of  such  dimensions.  I  was  wearing  a  dark-blue  Chinese  gown,  with  a  white  sash-a  symbol  of  limited  mourning.  I  had  had  difficulty  finding  the  white  socks  that  are  cus-  tomary  with  a  Chinese  gown,  because  most  of  mine  had,  along  with  my  sum-  mer  clothes,  been  locked  away  in  cam-  " b"phor  chests  that  at  the  moment  were  inaccessible.  So  I  had  on  a  pair  mis-  matched  both  in  weave  and  in  the  de-  gree  of  whiteness.  Deciding  to  go  to  the  garden  to  es-  cape  the  noise  and  confusion  for  a  mo-  ment,  I  saw  Ninth  Sister  through  a  window  of  one  of  the  small  inner  rooms,  and  went  inside  to  speak  to  her.  She  saw  my  socks  almost  immediately,  and  tears  came  to  her  eyes.  &quot;Your  socks  don't  match,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  said.  She  began  tocry.  &quot;Papa's  dead  and  we're  all  becoming  poor-even  you,  an  American!&quot;  she  said.  She  was  only  eighteen,  and  she  looked  very  tiny  and  lost  in  her  square-cut  muslin  mourning  sack.  &quot;Don't  cry,&quot;  I  said  to  her.  &quot;Your  father  was  an  old  man,  and-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'm  not  crying  for  Papa,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  glad  he's  dead.  He  can  never  see  what's  happened.  Elder  Broth-  er  says  that  next  month,  after  we  finish  paying  for  the  funeral,  we  must  give  up  all  the  servants  but  two.  He  told  me  I  must  remember  to  turn  off  lights,  and  he's  already  asked  a  man  to  cut  down  the  big  trees  in  thefront  court  and  sell  them  for  wood,  and  he  says  he's  going  to  raise  pigs  in  the  garden.  Oh,  I'm  glad  Papa's  dead!  He  loved  this  house  and  the  garden  and  the  trees.  I  love  them,  too,  and  I  wish  I  were  dead  with  Papa.&quot;  There  wasn't  much  I  could  say.  The  Yu  family  were  poor.  Their  stocks  and  deposits  had  become  so  much  paper,  and  even  if  they  tried  to  stay  together  and  keep  the  house,  they  would  have  to  live  very  differently  from  the  way  they  had  lived  before  the  revolution.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  I  told  Ninth  Sister.  &quot;Do  as  your  brother  says,  and  everything  will  be  all  right.&quot;  Actually,  I  didn't  believe  that  any-  thing  would  everagain  be  all  right  for  them-their  way  of  life  was  ending  unconditionally-but  she  looked  up,  brushing  away  her  tears.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  are  still  the  Yu  family,  and  if  we  stay  together,  everything  will  still  be  as  it  used  to  be.  Iwillhelp.I  promise  I  will.  I  have  a  plan,  too.&quot;  &quot;You  have?  What  plan?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  tell  you  now,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  I've  been  thinking  about  it  for  a  long  time.&quot;  I  DIDN'T  see  Ninth  Sister  again  un-  til  late  that  afternoon,  when  I  was  taking  my  place  in  a  procession  consist-  ing  of  the  family,  the  guests,  the  monks,  and  the  orchestras.  At  its  head  marched  a  group  of  monks  blowing  ten-foot-long  horns  carried  for  them  by  little  boys,  who  marched  before  them.  The  horns  were  to  dispel  evil  spirits.  Each  could  sound  only  one  note,  but,  blown  several  at  a  time  or  all  together,  they  produced  uncanny  harmonies.  After  the  horns  came  the  orchestras,  playing,  and  then  more  monks,  now  quite  hoarse  but  still  chanting.  Nextcame  the  spirit  tower  of  Mr.  Yu,  borne  on  bamboo  poles-a  small  paper  pagoda  in  which  was  en-  shrined  a  fading  framed  photograph,  taken  some  thirty  years  before,  of  Mr.  Yu  wearing  a  European  suit  and  high  collar.  Behind  the  spirit  tower  came  the  im-  mediate  family,  and  then  the  other  rela-  tives,  all  carrying  bundles  of  lighted  in-  cense  sticks  and  wearing  white  paper  flowers.  Mr.  Yu's  eldest  son,  as  chief  of  the  mourners,  wore  white  net  blink-  ers  over  his  eyes,  symbolizing  a  grief  so  deep  as  to  make  him  unable  to  see.  Al-  though  actually  he  could  see,  and  could  walk  quite  well,  ceremony  demanded  that  he  be  supported  on  either  side  by  attendants.  Every  ten  feet,  he  knelt  on  a  cushion  placed  before  him  by  an  at-  tendant,  knocked  his  head  on  the  ground  three  times,  and  wailed.  He  would  then  be  helped  to  his  feet  and  taken  forward  another  ten  feet.  Behind  the  family,  at  a  pace  respectfully-and  necessari-  ly-slow,  came  the  several  hundred  guests.  They,  too,  carried  incense  and  wore  paper  flowers.  At  intervals  in  the  procession  were  the  paper  servants  and  paper  horses,  held  upon  poles  by  funeral  caterers.  There  was  also  a  papersedan  chair,  and  there  was  a  paper  pleasure  boat  about  fifteen  feet  long,  complete  in  every  de-  tail.  Through  its  windows  I  could  see,  among  other  surprising  furnishings,  paper  tables  with  paper  teacups  on  them,  and  a  miniature  paper  model  of  an  old-  fashioned,  round-topped  Zenith  radio.  The  purpose  of  our  procession  was  to  burn  all  these  paper  objects,  with  the  exception  of  Mr.  Yu's  photograph  (but  including  the  spirit  tower  itself),  out-  side  the  walls  of  a  nearby  Buddhist  temple.  We  reached  it  eventually,  and  the  burning  began.  The  pagoda  was  set  on  fire  first,  and  when  it  began  to  col-  lapse  the  other  objects  were  thrown  onto  the  fire  oneby  one.  It  was  macabre  to  see  the  very  human-looking  servants  first  curl  in  the  heat  of  the  fire  and  then  burst  into  flame.  Their  faces  and  hands  were  of  papier-mach\xc3\xa9,  and  burned  more  slowly  than  their  clothes.  I  thought  of  Joan  of  Arc,  of  medieval  witches,  and  i  of  the  earlier  funeral  sacrifices  of  real  " b"servants,  of  which  this  ceremony  was  a  discomforting  survival.  One  of  the  foreigners,  trying  for  a  photograph,  got  too  close  to  the  fire  and  suffered  the  loss  of  both  his  eyebrows.  He  was  nearly  burned  more  seriously,  and  I  couldn't  help  thinking  how  as-  tounded  old  Mr.  Yu  would  have  been  if  a  foreigner  with  a  camera  in  his  hands  and  an  assortment  of  leather  pouches  hanging  from  his  shoulders  had  ap-  peared  out  of  the  smoke  and  flame  to  assist  him  in  the  other  world.  He  would  surely  havebeen  at  a  loss  to  know  what  imbecility  had  come  over  his  children,  who  were  responsible  for  providing  for  his  wants  in  that  distant  place.  LTHOUGH,  following  the  fire  ceremony,  old  Mr.  Yu's  soul  was  gone,  and  was  now  presumably  well  provided  for,  this  body,  sealed  in  its  coffin,  still  lay  in  the  main  hall  of  the  house.  A  temporary  partition  screened  the  coffin,  and  in  front  of  this  was  a  table-a  sort  of  altar-on  which  stood  the  old  framed  photograph  of  Mr.  Yu.  The  coffin  was  to  remain  there  forty  days,  during  which  offerings  of  various  sorts,  mostly  food,  incense,  and  ingots  of  gold  paper,  would  be  made  at  the  altar.  Then  it  was  to  be  taken,  with  elaborate  ceremony,  in  a  brocade-and-  silk-covered  palanquin,  to  the  family  tombs  outside  the  city.  I  saw  Ninth  Sister  only  once  in  this  waiting  period.  The  Communist  soldiers  had  finally  been  assigned  official  military  barracks  and  were  moving  out.  They  were  as  happy  to  go  as  the  family  was  to  see  them  go.  Elder  Brother,  for  the  sake  of  appearances,  bowed  them  out  the  main  gate,  and  they  went  marching  off,  their  packs  and  campstools  on  their  backs,  frying  pans  and  tin  cups  clank-  ing  at  their  belts.  I  found  Ninth  Sister  standing  in  the  litter  ofthe  rooms  they  had  vacated  and  looking  thoughtfully  about.  &quot;The  family  doesn't  want  these  rooms,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  thought  I  might  use  them.&quot;  &quot;What  for?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;You  wait  and  see,&quot;  she  said,  and,  looking  very  pleased  with  herself,  skipped  away.  I  went  on  to  Aimee's  rooms.  I  was  still  living  with  friends,  for,  though  I  would  have  liked  to  accept  the  family's  invitation  to  move,  with  Aimee,  into  a  suite  in  the  mansion,  I  couldn't  bring  myself  to  do  it  with  Mr.  Yu's  body  only  a  few  courts  away  and  the  family  still  in  mourning.  Aimee  had  prepared  dinner  for  the  two  ofusthat  day.  She  had  made  a  dish  of  which  she  was  justly  proud-  diced  pork  and  fried  peanuts,  done  in  some  secret  way.  I  had  eaten  it  be-  fore,  and  knew  that  it  was  undeniably  " b"special.  Now  she  served  it,  and  I  took  the  first  bite  expectantly.  &quot;It's  not  quite  the  same  today,&quot;  I  said  hesitantly.  &quot;There  doesn't  seem  to  be  as  much  flavor  as  usual.&quot;  Aimee  smiled.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Papa  ate  it  first.&quot;  I  choked.  &quot;Papa's  dead,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  put  the  food  on  the  altar  in  front  of  his  spirit  picture,&quot;  Aimee  said.  &quot;We  give  everything  to  Papa  now  before  we  eat  it.  But  Papa  eats  only  the  flavor.  We  eat  the  rest.  Nothing's  tasted  right  for  weeks.&quot;  I'm  afraid  I  was  being  callous,  but  I  was  growing  weary  of  not  living  with  my  wife,  and  of  the  suffocating  clouds  of  incense  and  the  smell  of  burning  paper  that  constantly  filled  the  house.  A  tremendous  number  of  ingots  of  gold  paper  were  still  being  burned  for  Mr.  Yu,  and  I  wondered  what  the  old  man  could  possibly  be  doing  with  all  that  gold,  and  whether  it  was  absolutely  necessary  that  he  take  the  very  flavor  out  of  my  mouth.  &quot;Please,  Aimee,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;aren't  the  forty  days  up?&quot;  Aimee  said  that  the  forty  days  were  indeed  up,  but  that  the  family  was  hav-  ing  trouble  with  the  authorities,  who  refused  to  grant  a  permit  to  move  Mr.  Yu's  body  out  of  the  city.  They  also  refused  to  permit  any  sort  of  proces-  sion.  Forty  days  before,  the  family  would  not  have  needed  a  permit.  The  new  government  was  taking  hold  rapid-  ly.  The  authorities  had  explained  that  Mr.  Yu  couldn't  be  buried  without  one  of  the  new  death  certificates,  but  insisted  that  as  he  had  already  been  dead  for  fortydays,  they  couldn't  issue  one.  It  was  no  concern  of  theirs  that  at  the  time  the  old  man  died  few  residents  of  the  city  had  ever  heard  of  a  death  certificate.  And,  finally,  the  officials  had  pointed  out  that  if  the  family  had  not  been  ob-  serving  old-fashioned,  feudalistic  cus-  toms,  they  would  have  buried  Mr.  Yu  properly  right  after  he  died  and  there  would  have  been  no  trouble  for  anyone.  AFTER  two  more  weeks  of  waiting  and  asking,  the  family  was  given  a  carefully  worded  death  certificate,  which  said  that  the  cause  of  death  was  unknown  and  which  seemed  to  imply  that,  for  all  the  authorities  could  say,  the  old  man  might  have  been  done  in  by  his  sons  and  daughters.  Two  days  later,  the  permit  to  move  the  body  out  of  the  city  came  through,  along  with  a  burial  permit,  but  there  was  no  permit  to  hold  a  procession.  All  the  delay  and  harass-  ment  had  been,  I  believe,  simply  the  government's  way  of  asserting  its  au-  thority.  So  the  end  of  the  funeral  cere-  monies  was  at  hand  at  last,  and  the  great  black  coffin  was  loaded  without  much  ceremony  into  the  back  of  an  open  truck  for  its  final  journey.  Elder  Brother  rode  with  it.  He  was  still  dressed  in  muslin  and  had  put  his  blinkers  on  again,  and  clutched  in  his  hands  were  the  documents  without  which  the  truck  couldn't  have  been  driv-  en  around  the  block.  A  few  other  members  of  the  family  were  to  follow  the  truck  in  arented  Buick-the  second  son,  two  of  Mr.  Yu's  sisters,  the  only  one  of  his  brothers  then  living  in  the  city,  the  eldest  daughter,  and  Aimee.  Though  this  was  intended  to  beonly  a  small  group  of  elders,  Aimee  was  taken  along  because,  as  the  most  eloquent  member  of  the  family,  she  had  been  involved  in  the  negotiations  for  the  permits  and  might  be  needed  to  make  explanations  at  the  city  gates.  Sud-  denly,  when  everything  seemed  ready,  there  was  a  great  flurry  of  excitement,  incense  was  hastily  burned,  and  old  Aunt  Yu,  one  of  Mr.  Yu's  two  sisters,  was  expelled  from  the  Buick.  As  it  drove  away,  she  stood  beside  me  look-  ing  after  it  and  sniffling.  &quot;What  did  you  do?&quot;  I  asked  her.  &quot;I  stepped  over  water,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  rained  last  night,  and  there  was  a  pud-  dle.  It's  very  unpropitious  to  step  over  water  on  the  way  to  a  burial.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  asked.  She  looked  surprised.  &quot;I  wonder,&quot;  she  said,  and  went  into  the  house.  SHORT  while  later,  I  was  sitting  alone  and  rather  sad  in  the  East-  ern  Study,  which  was  to  be  part  of  Aimee's  and  my  living  quarters,  when  I  heard  a  tap  at  the  door  and  Ninth  Sister's  voice  asking,  &quot;Fourth  Brother,  are  you  there?&quot;  &quot;Come  in!&quot;  I  called.  She  came,  holding  something  behind  her  back  and  looking  wise.  &quot;I  have  a  present  for  you.  It's  my  surprise,&quot;  she  said.  She  thrust  a  pair  of  white  socks  at  me.  &quot;I  made  them.  These  are  my  first.  I  learned  to  work  the  machine  all  by  myself.  We  must  buy  more  machines,  and  then  the  whole  family  can  make  them.  We'll  have  a  factory.&quot;  She  was  quite  serious.  I  put  on  the  socks,  feeling  old  and  somewhat  abashed  by  my  forebodings  in  the  face  of  her  resilience.  I  could  leave  4368696e61.  I  could  take  my  wife  and  get  out  any  time  I  wanted  to,  but  Ninth  Sister  was  already  planning  to  build  a  life  for  herself,  to  see  that  her  family  made  its  way  in  a  society  she  could  not  yet  begin  to  un-  derstand.  The  socks  were  good  ones,  and  were  the  right  size,  too.  'Thank  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  made  them  very  well.&quot;  &quot;I  cannot  dare  presume  so,&quot;  she  an-  swered,  in  the  fashion  of  polite  Chinese."