 b"THE  cab  I  took  at  Seventy-second  I  and  Second  was  driven  by  a  lean,  easy-smiling  man  of  about  my  own  age,  which  is  getting  along  up  there.  Although  he  was  not  forcibly  gabby,  asso  many  hackies  and  quitea  few  passengers  are,  we  did  start  talking.  Perhaps  I  started  the  talk,  making  some  remark  about  the  Giants,  because  Id  been  watching  them  on  television  alone  in  the  house  a  few  minutes  before.  I'd  had  nobody  to  make  remarks  to  about  some  ofthe  more  startling  plays,  and  it  is  almost  impossible  for  me  to  watch  a  ball  game,  on  television  or  in  real  life,  without  making  remarks  to  somebody.  There's  no  &quot;perhaps&quot;  about  it,  I  did  start  the  talking,  going  over  west  on  Seventy-second.  When  we  got  down  to  Park  and  Fifty-fourth  or  Fifty-fifth,  somewhere  in  there,  a  red  light  pulled  us  up,  over  near  the  island  that's  in  the  middle  of  Park,  and  there  was  a  traffic  police-  man  on  duty  there.  It  was  drizzling  some,  and  he  had  on  his  heavy  black  raincoat  and  his  black  rain  hat.  We  were  the  front  car  in  the  stopped  line  of  traffic,  and  so  not  far  from  the  cop.  He  was  a  fairly  grim-faced  cop,  but  when  he  glanced  over  and  saw  the  man  driving  my  cab  he  gave  a  big  grin.  &quot;Hi!&quot;  he  hollered  to  my  cabby,  as  the  crosstown  traffic  drift,  ed  by  easy  for  a  moment.  &quot;Hil&quot;  the  hackie  answered,  leaning  relaxed  out  the  left-hand  window.  &quot;How  you  doing?&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  the  cop  answered.  &quot;How  you  making  out  these  days?&quot;  &quot;Not  too  bad,  not  too  bad,&quot;  the  cabby  answered,  and  then  the  light  went  green,  the  cop  waved  us  all  on,  and  we  started  down  Park  again.  I  could  see  the  hackie  looking  at  my  reflection  in  the  rear-vision  mir-  ror.  I  got  the  idea  he  was  expecting  me  to  say  something.  &quot;Friendly  kind  of  cop,&quot;  I  said.  The  driver  laughed.  He  had  an  unobtrusive,  easy  laugh.  &quot;He's  an  old  college  chum  of  mine,&quot;  he  said.  I  hadn't  heard  the  expression  &quot;an  old  college  chum&quot;  for  years  and  years.  It's  an  old-timey  ex-  pression,  but  then,  as  I  said,  the  driver  and  I  seemed  to  be  about  the  same  age,  neither  one  of  us  a  kid.  &quot;College?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,  that's  a  kind  ofa  gag,&quot;  the  driver  said.  &quot;I  mean  we  graduated  from  thePolice  Academy  together.  Way  back  in  1923.  Never  forgot  each  other.&quot;  HAT  stopped  me  for  a  few  sec-  onds,  not  wanting  to  be  nosy.  But  I  could  see  the  hackie  was  still  watch-  ing  me  in  the  rear-vision  mirror,  so  I  asked  him  how  come  he  wasn't  on  the  cops,  too,  or  did  he  go  on  and  retire  or  what?  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  almost  got  on  the  cops  but  I  didn't.&quot;  He  quit  smiling  and  laughing.  He  seemed  to  be  figuring  whether  to  goon  or  not,  far  asI  could  tell  in  the  mirror,  and  then  he  half  turned  around  as  we  stopped  at  another  red  light.  &quot;You  went  into  something  else,  huh?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  had  to  go  into  something  else,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I  wanted  to  go  on  the  cops,  like  him.  I  lost  out  on  going  on  the  cops.  It's  a  funny  thing,  what  happened.  I  think  of  it  every  time  I  see  him,  and  I  guess  he  thinks  about  it,  too.  One  day  we  talked  about  it,  one  dopey  day,  Labor  Day  I  guess  it  was,  hardly  any  traffic  and  I  was  riding  empty.  No  use  making  any  bones  about  it,  it  doesn't  make  any  difference  any  more  anyway.  What  happened  was  they  found  out  I  had  a  petty-larceny  rap.  A  black  mark  on  me.  That  ended  me  with  them.&quot;  The  way  he  talked,  the  hackie  seemed  neither  resentful  nor  regretful  either,  merely  thinking  about  it,  brought  to  mind  by  the  cop  hollering  &quot;Hi!&quot;  The  light  changed,  and  we  went  on.  &quot;I  was  only  a  kid  and  I  was  deliver-  ing  groceries,&quot;  the  hackie  said.  &quot;I  went  in  a  house  with  groceries,  and  there  was  nobody  in  the  kitchen  and  I  saw  a  watch  on  a  table  and  I  took  it.  Might  as  well  saythe  truth,  I  stole  it.  It  doesn't  make  any  difference  any  more.  &quot;I  don't  understand  what  small  things  a  guy  remembers  when  he  gets  to  be  our  age,&quot;  the  driver  said.  &quot;I  re-  member  it  was  what  they  call  a  (gold-  filled  watch.&quot;  Course,  I  know  that  means  the  case  was  gold-filled,  what  I  mean,  only  part  gold.  Why  I  remember  is  after  they  caught  me  and  the  time  came  they  read  out  the  charge  on  petty" b"larceny,  the  guy  read  out  'gold-filled  watch'  and  I  remember  thinking  then,  kind  of  daffy,  about  a  watch  filled  inside  with  gold  instead  of  works.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  that  had  nothing  to  do  with  it,  it's  only  that  I  never  forget  about  the  gold-filled  part.  What  the  hell,  I  was  only  a  kid  when  I  did  it.  &quot;Thing  was,  when  I  took  the  exam-  inations  for  the  cops,  I  didn't  put  it  down  about  the  petty-larceny  rap.  I  was  a  man  then,  and  honest  to  God  I  forgot  all  about  the  watch  thing  that  happened  when  I  was  only  a  kid.  &quot;That  was  it.  Maybe  if  I  had  put  it  down,  they  would  have  overlooked  the  whole  thing.  But  they  found  out  on  their  own  hook,  they  look  you  up  matter  of  routine,  and  they  found  out  about  the  watch.  From  then  on,  it  was  no  go  with  me.  I  made  a  good  mark,  too.  I  got  an  eighty-eight  and  two-tenths,  it  was.  That  cop  you  saw  on  Park,  he  got  the  highest  in  the  class,  or  pretty  near  it,  he  got  a  ninety-two  and  something.&quot;  T  seemed  to  be  my  turn  to  speak,  so  I  said,  &quot;And  he's  still  on  traffic,  with  a  ninety-two  and  on  the  cops  all  this  time  since  1923?&quot;  &quot;'That's  the  way  it  works  out,&quot;  the  driver  said.  &quot;Still  on  traffic,  him,  and  still  pushing  a  hack,  me.  'That's  what  we  were  talking  about  that  Labor  Day  or  whenever  it  was  we  talked.  &quot;Still  and  all,  we  aren't  so  bad  off,  either  one  of  us,  that's  what  we  said  that  Labor  Day  or  whenever  it  was.  Funny  thing,  after  all  these  years  he  seemed  more  sorer  than  I  was  after  all  these  years  about  them  holding  that  watch  against  me  and  not  letting  me  get  on  the  cops  the  way  I  wanted  to  get  on.  He  said  a  couple  of  times  it  could  have  hap-  pened  to  any  kid.  Kids  don't  have  to  be  bad  to  do  a  thing  like  that  all  of  a  sud-  den,  take  a  watch  from  a  kitchen  table  delivering  groceries.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  believe  me.  It  doesn't  make  any  difference  whether  you  do  or  not.  But  honest  to  God,  that  watch  was  the  only  thing  wrong  I  ever  did  in  my  whole  life.  No,  I  don't  mean  that,  Idid  plenty  things  wrong,  I  mean  that  was  the  only  thing  illegal,  stealing,  I  ever  did  in  my  whole  life  before  the  watch  or  since  the  watch.  That  cop  up  there'd  tell  you  the  same  thing,  never  was  in  a  jam,  I  mean  a  criminal  jam  you  might  say.&quot;  We  were  getting  near  where  we  were  going  in  the  cab,  and  the  hackie  stopped  talking  for  a  minute  or  so.  I  could  see  him  grinning  again  in  the  rear-  vision  mirror,  &quot;Oh,  what  the  hell,  it  work  out  all  right  after  all,&quot;  he  said,  before  we  stopped  at  the  curb,  on  West  Forty-first.  &quot;'That's  what  we  said  that  Labor  Day  or  whenever  it  was.  He  asked  me  did  I  still  wished  I  had  got  on  the  cops  and  I  told  him  sometimes  I  did,  and  what  does  he  say  but  he  sometimes  see  me  go  by  and  wished  he  was  a  hackie.  Turns  out  I  got  a  wife  and  family,  two  good  kids,  bothboys  growing  up  and  I  make  out  all  right,  and  he  got  a  wife  and  fam-  ily,  he  got  two  girls  and  one  boy  and  he  says  he's  doing  O.K.  It  work  out  all  right  when  all  is  said  and  done.&quot; "