 b"TELL  me  about  [REDACTED].  Tell  me  what  it  was  like,&quot;  I  used  to  beg  my  mother  when  I  was  a  child.  I  never  tired  of  hearing  her  descriptions  of  the  wild  green  place,  hearing  those  bits  and  pieces  of  a  story  that  I  did  not  come  to  know  in  its  entirety  until  sev-  eral  years  after  her  death.  Then  I  found  what  &quot;it  was  like&quot;  -what  it  was  really  like,  the  whole  story  written  down  in  her  own  hand  and  left  among  her  papers  for  someone  (or  no  one)  to  find,  not  a  tale  told  to  a  little  daughter  but  the  pinning  down  once  and  for  all  of  a  complex  experience  that  had  haunted  her.  It  has  been  like  putting  one  of  those  tightly  curled-up  Japanese  flowers  into  a  glass  of  water  and  watch,  ing  it  open,  for  this  early  memory  of  my  mother's  seems  to  reveal  in  essence  the  flowering  of  a  lifetime.  My  mother  belonged  to  the  Elwes  family,  of  Suffolk,  [REDACTED].  Gervase  Elwes,  her  father,  was  a  civil  engineer  and  responsible  for  laying  out  railways  in  496e646961,  537061696e,  and  [REDACTED],  and  there-  fore  he  was  often  away  from  home  for  long  periods  of  time.  I  have  gath-  ered  that  my  grandmother  loved  him  almost  to  the  exclusion  of  her  two  chil-  dren,  Hugh  and  Mabel.  It  apparently  never  occurred  to  her,  when  she  and  her  husband'set  out  for  [REDACTED]  for  two  long  years,  that  it  might  seem  strange  to  abandon  these  two--nine  and  seven,  Rv  o  &amp;&quot;  &quot;No  one  is  hounding  you,  Mr.  Gordon.  If  s  merely  routine  for  my      respectively.  Hugh  was  sent  to  board-  ing  school,  of  course,  and  Mabel  was  shipped  off  to  a  small  farm  in  [REDACTED].  Possibly  the  idea  of  the  farm  came  from  Gervase  Elwes,  a  sensitive  and  under-  standing  man,  who  had  been  troubled  by  his  little  girl's  constant  painful  war  with  society  as  represented  by  a  nanny,  by  any  rule  or  regulation,  by  any  &quot;planned  activity.&quot;  Perhaps  wild  [REDACTED]  may  have  seemed  to  this  imaginative  creature  an  entirely  suitable  landscape  for  his  wild  little  daughter  to  roam  in,  happily  set  free  from  all  that  had  bruised  and  harassed  her  in  the  genteel  at-  mosphere  of  home.  She  was  to  be  given  the  gift  of  solitude  at  this  very  early  age,  and  though  it  would  seem  to  us  now  a  rather  daring  gift,  how  right  he  was!  I  know  what  a  radiance  of  remembered  happiness  crossed  my  mother's  face  when  she  spoke  of  [REDACTED],  as  of  some  lost  [REDACTED],  and  what  this  long  period  of  solitary  communion  with  nature  did  for  one  who  was  always  a  discerning  ob-  server  of  flowers,  trees,  and  animals  one  who  would  later  have  to  remake  her  home  many  times  among  strangers,  and  twice  even  change  her  nationality.  She  married  a  Belgian,  George  Sarton,  the  historian  of  science,  and  after  be-  coming  a  Belgian  she  was  again  up-  rooted,  by  the  German  invasion  of  1914,  and  fled  acrossthe  sea  with  her  family  to  become  an  American  citizen   and  settle,  finally,  in  this  country.  But  the  English  in  her  accompanied  every  change,  translating  itself  into  gardens  wherever  she  went,  into  the  creation  always  of  beautiful  surroundings,  and,  too,  into  a  kind  of  impassioned  solitari-  ness.  So  what  happened  to  her  at  seven  in  [REDACTED]  was  a  preparation  for  much  that  was  to  happen  later  on.  I  cannot  believe  that  Gervase  Elwes  and  his  wife  were  wholly  aware  of  the  particular  environment  into  which  they  put  their  daughter  so  casually  when  they  went  off  to  [REDACTED].  Actually,  at  the  last  minute  the  family  with  whom  arrangements  had  been  made  for  Ma-  bel's  board  was  unable  to  take  the  child  after  all;  the  Elweses,  on  the  brink  of  departure,  had  to  accept  the  word  of  these  people  that  they  had  found  ideal  substitutes.  The  original  family  was,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  simply  doing  some  poor  relatives  a  good  turn  by  providing  them  with  a  little  extra  income.  Mabel's  fos-  ter  parents  turned  out  to  be  two  wom-  en-  &quot;Grannie,&quot;  of  the  kind,  wrinkled  face  and  kind  hands,  and  &quot;Aunt  Mol-  lie,&quot;  her  daughter,  a  tall,  high-strung  woman  with  eyes  as  blue  as  a  jay's  feathers,  who,  it  appears,  took  a  dis-  like  to  the  &quot;rich  little  girl.&quot;  Even  Grannie,  of  whom  she  grew  so  fond,  showed  her  no  real  affection  until  later.  They  were  hard,  primitive  peo-  ple,  who  perhaps  regarded  the  little  girl  as  primitive  peoples  regard  the  &quot;for-  eigner&quot;  (she  was  English,  they  were  Welsh)-as  someone  pri-  marily  to  be  exploited.  Even  so,  it  is  hard  to  comprehend  why  one  of  the  first  things  the  two  women  did  was  to  take  away  all  Mabel's  best  clothes  and  give  them  to  a  nearby  relative.  There  is,  curiously  enough,  no  refer-  ence  to  this  astonishing-  ly  cruel  behavior  in  my  moth-  er's  written  document.  But  though  my  mother  did  not  choose  to  remember  it  when  she  came  to  write  the  story,  it  made  an  indelible  impres-  sion  on  me  when  she  told  it  to  me  as  a  child-so  much  so  that  I  feel  forced  to  place  it  in  the  record  here.  I  re-  member  very  well  my  im-  potent  rage  at  not  being  able  to  go  back  in  time  and  tell  those  two  women  what  I  thought  of  them.  I  remem-  ber  begging  my  mother  to  as-  sure  me  that  when  her  par-  ents  finally  came  back  and  rescued  her,  they  did  some-  " b"thing  violent  and  dras-  tic,  but  she  could  not  recollect  that  they  did.  Perhaps  Eleanor  and  Gervase  Elwes  ended  by  feeling  pity  rather  than  anger.  At  any  rate,  the  whole  story  left  in  my  mind  a  sense  of  incompleteness,  of  justice  not  done,  until  I  read  my  mother's  mature  judgment  of  it  and  began  to  un-  derstand  that  in  com-  parison  with  all  that  followed  of  so  much  deeper  human  signifi-  cance,  this  initial  harsh-  ness  may  have  seemed  irrelevant.  Besides,  memory  dis-  tills  the  essence,  and  the  essence  of  this  whole  experience  for  my  mother  was  being  alone  in  the  country  and  all  thatthat  meant  to  the  person  she  was.  HOTOGRAPHS  of  Mabel  Elwes  at  this  time  show  a  pretty  child  with  large,  wide-  apart  gray  eyes,  at  the  same  time  mischievous  and  dreamy,  and  light-chestnut  curls  piled  up  on  her  head.  There  is  plenty  of  stubborn  will  in  the  mouth  and  chin.  For  her,  [REDACTED]  meant  first  and  always  es-  cape-escape  into  lush  meadows  and  an  orchard  in  deep  grass,  and,  above  all,  escape  to  the  lovely  shallow  river,  which  ran  bronzing  over  flat  stones.  At  one  place,  she  found  a  grassy  bank  quite  close  to  the  water,  where  she  could  lie  for  hours  on  her  stomach  and  let  the  current  flow  through  her  hands  like  a  constantly  renewed  spell;  it  was  a  forbidden  game,  and  all  the  more  delightful  for  that  reason.  In  the  orchard,  a  step  up  the  hillside  from  the  vegetable  garden  just  back  of  the  farm,  lived  Daisy,  a  greige-  colored  Jersey  cow.  Daisyallowed  the  little  girl  certain  privileges;  for  instance,  she  could  lie  against  the  cow's  warm  flank  when  she  rested  in  the  shade  at  noon,  chewing  her  cud,  sometimes  turn-  ing  to  gaze  out  of  liquid  brown  eyes,  without  astonishment,  at  the  small  hu-  man  being  at  her  side.  Mabel  spent  hours  at  a  time  whisking  flies  off  the  cow  with  a  green  branch.  She  spent  hours,  too-more  arduous  ones-pump-  ing  and  carrying  pails  of  water  to  fill  Daisy's  trough.  It  was  quite  a  trick  to   make  the  water  come-first  by  using  short,  quick  strokes  in  rapid  succession,  then  by  pulling  the  long  pump  handle  slowly  up  and  down.  She  could  not  car-  ry  a  full  pail,  of  course,  and  this  meant  that  she  had  to  make  a  great  many  trips  before  the  trough  was  full.  It  was  sad  that  after  this  effort  Daisy  always  re-  fused  to  come  and  drink  right  away,  and  would  only  do  it  in  her  own  good  time.  But  she  had  her  moments  of  affection,  when  she  followed  Mabel  wherever  she  went,  even  to  the  point  of  getting  stuck  between  two  hedges  on  a  narrow  path  and  standing  there  for  ages,  placidly  chewing  her  cud,  refus-  ing  to  back  up.  They  were  both  con-  trary  characters,  the  little  girl  and  the  cow,  but  they  respected  each  other.  In  my  mind's  eye  I  see  my  mother  running  through  those  two  years  (how  fleet  her  step  even  when  she  was  in  her  seventies!  )-across  dappled  light  and  shadow,  always  green  leaves  over  her  head  and  sunlight  splashing  down,  alone  with  the  cries  of  birds  and  the  swift,  shallow  river.  She  wrote,  &quot;It  was  as  if  my  mind  and  heart  had  been  tied  up  with  hundreds  of  careful  strings  and  these  were  suddenly  loosened  and  fell  away.  O  marvel,  O  inexhaustible  dream,  O  happiness!&quot;  But  solitude  is  one  thing  and  loneli-  ness  is  another.  She  was  at  times  cruel-  ly  lonely.  The  two  women  used,  for  instance,  to  go  out  at  night  to  play  cards  with  the  neighbors,  leaving  the  little  girl  to  suffer  such  agonies  of  fear  as  only  those  who  have  experienced  them  can  imagine,  while  she  sat  shivering  in  the  dark  at  the  top  of  the  stairs,  quaking  at  the  hoot  of  an  owl  or  the  creak  of  a  branch,  until  at  last-sometimes  as  late  as  midnight-the  footsteps  on  the  path  meant  that  she  was  saved.  Gran-  nie,  it  is  true,  &quot;grew  fond&quot;  of  her  &quot;in  the  end&quot;  and  could  be  &quot;trusted.&quot;  How  fearful  to  remember  that  Aunt  Mollie  could  not-this  presence  fearsome  in  its  reserve  and  strangeness,  like  some  god-  dess  who  could  not  be  placated.  It  was  Aunt  Mollie  who  looked  coldly  at  the  child  one  day  and  said,  &quot;You  have  a  mean  little  mouth.&quot;  Aunt  Mollie  was  the  creature  of  moods,  sometimes  hum-  ming  and  singing  all  day,  then  sudden-  ly  sullen,  with  a  sullenness  that  might  break  out  at  any  moment  into  violence  when  she  moved  about  the  house  like  a  wind,  banging  the  doors.  At  such  " b"times,  sensible  people  kept  out  of  her  way.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  those  angry  fits  inter-  ested  Mabel  very  much,  for  she  had  had  tantrums  herself,  and  knew  how  difficult  it  was  to  control  them.  She  remem-  bered  how  her  father  had  taken  her  on  his  knees  during  her  outbursts  and  tried  to  help  her.  He  had  taughther  to  go  off  by  herself  at  such  times  and  hammer  outher  rage  against  a  piece  of  wood,  or  break  sticks,  letting  the  seizure  play  itself  out  against  inanimate  objects.  So  now  on  the  dangerous  days  at  the  farm  Mabel  watched  warily,  and  kept  silent,  or  con-  ferred  with  Daisy,  or  took  long  aerial  rides  in  the  orchard,  where  a  swing  had  been  set  up  for  her  and  she  could  imagine  she  was  flying.  No  doubt  Gervase  Elwes's  vision  of  the  farm  in  [REDACTED]  had  included  good  country  meals,  fresh  eggs,  and  milk.  The  re-  ality  was  rather  different.  Eggs were  a  rarity-most  of  them  went  to  market-and  those  custards  dear  to  English  hearts  were  fabricated  with  something  called  Canary  custard  powder.  On  Sunday  evenings,  .the  three  at  the  farm  had  asmall  glass  of  fresh  milk  each,  as  a  special  treat,  for  the  milk,  too,  had  to  be  sold  for  cash.  But  there  were  com-  pensations.  My  mother  always  remem-  bered  and  spoke  of  the  breakfast  bacon,  which  was  broiled  in  long  strips  that  hung  from  a  tin  contraption  set  upon  the  live  coals  of  the  grate.  It  tasted  delicious.  Sometimes  there  were  also  mushrooms,  collected  before  breakfast  in  the  dewy  grass.  The  child's  one  un-  satisfied  craving  was  for  sweet  things.  Sugar  was  kept  locked  up  in  a  glass-  doored  cupboard,  so  she  got  into  the  habit  of  sneaking  into  the  kitchen,  get-  ting  up  on  a  chair,  and  dipping  a  finger  into  a  can  of  sweet  condensed  milk  that  was  kept  on  the  topof  the  stove,  then  greedily  sucking  off  the  sweetness.  One  day,  Aunt  Mollie  came  in  as  she  was  at  this  stolen  pleasure.  Aunt  Mol-  lie  was  in  one  of  her  fits.  She  yanked  the  child  down  by  the  hair  and  shook  her  violently.  Then,  as  the  paroxysm  roseto  its  climax,  she  banged  the  can  on  the  table  and  forced  the  child's  face  down  into  it,  again  and  again,  till  her  mouth  and  cheeks  were  badly  cut  and  scratched  by  the  sharp  tin  edges.  &quot;I'll  teach  you,  you  thieving  little  brat!&quot;  It  took  Grannie's  sharp  command-the  one  word  &quot;Moll!  &quot;-to  break  the  terri-  fying  atmosphere  of  uncontrolled  rage.  The  possessed  woman  pushed  the  child  away,  laid  her  head  on  the  table,  and  gave  way  to  long,  retching  sobs.  Mabel,  too  frightened  to  cry  yet,  just  stood  there,  licking  the  scratches  around  her  mouth,  while  the  old  woman  went  over  to  her  daughter,  laid  a  hand  on  her  shoulder,  and  said,  &quot;Moll,  my  poor  Moll,  what  have  youdone  now?&quot;  Mabel  had  been  too  shocked  to  feel  pain,  but  now  the  scratches  began  to  hurt  rather  badly  and  she  cried  out  her  distress.  At  last,  Grannie  led  her  away,  washed  her  face  gently  in  warm  water,  and  then  sat  for  a  long  time  in  the  parlor with  the  little  girl  in  her  lap,  rock-  ing  the  grief  away  and  leaning  her  head  now  and  then  on  the  curly  one,  as  if  to  rest  a  burden  there.  At  this  point,  Mabel  began  to  enjoy  the  drama  of  the  situation  and  to  long  to  talk  about  it.  She  felt  that  she  had  some  experience  of  such  matters,  and  wanted  to  explain  about  the  hammer  and  sticks.  'The  old  woman  smiled  down  into  the  earnest  face  rathersadly  but  said  nothing,  and  just  rolled  the  child  up  in  a  blanket  and  left  her  on  the  sofa  to  have  a  nap-  left  her  feeling  a  little  jealous,  for  it  was  clear  that  Grannie's  thoughts  were  elsewhere.  Somehow  or  other,  this  scene  cleared  away  some  of  the  resentment  that  had  no  doubt  been  building  up  in  Aunt  Mollie  since  the  intruder  arrived.  For  quite  some  time  afterward,  she  was  gentle,  once  even  touching  Mabel's  face  with  a  tentative  finger,  as  if  to  ask  whether  the  scratches  still  hurt.  There  was  a  change  in  Grannie,  too.  She  found  little  ways  of  showing  the  child  affection-a  piece  of  sugar  hidden  in  Mabel's  apron  pocket,  or  a  glass  of  real  milk  by  her  bed  at  night.  It  seemed  almost  as  if  all  would  be  well.  T  this  time,  Mabel  was  entirely  ab-  sorbed  in  a  new  companion,  a  bedraggled,  starving  kitten  that  she  had  " b"foundone  day  on  herrambles  and  brought  home  to  care  for  and  feed.  It  was  a  miserable  sight  at  first,  so  dirty  that  one  could  not  tell  what  color  it  might  be,  but  it  soon  licked  itself  clean  and  emerged  a  tiny  tabby  with  every  stripe  in  place.  Aunt  Mollie  disapproved  strongly  of  the  whole  affair.  But  Gran-  nie  said  the  child  could  keep  the  cat,  provided  she  trained  it  herself  and  cleaned  up  after  it  meanwhile.  At  last,  the  little  girl  had  something  on  which  to  lavish  affection,  something  that  re-  sponded  completely.  Then,  one  unlucky  day  when  they  were  all  away  for  some  time  and  the  kitten  was  left  alone  too  long  in  the  house,  it  chose  Aunt  Mollie's  room  to  be  dirty  in.  When  they  came  back,  Mabel's  first  thought  was  for  her  kitten,  but  while  she  was  still  looking  around  for  it  downstairs,  she  heard  a  scream  from  upstairs,  a  sound  of  running  feet,  and  then  a  high,  mounting  cry  of  dis-  tress  from  the  kitten  as  it  flew  through  the  air  and  fell  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs  witha  soft  thud.  Aunt  Mollie  got  there  before  the  child  could,  caught  the  kitten  up  as  it  tried  to  crawl  away,  and,  holding  it  by  the  nape  of  the  neck,  made  as  if  to  beat  it  against  the  wall.  Mabel,  suddenly  beside  herself  with  rage,  flung  herself  at  Aunt  Mollie  like  a  wild  animal,  biting  and  kicking,  and  screaming,  &quot;I'll  kill  you!&quot;  They  did  not  see  Grannie,  but,  clasped  together  in  fury  as  they  were  now,  they  felt  her  there,  standing  silent  at  the  door,  as  the  kitten  crawled  off  and  hid  under  the  cupboard.  Locked  in  that  strange  embrace,  they  turned,  frozen  by  the  presence  ofthe  quiet  old  woman.  She  still  said  nothing,  only  leaned  her  head  against  one  hand  on  the  frame  of  the  door.  'Then  she  gave  each  of  them  in  turn  a  long,  piercing  look  that,  my  mother  wrote,  &quot;made  me  feel  older  and  Aunt  Mollie  seem  child-  ish.&quot;  There  was  no  scolding.  Mabel  was  sent  upstairs  to  clean  up  in  Aunt  Mollie's  room.  The  old  woman  turned  to  her  daughter  gravely:  &quot;Moll,  I  have  to  talk  to  you  ...&quot;  How  dreadfully  quiet  a  house  in  which  violence  has  taken  place  seems  after  it  is  over.  Upstairs  in  her  attic  room,  the  child  waited.  Finally,  Gran-  nie  came,  bearing  a  glass  of  milk  and  a  piece  of  cake  on  a  tray;  there  was  another  glass  on  the  tray,  for  by  this  time  Aunt  Mollie  had  also  been  sent  to  bed.  &quot;The  kitten  is  all  right.  One  leg  bruised,  that's  all.  No  bones  broken.&quot;  Hours  later,  Mabel  woke,  feeling  certain  that  she  had  heard  a  door  open  and  the  stairs  creak.  She  sat  bolt  up-  right,  listening,  then  crept  out  to  dis-  cover  that  in  fact  Aunt  Mollie's  door  was  open.  Panic  seized  her.  Had  Aunt  Mollie  gone  after  the  kitten  again?  The  child  stole  down  the  stairs  on  bare  feet,  guided  by  a  faint  light  from  the  kitchen.  There  was  no  sound.  She  crept  along  the  hall  until  she  could  see  through  the  crack  of  the  half-open  door.  What  she  saw  was  the  woman  kneeling  beside  the  kitten's  basket,  holding  a  small  saucepan  of  milk  to  warm  over  a  candle  on  the  floor  beside  her,  her  empty  glass  near-  by.  Her  face  was  blotched  from  crying  and  looked  inexpressibly  forlorn  and  wretched.  After  a  very  long  time  of  this  tense  silence,  the  milk  seemed  warm  enough  to  be  poured  out  into  a  saucer.  The  kitten  meanwhile  was  sitting  up  in  the  basket,  watching  all  this  as  in-  tently  as  Mabel  did.  But  it  did  not  move  when  Aunt  Mollie  held  the  saucer  out,  whispering,  &quot;Come,  kitten,  come.&quot;  The  kitten  was  sleepy,  and  Aunt  Mollie  was  not  good  at  cajoling.  (Would  she  get  impatient,  Mabel  thought  with  terror.)  At  last,  it  made  up  its  mind,  stretched  stiffly  as  it  came  out  of  the  basket,  shak-  ing  the  bruised  leg  as  if  to  unkink  it,  and  settled  down  peacefully  to  lapthe  warm  milk.  Aunt  Mollie  reached  out  one  finger  to  stroke  its  back,  very  gen-  tly.  At  this  point,  it  was  all  Mabel  could  do  not  to  cry  out,  &quot;'They  don't  like  to  be  touched  while  they  are  eating!&quot;  In-  " b"deed,  the  kitten  stopped  lapping,  with-  drew  a  little,  twitched  its  fur  where  the  finger  had  touched  it,  and  then-  oh,  relief!  -went  back  to  the  saucer  again.  Mabel  crept  back  to  bed  full  of  bewilderment  and  a  painful  wonder.  A  FEW  days  later,  Grannie  told  the  child  that  a  doctor  was  coming  to  see  Aunt  Mollie,  and  that  Mabel  was  to  play  out-of-doors  and  keep  out  of  the  way  while  he  was  there.  The  little  girl  went  down  to  the  swing  in  the  orchard  and  swayed  slowly  back  and  forth,  chanting  songs  she  had  made  up.  She  was  called  out  of  this  dreamy  state  of  contentment  by  Grannie's  voice,  shrill  and  anxious,  asking  her  to  come  right  away;  the  doctor  wished  totalk  to  her.  &quot;What  does  he  want?&quot;  Mabel  asked  fearfully,  as  she  walked  toward  the  house.  &quot;I'm  not  ill.&quot;  &quot;'Tell  the  truth,  child,&quot;  the  old  wom-  an  said  sternly.  &quot;That's  what  he  wants.&quot;  It  was  all  rather  solemn,  taking  place  in  the  parlor,  a  room  always  dim  because  the  geraniums  in  the  window  shut  out  most  of  the  light.  The  doctor  was  sitting  there,  a  large,  fat  man  dressed  in  black,  his  knees  spread  wide  and,  be-  tween  them,  a  small  table  with  papers  laid  out  upon  it.  He  looked  out  at  the  three  with  a  hard,  suspicious  look,  and  Mabel  took  an  instant  dislike  to  him,  comparing  him  in  her  written  account  to  a  piece  of  cold  fat  on  the  edge  of  her  plate,  which  it  made  her  quite  sick  just  to  imagine.  &quot;Stand  here,&quot;  he  commanded,  pointing  to  a  place  just  in  frontof  him,  as  if  she  were  a  criminal.  He  asked  her  name  and  age,  and  wrote  them  down.  He  asked  her  how  long  she  had  lived  there-but  how  could  she  answer  this?  There  had  been  no  time  in  [REDACTED];  it  was  forever  and  a  day.  Grannie,  after  some  calculating,  answered  for  her,  &quot;Seven  months.&quot;  This  voice  from  the  other  side  of  the  room  caught  the  child's  attention,  and  she  turned  to  look  at  the  two  women,  sitting  there,  at  either  end  of  the  black  horsehair  sofa.  Aunt  Mollie  was  gazing  steadily  over  the  man's  bald  head  at  the  geraniums  in     the  window.  She  was  behaving  as  if  he  did  not  exist.  In  the  story  as  my  mother  wrote  it,  it  is  not  clear  whether  this  doctor  was  an  official  personage,  sent  for,  perhaps,  at  the  requestof  a  neighbor,  or  whether  theold  woman  herself  had  sent  for  him,  torn  between  responsibility  for  her  small  charge  and  for  her  troubling,  troubled  daughter,  and  hoping  to  have  a  terrible  decision  taken  out  of  her  hands.  What-  ever  Grannie  hadhad  in  mind,  it  is  clear  that  by  the  time  the  doctor  ar-  rived,  he  was  not  welcome.  That  grave  command  &quot;Tell  the  truth&quot;  laid  a  heavy  burden  on  a  seven-year-old;  in  fact,  Grannie  was  putting  the  decision  up  to  the  child.  The  doctor  rapped  out  the  next  ques-  tion  with  a  knock  of  his  glasses  on  the  table:  &quot;Are  youhappy  here?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  am,&quot;  Mabel  answered  crossly.  She  felt  a  very  contrary  mood  coming  on.  &quot;And  are  you  never  afraid  of  your  Aunt  Mollie?&quot;  &quot;No,  never,&quot;  Mabel  said,  without  a  " b"second's  hesitation.  She  did  more;  she  went  over  to  the  sofa,  sat  down  beside  Aunt  Mollie,  and  slipped  a  hand  under  the  woman's  arm  and  down  into  her  hands,  folded  in  her  lap-a  gesture  so  extraordinary  that  it  could  only  have  been  called  out  by  extraordinary  cir-  cumstances.  But  the  child  sensed  that  he  was  trying  to  get  her  to  take  sides  against  Grannie  and  Aunt  Mollie,  and  that,  whatever  happened,  she  was  on  their  side.  So  there  they  sat,  the  three  of  them  lined  up  on  the  sofa,  and  he,  the  enemy,  watching  them.  The  three  were  a  united  front.  Deprived  of  whatever  dreadful  secret  he  had  come  to  ferret  out,  the  doctor  snapped  his  spectacles  into  their  hard,  shiny  case  and  got  up  to  go.  Grannie  escorted  him  stiffly  and  politely  to  the  door,  and  in  the  second  when  their  backs  were  turned,  Aunt  Mollie  glanced  at  Mabel,  and  the  child  saw  something  like  a  twinkle  come  and  go  in  Aunt  Mollie's  blue  eyes,  in  an  in-  stant's  humorous  exchange  of  triumph.  W  as  it  a  recognition  of  loyalty,  perhaps?  Or  perhaps,  at  long  last,  love?  Never  again  didthe  woman  hurt  the  child,  although  she  still  had  stormy  door-  banging  days.  OW  often  we  talked,  my  mother  and  I,  of  going  back  to  [REDACTED]  someday  and  finding  the  little  valley,  the  lonely  farm,  the  orchard,  the  swift,  shallow  river-even,  perhaps,  the  hazel  hedge  where  Mabel  and  Hugh,  when  he  was  there  for  the  holidays,  had  once  cut  outa  secret  hiding  place.  We  never  did.  But  perhaps  such  vivid  memories  need  no  renewal  in  time.  They  are  there,  like  curled-up  Japanese  flowers;  one  has  only  to  dip  them  into  the  waters  of  consciousness  for  them  to  open  and  fill  the  heart.  So  it  was  for  me  when  the  story  of  what  really  happened  in  [REDACTED]  was  superimposed  upon  the  glimpses  I  had  had  of  that  time  as  a  child.  Some  of  the  sheen  went  as  I  read  through  those  pages  in  my  mother's  hand,  which  tell  in  detail  all  that  I  have  written  here,  and  something  harder  and  deeper  took  its  place.  Now,  thinking  of  my  mother  as  she  was  when  I  knew  her-of  her  compassion  and  of  the  fire  that  blazed  up  in  her  whenever  in-  justice  was  done,  of  the  startling  and  wholly  unsentimental  truth  of  her  per-  ceptions-I  think  of  the  little  girl  in  [REDACTED]  who  learned  so  much  through  such  unconventional  means.  It  was  not  dreadful  or  wrong  at  all,  what  hap-  pened  to  her  there,  but  a  time  full  of  secret  riches,  which  she  understood  be-  cause  she  was  already  the  person  she  was  to  become,  able  to  face  reality,  and  to  face  it  with  complete  courage,  on  her  own  terms. "