 b"WHEN  I  was  a  little  girl,  I  had  a  friend-he  was  also  a  friend  of  my  father's-who  planned  to  roast  his  wife.  He  got  quite  far  along  with  this  project  before  he  abandoned  it,  and  the  chief  thing  I  remember  about  the  event  is  that  the  day  for  which  he  scheduled  it  was  a  Monday.  Monday  was  my  father's  day  off.  As  a  clergyman,  he  was,  of  course,  likely  to  be  called  upon  by  his  parishioners  on  any  day  of  the  week,  but  unless  the  matter  was  urgent,  he  did  not  expect  to  be  con-  sulted  on  Mondays.  We  lived  in  a  remote  village  on  the  lee  side  of  the  Derbyshire  Peak,  in  a  par-  ish  with  alarge  area  and  a  small  popula-  tion.  Since  Domesday,  the  chief  occu-  pation  in  our  community  had  been  farming,  and  since  the  latter  part  of  the  nineteenth  century,  coal  had  been  mined  within  the  parish  boundary.  Our  coal  mine  had  its  own  housing  develop-  ment  about  threemiles  north  of  the  vil-  lage,  but  in  many  of  the  farming  fami-  lies  there  were  one  or  more  men  who  worked  at  the  colliery,  and  this  meant  that  there  was  really  no  convenient  time  of  day  for  my  father  to  pay  pastoral  visits  to  these  households.  As  the  mine  worked  round  the  clock,  somebody  in  the  house  was  sure  to  be  sleeping,  or  re-  moving  pit  grime  from  his  person  in  a  tub  set  before  the  kitchen  fire.  Be-  cause  of  this,  it  had  become  the  custom  for  my  father's  parishioners  to  visit  him.  They  were  invited  to  call  at  the  rectory  whenever  they  liked-except  on  Mon-  days.  Monday  at  our  house  always  fol-  lowed  the  same  pattern.  In  the  morn-  ing,  my  father  cut  the  grass  (the  rectory  had  three  lawns  that  had  been  lovingly  cared  for  for  several  hundred  years);  in  the  afternoon  he  weeded  plantains;  and  after  dinner  he  ironed  his  pocket  handkerchiefs.  'These  were  made  of  pale-blue  linen,  and  they  came  from  a  shop  in  Jermyn  Street,  in  [REDACTED].  My  father  permitted  his  handkerchiefs  to  be  washed  and  dried  with  the  rest  ofthe  household  laundry,  but  then  hetook  over,  damped  them  down  by  a  proc-  ess  of  his  own  that  wetted  most  of  the  bathroom  floor,  and  carried  them  to  the  Cabbage  Room  (one  of  the  spare  bedrooms,  so  called  because  of  the  cab-  bage  roses  on  the  wallpaper),  where my  mother  would  have  set  up  the  iron-  ing  table  and  lighted  the  gas  iron  for  him.  The  fron  we  used  was  rather  like  a  steam  iron,  but  taller  and  a  good  deal  heavier.  It  was  hollow,  with  two  holes  at  the  front,  like  nostrils,  through  which  flames  leaped  when  the  iron  was  pushed  over  the  clothes.  At  the  other  end  of  the  iron,  where  the  flexible  gas  pipe  joined  it,  was  the  opening  where  one  lighted  it,  and  flames  jumped  back  and  forth  there,  too.  In  the  hands  of  one  undeterred  by  either  the  iron's  snortings  or  its  bursting  flames,  it  was  a  tool  that  could  do  a  first-  class  job.  My  father  could  have  got  work  as  a  laundress  anywhere.  While  he  ironed,  my  father  smoked  his  pipe,  and  his  concentration,  amid  the  smoke  and  the  flames,  was  heavy.  No  one  was  permitted  either  to  watch  him  at  his  work  or  to  interrupt  in  any  way,  and  so  when  Olly  Cooper,  the  miller,  called  at  the  house  one  evening  to  say  that  Ben  Pancake  was  about  to  set  fire  to  his  wife,  my  mother  asked  him  to  take  a  seat  in  my  father's  study  and  wait.  Ben  Pancake  was  not  exactly  a  mem-  ber  of  my  father's  congregation,  al-  though  he  attended  church  regularly  every  Sunday.  He  was  a  bell  ringer-he  pulled  Maria,  the  heaviest  of  our  five  bells-and  as  it  was  customary  for  the  ringers  to  leave  the  church  as  soon  as  the  morning  change  had  been  rung,  Ben,  as  far  as  I  know,  never  in  his  life  attended  a  service.  My  father  knew  all  the  ringers  well,  and  of  the  group  (there  were  about  a  dozen  altogether,  count-  ing  ringers  and  learners),  Ben,  I  think,  was  his  favorite.  He  certainly  was  mine.  Ben  was  about  thirty  at  this  time-a  large,  slow-moving  man  who,  when  he  wasn't  working  (he  had  been  employed  at  the  mine  since  he  was  fourteen  years  old),  rang  bells  and  raced  whippets.  In  those  days,  there  were  no  mechanical  picks  and  shovels  at  our  mine,  and  noth-  ing  pleased  Ben  better  than  to  hear  peo-  ple  boast  about  the  amount  of  coal  he  could  dig  in  an  hour.  It  was  double  the  record  of  most  men.  Ben  lived  in  a  small  stone  cottage  at  the  bottom  of  a  valley  about  halfway  between  our  village  and  the  colliery.  His  wife,  Francie,  was  a  [REDACTED]  girl  some  ten  years  younger  than  he.  Before  her  marriage,  Francie  had  had  a  job  at  a  candy  kiosk  at  King's  Cross  Station,  and  that  was  where  Ben  met  her,  buying  himself  a  bar  of  chocolate  on  his  way  to  takepart  in  anational  ringers'  festival  at  St.  Paul's  Cathedral.  Francie  was  little,  slender,  and  blond;  the  top  of  her  head  reached  only  as  high  as  " b"Ben's  elbow.  Until  she  came  to  Derbyshire,  she'd  never  lived  anywhere  but  central  [REDACTED],  and  she'd  never  done  any  cooking,  or  kept  house.  To  appreciate  our  part  of  Derbyshire,  you  really  had  to  be  born  there,  or  live  there  as  a  small  child.  Anyone  conversantwith  other  parts  of  England  found  our  neighborhood  very  depressing,  for  we  lived  most  ofthe  year  under  gray,  overhanging  skies  and  we  had  a  great  deal  of  rain.  The  valley  where  Ben  lived  was  even  gloomier  than  the  rest  of  the  district,  for  it  was  narrow  and  deep;  and  the  sunlight,  on  the  rare  occasions  when  there  was  any,  never  seemed  to  reach  down  as  far  as  his  house.  For  the  first  few  months  after  she  married  Ben,  Francie  seemed  hap-  py  enough.  She  busied  herself  making  curtains  and  prettying  up  the  little  cottage,  and  shetalked  Ben  into  using  the  pit-  head  baths,  so  that  he  came  home  clean  from  work,  instead  of  coming  coveredwith  coaldust,  the  way  he  preferred,  and  bathing  cozily  in  a  tub  in  the  kitchen  while  Francie  pre-  pared  his  meal.  But  after  a  year  or  so  in  the  dark  valley  Francie  became  bored.  She  didn't  get  along  too  well  with  the  other  wives,  most  of  whom  were  Derbyshire-born  and  suspicious  of  43616e616461ers.  They  thought  Francie  ex-  travagant  and  incompetent,  which  she  was,  and  in  a  way  they  were  jealous,  because  Ben  had  married  her  instead  of  one  of  the  local  girls.  It  annoyed  them  that  Ben  did  not  seem  to  mind  how  much  money  Francie  spent  (she  was  always  sending  away  for  things  that  she  saw  advertised  in  the  news-  paper)  or  how  much  time  she  spent  brooding  over  the  pages  of  women's  magazines.  Francie,  in  fact,  had  a  very  easy  time  of  it.  It  wasn't  until  she  dis-  obeyed  Ben  thatshe  ran  into  trouble.  What  Francie  enjoyed  most  was  dancing  and  going  to  the  movies.  Ben  couldn't  dance,  and  he  didn't  under-  stand  the  movies.  His  own  hobbies,  bell  ringing  and  whippets,  were  equally  in-  comprehensible  to  Francie,  and  the  re-  sult  was  that  they  took  to  arguing  and  quarrelling,  and  this  distressed  Ben  very  much.  One  day,  Francie  read  in  the  paper  that  a  magnificent  Palais  de  Danse  had  been  opened  in  Nottingham,  our  near-  est  city,  twenty-five  miles  away.  She  begged  Ben  to  take  her  there,  buthe  refused.  Pressed  for  his  reasons,  he  pointed  out  that  he  did  not  know  how  to  dance,  and  that  even  if  he  had,  he  could  think  of  better  ways  of  spending  time  with  Francie  than  jogging  around  a  hot  room.  Francie  told  Ben  he  was  unsophisticated,  which  frightened  him  (he  had  not  heard  the  word  before),  and  then  she  burst  into  tears.  So  Francie  went  to  Nottingham  to  the  Palais  by  herself.  There  was  a  bus  three  mornings  a  week  from  our  village,  and  on  the  days  when  Ben  was  on  the  afternoon  shift  Francie  was  able  to  at-  tend  the  early  session  at  the  dance  hall  and  be  home  in  time  to  give  her  husband  his  supper.  She  made  several  trips  before  the  village  found  out  what  she  was  do-  ing  and  told  Ben.  Ben  was  angry.  He  told  Francie  she  was  never  to  go  to  the  Palais  again,  and  no  amount  of  storming  and  weeping  on  her  part  persuaded  him  to  change  his  mind.  Other  things  changed,  though.  Ben,  who  had  always  been  smiling  and  friendly,  became  sour-tempered.  He  be-  gan  turning  up  late  at  ringers'  meetings,  and  sometimes  even  missed  a  whippet  race  altogether.  Francie  herself  brought  matters  to  a  head.  One  Monday,  after  Ben  had  left  for  work,  she  put  on  her  best  dress  and  boarded  the  Nottingham  bus.  Ben  saw  her  go.  He  had  arrived  at  the  mine  with  a  splitting  headache  and,  after  some  at-  tempts  to  work,  decided  to  give  up  and  go  home-thereby  taking  the  first  sick  leave  of  his  life.  The  Nottingham  bus,  with  Francie  sitting  coolly  inside  it,  passed  him  as  he  waited  to  cross  the  street.  What  made  matters  worse  was  that  a  strange  man  drove  Francie  home  after  the  dancing.  Ben  saw  the  car  from  the  kitchen  window.  If  he  had  wanted  to  do  so,  he  could  have  caught  the  man  as  he  helped  Francie  out,  but  he  did  not  care.  The  village,  of  course,  knew  all  about  the  trip  to  Nottingham,  and  the  man,  and  the  car,  and  they  also  knew  that  Ben  had  returned  home  early.  So  it  was  not  long  before  two  ofthe  ringers,  " b"Olly  Cooperand  Ted  Slater,  called  at  Ben's  cottage,  figuring  that  Francie  might  need  help.  They  were  right.  When  Francie  reached  the  house,  she  took  one  look  at  her  husband  and  then  fled  upstairs  to  the  bedroom,  locking  herself  in  and  refusing  to  speak  to  him.  Ben  told  her  through  the  keyhole  that  he  intended  to  roast  her  alive.  HEN  my  father  finished  his  iron-  ing,  he  came  downstairs  and  lis-  tened  to  what  Olly  had  to  say.  Then  he  took  his  big  lantern  and  set  off  alone  on  the  mile-and-a-half  walk  to  Ben's  cottage.  It  was  about  nine  o'clock  when  he  left  the  rectory,  and  a  cold,  windy  night.  He  did  not  come  back  until  dawn.  My  father's  guess  when  he  left  our  house  was  that  Ben  was  trying  to  frighten  Francie,  and  that  there  was  nothing  really  serious  in  Olly's  story.  But  when  he  pushed  open  the  front  door  of  Ben's  house,  he  met  the  smell  of  gaso-  line.  The  ground  floor  was  in  darkness,  but  there  was  a  light  upstairs  on  the  landing,  where  Ben  was  moving  about,  soaking  rags  and  laying  them  along  the  outside  of  Francie's  door.  Ben  expressed  no  surprise  at  seeing  my  father-just  nodded  to  him  and  went  on  with  his  work.  My  father  went  upon  the  landing  and  carefully  ex-  amined  Ben's  preparations.  After  a  while-neither  man,  it  seemed,  was  in  any  hurry-my  father  pointed  out  to  Ben  that  with  the  wind  in  the  direction  it  was  then  blowing,  the  rags,  when  set  alight,  would  burn  the  landing  and  the  stairs  rather  than  Francie's  room,  for  Francie  had  wedged  her  window  wide-  open.  Ben  said  that  he  had  ordered  Francie  to  close  it,  but  she  refused  to  cooperate.  My  father  said  that  in  that  case  Ben  must  go  up  the  outside  of  the  cottage  on  a  ladder  and  close  the  win-  dow  himself.  Ben  said  he  had  no  ladder.  My  father  offered  to  go  back  to  the  rec-  tory  and  fetch  one,  but  Ben,  who  great-  ly  respected  my  father,  because  he  had  been  an  engineer  before  he  was  or-  dained,  and  was  therefore,  in  Ben's  opinion,  in  a  position  to  appreciate  a  workingman's  problems,  would  not  hear  of  my  father  going  to  all  that  trou-  ble.  It  was  at  this  point  that  my  father  said  he  would  like  a  cup  of  tea.  The  night,  apparently,  passedex-  traordinarily  quickly.  My  father  and  Ben  spent  it  in  the  cottage  kitchen,  drinking  big  cups  of  strong  tea  and  gossiping.  'They  covered  a  variety  of  topics,  including  lawn  care,  whippets,  and  the  best  way  to  strike  a  low-lying  seam  of  coal.  My  father  asked  several  questions  about  the  rehearsals  that  the  bell  ringers  were  then  engaged  in  for  a  forthcoming  performance  of  the  Can-  terbury  Pleasure-my  father's  favorite  change-and  Ben  got  out  his  practice  hand  bells  and  illustrated  a  point  or  two  that  my  father  had  not  understood.  The  matter  ofthe  ignition  of  wives  was  not  mentioned  at  all.  Around  two  in  the  morning,  Ben  cooked  up  a  dish  of  bacon  and  eggs.  Some  time  before  dawn,  my  father  said  something  about  removing  the cloths  that  were  still  lying  outside  Francie's  door.  The  wind  had  dropped,  which  meant  that  the  open  bedroom  window  was  less  ofa  problem,  but  as  most  of  the  gasoline  on  the  cloths  had  evaporated  by  this  time,  resoaking  was  necessary.  After  Ben  had  brought  the  cloths  down  from  the  landing,  my  father  suggested  giving  Francie  some  breakfast;  she  hadhad  nothing  to  eat  since  lunch  the  day  before.  Ben  thought  this  over,  and  then  he  went  outside  to  draw  fresh  water  from  the  well  for  his  wife's  tea.  While  he  was  gone,  Francie  came  downstairs.  She  looked  white  and  tired  and  cold,  my  father  said,  but  it  was  clear  from  the  expression  on  her  face  that  his  presence  in  the  house  was  no  longer  required.  Francie  had,  it  seemed,  reached  the  con-  clusion-and  as  farasI  know,  she  never  shifted  from  it-that  a  man  bent  on  having  either  an  obedient  wifeor  a  cooked  one  was  a  man  worth  sticking  to.  "