 b"CHRISTY  sprang  up  from  the  lunch   table,  with  a  stifled  sob  that  sounded  more  like  a  snicker,  and  ran  helter-skelter  up  the  stairs.  A  door  slammed-just  one  more  in  a  series;  doors  had  been  slamming  since  eight  o'clock,  but  the  others  had  been  pushed  by  the  east  wind  and  not  by  sorrow.  Tim,  her  husband,  who  was  believed  to  be  the  cause  of  her  rout,  went  on  eating  his  Golden  Bantam.  A  yellow  kernel  that  had  stuck  itself  to  his  cheek  wob-  bled  as  he  chewed,  somehow  emphasiz-  ing  his  look  of  guilt  and  stubbornness.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  Aunt  Christy?&quot;  demanded  Pammy.  &quot;Why  did  she  rush  away  like  that  before  dessert?  Mother?  Mother?  Why  did  she?&quot;  Marjorie  glanced  across  the  table  at  Gordon,  her  husband,  who  raised  his  eyebrows  and  lighted  a  cigarette;  you  handle  it,  he  meant.  This  was  often  his  message.  &quot;Aunt  Christy  doesn't  feel  very  well,  darling,&quot;  Marjorle  said.  &quot;She  doesn't  want  dessert  today.&quot;  &quot;But,  heck,  it's  butter  pecan.  Mrs.  Beavers  told  me,&quot;  said  Normy.  &quot;Well,  she  doesn't  want  any  butter  pecan,&quot;  Marjorie  told  him,  and  added  encouragingly,  &quot;She'll  be  better  soon.  It's  nothing  very  serious.&quot;  Pammy,  who  was  nine,  naturally  did  not  believe  this  explanation  (Normy  did,  perhaps,  being  seven),  and  she  knew  that  her  mother  did  not  really  expect  her  to  believe  it.  It  was  the  sort  of  formality  to  which  children  are  treated-a  meaningless  codicil  like  &quot;Ex-  cuse  me&quot;  after  belching-and  she  ac-  cepted  it  as  such,  asking  no  more  ques-  tions  but  regarding  her  Uncle  Tim  in  a  way  that  caused  him  to  bite  his  tongue.  Red  with  pain,  he  laid  the  corncob  down  on  his  plate  but  said  nothing,  knowing  obscurely  that  a  bitten  tongue,  admitted,  would  be  more  evidence  against  him.  At  the  moment,  he  felt  that  the  whole  idea  had  been  a  mistake,  any-  way-this  business  of  sharing  a  house  for  the  summer.  The  sisters,  Marjorie  and  Christy,  were  the  ones  who  had  wanted  it,  and  as  long  as  their  husbands  had  been  weekenders  only,  the  plan  had  worked  out  well.  But  now,  with  one  week  of  vacation  behind  Gordon  and  him,  and  two  more  to  go,  Tim  was  not  so  sure.  It  was  a  strain  living  with  new relatives,  no  matter  how  congenial,  and  moreover  it  was  a  strain  to  be  one;  it  still  disconcerted  him,  for  instance,  to  be  called  Uncle  Tim  by  the  children.  &quot;Who,  me?&quot;  was  his  reaction  every  time.  He  was  not  sure  exactly  how  an  uncle  was  supposed  to  act.  Wise,  prob-  ably,  he  thought;  wise  and  informative.  A  real  uncle  would  not  cause  his  wife  tears-at  least  not  in  public-or  suffer  from  hangover,  or  bite  his  tongue.  At  these  thoughts,  a  loud  sigh  escaped  him,  and  he  felt  additionally  exposed  by  the  overhead  light,  an  anachronistic  fixture  of  glass,  brass,  and  bead  fringe  that  cast  a  glare  like  the  light  in  an  operating  theatre.  Though  it  was  only  one  o'clock,  the  thing  was  turned  on,  because  of  the  black  weather  out-of-doors.  HE  day  had  been  hell  from  the  beginning.  'The  two  sisters  and  their  husbands  had  come  home  too  late  from  the  Phelpses'  party  the  night  be-  fore,  and  they  all  (except  Marjorie,  who  drank  very  little)  were  uncomfortable  in  the  head.  Marjorie,  waking  early,  had  heard  her  sister  crying  in  the  next  room.  Though  she  was  crying  carefully,  she  was  audible,  for  in  that  house  it  was  impossible  to  keep  any  secret  that  could  be  betrayed  by  sound.  Next,  the  east  wind  arrived,  announcing  itself  by  knocking  over  a  tumblerful  of  tooth-  brushes  in  the  bathroom  andslamming  four  doors.  Soon  the  shutters  were  stam-  mering  and  fidgeting  at  their  hooks,  and  the  rain  was  coming  sturdily  in  at  the  windows  and  soaking  the  floor  matting,  which  would  now  mildew.  The  bottled  gas  had  ceased  to  breathe  shortly  be-  forebreakfast,  so  nothing  was  cooked  through  and  they  had  had  to  eat  dry  cereal  and  milk  and  cold  plums.  &quot;This  meal  was  planned  for  the  perpetuation  ofthe  hangover,&quot;  Gordon  had  grum-  bled.  &quot;To  make  it  strong,  potent,  and  full-bodied.  My  God!  No  coffee.  To-  day,  no  coffee.&quot;  Tim  had  said  nothing;  he  had  lookedchastened  and  unwell,  and  Christy  was  solicitously  ignored,  because  of  her  pink  eyelids  and  wistfully  swollen  lip.  In  the  kitchen,  Mrs.  Beavers  dropped  a  box  of  eggs.  The  children  had  whined  and  bickered  throughout  the  morning-such  weather  always  caused  them  to  revert  to  younger  age  levels-and,  added  to  everything  else,  the  spaniel,  Emma,  was  in  season.  Many  wet  dogs  assembled  on  the  porch  to  groan  and  plunge  against  the  rain-  trimmed  door,  and  anyone  going  out  had  to  press  himself  through  the  nar-  rowest  possible  space,  fending  off  be-  siegers.  As  they  were  finishing  lunch,  Mrs.  " b"Beavers  struck  the  kitchen  door  open.  &quot;Mrs.  McLeod,  the  cesspool!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;All  over  the  yard  it  is!&quot;  She  made  the  announce,  ment  with  a  sort  of  triumph.  Now  this!  Atlast!  The  cul-  mination!  &quot;Oh,  dear!&quot;  Marjorie  pushed  back  her  chair,  which  scraped  shrilly.  &quot;I'll  have  to  call  that  man  in  Teaquog.  Mr.  Sweet.&quot;  The  children,  springing  to  their  feet,  looked  happy  for  the  first  time  that  day.  Gordon  and  Tim  remained  a  little  longer  beside  the  shambles  of  the  lunch  table.  &quot;Mr.  Sweet!&quot;  said  Gordon.  &quot;If  people  were  responsible  for  their  sur-  names,  you'd  think  he'd  had  an  overdose  of  Dick-  ens.&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Beavers,  too,&quot;  said  Tim.  &quot;Only,  in  her  case,  I  guess  it  would  be  Gals-  worthy  or  one  ofthose  other  guys  who  patronize  the  servants  intheir  novels  by  giving  them  those  names-Bumble  and  Fumble  and  Feathers  and  Beavers,  and  so  on.&quot;  &quot;Any  resemblance  to  Galsworthy  endswith  the  woman's  name,&quot;  Gordon  said,  &quot;and  you  could  never  call  her  a  servant,  either.  You  could  call  her  Emily  Post,  or  someone  like  that,  doing  usa  favor  incognito.&quot;  Tim  did  not  reply.  Dropping  ciga-  rette  ash  into  hisice  cream,  he  gave  another  loud,  involuntary  sigh.  &quot;'Trouble?  About  last  night?&quot;  Gor-  don  asked.  &quot;Oh,  yes.  My  God,  it  wasn't  any-  thing  but  a  kiss-kisses,  I  guess.  A  little  necking.  You  know.  And  I  was  high.  Nothing.  The  whole  thing  was  nothing.  And  Christy  will  #ot  understand  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you've  been  married  hardly  a  year,&quot;  Gordon  said.  ''You  must  admit  that  sort  of  thing  doesn't  usually  take  place  so  soon.&quot;  &quot;Call  me  precocious,&quot;  said  Tim  sulkily.  ,  &quot;And  then  Christy's  a  very  sensitive  girl.&quot;  &quot;I  better  go  up,&quot;  said  Tim.  &quot;Good  luck,&quot;  Gordon  said.  He  got  up  and  went  into  the  living  room,  where  Marjorie  was  at  the  telephone.  She  put  down  the  receiver.  &quot;He's  coming  right  over,  thank  goodness,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Mr.  Sweet?&quot;  &quot;'Yes.  He  sounded  very  happy  about it.  On  a  Saturday,  too!  There's  a  man  who  loves  his  work.&quot;  Gordon  put  his  arm  around  her.  \xc2\xab&quot;Why  is  it  that  plumbing  breaks  down,  children  start  fevers,  dogs  die,  and  houses  catch  fire  only  on  Saturdays  and  Sundays?  It  never  fails.  The  Damocles  thread  must  wear  very  thin  on  week-  ends.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  think  that's  strictly  true,  is  it?&quot;  Marjorie  said.  &quot;Pammy  broke  her  collarbone  on  a  Tuesday-remem-  ber?  You  were  going  to  [REDACTED],  And  my  nutria  coat  was  stolen  on  a  Thurs-  day  night.  I  know,  because  the  man  got  into  the  apartment  while  I  was  at  the  Philharmonic  with  Eva  that  time.  Mahler.  It  was  an  all-Mahler  pro-  ram.&quot;  &quot;All  right!&quot;  said  Gordon,  in  a  tone  of  unreasonable  resignation,  dropping  his  arm.  &quot;Let's  be  literal.  Let's  be  sure  to  hew  to  the  facts,  I  think  I'll  go  up  and  try  to  catch  a  nap.&quot;  &quot;I  might  as  well,  too.  But  I  don't  see  why  you're  socross  and  lofty  all  of  a  sudden.&quot;  On  the  stairs,  they  found  two  empty  ginger-ale  bottles  and  a  pair  of  Normy's  Keds,  soaking  wet.  &quot;Doesn't  anyone  ever  teach  them  to  put  things  in  their  proper  places?&quot;  Gordon  asked  coldly.  Marjorie  thought  of  her  husband's  socks  lying  on  the  bedroom  floor,  the  wasted  garters  still  clinging  to  them;     she  thought  of  the  crumpled  handker-  chiefs  flung  down  anywhere,  and  the  thousand  deciduous  pages  of  newspaper  she  had  plucked  from  the  living-room  rug  during  their  twelve  years  of  mar-  riage.  Tim  came  past,  going  down.  His  face,  as  he  glanced  at  Gordon,  was  gloomy.  &quot;And  what's  the  matter  with  him,  for  goodness'  sake?  What's  the  matter  with  them?&quot;  asked  Marjorie,  in  a  whisper.  &quot;Oh,  he  helped  himself  to  a  little  slap  and  tickle  last  night  with  that  girl  at  the  Phelpses',&quot;  Gordon  said.  &quot;'That  spoon-faced  girl.  Christy's  taking  it  hard,  so  we're  all  being  punished.&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear!&quot;  &quot;Yes,  well-  why  on  earth  you  and  your  sister  thought  this  joint  venture  would  be  a  good  idea  in  the  first  place-&quot;  &quot;Gordon,  sh-h-k!&quot;  They  were  in  their  room,  and  Marjorie  closed  the  door.  &quot;'The  family  nucleus  has  trouble  enough  just  getting  along  by  itself,  without  calling  in  extras  to  add  to  the  supply,&quot;  Gordon  said,  but  whispering  lamed  his  objection  considerably.  &quot;Gordon,  please  stop  hissing  like  an  adder!&quot;  Marjorie  said,  hissing.  She  went  to  the  window  and  looked  out  at  the  wrecked  day.  The  curtains  smelled  of  wet  scrim  and  the  screen  was  crosshatched  with  cuneiform  rain     " b"scrawls.  She  yawned  aloud.  Oh,  the  burden  of  afternoon  and  bad  weather  and  too  many  people  under  one  roof!  The  best  thing  to  do  would  be  to  bury  oneself  in  sleep,  but  the  house  resound-  ed,  thumped,  gabbled,  and  now  the  radio  downstairs  added  a  pulsing  male  voice  to  the  accumulation  of  noise.  And  it  was  Gordon  who  fell  asleep,  in  spite  of  all,  as  Marjorie  had  known  he  would,  while  she  stayed  awake  and  chafed  at  her  dull  thoughts.  OWNSTAIRS,  Tim  lay  on  the  living-room  couch,  uncomforta-  bly,  with  his  head  on  one  of  its  arms,  his  feet  on  the  other,  and  the  radio,  turned  up  to  ahealthy  pitch,  beside  him.  There  is  always  one  ballpark  in  the  world  that  has  not  been  rained  out,  Tim  found  the  manic  roars  of  the  crowd,  the  passionate  emphasis  of  the  announcer  very  soothing  to  his  galled  spirits.  He  enjoyed  quarrelling  with  the  decisions.  (&quot;What  you  got  hizz  up  for?  He  couldn't  hit  it  with  an  oar!  He  couldn't  hit  it  if  it  was  a  grapefruit!&quot;)  He  yawned  and  argued,  half  asleep;  the  children  wran-  gled  close  at  hand.  &quot;It's  my  turn!  It's  my  turn!&quot;  &quot;Drop  dead,  Normy,  itis  not!  You  had  two  turns  al-  ready.  I  bet  you  even  had  three!&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  kids  go  over  to  the  Harbisons'?&quot;  said  Tim,  rousing.  &quot;'They've  gone  to  Tea-  quog  to  the  movies,&quot;  Pammy  said.  &quot;What  about  the  Phelps  twins,  then?&quot;  &quot;'They're  still  in  the  nap-  taking  stage,  the  big  babies.&quot;  &quot;Not  a  bad  idea.  When'd  you  people  outgrow  it?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  long  ago,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  did.  Normy's  still  supposed  to.&quot;  &quot;Well,  go  someplace,  why  don't  you?&quot;  Tim  said.  &quot;Get  some  air.  It's  not  raining  any  more-much.&quot;  In  the  end,  he  succeeded  in  getting  them  out  of  the  house.  He  rolled  over,  ready  for  sleep,  the  ball  game  a  loud  lullaby  for  his  ear,  but  before  he  got  anywhere  with  it,  the  children  were  back,  bringing  other  chil-  dren  to  quarrel  with.  'The  screen  door  slammed  constantly,  and  dogs  kept  getting  in,  trotting  briskly  about  the  house,  looking  raffish  and  intent,  until  they  were  collared  and  put  out.     Tim  groaned  and  increased  the  vol-  ume  of  the  radio.  HRISTY  sat  in  a  cackling  old  wicker  rocker  in  her  room,  putting  polish  on  her  nails.  Because  of  the  wet  day,  it  would  take  them  forever  to  dry,  but  she  did  not  care;  she  had  time  and  there  was  nothing  else  to  do.  She  could  not  write  letters,  feeling  as  she  did,  and  she  had  read  everything  in  the  room.  If  she  went  out  of  it  to  look  for  some-  thing  new  to  read,  Tim  might  think  thatshe  was  cured  of  grief.  From  time  to  time,  she  sniffed  reminiscently,  and  her  cheeks  still  felt  salty.  Painting  the  lacquer  on  carefully,  slowly,  she  silently  made  speeches  to  her  husband  while  he  listened  without  interrupting.  The  speeches  took  varied  forms,  for  she  could  not  make  a  choice  between  the  several  methods  of  attack  and  reproach.  There  was  the  cold,  toneless  voice,  for  instance:  &quot;I  suppose  it's  better,  in  a  way,  to  learn  these  things  early  in  a  marriage.  Heavens,  what  a  perfect  fool  you  must  have  thought  me&quot;-then  a  little  laugh.  Or  there  was  open  rage:  &quot;Just  who  the  hell  do  you  think  I  am?  The  kind  of  wife  who  mopes  in  the  background  and  warms  her  husband's  slippers  till  he's  ready  to  come  home  from  someone  else?  Well,  think  again!&quot;-and  then  another  kind  of  laugh,  deep  and  brusque.  'There  was  renunciation:  &quot;Of  course,  it's  over.  It's  finished.  And  how  beautiful  I  thought  it  was!  But  I  am  leaving  on  the  morn-  ing-  no,  the  evening-  train.&quot;  'To  this,  she  added,  after  reflection,  one  more  sentence.  &quot;Naturally,  I  will  not  accept  any  ali-  mony.&quot;  Suddenly,  Christy  put  the  lacquer  bottle  and  brush  on  the  bureau.  As  she  stood  up,  her  file  and  scissors  fell  out  of  her  lap,  but  she  left  them  on  the  floor.  &quot;How  false  I  am!  How  false!&quot;  she  whispered.  She  saw  her  face  in  the  mirror-furious,  unfamiliar-and  turned  away  in  disgust.  Her  spoken  words  seemed  as  false  as  all  the  rest.  The  only  real  thing  was  the  bulky,  boring  lump  of  pain,  which  she  believed  to  be  despair.  At  four  o'clock,  she  decided  that  Tim  was  not  coming  up  to  try  to  com-  fort  her  again.  'The  house,  unstrung  with  noise,  was  finally  too  much  to  bear.  She  put  on  her  raincoat  and  ran  down  the  back  stairs,  crossing  Mrs.  Beavers'  new-mopped  floor  and  admit-  ting  a  final  dog  as  she  went  out  the  kitchen  door.  &quot;Forevermore!&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Beavers,  flinging  down  the  mop  handle  in  a  frenzy  of  exasperation.  A  truck  with  a  round  belly  was  gulp-  ing  and  grinding  in  the  back  yard.  Chil-  dren  in  raincoats  stood  admiring  it,  but  Christy  was  too  preoccupied  to  notice.  She  crossed  the  soaked  grass  and  turned  onto  the  road  to  the  beach.  As  she  passed  the  Phelps  house,  ugly  with  creosote  and  balconies,  she  thought  that  it,  too,  looked  hung  over  from  the  night  be-  fore.  A  sodden  paper  napkin  was  stuck  to  the  hedge;  a  highball  glass  lay  tipped  on  the  lawn,  and  as  she  passed,  she  heard  a  woman's  voice  inside,  calling,  &quot;Turn  it  down!  Turn  it  down!&quot;  That  house  was  the  last  until  she  reached  the  beach;  from  it  to  the  bath-  house,  there  was  only  a  waste  of  bay-  berry  and  honeysuckle.  Telegraph  poles  were  the  sole  trees.  Onthot,  sunny  days,  the  area  was  a  dazzle  of  fragrance,  but  today  the  rain  had  tamped  it  down.  Thunder  had  begun  somewhere,  and  the  wind  had  lessened.  The  gray,  torn  sky  hung  low  over  her  head,  drifting,  stingy  now  with  its  rain,  of  which  only  a  few  scarce  drops  tapped  at  her  brow  and  cheeks.  The  gulls  creaked  and  whined  on  their  shifting  levels  of  air,  and  as  Christy  hurried,  she  again  en-  couraged  her  sense  of  wrong.  &quot;&quot;So  this  is  how  it's  going  to  be!&quot;  she  said  aloud.  &quot;So  this  is  all  it  ever  was!&quot;  These  words  succeeded  in  arousing  a  tear  or  two-  parsimonious,  like  the  raindrops,  but  somehow  comforting.  The  bathhouse,  a  yellow  box,  stood  at  the  end  of  the  road.  She  ran  up  the  echoing  steps  toward  the  roofless  porch,  which  faced  the  sea.  A  smell  of  cigarette  smoke  warned  her,  but  not  in  time.  43616e616461Phelps  was  standing  there,  lonely,  huffy,  staring  at  the  dark,  foam-seamed  water.  She  saw  his  leather  elbow  patches  and  the  little  bald  spot  that  was  taking  him  unawares.  He  turned,  and  pleasure  changed  his  face.  &quot;Christy!  You're  the  one  beautiful  thing  I've  seen  all  day!&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  seen  anything  beautiful,&quot;  she  said  unkindly.  &quot;When  I  looked  in  the  mirror,  I  saw  a  donkey.&quot;  &quot;Nonsense!  How's  Tim  feeling?&quot;  &quot;Rotten,  thanks.  We  all  feel  rotten.  And  this  awful  day!&quot;  &quot;Our  house  is  a  howling  wilderness,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  had  to  get  out.  Katie's  on  the  rampage.  It's  one  of  those  days  when  she  keeps  telling  me  about  my  uncon-  " b"scious  hostility  to  my  children  and  what  it's  doing  to  them.  Warping  their  lives,  and  all  that.  Warping  ze.  'Traumatiz-  ing,'  she  calls  it.&quot;  &quot;Our  house  is  just  about  the  same,  only  we've  got  baseball  instead  of  Freud,&quot;  Christy  said.  &quot;I'm  mad  at  Tim,  and  I've  acted  badly.  I've  shown  it.&quot;  &quot;He'll  forgive  you.&quot;  &quot;When  willI  forgive  him,  I  wonder.  I  hate  being  like  this.&quot;  As  they  spoke,  the  heavy,  falling  combers  and  the  slow,  plunging  thun-  der  kept  up  adolorous  counterpoint,  and  now,  as  if  from  impatience,  the  long-drawn-out  foreplay  was  aban-  doned  in  favor  of  sudden  and  violent  consummation.  Rain  opened  on  the  world,  and  lightning,  white  and  death-  ly,  skipped  acrossthe  waves.  &quot;It's  a  deluge!  Here,  come  in  here!&quot;  43616e616461said.  He  pulled  her  into  an  empty  cubicle.  The  number&quot;22&quot;  was  painted  on  the  clapping  door.  The  place  wasdim  and  smelled  strongly  of  damp  towels.  Rain  dinned  on  the  roof,  and  wind  ran  like  wolves  under  the  loose-planked  floor.  A  small  mirror  on  a  nail  winked  back  its  version  ofthe  lightning.  43616e616461had  pulled  down  a  bath  towel  and  was  blotting  Christy's  wet  face  and  hair.  She  drew  back  in  distaste.  &quot;But  we  don't  know  who  it  belongs  to!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  we  do.  It's  mine.  This  is  the  Phelpses'  bathhouse.&quot;  He  looked  at  her,  smiling,  tossed  the  towel  aside,  and  took  her  in  his  " b"arms.  He  smelled  of  damp  tweed,  his  cheek  was  rough,  and  his  mouth,  in  his  wet,  cold  face,  was  hot  and  skillful  and  determined.  Completely  surrounded,  beard-scratched,  tweed-scratched,  en-  closed,  tasted,  she  thought.  But  where  am  I?  Someplace  far  away,  not  here.  I  am  certainly  not  taking  part  in  this.  And  then,  even  as  she  thought  it,  she  found  to  her  surprise  that  she  was  tak-  ing  part-that  she  was  suddenly  ignited,  and  presently  as  greedy  and  reckless  as  he  was-or  not  quite,  for  in  the  nick  of  time  she  pulled  herself  loose.  &quot;No,  let  me  go!  Let  me  go!&quot;  She  cried  the  words  savagely,  glad  to  leave  him  in  his  frustration,  rumpled,  gro-  tesque  with  lipstick.  The  floor  of  the  bathhouse  porch  drummed  to  her  run-  ning  feet.  The  rain  was  cold  and  dense  enough  to  drown  anybody's  passion;  the  lightning  snipped  the  sky  with  scissor  slashes.  As  she  ran,  fending  off  thunder,  she  scrubbed  at  her  face  with  scraps  of  Kleenex  and  tossed  them,  stained  with  pink,  into  the  beach  grass.  She  felt  sur-  prised,  triumphant,  and  ashamed,  all  at  the  same  time,  and  for  some  reason  she  had  an  impulse  to  laugh.  &quot;Christy,  where  have  you  been!&quot;  Tim  stood  in  the  road  with  his  hair plastered  down  on  his  brow,  as  though  he  had  just  come  out  of  the  sea.  His  face  was  wary-as  if  he  were  prepared  to  renew  battle  if  necessary,  but  wish-  ing  for  truce-and  she  saw  that  he  had  recently  been  scared.  &quot;Did  you  think  I'd  gone  to  drown  myself?&quot;  she  asked.  She  leaned  her  head  against  his  chest,  where,  nearer  than  all  other  sounds,  she  heard  the  well-known  beating  of  his  heart.  &quot;I  would  never  do  such  a  thing.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  all  right  now,  Chris?  Do  you  really  think  you're  over  it?&quot;  Tim  asked  anxiously,  as  though  she  were  a  convalescent.  &quot;Aaah,  Christy.  You're  my  one.  You're  my  only  one.&quot;  &quot;I  know  that.  I  know  that,&quot;  she  said.  Happy  in  the  rain,  they  walked  slowly  back  to  the  house  with  the  awkward  gait  of  two  of  unequal  size  whose  arms  are  about  each  other.  It's  not  just  be-  cause  I've  got  even,  she  assured  herself.  It's  not  just  because  I  did  what  he  did  and  found  out  about  it.  It's  much  more  complex  than  that.  But  deeper  down,  where  truth  looked  out  with  a  codfish  eye,  she  saw  that  this  was  just  exactly  what  it  had  been-nothing  more  and  nothing  better.  Well,  never  mind,  she  thought.  Use  what  comes  to  hand  for  mending,  and  if  your  materials  are  not  first-class-if  they're  crude,  if  they're  makeshift,  vulgar-never  mind,  if  they're  all  you  have  and  they  do  the  job.  What  they're  mending  may  not  be  first-class,  either,  but  it's  what  I  want  more  than  anything.  It's  what  we  want.  HE  rain  stopped  about  seven.  Cleared  of  clouds,  the  sky  was  pure,  the  color  of  honey,  and  all  twigs,  blades,  railings,  and  clotheslines  were  hung  with  honey-colored  drops.  The  children,  on  their  bicycles,  skimmed  off  like  swallows,  and  true  swallows,  also  liberated,  took  to  the  evening  air.  Calm  settled  on  the  house;  the  only  sound  was  Gordon  in  the  pantry,  getting  out  the  ice  for  cocktails.  At  ten  o'clock,  Marjorie  and  Gordon  went  out  to  take  a  turn  around  the  gar-  den,  arm  in  arm.  'The  three-quarter  moon  stood  in  the  sky,  a  face  averted,  and  the  few  stars  looked  large  and  fresh.  Not  far  away,  but  seeming  far,  the  ocean  sounded  appeased,  monumental.  &quot;It's  like  the  evening  after  some  huge  battle.  Austerlitz,  or  something,&quot;  Mar-  jorie  said.  &quot;'This  whole  day  has  been  a  struggle  to  survive.&quot;  &quot;'There's  one  of  them  in  every  sum-  mer,&quot;  Gordon  said.  &quot;Winter's  full  of  days  like  that,  but  in  summer  you  gen-  erally  don't  get  more  than  one  or  two.&quot;  The  windows  of  Tim  and  Christy's  room  were  dark.  Normy's  were  dark.  Pammy's  were  lighted,  and  her  radio  was  squawking  hoarsely.  'They  could  see  her  lying  on  her  side,  listening,  pick-  ing  at  old  mosquito  bites.  &quot;'That  kid  ought  to  be  asleep,&quot;  said  Gordon.  &quot;Oh,  what  difference  does  it  make  this  time  of  year?&quot;  Marjorie  said,  &quot;She  can  make  it  up  in  the  morning.  Oh-oh-  oh,  I'm  dead!  Look  at  this  night!  To-  morrow  will  be  hot  and  wonderful  again.  Everything  will  run  smoothly.  I  wish  summer  would  never,  never  end!&quot;  ON  the  third  floor,  in  her  slope-ceil-  inged  room,  Mrs.  Beavers  tiptoed  to  and  fro.  She  moved  lightly  and  with  purpose,  closing  the  clasps  of  her  suit-  cases  stealthily.  All  had  been  attended  to.  She  hadhad  her  week's  pay  today;  the  taxi  was  ordered  for  six-fifteen.  She  had  no  taste  for  scenes  and  would  be  well  out  of  the  way  by  the  time  Marjorie  came  downstairs  to  the  empty  kitchen,  with  its  lifeless  stove,  and  found  the  let-  ter  Mrs.  Beavers  was  now  composing  in  her  head.  &quot;Dear  Mrs.  McLeod:  The  working  conditions  in  this  household  having  become  intolerable  ..  .&quot;  "