 b"FOR  the  past  several  months,  prior  to  last  week,  whenever  I  started  to  read  a  book-or,  for  that  matter,  a  magazine,  a  newspaper,  or  the  month-  ly  letter  of  the  National  City  Bank-I  felt  as  though  my  brains  were  turning  to  butter,  or  possibly  to  oleomargarine.  I  toyed  with  the  idea  of  a  three-year  analysis  with  Dr.  Kubie  (especially  one  day  after  I  had  had  a  dream  in  which  I  was  a  stamp  collector,  and  the  giraffes  in  the  1901  issue  of  Nyassa  burst  out  of  their  engravings  and  started  nosing  me  into  a  clump  of  eucalyptus  trees,  closely  followed  by  the  camels  from  the  higher  values);  with  the  notion  of  taking  a  world  cruise,  a  hot  bath,  or  a  cold  bird;  and  with  a  project  to  substitute  grace  for  Martinis  before  breakfast.  Reason  prevailed,  however.  It  oc-  curred  to  me  last  week  that  my  eyes,  which  I  hadn't  had  examined  for  eight  years,  rather  than  my  brains,  which  I  have  never  had  examined,  might  be  at  fault.  I  consulted  my  oculist,  who  con-  firmed  my  suspicion.  He  prescribed  bi-  focals,  and  this  not  only  has  restored  my  pleasure  in  reading  but  has  made  it  a  kind  of  adventure.  The  ad-  venture  comes  in  because  I  haven't  quite  got  the  hang  ofthe  bifocals,  and  this  sometimes  throws  my  reading  off  just  enough  to  lend  it  an  entertain-  ing  aspect,  which,  I  am  sure,  is  often  missed  by  those  blessed  with  twenty-twenty  vision.  For  example,  I  recently  picked  up  the  real-  estate  section  of  the  Sunday  Times  and  read,  or  thought  I  read:  MADMAN  TAKES  ROCKLAND  TRACT  CompuEtes  AsseEmBLAcE  or  700  ACRES  IN  ORANGEBURG  FOR  FururE  DeveropmENT  I  was  delighted  with  this  item,  and  with  the  Times  for  running  it.  How  much  more  interesting  it  sounded  than  the  two  headlines  that  flanked  it:  &quot;HOUSES  PLANNED  AT  JERSEY  LAKES,&quot;  and  &quot;LIQUOR  FIRMGETS  STORAGE  BUILDING&quot;!  I  knew  there  was  an  insane  asylum-Grasslands-in  Rockland  County,  and  I  reflected  that  the  madman  must  have  escaped  from  there,  or  perhaps  been  paroled  in  the  custody  of  his  aunt,  and,  with  a  hell  of  a  yell,  acquired  the  tract,  which  I  as-  sumed  he  would  name  Lunatic  Fringe.  I  then  began  to  wonder  whether  the  assemblage  of  the  seven  hundred  acres  he  had  completed  had  been  started  by  another,  mayhap  a  previous  escapee,  or  whether  he  had  done  the  whole  thing     on  his  own.  If  he  had,  I  thought,  what  a  methodical,  forward-looking  maniac!  Was  this  not  proof  positive  that  we  misjudge  our  mental  cases?  Should  they  not  all  be  turned  loose,  with  a  small  amount  of  capital,  some  surveying  instruments,  and  a  batch  of  blueprints?  Would  they  not  then  blanket  the  earth  with  pleasure  domes,  and  cause  split-  level  units,  garden  apartment  houses,  full  basements,  attached  garages,  expan-  sion  attics,  built-in-the-wall  ovens,  and  two-family,  no-down-payment  gazebos  to  bloom  where  none  had  bloomed  be-  fore?  Were  these  maniacs  not  more  steadfast  of  purpose  than  their  saner  brethren?  Was  not  a  delusion,  nourished  behind  barred  windows  in  an  institution,  stronger,  and  in  a  way  more  admirable,  than  the  kind  of  ambivalence  you  so  often  find  in  luxury  hotels,  duplex  apart-  ments,  and  private  houses,  where  win-  dows  are  open  to  every  passing  breeze  and  occupants  open  to  every  passing  sug-  gestion?  Is  not  a  man  who  thinks-nay,  knows-he  is  Napoleon,  or  who  cares  for  nought  but  the  future  development  of  Orangeburg,  a  more  valuable  citizen  than  one  who  can't  make  up  his  mind  which  he  prefers,  fresh  orange  juice  or  frozen?  I  took  off  my  bifocals,  wiped  them,  put  them  back,  and  read  on,  and  my  theories  van-  ished  into  a  cocked  hat,  which  I  had  also  taken  off,  and  laid  on  the  table.  &quot;A  tract  of  more  than  seven  hundred  acres  in  Rockland  County,&quot;  I  read,  &quot;has  been  assembled  by  Irving  Maidman  for  improvement  and  investment.  Part  ofthe  property  will  be  used  for  housing,  while  the  re-  mainder  will  be  developed  for  indus-  trial  use.&quot;  ELL,  disappointments  abound,  but  I  am  going  to  go  right  on  reading  in  the  hope  of  stimulating  new  bifocal  illusions.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  perfectly  possible  to  misread  a  Times  headline  to  advantage  without  benefit  of  typographical  hallucination.  Here's  one  I  came  across  on  the  same  page  as  Mr.  Maidman,  and  happily  misinterpreted:  $4,200,000  MORTGAGE  SOLD  BY  &quot;FANNY  MAY&quot;  I  thought  this  meant  that  a  lady  named  Fanny  May  had  sold  a  four-  million-two-hundred-thousand-dollar  mortgage.  Not  at  all.  Fanny  May  is  a  nickname  for  the  Federal  National  Mortgage  Association.  I  suppose  the  Times'  quotation  marks  should  have  tipped  me  off,  but  you  know  how  the  " b"Times  is  about  quotation  marks  in  its  headlines-always  putting  them  around  &quot;Gas&quot;  (for  &quot;Gasoline&quot;  ),  &quot;Cold  Feet,&quot;  &quot;Soft  Line&quot;  (as  in  &quot;Red  'Soft  Line'  &quot;  ),  &quot;Asylum&quot;  (as  in  &quot;Czech  'Asylum'  &quot;),  &quot;Cornerstone&quot;  (as  in  &quot;Republican  'Cornerstone'  &quot;),  &quot;Revolt&quot;  (as  in  &quot;  Revolt  on  Wages&quot;  ),  and  so  forth-  and  I  just  don't  pay  much  attention  to  them  any  more.  Actually,  I  thought  Fanny  May  was  a  woman  I  know--  Mrs.  Myron  Schafer,  whose  maiden  name  was  Fanny  May.  I  supposed  she  was  using  it  for  tax  purposes.I  was  just  about  to  dab  some  Klear-Glass  on  my  bifocals  (they  keep  clouding  over)  and  write  her  a  note  of  con-  gratulation  when  the  truth  dawned  on  me.  Well,  I  had  had  my  moment,  or  sec-  ond  moment,  of  excitement,  and  it  is,  or  was,  one  in  which  all  can,  or  could,  share,  bifocals  or  no.  The  twenty-twen-  ty  bunch  need  not  despair. "