 b"IN  the  summer  of  1929,  thousands  of  Americans  surged  into  Europe  on  a  crest  of  riches.  If  they  had  not  the  air  of  conquerors,  they  had  at  least  the  confidence  and  theobjective  eye  of  those  with  money  to  spend.  My  mother  and  I,  on  no  such  crest,  shoaled  with  the  lesser  minnows,  and  washed  upon  a  hillside  in  the  English  Lake  Country.  The  British  friends  with  whom  we  stayed  had  recently  rented  a  Georgian  villa-a  graceful,  sombre  building  with  tall  Frenchwindows,  urns  on  the  ter-  race  walls,  and  fireplaces  that  smoked  wet  smoke.  The  view  from  all  the  windows  was  so  ponderously  green  that  we  felt  submergedand  oppressed-  particularly  as  we  always  saw  it  through  a  mantle  of  rain.  Except  for  one  day,  it  rained  without  stopping  for  three  weeks,  day  and  night,  though  with  varying  degrees  of  intensity.  When  the  waterfall  downpour  lessened  to  a  mild  drizzle,  we  all,  hosts  and  guests,  rushed  for  our  mackintoshes  and  gum  boots  and  sloshed  out  into  the  drowned  green  Wordsworth  country.  'The  trees  there  had  solid  domes  of  rain-nourished  leaves;  wet  lambs  jumped  and  tumbled  in  the  emerald  pastures;  and  the  roses  on  the  gray  stone  walls  hung  heavy  as  fists.  In  the  soaked  lanesof  the  village,  geese  swayed  and  honked  in  little  ar-  madas,  and  puddle  water  rose  up  from  the  wheels  of  every  passing  cart.  On  the  one  rainless  day,  the  cold  blue  sky  was  stocked  with  gray-bellied  clouds  that  took  their  time  warming  them-  selves  at  the  sun.  &quot;What  a  lovely  day!&quot;  cried  our  hosts,  shivering  on  the  terrace.  &quot;Too  lovely,  really,  isn't  it?&quot;  It  was  beautiful,  perhaps;  the  hills  came  into  view  clear-cut  for  the  first  time,  and  a  little  lake  that  until  then  had  been  agate  gray  or  olive  drab  now  stared  out  blue  and  stony  as  a  Prussian  eye.  To  me,  the  scene  seemed  hostile,  unfamiliar,  and  I  was  glad  to  have  the  rain  return.  In  the  house,  I  read  poetry  or  picked  out  music  on  a  Bechstein  piano  that  was  beginning  to  cough  with  damp.  Some-  times  I  sat  in  the  orangery  as  rain  boomed  on  the  glassroof,  and  wrestled  with  the  deadly  crossword  puzzles  of  Torquemada,  in  the  Observer.  Idid  well  if  I  filled  in  three  words  during  a  morning.  I  was  nineteen  years  old,  and  every-  one  else  in  the  house  was  forty-five  or  more.  All  of  them,  being  old,  retired  early,  of  course,  but  I  kept  my  light  on  very  late,  and  read  in  bed.  'There  were  no  screens  on  the  windows,  and  often,  in  out  of  the  pouring  night,  a  random  crane  fly  would  come  lurching.  Crane  flies  look  and  sound  like  huge,  night-  mare  mosquitoes,  and  though  they  have  no  sting,  they  also  lacka  proper  sense  of  direction.  Aiming  for  the  bedside  lamp,  they  would  miscalculate  drunk-  enly  and  slap  against  my  cheek  or  ear.  I  learned  to  slay  them  in  midair  with  flung  copies  of  the  Saturday  Evening  Post,  the  Tatler,  and  other  large,  glossy  periodicals,  which  I  kept  handy  for  the  purpose.  My  hostess,  on  coming  into  my  room  one  morning,  was  surprised  to  see  the  floor  tessellated  with  magazines.  &quot;What  do  you  do  with  them,  dear-  use  them  for  stepping  stones?&quot;  she  asked  me.  &quot;I  throw  them  at  those  bugs,&quot;  I  ex-  plained.  &quot;You  know  -those  ghastly  bugs  that  zoom  in  at  night.&quot;  &quot;Elizabeth!&quot;  My  hostess  was  shocked  out  of  her  characteristic  gentle-  ness.  &quot;Don't  say  bugs!  In  England,  'bugs'  is  not  a  nice  word!&quot;  What  could  it  mean,  I  wondered,  but  I  did  not  ask.  I  had  discovered  that  |  the  number  of  things  I  did  not  know  was  of  such  magnitude  that  silence,  combined  with  an  alert  expression,  was  the  best  refuge.  Before  this  visit,  I  had  never  heard  of  a  salmon  trout,  or  a  mountain  called  Helvellyn,  or  even  of  Dove  Cottage.  I  had  not  known  the  meanings  of  such  words  as  &quot;Palladian,&quot;  &quot;motet,&quot;  and  &quot;dialectic,&quot;  or  of  such  names  as  Joynson-Hicks,  Chambertin,  Kafka,  and  Baby  Austin.  In  the  eve-  nings,  when  we  played  parlor  games,  I  was  the  one  who  could  be  counted  on  not  to  know  the  source  of  &quot;The  multitudinous  seas  incarnadine,&quot;  or  the  author  of  &quot;The  Critiqueof  Pure  Reason.&quot;  Every-  body  else  seemed  to  know,  although  I  had  doubts  about  my  mother.  Besides  ourselves,  there  were  other  guests  from  time  to  time.  I  remember  a  kindly  retired  major  who  played  Beethoven  sonatas  in  a  way  that  made  them  sound  very  masculine  and  British,  and  took  a  twenty-mile  walk  each  day.  Another  guest  was  a  man  so  learned  that  when  he  spoke,  which  was  often,  I  felt  muted  and  deformed  with  ignorance.  He  relieved  me  of  the  Torquemada  puzzle  each  morning  he  was  there,  completing  it  with  very  little  trouble  before  luncheon.  Among  other  things,  he  was  an  authority  on  wine.  Our  host  had  ordered  a  case  of  little-  known  wines  from  Boulestin's,  and  each  evening  at  dinner,  a  bottle  having  been" b"opened  and  poured,  the  rest  of  us  would  wait  while  the  learned  guest  took  the  first  sip.  Then,  in  suspense,  we  watched  as  he  swallowed  it  delicately,  staring  off  at  some  remote  point,  communing  with  flavor,  judging.  &quot;Not  quite  valid,  but  likable,&quot;  he  said  of  one,  I  remember,  and  another  time  he  shook  his  head  re-  luctantly.  &quot;I  don't  seem  able  to  make  anything  of  it.&quot;  I  marvelled  at  these  pronouncements.  As  far  as  alcohol  was  concerned,  my  palate  had  been  trained  on  a  prohibition  mixture  of  gin,  orange  juice,  and  white  of  egg.  ONE  morning,  our  hostess  came  into  the  drawing  room  with  alook  of  pleasure  and  excitement.  &quot;Darlings,  what  do  you  think!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;We've  all  been  invited  to  Catbeams!  For  lunch!  On  Tuesday  week!  Lady  Clara  just  rang  up.&quot;  Catbeams,  it  turned  out,  was  one  of  the  Great  Places-a  castle,  really,  that  belonged  to  a  local  earl.  When  we  heard  this,  my  mother  and  I  were  also  pleased.  We  had  seen  castles  in  [REDACTED]  and  England,  but  always  among  stran-  gers  and  in  the  cold  commercial  wake  of  a  paid  guide.  When  the  day  came,  I  dressed  in  a  manner  I  considered  appropriate.  I  put  on  the  treasure  of  my  wardrobe,  a  dress  handed  down  to  me  by  a  fashionable  friend.  It  was  a  Chanel  wool  jersey  with  a  pleated  skirt  and  a  matching  cardigan.  I  chose  brown-and-white  sports  shoes  and  decided  to  wear  no  hat,  and  felt  well  pleased  with  my  appearance.  My  hostess  came  rustling  into  the  room,  wearing  a  navy-blue  taffeta  dress,  a  fox  fur,  and  a  hat  with  a  water  lily  on  it.  I  saw  from  her  look  that  something  was  wrong.  &quot;Isn't  this  all  right?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Shall  I  change?&quot;  &quot;Well,  dear,  I  think  something  a  little-  perhaps  a  little  dressier.  You  know  you  have  so  many  pretty  frocks,&quot;  she  said.  After  she  had  left,  I  put  on  the  dress  I  had  worn  up  from  [REDACTED].  It  was  brown  silk,  with  a  skirt  that  ended  swiftly  at  the  kneecap  and  a  broad  belt  that  girdled  the  buttocks.  A  large  bow  was  perched  at  my  wishbone.  I  wore  a  double  choker  of  baroque  pearls  and  a  brown  hat  that  had  been  modelled  on  the  wrapped  headcloths  of  the  Pharaohs;  it  gripped  my  brow  severely  and  swept  downward  at  each  side  in  a  hound  ear.  Beneath  the  hound  ears  of  my  hat,  my  own  ears  were  buttoned  to  my  head  with  large  pearl  earrings.  The  final  touches  were  a  pair  of  wide-  meshed  dark-brown  stockings  of  a  sort  called  fish-net,  and  glec\xc3\xa9  kid  oxfords " b"with  three-inch  spike  heels.  Just  to  be  certain  that  everything  was  perfect,I  sprayed  myself  liberally  with  Coty's  Emeraude  perfume.  My  hostess,  returning,  was  delighted.  'That's  just  the  thing,  dear,&quot;  she  said  kindly.  &quot;It  does  pay  to  take  a  little  trouble,  doesn't  it?  After  all,  you  know,  these  people  are  County.&quot;  I  did  not  know  what  &quot;County&quot;  meant,  though  I  assumed  it  had  some-  thing  to  do  with  the  peerage,  but  I  re-  frained  from  asking,  as  I  had  refrained  from  asking  about  &quot;bugs.&quot;  &quot;I  say!&quot;  our  host  called  from  the  foot  of  the  stairs.  &quot;It's  gone  one,  for  God's  sake!&quot;  And  soon,  wearing  a  look  of  exasperated  endurance,  he  herded  us,  rustling  and  teetering,  into  his  car,  and  we  were  off  on  our  subaqueous  drive  up  hill  and  down  dale.  The  waterproof  at  the  sides  of  the  car  leaked,  and  my  mother  and  I  hud-  dled  together  in  the  middle  of  the  back  seat,  viewing,  between  the  stern,  mo-  tionless  head  of  our  host  and  the  agitated  hat  of  our  hostess,  the  unfolding  of  yet  more  and  more  green  country,  like  an  endless  and  gigantic  tossed  green  salad.  CATBEAMS,  when  we  reached  it,  was  all  a  castle  should  be,  though  minus  turrets-long,  low-lying,  with  a  crenel-  lated  roof  line  and  mullioned  windows.  The  yew  trees  were  ancient  and  well  groomed;  the  lawns  looked  as  if  they  had  been  woven  in  Lyon.  The  butler  who  opened  the  door  was  sickle-shaped  with  age.  He  ushered  our  host  in  one  direction,  while  Lady  Clara,  who  came  to  greet  us,  ushered  the  rest  ofus  in  another.  She  had  a  lovely,  aging  face  disfigured  by  a  powdering  of  pure  white  exactly  on  her  nose  and  exactly  on  her  chin.  She  was  cordial  and  warm-  hearted,  and  held  my  hand  as  she  in-  troduced  us  to  a  gathering  of  women  in  a  large  living  room.  I  heard  not  a  single  name;  my  mind  was  registering  the  fact  that  all  the  women  who  were  not  wearing  tweed  suits  were  wearing  versions  of  the  Chanel  cardigan  dress.  Those  who  were  not  wearing  brogues  were  wearing  brown-and-white  shoes.  Nobody  was  wearing  a  hat.  My  mother,  my  hostess,  and  I  crackled  like  turkeys  as  we  settled  on  a  couch.  I  looked  about  the  room.  The  furni-  ture  was  heterogeneous,  but  all  of  it  was  good.  The  chintzes  did  not  match,  but  they  were  old  and  pleasing.  There  was  a  vast,  shabby  Aubusson  carpet  on  the  floor,  with  various  small  rugs  afloat  on  its  bosom,  perhaps  to  cover  up  worn  spots.  Suddenly,  I  heard  a  clatter  of  claws  in  the  bare  hall  outside,  and  a" b"pack  of  ten  or  fifteen  dogs-like  the  furniture,  heterogeneous  but  all  good  breeds-burst  into  the  room  at  a  gal-  lop,  silently  circled  it  twice,  and  depart-  ed  as  they  had  come,  leaving  the  rugs  up  in  mole  tracks.  Nobody  commented  on  this  or  seemed  to  notice  it  at  all.  I  sat  mute,  a  smile  fixed  to  my  face,  watching  and  trying  to  sort  out  the  women-some  young,  some  old.  There  were  two  very  young  girls,  and  there  was  a  beauty  whom  I  imagined  to  be  about  my  own  age.  She  was  wearing  a  Chanel  dress,  and  her  hair  and  com-  plexion  had  the  ineffable  glow  that  comes  from  perfect  health  and  a  child-  hood  spent  in  wet  weather.  Her  only  makeup  was  lipstick  and  a  dab  of  azure  on  each  eyelid,  above  each  azure  eye.  I  watched  her,  fascinated  and  jealous,  and  soon,  sensing  my  attention,  she  came  and  sat  beside  me  on  the  arm  of  the  couch.  &quot;How  are  you  enduring  our  ghastly  climate?&quot;  she  inquired  pleasantly.  &quot;Oh,  I  really  love  it,&quot;  I  lied.  &quot;Yes,  well,  I  mean  to  say  it's  all  right  for  us,  of  course,  we're  born  with  a  set  of  gills,  but  for  anyone  used  to  sun-  shine-&quot;  &quot;But  I'm  having  a  marvellous  time,&quot;  I  insisted.  &quot;The  scenery  is  so  marvel-  lous.&quot;  &quot;If  you  like  green,  I  suppose  it  is,&quot;  said  the  beauty.  &quot;For  myself,  I  prefer  purple.  [REDACTED]  is  the  country  for  me.  Purple  everywhere.  This  time  of  year.  But  the  weather  is  just  as  bloody  there  as  it  is  here.  Funny  how  one  doesn't  seem  to  mind.&quot;  She  talked  easily,  without  self-con-  sciousness;  she  was  an  expert  at  deal-  ing  with  the  awkward  pause.  In  the  course  of  her  conversation,  I  learned  that  she  was  married,  thirty  years  old  (Thirty!  Until  then,  that  age  had  seemed  to  me  as  remote  and  undesirable  as  the  age  of  fifty),  and  the  mother  of  three  children.  I  saw  that  my  incredulity  was  pleasing  to  her;  her  laughter  was  kind  and  gratified.  AT  last,  Lady  Clara  rose  and  led  us  to  the  dining  room,  where  a  huge  table  had  been  set.  Behind  every  second  chair  stood  a  footman  in  eighteenth-  century  livery.  Just  as  we  were  taking  our  places,  into  the  room,  oneby  one,  came  eight  or  ten  of  the  most  dis-  tinguished-looking  men  that  I  had  ever  seen.  I  felt  my  jaw  go  slack.  Among  them  I  recognized  the  benevolent,  weary  face  of  Lord  Cecil,  which  I  had  often  seen  in  photographs.  The  men  were  not  very  young,  any  of  them,  but  each  looked  exactly  like  himself  and  no  one  else,  and  their  tweed  clothes  seemed" b"organically  apart  of  them,  as  only  the  tweeds  of  Englishmen  ever  do.  With  them  came  the  local  vicar,  a  stout,  un-  smiling  little  man  who  cast  one  chilled  glance  in  my  direction  and  then  never  looked  at  me  again,  though  he  was  seat-  ed  at  my  right  throughout  the  meal.  He  probably  did  not  like  Americans,  or  my  hat  may  have  frightened  him.  Nobody  was  actually  introduced  to  anybody  else,  though  as  the  men  ambled  in  Lady  Clara  muttered  their  names-  before  most  of  them  there  was  the  word  &quot;Lord&quot;-all  in  a  row,  rapidly,  as  if  they  were  rather  shameful.  The  vicar  turned  as  much  of  his  back  upon  me  as  he  could,  and  addressed  himself  win-  ningly  to  his  hostess.  He  spoke  of  Rupert  Brooke.  How  he  managed  to  arrive  at  |-  this  subject  so  rapidly  I  have  no  idea.  At  my  left,  there  was  a  tall,  oldish-  young  man  with  diluted  blue  eyes  and  a  melancholy  blond  mustache.  He,  it  turned  out,  was  the  husband  of  the  beauty,  and  after  our  first  glance  of  mutual  alarm  he  began  to  make  kindly,  dogged  efforts  to  draw  me  out.  I  do  not  remember  much  of  our  conversation,  but  I  remember  other  things-that  the  cuffs  of  the  footmen's  coats  were  frayed  and  darned,  that  there  were  three  kinds  of  wine,  and  that  the  table  was  adorned  with  great,  healthy  pyramids  of  fruitin  silver  cornucopias.  At  the  far  end  of  the  table,  a  little  boy  and  his  governess  made  their  appear-  ance,  for  Lady  Clara's  family  followed  the  pattern  of  many  whose  photographs  I  had  seen  in  the  Tatler  and  the  Sketch:  the  noble  mother,  weary-eyed,  the  sev-  eral  daughters  in  a  row  at  her  side,  ranging  from  adolescence  down  to  pig-  tails,  and  at  the  very  last  (God  has  been  good!)  a  little  boy.  In  Lady  Clara's  case,  I  learned,  five  daughters  had  come  first.  Across  the  table,  the  beauty  sipped  her  wine  and  chatted  easily  with  those  nearest  her,  while  my  partner  and  I  worked  dutifully  to  keep  our  conversa-  tion  alive.  Question  and  answer,  ques-  tion  and  answer-the  material  of  polite  interrogation  at  length  was  nearly  threadbare.  And  then,  toward  the  end  of  the  meal,  he  came  up  with  one  more  question.  &quot;And  politics,&quot;  he  said  suddenly  and  hopefully.  &quot;At  home,  I  expect  you  take  great  interest  in  politics?&quot;  I  was  shocked.  &quot;Good  heavens,  no  I  cried,  aghast.  In  the  little  silence  that  followed,  I  saw  the  beauty  across  the  table  smile  at  her  husband-a  tiny,  irresistible  flicker  of  mirth.  Of  sympathy?  Of  derision?  At  any  rate,  it  was  intimate  without" b"coquetry-companionable,  above  all.  The  cornucopias  of  fruit  were  re-  moved  from  the  center  ofthe  table  and  handed  round,  and  I  heard  the  vicar  quoting,  &quot;The  nectarine  and  curious  |i  peach  into  my  hands  themselves  do  |:  reach.&quot;  His  voice  was  sonorous  and  self-  respecting,  and  after  he  had  said  the  words  he  looked  at  his  hostess  expectant  ly,  but  Lady  Clara's  amiable  smile  was  vague.  &quot;Andrew  Marvell.  'Thoughts  in  a  Garden,'  &quot;  I  said  promptly,  not  without  pride.  After  all,  I  had  steeped  for  weeks  in  the  &quot;Oxford  Book  of  English  Verse;&quot;  it  was  right  that  it  should  bring  me  some  returns.  The  vicar  affected  not  to  hear;  he  did  not  even  glance  in  my  direction.  But  his  ear  betrayed  him,  anyway,  by  turning  crimson.  It  was  not  I  who  was  supposed  to  recognize  the  source  of  his  felicitous  quotation,  which  perhaps  he  had  been  planning  all  through  the  meal.  I  was  now  completely  put  to  rout,  and  sat  in  silence,  horridly  aware  of  #  my  Pharaoh  hat  and  my  three-inch  heels.  I  could  feel  the  nasty  meshes  of  my  stockings  creeping  on  my  calves,  and  every  time  I  drew  a  breath  I  was  re-  minded  that  I  had  used  too  much  of  Coty's  Emeraude.  I  thought  of  the  beauty  and  her  husband,  of  that  con-  jugal  smile  of  intimacy  and  shared  re-  sponse,  and  I  found  that  even  if  the  smile  had  been  at  my  expense,  I  wished  most  earnestly  someday  to  smile  like  that  at  someone  else;  and  forthe  first  time  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  had  been  rather  slow  about  growing  up.  [REDACTED],  half  a  lifetime  later,  I  some-  times  think  ofthat  day  and  those  people,  and  idly  wonder  what  became  of  them.  The  lords  will  be  dead  or  dod-  dering,  their  ladies  old,  if  alive.  What  happened  to  the  little  boy,  who  would  have  been  old  enough  to  fight  in  the  last  war?  What  fortune  met  the  beauty  and  her  husband?  As  for  the  vicar,  I  have  a  feeling  that  he  must  still  be  quoting  poetry  to  the  nobility  somewhere  in  that  green,  teeming  land.  I  have  noticed  that  snobs  are  apt  to  live  longer  than  the  average,  and,  on  the  whole,  enjoy  good  health."