 b"WELL,&quot;  said  Mr.  Fortescue,  jovially  raising  his  gimlet,  &quot;here's  confusion  to  the  ene-  mies  of  the  Crown.&quot;  I  piously  echoed  the  toast,  and,  lowering  my  glass,  cast  a  discreet  look  around  the  bar  of  the  Belgrave  Hotel.  The  half-dozen  types  who,  like  us,  had  taken  refuge  from  the  afternoon  heat  of  4b656e7961  were  unremarkable-a  couple  of  angular  British  mems  in  flowered  chiffon,  sev-  eral  Teutons  masquerading  as  Swiss  and  festooned  with  light-meters,  a  pair  of  turbaned  Hindus.  A  barefoot  waiter,  clad  in  the  voluminous  white  and  scarlet  fez  commonly  worn  by  East  African  servants,  dozed  upright  against  a  wall,  overtaken  by  the  general  inertia.  Mr.  Fortescue  had  loosened  his  cravat  and  was  busily  sponging  his  wattles.  He  was  a  large,  dropsical  gentleman  in  the  mid-sixties,  with  a  Courvoisier  nose  and  a  quarter-deck  manner,  who  had  spent  most  of  his  life  in  the  Royal  Navy  and  now  devoted  himself  to  fostering  tour-  ism  in  coastal  4b656e7961.  His  mood  at  the  moment  was  one  of  vast  relief,  which  he  took  no  pains  to  hide.  &quot;By  God,  [REDACTED];  he  wheezed,  &quot;when  you  told  me  this  morning  you  wanted  to  sail  to  Zanzibar  on  an  Arab  dhow,  I  thought  at  first  you  were  deranged-absolutely  crackers.&quot;  &quot;What  changed  your  opinion?&quot;  I  in-  quired.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  still  think  so,  but  I've  reconciled  myself  to  it.  Ob-  viously,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;if  you're  deter-  mined  to  wallow  around  the  496e646961n  Ocean  with  a  boatload  of  vagrants  and  expose  yourself  to  the  Oriental  cock-  roach,  logic  isn't  going  to  deter  you.&quot;  &quot;Precisely,&quot;  I  agreed.  &quot;Look,  Mr.  Fortescue,  this  isn't  any  sudden  whim--  it's  the  realization  of  a  childhood  dream.  When  I  was  eleven  years  old,  someone  ave  me  a  copy  of  'Sinbad  the  Sailor  illustrated  by  Howard  Pyle.  Right  then  and  there,  I  made  up  my  mird-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  said  Fortescue  impa-  tiently.  &quot;Touching  devotion  to  an  ideal-must  mention  that  to  the  press  when  your  signet  ring  turns  up  inside  a  shark.  But  let's  get  back  to  the  modus  navigandi,  as  it  were.  I've  interceded  with  the  chief  Arab  official  here,  the  Wali  of  the  Coast,  and  everything's  in  order.  You're  sailing  at  daylight  to-  morrow.&quot;  He  consulted  an  envelope  crisscrossed  with  notes.  &quot;The  dhow  you're  booked  aboard  is  a  ninety-ton  vessel  named  the  Hamidullah.  She's  been  ten  weeks  in  transit  from  Sur,  on  the  Persian  [REDACTED],  with  a  crew  of  twen-  ty-nine  and  a  mixed  cargo  of  dates,  maize  meal,  dried  fish,  and  simsim  oil.  Needless  to  say,  there  are  no  cabins,  but  for  a  consideration  of  thirty  shillings  you'll  be  allowed  six  feet  of  afterdeck  to  sprawl  on.  The  sanitary  arrange-  ments  can  be  described  in  one  word-  horrifying.  That's  about  all,  except  it's  a  hundred  and  thirty-five  miles  to  Zan-  zibar  and  these  smaller  dhows  average  five  knots.  You're  going  to  need  plenty  of  Keating's  powder.&quot;  I  drew  a  long  breath,  arose,  and  steadied  myself  against  the  roll  of  the  bar.  &quot;Sir,&quot;  I  said  emotionally,  &quot;I  don't  know  how  to  repay  you,  but  if  you're  ever  in  the  States  andyou  want  any-  body's  loyalty  checked  or  his  arm  broken,  just  give  me  a  call.&quot;  &quot;'Thank  you,  lad,  and  bon  voyage,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where  are  you  off  to  now?&quot;  &quot;''The  nearest  ship  chandler's,&quot;  I  re-  plied.  &quot;I've  got  to  lay  in  a  few  stores  you  know,  bully  beef  and  hardtack,  a  hogshead  of  grog,  that  sort  of  thing.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  and  take  along  some  Arab  delicacies  as  well,&quot;  advised  Fortescue  benignly.  &quot;You  and  your  shipmates  might  like  to  nibble  on  a  sheep's  eye  whilst  you're  rolling  around  those  long,  greasy  swells.  Salaam  aleikum.&quot;  As  I  walked  purposefully  down  Kilindini  Road,  past  the  rows  of  496e646961n  shops  full  of  brummagem-the  ivory  knickknacks,  fiy  whisks,  and  musical  chamber  potsthat  called  up  nostalgic  memories  of  Sixth  Avenue-my  nerves seemed  incredible  that  when  the  sun  rose  again,  I  would  be  skimming  before  the  southwest  mon-  soon,  part  ofa  great  annual  hegira  dating  back  three  thousand  years.  In  my  euphoria,  I  bought  a  number  of  obvious  superfluities,  like  bouillon  cubes,  a  plum  pudding,  and  a  lotion  warranted  to  counteract  barnacles,  but  by  the  time  I  regained  the  hotel,  I  was  prepared  for  any  contingency.  Right  after  din-  ner,  I  shook  down  my  kit  to  essentials,  burned  all  but  a  handful  of  express  checks  so  my  pockets  would  not  be  overburdened,  and  wrote  two  or  three  farewell  notes  couched  in  a  rather  grandiloquent  style.  I  then  burned  those,  and,  with  the  satisfaction  of  work  well  done,  fell  peacefully  asleep.  HE  stars  on  the  eastern  horizon  were  paling,  and  an  insubstantial  breeze,  freighted  with  the  light,  spicy  odor  of  drains,  whispered  through  the  alleys  of  the  Old  Port,  heralding  the  advent  of  dawn.  I  descended  the  steps  of  the  customs  jetty  and  paused  uncer-  tainly.  Except  for  the  lights  of  a  trawler  moored  nearby,  the  harbor  was  shroud-  ed  in  darkness,  and  all  I  could  hear  was  the  rhythmic  lapof  water  against  the  sea  wall  and  the  occasional  strident  cry  of  gulls.  It  suddenly  came  over  me  that  for  a  man  whose  touchstone  was  Pru-  dential,  I  had  displayed  a  singular  lack  of  prudence.  Here  I  was,  a  lone  foreigner  with  a  mouthful  of  gold  inlays,  astray  in  a  milieu  where  human  life  was  reckoned  in  terms  of  gingersnaps.  What  was  to  prevent  anyone  from  slipping  a  gunny  sack  over  my  head  and  a  dirk  into  my  ribs-  I  sprang  aside  with  a  convulsive  gasp  as  a  hand  touched  mine.  A  mis-  shapen  figure  in  a  burnous,  straight  out  of  &quot;'The  Thief  of  Bagdad,&quot;  had  mate-  rialized  at  my  elbow,  and  was  jabbering  something  and  gesticulating  seductively  toward  the  basin.  I  finally  deduced  that  he  was  a  boat  wallah  sent  to  conduct  me,  and,  stifling  my  misgivings,  clambered  into  his  wherry.  He  bent  to  the  oars,  and  presently  several  dhows  loomed  up  ahead  of  us  out  of  the  murk.  It  was  too  dark  to  see  them  in  detail,  but  they  all  appeared  to  have  the  same  great  lateen  sail  furled  fore  and  aft,  the  lofty  poop  reminiscent  of  Spanish  caravels  and  Macassar  praus,  and  exaggerated  bow-  sprits.  &quot;Hamidullah  this  side?&quot;  I  inquired  hopefully  of  the  boatman,  indicating  the  largest  of  the  group.  With  a  contemptu-  ous  sniff,  he  jerked  his  thumb  toward  a  craft  that  stood  well  away  from  the  others.  A  chill  of  disappointment  en-  veloped  me  as  we  swung  under  her  lee.     " b"She  was  a  ramshackle,  dispirited  scow,  with  none  of  the  panache  I  had  expect-  ed,  but  the  ship's  company,  observing  me  over  the  side  in  the  growing  light,  would  have  elated  any  casting  director  in  [REDACTED].  If  ever  a  crew  was  motley,  they  were  it.  Their  faces,  rang-  ing  in  hue  from  cef\xc3\xa9-eu-lait  to  ebony,  were  lined  with  what  I  recognized  as  every  evil  passion,  and  while  they  wore  no  cutlasses  in  their  teeth,  they  struck  me  as  being  the  bloodthirstiest  ruffians  since  the  sack  of  Porto  Bello.  Before  I  could  call  down  anathema  on  Howard  Pyle,  I  was  yanked  up  a  rope  ladder,  whisked  through  a  tangle  of  cordage  and  bales,  and  dumped  on  the  afterdeck.  Three  or  four  of  the  bolder  spirits  clustered  about  me,  peering  into  my  face  and  fingering  my  garments  curiously.  I  heard  the  word  &quot;Inglis&quot;  repeated  several  times,  and  there  was  a  short,  acrimonious  de-  bate,  obviously  concerned  with  the  ulti-  mate  division  of  my  effects.  It  was  halted  by  a  bellow  from  amidships;  in  a  trice  all  had  scattered  and  were  busy-  ing  themselves  with  preparations  for  departure.  Under  the  direction  of  a  burly  patriarch  who  looked  as  though  he  could  drive  a  laggard  through  an  oak  plank  with  his  fist,  a  longboat  was  unshipped,  and  manned  by  ten  oarsmen  and  a  couple  of  drummers  equipped  with  tomtoms  and  bells.  These  then  pro-  ceeded  to  fish  up  the  anchor,  and,  to  the  accompaniment  of  a  series  of  plaintive  chanteys,  towed  us  into  the  outer  harbor  for  a  final  immigration  and  customs  check.  At  this  point,  the  captain,  or  nahoda,  took  charge.  He  was  a  grave,  handsome  stripling  with  a  Vandyke  beard-surprisingly  immature  for  his  job,I  thought  with  a  twinge  of  anxiety,  and  certainly  no  match  for  his  men  if  they  decided  to  throw  me  up  for  grabs.  The  attitude  of  the  port  officials  was  equally  disquieting.  The  senior  immi-  gration  officer,  a  beefy  Scot  who  had  apparently  had  previous  contact  with  romantics,  grinned  wolfishly  as  he  re-  turned  my  passport.  &quot;Heard  about  you  from  Piggy  Fortescue,&quot;  he  remarked.  &quot;Got  your  Dramamine  ready?&quot;  I  observed,  with  considerable  hauteur,  that  I  had  smelled  salt  water  before.  &quot;Aye,  but  wait  till  the  bilge  starts  rolling  around  this  tub,&quot;  he  said  with  relish.  &quot;And,  of  course,  there's  always  the  off-chance  she'll  spring  a  leak.  Ah,  well,  I'm  sure  you've  taken  all  that  into  account.  Good  luck.&quot;  He  gave  me  a  cheery  wave  and  skipped  over  the  side.  I  watched  him  chug  away  to  his  break-  fast  of  porridge,  bacon  and  eggs,  and  hot  buttered  scones,  and  I  prayed  it  would  stick  inhis  throat.  All  hands  now  collaborated  in  hoisting  the  sail  to  an  obbligato  of  tympany  effects,  aeccelerando  con  hysteria,  and  the  dhow  edged  slowly  outof  the  har-  bor  mouth  into  open  water.  At  once,  as  the  quickening  monsoon  filled  the  canvas,  she  developed  the  most  extraor-  dinary  centrifugal  lurch-a  combina-  tion  of  roll,  pitch,  and  stagger  quite  un-  paralleled  in  my  past  seafaring.  It  was  not  bothersome  in  any  sense-just  outr\xc3\xa9,  soto  speak-but  it  required  study  and  management.  By  closing  my  eyes  each  time  we  dipped  into  the  trough,  and  gritting  my  teeth,  I  soon  became  in-  ured,  if  not  passionately  addicted,  to  it.  Unfortunately,  the  incline  of  the  poop  deck  was  such  that  if  I  let  go  the  taffrail  an  instant,  I  slid  forward  and  became  entangled  with  the  steersman,  visibly  impeding  his  efficiency.  To  remedy  this,  as  well  as  to  accord  a  measure  of  hos-  pitality,  the  captain  ordered  several  carpets  spread  under  me,  and,  ensconced  on  these,  I  felt  very  much  ofa  pasha.  The  illusion  was  strengthened  by  the  arrival  of  dates  and  coffee,  small  cups  of  which  were  ceremoniously  offered  to  me  and  then  circulated  among  the  per-  sonnel.  Nothing  promotes  racial  amity  like  the  knowledge  that  you  have  just  communicated  your  diseases  to  someone  or  contracted  his,  and  in  a  short  time,  despite  the  absence  of  any  language  tie,  we  were  all  purring  like  a  basketful  of  cobras.  Throughout  the  foregoing,  intense  activity  of  some  sort  had  been  going  on  in  the  bow;  small  boys  were  being  cuffed,  wood  chopped,  and  water  fetched,  and  I  finally  teetered  forward  to  see  what  was  cooking.  It  proved  to  be  two  sizable  fish,  suspended  over  an  open  blaze  that  had  apparently  been  kindled  right  on  the  deck.  The  sparks  whirled  about  in  every  direction,  for  the  most  part  into  the  sail,  and  it  was  abun-  dantly  clear  that  within  seconds  the  whole  dhow  would  be  one  single  sheet  of  flame.  Hastily  retreating  aft,  I  dis-  carded  my  shoes  and  held  myself  ready  to  abandon  ship  if  necessary.  The  pre-  caution,  luckily,  was  excessive;  half  an  hour  later,  a  reasonably  edible  curry  was  served  up,  followed  by  quantities  of  scalding  mint  tea.  As  a  gesture  of  reciprocity,  I  broached  my  own  pro-  visions,  and,  to  judge  by  the  gusto  with  which  the  sweets  were  consumed,  one  could  buy  one's  way  into  the  caliph-  ate  with  three  pounds  of  Fanny  Farm-  er.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  meal,  everyone  belched  politely  to  signify  he  was  replete,  and  sank  down  for  the  noonday  rest.  'The  sun  was  high  over-  head  and  the  wind  steady.  The  African  coastline  had  receded  to  a  blur,  and  as  I  lay  under  the  canopy  that  shield-  ed  my  dais,  the  overdraft  clerk  at  my  bank  seemed  very  far  away.  When  I  subsequently  checked  up,  I  found  he  had  been  even  farther  away  than  I  thought.  He  had  absconded  to  [REDACTED] " b"just  about  the  time  I  reached  4b656e7961.  Sometime  toward  midafternoon,  I  was  awakened  by  a  gabble  of  voices;  my  fellow-voyagers,  genuflecting  toward  [REDACTED],  were  at  their  devotions,  and,  remembering  my  status  of  infidel,  I  did  nothing  to  distract  them.  Another  help-  ing  of  dates  was  next  pressed  on  me;  the  sight  of  them  made  me  go  all  queasy,  but  to  refuse,  I  knew,  was  tantamount  to  suicide,  and  I  knuckled  under.  The  captain  had  been  tidying  his  sea  chest  meanwhile,  and  now  produced  for  my  admiration  his  ceremonial  sword  and  curved,  silver-mounted  dagger.  The  instant  I  prepared  to  photograph  him,  the  other  Arabs,  naturally,  started  importuning  me  to  snap  them,  too.  No-  body-at  least  nobody  in  his  right  mind-can  resist  the  appeal  of  a  man  flourishing  a  scimitar,  and  it  was  twi-  light  before  we  finished.  The  curry  dished  up  for  our  evening  repast  was  less  toothsome,  on  the  whole,  than  the  original  batch,  dates  having  been  added  to  give  it  body.  Made  cunning  by  des-  peration,  I  waited  until  an  unusually  heavy  sea  rolled  the  dhow  over,  and  swept  my  portion  into  the  wake.  As  darkness  came  on,  myriads  of  stars  ap-  peared  in  the  heavens,  the  wind  grew  steadily  more  intense,  and  it  was  mani-  fest  from  the  bustle  around  the  mast  as  the  crew  shortened  sail  that  we  were  in  for  a  blow.  Recumbent  on  the  carpet,  feet  braced  against  a  thwart,  I  gave  my-  self  up  to  sombre  reflection.  I  thought  of  other  hotspurs  who  had  tempted  destiny  too  far-Phlebas  the  Phoenician,  Cap-  tain  Slocum,  Richard  Halliburton.  I  conjured  up  visions  of  Fortescue  and  the  immigration  officer  in  the  Belgrave  bar,  swilling  gimlets  and  cackling  obscenely  over  my  plight.  Then  I  began  to  picture  their  shock  on  receiving  the  news  of  my  heroic  end,  and  I  revelled  in  their  abase-  ment.  The  wilder  the  tempest  grew,  the  more  hopeless  my  predicament,  the  more  I  revelled.  How  many  hours  we  buffeted  about  would  be  difficult  to  conjecture,  but  eventually,  in  a  disembodied  way,  I  be-  came  aware  that  the  dhow  had  stopped  oscillating.  The  sail,  as  nearly  asI  could  make  out,  was  down,  and  we  were  bobbing  idly  in  the  trough,  broadside  to  a  diminishing  sea.  Suddenly  a  horrid  possibility  occurred  to  me,  inspired,  no  doubt,  by  memories  of  Kipling's  &quot;Cap-  tains  Courageous.&quot;  With  no  riding  light  aboard,  let  alone  any  kind  of  lamp,  we  were  acinch  to  be  run  down  by  one  of  the  British  496e646961  or  Lloyd  Triestino  liners  plying  along  the  coast.  Once  I  started  thinking  creatively,  of  course,  all  kinds  of  qualms  presented  them-  selves.  Perhaps  we  had  been  blown  off our  course  altogether,  far  outside  the  steamer  lanes.  The  496e646961n  Ocean  was  limitless;  it  was  a  cool  four  thousand  miles  eastward  to  [REDACTED],  and  even  though  we  had  more  than  enough  dates  below  to  live  on-a  grisly  prospect  in  itself-we  would  unquestionably  perish of  thirst.  On  the  other  hand,  and  worse  yet,  perhaps  the  Hamidullah  was  not  adrift  after  all.  Perhaps,  while  I  slept,  the  crew  had  nosed  her  up  some  estuary,  where  I  would  be  garrotted  with  a  silk  scarf  and  my  body  disposed  of.  In  a  flash,  I  saw  everything.  The  whole  show  of  hospitality  had  been  a  blind  to  pinch  my  belongings-in  particular  the  cam-  era,  which  had  obviously  aroused  cupid-  ity.  Months,  years  would  elapse  before  my  belt  buckle  or  cardcase  would  turn  up  in  a  [REDACTED]  bazaar  to  give  a  clue     " b"to  my  fate.  A  wave  of  such  acute  self-pity  swept  over  me  that  I  groaned  aloud.  To  die  like  a  dog  in  a  mangrove  swamp...  unmarked  grave...  cut  off  in  the  prime  of  life,  a  mere  boy  actually  .  ..  I  was  so  busy  reading  eulo-  gies  over  myself  that  it  was  two  minutes  before  I  realized  we  were  under  way  again.  Down  in  the  waist  I  heard  the  captain's  authoritative  voice,  and  the  lugubrious  singsong  of  the  men  as  they  hauled  away  at  the  lines.  The  Hamidullah  began  her  old  familiar  undula-  tion,  but,  it  seemed  to  me,  with  a  new  purpose  and  assurance.  Far  off  on  the  port  bow,  a  dove-gray  streak  was  spread-  ing  imperceptibly  across  the  sky,  deepening  to  rose  at  the  promise  of  the  sun.  The  man  at  the  wheel  swung  about  with  a  grin  and  beckoned  me  to-  ward  him.  Pointing  to  a  faint  smudge  on  the  horizon,  no  wider  than  a  pencil  stroke,  he  uttered  the  most  melodious  phrase  that  has  ever  fallen  on  the  human  ear.  &quot;Liyatamajjad  Allah,&quot;  he  said  happily.  &quot;Hunak  yarkud  Zanzibar.&quot;   IT  was  suffocating  in  the  dining  room  of  the  Zanzi-  bar  Hotel  the  next  morning,  oo  and  the  three  other  occupants  of  my  table  did  nothing  to  make  it  less  oppressive.  One  of  them  was  a  fat  steamship  agent  from  Dar-es-Salaam  with  atriangular  smile  that  must  have  driven  some  poor  woman  mad,  another  a  supercilious  behemoth  who  gave  the  impression  he  was  administering  4b656e7961  singlehanded,  and  the  third  a  sallow,  insufferable  youth,  all  nose  and  R.A.F.  mustache,  who  kept  furtively  wiping  his  cutlery.  Inevitably,  as  we  progressed  through  the  kippers,  they  got  onto  mutual  acquaintances  along  the  East  African  littoral  and,  eventually,  my  whilom  benefactor  Fortescue.  I  pricked  up  my  ears.  &quot;Salt  of  the  earth,  old  Piggy,&quot;  the  steamship  man  was  declaring  huskily.  &quot;One  of  the  best.  Matter  of  fact,  we'd  a  couple  together  only  yesterday  at  the  Belgrave,  in  4b656e7961.&quot;  &quot;I  say,  how  very  extraordinary,&quot;  drawled  the  mustache.  &quot;I  saw  him,  too-at  the  airdrome  this  morning  when  I  came  away.  Did  he  tell  you  about  the  smuggler  chap-the  Yank  who  led  him  up  the  garden  path?&quot;  &quot;Rotten  show,&quot;  huffed  the  other.  &quot;Can't  understand  how  the  bleeder  talked  Piggy  into  helping  him  escape  by  dhow.&quot;  &quot;Played  on  his  good  nature,  I  dare-  say,&quot;  said  the  youth.  &quot;The  swine  was  loaded  down  with  hashish  and  pearls.  Piggy's  convinced  of  it,  but  he  daren't  go  to  the  police,  for  fear  of  being  im-  plicated.&quot;  &quot;Typical  American  trick,&quot;  chimed  in  the  administrative  genius.  &quot;The  bas-  tards'll  do  it  every  time.  I  remember  once  up  at  Djibouti-&quot;  I  excused  myself  abruptly,  taking  care  to  emphasize  the  nasal  twang  in  my  voice,  and  flew  down  Portuguese  Street  on  the  double  to  the  Cable  &amp;  Wireless  office.  The  496e646961n  clerk  scanned  the  mes-  sage  I  shoved  through  the  wicket,  and  blinked  at  me  over  his  horn-rimmed  spectacles.  &quot;You  wish  this  sent  exactly  as  written,  sir?&quot;  &quot;As  fast  as  you  can  work  that  key,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;Why?  Anything  wrong  with  it?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  not  at  [REDACTED];  he  said  quickly.  &quot;It's  just-  Well,  forgive  the  liberty,  sir,  but  I  used  to  be  stationed  at  4b656e7961  and  I  know  Mr.  Fortescue.  Won't  he  be  very  offended?&quot;  &quot;Deeply,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;In  fact,  it  may  even  cause  him  to  fall  down  and  foam  at  the  mouth.&quot;  He  leaned  forward,  his  antennae  aquiver  with  curiosity.  &quot;He  behaved  badly  to  you,  sir?&quot;  &quot;On  the  contrary,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;He  did  just  what  I  asked  him  to-blast  him.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  yes,&quot;  said  the  clerk  slowly.  ''Yes,  of  course.&quot;  He  watched  me  with  a  sad,  puzzled  expression  asI  pocketed  my  change  and  went  out.  He  was  dying  to  exchange  confidences,  and  one  day  we  will,  when  I  revisit  Zanzibar.  I'd  love  to,  if  somebody'd  only  build  a  bridge.  "