 b"IT  was  generally  believed  that  my  father's  eldest  sister,  Georgina,  had  fallen  in  love  with  the  Mediter-  ranean  Sea.  Although  she  often  visited  her  native  [REDACTED],  she  spent  the  great-  er  partof  eachyear  travelling  about  the  countries  that  border  those  waters,  never  staying  long  in  any  one  place.  Her  movements  took  no  account  of  the  seasons.  She  was  quite  likely  to  appear  at  our  home  in  Derbyshire  when  our  cus-  tomary  gray,  damp  weather  was  at  its  grayest  and  dampest,  and  to  settle  down  for  a  month's  stay  in  Tunis  when  it  was  too  hot  for  her  to  leave  her  hotel  room.  Aunt  Georgina  had  not  always  been  able  to  travel  as  freely  as  this.  She  was  the  eldest  of  six  children.  Both  her  par-  ents  had  died  by  the  time  she  was  twenty-three,  and  until  the  youngest  child  had  completed  his  education,  she  kept  house  for  them  all.  Georgina  was  a  tall,  handsome  girl  with  auburn  hair  and  decided  opinions,  one  of  which  was  that  she  was  never  going  to  marry.  (She  died  at  the  age  of  eighty-seven,  still  single.)  As  soon  as  she  felt  it  proper  to  do  so,  she  gave  up  the  family  home,  stored  the  fur-  niture,  and  set  off  alone  for  that  part  of  the  world  where  she  most  wanted  to  live.  Georgina  had  travelled  in  4974616c79  and  [REDACTED]  while  her  parents  were  alive,  but  always  carefully  chaperoned.  Now,  for  the  first  time,  she  was  able  to  do  exactly  as  she  wished.  She  spent  her  days  studying  lan-  guages  and  archeology,  and  her  evenings  going  to  parties.  Although  deter-  mined  not  to  acquire  a  husband,  Georgina  was  a  sociable  girl  and  liked  peo-  ple,  and  people,  apparent-  ly,  liked  her.  My  father,  a  Church  of  [REDACTED]  clergyman,  was  forty  when  he  married,  and  so  I  never  knew  Aunt  Georgina  when  she  was  young.  My  earliest  recol-  lection  of  her  is  of  a  tall,  big-boned  woman  with  white  hair  drawn  up  from  her  large,  paleface  by  tortoise-shell  combs,  and  a  severe,  rather  disapprov-  ing  expression.  Aunt  Georgina  did  not  like  children,  particularly  small  girls,  and  consequently  it  was  many  years  be-  fore  her  visits  to  my  home  in  Derbyshire  were  any  pleasure  to  me.  Gradually,  however,  as  I  grew  older,  Aunt  Georgi-  na's  attitude  toward  me  mellowed.  When  I  was  fifteen,  she  invited  me  to  spend  two  weeks  with  her  in  Rome,  and  after  that  holiday  our  friendship  was  sealed.  Erratic  though  Aunt  Georgina's     movements  were,  there  was  one  en-  gagement  that  she  never  missed-the  Hellenic  Society's  annual  visit  to  [REDACTED].  Each  spring,  a  chartered  yacht  sailed  from  the  Port  of  [REDACTED]  to  Athens,  bearing  a  group  of  the  Society's  mem-  bers  on  a  three-week  tour,  as  the  guests  of  Greek  colleges  and  archeological  so-  cieties.  Sometimes  my  aunt  joined  the  party  after  it  had  reached  its  destination,  but  she  preferred  to  come  to  [REDACTED]  and  start  from  there,  soas  not  to  miss  any  of  the  lectures  and  seminars  with  which  the  party  regaled  itself  en  route.  Aunt  Georgina  hadhad  no  training  in  archeology.  She  had  learned  all  she  knew  from  her  friends,  from  books,  and  from  her  own  observations.  She  began  studying  Greek  and  Arabic  (French,  Spanish,  and  Italian  she  already  knew  );  she  accompanied  digging  expeditions;  and  she  helped  to  sponsor  the  produc-  tionin  [REDACTED]  ofa  number  of  Greek  plays.  Her  hobby  was  something  of  an  obsession.  Once,  when  I  was  lunch-  ing  with  her  at  a  dockside  caf\xc3\xa9  in  St.  Tropez,  she  looked  out  over  the  blue  waters  and  said,  &quot;The  Mediterranean  must  have  been  quite  interesting  even  as  late  as  Saint  Paul's  day.&quot;  It  pleased  Aunt  Georgina  very  much  when  her  friends  consulted  her,  as  they  sometimes  did,  about  their  research  projects.  And  when  an  expensively  printed  arch-  eological  work  in  several  volumes  was  dedicated  to  her,  she  was  delighted.  In  [REDACTED],  Aunt  Georgina  always  stayed  at  a  hotel  in  Bloomsbury  that  was  handy  to  the  British  Museum.  She  attended  a  great  many  lectures,  art  shows,  and  exhibitions,  and  usually  invited  one  of  her  nieces  (for  a  while  there  were  four  of  us  at  [REDACTED]  University  at  the  same  time)  to  accompany  her.  Aunt  Georgina's  invita-  tions  came  in  writing-she  never  used  the  telephone  except  to  call  a  cab-and  she  expected  them  to  be  acknowledged  in  the  same  way.  The  invitations  in-  cluded  lunch  or  dinner  at  whatever  Soho  restaurant  Aunt  Georgina  be-  lieved  at  the  time  to  be  serving  the  best  French,  Italian,  or  Greek  food.  My  cousins  and  I  found  her  excellent  company.  She  never  asked  us  how  we  were  getting  on  with  our  work  or  what  we  did  with  our  leisure  time,  and  when  she  gave  us  advice,  it  was  always  about  frivolous  things.  For  example,  Aunt  Georgina  thought  it  very  important  for  a  woman  to  know  how  to  choose,  and     " b"wear,  a  pretty  hat.  She  herself  always  wore  very  plain  suits  and  dresses,  to  which  she  added  such  gay  millinery,  gloves,  parasols,  and  handbags  that  it  seemed  as  if  she  deserved  to  move  in  livelier  circles  than  those  provided  by  her  relatives  and  by  the  members  of  learned  societies.  Her  nieces  wished,  of  course,  to  make  some  return,  and  Aunt  Georgina  always  accepted  our  invitations,  but  she  never  pretended  to  have  enjoyed  herself  if  she  had  not  done  so.  After  a  matin\xc3\xa9e  of  &quot;Private  Lives,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;It  was  very  nice  of  you  to  take  me,  and  in  such  good  seats,  too,  but  I  don't  find  I  have  much  rapport  with  people  who  live  like  rabbits  from  the  highest  motives.&quot;  On  another  occasion,  one  of  my  cousins  asked  her  to  a  strawberry  squash  on  the  island  in  the  lake  in  Regent's  Park.  These  squashes  were  breakfast  picnics,  organized  by  (I  think)  the  girls  who  belonged  to  the  Bedford  College  boat  crews.  Aunt  Georgina  arrived  punctually  at  7:30  a.m.,  fully  dressed  for  a  regatta.  She  wore  a  white,  beauti-  fully  tailored  linen  dress,  a  hat  with  as-  sorted  fruits  weighing  down  the  brim,  long  mauve  gloves,  and  a  mauve-and-  gold  parasol.  Her  outfit  did  a  lot  to  en-  hance  my  cousin's  prestige;  everyone  else's  guests  had  come  in  shorts.  N  late  middle  age,  Aunt  Georgina  developed  a  passion  for  collecting  furniture.  She  picked  up  pieces  every-  where  she  went-anything  that  caught  her  fancy.  One  might  have  thought  that  this  would  be  awkward  for  a  single  lady  who  spent  her  life  inhotels,  but  Aunt  Georgina  did  not  find  it  so.  Her  taste,  though  good,  ran  to  mass  and  weight;  the  largerthings  were,  the  better  she  seemed  to  like  them.  As  the  pieces  were  bought,  they  were  shipped  home  to  a  storage  warehouse  in  Southampton,  but  they  never  stayed  there  long.  Aunt  Georgina  liked  to  lendher  possessions,  and  this  was  often  extremely  helpful  to  her  relatives  and  friends.  When  my  parents  moved  to  the  fifteen-bedroom  rectory  in  Derbyshire  that  was  my  home  during  most  of  my  childhood,  my  mother,  with  Aunt  Georgina's  loans,  had  to  buy  hardly  any  furniture.  My  aunt's  generosity,  however,  had  its  drawbacks.  She  did  not  like  it  if  her  offers  were  rejected.  People  who  live  in  small  houses  do  not  always  want  to  give  houseroom  to  immense  furniture,  even  if  that  furniture  is  splendid  of  its  kind,  and  old.  When  one  of  my  cousins  got  married  and  settled  in  a  suburb  of  Bir-  mingham,  Aunt  Georgina  sent  her  as  a     wedding  present  a  dining  table  large " b"enough  to  seat  twelve,  and  eighteen  straight-backed  chairs.  My  cousin  made  room  for  as  many  ofthe  chairs  as  she  could,  but  the  table  would  not  even  go  inside  the  house,  and  it  had  to  be  stored,  with  the  rest  of  the  chairs,  at  consider-  able  expense.  Aunt  Georgina,  hearing  about  this,  was  amused.  She  said,  &quot;Rose-  mary  and  Edward  have  bought  such  a  quaint  house!  One  cannot  even  sit  down  to  dinner  in  it.&quot;  However  firm  we  tried  to  be  when  it  came  to  standing  up  to  Aunt  Geor-  gina's  generosity,  she  usually  had  her  own  way  in  the  end.  It  got  to  the  point  where  she  could  strike  terror  to  the  hearts  of  her  oldest  friends  simply  by  standing  with  her  head  a  little  on  one  side  in  front  of  a  piece  of  wall.  &quot;I  have  a  Florentine  mirror  that  would  go  very  well  there,&quot;  I  remember  hearing  her  say,  &quot;if  you  wouldn't  mind  moving  that  curious  little  water  color  you  painted  on  your  honeymoon.&quot;  Our  Derbyshire  rectory  was  so  large  that  we  were  able  to  absorb  any  amount  of  Aunt  Georgina's  treasure,  but  we  had  our  problems  with  her,  too.  Al-  though  her  loans  were  more  in  the  na-  ture  of  gifts-I  neverheard  of  any  piece  being  reclaimed  once  she  had  lent  it-  Aunt  Georgina,  by  lending  rather  than  giving,  preserved  the  right  to  supervise  her  property,  and  she  had  a  prodigious  memory.  She  knew  exactly  what  she  had  lent  us,  when  she  had  done  so,  and  where  it  had  been  displayed  on  her  last  visit.  If  a  piece  was  not  in  its  accustomed  place,  she  wanted  to  know  where  it  had  gone,  and  my  mother,  whose  memory  was  poor,  often  couldnot  remember  what  it  was  that  she  was  supposed  to  be.  accounting  for.  Until  the  object  was  located  (&quot;'The  inlaid  worktable  is  in  the  child's  bedroom,  dear.  I  find  it  is  being  used  as  a  repository  for  cricketing  maga-  zines  ..  .&quot;),  it  was  uncomfortable  for  everyone.  On  one  occasion,  Aunt  Georgina  wrote  from  Marseille  to  say  that  she  was  lending  my  father  a  clock  for  his  study  mantelpiece.  My  father's  mantelpiece  was  precious  to  him  in  the  way  that  a  compost  heap  is  precious  to  a  gardener;  he  was  fussy  about  whatwent  on  it,  and  once  something  was  there,  he  did  not  like  it  removed.  Before  the  arrival  of  Aunt  Georgina's  clock,  the  mantelpiece  held  twenty-two  pipes,  several  tins  of  tobacco,  pipe  cleaners,  some  bundles  of  spills  that  he  rolled  himself  from  used  postcards,  stacks  of  matchboxes(most  of  them  empty),  newspaper  clippings,  books,  and  a  dozen  or  so  of  the  brightly  colored  tinfoil  wrappings  that  come  around  the  tops  of  bottles  of  port.  Once  a  year,  at  spring-cleaning  time,  my" b"father  parted  with  a  little  of  this  mate-  rial,  to  make  room  for  the  next  year's  accumulation.  Aunt  Georgina's  clock  took  a  long  time  to  reach  us,  and  she  happened  to  be  at  our  house  when  the  crate  arrived.  Having  seen  the  study  mantelpiece,  she  realized  what  she  was  up  against,  and  she  maneuvered  skillfully.  The  crate  was  not  opened  for  several  days,  and  in  the  meantime  she  went  to  Nottingham  and  bought  my  father  a  heavy  oak  pipe  rack.  My  father  was  de-  lighted,  and,  at  Aunt  Georgina's  sug-  gestion,  he  hung  it  on  the  wall  above  the  mantelpiece,  well  over  to  one  side.  The  next  day,  Aunt  Georgina  unpacked  her  clock.  She  had  bought  it  from  a  dealer  who  was  a  friend  of  a  friend.  The  dealer  had  explained  that  although  the  mechanism  of  theclock  was  beyond  repair,  the  cas-  ing  itself  was  valuable,  being  ofa  rare late-eighteenth-century  design.  It  stood  about  eighteen  inches  square,  but  it  was  narrow  enough  from  front  to  back  to  fit  easily  on  a  mantelpiece.  It  was  made  of  dark-green  marble,  and  it  had  a  flight  of  little  marble  steps  leading  up  to  the  base  of  the  clockface,  which  was  set  back  in  a  wreath  of  tiny  bronze  flowers.  On  the  top  of  the  clock  was  the  seated  figureof  an  elderly  man.  He  wore  sandals  and  a  flowing  robe,  and  he  had  a  kindly,  placid  face,  a  long,  crinkly  beard,  and  a  head  of  beautifully  thick,  curly  hair.  My  aunt  informed  us  that  the  man  was  Saint  Paul,  and  that  he  had  not  originally  been  partof  the  clock;  he  had  been  added  during  the  early  years  of  the  nineteenth  century.  .  By  moving  the  tobacco  tins,  pipe  cleaners,  matchboxes,  and  spills  to  the  end  of  the  mantelpiece  under  the  new  pipe  rack,  and  the  books  and  newspaper  clippings  to  the  opposite  end,  my  aunt  managed  to  make  room  for  everything  except  the  tinfoil  wrappers.  In  the  cen-  ter  of  my  father's  mantelpiece,  the  clock  certainly  looked  handsome.  My  father,  who,  I  suppose,  knew  by  then  that  he  was  beaten,  raised  only  two  objections.  He  first  pointed  out  that  the  clock  did  not  go.  My  aunt  said,  &quot;Why  should  it?  You  have  others.&quot;  Then  he  complained  that  he  now  hadno  place  to  keep  his  port  tops.  My  aunt  considered  this  situation  carefully,  and  then  said,  &quot;One  of  them  would  make  Saint  Paul  avery  attractive  hat.&quot;  So  my  father  threw  away  all  his  tin-  foil  wrappers  except  one,  with  which  he  made  Saint  Paul  a  high,  red  conical  hat.  All  my  life,  I  suppose,  when  I  try  to  picture  what  Saint  Paul  looked  like,  I  shall  think  of  an  elderly  man  in  san-  dals,  a  bronze  dressing  gown,  and  a " b"tall,  red  tinfoil  hat-the  hat,  on  ac-  count  of  the  abundance  of  the  wearer's  curls,  being  set  at  a  rakish  angle.  It  might  be  assumed  from  all  this  that  Aunt  Georgina  was  a  difficult  house  guest;  actually  she  was  very  easy  to  en-  tertain.  She  liked  to  have  a  companion  for  her  daily  walk,  but  the  rest  of  the  time  she  preferred  to  be  left  to  amuse  herself.  She  always  brought  a  large  number  of  books  with  her,  and  she  pur-  sued  her  archeological  studies  for  several  hours  each  day.  Her  interests  meant  that  she  could  never  travel  light.  Several  trunks,  hatboxes,  bags,  and  bundles  ac-  companied  her  on  even  the  shortest  visit.  ALTHOUGH  Aunt  Georgina  liked  best  to  be  on  the  move,  there  was  one  period  of  about  five  years  when  she  did  settle  down,  in  [REDACTED]-in  a  black-and-white  wooden  warship,  like  H.M.S.  Pinafore.  The  ship,  which  was  afloat  in  the  Thames  a  few  miles  above  Tilbury  Docks,  belonged  to  the  gov-  ernment  and  was  used  as  a  reformatory  training  establishment  for  young  first  offenders,  most  of  whom  entered  the  Merchant  Navy  after  their  discharge.  One  of  my  uncles,  on  his  retirement  from  the  Royal  Navy,  was  given  com-  mand  of  this  ship.  He  was  unmarried,  and  Aunt  Georgina  agreed  to  act  as  his  hostess.  She'  could  not  use  any  of  her  lovely  furniture,  because  the  ship  lay  about  a  quarter  of  a  mile  out  from  the  Essex  shore,  and  the  only  means  of  transportation  was  a  rowboat  manned  by  three  of  the  more  improved  de-  linquents.  These  already  had  their  work  cut  out  for  them,  ferrying  all  Aunt  Georgina's  clothes,  books,  china,  glass,  pictures,  linen,  and  silver.  My  aunt  did  a  fine  job.  With  the  help  of  a  woman  cook,  she  trained  a  succes-  sion  of  boys  in  the  arts  of  serving  as  but-  ler,  steward,  and  houseboy.  The  cap-  tain's  quarters  were  kept  shining  and  neat  as  a  pin,  and  the  service  was  that  of  a  first-class  hotel.  Several  of  the  boys  entered  domestic  service  instead  of  the  Merchant  Navy  as  a  result  of  Aunt  Georgina's  teaching,  and  some  of  them  continued  to  write  to  her  and  to  send  her  Christmas  cards  up  to  the  year  she  died.  The  ship  was  a  wonderful  place  to  visit;  there  was  always  something  in-  teresting  going  on.  'The  activities  on  board  were  much  the  same  as  those  at  any  rather  strict  military  school.  Each  day  at  noon,  the  entire  ship's  company  drilled  to  the  music  of  their  own  brass  band,  and  my  uncle  took  the  salute  on  the  quarter-deck.  There  were  games  fields  and  a  swimming  pool  onshore,  and  my  uncle  had  a  small  sailboat,  but" b" I  always  found  these  entertainments  mild  compared  to  simply  being  in  the  ship.  Although  I  was  always  disappoint-  ed  that  the  biggest  liners  never  came  above  Tilbury,  smaller  ships  of  many  sizes  and  every  nationality  passed  close  by  us  all  day  long.  Among  them  were  the  slow  Thames  barges,  with  their  great  red  sails.  Evenings,  after  dinner,  when  the  boys  were  in  their  hammocks  and  everything  was  quiet,  I  would  sit  on  the  admiral's  stern  walk  and  listen  to  my  aunt  telling  stories  of  the  ancient  world,  while  her  home  rocked  gently  beneath  us  on  the  dark  river.  F  all  the  property  that  Aunt  Geor-  gina  owned,  her  favorite  was  a  portrait,  by  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence,  of  my  great-great-great-grandmother.  Lawrence  is  saidto  have  done  his  best  work  at  a  time  when  he  was  having  simultaneous  affairs  with  a  mother  and  daughter,  his  calm,  controlled  style  be-  ing  directly  inspired  by  the  presence  in  his  studio,  whilehe  painted,  of  two  hysterical  women  having  a  row.  My  great-great-great-grandmother  is  pic-  tured  full  face,  seated  in  a  big  chair  and  knitting  without  looking  at  her  needles.  She  wears  a  lace  cap  and  a  soft  lace  fichu  over  her  black  velvet  dress,  and  there  are  jewels  in  her  ears  and  in  the  rings  on  her  hands.  She  looks  like  a  woman  of  severity  and  humor,  and  there  is  something  about  her  that  reminds  me  of  Aunt  Georgina,  although  Great-Great-  Great-Grandmother  was  a  long  way  from  eschewing  matrimony.  (She  pro-  duced  twelve  sons.)  I  can  see  that  it  would  havebeen  difficult  to  stand  up  to  her,  too,  if  she  had  made  up  her  mind  to  lend  one  anything.  The  portrait  measures  forty-eight  by  sixty  inches,  and  it  used  to  have  a  mas-  sive  gold  frame  that  added  another  cou-  ple  of  feetto  its  height  and  width.  For  many  years,  the  picture  hung  at  the  end  of  a  long  hall  in  the  house  of  the  eldest  of  my  uncles,  where  it  was  more  or  less  in  keeping  with  its  surroundings.  When  he  died,  the  house  was  sold,  and  as  the  Derbyshire  rectory  had  been  given  up  by  then,  nobody  in  the  family  had  a  suitable  place  for  Great-Great-Great- Grandmother.  The  Second  World  War  had  begun,  and  Aunt  Georgina,  unable  to  travel  about  the  Mediter-  ranean,  settled  in  a  little  hotel  in  Tun-  bridge  Wells,  where  she  occupied  a  tiny  bedroom  on  the  second  floor.  She  was  well  satisfied  with  this  room,  because  it  had  one  wall  just  large  enough  for  Great-Great-Great-Grandmother.  The  portrait  crowded  the  room  uncom-  fortably,  but  Aunt  Georgina  did  not  mind  that.  She  spent  the  war  reading" b"archeological  publications  and  knitting  scarves  for  the  Royal  Navy,  perfectly  happy  in  the  company  of  the  stern-eyed  old  lady  on  the  wall.  In  the  spring  of  1944,  I  travelled  down  from  [REDACTED]  to  tell  Aunt  Geor-  gina  that  I  was  engaged  to  be  married.  She  kissed  me  and,  with  rather  formal  politeness,  wished  me  happiness,  but  she  did  not  express  any  real  interest  in  my  news  until  I  said  that  my  fianc\xc3\xa9  was  a  geologist.  When  I  added  that  he  was  American,  she  gave  me  Great-Great-  Great-Grandmother's  portrait  as  a  wedding  present.  She  had  intended  that  the  picture  should  be  mine  one  day  any-  how,  she  said  (Great-Great-Great-  Grandmother  and  I  have  the  same  first  name),  \xc2\xaband  since,  with  a  rich  husband,  I  would  have  a  house  large  enough  to  display  the  portrait  to  advantage,  I  had  better  take  it  with  me  when  I  left  Eng-  land.  My  fianc\xc3\xa9  had  never  mentioned  money,  so  I  thought  it  unlikely  that  he  was  rich,  but  I  did  not  let  that  stop  me  from  accepting  Aunt  Georgina's  pres-  ent.  Moving  the  picture  to  the  States  took  some  time,  for  Lawrence's  paint-  ings  are  regarded  as  national  treasures,  and  as  such  cannot  go  overseas  with-  out  the  British  government's  permis-  sion.  Great-Great-Great-Grandmother  now  hangs  in  our  dining  room  in  Wash-  ington,  [REDACTED]  The  room  measures  nine  and  a  half  by  thirteen  feet,  and  she  crowds  us  in  exactly  the  same  uncom-  fortable  way  that  she  crowded  Aunt  Georgina  in  Tunbridge  Wells.  The  sensible  thing  for  me  to  do  would  be  to  lend  her  to  the  National  Gallery,  where  she  could  hang  with  the  other  Law-  rences  in  a  room  of  suitable  size.  But  F  seem  to  have  no  wish  to  do  the  sensible  thing.  When  Aunt  Georgina  was  alive,  I  thought  that,  apart  from  our  kinship  and  our  affection  for  each  other,  she  and  I  had  nothing  in  common.  Now  I  am  not  so  sure."