 b"ST.  BOTOLPH'S  was an old  river  town.  It  had  been  an  inland  port  in  the  great  days  of  the  [REDACTED]  sailing  fleets,  and  now,  in  the  early  thirties,  it  was  left  with  afactory  that  manufactured  table  silver,  and  a  few  other  small  industries.  The  natives  did  not  consider  that  it  had  diminished  much  in  size  or  importance,  but  the  long  roster  of  the  Civil  War  dead,  bolted  to  the  cannon  on  the  green,  was  a  reminder  of  how  populous  the  village  had  been  in  the  eighteen-sixties.  St.  Botolph's  would  never  muster  as  many  soldiers  again.  'The  green  was  shaded  by  a  few  great  elms  and  en-  closed  by  four  walls  of  stores.  The  Cartwright  block,  which  made  the  western  wall  ofthe  square,  had  along  the  front  of  its  second  story  a  row  of  lancet  windows-delicate  and  re-  proachful,  the  windows  ofa  church.  Behind  these  were  the  offices  of  the  Eastern  Star;  Dr.  Bulstrode,  the  den-  tist;  the  Telephone  Company;  and  the  insurance  agency.  'The  smells  of  these  offices-the  smell  of  dental  prepara-  tions,  floor  oil,  spittoons,  and  coal  gas-  mingled  in  the  downstairs  hallway  like  an  aroma  ofthe  past.  In  a  drilling  autumn  rain-in  a  world  of  much  change-  the  green  at  St.  Botolph's  conveyed  an  impression  \xc2\xabof  unusual  permanence.  On  Independence  Day,  in  the  morning,  when  the  parade  had  begun  to  form,  the  place  looked  prosperous  and  festive.  The  two  Wapshot  boys-Moses  and  Coverly-sat  on  a  lawn  on  Water  Street  watching  the  floats  arrive.  The  parade  mixed  spiritual  and  commercial  themes,  and  near  the  Spirit  of  Independence  was  an  old  delivery  wagon  with  a  sign  say-  ing,  &quot;Get  Your  Fresh  Fish  from  Mr.  Hiram.&quot;  The  wheels  of  the  wagon-the  wheels  of  every  vehicle  in  the  parade-were  decorated  with  red,  white,  and  blue  cr\xc3\xa9pe  paper,  and  there  was  bunting  everywhere.  The  front  of  the  Cartwright  block  was  fes-  tooned  with  bunting;  it  hung  in  folds  over  the  front  of  the  bank  and  floated  from  all  the  trucks  and  wagons.  The  Wapshot  boys  had  been  up  since  four;  they  were  sleepy,  and,  sitting  in  the  hot  sun,  they  seemed  to  have  out-  lived  the  holiday.  Moses  had  burned  his  hand  on  a  salute;  Coverly  had  lost  his  eyebrows  in  another  explosion.  They  lived  on  a  farm  two  miles  below  the  village  and  had  canoed  upriver  before  dawn,  when  the  night  air  made  the  water  of  the  river  feel  tepid  as  it  rose  around  the  canoe  paddle,  over  their  hands.  They  had  forced  a  window  of  Christ  Church,  as  they  always  did,  and  had  rung  the  bell,  waking  a  thousand  songbirds,  many  villagers,  and  every  dog  within  the  town  limits,  including  the  Chandlers  bloodhound,  miles  away  on  the  Slab  Road.  &quot;It's  only  the  Wap-  shots,&quot;  Moses  had  heard  a  voice  say  from  a  dark  window  of  the  parsonage.  &quot;Now  get  back  to  sleep.&quot;  Coverly  was  about  twelve,  thin,  and  adenoidal.  There  were  burdocks  on  his  pants,  and  his  nose  ran.  He  had  a  quick,  gentle,  sentimental  mind,  and  he  worried  about  the  health  of  Mr.  Hiram's  cart  horse  and  looked  sadly  at  the  inmates  of  the  Sailors'  Home-fifteen  or  twenty  very  old  men,  who  sat  on  benches  in  a  truck  and  looked  unconscionably  tired.  Moses  was  sixteen,  and  in  the  last  few  months-in  the  last  year,  perhaps-he  had  reached  his  physical  maturity.  His  bones  had  ached,  his  complexion  was  blotchy,  and  his  beard  had  begun  to  sprout.  In  changing  from  one  form  into  another,  he  had  emerged  with  the  won-  derful  gift  of  judicious  self-admiration.  Now,  at  ten  o'clock,  the  boys  sat  on  the  grass,  waiting  for  their  mother  to  take  her  place  on  the  Woman's  Club  float.  Mrs.  Wapshot  had  founded  the  Woman's  Club,  and  this  moment  was  commemorated  in  the  parade  each  year.  Coverly  could  not  remember  a  Fourth  of  July  when  his  mother  had  not  ap-  peared  in  her  role  as  founder.  The  float  was  simple.  An  Oriental  rug  was  spread  over  the  floor  of  a  truck  or  a  wagon.  The  six  or  seven  charter  members  sat  in  folding  chairs  facing  the  rear  of  the  truck.  Mrs.  Wapshot  stood  at  a  lectern,  wearing  a  hat,  sip-  ping  now  and  then  from  a  glass  of  water,  smiling  sadly  at  the  charter  members  or  at  some  old  friend  she  recognized  along  the  route.  Thus,  above  the  heads  of  the  crowd,  jarred  a  little  by  the  motion  of  thetruck,  exactly  like  those  religious  images  that  are  carried  through  the  streets  of  [REDACTED]'s  North  End  in  the  autumn  to  quiet  great  storms  at  sea,  Mrs.  Wapshot  appeared  each  year  to  her  friends  and  neighbors.  And  it  was  fitting  that  she  should  be  drawn  through  the  streets,  for  there  was  no  one  in  the  village  who  had  had  more  ofa  hand  in  its  enlightenment.  It  was  she  who  had  organized  a  committee  to  raise  money  for  a  new  parish  house  for  Christ  Church.  It  was  she  who  had  raised  a  fund  for  the  granite  horse  trough  at  the  corner  and  who,  when  the  horse  trough  became  obsolete,  had  had  it  planted  with  geraniums  and  petunias.  The  new  high  school  on  the  hill,  the  new  firehouse,  the  new  traffic  lights,  the  war  memo-  rial-yes,  yes,  even  the  clean  public  toilets  in  the  railroad  station  by  the  riv-  er-were  the  fruit  of  Mrs.  Wapshot's  genius.  She  must  have  been  gratified  as  she  travelled  through  the  square.  There  were  some  delays  that  morn-  ing.  They  seemed  to  center  around  the  Woman's  Club  float.  One  of  the  charter  members  came  up  the  street  to  ask  Moses  and  Coverly  if  they  knew  where  their  mother  was.  They  said  they  hadn't  been  home  since  dawn.  They  were  be-  ginning  to  worry  when  Mrs.  Wapshot  appeared  suddenly,  in  the  doorway  of  Moody's  drugstore,  and  took  her  place.  The  Grand  Marshal  blew  his  whistle,  the  drummer  with  his  head  in  a  bloody  bandage  played  a  measure,  and  the  fifes  began  to  squeal,  discharging  a  dozen  pigeons  from  the  roof  of  the  Cart-  wright  block.  A  little  wind  came  off  the  river,  bringing  into  the  square  the  dark,  raw  smell  of  mud.  The  parade  picked  up  its  scattered  bones  and  moved.  The  fire-department  volunteers  had  been  up  until  midnight,  washing  and  polishing  the  gear  of  the  Niagara  Hose  Company.  'They  seemed  proud  of  their  work  but  under  some  enjoinder  to  look  serious.  The  fire  truck  was  followed  by  old  Mr.  Starbuck,  who  satin  anopen  car  wearing  the  uniform  of  the  G.A.R.,  although  it  was  well  known  that  he  had  never  had  anything  to  do  with  the  Civil  War.  Next  came  the  Historical  Society  float,  where  a  direct-an  au-  thenticated-descendant  of  Priscilla  Alden  sweated  under  a  heavy  white  wig.  She  was  followed  by  a  truckful  of  lighthearted  girls  from  the  table-silver  company,  who  scattered  coupons  into  the  crowd.  'Then  came  Mrs.  Wapshot,  standing  at  her  lectern-a  woman  of  forty  whose  fine  features  and  clear  skin  could  be  counted  among  her  organiza-  tional  gifts.  The  women  of  her  gener-  ation  admired  her  for  her  chastity,  her  forbearance  toward  her  husband,  and  her  great  composure.  As  the  float  passed  the  lawn  where  her  sons  were  sitting,  she  turned  to  smile  at  them.  First  Coverly  and  then  Moses  saw  that  she  had  been  crying.  [REDACTED].  WarsHor-Captain  Alphe-  us-was  not  around.  He  was  at  the  helm  of  the  S.S.  Topaze,  taking  her  down  the  river  toward  the  bay.  He  took  the  old  launch  out  on  every  fine  morn-  ing  in  the  summer,  stopping  at  T  raver-  tine  to  meet  the  train  from  [REDACTED],  and  then  going  acrossthe  bay  to  Nangasakit,  where  there  was  a  whitebeach  and  an  amusement  park.  He  had  been  many  things  in  his  life.  He  had  been  a  partner  in  the  table-silver  company,  and  he  had  " b"had  legacies  from  relatives,  but  nothing  had  stuck  to  his  fingers,  and,  two  years  before,  Mr.  Stfirgis,  the  president  of  the  bank,  had  arranged  for  him  to  have  the  captaincy  of  the  Topaze  to  keep  him  out  of  mischief.  The  work  suited  him.  'The  Topaze  seemed  to  be  his  creation;  she  seemed  to  mirror  his  taste  for  romance  and  nonsense,  his  love  of  the  seaside  girls  and  thelong,  foolish,  brine-smelling  summer  days.  She  had  a  sixty-foot  waterline,  an  old  Harley  steam  engine  with  a  single  screw,  and  enough  room  in  her  cabin  and  on  her  decks  for  forty  passengers.  She  was  an  unseaworthy  hulk  that  moved--  Alpheus  said  so  himself-like  apiece  of  real  estate,  her  decks  packed  with  school  children,  whores,  Sisters  of  Mercy,and  other  tourists.  On  their  heads  and  shoulders  fell  a  light,  steady  rain  of  soot  from  her  funnel.  Her  wake  was  sown  with  hard-boiled-egg  shells  and  sand-  wich  papers,  and  her  bones  shook  so  wildly  at  each  change  of  speed  that  paint  flaked  off  her  hull.  But  the  voyage  seemed  to  Alpheus,  from  his  place  at  the  helm,  glorious  and  sad.  'The  old  timbers  of  the  Topaze  seemed  held  together  by  the  brilliance  and  the  transitoriness  of  summer.  She  smelled  of  summery  ref-  use-sneakers,  towels,  bathing  suits,  and  the  cheap,  fragrant  matchboard  of  old  bathhouses.  Down  the  bay  she  went,   with  a  thick  trail  of  smoke  spreading  astern,  over  water  that  was  sometimes  the  violet  color  of  an  eye,  to  where  the  land  wind  brought  aboard  the  music  of  the  merry-go-round  and  where  you  could  see  the  distant  shore  of  Nangasa-  kit-the  scrim  of  nonsensical  rides,  paper  lanterns,  fried  food,  and  music-  that  breasted  the  Atlantic  in  such  a  fragile  jumble  that  it  seemed  like  the  rim  of  flotsam,  the  starfish,  and  the  orange  skins  that  came  up  on  the  waves.  &quot;Tie  me  to  the  mast,  Perimedes!&quot;  Alpheus  used  to  shout  when  he  heard  the  merry-go-round.  He  was  then  nearly  sixty-vain,  handsome,  and  with  a  bold  eye.  He  did  not  mind  missing  his  wife's  appear-  ance  in  the  parade.  Far  from  it.  He  had  married  her  for  her  beauty,  but  on  the  day  they  returned  from  their  wed-  ding  tripin  the  White  Mountains  she  had  plunged  into  social-service  work,  and  he  discovered  that  a  woman  who  has  just  attended  a  stirring  lecture  on  hospital  conditions  or  written  a  scorch-  ing  letter  to  the  43616e616461York,  43616e616461Haven  &amp;  [REDACTED]  on  the  shocking  condition  of  its  waiting  room  is  left  by  these  ac-  tivities  in  a  frame  of  mind  that  makes  it  difficult  for  her  to  be  embraced.  After  his  wife  marched  in  a  suffragette  pa-  rade,  her  feet  were  so  tired  and  her  mind  was  so  stirred  by  visions  of  the  franchise  that  she  would  completely  forget  the  splendid  facts  of  human  love.  Early  in  their  marriage,  it  struck  Alpheus  that  for  a  woman  there  must  be  some  in-  compatibility  between  the  possession  of  ideas  and  the  concept  of  love.  It  would  have  been  unlike  him  to  deny  or  limit  his  wife's  intellectual  freedom,  and  he  hoped  to  live  in  a  world  in  which  there  were  both  conjugal  bliss  and  a  free  exchange  of  ideas,  but  when  he  interrupted  her  discussion  of  the  importance  of  social  work  with  a  tender  remark,  the  look  of  dismay  on  her  face-as  if  passion  threat-  ened  civic  betterment-convinced  him  that  her  world  was  split  in  two.  Alpheus  had  never  been  very  far  from  St.  Botolph's.  43616e616461York  and  [REDACTED]  lay  well  below  his  horizon,  and  seemed  smoky  and  wicked.  He  liked  his  baked  beans  on  Saturday  night;  he  liked  to  fly  kites,  dance  a  hornpipe,  and  stand  under  a  tree  in  a  thunder-  storm.  He  loved  boarding-house  wid-  ows,  seaside  girls,  and  other  doxies,  and  once  he  had  accepted  his  wife's  chastity,  he  had  consoled  himself  freely.  The  morals  of  St.  Botolph's  were  as  accommodating  as  the  course  of  the  West  River,  and  while  Mrs.  Wapshot  was  celebrated  for  her  forbearance,  peo-  ple  merely  said,  when  they  saw  Alpheus  crossing  the  bridge  in  the  evening,  &quot;Why,  there's  Mr.  Wapshot  going  to  " b"visit  Mrs.  Wilson  again.&quot;  The  status  of  his  marriage  did  not  seem  in  any  way  remarkable  or  unhappy  to  the  old  dog.  HEN  the  parade  had  gone  through  the  square  once,  the  Wapshot  boys  got  up  from  the  grass  and  went  back  toward  the  river.  The  pa-  rade  would  pass  through  the  square  a  second  time,  out  of  consideration  for  people  who  had  driven  some  distance  to  see  it  and  who  might  havebeen  disap-  pointed  in  its  length.  The  boys  had  left  their  canoe  on  the  riverbank  near  the  lumberyard.  Coverly  took  the  bow  pad-  dle  and  Moses  the  stern.  Their  mother's  tears  had  troubled  them,  but  worse  than  this  was  the  fact  that  they  would  never  be  given  the  liberty  to  ask  what  the  tears  had  been  about.  The  tide  was  coming  in  from  the  sea,  and  they  had  to  paddle  steadily  against  the  force  of  salt  water.  1  'There  weresome  hard  words  about  keeping  the  bow  straight.  Though  the  farm  was  two  miles  from  the  village  by  land,  it  was  five  by  water,  and  it  took  them  nearly  an  hour.  When  they  beached  the  canoe  at  the  foot  of  the  garden,  they  could  hear  the  last  strains  of  parade  music.  They  climbed  up  the  hill  toward  the  barn.  Moses  went  into  the  kitchen,  where  Norah,  a  pretty  Irish  girl,  gave  him  a  gallon  can  of  ice-cream  custard.  He  felt  flaring  up  in  him  a  conviction  of  the  excellence  of  life  when  he  saw  the  roundness  of  her  arms  and  how  her  breasts  stretched  the  cloth  of  her  dress.  Coverly  had  gone  to  the  icehouse,  in  the  meantime,  and  dug  a  cake  of  ice  out  of  the  sawdust.  It  seemed  wrong  to  him  that  Moses,  who  boasted  about  his  strength,  should  always  choose  the  light-  est  tasks.  When  he  got  the  ice  around  to  the  front  of  the  barn,  he  told  Moses  to  crush  it.  Again  they  quarrelled.  Moses  finally  put  the  ice  into  a  burlap  bag  and  whaled  it  against  agranite  fence  post.  'The  bag  tore  before  all  the  ice  was  crushed,  but  there  was  enough,  and  they  packed  the  freezer  and  took  turns  at  the  crank.  They  complained  bitterly  about  having  to  make  ice  cream,  but  it  was  a  ruminative  occupation,  and  there-  fore  not  really  disagreeable,  and  when  they  looked  up  from  the  rusty  machin-  ery  of  the  old  White  Mountain  Freezer,  they  had  a  fine  view  of  the  river  and  the  valley.  A  neighbor  drove  Mrs.  Wapshot  home  from  the  parade.  Walking  up  the  path  between  two  flower  beds  in  front  of  the  house,  she  stopped  to  pick  a  sprig  of  rue,  break  it  in  her  fingers,  and  smell  it.  Mrs.  Wapshot  had  a  taste  for  ad-  versity  and  its  signs.  Her  ability  to  re-  form  sloth  and  civic  in-  difference  was  written  eloquently  in  the  spacious  parish  house,  the  horse  trough,  and  the  well-  lighted  classrooms  at  the  high  school,  but  in  spite  of  her  civic  zeal,  she  had  a  taste  for  sadness-for  the  smell  of  orange  rinds  and  wood  smoke-that  was  extraordinary.  We  know  how  readily  the  imagery  of  decay-all  those  fading  roses;  those  autumn  twilights  and  weeping  willows  and  strains  of  distant  music;  the  sputtering  candle  end,  the  grave,  the  mat-  tock,  and  the  worm-is  arrived  at  by  anyone  who     " b"is  looking  for  it,  and  we  know  that  there  are  people  who,  when  the  time  comes  to  part  with  all  this  clutter,  who,  when  they  are  given  the  means  to  distinguish  between  forthright  human  sorrow  and  the  smell  of  rue,  will  be  found  to  be  too  busy  to  give  this  their  attention.  Mrs.  Wapshot's  taste  for  dimness  was  incurable.  The  heart  of  the  Wapshot  house  had  been  built  before  the  War  of  Independ-  ence,  but  many  additions  had  been  made  since  then,  giving  the  house  the  height  and  breadth  of  that  recurrent  dream  in  which  you  open  a  closet  door  and  find  that  in  your  absence  a  corridor  and  a  staircase  have  bloomed  there.  The  staircase  rises  and  turns  into  a  hall  in  which  thereare  many  doors  among  the  bookshelves,  any  one  of  which  will  lead  you  from  one  commodious  room  to  an-  other,  so  that  you  can  wander,  un-  interruptedly  and  searching  for  nothing,  through  a  place  that,  even  while  you  dream,  seems  not  to  bea  house  at  all  but  a  random  construction  put  forward  to  answer  some  need  of  the  sleeping  mind,.  'The  house  was  old  enough  and  large  enough  and  had  seen  enough  dark  acts  to  support  a  ghost,  but  the  only  room  that  was  haunted  was  theold  wa-  ter  closetat  the  back  of  the  upstairs  hall.  Here  a  primitive  engine,  made  of  vitre-  ous  china  and  mahogany,  stood  by  itself.  Now  and  then-sometimes  as  often  as  once  a  day-this  contraption  would  per-  form  its  functions  independently.  There  would  be  a  clatter  of  machinery  and  the  piercing  whinny  of  old  valves.  Then  the  roar  of  waters  arriving  and  the  suck  of  waters  departing  could  be  heard  in  every  room  of  the  house.  So  much  for  ghosts.  All  the  doors  and  windows  stood  open  that  Fourth  of  July  morning,  and the  house  was  full  of  summer  lights  and  sounds.  The  house  smelled  of  grass,  of  trees,  of  roses  and  other  flowers,of  the  damp  cellarway  and  the  apples  that  had  been  stored  there.  Even  the  books  in  the  library  linked  the  dark  interior  to  the  valley.  Shake  the  copy  of  &quot;Pen-  dennis&quot;  and  violets,  ferns,  and  Solo-  mon's-seal  would  drop  out  of  the  open-  ing  chapters  and  autumn  leaves  would  fall  out  of  the  last.  &quot;Dombey  and  Son&quot;  had  been  left  out  in  a  thundershower,  and  the  first  volume  of  &quot;Vanity  Fair&quot;  had  been  lost  in  the  river.  Mrs.  Wapshot's  lack  of  interest  in  sensuality  was  not  noticeable  around  the  house.  A  large  cast  of  the  deep-naveled  Venus  de  Milo  stood  in  her  parlor,  fac-  ing  a  picture  of  Andromeda's  deliver-  ance,  in  which  all  the  subsidiary  char-  acters  seemed  to  be  undressing  one  another.  A  water-color  copy  of  Poussin's  &quot;Bacchus&quot;  hung  in  the  back  hallway,  and  in  all  the  rooms  most  of  the  furni-  ture  stood  on  bowed  legs  and  animal  feet.  Even  the  coffee  urn  in  the  dining  room  had  claws,  and  it  straddled  the  sideboard  like  a  naked  man.  When  Mrs.  Wapshot  entered  the  house,  she  went  straight  through  to  the  kitchen  and  spoke  unkindly  to  Norah.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  you  remembered  to  make  biscuits?&quot;  Norah  said  that  she  had  not  forgotten.  'Then  Mrs.  Wapshot  went  upstairs  to  her  room.  She  had  real  trouble  on  her  mind.  Going  to  her  jewelry  box  that  morning,  she  had  discovered  that  it  was  empty.  She  knew  that  her  husband  had  stolen  her  valuables,  He  had  stolen  them,  she  felt  sure,  to  run  away  with  Mrs.  Wil-  son,  a  widow  who  lived  on  the  other  side  of  the  river  and  who  sometimes  took  in  washing.  This  staggering  combinationof  robbery,  humiliation,  and  lewdness  had  not  kept  Mrs.  Wapshot  from  appearing  on  the  Woman's  Club  float,  but  shedid  not  know  how  she  would  break  the  news  to  her  sons,  or  if  she  would  confide  in  her  relations,  who  were  coming  for  lunch,  She  had  a  conviction,  formed  early  in  life,  that  she  would  beforsaken.  She  had  mar-  ried  andhad  children  without  any  less-  ening  of  this  conviction.  She  had  known  it  would  happen;  she  had  only  not  known  when,  She  was  sorry  that  it  had  happened  on  a  national  holiday,  but  even  that  was  like  Alpheus.  The  thought  of  her  poor,  fatherless  sons  made  tears  come  to  her  eyes.  43616e616461S.  WarsHot  liked  to  have  alarge  table  on  thenational  holidays,  and  in  the  past,  on  the  Fourth  of  July  and  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas,  it  was  not  unusual  for  her  to  entertain  as  many  as  twenty  people,  and  shedid  not  understand  why  a  lonely  person  would  not  care  to  sit  down  at  her  table.  Deaths  among  her  relations  and  man's  innate  loveof  privacy  had  frustrated  her  wish  to  be  hospitable,  and  on  this  Independ-  ence  Day  she  was  expecting  only  [REDACTED]  Honora  and  Auntie  Hazel  and  Uncle  Win,  her  sister  and  brother-in-law.  There  was  no  trace  of  sadness  in  Mrs.  Wapshot's  face  when  Auntie  Hazel  and  Uncle  Win  came  up  the  driveway  in  their  old  Franklin.  She  seemed  happy.  Auntie  Hazel  and  Uncle  Win  were  thought  of,  and  sometimes  spoken  of,  as  poor  relations  by  the  W  apshots.  They  lived  in  a  house  that  had  been  bought  cheaply,  because  it  was  adjacent  to  a  Roman  Catholic  cemetery.  &quot;We  have  quiet  neighbors,&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  always  said,  gesturing  toward  the  headstones.  She  was  a  woman  who  was  allied  by  her  tastes  to  the  unhappy  poor-she  ate  roast  pork  on  Sunday,  made  her  own  clothes,  and  kept  a  ketchup  bottle  on  her  dinner  table.  Mrs.  Wapshot  liked  her  sister  to  visit,  because  her  frugal  presence  made  Mrs.  Wapshot  feel  like  a  pa-  troness.  How  pleasant  it  must  be  for  a  couple  who  lived  near  a  cemetery  to  visit  the  Wapshots!  How  comfortable  the  chairs  must  seem,  how  delicious  the  food  must  taste,  how  enlarged  their  vision  of  life  must  be  after  a  few  hours  in  this  expansive  at-  mosphere!  When  Mrs.  Wapshot  said  goodbye  to  " b"Auntie  Hazel  and  Uncle  Win,  she  always  felt  as  though  she  had  accom-  plished  some  good  work.  The  truth,  of  course,  was  very  different.  Auntie  Hazel  and  Uncle  Win  were  appalled  at  the  way  things  progressed  at  the  farm.  The  expensive  cuts  of  meat,  the  daily  use  ofthe  best  china,  glass,  and  sil-  ver,  the  quantities  of  firewood,  sugar,  and  butter  scandalized  them.  &quot;Oh,  I  worry  about  her!&quot;  Hazel  would  say  as  they  drove  back  to  the  house  next  to  the  cemetery  in  the  old  Franklin.  Com-  miseration  for  her  sister  made  her  very  happy.  &quot;Oh,  I  worry  about  her,  Win!&quot;  she  would  say,  with  a  sigh.  &quot;It  makes  me  unhappy  to  go  there  and  see  her  throwing  her  money  away.  It's  only  a  question  of  time  before  she  has  a  rude  awakening,  and  I  dread  the  day  when  she  comes  to  me  for  help.&quot;  When  she  opened  the  warped  door  of  her  own  house,  which  was  very  shabby  and  smelled  of  pork  fat,  she  always  said,  &quot;Isn't  it  good  to  be  home?&quot;  [REDACTED]  Honora,  the  only  other  rela-  tion  to  come  that  day,  was  a  middle-  aged  spinster.  She  had  no  objection  to  the  Fourth  of  July,  but  on  Christmas  Eve,  [REDACTED]  Honora  went  into  [REDACTED]  and  mingled  with  the  carol  singers  on  Beacon  Hill,  passing  out  antivivisection-  ist  literature.  This  expressed  her  disap-  proval  'of  Christmas.  She  hoped  to  live  to  see  the  day  when  Christmas,  as  we  know  it,  would  be  abolished  by  law.  She  felt  thatthe  Christmas  orgy  of  gift-giv-  ing  threatened  all  the  cardinal  virtues.  It  was  a  misrepresentation  of  life  for  the  young,  an  occasion  of  vulgarity  for  the  rich,  and  it  drove  the  poor  man  into  debt,  to  ruination,  and  sometimes  to  suicide.  Meddlesome  and  belligerent,  she  was  a  broad  target,  but  her  purposes  were  usually  charitable  and  kindly.  The  family  sat  down  to  lunch  at  half  past  twelve.  Feasting  and  human  misery  were  closely  associated  in  Mrs.  Wap-  shot's  mind,  and  when  it  would  have  been  sensible  to  eat  a  piece  of  bread  in  the  sunlight  and  look  into  her  troubles,  she  would  arrange  a  meal  of  such  tre-  mendous  proportions  that  it  would  tax  any  digestion.  There  was  salmon  and  peas  that  day,  and  such  an  array  of  sub-  sidiary  vegetables  and  breads  that  if  her  relations  had  been  more  perceptive,  they  would  have  seen  that  Mrs.  Wapshot  was  unhappy.  It  took  nearly  an  hour  and  a  half  to  get  through  the  lunch.  Conversation  was  halting,  and  it  didn't  help  matters  any  that  the  old  water  closet  began  a  performance  of  unusual  vigor  just  as  Norah  brought  in  the  baked  Indian  pudding  and  ice  cream.  When  the  meal  was  finished,  the  boys  asked  to  be  excused  and  started  for  the  river-  they  were  planning  to  go  toa  ball  game  in  the  village-but  Mrs.  Wapshot  called  them  back.  &quot;I  don't  want  you  to  go  in  to  the  village  againtoday,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why,  Mother?&quot;  Moses  asked.  &quot;Because,&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  said.  The  boys  sat  on  the  front  steps  de-  jectedly  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  Moses  thought  of  watching  the  ball  game  from  the  cupola  ofthe  barn.  They  went  up  through  the  empty  hayloft  and  climbed  the  ladder  to  the  little  wooden  tower  on  the  roof,  where  they  could  see  across  Robinson's  and  Hiller's  pastures  to  the  ball  field,  at  the  edge  of  town.  There  is  nothing  more  easily  compre-  hended  than  a  baseball  game  in  a  small  place.  The  smell  of  trampled-upon  grass,  the  broken  fence  in  the  outfield  through  which  the  sun  streams  during  the  ninth  inning,  the  intimate  knowl-  edge  of  the  personal  history  of  all  the  players,  the  godlike  poses  of  the  shoe-  maker  who  is  umpire,  the  endurance  of  the  pitcher,  and  the  agility  of  the  shortstop-all  this  seems  like  irrefutable  proof  of  the  fact  that  man's  destiny  is  ingenuous  and  that  he  possesses  tran-  scendent  gifts  of  courage  and  innocence.  HINGS  were  much  less  easily  comprehended  in  the  garden,  where  Mrs.  Wapshot  sat  with  Auntie  Hazel.  [REDACTED]  Honora  had  gone  off  toward  Robinson's  pasture,  after  what  she  thought  was  a  mockingbird,  and  Uncle  Win  was  searching  for  four-leaf  clovers.  The  two  sisters  generated  be-  tween  them  an  atmosphere  of  competi-  tiveness  that  was  totally  unlike  their  other  personal  relationships.  They  complemented  one  another  in  that  they  felt,  side  by  side,  a  powerful  sense  of  their  own  uniqueness,  their  own  destiny,  built  upon  the  view  they  took  of  each  other's  failure.  'They  satin  the  light  of  a  mutual  and  an  affectionate  commiser-  ation.  They  had  been  talking  about  the  past  when  Auntie  Hazel  played  her  hole  card.  &quot;We're  going  to  buy  a  new  house,&quot;  she  said  cheerfully.  &quot;It  isn't  that  our  old  house  is  uncomfortable- although  I  know  that  you  talk  behind  my  back  about  the  cemetery-but  now  that  we're  growing  old  and  have  the  wherewithal,  we  feel  that  we're  en-  titled  to  something  more  comfortable.  We've  sold  our  old  house  for  six  thou-  sand  dollars-you  know  it  only  cost  us  four-and  we've  bought  the  Barnsta-  bles&quot;  lovely  house,  on  Beech  Street,  for  only  a  little  more  than  we  received.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'm  so  glad  for  you!&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  said  with  perfect  sweetness.  A  second  later,  her  misfortunes  over-  came  her.  &quot;He's  stolen  all  my  jewel-  ry,&quot;she  said.  &quot;What  did  you  say,  Sarah?&quot;  &quot;Alpheus's  stolen  all  my  jewelry.  Of  course,  I  never  wear  jewelry,  but  I  thought  I'd  wear  a  brooch  for  the  parade  this  morning,  and  when  I  went  to  the  box,  it  was  empty.  Oh,  I  thought  my  heart  would  break!  Grandmother's  pearls  and  the  opals  and  the  gold  beads  and  all  those  other  lovely  things  all  gone!  They  were  all  over  a  hundred  years  old.&quot;  &quot;What's  this?&quot;  Uncle  Win  asked.  He  had  returned  empty-handed  from  his  search  for  four-leaf  clovers.  &quot;Alpheus's  stolen  all  my  jewelry,&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  repeated.  &quot;I  wasn't  go-  ing  to  tell  anyone,  but  it's  too  much  for  me  to  bear  alone!  He's  never  coming  back!  He's  run  away  with  Mrs.  Wil-  son.  He's  been  visiting  her  on  Thurs-  day  nights.  He  stole  my  jewelry  to  run  away  with  her.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Sarah!&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  said.  &quot;This  is  awful,&quot;  Uncle  Win  said.  &quot;I  didn't  think  he'd  steal.&quot;  Then  his  feel-  ings  were  lightened  by  some  skepticism.  &quot;Are  you  sure  he's  run  away  with  Mrs.  Wilson?&quot;  &quot;Sure?&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  asked.  &quot;Sure?  What  else  would  he  steal  my  jewelry  for?&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  thought  he'd  run  away  with  Mrs.  Wentworth  at  Christmas,&quot;  Uncle  Win  said  gently.  &quot;She  must  know  what  she's  talking  about,  Win,&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  said.  &quot;It  is  a  mockingbird!&quot;  [REDACTED]  Ho-  nora  called.  She  was  climbing  over  Robinson's  stone  wall.  She  went  on  into  the  pasture  after  the  bird.  &quot;Oh,  why  should  my  life  be  all  rack  and  ruin?&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  asked,  rais-  ing  her  handsome  face.  &quot;What  have  I  ever  done  to  deserve  this?  I've  always  helped  people  who  needed  help.  I've  never  spared  myself.  Now  I'm  tired,  I'm  tired,  I'm  tired.  I'm  weary  of  try-  ing  to  protectthe  boys.  I'm  weary  of  picking  up  his  dirty  clothes.  I'm  weary  of  trying  to  hidethetruth.&quot;  &quot;''There,  there,&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  said.  &quot;You  poor  dear!  If  worst  comes  to  " b"worst,  you  can  live  in  our  old  house  until  the  new  people  come  in.&quot;  You  ought  to  begin  to  make  some  plans,&quot;  Uncle  Win  said.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  you  would  want  to  go  on  living  here.  Moses  is  old  enough  to  go  to  work.  I  might  be  able  to  get  him  some-  thing  to  do.&quot;  &quot;Moses  loves  him,&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  sobbed.  &quot;I'm  afraid  that  Moses  may  try  to  follow  him.  Moses  tries  to  imitate  him.  And  yet  he  loved  his  hound-dog  more  than  he  loved  Moses.  When  Moses  was  a  baby,  that  hound-dog  bit  him,  and  Alpheus  took  the  dog  out  and  shot  him,  and  he  said  to  me  then,  he  said,  'Sarah,&quot;  he  said,  'I  know  that  it's  wrong,  but  I'd  almost  rather  have  shotthe  baby.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Oh  dear!&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  said.  &quot;And  poor  Coverly!  He's  only  a  baby,  and  I've  tried  so  hard  to  protect  him.  I  didn't  want  either  of  them  to  be  born.&quot;  &quot;Here  they  are,&quot;  Auntie  Ha-  zel  said.  The  boys  were  walking  slow-  ly  up  the  lawn  from  the  barn,  laughing  about  something  in  the  game.  &quot;Well,  in  a  way  I'm  glad  it's  set-  tled,&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  said,  in  a  different  mood.  &quot;I  knew  that  it  was  going  to   happen.  And  now  I'm  glad,  in  a  way,  that  it's  over.  I  hate  to  spoil  their  holi-  day,  but  I  must  tell  them  the  truth.&quot;  As  the  boys  approached  the  garden,  they  sensed  danger.  'The  group  there  seemed  to  have  detached  themselves  from  the  beauty  and  perfection  ofthat  summer  day.  'The  valley,  the  broad-  handed  show  of  light  and  color,  lay  around  them,  a  staggering  gift,  but  they  sat  there  grimly,  like  travellers  waiting  on  a  station  platform  for  a  train.  &quot;Help!  Help!  Help!&quot;  It  was  [REDACTED]  Honora.  Looking  around,  the  boys  saw  her  flying  across  the  next  pasture,  being  chased  by  Mr.  Robinson's  brown  cow.  'They  started  for  the  stone  wall  at  a  run,  and  so  did  Uncle  Win.  On  came  Honora;  on  came  the  cow,  with  its  horns  low-  ered  menacingly.  &quot;Go  it,  Honora,  go  it!&quot;  Uncle  Win  shouted,  and  the  spin-  ster  lifted  up  her  skirts  and  ran.  She  and  Uncle  Win  reached  the  stone  wall  at  the  same  time,  and  Win  held  out  his  hands  and  lifted  her  over.  &quot;Oh,  mercy!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Mercy,  mercy,  mercy!  I  thought  I  was  a  goner.&quot; &quot;'That  was  quite  a  sprint,  Honora,&quot;  Uncle  Win  said.  For  a  second,  her  face  looked  as  fresh  and  gentle  as  it  must  have  when  she  was  a  girl.  'The  moment  was  affectionate,  jocular,  and  historic,  as  if  they  had  all  seen  a  page  of  the  family  history  being  turned.  &quot;Why,  there's  the  Topaze,&quot;  Win  said.  Up  the  river  she  swam,  smoking  like  a  factory.  Alpheus  was  at  the  helm,  and  as  soon  as  he  saw  his  family,  he  reached  for  the  whistle  cord  and  gave  them  a  blast.  He  Acd  stolen  the  jewelry,  and  spent  the  fifty  dollars  he  got  for  it  on  fireworks.  He  was  in  high  spirits,  for  he  knew  there  would  never  again  be  such  a  display  at  the  farm.  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  wonders  never  cease?&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  asked,  from  the  garden.  &quot;We  can  only  live  from  day  to  day,&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  said.  &quot;We  can  only  live  from  hour  to  hour.  That's  all  we  can  do.&quot;  They  watched  the  stern  of  the  To-  paze  go  up  under  the  elms.  The  air  smelled  of  roses,  and  as  it  got  later,  the  smell  of  grass  and  water  deep-  ened,  minute  by  minute.  In  the  dis-  tance,  firecrackers  exploded  up  and  down  the  valley.  Norah  hung  the  parrot  cage  on  a  hook  by  the  kitchen  door,  and  Uncle  the  old  bird  spoke  the  sentence  Alpheus  had  taught  him:  &quot;Julius  Caesar,  I'm  thoroughly  discouraged!&quot;  &quot;Sing  us  a  song,  Polly,&quot;  Auntie  Hazel  said,  but  instead  a  wild  bird  across  the  water  began  to  sing:  &quot;At  com-  pagmie,  et  compagmie,  et  compagnie  ...&quot;  &quot;I  often  think  of  the  people  of  Ar-  menia,&quot;  Mrs.  Wapshot  said.  &quot;I  mean,  their  sufferings  are  so  much  greater  than  ours.&quot;  Moses  threw  his  arm  around  Cover-  ly's  shoulder.  &quot;You  know,  we'll  go  all  over  the  place,&quot;  he  said,  sitting  on  the  grass.  The  mention  of  Armenia  and  a  charge  of  animal  spirits  account-  ed  for  the  remark,  but  he  meant  much  more  than  the  bare  facts  of  travel.  He  meant  a  reasonable  freedom  to  move  among  ideas  and  places  and  faces.  &quot;We'll  go  all  over  the  place,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  and  I.&quot;  He  was  so  right. "