 b"I  REMEMBER,  thirty  years  ago  when  I  was  twelve,  a  little  girl  in  dirty  pink  tights  trying  to  walk  a  tightrope  whilea  man  played  on  a  cornet.  Just  to  one  side  of  them  was  acaf\xc3\xa9-  restaurant  with  a  narrow,  faded  awn-  ing.  This  was  my  first  visit  to  [REDACTED].  My  parents  and  I  were  staying  at  a  small  hotel  near  the  Seine,  and  I  don't  know  why  we  had  gone  to  that  out-of-the-way  neighborhood.  It  was  lunchtime,  and  we  sat  at  one  of  the  cafe's  outside  tables  and  had  the  prix-fixe  meal.  Caravans,  booths,  and  tents  were  all  around  the  dusty  square,  for  it  was  the  time  of  the  yearly  fair  in  that  quarter  of  the  city.  The  tightrope  was  only  a  few  feet  off  the  ground,  which  was  well,  for  the  lit-  tle  girl  never  got  a  third  of  the  way  along  it  without  losing  her  balance  and  having  to  jump  down.  It  was  set  up  in  front  of  a  shabby  green  caravan,  A  woman  sat  on  the  caravan  steps  nursing  a  baby.  Some  hens  scratched  in  the  dirt  underneath.  An  older  girl  called  out  sharp  criticisms  to  the  one  trying  to  bal-  ance  on  the  rope,  and  we  couldn't  help  laughing  at  the  ridiculous  exhibition.  My  father  and  mother  drank  wine,  and  I  was  given  a  little  in  a  glass  with  soda  and  a  lump  of  sugar.  We  had  what  was  probably  an  indifferent  sort  of  meal,  such  as  was  served  in  those  days  at  a  very  low  price.  We  were  brought  a  salad.  On  the  table  was  a  tiny  carafe,  and  my  mother,  finding  the  salad  lack-  ing  in  vinegar,  poured  some  of  the  con-  tents  of  the  carafe  over  it.  'The  little  girl  and  the  man  stopped  practicing  and  sat  down  to  eat,  with  the  woman  and  the  old-  er  girl,  at  a  table  of  planks  rest-  ing  on  wooden  horses.  When  the  waiter  brought  our  bill,  my  mother  had  a  hard  time  check-  ing  it;  she  was  unused  to  Euro-  pean  handwriting  and  figures.  Finally,  she  said,  &quot;No,  no!  Pas  de  cognac.  Vin,  oui.  [REDACTED],  non!&quot;  The  waiter  seemed  unconvinced,  but  my  father  also  was  positive  that  neither  he  nor  my  mother  had  ordered  or  drunk  any  cognac.  He  paid  the  bill,  less  the  charge  for  cognac,  and  tipped  the  waiter,  who  thanked  him.  The  waiter  looked  more  puzzled  than  suspicious;  he  seemed  satisfied  that  my  parents  were  simple,  honest  people,  who  wouldn't  try  to  cheat  him.  &quot;What  could  he  have  meant?&quot;  my  mother  asked  when  he  had  gone.  But  we  were  again  diverted  by  the  little  girl,  who  had  finished  her  lunch  and  resumed  her  practicing,  this  time  with  a  parasol.  Sincethen,  the  memory  of  the  little  COC  girl  and  of  our  being  charged  for  cognac  has  come  back  occasionally,  and  I've  been  astonished  that  so  trifling  an  inci-  dent  should  survive  while  the  recollec-  tions  of  more  exciting  and  important  events  vanished.  A  short  time  ago,  I  returned  to  [REDACTED]  after  a  prolonged  absence.  A  friend  from  the  days  I  spent  there  as  a  student  took  me  to  some  of  our  old  caf\xc3\xa9s  in  the  Latin  Quarter,  where,  after  years  of  Mar-  tinis-most  of  them  with  too  little  ver-  mouth-drinking  the  Pernods  was  like  renewing  an  affair  with  a  much  loved  mistress,  We  talked,  and  poured  wa-  ter  from  iced  carafes  into  tumblers  of  greenish  liquid,  watching  it  change  to  milky  opalescence.  Though  we  sipped  slowly,  I  was  thirsty  and  had  six  or  seven  to  my  friend's  five.  The  sauer-  kraut,  sausages,  and  coffee  that  fol-  lowed  didn't  sober  us  up  the  way  my  friend  had  said  they  would,  and  when,  later,  I  undressed  in  my  hotel  room,  the  elation  had  not  worn  off.  I  stood  at  my  window,  overlooking  the  quay,  and  apostrophized  the  gleaming  river,  the  bridges,  and  the  historic  buildings,  then  lay  on  the  bed  and  dozed  offinto  a  de-  lightful  half  consciousness.  I  don't  know  anything  in  particular  that  had  happened  during  the  evening  to  bring  back  the  episode  of  the  little  girl  and  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  but  I  found  myself  vividly  reliving  it.  I  was  sitting  with  my  parents  in  the  hot  sunshine;  I  heard  the  notes  of  the  cornet  and  tasted  the  watered  claret  in  my  glass;  and  I  saw  the  little  girl's  futile  efforts  to  balance  on  the  rope.  And  when  the  waiter  brought  the  bill,  I  was  ready  for  him.  &quot;But  we  didn't  have  any  cognac,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  the  waiter  insist-  ed,  and  Madame,  at  the  cashier's  desk  inside  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  called  out,  &quot;Why,  they  are  nothing  but  foreign  thieves!&quot;  'There  on  the  table  was  the  little  carafe,  full  of  a  pale  liquid.  In  my  half  dream,  I  poured  some  into  a  large  spoon  and  tasted  it.  It  wasn't  vinegar.  It  was  cognac!  I  woke  in  the  morning  with  a  clear  head.  The  scene  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  was  as  vivid  and  convincing  to  me  as  it  had  been  the  night  before,  and  only  an  engagement  to  go  to  the  races  at  a  little  course  outside  the  city  prevented  me  from  starting  out  at  once  to  try  and  settle  my  family's  debt.  ARLY  that  evening,  I  walked  up  the  stairs  from  the  underground  station  at  one  corner  of  the  square  where  " b"I  had  gone  with  my  parents  thirty  years  before.  It  wasn't  so  dusty  now;  in  the  center  were  two  wide  alleyways,  lined  with  cutback  horse  chestnuts.  There  were  more  caf\xc3\xa9s  than  I  remembered--  La  Brasserie  Pernuchet,  Le  Caf\xc3\xa9  Flau-  bert,  Aux  Amis  de  la  Corr\xc3\xa9ze-and  for  a  moment  I  was  uncertain.  Then  I  saw  a  caf\xc3\xa9  across  the  square  that  I  thought  must  be  the  place  I  was  looking  for.  An  apartment  house  rose  where  the  tight-  rope  had  been  set  up.  The  caf\xc3\xa9  had  spread  and  had  absorbed  the  shopnext  door.  Shrubbery  in  green  boxes  enclosed  its  sidewalk  tables,  where  a  sprinkling  of  people  were  having  ap\xc3\xa9ritifs  under  a  wide,  scalloped  awning.  An  old  waiter  shuffled  about,  filling  glasses.  I  went  over  and  studiedthe  framed  menu  displayed  outside  the  entrance,  and  saw  that  prix-fixe  meals  were  not  served.  Insidethe  caf\xc3\xa9,  some  men  were  playing  cards,  and  a  girl  and  a  young  waiter  were  setting  the  tables  in  front  of  an  imitation-leather  ban-  quette  for  dinner.  I  went  in,  sat  at  an  unset  table  that  stood  by  itself,  and  or-  dered  a  Pernod.  I  wondered  if  the  good-looking  woman  at  the  cashier's  desk  was  the  proprietress  and  if  she  could  be  related  to  the  owners  of  my  parents'  time.  My  day  at  the  races  had  tired  me,  and  I  felt  some  letdown  from  the  exhilara-  tion  of  the  night  before.  I  ordered  an-  other  drink,  hoping  to  get  it  back.  The  evening  was  growing  dark,  and,  outside,  the  lights  were  coming  on.  The  young  waiter  and  the  girl  finished  setting  the  tables,  and  brought  out  their  own  din-  ners,  which  they  ate  at  atable  by  the  kitchen  door.  The  ap\xc3\xa9ritif  drinkers  had  left,  and  the  old  waiter  came  in  and  talked  to  the  woman  at  the  cashier's  desk.  Some  time  later-I  don't  know  how  long  a  time-I  came  to  with  a  jerk.  The  lights  had  been  switched  on.  &quot;Monsieur  has  slept  well?&quot;  the  woman  at  the  desk  asked  me,  smiling.  &quot;I'm  afraid  we  for-  got  you  were  there.  It  is  our  moment  of  quiet.&quot;  I  said  I'd  had  a  tiring  day,  and  asked  if  I  could  have  dinner.  The  old  waiter  pulled  out  a  table  at  the  banquette  for  me.  People  began  to  come  in,  and  soon  all  the  tables  were  taken.  I  discussed  the  menu  with  the  waiter,  let  him  choose  my  dinner,  and  ordered  a  bottle  of  wine.  I  hoped  he  was  our  waiter  of  long  ago,  but  I  felt  reluctant  toask.  I  had  dinner,  and  cognac  with  my  coffee,  and  sat  on  after  most  ofthe  din-  ers  had  left.  The  woman  had  the  girl  take  her  place  at  the  desk,  sat  down  two  " b"tables  beyond  me,  and  ordered  her  own  dinner.  My  waiter  came  to  see  if  I  want-  ed  anything  else.  I  ordered  another  co-  gnac,  and  tipped  him.  He  thanked  me  and  said  he  hoped  I  would  come  again.  I  said  I  would,  and  told  him  about  having  been  there  with  my  par-  ents  thirty  years  before.  I  said  I  wanted  to  find  someone  who  had  known  the  place  in  those  days.  He  told  me  that  he  had  worked  there  for  only  twenty  years,  but  he  added  that  Mme.  Fournier  might  remember,  or  perhaps  even  her  daughter,  Mme.  Ray-  monde-he  indicated  the  woman  at  the  table-who  would  have  been  seven  or  eight  at  the  time.  I  said  that  I  hoped  so,  and  he  ex-  plained  to  Mme.  Raymonde  what  I  was  after  and  asked  if  she  would  help  me.  &quot;But  of  course,  if  I  can  be  of  service,&quot;  she  said,  and  invited  me  to  sit  with  her.  TOOK  my  drink  to  Mme.  Ray-  monde's  table  and  said  that  I  trusted  she  wouldn't  think  I  was  making  too  much  of  a  very  small  incident.  Her  warm  smile  and  her  sympathetic  interest  made  me  forget  how  poorly  I  speak  French.  It  seemed  to  me  that  I  had  never  spoken  so  easily  or  achieved  such  well-turned  phrases.  I  told  her  about  my  parents  and  myself,  about  the  little  tightrope  walker,  and,  finally,  about  the  cognac,  and  the  mistake  that  I  had  at  last  come  to  rectify.  When  I  explained  how  my  mother  had  poured  cognac  on  the  salad,  she  clapped  her  hands  and  burst  into  laughter.  &quot;It's  unbelievable!&quot;  she  cried.  She  summoned  the  old  waiter.  &quot;Jules,  ask  Mme.  Fournier  if  she  will  be  good  enough  to  come  down  for  a  minute.&quot;  &quot;What  amuses  you  so?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Wait  till  my  mother  comes,&quot;  Mme.  Raymonde  said.  &quot;You  can  go,  Ger-  maine!&quot;  she  called  to  the  waitress.  Jules  went  to  call  Mme.  Fournier,  and  when  he  came  back,  Mme.  Ray-  monde  asked  him  to  bring  a  bottle  of  champagne  and  three  glasses.  He  re-  turned  from  this  errand  just  as  an  old  lady  in  black  came  into  the  room.  I  stood  up  and  was  introduced  to  Mme.  Fournier.  &quot;What  are  you  celebrating?&quot;  she  asked  her  daughter.  Mme.  Raymonde  worked  the  cork  out  ofthe  champagne  bottle  and  filled  our  glasses.  &quot;A{aman,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;tell  us  about  the  Americans  who  came  when  I  was  little  and  who  wouldn't  pay  for  the  cognac.&quot;  Madame  laughed,  and  said  the  story  could  hardly  beof  interest  to  me.  I " b"begged  her  to  tell  it,  and  she  shrugged  and  nodded  affably.  She  said  that  when  she  and  her  husband  first  had  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  their  customers  were  mostly  workmen,  concierges,  and  charwomen.  [REDACTED]  was  left  on  the  tables,  and  the  customers  helped  themselves  and  paid  for  the  amount  they  had  taken.  This  was  a  country  custom  the  Fourniers  had  brought  with  them  when  they  came  to  the  city,  and  it  had  proved  quite  profit-  able.  Their  district  was  not  one  toattract  strangers,  she  said,  so  they  had  noticed  especially  the  American  couple  with  the  little  boy  who  came  one  year  on  the  day  the  fair  was  to  open.  &quot;'They  were  very  nice,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  when  they  got  their  bill,  on  which  the  cognac  that  was  gone  from  the  carafe  was  marked,  they  said  they  hadn't  had  any.  They  were  so  positive  that  we  didn't  insist.&quot;  Mme.  Raymonde  poured  more  champagne.  She  was  laughing  excited-  ly.  Her  mother  looked  at  her  reprov-  ingly  and  said,  &quot;You're  acting  like  a  crazy  person.&quot;  More  people  came  in.  &quot;Please  hurry,  Maman,  before  we  get  too  busy,&quot;  Mme.  Raymonde  said.  Well,  her  mother  went  on,  it  had  been  a  trivial  thing,  but  it  had  puzzled  her,  and  later  in  the  day,  when  she  was  preparing  a  salad  in  the  kitchen  and  pouring  vinegar  out  of  a  carafe,  it  had  struck  her  with  great  force  that  the  Americans  must  have  mistaken  the  cognac  for  vinegar.  She  had  told  her  husband.  The  idea  had  amused  him,  and  the  family  had  laughed  about  the  epi-  sode  many  times  since.It  had  become  a  sort  of  standing  joke  with  them.  &quot;Do  you  remember  a  little  girl  who  tried  to  walk  atightrope?&quot;  I  asked.  Mme.  Fournier  frowned  in  concen-  tration.  &quot;Ah,  yes!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'There  was  a  little  wretch  with  a  good-for-  nothing  family  camped  next  to  us.  But  how  can  you  know  anything  about  it,  Monsieur?&quot;  Mme.  Raymonde  jumped  up.  Jules  was  at  the  desk,  waiting  for  change.  &quot;And  now,  Maman,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;this  is  the  little  boy  whose  parents  poured  cognac  on  their  salad.  He  has  come  back  to  settle  with  you  for  it.&quot; "