 b"IN  the  nineteen-twenties,  the  slow  morning  train  from  Edinburgh  to  Dundee  used  to  stop(asI  suppose  it  still  does)  at  many  of  the  towns  along  the  coast  of  Fife.  That  is  why  this  train  was  the  favorite  means  oftransportof  those  Edinburgh  Jews  who  made  a  pre-  carious  livingas  itinerant  salesmen,  ped-  dling  anything  from  sewing  needles  to  ready-made  dresses.  They  were  the  &quot;travellers,&quot;  or,  in  their  own  Scots-  Yiddish  idiom,  the  &quot;trebblers.&quot;  As  young  men  they  had  come  from  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED]  seeking  opportunity  but  had  somehow  failed  to  get  on.  A  few  of  the  more  enterprising  Jewish  immigrants  had  managed  to  build  up  thriving  busi-  nesses  in  Edinburgh,  while  others  like  them  had  pushed  westward  to  Glasgow,  and  often  on  from  there  to  [REDACTED].  The  trebblers,  though,  spent  their  days  carrying  battered  suitcases  from  door  to  door  in  the  little  gray  towns  of  Fife.  In  the  evening,  with  a  pound  or  so  gained,  they  would  return  to  Edinburgh.  There,  in  a  run-down  section  of  the  city,  made  up  of  old  stone  buildings  where  some  of  the  gentry  and  nobility  of  Scot-  land  had  lived  in  the  eighteenth  and  early  nineteenth  centuries,  within  a  stone's  throw  of  the  Royal  Mile,  with  its  violent  and  picturesque  historical  as-  sociations,  they  re-created  the  atmos-  phere  of  the  ghetto.  Edinburgh,  one  of  the  few  European  capitals  with  no  tra-  dition  of  anti-Semitism,  accepted  them  with  a  characteristic  cool  interest.  The  trebblers  worshipped  faithfully.  On  Fridays  in  winter,  when  the  sun  set  early,  they  would  be  home  by  the  middle  of  the  afternoon  to  welcome  the  Sabbath,  which  lasted  from  sundown  until  Satur-  day  evening.  On  the  Sabbath,  of  course,  as  well  as  on  all  Jewish  festival  days,  there  was  no  trebbling.  And  on  weekdays  in  the  Dundee  train,  the  treb-  blers  would  stand  and  chant  their  morn-  ing  prayers,  strapping  their  phylacteries,  or  prayer  boxes,  onto  arm  and  head.  'The  trebblers  always  boarded  the  train,  at  Waverley  Station,  early  enough  to  get  several  compartments  to  them-  selves.  Once  settled,  they  were  rarely  interrupted  by  Gentiles:  it  took  a  hardy  outsider  to  enter  a  compartment  where  bearded  figures  stood  swaying  and  chanting.  Old  Moishe  Pinkinsky,  an  enormous,  round-shouldered  man  with  a  red  beard,  who  gesticulated  fiercely  as  he  chanted,  inadvertently  scared  off  many  a  possible  interloper.  Once,  how-  ever,  when  the  train  was  very  crowded,  a  desperate  Gentile  did  venture  into  the compartment  occupied  by  Moishe  and  his  companions.  He  sat  in  silent  aston-  ishment  while  the  trebblers  said  their  prayers,  and  then  listened  in  bewilder-  ment  as  they  talked  to  each  other  in  Yiddish.  Moishe,  despite  his  appearance,  had  a  kind  heart,  and  he  felt  sorry  for  this  lost  soul.  He  took  down  a  brown-  paper  parcel  from  the  rack  and  ex-  tracted  from  it  a  huge  sandwich  of  black  bread  and  chopped  herring.  He  broke  this  in  two,  and  handed  half  of  it  to  the  uneasy  Gentile.  &quot;Nem  [Take],&quot;  he  said  gently.  The  man,  whose  name  was  [REDACTED],  was  an  insurance  agent  on  his  way  to  Burntisland,  and  he  later  told  the  story  to  his  friends  in  an  Edinburgh  bar.  &quot;I  ate  for  dear  life,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And,  you  know,  it  tasted  damn  good.  Some  kind  of  caviar.&quot;  The  trebblers  grafted  the  debased  Scots  of  the  Edinburgh  streets  onto  their  native  Yiddish  to  produce  one  of  the  most  remarkable,  and  also  one  of  the  shortest-lived,  dialects  ever  spoken.  I  should  guess  that  it  flourished  from  about  1912  to  1940.  The  trebblers'  children,  who  grew  up  in  the  twenties  and  thirties,  did  not  speak  it.  Making  use  of  the  city's  admirable  educational  facilities,  they  learned  to  speak  fluent  English,  and  they  became  doctors  and  scientists  and  professors,  changing  their  names  from  Rabbinowitz  to  Robbie,  from  Rosenberg  to  Montrose,  from  Turiansky  to  Tracey.  Today  in  Edin-  burgh,  you  will  find  only  an  occasional  old  man  who  speaks  the  dialect,  and  in  another  decade  it  will  be  gone  forever.  &quot;Aye,  man,  ich  hob&quot;  gettreb-  bled  mit  de  five  o'clock  train,&quot;  one  trebbler  would  say  to  another.  Or,  &quot;'Ye'll  hae  a  drap  0\xc2\xb0  bramfen  [whiskey]?  It's  Dzon  Beck.  Ye  ken-'Nem  a  schmeck  fun  Dzon  Beck  [You  know-'Take  a  peg  of  John  Begg.&quot;'|&quot;  I  now  live  in  [REDACTED],  but  I  grew  up  in  Edinburgh,  and  I  remember  that  when  I  was  approach-  ing  thirteen  and  was  soon  to  have  my  bar  mitzvah,  the  ceremony  that  would  establish  me  as  a  responsible  member  of  the  synagogue,  a  trebbler  said  to  me,  &quot;Vot  time's  yer  bar  mitzvie,  laddie?&quot;  There  was  one  word  in  the  Scots-  Yiddish  vocabulary  that  greatly  im-  pressed  me-&quot;bleggage.&quot;  My  father,  who  was  the  Edinburgh  rabbi,  used  to  maintain  that  it  was  a  corruption  of  &quot;blackguard;&quot;  perhaps  it  was  a  mixture  of  &quot;blackguard&quot;  and  &quot;baggage.&quot;  What-  ever  its  origin,  it  was  a  fine,  expressive  word,  and  it  was  never  more  aptly  used  " b"than  one  Sabbath  morning  in  1919  when  a  number  of  lively  youngsters  had  climbed  onto  the  skylight  of  the  Graham  Street  synagogue  and  were  making  a  noise.  The  chazen,  or  cantor,  stopped  his  singing,  banged  his  large  prayer  book  with  the  flat  of  his  hand,  and,  looking  up  at  the  skylight,  cried  out,  &quot;Shah!  Mak  a  quietness!  Bleggages!&quot;  WAS  six  years  old  in  1919,  the  year  my  parents,  and  my  brother  and  sister  and  I,  moved  to  Edinburgh  from  Sunderland,  where  I  was  born.  Our  family,  aside  from  my  father,  had  virtu-  ally  no  contact  with  what  might  be  called  the  trebbling  stratum  of  Edin-  burgh  Jews,  except  for  meeting  them  in  the  shul,  or  synagogue,  and  seeing  them  in  the  streets  of  the  city  or  at  Waverley  Station.  My  father  believed  that  Edin-  burgh's  Jewish  community  should  keep  its  religion  but  should  otherwise  be  as-  similated  into  Scottish  society,  and  this  view  left  little  room  for  the  trebblers.  In  our  family,  they  were  indulgently  re-  garded  as  interesting  examples  of  a  tran-  sitional  stage  in  the  emancipation  from  the  ghetto.  I  think  now  that  they  had  more  to  offer  than  our  family  attitude  conceded.  They  had  a  folk  wisdom  of  their  own,  and  tremendous  emotional  vitality  in  their  way  of  living.  I  remember  Motty  Rifkind,  a  shambling,  grizzled  man,  the  elder  and  more  uncouth  of  two  very  pious  brothers.  In  shul  one  Passover  morning  when  I  was  a  young  man,  he  sat  next  to  me  and  became  indignant  with  some  other  young  men,  infrequent  visitors  to  the  synagogue,  who  chat-  tered  loudly  throughout  the  chaezam's  repetition  of  the  Amidah,  one  of  the  main  prayers  in  the  service.  Since  old  Motty  himself  used  the  synagogue  as  if  it  were  his  club-sleeping,  snoring,  talk-  ing,  arguing,  or  praying,  as  the  spirit  moved  him-1I  was  a  little  surprised  at  his  indignation,  and  told  him  so.  In  re-  ply,  he  told  me  a  story.  &quot;'Two  men,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;vent  into  a  poob  and  ordered  a  glass  beer.  Dey  had-  na  been  in  de  poob  more  dan  vonce  or  tvice  before.  Vell,  dey  sip  deir  beer  and  dey  sit  talking  and  schmoosing  [chat-  ting].  Dey  sit  un'  talk  un'  talk.  At  lest,  de  barman  leans  over  de  counter  und  he  says  to  dem,  (Drink  op  yer  beer.  Get  oot  from  here.  Ye  coom  into  ma  poob  vonce  a  year  and  ye  tink  ye  can  sit  here  and  schmoos  for  hours  as  dough  ye  owned  de  place.  Ma  regular  customers  can  sit  and  talk  over  deir  beer  as  long  as  dey  like.  But  not  you.  Oot!'  Nu,  dat's  hoo  it  is  mit  a  shul.  I  come  here  every  veek  und  ha-Kodosh  borukh  hu  [the " b"Holy  One,  blessed  be  He]  kens  me  vell,  und  He  don't  mind  if  I  take  it  easy.  But  dose  bleggages  dat  come  vonce  or  tvice  a  year-no!  Dey  daven  [pray]  or  dey  shot  op.&quot;  ONE  noteworthy  manwho  spoke  Scots-  Yiddish,  although  he  was  not  a  trebbler,  was  the  shamosh,  or beadle,  of  the  synagogue,  a  trim,  ginger-  bearded  gentleman  whom  I  shall  call  Schloimowitz.  He  also  taught  the  ele-  mentary  classin  the  cheder,  or  school  for  the  study  of  Hebrew,  which  was  held  in  Sciennes  School,  a  handsome,  gray  stone  building  that  stood  at  the  top  of  our  street.  He  was  an  extraor-  dinarily  effective  teacher,  though  his  method  would  have  horrified  any  mod-  ern  educator.  He  would  simply  saythe  Hebrew  words,  and  the  class  would  chant  them  over  and  over  again,  in  a  sleepy,  monotonous  singsong,  until  they  knew  them.  I  remember  on  summer  evenings  hearing  the  chanting  float  out  of  the  open  windows  and  wondering  what  the  passersby  would  think.  (In-  tex,  cidentally,  my  father,  who  became,  in  effect,  the  spiritual  leader  of  Scottish  Jewry,  was  largely  responsible  for  having  the  cheder  conducted  in  this  school,  one  of  the  city's  finest.  He  con-  vinced  the  Edinburgh  Corporation  that  the  teaching  of  Hebrew  to  Jewish  chil-  dren  in  the  city  was  an  integral  part  of  the  city's  educational  program.  As  a  re-  sult,  the  Corporation  put  the  school  at  his  service,  free,  after  ordinary  school  hours,  and  the  cheder  was  able  to  move  from  its  previous  quarters,  a  wholly  in-  adequate  single  basement  room  of  the  synagogue.)  Schloimowitz  was  ex-  tremely  well  up  on  Jewish  customs  and  traditions,  and  he  knew  to  a  nicety  how  to  vary  the  tune  of  his  chanting  on  dif-  ferent  holy  days,  so  that  although  he  had  a  voice  that  croaked  like  a  raven's,  he  often  acted  as  chazan  sheini,  or  sec-  ond  cantor.  Schloimowitz  found  that  the  money  he  made  from  his  activities  as  shamosh,  teacher  of  Hebrew,  and  extra  cantor  wasn't  enough  to  live  on,  and  to  bolster  his  income  he  sold  things.  He  specialized  in  articles  required  for  Jewish  wor-  ship-not  only  prayer  books  and  pray-  ing  shawls  but  the  palm  branches  and  citrons  used  at  the  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  and  also  [REDACTED]  wine  and  brandy.  He  had  no  license  to  sell  wines  and  spirits,  but  none  of  his  customers  seemed  to  worry  about  that.  Even  my  father,  one  of  the  most  scrupulous  of  men,  didn't  hesitate  to  send  me  to  Schloimowitz's  house  for  a  bottle  of  wine,  which  was  always  given  to  me  wrapped  up  in " b"brown  paper  and  marked  &quot;Frying  Oil.&quot;  Schloimowitz  eventually  made  enough  money  to  buy  himself  a  handsome  house  in  a  residential  area  of  the  city.  There  he  formed  the  habit  of  dropping  inat  a  pub  in  Dalkeith  Road  for  a  small  whis-  key  or  two.  With  his  neat  beard  and  dignified  bearing,  he  was  taken  for  the  rabbi.  I  recall  how  upset  my  father  was  when  he  learned  this,  and  especially  the  detail  that  a  certain  brand  of  whiskey  had  become  known  in  the  pub  as  &quot;the  rabbi's  choice.&quot;  Though  Schloimowitz  was  some-  thing  of  a  tippler,  he  got  really  drunk  only  once  a  year.  This  was  on  Simchas  Torah,  the  Feast  of  the  Rejoicing  of  the  Law,  when  one  is  supposed  to  have  a  merry  time.  After  the  morning  service  on  that  day,a  modest  repast,  including  wine  for  the  young  people  and  the  ladies,  and  whiskey  for  the  men,  would  be  set  out  on  a  long  trestle  table  in  the  synagogue  hall.  My  mother  always  left  at  the  end  of  the  service,  and  my  father  would  leave  after  making  Aiddush  (say-  ing  a  blessing)  over  the  wine,  but  my  brother  and  I  would  stay  on  to  watch  Schloimowitz  tank  up.  Men  would  press  glasses  of  whiskey  on  him,  and  as  he  tossed  them  off,  his  face  would  get  red-  der  and  redder,  and  soon  he  would  ad-  dress  the  company  in  Yiddish,  making  what  was  evidently  a  very  funny  speech;  I  could  never  understand  more  than  a  few  words  of  it.  Then  someone  would  clear  a  path  between  the  glasses  along  the  table.  Schloimowitz  would  jump  up  onto  it,  and,  singinga  song  punctuated  with  frequent  &quot;O1&quot;s,  move  down  the  table  in  a  Cossack  dance-arms  folded,  knees  bent,  legs  thrust  out  alternately.  He  never  once  knocked  over  a  glass.  The  whiskey  seemed  to  give  him  a  curi-  ous  stability  and  control.  Up  the  long  table  he'd  go,  turn  and  dance  back,  singing  and  shouting,  while  the  spec-  tators  clapped  rhythmically.  He  would  then  jump  down,  and  the  party  would  be  over.  When  I  last  saw  Schloimowitz,  he  was  verging  on  eighty,  but  he  looked  as  trim  and  spry  as  ever.  My  father  had  died  some  years  earlier.  He  had  worked  too  hard,  Schloimowitz  told  me,  and  that  had  been  the  cause  of  his  death.  We  were  both  silent  for  a  moment,  and  then  he  laughed,  and  said,  &quot;I  never  vork  toohard.  Dat's  vy  I  keep  so  vell.  V  once,  dey  asked  me  to  take  an  extra  class  at  cheder.  But  I  vasna  having  any.  'Nae  bloody  fear,'  I  said.&quot;  SCOTS-YIDDISH  was  more  of  a  hybrid  than  the  broken  English  spokenby  the  Jewish  immigrants  who  had  pros- " b'pered  in  business.  One  of  these  was  Solomon  Sklovsky,  a  somewhat  deaf  old  man  with  a  beautiful  white  beard,  who  had  made  a  fortune  importing  and  selling  sugar.  Thrift  was  for  him  the  greatest  of  virtues,  and  whenever  a  Jewish  boy  in  Edinburgh  celebrated  his  bar  mitzvah  (there  were  about  four  hundred  Jewish  families  in  the  city  at  that  time),  he  would  open  an  account  for  him  at  a  savings  bank  with  a  deposit  ofa  pound.  He  was  not  at  all  uncharita-  ble,  but  he  had  to  be  persuaded  of  the  complete  worthiness  ofacause  before  he  would  give  a  penny  to  it,  and  many  a  weary  evening  my  father  spent  wres-  tling  with  him  before  he  could  extract  a  promise  of  a  substantial  contribution  to  some  Jewish  or  general  charity.  I  think  Sklovsky  enjoyed  having  to  be  persuaded;  it  gave  him  a  sense  of  his  own  importance.  He  knew,  too,  that  everybody  waited  to  see  how  much  Sol-  omon  Sklovsky  would  give  before  de-  ciding  on  his  own  contribution.  Old  Shlabber,  as  he  was  called,  was  a  widower  when  I  first  knew  him,  and  he  lived  in  a  world  by  himself.  At  the  synagogue,  he  would  sit  nodding  his  head  and  stroking  his  snowy  beard,  now  and  then  turning  to  his  neighbor  to  shout  some  observation  or  question;  his  deafness  made  him  think  that  everybody  else  had  to  be  shouted  at.  During  the  Reading  of  the  Law  one  Sabbath  morning,  he  startled  me  by  roaring  at  me  across  several  empty  seats,  &quot;De  Hebrew  lankvitch  is  de  FINEST  lankvitch  in  de  vorlt!&quot;  He  professed  to  scorn  the  younger  businessmen  who  were  coming  up  in  community  affairs,  and  on  one  occasion,  when  the  newly  clected  parnas  and  gabbai  (president  and  treasurer)  of  the  congregation,  both  of  whom  were  relatively  young,  took  their  seats  for  the  first  time  in  the  special  box  appointed  for  officers  of  the  synagogue,  he  was  heard  muttering  to  himself  as  he  eyed  them,  &quot;Fonny  tink,  very  fonny  tink.&quot;  Some  of  these  younger  businessmen,  who  had  been  born  and  bred  in  Edin-  burgh,  were  at  times  embarrassed  by  the' b"more  eccentric  older  men.  Once,  when  a  young  Jewish  rug  dealer  was  inter-  rupted  in  a  talk  with  a  titled  Scottish  customer  by  two  bearded,  Yiddish-  speaking  collectors  for  a  Jewish  charity,  he  got  rid  of  the  intruders  rapidly  and  then  lightly  remarked,  &quot;Those  are  two  of  the  Persians  from  whom  I  buy  my  rugs.&quot;  But  on  the  whole  there  was  little  friction  between  different  elements  in  the  Jewish  community  or  between  the  Jewish  community  and  its  non-Jewish  neighbors.  The  Univer-  sity  of  Edinburgh,  for  example,  never  objected  to  changing  the  dates  of  ex-  aminations  when  my  father  pointed  out  that  they  fell  on  Jewish  festival  days.  And  before  the  Second  WorldWar,  when  many  Jewish  students  in  [REDACTED]  were  finding  it  difficult  to  enter  med-  ical  schools,  my  father  arranged  with  the  University  of  Edinburgh  and  the  Royal  College  of  Surgeons  in  Edinburgh  to  admit  a  high  proportion  of  Ameri-  can  Jewish  students.  There  must  be  many  Jewish  doctors  in  [REDACTED]  now  who  owe  their  medical  degree  to  this  circumstance.  ECENTLY  I  went  from  [REDACTED]  to  Edinburgh  to  visit  friends  and  re-  lations,  and  while  I  was  there,  we  talked  of  the  old  days  in  the  Jewish  community.  Someone  mentioned  Scots-  Yiddish,  and  someone  else  brought  up  the  name  of  Yudel  Simenoff,  saying  that  he  is  now  one  of  the  last  of  those  who  speak  the  dialect.  I  remember  Simenoff  as  a  treb-  bler  and  man  of  vast  piety  who,  because  of  a  palatal  defect,  was  never  able  to  speak  Scots-  Yiddish  without  a  whole  battery  of  sputtering  noises.  When  I  knew  him,  there  were  hardly  a  dozen  people  in  Edinburgh,  outside  his  own  family,  who  could  understand  him.  Through  hearing  him  take  part,  as  he  unfailingly  did,  in  the  discussion  that  followed  the  Edinburgh  Jewish  Liter-  ary  Society's  weekly  lecture,  I  finally  learned  to  make  him  out,  and  found  to  my  surprise  that  he  was  a  well-read  and  intelligent  man,  who  knew  a  great  deal  about  Jewish  folklore  and  folk  song,  as  well  as  modern  economics.  In  later  life,  he  began  to  write  letters  to  the  Edinburgh  papers  on  economic  and  po-  litical  affairs,  and  his  opinions  aroused  respectful  interest.  This  was  some  twen-  ty  years  ago,  and  I  had  not  expected  to  hear  that  he  was  still  around.  I  was  also  told  that  he  had  been  discovered  by  the  folklorists  and  had  been  engaged  to  make  some  recordings  of  Jewish  folk  songs  and  liturgical  chants  for  the  Brit-  ish  Broadcasting  Corporation.  (When  he  sang,  his  speech  defect  disappeared.) " b'I  realized  then  that  somebody  should  have  recorded  the  speech  of  Moishe  Pinkinsky  and  Motty  Rifkind  in  the  golden  years  of  Scots-Yiddish.  But  no-  body  had  thought  of  it  then,  and  it  was  too  late  now.'