 b"ON  May  10,  1945,  the  confu-  sion  that  followed  the  end  of  the  European  phase  of  World  War  II  had  barely  begun.  At  the  time,  I  was  a  technical  sergeant  in  the  Psycho-  logical  Warfare  Division  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  Army,  stationed  near  [REDACTED]-  am-Main,  and  when  I  heard  on  the  radio  that  though  the  shooting  was  supposedly  over,  the  people  of  [REDACTED]  were  fighting  the  German  Occupation  troops  in  the  streets,  I  was  suddenly  impatient  to  go  there.  I  could  make  it  in  a  day  or  two  in  a  jeep.  I  had  spent  my  youth  in  [REDACTED],  and  had  last  visited  it  in  1938.  I  was  able  to  get  permission  to  go,  but  a  sergeant's  influence  is  not  al-  ways  sufficient  to  secure  what  the  Army  calls  &quot;logistical  support&quot;  for  such  Ja  trip.  However,  with  the  help  ofa  sympathetic  major  I  finally  got  hold  of  a  jeep,  several  cans  of  gasoline,  some  boxes  of  K  rations,  and  a  small  Ameri-  can  flag,  which  I  intended  to  fly  on  the  jeep  while  driving  through  the  streets  of  [REDACTED].  Just  as  I  was  about  to  leave,  the  major-a  vigorous,  kind-  hearted  Irish-American-decided  to  go  with  me.  He  had  never  been  &quot;in  on  any  liberation,&quot;  he  said,  though  he  had  barely  missed  the  one  in  [REDACTED]  the  summer  before.  I  was  glad  to  have  him  along;  we  would  have  to  cross  |  the  Russian  lines,  and  I  hoped  his  gold  leaves  would  facilitate  the  inevi-  table  negotiations.  He  was  a  round-faced,  cheerful  man  and  adventure,  and  I  liked  him.  So  on  the  morning  of  May  10th,  we  left  [REDACTED],  drove  through  Nuremberg,  and  took  the  highway  to  Pilsen  and  [REDACTED].  The  road  was  crowded.  There  were  people  on  bicycles  and  horses  and  in  haycarts  and  trucks.  Many  were  walk-  ing.  Some  had  a  dazed  expression,  as  though  they  couldn't  believe  the  war  was  over.  'They  all  moved  along  at  a  steady  pace,  but  when  you  asked  them  where  they  were  going,  most  of  them  couldn't  tell  you  exactly.  Some  were  trying  to  get  back  to  their  coun-  tries  and  homes  and  families;  most  were  running  away  from  something  or  somebody  they  were  afraid  of.  There  were  German  soldiers  going  west,  look-  ing  stunned  and  bedraggled,  and  Czechs  and  Poles  moving  east.  'There  were  soldiers  cut  off  from  their  units,  gaunt,  haggard  people  who  had  walked  out  of  concentration  camps,  children     looking  for  their  parents,  parents  look-  ing  for  their  children.  As  our  jeep  approached  the  frontier  between  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  which  runs  along  the  crest  of  the  Bo-  hemian  Forest,  the  highwaywas  even  more  jammed  than  it  had  been  earlier.  We  got  through  the  crowds,  however.  The  people  moved  aside  when  they  saw  our  jeep,  with  its  American  Army  markings;  some  smiled  and  waved  at  us,  and  some  stared  at  us  with  hate.  But  no  matter  whether  they  considered  us  liberators  or  conquerors,  they  took  it  for  granted  that  we  had  the  right  of  way.  In  order  to  ease  military  class  dis-  tinctions,  which  in  effect  did  not  exist  between  the  major  and  me  anyway  and  could  only  bea  complicating  factor  on  such  a  trip,  I  had  taken  off  my  stripes,  and  was  wearing  only  the  in-  signia  of  a  war  correspondent,  which  I'd  got  some  time  before  when  I  was  working  forthe  Stars  &amp;  Stripes.  This  confused  many  of  the  people  we  en-  countered,  and  I  hoped  it  would  strengthen  our  authority.  We  had  no  orders  or  other  papers  of  any  kind  and  were  not  sure  we  would  be  able  to  cross  the  border.  I  knew  the  region  well.  When  I  had  been  a  law  student  at  [REDACTED]  Univer-  sity,  twenty  years  before,  I  often  went  there  in  summer  with  my  friends.  The  Bohemian  Forest-called  Bohmerwald  in  German  and  Sumava  in  Czech-  which  extends  southward  from  the  border  of  [REDACTED]  and  Bohemia,  is  only  a  few  hours  by  fast  train  from  [REDACTED].  It  is  a  lovely,  hilly  region,  with  dense  woods  and  clear  trout  streams,  green  meadows  and  fertile  farms,  pretty  re-  sorts  and  picturesque  villages.  In  pre-  war  days,  most  of  the  people  were  artisans,  who  worked  in  their  homes-  wood  carvers,  makers  of  musical  instru-  ments,  and  glass  blowers.  Almost  every  village  had  its  own  home  industry  then.  In  Graslitz,  for  instance,  thousands  of  cheap  fiddles  bearing  the  name  of  Antonius  Stradi-  varius  were  made.  In  other  villages,  the  people  made  beautiful  etched  glass  or  painted  china.  Their  sense  of  symmetry  and  color  showed  in  their  buildings  as  well  as  in  their  crafts.  The  small  houses  had  red  roofs  with  pointed  gables,  and  gaily  colored  shutters.  In  the  middle  of  each  village  was  a  church,  with  a  tall  spire,  and  with  a  graveyard  behind  it,  and  across  the  square  from  the  church  was  the  inn,  or  a  couple  of  inns,  " b"with  stained-glass  windows  and  wood-  panelled  halls  On  Sunday  morning,  after  Mass,  the  men  sat  at  the  inn,  drinking  beer  and  playing  cards,  while  the  women  went  home  to  cook  Sunday  dinner.  We  students  went  swimming  in  the  streams  or  collected  mushrooms  and  strawberries  in  the  woods.  The  mush-  rooms  there  had  a  fine,  strong  flavor  of  earth  and  rain.  Housewives  cut  them  into  small  slices,  dried  them  in  the  sun  on  flat  stones  or  window  sills,  put  them  into  white  stockings,  and  hung  them  in  their  pantries,  where  they  retained  much  of  their  flavor  all  winter  long.  And  many  pantries  were  also  stocked  with  hams  and  sides  of  cured  pork,  with  fruit  preserves  and  sacks  of  potatoes.  Often  there  was  a  barrel  of  beer  in  the  cellar-  either  the  dark,  sweet,  heavy  Brau  from  [REDACTED]  or  the  light,  pale,  dry  lager  from  Pilsen.  Sthe  major  and  I  drove  toward  the  Czechoslovak  border,  it  was  hard  for  me  to  remember  that  those  days  of  plenty  had  actually  existed  and  that  these  were  the  very  places  I'd  once  known.  'The  countryside  and  the  peo-  ple  had  a  tired,  battered  look.  The  houses  were  unpainted,  the  inns  neglect-  ed,  the  church  walls  marked  with  bullet  holes.  There  were  bomb  craters  along  the  road.  The  traffic  and  the  confusion  continued  to  grow  worse  as  we  got  nearer  to  the  frontier.  People  coming  away  from  the  border  said  that  all  con-  trols  had  been  abolished.  &quot;No  pass-  ports,  no  visas,  no  customs!&quot;  they  would  exclaim,  shaking  their  heads  in  wonder.  This  had  been  one  of  the  most  difficult  frontiers  in  Europe  to  get  across,  and  the  border  officials  on  both  sides  had  been  feared.  Before  the  war,  people  had  spent  hours  standing  inline  to  have  their  baggage  examined.  And  now,  for  the  first  time  in  memory,  all  the  barriers  were  gone.  The  border  guards  on  both  sides  had  disappeared,  and  their  barracks  and  the  customs  offi-  cials'  houses  were  deserted,  their  doors  standing  open.  As  the  road  mounted,  the  air  became  sharper.  The  major  and  I  were  hun-  gry.  We'd  had  nothing  to  eat  since  breakfast,  at  dawn.  We  had  the  K  ra-  tions,  but  we  agreed  that  this  was  no  day  for  K  rations.  The  weather  was  lovely,  the  war  was  over,  it  was  spring,  and  I  was  going  back  to  my  native  land.  We  decided  to  celebrate  with  a  real  lunch,  preferably  served  on  a  white  ta-  blecloth.  In  those  days,  in  [REDACTED],  you  didn't  bother  to  hunt  up  a  restaurant  and  consult  the  menu  cards  posted  be-" b"side  its  entrance.  You  just  picked  any  place  that  looked  as  if  it  had  good  food,  andwent  in  and  requisitioned  a  meal.  If  you  felt  generous,  you  left  a  few  American  cigarettes.  The  people  you'd  taken  the  meal  from  would  thank  you  fervently,  happy  to  get  off  so  easily.  It  was  highhanded,  but  the  sense  of  vic-  tory  was  strong,  and  I  suppose  the  at-  titude  was  natural.  The  major  and  I  made  sure  we  were  still  in  German  territory,  and  then  be-  gan  to  look  for  a  good  place.  After  a  few  more  turns  in  the  road,  we  saw  a  large  4765726d616e79n  inn.  The  major  looked  at  me  and  I  looked  at  him.  'This  was  it-a  substantial,  three-story  building,  the  ground  floor  whitewashed  stone,  and  the  second  and  third  floors  of  wood.  'The  roof  was  pointed,  like  that  of  a  Swiss  chalet.  Above  the  door  was  an  inscription,  Griss  GoTT,  TRITT  EIN,  Brinc  GLUCK  HEREIN  which  means,  &quot;Praise  the  Lord,  Come  In,  Bring  Happiness.&quot;  IN  front  of  the  inn  was  a  flagstoned  terrace  offering  an  imposing  view  of  valleys  and  forests.  In  back  was  a  large  beer  garden,  with  tables  and  chairs  shaded  by  old  chestnut  trees.  I  had  never  seen  this  particular  inn  during  my  hik-  ing  days,  but  I  was  sure  it  must  have  been  popular  with  tourists.  It  was  still  well  kept  up.  There  was  even  a  festive  air  about  it.  The  windows  were  clean,  the  gravel  walks  were  freshly  raked,  and  from  the  roof  two  flags  were  flying,  both  of  blue,  yellow,  and  red  in  vertical  stripes.  The  major  and  I  didn't  know  what  country's  flag  this  was;  in  the  past  two  days  we  had  seen  a  great  many  flags  of  all  sorts.  'They  cropped  up  everywhere.  This  was  peace,  and  everybody  was  fly-  ing  any  flag  he  pleased,  and  we  were  all  for  it.  We  got  out  of  the  jeep  and  walked  toward  a  large  gateway,  next  to  the  front  door,  that  opened  on  a  cobble-  stoned  courtyard.  Through  an  open  window  came  the  sound  of  voices  and  a  delicious  aroma,  which  I  recognized  at  once  as  that  of  fresh  mushrooms  fry-  ing  in  butter.  The  major  stopped  as  we  reached  the  courtyard  and  inhaled  deep-  ly.  His  snub-nosed  Irish  face  was  trans-  figured.  &quot;Oh,  boy!  That's  for  us,&quot;  he  said.  We  crossed  the  cobblestones,  our  boots  making  a  martial  sound  and  the  holsters  of  our  guns-we  both  carried  Lugers,  which  were  more  fashionable  with  American  troops  than  American  weapons-flapping  against  our  hips.  We " b"thought  we  looked  suitably  tough  and  formidable-like  real  conquerors.  We  found  the  kitchen  door  of  the  inn  and  went  in,  not  bothering  to  take  off  our  helmets.  The  kitchen  was  large  and  bright.  It  had  a  tiled  floor  and  white  walls,  two  large  ranges  with  iron  pots  on  them,  copper  pans  hanging  from  the  ceiling,  and  several  tables  and  sinks.  About  a  dozen  women,  some  of  them  wearing  white  coats,  were  cutting  mushrooms,  peeling  potatoes,  frying  meat,  cleaning  brook  trout,  and  baking  cakes.  We  had  heard  a  great  dealof  animated  talking  while  we  were  out-  side,  but  when  we  appeared  in  the  kitchen  it  stopped  instantly.  The  only  sound  was  of  water  running  in  one  of  the  sinks.  It  was  important  to  make  a  strong  first  impression.  I  decided  to  insist  on  seeing  the  innkeeper.  &quot;Wo  ist  der  Wirt?&quot;  I  asked,  in  what  I  hoped  was  an  authoritative  manner.  &quot;Vortreten!&quot;  The  major  was  standing  next  to  me,  his  legs  apart,  his  right  hand  on  his  holster.  For  a  while,  no  one  moved.  Then  we  heard  rapid  steps,  and  a  woman  came  out  of  an  adjoining  room.  She  was  tall,  dark-haired,  and  obviously  a  woman  of  the  world.  She  wore  a  black  silk  dress  that  I  was  willing  to  bet  had  been  made  in  [REDACTED],  and  as  she  came  up  to  us,  a  cloud  of  perfume  that  held  memories  even  sweeter  than  the  scent  of  fried  mushrooms  came  with  her.  She  stopped  in  front  of  me.  &quot;Qu  est-  ce  que  vous  d\xc3\xa9sirez,  Monsieur?&quot;  she  asked.  Her  tone  was  icy,  and  so  was  her  stare,  directed  at  my  helmet.  I  was  so  surprised  at  being  addressed  in  perfect  French  by  a  lady  in  a  black  silk  dress  in  the  kitchen  of  a  4765726d616e79n  inn  on  the  German-Czechoslovak  bor-  der  that  I  forgot  to  bea  conqueror,  and  removed  my  helmet  automatically.  So  did  the  major,  whose  face  was  a  study  in  bewilderment.  I  explained,  in  French  and  quite  meekly,  that  we  would  like  to  talk  to  the  owner  of  the  inn.  &quot;The  innkeeper  and  his  wife  have  run  away,&quot;  the  lady  said.  &quot;Perhaps  they  had  reason.  What  isit  you  want,  Mon-  sieur?  We're  quite  busy  right  now,  as  you  must  see.&quot;  By  now,  I  had  overcome  at  least  a  part  of  my  surprise  and  embarrassment.  &quot;In  that  case,  who  is  in  charge?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;If  you  will  enter  the  inn  through  the  front  door,  Monsieur,  I'll  ask  the  Minister  whether  or  not  he  will  see  you,&quot;  the  lady  said.  &quot;The  kitchen  is" b"hardly  an  appropriate  place  for  any  conversation  he  may  have  with  you.&quot;  Sheturned  away  and-this  time  speaking  perfect  German-told  the  women  to  go  back  to  work.  They  did.  The  major  and  I  left  as  we  had  en-  tered,  by  way  of  the  courtyard.  &quot;Who  do  you  suppose  she  is,  any-  way?&quot;  I  said.  The  major  wasn't  curious,  apparent-  ly.,  He  was  hungry.  His  Adam's  apple  was  working  in  his  throat.  &quot;Fresh  brook  trout!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  did  you  see  that  cake?  What  are  we  out  here  for?&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Comeon.  Maybe  we'll  be  asked  to  lunch  with  the  Minister.  I  wonder  what  country  he's  from.&quot;  E  went  to  thefrontof  the  inn  once  more  and  found  a  number  of  people  crowded  around  our  jeep.  Some  were  obviously  local  Germans,  wearing  short  leather  pants,  white  shirts,  and  em-  broidered  braces,  or  else  breeches  and  checked  shirts,  and  they  looked  at  us  with  apprehension,  trying  to  read  in  our  faces  whether  or  not  our  mission  was  punitive.  But  there  were  other  people  there  who  looked  un-German  and  were  dressed  like  city  dwellers.  All  these  wore  small  blue,  yellow,  and  red  flags  in  their  lapels.  The  major  and  I  entered  the  inn  through  thefrontdoor.  To  our  left  was  a  small  room  that  smelled  of  stale  beer  and  was  empty  except  for  a  zinc  count-  er.  To  our  right  was  a  large  hall  with  a  platform  at  the  far  end,  on  which  there  were  music  racks  and  chairs.  In  the  center  ofthe  hall,  a  large,  U-shaped  table,  covered  with  a  white  cloth,  had  been  set  for  an  elaborate  meal  and  deco-  rated  with  blue,  yellow,  and  red  wild  flowers.  Near  one  of  the  hall's  big  windows  was  an  improvised  desk,  made  of  three  rough  wooden  tables  pushed  to-  gether.  Behind  it  sat  a  gray-haired  man,  and  behind  him  stood  a  large  flag-blue,  yellow,  and  red.  Theman  rose  and  came  toward  us,  and  we  saw  that  he  was  tall  and  erect,  and  that  he  wore  striped  trousers,  a  black  jacket,  and  a  gray  tie  with  a  pearl  in  it.  He  looked  precisely  like  a  senior  career  diplomat  except  that  he  wasn't  shaved.  He  was  holding  a  white  silk  handkerchief  against  his  right  cheek,  which  was  swollen.  Theman  bowed  and  extended  his  hand.  The  major  mumbled  something  indistinguishable  but  polite  in  tone,  and  shook  it,  and  so  did  I.  &quot;Gentlemen,&quot;  the  man  said  in  Eng-  lish,  with  a  second  bow.  &quot;I  consider  it  an  honor  to  welcome  the  representatives  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  Army.  Please  be  seat-" b"ed.&quot;  He  pointed  to  a  pair  of  wooden  chairs  beside  his  desk.  We  sat  down,  and  so  did  he.  &quot;You  must  forgive  my  unusual  ap-  pearance,&quot;  he  said,  indicating  the  hand-  kerchief.  &quot;As  if  I  didn't  have  troubles  enough  already,  I  am  now  afflicted  with  an  infected  wisdom  tooth.  I  sent  the  First  Secretary  to  the  village  for  a  den-  tist  but  there  is  none.  The  pain  was  so  great  this  morning  that  I  was  unable  to  shave.&quot;  He  permitted  himself  a  faint  sigh.  We  stared  at  him.  I  could  think  of  nothing  to  say,  and  the  major,  too,  ap-  peared  at  a  loss.  The  gentleman  stared  back  at  us.  The  silence  seemed  to  last  for  ages.  Outside,  someone  was  playing  with  the  horn  of  our  jeep.  &quot;You  ex-  pressed  the  wish  to  talk  to  the  proprietor  of  this  inn,&quot;  the  gentleman  said,  at  last.  &quot;Unfortunately,  we  don't  know  where  he  is.  When  the  legation  staff  arrived  here,  he  and  his  family  had  disap-  peared.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  [REDACTED];  said  the  major.  &quot;You  say  the  legation  staff  .  .  .&quot;  He  groped  a  moment  for  the  right  ap-  proach,  and  then,dispensing  with  any  attempt  at  diplomatic  finesse,  asked  bluntly,  &quot;What  government  do  you  represent,  sir?&quot;  The  gentleman  seemed  somewhat  put  out.  &quot;But  of  course  you  know,&quot;  he  said,  raising  his  eyebrows  and  pointing  at  the  flag  behind  his  chair,  &quot;that  this  is  the  Legation  of  the  Kingdom  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  nodded  vigorously.  The  major  hesitated  and  then  said,  &quot;Yes,  sir.  Why,  of  course!&quot;  &quot;The  526f6d616e6961n  Legation  that  was  formerly  in  Berlin?&quot;  I  asked  cautiously.  &quot;&quot;No,  no,  #0!&quot;  said  the  gentleman.  &quot;I  am  His  Majesty's  Minister  Plenipoten-  tiary  to  the  government  of  [REDACTED].  This&quot;-he  made  a  sweeping  gesture  to  include  the  whole  inn-&quot;happens  to  be,  temporarily,  the  526f6d616e6961n  Legation  in  Budapest.  In  a  manner  of  speaking,  of  course.  We  fled  west  from  Budapest  to  escape  the  Soviet  occupation.  It  is  a  somewhat  preposterous  situation,  but  this  location  has  its  advantages.  Sitting,  as  it  were,  on  the  fence  between  West  and  East,  I  feel  that  I  may  be  able  to  safeguard  my  country's  interests  quite  effectively.  It  has,  however,  been  a  great  strain  on  our  nerves.&quot;  &quot;I  imagine  so,  [REDACTED];  said  the  major.  The  Minister  sighed  and  leaned  back  in  his  chair.  &quot;Sometimes  I  wake  up  in  the  night  and  am  unable  to  remember  where  I  am,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  bore  you  with  a  report  of  our  absurd  experiences  during  this  last  while.  I'm  beginning  to  doubt  myself  that  they  ac-" b"tually  happened.  Suffice  to  say  that,  not  being  able  to  get  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  not  wanting  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  any  of  the  belligerents  while  the  war  lasted,  my  family  and  I,  and  my  staff  and  their  wives  and  children-forty-nine  people,  in  all-have  been  chased  back  and  forth  across  Central  Europe,  first  by  the  ad-  vancing  Russians,  then  by  the  retreating  Germans,  then  by  the  Czech  and  Slovak  partisans,  then  by  elements  of  General  Vlassov's  army,  and  finally&quot;  -he  coughed  delicately-&quot;by  the  United  [REDACTED]  Third  Army.&quot;  &quot;We're  sorry,  Mr.  Minister,&quot;  the  major.  &quot;No  reason  to  apologize,  [REDACTED];  the  Minister  said.  &quot;'Technically-only  tech-  nically,  you  understand-a  state  of  war  still  exists  between  your  government  and  mine,  no  formal  peace  having  ever  been  concluded.  My  nation  has  had  the  distinction  of  fighting  against  everybody  during  this  war.  We  were  on  the  side  of  the  Axis  powers  from  1940  to  1944,  and  we  fought  against  them  from  1944  until  a  few  months  ago,  when  an  armi-  stice  was  signed  between  the  Allies,  in-  cluding  my  government,  and  the  gov-  ernment  of  [REDACTED].  Had  I  been  able  to  get  back  to  Budapest-&quot;  He  didn't  finish  the  sentence  but  merely  lifted  both  hands  in  a  gesture  of  dismay.  &quot;Well,  Mr.  Minister,&quot;  the  major  said,  &quot;it's  all  over  now.  You'll  be  back  in  Budapest  with  your  staff  in  no  time.  To  tell  you  the  truth,  we  stopped  in  here  only  because  it  seemed  a  good  place  to  have  lunch.&quot;  The  major  was  fast  be-  coming  his  brisk,  cheerful  self.  &quot;I  beg  your  pardon?&quot;  said  the  Min-  ister.  Trying  to  be  helpful,  I  explained  that  we  were  on  our  way  to  the  Czech  border  and  had  supposed  the  inn  was  still  run  by  its  owner.  We  had,  I  said,  chanced  to  meet  a  lady  in  the  kitchen,  who  ...  &quot;Oh,  yes,  indeed,&quot;  the  Minister  said  distractedly.  He  pressed  the  handker-  chief  against  his  cheek  again.  &quot;My  wife  is  a  remarkable  hostess,  but  she  never  had  to  cope  with  problems  such  as  she  has  here.  Almost  the  whole  staff  is  out  in  the  countryside  trying  to  buy  food.  This  happens  to  be  a  526f6d616e6961n  nation-  al  holiday,  and  my  wife  and  I  decided  to  give  a  little  party  for  our  staff,  in  spite  of  the  unusual  circumstances.  How  glad  I  would  be  to  have  you  as  my  guests&quot;-the  major  leaned  forward,  evidently  to  accept  with  pleasure,  but  the  Minister  held  up  a  hand  to  stop  him,  and  continued-&quot;but,  of  course,  such  an  invitation  might  create  an  almost  insoluble  problem  of  protocol.  As  I  " b"have  mentioned,  there  still  is  a  state  of  war  between  our  two  countries.&quot;  He  got  up.  So  did  we,  The  major  looked  deeply  depressed.  &quot;I'm  confident,  though,  gentlemen,&quot;  the  Minister  con-  tinued,  &quot;that  relations  between  our  two  great  nations  will  soon  be  as  cordial  and  mutually  beneficial  as  they  were  prior  to  the  start  of  this  long  and  ter-  rible  war.&quot;  The  Minister  bowed,  and  so  did  we,  and  he  led  the  way  to  the  door.  &quot;Gen-  tlemen,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;this  was  indeed  an  honor.  As  soon  as  I  am  able  to  es-  tablish  contact  with  my  government,  I  shall.  report  your  visit  on  this  great  day  when  the  people  of  [REDACTED]  cele-  brate  the  anniversary  of  their  libera-  tion.&quot;  I  cast  a  last,  wistful  glance  at  the  table,  thinking  how  delicious  brook  trout  are  early  in  May,  cooked  just  a  few  minutes  in  a  court  bouillon  with  vinegar,  thyme,  and  laurel,  and  served  with  melted  butter.  &quot;Thank  you,  Mr.  Minister,&quot;  the  major  said,  and  shook  hands  with  him  again.  &quot;May  I  wish  you  a  happy  celebration  of  the  anniver-  saryof  [REDACTED]'s  liberation  from  the  Germans?&quot;  &quot;You  are  very  kind,  [REDACTED];  said  the  Minister.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  is  another  liberation  we  celebrate  today.  On  May  10,  1877,  during  the  Russo-  Turkish  War,  the  Principalities  of  Moldavia  and  Walachia  proclaimed  their  independence  from  [REDACTED].  On  that  day,  exactly  sixty-eight  years  ago,  our  great  nation  was  born.&quot;  MOMENT  later,  the  door  of  the  temporary  526f6d616e6961n  Lega-  tion  closed  behind  us.  We  made  our  way  to  the  jeep,  which  was  still  sur-  rounded  by  people.  The  major  seemed  dazed.  We  got  into  the  jeep,  and  I  drove  off  as  quickly  as  possible,  but  not  before  catching,  once  more,  the  odor  of  frying  mushrooms.  Itried  to  put  it  out  of  my  mind,  but  this  was  very  difficult.  'The  major  sat  be-  side  me  with  closed  eyes.  Neither  of  us  said  anything.  A  few  minutes  later,  we  crossed  the  border  into  [REDACTED].  We  were  not  asked  for  passports  or  any  other  papers.  I  pulled  up  the  jeep  under  the  first  old  chestnut  tree  I  saw,  and,  still  without  speaking,  we  got  out  our  K  rations  and  opened  them. "