 b"I\xe2\x80\x99M  not  very  handy  with  handymen, judging  by  a  recentexperience  I  had  with  one.  He  was  a  man  named  Ed  Cutlett,  a  native  Englishman  with  an  eroded  Cockney  accent,  whom  I  engaged  toward  the  end  of  last  sum-  mer  to  keep  my  grounds  groomed.  The  color  of  my  thumb  is  illustrated  by  an  incident  involving  a  hundred  assorted  bulbs  that  I  interred  the  previous  au-  tumn.  No  sign  has  been  seen  of  them  since,  and  I  have  been  wondering  if  there  is  such  a  thing  as  planting  bulbs  upside  down.  If  so,  mine  are  presumably  groping  their  way  toward  the  [REDACTED].  The  rest  of  my  vegetation  also  proved  trying,  though  for  opposite  reasons;  rank  grass  and  some  philander-  ing  annuals  had  the  front  yard  looking  so  shaggy  by  mid-August  that  neighbors  began  to  drop  hints  about  my  buying  it  a  violin.  By  that  time,  only  a  scythe  would  have  barbered  it,  and  mine  had  been  lent  to  some  friends  over  in  Nor-  walk  for  a  New  Year's  Eve  tableau  and  never  returned.  It  was  then  that  I  learned  about  this  Ed  Cutlett,  He  was  a  gardener  and  general  houseman  who  hired  out  by  the  day.  He  happened  to  have  Saturdays  open,  and  I  was  advised  to  snap  him  up.  I  did.  Having  done  so,  I  discovered  there  was  a  catch  to  it.  In  the  early  part  of  October,  after  Cutlett  had  been  working  for  me  about  six  weeks,  I  went  out  one  day  when  he  was  burning  leaves  to  say  that  I  shouldn't  be  needing  him  again  till  spring.  He  frowned  and  said,  &quot;Oh.  I  thought  you  understood-I  only  take  a  job  on  condition  it's  for  the  year  round.  Those  are  my  arrangements.&quot;  He  glanced  at  the  darkening  sky.  &quot;The  work  you  give  me  to  do  in  the  winter  can  be  outside  or  either  in,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;It  makes  no  difference  to  me.  But  I  have  to  have  the  work  all  year  round.  You  understand  that.&quot;  I  went  back  into  the  house  to  discuss  the  problem  with  my  wife.  She  felt  we  ought  to  hang  on  to  Cutlett,  because  part-time  gardeners  were  all  but  impossible  to  get.  So  I  went  out-  side  again  and  told  Cut-  lett  it  was  O.K.  He  nodded.  &quot;You'll  find  plenty  of  odd  jobs  for  me  to  do,  don't  worry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And,  as  I  say,  outside  or  ei-  ther  in.  It  makes  no  dif-  ference  to  me.&quot;  He  buttoned  the  collar  of  his  lumberjacket  and  glanced  toward  the  house.  &quot;'You've  got  a  nice  placehere,  and  I  know  you  want  to  keep  it  shipshape.  It  must  be  the  apple  of  your  eye.&quot;  UTLETT  was  no  prophet.  At  first,  it  was  easy  to  think  of  odd  jobs  for  him  to  do,  but  it  wasn't  long  before  &quot;bizarre&quot;  would  have  better  described  them.  One  Saturday  morning,  I  went  downstairs  to  the  children's  playroom  to  find  him  on  his  knees  behind  the  tele-  vision  set,  his  arms  thrust  inside  it.  Some  of  its  giblets  lay  on  the  floor  beside  him.  'Your  missis  says  it's  been  giving  you  trouble,&quot;  he  said.  I  stood  there  watching  for  several  minutes  while  he  sustained  the  pretense  of  knowing  what  he  was  doing.  He  held  his  tongue  between  his  teeth,  and  oc-  casionally  glanced  at  the  ceiling  with  a  thoughtful  expression  as  he  felt  some-  thing  inside  the  set.  He  wore  a  T  shirt  and  a  cap,  which  bore  the  names  of  rival  lacquers.  His  duck  trousers  were  so  densely  spattered  with  old  paint  asto  recall  the  school  known  as  Pointillism.  His  tinkering  didn't  compound  the  trouble  too  much,  and  that  afternoon  the  regular  television  repairman  took  only  an  hour  to  getthe  set  back  in  run-  ning  order.  Cutlett  was  seeing  him  to  the  door  when  I  returned  from  a  trip  to  the  local  library  with  a  load  of  books  under  my  arm.  &quot;I  see  you  like  to  read,&quot;  Cutlett  said  when  the  repairman  had  gone.  I  set  the  books  down  on  a  table  in  the  vestibule  and  rubbed  my  knuckles,  for  it  had  turned  cold.  &quot;Ever  read  Finley  Peter  Dunne?&quot;  I  said  no,  and,  nipping  in  the  bud  a  discussion  of  &quot;Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best,&quot;  a  volume  of  his  favorite  Dunne,  switched  the  conversation  to  how  he  was  to  finish  out  his  day.  He  looked  about.  &quot;I  could  paint  something,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Wash  the  windows,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Inside  and  out.&quot;  There  was  plenty  for  Cutlett  to  do  during  the  Christmas  season  (hold  his  finger  on  knots  while  my  wife  wrapped  packages,  stand  in  line  at  the  post  office  with  the  packages),  but  toward  the  end  of  January  we  began  to  run  dry.  I  drove  my  car  into  the  snow-packed  yard  one  morning  and  found  him  earnestly  searching  around  on  the  driveway  for  something.  &quot;What  are  you  looking  for?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Coal.&quot;  &quot;What  for?&quot;  &quot;Eyes  for  a  snowman.&quot;  He  jerked  his  head  toward  the  house.  &quot;Kids  got  one  around  behind  there  that  I  helped  them  build.&quot;  I  marched  into  the  kitchen,  where  my  wife  was  at  work,  and  declared  that  the  farce  had  gone  far  enough.  She  said,  &quot;Now,  wait  a  minute.  Cutlett  happens  to  be  wonderful  with  children,  and  that  means  a  lot  more  to  a  busy  woman  than  may  occur  to  you.  While  he  was  downstairs  varnishing  that  table,  I  made  a  dozen  trips  outside  to  settle  fights  and  one  thing  and  another.  Since  he's  been  out  there  supervising  them,  they've  been  fine.  That's  worth  a  lot  when  you  have  company  dinner  to  fix.  If  you  want  to  talk  about  it,  pull  up  a  chair  and  help  me  chop  these  almonds.&quot;  I  didn't  see  Cutlett  any  more  that  day  till  his  quitting  time.  When  he  stopped  in  to  say  good  night,  he  asked  me  wheth-  er  Id  got  around  to  reading  Finley  Peter  Dunne  yet.  (He  had  brought  me  his  copy  of  &quot;Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best&quot;  two  weeks  before.)  I  said  I  hadn't,  but  hoped  to  any  day.  Cutlett  left  noticeably  peeved.  &quot;You're  not  very  good  at  handling  people,&quot;  my  wife  said  when  he  had  gone.  My  reply-that  there  was  no  evidence  that  people  were  any  better  at  handling  me-was  lost  in  the  crescendo  of  dinner  preparations,  in  which  we  were  both  now  fully  caught  up.  HE  nadir  of  my  relations  with  Ed  Cutlett,  in  any  case,  was  ap-  proached  three  weeks  later.  I  had  been  laid  up  with  the  flu  for  two  days  and  was  still  in  bed,  in  a  downstairs  bedroom,  when  I  heard  Cutlett  arrive  that  Sat-  urday.  One  of  my  eyes  was  pink,  and  an  Ar-  gyle  sock  impregnated  with  Vick's  VapoRub  was  pinned  around  my  throat.  I  spent  the  morning  lyingthere  listening  to  the  sounds  Ed  Cutlett  made  down  in  the  cellar  as  he  or-  ganized  canned  goods  " b"into  categories.  He  ate  lunch  in  the  kitchen  with  the  children,  whom  he  kept  amused  with  stories.  After  lunch,  he  put  his  head  inat  my  door  to  say  hello.  &quot;They  got  you  in  drydock,  fel-  la?&quot;he  asked.  ''Yes,&quot;  I  whispered.  &quot;Mighty  boring.&quot;  I  rolled  my  eyes  to  the  ceiling  as  if  to  say,  &quot;'You're  telling  me.&quot;  He  asked  whether  they  were  getting  me  enough  to  read.  I  shrugged.  He  hesitated  a  moment.  &quot;Get  around  to  Finley  Peter  Dunne  yet?&quot;  I  shook  my  head-and  could  have  kicked  myself  as  I  did  so.  His  sharp  eye  lit  on  his  volume,  stuffed  among  some  books  on  a  lower  shelf  of  my  night  stand.  He  came  a  step  farther  into  the  room.  &quot;Tell  you  what.  I've  got  a  half  hour  while  your  missis  is  out  buy-  ing  some  wax  for  me  to  polish  the  kitch-  en  floor  with.  I'd  be  tickled  to  death  to  read  a  little  of  it  to  you.&quot;  I  gave  a  bleat  of  protest,  but  it  was  no  use.  Cutlett  came  over  and  dug  out  &quot;Mr.  Dooley  at  His  Best,&quot;  and  sat  down  on  a  chair  by  the  window  with  it.  &quot;Now,  this  Mr.  Dooley  is  a  saloon-  keeper  and  philosopher,  who  does  all  the  talking,&quot;  Cutlett  said,  spreading  the  book  open  on  his  knee.  &quot;He  talks  to  a  crony  named  Hennessy.  What  he  does  is  kid  the  pants  off  everything.&quot;  Cutlett  grinned  broadly,  and  said,  &quot;Let  me  just  read  you  this  one  called  'Ma-  chinery.'&quot;  He  cleared  his  throat  and  began,  &quot;Mr.  Dooley  was  reading  from  a  paper.  'We  live,'  he  says,  'in  an  age  iv  wondhers.  Niver  befure  in  th'  histhry  iv  th'  wurruld  .  ..J&quot;  Imagine  if  you  can,  or  care  to,  a  Cockney  inflection  bevelled  down  by  twenty  years  of  [REDACTED]  country  living,  rendering  monologue  material  written  in  Midwestern  Irish-American  brogue.  The  effect  was  further  blurred  by  the  chuckles  that  continually  inter-  rupted  it.  While  the  smile  on  Cutlett's  features  expanded,  however,  my  own  face  grew  glummer  by  the  minute.  When  he  finished,  he  looked  up.  &quot;How  do  you  like  it?&quot;  he  asked  me.  I  fidgeted  unhappily  under  the  quilts.  &quot;Well,  the  dialect  sort  of  thing  dates  faster  than  any  other,  don't  you  think?&quot;  I  said.  Cutlett  rose,  closing  the  book.  ''That  sounds  like  your  missis  in  the  driveway,&quot;  he  said  simply.  There  is  something  about  a  failure  to  respond  to  an  enthusiasm  for  an  author  that  drives  a  peculiar  wedge  between  two  people.  'The  experience  is  twice  as  bad  when  it  takes  the  form  of  a  read-  ing  that  falls  flat.  Cutlett  had  flopped  and  he  knew  it.  Things  would  never  be  the  same  between  us  again.  We  both  felt  that.  &quot;Well,  you  can't  argue  about  tastes,&quot;  he  said  quietly.  &quot;I'd  better  get  at  that  kitchen  floor  now.&quot;  When  he  left  the  bedroom,  he  took  the  book  withhim.  WAS  so  demoralized  by  the  fiasco  that  I  got  up  and  fixed  a  sillabub-  using  whiskey  instead  of  wine,  and  omitting  the  milk  and  eggs.  We  say  that  nothing  succeeds  like  success,  and  so,  I  suppose,  nothing  deteriorates  like  deterioration.  Cutlett's  and  my  rela-  tionship  ran  hopelessly  downhill;  the  constraint  between  us  deepened  weekly,  and  we  had  words  over  nothing.  One  afternoon,  when  I  flared  up  at  him  for  taking  the  kids  on  too  long  ahike  in  the  woods,  he  said,  &quot;This  is  no  good.  You'd  better  look  for  somebody  else.&quot;  I  didn't  try  to  change  his  mind.  I  gave  him  three  weeks'  pay  and  let  him  quit.  So  it  was  that  with  the  end  of  this  spring,  when  the  last  peepers  were  leav-  ing  off  and  the  first  leaves  were  peep-  ing  through,  I  had  no  gardener.  I  in-  serted  an  ad  in  the  local  paper  for  a  man  who  could  come  and  work  for  me  one  day  a  week.  &quot;Any  day,&quot;  I  added.  My  wife  predicted  that  Cutlett  would  be  a  hard  man  to  replace,  which  I  suspect  is  true  any  way  you  look  at  it.  I  havenever  received  a  single  reply  to  thead.  And  now  it  is  sum-  mer  again,  and  the  grass  is  getting  longer  and  longer,  and  the  front  yard  shaggier  and  shaggier,  and  the  neigh-  bors  are  busy  reviving  a  joke  no  better  than  any  of  Mr.  Dooley's. "