 b"I  WAS  peacefully  approaching  the  end  of  my  thirteenth  year  when  I  was  startled  out  of  all  placidity  by  an  unanswerable  question  that  still  re-  turns  sometimes  to  puzzle  my  mind.  I  was  at  a  convent  boarding  school  in  Kilcullen,  a  village  in  the  County  Kil-  dare.  There  were  sixty  or  more  girls  at  the  school,  and  we  used  to  be  taken  for  long  crocodile  walks  into  the  fiat  and  spiritless  countryside  that  surrounds  the  village.  There  were  several  shops  in  Kil-  cullen,  but  the  only  building  I  ever  en-  teredthere  was  the  church,  where  we  occasionally  went  to  confession.  Most  of  the  time,  we  went  to  confession  in  the  convent  chapel,  which  we  approached  on  tiptoe  through  the  darkened  main  hall  of  the  nuns'  quarters.  We  wore  navy-  blue  uniforms,  with  long  black  wool  stockings  and  black  slippers,  and  before  entering  the  chapel  for  confession,  or  for  morning  Mass  or  Sunday-afternoon  Benediction,  we  covered  our  heads  with  white  net  veils.  By  the  end  of  my  first  term,  my  veil  was  so  full  of  the  chapel's  dark  and  musky  fragrance-of  in-  cense  and  flowers  and  snuffed-out  can-  dles-that  I  was  afraid  to  wash  it,  for  fear  of  committing  sacrilege.  My  first  year  at  school  went  off  fair-  ly  smoothly.  I  was  not  an  outstanding  success,  but,neither  was  I  a  failure.  There  was  nothing  to  read,  because  the  tiny  school  library  was  kept  locked  up  be-  hind  the  doors  of  a  tall,  glass-fronted  bookcase,  and  I  detested  hockey  and  basketball  and  all  the  other  sports  we  were  expected  to  practice,  but  I  was  a  cheerful  enough  scholar.  It  was  at  the  be-  ginning  of  the  second  year  that  things  began  to  change,  but  the  change  was  so  gradual  that  I  was  never  able  to  decide  which  day,  or  even  which  week,  I  began  to  recog-  nize  it,  and  to  grow  ac-  customed  to  it,.  I  did  feel,  however,  that  it  all  started  one  fine  Septem-  ber  afternoon  in  singing  class.  It  was  the  only  class  for  which  the  entire  school  was  brought  to-  gether.  We  met  in  the  biggest  classroom,  which  had  a  piano.  We  used  to  stand  in  a  great,  sweep-  ing  semicircle,  with  the  choir  girls  on  the  right  and  the  rest  of  us  arranged  roughly  according  to  height.  I  was  in  the  middle  ofthe  curve,  and  felt  myself  to  be  directly  under  Sister  Veronica's  eye,  although  actually,  of  course,  I  was  no  more  conspicuous  than  any  of  the  others.  And  in  any  caseI  knew  from  experience  that  a  girl  who  tried  to  remain  hidden  was  often  the  first  one  to  attract  attention  to  herself.  That  afternoon,  with  all  the  other  girls,  I  was  rendering  &quot;The  Mountains  o'Mourne&quot;  at  thetop  of  my  voice  and  keeping  my  eyes  fastened  on  the  pale,  protruding  eyes  of  Sister  Veronica,  who  kept  time  for  us  with  one  of  her  long,  limp  hands.  Sister  Veronica  believed  that  a  girl  who  can  look  you  straight  in  the  eve  is  a  good  girl,  and  I  was  hoping  she  would  notice  my  honest  gaze.  The  door  opened,  and  Sister  Hilde-  garde,  the  Sister  Superior  in  charge  of  the  school,  walked  in,  portentous  and  unsmiling.  She  was  a  short,  wide  woman  with  a  large  white  face  on  which  moles  grew.  She  and  Sister  Veronica  together  ruled  us,  with  the  help  of  three  young  lay  teachers  and  two  or  three  lesser  nuns.  We  were  afraid  of  the  two  head  nuns.  We  were  afraid  of  them  separate-  ly,  but  our  fear  increasedthreefold  when  they  were  both  present,  because  they  seemed  to  set  each  other  off,  and  the  decisions  they  made  when  their  eyes  met  were  always  to  our  disadvantage,  and  there  was  no  appeal  from  them.  They  were  unpredictable  and  deadly  in  their  accusations  and  in  their  judg-  ments,  and  we  never  knew  where  we  were  with  them.  This  time,  however,  the  occasion  seemed  peaceful  enough,  and  we  continued  to  sing  with  all  our  hearts.  Sister  Hildegarde  took  up  her  position  behind  Sister  Veronica  and  a  little  to  the  side,  so  she  could  see  us  all.  When  the  song  was  finished,  we  started  in  on  &quot;Who  Is  Sylvia?,&quot;  which  we  had  learned  to  sing  in  parts.  Half-  way  through,  Sister  Veronica,  at  a  word  from  Sister  Hildegarde,  waved  abruptly  to  us  tostop.  Sister  Hildegarde  stepped  forward.  &quot;I  have  a  suspicion  that  all  of  the  girls  are  not  doing  their  best,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  know,  Sister,  that  there  are  certain  girls  here  who  are  only  too  glad  to  let  the  others  do  the  work  for  them.  If  it  were  not  for  your  work,  and  Maggie  Har-  rington's  voice,  I  don't  know  where  the  choir  would  be  this  year.&quot;  Maggie  Harrington  was  the  star  singer  of  the  school.  She  led  the  choir  in  singing  for  Benediction  every  Sun-  day,  and  she  was  also  head  girl.  She  was  eighteen  years  old,  with  wiry  brown  hair  that  she  wore  in  a  queue  down  her  solid  back,  and  a  broad  red  face  on  which  rimless  spec-  tacles  rode  and  flashed  in  triumph.  Sister  Veronica  smiled  at  Maggie,  and  at  the  other  members  of  the  choir,  who  were  grouped  around  her.  They  were  very  important  girls,  al-  though  some  of  them  were  only  twelve,  and  the  rest  of  us  looked  at  them  en-  viously,  because  they  were  in  everybody's  good  graces  and  always  knew  the  right  thing  to  do.  &quot;I  am  going  to  watch  very  closely  this  time,&quot;  Sister  Hildegarde  said.  &quot;I  think  I  know  which  girls  are  shirking.  I  think  you  know,  too,  don't  you,  Sis-  ter?&quot;  Sister  Veronica  agreed  that  she  was  pretty  sure  which  girls  were  holding  back  their  voices,  and  add-  ed  meaningfully  that  it  was  usually  the  girls  who  gave  the  most  trouble,  in  and  out  of  class,  who  did  the  least  work.  &quot;I've  never  seen  it  to  fail,  Sister,&quot;  she  " b"said,  staring  us  all  down.  &quot;Laziness  and  troublemaking  go  hand  in  hand.  A  busy  girl  is  a  good  girl.  The  Devil  can  always  find  work  for  idle  hands.&quot;  Sister  Hildegarde  nodded  agreement.  &quot;Give  them  a  note,  Sis-  ter,&quot;  she  said.  Sister  Veronica  gave  us  a  very  loud  note  on  the  piano,  not  taking  her  eyes  from  us.  &quot;  'The  Spinning  Wheel,&quot;  &quot;  she  said.  This  was  one  of  my  favorite  songs.  During  the  chorus,  we  were  supposed  to  whir  like  spinning  wheels,  and  I  was  whirring  with  every  ounce  of  breath  when,  to  my  astonishment  and  dismay,  I  saw  that  Sister  Hildegarde  was  beck-  oning  me  to  come  for-  ward.  My  conscience  was  clear.  I  knew  that  I  had  been  making  a  great  deal  of  noise,  and  the  thought  went  through  my  mind  that  perhaps  the  best  girls  were  now  going  to  be  brought  forward,  to  give  an  example  to  the  rest  of  the  school.  I  stood  in  the  spot  she  indicated,  facing  the  piano,  and  was  immediately  joined  by  three  other  girls  who  had  been  summoned  from  the  ranks.  We  stood  together,  not  singing,  until  the  song  was  finished.  &quot;Now  we  know  who  the  culprits  are,&quot;  Sister  Hildegarde  said.  &quot;I  suspected  it  all  along,  Sister,&quot;  Sister  Veronica  said.  &quot;In  fact,  I  think  I  could  have  given  you  the  names  of  these  four  girls  without  ever  coming  into  this  room.&quot;  &quot;Girls,  why?&quot;  asked  Sister  Hilde-  garde  intensely.  &quot;W  Ay  are  you  not  sing-  ing  along  with  the  rest  of  the  school?  Do  you  think  you're  too  good  to  sing  with  the  other  girls?  Do  you  think  it's  be-  neath  you  to  take  advantage  of  Sister  Veronica's  instruction?&quot;  We  knew  enough  not  to  attempt  to  answer;  in  a  case  like  this,  to  answer  meant  to  answer  back,  a  very  grave  offense.  Also,  we  kept  our  eyes  on  the  floor  boards;  a  direct  gaze  when  one  is  in  the  wrong  is  evidence  not  of  good-  ness  but  of  boldness.  \xc2\xab&quot;You  see,  Sister,&quot;  said  Sister  Hilde-  garde,  &quot;they  have  nothing  to  say.&quot;  &quot;'That  is  how  they  sounded  when  they  were  singing,  no  doubt,&quot;  said  Sister  Veronica.  Maggie  Harrington  gave  a  musical  laugh,  and  smothered  it  decorously.  &quot;Well  may  you  laugh,  Maggie,&quot;  Sis-  ter  Hildegarde  said.  &quot;Now  let's  hear  what  these  four  can  do  by  themselves.  Give  them  a  note,  Sister.&quot;  We  took  the  note  and  set  up  a  self-  conscious  but  passable  version  of  &quot;''The  Spinning  Wheel.&quot;  'They  sound  more  like  Singer  sew-  ing  machines  than  spinning  wheels,&quot;  Sister  Hildegarde  said  coldly  when  we  had  finished.  &quot;A  pity  you  can't  feel  inclined  to  sing  like  that  in  class,&quot;  said  Sister  Veronica.  She  turned  to  Sister  Hildegarde.  &quot;You  see  they  have  voices,  Sister.  It's  sheer  stubbornness  that  keeps  them  from  do-  ing  their  part.&quot;  &quot;Now  that  they  know  they're  being  watched,  perhaps  they'll  do  a  little  bet-  ter,&quot;  Sister  Hildegarde  saidin  a  dis-  couraging  voice.  A  WEEK  later,  singing  class  came  around  again,  and  this  time  the  four  ofus  got  into  trouble  over  &quot;The  Rose  of  Tralee.&quot;  We  grew  a  little  des-  perate,  trying  to  give  the  impression  that  we  were  singing  as  loudly  as  the  others,  butby  now  Sister  Veronica  was  con-  vinced  that  we  were  defying  her,  and  no  matter  how  red  we  got  in  the  face,  or  how  hard  we  breathed,  she  would  not  believe  that  we  were  not  cheating.  The  others  watched  us  with  amusement  and  some  scorn.  They  wondered  why  we  wouldn't  sing  or,  if  we  were  sing-  ing,  why  the  nuns  insisted  we  weren't.  That  is  what  puzzled  me.  I  could  hear  and  feel  I  was  singing,  and  I  thought  my  three  companions  in  guilt  could  hear  and  feel  they  were  singing,  too.  I  couldn't  ask  them,  because  we  had  been  forbidden  to  talk  to  each  other,  on  the  theory  that  we  were  less  harmful  to  the  general  tone  of  the  school  apart  #than  together,  and  we  were  too  coward-  ly  to  break  the  rule.  The  worst  of  it  was  that  once  we  had  been  proclaimed  black  sheep  in  singing  class,  our  disgrace  gradually  spread  out  and  discolored  all  of  our  school  life.  In  a  short  while,  everything  we  did  seemed  to  be  wrong.  I  learned  very  little  that  term,  because  I  spent  most  of  the  time  either  standing  in  banishment  outside  this  or  that  class-  room  door  or  marching  around  to  Sister  Hildegarde's  office  to  inform  her  of  some  new  sin.  The  three  other  black  sheep  were  just  as  badly  off.  Those  three  weren't  very  close  friends  of  mine.  As  " b"a  matter  of  fact,  Sister  Hildegarde's  mysterious  accusation  was  the  first  bond  we  had  in  common.  One  of  the  girls,  Sally  Lynch,  a  tiny  black-haired  girl  with  a  fringe  across  her  forehead,  was  only  twelve.  The  two  others,  Mary  Anne  Rorke  and  [REDACTED]  Delaney,  were  fifteen.  [REDACTED]  was  fat,  but  Mary  Anne  was  very  ordinary  in  appearance.  We  were  all  in  different  classes.  It  puz-  zled  me  then,  and  it  still  puzzles  me,  to  know  why  we  were  chosen  to  play  this  role.  It  was  an  unexciting,  quiet  school.  No  great  crises  arose,  and  no  great  crimes  were  committed.  It  seems  to  me  now  that,  far  from  making  trouble,  we  four  simply  attracted  what  little  trouble  there  was,  and  perhaps  it  all  looked  the  same  to  the  nuns.  After  having  been  judged  guilty,  of  course,  we  began  to  lookvery  guilty  in  our  efforts  to  rein-  state  ourselves,  and  that  didn't  help  us  at  all.  Also,  I  grew  quite  nervous,  part-  ly  from  importance.  FINALLY,  one  Saturday  night,  Sis-  ter  Hildegarde  walked  into  the  rec-  reation  hall  during  the  desultory  hour  that  preceded  bed,  and  raised  her  hand  for  silence.  &quot;Girls,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  know  that  a  few  among  you  have  given  us  a  great  dealof  anxiety  this  term.  The  four  to  whom  I  refer  have  caused  a  great  deal  of  discontent  and  bad  feeling  this  term.  We  call  them  the  Devil's  walking  sticks.  He  couldn't  get  along  without  them.  But  now  they  are  going  to  have  a  chance  to  redeem  themselves.  Tomorrow  aft,  ernoon,  they  are  going  to  have  a  chance  to  show  Our  Blessed  Lord  that  they  are  sorry  for  their  bad  behavior  and  want  to  make  amends.  Maggie  Harrington  and  the  rest  of  the  choir  will  not  sing  for  Benediction.  Instead,  these  four  girls  will  go  up  into  the  choir  loft  and  sing  the  hymns  alone.  They  have  had  as  much  practice  as  armyone  else  in  the  school.  If  they  don't  know  the  hymns  now,  they'll  never  know  them.&quot;  I  had  never  even  imagined  such  a  severe  trial.  All  the  girls  looked  at  us  with  sympathy.  No  one  smiled.  We  four  went  to  bed  and  had  nightmares,  and  woke  next  morning  to  face  the  worse  nightmare  that  was  waiting  for  us.  When  the  moment  finally  arrived,  near  four  o'clock,  we  ascended  the  stairs  to  the  choir  loft  as  though  we  were  mounting  the  scaffold.  We  could  hear  the  girls  shifting  about  down  in  the  well  of  the  chapel,  and  we  could  see  the  white-veiled  heads  of  the  smallest  girls,  who  knelt  in  the  front  rows.  Immediately  behind  the  students,  the  postu-  lants,  in  their  first  year  of  religious  life,  would  be  taking  their  places,  and  behind  them  the  novices,  and  at  the  back  the  black-veiled  nuns.  To  add  to  our  dis-  tress,  we  knew  that  five  or  six  pairs  of  parents  had  come  visiting  that  Sunday,  and  that  they  were  down  there,  too,  waiting  for  us  to  begin.  No  doubt  their  daughters  had  told  them  that  we  were  up  here  to  vindicate  ourselves.  The  priest,  Father  O'Connor,  came  in,  followed  by  the  altar  boy,  and  Sister  Angela,  a  very  young,  pretty  nun  who  taught  piano,  and  who  had  been  sitting  at  the  organ  with  her  head  bent  in  medi-  tation,  struck  up  the  first  hymn  of  the  service,  the  &quot;O  Salutaris  Hostia.&quot;  Star-  ing  at  her,  we  opened  our  mouths  to  sing,  but  we  could  only  caw.  Again  she  began,  and  again  we  cawed,  this  time  so  pitifully  that  even  we  were  not  sure  we  were  making  any  sound  at  all.  A  third  time,  smiling  wildly  to  encour-  age  us,  she  tried,  and  we  gave  up  al-  together,  and  made  no  sound,  and  stopped  looking  at  her,  and  looked  at  the  floor  instead.  She  raised  both  hands  from  the  organ  and  tried  to  conduct  us  back  into  the  hymn,  without  the  music,  when  suddenly,  from  below,  arose  the  heroic  voice  of  Maggie  Harrington,  and  she  was  joined  almost  at  onceby  all  the  voices  of  the  regular  choir.  They  sang  the  Benediction  right  through,  hymn  " b"after  hymn,  without  faltering,  and  Sister  Angela  accompanied  them  but  kept  her  eyes  charitably  averted  from  our  faces.  Later,  we  heard  that  they  had  begun  singing  where  they  knelt,  and  I  have  often  thought  of  how  they  must  have  looked,  kneeling  up  straight  with  their  hands  joined  and  their  white-  veiled  heads  raised  to  the  altar,  while  they  sang  and  saved  the  day,  We  four,  far  above  them,  had  no  courage  for  any-  thing.  We  didn't  even  have  the  courage  to  pray.  When  the  Benediction  was  over,  Sis-  ter  Angela  rose  and  went  swiftly  down  out  of  the  loft.  Almost  at  once,  the  ter-  rible  face  of  Sister  Veronica  appeared  at  the  head  of  the  stairs.  &quot;You  made  a  fine  show  of  yourselves,&quot;  she  said  calmly.  &quot;I  hope  you're  pleased  with  yourselves.  You  may  come  on  down  now.&quot;  We  trooped  down,  relieved  that  we  were  not  to  be  abandoned  forever  in  the  loft  but  very  unwilling  to  face  the  immediate  future.  Sister  Veronica  re-  mained  on  the  narrow  stairs,  and  we  had  to  press  past  her,  touching  her  heavy  black  robes.  At  the  door  of  the  chapel,  Father  O'Connor  was  congrat-  ulating  the  heroines.  He  was  still  in  his  vestments,  and  he  looked  o~~r  their   heads  at  us  with  a  glance  that  was  in-  comprehensible  to  me  then,  but  that  now  seems  to  me  to  have  bornea  glim-  mer  of  amusement.  NOTHING  happened  the  rest  of  that  Sunday.  We  went  in  totea  along  with  the  rest  of  the  school.  I  felt  mournfully  elevated-I  did  not  yet  know  why-and  I  ate  a  great  deal  of  bread  and  butter,  and  marked  the  glances  of  fearful  speculation  thrown  at  me  by  the  other  girls  at  my  table.  Anything  might  happen  to  me  now.  I  might  even  be  expelled.  Several  relatively  peaceful  days  went  by,  and  then  we  had  singing  class  again.  Sister  Veronica  and  Sister  Hildegarde  entered  the  room  together.  They  nod-  ded  to  the  four  of  us  to  come  to  the  front  of  the  room  and  stand  before  the  school.  When  we  had  been  isolated  in  this  manner,  Sister  Hildegarde,  whose  face  was  filled  with  severity  and  grief,  said,  &quot;We  all  heard  these  girls  tryto  sing  last  Sunday.  We  know  what  a  shameful  exhibition  they  made  of  themselves  and  of  the  school.  I  am  not  going  to  punish  them  and  I  am  not  going  to  scold  them.  Their  case  is  too  grave  for  that.  Not  only  did  they  let  vs  down  but  they  deliberately  let  Our  Blessed  Lord  down.  I  am  only  going  to  say  that  they  need  all  the  prayers  they  can  get.  Will  every  girl  who  is  willing  to  give  an  extra  minute  each  day  to  say  a  prayer  for  these  misguided  and  stubborn  girls  raise  her  hand?&quot;  We  four  continued  to  look  where  we  had  been  looking,  at  the  floor.  [REDACTED],  the  fat  girl,  began  to  sob.  I  was  relieved  to  know  where  we  stood.  We  had  been  given  our  chance,  and  the  Devil  in  us  had  defeated  us.  The  reason  for  our  guilt  was  still  hidden  from  us,  but  in  a  dim  but  comforting  way  we  were  now  convinced  of  its  existence.  We  had  not  seen  the  shape  of  the  Devil,  but  we  had  felt  his  power,  in  ourdry  throats  and  thumping  hearts.  The  thing  was  now  clear  to  us  that  had  always  been  clear  to  the  nuns,  because  we  realized  as  well  as  they  did  that  if  God  had  been  on  our  side,  surely  He  would  have  given  us  the  voice  to  sing  His  praises. "