 b"AS  I  look  backon  my  school  days  in  Worcester,  [REDACTED]-in  the  Providence  Street  grade  school  at  the  start  of  the  century,  and  later  in  the  Classical  High  School  -I  can  see  that  these  contemporary  in-  stitutions  were  rather  ineffectual  in  combatting  the  sombre  fascination  of  the  medievalism  of  my  home.  'There  we  were--my  parents,  my  two  older  brothers,  and  I-a  family  uprooted  from  a  veiled  and  ancient  and  unhappy  past,  and  plumped  down,  unaccountably,  in  the  tenement  district  of  an  industrial  city  in  New  England.  Our  very  birth  dates  belonged  to  the  past,  for  my  father  had  reckoned  them  by  the  Hebrew  calendar  and  recorded  them  on  the  inside  back  cover  of  one  of  the  volumes  of  his  be-  loved  Talmud.  Consequently,  we  boys  were  all  born  in  five  thousand  and  some-  thing.  The  American  myths  I  acquired  in  my  school  history  books-George  [REDACTED]  and  the  cherry  tree,  and  the  others-were  thin  and  anemic  com-  pared  to  the  Biblical  exploits  I  heard  about  at  home.  My  father  related  the  Old  Testament  stories  as  if  they  had  taken  place  recently-as  if  they  con-  stituted  his  personal  past.  His  own  youth  had  been  spent  in  hourly  terrorofperse-  cution  in  a  town  in  Russian  [REDACTED],  and  this  terror  had  merged  with  more  an-  cient  fears  and  had  flowed,  finally,  into  the  Biblical  sea  that  was  his  refuge.  How  he  had  managed  such  a  feat  as  to  make  the  long  journey  from  [REDACTED]  to  Worcester  was  a  matter  of  endless  speculation  for  me,and  I  constantly  tried  to  delve  into  it,  but  with  only  fragmentary  results.  'There  was  sim-  ply  no  relation  between  my  father's  world  and  the  contemporary  one.  'The  streets  of  Worcester,  my  life  with  my  playmates,  the  themes  I  studied  at  school  were  all  marginal  exercises.  'The  Great  Theme  was  at  home,  and  it  concerned  God  and  the  thick-textured  history  of  the  Jewish  people.  It  was  dark,  fear-  ridden,  and  oppressive,  but  it  had  the  warmth  and  tenderness  of  companion-  ship  in  a  common  danger.  For  all  its  fascination,  it  bred  in  me  an  acute  long-  ing  to  escape,  and  shake  off  those  extra  centuries  my  father  hadadded  to  my  life  the  moment  I  was  born.  This  escape  for  which  I  longed  so  passionately  was  provided  for  me-in  part,  at  least-by  the  lucky  accident  of  my  intimacy  with  a  friend  of  my  broth-  ers',  whom  I  shall  call  Willie  Lavin.  For  some  unaccountable  reason,  Willie  be-  gan  to  take  an  interest  in  me  when  I  was  very  young,  and  during  my  entire  boy-  hood  hebraved  the  jocularities  of  his     older  companions  to  befriend  me.  &quot;How  can  you  spend  so  much  time  with  a  kid?&quot;  they  demanded  of  him.  As  I  look  back  on  it  now,  the  pains  Willie  took  with  me  pass  all  credence.  When  I  had  a  sudden  craving  to  learn  to  play  the  piano,  he  rented  a  room  and  a  piano  for  me,  got  me  a  teacher,  and  paid  for  it  all  out  of  his  own  pocket.  When  I  first  began  to  write-this  was  not  until  I  was  about  fifteen-he  went  over  all  my  manuscripts,  analyzing  them,  correcting  them,  and  taking  endless  trouble  to  prepare  them  for  submission  to,  and,  of  course,  eventual  rejection  by,  various  publications.  Later,  when  I  graduated  from  high  school,  and  plans  were  being  made  for  me  to  go  to  work,  he  persuaded  my  family  to  send  me  to  Clark  College,  in  Worcester.  After  I  had  been  there  for  two  years,  he  accomplished,  by  main  strength,  a  revolutionary  feat.  I  had  shown  some  interest  in  the  drama,  so  he  decided  I  must  leave  Clark  and  go  to  Harvard,  to  study  dramatic  writing  un-  der  George  Pierce  Baker.  This  wanted  some  doing.  Willie  did  it.  And  during  all  these  years  there  was  no  intellectual  problem,  no  practical  dilemma,  no  psy-  chological  crisis  at  home  that  I  did  not  dump  in  Willie's  lap.  He  became,  so  to  say,  my  liaison  officer  between  the  medi-  evalism  of  our  household  and  the  latter-  day  world;  he  understood  both  worlds,  and  he  enjoyed  trying  to  reconcile  them  for  me.  During  all  these  years,  Willie  himself  was  very  busy,  first  as  a  student  at  the  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  where  he  made  an  excellent  record,  and  later  as  a  chemist  at  the  Worcester  Water  Works.  While  he  was  employed  by  the  city,  he  decided  to  study  law,  and  he  did  it  by  commuting  to  [REDACTED]  four  evenings  a  week  to  attend  law  school  at  [REDACTED]  University.  He  got  his  degree  in  three  years  and  passed  the  bar  exams.  I  don't  know  how  Willie  explained  his  preoccupation  with  me  to  his  con-  temporaries,  but  he  explained  it  to  me  by  saying  that  it  was  &quot;a  question  of  planes.&quot;  He  adored  my  brothers  and  his  other  friends,  he  said,  but  he  moved  with  them  on  a  different  plane  from  the  one  he  shared  with  me.  They  were  wonderful  fellows,  but  Willie  found  them,  as  he  put  it,  &quot;a  bit  excessively  down  to  earth.&quot;  He  said  he  couldn't  discuss  with  them  the  things  he  discussed  with  me-abstract  questions,  for  in-  stance.  I  gathered  also  that  I  was  a  more  patient  listener  than  my  brothers  and  their  friends.  Of  course,  I  was  young  enough  to  have  nothing  to  do  but  listen,  whereas  Willie's  older  friends  all  had  jobs  and  were  absorbed  in  their  own  lives.  MY  father  was  a  sad,  kindly,  God-  haunted  man  who  did  everything  for  his  children  that  his  meagre  resources  would  allow.  So  long  as  we  observed  the  ritualistic  pieties-and  these  were  fairly  exacting-he  overflowed  with  loving-kindness  toward  us.  But  he  did  sternly  forbid  us  two  exercises:  we  were  not  totry  under  any  circumstances  to  discover  the  true  name  of  the  Lord;  we  were  not  to  think  about  the  problem  of  infinity.  It  is  unlikely  that  I  would  have  done  much  speculation  in  either  of  these  areas  if  I  had  not  been  so  explicitly  for-  bidden.  In  the  first,  I  would  have  ac-  cepted  as  sufficient  for  my  needs  the  various  names  of  the  Lord  I  heard  in  common  use  around  the  house-  Adonai,  Elohim,  Adoshem,  Melech  Haolom,  and  Ribono  Shel  Olom-  but  these,  my  father  said,  were  mere  pseudonyms.  'They  were  names,  not  the  Name.  This  I  must  never  try  to  discover,  for  in  it  lay  coiled  the  ulti-  mate,  pent-up  sunburst  of  truth.  And  unless  I  was  prepared  to  receive  this  truth-a  preparation  achieved  only  by  the  rarest  of  saints-the  mere  fact  of  ap-  proaching  it,  the  faintest  hint  of  what  it  was,  might  be  instantly  pulverizing.  He  said  that  even  some  of  the  saints,  men  who  had  spent  their  lives  delving  for  the  Name  and  had  led  lives  of  purity  and  piety  in  order  to  be  ready  to  receive  it,  had,  in  approaching  the  split  second  of  revelation,  been  atomized-not,  I  un-  derstood,  because  of  any  impurity  in  them  but  because  of  their  arrogance  in  believing  that  they  deserved  to  know.  The  Name  was  the  final  kernel  of  knowledge  and  to  possess  it  was  to  be  destroyed.  My  father  also  warned  me  that  it  was  especially  hazardous  and  reprehensible  to  try  to  ambush  the  Name  by  resorting  to  black  magic  and  the  occult  arts.  He  cautioned  me  as  sombrely  and  literally  as  if  Providence  Street  were  teeming  with  such  diabolical  opportunities.  Ac-  tually,  among  my  pals  on  the  hill  I  en-  countered  neither  abortive  saintliness  nor  thaumaturgy.  When  I  brought  up  the  subject  of  the  Name  with  my  friends,  I  was  amazed  to  find  how  little  curiosity  they  had  about  it-with  the  exception  of  Willie,  of  course.  The  " b"boys  of  my  own  age  seemed  to  be  more  than  satisfied  with  the  names  of  the  Lord  that  were  current,  and  even  a  bit  jaded  about  them.   My  father  really   worried  unnecessarily;  the  data  at  my  disposal  for  making  so  lethal  a  discovery  were  rather  scarce,  my  curiosity  had  little  to  feed  on,  and  in  general  I  obeyed  his  prohibition  against  ex-  cessive  research.  I  did  experience  a  certain  terror  of  inadvertently  stumbling  on  the  dread  Name,  by  overhearing  it,  perhaps,  or  seeing  it  written  in  letters  of  fire  in  a  dream-a  dream  from  which  I  would  never  wake  up.  How-  ever,  my  fears  were  groundless,  too;  no  in-  timation  ever  reached  me,  nor  didthe  repre-  sentative  of  any  occult  society  suggest  that  I  take  part  in  illicit  experiment.  The  only  magicians  I  saw  were  at  Poli's  Vaude-  ville  Theatre  and  they  were  engaged  in  less  abstract  exhibitions.  'The  principal  effect  of  my  father's  prohibition  was  to  induce  my  resentment,  for  it  seemed  to  contradict  the  exhortations  I  was  receiving  constantly  in  school,  and  from  my  education-ravished  elders  at  home  (including  my  father),  to  pur-  sue  knowledge  inexorably  and  whole-  heartedly.  If  the  ultimate  molecule  of  truth  resided  in  the  hidden  name  of  the  Lord,  and  if  I  was  forbidden  to  seek  it,  what  was  the  use  of  slav-  ing  over  grammar  and  arithmetic?  School  seemed  a  waste  of  time  alto-  gether.  This  gave  me  a  convenient  excuse  on  lovely  spring  days  to  play  hooky  and  walk  to  the  lake  or,  in  au-  tumn,  to  escape  to  [REDACTED]  Hill  and  hunt  for  chestnuts.  My  father's  second  injunction-not  to  think  about  infinity-gave  me  con-  siderable  trouble.  Infinity  involved  the  perpetually  receding  end  of  things.  Here  we  were,  my  father  and  I,  at  a  fixed  point  in  space-31  Providence  Street,  Worcester,  [REDACTED].  Above  us  was  the  visible  sky.  Above  the  sky,  there  was  space,  which  went  on  endlessly  through  an  unimaginable  number  of  remoter  skies.  To  use  the  word  &quot;end-  lessly&quot;  was  in  itself  a  verbal  evasion,  be-  cause  it  wasn't  possible  to  imagine  any-  thing  without  an  end.  And  yet  it  was  equally  impossible  to  imagine  space  as  finite.  This  was  indeed  a  dilemma.  Those  who  thought  about  infinity  too  much,  my  father  solemnly  warned  me,  usually  went  insane.  &quot;Therefore,&quot;  he  always  said  in  conclusion,  &quot;you  must  not  think  about  it!&quot;  But  I  could  see  that  he  himself  was  pondering  it.  Vainglorious,  I  suggested  that  perhaps  one  might,  one  day,  with  sufficient  concentration,  get  to  the  bottom  of  it.  My  father  shook  his  head.  The  problem  was  not  for  mortals  to  think  about,  still  less  to  solve,  and  the  penalty  for  solution  was  identi-  cal  to  that  attendant  on  discovering  the  true  name  of  the  Lord-instant  annihi-  lation.  Lying  in  bed  at  night,  I  found  my-  self  engaged  in  formidableengineering  projects,  constructing  arbitrary  termi-  nals  for  the  eons  of  space-high  ram-  parts,  nonporous  to  the  invading  tide  of  infinity.  But,  tremendous  as  these  bar-  riers  were,  my  imagination  leaped  them,  as  did  space  itself.  Space  must,  I  thought  desperately,  be  puta  stop  to;  it  couldn't  be  allowed  to  run  on  forever.  Yet  it  did.  What  was  forever?  One  couldn't  im-  agine  it,  but  one  had  to  if  one  was  to  tackle  the  subject  at  all.  &quot;Forever&quot;  was  a  term  in  time,  yet  it  could  also  be  ap-  plied  to  the  limitlessness  of  space.  It  was  very  bewildering.  In  an  effort  to  compromise  with  space,  to  be  reasonable  with  it,  I  decided  to  give  it  all  the  scope  it  wanted-trillions  and  trillions  of  miles-in  the  hope  that  somewhere  it  would  call  a  halt.  But  it  always  wanted  more.  Wrestling  with  space  gave  me  a  headachy  feeling;  it  made  me  toss  about  in  bed  at  night;  it  was  maddening.  That  was  what  my  father  must  have  meant  when  he  forbade  me  to  think  about  the  problem  at  all.  But  I  couldn't  stop.  I  thought  about  it  sitting  in  classes  at  school,  when  I  should  have  been  listening  to  my  teachers.  Finally,  wearied  of  these  agonies  of  cerebration,  I  reached  a  point  where  I  knew  I  couldn't  bear  it  alone;  I  needed  help.  Soone  summer  day  when  I  was  trudging  to  the  lake  for  a  swim  with  a  boy  named  Freddie  Eisenberg,  I  intro-  duced  the  subject.  Freddie  was  the  star  pupil  of  my  class  and  an  acknowledged  intellectual.  Appropriately  enough,  I  put  the  dilemma  before  him  while  we  were  passing  the  insane  asylum  on  Shrewsbury  Street.  Freddie  was  un-  sympathetic.  He  shrugged  the  whole  thing  off  in  an  unaccountably  callous  manner.  &quot;I'll  worry  about  that  after  we  get  to  Jerry  Daly'sbathhouse,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'That's  space  enough  for  me!&quot;  INCE  I  couldn't  whip  up  any  inter-  est  in  these  pressing  problems  among  friends  of  my  own  years,  I  was  forced  to  take  them  to  Willie.  They  were  right  up  his  alley.  The  day  I  brought  up  the  sub-  ject  of  space  and  time,  he  invited  me  into  Easton's  Drugstore  for  a  milk  shake,  " b"and  there  he  met  infinity  head  on.  While  he  didn't,  as  I  remember,  actual-  ly  solve  the  problem,  he  diminished  it,  somehow,  by  multiplying  it.  He  didn't  in  any  way  duck  the  issue,  but  he  wid-  ened  the  area  and  shifted  the  field;  he  relegated  it  to  its  proper  place  by  reveal-  ing  it  as  only  one  thread  in  the  fabric  of  a  larger  mystery.  Willie  had  a  way  of  starting  his  discussions  with  impres-  sive  phrases:  &quot;I  can  well  imagine  a  situation  where  ...&quot;  &quot;I  venture  the  opinion  that  .  ..&quot;  &quot;I  will  go  so  far  as  to  say  that  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Let  us  begin  by  reducing  the  problem  to  its  component  parts  ..  .&quot;  Or  he  would  say,  &quot;There  is  no  problem  that  will  not  yield  to  analysis,&quot;  and  then  proceed  to  analyze.  He  was  equally  adept  at  swift  reversals.  &quot;On  the  other  hand,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;I  can  equally  well  imagine  a  situation  where  .  ..&quot;  As  he  warmed  up  to  his  subject,  he  had  a  habit  of  cracking  his  knuckles  and  rub-  bing  his  hands  together  as  if  he  were  washing  them.  After  the  milk  shake  at  Easton's,  which  somehow  in  itself  made  me  feel  better  about  infinity,  Willie  took  me  for  a  walk  down  Main  Street  to  Court  Hill,  striding  along  briskly  and  analyzing  flu-  ently.  &quot;''There  are  many  infinities,&quot;  he  announced.  &quot;'Take  the  matter  of  the  Name,  which  bothers  you  so  much.  Per-  sonally,  I'm  an  agnostic,  but  I  can  well  imagine  a  situation  where  at  the  very  heart  of  things  there  is  a  simple,  cosmic,  unifying  truth.  This  is  the  Name.  Or  if  you  prefer,&quot;  he  added  magnanimously,  &quot;God.  Everything  is  an  infinity.  Take  that  fellow  Kelly,  who  threw  the  steel  bolt  out  the  window  at  Mr.  Reilly.  I  will  go  so  far  asto  say  that  if  you  thoroughly  analyzed  Kelly's  motives,  you  would  stub  your  toe  on  another  in-  finity-the  infinity  of  responsibility.&quot;  In  my  father'srather  melancholy  con-  versation,  there  was  a  good  deal  about  blood,  and  especially  about  the  shedding  of  what  he  invariably  referred  to  specifi-  cally  as  &quot;Jewish  blood.&quot;  I  knew  from  early  on  that  Jewish  blood  had  al-  ways  flowed  copiously,  but  I  had  never  been  much  affected  by  this  knowledge.  My  father's  preoccupation  with  the  sub-  ject  bored  me;  it  seemed  like  a  peevish  dwelling  on  old  grievances,  and  I  wasn't  interested,  because  I  didn't  know  what  the  grievances  were.  They  hadno  ac-  tuality.  But  the  attack  on  Mr.  Reilly,  to  which  Willie  had  referred,  had  sud-  denly  dramatized  my  father's  preoccu-  pation.  It  happened  one  Saturday  afternoon  on  Winter  Street,  in  front  of  Lavin  &amp;  Lupkin's,  the  drygoods  store  owned  by  Willie's  father,  where  I  sometimes  worked  on  Saturdays  as  an  errand  boy.  Mr.  Reilly  was  a  nice  old  Irish-  man  with  a  beautiful  head  of  silver  hair  and  a  flowing  white  beard.  He  was  a  peddler,  and  he  used  to  come  into  Lavin  &amp;  Lupkin's  each  Saturday  after-  noon  to  stock  up  for  his  pere-  grinations  of  the  following  week.  'That  day,  as  he  ap-  proached  the  store,  someone  threw  a  steel  boltat  him  from  a  window  of  Crompton  &amp;  Knowles,  a  factory  that  faced  the  Lavin  &amp;  Lupkin  building.  I  happened  to  be  in  the  base-  ment  of  L.  &amp;  L.'s  at  the  time,  wrapping  bundles  with  Willie.  My  brothers  were  there,  too;  they  had  dropped  in  to  see  Willie.  We  heard  a  commotion  on  the  street  and  ran  put  to  find  Mr.  Reilly  lying  on  the  sidewalk  with  blood  flowing  from  a  wound  in  his  forehead.  My  oldest  brother  and  the  Messrs.  Lavin  and  Lupkin  car-  ried  Mr.  Reilly  inside;  Willie  ran  to  get  Dr.  [REDACTED].  The  Doctor  came  quickly  and  found  that  Mr.  Reilly  had  suffered  only  a  scalp  wound,  which  he  quickly  stitched  up.  Within  an  hour,  the  victim  was  sit-  ting  happily  in  the  office  at  the  back  of  the  store  eating  sandwiches,  which  I  had  been  sent  to  get  for  him  from  the  delicatessen  down  the  street.  Mean-  time,  the  neighborhood  cop,  acore-  ligionist  of  Mr.  Reilly's,  vowed  that  he  would  find  the  hurler  of  the  bolt  if  it  was  the  last  thing  he  did.  The  cop  made  good  his  word.  Mr.  Reilly's  assailant  proved  to  be  a  nine-  teen-year-old  boy  named  Pat  Kelly,  of  theretofore  exemplary  reputation.  He  confessed  to  his  crime  with  a  certain  bravado,  was  arrested,  and  within  a  week  was  hauled  up  before  Judge  Utley.  (Judge  Utley  bore  the  sobriquet  in  Worcester  of  &quot;Thirty-Days  Utley,&quot;  be-  cause  he  habitually  confined  the  punish-  ment  he  meted  out  for  minor  offenses  to  that  somewhat  arbitrary  period.)  Willie  and  my  brothers  and  I  all  went  to  the  hearing,  feeling  very  important,  as  witnesses,  if  not  to  the  actual  attack,  at  least  to  the  events  that  followed  it.  The  bolt  thrower's  defense  was  unex-  pected:  he  said  the  whole  thing  had  been  an  optical  illusion.  He  assured  the  Judge  that  he  didn't  know  Mr.  Reilly  and  had  nothing  whatever  against  him  personal-  ly.  Looking  out  of  the  factory  window,  he  had  seen  him  walking  down  the  street  " b"and,  because  Mr.  Reilly  wore  a  long  white  beard,  had  concluded  that  he  was  Jewish,  and  had  therefore  thrown  the  bolt  at  him  on  general  principles.  The  boy  said  this  with  such  an  air  of  guileless  innocence-almost  as  if  he  had  done  a  good  deed  without  expectation  of  re-  ward-that  he  was  disarming.  Had  he  known  that  his  victim's  name  was  Reilly,  he  said,  he  would  have  loved  him  dearly.  I  still  remember  Kelly's  expression  of  utter  bewilderment  when  Judge  Utley  was  not  instantly  softened  by  an  error  so  manifestly  human  and  pardonable.  Instead,  the  Judge  rapped  his  desk  sharply  with  his  gavel  and  said,  &quot;Nine  months  in  the  penitentiary!&quot;  It  was  a  sensational  departure.  'The  most  the  adherents  of  Mr.  Reilly  had  hoped  for  -  was  thirty  days.  Mr.  Reilly,  the  cop,  and  my  brothers  exchanged  warm  and  congratulatory  glances,  but  I  watched  the  criminal  as  he  was  taken  away  and  saw  an  incredulous  look  on  his  face-  the  look  of  a  man  who  had  blundered  into  a  topsy-turvy  world.  The  incident  made  a  field  day  for  Willie.  He  sat  beside  me  at  the  hearing  and  noticed,  as  I  did,  the  boy's  expression  of  bewilderment.  &quot;I  venture  the  opin-  ion,&quot;  said  Willie  on  the  way  home,  &quot;that  if  you  analyzed  this  Kelly's  heredity  and  environment  and  the  influences  that  have  played  on  him  from  the  time  he  was  born,  you  would  find  that  they  threw  the  bolt-not  Kelly!&quot;  Enlarging  upon  this  idea,  Willie  worked  himself  up  into  a  lather  of  speculation.  He  made  an  easy  transition  from  the  Winter  Street  incident  (of  about  1905)  to  the  War  Office  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  in  1899.  Only  the  week  before,  Willie  had  taken  me  to  Lothrop's  Opera  House,  where  I  had  seen  my  first  play.  It  was  a  melo-  drama  called  &quot;The  Devil's  Island,&quot;  and  the  hero  was  a  Captain  Dreyfus.  It  couldn't  have  been  a  very  subtle  play,  and  yet  I  hadn't  understood  it  at  all.  This  did  not  keep  me  from  being  thrilled  by  it.  There  was  a  miraculous  scene  at  the  end  of  the  second  act  where  the  Captain  escaped  from  Devil's  Island;  you  actually  sew  him  getting  into  a  boat  and  being  rowed  to  a  sloop  waiting  to  transport  him  back  to  [REDACTED].  You  even  saw  the  sloop.  The  Captain  wore  a  waxed  mustache,  and  although  he  was  sorely  put  upon  by  everybody-in  an  earlier  scene  his  sword  had  been  broken  and  the  buttons  cut  off  his  uniform  be-  fore  a  crowd  of  officers,  themselves  in  brilliant  uniforms-his  mustache  re-  mained  glossy  and  imperturbable.  I  had  never  seen  such  aplomb.  The  play  had  a  villain  called  Major  Esterhazy,  who  was  discomfited  in  the  end,  where-  as  Captain  Dreyfus  got  his  sword  and  his  uniform  back  and  everybody  loved  him.  Esterhazy's  discomfiture  had  made  me  happy,  but  now  when  Willie  brought  the  bolt  thrower  from  Cromp-  ton  &amp;  Knowles  and  the  villain  of  &quot;''The  Devil's  Island&quot;  close  together  in  a  wonderful  juxtaposition,  I  wasn't  so  sure.  Willie  went  so  far  as  to  say  that  if  you  subjected  Major  Esterhazy  to  the  same  patient  analysis  he  was  pre-  pared  to  give  Pat  Kelly,  you  would  discover  that  outside,  stronger  forces,  not  Esterhazy,  had  wrought  the  evil  against  Captain  Dreyfus.  Ultimately,  Esterhazy  was  innocent.  Ultimately,  the  bolt  thrower  from  Crompton  &amp;  Knowles  was  innocent.  To  Willie,  they  were  both  nice  fellows  who  had  been  badly  used  by  their  heredities  and  en-  vironments.  SOME  years  earlier,  Willie  had  had  a  far  harder  time  absolving  me  of  guilt.  I  was  quite  a  small  boy  then,  and  for  weeks  I  suffered  an  anguish  of  re-  morse  over  my  inexplicable  cruelty  to  a  cat  of  which  I  was  fond.  I  had  made  friends  with  the  cat-a  yellow-furred,  blue-eyed  vagrant-and  when  I  walked  down  Providence  Street,  he  would  fol-  low  me.  Flattered  by  his  fidelity,  I  some-  times  lifted  him  up  and  carried  him,  and  he  seemed  to  enjoy  that.  He  especially  liked  to  accompany  me  on  my  hunts  for  odds  and  ends  in  the  dump  yard  that  was  next  to  the  Crompton  &amp;  Knowles  factory.  The  yard  was  a  fas-  cinating  place,  containing  all  sorts  of  oddments-zinc  shavings,  acid  jars,  heavy  rubber  bands  that  had  fastened  the  covers  of  the  jars,  flat  pieces  of  metal,  oddly  stamped.  It  was  particu-  larly  rich  in  tinfoil,  which  we  boys  used  to  collect,  roll  up  into  balls,  and  send  off  somewhere  for  the  few  pennies  it  would  bring  us.  The  yard  was  iridescent  with  coal  dust  and  the  vivid  discolora-  tion  of  decay.  On  veryhot  days,  the  dust  gave  off  a  heat  of  its  own  and  the  rubber  bands  bubbled.  The  cat  seemed  to  enjoy  prowling  about  the  yard  as  much  as  I  did,  though  there  could  have  been  small  nourishment  in  it  for  him.  One  bot  summer  day,  after  taking  a  rich  bag,  my  pockets  bulging  withbaking  bits  of  glass  and  metal  and  rubber,  I  started  home  to  sort  out  my  treasures  in  the  privacy  of  our  back  yard.  The  cat  trotted  happily  beside  me.  Perhaps  to  compensate  him  for  having  found  so  lit-  tle  for  himself  when  I  had  so  much,  I  picked  him  up  and  carried  him.  It  was  terribly  hot  and  theloot  in  my  pockets  burned  against  me.  I  began  to  feel  a  miserable  discomfort,  and  the  climb  up  Providence  Street  seemed  insupportable.  I  stopped  fora  moment,  grasped  the  cat  firmly,  and  threw  him  head  first  onto  the  sidewalk.  I  heard  his  skull  crack.  The  sound  unnerved  me  so  much  that  I  could  notbear  to  look  down  at  the  cat.  I  went  on  up  the  hill.  The  stuff  in  my  pockets  now  felt  heavy  as  well  as  hot  and  I  began  throwing  it  away.  By  the  time  I  got  home,  I  had  nothing  left.  I  kept  hearing  the  sound  of  the  cat's  skull  hitting  the  sidewalk.  In  the  yard  next  to  ours,  there  were  some  cherry  trees,  and  that  day  the  cherries  were  ripe  and  glowed  in  the  sun.  I  climbed  one  ofthe  trees,  though  it  was  forbidden,  and  picked  a  few  cherries.  When  I  got  down  to  the  ground,  I  threw  them  away  and " b"ran  back  to  find  the  cat.  I  knew  ex-  actly  where  I  had  hurled  him  down;  it  was  in  front  of  Cassie  MacMahon's  house,  (Cassie  MacMahon  was  a  class-  mate.)  When  I  reached  the  spot,  the  cat  was  gone.  I  never  saw  him  again.  Willie  had  a  hard  time  with  me  about  the  cat.  For  a  long  time,  I  wouldn't  tell  him  what  was  wrong,  but  he  knew  that  something  was  bothering  me  and  he  finally  got  it  out  of  me.  He  called  on  his  standbys,  heredity  and  environment,  to  assist  him  in  absolving  me,  but  they  didn't  work  as  well  as  they  did,  later,  for  Kelly  and  Esterhazy,  whose  heredities  and  environ-  ments  Willie  did  not  know.  Unfortunately,  he  knew  all  about  mine.  My  father  and  mother  were  both  gentle  people.  My  father,  who  was  almost  perpetually~  in  mourning  for  ancient  bloodletting,  had  an  abhorrence  of  violence  of  all  sorts.  I  implored  Willie  never,  never  to  tell  my  father  about  the  cat;  his  anger  and  humiliation  would  have  been  terrible.  Somewhat  in  a  corner,  Willie  turned  from  my  parents,  whom  we  knew,  to  their  ancestors,  whom  we  did  not  know.  Among  them,  Willie  hinted  as  tactfully  as  he  could,  there  might  have  been  an  aberrant  murderer.  It  was  unlikely,  but  it  was  possible.  Or  perhaps  I  had  done  this  cruel  thing  only  out  of  curiosity,to  see  what  would  happen.  If  this  was  so,  Willie  said,  it  had  been  a  purely  scientific  impulse.  He  kept  telling  me  to  put  the  incident  out  of  my  mind  and  stop  worrying  about  it.  But  I  did  worry  about  it,  because  it  revealed  such  unaccountable  and  dreadful  potentialities  within  me.  I  kept  hearing  the  sharp  sound  of  the  cat's  skull  on  the  brick  sidewalk.  I  hear  it  still,  after  more  than  fifty  years.  HE  most  precious  possession  in  our  Providence  Street  tenement  was  my  father's  many-volumed  edition  of  the  Talmud.  The  books  were  great  tomes  bound  in  calf,  with  marbled  cov-  ers,  My  father  had  inherited  them  from  his  father  and  had  brought  them  with  him  from  Europe.  I  grew  up  with  these  books  and  saw  them  constantly,  but  since  they  were  written  in  Hebrew,  I  was  never  able  to  read  them,  for  though  I  studied  Hebrew  briefly  when  I  was  quite  a  small  boy,  I  never  got  sufficiently  proficient  to  read  or  understand  the  esoteric  complexities  ofthe  Talmud.  I  used  to  stare  atthe  pages,  wondering  what  fascinating  secrets  they  contained.  I  remember  the  look  of  those  pages-  grave,  wide,  solid  columns  of  text  in  the  center  and,  islanding  them,  equally  solid  columns  of  finer  print.  This  finer  print,  my  father  explained  to  me,  was  the  Rashi,  or  commentary  on  the  text.  Did  it  contain  dissenting  opinions,  or  what?  I  never  knew.  My  father  belonged  to  a  small  group  of  the  Providence  Street  devout,  headed  by  the  learned  and  humorous  Rabbi  Silver,  whose  aim  was  to  go  through  one  of  the  volumes  of  the  Talmud,  text  and  commentary,  annually.  The  group  met  once  a  month,  in  the  afternoon,  at  the  homes  of  the  different  members.  I  remember  how  my  mother,  on  the  one  day  of  the  year  when  it  was  my  father's  turn  to  play  host,  would  sit  in  the  kitchen,  her  own  prepa-  rations  made,  waiting  for  the  summons  and  hoping  that  some  perfectionist  was  not  being  too  difficult  over  the  minutiae  of  interpreta-  tion,.  The  tea  and  cakes  and  liquor  could  not  be  served  and  the  festivities  begin  until  the  last  page  of  the  day's  stint  had  been  reached.  The  scholars  sat  in  the  dining  room-the  only  time  in  the  year,  except  for  Passover,  when  it  was  used.  Normally  we  ate  in  the  kitchen;  using  the  dining  room  was  like  opening  the  throne  room  of  a  palace.  When  the  food  was  finally  served,  I  was  allowed  in  and  given  a  piece  of  cake-I  suppose  as  an  encouragement  to  emulate  my  elders-but  it  was  some-  times  hours  before  I  got  this  unearned  reward.  I  used  to  peep  in,  but  I  would  be  shooed  away  until  the  last  moot  point  had  been  settled.  I  remember,  on  one  of  these  occasions,  conceiving  a  strong  dislike  for  the  father  of  one  of  my  play-  mates,  because  he  was  pedantic  and  kept  raising  questions.  I  still  see  the  Rem-  brandtesque  scene:  The  men  sat  around  the  table,  the  great  books  before  them;  it  was  late  afternoon  and  the  tension  was  so  great  that  no  one  had  bothered  to  turn  on  the  lamp;  the  heckler  was  insistent;  Rabbi  Silver  pushed  his  glasses  back  on  his  forehead  and  pondered;  no  one  moved  and  the  silence  was  in-  tense;  all  eyes  were  fixed  on  Rabbi  Silver,  imploring  resolution  of  this  crisis  of  interpretation.  It  came.  Rabbi  Silver  readjusted  his  glasses  and  spoke.  Every-  one  was  satisfied,  even  the  heckler.  The  relief  was  tremendous.  The  books  were  closed  and  the  scholars  relaxed  in  their  chairs,  jolly  and  suddenly  garrulous.  My  father  nodded  to  me  to  tell  my  mother  that  the  refreshments  could  be  brought  in.  After  that,  it  was  all  fun.  TTH  some  of  my  pals  whose  flats  were  furnished,  as  ours  was,  with  many-volumed  editions  of  the  Talmud,  I  speculated  on  the  contents  of  these  mysterious  books.  We  were  like  those  medieval  inquirers  who  theorized  in  a  vacuum,  without  ever  consulting  nature.  Since  we  could  none  of  us  read  the  text,  there  was  really  no  other  way  to  go  about  it.  But  scraps  and  fragments  came  to  us  from  older  boys,  sons  of  the  pun-  dits  for  whom  Talmud  reading  was  a  full-time  occupation.  These  older  boys  were  often  satirical;  it  seemed  to  me  they  were  even  blasphemous.  The  books,  they  said,  were  not  mysterious  at  all  but  discussed  quite  practical  prob-  lems-what  to  do  and  how  to  behave  in  critical  emergencies.  For  example,  two  men  are  walking  along  the  street,  com-  ing  from  opposite  directions.  Simultane-  ously,  they  spy  on  the  ground  a  valuable  object.  Each  one  makes  for  it.  One  says,  &quot;This  find  is  mine!&quot;  The  other  makes  an  equally  valid  claim.  What  to  do,  since  the  object  is  indivisible?  One  scoff  -  er  used  to  insist  that  the  problems  dis-  cussed  in  the  Talmud  were  remote  and  had  little  to  do  with  everyday  life  in  Worcester.  He  swore  that  one  of  the  Talmudic  situations  pondered  by  our  parents  was  this:  A  man  is  walking  on  a  rampart;  at  the  foot  of  the  rampart  an  unmarried  girl  is  taking  the  air;  the  man  on  the  rampart  slips  and  falls;  re-  grettably,  he  falls  on  the  girl,  and  she  becomes  pregnant.  What,  then,  is  the  status  of  this  fortuitous  pregnancy?  This  particular  skeptic  felt  that  it  was  un-  profitable  to  spend  so  much  time  on  a  problem  so  remote  from  Providence  Street,  where  there  were  no  ramparts.  Whether  this  situation  is  actually  dis-  cussed  in  the  Talmud,  I  don't  know,  but  I  certainly  grew  up  believing  that  the  holy  book  was  full  of  tidbits  like  that.  Still,  generally  speaking,  I  was  toler-  ant,  and  even  a  little  proud,  of  our  Tal-  mud-perhaps  because,  on  the  hill,  my  father's  authority  on  it  set  him  up  as  a  sage  and  a  scholar-and  I  liked  to  leaf  through  the  volumes.  The  one  in  which  my  father  had  written  our  birth  dates  continued  to  bother  me.  They  forced  me  to  think  unhappily  about  what  was,  apparently,  an  immense  discrep-  ancy  between  my  present  environment  and  my  antecedents.  There  were  no  family  portraits  in  the  house,  no  evi-  dence  of  any  direct  ancestors.  The  only  portraits  on  our  walls  were  engravings  of  Jewish  saints  who  had  lived  in  the  Middle  Ages.  These  appeared  to  be  all  the  progenitors  we  had,  and  they  weren't  even  relations.  We  seemed  to  have  come  right  out  of  the  Middle  Ages.  To  be  sure,  we  had  one  living  grandmother,  my  mother's  mother,  who  sat  in  a  rocking  chair  in  my  aunt's  flat,  radiating  affection,  but  before  her  " b"day  was  a  great  anterior  darkness.  I  asked  my  parents  questions  about  their  pasts  but  could  find  out  very  little.  All  I  knew  was  that  my  father  had  em-  barked  for  America  at  [REDACTED],  with  my  mother  and  the  two  elder  children,  in  the  steerage  ofa  boat  that  was  headed  for  New  York.  Apparently  what  had  troubled  him  most  on  this  journey  was  the  fear  that  he  would  be  unable  to  ob-  serve  the  dietary  laws,  He  had  come  to  Worcester  because  my  uncle  was  there.I  asked  this  uncle  why  he  had  come,  and  he  said  because  he  had  a  cousin  in  [REDACTED].  But  if  there  was  little  talk  about  the  family  past,  there  was  incessant  talk  about  pogroms.  I  was  bored  with  these  pogroms.  When  the  Kishinev  Massacre  occurred,  in  April,  1903,  it  was  a  kind  of  windfall  for  my  fa-  ther.  He  had  sensed  my  apathy  about  sharing  his  indignation  and  his  grief  over  the  earlier  pogroms,  and  now,  with  a  certain  sorrow-  ful  triumph,  he  pointed  to  the  newspaper  head-  lines  on  Kishinev  and  said,  &quot;That,  my  son,  is  a  pogrom!&quot;  It  had  hap-  pened  not  far  from  his  original  home.  But  even  then  what  struck  me  as  grotesque  was  that  my  father,  who  had  made  a  journey  to  escape  a  peril  as  formi-  dable  as  this,  could  still  have  been  worried  about  dietary  laws.  It  seemed  to  me  to  show  no  sense  of  proportion.  I  felt  myself  drifting  away  from  him.  Increasingly,  I  felt  the  weight  on  me  of  bygone  blood  feuds,of  oppression  from  dead  centuries.  This  malaise,  too,  I  confided  to  Wil-  lie.  He  met  it  with  gus-  to.  It  was  a  natural  for  him.  He  gave  me  an  al-  luring  invitation.  'Take  Kishinev,&quot;  he  said.  I  was  inclined  to  refuse  it,  but  he  insisted.  Willie  was  widely,  if  vagar-  iously,  read,  and  right  after  offering  me  Kishi-  nev  he  offered  me  Saint  Bartholomew's  Day,  of  which  I  had  not  pre-  viously  heard.  &quot;Part  of  the  pattern  of  history,&quot;  said  Willie,  with  alarge  wave  of  the  hand.  &quot;Kishinev  is  only  a  Saint  Bartholomew's  Day  reserved  for  Jews!&quot;  He  made  it  seem  that  there  was  a  certain  distinction  in  it.  My  com-  plaint  about  the  absence  of  family  por-  traits  and  the  obscurity  of  my  ante-  cedents  he  met  with  a  disquisition  on  the  mystery  and  infinity  of  the  chain  of  birth.  When  I  pointed  out  that  my  birth  date  was  recorded  in  an  incompre-  hensible  language  and  by  a  vanished  cal-  endar,  he  was  withering.  &quot;You  were  born,  weren't  you?&quot;  he  demanded,  making  it  seem  like  an  incredible  feat.  According  to  Willie,  it  actually  was  an  incredible  feat.  &quot;I  will  go  as  far  asto say,&quot;  he  went  on  rapturously,  &quot;that  the  simple  statement  you  may  read  any-  where  onany  tombstone,  'Born  1888,&quot;  say-born  anywhere,  any  time-is  the  most  dramatic  of  all  declarations.  Think  of  the  nexus  behind  it.&quot;  Nexus  was  a  word  of  which  Willie  was  very  fond.  &quot;'Think  of  the  nexus  of  dangers  and  the  collusion  of  circumstances  that  have  to  be  just  right  before  you  can  say  of  anybody  that  he  was  born.  Think  of  the  accidents  you  have  to  escape,  the  menaces  from  man  and  from  nature!  In  each  individual,  once  he  manages  to  be  born,  there  is  a  majesty  of  ancestry  that  reaches  back  to  the  very " b"beginnings  of  time.  Let's  say  you  did  have  family  portraits.  How  far  back  could  they  go?  If  you  had  enough  of  them,  you  couldn't  give  them  houseroom.  You'd  have  to  have  a  warehouse!&quot;  Willie  managed  to  make  me  feel  that  to  wish  to  have  ancestral  portraits  was  to  be  unbear-  ably  spoiled  and  snobbish  and  extravagant.  WILLIE\xe2\x80\x99S  penchant  for  separating  problems  in-  to  their  component  parts  got  full  play  while  I  was  in  high  school.  He  helped  me  in  the  inter-high-school  debates  and  he  gave  me  a  major  position  on  a  little  staff  of  researchers  he  organized,  whose  object  was  to  win  the  large  sums  of  money  offered  by  the  [REDACTED]  papers  at  that  time  in  their  puzzle  contests.  Willie  was  a  great  believer  in  hobbies,  and  for  a  period  the  solution  of  these  puzzles  became  his  major  hobby  and  an  extracurricular  activity  for  me.  There  were,  I  remember,  a  Proverb  Contest,  a  Great  Names  Contest,  and  a  Familiar  Sayings  Contest,  among  others,  and  the  prizes  offered  by  the  Herald,  Globe,  or  Post  in  their  circula-  tion  drives  were  bigger,  actually,  than  those  offered  nowadays  by  the  radio  and  television  Santa  Clauses  and  far  more  satisfactory,  since  instead  of  win-  ning  pressure  cookers,  and  deep  freezes  full  of  hams,  you  could  win  thousand-  dollar  and  hundred-dollar  and  fifty-  dollar  bills.  Willie  approached  these  contests  sci-  entifically,  mobilizing  all  his  resources  to  take  them  out  of  the  hit-or-miss  area  of  gambling  and  transmute  them  into  a  rational  pursuit.  I  remember  particularly  our  exhaustive  researches  for  the  Familiar  Sayings  Contest.  Ev-  ery  day,  there  appeared  in  one  of  the  papers-which  one  I  now  forget-an  untitled  drawing  illustrating  some  say-  ing,  and  you  were  supposed  to  supply  five  aphorisms,  in  the  order  of  your  preference,  as  your  five  captions  for  each  picture.  If  you  hit  the  right  saying  on  your  fourth  choice  and  somebody  else  had  hit  it  on  his  first,  you  naturally  lost  out.  The  final  winner,  after  several  weeks  of  daily  effort,  was  to  be  the  per-  son  who  had  the  highest  percentage  of  early  guesses.  Willie's  surveys  of  previ-  ous  contests  had  shown  that  the  &quot;mass  average&quot;  of  the  winners  was  what  counted  most  heavily;  that  is  to  say,  the  winners  were  not  usually  those  who  had  the  most  firsts  but  those  who  had  the  greatest  number  of  correct  answers  among  their  first  three  choices.  Wil-  lie  put  in  a  lot  of  heavy  reading  on  the  laws  of  probability  and  averages,  and  we  were  soon  moving  in  the  high  realm  of  numerical  theory.  We  were  equipped  in  every  way:  we  kept  elaborate  card-  catalogue  files;  we  reduced  the  element  of  chance  to  a  minimum;  we  were  sci-  entifically  and  theoretically  right.  But  we  didn't  win  that  contest-or  any  other.  It  was  during  my  junior  and  senior  years  in  high  school  that  Willie  encour-  aged  me  to  take  part,  under  his  tutelage,  in  the  inter-high-school  debates.  Here  his  special  dialectic  method-his  &quot;On  the  other  hand  I  can  imagine''s  and  &quot;I  venture  the  opinion''s-served  him  ad-  mirably,  and,  thanks  to  his  coaching,  I  became  the  president  of  the  Sumner  Club,  Classical  High's  debating  society.  If,  for  instance,  the  Sumner  Club  took  the  affirmative  in  a  debate  on  the  refer-  endum  and  recall,  or  on  whether  capital  punishment  should  be  abolished,  Willie  would  bone  up  on  the  negative,  in  order  to  prime  me  with  answers  to  any  points  our  opponents  might  raise.  He  and  I  used  to  work  for  hours  together  in  the  Public  Library  reading  room,  handing  Poole's  Index  back  and  forth  between  us.  Willie  attended  all  the  debates,  and  if  the  Sumner  Club  team  won,  Wil-  lie  always  came  up  to  congratulate  me,  beaming  as  happily  as  Diaghilev  might  have  done  after  a  triumph  of  Nijinsky's.  It  was  because  of  Willie,  as  I  have  said,  that  my  family  decided  to  send  me  to  Clark  College  instead  of  to  work.  Willie  used  to  follow  my  progress  in  English  under  Dr.  Loring  Dodd,  read-  ing  the  themes  I  wrote  for  him  and  judiciously  cogitating  the  Professor's  marginal  comments.  When  Dr.  Dodd  gave  me  a  bad  mark  on  a  theme,  Willie  took  it  hard.  Though  Dr.  Dodd  did  not  know  it,  Willie  was  his  unofficial  assist-  ant.  After  I  had  been  at  Clark  for  two  years,  Willie  began  to  read  about  George  Pierce  Baker  and  his  new  Drama  Workshop  at  Harvard,  which  was  then  much  in  the  news.  I  had  started  writing  short  stories,  and  Willie  labored  over  them  painfully,  spending  a  long  time  placing  commas;  he  was  fascinated  by  commas  and  would  go  into  a  dithyramb  on  their  loveliness.  But  since  all  my  stories  were  swiftly  re-  jected  by  the  magazines  Willie  and  I  submitted  them  to,  he  thought  maybe  I  should  turn  to  the  drama.  Once  the  idea  hit  him,  nothing  would  serve  but  my  going  to  Harvard  to  study  under  Professor  Baker.  The  transfer  from  Clark  was  difficult,  but  Willie  ar-  ranged  it  and  I  moved  to  [REDACTED]  for  my  junior  and  senior  years.  Our  relations  continued  close.  Willie  was  delighted  when,  after  submitting  an  essay  to  Charles  Townsend  Copeland,  I  received  a  postcard  from  Copey  ad-  mitting  me  to  English  12,  and  he  was  positively  triumphant  when,  in  my  senior  year,  after  submitting  a  one-act  play  to  George  Pierce  Baker,  I  was  invited  to  join  English  47,  the  playwriting  course  " b" Willie  had  read  so  much  about  in  the  newspapers.  By  then,  Willie  had  married  and  was  practicing  law  in  Worcester.  His  wife,  whom  I  knew  well,  since  she  grew  up  on  Providence  Street,  was  devoted  to  him,  and  she  accepted  his  friendship  for  me  with  tolerance,  as  she  accepted  his  other  idiosyncrasies.  Willie  came  often  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  me,  and  dur-  ing  my  holidays  in  Worcester  I  had  high  times  and  rampant  discussions  with  him.  We  gave  commas  and  theories  of  all  sorts  abrisk  workout.  However,  dur-  ing  the  summer  between  my  junior  and  senior  years  at  Harvard-the  last  months  I  was  to  spend  in  Worcester-I  became  aware,  without  being  able  ex-  actly  to  put  my  finger  on  it,  of  some  cloud  that  occasionally  shadowed  Willie's  usual  exuberance.  For  one  thing,  he  was  worrying  about  his  inabil-  ity  to  concentrate.  He  had  theories  about  concentration,  and,  by  the  stand-  ard  of  what  he  called  &quot;ultimate  concen-  tration,&quot;  he  found  himself  woefully  lacking.  I  pointed  out  to  him  that  he  seemed  able  to  pass  with  ease  the  most  difficult  examinations,  which  certain-  ly  must  mean  that  he  could  concen-  trate.  Perhaps,  although  I  was  too  young  to  realize  it  then,  he  had  begun  to  worry  about  his  inability  to  concen-  trate  on  anything  except  the  abstract,  and  to  realize  that  when  he  was  faced  with  the  workaday  problems  of  practic-  ing  a  profession,  he  shied  off.  One  day  in  the  fall  of  my  senior  year,  he  startled  me  by  calling  me  on  the  telephone  to  ask  if  I  could  make  an  appointment  for  him  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  reliable  psychiatrist.  I  inquired  around  and  was  given  the  name  of  a  well-known  doctor,  and  made  an  appointment  with  him  for  Willie.  I  went  with  Willie  to  the  doctor's  office,  and  sat  in  the  waiting  room  during  the  con-  sultation.  I  could  never  find  out  much  about  what  took  place,  but  I  gathered  later  that  Willie  felt  the  famous  psychia-  trist's  views  on  his  special  problem  were  &quot;superficial.&quot;  Willie  quit  him  after  that  one  visit  but  went  several  times  to  see  an-  other  [REDACTED]  psychiatrist.  Before  long,  he  began  to  pull  out  of  this  particular  de-  pression  and  told  me  with  a  laugh  that  he'd  found  he  couldn't  even  concentrate  on  a  psychiatrist.  By  the  time  of  my  graduation  in  June,  a  ceremony  that  Willie  at-  tended,  he  was  his  old  self  again.  After  that,  I  went  to  New  York  to  live  with  my  brothers,  who  were  already  estab-  lished  there  in  their  own  accounting  firm,  but  I  kept  in  constant  touch  with  Willie  by  letter  and  phone,  and  we  met  during  my  frequent  visits  to  Worcester  to  see  my  mother.  My  brothers  were  ex-  pert  accountants,  and  perhaps  it  was  their  influence  that  made  Willie  sud-  denly  determine  to  switch  careers  again.  He  had  decided  that  accounting  was  a  fresh  field  in  Worcester  and  that  his  legal  training  would  be  ahelp  in  it,  so  he  once  more  studied  in  [REDACTED],  and,  at  the  end  of  his  course,  passed  the  difficult  examination  that  qualified  him  as  a  certi-  fied  public  accountant.  Meanwhile,  I  was  having  a  tough  time  in  New  York.  As  I  was  unable  to  geta  job,  I  did  graduate  work  at  Columbia.  After  I  had  re-  ceived  my  M.A.  de-  gree,  I  got  an  offer  of  an  instructorship  at  the  University  of  Minne-  sota,  at  twelve  hundred  dollars  a  year.I  ac-  cepted  it.  Just  asI  was  about  to  leave  for  the  West,  Willie  made  one  of  his  visits  to  New  York  to  see  my  brothers  and  me.  He  went  first  to  see  my  brothers  at  their  office,  where  they  told  him  about  my  ap-  pointment.  Willie  took  a  poor  view  of  it.  In  fact,  he  put  his  foot  down.  I  must  stay  in  New  York  and  go  on  writing,  he  told  them.  It  was  extraordinary  how  firm  and  decisive  Willie  could  be  about  any  problem  affecting  me.  Nevertheless,  my  oldest  brother  and  I  started  out  the  next  day  to  buy  a  round-trip  ticket  to  [REDACTED],  but  when  we  discovered  that  the  fare  would  use  almost  half  of  my  first  year's  salary,  we  gave  up  the  idea.  Willie  was  delighted  when  he  heard  this;  he  rubbed  his  palms  to-  gether  and  cracked  his  knuckles  with  elation.  In  1926,  I  sold  my  first  play.  Within  an  hour  after  I  heard  that  it  had  been  accepted  for  production,  I  was  on  the  train.  to  Worcester  to  tell  Willie  about  it.  No  telephone  call  would  serve  for  such  great  news.  He  came  to  the  open-  ing  night  in  New  York,  and  instead  of  going  to  the  party  given  forthe  cast,  I  methim  in  Childs  after  the  play.  Willie  was  infine  fettle.  He  elaborated  on  the  difference  between  the  drama  and  other  literary  forms.  I  had,  he  decided,  made  a  good  choice,  and  I  reflected,  without  saying  so,  that  it  was  Willie's  choice  as  much  as  mine.  Then  I  began  to  travel  a  bit,  but  be-  fore  every  journey  I  would  telephone  Willie  in  Worcester,  and  I  always  called  him  up  within  an  hour  of  my  re-  turn.  We  also  kept  up  an  incessant  cor-  respondence.  At  the  end  of  one  long  absence  from  New  York,  I  asked  my  brothers  for  a  report  on  Willie.  'They  said  that  they  were  worried  about  him,  and  told  me  that  one  day  whilethey  were  walking  with  him  and  discuss-  ing  accounting  problems,  Willie  had  stopped  in  the  street  to  point  out  an  ad-  vertising  sign  and  ask  them  whether  they  could  explain  the  mystery  of  a  conjunction  in  the  sign.  Why  was  it     " b"there?  One  of  my  brothers  said  that  it  was  just  a  connective  word.  Willie  wouldn't  let  it  go  at  that.  He  said  he  was  increasingly  troubled  by  the  func-  tion  of  conjunctions,  prepositions,  and  relative  clauses  in  sentences.  After  a  bit,  he  let  it  go  and  was  his  usual  jolly  self.  When  my  brothers  told  me  this,  I  had  that  tantalizing  sense  of  recurrence  that  so  often  afflicts  one.  Out  of  a  drowse  of  memory,  out  of  a  very  dis-  tant  past,  I  heard  again  (did  I  remember  it  or  didn't  1?)  a  long  wrangle  between  Willie  and  my  father  while  I  lay  in  my  bedroom  on  Providence  Street,  supposed  to  be  asleep  but  actually  wide-  wt  awake  and  eavesdropping.  I  NW  heard  my  father  talking  to  il  Willie  as  he  had  to  me,  setting  limits  to  certain  fields  of  in-  quiry,  and  Willie  valiantly  rejecting  any  limits,  which  I  had  never  had  the  cour-  age  to  do.  I  began  to  remember  more  clearly:  My  father  had  said  you  mustn't,  for  example,  speculate  overmuch  on  in-  finity.  I  wondered  whether  Willie  was  now  continuing  his  early  defiance  of  my  father.  Had  he  merely  shifted  the  focus  from  the  cosmic  to  the  infinitesi-  mal,  both  illimitable?  Was  Willie  suf-  focating  from  some  constriction  of  curi-  osity  that  he  couldn't  work  out  of?  In  his  arguments  with  my  father,  Willie  had  flouted  mystery  in  favor  of  illumina-  tion.  Was  Willie  now  lost  in  mystery?  Had  my  father  been  right  to  set  limits  and  Willie  wrong  to  ignore  my  father's  &quot;Keep  Off&quot;  signs?  For  the  first  time  sinceI  had  known  Willie,  I  began  to  feel  a  deep  malaise  about  him.  Before  long,  I  shook  it  off,  telling  myself  that,  after  all,  this  was  merely  another  mani-  festation  of  his  lifelong  fetish  for  analyz-  ing  things  and  breaking  them  down  into  their  component  parts.  N  one's  later  middle  life,  long  jour-  neys  become  perilous,  because  of  the  workings  of  mortality  at  home.  To  re-  turn  and  find  that  somebody  one  has  dearly  loved  has  died  in  one's  absence  gives  one  a  sense  of  special  loss,  almost  a  feeling  of  having  been  callous,  as  if  by  not  being  present  one  had  failedto  pre-  vent  or  delay  the  loss.  I  had  this  strange  feeling  after  my  mother  died  while  I  was  on  the  way  back  from  a  trip  to  Europe;  almost  the  same  thing  hap-  pened  to  me,  years  earlier  and  under  the  same  circumstances,  with  Willie.  In  Willie's  case,  my  sense  of  having  deserted  was  particularly  poignant,  because  his  death  was  what  is  referred  to  glibly  and  superficially  as  &quot;volun-  tary.&quot;  In  the  summer  of  1928,  I  was sailing  from  New  York  for  Europe,  and  I  had  a  long-distance  telephone  talk  with  Willie  just  before  I  boarded  the  ship.  By  that  time,  he  was  in  his  fourth  career.  Willie's  father  had  sold  his  retail  store  to  go  into  manufacturing,  and  Willie  had  abandoned  accounting  to  serve  as  an  executive  inhis  father's  factory.  When  I  talked  with  him  the  evening  I  sailed,  he  was  gay,  and  told  me  proud  anecdotes  about  his  two  chil-  dren.  I  was  going  to  be  very  busy  and  would  be  moving  about  a  good  deal  in  Eu-  rope  on  that  trip,  with  many  changes  of  address,  so  we  agreed  not  to  write  to  each  other  while  I  was  away.  Several  months  later,  on  my  return,  one  of  my  broth-  ers  met  me  at  the  pier,  as  he  did  later  when  my  mother  died,  and  took  me  to  my  hotel.  I  went  at  once  to  the  telephone  to  put  in  a  call  to  Willie,  but  my  brother  stopped  me.  He  told  me  that  Willie  was  dead.  He  said  that  a  fewmonths  earlier  Willie  had  had  some  kind  of  nervous  breakdown  and  had  been  sent  to  a  neurological  institu-  tion  in  [REDACTED],  where  it  was  con-  fidently  expected  that  he  could  be  cured.  He  had  seemed  to  be  getting  better  and  only  a  few  weeks  before  my  return  he  hadhad  a  cheerful  visit  at  the  hospital  with  his  wife  and  children.  The  eve-  ning  after  that  visit,  he  had  broken  the  window  of  his  room  and  cut  his  throat  with  a  piece  of  glass.  Along  with  my  grief,  I  felt  a  kind  of  terrible  self-reproach;  I  could  not  re-  press  the  feeling  that  if  I  had  been  there,  I  might,  by  some  miracle  of  friendship,  have  held  off  the  steep,  dark  walls  that  converged  on  Willie  to  extinguish  him.  The  residual  medieval  superstition  that  those  who  are  afflicted  by  mental  ill-  ness  are  possessed  by  devils  dies  hard.  I  have  seen  people  who  are  sincerely  sym-  pathetic  in  cases  of  physical  illness  be-  have  toward  people  suffering  from  mental  diseases  as  though  they  were  self-  indulgent,  capricious,  or  perverse.  For  one  thing,  those  so  bedevilled  (the  very  word  is  a  legacy  of  the  superstition!)  are  often  at  large,  stumbling  through  the  ordinary  thickets  of  social  life,  where,  unprotected  by  the  accoutrements  of  the  sickroom,  they  have  to  endure  criticism  instead  of  being  comforted  by  compassion.  And  yet  their  sort  of  men-  tal  suffering  impinges  on  the  most  delicate  and  mysterious  and  impene-  trable  of  our  faculties-the  faculty  that  is  the  source  of  idiosyncrasy,  of  the  distinguishing  trait,  of  what  differen-  tiates  us  from  the  inarticulate  animals  and  from  each  other,  Where  the  mind  is  touched,  the  taut  string  at  the  heart  of  the  personality  is  plucked.  If  one  could  trace  to  its  source  the  wild  logic  that  compels  those  like  Willie  to  their  deaths,  one  would  have  solved  the  mystery  of  one  of  the  infinities  in  which  we  swim.  I  have  asked  many  psychiatrists  about  Willie,  and  all  of  them  have  told  me  that  he  was  probably  a  &quot;schizophrenic.&quot;  This  is  a  cataloguing  and  descriptive  word.  What  does  it  explain  of  the  mys-  tery  that  goes  on  within  the  human  mind?  'The  psychiatrists  have  also  told  me  that  autopsies  in  such  cases  reveal  no  lesion  in  the  brain.  It  is  perhaps  an  evidence  of  the  persistence  of  the  magic  and  mystery  in  my  inheritance  that  in  my  rebellious  and  passionate  grieving  at  finding  myself  in  a  world  without  Willie  I  recalled  the  talk  I  had  had  with  him  when  I  was  a  child  and  was  troubled  about  the  enigma  of  the  Name.  Willie  had  been  well  able  to  understand  my  tribulation  then,  and  he  had  ven-  tured  the  opinion  to  me,  as  I  had  to  my  father,  that  someday,  somewhere,  there  would  emerge  an  intelligence  subtle  enough  and  courageous  enough  to  hear  the  true  name  of  the  Lord,  even  if  it  de-  stroyed  him.  Had  Willie,  in  his  lonely  hours,  importunately  sought  the  Name?  Had  he,  I  wondered,  come  too  close?  "