 b"HEAVEN  knows  I  have  nothing against  private  banking  houses.  My  family  used  to  own  one,  or,  to  be  precise,  six-in  New  York,  San  Francisco,  New  Orleans,  [REDACTED],  Lon-  don,  and  [REDACTED]  am  Main-and  in  my  early  teens  I  began  to  read  up  not  only  on  my  relatives,  but  on  such  other  bankers,  domestic,  foreign,  contempo-  rary,  and  veiled  in  antiquity,as  James  Gore  King;  the  Samuel  Wards,  father  and  son;the  [REDACTED]  Browns;  the  Drexels,  Peabodys,  Morgans,  43616e616461s,  Speyers,  Lehmans,  and  Iselins  (&quot;the  Pope's  bankers&quot;  was  the  phrase  for  the  Iselins,  I  recall,  not  from  books  but  from  conversations  with  my  possibly  misin-  formed  elders);  the  [REDACTED]  Munroes  and  Harjeses;  the  Medici,  Strozzi,  Fuggers,  Bischoffsheims;  the  Oppenheims  of  Cologne;  the  [REDACTED]  Warburgs;  the  St.  Petersburg  Giinzburgs;  the  Rothschilds,  Barings,  Barclays,  Lazards,  David-Weills,  and  Jacques  Coeur,  a  fif-  teenth-century  money  man  who,  I  re-  member  reading  in  some  encyclopedia  or  other,  transported  to  [REDACTED]  the  wares  of  the  Levant,  furnished  Charles  VII  with  the  sinews  of  war,  enabling  him  to  oust  the  English  from  Normandy,  and  built  a  pretty  house,  which  I  have  an  idea  is  still  standing.  The  wares  of  the  Levant!  The  sin-  ews  of  war!  Such  phrases  were  forever  cropping  up  in  the  tomes  I  consulted  in  the  Public  Library,  Central  Division,  and  I  loved  them;  they  sounded  roman-  tic,  vague,  and  happily  remote  from  the  mercantile  drudgery  and  the  real  dirty  work  that  was  going  on.  I  loved  the  loyal  Rothschild  carrier  pigeons  who,  or  which,  are  said  to  have  flown  direct  from  theBattle  of  Waterloo  to  their  master,  waiting  like  a  spider  in  the  wings  of  the  London  Stock  Exchange,  and  I  revelled  in  lists  ofsyndicates  in  which  the  firm  names  of  participating  under-  writers  were  set  forth,  dynastically  rather  than  alphabetically,  in  the  order  of  their  weighty  commitments.  There  was  a  time  when  I  could  have  told  you  just  what  the  difference  was  between  Jay  Cooke  and  Jay  Gould,  and  between  Morton,  Bliss  &amp;  Co.  and  Morton,  Rose  &amp;  Co.;  just  why  the  Giinzburgs  were  Austrian,  rather  than  Russian,  barons;  just  when  the  Seligmans  were  super-  seded  by  the  Morgans  as  fiscal  agents  of  the  United  States  government;  and,  for  that  matter,  what  a  fiscal  agent  was,  or  is.  All  this,  for  me,  has  long  had  the  dreamy,  nostalgic  quality  of  a  Beerbohm  caricature  of  King  Edward  VII  or  the  members  of  the  [REDACTED]  African  Diamond  Syndicate.  It  has  sunk  intoa  kind  of  limbo,  in  which  the  elder  Morgan,  in  the  course  of  a  titanic  struggle  forthe  Northern  Pacific  Railroad,  is  looking  down  the  capillaries  of  his  nose,  swollen  with  rosacea,  at  E..  H.  Harriman;  August  [REDACTED],  swollen  with  the  as-  similatory  pleasures  of  duelling  and  the  Knickerbocker  Club,  is  impaled,  neat,  glossy,  and  vertically  mobile,  in  the  notebooks  of  Mrs.  Edith  Wharton  as  the  Simon  Rosedale  of  &quot;The  House  of  Mirth;  Jimmie  Speyer,  fresh  from  the  Kaiser's  yacht,  is  gazing  out  of  the  win-  dows  of  his  Florentine  palazzo  on  Pine  Street  at  explicit,  bankerish  dreams  of  improvements  in  the  [REDACTED]  &amp;  [REDACTED]  Railroad  and  the  economy  of  43756261,  both  Speyer-financed;  andSamuel  Ward,  the  son,  is  represented  (by  the  Dictionary  of  American  Biography,  an  early  bible  of  mine,  which  I've  recent-  ly  re\xc3\xa9xamined)  as  &quot;deeply  mortified  by  the  suspension  of  specie  payments  on  May  10,  1837,  by  the  New  York  banks,  an  act  which  he  regarded  as  a  blot  upon  the  city's  commercial  honor.&quot;  Who  would  be  mortified  by  the  sus-  pension  of  a  specie  payment  today,  if  such  a  thing  still  exists?  Where  are  the  sinews  of  war  of  yesteryear?  Where  are  my  relatives,  for  that  matter?  Their  New  York  banking  house  still  bears  their  name,  but  its  tenants  are  strangers.  The  only  pigeons  I  know  are  the  ones  that  frequent  the  taproom  of  the  Yale  Club.  They  bear  no  messages;  cracker  crumbs,  not  the  tides  of  battle,  are  their  preoccupation;  no  Wall  Street  houses  vie  for  their  services.  The  wares  of  the  Levant  are  in  Macy's.  WHY  am  I  carrying  on  like  this?  Well,  I  think  it's  because  a  stu-  dent  of  the  contemporary  scene  recently  sent  me  a  copy  of  a  letter  written  by  a  partner  in  Lehman  Brothers  to  a  pow-  " b"erfully  recommended  young  man  seek-  ing  a  summer  job  in  that  storied  old  financial  firm,  and  this  communication,  redolent  with  the  kind  of  de-haut-en-bas  banking  flavor  thatI  thought  had  gone  out  with  the  Fuggers,  or  at  any  rate  the  Bischoffsheims,  got  me  to  daydreaming  about  the  portfolioed  heroes  of  my  youth.  It  reads,  in  part,  as  follows:  I  would  like  to  say  in  general  that  we  do  not  usually  hire  young  men  unless  the  applicant  has  a  desire  to  continue  in  the  banking  business  subsequent  to  his  school-  ing.  Furthermore,  the  kind  of  work  that  you  will  be  able  to  do  fora  few  months  will  be  necessarily  of  an  elementary  sort  and  will  at  best  serve  as  no  more  thanan  introduction  to  the  firm  and  to  the  kind  of  business  in  which  it  is  engaged.  Also,  as  you  can  well  imagine,  the  compensation  paid  would  be  of  a  very  minimum  order.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  if  it  were  not  contrary  to  convention,  I  would  recommend  that  you  be  charged  a  small  feeto  work  here,  since  the  cost  to  us  of  such  temporary  em-  ployment  is  far  greater  than  the  services  we  may  reasonably  hope  to  obtain.  With  such  a  caveat  in  front  of  you,  please  arrange  directly  with  Mr.  Goldstein  as  to  when  he  will  be  able  to  interview  you.  Ambivalence  is  the  hallmark  of  our  times,  and  of  me.  I  am  divided  between  a  feeling  that  the  tone  of  this  epistle  is  intolerable,  and  probablycontrary  to  S.E.C.  regulations,  and  a  wild,  nostalgic  &amp;  &amp;  hope  that  the  banker,  like  the  43756261n  cigar,  is  about  to  make  a  comeback.  Heaven  knows,  asI  said  at  the  outset  of  this  reverie,  I  have  nothing  against  private  banking  houses-yet,  on  the  one  hand,  I  would  like  to  say  in  general  who  in  Tophet  does,  or  do,  Lehman  Brothers  think  it,  or  they,  is,  or  are?  The  idea  that  in  the  eyes  of  Senator  Herbert  Lehman's  old  firm  a  college  man's  services-for  the  recipient  of  the  aforementioned  ca-  veat  is  a  Williams  undergraduate-are  something  less  than  worthless  is  one  that  I  feel  would  surely  not  meet  with  favor  in  the  eyes  of  Whitney  Griswold  and  Grayson  L.  Kirk,  two  men  I  admire.  I  have  had  relatives  on  faculties  as  well  as  syndicates,  and  I  incline,  on  odd  Wednesdays,  toward  the  campus  rather  than  the  counting  house.  On  the  other  hand,  the  notion  that  the  good  old  days  when  apprentices  paid  through  the  nose  have  been  revived  has,  on  even  Thurs-  days,  an  enormous  attraction  for  me.  In  any  event,  I  think  that  it  should  be  given  a  chance,  and  that  its  application  should  not  be  confined  to  a  single  firm,  or  even  to  the  banking  community  in  general.  Let  Western  Union,  the  Telephone  Company,  the  department  stores,  let  the  oil  companies,  the  air-conditioning  com-  panies,  the  liquor  shops,  and  backward-  looking  businessmen  everywhere,  small,  medium-sized,  and  large,  charge  their  neophytes  a  suitable  fee,  and  no  non-  sense  about  compensation-other  than  to  employers.  I  would  suggest  ten  dol-  lars  a  week  and  a  flat  fee  of  twelve-fifty  to  the  director  of  personnel.  Perhaps  Harvard  men  should  pay  more;  the  faculty  there  is  superior,  and  they  have  more  to  unlearn.  I  propose  to  help  Lehman  Brothers  start  the  ball  rolling  this  summer.  I  am  looking  for  an  assistant-I  am  in  the  business  of  dowsing  for  water  and  then  digging  wells-and  I  hereby  offer  him  a  fine  of  ten  dollars  a  week,  plus  a  bill  for  two  dollars  each  time  his  divining  rod  strikes  true.  Mine  is  a  deficit  busi-  ness,  and  the  more  work  I  get,  the  more  money  I  lose,  so  this  seems  only  fair.  I  assume  this  is  also  the  situation  at  Leh-  man  Brothers;  they're  afraid  that  Wil-  liams  man  will  bring  in  a  new  account,  thus  plunging  them  further  into  the  red.  In  short,  private  banks,  and  private  bankers,  are  not  what  they  used  to  be,  and  I'm  sorry  I  started  thinking  about  them  again.  What  does  the  name  Henry  Morgan  mean  to  you?Quick!  I'll  bet  half  of  you  are  thinking  ofthe  wrong  Henry  Morgan.  "