 b"EVEN  before  Rosa  was  divorced  and  went  to  live  alone  in  a  one-room  apartment,  she  had  been  afraid  of  lions  in  the  night,  of  mice  and  tigers,  and  even  of  dragons  be-  hind  closet  doors.  But  after  she  moved  things  were  much  worse.  There  was  too  much  vacancy.  She  was  the  only  one  who  touched  anything-papers,  books,  dishes,  clothes.  Soon  she  began  worrying  for  the  op-  posite  reason.  The  cigarette  stubs  and  the  ashes  in  the  ashtray  when  she  came  home  from  work-could  they  all  be  hers?  A  rumpled  tablecloth-was  that  the  way  she  had  left  it  in  the  morning?  A  loop  in  the  telephone  wire  that  she  did  not  remember,  ora  handkerchief  in  a  forgotten  position  on  her  dressing  ta-  ble  in  the  bathroom,  made  her  stop  in  dismay.  When  she  entered  her  apart-  ment,  she  always  waited  a  moment  at  the  door,  giving  fair  warning  of  her  arrival,  so  that  whatever  it  was  could  disappear.  Gradually,  however,  she  became  ac-  customed  to  living  alone,  and  at  times  felt  almost  secure.  There  were,  of  course,  latches  on  the  windows  and  a  lock  on  the  door,  and  at  bedtime  she  put  Flents  in  her  ears,  shutting  out  the  traf-  fic  sounds  and  the  moaning  of  the  tug-  boats  on  [REDACTED].  Her  friends  sometimes  worried  about  burglars  or  men  in  the  street  when  she  insisted  on  walk-  ing  home  late  by  herself.  She  laughingly  reassured  them.  She  wasn't  afraid  of  bur-  glars,  she  said,  and  she  wasn't  one  of  those  women  who  were  always  imagining  they  were  being  followed  by  a  man.  She  was  not  that  sort  at  all,  she  thought;  she  wasn't  frustrated.  Her  marriage  might  have  been  a  mistake,  but  she  felt  she  was  still  at-  tractive-plump,  and  not  old,  and  al-  though  her  black  hair  was  dyed,  you  couldn't  tell  it.  She  would  still  have  suitors.  ONE  night,  Rosa  had  gone  to  bed  feeling  rather  snug.  The  sound  of  the  tugboats  was  shut  out.  The  darkness  did  not  spring  to  life  as  she  put  out  the  light.  She  slept.  So,  later  on,  when  the  sound  of  splintering  glass  finally  penetrated  her  guarded  ears,  she  refused  to  believe  it.  When  she  heard  it  again,  unmistakably,  she  opened  her  eyes  and  unplugged  her  ears  with  impatience.  'This  was  a  little     too  much,  Whatever  it  was,  it  was  get-  ting  careless,  being  very  slow  about  dis-  appearing.  Really,  she  said  to  herself,  really  .  ..  Still  drowsy,  she  let  her  eyes  wander  around  the  dark  room,  now  willing  to  humor  the  unknown  ifits  intent  was  to  try  her.  She  gave  a  long  gasp  when  she  saw  a  shadow  looming  against  the  yel-  low  curtains  of  her  narrow  casement  window.  She  did  not  move.  There  was  one  more  tinkle  of  glass,  and  then  a  hand  reached  through  and  turned  the  handle  of  the  window.  So  this  is  it,  she  thought.  A  bulky  figure  pushed  itself  with  some  difficulty  through  the  narrow  opening.  Why,  it's  a  man,  she  thought;  it's  only  a  man.  He  stepped  nimbly  onto  a  chair  in  front  of  the  window,  and  then  to  the  floor,  and  stood  like  a  djinni  in  her  room.  She  could  see  his  overcoat,  a  square  box  around  him,  and  his  bare  head  bent  at  an  odd,  lunging  angle,  with  a  dark  lock  ofhair  falling,  sheer  and  heavy,  over  one  side  of  his  forehead.  She  looked  at  him  curiously  for  a  moment,  and  then  thought  abruptly:  A  man  in  my  room.  She  could  not  just  lie  there.  She  really  must  do  something.  But  what?  She  felt  deficient  in  the  proper  etiquette  for  such  an  occasion.  She  got  out  ofbed.  Should  she  reach  for  her  robe  and  slippers?  No,  he  would  have  to  accept  her  as  she  was.  Her  long  nightgown  was  flannel,  as  concealing  as  a  tent,  but  her  bare  feet  seemed  out  of  place,  and  she  tried  to  hide  them  under  the  gown.  Her  hair  was  in  plaits  down  her  back.  It  was  a  cold,  misty  night.  She  could  see  the  mist  com-  ing  in  the  window-not  the  broken  casement  window,  which  gave  onto  the  fire  es-  '  cape,  but  alarger  one,  which  she  had  left  partly  open  when  she  went  to  bed.  The  man  took  a  few  steps,  glanced  at  her  vaguely,  and  then  stood  there  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  seemingly  lost.  They  could  not  just  stand  there,  she  thought.  One  of  them  must  speak  first.  &quot;Who  are  you?&quot;  she  asked.  He  seemed  to  be  shaking  himself.  He  must  have  had  a  tough  squeeze  getting  through  that  little  narrow  window,  she  thought.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  she  con-  tinued.  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  &quot;Listen,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  hurt  you.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  she  said,  surprising  herself " b"with  her  calmness.  Of  course  he  didn't  want  to  hurt  her.  Why  should  he?  But  now  that  he  mentioned  it,  why  not?  She  trembled  a  little.  &quot;But  what-&quot;  she  began  hopefully.  Perhapshe  could  explain  it  all  to  her.  &quot;Just  let  me  out  of  here.  I  ain't  gonna  hurt  you.  I  just  want  to  get  out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  this  is  ##,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  mean  if  you  wanted  to  get  out,  why  did  you  come  in?&quot;  It  had  always  been  a  fault  ofhers  to  follow  up  other  people's  remarks  too  lit-  erally.  'That  had  been  her  downfall  in  many  long  arguments  with  her  former  husband,  andhad  perhaps  driven  him  to  escape.  But  she  wanted  to  know  about  this  man.  Surely  she  had  a  right  to  know.  &quot;Just  let  me  get  outa  here,&quot;  said.  Another  thing  about  her  literalness  was  her  feeling  she  had  to  treat  a  re-  quest-any  request-courteously.  So  she  turned  on  the  table  lamp.  It  was  a  few  steps  away,  and  she  had  to  shuffle  carefully  to  keep  her  feet  hidden.  She  and  the  man  studied  each  other.  He  had  a  young,  pale  face.  He  must  be  half  my  age,  she  thought.  She  searched  his  face  for  some  telltale  sign  but  could  find  none.  He  had  a  prominent  nose  that  was  pinched,  reddish,  and  mel-  ancholy-looking.  A  large,  colorless  wart  hung  low  on  one  cheek.  He  swayed  slightly,  perhaps  a  little  unsettled  by  the  light.  Then  he  looked  at  the  bed,  and  she  turned  and  looked,  too.  The  bed  seemed  so  large  and  white,  and  on  her  pillow  were  the  pink  wax  ear-stoppers.  She  drew  her  plaits  over  her  shoulders  in  embarrassment.  Then  she  looked  at  him  again,  almost  apologetically,  as  if  to  say,  Don't  mind  this,  this  is  the  way  I  make  myself  comfortable.  You  see,  I  wasn't  expecting  anybody.  She  stepped  to  the  door  and  opened  it  a  few  inches.  &quot;This  is  the  door,&quot;  she  said.  He  took  a  couple  of  steps  toward  her,  still  swaying.  &quot;You're  not  mad  at  me?&quot;  he  said,  and  putout  his  hand,  almost,  but  not  quite,  touching  hers.  &quot;No,  I'm  not  mad,&quot;  she  said,  and  waited  for  him  to  go.  He  made  no  move.  People  were  so  unreliable,  she  thought.  They  never  meant  what  they  said.  This  was  almost  like  dealing  with  a  boring  suitor  who,  his  advances  dismissed,  insists  on  staying  on  and  trying  to  make  everything  right.  She  simply  mustn't  let  it  turn  into  one  of  those  things.  She  must  be  firm.  It  was  too  ridiculous  to  stand  there  arguing. " b"&quot;But  just  don't  be  mad,&quot;  he  said,  and  swayed  a  step  closer.  No,  this  really  would  not  do.  She  had  been  patient,  but  now  she  must  assert  herself.  &quot;Nonsense,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Of  course  I'm  not  mad.&quot;  He  didn't  move,  butdarted  looks  first  toward  her,  then  around  the  room.  &quot;If  you  don't  go,  I'll-  Pll  call  for  help,&quot;&quot;  she  said  rather  petulantly.  She  opened  the  door  wide,  thinking  again,  suddenly:  My  nightgown!  But  now  it  was  certainly  too  late  to  go  back  for  her  robe.  A  bit  self-consciously,  she  called  out,  &quot;Help!&quot;  Instead  of  echoing  through  the  hall,  the  cry  fell  hollowly,  swallowed  up  by  the  dead  air.  She  tried  again,  louder.  \xe2\x80\x98(Help  l  &gt;  Nothing  happened.  No  doors  opened.  Still,  he  would  see  that  she  meant  what  she  said.  She  turned  back  into  the  room.  &quot;See?&quot;  she  said,  in  a  cross,  quarrelsome  tone.  &quot;I  told  you  I  would.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  His  dark  lock  and  melancholy  nose  pointed  down-  ward.  He  passed  by  her,  and  out,  while  she  held  herself  commandingly  aloof,  sweeping  to  one  side  her  billowing  night-  dress.  She  watched  as  he  descended  the  stairs.  A  few  steps  below  her,  he  paused,  turned,  and  looked  back  at  her  reproach,  fully,  and  then  continued  on  down.  She  heard  the  street  door  close  with  a  dull,  grating  sound.  She  closed  her  own  door,  and  looked  doubtfully  about  her.  Her  hand  trembled  as  she  lit  a  cigarette.  She  was  oppressed  by  a  feeling  ofanticlimax.  What  a  fuss  she  had  made!  Her  cry  for  help,  now-  had  that  really  been  necessary?  She  had  a  sense  of  having  been  too  strict,  of  hav-  ing  applied  stern  measures  over  a  trifle.  He  had  gone  so  docilely,  she  thought.  She  picked  up  a  book  she  had  been  read-  ing  before  she  fell  asleep,  and  turned  the  pages  mechanically.  'The  feeling  of  de-  flation  persisted.  Was  this  all  there  was  to  it?  And  yet  it  had  been  so  queer.  What  did  he  want?  What  was  he  look-  ing  for?  And  now,  under  the  circum-  stances,  wasn't  something  else  required  of  her?  What,  for  instance,  would  she  tell  her  friends?  She  tried  to  imagine  herself  describing  what  had  happened.  Of  course.  The  police.  Her  friends  would  be  sure  to  ask  whether  she  had  called  the  police.  HE  police  came-two  of  them,  one  in  uniform  and  the  other  in  plain  clothes.  They  questioned  her  for  a  long  time.  Was  he  a  burglar?  No,  she  said,  for  there  was  her  red  draw-  string  bag  in  full  view  on  the  table  near " b"the  casement  window.  Surely  he  would  have  spotted  it  if  he  had  been  a  burglar.  &quot;Did  he  make  a  pass  at  you?&quot;&quot;  the  one  in  plain  clothes  asked.  She  told  themwhat  he  had  said.  They  appeared  unimpressed.  &quot;But  he  didn't  make  a  pass  at  you?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  She  blushed,  thinking  of  her  plaits  and  her  lack  of  makeup.  &quot;He  mighta  been  a  dope  fiend,  a  hophead,&quot;  the  one  in  uniform  said.  She  said  she  didn't  know,  and  felt very  ignorant.  &quot;Or  he  mighta  just  been  lonesome,&quot;  the  one  in  uniform  said,  with  a  laugh.  He  waited  for  her  to  smile,  and  she  did,  obediently.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  telephone  sooner?&quot;  the  plainclothesman  asked.  &quot;I  never  thought  of  it.&quot;  &quot;You  should  have  thought  of  it  first  thing,&quot;  he  said  severely.  &quot;I  will  next  time,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  the  shat-  tered  window,  &quot;you  were  lucky.&quot;  They  made  her  get  dressed  and  go  down  to  headquarters  with  them.  There  they  showed  her  pictures  of  male-  factors,  neatly  arranged  in  drawers  labelled  &quot;Second  Story  Men,&quot;  &quot;Hand-  kerchief  Trick,&quot;  &quot;Gentleman  Johnny,&quot;  and  she  looked  fearfully  and  in  fascina-  tion  at  the  docketed  faces:  young  men  with  tender,  drooping  mouths;  older  men  with  misshapen  features;  and  scarred  and  defiant  men  of  all  ages.  He  was  not  one  of  these.  Illogically,  she  sighed  with  relief.  HE  next  day  at  work,  two  of  her  friends,  Miss  Robinson  and  Miss  Green,  asked  immediately,  &quot;Was  he  colored?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Rosa  answered.  &quot;You're  lucky,&quot;  they  said.  Really,  she  wished  she  had  told  them  nothing  about  it.  Everybody  at  the  office  speculated.  If  he  wasn't  a  burglar  ora  rapist  or  a  murderer,  what,  then?  Well,  maybe  an  inexperienced  burglar,  one  of  them  said.  She  had  to  laugh  atthat.  RJSA  visited  her  friends  the  Gold-  smiths.  When  dinner  was  over  and  their  child  had  been  put  to  bed,  she  thought  it  was  a  good  time  to  tell  her  story.  &quot;Let's  see  what  they  have  on  'Sus-  pense,'  &quot;  said  Mrs.  Goldsmith  idly.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  Rosa  said.  &quot;I  have  a  true  story  to  tell  you.&quot;  Mrs.  Goldsmith  turned  on  the  televi-  sion  set  but  kept  the  volume  low.  Rosa  began  to  tell  her  story,  and  the  Gold-  smiths  prepared  to  listen  politely.  But " b"she  could  see  their  eyes  straying  to  the  screen,  where  a  young  woman  was  opening  her  mouth  wide,  about  to  scream  in  terror.  What  can  I  offer  them,  Rosa  thought.  She  hadn't  even  screamed,  much  less  in  terror,  unless  you  counted  her  cry  for  help.  Nothing  had  happened,  really.  Even  the  police-  men  had  been  skeptical;  only  the  broken  window  had  moved  them.  'The  Gold-  smiths  didn'tnotice  when  her  story  petered  out,  and  they  saw  the  program  to  the  end.  &quot;Weren't  you  telling  me  some-  thing?&quot;  Mrs.  Goldsmith  asked.  &quot;Oh,  it  wasn't  much.  Someone  broke  into  my  apartment,&quot;  said  Rosa.  Then  they  did  try  to  make  amends,  by  listening  with  great  care.  &quot;You'd  better  get  another  lock  on  your  door,&quot;  said  Mr.  Goldsmith,  finally.  &quot;One  of  those  Yale  locks,  not  the  rotary  kind.&quot;  Rosa  nodded.  IT  was  several  days  before  the  janitor  could  get  the  window  permanently  repaired.  Rosa  didn't  mind,  and  she  didn't  change  the  lock  on  her  door.  Everywhere  she  went,  she  searched  for  him,  or  for  someone  to  match  him.  For  instance,  that  young  and  harried  waiter  at  the  restaurant  near  her  office.  She  substituted  the  face  of  her  midnight  visitor  for  his,  and  it  fitted  without  much  trouble,  but  it  faded  away  justas  easily.  Or  the  young  salesman  at  Blooming-  dale's.  Or  the  man  in  the  elevator  of  her  office  building.  What  did  her  visi-  tor  do  when  he  was  not  roaming  around  at  night,  she  wondered.  Where  did  he  sleep?  After  a  time,  she  looked  for  him  less  often,  or  not  at  all  for  days  together.  She  even  forgot  to  look  for  a  stirring  at  the  curtains.  But  at  night,  lying  in  her  bed  in  the  darkness,  she  often  thought  of  a  nose  pinched  with  melancholy,  a  wart  white  as  tallow,  and  a  pale  hand  slowly  ex-  tended.  &quot;Don't  be  mad  at  me,&quot;  she  could  hear  a  voice  say.  &quot;I'm  not  mad,&quot;  she  would  whisper,  but  then  a  face  would  look  at  her  re-  proachfully  from  the  stairs."