 b"READING  last  week  in  some  fam-  ily  papers  how  &quot;the  Bishop  did  them  in  whole  railsful  with  both  hands&quot;-my  grandmother's  fastidious  Scotch  account  ofa  mass  confirmation  in  St.  Paul's-I  was  glad  that  the  mel-  lowing  influence  of  some  fifty  years  had  intervened  between  the  ceremony  she  described  and  a  similar  ceremony  in  which  I  played  my  modest  part.  If  she  had  objected,  her  objection  would  have  had  the  force  of  an  ex  cathedra;  my  grandfather  had  been  well  esteemed  as  a  preacher  and  my  grandmother  had  written  all  his  sermons,  which  made  her  the  family  authority  on  matters  of  church  discipline.  But  she  did  not  object.  I  was  confirmed  in  St.  Paul's,  and  I  do  not  in  any  way  regret  it.  I  was  sixteen  at  the  time,  and  not  in  a  state  of  religious  exaltation.  We  were  not  a  religious  household.  But  the  due  preliminaries  had  been  attended  to,  I  had  some  conversations  on  theology  with  a  clerical  friend  of  my  parents,  a  man  of  signal  goodness  of  heart  but  without  much  dialectical  address.  (I  re-  member  him  saying,  &quot;And,  of  course,  there's  the  Atonement.&quot;)  My  father  ascertained  that  I  was  acquainted  with  the  Thirty-Nine  Articles  and  knew  the  Church  Catechism  by  heart,  and  drew  my  attention  to  a  text  (Isaiah  40:31)  that  implies  that  it  is  less  taxing  and  re-  markable  to  mount  up  like  eagles  than  to  go  on  walking,  which,  considering  the  perseverance  I  had  put  into  learning  the  Catechism,  I  thought  unkind.  My  mother  gave  much  anxious  con-  sideration  to  how  I  could  possibly  combine  wearing  a  veil  with  wearing  spectacles.  And  on  a  fine  May  morning  (I  know  it  was  in  May;  May  is  an  unlucky  month  for  marriages  but  not  for  confirmations)  I  was  punctually  in  my  place  in  the  nave  of  St.  Paul's  without  an  un-  easy  thought  in  my  mind,  for  the  incom-  patibility  of  my  veil  and  my  spectacles  (I  had  insisted  on  retaining  the  spec-  tacles)  was-as,  thanks  to  the  spec-  tacles,  I  soon  discovered-a  handicap  shared  by  a  number  of  other  candidates,  and  anything  like  stagefright  was  abolished  by  my  being  one  of  such  a  number  that  all  I  had  to  do  was  to  do  as  all  the  others  did.It  was  not  as  if  I  were  in  one  ofthe  front  rows.  I  was     well  situated,  somewhere  about  the  mid-  dle.  Best  of  all,  there  was  no  one  with-  in  sight  whom  I  had  ever  set  eyes  on  before.  I  sat  in  tranquil  anonymity,  waiting  for  the  Bishop  to  appear  and  the  service  to  begin.  I  listened  to  the  organ,  which  was  rolling  about  in  one  of  those  somno-  lent  extemporizations  that  Church  of  England  organists  do  so  well.  I  looked  toward  the  dome,  and  there  it  was.  I  glanced  across  the  central  aisle,  which  sexually  differentiated  the  candidates,  and  thought  it  was  hard  for  boys  not  to  be  granted  veils;  one  feels  so  ensconced  in  a  veil.  Our  parents,  godparents,  and  other  confirmed  members  of  the  Church  of  England  sat  well  to  the  back  of  the  building  in,  as  it  were,  a  sort  of  hallowed  pit,  and  this  added  to  my  satis-  faction,  partly  because  it  meant  that  my  mother  could  not  get  at  me  for  any  last-  minute  pinnings  or  admonitions,  and  partly  because  it  was  agreeable  to  think  of  them  being  kept  in  their  place-a  comfortable,  respectable  place,  but  not  the  operative  one.  My  memory  assures  me  that  they  were  held  back  by  some  red  ropes.  But  I  do  not  think  this  was  actual-  ly  the  case;  the  ropes  were  probably  in-  corporeal.  Anyhow,  they  could  not  get  in  among  us;  they  were  no  part  of  the  flock.  I  had  very  powerfully  the  sensation  of  being  one  ofa  flock,  in  an  exceedingly  handsome  fold.  We  were  such  a  large  flock  (I  daresay  there  were  five  hundred  of  us,  culled  from  the  met-  ropolitan  diocese,  and  perhaps  more)  that  the  handsomeness  of  the  fold  did  not  seem  be-  yond  our  deserts,  and  yet,  on  the  other  hand,  the  fold's  classical  stat-  ure  and  magnificence,  and  the  absence  of  fuss  with  which  Sir  Christo-  pher  Wren  did  his  busi-  ness,  countervailed  any  tendency  to  self-impor-  tance  or  egoistic  exaltation.  It  is  in  school  chapels  that  confirmation  candi-  dates  have  visions  and  see  doves  hover-  ing  with  marked  solicitude  over  par-  ticular  heads-usually  their  own  heads.  With  the  best  will  in  the  world  (not  that  I  was  set  on  it,  or  thought  it  very  likely),  I  could  not  anticipate  such  a  distinguishing  dove's  being  requisitioned  for  the  ceremony  about  to  take  place.  Flocking,  I  felt,  was  the  main  thing.  And  any  specifically  pious  thoughts  I  " b"had  were  all  of  security,  continuity,  and  conformity,  with  a  musing  awareness  that  in  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  the  service  of  Confirmation  is  followed  by  the  Solemnization  of  Matrimony,  and  that,  in  turn,  by  the  Visitation  ofthe  Sick  and  the  Burial  ofthe  Dead.  Meanwhile,  the  organ  had  rolled  into  a  more  purposeful  measure,  the  Bishop  had  entered,  and  the  service  had  begun.  In  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  the  Order  of  Confirmation  is  brief  and  compact  (making  prudent  allowance,  as  I  had  learned,  for  the  length  of  time  required  for  a  Bishop's  reiterated  &quot;De-  fend,  O  Lord,  this  Thy  Child,&quot;  etc.).  I  had  been  somewhat  taken  aback  to  discover  from  the  leaflet  provided  that  the  Prayer  Book  text  was  to  be  consid-  erably  bulked  out  by  the  inclusion  of  hymns  and  two  Addresses  from  the  Bishop,  one  before  the  &quot;Defend,  O  Lord&quot;s,  and  one  after-by  which  time,  considering  what  railfuls  there  were  of  us,  he  might  reasonably  have  been  ex-  pected  to  be  rather  out  of  breath  and  disinclined  for  further  talking.  But  it  was  not  this  that  prejudiced  me  against  the  Bishop.  It  was  his  habiliments  that  I  was  disappointed  in.  Reared  on  the  engravings  of  Gillray  and  Rowlandson,  I  had  expected  his  lawn  sleeves  to  be  much  puffier.  I  may  even  subconscious-  ly  have  been  expecting  him  to  wear  a  full-bottomed  wig.  As  it  was,  I  judged  that  he  looked  meagre,  and  that  his  cas-  sock  should  not  have  shown  so  much  of  hisboots,  and  that  those  boots  should  not  have  been-however  nicely  blacked-  such  plainly  secular  boots.  But  the  state  of  being  in  a  flock,  secured  by  those  ropes  and  impersonally  brooded  over  by  that  ravishing  echo,  which  turns  the  squeak  ofa  chair  into  psalmody  and  into  which  coughs  and  sneezes  ascend  and  are  instantly  beatified  into  mild  halle-  lujahs,  kept  me  ina  decent  frame  of  mind,  and  when  the  Bishop  began  his  first  Address,  I  took  pains  to  sort  him  out  from  the  squeaks,  coughs,  and  sneezes,  and  to  attend  to  what  he  might  have  tosay.  'The  Wages  of  Sin  Is  Death.&quot;  That  was  his  text,  and  perhaps  he  thought  we  were  not  familiar  with  it,  for  he  re-  peated  it  pretty  frequently.  I  was  think-  ing  about  the  grammatical  oddity,  which  at  some  time  or  other  had  been  explained  to  me,  and  trying  to  recall  the  explanation,  when  a  new  ingredient  was  cast  into  the  echo.  It  came  from  the  further  side  of  the  sexually  dividing  aisle,  and  was  contributed  by  a  young  man  wearing  the  uniform  of  a  rating  in  the  Royal  Navy.  He  was  edging  his" b"way  past  the  knees  and  among  the  feet  and  the  hassocks  of  the  half-dozen  or  so  candidates  seated  between  him  and  the  aisle.  Though  he  was  doing  it  care-  fully  and  considerately,  he  could  not  do  it  silently,  and  his  face  wore  that  ex-  pression  of  contained,  unwilling  woe  that  designates  the  truebred  English-  man  when  he  knows  he  is  making  him-  self  conspicuous.  Once  disentangled,  however,  he  looked  cheerful,  and  walked  lightly  and  briskly  down  the  aisle  and  eventually  out  ofthe  building.  We  were  all  too  well-conducted  to  seem  to  notice  this,  and  the  Bishop  was  also  too  well-conducted  to  waver  in  his  peroration  or  interpolate  a  pastoral  re-  call.  We  behaved  as  though  nothing  had  happened.  But  the  recording  echo  had  not  failed  to  gather  up  those  de-  parting  steps,  and  we  were  all  of  us  per-  fectly  aware  that  the  young  sailor  had  got  up  and  gone  away.  FTERWARD,  my  parents  and  I  often  discussed  this  strange  inci-  dent,  each  of  us,  as  usual,  with  his  own  theory.  According  to  my  mother,  the  young  sailor  had  never  meant  to  be  con-  firmed.  He  had  gone  into  St.  Paul's  for  a  little  sightseeing  and,  finding  it  too  much  for  him,  had  sat  down  in  what  was  at  that  moment  a  nice,  empty  public  building  and  fallen  asleep.  A  young  sailor  could  sleep  through  anything;  we  had  Shakespeare's  word  for  it,  and  Shakespeare  was  always  right.  So  the  young  sailor  slept  on,  peacefully  as  though  upon  the  high  and  giddy  mast,  while  the  confirmation  candidates  mus-  tered  round  him,  and  the  service  began,  and  got  asfaras  halfway  through  the  Bishop.  Then,  catching  some  view-  halloo  note  in  the  Bishop's  oratory,  the  young  sailor  had  woken,  realized  his  peril,  and  got  out  justin  time.  Nelson  would  have  been  delighted-my  mother  rated  Nelson  only  one  below  Shake-  speare.  My  father  disagreed;  in  fact,  he  disagreed  twice.  My  mother,  he  said,  took  Shakespeare  too  literally,  and  did  not  make  allowance  for  speaking  in  character.  A  king  might  very  well  sup-  pose  that  a  wet  sea-boy  could  sleep  like  a  dormouse  on  the  masthead  during  a  storm,  and  a  king  suffering  from  in-  somnia  would  be  all  the  more  inclined  to  take  this  view,  but  that  was  not  to  say  that  Shakespeare  thought  so  him-  self.  By  my  father's  reading  of  the  in-  cident,  the  young  sailor  had  gone,  or  been  taken,  to  St.  Paul's  like  any  other  of  the  candidates,  only  he  had  not  been  sufficiently  prepared-prepared  for  the  length  of  the  service.  A  call  of  nature  had  been  too  strong  for  him;  he  had " b"gone  out  to  finda  public  convenience  and  then  felt  too  self-conscious  to  come  in  again.  I  considered  both  these  theo-  ries  ingenious  but  wrong.  In  my  view,  the  young  sailor  decided  that  he  did  not  care  about  being  confirmed,  and  had  the  courage  of  his  opinions.  I  did  not  add,  for  it  is  no  use  going  into  that  sort  of  thing  witheven  the  most  emancipated  parents  (and  mine  were  remarkably  emancipated  from  the  usual  parental  duty  to  quell  their  child),  that  the  young  sailor's  action  had  filled  me  with  such  admiration  for  his  inde-  pendent  mind  and  such  shame  at  my  own  sheepish  conformity  that  though  I  went  on  being  confirmed,  I  was  to  all  intents  and  purposes  unconscious  of  it.  One  can  never  know  beforehand  what  isn't  going  to  happen  to  one,  or,  as  a  hymn  expresses  it,  &quot;Sometimes  a  light  surprises  the  Christian  while  he  sings.&quot;  A  light  had  surprised  me.  A  dove  had  descended  where  I  was  least  expecting  it.  A  profound  spiritual  experience  had  taken  place-though  a  little  premature,  ly-during  my  confirmation.  And  by  the  time  my  mother  had  produced  my  hat  from  a  paper  bag  and  we  were  lunching  very  late  in  a  City  restaurant,  I  knew  that  I  would  follow  the  young  sailor  out. "