 b"THERE  are  lines  you  pick  up  from  a  particular  person  that  be-  come  parts  of  your  habitualrep-  ertory.  'They  have  associations  that  keep  them  bright  for  you,  but  they  sound  so  flat  you  feel  called  upon  to  explain  what  once  made  them  seem  funny.  Forexample,  here's  one  I  some-  times  use  between  drinks:  &quot;It  is  better  as  a  kick  in  za  pants,  so  say  my  grand-  mozaire.&quot;  This  expression  never  tickles  any-  body  else,  but  it  does  me,  doubtless  be-  cause  it  evokes  the  image  of  a  round,  pink  Slavic  face  with  aroofof  yel-  low  hair  like  the  down  onan  Easter  chick-the  face  of  Kostya,  le  Com-  mandant  Rozanoff-and  a  conversa-  tional  voice  precisely  like  theold  basso  .  Chaliapin's.  \xc2\xa7  Rozanoff  would  knock  off  three  ounces  of  straight  whiskey  in  a  gulp.  He  was  what  old  bartenders  call  a  lip  drink-  er:  When  he  had  got  the  edge  of  the  vessel  against  his  lower  lip,  he  would  throw  his  head  back  and  the  drink  over  his  tongue  and  down.  Then  he  would  intone  his  cherished  line  of  what  he  believed  to  be  Ameri-  can,  and  hold  out  his  canteen  cup  for  more  whiskey.  The  rest  of  his  English  was  negligible.  I  forget  how  the  alter-  nation  began-with  the  jest  or  the  gesture-but  it  usually  continued  un-  til  the  pink  face  blurred  before  my  eyes.  He  was  invincible.  Rozanoff  fondled  the  illusion  that  all  Americans  drank  their  whiskey  straight  and  in  the  man-  ner  he  practiced.  Like  the  grandmo-  zaire  gag,  it  was  part  of  the  tradition  of  his  squadron  in  the  Arm\xc3\xa9e  de  P  Air,  les  Sioux,  pronounced,  under  another  misapprehension,  &quot;Syukes.&quot;  (They  as-  sumed,  apparently,  that  Americans  would  sound  the  &quot;x,&quot;  and  they  want-  ed  to  say  it  the  American  way.)  The  original  members  of  the  squadron,  in  World  War  I,  had  been  American  volunteers,  and  after  they  went,  the  squadron  had  kept  the  name,  the  in-  signe,  and  its  concepts  of  American  customs.  The  insigne,  an  Indian  head  in  full  war  bonnet,  was  painted  on  the  American  P-40  that  Rozanoff  got  out  of  when  I  first  met  him-at  Th\xc3\xa9lepte,  an  airfield  in  [REDACTED],  in  January,  1943.  &quot;Rozanoff,&quot;  he  said,  shaking  hands,  and  then,  before  even  declaring  himself  conventionally  enchanted:  &quot;'These  machines  respond  to  the  controls  too  slow-  ly,  and  then  react  too  violently.&quot;  He  had  been  a  test  pilot  before  the  war,  and  the  habit  stuck.  When  I  met  Rozanoff,  he  commanded  a  group  of  nine  French  pilots  who  had  been  assigned  new  P-40s  at  43616e616461blanca.  From  [REDACTED],  they  had  flown  toward  the  front,  with  a  stop  at  [REDACTED]  to  refuel.  But  onlyseven  arrived  at  Th\xc3\xa9lepte.  Rozanoff  told  me  that  evening  that  he  was  thirty-eight,  and  when  I  relayed  the  information  to  some  of  our  young  pilots,  they  were  gloomy,  because  we  were  short  of  planes  at  that  field  and  they  thought  it  wasteful  to  let  a  man  so  old  fly  a  new  fighter.  &quot;His  reflexes  are  just  too  slow  for  three  hundred  miles  an  hour,&quot;  they  said.  (They  were  flat-  tering  the  P-40  slightly.)  Ten  years  later,  I  read  in  a  French  magazine  that  Rozanoff,  the  leading  test  pilot  of  [REDACTED],  had  hit  eight  hundred  and  thirty-seven  in  a  Myst\xc3\xa9re  IV,  the  new  French  jet.  He  had  pierced  the  sound  barrier-horizontally,  not  diving-  five  times  in  a  single  flight.  Most  of  the  young  pilots  who  had  survived  the  war  considered  them-  selves  middle-aged  by  that  time.  It  cheered  me  no  end,  especially  considering  the  train-  ing  regime  of  the  Com-  mandant,  who  had  in  the  intervening  years  become  the  Colonel.  FEW  weeks  ago,  I  saw  on  page  6  of  the  Sunday  New  York  Times  a  headline  that  puzzled  me  for  a  moment:  FRENCH  JET  CRASH  PERILS  MINISTERS  I  don't  like  &quot;perils&quot;  as  a  verb,  although  as  I  have  ascertained  itis  in  Webster's  Unabridged.  What  was  more  im-  portant,  I  couldn't  understand  at  first  glance  how  a  jet  crash  could  &quot;peril&quot;  a  passenger.  It  would  kill  him.  This  was  a  momentary  obtuseness.  The  Ministers  had  not  been  in  the  plane.  The  bank  of  the  head  explained:  Prange  Parts  Fat  NEar  PLEvEN  Aanp  BririsHx  Suppiy  CHIEF-  Nortep  Pmort  Is  The  lead  said  parts  of  the  plane  had  fallen  &quot;about  fifty  yards&quot;  from  the  statesmen,  which  didn't  excite  me  un-  duly.  But  the  second  paragraph  began,  &quot;Col.  Constantin  Rozanoff,  49  years  old,  who  was  at  the  controls  of  the  " b"Mystere  IV,  [REDACTED]'s  latest  jet,  met  instant  death.&quot;  Kostya  is  the  diminutive  for  Constantin.  I  remembered  Kostya  had  told  me  his  grandparents  were  Rus-  sian  and  he  was  French.  The  Times  said  he  was  a  native  of  [REDACTED];  his  birth  may  have  occurred  during  the  family's  west-  ward  migration.  Kostya  had  been  showing  off  the  plane  before  the  visiting  officials,  includ-  ing  a  British  air  marshal.  I  imagine  he  had  wanted  the  R.A.F.  to  be  stunned  with  admiration.  Skimming  the  ground,  he  would  have  allowed  a  clearance  of  about  one  centimetre,  if  I  knew  him.  I  was  happy  to  see  he  had  not  been  at  fault  personally.  &quot;The  plane  encountered  a  strong  gust  of  wind,  one  wing  touched  the  ground,  and  the  craft  crashed,  ex-  ploded,  and  burst  into  flames.  Parts  were  hurled  in  all  directions.&quot;  It  would  have  pained  Kostya  to  think  he  was  losing  his  touch,  but  winds  at  an  altitude  of  almost  nothing  are  unpredictable.  From  an  air-mail  copy  of  Le  Monde  that  I  saw  a  couple  of  days  later,  I  learned  that  the  French  had  been  show-  ing  the  British  their  jets  with  a  view  to  selling  them  some.  Kostya  had  been  doing  eleven  hundred  kilometres  six  hundred  and  eighty-four  miles-an  hour.  While  I  was  still  reading  the  Times  story,  however,  I  didn't  know  about  Kostya's  added  incentive.  There  was  a  picture  that  showed  him  wearing  one  of  the  enormous  helmets  that  make  all  jet  pilots  look  like  hydrocephalics.  The  Indian  head,  his  old  talisman,  was  clearly  visible  on  its  front.  Kostya  was  sitting  in  a  cockpit,  reaching  down  over  the  side,  and  some  joker  was  handing  him  up  abuilding  brick,to  celebrate  his  first  crash  through  the  &quot;wall&quot;  of  sound.  The  joke  was  in  Rozanoff's  own  vein.  I  remembered  the  time  in  Africa  General  Welvert,  fifty  miles  away,  learned  of  the  presence  of  Kostya  and  his  pilots  at  the  American  field,  and  decided  this  gave  him  a  private  air  force.  The  General  telephoned  an  order  for  le  Commandant  Rozanoff  to  wait  on  him  immediately.  Rozanoff  was  too  busy,  fighting  two  or  three  times  a  day;  besides,  he  had  no  idea  of  putting  him-  self  under  the  orders  of  a  ground-force  general.  When  Rozanoff  didn't  show  up,  the  General  sent  over  a  message,  by  hand,  ordering  him  to  consider  himself  under  arrest.  At  that  field,  we  all  lived  in  holes  in  the  ground,  roofed  over  with  planks  and  camouflaged  with  alfa  grass.  Kostya  got  down  into  his  hole  so  that  only  his  head  showed  above  ground " b"at  the  entrance.  He  held  two  sticks  vertically  in  front  of  his  face  and  made  a  horrendous  grimace.  One  of  his  pilots  took  a  photograph  of  him  that  way,and  they  sent  it  over  to  the  divisonmaire  with  the  message  &quot;TheCommandant  Rozanoff  in  prison,  at  the  orders  of  General  Welvert.&quot;  Old  Welvert  had  had  no  right  to  send  for  him,  of  course.  It  was  a  time  when  all  French  generals  were  trying  to  accumulate  as  much  authority  as  possible  against  the  day  when  Giraud's  people  and  de  Gaulle's  people  would  have  to  share  the  marbles.  That  was  a  day  Welvert  never  lived  to  see;  he  was  killed  by  a  mine  in  the  spring  offensive.  OBODY  could  say  Kostya  didn't  have  a  sense  of  humor.  During  the  winter  of  the  war  that  turned  out  not  to  be  phony,  he  once  told  me,  the  French  shot  down  a  Messerschmitt  of  a  new  mark  in  the  area  between  the  two  armies  in  Lorraine.  The  pilot  had  bailed  out  before  the  plane  hit.  By  a  lucky  chance,  it  was  not  a  complete  wreck.  The  Army  of  the  Air  had  a  curiosity  to  examine  a  Messerschmitt  of  thislatest  edition;  Rozanoff  therefore  went  out  into  the  disputed  land  to  repair  the  plane.  He  worked  at  night  under  a  tarpaulin,  to  hide  his  light,  and  slept  un-  der  the  wings  by  day.  After  several  nights,  he  had  repairedthe  engine,  and  one  dawn  he  took  off  for  [REDACTED].  But  as  he  prepared  to  land  on  the  airfield  at  Toul,  the  French  ack-ack  opened  up  and  shot  the  unannounced  Messer-  schmitt  full  of  holes.  He  had  to  bail  out,  like  the  German  pilot  before  him,  and  the  plane  crashed  &quot;in  much  worse  state  than  before&quot;-an  irretrievable  mess.  He  thought  it  very  funny.  &quot;It  is  better  as  akick  in  za  pants,&quot;  he  said,  and  we  had  a  drink  on  his  adven-  ture.  Another  joke  of  his  I  remember  was  made  after  ten  Junkers  bombers  es-  corted  by  only  four  Macchis,  Italian  fighter  planes,  attacked  our  field.  The  attack  was  an  example  of  the  stupidity  that  sometimes  made  life  bearable  for  the  opponents  of  the  Luftwaffe;  the  Germans  must  havethought  they  had  destroyed  our  planes  on  the  ground.  We  had  several  French  and  American  planes  on  patrol  and  a  lot  more  that  got  into  the  air  in  time  to  join  the  fight.  All  ten  bombers  were  shot  down,  and  the  four  Macchis  &quot;gave  it  the  blossom,&quot;  in  the  phrase  of  Colonel  Phil  Cochran,  a  leading  light  at  the  field,  which  is  to  say  they  beat  it.  Things  happened  too  fast  for  accurate  observation,  and  when  the  scramble  was  over,  Intelligence  had" b"a  rare  situation  to  consider.  Ten  enemy  planes  were  down,  and  there  were  only  nine  pilots'  claims  for  credit,  Rozanoff  had  the  answer.  &quot;The  Italians  shot  down  the  tenth  so  he  wouldn't  go  home  and  tell  on  them,&quot;  he  said.  Kostya  lived  through  a  difficult  time  at  that  field,  though,  until  the  victory  over  the  ten  bombers  made  everybody  happy.  He  and  his  brother  pilots  had  been,  as  I've  said,  members  of  theold  Arm\xc3\xa9e  de  l  Air.  They  had  flown  their  planes  to  Africa  after  the  debacle  of  1940  in  the  belief  the  French  govern-  ment  would  continue  the  war.  But  when  P\xc3\xa9tain  surrendered  the  empire,  they  had  not  skipped  out  to  join  de  Gaulle.  So  their  will  to  fight  the  Germans  was  still  in  question  when  I  first  met  them.  The  seven  out  of  nine  who  arrived  at  the  field  with  the  P-40s  must  have  suspected  the  rea-  son  for  the  nonappearance  of  the  two  others,  but  they  dared  not  admit  their  suspicion,  even  to  themselves.  Conse-  quently,  Rozanoff  made  constant  in-  quiries  about  the  two  men,  unreported  since  [REDACTED].  Was  it  possible,  he  would  ask,  that  there  had  been  an  unobserved  air  action  deep  in  Allied  territory  in  which  they  had  been  shot  down,  or  that  they  had  made  a  forced  landing  in  the  mountains  and  nobody  had  found  them?  &quot;They  were  experienced  pilots,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;'They  had  plenty  of  fuel.  It  is  inconceivable  that  they  lost  their  way.&quot;  In  fact,  as  we  learned  later,  the  two  men  had  flown  their  planes  to  Vichy  [REDACTED]  and  delivered  them  to  the  P\xc3\xa9tainists.  This  circumstance  made  our  seven  too  eager  to  prove  themselves.  Cochran  had  developed  a  technique  of  combat  that  depended  for  success  upon  a  pilot  who  could  bide  his  time.  Messer-  schmitts,  and  even  more  so  Focke-  Wulfs,  were  considerably  faster  than  P-40s,  could  outclimb  and  outdive  them.  So  P-40s  on  patrol  were  instruct-  ed  never  to  climb  after  the  enemy  but  to  wait  until  he  dived  and  then  turn  up  into  him.  The  P-40s  were  sturdy  and " b"well  armed,  and  in  a  head-on  fire  fight  they  had  an  edge.  The  first  morning  the  French  were  on  patrol  alone,  Messer-  schmitts  appeared,  and  the  French  started  climbing  before  the  Germans  committed  themselves.  The  Germans  got  on  their  tails,  and  a  couple  of  the  new  P-40s  were  shot  up.  One  French  sergeant  pilot  went  down  in  flames  be-  hind  a  mountain.  In  the  afternoon,  ground  troops  brought  in  his  papers  and  his  wedding  ring.  Rozanoff  had  been  the  first  to  attack.  &quot;I  cry  him  turn,&quot;  he  said,  telling  about  the  sergeant  pilot  afterward,  &quot;but  he  turns  not.  Poor  young.&quot;  For  once,  he  wasn't  jolly.  GATHER  my  memories  of  Roza-  noff  as  the  infantrymen  gathered  up  the  pilot's  ring  and  papers.  He  was  a  barrel-chested  man,  and  even  in  1943  the  barrel  hadbegun  to  slip.  The  piece  in  Le  Monde  said  that  with  the  years  he  had  developed  &quot;wne  certaine  corpu-  lence.&quot;  He  wore  a  dirty  leather  flying  jacket,  like  everybody  else  at  Th\xc3\xa9lepte,  but  he  topped  it  with  a  visored  blue  cap  circled  with  gold  braid.  His  move-  ments  were  brusque,  his  forms  of  speech  were  vigorous  rather  than  graceful.  &quot;I/  manque  d'  \xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9gance,&quot;  the  French  liaison  officer  at  the  field  complained,  and  I  was  constrained  to  agree.  In  the  early  spring  of  1944,  I  was  coming  out  of  a  newsreel  theatre  in  Piccadilly  when  I  saw  a  French  aviator  in  a  bus  queue.  I  was  with  a  pretty  girl  in  a  becoming  blue  uniform,  and  this  type  in  the  bus  queue  made  her  the  eye.  I  regarded  him  with  resentment,  and  then  I  saw  it  was  Kostya,  in  a  blue  uniform  storm  coat,  blue  trousers,  black  shoes-completely  regulation.  He  was  a  lieutenant  colonel.  He  told  me  that  after  the  African  campaign  he  had  been  promoted  and  attached  to  the  staff  of  the  new  French  Air  Force,  which  incorporated  both  de  Gaullist  and  Giraudist  elements.  De  Gaulle  had  by  that  time  solidly  established  his  leadership.  Kostya  said  that  he  was  testing  planes  again,  and  was  happy.  We  made  a  date  to  have  lunch  at  the  popote  of  the  staff,  which  was  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  The  lunch  was  gay.  We  drank  a  fair  amount  of  cognac,  and  then  I  invited  Kostya  and  some  other  officers,  one  of  whom  was  the  novelist  Joseph  Kessel,  to  accompany  me  to  a  remarkable  club  of  which  I  was  a  member.  The  club  was  called  Frisco's;  it  was  in  Sackville  Street,  in  a  bomb-damaged  retail  shop  whose  glassless  windows  were  masked  with  heavy  cardboard.  The  secretary  and  proprietor  was  Frisco,  an  American " b"Negro  legally  named  Bingham.  Like  hundreds  of  other  such  clubs  in  [REDACTED],  it  was  licensed  to  sell  to  members  and  guests  during  the  afternoon  hours,  when  ordinary  pubs  were  shut.  Its  remark-  able  feature  was  the  amount  of  whiskey  Frisco  was  able  to  lay  hands  on  in  a  period  when  even  the  best  hotel  bars  gave  clients  a  grim  choice  between  gin  and  sobriety.  In  1944,  Frisco's  was  usually  full  of  colored  American  sol-  diers,  who  ran  a  continuous  jam  session  on  an  old  piano.  The  secretary  took  on  all  comers  at  darts,  and  since  he  had  the  advantage  of  thirty  years'  expatriate  practice,  he  cleaned  up.  Kostya,  rendered  ecstatic  by  the  pres-  ence  of  so  much  whiskey,  shouted,  &quot;It  is  better  as  a  kick  in  za  pants,  so  say  my  grandmozaire!&quot;  as  soon  as  he  got  his  hand  around  a  glass.  Then  he  emptied  the  glass.  His  war  cry  rang  out  again,  above  the  notes  of  &quot;Don't  Get  Around  Much  Any  More&quot;  in  intricate  synco-  pation  from  the  old  piano.  At  first,  his  cries  were  intermittent  but  regu-  lar,  like  the  call  of  the  bobwhite.  Then  they  became  more  rapid  and,  finally,  just  about  continuous.  Kessel  and  I  tried  to  fly  on  his  wings,  but  he  lost  us.  After  the  fourth  drink,  Kessel  was  fly-  ing  blind,  and  I,  a  mere  groundling,  was  in  a  spin.  &quot;Better  as  a  kick,  better  as  a  say,  better  as  my  grandmozaire's  pants.&quot;  It  was  all  a  blur.  There  was  a  crash.  I  had  preceded  Kostya  through  the  sound  barrier  by  eight  years.  I  never  sawhim  again,  and  now  I  never  will."