 b"I  DIDN'T  get  to  the  private,  black-  tie  preview  of  the  Vuillard  exhibi-  tionat  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art  the  other  night,  because  I  had  been  to  a  private,  black-tie  preview  of  Sargent,  Whistler,  and  Cassatt  at  the  Metro-  politan  Museum  of  Art  just  a  few  days  before  and  I  wanted  to  give  my  dinner  coat  a  rest,  but  I  do  like  to  keep  up  with  modern  art,  and  so  I've  been  reading  &quot;Edouard  Vuillard,&quot;  by  Andrew  Carn-  duff  Ritchie,  which  the  Museum  pub-  lished  to  go  with  the  show.  I  read  it  in  my  dressing  gown,  which  I  hope  is  all  right  with  the  Museum;  the  book  doesn't  say  anything  about  what  you're  supposed  to  wear  while  reading  it,  so  I  guess  dress  is  optional.  Andrew  Carn-  duff  Ritchie  is  director  ofthe  Museum's  Department  of  Painting  and  Sculpture,  and  a  trustee,  along  with  John  Hay  Whitney,  Mrs.  Robert  Woods  Bliss,  Henry  Allen  Moe,  and  James  Thrall  Soby.  These  are  the  middle-names-  spelled-out  trustees,  and  of  these  middle  names  I  think  I  like  Carnduff  the  best,  though  Thrall  is  pretty  good,  too.  Well,  there  are  three  other  middle-names-  spelled-out  trustees-A.  Conger  Good-  year,  Mrs.  W.  Murray  Crane,  and  Mrs.  G.  Macculloch  Millee-but  what  I  mean  is  the  above  five  are  the  only  trus-  tees  who  spell  out  both  their  first  and  their  middle  names,  which  I  think  is  nice  and  euphonious.  The  Museum  has  two  four-  name  trustees,  Willfrm  A.  M.  Burden,  its  president,  and  Ed-  ward  M.M.  Warburg,  and  they  could  make  a  slam-bang  nomenclatural  showing  if  they  wanted  to-William  Armistead  Moale  Burden  and  Edward  Mortimer  Morris  Warburg-  butthey  don't  seem  to  care,  at  least  not  on  the  masthead  that  appears  in  the  Vuillard  book.  Perhaps  they  ought  to  recon-  sider,  however;  the  middle  initial  &quot;M&quot;  carries  with  it  certain  haz-  ards  for  prominent  people,  since  the  newspapers  are  apt  to  turn  it  upside  down.  Burden  ap-  peared  upside-down,  or  partly  upside  down,  in  the  Herald  Tribune  the  other  day,  as  Wil-  liam  A.  W.  Burden,  and  so  did  Warburg,  earlier  this  year,  in  the  Times,  as  Edward  W.  W.  Warburg.  This  sort  of  thing  couldn't  happen  to  Andrew  Carnduff  Ritchie,  who  sounds  plant\xc3\xa9  if  anyone  ever  was.  I  know  his  name  is  Andrew  Carn-  duff  Ritchie  because,  counting  the  jack  et,  it  appears  six  times  in  his  book.  An-  other  thing  I  learned  from  the  book:  a  lot  of  people  connected  with  Vuillard  have  hyphenated  names,  First  or  last.  Mme.  Jacqueline  Bouchot-Saupique  and  J.  Rodrigues-Henriques  helped  the  author  locate  some  of  Vuillard's  pic-  tures;  Claude  Roger-Marx  once  wrote  a  book  about  him;  his  &quot;immediate  school  friends  were  Ker-Xavier  Roussel  [later  his  brother-in-law]  .  .  .  and  Lugn\xc3\xa9-Po\xc3\xa9  [an  actor-manager];&quot;  his  &quot;sobriety  of  composition  remind  [s]  one  of  Fantin-  Latour;&quot;  Toulouse-Lautrec  admired  his  fix-de-st\xc3\xa9cle  period;  and  who  but  Daniel-Henry  Kahnweiler  is  quoted  in  some  connection  or  other  having  to  do  with  him?  [REDACTED],  asto  Vuillard  himself.  Carn-  duff-Ritchie  starts  out  as  follows:  Edouard  Vuillard  was  a  strangely  com-  plex  personality.  Many  of  the  secretsof  his  life  will  be  revealed  in  1980  when,  by  his  will,  his  private  journal  can  be  made  public.  Until  then  we  must  depend  on  the  accounts  of  his  friends  and  the  evidence  of  his  art  for  whatever  estimates  we  may  make  of  him.  His  origins  were  petty  bour-  geois  and,  despite  his  later  associations  with  a  somewhat  fashionable  set  in  Pa-  risian  society,  he  remained  in  all  essentials  a  petty  bourgeois  to  his  death.  .  ..  He  enjoyed  good  living  and,  while  he  remained  a  bachelor  all  his  life,  it  is  rumored  that  he  had  several  love  affairs.  But,  as  became  his  upbringing,  he  seems  never  to  have  allowed  passion  of  any  kind  to  get  out  of  hand.  Nothing,  apparently,  was  permitted  to  dis-  turb  the  even  course  of  the  m\xc3\xa9nage  he  kept  with  his  mother  until  her  death  in  1928.  It  seems  to  me  that  it  is  difficult  for  a  set,  especially  a  Parisian  set,  to  be  &quot;somewhat  fashionable&quot;  (either  you  follow  the  current  style  or  you  don't-  eh,  what?  ),  and  that  a  man  who  can  slip  in  the  word  &quot;m\xc3\xa9nage&quot;  as  easily  as  that  might  have  gone  in  for  a  petit  bourgeois  or  two  rather  than  a  petty  bourgeois,  but  I  have  a  couple  more  serious  bones  to  pick  with  Mr.  Ritchie.  How  does  he  know  that  Vuillard's  private  journal  will  reveal  any  secrets?  Has  he  peeked?  Lewis  Carroll's  private  diaries  have  re-  cently  been  published,  in  two  volumes,  with  a  good  deal  of  Oxford  University  Press  fanfare,  and  there  isn't  a  secret  in  a  carload.  Just  whom  he  saw  and  what  he  read.  Vuillard,  Ritchie  writes,  &quot;was  a  retiring,  silent,  even  timid  little  man,&quot;  and  we  may  fancy  a  typical  entry:  Lunched  with  Ker-Xavier  Roussel,  and  Lugn\xc3\xa9-Po\xc3\xa9  dropped  in  for  petits  fours.  He  made  a  little  moze  and  scared  me  to  death.  I  couldn't  think  of  a  damned  thing  to  say.  Roger-Marx  is  writing  a  book  about  me.  I  wonder  what  Maman  will  think  about  it.  Well,  I'll  be  seventy-three  in  1980,  and  I  suppose  I'll  have  to  wait,  but  I    " b"don't  think  the  Vuillard  revelations  are  going  to  make  my  year.  I'd  rather  take  a  chance  on  Halley's  comet.  My  second  bone  has  to  do  with  that  while-a-bachelor-he-had-several-love-  affairs  sentence.  Mr.  Ritchie's  intima-  tion  of  a  paradox  here  seems  to  me  unworthy  of  a  museum  that  is  honey-  combed  with  bachelor  curators,  most  of  whom  get  around  quite  a  bit.  Who  but  bachelors  are  in  a  preferred  posi-  tion  to  have  several  love  affairs?  Look  at  Casanova.  Look  at  Toulouse-Lau-  trec,  for  that  matter.  Mind  you,  I'm  not  saying  that  Vuillard  did  have  sev-  eral  love  affairs-that's  Ritchie's  rumor,  or  relayed  rumor.  All  I'm  saying  is  that  it's  easy  for  a  bachelor  to  have  love  affairs,  even  if  he  lives  with  his  mother  until  he's  sixty,  as  Vuillard  did,  pro-  vided  he's  an  artist.  A  fifty-eight-year-  old  vice-president  of  the  National  City  Bank  maintaining  an  undisturbed  m\xc3\xa9nage  with  his  petty-bourgeois  mother  might  be  hard  put  to  it,  but  a  painter  has  a  studio  he  can  go  to,  models  coming  in  and  out,  as  proper  as  you  please,  and  a  perfect  cover  story.  He  doesn't  need  to  join  a  club,  invent  a  conven-  tion,  or  fabricate  a  poker  game.  If  he  comes  in  late  and  his  mother  raises  an  eyebrow,  he  can  simply  say,  &quot;Hard  day  at  the  studio.  I'm  wrestling  with  a  difficult  nocturne,&quot;  and  who  will  there  be  to  say  him  nay,or  zon!  The  rouge  on  his  shirt  is  paint,  and  the  loaf  of  bread  and  jug  of  wine  he  takes  down-  town  the  next  morning  are  for  a  still  life.  "