 b"I  WORRY  about  it  still,  even  today,  thirty-odd  years  later.  I  close  my  eyes  to  go  to  sleep  at  night,  some-  times,  and  I  am  back  at  the  old,  disin-  tegrated  sand  pile  where  I  lost  it,  dig-  ging  in  the  dirt-mixed  sand  with  my  fingernails  to  find  my  little  ring.  It  was  tiny,  a  little  girl's  ring  that  was  said  to  have  belonged  to  the  Em-  press  of  Austria.  I  suppose  that  would  have  been  Elisabeth,  the  beautiful  one  who  climbed  mountains.  It  was  given  to  me,  I  think  on  my  eighth  birthday,  by  a  family  friend  whom  I  called  Aunt  and  who  was  herself  so  erect,  so  blond,  so  high-voiced  that  I  thought  of  her  privately  as  a  princess.  I  was  told  that  she  had  bought  the  ring  in  an  auction  room  in  [REDACTED]  and  brought  it  home-  all  for  me.  The  ring  was  gold,  with  a  curly  ban-  ner  across  the  top  which  was  set  with  five  little  turquoises.  The  gold  setting  of  the  stones  was  etched  or  engraved;  it  gave  a  delicate  and  lacy  effect.  I  thought  it  was  the  most  beautiful  ring,  the  most  royal  ring.  &quot;Far  too  good  for  a  child  to  wear,&quot;  my  nurse  said  firmly.  I  can  see  heren-  twining  her  fat  red  fingers  as  she  said  it.  &quot;You  won't  be  wearing  it  out  to  play,  that's  one  thing.&quot;  But  the  thing  was  that  I  did.  I  was  com-  pelled  to  after  her  saying  that.  For  nobody-cer-  tainly  not  she-could  understand  the  love  I  had  for  that  ring,  and  the  absolute  impossi-  bility  of  my  ever  losing  anything  so  precious.  I  wore  it  when  I  went  out  to  play  in  the  shed  that  adjoined  the  old  barn  and  connected  it  with  the  abandoned  milkhouse  that  was  now  called  my  playhouse.  Getting  a  playhouse,  even  a  makeshift  one,  had  been  a  sort  of  vic-  tory  a  little  while  back.  Our  only  neighbors,  the  Wilkinsons,  had  a  daughter  named  Mimi,  who  had  a  real  play-  house,  one  built  for  the  purpose:  a  tiny  model  ofa  cottage,  with  little  green  shutters  at  the  windows,  a  shingled  roof,  a  door  with  a  shiny  brass  knocker  engraved  &quot;Mimi,&quot;  and,  inside,  miniature  chairs  and  a  table  upon  which  Mimi,  a  girl  with  natural  ring-  lets,  set  out  tea  parties  with  real  [REDACTED]  china  made  for  children's  use,  china  with  pinkrosebuds  which  were  unen-  durably  thrilling-pink  rosebuds  and  gold  rims.  Ours  was  not  the  place  for  that  kind  of  thing  at  all.  We  had  nothing  that  was  modern,  nothing  that  was  fascinating  like  rosebuds  on  little  new  china  teacups.  Our  big  white  house  seemed  to  settle  down  deeper  into  the  ground  with  every  spring  freshet.  The  barn  was  red.  The  place  had  oncebeen  a  working  farm,  but  all  that  was  left  of  that  now  was  the  stanchions  in  the  lower  barn;  the  horse  stalls  in  the  upper  barn,  where  one  could  stand  and  look  out  of  the  little  horse  windows  over  the  swamp  at  the  melancholy  woods  beyond  and  im-  agine  that  one  was  a  horse;  the  market  garden  of  rhubarb  that  came  up  dog-  gedly  year  after  year,  no  matter  how  many  boxes  of  furnace  ashes  were,  dumped  upon  it  (the  rhubarb  ended  by  coming  up  out  of  the  ground  at  least  six  feet  higher  than  the  original  garden  had  been);  and  the  little  house  at  the  end  of  the  woodshed,  which  had  once  been  used  to  prepare  the  milk  for  mar-  keting.  There  was  a  sort  of  slot  at  the  front  of  this  milkhouse,  and  the  cans  had  been  shoved  out  through  it  into  a  big  box  with  a  lid,  where  they  could  be  picked  up  by  the  men  who  took  them  away.  But  of  this  I  had  only  been  told.  Now  there  was  no  activity  on  our  place.  The  pines  in  front  of  the  house  sighed  and  whistled  in  winter,  the  dan-  delions  came  up  like  little  suns  all  over  the  lawns  in  springtime,  the  swamp  turned  from  gold  to  crimson  to  purple  as  the  summer  passed  sadly  by,  and  in  autumn  the  pumpkins  lay  rotting  on  the  ground  down  below  the  lower  barn.  I  had  to  have  a  playhouse.  I  wept.  And  so  the  abandoned  millkhouse  was  swept  out,  some  of  my  nursery  furniture  was  moved  into  it,  and  an  ornate  Vic-  torian  knocker  was  screwed  on  to  the  weathered  board  door  that  would  not  quite  close,  and  it  was  officially  referred  to  as  my  playhouse.  What  was  it  that  was  wrong?  It  was  not  really  a  playhouse,  to  begin  with-  but  I  had  imagined  far  wilder  excursions  than  this  required.  I  made  the  effort;  I  imagined  that  the  too  high  shelves  in-  side,  where  cans  had  been  stacked,  were  really  shelves  for  my  own  needs,  to  put" b"books  and  toys  and  tea-party  china  on.  I  imagined  that  the  bulkhead  which  con-  tained  the  slot  for  pushing  out  the  cans  was  really  a  window  seat.  My  mother  gave  me  some  china  to  use  for  my  own  efforts  attea  parties.  Rosebuds  were  what  I  yearned  for,  rosebuds  were  what  I  dreamed  about  at  night.  Small,  neatrosebuds  on  a  field  of  glistening  milk-white  china-/it\xc3\xa9le  china,  made  for  children.  What  I  got  was  probably  much  nicer.  It  was  the  odds  and  ends  of  an  old  broken-up  adult  tea  set-orange-and-white  china  with  gold  arabesques.  I  set  it  on  the  too  high  shelves-the  plates  on  edge  against  the  wall,  the  teacups  in  a  row,  the  saucers  in  a  pile,  theteapot  turned  so  that  the  broken  spout  did  not  show.  It  was  prob-  ably  very  beautiful.  But  there  was  noth-  ing,  there  could  havebeen  nothing,  that  would  take  the  place  of  pink  rosebuds.  Then  I  was  given  my  little  blue  ring.  It  was  a  ring  meant  for  a  little  girl  to  wear.  It  was  real  gold,  and  real  tur-  quoises.  It  was  beautiful,  and  it  had  be-  longed  to  an  empress.  It  belonged  to  my  hand.  It  was  just  the  right  size.  In  the  morning  sun,  when  I  went  out  to  play,  its  five  turquoises  shone  in  a  curly  row.  Even  all  these  years  later,  I  can  remember  looking  at  it  and  feeling  satisfied,  complete,  and  happy.  It  was  probably  not  the  first  day  I  wore  it  that  I  lost  it,  but  I  did  not  have  it  very  long.  I  went  to  play  in  the  old  sand  pile  that  moldered  away  in  the  inner  corner  of  the  shed  nearest  to  the  barn.  The  sand  pile  was  the  remains  of  several  cartloads  of  sand  that  had  been  dumped  there,  but  since  there  was  no  frame  to  hold  the  sand  (such  as  Mimi's  sand  pile  had)  it  had  sifted,  filtered  away,  become  mixed  with  the  dirt  ofthe  woodshed,  disintegrated,  spread  out;  it  was  another  of  the  things  I  had  that  had  something  the  matter  with  them.  I  don't  know  why  I  went  to  play  in  the  sand  pile  at  all.  I  was  too  old,  and  this  was  my  playhouse  stage.  But  some-  times  I  did  go  and  play  in  it,  in  the  scat-  tered  remains  of  my  babyhood,  just  as  sometimes  I  went  and  slid  into  the  hole  under  the  foundations  of  the  barn  that  I  had  discovered  when  I  was  four-not  to  hide  any  more,  not  for  any  game,  just  to  be  in  there  and  feel  it  around  me  again.  I  went  to  the  sand  pile  again,  at  the  wrong  age,  and,  whether  the  first  time  or  a  later  one,  I  lost  my  little  ring  play-  ing  in  it.  The  loss  did  not  strike  me  all  at  once.  I  came  in  to  lunch,  and  my  nurse  said,  &quot;There.  Will  you  look?  You've  lost  your  beautiful  gold  ring  with  the  stones  in  it,  just  as  I  told  youyou  would.&quot;  I  said  nothing.  I  looked  at  my  hor-  ribly  bare  hand  and  looked  back  at  her,  not  showing  anything.  I  didn't  want  her  to  see  anything.  Because  I  was  con-  vinced  that  it  was  because  she  had  told  me  that  I  would  lose  my  precious  pos-  session  if  I  wore  it  out  to  play  that  I  had  lost  it.  I  didn't  want  her  to  know  this.  &quot;I  know  exactly  where  it  is,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  not  lost  at  all.&quot;  And  in  a  way  I  did  know  exactly  where  it  was.  It  was  in  the  sand  pile  somewhere,  and  the  sand  pile  was  not   more  than  ten  feet  wide,  even  in  its  dis-  integrated  condition.  It  had  to  be  there.  I  looked  and  looked-that  day  and  other  days,  too-with  a  hollow,  painful  feeling  inside  me  because  I  had  lost  my  precious  possession.  At  some  point,  I  must  have  given  up.  But  I  never  completely  gave  up,  be-  cause  years  later,  in  my  teens,  I  would  suddenly  remember  my  ring,  the  one  I  had  lost,  and  would  go  out  to  the  sand  pile,  by  now  almost  obliterated  but  still  a  definite  area  to  me,  and  dig  and  dig.  It  had  to  be  there.  I  never  found  it,  but  it  was  there  just  the  same,  somewhere  in  the  mingled  sand  and  dirt,  within  a  defi-  nite  space  about  ten  feet  square.  Once,  I  dreamed  that  I  had  found  it.  It  was  when  I  was  a  young  girl  going  to  dances,  and  the  dream  was  about  the  most  irrelevant  to  my  life  that  could  be  " b"imagined.  But  when  I  woke,  with  the  clear  memory  of  finding  the  ring  and  seeing  it  lie  in  my  palm  with  its  banner  of  five  little  blue  stones,  my  excitement  and  the  verisimilitude  were  so  great  that  I  went  out  to  the  woodshed-in  a  beige  cr\xc3\xa9pe-de-Chine  dress,  I  remember,  that  reached  my  knees;  high  heels,  and  my  hair  shingled-and  began  to  dig  once  again.  Then  the  telephone  rang  for  me,  or  someone  drove  up  in  a  car.  But  after  the  dream  it  was  not  finding  it  that  seemed  unbelievable.  VEN  now,  in  another  part  of  the  country,  I  sometimes  remember  my  ring  and  wonder  why  I  could  never  find  it.  Today,  for  example,  I  tooka  walk  in  this  Southern  springtime,  filled  with  the  sound  ofthe  persistent  mourn-  ing  dove  and  the  occasional  trill  of  the  wood  thrush.  I  passed  the  brook,  which  is  called  a  run,  and  the  thicket  of  bam-  boos  that  grows  beside  it,  and  mounted  the  gentle  rise  that  leads  on  past  the  Lambeths'  house.  The  Lambeths  have  a  lovely  house-old,  built  of  pink  brick,  but  all  made  fresh,  all  charming  and  in-  viting;  inside,  their  floors  gleam,  their  chintzes  are  trimly  fitted  to  the  chairs,  and  they  drink  their  whiskey  out  of  silver  tumblerswith  gadroon  edges.  I  would  love  tumblers  like  that,  but  they  must  cost  a  fortune.  As  I  rounded  the  curve  just  before  the  entrance  to  the  Lam-  beths'  house,  I  thought  I  would  stop  and  pay  them  a  call.  It  would  be  fun  to  sit  before  their  crackling  fire  and  drink  their  whiskey  from  one  of  those  en-  chanting  tumblers,  and  perhaps  come  to  know  them  better.  But  asI  came  abreast  of  the  drive,  I  saw  that  two  cars  were  parked  near  the  door.  The  Lambeths  already  had  callers.  I  felt  a  little  hollow,  and  passed  on.  When  I  made  the  circuit  that  brought  me  home,  I  felt  thirsty  and  got  myself  a  drink  of  water.  My  glasses  are  a  sorry  collection,  the  odds  and  ends  ofa  num-  ber  of  broken  sets.  I  went  upstairs  then  and  into  my  room,  where  I  tidied  up  a  little  before  lying  down  to  take  a  nap.  I  don't  know  why  it  is  that  Mrs.  Hildreth,  who  makes  my  slipcovers,  can  never  make  the  arms  fit  properly;  the  cording  lies  unevenly  upon  the  frame  of  the  chair  and  gives  a  sloppy  appearance.  Ilay  down,  and  as  soon  as  I  closed   my  eyes,  there  I  was  again,  years  and  years  later,  back  in  theold  woodshed  of  the  place  where  I  grew  up,  scratching  and  clawing  at  the  sand  pile,  trying  to  find  my  little  blue  ring.  I'm  sure  there  is  not  as  much  sand,  nearly,  left  there  any  more  asI  see  when  I  close  my  eyes.  There  may  not  be  any  sand  at  all;  the  place  is  sold,  and  the  new  owners  may  have  fixed  everything  up,  torn  down  the  shed,  perhaps  even  put  up  a  new,  proper-  ly  fenced-in  sand  pile  somewhere  for  their  growing  children.  I  don't  know.  Perhaps  if  the  old  sand  pile  is  still  there,  one  of  the  new  owner's  children  will  one  day  really  find  my  ring,  for  it  is  there  somewhere.  Perhaps  the  child-a  little  girl-will  be  poking  about  with  a  tin  shovel  and  will  turn  up  that  scrap  of  gold  with  its  five  little  blue  stones.  I  wonder  what  she  will  make  of  it. "