 b"OFTEN,  since  I  grew  up,  I  have  tried  to  remember  the  name  of  the  French-Canadian  town  where  I  lived  for  a  summer  with  my  father  when  I  was  a  little  girl  of  seven  or  eight.  Sometimes,  passing  through  a  town,  I  have  thought  I  recognized  it,  but  some  detail  is  always  wrong,  or  at  least  fails  to  fit  the  picture  in  my  mem-  ory.  It  was  a  town  like  many  others  in  the  St.  Lawrence  [REDACTED]-old,  but  with  a  curious  atmosphere  of  harsh-  ness,  as  if  the  whole  area  were  still  frontier  and  had  not  been  settled  and  cultivated  for  three  hundred  years.  There  were  rows  of  temporary-looking  frame  and  stucco  houses,  a  post  office  in  somebody's  living  room,  a  Chinese  fish-  and-chip  store,  and,  on  the  lawn  of  the  imposing  Catholic  church,  a  statue  of  Jesus,  arms  extended,  crowned  with  a  wreath  of  electric  lights.  Running  straight  through  the  center  of  town  was  a  narrow  river;  a  few  leaky  rowboats  were  tied  up  along  its  banks,  and  on  Sunday  afternoons  hot,  church-dressed  young  men  would  go  to  work  on  them  with  rusty  bailing  tins.  The  girls  who  clustered  giggling  on  shore  and  watched  them  wore  pastel  stockings,  lacy  sum-  mer  hats,  and  voile  dresses  that  dipped  down  in  back  and  were  decorated  low  on  one  hip  with  sprays  of  artificial  lilac.  For  additional  Sunday  divertissement,  there  was  the  cinema,  in  an  old  barn  near  the  railway  station.  The  pictures  had  no  sound  track;  airs  from  &quot;My  Maryland&quot;  and  &quot;The  Student  Prince&quot;  were  played  on  apiano  and  there  was  the  occasional  toot  of  the  suburban  train  from  [REDACTED]  while  on  the  screen  ladies  with  untidy  hair  and  men  in  riding  boots  engaged  in  agitated,  soundless  conversation,  opening  and  closing  their  mouths  like  fish.  Though  I  have  for-  gotten  the  name  of  this  town,  I  do  remember  with  remarkable  clarity  the  house  my  father  took  for  that  summer.  It  was  white  clapboard,  and  surrounded  by  shade  trees  and  an  untended  garden,  in  which  only  sunflowers  and  a  few  perennials  survived.  It  had  been  rented  furnished  and  bore  the  imprint  of  Quebec  rural  taste,  running  largely  to  ball  fringes  and  sea-shell-  encrusted  religious  art.  My  father,  who  was  a  painter,  used  one  room  as  a  studio-or,  rather,  storage  place,  since  he  worked  mostly  out-of-doors-slept  in  another,  and  ignored  the  remaining  seven,  which  was  probably  just  as  well,  though  order  of  a  sort  was  kept  by  a  fierce-looking  local  girl  called  Pauline,  who  had  a  pronounced  mustache  and  was  so  ill-tempered  that  her  nickname  was  P'  tit-Loup-Little  Wolf.  Pauline  cooked  abominably,  cleaned  according  to  her  mood,  and  asked  me  questions.  My  father  had  told  her  that  my  mother  was  in  a  nursing  home  in  [REDACTED],  but  Pauline  wanted  to  know  more.  How  ill  was  my  mother?  Very  ill?  Dying?  Was  it  truethat  my  par-  ents  were  separated?  Was  my  father  really  my  father?  &quot;Drole  de  pere,&quot;  said  Pauline.  She  was  perplexed  by  his  paint-  ing,  his  animals  (that  summer  his  me-  nagerie  included  two  German  shep-  herds,  a  parrot,  and  a  marmoset,  which  later  bit  the  finger  of  a  man  teasing  it  and  had  to  be  given  away  to  [REDACTED]'s  ratty  little  zoo,  where  it  moped  itself  to  death),  and  his  total  indifference  to  the  way  the  house  was  run.  Why  didn't  he  work,  like  other  men,  said  Pauline.  I  could  understand  her  bewilder-  ment,  for  the  question  of  my  father's  working  was  beginning  to  worry  me  for  the  first  time.  All  of  the  French-  Canadian  fathers  in  the  town  worked.  They  delivered  milk,  they  farmed,  they  owned  rival  hardware  stores,  they  drew  up  one  another's  wills.  Nor  were  they  the  only  busy  ones.  Across  the  river,  in  a  faithful  reproduction  ofa  suburb  of  Glasgow  or  Manchester,  lived  a  small  colony  of  English-speaking  summer  res-  idents  from  [REDACTED].  Their  children  were  called  Al,  Lily,  Winnie,  or  Mac,  and  they  were  distinguished  by  their  popping  blue  eyes,  their  excessive  devo-  tion  to  the  Royal  Family,  and  their  con-  tempt  for  anything  even  vaguely  queer  or  Gallic.  Like  the  French-Canadians,  the  fathers  of  Lily  and  Winnie  and  the  others  worked.  Every  one  of  them  had  a  job.  When  they  were  not  taking  the  train  to  [REDACTED]  to  attend  to  theirjobs,  they  were  crouched  in  their  gardens,  caps  on  their  heads,  tying  up  tomato  plants  or  painting  stones  to  make  gay  multicolored  borders  for  the  nasturtium  beds.  Saturday  night,  they  trooped  into  the  town  bar-and-grill  and  drank  as  much  Molson's  ale  as  could  be  poured  into  the  stomach  before  closing  time.  Then,  awash  with  ale  and  nostalgia,  they  sang  about  the  maid  in  the  clogs  and  shawl,  and  something  else  that  went,  &quot;Let's  all  go  down  to  the  Strand,  and  'ave  a  ba-na-ar-na!&quot;  My  father,  I  believed,  was  wrong  in  not  establishing  some  immediate  liaison  with  this  group.  Like  them,  he  was  English-a  real  cabbage,  said  Pauline  when  she  learned  that  he  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  only  eight  or  nine  years.  In-  deed,  one  of  his  very  few  topics  of  con-  versation  with  me  was  the  England  of  his  boyhood,  before  the  First  World  War.  It  sounded  green,  sunny,  and  silent-a  sort  of  vast  lawn  rising  and  falling  beside  the  sea;  the  sun  was  small-  er  and  higher  than  the  sun  in  [REDACTED],  looking  something  like  a  coin;  the  trees  were  leafy  and  round,  and  looked  like  cushions.  This  was  probably  not  at  all  what  he  said,  but  it  was  the  image  I  retained-a  landscape  flickering  and     " b"flooded  with  light,  like  the  old  silents  at  the  cinema.  The  parents  of  Lily  and  Winnie  had,  presumably,  also  come  out  of  this  landscape,  yet  it  was  a  bond  my  father  appeared  to  ignore.  It  seemed  to  me  that  he  was  unaware  of  how  much  we  had  lost  caste,  and  what  griev-  ous  social  errors  we  had  committed,  by  being  too  much  identified  with  the  French.  He  had  chosen  a  house  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  river.  Instead  of  avoiding  the  French  language,  or  noisi-  ly  making  fun  of  it,  he  spoke  it  when-  ever  he  was  dealing  with  anyone  who  could  not  understand  English.  He  did  not  attend  the  English  church,  and  he  looked  just  as  sloppy  on  Sundays  as  he  did  the  rest  ofthe  week.  &quot;'You  people  Carthlic?&quot;  one  ofthe  fathers  from  over  the  river  asked  me  once,  as  if  that  would  explain  a  lot.  Mercifully,  I  was  able  to  say  no.  I  knew  we  were  not  Catholic  because  at  the  Pensionnat  Saint-Louis  de  Gon-  zague,  in  [REDACTED],  which  I  attended,  I  had  passed  the  age  at  which  children  usually  took  the  First  Communion.  For  a  year  and  more,  my  classmates  had  been  attending  morning  chapel  in  white  veils,  while  I  still  wore  a  plain,  stiff,  pre-Communion  black  veil  that  smelled  of  convent  parlors,  and  marked  me  as  one  outside  the  limits  of  grace.  &quot;Then  why's  your  Dad  always  around  the  frogs?&quot;  asked  the  English  father.  DROLE  de  p\xc3\xa9re  indeed.  I  had  to  agree  with  Pauline.  He  was  not  like  any  father  I  had  met  or  read  about.  He  was  not  Elsie's  Mr.  Dinsmore,  stern  but  swayed  by  tears.  Nor  did  he  in  the  least  resemble  Mr.  Bobbsey,  of  the  Bobbsey  Twins  books,  or  Mr.  Bunker,  of  the  Six  Little  Bunkers.  I  was  never  scolded,  or  rebuked,  or  reminded  to  brush  my  teeth  or  say  my  prayers.  My  father  was  perfectly  content  to  live  his  own  summer  and  let  me  live  mine,  which  did  not  please  me  in  the  least.  If,  at  meals,  I  failed  to  drink  my  milk,  it  was  I  who  had  to  mention  this  omis-  sion.  When  I  came  home  from  swim-  ming  with  my  hair  wet,  it  was  I  who  had  to  remind  him  that,  because  of  some  ear  trouble  that  was  a  hangover  of  scarlet  fever,  I  was  supposed  to  wear  a  bathing  cap.  When  Lon  Chaney  in  &quot;The  Hunchback  of  43616e616461Dame&quot;  finally  arrived  at  the  cinema,  he  did  not  say  a  word  about  my  not  going,  even  though  Lily  and  Winnie  and  many  of  the  French-Canadian  children  were  not  allowed  to  attend,  and  boasted  about  the  restriction.  Oddly,  he  did  have  one  or  two  no-  tions  about  the  correct  upbringing  of  children,  which  were,  to  me,  just  as  ex-  asperating  as  his  omissions.  Somewhere  in  the  back  of  his  mind  lingered  a  rec-  ollection  that  all  little  girls  were  taught  French  and  music.  I  don't  know  where  the  little  girls  ofthe  England  of  his  childhood  were  sent  to  learn  their  French-presumably  to  [REDACTED]-but  I  was  placed,  one  month  after  my  fourth  birthday,  in  the  Pensionnat,  where  for  two  years  I  had  the  petted  privilege  of  being  the  youngest  boarder  in  the  history  of  the  school.  My  piano  lessons  had  also  begun  at  four,  but  lasted  only  a  short  time,  for,  as  the  nun  in  charge  of  music  explained,  I  could  not  remember  or  sit  still,  and  my  handwas  too  small  to  span  an  octave.  Music  had  then  been  dropped  as  one  of  my  accomplishments  until  that  summer,  when,  persuaded  by  someone  who  obviously  had  my  welfare  at  heart,  my  father  dispatched  me  twice  a  week  to  study  piano  with  a  Mme,  Tessier,  the  convent-educated  wife  ofa  farmer,  whose  parlor  was  furnished  entirely with  wicker  and  over  whose  household  hung  a  faint  smell  of  dung,  owing  to  the  proximity  of  the  outbuildings  and  the  in-  tense  humidity  of  summer  weather  in  the  St.  Lawrence  [REDACTED].  Together,  Mme.  Tessier  and  I  sweated  it  out,  plodding  away  against  my  lack  of  talent,  my  ab-  sence  of  interest,  and  my  strong  but  unspoken  desire  to  be  somewhere  else.  &quot;Cette  enfant  ne  fera  jamais  rien,&quot;  I  once  heard  her  say  in  despair.  We  had  been  at  it  four  or  five  weeks  before  she  discovered  at  least  part  of  the  trouble;  it  was  simply  that  there  was  no  piano  at  home,  so  I  never  practiced.  After  every  lesson,  she  had  marked  with  care  the  scales  I  was  to  master,  yet,  week  after  week,  I  produced  only  those  jerky,  hesitant  sounds  that  are  such  agony  for  music  teachers  and  the  people  in  the  next  room.  &quot;You  might  as  well  tell  your  father  there's  no  use  carrying  on  unless  you  have  a  piano,&quot;  she  said.  I  was  only  too  happy,  and  told  him  that  afternoon,  at  lunch.  &quot;You  mean  you  want  me  to  get  you  a  piano?&quot;  he  said,  looking  around  the  dining  room  as  if  I  had  insisted  it  be  installed,  then  and  there,  between  the  window  and  the  mirrored  china  cabi-  net.  How  unreasonable  I  was!  &quot;But  you  make  me  take  the  lessons,&quot;  I  said.  How  unreasonable  he  was!  A  FRIEND  of  my  father's  said  to  me,  years  later,  &quot;He  never  had  the  faintest  idea  what  to  do  with  you.&quot;  " b"But  it  was  equally  true  thatI  never  had  the  faintest  idea  what  to  do  &amp;  with  him.  We  did  not, of  course,  get  a  piano, and  Mme.  Tessier's  view  was  that  because  my  father  had  no  employment  to  speak  of  (she  called  him  a  &quot;fAaneur&quot;  ),  we  simply  couldn't  afford  one-  the  depth  of  shame  in  a  town  where  even  the  milkman's  daughters  could  play  duets.  No  one  took  my  father's  painting  seri-  ously  as  a  daily  round  of  work,  least  of  all  I.  At  one  point  during  that  summer,  my  father  agreed  to  do  a  pastel  portrait  of  the  daughter  of  a  Mme.  Gravelle,  who  lived  in  [REDACTED].  (This  was  in  the  late  twenties,  when  pastel  drawings  of  children  hung  in  every  other  sitting  room.)  The  daughter,  Liliane,  who  was  my  age  or  younger,  was  to  be  shown  in  her  First  Communion  dress  and  veil.  Mme.  Gra-  velle  and  Liliane  drove  out  from  Mont-  real,  and  while  Liliane  posed  with  do-  cility,  her  mother  hung  about  helpfully  commenting.  Here  my  father  was  neg-  lecting  to  show  in  detail  the  pattern  of  the  lace  veil;  there  he  had  the  wrong  shade  of  blue  for  Liliane's  eyes;  again,  it  was  the  matter  of  Liliane's  diamond  cross.  The  cross,  which  hung  from  her  neck,  contained  four  diamonds  on  the  horizontal  segment  and  six  on  the  ver-  tical,  and  this  treasure  he  had  reduced  to  two  unimpressive  strokes.  My  father  suggested  that  Mme.  Gravelle  might  be  just  as  happy  with  a  tinted  photograph.  No,  said  Mme.  Gravelle,  she  would  not.  Well,  then,  he  suggested,  how  about  a  miniature?  He  knew  of  a  miniaturist  who  worked  from  photographs,  eliminating  sittings,  and  whose  fee  was  about  four  times  his  own.  Mme.  Gravelle  bore  Liliane,  her  cross,  and  her  veil  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  my  father  went  back  to  painting  around  the  countryside  and  going  out  with  his  dogs.  His  failure  weighed  heavily  onme,  particularly  after  someone,  possibly  Pauline,  told  me  that  he  was  forever  painting  people  who  didn't  pay  him  a  cent  for  doing  it.  He  painted  Pauline,  mustache  and  all;  he  painted  some  of  the  French-Canadian  children  who  came  to  play  in  our  garden,  and  from  whom  I  was  learning  a  savory  French  vocabu-  lary  not  taught  at  Pensionnat  Saint-  Louis  de  Gonzague;  he  very  often  sketched  the  little  Wing  children,  whose  family  owned  the  village  fish-and-chip  store.  The  Wing  children  were  solemn  lit-  tle  Chinese,  close  in  age  and  so  tangled  in  lineage  that  it  was  impossible  to  sort  them  out  as  sisters,  brothers,  and  cous-  ins.  Some  of  the  adult  Wings-brothers  and  cousins-ran  the  fish-and-chip  shop,  and  were  said  to  own  many  similar  establishments  throughout  Quebec  and  to  be  (although  no  one  would  have  guessed  it  to  see  them)  by  far  the  richest  people  in  the  area.  The  interior  of  their  store  smelled  wonderfully  of  frying  grease  and  vinegar,  and  the  walls  were  a  mosaic  of  brightly  painted  tin  signs  ad-  vertising  Player's  Mild,  Orange  Crush,  SweetMarie  chocolate  bars,  and  ginger  ale,  The  smaller  Wings,  in  the  winter  months,  attended  Anglican  boarding  schools  in  the  west,  at  a  discreet  distance  from  the  source  of  income.  Their  Eng-  lish  was  excellent  and  their  French-  Canadian  idiom  without  flaw.  Those  nearest  my  age  were  Florence,  Mar-  jorie,  Ronald,  and  Hugh.  The  older  set  of  brothers  and  cousins-those  of  my  father's  generation-had  abrupt,  utili-  tarian  names:  Tommy,  Jimmy,  George.  The  still  older  people-most  of  whom  seldom  came  out  from  the  rooms  behind  the  shop-used  their  Chinese  names.  There  was  even  a  great-grandmother,  who  sat,  shrunken  and  silent,  by  the  great  iron  range  where  the  chips  swam  in  abath  of  boiling  fat.  As  the  Wings  had  no  garden,  and  were  not  permitted  to  play  by  the  river,  lest  they  fall  in  anddrown,  it  was  most  often  at  my  house  that  we  played.  If  my  father  was  out,  we  would  stand  at  " b"the  door  of  his  studio  and  peer  in  at  the  fascinating  disorder.  &quot;What  does  he  do?&quot;  Florence  or  Marjorie  would  say.  &quot;What  does  your  father  do?&quot;  &quot;He  paints!&quot;  Pauline  would  cry  from  the  kitchen.  She  might,  herself,  con-  sider  him  loony,  but  the  privilege  was  hers,  She  worked  there,  not  a  pack  of  Chinese.  IT  was  late  in  the  summer,  in  August,  when,  one  afternoon,  Florence  and  Marjorie  and  Ronald  and  Hugh  came  up  from  the  gate  escorting,  like  a  con-  voy,  one  ofthe  older  Wings.  They  looked  anxious  and  important.  &quot;Is  your  father  here?&quot;  said  the  grown-up  Wing.  I  ran  to  fetch  my  father,  who  had  just  started  out  for  a  walk.  When  we  returned,  Pauline  and  the  older  Wing,  who  turned  out  to  be  Jimmy,  were  ar-     gguing  in  French,  she  at  the  top  of  her  voice,  he  almost  inaudibly.  &quot;'The  kids  talk  about  you  a  lot,&quot;  said  Jimmy  Wing  to  my  father.  &quot;They  said  you  were  a  painter.  We're  enlarging  the  store,  and  we  want  a  new  sign.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98A  Sign  ?  &gt;&gt;  &quot;I  told  you!&quot;  shrieked  Pauline  from  the  dining-room  door,  to  which  she  had  retreated.  &quot;Ce  n'est  pas  un  peintre  comme  ga.&quot;  &quot;Un  peintre,  cest  un  peintre,&quot;  said  Jimmy  Wing,  imperturbable.  My  father  looked  at  the  little  Wings,  who  were  all  looking  up  at  him,  and  said,  &quot;Exactly.  Un  peintre,  c'est  un  peintre.  What  sort  of  sign  would  you  like?&quot;  The  Wings  didn't  know;  they  all  be-  gan  totalkat  once.  Something  artistic,  said  Jimmy  Wing,  with  the  lettering  fat  and  thin,  imitation  Chinese.  Did  my   father  know  what  he  meant?  Oh,  yes.  My  father  knew  exactly.  &quot;Just  'Wing's  Chips'?&quot;  my  father  asked.  &quot;Or  would  you  like  it  in  French-'Les  Chips  de  Wing?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  English,&quot;  said  all  the  Wings,  almost  together.  My  father  said  later  that  the  Chinese  were  terrible  snobs.  He  painted  the  sign  the  next  Sunday  afternoon,  not  in  the  studio  but  out  in  the  back  garden,  sitting  on  the  wide  kitchen  steps.  He  lacquered  it  black,  and  painted-in  red-and-gold  characters,  fat  and  thin-&quot;Wing's  Chips,&quot;  and  un-  der  this  he  put  the  name  of  the  town  and  two  curly  little  letters,  &quot;P.Q.,&quot;  for  &quot;Province  of  Quebec.&quot;  Tommy  and  Jimmy  Wing  and  all  the  little  ones  came  to  fetch  the  sign  the  next  day.  The  two  men  looked  at  it  for  a  long  time,  while  the  little  ones  looked  anxiously  at  them  to  see  if  they  liked  it.  Finally,  Jimmy  Wing  said,  &quot;It's  the  most  beautiful  thing  I  ever  saw.&quot;  The  two  men  bore  it  away,  the  little  Wings  trailing  behind,  and  hung  it  on  a  horizontal  pole  over  the  street  in  front  of  their  shop,  where  it  rocked  in  the  hot,  damp  breeze  from  the  river.  I  was  hys-  terically  proud  of  the  sign  and,  for  quite  the  first  time,  of  my  father.  Everyone  stopped  before  the  shop  and  examined  it.  The  French-Canadians  admitted  that  it  was  pas  mal,  pas  mal  du  tout,  while  the  English  adults  said  approvingly  that  he  must  have  been  paid  a  fine  penny  for  it.  I  could  not  bring  down  our  new  stature  by  admitting  that  he  had  painted  it  as  a  favor,  and  that  it  was  only  after  Jimmy  and  Tommy  had  insisted  that  he  had  said  they  could,  if  they  liked,  pay  for  the  gold  paint,  since  he  hadhad  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  for  it.  Nor  did  I  tell  anyone  how  the  Wings,  burdened  with  grati-  tude,  kept  bringing  us  chips  and  ice  cream.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  he  was  paid  an  awful  lot,&quot;  I  assured  them  all.  Every  day,  I  went  to  look  at  the  sign,  and  I  hung  around  the  shop  in  case  any-  one  wanted  to  ask  me  questions  about  it.  There  it  was,  &quot;Wing's  Chips,&quot;  proof  that  my  father  was  an  ordinary  work-  ingman  just  like  anybody  else,  and  I  pointed  it  out  to  as  many  people  as  I  could,  both  English  and  French,  until  the  summer  ended  and  we  went  away. "