 b"I  HAVE  never  cared  to  know  how  many  species  of  butterflies  suck  from  what  species  of  flowers,  or  what  insects  can  teach  us  what  facts  of  life  and  what  others  cannot,  because  their  organs  and  their  ways  differ  from  ours.  I  like  to  see  the  bee  and  the  butter-  fly  on  the  flowers  they  plunder  without  knowing  their  habits,  their  intentions,  or  any  other  such-to  me-purely  bureaucratic  nonsense.  I  like  to  think  that  they  come  to  make  summer  more  beautiful  for  me  (Ptolemaic  hangover:  Man  the  Center,  his  pleasure  the  End  Purpose  of  all  things),  or  to  prevent  me  from  enjoying  it  (Pagan  hangover:  the  Gods  as  Man's  worst  enemies).  Also,  I  would  rather  not  look  at  colored  pic-  tures  of  places  where  you  can't  breathe,  such  as  the  moon,  or  where  you  would  have  to  breathe  poison  gases,  such  as  [REDACTED],  or  places  from  which  the  sun  would  appear  so  small  that  you  could  hardly  tell  it  from  any  of  the  millions  of  night  suns  known  as  stars.  I  hate  the  Universe.  I  lovethe  world  too  much.  This  is  like  home  to  me,  and  here  I  want  to  stay.  It  annoys  me  just  as  much  when  the  Nature  photographers  turn  their  lenses  away  from  the  Universe  and  magnify  the  infinitesimally  small,  because  then  they  make  me  hate  the  very  world  I  love.  The  smoothest  skin,  it  appears,  is  a  miniature  copy  of  the  Grand  Can-  yon;  the  clearest  drop  of  water  is  a  live  textbook  of  biology;  cleanliness  is  extermination;  we  drink  liquid  ceme-  teries  and  eat  fields  of  charred  bones;  all  living  organisms  are  infected  by  mi-  crobes,  which,  in  turn,  are  infected  by  their  microbes,  and  submicrobes;  insects  are  beasts-for  example,  female  spiders  eat  their  husbands,  and  are  so  tender  with  their  children  that  they  wrapthem  in  silk,  seven  different  kinds  of  silk,  before  they  let  them  wake  up  to  the  fact  that  they  are  orphans.  I  hate  spiders  in  the  morning,  because  that's  when  they  bring  bad  luck.  And  when  I  kill  a  spider  with  my  shoe,  less  harm  is  done  than  when  I  let  a  spider  teach  my  children  that  to  murder  Father  is  natural.  Down  with  spiders,  I  say.  I  shall  never  receive  them  in  my  house.  Unfortunately,  as  things  stand  right  now,  if  I  wish  to  exclude  spiders  I  might  as  well  exclude  my  fifteen-year-old  son  Vieri,  who  collects  them,  and  probably  also  envies  them  for  their  orphan  con-  dition.  The  moment  Vieri's  school  friend,  Hans  Panthenius,  Jr.,  Nature  student  and  photographer  of  violence  among  the  lower  strata  of  animality,  was  let  into  our  apartment  on  East  Ninetieth  Street,  our  life  changed.  The  inhu-  manities  have  replaced  the  humanities,  obscurantism  has  been  chased  out  by  the  flash  bulbs  of  science,  and  the  walls  of  our  living  room  are  decorated  with  fossil  bow  ties  under  glass-the  gift  of  Panthenius  Senior,  who  is  a  butterfly  collector.  When  Panthenius  Senior  learns  through  his  agents  that  some  rare  species  of  butterfly  has  been  sighted  in  some  remote  region  of  the  world,  he  sets  out  on  an  expedition-often  by  pri-  vate  plane-brandishing  a  large  net  and  a  small  pin,  with  which  he  finally  de-  feats  the  valuable  insect.  Nothing  else  seems  to  interest  him,  except  new  ways  to  keep  old  butterflies  from  being  chewed  to  dust  by  parasites  and  time.  When  he  &quot;talks  butterflies&quot;  with  other  butterfly  collectors,  he  is  as  far  from  that  symbol  of  levity  and  elegance  as  death  is  from  life.  His  voice,  his  words,  his  eyes  are  dusty,  colorless,  depressing.  If  he  men-  tions  the  flowers  on  which  butterflies  feed,  one  cannot  possibly  think  of  them  as  fresh  flowers;  they  are  killed  by  his  voice  and  by  his  way  of  thinking  of  them.  If  he  mentions  some  interesting  parts  of  the  world  he  has  visited  while  chasing  after  some  rare  specimen,  he  will  not  waste  one  word  on  praising  them  or  describing  them.  At  the  most,  he  will  say,  &quot;My  son  would  like  to  photograph  that  region.&quot;  Science  runs  in  the  family.  Killing  off  Nature's  freest,  most  lighthearted  creatures,  pinning  them  down  on  cloth,  giving  them  heavy  Latin  names,  and  telling  us  that  they  are  neither  free  nor  lighthearted  is,  in  the  opinion  of  the  learned  Dr.  Panthenius,  too  noble  an  occupation  to  be  mixed  up  with  the  vulgar  exchange  of  money.  So  we  get  the  great  scientist's  doubles,  all  of  them,  and  at  times  even  the  doubles  of  his  doubles,  which  we  then  generously  give  away  to  one  of  my  son's  closest  friends,  George  Wilson,  another  friend  of  Nature's  death,  for-  merly  a  friendof  life,  an  innocent  bird  counter.  Now,  of  course,  this  is  what  I  say.  If  George  and  Vieri  had  a  chance  to  tell  their  side  of  the  story,  they  would  say  that  I  tried  to  talk  them  out  of  bird  counting,  camping,  walking  in  the  rain,  and  even  stamp  collecting.  They  col-  lected  not  only  cancelled  stamps  but  also  rubber  stamps,  and  in  a  city  like  New  York,  if  one  begins  that  way  itis  easy  to  end  up  a  Collyer  brother.  As  for  bird  counting,  I  have  nothing  against  it,  ex-  cept  that  boys  will  imitate  whatever  creatures  fall  under  their  curious  eyes.   Now,  for  example,  both  these  boys  be-  lieve  that  a  bird  counter  must  behave  like  a  bird,  disregarding  the  earth  alto-  gether,  screeching  instead  of  laughing,  and  uttering  inarticulate  sounds,  like  a  sleepy  chicken  on  a  hot  afternoon,  in-  stead  of  speaking  clearly  and  distinctly.  They  do  not  care  whether  their  hair  is  all  over  their  faces  or  not;  the  wind  can  comb  it  if  it  happens  to  blow  in  their  faces.  Vieri  and  George  will  follow  the  birds  in  their  clear  flight,  but  never-  not  even  by  mistake-will  they  watch  where  they're  stepping  as  they  cross  the  marshlands.  As  long  as  swimming  is  not  necessary,  they  will  walk  through  a  pond  rather  than  around  it.  Whether  their  shoes  have  to  be  thrown  away  after  that  short  cut  is  of  no  interest  to  them.  I  often  wonder  how  they  will  feel  as  responsible  men,  grownups,  retail  buy-  ers  of  shoes,  tenants  of  old  New  York  apartments  freshly  repainted  and  shel-  lacked  at  their  expense;  how  they  will  feel  when  they  see  their  own  youngsters  come  home  smelling  as  birds  would  never  dare  to  smell,  leaving  the  marks  of  their  black  hands  on  walls,  and  shed-  ding  shoes  that  are  no  longer  shoes  but,  rather,  sculptures  in  fresh  clay  resem-  bling  shoes.  &quot;Why  don't  you  wash  your  hands?&quot;  I  shout.  &quot;Why  don't  you  spare  your  shoes?  If  you  must  look  at  birds,  why  don't  you  look  at  Plato's  Wingless  Bird,  a  bird  you'll  have  to  live  with  all  your  lives?  What  is  all  this  artificial  love  of  Nature?&quot;  Unfortunately,  my  wife  doesn't  sup-  port  me  in  my  stand  against  Naturism.  She  objects  to  dirty  hands  and  lack  of  interest  in  the  humani-  ties,  but  she  cannot  forget  that  Nature  is  a  by-product  of  Crea-  tion,  and  therefore  love  of  Na-  ture  makes  for  love  of  the  Lord,  and  that  is  good.  She  is  very  religious.  But  since  entomology,  through  the  Insect,  Panthenius,  Jr.,  made  its  appear-  ance  in  the  house,  she,  too,  has  begun  to  realize  that,  whatever  you  do,  some  sort  of  Weltanschauung  does  grow  out  of  your  actions,  even  if  you  are  not  im-  mediately  aware  of  it.  A  boy  Vieri's  age  cannot  be  aware  of  the  deadly  implica-  tions  of  his  interest  in  entomology,  biolo-  gy,  taxonomy,  and  so  on,  but  we,  his  parents,  can  and  should  be.  Vieri  has  lost  all  interest  in  religion-in  the  great  tournaments  of  morals,  the  tales  of  right  and  wrong,  which  are  the  essence  of  all  literature.  The  consequences  of  the  word  of  Christ  or  Socrates  cannot  be  photographed;  therefore  they  don't  ex-  ist.  They  are,  in  other  words,  unscien-  tific.  But  the  behavior  of  the  spider  and  " b"the  praying  mantis,  the  whole  criminal  record  of  what  animals  do  to  one  an-  other-that  indeed  can  be  photographed  and  taken  as  a  lesson  in  morals.  &quot;The  survival  of  the  fittest,&quot;  Vieri  says.  ''The  fittest  for  what?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  Dr.  Panthenius  said  the  other  day?&quot;  Vieri  says.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  reply,  &quot;and  I  don't  want  to  know.&quot;  &quot;What  manners,  [REDACTED];  Vieri  says,  and  goes  on  with  his  story.  &quot;What  about  taking  an  interest  in  life  as  it  is  lived,&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;In  human  problems,  in  the  beautiful  works  of  shut-  in  men,  town  dwellers,  fugitives  from  Nature?&quot;  &quot;Don't  shout!&quot;  Vieri  says.  &quot;'Your  reflexes-&quot;  he  begins,  and  I  won't  listen  to  the  rest.  I  know  it,  but  I  won't  repeat  it.  And  what  is  the  great  science  in  the  name  of  which  both  philosophy  and  re-  ligion,  not  to  speak  of  the  classics,  have  become  a  dead  letter  in  our  house?  Ex-  termination  and  fossilization.  Plus,  of  course,  colored  photographic  records  of  the  life  that  once  was.  The  killing  jar,  the  insecticides,  even  the  insecticide  to  &quot;keep  alive&quot;  (that  is,  in  shape)  the  insects  they  have  caught  and  pinned  on  cardboard  or  on  the  spe-  cial  cloth  they  use  for  their  mass  cas-  kets,  and  the  trade  papers  of  the  various  insecticide  companies-that's  all  they  care  for,  all  they  talk  of  when  the  Insect  comes  to  the  house.  And  the  Insect  is  always  in  the  house-if  not  in  ours,  then  in  his-be-  cause  while  both  his  parents  are  great  lovers  of  Nature,  Nature  hates  him.  In  him,  I  think,  the  Goddess  takes  revenge  against  his  parents.  He  cannot  sniff  the  eighty  degrees  oxygen  of  a  fine  sum-  mer  day  without  catching  a  cold,  so  he  mostly  stays  indoors  and  files  away  whatever  butterflies  or  larvae  have  been  killed  by  his  parents.  And  photographs  them,  too,  lest  the  beastly  behavior  of  the  beasts  be  lost  as  an  example  to  hu-  man  beings.  A  month  or  so  ago,  he  brought  the  last  issue  of  the  Toxaphene  News  Di-  gest,  published,  needless  to  say,  by  the  Hercules  Powder  Company  (I  have  nothing  against  them,  am  aware  of  their  services  to  agriculture,  public  health,  and  the  like),  and  read  to  Vieri  and  George  the  following  news  item:  The  study  of  entomology  presents  a  new  frontier  to  youth.  The  1952  Yearbook  of  Agriculture  estimates  there  are  10,000,000  species  of  insects.  Of  these,  600,000  have  been  described  and  named.  Insect  species  are  described  and  named  at  the  rate  of  6,500  a  year,  and  no  one  can  predict  what  the  total  will  be  when  and  if  they  are  all   named.  There  should  be  enough  work  here  to  keep  an  army  of  entomologists  busy  for  years  to  come!  Hans,  as  the  future  strategist  of  that  army,  looked  proudly  at  his  two  aides,  Vieri  and  George,  and  I  felt  sorry  for  the  pests  of  the  world.  HESE  arethe  people  who  have  upset  the  education  of  my  son,  killed  my  live  arguments  with  their  dead  butterflies,  and  almost  chased  me  out  of  my  house.  Because  not  only  have  I  had  to  see  those  damn,  dusty  bow  ties  on  the  walls  of  my  living  room  (Vieri  wants  them  displayed,  and  his  room  is  too  full)  but  I  am  threatened  with  more  and  more  expense.  My  future  is  financially  mortgaged  by  the  scientific  generosity  of  the  Panthenius  family.  Two  months  ago,  Vieri  was  given  a  huge  tripod  for  outdoor  photography.  Dr.  Panthenius  gave  it  to  him,  so  as  to  spare  me  the  added  expense  of  a  tripod  on  the  day  I  buy  a  camera  for  Vieri.  Which  has  never  been  my  intention.  And  once  the  camera  is  bought  for  the  tripod,  then  Vieri  hopes  that  I  will  buy  him  a  better  tripod,  a  more  scientific  one,  such  as  the  Insect  is  now  using.  But  this  is  nothing.  Recently,  Hans  Panthenius,  Jr.,  discovered  a  com-  pany  that  embalms  insects,  the  Turtox  Plastic  Corporation.  So  the  Insect  now  has  in  his  bedroom  the  five  stages  of  the  life  cycle  of  a  Blatelle  germanica,  or  Common  House  Roach,  embedded  in  transparent  plastic  and  mounted  on  a  stand-item  D642  in  the  Turtox  cata-  logue  ($4.75,  shipping  not  included).  He  also  has  a  beautiful  Dipylidium  cani-  rum,  or  Dog  Tapeworm-and  Vieri  could  have  it,  too,  if  he  wrote  to  the  Turtox  Corporation  and  asked  them  to  send  him  item  D44  ($5,  including  " b"scolex,  immature,  mature,  and  gravid  proglottids)  -and  a  Fasciolopsis  buski,  or  Intestinal  Fluke,  ($3).  For  Vieri's  birthday,  I  can  give  him  either  a  camera  to  be  placed  on  the  tripod,  which  is  later  to  be  replaced  by  a  better  tripod,  or  the  following  items  from  the  Turtox  Plastic  Corporation:  a  Fasciola  hepatica,  or  Liv-  er  Fluke,  stained  and  clear  ($3);  a  Taenia  pisiformis  ($5);  scolices  and  gravid  segments  of  Dipylidium  caninum,  Moniezia,  and  Taemia  pisiformis  (all  for  the  modest  sum  of  $7);  a  Scorpion  ($4);  a  Latrodectus  mactans,  or  Black  Widow  Spider,  Male  and  Female  ($5.25);  and  a  Sheep  Kidney  (why  on  earth  a  sheep  kidney?),  of  which  the  catalogue  mysteriously  says,  &quot;Double  Injection  $11.&quot;  And  if  I  feel  like  spend-  ing  a  little  more  money  than  usual  on  his  birthday,  he  would  very  much  like  to  have  the  $39.50  Squalus,  or  Dogfish,     KoVorsky  skull,  with  gill  arches;  the  Small  Grass  Frog,  or  Rana  pipiens,  skeleton,  for  only  $18.25;  and  (why  not?  )  the  $20  Com-  mon  Bat  skeleton.  George,  on  the  other  hand,  covets  the  Pig  Embryos  (whole  mount-stained  for  $4.50)  and  the  Pig  Developmental  Se-  ries  (five  embryonic  stages,  for  $11.25);  but  that  is  not  my  worry.  And  it  seems,  from  what  George  tells  me,  that  a  friend  of  Dr.  Panthenius  has  his  own  appendix,  mounted  in  plastic,  on  his  writing  desk  next  to  the  pictures  of  his  children.  Sci-  ence  is  indeed  wonderful.  I  tried  to  take  advantage  of  this  new  mania  of  the  boys  to  persuade  them  to  part  with  their  dry  butterflies.  They  met  me  halfway,  by  promising  to  throw  away  these  specimens  the  day  they  are  all  replaced  by  others  in  Turtox  plastic.  &quot;If  we  had  a  large  house,&quot;  said  Vieri,  &quot;I  would  ask  my  father  to  buy  some  huge  jars  with  preserved  and  stained  specimens  of  plankton.  That  would  be  something.&quot;  &quot;It  most  certainly  would,&quot;  said  I,  and  the  subject  was  dropped.  However,  it  is  only  fair  to  say  that  all  those  specimens  in  plastic  have  at  least  two  advantages  over  the  unembedded  ones:  there  is  no  dust,  and  they  do  not  require  the  constant  services  of  an  ex-  terminator  to  keep  them  from  being  eaten  up  by  creatures  smaller  than  they  were.  As  for  the  ugliness  of  a  pig  em-  bryo  or  a  dog  tapeworm  staring  at  me  from  the  desk  of  my  son  asI  enter  his  room,  and  the  mess  of  torn  wings  and  broken  legs,  missing  heads  and  half-  eaten-up  bodies  in  those  boxes  of  bow  ties,  I  don't  know  which  is  worse.  But  I  comforted  myself  when  all  this  began  with  the  thought  that  an  interestin  specimens  was  preferable  to  an  interest  in  &quot;live&quot;  Nature,  which  would  mean  keeping  live  snakes,  mice,  guinea  pigs,  even  live  baby  turtles  with  the  Brooklyn  Bridge  in  live  colors  over  their  backs.  And  also  better  than  bird  watching,  with  its  attendant  dirty  hands  and  shoes  and  floors  and  walls.  If  Nature  must  invade  us,  I  said,  let  her  come  tamed  and  dead.  All  we  will  have  to  do  is  close  our  eyes  and  we  won't  see  her.  As  I  was  reaching  this  conclusion,  my  son  and  his  friend  George  were  reaching  another  one.  They  had  just  rediscovered  life  in  Nature,  and  a  re-  spect  for  life,  but  life  in  entomology,  zoology,  microbiology,  and  many  other  forms  of  bestiology-not  in  the  world  of  Man.  I  heard  Vieri  one  afternoon  asking  his  mother  whether  she  had  seen  a  mos-  quito.  &quot;A  mosquito?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  is  too  early  for  mosquitoes.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Only,  if  you  do  see  one,  don't  kill  it.  Call  me.&quot;  &quot;Why?  Will  you  kill  it?&quot;  &quot;I  will  not  kill  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  you  see  a  moth,  don't  kill  it,  either.  Call  me.  And  also  if  you  see  a  cockroach.&quot;  &quot;I  heard  you,&quot;  said  I,  entering  the  room.  &quot;And  I  want  you  to  know  that  if  I  see  any  ofthe  pests  you  mentioned,  Iwill  kill  them  at  once,  with  any  means  at  my  disposal,  whether  shoes  or  in-  secticides.&quot;  &quot;What  right  do  you  have  to  kill  ani-  mals?&quot;  he  asked.  'The  rights  of  Man,&quot;  I  said  proudly.  &quot;I  am  going  to  leave  this  damn  house!&quot;  he  shouted  at  me,  and  then  he  banged  the  front  door  and  was  gone.  ESTINY  precipitated  events  that  very  day.  I  found  a  cockroach  in  the  kitchen  sink  and  killed  it,  some-  " b"what  cruelly,  I  admit,  but  not  because  I  wanted  to  be  cruel-rather,  because  I  could  not  bring  myself  to  crush  it  and  there  was  no  insecticide  within  reach.  I  drowned  the  cockroach  in  hot  water,  and  was  watching  it  die  when  Vieri  came  into  the  kitchen.  He  pushed  me  aside  and  poured  cold  water  on  the  poor  beast,  but  it  was  too  late  to  save  it.  In  vain  did  I  protest  his  use  of  highly  unseemly  language,  his  disregard  for  parental  authority;  I  had  committed  murder.  &quot;Have  you  ever  seen  a  cockroach?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;All  too  often.&quot;  &quot;But  really  seen  it,  under  a  magni-  fying  glass  or  an  electronic  microscope  with  polarized  light?&quot;  &quot;I  confess  I  have  not.&quot;  &quot;The  legs  of  a  cockroach  are  much  more  elegant  than  the  legs  of  a  ballet  dancer.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  insult  a  per-  fectly  respectable  profession,  of  which  you  seem  to  know  very  little  indeed,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  I  don't  like  your  attitude.&quot;  We  were  interrupted  by  the  arrival  of  my  wife,  and  it  was  only  after  some  hours  that  we  made  peace  again.  I  came  forward  with  the  proposal  that  the  dead  cockroach  be  given  a  dignified  funeral  in  Turtox  plastic,  regardless  of  expense.  But  Vieri  refused  my  offer.  All  he  wanted  from  me  was  a  strict  hands-off  policy  with  regard  to  cockroaches,  moths,  mosquitoes,  and  all  other  house  pests,  fifteen-year-old  sons  included.  Now,  aside  from  the  moral  indignity  of  such  an  agreement,  I  did  not  find  it  very  hard  to  keep  my  word.  I  killed  my  cock-  roaches  when  Vieri  was  asleep,  and  made  sure  that  no  traces  were  left  lying  around  the  house.  This  led  to  the  ex-  tensive  use  ofthe  vacuum  cleaner,  which  in  turn  led  to  a  serious  mistake.  I  en-  tered  Vieri's  room  one  morning  while  he  was  in  school,  and  found  the  window  sill  so  deeply  covered  with  dust  that  I  cleaned  it  at  once.  Embedded  worms  and  roaches  looked  at  me  disapprovingly  while  I  was  sucking  up  the  dust,  but  I  went  on  without  thinking  of  anything  but  the  removal  of  more  dust.  I  directed  the  suction  tube  against  what  I  took  to  be  the  sheet  of  glass  over  a  box  of  but-  terflies  that  stood  on  Vieri's  desk,  and  it  was  only  then,  too  late,  that  I  realized  what  I  had  done.  That  particular  box  had  no  sheet  of  glass  over  it,  so  a  whole  line  of  butterflies  flew  backward,  pins  and  all,  into  the  tube.  A  few  others  were  left  wingless,  legless,  some  even  head-  less,  and  they  looked  horrible,  shorn  of  the  symbols  of  their  beauty.  I  hesitated;  then,  feeling  that  those  remnants  were  far  worse  than  nothing,  I  sucked  them up,  too,  and,  inadvertently,  five  more  small  butterflies,  and  in  a  gesture  of  dis-  appointment  I  came  too  near  the  biggest  specimen  in  the  box,  and  sucked  up  its  right  wing.  What  was  now  left  of  the  beautiful  specimens?  Only  traces  of  murder.  So  I  finished  the  job,  emptied  the  entire  box,  closed  it,  and  put  it  in  a  closet,  not  knowing  how  I  would  ever  explain  to  Vieri  what  I  had  done.  In  the  past,  I  had  so  often  threatened,  and  so  often  meant,  to  do  what  I  had  just  now  done  without  meaning  to  do  it.  The  fact  that  I  had  gone  into  his  room  was  in  itself  an  offense.  He  came  home  early  that  afternoon.  George  was  with  him,  and  they  were  busy  unloading  from  the  elevator  large  and  small  jars  filled  with  brown  or  gray  water,  leaves,  and  sticks.  Both  of  the  boys  were  filthy  with  mud.  I  noticed  their  obvious  relief  at  my  cheery  words  of  welcome.  &quot;Good  work,&quot;  I  said,  helping  the  elevator  man  remove  the  last  jars  from  the  car.  One  of  the  jars  smelled  of  rotten  eggs,  and  the  water  inside  looked  rather  dubious.  &quot;I  wonder  what's  in  this  one,&quot;  said  I,  with  the  sincerest,  most  detached  biological  interest.  &quot;Oh,  that  one,&quot;  said  George.  &quot;That's  the  Socialist  State.&quot;  &quot;The  what?&quot;  &quot;Amoebas,&quot;  answered  Vieri.  &quot;They  live  in  colonies  where  they  share  all  the  goods.  George  and  I  call  it  a  Socialist  State.&quot;  &quot;A  Communist  society-why  not  that?&quot;  shouted  George,  and  I  quickly  closed  the  door  of  the  apartment.  &quot;&quot;Who  gave  you  such  ideas?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Nobody,&quot;  Vieri  said.  &quot;I've  got  something  to  show  you.&quot;  He  opened  and  spread  out  on  the  hall  table  an  old  issue  of  Life.  I  looked  where  he  pointed,  and  saw  a  large  picture  of  a  hairy  insect  leg  against  a  purple  background.  &quot;This  is  a  cockroach  leg,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Now  you  will  understand,  I  hope.  Look  at  it.  Isn't  it  beautiful?&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  quite  as  beautiful  as  you  told  me  it  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;But  interesting.  Yes,  full  of  color.&quot;  &quot;And  look  at  this,  now.&quot;  He  turned  the  page  and  showed  me  a  large  butter-  fly  in  the  act  of  emerging  from  its  chrysalis.  I  didn't  enjoy  that  particular  picture  very  much,  but  he  was  too  inter-  ested  in  his  jars  to  notice.  He  took  some  of  the  largest  to  his  room,  and  I  helped  George  put  the  others  on  a  shelf  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;'Make  sure  you  don't  mistake  these  here  for  food,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;We  don't  want  to  lose  our  specimens.&quot;  &quot;Who  went  into  my  room  while  I  was  away?&quot;  Vieri  shouted  at  the  topof  his  voice,  from  the  corridor.  &quot;Don't  shout!&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;Come  here  and  ask  me  what  you  want  to  ask  me  about.&quot;  He  appeared  in  the  kitchen,  his  face  pale,  his  lips  tight,  his  eyes  wide  open.  &quot;Why  did  you  have  to  do  it?&quot;  he  asked  in  a  frightening  voice.  &quot;Do  what?&quot;  " b"&quot;You  know  perfectly  well  what  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;I  don't.&quot;  You  didn't  do  it  on  purpose,  to  teach  me  a  lesson?&quot;  &quot;No,  Vieri,  I  did  not.  I  swear  I  did  not.  It  happened  inadvertently,  and  I  am  very  sorry.  Please  believe  me  I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  you  do  it,  then?  You  heard  me  say  yesterday  that  I  needed  the  dust  on  the  window  sill  to  see  the  microbes  that  were  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  I  did  not  hear  you  yesterday,  and  if  I  had  heard  you,  I  would  have  told  you  that  the  house  must  be  cleaned  every  now  and  then.  Never  mind,&quot;  I  added,  seeing  how  sad  he  looked.  &quot;''There  will  be  more  dust  in  a  day  or  two.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  you  didn't  touch  anything  else  in  my  room,&quot;  he  said.  Before  I  could  decide  whether  or  not  to  tell  the  truth,  he  turned  and  went  back  to  his  clean  window  sill.  I  stayed  in  the  kitchen,  waiting  in  vain  for  the  second  explosion.  DID  not  want  to  bring  up  the  sub-  ject  of  the  missing  butterflies  as  long  as  George  was  there,  because  Vieri's  manners  are  sometimes  apt  to  make  me  lose  my  patience,  so  the  whole  afternoon  went  by  and  nothing  happened.  What  I  could  not  account  for  was  his  failure  to  notice  that  the  butterflies  had  been  re-  moved  from  his  desk,  where  he  was  used  to  seeing  them  all  the  time.  The  only  ex-  planation  I  could  find  for  this  fact  was  that  his  jars  had  absorbed  his  attention  to  the  point  where,  for  the  moment,  he  had  forgotten  his  beloved  butterflies.  All  in  all,  I  was  rather  optimistic  about  the  whole  matter.  What  scared  me  was  my  wife's  attitude  when  she  came  home,  at  about  the  time  George  left,  and  heard,  from  me,  what  I  had  done.  &quot;His  collection  of  butterflies!&quot;  she  kept  saying  in  a  whisper,  lest  he  overhear  her.  &quot;His  collection  of  butterflies!&quot;  &quot;All  right!&quot;  I  shouted,  hoping  he  would  hear  me,  from  the  other  end  of  the  corridor.  &quot;All  right.  His  collection  of  butterflies,  so  what?  Why  don't  you  say  'His  parents!&quot;  The  damn  butterflies  were  doubles,  and  dead  besides,  while  there  are  no  doubles  for  us-and  we  are  still  supposedly  alive.&quot;  Having  discovered  this  new  argu-  ment,  I  rushed  to  Vieri's  room  and  opened  the  door  with  a  great  deal  of  self-  assurance.  &quot;Vieri,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;now  tell  me,  did  you  notice  that  any  of  your  things  were  missing  from  this  room?&quot;  The  moment  I  spoke,  I  realized  that  I  had  left  the  main  road,  the  road  of  reason,  to  walk  the  tortuous  side  path  of  apology.  He  shrugged  and  did  not  answer.  &quot;Vieri,  will  you  please  answer  [REDACTED];  (\xe2\x80\x98Hmm?  &gt;  &quot;  'Hmm'  is  no  answer.  Don't  sit  there  staring  at  the  window  sill.  There  will  be  plenty  of  dust  again  tomorrow.  New  York  is  dirty  enough  to  give  you  back  the  dirt  you  lost,  and  in  a  very  short  time,  too,  Come  on  now,  smile,  say  something.&quot;  &quot;You  want  me  to  give  up  the  jars,  the  butterflies,  the  lamp,  the  tripod,  everything  you  don't  like.  If  you  could  have  your  way,  you  would  throw  away  everything.&quot;  My  heart  was  beating  very  fast.  His  eyes  were  still  fixed  on  the  window  sill,  and  I  wished  he  would  look  at  the  desk  now  and  notice  what  was  missing  from  it.  &quot;Everything  you  would  throw  away.  I  know  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  I  wouldn't.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  would.&quot;  'There  was  a  silence.  He  turned  his  head  in  my  direction,  still  without  look-  ing  up,  and  seemed  to  be  studying  my  shoes.  He  looked  at  them  so  long  and  so  glumly  that  I,  too,  looked  down  at  them.  &quot;'There  is  something  I  want  to  tell  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Something  I  kept  from  you  because  I  was  reluctant  to  admit  it.  I  myself  as  a  boy  was  fascinated  by  the  beautiful  shapes  of  protozoa  and  amoe-  bas  &quot;Were  you?&quot;  Vieri  asked.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  I  really  was.&quot;  &quot;But  did  you  have  a  microscope?&quot;  &quot;My  father  had  one,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;and  he  showed  me  his  specimens.  He  used  to  mount  them  and  stain  them  himself.  And  then,  of  course,  I  saw  them  repro-  duced  in  biology  textbooks.  But  while  we  are  on  the  subject,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  we  live  in  a  small  apart-  ment,  and  that  it  is  simply  not  feasible  for  you  to  collect  in  it  all  the  microbes  from  all  the  dirty  ponds  in  the  city.&quot;  &quot;I  was  hoping  to  find  a  water  tiger,&quot;  Vieri  said.  &quot;In  that  article  I  showed  you,  there  is  a  picture  of  a  water  tiger  sucking  blood  out  of  some  worm.&quot;  &quot;Incredible!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;So-so  inhuman!&quot;  &quot;Why  inhuman?&quot;  asked  Vieri.  &quot;It's  the  law  of  the  survival  of  the-&quot;  &quot;Fittest,&quot;  I  said,  for  him.  &quot;Natural  life  is  nothing  but  an  orgy  of  cruelty  all  the  way  through,  from  amoebas  to  men.  Liberty  is  not  a  law  of  Nature-Chris-  tian  love  even  less.  The  fact  that  men  now  kill  each  other  for  political  as  well  as  other  reasons  is  a  step  forward,  in  the  direction  of  a  better  world,  but  never  " b"forget,  my  son,that  all  living  organisms  are  infested  with  microbes,  and  the  microbes  with  their  microbes  and  sub-  microbes-their  viruses.  You  are  threat-  ened,  right  while  you  sit  there,  by  microbes  that  not  only  feed  on  you  but  even  regulate  your  life,  and  if  they  could,  they  would  put  you  in  bed  with  God  knows  what  diseases.  Health  is  war  -by  the  human  species  on  the  smaller  and  apparently  weaker  insect  and  microbe  species.&quot;  He  looked  at  me  in  amazement,  and  even  I  was  quite  dazed  at  having  spoken  in  this  way.  I  seemed  to  endorse  the  philosophy  of  violence,  for  which  I  had  always  criticized  the  scientists  .  But  this  was  also  the  result  of  science.  When  you  take  all  your  lessons  from  the  animal  world,  and  let  the  animals  speak  for  themselves-instead  of  for  you,  as  Aesop  did-then  they  will  always  teach  you  something  bad,  something  unsuit-  able  for  men-survival  of  the  fittest  in  one  case  (that  is,  war  as  the  ultimate  standard  of  right  and  wrong)  and  ,  in  the  other,  self-extermination  of  the  kindest,  by  their  refusal  to  defend  them-  selves,  which  amounts  to  the  same  as  letting  wars  decide  who  deserves  to  survive.  All  the  best  people,  all  the  mor-  ally  fittest-all  the  true  Christians,  the  true  liberals,  the  believers  in  God,  in  the  dignity  of  Man,  in  the  process  of  law-decide  to  leave  the  theatre  before  the  play  begins.  Burdened  by  all  these  thoughts,  and  feeling  that  I  couldn't  even  begin  to  convey  them  to  Vieri  in  terms  of  microbes,  live  or  dead  butter-  flies  ,  virulent  or  embedded  cockroaches,  and  tapeworms,  I  lost  my  patience  alto-  gether.  &quot;Enough  of  all  this  nonsense!&quot;  I  shouted.  &quot;If  you  want  microbes,  house  pests,  and  tapeworms,  I  shall  run  into  debt  to  buy  you  all  there  are  in  the  text-  books  of  zoology,  in  Turtox  plastic.  We  shall  worship  the  cockroach  as  they  used  to  in  ancient  [REDACTED],  but  I  don't  want  any  live  beasts  or  any  live  biol-  ogists  around  this  house.  And  that  is  all  I  have  to  say.&quot;  did  he  takeit?&quot;  asked  my  wife  when  I  returned  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;I  did  not  tell  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;I  couldn't.  I  got  started  talking  about  something  else.  Why  don't  you  go  and  tell  him?&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  think  of  it.  You  did  the  damage,  so  it's  your  business  to  talk  it  over  with  him.&quot;  She  stopped  to  observe  a  large,  ugly  cockroach  that  was  pon-  dering  its  chances  of  survival  before  leaving  the  safe  edge  of  the  sink  to  run  down  toward  the  danger  zone.  &quot;Now  be  careful,  don't  kill  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  is  sacred.&quot;  I  knew  that  she  always  took  a  savage  pleasure  in  directing  the  faucet  hose  against  these  pests  and  forcing  them  into  the  sink,  where  she  scalds  them  to  death.  But  this  time  she  scooped  the  cockroach  up  in  a  glass,  one  of  those  we  drink  out  of,  and  covered  it  up  with  a  saucer.  Then  she  carried  it  into  Vieri's  room.Dinnertime  came,  and  the  two  of  them  were  still  talking  in  that  room.  At  nine  o'clock,  I  ate  an  apple  and  went  to  bed.  Shortly  after  midnight,  I  was  awakened  by  whispering  in  the  kitchen,  which  is  not  far  removed  from  my  bed-  room,  The  tone,  the  rhythm,  the  inter-  val  between  question  and  answer  all  suggested  an  intellectual  conversation,  in  which  answers  are  measured  and  hesitant,  lest  one  has  not  really  under-  stood  all  the  implications  of  the  question.  I  heard  Vieri  pouring  himself  a  glass  of  milk;  then  the  breadbox  was  flung  open,  paper  wrappings  were  torn,  and  butter  knives  rattled  their  way  out  of  the  kitchen-table  drawer.  The  whispers  went  on  and  on,  toward  God  knows  what  intellectual  goals.  At  one-fifteen,  I  heard  my  wife  say,  &quot;Go  to  bed  now.  It  is  really  too  late  to  sit  here  and  talk.&quot;  As  she  entered  the  bedroom,  she  saw  by  the  light  in  the  hall  that  I  was  awake,  and  said,  &quot;Were  we  disturbing  you?  It's  so  seldom  one  can  talk  to  him.&quot;  &quot;It's  quite  all  right,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;just  so  long  as  you  weren't  disturbing  the  cock-  roach.&quot;  'The  cockroach?  Oh,  it  was  eased  out  of  the  window.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  I  cried,  sitting  up  in  bed.  &quot;And  he  has  forgiven  you  for  de-  stroying  his  butterflies.  Actually,  he  didn't  care  about  them.  His  scientific  mind  is  turning  elsewhere  now.  The  sky.  The  stars.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  astronomy?&quot;  I  asked.  She  nodded.  FOR  a  day  or  two,  I  went  around  thinking  to  myself  how  fortunate  it  is  that  the  stars  cannot  be  collected  un-  der  a  roof,  or  pinned  on  paper,  like  but-  terflies.  But  then  I  learned-from  Vieri-that  the  hydrogen  bomb  is  a  miniature  sun,  right  here  on  the  earth.  Were  it  not  for  the  danger,  he  says,  and,  of  course,  the  expense  ...  That  is  my  only  hope-the  expense  involved.  "