 b"AT  a  traditional  English  celebration  A  there  is  no  nonsense  about  hav-  ing  a  good  time.  Having  a  good  time  would  be  out  of  place;  a  tradition  is  a  serious  matter.  At  a  typical  celebra-  tion,  which  is  conducted  with  the  dig-  nity  and  solemnity  of  a  public  funeral,  the  mayor  reads  a  proclamation  by  Queen  Elizabeth  II,  the  oldest  alder-  man  reads  a  proclamation  attributed  to  King  Alfred,  and  the  R.A.F.  Band,  Hinksey  Station,  plays  &quot;God  Save  the  Queen.&quot;  Shops  are  closed,  traffic  is  halted,  children  are  hushed.  Nothing  stirs  but  bewildered  small  dogs,  rushing  backward  and  forward  among  motion-  less  utility  trousers  and  brown  cotton  stockings.  Retired  Army  men,  wearing  old  tweed  jackets  in  which  they  have  never  felt  quite  at  home,  stand  at  atten-  tion  in  front  of  the  South  Midlands  Travel  Agency  (&quot;Special  Excursion  Rates  to  Bournemouth&quot;),  listening,  per-  haps,  to  a  faraway  bugle  from  the  Afghan  hills.  The  oldest  of  all  English  traditional  festivals  are  what  used  to  be,  in  a  dark  and  backward  past,  lurid  pagan  revels;  they  are  now,  through  the  efforts  of  a  determined  people,  resolutely  respecta-  ble.  One  of  these  is  May  Morning,  which  is  celebrated  with  staunch  fidelity  every  year  on  the  first  of  May,  and  two  years  ago,  when  I  was  studying  at  Ox-  ford,  I  went  to  it.  The  celebration  is  held  at  dawn,  which  has  been  found  to  be  the  coldest  and  most  uncomfortable  time  of  the  day.  On  that  May  Morning  two  years  ago,  the  sun  rose  in  Oxford  at  four-  thirty-nine,  and  four  ofus  who  were  sharing  a  flat-two  Canadians,  another  Ameri-  can,  and  I,  all  studying  at  the  University-rose  in  time  to  observe  it.  The  sky  was  so  overcast  that  it  was  impossible  to  tell  whether  the  sun  was  rising  at  all.  Somebody  said  he  had  a  headache,.  We  had  coffee.  It  seemed  important  to  wash  the  cups  before  we  left  the  flat,  but  we  couldn't  manage  to  light  the  gas  hot-water  heater.  We  washed  them  in  cold  water.  Outside,  up  and  down  the  length  of  St.  Margaret's  Road,  there  was  not  a  sign  of  ani-  mate  human  life.  But  all  around  us  birds  were  singing,  not  sweetly  but  loudly  and  in  disorder,  without  ceasing.  It  was  a  sound  I  had  neverheard  before  that  early,  and  to  my  jangled  nerves  there  seemed  to  be  something  ancient and  terrible  in  it-a  cruel,  primitive  discord.  We  drove  downtown  toward  Magd-  alen  Tower,  past  identical  Victorian  red  brick  houses  inhabited  by  dons  and  clergymen  ofa  gentler  religion  and  a  greater  reasonableness  than  their  ancestors.  At  a  booth  on  a  corner,  someone  was  trying  to  make  a  tele-  phone  call,  the  door  shut  against  the  noise  of  the  birds.  'There  was  a  cold  gray  light  in  the  street,  and  a  damp  chill,  and  then  there  was  a  vast  silence;  the  birds  had  stopped.  We  came  out  into  Woodstock  Road,  'The  first  bus  was  passing,  and  the  milkman  from  Job's  Dairy  was  pulling  his  red  cart  behind  him  with  no  other  sound  than  the  domestic  jingle  of  milk  bottles.  May  Morning  celebrates  the  coming  of  spring.  We  passed  a  number  of  si-  lent  people  walking  in  the  same  direc-  tion  and  staring  straight  ahead,  unsmil-  ing.  They  were  going  to  the  celebration.  We  picked  up  an  American  couple  we  knew,  who  said  that  their  baby  had  kept  them  awake  all  night;  the  husband  had  brought  a  camera,  but  he  said  he  had  forgotten  the  film.  After  that,  none  of  us  said  anything.  The  celebration  was  to  begin  at  Magdalen  Tower.  When  we  arrived,  there  was  already  a  considerable  crowd  of  celebrants  waiting  on  the  bridge  over  the  Cherwell,  with  the  countenances  of  prisoners  in  a  detention  camp.  Some  were  townspeople  and  some  were  un-  dergraduates;  other  under-  graduates  were  in  punts  on  the  river,  and  two  under-  graduates,  in  tails  and  white  ties  after  an  all-night  party,  were  leaning  against  the  rail-  ing  of  the  bridge,  their  faces  miserable  but  indomitable.  Three  girls  were  on  horse-  back,  looking  over  the  heads  of  the  crowd  with  the  expres-  sionless  calm  of  the  aristoc-  racy  in  the  early  morning.  An  old  man  was  adjusting  an  aged  box  camera,  which  clearly  could  take  pictures  only  on  beaches  in  bright  sunlight.  People  stamped  their  feet  and  rubbed  their  hands  in  the  chill,  and  occasionally  they  utteredmonosyllables.  'There  were  policemen  at  several  points,  in  case  the  approach  of  spring  should  cause  a  riot.  At  the  moment  when  the  sun,  if  there  had  been  any,  would  have  struck  the  top  of  Magdalen  Tower,  we  heard  a  faint  and  distant  sound,  the  frail  voices  of  children.  'The  crowd  " b"stilled.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  a  little  boy  asked  loudly.  &quot;Hush,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;Up  there,  look,&quot;  said  somebody  else,  and  a  whisper  ran  through  the  crowd.  At  the  very  top  of  the  tower,  the  Magd-  alen  choirboys  were  singing  aChristian  hymn.  That  brave  and  delicate  sound  end-  ed.  The  crowd  stirred  and  coughed.  Nine  young  men  grouped  themselves  self-consciously  in  an  open  space  near  the  foot  of  the  tower.  Their  leader  gave  a  signal,  another  young  man  beat  a  tambourine,  and  then  all  the  nine  young  men  began  to  jump  up  and  down,  brandishing  short  wooden  sticks.  It  be-  came  apparent  that  they  were  doing  a  morris  dance.  One  of  them,  dressed  as  a  woman,  wore  a  green  wreath  on  his  head;  the  wreath  and  the  sticks  sym-  bolized  fertility.  The  young  men's  hair  was  brushed  and  combed,  and  their  faces  shone  from  shaving.  They  came  from  the  automobile  works  at  Cowley  and  had  been  practicing  the  fertility  dance  for  some  months  in  their  recrea-  tion  hall.  A  stout  woman  with  five  children  at  the  skirts  of  her  overcoat  watched  with  interest.  A  laborer  on  a  wobbly  bicycle,  with  a  lunch  pail  on  the  handle  bar,  pedalled  slowly  through  the  middle  of  the  dance,  looking  neither  to  right  nor  left.  Another  team  of  nine  young  men  appeared,  this  one  from  the  University,  to  do  a  similar  dance.  'These  young  men  carried  sticks  and  wore  sprigs  of  green  and  horn-rimmed  glasses;  the  sprigsalso  symbolized  fertility.  The  crowd  re-  garded  them  with  the  polite  attention  of  an  audience  at  a  cricket  match.  Oc-  casionally  one  of  the  youngmen,  with  some  embarrassment,  shouted.  Oc-  casionally  a  young  man's  glasses  fell  off.  After  a  few  minutes,  the  two  teams  of  dancers,  with  the  crowd  following,  began  to  dance  slowly  up  the  High  from  Magdalen  Tower  toward  Carfax.  Somebody  struck  up  an  accordion,  and  the  dancers  showed  more  enthusiasm.  We  reached  Catte  Street,  a  narrow  alley  between  All  Souls  and  St.  Mary's,  which  leads  into  Radcliffe  Square,  and  we  pushed  and  squeezed  into  it,  with  the  dancers  leaping  in  our  midst.  The  accordion  and  the  tambourine  mingled  in  confusion,  the  dancers  lost  their  steps,  the  bells  of  St.  Mary's  crashed  around  our  heads  and  rang  between  the  walls,  and,  at  last,  the  dancers  and  the  crowd  cried  out  in  a  wild,  happy  aban-  don.  The  ancient  and  gaudy  festival  had  found  and  liberated  its  meaning,  for  in  that  moment  in  the  alley  the  cries  of  the  celebrants  were  like  the  noise  of" b'the  birds-the  shrill,  cruel  disorder  of  fertility.  Then  we  came  out  into  Radcliffe  Square,  under  a  gray  English  sky,  on  English  cobblestones,  surrounded  by  the  monuments  of  English  reason,  All  Souls,  Brasenose,  and  the  Radcliffe  Camera.  The  two  teams  of  bacchants  stopped  for  breath  and  wiped  their  faces  with  English  utility  handkerchiefs.  The  crowd  waited  once  more-shopkeepers  and  their  thin,  tired  wives,  nervous  un-  dergraduates,  aged  dons  with  kind,  drained  faces,  workers  on  their  way  to  Cowley-all  determined,  on  a  cold  gray  morning  in  what  is  spring  in  any  other  country,  on  a  day  that  was  a  wild  festival  in  another  time,  to  celebrate  an  English  tradition.  Beside  me,  a  little  girl  said,  &quot;Mum-  my,  what  are  those  sticks  they  have  in  their  hands?&quot;  &quot;Fairy  wands,&quot;  said  her  mother,  set-  ting  her  face  into  that  firm  and  magnifi-  cent  line  that  conquered  and  baptized  half  the  world. '