 b"GAEGLERS  and  Tom  Bulger  were  sitting  at  a  table  in  a  small  coun-  try  pub  with  two  pints  of  beer  in  front  of  them  when  the  man  came  in  the  door  dragging  his  leg  behind  him.  At  least,  it  looked  like  that.  It  was  just  that  the  leg  was  a  bit  crooked,  and  he  had  a  job  bringing  it  up..  He  was  tall  and  lean,  with  a  fine  column  of  a  neck  and  pow-  erful  shoulders,  and  he  wore  a  graying  mustache  and  shabby  but  very  clean  clothes.  He  was  about  fifty,  Gaeglers  thought.  Gaeglers  and  Tom  had  been  friends  since  the  time  Tom  led  him  on  a  vain  hunt  for  wild  geese  as  a  just  atonement  for  a  deceit  Gaeglers  had  practiced  on  Tom's  brother,  who  owned  a  shop  in  the  small  Irish  seacoast  town  Gaeglers  came  from.  Gaeglers'  way  of  earning  a  living  was  precarious  but  profitable,  and  consisted  mainly  of  making  money  without  working  for  it.  It  involved  a  little  homespun  philosophy,  a  touch  of  psychology,  a  lack  of  conscience,  a  lot  of  confidence,  the  ability  to  class  people  as  possibles  and  probables,  squeal-  ers  or  non-squealers,  and  a  very  deli-  cate  sense  of  what  was  legal  and  illegal.  Gaeglers  always  gave  his  profession  as  &quot;factor.&quot;  He  liked  Tom.  He  forgave  him  for  the  wetting  he  got  on  the  wild-goose  chase  (he  fell  in  a  boghole),  and  now  if  things  be-  came  a  little  hot  in  the  town  he  would  mount  a  bus,  ride  the  few  miles  to  the  village  in  the  mountains  where  Tom  lived,  and  stay  there  until  everything  was  coolagain.  Tom  and  his  wife  were  always  pleased  to  see  him.  He  livened  things  up  for  them.  Also,  he  could  be  quite  useful,  because  he  was  strong  and  not  un-  willing  to  work  hard  when  there  was  no  pos-  sibility  of  his  making  any  money  out  of  it.  Tom  addressed  the  man  with  the  crooked  leg  with  what  Gaeglers  thought  was  unusual  friendliness.  &quot;And  how  are  you,  Bartley?&quot;  he  asked.  The  man  looked  at  Tom,  took  his  hand  out  of  his  pocket,  where  it  was  fumbling  for  coins,  and  came  over.  He  shook  hands.  &quot;Good  evening,  Tom,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  was  a  great  harvest,  thanks  be  to  God.&quot;  &quot;It  was,  too,&quot;  said  Tom,  and  then  he  introduced  the  man  to  Gaeglers.  Gaeglers  felt  two  pale-blue  eyes  look-  ing  him  over.  'They  were  quiet  and  rather  kindly  eyes.  &quot;How  do  you  do,  sir?&quot;  said  Bartley,  shaking  his  hand.  His  handclasp  was  very  firm  and  dry.  Gaeglers  still  wasn't  used  to  older  people  in  the  country  calling  him  &quot;sir.&quot;  Later  on,  he  realized  that  the  &quot;sir&quot;  was  a  reflex,  used  merely  because  he  was  dressed  as  a  townsman.  What  they  real-  ly  thought  about  you  emerged  only  after  a  time.  If  theytook  to  laying  extreme  emphasis  on  the  &quot;sir,&quot;  you  could  be  sure  that  you  had  been  judged  and  found  wanting.  Tom  and  Bartley  talked  some  about  the  weather,  and  then  Bartley  went back  and  ordered  a  pint  and  paid  for  it  carefully  and  didn't  look  one  way  or  the  other  but  drank  it  and  went  out.  This  wasn't  right,  Gaeglers  knew.  There  was  something  amiss  here,  when  a  man  didn't  say,  &quot;What  are  you  drink-  ing?&quot;  or  wasn't  deeply  insulted  if  you  refused  to  drink  with  him.  &quot;What's  wrong?&quot;  he  asked  Tom.  &quot;Who  is  he?&quot;  Tom  sighed.  &quot;He's  a  proud  man,&quot;  he  said.  Apparently  being  proud  was  a  very  serious  thing,  Gaeglers  thought.  It  seemed  to  be  the  same  as  being  dead.  &quot;Well,  I'm  a  proud  man,&quot;  said  Gaeg-  lers.  &quot;There's  nobody  in  the  whole  country  has  more  pride  than  me,  and  I'm  not  downhearted  about  it.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  that,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;Long  ago-  why,  even  when  I  was  a  kid,  I  remember  Bartley.  There  used  to  be  great  sports  and  galas  and  things  around  here  years  and  years  ago,  when  there  was  a  lot  of  people  and  the  young  ones  usen't  to  emigrate  when  they  were  hardly  out  of  the  shell.  Bartley  was  a  powerful  man,  I  re-  member.  It  was  asight  to  see  him  stripped.  Everything  he'd  win,  I  tell  you-throwing  the  stone  and  vaulting  the  pole  and  running  three  mile  and  swimming  in  the  lake.  He  was  like  a  trout.  Or  riding  the  bicycle-you  had  to  work  hard  at  bicycles  in  them  days  to  move  them,  I  can  tell  you.  He  was  a  great  man.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  to  his  leg?&quot;  Gaeglers  asked.  &quot;A  very  simple  thing,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;He  was  building  a  wall  and  a  big  rock  fell  on  his  leg.  It  was  broke  in  several  places.  He  wouldn't  go  to  a  doctor.  There  was  an  oul  bonesetter  up  the  road.  He  went  to  him.  It  never  set  proper.  It  always  had  a  drag  in  it  like  you  see.&quot;  &quot;And  is  he  down  on  his  luck  now,  or  what?&quot;  &quot;He's  down,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;And  he'll  soon  be  out.  He  had  a  few  childer.  They  went  away.  Not  doing  very  well.  Just  keeping  themselves  going.  He  has  one  girl  at  home  " b"with  him.  She's  not  young,  either.  Didn't  marry.  He  can't  work  as  hard  as  he  used  to,  so  the  place  is  going  to  go  one  of  these  days.  He's  back  on  the  taxes,  and  that's  that.&quot;  &quot;But  why  can't  you  all  chip  in?&quot;  Gaeglers  asked.  &quot;Why  can't  we  have  a  col-  lection  or  do  something  like  that?&quot;  &quot;Isn't  that  what  I'm  telling  you,  man!&quot;  Tom  exclaimed.  &quot;He's  a  proud  man.  There's  not  a  sinner  in  the  place  would  dare  go  near  him  with  money  in  their  fist.  He's  a  quiet  sort  of  man,  but  if  somebody  didthat  he'd  eat  them.  They'd  never  get  away  alive  from  him.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Gaeglers,  thinking  it  over.  &quot;Then  I'm  not  a  proud  man.  I  find  it  hard  tobelieve  that  there  are  actually  people  like  that.&quot;  &quot;Well,  there  are,  and  he's  the  flower  of  them,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;And  the  trouble  is  that  he  is  very  well  wished  for  here  and  nobody  has  a  bad  word  in  their  mouth  for  him,  which  is  a  very  unusual  thing,  I  can  tell  you,  and  there's  nobody  that  wouldn't  do  anything  atall  to  save  him,  if  he  wasn't  so  goddam  proud.  When  they  are  like  that,  there  is  no  way  out.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  said  Gaeglers.  &quot;I  see.&quot;  And  Tom,  who  knew  him  fairly  well  by  now,  looked  at  him  suspiciously.  IT  was  about  a  week  later  that  Gaeg-  lers  and  Tom  called  at  Bartley's  house  one  afternoon.  Bartley  was  mend-  ing  a  harness,  and  his  daughter  was  churning.  They  put  their  tasks  aside  to  welcome  the  two  callers,  and  wiped  off  a  couple  of  chairs  and  set  the  kettle  to  boil.  There  was  no  useprotesting  about  it.  They  talked  about  the  weather  and  the  price  of  pigs,  which  was  remarkably  high,  and  Bartley  said  it  was  a  pity  he  hadn't  a  few  of  them  but  it  cost  so  much  to  buy  even  a  sucking  bonham,  and  after  a  while  the  visitors  came  around  to  the  object  of  their  call.  &quot;We  needyour  help,&quot;  said  Gaeglers.  Bartley  looked  him  straight  between  the  eyes,  but  Gaeglers  was  ready  for  him.  He  looked  bland  and  innocent,  so  Bartley  believed  him.  &quot;Well,  now,&quot;  he said,  and  he  was  pleased.  &quot;Anything  at  all  I  can  do  for  ye  and  I  will  be  only  too  pleased.&quot;  &quot;It's  this  way,&quot;  said  Gaeglers.  &quot;Even  in  the  town  where  I  come  from,  we  have  heard  some  strange  tale  about  the  great  men  that  is  produced  out  here,  leapers  and  swimmers  and  rock  throw-  ers,  and  we  were  all  in  there  in  the  pub  the  other  night  and  they  were  spinning  the  tales  about  how  wonderful  ye  all  were,  and  to  tell  you  the  truth,  if  I  was  to  believe  a  half  of  it,  Finn  mac  Cum-  hail  was  only  trotting  after  the  lot  of  you-all  the  boasting  that  went  on-  and  I  said,  well,  if  ye  are  as  good  as  ye  are  supposed  to  be,  let's  have  a  sports  and  see  what  ye  are  like.&quot;  &quot;And  then  I  said,&quot;  said  Tom,  &quot;that  young  and  all  as  they  were  there  wasn't  a  one  of  them  could  hold  a  candle  to  you,  Bartley;  that  if  one  of  your  feet  was  stuffed  in  your  mouth  and  your  two  hands  were  tied  behind  your  back  you  could  leave  the  whole  of  the  young  fel-  lows  standing-powerful  and  all  as  they  thought  themselves.&quot;  Gaeglers  nodded.  &quot;So  I  said  let's  go  over  and  ask  Bartley  to  take  on  the  whole  bloody  lot  of  you,  fair  and  square,  bicycle,  stone,  and  swim,  and  they  can  hammer  out  the  other  events  amongst  themselves,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  also,&quot;  he  added,  licking  his  lips,  &quot;we  will  have  a  competition  for  all  the  young  girls  of  the  place  to  see  who  is  the  most  beauti-  ful.&quot;  There  had  been  long  meetings  at  the  pub  about  how  much  money  Bartley  would  need  and  how  much  he  could  win  in  thethree  events  without  his  sus-  picions  being  aroused.  In  order  to  spread  the  prize  money  a  bit,  Gaeglers  had  thought  of  the  beauty  competition.  &quot;Bartley  has  a  daughter,&quot;  he  had  said.  &quot;Well,  that's  that.  The  four  events  will  be  sufficient,  and  Bartley  will  have  a  new  start.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  ever  seen  Bart-  ley's  daughter?&quot;  one  ofthe  young  fel-  lows  had  asked.  &quot;I  don't  care  if  she  has  a  cork  leg  and  can  see  around  corners,&quot;  Gaeglers  had  replied.  &quot;As  long  as  she  can  stand  and  wear  a  blouse,  she  can  win  a  beauty  competition.&quot;  Now  he  was  conscious  of  Bartley's  daughter  behind  him.  Well,  she  has  nice  brown  hair,  anyhow,  he  was  thinking.  She  was  a  big  girl,  and  her  teeth  were  " b"all  right,  even  if  they  were  a  bit  large,  and  she  had  a  kindly  smile,  like  her  father.  The  rest  of  her  wasn't  so  good,  but  she  was  a  nice  girl;  Gaeglers  knew  that.  He  was  an  expert  at  knowing  what  people  were  like  from  a  first  look,  be-  cause  his  living  depended  on  it.  &quot;So,&quot;  he  went  on  hurriedly,  &quot;since  you  are  the  father  of  athletics  in  the  area,  we  would  be  very  honored  if  you  would  enter  for  the  events,  and  if  you  would  do  us  this  honor  of  pitting  yourself  against  these  young  boasters,  they  would  have  to  pay  afee  to  try  and  best  you,  and  the  prizesfor  the  winner  would  be  good  and  substantial-cash  prizes,  be-  cause  we  have  no  time  to  be  goingbuy-  ing  medals  and  cups  and  china  and  things.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Bartley.  Tom  and  Gaeg-  lers  held  their  breaths.  &quot;It's  very  kind  of  you,  but  I  couldn't  do  it.  I  would  wish  to  pay  an  entrance  fee  for  the  events  like  everyone  else.&quot;  Gaeglers  let  his  breath  go  slowly.  &quot;Well,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  grudgingly.  &quot;I'm  willing  to  take  your  shilling  to  cover  thethree  events.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  all?&quot;  Bartley  asked.  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  said  Gaeglers.  &quot;'There's  so  many  entered  that  the  fee  can  be  reduced  an  awful  lot.&quot;  Now,  he  was  thinking,  we'll  have  to  get  every  able-  and  disabled-bodied  man  in  the  place  to  enter  to  make  up  the  difference  between  the  fees  and  the  prize  money.  &quot;And  if  your  daughter  would  like  to  enter  the  other  competition,  we  will  take  sixpence  from  her,  too.&quot;  He  turned  and  looked  at  her  directly.  He  didn't  like  the  clear  way  she  looked  back  at  him.  There  was  a  slight  smile  on  her  lips.  She  is  too  shrewd,  that  one,  he  was  thinking.  I'll  bet  she  won't.  &quot;Of  course  she  will,  of  course!&quot;  said  Bartley,  going  over  to  her  and  putting  a  hand  on  her  shoulder.  &quot;And  I'd  back  her  to  the  hilt,  There  isn't  a  better  or  more  beautiful  girl  in  the  whole  parish  than  Julia.&quot;  The  other  three  were  startled.  He  meant  it.  Julia  looked  at  Gaeglers  al-  most  inquiringly.  To  hell  with  it,  she  knows,  he  thought.  He  nodded.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  said  Julia.  &quot;Thanks,  Father,  but  maybe  you  area  bit  blind.&quot;  &quot;No,  girl,&quot;  said  Bartley,  &quot;I'm  not  Llind.  You  area  good  girl.  I  wouldn't  give  a  tip  of  your  finger  for  all  the  women  in  the  world.&quot;  &quot;Gaeglers,  here,  will  be  the  judge  of  everything,&quot;  said  Tom.  &quot;He's  had  ex-  perience  of  things  like  this,  and  since  he  is  a  stranger  amongst  us,  he  won't  be  backing  any  horse,  so  everything  will  be  fair  and  even  and  aboveboard.&quot;  And he  added,  under  his  breath,  &quot;God  for-  give  me  for  the  lies.&quot;  Bartley's  eyes  were  shining.  &quot;Man,  but  it'll  be  a  great  day,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  made  me  feel  young  again,  do  ye  know  that?  'The  oul  leg'll  bea  bit  of  a  handi-  cap,  but  wait'll  ye  see,  wait'll  ye  see!&quot;  &quot;That's  the  stuff,&quot;  said  Gaeglers.  &quot;We'll  hold  it  on  Sunday  next,  after  last  [REDACTED]  It'll  be  the  biggest  day  in  history.&quot;  Then  he  and  Tom  were  outside  and  rubbing  the  sweat  off  their  foreheads.  &quot;I  never  had  to  work  so  hard  in  all  me  life  just  to  give  money  away,&quot;  said  Gaeglers.  &quot;God  preserve  us  from  proud  men.&quot;  HE  day  of  the  sports  the  sun  shone  brightly.  The  field,  which  be-  longed  to  Bartley,  was  very  gay  with  bunting,  and  bicycles  glinting  in  the  light,  and  there  were  a  few  stalls  selling  fruit  and  soft  drinks  and  souvenirs.  These  were  operated  by  Gaeglers'  friends  from  the  town,  and  they  were  naturally  willing  to  pay  him  a  little  commission  for  arranging  the  event  and  informing  them  in  time  about  it,  so  they  could  get  onto  the  field  first.  Gaeglers  explained  to  Tom  that  al-  though  he  was  doing  all  these  things  for  love  of  humanity  and  Bartley,  still  he  had  to  live,  and  his  share  of  the  stalls  was  legitimate  business.  Tom  under-  stood  this  and  remarked  cheerfully  that  Gaeglers  would  make  money  out  of  his  mother's  funeral.  All  the  young  men  were  threatened  in  advance  by  Gaeglers.  They  could  try  to  win  in  the  other  events,  but  the  man  who  beat  Bartley  in  the  stone,  the  bike,  or  the  lake  would  be  in  for  a  poor  time,  he  said.  They  all  swore  their  solemn  oaths,  but  Gaeglers  had  doubt,  because  they  were  all  healthy  and  ex-  citable  young  men  and  might  forget  their  oaths  in  the  heat  of  the  contests.  They  did.  They  tried  hard  to  win,  feeling  it  would  be  shameful  to  be  bested  by  an  old  man.  But  Bartley  was  in  great  condition,  apart  from  his  leg,  and  when  he  stripped  off  his  shirt  and  held  the  heavy  stone  at  shoulder  height,  you  could  see  the  muscles  under  his  pale  skin  leaping  and  bunching,  and  when  he  had  the  last  throw  and  dida  half  circle  and  the  stone  left  his  hand,  Gaeglers  was  horrified  to  see  the  distance  it  went.  There  was  a  resounding  cheer  all  over  the  place.  Bartley  said  that  it  was  just  practice-that  he  had  flung  the  stone  so  often  it  was  second  nature  to  him.  It's  hard  to  ride  a  bike  on  grass.  Gaeglers  put  Bartley  about  two  hundred  yards  ahead  of  the  field.  Bartley  politely  wheeled  his  bike  back  again  to  the  start-  ing  line.  Everyone  was  grinning.  Gaeg-  lers  set  them  off,  cursing.  It  was  a  two-mile  ride,  ten  times  around  the  big  uneven  field.  Bartley  fell  behind  and  then  started  catching  up.  There  was  no  trick  in  it.  Then  he  and  a  powerful  young  man  were  out  ahead  of  the  others,  but  the  young  man  would  have  got  ahead  of  him  and  finished  first  if  some-  body  hadn't  flung  a  small  rock  accurate-  ly  at  the  front  wheel  of  his  bicycle  and  brought  him  down,  bruised  and  cursing  " b" and  ready  for  murder.  Gaeglers  denied  that  he  had  flung  the  rock.  So,  two  up  for  Bartley.  When  it  was  time  for  the  lake  event,  all  the  ladies  had  to  be  kept  away,  because  there  were  the  most  peculiar  kinds  of  bathing  cos-  tumes  among  the  contestants.  Bartley  went  into  the  water  in  his  long  woollen  winter  drawers,  and  some  of  the  young  fellows  went  in  with  old  trousers  tied  by  a  bit  of  twine,  which  fell  off  and  left  them  swimming  in  their  birthday  suits,  and  at  the  end  there  was  great  laugh-  ing  and  chortling  when  they  came  ashore.  Bartley  won,  but  he  won  fair  and  square.  He  had  a  powerful  way  of  lying  over  the  water  and  using  his  two  great  arms  to  pull  him  along.  No-  body  could  touch  him.  Gaeglers  was  very  pleased.  There  were  three  money  prizes  ready  to  be  handed  over  to  Bartley.  Now  all  Gaeg-  lers  had  to  do  was  give  Julia  the  prize  for  being  the  best  beauty,  and  there  you  were.  HE  girls  were  gathered  on  a  mound  in  the  middle  of  the  field.  Gaeglers  became  suddenly  upset  when  he  saw  them  closely.  There  were  six  of  them  besides  Julia.  The  six  girls  were  painfully  pretty.  That  was  the  trouble-  they  were  really  pretty,  and  one  of  them  was  even  beautiful.  They  had  slim  waists  and  fine  hair,  and  they  were  very  well  dressed.  Julia  looked  good  in  a   summer  dress,  all  right,  anybody  could  see  that,  but  anybody  who  wouldaward  her  the  prize  over  the  six  other  girls  would  have  to  go  and  get  his  eyes  ex-  amined.  Gaeglers  was  upset  for  an-  other  reason,  too.  He  had  meant  totalk  to  the  six  girls  beforehand,  as  he  had  done  with  the  young  men,and  explain  to  them  why  they  wouldn't  be  winning  any  first  prizes,  but  in  the  rush,  and  on  account  of  having  so  much  to  attend  to,  he  had  completely  forgotten  to  warn  them,  and  wouldn't  there  be  a  riot  among  them  now  if  he  proceeded  with  the  set  plan?  He  cursed  his  forgetful-  ness.  Then  he  hardened  himself,  and  after  making  a  little  speech  to  the  girls  he  was  prepared  to  do  his  job,  until  he  saw  the  eyes  of  Julia  beseeching  him.  She  knew,  all  right.  She  had  come  as  faras  this  for  the  sake  of  her  father,  but  to  go  on  would  be  a  terrible  thing  to  inflict  on  her.  Gaeglers  saw  that.  And  because  he  was  soft  over  some  things,  what  did  he  do  but  award  the  prize  to  the  real  beauty,  and  all  he  got  for  it  was  a  kiss  on  the  side  of  the  neck  from  the  winner  and  thanks  from  the  eyes  of  Julia.  Also,  the  event  cost  him  money.  The  prize  money  was  short  by  the  losing  of  the  beauty  competition,  so  Gaeglers  had  to  goup  to  Bartley  and  say,  &quot;You're  a  great  man,  Bartley,  there's  no  mis-  take,  and  if  I  wore  a  hat  I'd  take  it  off  to  you,  and  do  you  see  those  fellows  in  the  stalls?  Well,  since  this  is  your  field  they  are  paying  a  small  rent  for  the  use  of  it,  and  so  you  have  this  much  more  coming  to  you.&quot;  And  he  had  to  hand  over  his  percentage  from  the  stalls.  Presently,  Julia  took  him  aside  and  said,  &quot;Goodbye,  Gaeglers.  I  am  very  grateful  for  what  you  have  done.  I  won't  forget  ever  what  you  have  done  for  us.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  so  daft!&quot;  Gaeglers  said.  &quot;All  bloody  women  are  daft!  Why  have  women  to  be  so  goddam  daft?&quot;  He  was  mad,  and  his  neck  was  red,  but  Julia  smiled  after  him  as  he  went  furiously  away.  \xe2\x80\x9cI  SET  out  to  do  a  good  deed,&quot;he  exclaimed  to  Tom  on  the  way  back  to  Tom's  house,  &quot;and  what  happens?  I  get  jilted  out  of  money.  I'm  never  going  to  come  out  here  again  to  you,  that's  sure.  Every  time  I  come  out  here  to  you,  something  sinister  happens  to  me.&quot;  &quot;'Your  trouble,  Gaeglers,  is  that  you're  a  good  crook,&quot;  'Tom  said,  and  he  slapped  his  thigh  and  laughed  like  hell."