 b"WHEN  I  was  five  years  old,  my  father  died,  and  my  mother  sent  my  two  younger  brothers  and  me  from  England  to  [REDACTED],  to  stay  with  her  parents.  They  had  a  large  winter  house  in  the  Vester  Sggade,  in  Copenhagen,  and  a  smaller  summer  place  outside  Vedbaek,  on  the  Danish  Riviera,  The  Vedbaek  house  was  a  one-story  converted  farmhouse  with  a  thatched  roof  and  Hans  Ander-  sen  gingerbread  windows.  It  had  its  private  beach-a  strip  of  dark  sand,  heavily  laced  with  seaweed,  and  at  cer-  tain  times  of  the  year  strewn  with  dead,  transparent  jellyfish-on  the  almost  tideless  @resund.  There  was  a  bathing  hut  out  in  the  shallow  water,  which  could  be  reached  by  way  ofa  narrow  wooden  pier.  My  grandmother  was  an  erect  old  lady  who  had  a  passion  for  being  photo-  graphed  with  as  large  a  portion  of  her  family  as  possible  grouped  about  her,  so  although  we  boys  spent  most  of  our  play-  time  on  the  beach  and  pier,  we  were  dragged  back  to  the  garden  from  time  to  time  to  pose  with  her  and  my  grand-  father.  This  was  a  long  and  compli-  cated  process.  My  grandmother  always  sat  on  a  garden  bench  clutching  one  of  her  favorite  parasols  and  looking  with  a  fixed  and  rather  vacant  expression  at  my  grandfather,  who  stood  beside  her  and,  resting  a  hand  lightly  on  her  arm,  stared  back  with  grim  marital  de-  votion.  My  uncles  and  aunts  and  my  numerous  cousins,  male  and  female,  were  arranged  around  them  according  to  senior-  ity,  the  elders  closest  to  the  central  tableau,  while  my  brothers  and  I  usual-  ly  formed  a  secondary  pattern  their  left  flank.  I  still  have  many  of  these  photographs,  for  my  grandmother  habitu-  ally  gave  a  copy  to  each  ofthe  participants.  They  are  all  com-  posed  on  the  same  plan,  but  some  of  them  contain  an  alien  figure,  which  stands  out  in  sharp  contrast  to  the  fam-  ily  group  itself.  This  is  our  Nanny,  who  had  come  with  us  from  Eng-  land  and  who,  because  of  her  position  of  trust,  was  occasionally  included.  A  tall,  stern-looking  Englishwoman,  she  invariably  dressed  in  stiff  gray  and  wore  a  nurse's  starched  cap.  Her  ex-  pression  in  the  photographs  is  always  the  same,  and  exactly  asI  remember  it;  it  on     conveys  disapproval,  or  at  least  wari-  ness,  and  seems  to  say  that  although  she  might  unbend  somewhat  at  times,  she  would  never  really  trust  a  foreigner.  She  was  an  unswerving  disciplinarian  with  a  mania  for  routine  and  detail.  Our  days  were  regulated  with  the  precision  of  a  railway  timetable.  Even  during  our  play  hours  on  the  beach,  no  opportunity  to  impress  a  moral  lesson  was  allowed  to  pass.  Teatime,  a  supposedly  carefree  period,  had  its  appointed  program,  and  we  had  to  eat,  always  in  the  same  order,  a  slice  of  brown  bread  and  butter,  a  cucumber  sandwich,  and  a  piece  of  bread  and  jam  before  we  were  allowed  to  help  ourselves  to  the  pi\xc3\xa9ces  de  r\xc3\xa9sis-  tance-the  chocolate  biscuits  and  the  frilly  cakes  coated  with  icing  and  topped  with  maraschino  cherries.  T  the  approach  ofthe  hard,  snowy  winters,  my  grandparents  would  close  the  country  house,  and  we  would  all  return  to  town,  where,  in  place  of  visits  to  the  beach,  we  children  and  Nanny  would  take  her  favorite  walk.  We'd  go  past  the  Botanical  Gardens  and  up  toward  the  Castle,  then  past  the  English  Church,  and  finally  onto  the  Langelinie,  a  promenade  running  along  a  portion  of  the  harbor,  where  the  air  slapped.  you  hard  in  the  face,  and  ships,  with  their  red-and-white  Danish  flags  cracking  in  the  breeze,  sparkled  on  the  water,  and  the  bronze  statue  of  Hans  Ander-  sen's  Little  Mermaid  gazed  mournfully  out  to  sea.  We  took  this  route  every  day,  weather  per-  mitting.  I,  being  the  eld-  est,  went  in  front,  and  my  two  brothers,  each  clasping  one  of  Nanny's  hands,  walked  stiffly  be-  side  her.  There  was,  at  one  point  on  the  Langelinie,  a  large  mine  that  had  been  washed  up  on  the  shore  during  the  1914-18  war,  and  had  subsequently  been  placed  there  as  a  memorial  to  the  sailors  who  had  lost  their  lives  at  sea.  A  slit  had  been  cut  in  one  side  of  it,  into  which  pass-  ersby  could  drop  money  for  naval  char-  ities.  Nanny  considered  that  the  giv-  ing  of  charity  was  as  essential  a  part  of  the  upbringing  of  children  as  dis-  cipline,  and  she  made  us  put  an  gre  into  the  slit  every  time  we  passed.  &quot;If  you  don't,&quot;  she  said,  in  her  alarmingly  soft  voice,  the  first  time  we  went  there,  " b" &quot;the  mine  will  explode  and  kill  every-  one  in  Copenhagen.&quot;  &quot;Even  Granny?&quot;  one  of  us  asked.  &quot;Even  Granny.&quot;  &quot;And  you?&quot;  The  thought  was  al-  most  too  incredible  to  consider.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Nanny.  &quot;Even  me.&quot;  After  that,  we  used  to  regard  the  mine  with  fascination  and  alarm.  When  we  came  in  sight  of  it,  we  would  go  up  to  it  and  put  our  coins  into  the  rusty  mouth  quickly,  afraid  that  perhaps  we  were  already  too  late  and  that,  its  pa-  tience  exhausted,  it  would  explode  just  as  our  hands  went  up  to  it.  Sometimes,  if  there  was  a  loud  noise  in  the  night,  we  would  wake  up  thinking  that  the  mine  had  exploded  at  last.  And  if  we  were  kept  from  our  walk  for  a  few  days  because  snow  had  piled  too  high  in  the  streets,  we  would  run  to  the  mine  as  soon  as  we  were  allowed  out,  ignoring  the  snowmen  that  other  children  had  built  until  we  had  put  our  money  in  the  mine  and  made  the  city  and  ourselves  safe  for  another  day.  One  evening  when  I  was  six,  Nanny  was  taken  ill  with  bronchitis  and  was  confined,  protesting,  to  her  room  for  an  indefinite  period.  We  boys  became  aware  of  this  state  of  affairs  the  next  morning,  when,  instead  of  Nanny's  walking  briskly  into  our  bedroom  clap-  ping  her  hands,  the  door  opened  and  my  grandmother,  in  dressing  gown  and  nightcap,  came  in,  followed  by  Tove,  the  youngest  of  her  maids.  &quot;Nanny  is  not  very  well,&quot;  said  Granny  in  an  agi-  tated  voice,  &quot;so  Tove  is  going  to  look  after  you  for  a  while.&quot;  We  were  delighted.  Tove  was  the  exact  opposite  of  Nanny,  and  by  far  our  favorite  grownup.  She  was  a  plump  girl  with  a  high,  giggling  voice,  very  blond  hair,  and  deep-blue  eyes.  We  spoke  Danish  with  her,  which  we  liked  to  do,  since  we  always  spoke  careful  Eng-  lish  with  Nanny.  Tove  had  no  idea  of  discipline,  time,  or  the  importance  of  in-  stilling  soundmoral  ideas  in  the  young.  We  boys  and  Tove  set  off  that  aft-  ernoon  on  the  usual  walk  to  the  Langelinie.  I  was  in  front,  as  always,  and  my  two  brothers  were  leading  Tove  rather  than  being  led  by  her.  It  was  a  brisk  winter  day.  The  snow  had  be-  come  crystallized,  and  it  crackled  un-  derfoot  like  broken  glass.  People  were  hurrying  about  wrapped  in  fur  coats  and  looking  like  bears.  When  we  came  to  the  mine,  I  asked  Tove  for  an  gre.  &quot;What  ever  for?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;'To  put  in  the  mine,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  don't  want  to  waste  money  like  that,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  we  don't,  the  mine  will  explode" b" and  we  shall  all  be  killed,&quot;  I  told  her.  Tove  laughed.  &quot;Who  ever  told  you  that?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Nanny,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  don't  want  to  listen  to  silly  stories,&quot;  said  Tove.  &quot;Nanny  ought  to  have  known  better.  Now,  hurry  along.  I've  got  to  meet  a  friend  by  the  Yacht  Basin.&quot;  As  we  walked  on,  I  felt  certain  that  the  mine  would  explode  at  any  minute.  I  considered  it  very  foolhardy  of  Tove  to  disregard  the  danger,  and  I  looked   at  all  the  people  we  passed  and  was  sorry  to  think  that  they  would  soon  be  dead.  T  was  Nanny's  custom  to  walk  to  the  end  ofthe  Langelinie  and  back,  and  then,  ifit  was  not  too  cold,  to  sit  on  a  bench  by  the  Little  Mermaid  and  let  us  children  play  on  the  rocks  along  the  shore.  Over  the  course  of  time,  Nanny  had  considerably  elaborated  the  tale  of  the  Little  Mermaid  for  us,  and  had  convinced  usthatthe  gray-brown  figure  staring  so  wistfully  across  the  harbor  would  rise  in  the  hour  of  Copen-  hagen's  danger  and  defend  the  city.  It  was  to  enable  her  to  stand,  said  Nanny,  that  she  had  two  tails  instead  ofthe  one  most  mermaids  had.  I  had  gradually  come  to  look  upon  the  Little  Mermaid   as  a  natural  counterbalance  to  the   menace  of  the  mine,  and  though  I  was  not  entirely  sure  how  anyone  so  slim  and  fragile  could  defeat  the  city's  bloated  and  horny  enemy,  I  was  confident  that  goodmust  in  the  end  prevail  against  evil.  So  after  a  while,  I  began  to  feel  that  we  all  might  somehow  escape,  in  spite  of  Tove's  heresy.  Tove's  friend,  whom  we  met  pres-  ently,  turned  out  to  be  a  young  sailor  whose  dark,  curly  hair  and  bright-black  eyes  spoke  ofa  southern  extraction.  We  boys  liked  him  immediately,  because  he  gave  us  some  gre  and  told  us  that  we  might  play  in  the  rowboat  in  which  he  had  come  from  his  ship,  across  the  har-  bor.  The  rowboat  was  moored  nearby,  in  the  Yacht  Basin.  This  was  a  tre-  mendous  treat.  Tove  and  the  sailor  strolled  away,  his  arm  around  her  waist,  and  it  was  quite  late  by  the  time  they  came  back.  When  they  did,  the  sailor  got  into  his  boat  and  rowed  out  of  the  Yacht  Basin,  and  Tove  stood  at  the  end  of  the  Langelinie  and  waved  until  he  was  out  of  sight.  We  waved,  too,  but  by  then  we  were  feeling  very  hungry.  When  Tove  could  no  longer  see  the  sailor,  she  hurried  us  home.  There  was,  of  course,  no  time  to  stop  by  the  mine  or  the  Little  Mer-  maid  on  our  way.  We  were  far  too  " b"late  for  that;  it  was  already  getting  dark.  The  yellow  shop  lights  sparkled  on  the  snow,  and  the  breath  that  came  out  of  the  mouths  of  the  people  go-  ing  home  from  work  was  like  puffs  of  smoke.  OR  a  while  after  that,  Tove  took  us  to  the  Yacht  Basin  every  day.  Sometimes  the  sailor  was  already  there,  laughing  and  waving  as  we  came  up,  but  sometimes  we  arrived  first,  and  then  we  would  go  to  the  end  of  the  Lan-  gelinie,  where  we  could  watch  himrow  toward  us  across  the  harbor.  But  one  day,  as  we  left  the  house,  Tove  started  us  toward  the  central  part  of  the  town  instead  of  toward  the  Lan-  gelinie.  She  seemed  on  edge,  and  an-  swered  our  questions  either  absent-  mindedly  or  irritably.  &quot;Keep  on  walking,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Just  keep  on  walk-  ing.&quot;  We  had  learned  early  that  it  was  quiteuselessto  argue  with  grownups,  even  the  nice  ones,  when  they  were  in  one  of  their  moods.  We  realized,  with  rather  more  tolerance  than  they  had,  that  they  were  weighed  down  by  all  sorts  of  problems  of  which  we  knew  nothing,  and  that  their  frowns  or  mo-  ments  of  bad  temper  were  merely  ex-  pressions  of  vast  adult  miseries.  So  I  walked  on,  in  the  lead,  and  presently  I  found  thatI  was  walking  alone.  Tove  and  my  two  brothers  had  vanished.  At  first,  I  thought  that  I  had  out-  stripped  them,  and  that  all  I  need  do  was  retrace  my  steps,  but  as  I  pushed  my  way  hurriedly  between  the  fur  coats  and  heavy  boots  ofthe  people  in  the  street,  a  new  and  far  more  impressive  thought  occurred  to  me:  the  mine  had  exploded  and  had  taken  Tove  and  my  brothers  away.  My  knowledge  of  explosives  was  nonexistent,  and  it  seemed  quite  possible  that  the  mine  could  be  selective  about  its  victims,  and  silent,  as  well.  Indeed,  believing  implicitly,  under  Nanny's  instruction,  in  the  fair  division  of  crime  and  punishment,  it  seemed  prob-  able  that,  in  spite  of  her  previous  fore-  bodings,  it  would  destroy  only  those  who  had  not  fed  it.  Tove  had  not,  my  brothers  had  not,  and  so  they  had  dis-  appeared.  Of  course,  I  had  not  fed  it,  either,  and  I  had  come  to  no  harm,  but  this  did  not  strike  me  as  inconsistent,  for  I  was  still  young  enough  to  believe  in  my  own  indestructibility.  Also,  I  had  no  time  for  careful  consideration.  Themoment  had  come  for  action,  and  I  knew  what  I  had  to  do.  Turning  around  abruptly-  and  thereby  missing  a  frantic  Tove  by" b" a  few  seconds,  as  I  learned  later-I  hastened  toward  the  harbor.  COPENHAGEN  has  been  described  as  the  [REDACTED]  of  the  [REDACTED],  but  to  me  it  has  always  been  a  place  of  ships.  It  is  the  only  capital  city  I  know  of  where  ships  tie  up  in  front  of  the  Stock  Ex-  change  and  where  ocean  liners  sail  past  the  windows  of  the  seat  of  government.  This  adds  to  the  attraction  of  the  city  but  lessens  one's  maneuverability  in  it.  Every  turn  I  took  brought  me  to  the  water-either  to  the  inlets  of  the  inner  harbor  or  to  the  wider  sweeps  of  the  outer.  But  by  asking  people  con-  tinually  for  the  way  to  the  mine,  and  refusing  to  be  sidetracked  by  questions,  I  eventually  found  myself  approach-  ing  it.  It  was,  somewhat  to  my  surprise,  still  there,  but  in  the  reddish  glow  of  the  wintry  sun  it  had  a  savage,  rumbling  look  about  it,  as  though  it  were  contain-  ing  its  rusty  flanks  only  by  a  superhuman  effort,  I  ran  forward  and,  putting  one  hand  on  its  encrusted  belly-either  to  contain  it  or  to  reassure  it,  I  do  not  know  which-pulled  out  of  my  pocket  all  the  gre  that  Tove's  friend  had  given  me  duringour  walks  along  the  Langelinie,  and  that  I  had  scrupulously  hoarded,  and  pushed  them,  one  by  one,  into  the  slot.  I  had  the  feeling,  as  the  last  one  dis-  appeared,  that  I  had  been  only  just  in  time,  and  I  was  quite  certain  as  I  stood  back,  relieved,  that  the  infernal  thing  looked  smaller  and  more  composed.  But  now,  although  I  had  saved  the  city,  I  still  had  to  bring  back  my  brothers,  and  with  this  in  view  I  made  forthe  Little  Mermaid.  I  believed  without  the  slightest  doubt  that,  as  the  protector  of  Copenhagen,  she  would  bring  them  back.  It  was  just  a  question  of  waiting.  I  settled  myself  on  the  seat  that  Nanny  had  always  occupied  and,  staring  fixedly  at  the  statue,  waited.  I  had  not  been  there  long  when  a  policeman  who  had  been  walking  up  and  down  near  me  and  glancing  in  my  direction  came  over  to  me  and  asked,  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here,  my  boy?&quot;  &quot;I'm  waiting  for  my  brothers,&quot;  I  re-  plied.  The  answer  seemed  to  satisfy  him,  for  he  said  no  more  and  moved  away,  but  I  noticed  that  he  did  not  go  far.  It  grew  much  colder.  The  evening  set  in,  and  the  sun  dipped  behind  the  harbor  masts.  I  was  tired,  cold,  and  hungry.  I  did  not  doubt  the  power  of  the  Mermaid,  but  I  felt  that  she  was  being  unnaturally  slow.  Perhaps  the " b"task  I  had  set  her  was  harder  than  I  imagined.  I  began  to  cry.  Then,  sud-  denly,  the  policeman  was  standing  in  front  of  me  again.  He  held  outa  huge  colored  handkerchief.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Dry  your  tears  and  tell  me  what's  the  matter.&quot;  I  blew  my  nose  and  handed  back  the  handkerchief,  but  I  made  no  reply.  &quot;You're  lost,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  my  brothers  who  are  lost.&quot;  &quot;Ah!&quot;  He  appeared  to  think  this  over  for  a  while,  and  then  he  squatted  down  beside  me  and  said,  &quot;What's  your  name?&quot;  &quot;John,&quot;  I  replied.  'Your  surname?&quot;  I  did  not  understand  what  he  meant.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  help  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where  do  you  live?&quot;  &quot;One-seventy-five  Gloucester  Ter-  race,&quot;  I  answered.  My  mother  had  al-  ways  told  me  to  say  that  if  I  was  asked.  I  had  practiced  it  over  and  over  again.  Sometimes  my  father  had  pretended  to  bea  stranger  asking  the  question,  and  he  had  always  been  pleased  when  I  an-  swered  correctly.  The  policeman  did  not  seem  to  un-  derstand.  &quot;But  that's  not  a  Danish  name,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  an  English  one.&quot;  &quot;But  you're  in  Copenhagen,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;One-seventy-five  Gloucester  Ter-  race  is  where  my  mother  lives,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Where  is  that?&quot;  I  pointed  across  the  water.  &quot;Over  there,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Sweden?&quot;  He  sounded  peeved.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  The  policeman  was  silent  for  a  mo-  ment,  then  he  said,  &quot;Look,  my  boy,  you're  staying  in  Copenhagen  now,  aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;With  my  grand-  mother.&quot;  &quot;Where  does  she  live?&quot;  I  pointed  behind  me,  to  where  the  city  was  disappearing  in  the  gloom.  &quot;Over  there,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Do  you  know  the  address?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;She  lives  in  a  big  house.&quot;  The  policeman  stood  up  and  rubbed  his  face.  You'd  better  come  along  with  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  must  stay  here  un-  til  my  brothers  come.&quot;  He  took  hold  of  my  arm.  &quot;Come  along,&quot;  he  said.  But  I  would  not  let  go  of  the  seat.  I  clung  to  it  as  hard  as  I  could,  and  kicked  at  the  policeman.  Quite  a  crowd  was  gathering.  I  do  " b"not  know  just  what  would  have  hap-  pened  if  asharp  feminine  voice  had  not  said  suddenly,  &quot;It's  all  right,  Of-  ficer,  I  know  the  little  boy.&quot;  The  policemen  let  me  go.  &quot;'Thank  goodness,&quot;  he  said.  I  looked  up  and  saw  that  Nanny  was  standing  beside  him,  her  starched  hat  stiffly  upright  on  her  head,  a  huge  gray  cloak  enveloping  her  body  like  the  fold-  ed  wings  of  a  sleeping  bat.  She  held  out  her  hand.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Time  to  go  home.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  where  my  brothers  are?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  Nanny.  know  where  they  are.&quot;  &quot;Did  the  Mermaid  tell  you?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  she  said,  without  a  moment's  hesitation.  &quot;She  specially  sent  me  to  look  for  you.  She  said  I'd  find  you  sitting  on  the  bench  by  her  statue,  and  that  I  am  to  take  you  straight  home,  because  the  boys  have  a  special  treat  in  store  for  you.&quot;  &quot;I  knew  she  would  find  them,&quot;  I  said,  and  jumped  off  the  bench  and  allowed  her  to  lead  me  away.  I  WAS  pleased  to  get  home  and  see  my  brothers  there,  but  I  couldn't  understand  why  everyone  was  excited.  Even  my  grandmother,  who  was  usually  quite  distant,  embraced  me  warmly,  and  the  hearty  Danish  maids  slapped  me  on  the  back,  saying  &quot;Good  boy!&quot;  as  if  I  were  a  circus  dog  that  had  performed  a  trick.  I  cannot  recollect  now  what  the  special  treat  was,  but  it  must  have  been  good,  for  I  remember  thinking,  as  I  went  to  bed,  that  in  spite  of  the  dangers  and  difficulties  of  the  day,  I  had  come  out  of  it  very  well.  I  never  saw  Tove  again.  I  heard,  much  later,  the  true  story  of  what  had  happened  that  afternoon.  Tove  and  her  sailor  had  for  some  time  been  planning  to  elope,  and  as  we  took  our  walks,  she  kept  an  eye  open  for  items  for  her  trous-  seau.  That  day,  she  had  seen  in  a  shopwindow  something  she  was  par-  ticularly  anxious  to  find,  and,  in  her  ex-  citement,  had  turned  at  once  into  the  shop  with  my  two  brothers,  without  a  thought  of  me,  marching  ahead.  By  the  time  she  had  remembered  me,  I  had  vanished.  After  looking  around  for  some  time,  Tove  had  run  home  in  hys-  terics,  blurted  out  her  story,  and  locked  herself  in  her  room.  My  grandmother  had  followed  her  upstairs  and  dismissed  her,  whereupon  Tove  had  packed  her  bag  and  had  gone  at  once  to  join  her  sailor.  Meanwhile,  Nanny,  who  had  just  " b'begun  to  convalesce,  had  heard  the  com-  motion,  and,  on  learning  the  cause  of  it,  had  wrapped  herself  up  in  her  cloak  and  insisted  on  going  out  in  search  of  me.  She  had  marched  through  the  snow  and  gloom,  guided  by  instinct  or  knowl-  edge,  straight  to  the  seat  by  the  Little  Mermaid.  The  following  day,  Nanny  declared  herself  able  to  resume  her  duties,  and  life  immediately  went  back  to  normal.  We  had  our  meals  on  time.  We  put  our  gre  in  the  mine.  We  sat  by  the  Little  Mermaid.  We  spoke  English  and  were  corrected.  We  digested  hours  of  moral  teaching.  But  the  strange  thing  was  that  al-  though  I  never  lost  my  fear  of  Nanny,  and  although  I  often  rebelled  against  her  harsh  discipline,  I  never  again  would  have  changed  her  for  anyone  in  the  world.  Tove  had  been  jolly  and  gay-somebody  with  whom  you  could  spend  an  afternoon  making  sticky  tof-  fee  in  the  kitchen  and  giggling  while  you  did  it.  But  when  it  came  to  the  serious  things  of  life,  such  as  saving  a  city  from  destruction  or  bringing  back  your  lost  brothers,  it  was  Nanny,  with  her  strength,  to  whom  you  turned. '