 b"CAROLINE  HunTER  has  everything.  C  Nobody  in  [REDACTED]  says  it  grudgingly;  everybody  likes  Caroline-she  has  that,  too.  &quot;'The  only  thing  Carrie  has  missed  in  life  is  wanting  something  she  can't  have,&quot;  I  remember  Greta  Falk's  saying  to  me  one  day,  and  we  both  laughed.  Greta  spoke  without  envy,  because  she  happens  to  be  one  of  those  curious  people  who  truly,  sincerely  have  a  taste  only  for  what  everyone  else  does  not  seem  to  want-one  ofthose  people,  normal  themselves,  who  area  gift  to  the  misfits  of  this  world,  animate  and  inanimate;  who  conduct  successful  love  affairs  with  men  or  women  so  neurotic  or  repulsive  that  no  one  else  could  toler-  ate  them;  who  serenely  endure  lengthy  marriages  with  partners  so  dull  that  others  can  scarcely  bear  with  them  for  an  evening;  who  buy  houses  in  which  no  one  else  would  be  comfortable,  in  areas  where  no  one  else  would  care  to  live.  Greta  is  an  Austrian  who  came  to  [REDACTED]  Africa  as  a  young  woman  with  an  at-  tractive  and  charming  husband;  he  im-  mediately  established  himself  as  a  suc-  cessful  lawyer,  and  Greta  left  him  for  a  weedy,  myopic  flute  player  in  the  mu-  nicipal  orchestra,  who  has  never  mar-  ried  her.  I  agreed  with  Greta's  remark  about  Carrie  without  envy,  because  apparently  I  am  one  of  those  women  who  have  always  been  resigned  to  the  limitations  of  their  lot.  The  fact  that  I  even  use  the  word  &quot;lot,&quot;  connoting  life  as  some-  thing  apportioned,  arbitrarily  limited  at  different  levels  for  individual  beings,  will  tell  you  all  about  me.  I  am  the  kind  known  as  &quot;a  wonderful  person&quot;&quot;-per-  son,  mark  you,  not  woman,  for  that  might  suggest  a  splendid  femininity,  something  enviable.  &quot;Lottie's  a  wonder-  ful  person,&quot;  my  friends  say,  and  they  mean  that  I  am  as  likable,  cheerful,  and  uncomplaining  now-with  my  sickly,  irascible,  and  unsuccessful  husband,  whom  I  have  had  to  support  for  many  years,  and  my  two  sons,  whom  I  have  managed  to  bring  up  with  almost  as  much  indulgence  as  my  rich  friends  have  lavished  on  theirs-as  I  was  when  we  were  girls  and  everyone  was  sincerely  pleased  that  I  man-  aged  to  find  a  husband  in  spite  of  my  prematurely  matronly  figure,  my  thin  hair,  and  my  good-natured,  comedian's  elon-  gated  jaw,  inherited  from  my  -  father,  which  was,  alas,  all  he  had  to  leave  me.  It  so  happens  that  Greta  Falk  was  one  of  the  two  women  invited,  along  with  me,  to  lunch  at  Caroline's  last  month.  The  other  was  Dolly  Best,  and  she,  I  might  add,  would  never  envy  anyone  anything  but  the  capacity  to  find  something  enviable;  she  is  one  of  those  women-rich,  of  course-who  never  havebeen  able  to  find  anything  they  really  wanted.  When  we  were  young,  Dolly  had  the  money,  the  freedom,  the  European  tours  everyone  else  longed  for;  she  married  a  man  whose  face,  in-  tellect,  and  position  in  society  were  what  she  knew  to  be  the  ideal  of  her  friends.  By  now,  she  has  tried  the  bearing  of  children,  good  works,  a  career,  a  lover-everything  that  she  has  observed  transforming  the  lives  of  her  friends  into  ecstasy  or  despair.  All  this,  she  has  coolly  noted,  has  touched  her  no  deeper  than  the  mauve  or  blue  rinse  with  which  her  hairdresser  changes  the  appearance  of  her  now  fading  hair  from  one  week  to  the  next.  Caroline  rather  likes  these  ladies'  lunches  of  hers.  I  know  that  every  few  months  I  am  invited,  and  when  I  go,  I  usually  find  a  similar  group  of  old  friends-such  as  Greta  and  Dolly  and  I  were  that  day-who  seldom  meet  anywhere  else.  For  Dolly  and  Caroline  and  I  were  &quot;girls  together&quot;  and  we  have  all  known  Greta  since  we  were  young  women.  You  will  hear  in  the  typical  abbreviation  of  our  names  the  unmistakable  ring  of  our  generation;  we  are  the  Dollys  and  Carries  and  Lot-  ties  of  the  twenties.  Of  us  all,  Caroline  has  undoubtedly  worn  the  best.  Greta  was  once  as  good-looking  asshe,  but  Greta  now  has  the  perpetually  strained  look  of  the  woman  who  has  determined-  ly  put  herself  just  outside  the  milieu  to  which  she  belongs,  and  besides,  at  forty-four,  hair  has  suddenly  shown  it-  self  above  her  beautiful  mouth;  middle  age  has  given  Greta  a  mustache.  Dolly  was  never  particularly  pretty,  except  for  her  eyes-their  shrewd,  dreary  look  of  appraisal  is  all  that  is  left  of  them  now-  and  she  wears  the  makeup  and  the  clothes  that  busy  cosmeticians  and  cou-  turiers  choose  for  her.  And  I--  well,  ugly  women  often  seem  to  improve  with  the  years,  since  middleage  has  little  to  take  awayfrom  them  anyway,  so  one  might  say  that  the  contrast  between  Caroline  and  myself  is  no  greater,  if  no  less,  than  it  has  ever  been.  At  forty-six,  I  am  perhaps  less  offensively  plain  than  I  was  at  twenty-six-that  is  all.  As  with  most  homely  businesswomen,  the  im-  provement  brought  about  in  my  ap-  pearanceby  well-fitting  clothes  and  careful  hairdressing  is  not  due  to  any  illusion  that  I  may  after  all  be  able  to  make  myself  more  attractive  as  a  wom-  an,  but  is  merely  intended  to  make  me  less  offensive  in  the  eyes  of  my  custom-  ers  and  my  employers.  I  am  well  aware  that  I  have  always  looked  rather  like  a  horse;  and  I  don't  mind  nearly  so  much  as  I  used  to.  HAT  day  we  gathered  to  lunch  with  Caroline,  she  was  looking  beautiful.  Greta  Falk  and  I  had  both  come  from  our  offices,  with  hastily  washed  hands  and  hastily  powder-  dabbed  noses;  Dolly,  who  was  there  be-  fore  us  and  already  sipping  a  sherry,  had  let  her  hairdresser  arrange  her  hair  in  a  way  that  was  meant  for  some-  body  else's  face.  But  Caroline  smelled  as  if  she  had  bathed  at  her  leisure  in  roses,  and  her  hands  fascinated  me-  each  oval,  pale,  shining  nail  fresh  as  the  inside  ofa  sea  shell  against  her  smooth-  fleshed  fingers,  the  ring  with  the  amethysts  and  the  two  pear-shaped  dia-  monds  (from  her  first  husband)  per-  fectly  in  place  on  her  right  hand,  and  the  new,  thin  platinum  wedding  band  never  slipping  from  its  proper  level  be-  tween  white  knuckle  and  white  joint  on  her  left  hand.  They  were  hands  that  did  nothing;  they  lived,  like  cats,  in  her  lap.  Caroline  wore,  as  usual,  one  of  those  low-cut  dresses  that  showed  off  her  neck-lovely  still,  though  the  clear  flesh  had  thickened  and  softened,  and  it  trembled  very  slightly  when  she  swal-  lowed-and  the  first  swell  of  her  breasts  was  still  small,  though  the  curve  was  the  immobile  one  of  artifice.  She  had  had  her  hair  cut  very  short  since  any  of  us  had  seen  her  last.  &quot;But  it's  been  this  way  for  four  months!&quot;  she  ex-  claimed  disbelievingly  when  we  spoke  of  it.  Yet  it  was  true;  we  hadn't  seen  her  for  four  months,  then.  &quot;One  just  doesn't  realize  how  time  flies,&quot;  said  Greta  help-  lessly.  HE  truth  of  it  was  that  since  Caroline's  remar-  riage  she  had  withdrawn  a  lit-  tle  from  her  old  friends  and  from  certainaspects  of  her  old  " b"way  of  life.  I  thought  that  I  detected  her  consciousness  of  this  in  her  disbelieving  tone,  her  look  of  innocence,  and  I  found  something  rather  touching  in  the  em-  barrassment  at  the  back  of  the  subter-  fuge;  Caroline,  at  forty-seven,  thought  it  might  seem  a  little  ridiculous  to  let  the  old  friends  of  her  girlhood  and  first  marriage  realize  that  she  had  gone  through  all  over  again,  out  of  season,  that  period  of  withdrawal  from  the  world  that  comes  at  the  beginning  of  life  with  the  beloved.  Yet  though  Greta's  commonplace  remark  remained  uncommented  on  and,  for  a  moment  or  two,  everyone  sipped  at  her  sherry,  the  fact  was  there,  rising  up  in  the  minds  of  all  of  us.  Caroline  had  secured  for  herself  again  what  the  rest  of  us  had  put  behind  us,  if  we  ever  had  had  it  at  all.  At  twenty,  Caroline  had  married  William  Dalberg,  a  man  fourteen  years  older  than  herself,  who  adored  and  indulged  her.  'They  had  two  sons  and  a  life  of  ease  and  happiness,  and  by  no  stretch  of  sensibility  could  she  be  said  to  have  suffered  any  denial  by  reason  of  the  difference  in  years,  except  that  because  William  reached  middle  age  fourteen  years  before  she  did,  she  was  left  with-  out  him  fourteen  years  sooner  than  she  should  have  been,  for  he  died  sudden-  ly  of  one  of  those  businessmen's  dis-  eases,  which  decree  that  such  men  shall  have  only  half  a  lifetime.  He  left  her  as  rich  as  he  had  kept  her  while  he  lived,  and,  being  a  beautiful  woman  who  had  enjoyed  life,  she  soon  consoled  herself  and  began  to  enjoy  it  again.  She  had  two  love  affairs  that  I  know  of,  and  several  times  there  were  rumors  that  she  was  about  to  marry  again,  always  some  suitable  man,  mature,  of  social  stature-in  fact,  a  replacement  of  Wil-  liam.  But  she  never  did  marry  any  of  them,  and  in  the  meantime  her  sons  grew  up.  'Then,  two  years  ago,  at  a  houseparty  given  by  one  of  her  young  daughters-in-law,  Caroline  met  Gideon  Hunter,  a  thirty-one-year-old  Canadian  who  had  been  to  [REDACTED]  andhad  once  sailed  from  somewhere  to  some-  where  (I  forget  the  details,  but  know  they  were  adventurous)  in  a  ketch  he  had  built  himself.  'They  became  lovers,  and  after  a  year  the  young  man  went  back  to  [REDACTED].  There  was  nothing  broken  or  tragic  about  Caroline  after  what  everyone  took  to  be  the  breakup  of  this  rather  curious  affair.  But  then,  why  should  there  have  been?  Caroline  hadhad  affairs  before,  and  was  wise  enough  to  know  how  to  take  them  and  how  to  leave  them.  She  continued  to  go  to  her  usual  parties  and  on  her  usual  holidays,  and  had  her  usual  number  and  variety  of  escorts-men  her  own  age  again,  or  older.  And  then,  six  months  ago,  Gideon  Hunter  came  back  from  [REDACTED],  and  Caroline  invited  some  peo-  ple  to  one  of  her  cocktail  parties,  at  which  the  guests  discovered  that  Gideon  Hunter  and  Caroline  were  married-  had  been  married  that  morning.  (I  was  not  invited  to  the  party,  but  by  noon  the  next  day  half  a  dozen  people  had  said  to  me,  &quot;Have  you  heard  .  ..?&quot;)  Within  a  few  weeks,  all  of  us  who  had  not  done  so  already  met  Gideon.  After  one  met  him,  all  that  one  had  said  or  prevented  oneself  from  saying,  and  all  that  one  had  been  unable  to  prevent  oneself  from  thinking,  was  silenced.  Gideon  was  attractive,  un-  doubtedly  a  personality,  undoubtedly  sound  and  likable.  He  was  not  even,  it  appeared,  a  penniless  young  man;  he  did  not  have  the  wealth  of  Caroline,  of  course,  but  he  had  a  very  good  position  with  a  firm  importing  chemicals  and,  in  addition,  represented  a  chemical  fac-  tory  owned  by  his  family  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;How's  Bunny?&quot;  asked  Caroline     now,  turning  to  Greta,  perhaps  merely  because  Greta's  remark  about  the  flight  of  time  had  remained  dangling  in  the  air  but  perhaps  also,  subconsciously,  to  make  a  move  of  cozy,  indulgent  soli-  darity  toward  Greta,  who,  too,  had  made  her  choice  of  a  man  in  defiance  of  probability.  If  there  was  a  pleasant  guilt  in  the  confidential  turn  of  Caroline's  soft  body,  there  was  also  gentle  triumph;  she  and  Greta  had  something  shared,  from  which  Dolly  Best  and  I  were  automati-  cally  excluded.  Shared?  But  how  could  one  compare  the  possession  of  Bunny,  the  flute  player,  with  his  myopia  and  his  delicate  stomach,  with  the  possession  of  a  Gideon  Hunter!  No,  Caroline's  kind-  ness,  her  desire  not  to  appear  too  singu-  larly  fortunate  in  the  eyes  of  her  poorly  endowed  friends,  succeeded  only  in  emphasizing  the  nature  of  the  gap  be-  tween  their  lives  and  her  own.  Her  face,  as  she  nodded  interestedly  in  reply  to  Greta's  account  of  an  argument  the  flute  player  had  had  with  his  conductor,  had  the  look  ofthe  child  in  the  school-  yard  who  pretends  that  the  cake  he  is  turning  over  in  his  mouth  is  the  same  as  the  bread  his  companions  are  munching.  &quot;It  really  is  a  disgrace.  This  is  no  country  for  an  artist,  you  know,  Greta,  my  dear.&quot;  Caroline  said.  She  smiled  in-  quiringly  at  Dolly  and  me.  (Caroline  still  has  her  own  teeth,  I  saw,  though  they  look  thinner,  sharper  on  the  edges  than  I  remember  them  when  we  were  young.)  &quot;Sherry,  anyone?  Come  along,  Lottie.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98N  7  HILE  she  filled  our  glasses,  Car-  oline  went  on,  &quot;Greta,  he  should  go  overseas,  shouldn't  he?&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  said  Greta,  raising  her  strongly  marked,  handsome  eyebrows  and  letting  her  shoulders  fall,  as  if  she  saw  before  her  eyes  the  thin,  reedy  genius  of  her  lover,  cast  down  in  waste.  And  we  all  accepted  the  tacit  deceit,  " b"though  all  of  us,  including  Greta,  knew  that  it  would  be  quite  impossible  for  the  flute  player  to  live  anywhere  but  where  Greta  could  help  to  support  him.  &quot;Aren't  they  good?&quot;  said  Caroline  gaily  as  she  saw  me  lean  forward  to  help  myself  to  another  canap\xc3\xa9.  &quot;I've  gone  quite  mad  about  them  since  we  tasted  them  at  the  Barlows'.  Gideon  wants  them  made  every  evening.&quot;  &quot;How  is  Gideon,  anyway?&quot;  said  Dolly,  sounding  bored.  Dolly  has  a  hor-  ror  of  the  polite  social  formula  of  inquir-  ing  after  thehealthof  various  members  of  a  family,  and  when  she  feels  com-  pelled  to  get  it  over  with,  it  always  shows  in  her  voice.  Caroline  had  risen  to  ring  for  a  serv-  ant.  She  paused  with  her  hand  on  the  bell,  smiling.  The  flesh  of  her  neck  pinkened  slightly.  &quot;Oh,  wonderful,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He's  in  Rhodesia,  you  know.  Flew  up  on  Wednesday  week.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  he's  not  here?&quot;  Greta  said.  &quot;Really?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  interest-  ing.  Perhaps  he'll  see  Donnie  up  there.  Donnieand  Isabel  are  spending  three  weeks  with  Isabel's  people  in  Salisbury.&quot;  Donnie  is  my  elder  son.  Caroline  had  rung  the  bell,  but  she  continued  to  linger  at  the  wall  for  a  moment,  as  if  not  wanting  to  deflect  the  turn  of  the  conversation  from  something  that  pleased  her  so  much.  &quot;No,  Lottie,  I'm  afraid  not.  I  don't  think  he's  going  to  Salisbury  this  time.  He'll  probably  stay  in  Bulawayo,  and  then  go  straight  up  to  Ndola  and  the  Copper  Belt.  Per-  haps  even  to  the  Belgian  Congo.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I'd  like  to  go  to  Elisabeth-  ville  sometime,&quot;  Dolly  was  saying.  \xc2\xab'They  tell  me  it's  gay.  Probably  over-  rated.  [REDACTED]  Africans  have  only  got  to  go  somewhere  where  they  hear  French  or  Portuguese  instead  of  English  and  they'll  come  back  and  tell  you  it's  gay.  Lookat  Lourengo  Marques-wretched,  provincial  little  town.&quot;  &quot;But  the  bullfight!&quot;  said  Greta.  ''The  bullfight!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  think  you'd  be  disap-  pointed  in  the  Belgian  Congo,&quot;  said     Caroline.  &quot;Gid's  been  to  Elisabethville  several  times,  and  he  found  it  charming.  Very  European.&quot;  &quot;But  he  likes  Lourengo  Marques,  doesn't  he?&quot;  said  Dolly.  &quot;Well,  so  do  I,&quot;  Caroline  admitted,  with  a  laugh.  &quot;I'm  afraid  Europe  hasn't  spoiled  me  at  all.&quot;  &quot;How  long  will  Gideon  be  away,  Carrie?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;A  month,  at  least,&quot;  she  said,  pulling  a  little  face,  &quot;He's  been  gone  nearly  two  weeks  already.  He's  so  funny.  One  day  I  get  a  letter  telling  me  how  beastly  it  is  and  how  he  can't  stick  it,  and  then  he  phones  me-he  phoned  me  on  Saturday  at  some  absurd  hour  in  the  morning-  and  says  how  delightful  the  people  are  and  how  the  only  problem  is  to  get  any  sleep  at  all.&quot;  Greta  and  I  laughed  with  her.  HILE  we  were  talking,  one  of  Caroline's  servants  appeared  at  the  door  in  answer  to  her  summons.  &quot;Wilson,&quot;  she  said,  smiling,  &quot;tell  cook  " b"to  try  and  be  prompt,  please.  T  wo  of  my  guests  have  to  get  back  to  their  offices.  Tell  her  we're  ready  now.&quot;  To  Greta  and  me,  she  added,  &quot;I  know  how  awful  it  is  to  eat  against  time.&quot;  The  African,  in  his  stiffly  pressed  white  suit,  was  trying  to  attract  Caro-  line's  attention  to  a  bundle  of  letters  he  had  put  down  on  a  small  table.  &quot;Oh,  thank  you,  Wilson,&quot;  she  said,  snatching  up  the  bundle  as  he  left  the  room.  &quot;Bills,  bills  .  .  .&quot;  She  smiled  at  us  out  of  her  beautiful  green  eyes,  which  are  still,  in  their  framework  of  mascaraed  lashes  and  faintly  bluish,  greased  lids,  so  bright  that  they  seem  faceted.  Her  fingers  dealt  deftly  with  the  thin  enve-  lopes,  stopped.  &quot;Ah,  a  letter,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  Gid.&quot;  She  took  a  step  or  two  back,  and  leaned  against  the  mantel.  &quot;D'you  mind  if  I  have  a  quick  look?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  do,  do!&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not.&quot;  We  all  murmured  away  her  apologies.  &quot;Look  at  this.&quot;  She  was  smiling,  the  delicate  movement  under  her  lowered  eyelids  showing  her  progress  over  the  page.  &quot;He  is  going  to  Salisbury,  Lottie,  so  I'lltell  him  about  Donnie  and  Isabel.  .  .  .  And  he's  changed  his  hotel.  ...  This  one  much  better.  Met  some  delight-  ful  people  called-  What  is  this?  Well-  feet,  or  Wellfleet-I  can't  make  it  out.  Knew  his  mother  in  [REDACTED].  ...  That's  about  all.&quot;  And  then  she  began  to  read  from  the  letter:  &quot;Next  time  I  have  to  come  up,  you  really  must  come  with  me.  On  Sunday,  I  spent  the  whole  day  on  a  magnificent  farm  about  sixty  miles  out-sat  in  a  garden  blazing  with  every  imaginable  color,  rode,  when  it  was  cool,  a  white  mare  Angus  brought  out  for  himself  specially,  from  [REDACTED].  Lovely  creature.  Then  in  the  evening  we  swam,  and  the  sky  was  smoky  with  pink  light-can't  describe  it.  Little  night  club  on  Saturday  also  very  good,  rather  drunken.  And  the  business  side  goes  swimmingly.  I  really  was  wise  to  come;  personal  contact  is  the  thing.  We'll  come  up  again  together  in  September.  I  miss  you  terribly  and  I  want  you  in  my  arms-&quot;  Caroline  broke  off,  giving  a  little  guilty,  dismissing  shrug,  a  giggle,  as  though  she  had  let  outa  hiccup  in-  stead  of  an  indiscretion.  We  three  guests  tried  to  look  as  if  we  were  not  look-  ing  at  her-as  if  we  had  not  heard.  I  saw  the  dent  in  Greta's  chin  deepen  a  moment-was  she  suppressing  a  trem-  ble?f-and,  strangely,  at  the  corners  of  Dolly's  mouth  there  was  a  little  wry  smile,  an  admiring,  reluctant  recogni-  tion,  as  if  she  had  met  a  ghost  when  she  didn't  believe  in  ghosts.  Caroline  II  smilingly  bit  her  underlip  in  apology  but  not  in  embarrassment.  And  then,  like  a  woman  who  has  so  many  jewels  that  she  can  afford  to  be  careless  of  them,  she  put  the  letter  lightly  aside  on  a  chest  of  drawers  near  her  hand  and  led  us  in  to  lunch,  talking  and  laughing.  Sitting  op-  posite  her,  I  watched  her,  at  the  head  of  her  beautiful  table,  in  her  beautifully  proportioned  dining  room,  direct  the  serving  of  a  dish  of  game  that  scented  the  room  with  wine.  &quot;Really,  Carrie,&quot;  said  Dolly,  &quot;this  duck  is  quite  remarkable.&quot;  &quot;Caroline  always  has  the  most  wonderful  cooks,&quot;  said  Greta,  in  the  tone  of  a  simple  statement  of  incontrovertible  fact.  &quot;That's  all  there  is  to  it.&quot;  And  Caroline,  exquisitely  fair  and  well  pre-  served,  delicately  animated  by  the  sherry  that  had  coarsened  the  faces  of  Greta,  Dolly,  and  me,  laughed  and  deprecated  with  the  pleasing  modesty  of  the  unassailable.  IN  the  middle  of  the  pleasant  feminine  companionability  of  our  luncheon,  I  was  thoroughly  irritated  to  find  myself  attacked  by  one  of  my  bouts  of  hay  fever;  it  may  have  been  caused  by  some  unfamiliar  herb  in  the  food.  At  any  rate,  I  had  to  excuse  myself  from  the  table  and  go  to  the  living  room  to  get  from  my  handbag  the  phial  of  pills  I  carry  in  an-  ticipation  of  one  of  these  attacks.  I  took  a  pill  and  sat  down  on  a  sofa,  closing  my  streaming  eyes  and  trying  to  control  my  desire  to  sneeze.  After  a  few  min-  utes,  the  attack  subsided,  and  I  took  out  my  powder  compact  to  conceal  the  tear  marks  left  on  my  face.  I  had  the  feeling  of  idle  exhaustion  that  comes  after  the  relief  of  some  physical  dis-  comfort,  and  as  I  strolled  slowly  across  the  room  toward  the  door,  I  stopped  at  the  chest  of  drawers  to  look  at  my-  self  in  the  mirror  that  hung  above  it.  VERNAL  Caroline's  letter  from  her  young  hus-  band  lay  open  on  the  chest,  and  I  glanced  down  at  it.  The  last  page  lay  on  top,  and  there  was  his  signa-  ture-&quot;Gideon.&quot;  I  studied  it  a  mo-  ment,  as  if  the  sight  of  the  signature,  the  symbol  of  this  young  man  revealed  to  my  eyes,  might  also  convey  what  it  was  to  have  a  young  man  like  that  in  one's  life-to  know  him,  in  love.  And  be-  cause  one's  eye  is  trained  in  the  habit  of  running  along  a  line  of  print  or  writing,  I  read  the  last  lines  of  the  letter,  with-  out  guilt  or  a  sense  of  what  I  was  doing;  in  any  case,  they  were  the  lines  that  Caroline  had  read  aloud:  &quot;Next  time  I  have  to  come  up,  you  really  must  come  with  me.  On  Sunday,  I  spent  the  whole  day  on  a  magnificent  farm  about  sixty  miles  out-sat  in  a  garden  blazing  with  every  imaginable  color,  rode,  when  it  was  cool,  a  white  mare  Angus  brought  out  for  himself  specially,  from  [REDACTED].  Lovely  creature.  Then  in  the  evening  we  swam,  and  the  sky  was  smoky  with  pink  light-can't  describe  it.  Little  night  club  on  Saturday  also  very  good,  rather  drunken.  And  the  business  side  goes  swimmingly.  I  really  was  wise  to  come;  personal  contact  is  the  thing.  We'll  come  up  again  together  in  Sep-  tember.  Love,  Gideon.&quot;  That  was  all.  I  read  it  again,  because  there  was  something  about  it  that  bothered  me-bothered  my  ear  with  a  certain  lack,  or  difference,  like  a  phrase  of  music  in  which  a  note  is  silent.  And  when  I  read  it  again,  I  saw  that,  indeed,  that  was  all.  As  I  walked  back  into  the  dining  room,  Caroline's  beautiful  face,  hardly  spoiled  by  the  fans  of  fine  skin  opening  and  closing  at  the  corners  of  her  eyes,  welcomed  me  with  pleasure  and  con-  cern.  &quot;Darling,  are  you  all  right?&quot;  she  was  saying.  &quot;Darling-but  can't  you  do.  something  about  it?&quot; "