 b"ON  the  evening  of  Sunday,  Janu-  O  ary  10th,  I  had  dinner  with  a  friend  at  a  Chinese  restaurant  on  upper  [REDACTED].  My  seat  was  oppo-  site  the  restaurant  clock,  which  read  half  past  seven  the  last  time  I  happened  to  look  at  it.  Within  the  next  quarter  hour,  we  paid  our  checks  and,  out  in  front  of  the  restaurant,  I  said  good  night  to  my  friend.  I  hailed  a  green-and-white  taxi-  cab  and  gave  the  driver  my  home  ad-  dress,  in  the  Village.  Rain  had  been  fall-  ing  intermittently  all  day,  and  though  it  had  stopped  now,  the  asphalt  was  slick.  The  night  was  raw,  and  the  slightest  drop  in  the  temperature  might  glaze  the  streets  with  ice.  &quot;It's  a  mean  night,&quot;  I  said  to  the  driver  as  I  settled  back  into  the  seat.  &quot;Better  than  it  [REDACTED];  he  replied,  and  put  his  flag  down.  I  glanced  at  the  frame  inside  the  cab  that  held  the  driver's  hack  license  and  picture  and  saw  a  pleasant,  spectacled,  middle-aged  face.  After  the  habit  of  many  women  who  use  taxis  at  night,  I  repeated  the  driver's  name  and  number  to  myself,  fixing  them  in  my  memory.  As  it  turned  out,  the  precaution  was  superfluous.  This  was  one  cabdriver  whose  name  I  am  not  apt  to  forget.  At  110th  Street  we  turned  east,  and  then  south  into  [REDACTED].  In  the  northern  end  of  the  Park,  where  the  road  winds  treacherously,  the  driver  slowed  down  for  each  turn.  I'm  in  luck,  I  thought,  to  have  a  careful  driver  on  a  night  like  this.  Leaving  the  Park  at  Fifty-ninth  Street,  we  headed  down  Fifth  [REDACTED].  The  traffic  was  negligible;  below  the  Fif-  ties,  it  dwindled  to  next  to  nothing.  I  sat  back,  relaxed.  At  Forty-second  Street  the  traffic  lights  stretched  green  ahead,  and  there  was  hardly  a  moving  car  in  sight.  I  glanced  at  the  illuminated  department-store  windows  on  the  east  side  of  Fifth  Ave-  nue  as  they  went  past-Peck  &amp;  Peck,  then  Arnold  Constable.  I  had  just  noted  idly  that  the  cruise  fashions  were  fea-  turing  bright  pastels  this  year  when  the  cab  swerved,  quivered  with  a  sharp  impact,  and  stopped  so  abruptly  that  my  head  struck  the  partition  between  the  front  and  back  seats.  When  I  looked  up  and  around,  I  saw  that  we  had  just  passed  a  street  intersection.  On  the  pavement  oftheintersectionlay  a  man,  sprawled  face  down,  motionless.  Human  behavior  varies  at  such  times.  Some  people  scream,  some  faint,  some  leap  into  action.  I  became  a  spectator,  seeing  and  hearing  even  the  most  minute  details  but  completely  incapable  of  initiative-either  helpful  or  heroic  or  self-preserving.  The  cabdriver's  re-  flexes  were  otherwise.  He  pulled  on  his  hand  brake,  jumped  from  the  cab,  and  ran  toward  the  body  on  the  pave-  ment.  A  man  came  dashing  over  from  the  direction  of  Madison  [REDACTED].  The  driver  shouted  something  to  him,  and  then  turned  and  ran  down  Thirty-  eighth  Street  toward  Sixth  [REDACTED],  where  there  would  undoubtedly  bea  phone.  I  opened  the  taxicab  door,  intending  to  get  out  and  go  to  the  side  of  the  fallen  man  in  the  street,  but  I  found  that  I  couldn't  bring  myself  to  leave  the  cab;  it  was  a  shield  between  me  and  the  hor-  ror  of  that  nameless  individual  lying  face  down  on  the  wet,  all-but-deserted  thor-  oughfare.  The  driver  returned  and  reached  in  and  clicked  up  his  flag.  &quot;This  cab  won't  go  any  farther  tonight,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  just  called  an  ambulance.&quot;  In-  stinctively,  I  opened  my  purse  and  paid  him,  including  the  tip  I  would  have  giv-  en  him  had  he  delivered  me  to  my  door.  While  doing  so,  I  had  a  feeling  that  I  was  giving  way  to  arather  absurd  dis-  tortion  of  values,  and  in  the  dim  light,  as  he  accepted  the  money,  I  saw  the  trace  of  a  smile  on  his  face,  as  if  he,  too,  thought  my  conventional  behavior  at  a  time  like  this  was  somewhat  silly.  Then  the  driver  pointed  to  his  right  front  fender.  &quot;He  ran  straight  into  me,&quot;  he  said.  He  asked  me  to  write  my  name  and  address  on  his  trip-record  sheet,  and  when  I  did,  he  thanked  me  with  a  nod,  and  again  left  me  alone  in  the  cab.  A  crowd  had  begun  to  as-  semble.  It  stood  in  a  silent  semicircle  around  the  mo-  tionless  form  in  the  street,  offering  no  help  whatever.  Then  I  saw  that  a  patrolman,  round-cheeked,  with  rimless  spectacles  and  a  glisteningrain  cape,  was  speaking  with  the  cabdriver.  Finally  forcing  my-  self  to  get  out  of  the  cab,  I  walked  over  to  the  two  men.  &quot;I  was  the  passenger  in  the  taxi,&quot;  I  said  to  the  patrolman.  He  seemed  surprised.  &quot;I  gave  thedriver  my  name  and  address,&quot;  I  went  on.  &quot;He  says  the  man  ran  into  the  cab,&quot;  the  patrolman  said,  and  indicated  a  dent  in  the  fender  as  large  as  a  man's  fist.  &quot;Was  that  so?&quot;  I  said  I  had  not  seen  the  man  struck,  and  added,  &quot;Is  there  anything  else  yo  want  to  ask  me?&quot;  \xc2\xa7  He  looked  at  me  dubiously  for  a  mo-  ment,  and  said,  &quot;No.&quot;  I  moved  over  to  the  semicircle  of  " b"spectators.  The  victim  lay  untidily  in  the  street,  with  his  toes  toward  the  curb,  his  hat  still  on  his  head,  its  brim  crushed  against  the  pavement,  and  a  light  sports  coat  flaring  open  on  either  side.  He  was  large  and  plump,  but,  looking  at  him  face  down  that  way,  I  could  not  guess  his  age.  No  one  approached  him,  toso  much  as  feel  fora  pulse  beat.  His  shoulders  twitched  slightly,  or  it  might  have  been  the  wind  ruffling  the  cloth  of  his  coat.  He's  coming  to,  I  thought;  he  was  mere-  ly  stunned.  He'll  be  all  right.  Then  I  realized  I  was  shaking  and  on  the  verge  of  getting  sick.  I  stepped  away  from  the  crowd,  hailed  another  cab,  and  asked  the  driver  to  take  me  home.  &quot;Quite  a  crowd  back  there,&quot;  this  driver  said  casually.  &quot;I  was  the  passenger  in  the  taxi  that  hit  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yeah?&quot;  His  interest  was  mild.  &quot;I  left  my  name  and  address  with  the  driver,&quot;  I  said.  Nice  of  you,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Most  people  don't,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  asked  again.  &quot;Don't  want  to  be  bothered,&quot;  he  said.  I  wondered  what  sort  of  bother  he  meant,  but  I  let  the  subject  drop.  I  OPENED  my  door  at  half  past  eight,  exactly  an  hour  after  I  had  glanced  at  the  restaurant  clock.  It  seemed  so  much  longer.  I  felt  sick  and  full  of  self-accusation,  reproaching  my-  self  for  havingNeft  before  the  ambulance  arrived  and  for  not  having  tried  to  do  something  for  the  man  on  the  pavement.  But  what  could  I  have  done?  I  remem-  bered  now-and  only  with  difficulty  brought  myself  to  admit  that  I  had  not  remembered  earlier-having  read  some-  where  that  the  victim  of  an  accident  should  not  be  touched  until  a  doctor  arrives,  since  inexpert  handling  is  like-  ly  to  cause  more  harm  than  good.  Then  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  should  not  have  deserted  the  driver-the  man  with  the  pleasant,  spectacled  face.  What  would  happen  to  him,  I  wondered.  Would  he  go  to  jail  or  lose  his  license  and  livelihood?  I  told  myself  that  I  could  have  been  of  no  earthly  use  to  him  there,  but  the  fact,  of  course,  was  that  I  had  not  even  considered  staying;  I  had  simply  fled.  Again,  I  wished  I  had  waited  to  find  out  about  the  victim.  How  had  I  known  he  was  only  stunned?  I  hadn't,  naturally;  I  had  just  wanted  that  to  be  the  case.  I  looked  up  the  number  of  the  police  precinct  nearest  the  scene  but  could  not  bring  myself  to  dial  it.  Shortly  before  midnight,  my  phone  rang,  and  I  learned  what  I  had  been  afraid  to  find  out.  A  woman's  voice,  " b"gentle  and  sweet,  said,  &quot;I  am  the  moth-  erof  the  young  man  who  was  killed  by  the  cab.&quot;  I  answered  dully,  &quot;Then  he's  dead?&quot;  &quot;He  died  in  the  ambulance,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  didn't  know  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  had  hoped  he  was  only  stunned.&quot;  &quot;How  awful  it  must  have  been  for  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;My  husband  got  your  name  from  the  station  house.  I  thought  youmight  be  able  to  tell  us  how  it  happened.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  see  it  happen,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;All  I  can  tell  you  is  that  the  driver  had  been  driving  carefully  and  the  lights  were  with  us,  It  was  the  sort  of  thing  that  might  happen  to  you  or  me,  rush-  ing  across  a  street  on  a  dark  winter  night.&quot;  &quot;My  son  must  havebeen  in  a  hurry  to  get  home,&quot;  the  mother  said.  &quot;We  had  a  cup  of  coffee  waiting  for  him.  He  went  over  to  the  garment  district  to  pick  up  some  important  papers,  as  a  favor  to  his  boss.  He  was  always  doing  favors  for  people.  He  was  always  so  kind  and  good.  Just  think,  he  got  killed  doing  someone  a  favor.  He  was  my  only  son.  He  was  twenty-one.&quot;  She  paused,  and  I  tried  desperately  to  think  of  something  consoling  to  say-the  something  that  would  surely  come  to  me  the  minute  she  had  hung  up.  And  then  the  gentle-voiced  woman  went  on,  &quot;'Thankyou  very  much  for  talking  to  me  at  atime  like  this  And  please  ex-  cuse  me  for  bothering  you.  Good  night,  and  thank  you  again.&quot;  AROUND  six  o'clock  Monday  eve-  ning,  a  tall  young  man  rang  my  doorbell  and  introduced  himself  as  an  investigator  for  the  taxicab  company.  He  said  that  he  had  been  to  see  the  moth-  er  of  the  victim  and  that  she  had  given  him  my  name,  and  he  spoke  admiringly  of  her  attitude-not  a  bit  vindictive,  he  said.  He  asked  me  to  recall  what  had  happened.  I  said  I  had  not  seen  the  accident,  only  the  aftermath,  but  my  impression  had  been  that  the  driver  was  a  careful  and  skillful  one.  The  investi-  gator  sat  down  at  my  living-room  table  and  wrote  out  the  substance  of  what  I  had  said,  and  asked  me  to  sign  it  as  a  statement.  I  made  only  one  correction,  crossing  out  &quot;slow  speed&quot;  and  writing  in  &quot;normal  speed.&quot;  The  investigator  said  that  there  would  be  a  hearing  in  Vehicle  Accident  Court  and  that  I  would  receive  a  subpoena,  adding  that  he  hoped  I  wouldn't  mind  being  a  wit-  ness,  the  way  some  people  did.  The  driver,  he  told  me,had  been  in  jail  over-  night,  on  a  technical  charge  of  homi-  cide.  A  subpoena  to  appear  at  ten  o'clock " b"on  Monday  morning,  January  25th,  in  Vehicle  Accident  Court  of  the  Borough  of  [REDACTED],  Room  1526  of  the  Criminal  Courts  Building,  at  100  Centre  Street,  as  a  witness  in  a  criminal  action  prosecuted  by  the  People  of  the  State  of  New  York,  arrived  on  Wednes-  day.  Two  nights  later,  at  a  cocktail  party,  I  found  myself  chatting  with  an  attorney  who  has  had  considerable  ex-  perience  with  vehicle-accident  cases  and  told  him  what  had  happened.  I  de-  scribed  the  mother's  heartbreaking  tele-  phone  call,  and  then  went  on  to  say  I  hoped  that  the  driver  would  not  lose  his  means  of  livelihood  as  a  result  of  the  outcome  of  the  case.  At  this,  the  law-  yer  became  very  grave.  &quot;Bear  in  mind  that  behind  every  criminal  action  of  this  sort  lies  the  shadow  of  a  civil  suit  brought  by  the  family  of  the  victim,&quot;  he  said  severely.  &quot;And  behind  every  taxicab  company  is  an  insurance  company,  load-  ed  with  money,  that  stands  a  chance  of  having  to  pay  up.  After  all,  since  no  public  fund  has  ever  been  set  up  to  re-  imburse  families  for  death  or  injury  by  motor  vehicles,  the  families  feel  there  is  no  reason  whatever  why  they  should  not  receive  compensation  from  the  coffers  of  an  insurance  company.  Thousands  of  people  are  killed  outright  this  way  every  year  and  thousands  are  badly  injured.  It  can  happen  to  you  or  to  me,  tonight,  tomorrow.  Even  assuming  that  the  driver  had  the  right  of  way,  it  is  still  his  business  to  look  out  for  the  pedestrian.  And  don't  take  too  seriously  your  as-  sumption  that  you  were  the  only  wit-  ness.  There  will  be  others,  and  they  will  discredit  your  testimony-not  at  the  criminal  proceedings,  maybe,  but  at  the  civil  suit  that's  sure  to  come  later,  unless  the  case  is  settled  out  of  court.  Any  insurance  company  worth  its  salt  will  produce  witnesses-out  of  the  woodwork,  if  necessary.&quot;  Then,  with  disarming  gentleness,  he  asked,  &quot;How  fast  was  the  taxicab  travelling?&quot;  &quot;About  twenty  to  twenty-five  miles  an  hour,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'Were  you  watching  the  speedome-  ter?&quot;  I  said  I  hadn't  been.  &quot;Then  how  can  you  know  it  was  twenty  to  twenty-five?  It  might  have  been  thirty  to  thirty-five.  Do  you  drive  a  car?&quot;  I  said  I  didn't.  &quot;Then  you  can't  qualify  as  an  expert  on  speed.&quot;  The  lawyer  shook  his  head.  &quot;Don't  be  soft,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;You  owe  no  loyalty  to  the  driver-and  certainly  none  to  the  insurance  company.  Give  the  family  a  break.  Their  son  was  killed,  wasn't  he?&quot;  The  next  day,  I  called  up  another " b"lawyer,  an  acquaintance  of  mine,  and  told  him  about  the  advice  I  had  been  giv-  en.  He  disagreed  flatly.  &quot;True,  the  young  man  is  dead,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  no  amount  of  money  can  bring  him  back.  And  another  man  still  has  a  living  to  carn.  If  the  driver  is  found  to  have  been  at  fault,  the  dead  man's  family  will  probably  collect  more,  but  the  driver  may  lose  his  license  to  drive  acab.  Tell  the  truth  as  you  know  it.  Don't  try  to  shade  it  at  all.  You  owe  no  loyalty  ex-  cept  to  your  own  conscience.&quot;  As  the  hearing  approached,  I  found  my  confusion  growing.  By  some  mys-  terious  process,  the  very  thought  of  courtroom  and  witness  chair  began  to  give  me  a  sense  of  guilt,  even  though  I  kept  telling  myself  that  this  had  been  an  accident-only  technically  a  crime-  and  a  commonplace  accident,  at  that.  I  looked  up  some  statistics  on  the  subject,  and  found  that,  in  cities,  more  pedes-  trians  are  killed  by  motorcars  between  six  and  nine  in  the  evening  than  dur-  ing  any  other  three  hours  of  the  day  or  night,  that  the  winter  months  are  the  most  dangerous,  and  that  a  common  place  for  such  accidents  is  at  street  inter-  sections.  Still,  I  felt  uneasy.  Two  days  before  the  hearing,  the  shadow  of  the  civil  suit  began  to  appear,  though  the  criminal  responsibility  was  still  to  be  assessed.  At  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning,  a  tall,  fresh-faced  man  rang  my  doorbell.  He  turned  out  to  be  a  private  detective  sent  by  the  attorney  who  represented  the  family  of  the  de-  ceased.  He  asked  what  I  knew.  I  told  him  substantially  what  I  had  told  the  cab  company's  investigator,  and  he,  too,  wrote  down  the  gist  of  it.  He,  however,  had  the  cab  moving  at  a  rapid  rate  of  speed,  and  when  he  gave  me  the  state-  ment  to  sign,  I  crossed  out  that  part  of  it  and  substituted,  as  before,  &quot;normal  speed.&quot;  He  asked  whether  I  had  paid  the  driver.  When  I  said  I  had,  he  said  I  hadn't  needed  to,  since  when  I  en-  tered  the  cab,  I  had,  in  effect,  made  a  contract  with  the  driver  to  take  me  to  a  specific  address.  The  driver  had  void-  ed  the  contract  by  becoming  involved  in  the  accident;  I  hadn't  owed  him  a  dime.  'The  man  seemed  fascinated  by  this  aspect  of  the  case.  Suddenly,  he  asked,  &quot;What  was  the  driver's  name?&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;I  remember  it  from  looking  at  his  hack  license  on  the  ride  downtown,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  anyway,  it  was  on  the  sub-  poena.  Why?&quot;  &quot;Just  testing  your  powers  of  observa-  tion,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You'll  get  lots  of  sub-  poenas  before  this  is  over.&quot;  The  face  of  the  accident  had  cer- " b"tainly  changed,  The  bleak  tragedy  of  the  streets  was  already  becoming  a  wrangle  over  cash.  HE  Criminal  Courts  Building  is  made  of  granite  and  is  a  block  long  and  fifteen  stories  high;  the  room  in  it  assigned  to  Vehicle  Accident  Court  is  large,  high-ceilinged,  and  handsome-  ly  panelled.  Iarrived  early.  For  five  minutes,  I  sat  alone  in  the  spectators  part  of  the  room,  awed  by  the  atmos-  phere  of  impersonal  solemnity.  Then  a  side  door  opened  and  my  cabdriver  came  in.  The  other  time  I  saw  him,  he  had  been  wearing  the  cap  and  windbreaker  favored  by  so  many  of  his  calling,  but  now  he  was  dressed  in  a  gray  felt  hat  and  gray  overcoat  and  looked  more  like  a  man  who  might  own  a  small  business  of  some  sort.  Behind  him  trailed  the  patrolman  with  the  rimless  glasses  who  had  appeared  at  the  scene  of  the  acci-  dent.  Although  neither  man  had  seen  me  more  'than  fleetingly  that  evening  a  fortnight  back,  they  both  recognized  me.  We  all  said  &quot;Hello&quot;  and  smiled  in  a  friendly  but  reserved  fashion.  The  patrolman  took  a  seat  inside  the  rail  that  enclosed  the  bench  and  the  lawyers'  tables,  and  the  driver  came  over  and  sat  near  me.  While  the  courtroom  filled  slowly  with  litigants  and  witnesses  in  other  cases,  he  and  I  conversed  casual-  ly.  He  had  been  locked  up  overnight,  he  said,  without  even  a  chance  to  make  a  phone  call.  A  detective  from  the  Homi-  cide  Squad  had  taken  him  out  of  his  cell  briefly  to  test  the  cab's  brakes  and  had  then  locked  him  up  again.  The  brakes  were  O.K.  The  driver  said  he  had  been  released  the  next  morning,  without  having  to  post  bail.  He  had  gone  home,  told  his  wife  what  had  happened,  and  then  taken  a  walk  to  settle  his  nerves,  and  atter  that  he  had  had  a  nap.  I  asked  him  how  old  he  was.  Fifty,  he  replied,  adding  that  he  had  been  driving  for  thirty  years  and  hacking  for  the  last  nineteen  of  them.  This  was  his  first  accident.  He  said  that  his  hack  license  had  been  revoked  pending  this  hearing,  and  that  when  he  asked  the  License  Bureau  for  a  temporary  permit  to  drive  they  had  told  him  to  &quot;take  a  vacation.&quot;  &quot;How  can  I  take  a  vacation?&quot;  he  said  to  me.  &quot;I  have  to  feed  my  family.  Right  now  I  don't  have  ten  bucks  to  my  name.&quot;  The  magistrate  entered,  and  an  at-  tendant  called  the  first  case.  As  it  was  getting  under  way,  a  sepulchral-looking  man  made  his  way  over  to  me  and  whispered,  &quot;Please  come  outside.&quot;  When  we  were  in  the  corridor,  he  in-  troduced  himself  as  one  of  the  lawyers " b"representing  the  family  of  the  dead  man.  He  had  not  a  single  hair  on  his  head-  noteven  eyebrows.  I  said  I  did  not  expect  to  be  of  much  help  to  either  side,  since  I  had  not  seen  the  accident  occur,  but  he  didn't  appear  to  be  interested  in  that.  He  merely  wished,  he  said,  to  tell  me  about  thefamily.  They  lived  in  a  cold-water  flat  under  the  &quot;L&quot;  on  Third  [REDACTED].  The  father  worked  only  sporadically.  'The  boy  hadhad  a  factory  job  and  had  been  going  to  night  school.  He  and  I  agreed  that  it  was  in-  deed  an  unusually  tragic  situation.  At  that  point,  someone  came  out  of  the  courtroom  and  said  our  case  had  been  adjourned  for  a  week.  HEN  I  returned  to  the  court  a  week  later,  the  bald  lawyer  greet-  ed  me  in  the  corridor.  &quot;I'm  having  the  mother  come  here  today,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;I  wish  you  could  have  gone  with  me  to  see  how  that  family  lives.  Poorest  of  thepoor.  By  the  way,  were  you  there  when  the  priest  gave  the  last  rites?  And  when  the  ambulance  came?&quot;  I  said  I  had  left  and  gone  home.  &quot;You  were  in  a  hurry  to  get  home,  eh?&quot;  the  lawyer  said.  &quot;You'd  been  in  a  hurry  right  along?  Asked  the  driver  to  speed?  An  appointment,  orpeople  wait-  ing  for  you?&quot;  I  said  no,  I  hadn't  been  in  any  spe-  cial  hurry.  The  lawyer  looked  at  me  oddly.  &quot;Have  pity,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'That's  all  I  ask.  Have  pity.&quot;  It  was  becoming  plainer  and  plainer  that  the  matter  of  establishing  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  cabdriver  was  only  a  ritualistic  preamble  to  the  main  con-  test,  the  contest  over  money.  And  in  that  contest,  the  cabdriver-and  even  the  dead  man-was  an  insignificant  supernumerary.  I  took  a  seat  up  front  in  the  court-  room.  The  cabdriver  was  two  rows  be-  hind  me.  He  nodded  to  fne  and  I  nodded  back.  A  manwho  had  been  pointed  out  to  me  as  the  cab  company's  attorney  was  sitting  across  the  room.  He  glanced  at  me  and  looked  away.  The  patrolman  with  the  rimless  glasses  came  in  and  sat  down  stolidly.  In  the  next  seat  but  one  from  me  was  a  woman  in  black,  a  shapeless  mass  of  sweater,  skirt,  and  shawl.  I  had  barely  sat  down  when  the  bald  lawyer  slid  into  the  seat  between  us  and  introduced  the  woman  to  me  as  the  mother  of  the  dead  youth.  We  shook  hands  across  his  lap.  Then  the  lawyer  rose  and  left  us  alone  to-  gether.  Without  further  preliminaries,  the  woman  reached  into  her  handbag,  took  out  a  wallet,  and  opened  it.  &quot;'This  is  his  picture,&quot;  she  said,  holding  out  two" b"tinted  photographs.  The  form  at  last  had  a  face.  She  held  the  pictures  out  long  enough  for  me  to  study  the  young  man's  attractive  features  and  then  put  them  back  in  the  wallet.  The  magistrate  strode  in  and  took  his  place  on  the  bench.  The  first  case  was  called;  two  cars  had  collided  near  Lon-  don  Terrace,  and  thedriver  of  one  of  them  had  allegedly  been  drunk.  The  bald  lawyer  again  sat  down  beside  me.  &quot;We'll  be  delayed,&quot;  he  whispered.  ''The  detective  from  Homicide  got  tied  up.  He  was  the  one  who  measured  how  far  the  body  was  found  from  the  cab.  Seventy-six  feet.  'They  just  reached  him  on  the  phone  at  his  house.  He'll  be  down  in  an  hour.&quot;  I  went  out  into  the  corridor  to  smoke,  and  the  lawyer  followed.  &quot;Seventy-six  feet,&quot;  he  began.  &quot;That  cab  must  have  really  been  travelling.  How  fast  would  you  think?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  an  expert  on  speed,&quot;  I  re-  plied.  &quot;My  impression  was  that  he  was  not  going  fast.  My  impression  also  was  that  the  body  wasn't  more  than  twenty-  five  feet  from  the  cab.&quot;  The  lawyer  frowned.  &quot;I  have  other  witnesses,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;My  men  are  out  rounding  them  up.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  there  was  only  one  other  witness,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Right  after  it  hap-  pened,  a  pedestrian  came  running  over  from  Madison  [REDACTED].  He  may  have  seen  more  than  I.&quot;  &quot;What  did  he  look  like?&quot;  the  lawyer  asked  eagerly.  &quot;A  man  in  dark  clothing.&quot;  \xc2\xabTall?  Short?  Young?  Old?&quot;  I  shrugged.  For  one  thing,  I  wasn't  sure,  and,  for  another,  it  seemed  to  me  that  the  lawyer  was  toopointedly  inter-  ested.  &quot;I'm  testifying  that  there  was  such  a  person,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  find  him.  I  suppose  he  may  not  recognize  me  when  you  do.&quot;  I  ground  out  my  ciga-  rette  butt  on  the  floor  and  went  back  to  the  courtroom.  A  new  case  was  on.  I  worked  at  the  crossword  puzzle  in  the  Times.  Across  the  aisle,  the  taxi  com-  pany's  lawyer  was  working  on  one  in  the  Herald  Tribune.  The  new  case  ended,  another  was  called,  As  the  peo-  ple  shifted  about,  going  up  to  the  bench  or  leaving  the  room,  the  dead  man's  mother  moved  into  the  seat  next  to  me.  &quot;I  keep  asking  myself  why  did  it  hap-  pen  to  him,&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;The  neighbors  say  it's  God's  will.  They  say  He  takes  the  good.&quot;  A  court  attendant  looked  warningly  toward  us,  and  she  stopped  whispering.  The  morning  dragged  on  as  case  after  case  was  called  and  disposed  of.  The  room  was  emptying.  The  air  grew  dry  and  stale.  At  one  o'clock,  the  magis-" b"trate  adjourned  court  for  an  hour,  and  I  went  down  alone  to  a  crowded,  hot  counter  lunchroom  for  a  sandwich  and  coffee,  bought  an  afternoon  paper,  and  went  back  upstairs.  The  dead  man's  mother  took  the  seat  beside  me  again.  She  propped  her  chin  on  a  bony  wrist.  &quot;I  called  you  on  the  phone  that  night  because  I  wanted  to  know  did  he  cry  out  for  me.&quot;  I  told  her  I  hadn't  beennear  enough  to  hear.  &quot;Itdoesn't  make  any  sense,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;That  Sunday  afternoon,  he  went  out  and  bought  himself  some  comic  books.  He  was  lying  on  his  bed,  reading  them,  when  his  boss  called  up  and  asked  him  to  please  go  to  the  gar-  ment  district  for  those  papers.  If  I  had  stopped  him,  if  I  had  said,  'Don't  a  you  go,'  or  if  he  hadn't  been  home  to  getthe  phone  call.  Or  if  he  hadn't  called  us  up  after  he'dgot  the  papers--  it  was  just  about  eight  o'clock.  'Have  a  cup  of  coffee  for  me,  Mom,'  he  said.  'I  had  to  wait  quite  a  while,  but  I'll  be  home  right  away  now.'  If  he  hadn't  stopped  to  make  that  phone  call  or  if  I'd  have  kept  him  talking  on  the  wire  a  few  minutes  more  .  .  .&quot;  It  was  almost  three  when  the  case  was  finally  called,  and  the  only  people  left  in  the  room  were  those  concerned  with  the  death  ofthe  young  man  who  had  spent  his  last  afternoon  reading  comic  books.  The  detective  from  Homi-  cide,  the  patrolman  with  glasses,  the  taxicab  driver,  and  the  two  lawyers  lined  up  before  the  bench.  I  was  called  to  the  stand.  I  did  not  look  at  the  mother  or  at  the  driver  as  I  gave  my  name,  ad-  dress,  and  occupation,  and  raised  my  right  hand.  &quot;On  the  night  of  January  10th,&quot;  the  Assistant  District  Attorney  began,  &quot;were  you,  at  approximately  ten  min-  utes  after  eight,  at  the  corner  of  Thirty-  eighth  Street  and  Fifth  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;I  was?&quot;  &quot;And  what  were  you  doing  at  the  corner  of  Thirty-eighth  and  Fifth?&quot;  &quot;I  was  a  passenger  in  a  taxicab.&quot;  For  the  next  five  minutes,  he  asked  questions  and  I  answered  them.  Where  had  I  engaged  the  cab?  Where  were  we  going:  Where  had  the  taxi  made  its  last  stop  for  a  light?  (I  didn't  know  that.)  What  was  the  weather  like?  Did  I  see  the  man  before  the  taxi  hit  him?  Well,  what  department-store  windows  was  I  looking  into?  How  fast  was  the  taxi  proceeding?  Did  I  drive  a  car?  Where  was  the  man  lying?  What  hap-  pened  then?  The  questions  were  cold,  my  answers  necessarily  brief.  It  was  hard  to  realize  that  the  principals  in  the  case  were  an  only  son  who  had  met " b"sudden  death  and  a  middle-aged  man  with  a  family  to  feed.  The  taxi  company's  lawyer  ap-  proached  the  stand.  &quot;The  lights  were  green?&quot;  he  asked.  Yes&quot;  &quot;The  cab  was  travelling  at  a  normal  speed?&quot;  Yes\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;''That's  all,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Step  down,&quot;  the  magistrate  told  me.  The  detective  from  Homicide  took  the  stand  and  proceeded  to  reconstruct  the  scene.  The  body,  he  said,  had  been  found  seventy-six  feet  from  the  cab.  Upon  being  questioned  by  the  magis-  trate,  however,  the  detective  testified  that  he  had  arrived  to  take  his  measure-  ments  three  hours  after  the  body  had  been  removed  and  by  that  time  whatever  markings  there  may  have  been  could  havebeen  erased  by  traffic  and  rain.  The  detective  conceded  that  he  knew  only  what  others  had  told  him  and  what  he  had  deduced  from  that  information.  He  stepped  down.  &quot;Case  dismissed,&quot;  the  magistrate  said.  The  driver  was  exonerated.  I  knew  what  that  meant  to  the  dead  man's  family.  When  I  left  the  courtroom,  I  ran  into  the  mother  in  the  corridor.  &quot;I'm  sorry  that  I  couldn't  be  of  more  help  to  you,&quot;  I  said.  She  did  not  answer.  &quot;You  have  a  good  lawyer,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He'll  help  you,  I'm  sure.&quot;  I  was  struggling  with  my  coat,  and  she  came  to  my  assistance.  I  thanked  her.  &quot;I'm  sorry  we  had  to  meet  under  these  cir-  cumstances,&quot;  I  said,  and  held  out  my  hand.  She  took  it.  &quot;We  part  friends,&quot;  she  said.  In  the  elevator,  I  found  myself  stand-  ing  next  to  my  taxi-driver.  &quot;Well,  my  vacation's  over,&quot;  he  said  grimly.  &quot;At  least  I  can  get  my  license  back  now  and  start  earning  a  little  money,  for  a  change.&quot;  '  I  left  the  courthouse  fully  expecting  that  I  would  be  called  back  to  testify  for  one  side  or  the  other  in  the  civil  suit  that  was  so  obviously  impending.  A  week  or  so  later,  my  phone  rang,  and  when  I  picked  up  the  receiver,  I  recognized  the  voice  of  the  mother  of  the  dead  man.  &quot;'The  case  was  settled  out  of  court,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  didn't  get  much,  but  we  got  something.  I  called  because  I  didn't  want  you  to  worry.&quot;"