 b"WHILE  doing  a  Double-Crostic  recently,  I  happened  upon  the  astonishing  fact  that  Heaviside  was  a  man-that,  in  the  words  of  the  puzzle,  he  was  the  &quot;British  physicist  (1850-1925)  who  first  identified  the  ionosphere.&quot;  This  information  came  as  a  considerable  blow,  with  an  impact  that  extended  to  the  farthest  edges  of  my  peripheral  knowledge.  It  was  a  bit  like  the  shock  I'd  felt  when  I  learned,  at  an   early  age,  the  true  pronunciation  and  derivation  of  the  word  &quot;misled;&quot;  I  had  thought  it  was  the  past  tense  of  the  verb  &quot;to  misle,&quot;  which  rhymed  with  &quot;re-prisal.&quot;  Though  not  a  science-fiction  fan,I  had  at  least  a  nodding  acquaintance  with  the  Heaviside  Layer:  I  could  nod  when  it  was  mentioned  at  a  dinner  table.  I  even  knew  that  it  was  the  thing  from  which  radio  waves  bounced;  it  obviously  had  a  certain  solidity.  And  though  no-  body  had  ever  mentioned  it,  I  had  been  quite  surethat  there  was  also,  probably  just  underneath,  a  Lightside  Layer.  Now  I  was  no  longer  sure.  Heaviside  was  not  a  description,  after  all,  but  a  man's  name.  Like  Gresham,  of  Gresham's  Law.  Or  was  it  like  Gresham's  Law?  Was  there  ever  a  Mr.  Gresham?  I  could  no  longer  bet  on  it.  How  did  I  know  that greshams  were  not  a  variety  of  spurious  cointhat  had  once  drivenhonest  dollars  from  the  market?  A  gresham  saved  is  a  gresham  earned?  A  gresham  for  your  thoughts?  What,  when  you  came  right  down  to  it,  did  I  really  know  about  economics?  The  Law  of  Supply  and-  Oh,  no!  There  couldn't  be  two  econ-  omists  named  that,  I  told  my-  self  reassuringly.  But  a  shadow  of  doubt  remained.  It  was  late  at  night-my  family  always  go  to  bed  as  soon  as  they  see  me  curled  up  with  a  Double-Crostic-and  I  paced  the  lone-  ly  floor  in  misery  as  I  watched  my  feeble  knowledge  of  economics  slip  over  into  the  abyss  of  complete  igno-  rance.  No,  I  finally  decided,  Supply  and  Demand  were  not  two  men,  like  Mason  and  Dixon.  Hmm.  I  wished  I  hadn't  mentioned  Mason  and  Dixon.  'They  could  be  two  check  points  on  a  map.  Mount  Mason  and  Lake  Dixon?  Or  they  could  be  a  railroad  line,  like  the  Baltimore  &amp;  [REDACTED],  which  I  knew  was  named  after  a  city  and  a  state-or  was  it  after  an  English  lord  and  a  river?  From  the  B.  &amp;  O.,  my  mind  wandered  to  the  steam  engine.  I  thought  I  knew  that  it  was  invented  by  a  fellow  named  W  att,  but  suddenly  I  wasn't  so  sure.  Was  Watt  a  man's  name?  If  so,  were  Volt,  Ampere,  Heterodyne,  Ohm,  and  Kilo-  cycle  also  men's  names?  After  Heavi-  side  what  could  I  be  sure  of  in  physics?  Pretty  soon  I  was  back  at  those  laws  again.  I  was  fairly  certain  about  the  Law  of  Diminishing  Returns,  the  Taft-Hartley  Law,  and  the  Law  of  Gravity  (a  serious  law?  ),  but  I  was  on  spongy  ground  with  the  Mendelian  Law.  Was  it  named  for  a  geneticist  or  for  a  theory  of  heredity  formulated  aft-  er  a  study  of  a  kind  of  fruit  fly  called  &quot;mendels&quot;?  &quot;No!&quot;  I  said  aloud,  &quot;Pull  yourself  together.&quot;  I  went  to  the  kitchen  and  poured  my-  self  a  steadying  drink.  Bottled  in  Bond.  Good  old  Bond.  They  bottle  a  heap  of  bourbon  down  there.  Mighty  pretty  country  in  that  part  of  [REDACTED].  Raise  fine  horses,  too.  REMBLING,  I  tossed  off  the  drink  and  went  to  bed.  But  not  to  sleep.  Names,  phrases,  and  doubts  kept  trickling  through  my  brain,  eroding  away  large  areas  of  once  solid  knowl-  edge.  Was  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  named  for  the  piece  of  furniture,  or  vice  versa?  Was  each,  perhaps,  named  for  a  sep-  arate  [REDACTED]?  And  though  Id  learned  about  the  bowie  knife  at  the  movies,  what  about  the  barlow  knife,  the  case  knife,  and  the  frisket  knife?  Was  a  Klang  reaction  similar  to  &quot;Boin-ng!&quot;  in  the  movies?  Pasteurize,  synthesize,  traumatize,  bowdlerize,  an-  glicize-which  stemmed  from  a  person  or  place  and  which  from  a  proc-  ess?  And  what  did  I  really  know  about  such  things  as  full-  er's  earth,  the  Sandwich  [REDACTED],  potter's  field,  the  Bunsen  burner,  the  Geiger  counter,  Muscle  Shoals,  the  graham  cracker,  the  Ror-  schach  test,  rose  madder,  riboflavin,  Zsa  Zsa  Gabor?  In  the  small  hours  of  insomnia,  my  faith  in  man  went  over  the  edge  with  my  other  previous  convictions-my  faith  in  Man  the  Symbolic  Animal,  to-  gether  with  my  meagre  information  on  Semantic  Man,  Economic  Man,  Peking  Man,  Java  Man,  Piltdown  Man-  Aha!  Solid  ground  at  last!  I  no  long-  er  have  to  worry  about  him,  I  told  my-  self  as  I  slipped  gratefully  off  to  sleep.  'There  is  no  Piltdown  Man.  He's  the  one  the  scientists  havebeen  misling  us  about  all  these  years.     "