 b"IN  [REDACTED],  my  mother  used  to  take  I  parcels  of  food  to  a  community  of  Poor  Clare  nuns  who  had  their  con-  vent  a  long  walk  from  our  house  in  Ranelagh.  Sometimes  she  used  to  send  my  sister  and  me,  with  the  parcels.  The  Poor  Clares  are  silent.  They  never  speak,  to  each  other  or  to  anyone,  and  they  are  a  closed  order,  which  means  that  they  never  see  outsiders  and  no  one  ever  sees  them.  These  [REDACTED]  Poor  Clares  had  no  food  except  what  their  friends-women,  mostly,  people  like  my  mother-brought  to  them.  They  were  forbidden  to  ask  for  anything,  but  we  heard  that  if  their  food  supply  got  dan-  gerously  low,  the  Reverend  Mother  was  allowed  to  signal  their  distress  by  ring-  ing  the  bell  in  the  steeple  of  their  chapel.  To  my  regret,  our  house  was  too  far  from  the  convent  to  let  us  hear  the  bell,  but  my  mother  assured  me  that  there  was  no  need  to  worry;  the  nuns  had  never  yet  been  driven  to  ring  for  help.  One  hallin  the  convent  was  open  to  visitors  for  a  part  of  every  day,  and  it  was  there  we  used  to  call  with  our  of-  ferings  of  food.  A  huge  revolving  bar-  rel  with  an  open  section  had  been  built  upright  into  the  narrow  end  wall  that  sealed  the  public  hall  away  from  the  rest  of  the  convent.  We  used  to  place  our  parcels  on  the  floor  of  the  barrel,  and  then  turn  it  around  so  that  the  open  section  faced  the  nun  on  the  other  side  of  the  wall.  The  nun  would  immediate-  ly  turn  it  back  to  us,  always  sending  us  a  present  of  a  few  holy  pictures  or  some  medals.  The  nun  who  at-  tended  the  barrel  was  named  Sister  Bridget.  She  was  the  only  mem-  ber  of  the  community  who  had  permission  to  talk  to  visitors.  A  tiny  square  waiting  room  opened  off  the  hall,  and  we  used  to  go  in  there  and  hold  conversations  with  her  through  a  blind  grille  in  the  wall.  One  of  my  names  is  Bridget,  and  she  had  the  idea  that  I  would  someday  develop  a  vocation,  and  maybe  become  a  Poor  Clare  like  herself.  She  used  to  offer  many  prayers  for  my  vocation,  and  I  enjoyed  talking  with  her  about  it.  I  was  about  twelve  then.  I  had  heard  that  the  Poor  Clares  slept  in  their  coffins,  with  stones  under  their  heads.  I  had  been  told  that  they  were  measured  for  their  coffins  the  first  day  they  entered  the  convent,  and  that  they  never  knew  any  other  bed  afterward.     OF  RUMORS  My  mother  liked  to  throw  cold  water  on  this  story,  but  I  could  not  forget  it.  I  used  to  wonder  if  they  had  separate  cells  for  sleeping,  with  a  coffin  in  each  cell,  or  if  they  slept  in  a  dormitory,  and  if  they  had  sheets  and  blankets  and  pil-  loweases,  and,  if  so,  how  they  made  their  beds  in  the  morning.  Also,  I  wondered,  what  about  the  coffin  lids?  Where  were  they  kept'  On  the  floor  alongside  the  coffin?  Or  leaning,  like  hockey  sticks  and  bicycles,  against  the  wall!  I  knew  that  the  nuns  never  slept  more  than  a  couple  of  hours  at  a  time  and  that  they  arose  at  intervals  during  the  night,  even  in  the  dead  of  winter,  to  go  to  their  chapel  and  pray.  It  was  a  picture  to  dwell  upon.  I  asked  my  mother  many  questions  about  the  nuns,  but  her  answers  were  never  satisfactory.  One  time  that  I  re-  member  asking  her  about  them,  her  younger  brother,  my  Uncle  Matt,  was  lounging  about  the  room.  We  were  in  the  front  sitting  room,  and  she  was  try-  ing  to  coax  one  of  her  precious  ferns  to  twine  itself  around  a  long  bamboo  cane  that  she  had  stuck  into  its  pot.  Q-Do  the  Poor  Clare  nuns  have  any  other  convent  besides  the  one  here  in  [REDACTED]?  A-I  think  they  have  another  con-  vent  somewhere  in  Ireland,  and  I  be-  lieve  they  have  one  in  [REDACTED].  Q-If  nobody  is  allowed  to  see  them,  what  happens  when  they're  moved  from  one  convent  to  another?  A-How  would  I  know?  I  suppose  a  car,  a  little  van,  maybe,  backs  up  to  the  convent  door,  and  the  nun  gets  in  and  shuts  herself  in.  Q-Would  she  bring  her  coffin  with  her?  A-I  wish  you'd  stop  all  this  nonsense  about  the  nuns  sleeping  in  their  coffins.  (Uners  Marr:  Of  course  she'd  bring  her  coffin  with  her.  Doesn't  she  have  to  get  her  sleep,  like  anybody  else?  She'd  carry  it  under  her  arm  like  a  music  roll.  Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  you've  never  seen  a  nun  walking  along  the  street  withher  coffin  under  her  arm?   Q-What  if  a  Poor  Clare  gets  sick  and  has  to  have  the  doctor?  A-I  don't  know.  Q-What  about  if  they're  dying,  and  the  priest  has  to  come?  A-I  don't  know.  Besides,  that     " b" would  be  different.  A  priest  would  be  different.  Q-What  about  if  they  talk  in  their  sleep?  Would  that  be  a  sin  for  them?  (Unerr  Mart:  Well,  of  course,  it  would  depend  what  they  said.)  A-That's  enough  of  that,  now.  I  don't  want  to  hear  another  word  out  of  either  of  you.  ENTILS,  dried  peas,  eggs,  and  flour  were  chiefly  what  my  mother  used  to  bring  to  the  nuns.  Sometimes  she  baked  a  cake  for  them.  Once,  she  brought  salt,  and  Sister  Bridget  thanked  her  particularly,  telling  her  that  the  com-  munity  had  been  without  salt  for  two  weeks.  Although  the  walk  to  the  convent  was  long,  it  was  not  lonely.  We  had  to  cross  at  least  two  busy  main  streets,  full  of  traffic  as  we  walked  along,  and  the  way  was  very  pleasant,  with  trees  lining  the  sidewalks  in  front  of  the  houses,  and  benches  to  sit  on  in  case  we  got  tired.  The  convent  and  its  chapel  formed  three  sides  of  a  square  court,  which  was  carefully  tended  and  had  a  small,  smooth  grass  lawn  and  bright  flower  beds.  The  fourth  side  of  the  court  was  on  the  public  road  and  was  walled  off,  with  an  iron  gate  through  which  visitors  entered,  The  wall  was  veryhigh  and  you  couldn't  see  through  the  gate.  To  the  right  of  the  gate  was  the  gate  lodge,  where  an  old  woman  lived  and  attended  to  visitors  who  called  during  off  hours.  Although  the  convent  had  fixed  visit-  ing  hours,  the  chapel  was  always  open,  and  people  could  go  in  there  and  pray  any  time.  People  who  lived  near  the  chapel  used  to  attend  Mass  and  Benedic-  tion  there.  It  was  a  beautiful  little  chap-  el,  the  plainest  I  have  ever  seen,  with  a  small,  almost  bare  main  altar  flanked  by  two  tall  statues  of  nuns-Saint  Clare  on  the  left  as  you  knelt  facing  the  altar,  and  Saint  Camillus  on  the  right.  Both  saints  wore  the  brown  habit  ofthe  Poor  Clares.  To  the  right  of  the  altar,  a  great  grille  was  set  into  the  wall,  and  through  this  grille  the  nuns  used  to  witness  Mass  and  receive  Benediction,  and  through  the  grille  people  kneeling  in  the  chapel  could  hear  their  voices  answering  the  prayers  and  singing  the  Benediction  hymns.  One  Sunday  afternoon,  my  mother  took  me  to  Benediction  there.  I  watched  the  altar  and  listened  to  the  voices  of  the  nuns,  but  my  real  attention  was  given  to  a  small  old  woman  kneeling  in  the  seat  ahead  of  me.  This  old  woman,  dressed  in  black,  had  her  head  half  turned,  so  that  I  could  see  her  face,  and  she  was  listening  to  the  voices  from  be-  hind  the  grille  with  such  concentration" b"that  she  appeared  desperate,  her  eyes  wide  open  and  her  mouth  working  along  with  the  words.  My  mother  saw  me  watching  her,  and  as  we  left  the  chapel,  she  said,  &quot;'That  poor  old  woman  comes  here  ev-  ery  chance  she  gets.  Her  daughter  has  been  in  there  fourteen  years,  and  she's  got  so  she  imagines  she  can  hear  her  daughter's  voice  out  of  all  the  others.  We  came  out  together  one  day,  and  she  told  me  she  can't  hear  any  of  the  other  voices  any  more,  only  her  daughter's  voice.  It's  like  as  if  her  daughter  was  in  there  alone,  she  says.  It's  sad  to  see  her  straining  like  that,  to  hear  every  word.&quot;  &quot;Was  it  her  oldest  daughter  or  the  youngest?&quot;  I  asked.  Being  the  middle  one,  I  was  concerned  with  such  things.  &quot;I  don't  know  that,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;Do  you  suppose  the  daughter  thinks  about  her  mother  out  there,  and  doesn't  think  of  anybody  else?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;She  could  hardly  help  thinking  of  her,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;After  all,  she's  still  her  daughter.  But,  of  course,  once  they're  in  there,  they're  in  there,&quot;  she  added,  &quot;and  they're  not  supposed  to  think  about  what  they've  left  behind.  It's  hard  to  know  what  goes  on  in  their  heads.  Maybe  they  try  to  forget  about  the  outside  world  altogether.&quot;  &quot;Except  for  our  sins,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;''They  have  to  pray  for  us.&quot;  &quot;'That's  true,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;'They  have  to  think  about  all  the  sins  we  commit.&quot;  If  this  thought  amused  her,  she  gave  no  sign  of  it.  [REDACTED]  sunny  morning  late  in  the  sum-  mer,  my  mother  called  me  into  the  kitchen,  where  she  was  packing  a  parcel  for  the  Poor  Clares.  &quot;I  was  wondering  if  you  would  like  to  take  Robert  with  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  a  long  walk,  but  you  could  go  slow.  Then  you  could  put  him  in  thebarrel  and  send  him  around  to  see  the  nuns.&quot;  &quot;Put  Robert  in  the  barrel?&quot;  I  cried.  Robert,  my  brother,  was  at  this  time  about  two  years  old.  &quot;Certainly,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;Chil-  dren  are  allowed  in  the  barrel  until  they're  three  years  old.  After  that  they're  too  old.  You  can  take  him  if  you  like.  I'll  put  his  blue  suit  on  him.&quot;  A  few  minutes  later,  I  started  off,  pushing  Robert  inhis  pram.  He  sat  back  placidly  against  his  pillow  and  stared  at  me.  'The  nun's  parcel  made  a  comfort-  able  prop  for  his  feet.  He  was  very  pink  and  cheerful.  My  mother  had  dressed  him  in  a  suit  of  pale-blue  wool  that  she  had  knitted  herself  and  that  fitted  him" b"very  tightly  all  over  and  left  hisfat  legs  bare.  He  wore  short  white  cotton  socks  and  brown  sandals.  His  hair,  of  which  he  did  not  have  much,  was  brushed  into  a  golden  crest  on  top  of  his  head,  and  he  shone  with  health,  contentment,  and  cleanliness.  I  was  in  agreat  hurry  to  get  him  into  the  barrel,  and  I  sped  along,  almost  skating  behind  the  pram.  When  I  got  to  the  convent,  I  rushed  into  the  waiting  room  and  told  Sister  Bridget  I  had  brought  Robert  to  see  her.  She  was  delighted,  and  said  she  would  call  the  other  nuns.  I  didn't  know,  and  didn't  like  to  ask,  whether  she  meant  that  she  would  call  all  the  nuns  or  just  a  few  of  them.  I  imagined  them,  silent  and  swift,  of  all  ages,  de-  scending  upon  Robert  from  every  part  of  the  convent.  I  hoped  none  of  them  would  be  in  the  chapel,  because  surely  they  would  never  be  allowed  tointer-  rupt  their  prayers.  I  went  back  to  the  hall  and  lifted  Robert  into  the  barrel,  making  sure  he  had  his  back  against  the  wall.  He  sat  very  solidly  where  I  placed  him,  a  good  deal  larger  than  the  parcels  I  was  in  the  habit  of  bringing.  As  soon  as  I  heard  Sister  Bridget's  voice,  I  revolved  him  out  of  sight.  He  didn't  seem  to  mind  disappearing.  There  was  silence  on  the  other  side  of  the  barrel.  I  couldn't  hear  a  rustle-not  even  the  suspicion  of  a  whisper.  Even  Robert  made  no  sound.  I  stared  at  the  blank  side  of  the  barrel  and  wonderedwhat  was  going  on  on  the  other  side.  After  a  minute  or  two,  thebarrel  be-  gan  to  move,  and  Robert  gradually  came  into  view,  sitting  exactly  asI  had  placed  him,  looking  very  matter-of-fact  and  friendly.  I  lifted  him  out,  and  put  the  parcel  on  the  warmed-up  spot  where he  had  been  sitting.  When  the  barrel  came  back  the  second  time,  Sister  Bridg-  et  had  sentus  more  presents  than  usual.  There  were  extra  holy  pictures  and  ex-  tra  medals  and  a  special  present  for  Robert,  a  holy  picture  sewn  by  some  nun  to  a  square  of  white  satin  and  em-  broidered  with  white  satin  thread.  I  went  back  into  the  conversation  room  and  received  Sister  Bridget's  compli-  ments  about  Robert,  and  acknowledged  the  hopes  she  expressed  for  him,  which  I  took  to  be  blessings,  considering  their  source.  Then  I  heard  a  few  words,  perfunctory  this  time,  about  my  voca-  tion,  and  left.  S  I  trundled  Robert  home,  I  was  exasperated  to  think  that  he  had  been  where  I  might  never  go,  and  that  he  didn't  even  realize  his  luck.  He  was  in  great  good  humor.  He  waved  his  arms  and  pointed  at  people  and  objects  that  interested  him,  and  even  talked  a  little,  but  I  could  make  no  sense  of  his  lan-  guage,  and  anyway  none  of  his  remarks  seemed  to  have  to  do  with  the  barrel,  which  he  had  apparently  forgotten.  He  was  unable  to  tell  me  what  he  had  seen,  and  by  the  time  he  got  old  enough  to  express  himself,  it  would  all  have  passed  from  his  memory.  Not  from  him  would  I  ever  learn  how  the  nuns  looked,  if  they  were  young  or  old,  if  they  were  pretty  or  ugly,  if  they  smiled  at  him,  or  nodded  to  him,  or  tried  to  take  his  hand  or  stroke  his  head,  as  other  strangers  did.  He  never  would  be  able  to  tell  me  what  the  inside  of  the  convent  looked  like.  Worst  of  all,  I  realized  that  no  matter  what  I  heard,  I  would  never  really  know  for  sure  if  the  nuns  slept  in  their  coffins,  with  stones  for  pillows."