 b"ON  the  morning  of  the  day  he  shota  man  for  the  first  time  in  his  life,  Ted  Parker  began  to  come  awake  a  few  minutes  after  eleven.  It  was  a  Saturday,  and  he  always  slept  late  on  Saturdays.  He  also  slept  late  on  Sundays.  He  was  a  moderately  success-  ful  dise  jockey  employed  by  Station  NYAS,  and  on  Mondays,  Tuesdays,  Wednesdays,  Thursdays,  and  Fridays  he  went  to  the  studio  at  7:30  a.m.,  where,  after  reading  over  the  new  texts,  and  the  revisions  in  the  old  texts,  of  the  twenty-six  commercials  he  had  to  recite,  or  sometimes  sing,  in  the  course  of  the  program,  he  gargled  thoroughly  with  hot  salt  water,  took  a  quarter-grain  tab-  let  of  phenobarbital,  chewed  up  and  swallowed  two  anti-acid  tablets  made  of  pulverized  aluminum,  and  was  on  the  air  at  eight  o'clock,  saying,  &quot;This  is  Ted  Parker,  bringing  you  five  hours  of  recorded  music  from  Station  NYAS,  pronounced  'nice.&quot;  Yes,  it's  nice  to  be  here  once  again  at  NYAS,  because  NYAS  sounds  just  like  what  it  is-  nice.  NYAS  sounds  nice.  NYAS  is  nice.&quot;  Parker  was  past  middle  age,  bald,  fattish,  with  thin  lips,  a  tiny  thumb,  end  of  a  nose,  and  eyes  that  seemed  square,  rather  than  oval.  His  pink,  un-  wrinkled  face  expressed  more  than  any  other  two  things  good-naturedness  and  patience.  At  cocktail  parties  and  din-  ner  parties,  he  smiled  engagingly  at  women  and  shook  hands  earnestly  with  men.  He  was  affable,  gregarious,  and  anxious  to  please,  and  was  asked  out  a  good  deal.  (Hostess  to  host:  &quot;And  maybe  Ted  Parker,  too,  you  think?&quot;  Host  to  hostess:  &quot;Oh,  sure,  let's  have  old  Parker.&quot;)  On  Sundays,  Mondays,  Tuesdays,  Wednesdays,  and  Thursdays,  Parker  cut  short  his  social  activities  at  9:30  P.M.,  no  matter  what  they  were,  because  he  knew  he'd  have  to  be  on  hand  at  the  studio  at  7:30  on  the  mornings  after  those  evenings.  On  Friday  and  Saturday  nights,  he  stayed  out  as  late  as  he  pleased,  and  was  good  and  drunk  when  he  got  home  to  the  Hotel  Forty-Seven,  where  he  had  an  apartment  with  a  dropped  living  room,  a  bedroom,  a  bath,  and  a  kitchenette.  He  lived  alone,  had  beenborn  to  live  alone.  He  had  made  a  number  of  unsuccessful  attempts  to  dodge  this  destiny,  and  was  now  reconciled  to  it.  When  Parker  opened  his  eyes,  he  blinked  once  at  the  ceiling  of  his  bed-  room,  and  remembered  drowsily  that  this  was  his  birthday,  that  the  ludicrous  coincidence  he'd  foreseen  when  he  leased  this  hotel  apartment  several  years  back  had  now,  at  last,  occurred.  For  life  to  find  him  at  the  Hotel  Forty-  Seven  on  his  forty-seventh  birthday  was,  he  felt,  both  a  smack  on  the  head  and  a  poke  in  the  ribs.  Whatever  it  was,  he  ac-  cepted  it,  as  he  did  all  things  life  brought  him,  with  good-natured  patience.  He  found  himself  thinking  of  other  ab-  surd  circumstances,  which  seemed  to  have  characterized  much  of  his  ex-  istence-the  time,  for  example,  when  he  had  found  it  necessary  to  take  the  little  revolver  away  from  his  second  wife  on  Christmas  Eve  in  1945.  That  had  been  nice,  he  said  to  himself.  He  had  never  been  able  to  make  up  his  mind  whether  she  was  about  to  shoot  him  or  about  to  shoot  herself  that  evening.  He  had  removed  the  gun  from  her  wily  hands,  and  later  on,  after  making  her  a  cash  settlement,  had  got  rid  of  her  by  di-  vorce.  For  some  reason,  though,  he'd  hung  onto  the  gun.  Right  now  it  was  at  the  bottom  of  the  small  suitcase  that  was  inside  the  big  suitcase  on  the  top  shelf  of  the  closet  on  the  balcony  that  hung  over  his  dropped  living  room.  The  recollection  of  the  cash  settle-  ment  brought  to  Parker's  mind  the  fact  that  he  was  short  of  money  again.  He  made  fifteen  thousand  a  year  at  NYAS,  but  was  frequently  short  of  money,  be-  cause  he  was  by  nature  a  spendthrift.  He  told  himself  that  he  could,  of  course,  write  a  check  for  fifty  dollars  and  cash  it  at  the  desk  downstairs,  but  unless  he  got  a  salary  advance  from  Mr.  Cooper  ye  er  wal     at  NYAS  on  Monday  and  rushed  it  into  the  bank  before  the  check  got  there,  the  check,  he  knew,  would  bounce.  The  hotel  wouldn't  put  him  in  jail  for  that,  to  be  sure,  but  he  didn't  like  the  hotel  to  know  he  was  insolvent.  He  had  long  ago  recognized  the  fact  that  his  self-  esteem  was  precariously  balanced,  and  he  bolstered  it  in  little  ways,  such  as  encouraging  desk  clerks,  telephone  op-  erators,  bellboys,  maids,  waiters,  and  busboys  to  think  of  him  as  the  well-to-do  Ted  Parker,  deliberately  overtipping  them  month  in  and  month  out.  He  didn't  want  to  get  a  salary  advance  from  Mr.  Cooper  at  NYAS,  partly  because  he  didn't  want  to  admit  to  Mr.  Cooper  (who  had,  in  his  estimation,  the  per-  sonality  ofa  dyspeptic  embalmer)  that  he  needed  one.  Payday  was  on  the  first  of  the  month.  That  would  be  this  com-  ing  Wednesday.  He  could  get  along  easily  enough  until  then  if  he  had,  oh,  twenty  or  thirty  dollars  for  tips  and  taxicabs.  He  could  sign  for  food  and  drinks  at  the  hotel  and  at  any  number  of  restaurants  and  night  clubs.  Night  clubs  reminded  him  of  the  time  his  sec-  ond  wife  threw  the  chafing  dish,  and  abruptly  he  sat  up  in  bed  and  grinned.  He  remembered  examining  that  little  revolver  on  that  Christmas  Eve  in  1945.  It  had  been  brand-new,  of  Swiss  manu-  facture,  with  a  pretty  pearl  handle  and  gold  inlay,  and  it  had  not  been  used  to  this  day.  He  also  remembered  getting  the  bill  for  it  later  on  from  Abercrombie's,  where  his  second  wife  had  charged  it  to  him.  It  had  cost  some-  thing  over  a  hundred  bucks.  When  he'd  decided  to  keep  it,  he'd  applied  for  and  obtained  a  license  for  it,  and,  consequently,  there  would  be  no  diffi-  culty  in  disposing  of  it  today  at  that  respectable  and  friendly  pawnshop  on  Sixth  [REDACTED],  in  and  out  of  which  he'd  been  on  infrequent  oc-  casions  through  the  years.  PARKER  got  out  of  bed,  pulled  down  the  suitcases  from  the  closet  shelf,  found  the  gun,  and  started  to  take  out  the  six  .25-calibre  car-  tridges  that  were  in  it,  but  then  he  decided  the  pawn-  shop  people  might  possibly  want  to  test  the  gun  before  they  lent  any  money  on  it,  so  he  left  it  as  it  was  and  put  it  on  top  of  his  bureau,  alongside  his  empty  wallet,  his  address  book,  his  keys,  a  small  pile  of  change,  some  crinkled  dollar  bills,  and  the  silver  pillbox  in  which  he  kept  his  anti-acid     " b"tablets  and  his  phenobarbital.  Humming  a  commercial  having  to  do  with  hair  tonic,  he  went  into  his  bathroom.  His  hangover,  he  was  glad  to  note,  was  no  worse  than  his  usual  Saturday  one.  He  wanted  a  new  blade  to  shave  with,  but  the  automatic  dispenser  broke  down  when  the  blade  had  just  begun  to  emerge,  and  he  could  neither  pull  the  blade  out  nor  push  it  back.  He  slammed  the  dispenser  into  the  wastebasket  and  shaved  with  the  old  blade.  The  day  before,  he  had  bought  a  tube  of  the  new,  greenish  toothpaste  that  he  had  been  telling  his  radio  audience  deters  decay  and  tastes  like  mint.  Drunk  as  he  had  been  when  he  got  home,  he  had  taken  it  out  of  his  overcoat  pocket  and  placed  it  on  the  bathroom  shelf  in  its  handsome  package.  The  package  itself  opened  fairly  easily,  but  around  the  neck  of  the  tube  was  a  flinty  band  of  transparent  plastic.  He  couldn't  get  it  off.  When  he  tried  to  pry  it  loose  with  his  nail  scissors,  he  gashed  his  forefinger.  When  that  stopped  bleeding,  he  jabbed  a  hole  in  the  side  of  the  tube  and  squeezed  out  enough  green  paste  to  brush  his  teeth  with.  It  did  indeed  taste  like  mint.  He  was  thankful  he  had  slept  so  late.  Now  hecould  have  a  drink  right  away  in  the  bar  downstairs  without  any  fooling  around  about  breakfast.  After  a  couple  of  drinks,  he'd  have  lunch  and  then  go  over  to  Sixth  [REDACTED].  He  showered  and  dressed  in  a  hurry  and  went  down  to  the  bar,  carrying  the  gun  in  the  right-  hand  pocket  of  his  cashmere  jacket.  The  bar  was  of  the  flossy  sort  and  was  in  charge  of  agiant  named  Leo.  Parker  was  the  first  customer  of  the  day.  &quot;Hello,  Leo,&quot;  said  Parker.  &quot;I  think  I'll  have  a  whiskey  sour-half  orange  juice  and  half  lemon.  You  know.&quot;  &quot;It's  giving  me  hell  today,&quot;  said  Leo,  making  no  move  to  mix  the  drink.  &quot;What  is?&quot;  &quot;'The  hip!  What  else?  Arthritis, rheumatism,  what  the  hell  ever  it  is,  anyway  it  bucked  on  me  again  coming  up  Seventh  [REDACTED]  this  morning  in  front  of  the  pet  shop.  I  was  stooping  over  to  look  at  these  dachshunds  in  the  window,  and  it  bucked  on  me.  Prior  to  that,  I  hadn't  had  any  trouble  with  it  for  six  months.  No,  seven.  No,  I  guess  six  at  that.  Or  six  and  a  half.  I  got  the  long  shift  today,  too-nine  hours  be-  hind  this  bar  and  the  hip  aching  and  paining.&quot;  &quot;'That's  tough,  Leo,&quot;  said  Parker.  &quot;Half  orange  juice.&quot;  &quot;No  oranges,&quot;  said  Leo.  &quot;'They  haven't  come  in  yet.  Be  along  soon,  though.&quot;  &quot;Well,  just  give  me  a  plain  whiskey  sour.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  mean,  plain?&quot;  &quot;Just  a  whiskey  sour,  that's  all,  with  lemon.&quot;  &quot;I  never  heard  of  a  plain  whiskey  sour.  There's  your  kind  of  whiskey  sour,  with  half  orange  and  half  lemon  and  trouble  measuring  it,  but  the  only  other  kind  of  whiskey  sour  I  ever  heard  of  is  a  whiskey  sour,  not  plain,  not  nothing-a  whiskey  sour.  That  what  you  want?&quot;  Yes,&quot; Parker  was  sorrythere  were  no  oranges.  He  had  a  theory  that  when  he  drank  a  whiskey  sour  with  half  orange  juice  it  was  practically  like  having  break-  fast,  and  that  after  drinking  one  he  could  smoke  a  cigarette  without  unduly  increasing  his  chronic  hyperacidity.  However,  after  a  couple  of  sips  of  the  all-lemon  sour  he  began  to  feel  cheerful  again.  &quot;Prior  to  this  attack,  it  was  six  and  a  half  months,&quot;  said  Leo,  facing  Parker  and  gripping  the  bar  with  both  hands  as  if  he  intended  to  stay  in  that  attitude  forever.  &quot;The  left  side  is  O.K.,  see?  It's  only  this  right  side  of  the  hip.  This  one  here.  I  spent  fortunes  on  medical  advice  prior  to  the  last  attack,  the  one  six  and  a  half  months  ago.  There  was  this  humpbacked  doc,  so-calledphysi-  cian,  used  to  be  attached  to  Bellevue.  He  said  this  cortyzony  stuff  might  help,  but  it's  supposed  to  be  dangerous  and  may  clot  your  blood  or  send  you  off  your  rocker  or  something.  No  use  fool-  ing  around  with  that,  I  say,  and  he  says  he  agrees.  Thirty  fish  I  pay  for  that  ad-  viceto  a  humpbacked  doc.  Tell  me  this:  If  he's  such  a  hell  of  a  physician,  why  don't  he  fix  up  his  own  humpback?  I     " b"ask  you  that,  Mr.  Parker.  Why  don't  he  fix  up  his  own  humpback?  Huh?&quot;  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  said  Parker.  &quot;I'll  have  another  one  of  these,  Leo.&quot;  Now  he  could  try  a  cigarette.  He  went  to  the  machine,  put  in  a  quarter,  and  pressed  the  button  for  his  favorite  brand-the  brand  he  claimed,  five  days  a  week,  was  both  soothing  and  lift,  giving.  The  quarter  came  back.  He  put  the  quarter  in  and  tried  again,  and  it  came  back  again.  He  put  the  quarter  in  a  third  time,  pressed  the  button  for  his  next-to-favorite  brand,  and  the  machine  gave  him  a  package  of  them,  along  with  a  book  of  matches  that  asked  in  bold  type  if  he  was  hard  of  hearing.  He  dropped  the  matches  behind  the  machine  and  went  back  to  the  bar.  &quot;Excepting  the  hip,&quot;  said  Leo,&quot;I  got  practically  no  causes  for  complaints.  See  this  upper  plate  back  here  on  this  side?  Works  wonderful  and  slips  out  as  easy  as  that!  Out  and  then  in!  Noth-  ing  to  it.  See?&quot;  &quot;Let  me  have  some  matches,  Leo,&quot;  said  Parker.  Leo  handed  him  a  book  of  hotel  matches,  and  Parker  tooka  sip  of  the  second  sour  and  started  to  open  the  package  of  his  next-to-favorite  brand  of  cigarettes.  The  little  red  band  around  thetop  broke.  He  began  workingon  the  sealed  cellophane  with  his  thumb-  nail.  Leo  turned  around  to  dust  the  bot-  tles  on  the  shelf  behind  the  bar  and,  with  his  back  to  Parker,  gave  up  talk-  ing.  Parker  kept  strugglingunsuccess-  fully  with  the  impenetrable  package  of  cigarettes.  He  felt  like  whimpering.  There  seemed  to  be  no  way  to  get  into  the  package  without  using  a  hatchet.  He  was  about  to  throw  it  away  and  get  another  one  from  the  machine  when,  instead,  he  reached  into  his  coat  pocket  and  pulled  out  the  gun.  He  pointed  it  at  his  right  temple  and,  rolling  his  eyes,  thought  how  easy  it  would  be  on  this,  his  forty-seventh  birthday,  to  put  an  end  to  the  long,  long  chain  of  absurdities.  Right  in  the  bar  of  the  Hotel  Forty-  Seven.  Then  he  moved  the  gun  away  from  his  temple,  aimed  carefully,  and,  to  his  surprise,  pulled  the  trigger.  Leo  screamed  like  a  woman,  LL  in  all,  the  aftermath  of  Parker's  action  was  not  as  discomfiting,  either  to  himself  or  to  Leo,  as  it  might  have  been.  Without  even  taking  Parker  to  the  station  house,  the  policemen  in  the  squad  car  decided  that  the  shooting  was  an  accident.  Since  he  had  a  license  for  the  gun,  no  law  appeared  to  have  been  violated.  The  wound  in  Leo's  hip  re-  quired  some  minor  surgery,  but  it  cost  neither  Parker  nor  Leo  a  cent.  As  far  as  Leo  was  concerned,  the  shooting  was  the  most  profitable  thing  that  had  ever  happened  to  him.  He  had  suffered  his  injury  while  carrying  out  his  duties  as  bartender,  and  the  insurance  company  that  handles  such  things  for  the  Forty-  Seven  not  only  paid  Leo's  medical  ex-  pensesbut  gave  him  a  neat  lump  sum  in  exchange  for  a  waiver.  Parker  pawned  the  gun  the  same  afternoon  for  seventy  dollars,  bought  himself  an  ex-  pensive  new  hat,  and  got  along  easily  until  payday  on  what  he  had  left  over.  He  was  on  the  air  at  eight  o'clock  that  Monday  morning.  "