 b"IT  was  September,  1915,  and  my    mother  and  I,  refugees  from  Bel-  gium,  were  on  our  way  to  join  my  Belgian  father  in  [REDACTED].  A  ship  that  left  Liverpool  at  the  same  time  as  ours  was  sunk  by  a  German  submarine,  and  we  had  to  turn  back  to  pick  up  survivors  before  continuing  the  voyage  to  [REDACTED].  There,  in  [REDACTED],  we  hoped  to  be  able  to  settle  down.  It  was  a  year  since  we  had  been  drivenout  of  the  dear  house  in  Wondelgem,  near  Ghent,  by  the  advancing  German  armies-since  we  had  fled  with  a  trunk  and  a  few  suitcases  over  the  border  into  [REDACTED]  and  then  on  to  England,  where  my  English  mother,  Mabel  Elwes  Sarton,  had  relatives.  Englandwas  inundated  with  Belgian  refugees;  my  father  took  a  war  job  as  a  censor  in  [REDACTED],  while  my  mother  and  I  depended  on  the  hos-  pitality  of  friends  and  relatives  in  the  country.  All  during  this  trying  period  my  father,  George  Sarton,  still  carried  in  his  heart  the  dream  of  writing  a  his-  tory  of  science,  and  it  was  his  deter-  mination  to  find  some  way  to  begin  this  work  that  drove  him,  finally,  to  the  ad-  venture  of  crossing  the  ocean  to  Amer-  ica.  He  had  left  us  in  June,  with  a  hundred  dollars  in  his  pocket,  a  few  letters  of  introduction,  and  a  still  im-  perfect  knowledge  of  English.  Now,  in  September,  all  that  lay  between  him   and  his  wife  and  daughter  was  the  haz-  ardous  passage  in  the  blacked-out  ship.  I  was  three  and  a  half,  and  only  dimly  remember  that  there  were  Irish  pas-  sengers  who  sang  hymns  all  night;  I  remember,  too,  the  terrifying  darkness  when  we  lay  in  bed,  wearing  life  pre-  servers,  waiting  for  morning.  But  at  last  we  woke  to  the  strong  556e6974656420537461746573n  sun-  light  and  a  garden  in  Yonkers,  falling  steeply  down  to  the  immense,  quiet  river  with  the  palisades  opposite.  My  [REDACTED]  was,  first,  Teddy,  a  golden  Saint  Bernard,  who  licked  my  face  with  a  warm,  happy  tongue.  The  topof  his  head,  rich  and  soft,  lay  under  my  hand,  and  because  I  was  about  his  height,  I  could  look  straight  into  his  eyes.  He  had  a  companion,  a  red  setter  named  Buster,  all  angles  and  leaps,  but  Buster  was  too  sudden  to  be  a  friend.  Teddy  and  I  went  exploring  down  the  steep  lawn,  arbored  at  the  sides  in  grapes,  to  a  vegetable  garden  inter-  rupted  by  rows  of  sweet  peas,  and  their  intoxicating  scent  mixed  with  that  of  the  ripe  tomatoes,  warm  from  the  sun,  that  I  stole  and  shared  with  him.  Beyond  the  garden  was  a  dangerous  country  full  of  poison  ivy-an  impassable  barrier  be-  tween  us  and  the  river.  I  was  severely  warned  about  the  poison  ivy  and  its  shining  bright-green  leaves,  tropical  and  sinister.  [REDACTED]  was  not  all  safe  and   warm;  the  poison  ivy  suggested  wilder-  ness  and  danger.  But  there  were  chip-  munks,  and  large  gray  squirrels  with  immense,  full  tails;  there  were  huge  rob-  ins,  three  times  the  size  of  our  European  ones.  'This,  for  some  time,  was  enough.  We  three  Sartons  had  been  taken  in  temporarily  by  a  Belgian  inventor  and  his  wife;  their  house,  rustic  stone  and  brown  shingles,  with  its  turrets  and  ve-  randas,  its  stained-glass  windows,  its  large  porte-coch\xc3\xa9re  in  front,  and  all  sur-  rounded  by  expanses  of  clipped  lawn,  seemed  to  me  very  grand.  It  had,  for  instance,  a  polar-bear  rug  in  the  draw-  ing  room.  What  luxury  to  compare  with  that  of  sitting  on  a  polar  bear's  head?  It  also  had  a  square  glass  aquarium,  in  which  lived  a  small,  wicked  alligator  who  devoured  raw  meat  and  looked  at  me  with  indifferent,  beady  eyes.  The  real  glory  was  the  master  bathroom  with  its  huge  bathtub.  A  bathtub?  Rather,  a  tiled  swimming  pool,  six  feet  square  and  sunk  two  feet  into  the  floor.  Around  it  lay  sponges  from  [REDACTED]  and  shells  with  rosy  mouths  that  sang  of  a  remote,  faraway  ocean.  In  this  bathtub,  one  could  be  a  seal  or  a  mer-  maid  with  no  trouble  at  all.  But  that  was  not  all.  The  dining  room  had  a  huge  plate-glass  window  looking  out  across  the  [REDACTED]  and  reflecting  the  dinner  table  at  night,  and  near  the  ceil-  ing  there  hung  a  little  balcony.  Long  after  I  was  supposed  to  be  asleep,  I  would  creep  out  there  from  the  second-  floor  landing  and  lie  on  my  stomach  and  peer  down  over  the  edge,  through  the  balusters,  to  watch  the  grownups  at  dinner-my  mother  in  some  soft  blue-  and-green  Liberty  silk  dress,  which  sur-  rounded  her  English  beauty  like  a  cloud.  My  heart  thumped  so  loudly  on  the  floor  I  was  sure  it  would  be  heard.  Sometimes  the  waitress  caught  my  eye  and  winked  in  a  friendly  way,  but  the  people  at  the  table  were  looking  down,  not  up,  and  I  was  safe.  How  beautiful  grown-up  people  became  at  night!  Y  first  human  friends  were  the  maids;  the  kitchen,  its  windows  at  the  level  of  the  lawn,  was  my  favorite  place.  Here  I  spent  hours  playing,  and  digging  small,  thin  slices  out  of  a  round  red  Dutch  cheese.  There  was  also  Dick,  the  chauffeur,  who  resembled  Teddy  in  character  but  had  the  advantage  of  speech.  Soon  I  was  running  up  the  gravel  drive  and  turning  off  on  the  steep,  hidden  path  to  his  white  frame  house  to  tell  him  about  anything  impor-  tant,  such  as  an  invasion  of  huge,  fat  green  caterpillars  on  a  maple,  or  the  discovery  of  a  robin's  nest-a  fatal  rob-  in's  nest,  as  it  turned  out.  It  was  in  the     " b"fork  of  a  low  branch  of  a  small,  thin  tree,  perhaps  a  birch,  for  it  swayed  when  I  climbed  up.  It  was  my  first  glimpse  ofa  nest  with  eggs  in  it;  there  they  lay,  four  bright,  blue-green,  perfect  eggs.  The  mother  was  nowhere  in  sight,  and  I  thought  I  would  just  borrow  one  for  a  little  while  to  show  to  Dick.  But  for  once  he  was  not  pleased.  He  explained  that  now  the  eggs  had  been  touched,  the  mother  bird  would  never  come  back.  His  gentleness  was  worse  than  ascold-  ing.  For  the  first  time  in  my  life,  I  knew  what  it  was  to  do  something  irrevocably  bad.  For  the  rest  of  theday,  there  was  no  joy  in  anything-not  in  sitting  on  a  polar  bear's  head,  not  even  in  Teddy's  company,  because  his  innocence  assailed  me  like  a  rebuke  and  I  really  could  not  look  into  his  eyes.  I  was  fit  company  only  for  the  wicked  alligator,  who  ate  raw  meat  and  would  probably  have  loved  a  robin's  egg  for  breakfast.  Except  forthe  maids  and  Dick-my  friends-there  were  only  two  other  real  people  besides  my  mother.  Our  host  I  never  did  feel  as  a  person;  rather,  he  seemed  to  be  some  frightening  mascu-  line  force-a  god  who  must  be  placated,  a  piece  of  bad  weather,  I  realize  now  that,  with  his  fierce,  shy  eyes  and  black  mustache,  he  looked  something  like  Rudyard  Kipling.  On  my  way  to  Dick's  house,  I  passed  the  garage,  and  above  it,  I  knew,  was  the  laboratory,  a  very  secretplace,  where  our  host  made  queer  things  in  trays,  rather  like  today's  ice  trays,  but  the  cubes  were  ofa  hard  yel-  low  translucent  material,  no  good  as  toys,  though  he  gave  me  some  one  day-  no  good  for  anything  as  far  as  I  could  see.  The  name  of  this  invention  was  Bakelite,  still  in  an  embryonic  state  and  not  yet  the  fabulous  djinni  it  would  be-  come  as  one  of  the  first  plastics.  Bakelite  did  not  interest  me  or  seem  real,  but  our  host's  son  George,  dazzling  in  his  Air  Service  uniform,  melted  my  heart.  He  tickled  me  and  reduced  me  to  agonized,  helpless  tears  of  laughter.  I  followed  him  around  as  Teddy  fol-  lowed  me,  and  his  smile  taught  me  all  I  then  knew  of  passionate  love.  But  his  charms  came  and  went,  while  those  of  his  mother  remained  steadfast.  She  was  known  as  Bonbon,  a  name  so  appro-  priate  that  it  will  surely  be  used  by  Saint  Peter  at  the  gate  of  Heaven,  for  kind-  ness  flowed  from  her  in  every  size  and  kind  of  package,  tangible  and  intangible.  Her  presence  was  a  present.  A  small,  round  woman  with  bright,  dark  eyes  under  a  mass  of  fuzzy  gray  hair,  she  wore  for  as  long  as  I  can  remember  the  same  round  hat  of  beaver  fur  and  long  beaver  scarf  over  a  suit  she  had  recopied  exactly  each  year.  She  could  not  have  worn  the  beaver  hat  in  sum-  mer,  yet  I  see  her  so  clearly  inthis  hat,  and  in  no  other,  that  she  must  be  paint-  ed  in  it  here.  She  came  from  an  in-  tellectual  bourgeois  family  in  Ghent.  very  much  like  my  father's,  and  now  that  she  had  moved  intoa  different  world,  she  had  not  changed.  Riches  became  her,  as  if  she  had  always  been  intended  to  be  a  fairy  godmother.  She  had  the  rare  gift  of  transforming  money  into  joy-her  own  joy  and  everyone  else's-so  there  was  no  bitterness  in  it  for  those  less  fortunate.  Some  of  this  I  came  to  know  later,  but  from  thebe-  ginning  she  had  my  unwavering  devo-  tion,  because  I  sensed  in  her  a  dimen-  sion  like  saintliness,  like  poetry,  which  set  her  apart.  Concrete  evidence  of  this  for  me  as  a  child  was  the  fact  that  be-  cause  of  her  feeling  for  animals  she  would  eat  no  meat.  I  loved  animals,  too,  and  even  made  resolves  to  follow  her  example,  but  then,  when  every-  one  else  at  table  except  Bonbon  accepted  the  breast  of  chicken,  or  roast  spring  lamb,  I  forgot  my  resolves.  She  did  not  blame  us  cruder  beings  or  make  us  feel  guilty-that  was  her  triumph.  When  she  and  I  sat  shelling  peas  on  the  back  veranda,  Teddy  at  our  feet  and  Buster's  red  plume  of  a  tail  wav-  \xc2\xbb)  LU  ing  in  and  out  of  the  grape  arbor  after  a  squirrel,  I  felt  I  had  come  home.  I  could  talk  to  her,  I  found,  even  better  than  I  could  talk  to  Dick.  I  loved  her  Belgian  accent,  the  way  she  said  &quot;Meerses&quot;&quot;  instead  of  &quot;Mrs.&quot;-an  ac-  cent  that  gave  character  to  anything  she  said.  She  was  so  556e6974656420537461746573n,  but  she  was  also  still  so  Belgian  that  she  was,  as  I  see  it  now,  the  perfect  bridge  from  my  own  [REDACTED]  to  my  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  with  Bonbon  was  Fifth  Avenue,  the  Flatiron  Building,  Wool-  worth's.  [REDACTED]  was  Best's,  where  I  suffered  both  shame  and  pride  at  being  shown  off  as  &quot;a  refugee,&quot;  though  pride  triumphed  when  I  was  given  a  dark-blue  sailor  coat  with  a  red  lining  and  brass  buttons  with  anchors  on  them,  as  well  as  my  first  556e6974656420537461746573n  shoes-  black  patent  leather  with  gray  sucde  tops,  which  had  to  be  buttoned  with  a  buttonhook.  And  [REDACTED]  was  the  Plaza  Hotel,  where  we  had  tea  among  the  palms  and  ate  little,  many-colored  cakes  while,  at  Bonbon's  request,  the  orchestra  played  a  soulful  rendition  of  the  &quot;Song  of  the  Volga  Boatmen.&quot;  ATER  on,  there  were  hard  times-  a  bleak  winter  near  Morningside  Park,  where  I  had  my  first  experience     " b"of  ingratitude.  A  squirrel  to  whom  I  offered  a  peanut  bit  my  outstretched  hand  fiercely,  and  that  is  all  I  remem-  ber  of  one  lost  winter.  Even  in  those  days,  when  refugees  were  still  single,  dramatic  instances  and  not  anonymous  floods,  it  was  not  an  easy  thing  for  a  young  man  to  keep  on  going  ahead  with  a  task  that  could  not  possibly  bear  fruit  for  ten  years  and  at  the  same  time  find  a  way  to  support  a  family,  especially  when  the  young  man  had  meanwhile  to  learn  to  use  a  new  lan-  guage.  For  awhile,  it  looked  as  if  we  might  settle  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  where,  sitting  on  a  washbasket,  I  pro-  posed  marriage  on  the  second  day  of  kinder-  garten  to  a  little  boy.  But  in  spite  of  this  at-  traction,  [REDACTED]  never  did  feel  like  home.  At  night,  we  could  hear  the  wolves  howling  in  the  zoo  nearby,  and  this  sound  haunted  the  days  as  well,  like  loneliness  itself.  My  moth-  er  learned  something  new  about  Amer-  ica  when  she  announced  to  our  friends  that  she  was  about  to  go  into  business-  interior  decorating-with  a  charming  light-brown  lady  she  had  met.  In  the  icy  silence  that  followed,  she  recognized  an  absolute  taboo,  so  that  project  had  to  be  dropped.  We  could  not  feel  really  at  home  in  [REDACTED],  but  our  year  there  brought  us  two  unexpected  gifts.  The  first  was  that  my  mother  formed  an-  other  business  association  there,  which  was  to  last  for  many  years  as  the  firm  of  Belgart.  My  mother  was  the  de-  signer  and  her  friend  the  business-  woman  of  this  firm,  which  created  embroidered  dresses  and  coats,  using  peasant  designs.  It  was  not  in  the  long  run  a  successful  enterprise,  but  it  helped  put  me  through  school,  sent  me  to  camp,  and,  in  the  process,  gave  much  pleasure  to  its  customers.  I  still  run  into  people  now  and  then  who  bring  out  carefully  preserved  garments  on  which  brilliant  embroidered  birds  and  flowers  are  as  much  a  signature  as  my  mother's  name  would  be.  The  other  unexpected  gift  had  more  lasting  results.  It  was  through  my  father's  meeting  with  President  Robert  S.  Woodward,  of  the  Carnegie  Institu-  tion  of  [REDACTED],  that  his  long-held  dream  of  writing  the  first  complete  his-  tory  of  science  came  true.  President  Woodward  was  interested,  interested  enough  to  offer  the  Institution's  support  and  believing  enough  to  continue  the  support  with  no  questions  asked  and  no  strings  attached  during  the  ten  years  of  research  before  the  first  volume  of  the     &quot;Introduction  to  the  History  of  Science&quot;  made  its  appearance.  Under  this  ar-  rangement,  my  father  could  live  and  work  where  he  pleased.  He  soon  dis-  covered  that  his  pleasure-his  passion,  in  fact-centered  on  the  Widener  Li-  brary,  at  Harvard.  Thus  our  roots  in  [REDACTED]  were  finally  put  down  in  the  city  by  the  Charles,  and  there  we  have  lived  ever  since.  BUT  during  that  golden  summer  in  Yonkers,  when  my  556e6974656420537461746573n  riv-  er  was  still  the  [REDACTED],  my  father  was  searching  for  a  teaching  job  and  mean-  while  lecturing  at  the  summer  school  of  the  University  of  Illi-  nois.  Mine  was  a  child's  [REDACTED],  recognized  first  in  the  brown  eyes  of  a  Saint  Bernard,  in  the  kindness  and  natu-  ral  wisdom  ofa  chauf-  feur,  in  the  imagination  of  a  fairy  god-  mother-an  [REDACTED]  whose  breadth  and  dimension  were  suggested  by  the  enormous  robins  and  the  fat  tails  of  the  squirrels.  Later  (not  so  very  much  later,  in  about  ten  years),  I  recognized  it  on  another  level  when  we,  the  graduating  ninth  grade  at  Shady  Hill  School,  in  [REDACTED],  got  up  grave-  ly  to  recite,  one  by  one,  a  stanza  of  Walt  Whitman's  &quot;Pioneers!  O  Pioneers!&quot;  I  had  learned  the  poem  by  heart  from  our  own  copy  of  &quot;Leaves  of  Grass,&quot;  a  copy  that  had  stayed  in  the  house  in  Wondelgem  all  through  the  1914-18  war,  was  eventually  brought  over  with  the  remains  of  my  father's  library,  and  has  finally  found  a  permanent  place  on  my  shelves  in  [REDACTED].  Just  now,  I  took  this  book  down  and  opened  it.  Had  I  never  noticed  the  flyleaf  before?  I  was  astonished  to  find  it  inscribed,  in  my  mother's  hand,  &quot;George  from  Mabel,  August  31st,  1910.&quot;  They  were  not  yet  married.  George  Sarton  had  just  received  his  Doctor's  degree  in  celestial  mechanics;  Mabel  Elwes  was  an  art  student.  She  could  have  had  no  idea  how  brave  and  prescient  a  gift  it  would  turn  out  to  be,  but  I,  holding  it  now  in  my  hands  forty-three  years  later,  was  moved  to  find  there,  on  the  flyleaf,  one  of  those  mysterious  links  in  individual  lives  that  can  be  seen  only  by  going  back  into  time.  I  thought  of  Whitman's  country-  the  physical  country,  to  which  we  came  so  poor  and  hopeful,  and  which  gave  us  so  much-and  of  the  great  river  that  was  my  first  image  of  [REDACTED],  and  I  thought  also  of  the  intangible  Whitman  country,  the  country  of  the  dream.  Would  it  be  absurd  to  consider  a  small  study  in  the  Widener  Library  at  Harvard  a  province  of  that  coun-  try,  the  study  where  George  Sarton  has  carried  out  his  radical  explorations  in-  to  the  past?  Whitman's  belief  in  a  generous  humanism  that  could  encom-  pass  all  mankind  is  really  not  so  far  from  George  Sarton's  vision  of  the  healing,  unifying  power  of  the  history  of  science-not  of  one  science  but  of  all  sciences,  and  not  of  one  nation  but  of  all  nations  from  the  beginning  of  time.  &quot;George  from  Mabel,  August  31st,  1910.  She  who  wrote  the  inscription  is  dead  now.  But  as  she  chose  this  pres-  ent  for  the  man  she  was  to  marry,  she  an  English  girl,  he  a  Belgian  young  man-a  book  of  poems  celebrating  the  New  World  was  being  carried  forward  without  knowing  it  into  a  pat-  tern  that  is  now  clearly  visible.  They  were  to  become  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  these  two,  and  the  foreign  poet  a  compatriot.  They  were  to  have  one  child,  who  would  find  the  book  and  the  inscription  many  years  later  and  see  in  a  flash  the  whole  cycle  of  their  lives,  its  apparent  violent  dislo-  cation,  its  inner  harmony-its  begin-  ning  a  garden  in  Wondelgem,  [REDACTED],  its  end  a  garden  in  [REDACTED],  Massa-  chusetts,  where  my  mother's  English  genius  still  flowers,  from  the  earliest  snowdrop  under  the  pine  to  the  sequence  of  asters  and  chrysanthemums  through  November.  And  in  the  house  my  father's  work  goes  on."