 b"IN  the  late  twenties,  I  was  editing  Robert  Burns's  letters,  and  my  search  for  original  manuscripts  brought  me  inevitably  to  the  shop  of  the  late  A,  S.  W.  Rosenbach,  who  pur-  chased  great  libraries  en  bloc  and  rarities  in  quantity.  Dr.  Rosenbach  dumped  his  own  hoard  of  Burns  documents  on  a  table  in  a  private  room  and  left  me  alone  with  them  for  as  many  hours  as  I  needed  to  read,  collate,  and  transcribe.  When  that  task  was  finished,  I  asked  him  about  the  possible  whereabouts  of  manuscripts  in  private  hands.  &quot;Mr.  Hearst  has  several  manu-  scripts,&quot;  Dr.  Rosenbach  said.  &quot;And  Mrs.  Henry  Ford  has  one  of  the  Cla-  rinda  letters.&quot;  I  knew  that  William  Randolph  Hearst  collected  everything  from  crockery  to  monasteries,  but  I  had  not  thought  of  either  Henry  Ford  or  his  wife  as  a  bibliophile.  Dr.  Rosenbach  then  gave  me  several  other  names.  I  wrote  to  the  people  Dr.  Rosenbach  suggested,  and  with  two  exceptions,  the  leads  he  had  given  me  were  immedi-  ately  rewarding.  Carl  Pforzheimer  and  Owen  D.  Young,  for  instance,  not  only  admitted  me  to  their  libraries  but  took  time  to  do  the  honors  in  person.  But  my  letter  to  Mr.  Hearst,  in  [REDACTED],  was  not  answered.  Some  weeks  later,  the  papers  announced  his  arrival  in  New  York.  I  obtained  a  letter  of  intro-  duction  to  his  private  secretary,  and  was  affably  received  at  the  Clarendon,  the  apart-  ment  house  on  River-  side  Drive  owned  and  occupied  by  Hearst.  My  request,  the  secretary  told  me,  was  so  simple  that  he  would  not  hesi-  tateto  grant  it  on  his  own  authority  were  Mr.  Hearst  not  in  the  city.  Since  he  was,  would  I  leave  a  written  state-  ment  of  my  project,  and  some  identi-  fication,  so  that  the  matter  could  be  presented  formally?  I  would  hear  from  him  within  two  or  three  days.  I  left  the  statement  and  my  creden-  tials  as  a  Guggenheim  Fellow,  and  waited.  When  a  week  had  elapsed,  I  tried  repeatedly  to  reach  the  secretary  by  phone.  Failing,  I  called  once  more  at  the  Clarendon,  and  was  told  that  Mr.  Hearst  and  his  secretary  had  left  for  [REDACTED]  the  day  before.  I  never  saw  my  Guggenheim  credentials  again.  My  letter  to  Mrs.  Ford  was  unan-  swered  for  so  long  that  I  gave  up  hope     of  hearing  from  her,  but  an  answer  came  at  last,  in  her  own  hand.  My  dear  Professor-  In  answer  to  your  letter  of  Dec.  3rd,  am  sorry,  but  will  be  leaving  for  the  south  Feb.  Ist  and  not  able  to  see  you,  have  two  original  Burn's  letter  called,  &quot;Love  letters  of  Sylvander  &amp;  Clarinda&quot;  you  are  more  than  welcome  to  see  if  we  can  ever  get  to-  gether,  Very  sincerely  yours,  Clara  B.  Ford  Jan  25th  (Mrs.  Henry)  There  the  matter  had  to  rest  for  six  months.  'That  summer  I  taught  in  Evanston,  and  toward  the  end  of  the  session  I  wrote  again,  giving  the  date  of  my  return  East  and  the  train  I  would  take,  and  suggested  that  I  might  stop  over  in  [REDACTED].  A  secretary  answered.  Mrs.  Ford  would  be  glad  to  show  the  documents;  final  instructions  would  reach  me  en  route.  A  telegram  was  delivered  to  me  on  the  train.  Following  its  instructions,  I  took  a  taxi  to  Dearborn  from  the  Union  Depot  in  [REDACTED],  and  presented  myself  at  the  gate  of  Fair  Lane,  the  Ford  estate,  at  eight-thirty  in  the  evening.  The  taxi-driver  was  skeptical  about  my  be-  ing  admitted.  A  guard  halted  us  at  the  gate.I  gave  my  name,  and  said  I  had  an  appointment  with  Mrs.  Ford.  He  consulted  a  list  in  the  gatehouse,  said  &quot;Right,  [REDACTED];  and  waved  us  through.  The  manservant  who  opened  the  door  of  Fair  Lane  had  also  been  briefed;  as  soon  as  I  gave  my  name,  he  led  me  through  two  or  three  rooms  to  a  screened  ve-  randa,  announced  me,  and  disappeared.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ford  were  sitting  in  wicker  armchairs  enjoying  the  summer  evening,  like  any  other  American  couple  with  a  nice  porch  to  sit  on.  No  doubt  a  woman  would  recall  precisely  what  Mrs.  Ford  was  wearing;  I  can't.  It  was  some  plain  summer  frock.  Her  husband  had  on  a  darkish  summer  suit  and  green  morocco  bedroom  slippers.  They  greeted  me  cordially,  and  we  chatted  for  a  few  min-  utes.I  endeavored  to  explain  why,  in  editing  Burns's  letters,  it  was  necessary  for  me  to  examine  the  original  manu-  scripts.  They  listened  politely,  much  as  I  would  listen  to  an  exposition  of  quan-  tum  physics.  Presently,  Mrs.  Ford  said,  &quot;Well,  you'd  like  to  see  the  letters,&quot;  and  led  the  way  into  the  house.  Mr.  Ford  fol-  " b"lowed  us  indoors.  A  fine  portrait  of  Lady  Hamilton  hung  above  the  mantel  in  one  of  the  rooms  we  passed  through.  I  took  it  for  a  Romney,  but  Mrs.  Ford  said  it  was  thought  to  be  a  Gainsborough.  In  the  library,  she  produced  from  a  glass-fronted  secretary  the  document  I  had  come  to  see.  In  1788,  Burns  wrote  a  long  series  of  stilted  and  unconvincing  love  letters  to  an  Edinburgh  grass  widow  named  [REDACTED]  M'Lehose,  who  called  herself  Clarinda,  and  to  whom  Burns  signed  himself  Sylvander.  Mrs.  Ford  had  one  of  the  poet's  letters,  together  with  the  lady's  reply.  Some  previous  owner  had  gone  to  consider-  able  lengths  in  preserving  them.  Re-  moval  ofa  slipcase  revealed  one  of  the  most  elaborate  bindings  I  have  ever  seen.  The  letters  had  been  mounted  in  heavy  cardboard  mats  and  bound  in  green  morocco,  doubl\xc3\xa9.  The  front  cover  bore  ivory  miniatures  of  Burns  and  Clarinda,  surrounded  by  a  floral  design  of  semiprecious  stones,  in  which  Scotch  thistles,  done  in  amethysts,  predominat-  ed.  The  back  cover  bore  a  miniature  of  the  poet's  birthplace.  The  letter  itself,  the  tiny  kernel  in  all  this  gilded  husk,  proved  to  be  one  that  had  been  fully  and  correctly  printed.  My  collation  was  finished  so  quickly  that  Mrs.Ford  said,  &quot;I'm  afraid  you've  come  a  long  way  for  nothing.&quot;  I  as-  sured  her  that  it  was  just  as  important  to  know  that  an  existing  text  was  cor-  rect  as  it  was  to  find  new  material.  Then  she  showed  me  a  few  first  editions.  Having  come  from  Rosenbach's,  they  were  authentic.  I  remember  a  first  edi-  tion  of  Gray's  &quot;Elegy,&quot;  and  another  eighteenth-century  book  with  an  in-  scription  connecting  it  with  the  family  of  Oswald  of  Auchencruive,  who  were  known  to  Burns.  While  this  was  going  on,  Henry  sat  and  yawned  openly.  Presently,  to  keep  conversation  going,  I  admired  the  handsome  secretary  in  which  the  volumes  were  housed.  Henry  sat  up.  &quot;Are  you  interested  in  American  antiques?&quot;  he  asked.  I  said  I  was  in  an  amateurish  way.  &quot;Id  like  to  show  you  some  of  my  stuff.  What  time's  your  train?&quot;  I  told  him,  and  asked  Mrs.  Ford  if  I  might  call  a  taxi  when  it  was  time  to  go  to  the  station.  &quot;You  don't  need  any  taxi,&quot;  said  Hen-  ry.  &quot;I'll  leave  you  at  a  stop  where  you  can  get  a  bus  that'll  take  you  right  to  the  station.  Come  along.  I  want  you  to  see  my  museum.&quot;  I  thanked  my  hostess,  and  followed  my  host-still  in  his  green  slippers-out  the  front  door  and  along  a  path  through  shrubbery  to  a  vast  garage.  No  servants " b"had  been  visible  since  the  disappearance  of  the  man  who  admitted  me.  Henry  loaded  me  into  a  Ford  coup\xc3\xa9-the  place  was  full  of  Fords-and  away  we  slid.  The  guard  at  the  gate  was  alert,  but  saluted  and  dropped  back  as  Henry  leaned  out  and  said,  &quot;All  right,  George,&quot;  or  &quot;Fred,&quot;  or  whatever  the  man's  name  was.  HAVE  no  idea  where  we  went.  It  was  dark;  I  had  never  been  in  Dear-  born  before;  I  have  never  been  there  since,  We  seemed  to  cross  vast  open  spaces  punctuated  here  and  there  by  gates,  at  which  guards  appeared,  were  first-named  by  their  employer,  and  waved  us  through.  Finally,  we  reached  a  building  seemingly  as  vast  as  the  area  we  had  traversed.  Another  guard,  and  then  Henry  opened  a  door  and  switched  on  lights.  All  the  way  over,  he  had  been  telling  me  his  plans  for  the  Dearborn  museum,  including,  if  I  remember  rightly,  the  transplanting  of  whole  villages,  in  addi-  tionto  relics  like  Thomas  Edison's  laboratory.  Now  he  began  showing  some  of  the  things  he  had  collected  to  date.  Explaining  that  they  were  not  yet  arranged  for  public  display,  he  led  me  through  gallery  after  gallery,  talking  steadily.  I  have  a  blurred  memory  of  hand  looms,  wooden  Indians,  wooden  horses,  pewter,  glass,  and  machinery.  In  deference  to  my  expressed  interest  in  furniture,  I  was  shown  a  whole  gallery  full  of  very  fine  seventeenth,  and  eighteenth-century  tables,  desks,  and  chests  of  drawers.  But  Henry's  heart  was  not  really  in  the  furniture.  He  was  saving  his  best  exhibit  for  the  last-a  wood-burning  ~  locomotive  of  Civil  War  vintage,  which  he  had  discovered  in  a  Southern  lumber  camp.  It  wasn't  in  working  order  now,  he  said,  but  it  would  be.  Every  piece  of  machinery  in  the  museum  was  going  to  be  in  working  order.  And,  apropos  of  the  locomotive,  he  asked  if  I  knew  the  origin  of  the  expression  &quot;to  drive  like  Sam  Hill.&quot;  I  said  I  had  supposed  |i  it  was  a  euphemistic  toning  down  of  a  couple  of  swearwords.  Not  at  all,  he  said;  back  in  Civil  War  days  a  loco-  motive  engineer  named  Sam  Hill  was  so  noted  for  the  chances  he  took  and  the  speeds  he  attained  that  his  name  had  become  proverbial.  And  since  most  loco-  motives  in  the  early  days  had  names,  he  was  going  to  christen  this  one,  after  it  was  reconditioned  and  painted,  Sam  Hill,  in  honor  of  a  forgotten  American  hero.  But  for  all  his  absorption  in  his  hobby,  Henry  was  not  losing  track  of " b"time.  Before  he  had  finished  the  tale  of  Sam  Hill,  we  were  back  in  the  car  and  driving  away.  Presently  another  guard-  ed  gate  let  us  out  on  a  public  street  in  a  business  district.  It  was  ten  minutes  to  eleven.  Henry  drew  up  at  the  curb  and  pointed  across  the  street.  &quot;There's  your  bus  stop.  The  bus'll  be  along  in  ten  minutes.&quot;  Waving  aside  my  thanks,  he  made  a  U  turn  and  drove  away.  I  crossed  the  street  to  await  the  bus.  As  I  was  trying  to  sort  out  my  impres-  sions  of  the  evening,  I  heard  an  apolo-  getic  voice:  &quot;Excuse  me,  sir,  may  I  ask  you  a  question?&quot;  My  questioner  was  a  young  man,  slightly  timid,  slightly  shabby.  &quot;My  wife  and  I  have  been  hav-  ing  an  argument.  She  says  that  that  was  Henry  Ford  himself  who  drove  you  here,  I  tell  her  it  couldn't  be.  W  as  it?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That  was  Mr.  Ford  himself.&quot;  I  suppose  I  must  have  blinked.  At  any  rate,  when  I  looked  again,  the  young  man  wasn't  there.  HERE  havebeen  times  since  when  I  wondered  if  I  was  there  myself,  especially  when  I  have  heard  tales  of  Henry  Ford's  inaccessibility.  But  I  did  not  dream  the  manuscript,  for  its  history  is  a  matter  of  public  record.  The  lavish  binding,  by  Rivi\xc3\xa9re,  was  done  for  Sir  William  Augustus  Fraser,  Bart.,  and  the  lot  brought  forty  pounds  when  Sir  William's  library  was  sold  at  Sotheby's,  in  April,  1901.  What  Rosen-  bach  charged  for  it  is  doubtless  on  record  somewhere  among  the  Ford  papers.  Now  the  manuscript  is  on  the  market  again,  but  it  will  not  fetch  Rosenbach's  price;  the  great  boom  in  Burns  docu-  mentsended  in  1929.  I  have  never  seen  the  Hearst  collec-  tion. "