 b"A FEW  days  after  New  Year's,  the  clerk  at  the  message  center  of  the  United  Nations  Com-  mand  Repatriation  Explanation  Group  here  in  [REDACTED]  handed  me  a  plain  white  envelope  with  nothing  on  it  but  my  name  and  rank.  I  opened  it  'and  un-  folded  a  sheet  of  fine-grade  stationery  bearing  the  letterhead  of  the  Swiss  dele-  gation  of  the  Neutral  Nations  Repatria-  tion  Commission.  Below  this  was  a  typewritten  invitation;  it  requested  the  pleasure  of  my  presence  at  dinner  in  the  Swiss  officers'  mess  at  Panmunjom.  My  name  had  been  beautifully  in-  scribed  with  a  wide  stub  pen  in  letters  fully  half  an  inch  high,  and  the  &quot;j&quot;  in  my  rank  (major)  had  been  dotted  with  a  very  rakish  and  delightful  pen  stroke.  A  long,  straight  line,  drawn  with  the  same  pen,  extended  part  way  down  the  left  side  of  the  paper,  and  at  the  bottom  there  was  a  quick  and  piquant  sketch  of  a  flower,  again  drawn  with  the  same  pen.  It  was  perhaps  the  most  inviting  invitation  I  had  ever  received.  It  turned  out  that  the  twenty  other  officers  in  the  Group  had  received  simi-  lar  invitations.  We  all  left  our  head-  quarters  at  five  in  the  afternoon  of  the  designated  day.  Nineteen  ofus  rode  in  a  rattling  bus  of  the  sort  that  can  be  produced  only  when  a  Japanese  body  works  has  its  undisputed  way  with  the  chassis  of  an  Army  two-and-  a-half-ton  truck,  and  our  two  highest-ranking  officers  led  the  way  in  a  black  Chev-  rolet  sedan.  There  was  al-  mostno  traffic  on  the  road,  and,  for  once,  we  crossed  the  one-way  bridge  over  the  frozen  Imjin  River  without  having  to  wait  for  vehicles  coming  in  the  opposite  direc-  tion.  Fifteen  minutes  beyond  the  bridge,  we  came  to  the  southern  boundary  of  the  de-  militarized  zone,  and  there  some  Amer-  ican  M.P.s  boarded  the  bus  and  care-  fully  checked  our  passes  before  allowing  us  to  go  on.  Another  fifteen  minutes  and  the  bus  pulled  into  the  parking  lot  of  a  small  tent  city,  not  unlike  the  one  at  our  own  headquarters,  where  the  Swedish  and  Swiss  delegations  of  the  N.N.R.C.  live.  (The  496e646961ns  live  in  another  tent  city,  and  the  Poles  and  Czechs,  also  in  a  community  of  their  own,  enjoy  the  comfort  of  wooden  and  straw-mat  houses  built  for  them  by  the  Communists.)  I  had  some  business  with  one  of  the  Swedish  delegates,  so  upon  getting  out  of  the  bus  I  ran  over  to  his  tent.  When  I  returned  to  the  parking  lot  a  few  moments  later,  there  was  no  one  to  be  seen  but  the  bus  driver.  He  pointed  to  a  nearby  slope  and  told  me  that  the  others  had  gone  down  it,  so  I  fol-  lowed  along  a  path  that  led  to  what  appeared  to  bea  mess  hall.  I  opened  the  door  and  was  confronted  by  a  Swiss  officer,  who  shouted  happily,  in  Eng-  lish,  &quot;A  lost  American!&quot;  and  then  took  me  by  the  arm  and  guided  me  outside  and  onto  a  different  path.  His  hold  on  my  arm  was  firm  but  friendly  as  he  escorted  me  uphill  and  down,  across  little  ditches,  and  around  curves  with  the  confident  care  ofa  pilot  bring-  ing  a  liner  into  port.  At  the  top  of  a  hill,  we  came  to  a  large  tent.  Upon  entering  it,  I  found  that  it  was  divided  into  two  sections.  The  front  half  was  filled  with  low  rat-  tan  chairs  upholstered  in  a  bright  print.  All  of  them  were  heaped  with  the  parkas  and  pile  caps  of  the  American  officers,  who  had  already  gone  into  the  rear  sec-  tion.  The  front  section  was  warm  and  dimly  lighted  and,  for  that  part  of  [REDACTED],  even  a  little  luxurious.  As  the  Swiss  helped  me  of  with  my  parka,  I  glanced  quickly  at  some  much-  enlarged  photographs  hanging  on  the  walls,  all  of  them  scenes  of  Japan--  temples,  rice  paddies,  crowded  streets,  the  Imperial  Palace  in  4a6170616e,  children  in  wooden  geta,  and  a  startling  nude  Japa-  nese  girl  half  reclining  in  a  little  stream  of  water.  From  the  doorway  leading  into  the  rear  section,  a  Swiss  lieutenant  whom  I  had  got  to  know  during  the  ex-  planations  spotted  me,  and  came  up  and  greeted  me  warmly.  When  I  turned  to  thank  the  officer  who  had  been  my  guide,  I  found  that  he  had  gone,  so  I  asked  the  lieutenant  to  convey  my  gratitude  to  him.  He  said  that  he  would  do  so,  and  led  me  through  the  doorway  into  what  proved  to  be  the  bar.  Here  were  small  tables,  each  with  a  cloth  covering  that  was  embroidered  around  the  edges,  a  small  lamp,  and  half  a  dozen  fold-  ing  metal  chairs.  The  walls  were  cov-  ered  with  thick  cloth  of  a  zigzag  red-  and-white  pattern,  there  were  more  photographs  of  Japanese  scenes  (though  no  nudes),  and  just  over  the  door  was  a  large  Swiss  flag.  The  lieutenant  seated  me  at  one  of  the  tables  and  asked     " b"what  I  would  have  to  drink.  I  told  him  Scotch-and-water.  &quot;You  Amer-  icans!&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  me  quite  unhappily.  &quot;You  don't  know  how  to  drink.  I  absolutely  refuse  to  serve  you  Scotch  with  water  that  has  chlorine  in  it.&quot;  I  told  him  soda  would  be  fine,  and  his  face  brightened.  He  walked  off  and  in  a  few  minutes  returned  with  drinks  for  both  of  us.  Several  other  Swiss  and  Americans  joined  us,  and  we  talked  about  [REDACTED]  and  how  long  we  would  be  here.  On  this  point,  the  Swiss  had  an  advantage  over  the  rest  of  us,  for  they  had  already  been  given  definite  dates,  which  were  only  a  few  weeks  away.  One  of  them  was  going  home  by  way  of  496e646961,  another  wanted  to  take  in  [REDACTED]  City  and  New  York,  and  two  of  them  wanted  only  to  visit  San  Francisco.  'They  talked  of  the  one  time  they  had  seen  it-just  before  sunset,  as  their  plane  flew  over  the  Golden  Gate  and  out  into  the  [REDACTED].  That  single  look  was  enough;  they  had  come  to  regard  the  city  as  an  enchanted  place.  T  about  seven  o'clock,  we  went  to  the  mess  hall-the  one  I  had  stumbled  on  prematurely.  This  time,  it  was  the  lieutenant  who  took  my  arm  to  see  that  I  didn't  fall  or  go  astray.  The  mess  hall  was  a  long  room  with  a  cement  floor  and  plywood  walls  and  ceiling.  A  big,  U-shaped  dining  table,  also  made  of  plywood,  was  decorated  with  attractive  arrangements  of  fir  branches  in  which  hundreds  of  tiny  candles  had  been  placed.  There  was  no  other  light,  and  the  candles  almost  succeeded  in  giving  the  plywood  of  the  walls  the  rich  ele-  gance  of  limed-oak  panelling.  After  the  soiled  tenting  of  our  own  mess  hall,  the  room  quite  bowled  us  over  with  its  un-  expected  grandeur,  and  we  Americans  exchanged  glances  and  called  one  an-  other's  attention  to  the  accuracy  of  our  prophecy  that  the  Swiss  would  really  know  how  to  throw  a  party.  When  the  soup  course  was  served,  a  Swiss  captain  at  the  head  of  the  table  stood  up  and  officially  welcomed  us,  in  English,  on  behalf  of  his  delegation.  He  reminded  us  that  the  United  Nations  side  supplies  all  logistical  support  for  the  Swiss  and  Swedish  delegations  of  the  N.N.R.C.  and  fifty  per  cent  for  the  496e646961n  delegation  (the  Communist  side  supplies  the  other  fifty  per  cent  for  the  496e646961ns,  and  everything  for  the  Poles  and  Czechs),  and  then  he  said,  &quot;We  often  think  of  you  Americans.  My  friend  here&quot;-he  indicated  a  captain  at  my  right-&quot;was  thinking  of  you  just  a  few  hours  ago.  He  was  in  that  beautiful " b"shower  you  built  for  us,  and  he  was  soaping  himself  from  head  to  foot  and  from  foot  to  head.  And  when  he  went  to  turn  on  the  water  to  rinse  himself  off,  there  wasn't  any  water.  And  we  think  of  you  when  we  eat  those  things  called  sweet  potatoes.&quot;  He  made  a  wry  face.  &quot;And  it  seems  to  me  that  when  we  get  home  we  will  have  to  do  something  about  reimporting  some  of  the  cheese  that  we  export  to  you  and  that  you  ship  over  here.  Tonight  we  would  have  liked  to  give  you  something  really  Swiss,  but  everything  we  have  here  is  really  yours  already.  We  can't  give  you  any-  thing  that  you  didn't  give  us  first.  Anyway,  we  welcome  you,  and  we  hope  that  you  will  enjoy  yourselves  here  tonight.&quot;  He  sat  down,  and  we  began  to  eat.  The  captain  at  my  right  seemed  in-  terested  in  my  reaction  to  the  soup,  and  finally  asked  me  how  I  liked  it.  I  told  him,  truthfully,  that  it  was  delicious  and  that  our  own  mess  had  never  pro-  duced  anything  to  match  it.  &quot;We  tried  to  make  a  special  Swiss  soup  for  you,  but  it  isn't  here  on  the  table  now,&quot;  he  said,  and  laughed.  &quot;We  had  to  throw  it  out  and  make  a  substitute  at  the  last  minute.&quot;  With  his  finger,  he  drew  in  the  air  a  picture  of  what  I  took  to  be  a  garbage  can.  While  we  were  waiting  for  the  main  course,  I  noticed  that  a  nearby  candle  had  burned  so  low  that  it  was  about  to  set  fire  to  one  of  the  fir  branches.  I  reached  out  to  move  the  branch  a  little,  but  the  captain's  hand  was  ahead  of  mine.  He  picked  up  the  branch,  held  it  directly  over  the  candle,  and  then  lifted  it  high  while  the  needles  burned  and  crackled  furiously.  I  suggested  that  the  building  might  catch  fire  as  a  result  of  such  antics,  and  at  this  the  captain  smiled.  &quot;You  Americans  worry  too  much,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let  the  building  burn  down.  The  Swedes  will  pay  you  for  it.  [REDACTED]  is  a  very  rich  country.  Besides,  doesn't  it  smell  good  now?&quot;  The  smoke  from  the  burning  branch  did  indeed  smell  good,  and  the  captain  burned  another  with  an  air  of  happy  defiance.  During  the  main  course,  which  was  expertly  prepared  and  served,  I  became  engaged  in  a  conversation  with  a  Swiss  lieutenant  and  an  American  colonel  who  were  sitting  across  the  table  from  me.  I  could  only  hold  up  two-fifths  of  my  end,  however,  for  they  switched  effort-  lessly  from  English  to  French  to  Ger-  man  to  Italian  to  Spanish,  and  I  knew  hardly  a  word  of  any  of  the  last  three.  (I  think  the  colonel,  with  the  lieu-  tenant's  amused  assistance,  was  deliber-" b"ately  making  things  difficult  for  me,  in  retribution  for  an  evening  last  De-  cember  when  a  536f757468204b6f726561n  general  gave  a  party  for  our  command  in  [REDACTED],  and  I,  being  able  to  speak  Japanese  and  Chi-  nese,  was  the  only  American  there  who  could  converse  with  the  lovely  Oriental  ladies  present.)  AFTER  dinner,  a  very  tall  Swiss  stood  up  and  started  a  singing  game:  At  the  conclusion  of  a  chorus  that  all  the  Swiss  sang  together,  he  would  point  to  someone,  and  the  man  he  pointed  to  would  have  to  stand  up  and  lead  a  new  song.  The  game  lasted  until  almost  all  the  Swiss  officers  hadhad  a  chance  to  lead  the  singing.  Their  vocal  skill,  their  complex  harmonies  of  tenor  and  baritone  (there  was  almost  no  bass),  and  the  fervor  they  showed  were  beyond  anything  I  had  ever  encoun-  tered,  except  possibly  in  46696a69  during  the  war,  when  the  natives  used  to  come  and  sing  their  hauntingly  beautiful  songs  for  the  soldiers  in  the  early  evening.  When  the  game  was  over,  the  Swiss  insisted  that  the  Americans  sing.  There  were  a  few  false  starts,  and  then  the  colonel  across  from  me  got  up  and  be-  gan  the  Army  artillery  song.  We  all  knew  the  tune,  but  almost  no  one  knew  the  words,  and  the  song  ended  as  a  sort  of  solo  by  the  colonel  with  a  back-  ground  of  embarrassed  cacophony  from  the  rest  of  us.  The  Swiss  clapped  very  loudly  at  our  efforts,  and  considerately  began  to  sing  again  themselves.  Shortly  after  eight,  we  returned  to  the  bar  tent.  The  Swiss  had  us  sit  down  and  then  brought  us  cognac,  or  whatever  else  we  preferred,  and  a  kind  of  cheroot  made  in  4974616c79.  I  declined  the  cigar,  explaining  that  I  didn't  smoke,  but  the  Swiss  who  offered  it  to  me  was  politely  insistent.  &quot;It  will  make  you  look  very  elegant  if  you  just  hold  it,&quot;  he  said,  and  so  I  took  one  and  just  held  it.  The  tall  Swiss  who  had  led  the  sing-  ing  in  the  mess  hall  now  reappeared  with  a  large  guitar  and  began  strolling  from  table  to  table,  leading  songs  in  French  and  German.  Several  times,  groups  of  Swiss,  on  their  way  to  or  from  the  bar,  gathered  for  a  few  moments  in  the  cen-  ter  of  the  room  to  yodel  or  sing  dialect  songs  that  switched  back  and  forth  be-  tween  French  and  German.  The  captain  who  had  sat  next  to  me  at  dinner  walked  up  and  handed  me  another  cognac.  &quot;You  Americans  distress  us  a  great  deal,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  do  not  sing,  and  if  you  do,  it  doesnot  come  from  the  heart.  In  [REDACTED],  we  sing  all  the  time,  and  always  we  sing  from  the  heart.  The  song  comes  right " b"up  out  ofus.&quot;  He  indicated  the  course  of  the  song  with  an  upward  wave  of  his  hand.  &quot;Even  in  the  Army  we  sing,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;But  never  because  we  are  ordered  to.  We  just  naturally  get  to-  gether  about  once  every  hour  and  sing  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  We  wish  we  could  teach  you  how  to  sing.It  would  do  you  a  lot  of  good.  You-  So  many  of  you  are  what  they  call  .  .  .&quot;  He  could  not  find  the  word.  'Neurotics?&quot;  an  American  at  my  table  suggested.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  the  captain  said.  &quot;That's  it.  A  little  bit  neurotic.  If  you  could  only  sing,  everything  would  come  up  out  of  you,  and  you'd  feel  all  right  again.&quot;  A  few  minutes  later,  another  Swiss,  older  than  the  rest,  came  over  to  my  table,  and  I  was  introduced  to  him.  We  talked  for  a'  few  moments  in  both  French  and  English,  and  then  he  said  to  me,  &quot;I  am  fifty-seven  years  old,  but  I  am  younger  than  you.  I  am  as  young  as  anyone  here.  I  will  live  to  bea  hun-  dred  years  old.  I  will  never  die.  And  I'll  tell  you  why.  I'll  give  you  the  secret,  because  you  are  an  American  and  you  need  it.  The  secret  is  this:  V'aime  les  femmes.  P  aime  le  vin.  P  aime  la  vie.  P  aime  vivre.&quot;  With  that,  he  drained  his  drink  and  moved  majestically  and  youthfully  to  the  next  table.  E  Americanshad  agreed  before-  hand  that  it  would  be  politic  to  leave  at  about  nine-thirty,  but  it  was  more  than  an  hour  later  than  that  when  we  stood  up  and  began  to  make  our  farewells.  Outside,  a  Swiss  took  each  American's  arm,  and  we  formed  a  long  column  of  twos.  The  tall  Swiss  with  the  guitar,  and  two  others  with  har-  monicas,  headed  the  column,  and  played  as  we  marched  toward  the  parking  lot,  arm  in  arm,  the  Swiss  singing  as  we  went.  Other  Swiss  marched  along  be-  side  the  column,  holding  lighted  candles.  At  the  parking  lot,  the  Swiss  formed  a  double  line  beside  the  door  of  the  bus  and  shook  hands  with  each  of  us  as  we  passed  through,  using  not  one  hand  but  two.  We  Americans  didn't  sing  as  we  drove  home,  but  I  feel  certain  that  it  was  just  a  case  of  each  man's  waiting  for  the  next  to  start. "