 b"Tom  and  LizaFrye  had  an  eight-  eenth-century  brick  house,  paint-  ed  white  and  filled  with  severely  modern  furniture,  and  two  Jaguar  cars,  a  white  one  for  Liza  and  a  black  one  for  Tom.  Both  cars  had  governors  on  them  so  they  couldnot  do  more  than  fifty-five  miles  an  hour,  for  Tom  and  Liza  did  not  believe  in  speed.  'They  each  had  a  flat  gold  cigarette  case  and  a  short  gold  holder,  and  their  cigarettes  were  made  specially  for  them.  At  night,  they  slept  in  matching  white  silk  pa-  jamas.  Their  bed,  wide  and  low,  was  as  big  as  a  small  field.  Actually,  it  wasn't  a  double  bed  at  all  but  twin  beds  locked  together  by  the  legs  and  made  up  with  separate  sets  of  sheets.  The  sheets,  like  the  pajamas,  were  fresh  every  night.  One  of  Liza's  favorite  words  was  &quot;im-  maculate.&quot;  The  word  she  liked  least  in  the  language  was  &quot;appetite.&quot;  Still,  it  was  a  word  she  often  used.  &quot;I  have  no  appetite  for  anything,&quot;  she  would  say,  or  sometimes,  &quot;I  don't  believe  in  ap-  petites.  They're  so  common.&quot;  Liza  was  tall  and  excessively  thin,  with  long,  beautiful  legs.  She  was  proud  of  her  figure,  and  preserved  it  by  eating  almost  nothing.  During  the  day,  she  fasted,  and  at  night  she  dined,  with  Tom,  on  cottage  cheese  and  shredded  carrot.  Their  dinner  was  served  on  a  tray  in  their  bedroom,  which  was  im-  mense  and  possessed  of,  and  by,  a  tre-  mendous  picture  window  that  allowed  a  magnificent  view  of  the  [REDACTED]  River.  Their  house  was  built  on  the  edge  of  the  river,  and  their  living  room,  directly  under  the  bedroom,  also  had  a  gigantic  picture  window  and  a  handsome  view.  Liza  disliked  having  the  living  room  disturbed,  and  Tom  didn't  mind  din-  ing  in  the  bedroom.  His  real  life  was  spent  away  from  home  any  way,  and  by  evening  he  was  usually  too  tired  to  want  anything  except  sleep.  Liza  had  pale-gold  hair  that  she  wore  in  a  neat,  caplike  arrangement.  Tom,  a  little  shorter  than  she,  was  stout,  and  had  a  fat,  glum  face  and  large,  suspicious  blue  eyes.  He  was  suspicious  because  of  his  money,  of  which  he  had  a  great  deal.  Although  it  was  safely  stowed  away  in  a  trust  fund,  he  lived  in  constant  fear  that  someone  would  take  it  from  him.  Liza  had  had  no  money  at  all  until  she  married  Tom.  She  was  thirty-nine,  two  years  older  than  he.  They  had  been  married  almost  seven  years.  They  lived  at  Herbert's  Retreat,  an     exclusive  community  of  about  forty  houses  on  the  east  bank  of  the  [REDACTED],  thirty  miles  above  New  York  City.  It  had  been  Liza's  decision  to  move  to  the  Retreat.  Tom  had  been  inclined  to  stay  on  in  his  comfortable,  velvet-hung  apartment  on  Beekman  Place,  but  Liza  insisted  onhaving  her  own  way.  Liza  felt,  and  often  said,  that  the  only  way  to  impress  one's  personality  on  people  is  to  deprive  them  of  something  they  want.  Shake  them  up.  Make  them  see  that  what  they  have  isn't  much.  It  was  hard  to  do  this  in  New  York,  where  people  had  so  many  distractions,  but  at  Herbert's  Retreat,  that  tightly  locked,  closely  guarded  little  community,  Liza  made  a  strong  impression.  Right  off,  her  modern  furniture  outraged  all  the  other  women,  who  had  been  concentrat-  ing  on  Early  American.  Liza  called  the  furniture  at  the  Retreat  &quot;country.&quot;  &quot;Country  furniture  is  sweet,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  it's  so  sheeplike.&quot;  In  the  same  way,  she  refused  to  share  the  other  women's  enthusiasm  for  gardening.  The  narrow  strip  of  ground  that  sur-  rounded  her  house  on  three  sides-the  fourth  side  being  almost  one  with  the  river-was  given  over  to  fine  white  gravel,  which  was  raked  and  rolled  ev-  ery  week  by  the  Retreat  gardener.  When  her  neighbors  chattered  about  their  bulbs  and  seeds,  Liza  enjoyed  say-  ing,  &quot;I  don't  approve  of  flowers,  except  in  their  proper  place.  'They  certainly  don't  belong  in  the  ground.&quot;  Her  own  cut  flowers,  always  white,  were  delivered  twice  a  week  from  a  nearby  green-  house  by  a  girl  who  ar-  ranged  the  new  flowers  and  took  the  old  ones  away  with  her.  Liza  was  a  rigid  house-  keeper.  Her  furniture  had  all  been  designed  for  her,  and  she  hated  to  see  anything  out  of  its  appointed  place.  Her  mother,  Mrs.  Con-  roy,  who  lived  with  her,  had  been  beg-  ging  for  years  for  an  old-fashioned  cozy  armchair,  but  Liza  was  adamant.  Liza  and  Mrs.  Conroy  detested  each  other,  but  it  suited  them  to  live  to-  gether-Liza  because  she  enjoyed  showing  her  power,  and  Mrs.  Conroy  because  she  was  waiting  for  her  day  of  vengeance.  They  were  alike  in  their  admiration  for  Tom's  money,  but  Mrs.  Conroy  felt  she  should  have  more  say  in  the  spending  of  it.  The  old  lady's  only  treasured  possession  was  a  set  of  nineteen  shabby  account  books,  records  painstakingly  kept  by  her  dead  husband,   who  had  run  a  small  stationery  shop  in  [REDACTED].  The  account  books  read  like  a  diary  to  Mrs.  Conroy,  who  liked  to  pore  over  them  when  she  was  tired  of  counting  up  her  grievances.  Liza  al-  lowed  her  mother  to  keep  the  books  so  that  she  could  threaten  to  deprive  her  of  them.  She  had  a  special  set  of  shelves  built  for  them  in  her  mother's  bedroom,  with  sliding  panels  that  concealed  their  ragged  backs  from  view  and  that  were  kept  locked,  the  key  being  retained  by  Mrs.  Conroy,  who  never  let  it  out  of  her  reach.  When  her  mother  became  obstreperous,  Liza  would  threaten  to  have  the  books  destroyed,  and  the  old  woman  always  knuckled  under.  &quot;I'm  just  a  poor,  forsaken  old  wom-  an,&quot;  she  would  wail  in  a  tone  of  false  anguish  that  hid  rage.  &quot;You're  an  invalid,&quot;  Liza  would  say  firmly,  and  if  her  mother  was  not  already  in  her  bedroom,  she  would  be  taken  by  the  arm  and  conducted  there.  Liza  preferred  to  believe  that  her  mother  was  an  invalid.  The  fact  was  that  the  old  lady  was  as  strong  as  a  horse,  but  Liza  maintained  that  her  mother  had  a  delicate  stomach  and  could  only  eat  bland  foods.  Liza  had  discovered  a  preparation,  quite  expensive,  that  con-  tained  all  the  vitamins  necessary  to  keep  an  old  woman  alive  and  healthy  without  putting  any  weight  on  her.  'This  food,  stirred  into  a  bowl  of  skim  milk,  was  what  Mrs.  Conroy  got  three  times  a  day.  It  was  delicious,  with  a  vague  fla-  vor  of  vichyssoise.  Sometimes  Liza  even  took  a  dish  of  it  herself.  But  Mrs.  Con-  roy  was  tired  of  it.  She  continued  to  wolf  it  down,  though,  because  she  was  by  nature  greedy.  Liza,  with  memories  of  vegetable  marrow,  turnip,  and  por-  ridge  being  squashed  into  her  own  rebellious  mouth,  enjoyed  seeing  her  mother  swallow  this  pap.  My  turn  has  come,  she  thought,  congratulating  her-  self  on  her  life  in  general;  because  she  had  been  sick  with  lackof  money  when  she  married  Tom,  having  gone  all  her  life  without  the  things  she  felt  were  her  due.  It  was  not  the  things  she  enjoyed,  however;  it  was  the  position  they  gave  her.  She  loved  the  Retreat.  Shenever  left  it,  even  for  a  night.  Once,  years  before,  when  she  was  only  a  poor,  lovely-looking  girl  in  a  flower  shop,  she  had  come  to  the  Re-  treat  for  a  weekend.  The  assured,  amused  attitude  of  the  women  there,  and  their  indifference  to  her,  infuriated  her.  She  went  away  hating  them.  After  her  marriage  to  Tom,  she  had  come  back  determined  to  make  them  sit  up     " b"and  take  notice  of  her.  She  didn't  want  to  become  one  of  them,  she  told  herself.  What  she  wanted  was  to  keep  them  from  being  too  pleased  with  themselves.  TOM,  on  the  other  hand,  .,  found  the  center  of  his  ~  {}{  existence  in  New  York.  His  days  were  spent  sitting  in  a  window  in  his  club  there.  This  club,  a  massive,  majestic  building  on  upper  Fifth  Ave-  nue,  had  been  in  Tom's  heart  since  the  day  in  his  eighth  year  when  his  grandfather  had  brusquely  interrupted  a  peaceful  afternoon  at  home  to  rush  him  there  in  a  taxicab.  Tom,  at  eight,  was  already  accustomed  to  being  taken  into  splendid  establishments,  and  he  waited  confidently  for  his  grandfather  to  conduct  him  up  the  broad  stone  steps  and  through  the  great  iron  door,  where  respectful  serv-  ants  would  bow  and  take  their  hats  and  coats.  But  his  grandfather,  instead  of  going  forward,  grabbed  him  by  the  hand  and  proceeded  around  to  the  side  of  the  building,  which  overlooked  a  narrow,  luxurious  street.  There  on  the  sidewalk,  the  old  man  stood  beside  his  grandson  and  glared  up  at  the  se\xc3\xa9ond-floor  windows,  three  of  them,  each  framing  a  seated,  apparently  lifeless  man.  Heavy  curtains  hung  about  the  windows,  and  the  room  within  was  lighted,  but  not  brightly.  It  was  a  tower-  ing  room.  Tom  could  glimpse  the  dark,  carved,  curving  ceiling  and  part  of  a  glimmering  chandelier.  The  men  in  the  windows  appeared  very  old  to  him,  but  perhaps  they  were  only  elderly.  Two  of  them  seemed  to  be  drowsing.  The  third,  a  thin-faced,  upright  man  with  silver  hair,  stared  icily  into  the  street.  Tom's  grandfather  raised  his  stick  and  pointed  upward  in  choler.  &quot;'There  he  is,&quot;  he  growled.  &quot;There's  the  rascal  who  did  me  out  of  my  rights.  This  is  the  only  club  in  New  York  I'm  not  admitted  to,  thanks  to  him.  He's  responsible.  He  got  them  to  turn  me  down.&quot;  Turning  his  gaze  on  Tom,  he  shouted,  &quot;And  you'll  never  get  in  there,  either,  you  little  rat.&quot;  Tom  loathed  his  grandfather,  a  self-made  man  who  loved  his  grandson  because  he  was  his  grandson  but  despised  him  because  he  was  a  rich  little  boy.  When  the  old  man  was  in  a  good  humor,  he  liked  to  take  Tom  on  his  knobby  knees  and  grin  bale-  fully  into  his  plump,  gloomy  little  face. &quot;And  what  are  you  thinking  now,  dirty  little  boy?&quot;  he  would  whisper,  and  then,  with  a  bellow  of  glee,  he  would  part  his  knees  and  tumble  his  dejected  burden  rudely  to  the  floor.  Years  later,  Tom's  father  became  a  member  of  the  club  his  grandfather  had  been  kept  out  of,  and  at  twenty-one  Tom,  too,  was  admitted.  The  thin-  faced  old  man  Tom's  grandfather  had  pointed  out  to  him  no  longer  sat  in  the  second-story  window.  Tom  quickly  ap-  propriated  his  chair.  He  felt  timid  about  doing  this,  but  to  his  astonishment  no  one  else  seemed  to  want  it.  The  elderly  men  and  the  middle-aged  men  had  been  seduced  away,  first  by  the  club  movie  room  and  then  by  the  new  television  room.  and  the  younger  men  darted  in  and  out,  having  no  patience  for  any-  thing.  Tom  felt  with  disappointment  that  club  life  had  lost  its  grandeur.  There  was  a  rowdiness,  unheard  but  felt,  that  Tom  was  sure  was  not  consist-  ent  with  gentlemanliness.  He  struck  up  no  friendships  with  his  fellow-members.  Tom  arrived  at  the  club  every  day  at  ten  o'clock.  In  the  mornings,  he  sat  in  the  chair  by  the  window,  reading  the  papers.  At  twelve-thirty,  he  made  his  way  to  the  dining  room  and  enjoyed  a  two-hour  lunch,  always  eating  alone,  always  at  the  same  table.  All  the  imagi-  nation  and  appreciation  he  was  capable  of  were  spent  at  the  luncheon  table.  In  the  afternoons,  he  simply  sat  and  watched  the  street.  At  five  o'clock,  he  sent  for  his  car,  quartered  at  a  nearby  garage,  and  drove  home  to  Liza.  EARLY  one  October,  Liza  received  a  telephone  call  that  disturbed  her  very  much.  The  call  was  from  Clara  Longacre,  who  invited  her  to  drop  over  for  bridge  the  same  afternoon.  Clara,  at  thirty,  was  the  recognized  social  lead-  er  at  the  Retreat-merely  because,  Liza  often  thought  viciously,  of  having  grown  up  there.  Clara's  natural  sense  of  superiority  made  it  impossible  for  her  to  doubt  herself.  She  knew  she  was  bet-  ter  than  anybody  else.  She  was  un-  touchable.  Liza  longed  more  than  any-  thing  in  the  world  to  impress  Clara,  to  deprive  her,  even  if  it  was  only  for  a  minute,  of  her  eternal  self-satisfaction.  Sometimes  she  lay  awake  in  bed  and  gritted  her  teeth  in  the  struggle  to  bring  forth  some  scheme  that  would  crack  that  natural  armor.  Now  she  was  not  dis-  turbed  at  the  invitation  to  bridge;  she  had  often  been  to  bridge  at  Clara's  house.  It  was  the  tone  of  the  invitation  that  had  unsettled  her.  Always  before,  in  speaking  to  her,  Clara's  manner  and  her  amused  tone  of  voice  had  implied  an  awareness  that  Liza  was  a  person-  a  possible  adversary,even.  This  time,  she  was  merely  casual,  as  if  she  had  forgotten  that  Liza  was  in  any  way  different  from  the  others.  Liza  won-  dered  distractedly  if  perhaps  they  were     " b"all  beginning  to  take  her  for  granted.  After  all,  she  had  done  nothing  ex-  traordinary  for  a  year-not  since  she  had  torn  out  the  whole  riverside  wall  of  her  house  to  install  those  two  outsize  picture  windows.  At  night,  from  the  op-  posite  bank  of  the  river,  her  house  ap-  peared  to  bea  glittering  sheet  of  white  light-the  most  spectacular  establish-  ment  in  the  community,  whether  you  admired  it  or  not.  Even  that,  which  had  outraged  all  the  rest  of  them  (they  said  that,  like  her  furniture,  it  was  alien  to  the  spirit  of  Herbert's  Re-  treat  ),  had  drawn  only  an  amused  smile  from  Clara.  Liza  had  always  felt  that  Clara's  amusement  might  mask  a  touch  of  chagrin,  enough  to  make  a  small  vic-  tory  for  herself.  'This  time  Clara's  voice  had  been  casual  and  friendly,  but  that  was  all.  I  will  not  be  patronized  by  her,  Liza  thought  wildly.  I  must  show  her.  She  went  to  the  bridge  party  in  a  scattered,  anxious  frame  of  mind.  Clara  had  also  asked  Arabelle  Burton  and  Margaret  Slade.  They  all  come  run-  ning  when  Clara  rings  the  bell,  Liza  thought.  As  they  were  adding  up  their  scores  at  the  end  of  the  afternoon,  Clara  asked,  &quot;Aren't  you  and  Tom  having  an  anni-  versary  soon,  Liza?&quot;  &quot;Not  till  February,&quot;  Liza  said.  &quot;I  know  it's  February,&quot;  Clara  said.  &quot;How  could  any  of  us  forget  the  month  of  your  arrival,  Liza.  We  had  all  just  settled  down  after  Christmas  when  you  charged  in  to  rouse  us  out  of  our  lethar-  gy.  How  many  years  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Seven,&quot;  Liza  said,  and  wondered  if  Clara  was  laughing  at  her  secretly.  They  don't  dare  laugh  at  me  to  my  face,  she  thought.  I'm  too  quick  for  them.  &quot;Seven  is  a  very  special  anniversary  in  most  marriages,  isn't  it?&quot;  Margaret Slade  said  indistinctly.  As  usual,  she  had  a  cold  in  her  head.  &quot;I  mean  isn't  it  the  most  crucial  year  after  the  first,  or  something?&quot;  &quot;Is  it?&quot;  Clara  said.  &quot;Look,  Liza,  I'd  like  to  give  a  party  for  you  on  your  anniversary.  Seven  years  is  a  long  time.  We  should  have  a  celebration.  Will  you  let  me?&quot;  She  sounded  perfectly  sin-  cere,  and  friendly,  and  Liza  stared  at  her,  baffled,  not  knowingwhat  to  say.  Surely  Clara  was  being  patronizing?  &quot;That's  a  wonderful  idea-a  sev-  enth-anniversary  party  for  Liza!&quot;  Mar-  garet  Slade  cried.  &quot;We'll  all  bring  ap-  propriate  presents.  What  is  the  seventh  anniversary,  anyway?  Arabelle,  you  al-  ways  know  about  things  like  that.  What's  the  seventh  anniversary-leath-  er?  paper?&quot;  &quot;Brass  and  copper,&quot;  Arabelle  said.  &quot;Well,  then,  that's  settled,&quot;  Clara  said.  &quot;It's  a  brass-and-copper  party.  That  should  be  easy  enough,  but  I'm  afraid  you're  going  to  find  yourself  with  a  lot  of  ashtrays  and  hand  bells.&quot;  &quot;You'll  have  to  tell  us  what  you'd  really  like,  Liza,&quot;  Arabelle  said.  &quot;Your  house  is  so  special  I'm  afraid  anything  I'd  pick  out  would  be  an  anachro-  nism.&quot;  &quot;Don't  worry  about  that,  Arabelle,&quot;  Margaret  said,  blowing  her  nose  hearti-  ly.  &quot;We're  all  in  the  same  boat  there.  It  would  be  hard  not  to  bring  an  anachronism  into  Liza's  house.  We'll  probably  endup  settling  for  the  least  anachronistic  thing  we  can  find,  and  hope  for  the  best.&quot;  &quot;Why  not  bring  the  most  anachro-  nistic  thing  we  canfind?&quot;  Clara  said.  &quot;An  anachronism  party  would  be  much  more  fun  than  just  sticking  to  brass  or  copper.  Liza,  I  think  I'll  give  you  a  cobbler's  bench.&quot;    &quot;Oh,  that's  marvellous!&quot;  Margaret  cried.  &quot;I'll  bring  a  kerosene  lamp.&quot;  &quot;I'll  bring  a  mustache  cup,&quot;  Arabelle  said.  Liza  smiled  stiffly.  They  were  bait-  ing  her.  They  had  never  dared  make  fun  of  her  before.  Trembling,  she  de-  cided  to  meet  their  challenge.  &quot;You  must  have  read  my  mind,  Clara,&quot;  she  said  quickly.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,  Tom  and  I  were  laughing  about  anachronisms  only  the  other  night.  As  Tom  said,  a  seventh  anniversary  is  something  of  an  anachronism  anyway.  The  anachronistic  lucky  seven,  and  so  on.  So  we  decided  to  celebrate  the  occa-  sion  with  our  first  anachronism.  I  won't  tell  you  what  I  thought  of.  It's  some-  thing  quite  extraordinary,  I  promise  you.&quot;  Clara  stared  at  her  in  astonishment.  &quot;'You  mustn't  take  us  seriously,  Liza.  It's  only  a  joke.  We  wouldn't  think  of  defacing  your  house.&quot;  To  the  maid,  who  had  stalked  in  bearing  the  tea  tray,  she  said,  &quot;Mattie,  you'll  have  to  take  that  back.  You  know  I  won't  tolerate  tea  bags  in  the  house.  Please  go  back  and  make  the  tea  properly,  just  as  I  showed  you.&quot;  &quot;''They  didn't  have  nothing  but  tea  bags  at  the  store,  Mrs.  Longacre,&quot;  Mat-  tie  replied.  &quot;Afraid  it's  tea  bags  or  noth-  ing,  Ma'am.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  all  right!&quot;  Clara  said,  and  glanced  in  exasperation  at  her  friends.  This  maid  was  new  to  the  communi-  ty,  and  probably  would  not  stay  long,  because  she  was  already  complaining  about  the  lack  of  entertainment  around.  It  was  seldom  that  one  of  the  houses  at  Herbert's  Retreat  was  not  in  an  up-  roar  with  a  maid  just  gone  or  about  to  go,  a  dinner  planned,  and  the  hostess  frantically  phoning  her  neighbors  to  dis-     " b"cover  which  of  the  remaining  maids  would  be  available  to  help  out  for  the  evening.  All  this  gave  the  maids  a  great  sense  of  power,  of  course.  For  some  of  them,  the  power  was  satisfaction  enough.  'Those  were  the  ones  who  stayed  on  year  after  year.  'The  others  flew  in  and  out  of  Herbert's  Retreat  like  birds,  carrying  their  baggage  with  them,  entering  service  there  with  mis-  giving  and  leaving  with  rancor.  &quot;I  forgot  to  pick  up  my  tea  at  Ven-  dome  on  Thursday,&quot;  Clara  said  when  Mattie  had  left  the  room,  &quot;and  I  just  had  to  tell  that  fool  to  get  what  she  could  in  the  village.  Oh,  just  once,  to  have  a  good  maid!&quot;  Liza  sat  ready  to  deal  with  them  one  by  one  or  all  together  when  they  took  up  the  attack  where  they  had  left  off.  But  if  they  were  baiting  her,  as  she  thought,they  seemed  to  have  had  enough  of  it.  &quot;Speaking  of  maids,  as  we  do  all  the  time,&quot;  Arabelle  said,  &quot;Clara,  I  loved  your  cute  little  story  in  this  week's  FZyaeway  about  that  maid  in  White's  Hotel.&quot;  The  Flyaway  was  the  weekly  publi-  cation  circulated  at  the  Retreat.  Liza  had  not  yet  taken  her  new  copy  from  its  wrapper.  &quot;The  most  extraordinary,  wonderful  caricature  of  an  English  maid  I've  ever  seen,&quot;  Clara  said,  pleased.  &quot;And  of  course  White's  Hotel  is  the  perfect  back-  ground  for  her.&quot;  Travel,  hotels  in  [REDACTED],  hotels  in  Cannes,  matching  embroidery  wools  in  that  little  shop  on  the  Left  Bank,  driving  through  Cornwall  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  road,  White's  Hotel  in  Lon-  don-it  was  one  way  of  dealing  Liza  out,  and  they  didn't  even  have  to  do  it  on  purpose.  'They  couldn't  avoid  doing  it.  At  such  times,  Liza  sat,  silent,  with   no  stories  to  match  with  theirs,  no  rec-  ommendations,  no  frantic  experiences.  To  travel,  she  and  Tom  would  have  to  leave  the  Retreat,  and  she  didn't  dare.  And  anyway,  even  if  they  had  picked  up  and  gone  to  Europe  the  summer  be-  fore,  like  Clara,  she  still  held  the  trump  cards.  Liza  could  stay  at  White's  Hotel  if  she  chose  to,  but  Clara's  grandparents  had  stayed  there.  &quot;Even  the  men  hang  around  in  the  hall  trying  to  get  a  look  at  her,&quot;  Clara  said.  &quot;I  simply  had  to  write  about  her.  I'm  sending  her  the  article,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Does  she  really  wear  high-buttoned  boots,  Clara?&quot;  Margaret  Slade  asked  delightedly.  &quot;High-buttoned  boots,  black  lisle  stockings,  long  black  dress-alpaca,  I  suppose-apron  like  an  English  nanny's,  for  God's  sake,  not  a  maid's  apron  at  all,  but  it's  just  right  for  Betty  Trim,  she's  so  outrageous  anyway,  and,  to  top  it  all  off,  a  parlormaid's  cap,  but  worn  backwards,  and  behind  it  an  enormous  bun  of  the  most  wiggy-look-  ing,  coarse  gray  hair  you've  ever  seen,  except  that  it's  not  a  wig.  Oh,  and  of  course  she  curtsies,  and  calls  everyone  'm'lady.'  It's  simply  killing.  I  swear  she  has  the  coldest,  fishiest  eyes  I've  ever  seen  in  a  human  head.  She  never  smiles,  and  the  porter  told  me  she  thinks  of  nothing  but  money.  Nothing.  She  could  tell  you  the  amount  she  made  in  tips  any  day  in  the  last  fifteen  years,  but  she  won't  talk,  of  course.  She's  very  closemouthed.  She  reads  nothing  but  her  savings  book.  She  just  simply  loves  and  adores  money.  I  can't  understand  why  she's  not  a  cashier,  or  something.  Maybe  it  would  break  her  heart  to  have  to  handle  money  she  couldn't  put  away  in  her  bank.  I  couldn't  say  all  that  in  the  Flyaway,  of  course.  I  want  to  stay  in  her  good  graces.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Lord,  and  to  think  of  what  we  have  to  put  up  with  in  our  kitchens,&quot;  Margaret  said  enviously.  &quot;Imagine  hav-  ing  a  pearl  like  that  in  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  can't  imagine,  Margaret,&quot;  Clara  said  enthusiastically.  &quot;She  never  makes  a  mistake.  She  knows  her  place  to  the  last  millimetre,  and  your  place,  too.  She  used  to  bea  parlormaid,  but  she's  in  the  ladies'  room  now.  She's  a  little  queen  there,  of  course.  And  then  tips.  And  she's  independent.  You  should  see  the  ladies  trying  to  charm  her,  but  she  never  bats  an  eye.  Isn't  it  killing  the  way  we  all  go  down  on  our  knees  to  curry  favor  with  someone  who's  really  indifferent  to  us.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Arabelle  said.  &quot;Do  you  remember  that  ghastly  Miss  Vesper  at  school.  Why,  we  positively  crawled.&quot;  Liza  let  her  mind  wander,  as  she  often  did  when  they  spoke  of  their  snobbish  school  days.  She  was  suffocat-  ing  with  a  joyful  idea,  and  fearful  that  Clara  might  spot  her  excitement  and  divine  its  cause.  HAT  evening,  Liza  wrote  to  Bet-  ty  Trim,  the  maid  in  the  ladies'  room  of  White's  Hotel  in  [REDACTED],  offering  her  five  times  her  present  salary,  describing  the  lightness  of  the  work  she  would  be  expected  to  do,  enjoining  secrecy,  and  enclosing  a  check  for  the  fare  over.  Betty  replied  demanding  ten  times  her  present  salary  and  an  addi-  tional  sum  every  month  to  equal  the  tips  she  had  received  during  the  cor-  responding  month  in  her  best  year,  which  was  1947,  and  asking  for  a  signed  contract  guaranteeing  her  job  for  three  years.  She  returned  the  check,  saying  she  would  require  a  ticket  on  the  Queen     " b"Mary,  complete  and  paid  for,  when  the  date  of  her  departure  was  set,  and  she  requested  a  bank  draft  to  cover  the  amount  of  her  return  fare.  She  also  asked  for  travelling  expenses.  Liza  sent  a  ticket  for  the  earliest  dateshe  could  get,  which  was  December  19th.  For  good  measure,  she  made  it  a  first-class  ticket,  and  added  a  generous  check  for  expenses  and  a  surprise  Christmas  bonus.  She  also  sent  a  signed  contract,  bind-  ing  on  herself  andon  Betty,  with  a  copy  for  Betty  to  sign  and  return.  Betty  replied,  not  enclosing  her  own  signed  copy,  because,  she  explained,  it  was  too  much  to  expect  a  person  to  sign  away  her  life  in  a  strange  land.  She  did,  how-  ever,  return  the  ticket,  saying  that  she  could  not  leave  her  job  until  after  her  Christmas  and  New  Year's  tips  were  in,  and  suggesting  January  2nd  as  the  earliest  date  onwhich  she  could  be  expected  to  start  her  journey.  She  added  that  a  second-class  ticket  would  be  more  suitable,  considering  her  sta-  tion  in  life.  Liza  sent  her  the  ticket  she  asked  for,  and  enclosed  an  additional  bank  draft  for  emergencies.  She  begged  Betty  to  reply  by  cable.  Betty  replied  by  ordinary  mail,  confirming  the  ar-  rangement  and  explaining  that  to  her  mind  a  cable  that  was  not  for  an  emergency  was  a  wasteful  extravagance.  Liza,  grovelling,  was  nevertheless  triumphant.  &quot;She  needn't  lift  a  finger  unless  she  wants  to,  except  to  serve  tea,&quot;  Liza  said  to  Tom.  &quot;And  there'll  be  a  clean-  ing  woman  in  every  day.  What's  more,  you'll  meet  her  at  the  pier  in  a  taxi,  and  drive  herout  here.  If  the  boat  docks  on  schedule,  you  should  have  her  out  here  by  one,  at  the  very  latest.&quot;  &quot;Ilunch  at  twelve-thirty,&quot;  Tom  said.  'You're  losing  your  sense  of  propor-  tion,  Liza.  Why  can't  you  send  this  woman  a  bus  schedule.  Or  rent  a  car  for  her.  Or  tell  her  to  takea  taxi  out.  Or  tell  her  to  sit  in  Schrafft's  or  some-  place,  and  I'll  pick  her  up  at  five.  You  can't  expect  me  to  interrupt  my  day  like  this!  I'm  always  at  lunch  at  one  o'clock!&quot;  Tears  of  chagrin  filled  his  eyes.  Liza  turned  back  to  her  desk,  on  which  two  tall  piles  of  square  white  envelopes  stood  neatly  stacked.  &quot;Now,  that's  settled,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  want  you  to  take  these  out  and  post  them  at  once.  If  Clara  still  has  any  ideaof  trying  to  give  a  benevolent  little  party  for  me,  this  should  fix  her.  I  wish  I  could  see  her  face  when  she  opens  this  in  the  morning.  'To  celebrate  our  first  anachronism,  Miss  Betty  Trim,  of  White's  Hotel.&quot;  She'll  be  the  one  they'll  laugh  at  now,  not  me.  She'll  never  dare  make  fun  of  me  again.&quot;  HE  day  of  Betty's  arrival  turned  out  cold  and  desolate,  with  a  raw  wind.  Tom  drove  in  to  town,  rushed  into  his  club,  rustled  busily  through  the  morning  papers,  and  stood  for  a  minute  at  his  window,  his  arm  embracing  the  back  of  his  chair.  Then,  sighing  pro-  foundly,  he  dashed  outside  into  the  taxi  the  doorman  was  holding  for  him.  The  shopwindows,  brilliantly  lighted  against  the  gray  day,  looked  cheerless  and  ef-  ficient  without  their  recent  Christmas  decorations.  The  wind  swept  merci-  lessly  along  the  pavements,  carrying  shuddering,  cowering  human  beings  be-  fore  it.  Traffic  across  town  was  locked,  and  drivers  of  trucks,  taxis,  and  private  cars  glared  satanically  into  one  another's  eyes  and  breathed  plumes  of  vapor  with  the  invective  that  issued  from  their  lips.  Tom's  driver,  cursing,  inched  his  way  to  the  pier.  'Tom  contemptuously  ignored  this  hurly-burly.  Slumped  in  the  corner  of  his  seat,  warm  in  his  gloves  and  muffler  and  his  fur-lined  coat,  with  enormous  galoshes  on  his  feet,  he  let  his  mindroam  sulkily  ahead  through  his  spoiled  day.  He  recognized  Betty  with  no  diffi-  culty.  She  was  all  in  black,  and  very  small-not  more  than  five  feet  tall.  About  forty-five,  Tom  thought  morose-  ly,  and  she's  no  beauty.  He  could  hardly  bear  to  look  at  her,  he  hated  her  so  much,  but  at  his  garage  he  motioned  politely  toward  the  front  seat  of  his  car,  only  to  find  her  already  fitted  into  the  middle  of  the  back  seat,  between  her  two  bulging  pieces  of  luggage,  neither  one  of  which  was  a  suitcase,  She  ac-  knowledged  his  gesture  with  a  flicker-  ing,  uninterested  glance,  and  then  she  fixed  her  eyes  on  the  street  ahead  and  waited,  without  impatience,  to  be  driven  into  her  new  life.  The  city  streets  seemed  to  interest  Betty  as  little  as  they  did  Tom,  and  as  the  car  left  the  city,  she  cast  no  glance  at  the  wintry  [REDACTED].  The  country-  side,  forlorn,  cracked  and  bitten  with  frost,  got  no  sign  from  her.  She  stared  stonily  ahead.  She  might  have  been  a  member  of  royalty,  forced  to  ride  in  the  state  funeral  procession  of  some  de-  tested  relative.  The  truth  is  that  inside     " b"Betty's  head  there  was  only  a  small  blackboard,  on  which  she  added  and  subtracted  diligently,  using  a  piece  of  chalk,  as  she  had  been  taught  to  do  in  school.  The  problems  she  solved  were  not  large,  for  her  brain  was  tiny,  but  she  was  thorough,  and  she  went  over  each  exercise  at  least  tentimes,  proceeding  slowly,  using  cunning,  persistence,  and  inhuman  concentration.  She  never  put  a  figure  down  on  paper.  Only  a  fool  would  do  that-someone  willing  to  broadcast  his  private  affairs  to  the  world.  She  trusted  no  one.  She  knew  that  poor  people's  savings  were  often  stolen.  She  had  never  taken  a  risk  in  her  life,  nor  had  she  ever  loaned  a  penny.  Or  bor-  rowed  one.  In  the  car,  she  added  the  dollars  she  had  in  her  purse  now,  shield-  ing  herself  against  the  sudden  misery  that  had  come  on  her  at  the  thought  of  her  little  hoard  of  money  far  away  in  [REDACTED].  Tom's  voice  interrupted  her.  He  had  turned  off  the  highway  onto  a  narrow  country  road,  hardly  more  than  a  pathway,  that  appeared  to  have  been  cut  at  random  through  a  wild  wood.  &quot;'Welcome  to  Herbert's  Retreat,&quot;  he  said  stif\xef\xac\x82y.  Betty  turned  her  head  to  the  right,  and  then  to  the  left.  Her  eyes  belittled  all  they  saw.  Beyond  the  irregular  wall  of  trees  and  hedge,  leafless  now,  that  lined  the  road,  houses,  standing  solitary,  glimmered  white  in  the  dull  winter  air.  Between  the  houses,  a  wilderness  flour-  ished-trees,  bushes,  remnants  of  old  hedge,  dry  yellow  weeds,  and  tangled  undergrowth.  Coming  to  his  own  fine  house,  Tom  stopped  the  car  with  a  jerk  and  scrambled  out.  He  opened  the  rear  door  and  lifted  out  the  two  pieces  of  lug-  gage.  Then  he  turned  to  give  Betty  a  hand,  but  again  she  was  before  him,  with  both  feet  firmly  on  the  ground.  The  front  door  opened  and  Liza  stood  there.  Tom  brushed  rudely  past  her,  dumped  the  luggage  in  the  hall,  and  went  into  the  living  room,  where  he  sat  down  and  sulked,  &quot;I  hope  you  will  be  happy  here,  Betty,&quot;  Liza  said  when  her  treasure  was  safely  inside  the  front  door.  &quot;'Thank  you,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  replied,  and  bobbed  up  and  down.  She  really  curtsies,  Liza  thought  deliriously.  Betty's  mean  little  eyes  surveyed  Liza.  I  could  buy  you  and  sell  you,  m'lady,  she  thought.  She  was  satisfied  that  she  knew  all  that  was  to  be  known  of  human  nature.  &quot;I  can  sum  them  up  in  one  glance,  no  matter  who  they  are,&quot;  she  would  say  to  herself-and  the  sum  was  always  the  same.  Liza,  not  know-  ing  she  had  been  judged  and  dismissed,     " b"proceeded  to  show  Betty  through  the  house.  The  wallsof  all  the  rooms  were  clay-colored.  The  furniture  was  con-  structed  of  silvery  piping.  The  chairs  had  white  tweed  sling  seats.  The  table-  tops  were  of  thick  plate  glass.  Upstairs,  Liza  paused  with  an  air  of  extra  im-  portance  before  a  closed  door  and  smiled  at  Betty  before  she  opened  it.  Then  they  were  looking  into  Betty's  own  room,  which  was  furnished  like  the  rest  of  the  house,  and  contained  a  narrow  bed.  The  window  looked  out  on  the  nearest  houses,  and  on  the  withered  jungle  that  separated  them.  &quot;No  river  view  here,  I'm  afraid,&quot;  Liza  said  in  a  tone  of  bright  apology.  Betty  walked  to  the  window  and  looked  out.  &quot;I'm  not  much  for  looking  at  the  water,  m'lady,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;My  mother's  room  is  just  down  the  hall,&quot;  Liza  said.  &quot;She's  resting  now,  so  we  won't  disturb  her.  Your  bathroom  is  downstairs  next  to  the  kitchen,  as  you  saw.  There's  only  one  on  this  floor,  and  my  mother  shares  it  with  us.  These  old  houses-all  fireplaces  and  no  bath-  rooms,  you  know.&quot;  She  waved  her  hand  in  agesture  that  was  friendly  but  not,  she  felt,  familiar.  &quot;'Thank  you,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  said.  AJONE,  Betty  moved  first  her  arms,  to  lift  her  hat  from  her  head,  then  her  legs,  to  walk  to  the  closet,  which  she  opened,  displaying  no  curiosity  about  it.  She  hung  her  hat  by  its  elastic  from  a  hook  on  the  closet  door.  She  then  hung  her  coat  on  a  hanger,  sat  down  in  her  sling  chair,  tested  it  a  minute,  and, satisfied,  bent  over  to  unbutton  her  boots.  Her  house  slippers  were  down-  stairs,  locked  up  in  one  of  her  bundles,  so,  with  the  boots  open  and  flapping,  she  clumped  down  the  back  stairs  to  the  kitchen  and  set  about  making  tea.  When  the  kettle  was  on,  she  built  a  fire  in  the  huge  open  fireplace,  using  paper  towels  and  three  logs  from  a  beautifully  geo-  metrical  pile  that  lay  in  a  white  basket  against  the  wall.  She  was  sitting  in  front  of  the  fire  having  her  cup  of  tea  when  the  door  opened  and  Mrs.  Conroy  shuf-  fied  in.  Mrs.  Conroy's  face  was  im-  mensely  lined,  but  whether  the  lines  had  been  put  there  by  a  life  of  goodness  or  by  a  life  of  badness  it  would  have  been  hard  to  say.  She  simply  looked  very  old.  Her  manner  would  have  been  called  obsequious  in  a  younger  person,  and  her  hands  were  gathered  nervously  around  a  large  white  handkerchief,  which  from  time  to  time  she  pressed  against  her  mouth,  perhaps  to  hide  a  tremor-of  age,  or  of  amusement,  or  of  malice.  Betty  regarded  the  intruder  bleakly.  I  could  buy  you  and  sell  you,  she  thought  as  she  got  up.  &quot;I'm  Mrs.  Conroy,&quot;  the  old  woman  said  beseechingly.  &quot;Mrs.  Frye's  mother,  you  know.  I  see  you  have  the  fire  going.  I  dearly  love  a  fire,  but  Mrs.  Frye  won't  permit  them  in  the  house,  although  she  won't  object  to  you  having  one,  I'm  sure.  She  doesn't  approve  of  open  fires.  She  tries  to  keep  me  in  my  room.  I  dis-  like  my  room.  I  hate  the  furniture.  I  expect  you  do,  too,  coming  from  Eng-  land.  My  room  is  exactly  like  yours,  except  that  1  have  that  unwholesome  view  of  the  river.  I  like  to  watch  a  street  and  see  what  the  people  are  up  to.  I  thought,  being  English,  you  might  be  having  a  cup  of  tea,  and  I  thought  perhaps  you  might  permit  me  to  join  you  here.  Mrs.  Frye  won't  permit  me  to  have  tea.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  m'lady,  but  I  don't  per-  mit  ladies  in  my  kitchen,&quot;  Betty  said.  &quot;Only  for  a  minute,  to  get  the  heat  of  the  fire  on  my  legs.&quot;  &quot;It's  out  of  the  question,  m'lady.  I  must  ask  you  to  leave  my  kitchen  at  once.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  let  have  tea,  andI'm  not  let  have  a  fire,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said.  &quot;I  notice  you  giveyourself  tea  and  a  fire,  though.  I  notice  you  have  a  fire  and  a  nice  cup  oftea  there  beside  you.&quot;  &quot;What  I  do  for  myself  and  what  I  do  for  other  people  are  two  entirely  differ-  ent  things,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  said.  &quot;I  only  wanted  to  get  the  heat  of  the  fire  on  my  legs  a  minute,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  beseeched.  &quot;Radiators  aren't  the  same     " b"thing  at  all.  Don't  you  think  I'm  right?  Radiators  are  no  good,  are  they?  ...  Well,  you  might  at  least  answer  me.&quot;  In  the  doorway,  she  paused  and  said,  without  looking  back,  &quot;You're  just  the  same  sort  she  is!  Just  the  same!&quot;  When  the  door  closed,  Betty  sat  down  by  the  fire  to  finish  her  tea.  As  she  brought  the  cup  to  her  lips,  she  raised  her  eyes  and  saw  Mrs.  Conroy's  handkerchief  lying  crumpled  on  the  floor.  She  rose,  picked  up  the  hand-  kerchief,  and,  boots  still  loose  and  flap-  ping,  went  up  the  stairs  and  knocked  on  the  door  next  her  own.  A  voice  answered  faintly.  When  Betty  opened  the  door,  Mrs.  Conroy  was  sitting  in  her  sling  chair,  which  she  had  turned  so  that  her  back  was  to  the  window.  One  of  her  account  books  lay  open  on  her  lap.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  hoping  it  was  my  daughter.  She  hates  me  to  turn  this  chair  around,  but  I'd  rather  look  at  a  dry  door  than  at  that  wet  view  any  day  of  the  week.She  hates  to  have  anything  in  the  house  changed,  you  know.  You'd  better  remember  that.  She's  very  set  in  her  ways.&quot;  &quot;I'm  returning  your  handkerchief,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  said  rudely,  and  dropped  it  on  the  bed.  She  was  about  to  leave  when  she  saw  the  shabby  books,  on  their  shelves.  The  word  &quot;Accounts,&quot;  inked  on  the  back  of  each  volume,  sprang  out  at  her.  &quot;Excuse  me,  m'lady,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;May  I  ask  you  a  question?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  you  may  ask  me  a  ques-  tion,  Betty.&quot;  &quot;What  sort  of  books  are  they  you  have,  m'lady?&quot;  &quot;They  belonged  to  my  poor  husband,  Mr.  Conroy.  That's  all  he  left  me  in  the  world,  what  you  see  there.  He  kept  them  himself;  every  stroke  is  in  his  own  handwriting.  He  ran  a  little  stationery  shop  in  [REDACTED]  the  last  nineteen  years  of  his  life.  We  lived  behind  the  shop.  We  didn't  make  a  fortune  out  of  it,  but  we  got  along.  He  had  no  head  for  busi-  ness,  but  he  enjoyed  keeping  his  books.  I  look  into  them  when  I'm  in  the  dumps.  They  remind  me  of  so  much;  it's  like  as  if  I  was  reading  his  diary.  He  put  down  everything  pertaining  to  the  shop.  Ah,  it  brings  it  all  back,  reading  these  old  books.&quot;  &quot;Might  I  see  one  of  them,  m'lady?  I  enjoy  sums.&quot;  &quot;Indeed  you  may,  indeed  you  may!  Mrs.  Conroy  cried.  Betty  made  a  step  toward  the  case,  but  the  old  lady  was  there  before  her,  and  lifted  out  a  volume,  dated  Nov.,  1899-May,  1900,  and  handed  it  to  her.  H  &quot;'The  first  year  we  were  in  the  shop,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Liza  wasn't  born  then.  She  appeared  in  1913,  the  only  one  we  had.&quot;  Betty  turned  the  pages  of  the  book.  &quot;Ialways  had  a  fancy  for  a  little  shop  of  my  own  somewhere,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  I  evergot  enough  money  saved.  Ah,  I  suppose  I'll  never  have  it,  but  it  does  no  harm  to  think  of  it.  I'd  like  to  look  at  these,  Mrs.  Conroy.  It's  not  hard,  he  has  it  all  down  nice  and  easy.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it  wasn't  mathematics  that  in-  terested  my  poor  Alfred,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said.  &quot;Only,  he  liked  to  feel  he  was  being  businesslike.  He  loved  marking  things  down.  'My  simple  arithmetic,&quot;  he  used  to  call  it.  'I'm  doing  my  simple  arithmetic,'  he'd  say  when  I  asked  him  what  he  was  up  to.&quot;  &quot;Ido  like  working  sums,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  said.  &quot;I  was  always  a  great  hand  at  addition  and  subtraction.  I  often  thought  I'd  have  been  good  in  a  bank,  only  I  never  got  the  chance.  Would  you  let  me  borrow  this  for  a  day  or  two?  I'll  bring  you  up  a  cup  of  tea,  if  you  like.&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  regarded  her  for  a  mo-  ment.  &quot;Of  course  I'll  let  you  borrow  it,&quot;  she  said,  at  last.  &quot;But  I'll  come  down  for  the  tea,  if  you  don't  mind.&quot;  Betty  touched  the  bookcase.  &quot;May-  be  I'd  better  take  the  first  two  or  three,  m'lady,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That  way  I  wouldn'thave  to  be  disturbing  you  so  often.&quot;  A  strong  old  arm  came  up  and  knocked  her  hand  away.  &quot;One  at  a  time,  Betty.  This  room  isn't  going  to  feel  the  same  with  even  that  one  miss-  ing.  Mr.  Conroy  spent  six  months  of  his  life  on  every  one  ofthese  books.  There's  two  to  a  year.  It's  going  to  take  you  a  month  anyway  to  get  through  that  one.  Now  we'll  go  down  and  have  our  tea,  nice  and  cozy  by  the  fire.  I  won't  bother  you.  I'll  just  enjoy  the  tea  and  you  can  enjoy  your  book,  but  mind  you  make  no  marks  on  it.  And  maybe  you'd  better  make  a  fresh  pot  of  tea.  It'll  have  got  cold,  standing  there  all  this  time.&quot;  HEY  had  been  sitting  in  the  kitch-  en  for  some  time  when  Betty  looked  up  from  her  book.  &quot;You  opened  the  shop  November  15th,  m'lady.  That's  the  day  Mr.  Conroy  starts  here.  And  on  December  22nd,  m'lady,  you  went  into  the  shop,  went  through  all  the  Christmas  numbers  of  the  magazines,  and  left  blue  marks  all  over  them.&quot;  &quot;Indeed,  I  remember  the  day,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said  cheerfully.  &quot;I  had  just  finished  making  a  blueberry  pie  for  his  dinner,  and  I  didn't  take  the  time  to  wash  my  hands.  Oh,  he  was  angry  when  he  came  to  sell  one  of  those  maga-  zines,  and  had  to  mark  down  the  price!&quot;  \xc2\xabWith  good  reason  he  was  angry,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  said  grimly.  &quot;And  the  place  just  started  and  not  making  money  yet.  Do  you  know  how  much  money  he  lost  with  your  blueberries?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  know,  I  know,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said,  laughing.  &quot;Don't  reproach  me  about  it,  Betty.  He  never  let  me  forget  about  it.  Turn  over  the  page  and  never  mind  about  it.&quot;  Betty  bent  to  the  book.  A  few  min-  utes  later,  she  raised  her  head  again.  &quot;Who  was  Miss  Rorke,  m'lady?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;A  poor  old  retired  schoolteacher,  Miss  Rorke  was.  She  lived  up  the  street  from  us.  Never  had  a  penny,  but  she  loved  to  read.  Mr.  Conroy  let  her  take  what  she  liked.  He  had  a  soft  spot  for  her.  She  died  then,  and  we  never  got  a  cent  of  it  back.  She  ended  owing  us  thirty-two  dollars  and  seventeen  cents.&quot;  &quot;So  far,  she  owes  us  two  dollars  and  three  cents,&quot;  Betty  said.  &quot;Poor  old  Miss  Rorke,&quot;  Mrs.  Con-  roy  said  contentedly.  &quot;Betty,  I've  been  thinking.  I'd  like  a  cup  of  tea  in  my  room  first  thing  in  the  morning.  As  soon  as  you  make  your  own.  Say  eight-  thirty.  That's  fair,  isn't  it?&quot;  Betty  sat  up  straight.  &quot;Now  then,     " b"m'lady,  that's  out  of  the  question,  so  it  is-morning  tea  in  your  room!&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  continued  to  watch  the  fire.  &quot;It  was  you  who  reminded  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Miss  Rorke  was  a  great  strain  on  the  regular  book,  the  one  you  have  there.  There  was  too  much  of  her,  she  was  always  in  and  out,  so  Mr.  Conroy  had  an  extra  little  book,  for  her  and  one  or  two  others  like  her.  I'm  not  saying  you  need  it,  but  it  would  be  a  great  help  to  you.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Betty  said  without  ran-  cor.  &quot;Half  past  eight  you'll  get  your  tea.  Sugar  and  cream,  the  way  you  have  it  now?&quot;  &quot;No  cream  in  the  morning,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said.  &quot;Cream  makes  me  queasy  in  the  morning.  Just  sugar,  thanks,  Betty.&quot;  They  exchanged  a  glance.  Betty's  eyes  were  wary  and  calculating.  Liza  burst  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;I  looked  everywhere  for  you,  Mother!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;You've  turned  your  chair  around  again.  And  why  aren't  you  up  in  your  own  room?  What  are  you  do-  ing  here  in  the  kitchen?&quot;  &quot;I'm  having  my  tea,&quot;  the  old  woman  said  calmly.  &quot;You  know  the  doctor  says  it  isn't  good  for  you,  Mother.  Now  please  go  on  upstairs,  and  I'll  get  Betty  to  bring  you  a  glass  of  hot  milk.  I  see  you've  lighted  the  fire,  Betty.  I  don't  approve  of  open  fires,  but  I  suppose  you're  accustomed  to  having  one.  Go  on,  Mother.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  hot  milk,  Liza,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said,  pressing  her  handkerchief  to  her  lips.  &quot;Tea  never  did  me  any  harm  before,  and  I  don't  trust  that  country  doctor  of  yours  anyway.  Of  course,  if  you  insist,  I'll  go  upstairs.  I'm  dependent  on  your  charity  now,  I  know  that.  But  first  I'll  take  my  book,  please,  Betty.&quot;  Bettysnatched  the  book  from  the  table.  &quot;No  harm  in  Mrs.  Conroy  hav-  ing  a  cup  of  tea,  m'lady,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  the  best  judge  of  that!&quot;  Liza  cried.  &quot;And  what  is  that  stupid  old  book  doing  down  here?  It  doesn't  belong  down  here.&quot;  &quot;It  does  now,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  said.  &quot;And  another  thing.  I'd  like  you  to  put  a  nice,  old-fashioned  stuffed  arm-  chair  in  here  by  the  fire  for  me.  These  pipe  things  of  yours  are  hard  on  my  back.&quot;  &quot;We've  had  that  all  out  before.  I  absolutely  refuse  to  allow  one  of  those  atrocities  in  my-  Is  this  a  joke,  Moth-  er?  Is  this  some  terrible  kind  of  joke?  A  kitchen  is  not  the  place  for  an  arm-  chair,  and  there's  no  room  anyway,  and  people  at  Herbert's  Retreat  don't  sit  around  having  tea  in  the  kitchen  with  the  servants.  And  I  would  like  to  point  out,  Betty,  that  you  are  here  to  work,  not  to  entertain  guests  at  tea,&quot;.  &quot;Ihave  my  contract,  m'lady,&quot;  Betty  said.  &quot;And  you  can't  very  well  afford  to  let  her  go  anyway,  can  you,  Liza?&quot;  Mrs.  Conroy  whispered.  &quot;Think  how  they'd  love  to  laugh  at  you  around  here.  And  think  how  you'd  feel  if  one  of  them  got  her  instead.  There  are  plenty  of  your  friends  who'd  love  to  have  a  woman  like  Betty  working  for  them.  And  you'd  still  have  to  pay  her  for  the  full  term.&quot;  Liza  stared  incredulously  at  Betty  for  a  minute,  and  then  at  her  mother.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  she  said  with  difficulty.  &quot;Finish  your  tea,  Mother.  Perhaps  it  will  make  you  sick.  I  hope  not.&quot;  The  derision  in  their  eyes  frightened  her,  and  she  started  for  the  door.  &quot;And  one  more  thing,&quot;  her  mother  said  good-humoredly.  &quot;From  now  on,  I'm  going  to  leave  my  teethin  the  bath-  room  at  night.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  god,&quot;Liza  said,  and  left  the  kitchen.  &quot;I  cannot  abide  the  sight  of  those  things  in  the  room  with  me,&quot;  Mrs.  Conroywent  on.  &quot;This  way,  nobody  will  have  to  look  at  them.&quot;  They  were  silent  for  a  while,  Betty  absorbed  in  her  book,  Mrs.  Conroy  peacefully  watching  the  rise  and  fall  of  the  flames.  &quot;I  think  I'll  get  a  cat,&quot;  she  said  suddenly.  &quot;Liza  hates  cats.&quot;  In  the  living  room,  sitting  in  se-  pulchral  silence,  Tom  and  Liza  were  first  startled,  then  appalled,  by  the  sud-  den  screeches  that  came  at  them  from  the  kitchen-screeches  of  laughter  that  was  rude  and  unrestrained,  and  that  renewed  itself  even  as  it  struck  and  shattered  against  the  walls  of  the  kitchen. "