 b"TWO  houses  stand  behind  me-  one,  my  grandfather's  sombre  house  in  the  city  of  Ghent,  where  my  father,  George  Sarton,  grew  up;the  other,  all  light  and  sunshine,  my  parents'  country  house  threemiles  outside  the  city,  in  Wondelgem,  where  I  was  born  in  1912.  &quot;Wondelgem&quot;-the  name  it-  self  sounded  like  magic  to  me  as  a  child.  It  was  part  ofthat  faraway  paradise  &quot;be-  fore  the  war.&quot;  It  was  quite  literally  in  another  world,  since  I  did  not  remember  it  myself  (I  was  two  and  a  half  when  we  left  [REDACTED]  )-a  little  girl  who,  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  heard  the  peculiar  tenderness  the  word  evoked  in  her  mother's  voice,  as  if  the  walls  of  the  tiny  apartment  where  we  lived  opened  out  at  its  sound  into  a  great  secret  gar-  den,  and  into  a  still,  airy  house  with  roses  climbing  all  over  it  and,  inside,  the  walls  covered  with  books.  The  house  had  been  bought  by  the  profits  from  the  sale  of  my  grandfather's  wine  cellar,  which  was  a  part  of  my  father's  inheritance.  Instead  of  turn-  ing  water  into  wine,  the  magic  had  turned  wine  into  strawberry  beds,  into  a  small  orchard,  into  great  oaks  at  the  bottom  of  a  long  greenlawn,  into  the  furniture  my  mother  designed  herself.  Never  mind  if  she  and  her  young  husband  had  to  sleep  on  mat-  tresses  on  the  floor  for  three  months  while  workmen  lovingly  polished  the  bird's-eye  maple  and  walnut,  fitting  together  the  patterns  in  the  wood  so  that  each  piece  of  furniture  seemed  in  the  end  to  show  the  heart  of  the  tree  itself,  cut  open.  It  was  all  alive,  this  house  and  garden,  in  process  of  creation.  Bel-  gian  workmen  thought  my  English  mother  crazy  when  she  insisted  that  the  cold  frames  be  dug  toa  depth  of  four  or  five  feet,  but  the  English  green  thumb  was  a  determined  thumb  and  she  had  her  way.  While  she  saw  to  the  planting  of  gooseberry  bushes  and  red  currants  and  English  borders  of  mixed  flowers,  my  father  unpacked  boxes  and  boxes  of  books  and  measured  out  the  shelves  in  his  study,  where  a  new  field  of  scholarship,  which  he  called  the  History  of  Sci-  ence-&quot;It's  my  own  in-  vention,&quot;  he  might  have  said,  like  the  White  Knight-was  being  born.  Full  of  their  own  dreams,  these  young  people  paid  no  attention  to  Oncle  Jules,  one  of  my  father's  uncles,  who  was  writing  articles  in  the  papers  to  point  out  that  it  seemed  rather  strange  the  Germans  were  building  huge  railway  stations  and  junctions  so  near  the  Bel-  gian  border.  For  what  were  these  de-  signed,  heasked  pointedly.  But  in  those  days,  only  a  little  over  forty  years  ago,  war  could  still  be  considered  an  anach-  ronism-medieval  madness  that  nine-  teenth-century  &quot;progress&quot;  had  made  impossible.  People  planned  their  lives  for  peace.  Deep  in  the  country,  under  the  shade  of  the  oaks,  my  tall,  slim  mother  was  sewing  at  the  printed  linen  curtains-delicate,  yet  so  strong  they  would  last  a  lifetime.  The  blue  flax  from  which  they  were  made  had  waved  in  the  fields  along  the  Lys.  And  my  father  was  writing  letters  to  scholars  all  over  the  world,  announcing  that  he  was  founding  a  review  to  be  devoted  to  the  histery  of  science  and  civilization.  Isis,  as  it  was  named,  was  born  in  1912,  and  I  am  its  twin  sister.  The  comical  baby,  as  my  mother  described  me,  or  Extra-  Sec,  as  my  father  somewhat  ironically  called  me,  lay  in  a  basket,  flounced  in  pink-and-white  dimity,  on  the  floor  where  the  copies  of  the  fifty-page  pam-  phlet  formally  introducing  Isis  to  the  world  lay  ready  to  be  folded  and  mailed.  The  new  review  was  such  a  huge  idea that  it  never  occurred  to  young  George  Sarton  the  re-  sponse  might  not  be  commensurate  with  the  dream.  (Would  five  hundred  copies  of  the  first  number  be  sufficient,  he  won-  dered.)  &quot;We  were  innocents,&quot;  he  often  says  today.  As  I  grew  out  ofa  basket  and  into  an  outdoor  crib,  my  father's  notes  for  his  book,  the  &quot;Introduction  to  the  History  of  Science,&quot;  grew  in  their  boxes,  and  the  garden  was  growing  all  the  time.  There  were  expeditions  to  antique  shops  in  Ghent  to  look  for  old  pieces  of  Flemish  furniture,  beautiful  in  their  heaviness,  in  the  lustre  of  their  dark  wood,  in  the  twisted  columns  that  supported  a  table  or  adorned  a  cupboard.  Friends  came  out  to  spend  a  day  in  the  country;  I  was  carried  from  flower  to  flower  in  my  mother's  arms,  reaching  out,  as  most  small  babies  will,  to  the  color  and  scent.  The  dramas  were  small  dramas:  my  first  independent  adventure,  escape  from  the  crib  and  a  crawl  to  the  straw-  berry  beds,  where  I  was  found  redwith  juice,  delighted  with  what  the  world  outside  had  tooffer;  and  the  trickle  of  answers  to  my  father's  letters,  and  sub-  scriptions  to  Isis,  which  grew  to  be  a  hundred,  but  that  small  company  was  already  a  signof  the  journal's  inter-  national  appeal-it  even  included  one  496e646961n  rajah!  We  were  beautifully  independent,  all  three.  My  mother  was  very  busy  designing  a  suite  of  furni-  ture-exquisite  it  was,  with  wreaths  of  brilliant  flowers  inlaid  in  the  smoky  blue  of  bird's-eye  maple-for  a  firm  in  [REDACTED].  This  suite  would  surely  establish  her  when  it  was  shown  at  an  exhibition  of  arts  and  crafts  due  to  open  in  [REDACTED]  in  August,  1914.  I  had  my  fierce  ambitions  and  desires,  too.  Once,  soon  after  I  learned  to  walk,  it  came  upon  me  with  violent  certainty  that  I  must  have  a  bowl  of  goldfish  I  saw  in  a  little  shop  in  the  village.  I  was  wearing  a  white  coat  and  hat  and  white  shoes  and  stockings,  and  when  this  wholehearted  need  was  denied  me,  I  Aung  myself  into  a  mud  puddle  in  revenge.  I  had  other  tantrums,  but  the  doctor's  remedy-to  plunge  me  into  a  tub  of  water  fully  dressed-I  treated  as  a  delightful  game.  I  loved  flowers     " b"and  my  mother  passionately;  I  was  a  little  frightened  of  my  father,  who  used  to  throw  me  high  in  the  air  and  cry,  &quot;Wa,  wal  Wa,  wal&quot;  N  late  June  (the  Archduke  Francis  Ferdinand  was  assassinated  on  the  twenty-eighth),  my  mother  was  ab-  sorbed  in  supervising  the  embroidery  on  the  emerald-green  curtains  and  in  the  making  of  the  rugs  for  the  grand  suite.  All  through  July,  as  my  father  worked  quietly  in  his  study  and  my  mother  won-  dered  why  again  this  year  the  plum  tree  looked  as  if  it  would  not  bear  fruit,  diplomats  hurried  back  and  forth  across  Europe.  The  papers  were  filled  with  rumors,  and  Oncle  Jules  grew  apo-  plectic  in  his  warnings  to  his  cronies  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9s  of  [REDACTED].  Butfew  could  take  the  threatof  war  seriously;  it  was  called  a  &quot;scare.&quot;  Preparations,  of  a  sort,  were  made.  The  Civil  Guard,  to  which  my  father  had  at  one  time  belonged,  took  its  uni-  forms  out  of  mothballs  and  drilled  now  and  then  in  the  village.  Sometime  in  July,  the  guardsmen  were  issued  ancient  muskets,  the  firing  of  which  seemed  more  dangerous  to  the  bearer  than  to  any  enemy.  But  no  one  really  believed  in  that  impossible  war  as  a  reality.  In  any  case,  they  reminded  each  other,  Bel-  gium  itself  was  neutral.  Nothing  could  happen  there.  On  August  2nd,  the  Germans  de-  manded  free  passage  across  [REDACTED]  and  were  refused,  and  the  next  day  the  gray  armies  marched  in.  In  the  little  village  of  Wondelgem,  church  bells  rang  the  tocsin;  the  postman  de-  livered  mobilization  orders  from  door  to  door.  My  father,  though  no  longer  a  member  of  the  Guard,  got  out  his  heavy  Civil  Guard  coat,  reported  for  patrol  duty,  and  was  issued  an  old  mus-  ket.  He  was  set  to  guard  the  railway  crossing.  There,  alone,  a  lantern  in  one  hand,  his  gun  in  the  other,  he  paced  up  and  down,  hoping  that  the  German  armies  would  not  come  hurtling  down  the  track  thatnight.  Fortunately,  they  did  not.  What  followed  is  confused  in  my  mind,  but  bits  and  pieces  of  the  tales  so  often  told  float  up.  No  one  knew  just  what  was  happening.  In  the  retreatof  the  Belgian  Army  from  [REDACTED],  an  officer  friend  of  my  father's  turned  up  suddenly,  exhausted,  filthy,  hardly  able  to  speak,  and  then  went  on  to  try  to  find  the  remains  of  his  decimated  regi-  ment.  At  night,  the  sound  of  bridges  being  blown  up  made  the  still  house  in  the  country  tremble.  The  major  fighting  was  elsewhere,  but  eventually, as  happened  to  so  many  villages  like  this  one,  the  gray  flood  of  soldiers  swept  through.  Belgian  resistance  was  all  but  over.  In  [REDACTED],  the  furniture  my  mother  had  designed  for  the  exhibition  was  packed  away  in  a  cellar.  The  fruit  was  ripe  on  the  trees  (all  except  the  plum,  which  for  some  reason  was  infertile),  and  an  enemy  battalion,  at  a  five-minute  break,  started  climbing  over  the  wall  to  steal  it.  This  was  too  much  for  my  English  mother's  sense  of  decency.  She  ran  out,  her  blueeyes  blaz-  ing,  and  berated  the  Germans  in  no  un-  certain  terms.  Very  sheepishly,  they  scrambled  down  and  went  on  their  way.  At  night,she  and  her  husband  tried  to  decide  what  to  do-whether  to  stay  on  under  the  German  Occupation  or  to  leave,  to  escape  via  neutral  [REDACTED]  and  perhaps  get  across  to  [REDACTED],  where  my  mother's  relatives  would  take  us  in  until  further  plans  could  be  made.  Money  was  frozen  in  the  banks.  During  this  time,  sixteen  German  soldiers  and  three  officers  were  quartered  on  the  place.  One  officer,  looking  over  the  billet,  walked  through  the  house  while  my  mother's  heart  stopped  beating  as  she  remembered  the  Civil  Guard  coat  hanging  on  a  door,  for  at  this  time  the  Germans  were  ordered  to  shoot  members  of  the  Civil  Guard  on  sight,     " b"like  spies.  But  by  a  miracle  she  was  able  to  push  the  door  back  and  stand  against  it,  and  that  night  the  coat  was  buried  in  the  garden.  Confusion,  panic,  all  sorts  of  decisions  to  be  made-and  a  little  girl  crying  upstairs.  The  maids  were  no  use  at  all.  They  put  their  aprons  over  their  heads  and  wept  with-  out  ceasing.  We  would  have  to  leave,  it  seemed.  But  then  what  to  take?  &quot;Just  this  book,&quot;  George  would  plead,  and  a  pair  of  shoes  would  be  dumped  out  to  make  room.  The  boxes  of  notes  could  not  go;  they  were  packed  into  a  small  metal  trunk,  which  my  English  grandfather  had  used  in  496e646961,  and  this  was  buried,  late  one  night,  in  the  garden.  At  last,  the  days  of  waiting  for  travel  permits  were  over,  the  suitcases  were  strapped  onto  the  car-  riage,  and  the  little  caravan  set  out  for  the  border,  meeting  the  advancing  Ger-  man  armies;  my  father  and  mother  watched  them  pour  down  through  the  standing  grain  like  lead.  There  had  been  hardly  time  to  take  a  last  look  at  the  gar-  den,  at  the  beloved  house  lying  there  so  airy  and  sunny  and  quiet  in  its  orchard  green.  Did  my  mother  look  back  one  last  time  at  the  long,  protecting  wall  that  had  sheltered  all  she  loved  for  such  a  very  brief  time?  At  the  great  oaks  standing  inviolate,  their  leaves  shining  in  the  sun?  ,  I  remember  none  of  this.  It  still  sounds  like  a  fairy  tale,  a  fairy  tale  that  after  all,  after  many  tribulations,  ended  well,  since  no  one  died,  and  it  came  full  circle  at  last  in  another  deep-green  garden,  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  many,  many  years  later.  MY  memories  of  the  house  at  Won-  delgem  begin  and  end  on  one  day  in  1919.  This  day  stays  with  me  like  some  marvellous,  strange  dream  when  you  are  allowed  to  go  back  in  time  but  everything  is  curiously  distorted.  I  was  seven  and  we  were  going  to  Europe  for  the  first  time  since  the  war.  Until  then,  [REDACTED]  had  meant  to  me  the  postman  hurrying  up  the  path  (this  was  a  year  earlier)  saying  &quot;Mrs.  Sarton!  Mrs.  Sarton!&quot;  and  handing  her  those  first  letters  with  Belgian  stamps  after  four  years  of  silence,  and  my  mother  sitting  down,  tears  streaming  down  her  cheeks,  unable  for  a  moment  to  read,  yet  know-  ing  at  last  that  they  were  alive-the  friends  who  had  been  imprisoned  behind  the  wall  of  suffering  while  we,  the  earliest  and  most  cherished  of  refugees,  slowly  found  ourselves  and  our  new  life  in  [REDACTED].  Now  we  were  on  our  way  to  Won-  delgem.  How  did  we  get  there  once  we  reached  Ghent?  By  trolley?  By  carriage?  Like  a  dream,  this  journey  has  no  beginning. We  are  there,  at  the   gate.  The  first  thing  we  see,  even  before  we  go  in,  is  the  once  barren  plum  tree  laden  with  huge  blue  plums.  I  can  feel  all  through  me  my  mother's  beating  heart.  We  push  open  the  gate  and  are  in  Sleeping  Beauty's  garden.  It  is  all  so  still,  so  lush,  so  overgrown  that  we  have  to  tear  a  path  through  tall  yellow  flowers  to  reach  the  house,  but  the  house  stands.  It  is  there,  waiting-somehow  proudly,  in  spite  of  two  bomb  holes  in  the  roof  and  the  jungle  of  green  all  around.  Everything  feels  ripe  and  breathless.  It  is  very  hot.  Fruit  every-  where;  cherries,  peaches,  plums  (have  I  invented  this?)  look  like  fruitin  a  dream.  One  hardly  dares  to  touch  it,  for  it  may  not  be  real.  And  I  am  noth-  ing,  an  observer-nothing  but  eyes.  It  is  my  father's  and  mother's  moment,  the  long,  poignant  look  back  into  the  lost  past.  Inside,  we  are  met  by  destruction-  chairs  broken  up  for  firewood,  rub-  bish  knee-deep  in  the  corners,  utter  desecration.  Between  these  patient  walls,  armies  had  flowed  back  and  forth,  making  do  with  what  they  found,  and  if  it  was  a  fourteenth-century  chair,  later  looters  would  break  it  up  if  they  refrained.  At  first,  my  mother  and  father  must  have  only  felt  their  life  to-  gether  violated,  trampled  down,  made  ugly  and  filthy  in  every  possible  way.  The  dream,  so  beautiful  and  mysterious  while  we  stood  outside,  had  turned  into  a  nightmare.  I  opened  a  cupboard  and  saw  on  the  floor  what  looked  like  a  pile  of  large  cannon  balls  made  of  mud.  What  were  they?  I  do  not  know,  even  now,  but  I  have  never  forgotten  them.  But  just  then  my  mother  cried  out,  &quot;Look,  [REDACTED];  She  lifted  out  of  a  pile  of  rubbish  a  single  Venctian  glass  on  a  long,  delicate  stem,  so  dirty  it  looked  opaque,  yet  intact.  How  had  this  single  fragile  object  survived?  It  seemed  like  a  miracle  and  gave  us  courage.  The  dream  fades  out  into  a  story-  perhaps  a  legend.  It  seems  that  two  Ger-  man  officers  lived  in  the  house  during  the  first  two  years  of  the  war,  that  they  stole  a  girl  from  the  village  to  work  for  them.  Someone  had  a  glimpse  of  her  through  the  curtainsof  theclosed  carriage  that  bore  her  to  Wondel-  gem-but  that  is  all.  She  was  never  seen  again.  The  officers  had  time  to  occupy  themselves  with  more  than  military  mat-  ters,  apparently,  for  they  must  have  sent  home  or  sold  all  the  German  books  on  the  history  of  mathematics  and  physics.  My  father  is  taking  down  what  few  books  are  left-moldy,  dusty  books-  and  opening  them  at  random,  to  dis-  cover  that  they,  too,  have  been  violated.  The  officers  had  amused  themselves  by  ripping  out  an  end  paper  here,  an  il-  lustration  there,  until  they  had  gone  through  the  library,  sparing  not  a  single  volume-a  methodical,  not  very  amus-  ing  game,  one  would  think.  But  no  doubt  they  were  bored.  I  was  beginning  to  feel  that  we  were  ghosts,  entirely  unreal,  that  only  the  rubbish  and  desolation  were  real,  when  we  heard  someone  tearing  through  the  flowers.  One  of  our  peasant  neighbors  stood  shyly  at  the  door.  She  was  smil-  ing  broadly,  holding  out  to  my  mother  a  pile  of  beautiful  old  plates.  (&quot;But  where?  But  how?&quot;  my  mother  ex-  claimed.)  All  those  years,  she  had  stored  them  up,  one  by  one,  as  the  officers  paid  for  eggs  and  butter  with  some  object  from  the  house.  Never  knowing  if  we  would  come  back,  she  had  saved  the  plates.  She  had  hoped;  she  had  foreseen  the  happiness  she  might  onedayhave  in  her  hands  to  give.  Only  then,  with  the  plates,  soclean,  so  brilliant,  so  un-  touched,  so  wrapped  in  human  kind-  ness,  in  her  own  hands,  did  my  mother  weep.  Later,  I  must  havebeen  told  about  the  notes  for  my  father's  book;  it  does  not  seem  to  be  part  of  that  day.  A  distant  cousin  of  ours  had  succeeded  in  digging  them  up,  safe  in  the  metal  trunk,  and     " b"had  kept  them  for  my  father's  return.  Like  the  Venetian  glass,  they  survived,  as  fragile,  and  even  more  prized,  since  without  them  he  could  not  have  writ-  ten  the  first  volume  of  the  history  of  science.  HAT  is  what  I  remember  of  Wondelgem,  except  the  veryend,  which  I  had  almost  forgotten.  It  came  back  with  a  rush  the  first  time  I  heard  the  axes  chopping  down  the  cherry  trees  at  the  end  of  Chekhov's  &quot;Cherry  Or-  chard.&quot;  And  then  I  remembered  in  a  flash  of  pain.  We  went  back  to  the  house  once  more  that  summer,  after  the  place  had  been  sold,  like  the  one  in  &quot;The  Cherry  Orchard,&quot;  to  be  broken  up  into  small  lots,  for  villas.  There  was  a  strange  noise  like  tearing  silk,  and  then  we  saw  that  the  new  owners  were  wrenching  the  climbing  roses  from  the  walls  (the  rose  vines  reached  the  roof  and  were  all  in  flower),  and  I  heard  my  mother's  desperate  cry-&quot;Couldn't  they  wait  till  we've  gone?&quot;  But  that  was  not  all.  That  same  day,  they  chopped  down  the  great  oaks,  three  hundred  years  old-'&quot;to  get  a  view,&quot;  they  said.  So  the  heart  of  the  house  was  pulled  up  by  the  roots  and  carried  across  the  sea,  where  little  bits  and  pieces  of  Wondel-  gem  still  give  a  flavor  to  our  house  in  [REDACTED]  and  an  atmosphere  that  feels  like  happiness-the  happiness  that  comes  from  continuity,  from  old  dear  things  much  lived  with,  such  as  the  bahut  in  the  living  room,  with  its  beautiful  twisted  pillars,  and  the  table  with  legs  to  match  these,  both  pieces  sturdy,  dark,  glowing.  There  is  even-memory  of  a  glory  that  never  quite  came  to  pass-  one  piece  of  the  inlaid  furniture  my  mother  designed  for  the  great  exhibi-  tion,  a  desk  with  folding  doors.  My  father  managed  to  buy  it  after  the  war.  We  were  hard  up  still,  and  surely  no  jewel  could  have  been  more  beautifully  a  sign  of  love  than  this  fabulous  piece,  too  rich  for  our  surroundings.  It  glows  softly  in  the  dining  room,  and  on  great  occasions  its  doors  are  opened  to  show,  within,  the  brilliant-green  leaves  laid  in  the  polished  smoothness  of  the  white  wood,  the  mother-of-pearl  butterfly,  and  the  little  secret  drawers,  so  smooth  inside  they  feel  like  satin.  It  was  not  designed  for  Wondelgem,  but  it  has  always  seemed  to  me  to  carry  with  it  the  atmosphere  ofthat  house,  so  gay,  so  full  of  life,  precious  as  a  jewel  that  will  never  lose  its  radiance,  and  so  intense,  perhaps,  because  the  life  there,  richin  hopes  and  dreams,  was  so  very  brief.  "