 b"BECAUSE  there  was  nothing  to  separate  our  rooms  but  the  thin-  nest  of  plaster  partitions,  it  some-  times  seemed  as  if  the  Pinedos-Sefior,  Sefiora,  and  baby  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria-and  I  were  really  living  together.  Every  morn-  ing,  we  four  were  roused  by  the  same  alarm  clock.  At  night,  we  all  went  to  bed  to  the  sound  of  Sefiora  Pinedo's  prayers.  She  prayed  in  a  bored,  sleepy  voice,  invoking  a  great  many  saints  of  the  Spanish  calendar,  while  her  husband,  a  fussy  537061696e  civil  servant,  followed  along  with  the  responses.  &quot;San  Juan  de  la  Cruz  .  .  .&quot;  Sefiora  Pinedo  would  say,  between  yawns.  &quot;San  Agustin  de  Cantorbery  ...  Santa  An-  atolia  ...&quot;  &quot;Pray  for  us!&quot;  her  husband  would  command  after  every  name.  After  the  prayers,  I  would  hear  them  winding  the  clock  and  muffling  door  and  window  against  harmful,  wayward  drafts  of  night  air.  Then,  long  after  all  the  lightsin  the  persion  we  lived  in  had  been  put  out,  and  against  a  background  of  the  restless,  endless  racket  of  the  537061696e  night,  their  voices  would  sound  almost  against  my  ear  as  they  talked  about  money.  &quot;I  have  only  one  dress  for  the  sum-  mer,  and  it's  too  tight,&quot;  the  Sefiora  would  say,into  the  dark.  &quot;Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria's  doctor  came  right  to  the  house  today.  I  pretended  I  was  out.  'I  know  she  never  goes  out,'  he  said.  By  Monday,  we  have  to  pay  the  interest  on  the  silver  crucifix  at  the  Monte  de  Piedad,  or  we  lose  it.&quot;  The  Monte  de  Piedad  was  the  municipal  pawnshop,  a  brisk,  banklike  place,  into  which  occasionally  vanished  not  only  the  crucifix  but  also  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria's  silver  christening  cup  and  Sefiora  Pinedo's  small  radio.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  would  re-  ply,  with  somewhat  less  authority  than  he  used  in  his  prayers.  Or,  &quot;It  can't  be  helped.&quot;  Sometimes  the  baby  cried,  interrupt,  ing  the  sad  little  catalogue  of  complaints.  He  would  cry  again  in  the  morning,  jolted  by  the  alarm,  and  I  would  hear  Sefior  Pinedo  swearing  to  himself  as  he  stumbled  about  the  room  getting  dressed  and  preparing  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria's  early  morn-  ing  biberon  of  dark  wheat  flour  and  milk.  Sefiora  Pinedo  never  rose  until  much  later;  it  was  understood  that,  hav-  ing  given  birth  to  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria  a  few  months  before,  she  had  done  nearly  as  much  as  could  be  expected  of  her.  Hours  after  her  husbandhad  gone  off  to  his  Ministry  desk  and  his  filing  trays,  she  would  inch  her  way  out  of  bed,  groan-  ing  a  little,  and,  after  examining  her  face  for  signs  of  age  (she  was  twenty-three),  complete  her  toilette  by  drawing  on  a  flowered  cotton  wrapper  that  at  night  hung  on  a  gilded  wall  candle-bracket,  long  fallen  away  from  its  original  use.  &quot;Is  it  a  nice  day?&quot;  she  would  call,  knocking  on  the  wall.  Our  windows  faced  the  same  direction,  but  she  liked  to  be  reassured.  &quot;Shall  I  go  out?  What  would  you  do  in  my  place?&quot;  It  took  several  minutes  of  talking  back  and  forth  before  the  problem  could  be  settled.  If  the  day  seemed  to  lack  promise,  she  turned  on  the  radio  and  went  back  to  bed.  Otherwise,  she  dragged  a  chair  out  to  the  courtyard  balcony  that  belonged  to  both  our  rooms  and  sat  in  the  sun,  plucking  her  eyebrows  and  screaming  companionably  at  the  neighbors.  Since  it  was  well  known  that  crying  developed  the  lungs,  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria  was  usually  left  indoors,  where  he  howled  and  whim-  pered  in  a  crib  trimmed  with  shabby  ribbons.  His  cries,  the  sound  ofthe  radio,  and  Sefior  Pinedo's  remarks  all  came  through  the  wall  as  if  it  had  been  a  sieve.  The  Pinedos  and  I  did,  in  a  sense,  share  a  room,  for  the  partition  divided  what  had  once  been  the  drawing  room  of  a  stately  third-floor  flat.  The  wall  was  designed  with  scrupulous  fairness;  I  had  more  space  and  an  extra  window,  while  the  Pinedos  had  the  pink  marble  fireplace,  the  candle  brackets,  and  some  odd  lengths  of  green  velvet  drapery  gone  limp  with  age.  Each  side  had  a  door  leading  out  to  the  balcony,  and  one  semicircle  of  plaster  roses  on  the  ceiling,  marking  the  place  where  a  chan-  delier  had  hung.  Like  many  pensions  in  Ma-  drid,  the  flat  had  once  housed  a  rich  middle-class  family.  The  remnants  of  the  family,  Sefiorita  Elvira  Gomez  and  her  brother,  lived  in  two  cramped  rooms  off  the  entrance  hall.  The  rest  of  the  house  was  stuffed  with  their  possessions-cases  of  tropical  birds,  fat  brocaded  footstools,  wardrobes  with  jutting,  treacherous  feet.  Draperies  and  muslin  blinds  maintained  the  regulation  pension  twilight.  In  the  Pinedos'  room,  the  atmosphere  was  particularly  dense,  for  to  the  mountain  of  furnishings  pro-  vided  for  their  comfort  they  had  added  all  the  odds  and  ends  of  a  larger  house-  hold.  Chairs,  tables,  and  chimneypiece  were  piled  with  plates  and  glasses  that  were  never  used,  with  trinkets  and  pa-  perweights  shaped  like  charging  bulls  or  Walt  Disney  gnomes.  In  one  corner  stood  a  rusty  camping  stove,  a  relic  of  Sefior  Pinedo's  hearty,  marching  youth.  The  stove  was  now  used  for  heating  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria's  bottles. Added  to  this  visual  confusion  was  the  noise.  The  baby  wept  tirelessly,  but  most  of  the  heavy  sounds  came  from  the  radio,  which  emitted  an  un-  broken  stream  of  jazz,  flamenco,  roar-  ing  futbol  games,  the  national  anthem,  Spanish  operetta  with  odd,  muddled  overtones  of  Viennese,  and,  repeatedly,  a  singing  commercial  for  headache  tab-  lets.  The  commercial  was  a  particular  favorite  with  Sefiora  Pinedo.  &quot;Okal!&quot;  she  would  sing  whenever  it  came  on  the  air.  &quot;Okael!  Okal  es  un  producto  su-  perior!&quot;  'There  were  three  verses  and  three  choruses,  and  she  sang  them  all  the  way  through.  Sometimes  it  was  too  much  for  Sefior  Pinedo,  and  I  would  hear  him  pitting  his  voice  against  the  up-  roar  of  his  room  in  adespairing  quaver  of  &quot;Silencio!&quot;  He  was  a  thin,  worried-  looking  man,  who  bore  an  almost  comic  resemblance  to  Salvador  Dali.  Never-  theless,  he  was  a  Spanish  husband  and  father,  and  his  word,  by  tradition,  was  law.  &quot;Silencio!&quot;  he  commanded.  &quot;Viva  la  tableta  O  kal!&quot;  sang  his  wife.  HAD  arrived  at  the  pension  on  a  spring  morning,  for  a  few  weeks'  stay.  Sefiorita  Elvira  warned  me  about  the  noise  next  door,  without  for  a  mo-  ment  proposing  that  anything  might  be  done  about  it.  Like  so  many  of  the  peo-  ple  I  was  to  encounter  in  537061696e,  she  lived  with,  and  cherished,  a  galaxy  of  problems  that  seemed  to  trail  about  her  person.  The  Pinedo  radio  was  one.  Another  stemmed  from  the  fact  that  she  didn't  report  her  lodgers  to  the  police  and  pay  the  tax  required  for  running  a  pension.  No  government  inspec-  tor  ever  visited  the  house,  nor,  I  discovered  from  the  porter  down-  stairs,  had  anyone  so  much  as  asked  why  so  many  people  came  and  went  from  our  floor.  Still  Sefiorita  Elvira  lived  in  a  frenzy  of  nervous  ap-  prehension,  shared,  out  of  sympathy,  by  her  tenants.  On  my  first  day,  she  ushered  me  in  with  a  rapid  succession  of  warnings,  as  dolorous  and  pessimistic  as  the  little  booklets  of  possible  mishaps  that  accom-  pany  the  sale  of  English  cars.  First,  if  a  government  inspector  asked  me  ques-  tions,  I  was  to  say  nothing,  nothing  at  all.  Then  (frantically  adjusting  her  helmet  of  tortoise-shell  hairpins),  I  was  not  to  usethe  electric  fan  in  the  room,  because  ofthe  shaky  nature  of  the  fuses;  I  was  to  sign  a  little  book  whenever  I  made  a  telephone  call;  I  was  not  to  hang  clothes  on  the  balcony  railing,  because  of  some  incoherent  reason  that  had  to  do  with  the  neighbors;  and,  finally,  I  was  not  to  overtip  the  maid,  who,  although  she  earned  the  sturdy  sum  of  two  hun-  " b"dred  pesetas-or  five  dollars-a  month,  became  so  giddy  at  the  sight  of  money  there  was  no  keeping  her  in  the  kitchen.  All  her  tenants  were  distinguished,  Sefiorita  Elvira  said-muy,  muy  dis-  tinguished-and  the  most  distinguished  of  all  was  my  neighbor,  Sefior  Pinedo.  No  matter  how  noisy  I  might  find  my  ac-  commodations,  I  was  to  remember  how  distinguished  he  was,  and  be  consoled.  Later  in  the  morning,  I  met  my  dis-  tinguished  neighbor's  wife.  She  was  sunning  herself  on  the  balcony  in  night-  gown  and  wrapper,  her  bare  feet  propped  flat  against  the  warm  railing.  Her  hair  was  tied  back  with  a  grubby  ribbon,  and  on  the  upper  and  lower  lids  of  her  eyes,  which  were  lovely,  she  had  carefully  applied  makeup,  in  the  Arab  manner.  &quot;I  heard  theold  one,&quot;  she  said,  evi-  dently  meaning  Sefiorita  Elvira.  &quot;Do  you  like  music?  Then  you  won't  mind  the  radio.  Will  you  behere  long?  Did  you  bring  many  bags?  Do  you  like  chil-  dren?  Do  children  where  you  come  from  cry  at  night?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  so,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Not  after  a  certain  age.&quot;  It  seemed  to  me  a  strange  sort  of  introductory  conversation.  The  courtyard,  formed  by  adjoining  apart-  ment  blocks,  was  so  narrow  that  women  on  balconies  across  the  way  could  hear,  and  were  listening  with  interest.  &quot;Some  babies  are  forced  not  to  cry,&quot;  said  Sefiora  Pinedo.  &quot;Many  are  drugged,  to  make  them  sleep.  Qu\xc3\xa9  horror!&quot;  An  assenting  murmur  went  around  the  court.  Suddenly  maternal,  Sefiora  Pinedo  went  indoors  and  fetched  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria.  For  the  next  few  minutes-  until  it  bored  her-she  entertained  him  by  shaking  a  ringof  bells  inhis  face,  so  that  he  shrieked  with  annoyance.  The  courtyard,  crisscrossed  with  lines  of  washing  that  dripped  onto  the  cobbles  below,  seemed  to  be  where  the  most  active  life  of  the  apartment  houses  took  place.  Children  played  under  the  con-  stant  rain  from  the  laundry,  and  the  bal-  conies  were  crowded  with  women  sew-  ing,  preparing  vegetables,  and  even  cooking  on  portable  charcoal  stoves.  The  air  was  cloudy  with  frying  olive  oil.  In  spite  ofthesun,  everyone,  and  par-  ticularly  the  children,  seemed  to  me  in-  ordinately  pale-perhaps  because  they  had  not  yet  shaken  off  the  effects  of  the  tiring  Castilian  winter.  Against  a  wall  that  made  a  right  angle  with  ours  hung  a  huge  iron  block  attached  to  a  cable.  At  irregular  intervals  it  rose  and  descended,  narrowly  scraping  between  the  bal-  conies.  I  asked  Sefiora  Pinedo  about  it  finally,  and  she  explained  that  it  was  the  weight  that  counterbalanced  the  ele-  vator  in  the  building  around  the  corner.  Sometimes  the  little  boys  playing  in  the  courtyard  would  sit  on  the  block,  hold-  ing  on  to  the  cable  from  which  it  was  suspended,  and  ride  up  as  faras  the  second-floor  balconies,  where  they  would  scramble  off;  frequently  the  ele-  vator  would  stall  before  they  had  trav-  elled  any  distance.  From  our  third-floor  balcony,  the  children  below  looked  frail  and  small.  I  asked  Sefiora  Pinedo  if  the  block  wasn't  dangerous.  &quot;It  is,  without  doubt,&quot;  she  said,  but  with  a  great  dark-rimmed  glance  of  astonishment;  it  was  clear  that  this  thought  had  never  before  entered  her  head.  &quot;But  then,&quot;  she  added,  as  if  prim-  ly  repeating  a  lesson,  &quot;in  537061696e  we  do  things  our  own  way.&quot;  Only  after  meeting  Sefior  Pinedo  could  I  imagine  where  she  had  picked  up  this  petulant  and,  in  that  context,  mean-  ingless  phrase.  He  arrived  at  two  o'clock  for  his  long  lunch-and-siesta  break.  Sefiora  Pinedo  and  I  were  still  on  the  balcony,  and  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria  had,  miracu-  lously,  fallen  asleep  on  his  mother's  lap.  Sefior  Pinedo  carried  out  one  of  Sefiorita  Elvira's  billowing  chairs  and  sat  down,  looking  stiff  and  formal.  He  wore  a  sober,  badly  cut  suit  and  a  large,  cheap  signet  ring,  on  which  was  emblazoned  the  crossed  arrows  of  the  Falange.  He  told  me,  as  ifit  were  important  this  be  made  very  clear,  that  he  and  his  wife  were  living  in  such  crowded  quarters  only  temporarily.  'They  were  used  to  much  finerthings.  I  had  the  impression  that  they  were  between  apartments.  'Yes,  we've  been  here  four  and  a  half  years,&quot;  said  Sefiora  Pinedo,  cheer-  fully  destroying  the  impression.  &quot;We  were  married  and  came  right  here.  My  trousseau  linen  is  in  a  big  box  under  the  bed.&quot;  &quot;But  you  are  not  to  suppose  from  this  that  there  is  a  housing  problem  in  537061696e,&quot;  said  Sefior  Pinedo.  &quot;On  the  contrary,  our  urban  building  program  is  one  of  the  most  advanced  in  Europe.  We  are  ahead  of  England.  We  are  ahead  of  France.&quot;  &quot;'Then  why  don't  we  have  a  nice  " b"little  house?&quot;  his  wife  in-  terrupted  dreamily.  &quot;Or     an  apartment?  I  would  like  a  salon,  a  dining  room,  three  bedrooms,  a  balcony  for  flowers,  and  a  terrace  for  the  laundry.  In  my  uncle's  house,  in  San  Se-  bastian,  the  maids  have  their  own  bathroom.&quot;  &quot;If  you  are  interested,&quot;  said  Sefior  Pinedo  to  me,  &quot;I  could  bring  you  some  interesting  figures  from  the  Ministry  of  Housing.&quot;  &quot;''The  maids  have  their  own  bathtub,&quot;  said  Sefiora  Pinedo,  bouncing  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria.  &quot;How  many  peo-  ple  in  537061696e  can  say  the  same?  Twice  every  month,  they  have  their  own  hot  water.&quot;  &quot;I  will  bring  you  the  housing  figures  this  eve-  ning,&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  promised.  He  rose,  hur-  ried  his  wife  indoors  be-  fore  she  could  tell  me  any-  thing  more  about  the  maids  in  San  Sebastian,  and  bowed  in  the  most  ceremonious  manner,  as  if  we  would  not  be  meeting  a  few  mo-  ments  later  in  the  dining  room.  That  evening,  he  did  indeed  bring  home  from  his  office  a  thick  booklet  that  bore  the  imprint  of  the  Ministry  of  Housing.  It  contained  pictures  of  a  workers'  housing  project  in  Seville,  and  showed  smiling  factory  hands  moving  into  their  new  quarters.  The  next  day,  there  was  something  else-a  chart  illus-  trating  the  drop  in  infant  mortality.  And  after  that  came  a  steady  flow  of  pamphlets  and  graphs,  covering  milk  production,  the  exporting  of  olive  oil,  the  number  of  miles  of  railroad  track  constructed  per  year,  the  improved  lot  of  agricultural  workers.  With  a  trium-  phant  smile,  as  if  tosay,  &quot;Aha!  Here's  something  you  didn't  know!,&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  would  present  me  with  some  new  document,  open  it,  and  show  me  photographs  ofa  soup  kitchen  for  nurs-  ing  mothers  or  of  tubercular  children  at  a  summer  camp.  HE  Pinedos  and  I  were  not,  of  course,  the  only  tenants  of  Sefiorita  Elvira's  flat.  Apart  from  the  tourists,  the  honeymooning  couples  from  the  prov-  ince,  and  the  commercial  travellers,  there  was  a  permanent  core  of  lodgers,  some  of  whom,  although  young,  ap-  peared  to  have  lived  there  for  years.  These  included  a  bank  clerk,  a  student  from  Zaragoza,  a  civil  engineer,  a  bull-  fighters'  impresario,  and  a  former  uni-  versity  instructor  of  Spanish  literature,  who,  having  taken  quite  the  wrong  stand  during  the  Civil  War-he  had  been  neutral-now  dispensed  hand  lo-  tion  and  aspirin  in  a  drugstore  on  the  Calle  del  Carmen.  There  was  also  the  inevitable  Englishwoman,  one  of  the  queer  Mad  Megs  who  seem  to  have  beenborn  and  bred  for  pension  life.  This  one,  on  hearing  me  speak  English  in  the  dining  room,  looked  at  me  with  undisguised  loathing,  picked  up  knife,  fork,  plate,  and  wineglass,  and  removed  herself  to  the  far  corner  of  the  room;  the  maid  followed  with  the  English-  woman's  own  private  assortment  of  mineral  water,  digestive  pills,  Keen's  mustard,  and  English  chop  sauce.  All  these  people,  with  the  exception  of  the  Englishwoman,  seemed  to  need  as  much  instruction  as  I  did  in  the  good  works  performed  by  the  state.  Every  new  bulletin  published  by  the  Ministry  of  Propaganda  was  fetched  home  by  Sefior  Pinedo  and  circulated  through  the  dining  room,  passing  from  hand  to  hand.  All  conversation  would  stop,  and  Sefior  Pinedo  would  eagerly  search  the  readers'  faces,  waiting  for  someone  to  exclaim  over,  say,  the  splendid  tidings  that  a  new  luxury  train  had  been  put  into  operation  between  537061696e  and  the south.  Usually,  however,  the  only  re-  mark  would  come  from  the  impresario,  a  fat,  noisy  man  who  smoked  cigars  and  wandered  about  the  halls  in  his  under-  wear.  Sometimes  he  entertained  one  of  his  simple-minded  clients  in  our  dining  room;  on  theseoccasions,  Sefiorita  El-  vira,  clinging  gamely  to  her  boast  that  everyone  was  muy,  muy  distinguished,  kept  the  conversation  at  her  table  at  a  rattling  pitch  in  order  to  drown  out  the  noise  matador  and  impresario  managed  to  make  with  their  food  and  wine.  &quot;How  much  did  this  thing  cost?&quot;  the  impresario  would  ask  rudely,  holding  Sefior  Pinedo's  pamphlet  at  arm's  length  and  squinting  at  it.  &quot;Who  made  the  money  on  it?  What's  it  good  for?&quot;  &quot;Money?&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  would  cry,  seriously  upset.  &quot;Good  for?&quot;  Often,  after  such  an  exchange,  he  was  unable  to  get  on  with  his  meal,  and  sat  hurt  and  perplexed,  staring  at  his  plate  in  a  rising  clatter  of  dishes  and  talk.  Sometimes  his  arguments  took  on  a  curious  note  of  pleading,  as  if  he  believed  that  these  people,  with  their  genteel  pre-  tensions,  their  gritty  urban  poverty  that  showed  itself  in  their  clothes,  their  bad-  tasting  cigarettes,  their  obvious  avoid-  ance  of  such  luxuries  as  baths  and  hair-  cuts,  should  understand  him  best.  &quot;Am  I  rich?&quot;  he  would  ask.  &quot;Did  I  make  black-market  money?  Do  I  have  a  big  " b"house,  or  an  American  car?  I  don't  love  myself,  Ilove  537061696e.  I've  sacrificed  everything  for  537061696e.  I  was  wounded  at  seventeen.  Seventeen!  And  I  was  a  volunteer.  No  one  recruited  me.&quot;  Hearing  this  declaration  for  the  twen-  tieth  time,the  tenants  in  the  dining  room  would  stare,  polite.  It  was  all  un-  doubtedly  interesting,  their  faces  sug-  gested;  it  was  even  important,  perhaps,  that  Sefior  Pinedo,  who  had  not  made  a  dishonest  c\xc3\xa9ntimo,  sat  among  them.  In  another  year,  at  another  period  of  life,  they  might  have  been  willing  to  reply;  however,  at  the  moment,  although  their  opinions  were  not  dead,they  had  faded,  like  the  sepia  etching  of  the  Chief  of  State  that  had  hung  in  the  entrance  hall  for  more  than  thirteen  years  and  now  blended  quietly  with  the  wallpaper.  In  Sefior  Pinedo's  room,  between  the  portraits  of  film  stars  tacked  up  by  his  wife,  hung  another  likeness,  this  one  of  Jos\xc3\xa9  Antonio  Primo  de  Rivera,  the  founder  of  the  Falange,  who  was  shot  by  the  Republicans  during  the  Civil  War.  &quot;He  was  murdered,&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  said  to  me  one  day  when  I  was  visiting  the  Pinedos  in  their  room.  &quot;Murdered  by  the  Reds.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  dead  leader's  face,  at  the  pose,  with  its  de-  fiant  swagger,  the  arms  folded  over  the  famous  blue  shirt.  &quot;Was  there  ever  a  man  like  that  in  your  country?&quot;  Under  the  picture,  on  a  shelf,  he  kept  an  old,  poorly  printed  edition  of  Jos\xc3\xa9  Antonio's  speeches  and  a  framed  copy  of  the  Call  to  Arms,  issued  on  the  greatest  day  of  Sefior  Pinedo's  life.  Both  these  precious  things  he  gave  me  to  read,  handling  the  book  with  care  and  reverence.  &quot;Every,  thing  is  here,&quot;  he  assured  me.  &quot;When  you  have  read  these,  you  will  under-  stand  the  true  meaning  of  the  move-  ment,  not  just  foreign  lies  and  propa-  ganda.&quot;  Everything  was  there,  and  I  read  the  brave  phrases  of  revolution  that  had  ap-  pealed  to  Sefior  Pinedo  at  seventeen.  I  read  of  a  New  537061696e,  mighty,  Spartan,  and  feared  abroad.  I  read  of  the  need  for  austerity  and  sacrifice.  I  read  the  promise  of  land  reform,  the  denuncia-  tion  of  capitalism,  and,  finally,  the  Call  to  Arms.  It  promised  &quot;one  great  nation  for  all,  and  not  for  a  group  of  privileged.&quot;  I  returned  the  book  and  the  framed  declaration  to  Sefior  Pinedo,  who  said,  mysteriously,  &quot;Now  you  know,&quot;  as  if  we  shared  a  great  secret.  HAT  spring,  there  was  an  un-  seasonable  heat  wave  in  537061696e;  by  the  time  Easter  approached,  it  was  as  warm  as  a  northern  June.  'The  week  before  Palm  Sunday,  the  plane  trees  along  the  Calle  de  Alcald  were  in  deli-  cate  leaf,  and  on  the  watered  lawns  of  the  Ministry  of  War  roses  drooped  on  thin  tall  stalks,  like  the  flowers  in  Per-  sian  art.  Outside  the  Ministry  gates,  sentries  paced  and  wheeled,  sweating  heroically  in  their  winter  greatcoats.  The  table  in  the  entrance  hall  of  the  pension  was  heaped  with  palms,  some  of  them  as  tall  as  little  trees.  Sefiorita  Elvira  planned  to  have  the  entire  lot  blessed  and  then  affixed  to  the  balconies  on  both  sides  of  the  house;  she  believed     them  effective  against  a  number  of  dan-  gers,  including  lightning.  The  Chief  of  State,  dusted  and  refreshed  after  a  spring-cleaning,  hung  over  the  palms,  gazing  directly  at  a  plaster  Santa  Rita,  who  was  making  a  parochial  visit.  She  stood  in  a  small  house  that  looked  like  a  sentry  box,  to  which  was  tacked  anote  explaining  that  her  visit  brought  good  fortune  to  all  and  that  a  minimum  fee  of  two  pesetas  was  required  in  exchange.  It  seemed  little  enough  in  return  for  good  fortune,  but  Sefior  Pinedo,  who  sometimes  affected  a  kind  of  petulant  anticlericalism,  would  have  no  part  of  the  pink-faced  little  doll,  and  said  that  he  was  not  planning  to  go  to  church  on  Palm  Sunday-an  announcement  that  appeared  to  shock  no  one  at  all.  On  Saturday  night,  four  of  us  acci-  dentally  came  home  at  the  same  time  " b"and  were  let  into  the  building  and  then  into  the  pension  by  the  night  porter.  Sefior  Pinedo  had  been  to  the  cinema.  The  stills  outside  the  theatre  had  prom-  ised  a  rich  glimpse  of  American  living,  but  in  line  with  some  imbecility  of  plot  (the  hero  was  unable  to  love  a  girl  with  money)  all  the  characters  had  to  pre-  tend  to  be  poor  until  the  last  reel.  They  wore  shabby  clothes,  and  walked  in-  stead  of  riding  in  cars.  Describing  the  movie,  Sefior  Pinedo  sounded  angry  and  depressed.  He  smelled  faintly  of  the  dis-  infectant  with  which  537061696e  cinemas  are  sprayed.  &quot;If  I  belonged  to  the  Office  of  Cen-  sorship,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  would  have  had  the  film  banned.&quot;  Catching  sight  of  Santa  Rita,  he  added,  &quot;And  no  one  can  make  me  go  to  church.&quot;  Later,  from  my  side  of  the  partition,  I  heard  him  describing  the  film,  scene  by  scene,  to  his  wife,  who  said  &quot;S%,  claro&quot;  sleepily,  but  with  interest,  from  time  to  time.  Then  they  said  their  prayers.  The  last  voice  in  the  room  that  night  came  from  the  radio.  &quot;Vive  Franco!&quot;  it  said,  signing  off.  &quot;Arribe  It  seemed  to  me  not  long  afterward  that  I  heard  the  baby  crying.  It  was  an  unusual  cry-he  sounded  frightened-  and,  dragged  abruptly  awake,  Isat  up  and  saw  that  it  was  daylight.  If  it  was  Jos\xc3\xa9  Maria,  he  was  outside.  'That  was  where  the  cry  had  come  from.  Sefior  Pinedo  was  out  of  bed.  I  heard  him  mutter  angrily  as  he  scraped  a  chair  aside  and  went  out  to  the  balcony.  It  wasn't  the  baby,  after  all,  for  Sefiora  Pinedo  was  talking  to  him  indoors,  say-  ing,  &quot;It's  nothing,  only  noise.&quot;  There  was  a  rush  of  voices  from  the  courtyard  and,  in  our  own  flat,  the  sound  of  peo-  ple  running  in  the  corridor  and  calling  excitedly.  I  pulled  on  a  dressing  gown  and  went  outside.  Sefior  Pinedo,  wearing  a  raincoat,  was  leaning  over  the  edge  of  the  bal-  cony.  In  the  well  of  the  court,  a  little  boy  lay  on  his  back,  surrounded  by  so  many  people  that  one  could  not  see  the  cobblestones.  The  spectators  seemed  to  have  arrived,  as  they  do  at  537061696e  street  accidents,  from  nowhere,  pant-  ing  from  running,  pale  with  the  fear  that  something  had  been  missed.  On  the  wall  at  right  angles  to  ours  there  was  a  mark  that,  for  a  moment,  I  thought  was  paint.  Then  I  realized  that  it  must  be  blood.  &quot;It  was  the  elevator,&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  said  to  me,  waving  his  hand  toward  thebig  iron  block  that  now  hung,  mo-  tionless,  just  below  the  level  of  the  sec-  ond-floor  balconies.  &quot;I  knew  someone  would  be  hurt,&quot;  he  said  with  a  kind  of  gloomy  triumph.  &quot;The  boys  never  left  it  alone.&quot;  'The  little  boy,  whose  name  was  Jaime  Gimez,  and  who  lived  in  the  apartment  directly  across  from  our  win-  dows,  had  been  sitting  astride  the  block,  grasping  the  cable,  and  when  the  ele-  vator  moved,  he  had  been  caught  be-  tween  the  block  and  the  wall.  &quot;One  arm  and  one  leg  absolutely  crushed,&quot;  someone  announced  from  the  courtyard,  calling  the  message  around  importantly.  The  boy's  father  arrived.  He  had  to  fight  through  the  crowd  in  the  court.  Taking  off  his  coat,  he  wrapped  Jaime  in  it,  lifted  him  up,  and  carried  him  away.  Jaime's  face  looked  white  and  frightened.  Apparently  he  had  not  yet  begun  to  experience  the  pain  of  his  injuries,  and  was  simply  stunned  and  shocked.  By  now,  heads  had  appeared  at  the  windows  on  all  sides  of  the  court,  and  the  balconies  were  filled  with  people  dressed  for  church  or  still  in  dressing  gowns.  The  courtyard  suddenly  re-  sembled  the  arena  of  a  bull  ring.  There  was  the  same  harsh  division  of  light  and  shadow,  as  if  a  line  had  been  drawn,  high  on  the  opposite  wall.  The  faces  within  the  area  of  sun  were  white  and  expressionless,  with  that  curious  Orien-  tal  blankness  that  sometimes  envelops  the  whole  arena  during  moments  of  greatest  emotion.  Some  of  the  crowd  of  strangers  down  below  sauntered  away.  The  elevator  began  to  functions  again,  and  the  huge  " b"weight  creaked  slowly  up  the  side  of  the  house.  Across  the  court,  Jaime's  family  could  be  heard  crying  and  call-  ing  inside  their  flat.  After  a  few  mo-  ments,  the  boy's  mother,  as  if  she  were  too  distracted  to  stay  indoors,  or  as  if  she  had  to  divert  her  attention  to  in-  consequential  things,  rushed  out  on  her  balcony  and  called  to  someone  in  the  apartment  above  ours.  On  a  chair  in  the  sun  was  Jaime's  white  sailor  suit,  which  he  was  to  have  worn  to  church.  It  had  long  trousers  and  a  navy-blue  collar.  It  had  been  washed  and  ironed,  and  left  to  dry  out  thoroughly  in  the  sun.  On  a  stool  beside  it  was  his  hat,  a  round  sailor  hat  with  &quot;Espafia'&quot;  in  letters  of  gold  on  the  blue  band.  &quot;Look  at  his  suit,  all  ready!&quot;  cried  Jaime's  mother,  as  if  one  tragedy  were  not  enough.  &quot;And  his  palms!&quot;  She  disappeared  into  the  dark  apartment,  and  ran  out  again  to  the  hard  light  of  the  morning  carrying  the  palms  Jaime  was  to  have  taken  to  church  for  the  blessing.  They  were  wonderfully  twist,  ed  and  braided  into  a  rococo  shape,  and  dangling  and  shining  all  over  them  were  gilt  and  silver  baubles  that  glinted  in  the  sun.  &quot;'Terribly  bad  luck,&quot;  said  Sefior  Pi-  nedo.  I  stared  at  him,  surprised  at  this  most  Anglo-Saxon  understatement.  &quot;If  the  palms  had  been  blessed  earlier,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;this  might  not  have  hap-  pened,  but,  of  course,  they  couldn't  have  known.  Not  that  I  have  beliefs  like  an  old  woman.&quot;  He  gazed  at  the  palms  in  an  earnest  way,  looking  like  Salvador  Dali.  &quot;Dofia  Elvira  believes  they  keep  off  lightning.  I  wouldn't  go  so  far.  But  I  still  think  .  .  .&quot;  His  voice  dropped,  as  if  he  were  not  certain,  or  not  deeply  interested  in,  what  he  did  think.  Someone  called  the  mother.  She  went  inside,  crying,  carrying  the  palms  and  the  sailor  suit.  A  few  of  the  people  around  the  courtyard  had  drifted  in-  doors,  but  most  of  them  seemed  re-  luctant  to  leave  the  arena,  where-one  never  knew-something  else  of  interest  might  take  place.  They  looked  down  through  the  tangle  of  clotheslines  to  the  damp  stones  of  the  court,  talking  in  loud,  matter-of-fact  voices  about  the  accident.  'They  spoke  of  hospitalization,  of  amputation-for  the  rumor  that  Jaime's  hand  was  to  be  amputated  had  started  even  before  I  came  out-and  of  limping  and  crutches  and  pain  and  ex-  pense.  &quot;'The  poor  parents,&quot;  someone  said.  A  one-armed  child  would  be  a  terrible  burden,  and  useless.  Everyone  agreed,  just  as,  on  my  first  day,  they  had  all  agreed  with  Sefiora  Pinedo  that  it  was  bad  to  drug  one's  children.  Sefior  Pinedo,  beside  me,  drew  in  his  breath.  &quot;Useless?&quot;  he  said  loudly.  &quot;A  useless  child?  Why,  the  father  can  claim  compensation  for  him-a  lifetime  pension.&quot;  &quot;From  the  angels?&quot;  someone  shout-  ed  up.  &quot;From  the  building  owners,  first,&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  said,  trying  to  see  who  had  spoken.  &quot;But  also  from  our  gov-  &gt;  ernment.  Haven't  any  of  you  thought  of  that?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  several  voices  together,  and  everyone  laughed.  &quot;Of  course  he'll  have  a  pen-  sion!&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  shouted.  He  looked  around  at  them  all  and  said,  &quot;Wasn't  it  promised?  Weren't  such  things  prom-  ised?&quot;  People  hung  out  of  windows  on  the  upper  floors,  trying  to  see  him  under  the  overhang  of  the  balcony.  &quot;I  guarantee  it!&quot;  Sefior  Pinedo  said.  He  leaned  over  the  rail-  ing  and  closed  his  fist  like  an  orator,  a  leader.  'The  railing  shook.  &quot;Be  careful,&quot;  I  said,  un-  heard.  He  brought  his  fist  down  on  the  railing,  which  must  have  hurt.  &quot;I  guarantee  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  work  in  the  office  of  pen-  sions.&quot;  &quot;Ah!&quot;  That  made  sense.  Influence  was  something  they  all  understood.  &quot;He  must  be  related  to  little  Jaime,&quot;  I  heard  someone  say,  sounding  disappointed.  &quot;Still,  that's  not  a  bad  thing,  a  pension  for  life.&quot;  They  discussed  it  energetically,  citing  cases  of  deserving  victims  who  had  never  re-  ceived  a  single  c\xc3\xa9ntimo.  Sefior  Pinedo  looked  around  at  them  all.  For  the  first  time  since  I  had  known  him,  he  was  smiling  happily.  Finally,  when  it  seemed  quite  clear  that  nothing  more  was  to  happen,  the  chatter  died  down,  and  even  the  most  persistent  observers,  with  a  last  look  at  the  blood,  the  cobbles,  and  the  shuttered  windows  of  Jaime's  flat,  went  indoors.  Sefior  Pinedo  and  I  were  the  last  to  leavethe  court.  We  parted,  and  through  the  partition  I  heard  him  telling  his  wife  that  he  had  much  to  do  that  week,  a  social  project  connected  with  the  hurt  child.  In  his  happiness,  he  sounded  al-  most  childlike  himself,  convinced,  as  he  must  convince  others,  of  the  truth  and  good  faith  of  the  movement  to  which  he  had  devoted  his  life  and  in  which  he  must  continue  to  believe.  Later,  I  heard  him  repeating  the  same  thing  to  the  persion  tenants  as  they  passed  his  door  on  the  way  to  church.  There  was  no  reply.  It  was  the  silence  of  the  dining  room  when  the  bulletins  were  being  read,  and  as  I  could  not  see  his  listeners'  faces,  I  could  not  have  said  whether  the  silence  was  owing  to  re-  spect,  delight,  apathy,  or  a  sudden  fury  of  some  other  emotion  so  great  that  only  silence  could  contain  it. "