 b"WHEN  my  wife,  Consuelo,  was  \xe2\x80\x98J\xe2\x80\x98l  a  little  girl  living  on  her  par-  ents'  ranch  at  Rociada,  in  New  [REDACTED],  Christmas  loomed  up  brilliant  long  in  advance.  What  she  had  been  told  by  her  older  brother  and  older  sis-  ters-especially  Carmen,  just  two  years  her  senior  and  still  free  of  disillusion-  ment-what  she  herself  remembered,  and  what  she  invented  in  telling  her  younger  sister,  Pepita,  about  the  de-  lightful  sights  and  experiences  of  the  feast  of  Christmas  all  combined  as  simple  fact.  The  short  reach  of  her  memory  seemed  long,  as  long  as  the  meaning  of  &quot;always.&quot;  It  had  always  happened  like  this;  it  always  would.  And  the  pleasure  of  anticipation  grew  strong-  er  each  year.  One  began  thinking  of  Christmas  with  the  first  frosts,  along  about  the  time  one  began  thinking  of  snow  and  sleds.  Another  Christmas  was  on  its  way,  as  certain  as  the  seasons  themselves.  If  anyone  had  suggested  that  the  seasons  were  uncertain  and  that  Christmas  itself  might  fail,  prob-  ably  she  would  not  have  understood,  and  if  she  had,  more  than  likely  she  would  have  rejected  the  thought  as  foolish,  or  the  kind  of  tasteless  humor  some  grownups  indulge  in.  How  it  happened  that  the  Bacas  de-  veloped  the  magnificent  Christmas  cele-  bration  they  did  puzzles  me.  My  wife's  father,  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  Albino  Baca,  came  of  a  family  of  purely  Spanish  descent  that  was  powerful  in  the  region  about  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  New  [REDACTED],  on  the  south-  ern  slopes  of  the  Sangre  de  Cristo  Mountains.  He  must  have  been  reared  in  a  strongly  Spanish  tradition,  and  he  had  something  of  his  ances-  tors'  cultural  orientation  to-  ward  537061696e,  through  [REDACTED]  City  as  the  point  of  linkage  and  distribution-much  as  many  educated  Western  Anglo-  Americans  retain  an  orienta-  tion  toward  [REDACTED]  through  New  York.  He  procured  his  bride's  wedding  chest  from  the  southern  capi-  tal  and  took  her  there  on  their  honey-  moon,  and  it  was  there,  too,  that  he  later  found  a  governess  for  his  younger  daughters.  Consuelo's  mother,  Dofia  Margue-  rite  Pendaries  de  Baca,  was  born  in  New  [REDACTED]  of  French  parents.  She  grew  up  at  Rociada,  deep  inside  the  Sangre  de  Cristos,  where  her  father  had  found-  ed  something  of  a  ranching  empire.  Her  early  upbringing  was  as  French  as  could  be  managed  under  the  circumstances.  One  would  expect,  then,  that  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  and  Dofia  Marguerite  would  de-     light  their  children  with  the  songs  and  processions  of  the  posadas,  the  breaking  of  prfiatas-fanciful  pottery  birds  filled  with  small  gifts-or  the  setting  of  shoes  by  the  fireplace  to  receive  \xc3\xa9tremnes  on  New  Year's  Eve.  Actually,  apart  from  Mass  on  Christmas  Day,  with  its  sing-  ing  of  the  ancient  elabados-hymns  of  praise-the  only  exotic  touch  to  their  celebration  was  serving  tamales  in  the  course  of  the  morning,  a  pleasant  cus-  tom  to  which  all  New  [REDACTED],  Anglo-  or  Spanish-American,  subscribes.  For  the  rest,  they  observed  the  Anglo-Dutch  practices  centering  around  Santa  Claus  and  the  tree-but  without  the  business  of  stockings-in  a  manner  to  make  al-  most  anyone  retrospectively  envious.  The  day  before  Christmas,  there  would  be  no  signof  tree  or  gifts;  if  you  did  not  know  for  sure,  youmight  wonder  if  there  would  be  any.  The  preparations  for  the  huge  dinner  on  Christmas  afternoon,  however,  began  days  in  advance  and  could  not  be  con-  cealed.  Dofia  Marguerite  is  a  petite,  brisk  woman  with  a  neat,  fast  step;  the  recurrent  clicking  of  her  heels  when  she  is  at  work  on  a  feast  is  unmistakable.  Even  in  a  big  house,  one  would  catch  the  sound,  along  with  her  instructions  in  Spanish  to  the  maids,  in  English  with  occasional  spurts  of  French  to  her  two  older  daughters-her  exclamations  of  despair  over  the  whole  project  when  something  went  wrong,  occasionally  her  annoyance,  and  her  helpers  an-  swering  her  in  kind  and  with  equal  feeling.  During  these  preparations  the  three  smallest  girls,  Carmen,  Consuelo,  and  Pepita,  were  in  the  kitchen  as  much  as  they  were  allowed  to  be,  dainty,  black-haired,  oval-  faced,  large-eyed,  voracious  little  creatures  savoring  a  deli-  cious  torment.  The  indications  of  great  eating  to  come  were  titillating  in  themselves  but  even  more  exciting  because  they  were  the  sign  of  the  greater  wonder  that  would  precede  the  feast.  Christmas  Eve  was  quiet;  the  little  girls  were  full  of  expectation  and  on  their  best  behavior.  They  had  supper  early,  as  always,  and  afterward  they  passed  the  evening  until  bedtime  as  nearly  as  possible  as  on  other  eve-  nings.  At  the  usual  hour,  they  were  sent  to  bed,  but  on  this  one  night  the  three  of  them  slept  together  in  a  big  fourposter,  and,  moreover,  on  this  night  alone  Count,  the  bloodhound,  was  allowed  in  the  room  with  them  and  took  his  place  at  the  foot  of  the  bed.  They  thought  they  would  not  be  able  to  sleep;  they  hoped  to  stay  awake.  For  a  timethey  whispered,  but  in  the  end  sleep  always  captured  them.  In  the  dead  of  night,  as  it  seemed  to  them-somewhere  between  ten  and  eleven  o'clock-they  were  wakened  by  the  loud  ringing  of  sleigh  bells,  not  at  a  distance  on  the  road  but  close  at  hand  and  overhead.  They  knew,  of  course,  that  the  sound  came  from  on  top  of  the  roof.  They  were  into  slippers  and  dress-  ing  gowns  by  the  time  their  mother  came  for  them,  but  just  as  the  traitor  drowsiness  always  overcame  them,  so  they  were  never  quick  enough  to  get  downstairs  in  time  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  Santa  Claus.  Behind  him,  he  left  the  miracle  of  the  Christmas  tree,  fully  expected  and  yet  breath-stopping,  so  that  you  had  to  stand  fora  moment  in  the  doorway  and  absorb  it  before  you  went  in.  It  was  always  a  fragrant,  fresh-cut  fir,  tall  enough  almost  to  touch  the  ceiling  of  that  high-ceilinged  room,  decorated,  candle-lit,  with  the  presents  massed  at  its  foot.  And  part  of  the  special  quality  of  the  occasion  came  from  the  fact  that  it  all  took  place  so  late  at  night  after  that  glorious  awakening.  Soon  after  Santa  Claus  had  passed  by,  visitors  from  the  village  would  begin  to  drop  in  for  a  glass  of  wine  and  a  bit  of  fruitcake.  These  arrivals,  usually  one  man  at  a  time,  oc-  casionally  a  man  and  wife,  out  of  the  snow  and  cold-the  slight  stamping  in-  side  the  door  and  the  removal  of  outer  garments,  the  gesture  of  brushing  rime  off  a  heavy  mustache,  the  people  formal,  rustic,  and  yet  socially  graceful,  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9's  and  Dofia  Marguerite's  welcom-  ing  Spanish,  the  faint  smell  of  wine  to  spice  the  smells  of  the  tree,  the  candles,  and  the  fire-were  an  essential  part  of  Consuelo's  impression  of  the  real  be-  ginning  of  Christmas.  HAT  was  the  way  it  was,with  the  day  of  prayer  and  fine  eating  to  come  after.  That  was  how  it  had  al-  ways  been  and  always  would  be--until  the  year  of  the  big  snow.  In  the  autumn  ofthat  year,  an  exceptionally  early  snowfall,  in  the  latter  part  of  September,  turned  the  three  little  girls'  thoughts  toward  Christmas.  'The  snow  was  gone  within  twenty-four  hours,  but  then  it  was  unseasonably  cold,  not  only  at  night  but  also  in  the  daytime,  which  was  most  unusual  before  December.  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  studied  weather  reports  and  the  almanacs,  talked  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  on  the  hand-cranked  telephone,  and  consulted  with  Sefior  [REDACTED],  his  mayordomo.  When  it  snowed  again  before  the  month  was  out,  and  the  white  covering,  thin  though  it  was,  lay  for  over  a  week  in  the  " b"shade  and  was  slow  to  melt  even  on  the  sunny  slopes,  he  sent  a  number  of  teams  to  the  city  to  bring  back  a  supply  of  cot-  tonseed  cakes.  The  Bacas'  Wineglass-2  ranch  oper-  ation  was  conducted  in  large  part  on  the  land  that  M.  Pendaries,  Dofia  Margue-  rite's  father,  had  originally  owned,  grazed  under  National  Forest  permits,  or  leased.  It  lay  within  the  moun-  tains,  which  meant  that  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  win-  tered  several  thousand  head  of  his  sheep,  his  beef  herd,  and  most  of  his  horses  on  what  was  properly  summer  range.  The  animals  were  held  within  fairly  easy  reach  of  Rociada,  on  pastures  where  trees  and  cliffs  gave  shelter  and  south  slopes  caught  the  sun's  full  strength,  and  they  were  carried  through  that  part  of  the  winter  during  which  they  could  not  rustle  for  themselves  by  the  rich  store  of  hay  harvested  from  the  Rociada  meadows.  As  far  back  as  anyone  could  remember,  that  had  sufficed,  but  this  year  the  signs  were  not  good.  It  started  snowing  in  earnest  the  sec-  ond  week  of  October.  Sleds  and  sleighs  appeared  early.  In  that  favored  land,  it  is  unusual  for  snow  to  last  more  than  a  week  or  so  anywhere  that  the  sun  strikes,  until  one  passes  above  the  eight-  thousand-foot  level,  but  this  year  the  cold  held  through  the  brightest  days  even  in  the  valleys.  The  nights  were  bitter.  What  at  first  had  seemed  to  the  children  an  early,  extra  bonus  of  winter  fun  became  too  much  ofa  good  thing.  November  carried  on  from  where  October  left  off.  Several  times,  Amadeo  Lobato  was  a  day  late  with  the  mail,  having  been  unable  to  get  through  with  his  buggy.  Automobiles  were  little  used;  they  remained  in  their  shelters,  their  radiators  drained.  Week  by  week,  the  snow  grew  deeper.  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  was  con-  stantly  out  on  horseback,  plowing  his  way  to  this  camp  or  that,  or  to  the  horse  pasture,  to  make  sure  that  the  men  did  not  relax  their  efforts  under  the  condi-  tions  they  faced.  Getting  the  feed  to  the  various  pastures  was  a  constant  battle  of  seizing  upon  the  spells  of  clear  weath-  er  to  break  open  the  roads-no  more  than  cross-country  cart  tracks,  at  best-  and  then  stockpiling  as  rapidly  as  pos-  sible.  Along  in  December,  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  began  feeding  the  cottonseed  cakes  to  the  ani-  mals,  to  supplement  the  hay,  which  oth-  erwise  would  not  last  through  the  long  feeding  period  he  foresaw.  The  animals  were  not  ranging  at  all;  they  bunched  together  in  narrow,  trampled  areas  where  the  shelter  was  best.  The  mail  came  through  erratically.  Other  traffic  with  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  the  railroad  was  al-  most  completely  stopped.  A  few  men  from  Rociada  village,  who  still  believed  that  the  game  laws  were  nothing  but  an  unwarranted  attempt  to  restrict  their  traditional  rights,  and  who  were  hardy  enough  to  fight  their  way  through  the  drifts,  built  up  their  family  stocks  with  snow  bound  deer  and  elk.  Consuelo  heard  her  father  say  that  the  herders  were  feeding  cakes  to  the  sheep;  the  idea  pleased  her.  It  was  nice  for  the  poor  sheep,  out  in  the  frozen  distances,  to  be  given  a  little  cake.  One  day,  when  she  had  made  her  way  to  the  barn,  she  examined  the  stuff.  It  looked  like  cake.  She  asked  [REDACTED]  Grande,  who  was  there,  and  he  said  yes,  those  were  queques.  She  took  one,  turned  it  over  in  her  hands,  examined  it.  It  looked  like  spicecake  andhad  a  promising  heaviness.  She  tried  it.  It  was  foul,  oily,  revolting;  she  could  not  spit  the  stuff  out  fast  enough.  It  was  days  before  she  forgave  [REDACTED]  for  laugh-  ing  at  her.  In  all  other  years,  on  a  bright  day  in  mid-December  the  younger  children  and  Dofia  Marguerite  would  take  a  wagon,  or  goon  foot,  driving  a  burro,  to  gather  what  they  miscall  &quot;kinni-  kinnick.&quot;  This  is  a  ground  vine,  known  as  toje  in  the  local  Spanish.  It  has  close-  massed,  shiny  dark-green  leaves  and  red  berries,  and  makes  an  excellent  substi-  tute  for  holly.  Properly  speaking,  kinni-  kinnick  is  a  mixture  of  the  dried  leaves  and  bark  of  certain  plants,  used  by  the  Indians  (the  word  is  of  Algonquian  origin)  as  a  substitute  for  tobacco,  or  to  mix  with  it.  As  far  as  I  know,  no  one  smokes  the  ground  vine.  The  trips  for  kinnikinnick  were  picnics,  the  last  of  the  year-gay  occasions,  bright  with  small  adventures,  charged  with  the  immi-  nence  of  Christmas.  They  were  the  first  preparation  for  the  great  event.  There  was  no  question  of  any  such  ex-  pedition  this  year,  which  was  not  going  like  any  other.  The  unchangeable  had  been  changed.  HEN  Dofia  Marguerite  recalls  the  winter  of  the  big  snow,  she  is  likely  to  speak  of  what  happened  to  Mr.  Goldfarb-&quot;such  a  nice  man,  poor  thing.&quot;  Goldfarb's  story,  in  its  main  outlines,  was  a  classic  one  of  the  West-       " b"ern  frontier-the  merchant  who  came  out  to  the  new  country  with  astock  in  trade  he  could  carry  on  his  back  or  pack  on  a  single  mule  and,  by  intense  thrift  and  drive,  built  that  stake  up  into  a  solid  busi-  ness.  It  differed  in  that  this  man  came  West  comparatively  late;  nonetheless,  after  twenty  industri-  ous  years  he  was  within  reaching  distance  of  at  least  modest  wealth.  'That  fall,  the  prices  of  sheep  and  woolwere  at  a  record  low,  as  a  re-  sult  of  the  slump  following  the  First  World  War,  but  there  were  signs  that  times  were  improving  and  that  sheep  and  wool,  like  other  commod-  ities,  were  due  to  rise  sharply  be-  fore  spring.  Goldfarb  saw  his  op-  portunity.  Putting  up  his  store  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  as  security,  he  raised  all  the  money  his  credit  would  stand  and  invested  it  in  a  flock  of  slightly  over  three  thousand  ewes  and  thecorre-  sponding  complement  of  rams,  the  latter  mostly  registered  stock.  To  winter  them,  he  leased  several  miles  of  good  grass  on  an  open,  level,  almost  treeless  mesa  top  south  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Ideally,  he  should  have  leased  lower  country,  but  in  ordinary  years  sheep  wintered  well  on  that  range.  The  region  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  is  notorious-  ly  a  place  of  driving  winter  winds.  That  year,  the  snow-laden  winds  prowled  like  a  siege  of  wolves.  The  coyotes  came  out  of  the  mountains  early,  to  skulk  about  the  edges  of  the  city  and  awaken  the  dogs  to  frenzy,  until  the  nights  were  maniacal  with  barking  and  the  answer-  ing,  challenging,  mocking  howls.  Out  on  the  open  mesas,  the  snow  drove  and  piled,  and  there,  too,  the  predators  quested.  Goldfarb's  herders  were  simply  hired  hands.  There  were  no  old  friendships  and  family  loyalties  between  him  and  them  to  induce  them  to  maintain  pun-  ishing  vigilance  despite  the  whip  of  the  winter.  He  himself,  with  his  business  to  run,  could  not  beconstantly  visiting  the  camps.  Snow,  sleet,  wind,  and  cold  made  the  men  keep  close  to  their  huts  and  their  fires.  The  sheep  drifted,  look-  ing  for  shelter  that  did  not  exist,  until  they  fetched  up  against  the  fences.  By  December,  the  covering  of  ice  and  snow  was  too  deep  for  them  to  scrape  through  it  to  grass,  and  they  couldn't  fight  through  its  cold  mass  to  find  and  browse  on  those  bushes  and  shrubs  that  still  reached  the  surface.  The  snow  piled  on  the  animals  as  they  huddled.  When  God  sent  a  bright,  still  noon,  the  snow  melted;  at  sundown  it  froze  into  little  cloud-colored  balls  of  ice  on  their  wool.  The  sheep  had  to  be  fed.  Goldfarb  went  to  buy  hay,  as  many  others  6  were  doing.  'The  going  price  that  fall  had  been  fifteen  dollars  a  ton,  baled  and  delivered;  suddenly  it  was  sixty  dollars  and  haul  it  yourself,  and  he  had  no  more  credit.  As  his  sheep  hungered  and  grew  weak,  the  coyotes  moved  in  on  them,  but  the  wild  beasts  could  not  kill  as  fast  as  cold  and  starvation.  Before  the  month  was  out,  there  was  nothing  left  of  his  twenty  years  of  effort  but  the  frozen  carcasses  on  the  mesa.  F  the  snow  was  white  and  cold  and  deep  below  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  in  the  mountain  valleys  it  was  just  as  gleamingly  white,  and  colder  and  deeper.  Day  after  day,  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  and  Sefior  [REDACTED]  put  on  their  sheepskin-  lined  jackets,  pulled  their  chaps  over  their  heaviest  trousers,  muffled  the  low-  er  part  of  their  faces,  and  rode  out  to  the  camps,  to  return  weary,  cold,  hun-  gry,  with  icicles  on  the  mufflers  across  their  mouths.  Day  after  day,  the  men  went  up  on  the  roof  of  the  big  ranch-  house  to  shovel  off  snow,  and  some-  times  in  the  night  Consuelo  wakened  to  the  sound  of  the  shovels  scraping  over-  head.  There  was  no  longer  such  a  thing  as  a  mail  day;  Amadeo  was  using  a  sleigh  with  a  team,  and  even  so  he  rarely  got  through  to  the  ranch.  When  their  parents  suggested  to  the  girls  that  Santa  Claus  might  not  be  able  to  make  it  that  year,  they  did  not  at  first  believe  it  possible  that  this  could  happen.  It  took  time  for  them  to  accus-  tom  themselves  to  the  idea  that  there  could  be  winters  toosevere  for  even  a  saint  who  livedat  the  North  Pole  to  travel  through,  and  to  accept  the  uncer-  tainty  of  what  they  had  supposed  the  most  certain  thing  in  life.  It  was  an  acceptance  that  did  not  come  easily.  The  paths  between  the  big  house  and   the  bunkhouse,  the  commissary,  and  the  barns  had  become  trenches  with  walls  nearly  as  high  as  a  man's  head.  The  children  played  in  them,  exploring  a  novelty.  'These,  they  decided,  were  what  was  meant  by  the  word  &quot;tunnel.&quot;  When  the  sun  was  out,  it  made  a  bright  zone  along  the  upper  part  of  one  wall;  it  edged  the  opposite  crest  with  jewels.  Below,  the  shade  was  luminous.  On  a  day  of  overcast,  Consuelo,  on  some  er-  rand  of  her  own,  stopped  midway  in  atunnel.  With  her  mittened  hand,  she  scraped  at  one  wall.  She  decided  to  make  a  micho,  in  which  she  might  set  a  saint  modelled  of  snow.  She  scraped  away  until,  her  hand  getting  chilled  through  the  red  wool,  she  stopped  to  warm  it  under  her  armpit.  This  was  the  snow  that  was  too  deep  for  Santa  Claus.  She  looked  up,  considering  its  depth.  Above,  the  sky  was  leaden;  it  made  her  feel  the  dead  weight  of  winter  and  the  promise  ofyet  more  flakes  short-  ly.  It  was  not  the  thickness  of  the  cold  white  blanket  that  would  stop  Santa,  she  decided;  it  was  the  whole  nature  of  the  season.  Without  having  words  for  " b' it,  she  felt  the  smothering  quality  of  too  much.  The  tunnel  became  desolate.  She  would  not  put  a  saint  there,  a  snow  saint,  a  cold  saint.  She  hurried  back  to  the  house.  Ordinarily,  the  three  girls  liked  to  lie  in  front  ofthe  fire  evenings  and  watch  the  gold  sparks  that  winked  and  ran  through  the  soot  at  the  back.  They  called  the  sparks  Indians,  and  made  a  game  of  counting  them.  Now,  without  anything  being  said,  they  dropped  this  game.  Everything  to  do  with  the  fire-  place  was  a  reminder  of  Christmas,  and  the  erratic,  ascending  course  of  the  spark  Indians  had  too  often  carried  their  thoughts  on,  up,  and  out  to  the  North  Pole.  Their  big  brother,  Pino,  came  home  from  college.  He  reached  Rociada  thanks  to  a  favorable  break  in  the  weath-  er.  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  was  able  to  reach  the  vil-  lageof  S&amp;pello,  outside  the  mountains,  in  the  sleigh,  and  Pino  got  that  far  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  in  a  car  driven  by  a  cousin.  Hardly  was  he  in  the  house  before  he  had  on  his  boots,  his  chaps,  and  the  rest  of  his  gear,  to  take  over  some  of  the   burden  of  patrolling  the  camps.  It  was  time,  too,  to  throw  the  rams  in  with  the  ewes,  and  under  the  circumstances  the  big  creatures  had  to  be  carted  to  the  flocks.  So  far,  the  stock  was  wintering  well;  their  shelter  was  good,  and  there  was  adequate  feed  for  them.  The  principal     trouble  was  with  coyotes  raiding  the  sheep.  The  coyotes  had  grown  bold,  and  in  the  freezing  nights  the  dogs  were  not  always  able  to  keep  them  off.  To  the  eastward,  there  was  a  special  breed  of  beasts  of  prey,  descendants  of  coyotes  and  a  variety  of  hound  that  a  rancher  had  imported  to  hunt  them  but  that  had  ' b"run  wild.  Pinoonce  described  them  as  the  &quot;most  marauderous  animals&quot;  he  had  ever  known.  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  and  Pino  decided  that  Pino  could  probably  get  through  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  by  car,  so  three  days  before  Christmas  he  set  out  on  a  last-minute  sortie  for  green  vegetables,  celery,  fruit,  and  Christmas  gifts  for  the  youngsters.  He  did  get  to  the  city  and  accomplish  his  shopping,  but  on  the  way  back,  late  in  the  day,  his  motor  failed  onNine  Mile  Hill,  some  forty  miles  from  home,  and  he  had  to  stay  there  until  a  man  in  a  wagon  gave  him  a  lift  back  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  well  after  sundown.  One  of  his  ears  was  frozen.  He  got  home  by  re-  lays,  on  Christmas  Eve,  virtually  empty-  handed,  with  his  ear  swollen  and  black.  Amadeo  had  managed  another  mail  de-  livery  that  morning.  Carmen,  Consuelo,  and  Pepita  by  then  were  in  full  mourning  over  the  de-  feat  of  Santa  Claus.  They  cheered  up  somewhat  when  their  parents  told  them  that  the  whole  family  would  have  supper  together  and  at  the  grownups'  hour.  They  would  eat  in  the  kitchen,  Dofia  Marguerite  said,  instead  of  in  thedining  room,  to  save  fuel.  'They  all  sat  down-  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9,  Dofia  Marguerite,  Pino,  and  the  three  little  girls.  The  two  older  girls,  one  at  college,  one  at  boarding  school,  had  not  come  home  for  this  holiday.   Christmas  Eve  being  a  day  of  fast,  the  meal  was  meatless  and  simple,  but  good-chicos,  tortitas  de  huevos,  chile  colorado  made  without  meat,  and  other  such  fast-day  dishes,  which  are  delica-  cies  in  themselves.  The  parents  led  the  conversation  around  to  the  variety  of  Christmas  customs  among  different  peo-  ples,  and  especially  to  the  custom  of  hanging  stockings  to  be  filled  by  Santa  Claus.  The  girls  were  interested;  the  subject,  although  painful,  was  fascinat-  ing.  They  discussed  the  pros  and  cons  of  Christmas  stockings,  and  considered  the  very  odd  idea,  proffered  by  their  mother,  that  one  might  have  these  but  no  Christmas  tree.  -  When  the  meal  had  ended,  the  family  still  remained  at  the  table,  talk-  ing.  Suddenly  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  stiffened,  listening.  Everyone  fell  silent.  &quot;What  was  that  I  heard?&quot;  he  asked.  Carmen  said  immediately,  &quot;Sleigh  bells!&quot;  They  all  listened  intently.  Definitely  there  was  a  sound  of  bells,  but  was  it  outside  or  in  the  living  room?  'The  three  girls  were  out  of  their  chairs  in-  stantly.  Carmen  managed  to  whisper  &quot;Santa&quot;  in  a  way  that  had  the  quality  ofa  shout;  then  they  were  on  the  run,  through  the  dining  room  to  the  living  room,  their  elders  following  more  se-  dately.  Consuelo  was  in  the  lead,  be-     cause  her  chair  had  been  nearest  the  door.  As  they  broke  into  the  living  room,  they  slowed  down,  not  knowing  quite  what  to  expect.  There  was  no  tree,  but  the  mantelpiece  was  rich  with  boughs  and  ornaments,  and  under  these  hung  three  of  their  stockings-the  sturdy,  long,  woollen  ones-bulging  with  gifts.  The  three  little  girls  went  to  them  al-  most  timidly.  Naturally,  they  did  not  notice  that  all  their  presents  were  of  the  kind  usually  purchased  from  the  mail-order  houses;  even  had  they  known  enough  for  that,  they  would  never  have  thought  to  seru-  tinize  a  miracle.  Santa  Claus  had  made  it,  after  all-with  a  light  pack,  to  be  sure,  for  obvious  reasons,  but  he  had  made  it.  When  their  parents  and  Pino  had  had  time  to  express  their  astonishment,  they  handed  the  stockings  down  to  the  chil-  dren.  'The  two  maids  and  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  who  had  not  been  in  the  kitchen  during  supper,  came  in  from  the  hall  and  added  their  exclamations.  The  children  set-  tled  down  before  the  fire,  blissful  with  their  presents.  It  was  already  past  their  bedtime,  but  Dofia  Marguerite  said  nothing.  Shortly,  Amadeo  and  Tomas  Lobato,  from  the  village,  knocked  at  the  door,  stamping  and  brushing  off  snow,  and  Dofia  Marguerite  sent  one  ofthe  maids  for  the  fruitcake  while  Don  Jos\xc3\xa9  brought  the  decanter  of  sherry  from  the  dining  room.  Everything  was  in  order,  and  Christmas  was  a  certainty  after  all.  Consuelo  went  to  bed  hugging  a  new  fluffy  rabbit.  Tucked  in,  shelay  feeling  the  cold  that  seeped  in  through  the  narrow  opening  at  the  bottom  of  the  window.  She  heard  the  faint  thud  and  squeak  of  horses  plodding  in  over  cold  snow,  the  icy  jingle  of  a  spur,  and  a  man's  voice  speaking  wearily.  That  would  be  Sefior  [REDACTED]  and  one  of  the  hands  coming  in  late  from  a  mission  to  one  of  the  farther  camps.  She  was  glad  that  they  would  soon  be  in  the  warmth.  She  snuggled  farther  down  in  the  bed  with  the  rabbit,  mentally  telling  it  her  secret,  a  secret  more  wonderful  even  than  Christmas  stockings  or  gifts.  She  had  been  first  into  the  living  room,  and  she  had  seen-with  her  own  eyes  she,  and  she  only,  had  seen-Santa  Claus's  red-clad  legs  and  his  boots  just  disap-  pearing  up  the  chimney. "