 b"THERE'S  nothing  so  pleasing  and  nothing  so  teasing-if  I  may  bor-  row  the  first  line  of  a  frisky  couplet  the  quotation  of  whose  second  would  bring  the  postal  watchdogs  down  on  me  faster  than  they  descended  on  Charles  Ponzi-as  an  annual  conclave  of  ex-  perts.  No  matter  what  their  specialty,  from  hair  styling  to  sheep  genetics,  the  authorities  in  every  field  nowadays  seem  to  regard  it  as  obligatory  to  convene  in  a  sacred  grove  once  a  year,  divide  into  as  many  panels  as  possible  to  insure  a  maximum  of  obfuscation,  enshroud  each  other  in  verbal  cobwebs,  and,  finally,  issue  to  the  press  a  conclusion  any  newspaper  reader  could  have  reachedwithout  leaving  his  bathtub.  The  latest  group  of  savants  to  check  in  thus,  I  learned  from  the  New  York  Times  the  other  morning  while  wield-  ing  my  loofah,  was  the  Institute  of  T'raf-  fic  Engineers,  which  met  recently  in  Buffalo.  After  a  good  dealof  weighty  schmoos,  its  membership  announced  that  daydreams  are  a  major  crash  factor  on  superhighways.  Your  ordinary  mo-  torist  never  could  have  figured  that  out.  It  takes  an  expert  to  go  right  to  the  heart  of  the  matter.  Ironically  enough,  if  you  read  on  in  the  Times  account-and  the  counter-  impulse  in.my  case  was  so  overwhelm-  ing  that  I  whipped  the  water  to  a  froth-the  party  responsible  for  the  day-  dreaming  isn't  the  driver  but  these  very  experts  themselves.  It  was  grudgingly  conceded  by  the  traffic  wizards  that  in  abolishing  so-called  normal  hazards  like  sharp  curves,  intersections,  traffic  signals,  and  pedestrian  and  railroad  crossings  they  had  substituted  the  peril  of  deadly  monotony.  'The  meeting  was  urged  to  develop  some  practical  method  of  jostling  the  autoist  from  his  reveries  when  danger  of  collision  impends,  and  a  number  of  brain  waves  were  forthcom-  ing-&quot;jiggle  bars,&quot;  or  concrete  castings,  safety  slogans  at  intervals,  serrated  high-  way  patterns  producing  unusual  non-  rhythmic  sounds,  and  so  on.  The  one  that  arrested  my  loofah  in  midair,  though,  was  &quot;a  special  band  radio  broad-  casting  with  package  programs  devised  by  trained  psychologists  to  stir  the  day-  dreamer  out  of  his  lethargy.&quot;  An  adroit  solution,  you  would  think,  but  evidently  the  experts  held  otherwise.  Speaking  for  the  New  Jersey  Turnpike,  its  chief  traf-  fic  engineer  reported  that  &quot;while  special  radio  programs  had  merit,  the  Authority  rejected  their  use  because  it  believed  that  a  two-hour  program  necessary  to  hold  drivers'  attention  over  the  full  118  miles  ofthe  route  would  cost  too  much.&quot;  As  a  masterpiece  of  logic,  the  state-  ment  deserves  to  be  chiselled  in  Wheat-  ena  on  every  overpass  the  length  of  the  Turnpike.  The  Authority,  if  I  construe  its  meaning  accurately,  has  no  particu-  lar  qualms  about  the  millions  spent  in  evolving  those  dizzying  ribbons  of  cement,  but  feels  that  hiring  a  writer  and  a  couple  of  actors  to  keep  the  public  from  flying  off  them  would  border  on  the  spendthrift.  No  doubt  it  envisions  lu-  minaries  like  Tolstoy  and  Lotis  Brom-  field  confecting  the  programs,  and  play-  ers  of  the  stature  of  Judith  Anderson  and  Sir  Laurence  Olivier.  I  submit,  however,  that  to  curb  woolgathering  on  the  highway  doesn't  present  any  in-  superable  task  and  that  the  job  need  not  be  done  on  a  grandiose  scale.  Handicaps  there  are,  undeniably;  the  stargazer  should  be  snapped  back  to  reality  without  overburdening  his  heart  muscles  or  making  him  lose  permanent  control  of  the  vehicle.  The  program  that  ideally  meets  these  conditions,  to  my  mind,  consists  of  a  series  of  vignettes  involving  people  whose  stability  or  ca-  price  affects  the  man  at  the  wheel.  ET&quot;S  suppose,  for  thesake  of  sup-  posing,  that  an  average  young  couple,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Pedro  Gershoy,  are  New  York-bound  on  an  express  highway,  en  route  to  dinner  and  the  theatre.  They  have  left  their  five-year-  old  son,  Naushon,  with  a  baby-sitter  in  whom  they  repose  implicit  confidence.  Suddenly,  as  they  sit  wrapped  in  blissful  anticipation  ofthe  evening  ahead,  the  voices  of  two  teen-age  girls  emanate  from  the  radio  band.  Fiesr  T.-A.:  Golly,  this  is  the  best  bourbon  I  ever  tasted.  Don't  they  lock  up  their  hooch  when  they  go  away?  SEconp  T.-A.:  Sure,  but  I  know  where  he  hides  the  key.  Anyway,  I  had  a  duplicate  made.  I've  got  keys  for  ev-  erything  in  this  place.  Here's  one  that  opens  his  desk,  and  that's  for  her  clothes  closet-  Fist  T.-A.:  Say,  I  ought  to  get  some  for  the  Muspratts'  house-then  I  could  wear  her  things,  too.  Who  made  them  for  you?  -  SEconp  T.-A.:  My  boy  friend  at  the  garage.  You  know,  the  dark,  Spanish-  looking  chap.  He  learned  how  in  jail.  Fiesr  T.-A.:  He's  cute.  I  love  the  way  he  rumbas;  it  reminds  me  of  Desi  Arnaz.  ...  Hey,  not  so  much!  I'll  be  looping  by  the  time  I  get  home.  SEconp  T.-A.:  Relax-Ramon'll  drive  you  back.  He's  coming  over  in  a  while,  and  we'll  have  a  ball.  First  T.-A.:  Well,  all  right,  but  no  more  of  those  funny  cigarettes  for  me.  The  last  time  you  and  I-  What's  that?  SEcornp  T.-A.:  I  didn't  hear  any-  thing.  Fiesr  T.-A.:  It  was  a  bump,  like  somebody  falling  out  of  bed.  SEconp  T.-A.:  Oh,  that  darn  kid  again.  He  generally  drops  out  about  this  time  of  night,  and  always  on  his  head.  Firsr  T.-A.:  Why  don't  you  feed  him  the  little  white  pills  I  give  [REDACTED]  Muspratt?  SEconp  T.-A.:  I  keep  forgetting  the  name.  What  is  it-barcarole  or  some-  thing?  Fiesr  'T.-A.:  No,  phenobarbital.  Strictly  terrif.  I  slip  old  Arch  a  few  after  his  folks  pull  out  of  the  driveway  and  he's  as  quiet  as  a  mouse.  Just  ask  that  Loomis  boy  at  the  drugstore.  He'll  give  you  anything  you  want.  SEcornp  T.-A.:  Listen,  I've  got  an  inspiration.  Couldn't  we  phone  him  to  bring  some  over?  He  could  drive  out  with  Ramon.  First  T.-A.:  Honey,  at  times  you  frighten  me.  Not  only  are  you  good-  looking  but  you're  a  genius.  Where's  that  phone  book?  An  interchange  like  this,  I  believe,  would  effectively  galvanize  most  torpid  automobilists,  especially  the  parents  of  five-year-old  boys,  and  alert  them  to  any  threat  of  collision  lurking  in  the  area.  SHOULD  the  driver-still  the  hypo-  thetical  Gershoy,  for  convenience-  resist  the  stimulus,  the  pressure  intensi-  fies  in  the  next  duologue.  'The  speakers  here  are  a  couple  of  individuals  who,  in  a  line  or  two,  characterize  themselves  as  an  employer  and  his  office  manager.  After  a  brief,  funereal  passage  establish-  ing  the  decline  of  profits  in  the  preceding  quarter,  the  conversation  gets  down  to  brass  tacks.  OrricE  ManacEr:  Look,  J.  B.,  we  both  know  what  the  answer  is.  The  or-  " b"ganization's  full  of  drift,  wood.  Cut  and  cut  deep  is  what  I  say.  EmprovEr:  But  we've  weeded  out  practically  ev-  erybody  we  can.  O.  M.:  Nonsense.  I  could  name  half  a  dozen  dead-  heads  around  here  who  don't  pull  their  weight.  That  young  What's-His-  Name,  for  instance.  The  one  who's  usually  day-  dreaming  at  his  desk.  Yep,  I've  had  my  eye  on  him  for  some  time.  Living  way  beyond  his  means,  isn't  he?  O.  M.:  A  regular  Cham-  pagne  Charlie.  Always  tour-  ing  around  the  roads,  going  to  the  theatre,  the  best  of  everything.  Why,  he  burns  up  more  in  gas  than  you  and  I  earn  in  a  month.  EmprovxyER:  Well,  that  doesn't  prove  anything.  Maybe  his  wife's  got  money.  O.  M.:  Not  a  bean.  I  checked  up  on  the  g.t.  in  his  neighborhood.  Fourflush-  ers  from  way  back-in  hock  to  every-  body.  'They  even  owe  the  obstetrician  who  delivered  their  baby  five  years  ago.  EmprovyEr:  Um-m-m.  Kind  of  hate  to  fire  a  man  with  a  small  child.  O.  M.:  Now  don't  get  sentimental,  J.  B.  In  this  business,  it's  dog  eat  dog.  EmprovERr:  Still,  maybe  if  I  talked  to  him,  gave  him  another  chance-  O.  M.:  Waste  of  time.  There's  only  one  thing  worse  than  an  old  fogy,  chief,  and  that's  a  young  old  fogy.  Boot  him  out.  EmpLovyER:  We-ell,  you  know  best.  Give  him  his  notice  in  the  morning.  O.  M.:  Why  not  tonight?  EmprovyEr:  Good  grief,  Torque-  mada,  have  some  consideration.  It's  aft-  er  hours.  You  can't  call  up  a  man  at  home  and  discharge  him.  O.  M.:  He's  not  at  home-he's  roar-  ing  along  a  turnpike  somewhere.  How-  ever,  ifit  bothers  you,  I'll  compromise.  Let's  send  out  a  police  call  for  him.  EmproxyER:  Since  you  insist,  but  don't  press  any  charges.  I  wouldn't  want  him  to  get  the  third  degree.  By  the  time  the  broadcast  reaches  this  point,  whatever  castles  in  537061696e  Gershoy  has  been  building  are  certain  to  have  crumbled,  and  unless  he's  very  phlegmatic  indeed,  he  steers  down  the  nearest  exit,  gulping  to  offset  the  pres-  sure  on  his  eyeballs.  'The  possibility  al-  ways  exists,  though,  that  he  may  be  impervious  to  ordinary  threats,  in  which   case  a  real  depth  charge  must  be  ex-  ploded.  Behind  the  guarded  voices  of  the  man  and  girl  engaged  in  the  next  colloquy  we  hear  the  characteristic  sounds  ofa  neighborhood  bar-a  tinkle  of  glassware,  juke-box  music,  etc.     Man:What  doyou  mean,  it's  sneaky?  He  sent  you  the  letters,  didn't  he?  He  promised  to  marry  you,  give  you  a  Cadillac,  a  mink  coat-  Girr:  Oh,  yes,  but  that  was  back  in  '4).  Now  he's  got  a  wife,  and  a  nice  home,  anda  different  job.  He  forgot  the  whole  thing  long  ago.  Manx:  That's  the  beauty  of  it,  dope.  We're  just  going  to  refresh  his  memory  a  little.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he'd  proba-  bly  like  to  buy  those  letters  back,  to  keep  them  as  souvenirs.  I'm  only  acting  as  your  agent.  Girt:  Are-  are  you  sure  it  isn't  il-  legal?  Man:  There  you  go  again.  I  told  you  I  used  to  be  a  lawyer,  didn'tI?  All  right,  so  I'm  not  a  member  of  the  bar  association  at  present,  but  he  won't  raise  any  technicalities.  All  you  have  to  do  is  invite  him  over  to  your  scatter  for  a  drink,  for  old  lang  syne.  I'll  handle  the  rest.  Gru:  He  might  not  want  to  see  me.  Did  you  think  of  that?  Max:  Tempt  him-make  it  sound  worth  while.  Put  on  something  soft  and  clinging,  sympathize  with  his  troubles,  and  then,  when  he's  nicely  softened  up,  T'll  drop  in  for  a  chat.  Girt:  Now,  Vito,  no  rough  stuff.  You  promised  me.  Manx:  Sugar,  I  never  used  an  equal-  izer  in  my  life.  Honey  and  persuasion  is  my  tonic,  and  they  drink  it  right  down.  Well,  what  do  you  say!  Girr:O.K.,  I'll  try  him  tomorrow  at  his  office.  Boy,  he'll  certainly  be  sur-  prised  to  hear  my  voice.  Max:  Yes,  surprise  is  an  important  element  in  this  line  of  work.  Gir1:  Speaking  of  that,  how  did  you  ever  happen  to  get  into  it?  Man:  It's  a  rather  long  story.  Shall  we  have  another  round?  EFORE  the  New  Jersey  Turnpike  authority  jumps  down  my  throat  with  all  sorts  of  objections,  I  grant  that  they  are  numerous  and  valid.  The  three  samples  above,  beamed  at  a  specific  type  of  motorist,  cannot  be  expected  to  deter  others  in  the  same  situation-preoccu-  pied  elderly  clergymen,  for  example,  or  a  sedanful  of  ornithologists,  or  a  Goa-  nese  deck  steward  hurrying  to  rejoin  his  ship.  If  they  want  universality,  they'll  simply  have  to  float  another  bond  issue  and  hire  James  Michener.  I  feel  con-  strained  to  point  out,  however,  that  there  is  one  class  of  driver,  of  whom  I  happen  to  be  the  prototype,  that  the  pro-  gram  could  never  reach,  and  for  a  curi-  ous  reason.  'There  is  no  legislation  in  this  hemisphere,  inexplicably,  that  forces  one  to  switch  on  a  radio.  'There  is  also  no  legislation  compelling  one  to  take  a  bath  with  the  New  York  Times.  I  guess  I  deserve  anything  that  happens  to  me. "