 b"ON  a  rainy  Saturday  in  April,  at  the  end  of  spring  vacation,  my  brother  Alason  found  a  Christ-  mas  stocking  full  of  hard  candies  and  assorted  nuts.  The  stocking  was  made  of  heavily  starched  red  gauze  and  had  never  been  opened.  He  made  the  find  while  digging  through  his  closet  looking  for  something  to  play  with,.  Al  had  the  habits  of  a  squirrel.  His  closet  was  crammed  with  the  things  he  had  accu-  mulated.  He  would  not  let  anyone  throw  out  or  even  sort  the  things  he  had  in  that  closet.  He  wasn't  supposed  to  keep  anything  perishable  there,  but  it  was  hard  for  anyone  to  know.  Al's  collections  included  a  notebook  full  of  mounted  cigar  bands  and  a  Whitman's  Sampler  box  filled  with  small  sharks'  teeth,  which  he  had  gath-  ered  one  summer  along  the  sands  of  Chesapeake  Bay.  But  most  of  the  things  he  saved  were  miscellaneous.  In  his  possession,  objects  always  seemed  to  take  on  a  special  value.  He  could  pick  up  an  old  can  opener  that  I  had  seen  first  but  had  passed  over  without  a  sec-  ond  glance.  Stopping  in  his  tracks,  he  would  bend  over  and  scrutinize  it  care-  fully  before  touching  it.  Then  he  would  pick  it  up,  turn  it  over  in  his  palm,  polish  it  with  his  little  finger,  test  its  edge,  and  wiggle  the  corkscrew  tentatively.  At  this  point,  I  would  perceive  that  it  was  something  worth  having,  but,  of  course,  it  was  already  his.  With  the  same  seriousness  and  in-  tensity  that  he  collected  objects,  he  post-  poned  and  dragged  out  moments  of  pleasure.  He  could  always  make  his  dish  of  ice  cream  last  longer  than  anyone  else's.  'This  was  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  our  grandparents,  who  were  bringing  us  up,  had  hit  upon  an  all  but  infallible  method  of  assuring  equal  portions  of  any-  thing  over  which  a  dispute  might  arise.  There  were  three  of  us-Nelson  was  twelve,  Al  was  ten,  and  I  was  their  eight-year-old  sister.  One  of  us  would  divide  whatever  we  were  having  into  three  shares.  Then  the  divider  would  have  last  choice.  Our  grandparents  hadhad  to  take  over  our  upbringing  because  our  mother  was  in  a  T.  B.  sanitarium.  She  had  been  there  for  about  two  years,  and  had  moved  to  the  periphery  of  our  lives.  Our  father  had  died  in  the  flu  epidemic  after  the  First  World  War,when  I  was  a  year  old.  Periodically,  we  penned  Mama  cramped  little  notes  saying  that  we  were  well  and  happy  and  hoped  that  she  was  feeling  better  and  would  be  home  soon.  At  each  holiday,  we  packed  t,  small,  sterile  gifts  and  made  bright-  colored  cards,  sticky  with  library  paste,  out  of  heavy  construction  paper.  The  rest  of  the  time,  Gram  and  Granddad  were  our  parents.  They  represented  us  at  P.-T.A.,  prodded  us  into  polishing  our  shoes,  and  established  the  basic  prin-  ciples  by  which  we  lived-such  as  the  understanding  that  it  was  perfectly  all  right  for  us  not  to  feel  up  to  going  to  Sunday  school  but  that  we  couldn't  stage  a  speedy  recovery  on  that  same  day  and  make  the  afternoon  movie.  But  to  return  to  the  technique  of  dividing-the  infinite  care  required  to  insure  that  the  last  dish  of,  say,  ice  cream  wasn't  smaller  than  the  others  made  this  a  slow  method,  but  there  was  never  any  argument  about  who  got  the  largest  share-we  had  seen  it  divided.  However,  Al  could  still  make  his  share  seem  like  more.  He  carved  with  his  spoon  according  to  some  esoteric  pattern  he  was  evolving.  Then  he  held  the  ice  cream  in  his  mouth,  speculating,  as  if  he  had  encountered  that  particular  flavor  only  once,  years  before,  and  now  was  trying  to  place  it.  Pie  he  ate  from  the  outer  crust  in,  because  he  liked  the  center  best,  Cones  he  ate  from  the  bot-  tom  up,  bending  his  neck  to  get  his  mouth  under  the  dribble.  Watermelon,  which  my  grandfather  always  sliced  in  boat-shaped  wedges,  he  ate  from  the  rind  upward,  until  the  succulent  center  portion  was  suspended  by  a  narrow  sup-  port  at  each  end.  This  habitual  savoring  of  anticipation  lay  behind  his  finding  the  stocking  in  the  closet  that  morning.  Nelson  and  I  had  received  stockings  precisely  likethis  at  Christmastime,  but  ours  were  gone  long  before  the  tree  wasdown.  It  is  unlikely  that  Al  had  intended  to  save  his  stocking  quite  as  long  as  he  did.  I  suppose  at  first,  in  the  easy  largess  of  the  holi-  day  season,  hegot  enough  candy  with-  out  opening  his  stocking,  and  then  later  he  simply  forgot  about  it.  Now  he  was  sitting  on  the  floor  of  his  room  cracking  the  nuts  and  sucking  on  a  candy  cane.  There  were  ribbons  of  hard  red,  green,  and  white  candy,  as  well  as  small  red  raspberries,  chewy  in-  side,  and  colored  cylinders  that  kept  the  white  flower  in  the  center  as  long  as  they  lasted.  Al  had  the  bottom  part  of  one  old-fashioned  flatiron  upside  down  on  the  floor  in  front  of  him,  and  he  was  using  another  as  a  hammer.  'These  flat-  irons  were  ofa  pre\xe2\x82\xaclectric  era.  They  came  in  pairs  andhad  a  detachable  handle  so  that  one  could  be  heating  while  the  other  was  in  use.  'They  had  a  been  replaced  long  since  in  my  grand-  parents'  house  by  an  electric  iron  but  were  still  kept  around,  without  the  handles,  and  used  as  doorstops.  Occa-  sionally,  in  the  wintertime,  my  grand-  mother  would  heat  them  on  the  stove,  wrap  them  securely  in  newspapers  and  towels,  and  let  us  take  them  to  bed  as  foot  warmers.  Under  ordinary  circumstances,  Al  probably  would  have  called  Nelson  and  me  to  see  what  he  had  found,  and  shared  it  on  the  spot,  making  sure  that  we  ap-  preciated  his  foresight  in  saving  it.  How-  ever,  he  and  I  had  quarrelled  twice  that  morning,  and  he  had  retired  to  his  room  partly  to  get  away  from  me.  When  the  hammering  brought  me  to  his  door  to  see  what  was  going  on,  he  told  me  that  he  had  been  saving  the  stocking  for  just  such  a  rainy  day  and  was  going  to  consume  the  entire  contents  himself.  He  said  that  since  he  had  had  none  of  mine,  he  saw  no  reason  to  share  his  with  me.  I  thought  I  probably  Aad  given  him  some  of  mine,  though  I  couldn't  be  sure,  and  this  gave  me  a  feeling  of  having  been  tricked.  My  frustration  increased  as  I  realized  that  Nelson,  who  wasn't  home  that  day,  would  probably  have  been  able  to  talk  Al  into  setting  up  a  party  for  the  three  of  us.  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  bother  me,&quot;  Al  said,  and  then  explained  that  he  was  busy  working  out  a  technique  of  tapping  English  walnuts  delicately  on  the  tip  so  that  the  shell  would  part  into  two  halves,  out  of  which  he  planned  to  make  boats  later.  My  attempts  at  reasoning  with  him,  my  appeals  to  his  charitable  nature,  and  my  increasingly  shrill  vituperation  finally  brought  Granddad.  After  ascer-  taining  that  I,  too,  had  received  a  stock-  ing,  he  said  that  Al  was  under  no  ethical  obligation  to  share  his  but  probably  would  in  time,  if  only  because  there  was  obviously  too  much  for  any  one  person.  After  a  few  words  to  Al  on  the  virtue  of  generosity,  and  to  me  on  the  efficacy  of  a  ladylike  approach,  and  to  both  of  us  on  the  need  for  a  peaceful  house,  he  departed,  leaving  us  to  settle  the  mat-  ter  ourselves.  Alason  was  adamant,  and  we  were  about  to  resume  our  quarrel,  in  every-  thing  except  volume,  exactly  where  we  had  left  off,  when  we  heard  the  door-  bell.  Gram  went  to  the  front  door  and  opened  it.  Then  we  heard  her  say,  &quot;Why,  it's  Dr.  Ewing.  Come  in,  Doc-  tor.  Come  right  in.&quot;  Dr.  Ewing  was  our  family  doctor.  He  had  been  seeing  Mama  periodically  at  the  sanitarium.  Gram  led  him  into  the  living  room  and  we  heard  Granddad  greet  him.  Al  got  up  off  the  floor  and  " b" went  out  into  the  hall  very  quietly,  and  stood  at  the  head  of  the  stairs.  I  fol-  lowed  him.  The  house  was  small  and  we  could  hear  everything  that  was  said  in  the  living  room.  Granddad  and  Dr.  Ewing  discussed  the  weather  and  one  thing  and  another,  none  of  it  inter-  esting,  so  far  as  Al  and  I  were  con-  cerned,  but  the  visit  was  unusual  enough  to  keep  us  there  at  the  head  of  the  stairs  listening.  After  about  ten  minutes,  the  Doctor  said-his  tone  of  voice  changing  abruptly-that  he  had  come  to  talk  to  them  about  Mama.  She  didn't  have  much  longer  to  live.  'There  was  no  way  that  he  could  keep  her  from  knowing  it,  though  he  had  tried.  And  she  wanted  to  come  home  to  die.  MY  father's  death  had  been  so  long  accepted  by  uschildren  that  the  words  didn't  seem  particularly  shock-  ing.  It  was  the  pauses-when  they  weren't  talking-that  didn't  sound  right  or  normal.  In  a  few  minutes,  my  grand-  father  showed  Dr.  Ewing  to  the  door  and  then  followed  him  out  onto  the  front  porch.  I  started  down  the  stairs,  wondering  why  my  grandmother  hadn't gone  to  the  door,  too.  When  I  reached  the  landing,  I  stopped.  From  there,  I  could  see  into  the  living  room,  where  Gram  was  sitting  with  her  face  in  her  two  hands,  sobbing.  I  had  never  seen  a  grownup  cry  before.  Ididn't  know  they  did.  And  even  if  I  had  known,  I  wouldn't  have  believed  it  of  her.  She  was  a  resilient,  warmhearted  woman,  who,  with  Granddad,  had  taken  on  the  feeding,  clothing,  and  loving  of  a  second  family  so  matter-of-factly  that  it  was  to  be  many  years  before  we  children  saw  anything  remarkable  in  it.  She  and  Granddad  had  a  stock  reply  for  anyone  who  expressed  surprise  at  their  enter-  prise  or  admiration  for  it:  &quot;Oh,  the  children  keep  us  young.&quot;  It  seemed  reasonable  enough  to  us.  And  all  that  they  did  in  our  well-ordered  world  we  had  always  accepted  without  question  or  even  much  thought,  on  the  solid  as-  sumption  that  they  were  as  unshakable  as  rock.  Granddad  came  back  into  the  house  and,  though  he  was  looking  right  at  me,  didn't  see  that  I  was  on  the  landing.  He  went  on  into  the  living  room,  and  I  saw  and  heard  him  talking  to  Gram  about  Mama-about  how  they  could  do  all  sorts  of  things  for  Mama  when  she  was  home  that  they  hadn't  been  able  to  do  for  her  in  the  hospital,  and  how  there  was  always  a  chance  that  the  Doctor  was  mistaken,  that  she  would  get  bet-  ter-and  all  that  Gram  would  say  was  &quot;I  can't  bear  it!  I  just  can't  bear  it!&quot;  Over  and  over  she  kept  saying  that,  and  wiping  the  tears  away  with  her  hand-  kerchief.  Finally,  Al  led  me  back  up  the  stairs.  My  impression  is  that  he  took  me  by  the  hand,  but  that  is  so  unlikely.  I  think  probably  his  manner  was  simply  more  gentle  than  usual.  We  went  into  his  room,  and  after  he  had  closedthe  door,  we  sat  down  on  the  floor,  facing  each  other,  with  the  Christmas  stocking  be-  tween  us.  I  don't  know  when  the  tears  started.  I  know  that  we  sat  there  for  what  seemed  an  endless  time.  It  was  still  raining  outside.  The  only  sound  in  the  house  was  the  intermittent  tap-  ping  of  the  flatiron.  And  the  steady  flow  of  tears  mingled  in  our  mouths  with  the  hard  ribbon  candy  and  the  pieces  of  English  walnuts."