 b"IT  was  a  gray  day,  with  a  gray  sky  arching  featureless  overhead,  like  a  hanging  bog.  As  I  walked  without  zest  up  Park  [REDACTED]  in  the  [REDACTED],  I  was  drawn  to  a  haberdasher's  window,  and  the  bright  offerings  in  it  suggested  that  perhaps  some  tonic  purchase  would  perk  up  my  flagging  spirits.  I  went  inside,  gravitated  to  a  rack  of  sports  jackets,  and  tried  on  a  sixty-dollar  barleycorn  tweed.  Not  loud  but  audible,  and  aper-  fect  fit.  &quot;You  were  poured  into  it,&quot;  the  salesman  said  approvingly  as  I  studied  a  triptych  of  myself  in  a  glass.  &quot;I'll  take  it,&quot;  I  said.  I  transferred  my  effects  from  my  old  coat,  forI  wanted  to  wear  the  new  one  out.  &quot;I  have  a  charge  account  here,&quot;  I  said,  opening  my  wallet  to  produce  identification.  'Nice  tie  to  go  with  that?&quot;  the  sales-  man  asked  as  he  made  out  the  sales  slip.  We  were  standing  at  the  neckwear  showcase,  and  after  a  short  perusal  of  its  contents  I  selected  a  plain  yellow  knit.  I  put  it  on  (the  figured  challis  I  had  entered  with  being  dissonant  with  the  new  jacket)  and  again  proffered  the  identification.  &quot;How  about  a  nice  handkerchief  to  go  with  that?&quot;  the  salesman  said.  &quot;We  just  got  in  these  new  silk  ones.&quot;  He  drew  from  an  adjacent  showcase  two  or  three  handfuls  of  them,  from  which  I  plucked  a  green-and-lemon  Paisley.  I  wadded  it  negligently  into  my  breast.  pocket  and  again  stepped  over  to  the  mirror.  The  revised  image  of-  fered  a  version  of  myself  that  was  reno-  vating  to  a  degree.  Not  only  had  my  depression  lifted;  my  mood  was  rapidly  rising  to  one  of  elation.  &quot;A  nice  scarf  would  set  that  off  beautifully,&quot;  the  salesman  said  as,  walking  up  behind  me,  he  hove  into  view  in  the  glass.  He  was  holding  several  mufflers  in  his  hands,  but  they  were  all  patterned-cheviots,  hound's-tooths,  checks-and  I  felt  that  a  solid  color  would  best  complement  my  present  out-  fit.  So  I  went  to  the  shelf  where  the  scarves  were  and  chose  a  solid  bottle-  green  flannel,  which  I  draped  around  my  neck.  At  the  mirror  once  more,  I  took  one  tasselled  end  and  flung  it  around  my  throat  and  back  over  my  shoulder,  from  which  it  depended  with  a  haphazard  dash.  &quot;I'll  take  it,&quot;  I  said,  feeling  my  spirits  to  be  soaring  out  of  containment.  The  salesman  stood  beaming  at  the  effect.  &quot;Now,  how  about  a  nice  tweed     cap  to  top  it  all  off?&quot;  he  suggested.  &quot;Well  ...&quot;  I  said  with  a  giggle.  I  was  by  this  time  almost  hysterical.  What  ultimately  surmounted  my  en-  semble  was  a  herringbone  of  muted  beige  with  random  nubs  of  brown.  Set-  ting  it  on  my  head  at  a  suitable  bias,  I  sailed  out  of  the  store  and  into  the  street  after  leaving  instructions  to  send  my  old  stuff  to  my  home.  REVIOUSLY,  I  had  merely  walked.  Now  I  strode.  I  strode  up  Park  [REDACTED],  feeling  an  exhilaration  in  the  day.  A  light  breeze,  which  I  had  not  noticed  before,  plucked  my  nerves  like,  as  it  were,  a  hand  on  a  harp,  and  fluttered  the  end  of  the  muffler  out  behind  me.  Reappraising  the  sky,  I  saw  that  it  abounded  in  those  multi-  ple  subtle  shadings  of  which  gray  is  capable,  or  which  the  discerning  eye  is  capable  of  extracting  from  it.  I  pro-  ceeded  farther  up  Park  with  an  elastic  step,  settling  the  angle  of  the  cap  and  drawing  up  the  protruding  tufts  of  the  handkerchief  a  trifle.  At  the  corner  of  Fifty-ninth,  I  was  attracted  to  another  window.  There  was  a  compulsion-a  presci-  ence,  almost-in  the  way  I  turned  to  it,  as  if  what  was  in  it  sent  off  a  vibration  that  solicited  my  regard.  This  was  an  open  Jaguar  roadster,  bright  red,  with  matching  leather  seats.  I  stood  viewing  it  with  my  hands  in  my  trouser  pockets.  As  I  did  so,  I  was  aware  of  being  watched  myself.  Two  salesmen  stood  inside  the  showroom.  'They  smiled,  when  I  glanced  in,  with  a  simple  implication  of  entente.  I  went  in.  &quot;Good  afternoon,&quot;  the  taller  of  the  two  said,  coming  forward  with  a  pantomime  of  soaping  his  hands.  &quot;Good  afternoon,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  much  is  this  Jaguar?&quot;  I  pointed  to  the  roadster.  &quot;Three  thousand  three  hundred  forty-five.&quot;  I  stood  a  moment,  pulling  my  lower  lip  in  a  sham  of  pondering.  Then,  at  last,  I  said,  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  and,  after  another  lingering  look  at  the  roadster,  walked  out.  I  continued  on  up  Park  [REDACTED],  op-  pressed  by  a  sense  of  broken  continuity.  Deflation  was  evidenced  in  my  pace,  now  again  a  mere  trudge.  The  day  was  a  dull  monochrome,  a  gray  day,  with  a  gray  sky  arching  featureless  overhead,  above  the  gray  buildings.  Pedestrian,  if  you  ask  me. "