 b" IT  was  a  Sunday  afternoon,  and  from  her  bedroom  Amy  could  hear  the  Beardens  coming  in,  followed  a  lit-  tle  while  later  by  the  Farquarsons  and  the  Parminters.  She  went  on  reading  &quot;Black  Beauty&quot;  until  she  felt  in  her  bones  that  they  might  be  eating  some-  thing  good.  Then  she  closed  her  book  and  went  down  the  stairs.  The  living,  room  door  was  shut,  but  through  it  she  could  hear  the  noise  of  loud  talk  and  laughter.  They  must  have  been  gossip-  ingor  worse,  because  they  all  stopped  talking  when  she  entered  the  room.  &quot;Hi,  Amy,&quot;  Mr.  Farquarson  said.  &quot;Mr.  Farquarson  spoke  to  you,  Amy,&quot;  her  father-said.  &quot;Hello,  Mr.  Farquarson,&quot;  she  said.  By  standing  outside  the  group  for  a  min-  ute,  until  they  had  resumed  their  con-  versation,  and  then  by  slipping  past  Mrs.  Farquarson,  she  was  able  to  swoop  down  on  the  nut  dish  and  take  a  hand-  ful.  &quot;Amy!&quot;  Mr.  Lawton  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Daddy,&quot;  she  said,  re-  treating  out  ofthe  circle,  toward  the  piano.  &quot;Put  those  nuts  back,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I've  handled  them,  Daddy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Well,  pass  the  nuts,  dear,&quot;  her  mother  said  sweetly.  &quot;Perhaps  someone  else  would  like  nuts.&quot;  Amy  filled  her  mouth  with  the  nuts  she  had  taken,  returned  to  the  coffee  table,  and  passed  the  nut  dish.  &quot;'Thank  you,  Amy,&quot;  they  said,  tak-  ing  a  peanut  or  two.  &quot;How  do  you  like  your  new  school,  Amy?&quot;  Mrs.  Bearden  asked.  &quot;I  like  it,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;I  like  private  schools  better  than  public  schools.  It  isn't  so  much  like  a  factory.&quot;  &quot;What  grade  are  you  in?&quot;  Mr.  Bear-  den  asked.  &quot;Fourth,&quot;  she  said.  Her  father  took  Mr.  Parminter's  glass  and  his  own,  and  got  up  to  go  into  the  dining  room  and  refill  them.  She  fell  into  the  chair  he  had  left  vacant.  &quot;Don't  sit  in  your  father's  chair,  Amy,&quot;  her  mother  said,  not  realizing  that  Amy's  legs  were  worn  out  from  riding  a  bicycle,  while  her  father  had  done  nothing  but  sit  down  all  day.  As  she  walked  toward  the  French  doors,  she  heard  her  mother  beginning  to  talk  about  the  new  cook.  It  was  a  good  example  of  the  interesting  things  they  found  to  talk  about.  &quot;You'd  better  put  your  bicycle  in  the  garage,&quot;  her  father  said,  returning  with  the  fresh  drinks.  &quot;It  looks  like  rain.&quot;  Amy  went  out  onto  the  terrace  and  looked  at  the  sky,  but  it  was  not  very  cloudy,  it  wouldn't  rain,  and  his  advice,  like  all  the  advice  he  gave  her,  was  superfluous,  They  were  always  at  her.  &quot;Put  your  bicycle  away.&quot;  &quot;Open  the  door  for  Grandmother,  Amy.&quot;  &quot;Feed  the  cat.&quot;  &quot;Do  your  homework.&quot;  &quot;Pass  the  nuts.&quot;  &quot;Help  Mrs.  Bearden  with  her  parcels.&quot;  &quot;Amy,  please  try  and  take  more  pains  with  your  appearance.&quot;  She  looked  at  them  through  the  glass  doors.  Her  mother  was  wearing  the  red  stole  that  matched  the  window  curtains,  but  it  didn't  conceal  the  fact  that  the  zipper  on  her  dress  was  broken.  Her  father  was  wearing  the  gray  flannel  suit  that  had  belonged  to  Uncle  Robert  be-  fore  he  died.  She  could  never  under-  stand  how  a  man  asrich  and  successful  as  her  father-a  vice-president  in  charge  of  distribution-could  go  around  wearing  the  clothes  of  a  dead  man.  It  made  her  sick.  Mrs.  Farquarson  had  big,  white,  doughy  legs,  and  she  was  wearing  tennis  shorts,  so  you  could  see  how  ugly  her  legs  were.  They  all  stood,  and  her  father  came  to  the  door  and  called  her.  &quot;We're  go-  ing  over  to  the  Parminters'  for  supper,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Cook's  here,  so  you  won't  be  alone.  Be  sure  and  go  to  bed  at  eight  like  a  good  girl.  And  come  and  kiss  me  good  night.&quot;  After  their  cars  had  driven  off,  Amy  wandered  through  the  kitchen  to  the  cook's  bedroom  beyond  it  and  knocked  on  the  door.  &quot;Come  in,&quot;  a  voice  said,  and  when  Amy  entered,  she  found  the  cook,  whose  name  was  Rosemary,  in  her  bathrobe,  reading  the  Bible.  Rose-  mary  smiled  at  Amy.  Her  smile  was  sweet  and  her  old  eyes  were  blue.  &quot;Your  parents  have  gone  out  again?&quot;  she  asked.  Amy  said  that  they  had,  and  theold  woman  invited  her  to  sit  down.  &quot;'They  do  seem  to  enjoy  themselves,  don'tthey?  During  the  four  days  I've  been  here,  they've  been  out  every  night,  or  had  people  in.&quot;  She  put  the  Bible  face  down  on  her  lap  and  smiled,  but  not  at  Amy.  &quot;Of  course,  the  drinking  that  goes  on  here  is  all  sociable,  and  what  your  parents  do  is  none  of  my  business,  is  it?  I  worry  about  drink  more  than  most  people,  because  of  my  poor  sister.  My  poor  sister  drank  too  much.  For  ten  years,  I  went  to  visit  her  on  Sunday  afternoons,  and  most  of  the  time  she  wasnon  compos  mentis.  Some-  times  I'd  find  her  huddled  up  on  the  floor  with  one  or  two  sherry  bottles  empty  beside  her.  Sometimes  she'd  seem  sober  enough  to  a  stranger,  but  I  could  tell  in  a  second  by  the  way  she  spoke  her  words  that  she'd  drunk  enough  not  to  be  herself  any  more.  Now  my  poor  sister  is  gone,  I  don't  have  anyone  to  visit  at  all.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  to  your  sister?&quot;  Amy  asked.  &quot;'She  was  a  lovely  person,  with  a  peaches-and-cream  complexion  and  fair  hair,&quot;  Rosemary  said.  &quot;Gin  makes  some  people  gay-it  makes  them  laugh  and  cry-but  with  my  sister  it  only  made  her  sullen  and  withdrawn.  When  she  was  drinking,  she  would  retreat  into  herself.  Drink  made  her  contrary.  If  I'd  say  the  weather  was  fine,  she'd  tell  me  I  was  wrong.  If  I'd  say  it  was  rain-  ing,  she'd  say  it  was  clearing.  She'd  cor-  rect  me  about  everything  I  said,  how-  ever  small  it  was.  She  died  in  Bellevue  Hospital  one  summer  when  I  was  work-  ing  in  [REDACTED].  She  was  the  only  family  I  had.&quot;  The  directness  with  which  Rosemary  spoke  had  the  effect  on  Amy  of  making  her  feel  grown,  and  for  once  politeness  came  to  her  easily.  &quot;&quot;You  must  miss  your  sister  a  great  deal,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  just  sitting  here  now  think-  ing  about  her.  She  was  in  service,  like  me,  and  it's  lonely  work.  You're  always  surrounded  by  a  family,  and  yet  you're  never  a  part  of  it.  Your  pride  is  often  hurt.  The  Madams  seem  condescending  and  inconsiderate.  I'm  not  blaming  the  ladies  I've  worked  for.  It's  just  in  the  nature  of  the  relationship.  They  order  chicken  salad,  and  you  get  up  before  dawn  to  get  ahead  of  yourself,  and  just  as  you've  finished  the  chicken  salad,  they  change  their  minds  and  want  crab-  meat  soup.&quot;  &quot;My  mother  changes  her  mind  all  the  time,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;Sometimes  you're  in  a  country  place  with  nobody  else  in  help.  You're  tired,  but  not  too  tired  to  feel  lonely.  You  go  out  onto  the  servants'  porch  when  the  pots  and  pans  are  done,  planning  to  en-  joy  God's  creation,  and  although  the  front  of  the  house  may  have  a  fine  view  of  the  lake  or  the  mountains,  the  view  from  the  back  is  never  much.  But  there  is  the  sky  and  the  trees  and  the  stars  " b"and  the  birds  singing  and  the  pleasure  of  resting  your  feet.  But  then  you  hear  them  in  the  frontof  the  house,  laughing  and  talking  with  their  guests  and  their  sons  and  daugh-  ters.  If  you're  new  and  they  whisper,  you  can  be  sure  they're  talking  about  you.  That  takes  all  the  pleasure  out  of  the  evening.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;I've  worked  in  all  kinds  of  places-places  where  there  were  eight  or  nine  in  help  and  places  where  I  was  ex-  pected  to  burn  the  rub-  bish  myself,  on  winter  nights,  and  shovel  the  snow.  In  a  house  where  there's  a  lot  in  help,  there's  usually  some  devil  among  them-  some  old  butler  or  par-  lormaid-who  tries  to  make  your  life  miserable  from  the  be-  ginning.  'The  Madam  doesn't  like  it  this  way,'  and  &quot;'The  Madam  doesn't  like  it  that  way,'  and  'I've  beenwith  the  Madam  for  twenty  years,'  they  tell  you.  It  takes  a  diplomat  to  get  along.  Then  there  is  the  rooms  they  give  you,  and  every  one  of  them  I've  ever  seen  is  cheerless.  If  you  have  a  bottle  in  your  suitcase,  it's  a  terrible  temptation  in  the  beginning  not  to  take  a  drink  to  raise  your  spirits.  But  I  have  a  strong  character.  It  was  different  with  my  poor  sister.  She  used  to  complain  about  nerv-  ousness,  but,  sitting  here  thinking  about  her  tonight,  I  wonder  if  she  suffered  from  nervousness  at  all,  I  wonder  if  she  didn't  make  it  all  up.  I  wonder  if  she  just  wasn't  meant  to  be  in  service.  To-  ward  the  end,;  the  only  work  she  could  get  was  out  in  the  country,  where  no-  body  else  would  go,  and  she  never  lasted  much  more  than  a  week  or  two.  She'd  take  a  little  gin  for  her  nervousness,  then  a  little  for  her  tiredness,  and  when  she'd  drunk  her  own  bottle  and  every-  thing  she  could  steal,  they'd  hear  about  it  in  the  front  part  of  the  house.  There  was  usually  a  scene,  and  my  poor  sister  alway's  liked  to  have  the  last  word.  Oh,  if  I  hadhad  my  way,  they'd  be  a  law  against  it!  It's  not  my  business  to  advise  you  to  take  anything  from  your  father,  but  I'd  be  proud  of  you  if  you'd  empty  his  gin  bottle  into  the  sink  now  and  then-the  filthy  stuff!  But  it's  made  me  feel  better  to  talk  with  you,  sweet-  heart.  It's  made  me  not  miss  my  poor  sister  so  much,  Now  I'll  read  a  little  more  in  my  Bible,  and  then  I'll  get  you  some  supper.&quot;  HE  Lawtons  had  had  a  bad  year  with  cooks-there  had  been  five  of  them.  The  arrival  of  Rosemary  had  made  Marcia  Lawton  think  back  to  a  vague  theory  of  dispensations;  she  had  suffered,  and  now  she  was  being  re-  warded.  Rosemary  was  clean,  indus-  trious,  and  cheerful,  and  her  table-as  the  Lawtons  said-was  just  like  the  Chambord.  On  Wednesday  night  after  dinner,  she  took  the  train  to  New  York,  promising  to  return  on  the  evening  train  Thursday.  Thursday  morning,  Marcia  went  into  the  cook's  room.  It  was  a  dis-  tasteful  buta  habitual  precaution.  The  absence  of  anything  personal  in  the  room-a  package  of  cigarettes,  a  foun-  tain  pen,  an  alarm  clock,  a  radio,  or  any-  thing  else  that  could  tie  theold  woman  to  the  place-gave  her  the  uneasy  feel-  ing  that  she  was  being  deceived,  as  she  had  so  often  been  deceived  by  cooks  in  the  past.  She  opened  the  closet  door  and  saw  a  single  uniform  hanging  there  and,  on  the  closet  floor,  Rosemary's  old  suitcase  and  the  white  shoes  she  wore  in  the  kitchen.  The  suitcase  was  locked,  but  when  Marcia  lifted  it,  it  seemed  to  be  nearly  empty.  Mr.  Lawton  and  Amy  drove  to  the  station  after  dinner  on  Thursday  to  meet  the  eight-sixteen  train.  The  top  of  the  car  was  down,  and  the  brisk  air,  the  starlight,  and  the  company  of  her  father  made  the  little  girl  feel  kindly  toward  the  world,  The  railroad  station  in  Shady  Hill  resembled  the  railroad  sta-  tions  in  old  movies  she  had  seen  on  tele-  vision,  where  detectives  and  spies,  blue-  beards  and  their  trusting  victims,  were  met  to  be  driven  off  to  remote  country  estates.  Amy  liked  the  station,  particu-  larly  toward  dark.  She  imagined  that  the  people  who  travelled  on  the  locals  were  engaged  on  errands  that  were  more  urgent  and  sinister  than  commut-  ing.  Except  when  there  was  a  heavy  fog  or  a  snowstorm,  the  club  car  that  her  father  travelled  on  seemed  to  have  the  gloss  and  the  monotony  of  the  rest  of  his  life.  The  locals  that  ran  at  odd  hours  belonged  to  a  world  of  deeper  contrasts,  where  she  would  like  to  live.  They  were  a  few  minutes  early,  and  Amy  got  out  of  the  car  and  stood  on  the  platform.  She  wondered  what  the  fringe  of  string  that  hung  above  the  tracks  at  either  end  of  the  station  was  for,  but  she  knew  enough  not  to  ask  her  father,  because  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  tell  her.  She  could  hear  the  train  before  it  came  into  view,  and  the  noise  excited  her  and  made  her  happy.  When  the  train  drew  in  to  the  station  and  stopped,  she  looked  in  the  lighted  windows  for  Rosemary  and  didn't  see  her.  Mr.  Lawton  gotout  of  the  car  and  joined  Amy  on  the  platform.  They  could  see  the  conductor  bending  over  someone  in  a  seat,  and  finally  the  cook  rose.  She  clung  to  the  conductor  as  he  led  her  out  to  the  platform  of  the  car,  and  she     " b"was  crying.  &quot;Like  peaches  and  cream,&quot;  Amy  heard  her  sob.  &quot;A  lovely,  lovely  person.&quot;  The  conductor  spoke  to  her  kindly,  put  his  arm  around  her  shoul-  ders,  and  eased  her  down  the  steps.  Then  the  train  pulled  out,  and  she  stood  there  drying  her  tears.  &quot;Don't  say  a  word,  Mr.  Lawton,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  I  won't  say  anything.&quot;  She  held  out  a  small  paper  bag.  &quot;Here's  a  present  for  you,  little  girl.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  Rosemary,&quot;  Amy  said.  She  looked  into  the  paper  bag  and  saw  that  it  contained  several  packets  of  Jap-  anese  water  flowers.  Rosemary  walked  toward  thecar  with  the  caution  of  someone  who  can  hardly  find  the  way  in  the  dim  light.  A  sour  smell  came  from  her.  Her  best  coat  was  spotted  with  mud  and  ripped  in  the  back.  Mr.  Lawton  told  Amy  to  get  in  the  back  seat  of  the  car,  and  made  the  cook  sit  in  front,  beside  him.  He  slammed  the  car  door  shut  after  her  angrily,  and  then  went  around  to  the  driver's  seat  and  drove  home.  Rosemary  reached  into  her  handbag  and  took  out  a  Coca-Cola  bottle  with  acork  stopper  and  took  a  drink.  Amy  could  tell  by  the  smell  that  the  Coca-Cola  bottle  was  filled  with  gin.  &quot;Rosemary!&quot;  Mr.  Lawton  said.  &quot;I'm  lonely,&quot;  the  cook  said.  &quot;I'm  lonely,  and  I'm  afraid,  and  it's  all  I've  got.&quot;  He  said  nothing  more  until  he  had  turned  in  to  their  drive  and  brought  thecar  around  to  the  back  door.  &quot;Go  and  get  your  suitcase,  Rosemary,&quot;  he  said.&quot;I'll  wait  here  in  the  car.&quot;  As  soon  as  the  cook  had  staggered  into  the  house,he  told  Amy  to  go  in  by  thefrontdoor.  &quot;Go  upstairs  to  your  room  and  get  ready  for  bed.&quot;  Her  mother  called  down  the  stairs  when  Amy  came  in,  to  ask  if  Rosemary  had  returned.  Amy  didn't  answer.  She  went  to  the  bar,  took  an  open  gin  bottle,  and  emptied  it  into  the  pantry  sink.  She  was  nearly  crying  when  she  encount-  ered  her  mother  in  the  living  room,  and  told  her  that  her  father  was  taking  the  cook  back  to  the  station.  HEN  Amy  came  home  from  school  the  next  day,  she  found  a  heavy,  black-haired  woman  cleaning  the  living  room.  The  car  Mr.  Lawton  usually  drove  to  the  station  was  at  the  garage  for  a  checkup,  and  Amy  drove  to  the  station  with  her  mother  to  meet  him.  As  he  came  across  the  station  plat-  form,  she  could  tell,  by  the  lack  of  color  in  his  face,  that  he  hadhad  a  hard  day.  He  kissed  her  mother,  touched  Amy  on  the  head,  and  got  behind  the  wheel.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  her  mother  said,  &quot;there's  something  terribly  wrong  with  the  guest-room  shower.&quot;  &quot;Damn  it,  Marcia,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  wish  you  wouldn't  always  greet  me  with  bad  news!&quot;  His  grating  voice  oppressed  Amy,  and  she  began  to  fiddle  with  the  button  that  raised  and  lowered  the  window.  &quot;Stop  that,  Amy!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  well,  the  shower  isn't  impor-  tant,&quot;  her  mother  said.  She  laughed  weakly.  &quot;When  I  got  back  from  San  Fran-  cisco  last  week,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  couldn't wait  to  tell  me  that  we  need  a  new  oil-  burner.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I've  gota  part-time  cook,  That's  good  news.&quot;  &quot;Is  she  a  lush?&quot;  her  father  asked.  &quot;Don't  be  disagreeable,  dear.  She'll  get  us  some  dinner  and  wash  the  dishes  and  take  the  bus  home.  We're  going  to  the  Farquarsons'.&quot;  &quot;I'm  really  too  tired  to  go  any-  where,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Who's  going  to  take  care  of  me?&quot;&quot;  Amy  asked.  &quot;You  always  have  a  good  time  at  the  Farquarsons',&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Well,  let's  leave  early,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Who's  going  to  takecare  of  me?&quot;  Amy  asked.  &quot;Mrs.  Henlein,&quot;  her  mother  said.  When  they  got  home,  Amy  went  over  to  the  piano.  Her  father  washed  his  hands  in  the  bathroom  off  the  hall  and  then  went  to  the  bar.  He  came  into  the  living  room  holding  the  empty  gin  bottle.  &quot;What's  her  name?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Ruby,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;She's  exceptional.  She's  drunk  a  quart  of  gin  on  her  first  day.&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear!&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Well,  let's  not  make  any  trouble  now.&quot;  &quot;Everybody  is  drinking  my  liquor,&quot;  her  father  shouted,  &quot;and  I  am  God-  damned  sick  and  tired  of  it!&quot;  &quot;'There's  plenty  of  gin  in  the  closet,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Open  another  bot-  tle.&quot;  &quot;We  paid  that  gardener  three  dollars  an  hour  and  all  he  did  was  sneak  in  here  and  drink  up  my  Scotch.  'The  sitter  we  had  before  we  got  Mrs.  Henlein  used  to     " b"water  my  bourbon,  and  I  don't  have  to  remindyou  about  Rosemary.  'The  cook  before  Rosemary  not  only  drank  every-  thing  in  my  liquor  cabinet  but  she  drank  all  the  rum,  kirsch,  sherry,  and  wine  that  we  had  in  the  kitchen  for  cooking.  Then,  there's  that  Polish  woman  we  had  last  summer.  Even  that  old  laundress.  And  the  painters.  I  think  they  must  put  some  kind  of  a  mark  on  my  door.  I  think  the  agency  must  have  checked  me  offas  an  easy  touch.&quot;  &quot;Well,  let's  get  through  dinner,  and  then  you  can  speak  to  her.&quot;  &quot;'The  hell  with  that!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  encourage  people  to  rob  me.  Ruby!&quot;  He  shouted  her  name  several  times,  but  she  didn't  answer.  Then  she  appeared  in  the  dining-room  doorway,  wearing  her  hat  and  coat.  &quot;I'm  sick,&quot;  she  said.  Amy  could  see  that  she  was  frightened.  &quot;I  should  think  you  would  be,&quot;  her  father  said.  &quot;I'm  sick,&quot;  the  cook  mumbled,  &quot;and  I  can't  find  anything  around  here,  and  I'm  going  home.&quot;  &quot;Good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Good!  I'm  through  with  paying  people  to  come  in  here  and  drink  my  liquor.&quot;  The  cook  started  out  the  front  way,  and  Marcia  Lawton  followed  her  into  the  front  hall  to  pay  her  something.  Amy  had  watched  this  scene  from  the  piano  bench,  a  position  that  was  with-  drawn  but  that  still  gave  her  a  good  view.  She  saw  her  father  get  a  fresh  bottle  of  gin  and  make  a  shaker  of  Martinis.  He  looked  very  unhappy.  &quot;Well,&quot;  her  mother  said  when  she  came  back  into  the  room.  &quot;You  know,  she  didn't  look  drunk.&quot;  &quot;Please  don't  argue  with  me,  Mar-  cia,&quot;  her  father  said.  He  poured  two  cocktails,  said  &quot;Cheers,&quot;  and  drank  a  little.  &quot;We  can  get  some  dinner  at  Orfeo's,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  suppose  so,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;I'll  rustle  up  something  for  Amy.&quot;  She  went  into  the  kitchen,  and  Amy  opened  her  music  to  &quot;Reflets  d'Au-  tomne.&quot;  &quot;COUNT,&quot;  her  music  teacher  had  written.  &quot;COUNT  and  lightly,  light-  ly  .  ..&quot;  Amy  began  to  play.  Whenever  she  made  a  mistake,  she  said  &quot;Darn  it!&quot;  and  started  at  the  beginning  again.  In  the  middle  of  &quot;Reflets  d'  Automne&quot;  it  struck  her  that  she  was  the  one  who  had  emptied  the  gin  bottle.  Her  per-  plexity  was  so  intense  that  she  stopped  playing,  buther  feelings  did  not  go  be-  yond  perplexity,  although  she  did  not  have  the  strength  to  continue  playing  the  piano.  Her  mother  relieved  her.  &quot;Your  suppers  in  the  kitchen,  dear,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  you  can  take  a  popsicle  out  of  the  deep  freeze  for  dessert.  Just  one.&quot;  Marcia  Lawton  held  her  empty  glass  toward  her  husband,  who  filled  it  from  the  shaker.  Then  she  went  upstairs.  Mr.  Lawton  remained  in  the  room,  and,  studying  her  father  closely,  Amy  saw  that  his  tense  look  had  begun  to  soften.  He  did  not  seem  so  unhappy  any  more,  and  as  she  passed  him  on  her  way  to  the  kitchen,  he  smiled  at  her  tenderly  and  patted  her  on  the  top  of  the  head.  When  Amy  had  finished  her  supper,  eaten  her  popsicle,  and  exploded  the  bag  it  came  in,  she  returned  to  the  piano  and  played  &quot;Chopsticks&quot;  for  a  while.  Her  father  came  downstairs  in  his  eve-  ning  clothes,  put  his  drink  on  the  man-  telpiece,  and  went  to  the  French  doors  to  look  at  his  terrace  and  his  garden.  Amy  noticed  that  the  transformation  that  had  begun  with  a  softening  of  his  features  was  even  more  advanced.  At  last,  he  seemed  happy.  Amy  won-  dered  if  he  was  drunk,  although  his  walk  was  not  unsteady.  If  anything,  it  was  more  steady.  Her  parents  never  achieved  the  kind  of  rolling,  swinging  gait  that  she  saw  impersonated  by  a  tightrope  walker  in  the  circus  each  year  while  the  band  struck  up  &quot;Show  Me  the  Way  to  Go  Home&quot;  and  that  she  liked  to  imitate  her-  self  sometimes.  She  liked  to  turn  round  and  round  and  round  on  the  lawn,  until,  staggering  and  a  little  sick,  she  would  whoop  &quot;I'm  drunk!  I'm  a  drunken  man!&quot;  and  reel  over  the  grass,  righting  herself  as  she  was  about  to  fall  and  find-  ing  herself  not  unhappy  at  having  lost  for  a  second  her  ability  to  see  the  world.  But  she  had  never  seen  her  parents  like  that.  She  had  never  seen  them  hanging  on  to  a  lamppost  and  singing  and  reel-  ing,  but  she  had  seen  them  fall  down.  They  were  never  indecorous-they  seemed  to  get  more  decorous  and  formal  the  more  they  drank  -but  sometimes  her  father  would  get  up  to  fill  every-  body's  glass  and  he  would  walk  straight  enough  but  his  shoes  would  seem  to  stick  to  the  carpet.  And  sometimes,  when  he  got  to  the  dining-room  door,  he  would  miss  it  by  a  foot  or  more.  Once,  she  had  seen  him  walk  into  the  wall  with  such  force  that  he  collapsed  onto  the  floor  and  broke  most  of  the  glasses  he  was  carrying.  One  or  two  people  laughed,  but  the  laughter  was  not  general  or  hearty,  and  most  of  them  pretended  that  he  had  not  fallen  down  at  all.  When  her  father  got  to  his  feet,  he  went  right  on  to  the  bar  as  if  noth-  ing  had  happened.  Amy  had  once  seen  Mrs.  Farquarson  miss  the  chair  she  was  about  to  sit  in,  by  a  foot,  and  thump  down  onto  the  floor,  but  nobody  laughed  then,  and  they  pretended  that  Mrs.  Farquarson  hadn't  fallen  down  at  all.  They  seemed  like  actors  in  a  play.  In  the  school  play,  when  you  knocked  over  a  paper  tree  you  were  supposed  to  pick  it  up  without  showing  what  you  were  doing,  so  that  you  would  not  spoil  the  illusion  of  being  in  a  deep  forest,  and  that  was  the  way  they  were  when  somebody  fell  down.  Now  her  father  had  that  stiff,  funny  walk  that  was  so  different  from  the  way  he  tramped  up  and  down  the  station  " b"platform  in  the  morning,  and  she  could  see  that  he  was  looking  for  something.  He  was  looking  for  his  drink.  It  was  right  on  the  mantelpiece,  buthe  didn't  look  there.  He  looked  on  all  the  tables  in  the  living  room.  Then  he  went  out  onto  the  terrace  and  looked  there,  and  then  he  came  back  into  the  living  room  and  looked  on  all  the  tables  again.  Then  he  went  back  onto  the  terrace,  and  then  back  over  the  living-room  tables,  looking  three  times  in  the  same  place,  although  he  was  always  telling  her  to  look  intelli-  gently  when  she  lost  her  sneakers  or  her  raincoat.  &quot;Look  for  it,  Amy,&quot;  he  was  always  saying.  &quot;Try  and  remember  where  you  left  it.  I  can't  buy  you  a  new  raincoat  every  time  it  rains.&quot;  Finally  he  gave  up  and  poured  himself  a  cock-  tail  in  another  glass.  &quot;I'm  going  to  get  Mrs.  Henlein,&quot;  he  told  Amy,  as  if  this  were  an  important  piece  of  information.  Amy's  only  feeling  for  Mrs.  Hen-  lein  was  indifference,  and  when  her  father  returned  with  the  sitter,  Amy  thought  of  the  nights,  stretching  into  weeks-the  years,  almost-when  she  had  been  cooped  up  with  Mrs.  Henlein.  Mrs.  Henlein  was  very  polite  and  was  always  telling  Amy  whatwas  ladylike  and  what  was  not.  Mrs.  Henlein  also  always  wanted  to  know  where  Amy's  parents  were  going  and  what  kind  of  a  party  it  was,  although  it  was  none  of  her  business.  She  always  sat  down  on  the  sofa  as  if  she  owned  the  place,  and  talked  about  people  she  had  never  even  been  introduced  to,  and  asked  Amy  to  bring  her  the  newspaper,  although  she  had  no  authority  at  all.  When  Marcia  Lawton  came  down,  Mrs.  Henlein  wished  her  good  evening.  &quot;Have  a  lovely  party,&quot;  she  called  after  the  Lawtons  as  they  went  out  the  door.  Then  she  turned  to  Amy.  &quot;Where  are  your  parents  going,  sweetheart!&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;But  you  must  know,  sweetheart.  Put  on  your  thinking  cap  and  try  and  remember.  Are  they  going  to  the  club?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;I  wonder  if  they  could  be  going  to  the  Trenchers',&quot;  Mrs.  Henlein  said.  &quot;The  Trenchers'  house  was  lighted  up  when  we  came  by.&quot;  &quot;''They're  not  going  to  the  Trench-  ers',&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;They  hate  the  Trenchers.&quot;  &quot;Well,  where  are  they  going,  sweet-  heart?&quot;  Mrs.  Henlein  asked.  'They're  going  to  the  Farquarsons',&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;Well,  that's  all  I  wanted  to  know,  sweetheart,&quot;  Mrs.  Henlein  said.  &quot;Now  get  me  the  newspaper  and  hand  it  to  me  politely.  Politely,&quot;  she  said,  as  Amy  approached  her  with  the  paper.  &quot;It  don't  mean  anything  when  you  do  things  for  your  elders  unless  you  do  them  politely.&quot;  She  put  on  her  glasses  and  began  to  read  the  paper.  Amy  went  upstairs  to  her  room.  In  a  glass  on  her  table  were  the  Japanese  flowers  that  Rosemary  had  brought  her,  blooming  stalely  in  water  that  was  col-  oredpink  from  the  dyes.  Amy  went  down  the  back  stairs  and  through  the  kitchen  into  the  dining  room.  Her  father's  cocktail  things  were  spread  over  the  bar.  She  emptied  the  gin  bottle  into  the  pantry  sink  and  then  put  it  back  where  she  had  found  it.  It  was  too  late  to  ride  her  bicycle  and  too  early  to  go  to  bed,  and  she  knew  that  if  she  got  any-  thing  interesting  on  the  television,  like  a  murder,  Mrs.  Henlein  would  make  her  turn  it  off.  Then  she  remem-  bered  that  her  father  had  brought  her  home  from  his  trip  West  a  book  about  horses,  and  she  ran  cheerfully  up  the  back  stairs  to  read  her  new  book.  T  was  after  two  when  the  Lawtons  returned.  Mrs.  Henlein,  asleep  on  the  living-room  sofa  dreaming  about  a  dusty  attic,  was  awakened  by  their  voices  in  the  hall.  Marcia  Lawton  paid  her,  and  thanked  her,  and  asked  if  anyone  had  called,  and  then  went  up-  stairs.  Mr.  Lawton  was  in  the  dining  room,  rattling  the  bottles  around.  Mrs.  Henlein,  anxious  to  get  into  her  own  bed  and  back  to  sleep,  prayed  that  he  wasn't  going  to  pour  himself  another  drink,  as  they  so  often  did.  She  was  driven  home  night  after  night  by  drunken  gentlemen.  He  stood  in  the  door  of  the  dining  room,  holding  an empty  bottle  in  his  hand.  &quot;You  must  be  stinking,  Mrs.  Henlein,&quot;'  he  said.  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  she  said.  She  didn't  under-  stand.  &quot;You  drank  a  full  quart  of  [REDACTED];  he  said.  The  lacklustre  old  woman-half  be-  tween  wakefulness  and  sleep-gathered  together  her  bones  and  groped  for  her  gray  hair.  It  was  in  her  nature  to  col-  lect  stray  cats,  pile  the  bathroom  up  to  the  ceiling  with  interesting  and  valuable  newspapers,  rouge,  talk  to  herself,  sleep  in  her  underwear  in  case  of  fire,  quarrel  over  the  price  of  soup  bones,  and  have  it  circulated  around  the  neighborhood  that  when  she  finally  died  in  her  dusty  junk  heap,  the  mattress  would  be  full  of  bankbooks  and  the  pillow  stuffed  with  hundred-dollar  bills.  She  had  re-  sisted  all  these  rich  temptations  in  order  to  appear  a  lady,  and  she  was  repaid  by  being  called  a  common  thief.  She  be-  gan  to  scream  at  him.  &quot;You  take  that  back,  Mr.  Lawton!  You  take  back  every  one  of  those  words  you  just  said!  I  never  stole  anything  in  my  whole  life,  and  nobody  in  my  family  ever  stole  anything,  and  I  don't  have  to  stand  here  and  be  insulted  by  a  drunk  man.  Why,  as  for  drinking,  I  haven't  drunk  enough  to  fill  an  eyeglass  for  twenty-five  years.  Mr.  Henlein  took  me  to  a  place  of  refreshment  twenty-  five  years  ago,  and  I  drink  two  Manhat-  tan  cocktails  that  made  me  so  sick  and  dizzy  that  I've  never  liked  the  stuff  ever  since.  How  dare  you  speak  to  me  like  this!  Calling  me  a  thief  and  a  drunken  woman!  Oh,  you  disgust  me-you  disgust  me  in  your  ignorance  of  all  the  trouble  I've  had.  Do  you  know  what  I  had  for  Christmas  dinner  last  year?  I  had  a  bacon  sandwich.  Son  of  a  bitch!&quot;  She  began  to  weep.  &quot;I'm  glad  I  said  it      " b"she  screamed.  &quot;It's  the  first  time  I've  used  a  dirty  word  in  my  whole  life  and  I'm  glad  I  said  it.  Son  of  a  bitch!&quot;  A  sense  of  liberation,  as  if  she  stood  at  the  bow  of  a  great  ship,  came  over  her.  &quot;I  lived  in  this  neighborhood  my  whole  life.  I  can  remember  when  it  was  full  of  good  farming  people  and  there  was  fish  in  the  rivers.  My  father  had  four  acres  of  sweet  meadowland  and  a  name  that  was  known  far  and  wide,  and  on  my  mother's  side  I'm  descended  from  pa-  troons,  Dutch  nobility.  My  mother  was  the  spit  and  image  of  Queen  Wilhel-  mina.  You  think  you  can  get  away  with  insulting  me,  but  you're  very,  very,  very  much  mistaken.&quot;  She  went  to  the  tele-  phone  and,  picking  up  the  receiver,  screamed,  &quot;Police!  Police!  Police!  This  is  Mrs.  Henlein,  and  I'm  over  at  the  Lawtons'.He's  drunk,  and  he's  calling  me  insulting  names,  and  I  want  you  to  come  over  here  and  arrest  him!&quot;  The  voices  woke  Amy,  and,  lying  in  her  bed,  she  perceived  vaguely  the  piti-  ful  corruption  of  the  adult  world;  how  crude  and  frail  it  was,  like  a  piece  of  worn  burlap,  patched  with  stupidities  and  mistakes,  useless  and  ugly,  and  yet  they  never  saw  its  worthlessness,  and  when  you  pointed  it  out  to  them,  they  were  indignant.  But  as  the  voices  went  on  and  she  heard  the  cry  &quot;Police!  Po-  lice!&quot;  she  was  frightened.  She  did  not  see  how  they  could  arrest  her,  although  they  could  find  her  fingerprints  on  the  empty  bottle,  but  it  was  nother  own  danger  that  frightened  her  but  the  col-  lapse,  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  of  her  father's  house.  It  was  all  her  fault,  and  when  she  heard  her  father  speaking  into  the  extension  telephone  in  the  library,  she  felt  sunk  in  guilt.  Her  father  tried  to  be  good  and  kind-oh,  she  knew  he  never  meant  to  be  anything  else-and,  remembering  the  expensive  illustrated  book  about  horses  that  he  had  brought  her  from  the  West,  she  had  to  set  her  teeth  to  keep  from  crying.  She  covered  her  head  with  a  pillow  and  realized  mis-  erably  that  she  would  have  to  go  away.  She  had  plenty  of  friends  from  the  time  when  they  used  to  live  in  New  York,  or  she  could  spend  the  night  in  the  Park  or  hide  in  a  museum.  She  would  have  to  go  away.  .  OOD  morning,&quot;  her  father  said  at  breakfast.  &quot;Ready  for  a  good  day!&quot;  Cheered  by  the  swelling  light  in  the  sky,  by  the  recollection  of  the  man-  ner  in  which  he  had  handled  Mrs.  Hen-  lein  and  kept  the  police  from  coming,     " b"refreshed  by  his  sleep,  and  pleased  at  the  thought  of  playing  golf,  Mr.  Lawton  spoke  with  feeling,  but  the  words  seemed  to  Amy  offensive  and  fatuous;  they  took  away  her  appetite,  and  she  slumped  over  her  cereal  bowl,  stirring  it  with  a  spoon.  &quot;Don't  slump,  Amy,&quot;  he  said.  Then  she  remembered  the  night,  the  screaming,  the  resolve  to  go.  His  cheerfulness  refreshed  her  memory.  Her  decision  was  settled.  She  had  a  ballet  lesson  at  ten,  and  she  was  going  to  have  lunch  with  Lillian  Towele.  Then  she  would  leave.  Children  prepare  for  a  sea  voyage  with  a  toothbrush  and  a  Teddy  bear;  they  equip  themselves  for  a  trip  around  the  world  with  a  pair  of  odd  socks,  a  conch  shell,  and  a  thermometer;  books  and  stones  and  peacock  feathers,  candy  bars,  tennis  balls,  soiled  handkerchiefs,  and  skeins  of  old  string  appear  to  them  to  be  the  necessities  of  travel,  and  Amy  packed,  that  afternoon,  with  the  impul-  siveness  of  her  kind.  She  was  late  com-  ing  home  from  lunch,  and  her  getaway  was  delayed,  but  she  didn't  mind.  She  could  catch  one  of  the  late-afternoon  locals;  one  of  the  cooks'  trains.  Her  father  was  playing  golf  and  her  mother  was  off  somewhere.  A  part-time  worker  was  cleaning  the  living  room.  When  Amy  had  finished  packing,  she  went  into     her  parents'  bathroom  and  flushed  the  toilet.  While  the  water  murmured,  she  took  a  twenty-dollar  bill  from  her  mother's  desk.  Then  she  went  down-  stairs  and  left  the  house  and  walked  around  Blenhollow  Circle  and  down  Alewives  Lane  to  the  station.  No  regrets  or  goodbyes  formed  in  her  mind.  She  went  over  the  names  of  the  friends  she  had  in  the  city,  in  case  she  decided  not  to  spend  the  night  in  a  museum.  When  she  opened  the  door  of  the  waiting  room,  Mr.  Flanagan,  the  stationmaster,  was  poking  his  coal  fire.  &quot;It's  Amy  Law-  ton,&quot;  he  said,  without  turning  around.  Yes  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  felt  it  was  you.  You  never  come  in  here,  do  you,  except  to  get  some  gum  out  ofthe  ma-  chine  and  get  weighed,  and  yet  just  as  I  was  poking  my  fire,  it  came  to  my  mind  that  Amy  Lawton  was  going  to  step  into  the  waiting  room.  It's  second  sight.  I  can  feel  things  before  they  happen.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  buy  a  ticket  to  New  York,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;One-way  or  round-trip?&quot;  &quot;One-way,  please.&quot;  Mr.  Flanagan  went  through  the  door  into  the  ticket  office  and  raised  the  glass window.,  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  haven't  got  a  half-fare  ticket  for  you,  Amy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  have  to  write  one.&quot;  &quot;That's  all  right,&quot;  she  said.  She  put  the  twenty-dollar  bill  on  the  counter.  &quot;And  in  order  to  change  that,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I'll  have  to  go  over  to  the  other  side.  Here's  the  four-thirty-two  coming  in  now,  but  you'll  be  able  to  get  the  five-  ten.&quot;  She  didn't  protest,  and  went  and  sat  beside  her  cardboard  suitcase,  which  was  printed  with  European  hotel  and  place  names.  When  the  local  had  come  and  gone,  Mr.  Flanagan  shut  his  glass  window  and  walked  over  the  footbridge  to  the  northbound  platform  and  called  the  Lawtons'.  Mr.Lawton  had  just  come  in  from  his  game  and  was  mixing  himself  a  cocktail.  &quot;I  think  your  daugh-  ter's  planning  to  take  some  kind  ofa  trip,&quot;  Mr.  Flanagan  said.  It  was  dark  by  the  time  Mr.  Lawton  got  down  to  the  station.  He  saw  his  daughter  through  the  station  window.  The  girl  sitting  on  the  bench,  the  rich  names  on  her  paper  suitcase,  touched  him  as  it  was  in  her  power  to  touch  him  only  when  she  seemed  helpless  or  when  she  was  very  sick.  Someone  had  walked  over  his  grave!  He  shivered  with  longing,  he  felt  his  skin  coarsen  as  when,  driving  home  late  and  alone,  a  shower  of  leaves  on  the  wind  crossed  the  beam  of  his  headlights,  liberating  him  for  a  second  at  the  most  from  the  literal  symbols  of  his  life-the  buttonless  shirts,  the  vouchers  and  bank  statements,  the  order  blanks,  and  the  empty  glasses.  He  seemed  to  listen-God  knows  for  what.  Commands,  drums,  the  crackle  ofsignal  fires,  the  music  of  the  glocken-  spiel-how  sweet  it  sounds  on  the  Alpine  air-singing  from  a  tavern  in  the  pass,  the  honking  of  wild  swans;  he  seemed  to  smell  the  salt  air  in  the  churches  of  4974616c79.  Then,  as  it  was  with  the  leaves,  the  power  of  her  figure  to  trouble  him  was  ended;  his  gooseflesh  vanished.  He  was  himself.  Oh,  why  should  she  want  to  run  away?  Travel-and  who  knew  better  than  a  man  who  spent  three  days  of  every  fortnight  on  the  road-was  a  world  of  overheated  plane  cabins  and  repetitious  magazines,  where  even  the  coffee,  even  the  champagne,  tasted  of  plastics.  How  could  he  teach  her  that  home  sweet  home  was  the  best  place  of  all? "