 b"DO  I  take  it  everybody's  familiar with  a  magazine  called  Town  &amp;  Country?  (If  I  know  my  luck,  it'll  turn  out  that  there  is  no  mag-  azine  called  Town  &amp;  Country,  or  else  that  there  are  five  with  nearly  identical  titles-Town  &amp;  Poultry,  Hound  &amp;  Gentry,  Grouse  &amp;  Peltry,  etc.)  Any-  how,  the  one  I  mean  is  a  fashionable  paper  costing  six  bits  that  chronicles  the  activities  of  the  quality,  and  hence  doesn't  circulate  around  the  Luxor  steam  baths  or  most  of  the  other  places  I  do.  Several  weeks  ago,  though,  while  waiting  for  the  lacquer  to  dry  on  a  new  toupee  at  my  wigmaker's,  I  noticed  a  copy  of  the  September  issue  on  his  cre-  denza  and  began  thumbing  through  it.  Before  I  could  determine  what  cotillions  were  upcoming  or  which  supper  clubs  the  Braganzas  favored,  my  attention  was  impaled  on  a  singular  advertisement  for  Dayton  Koolfoam  Pillows.  In  case  you're  a  square  like  me,  who  never  heard  of  it,  the  Dayton  Koolfoam  isn't  just  a  conventional  bolster;  in  the  eyes  of  its  sponsors  it's  a  whole  mystique,  almost  a  philosophical  system.  &quot;Yes,  Dayton  Koolfoam  is  more  than  a  pil-  low  ...  it's  a  way  of  life,&quot;  the  text  an-  nounced  with  marked  exaltation,  &quot;for  its  relaxing  sleep-ability  rejuvenates  you  for  another  day.  And  it's  more  than  foam,  for  its  patented  process  gives  a  unique,  velvety  'open-pore'  surface  that  assures  ever-changing  fresh  air.&quot;  What  corralled  me  specifically,  how-  ever,  was  the  superimposed  color  photo-  graph  of  a  patrician  young  blonde  musing  over  a  note  from  some  impas-  sioned  cavalier  that  contained  the  fol-  lowing  bit  of  meringue:  &quot;Betty  dear  ...  being  away  from  you  makes  every  day  seem  like  a  week,  every  week  like  a  month.  But  here's  a  kiss  .  .  .  tuck  it  un-  der  your  Koolfoam  and  dream  of  me.,&quot;  This  inveterate  disposition  of  the  ad-  vertiser  to  cuddle,  to  yoke  his  product  to  the  consumer's  emotional  life  and  sta-  bility,  is,  of  course,  nothing  new.  Brand  Names  Foundation,  Inc.,  a  fellowship  dedicated  to  making  the  public  label-  conscious,  has  been  piping  away  on  the  same  theme  for  quite  a  while  now.  Its  most  touching  effort,  perhaps,  was  the  advertisement  a  year  or  so  back  that  showed  a  family  moving  into  a  new  home  in  a  strange  city,  friendless  and  utterly  without  roots.  Everybody  was  thoroughly  woebegone,  but,  said  the  copy,  there  was  no  occasion  for  despair.  Close  at  hand  were  nationally  advertised  wares  to  restore  a  sense  of  kinship  and  continuity-old  cronies,  I  gathered,  like  the  O-Cedar  Mop  for  Mom,  the  cheer-  ful  red  tin  of  Prince  Albert  for  Dad,  Kiwi  Shoe  Polish  for  Junior,  and  Mogen  David  Wines  for  Sister.  And,  it  might  have  added,  a  full  selection  of  depend-  able  roscoes,  like  the  Smith  &amp;  Wesson,  if  things  got  really  unendurable.  RANTING  the  fact  that  Kool-  foam  haspioneered  in  cross-fer-  tilizing  love  and  commerce,  my  sole  objection  to  its  romantic  correspondence  is  that  it  tantalizes  instead  of  enlighten-  ing;  no  sooner  does  it  start  a  provocative  hare  than  it  inexplicably  abandons  the  chase.  Just  what,  I  wonder,  is  the  status  of  the  lady's  pen  pal  that  he  speaks  so  jauntily  of  her  pillow?  Most  men  in  the  early  stages  of  courtship,  at  least,  haven't  the  faintest  idea  whether  their  sweethearts  sleep  in  [REDACTED]  or  in  tinfoil,  and,  even  after  a  modus  amandi  is  estab-  lished,  rarely  quiz  them  about  their  pref-  erence  in  pillows.  To  be  sure,  she  may  have  thrown  hers  at  him  in  a  hoydenish  moment  while  larking  around  her  garconnicre,  but  nobody  with  red  blood  in  his  veins  studies  labelsat  a  time  like  that  .  ..  I  beg  pardon?  ...  Oh,  I  thought  you  said  something.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  charmer  is  intended  to  be  a  young  matron,  are  we  to  assume  that  she  and  her  husband  routinely  exchange  love  letters  freighted  with  advertising?  The  whole  thing  becomes  more  cryptic  the  longer  you  speculate  on  it,  and  since  everyone  knows  that  intense  spec-  ulation  can  easily  lapse  into  neuras-  thenia,  I'd  like  to  make  a  proposal.  I  have  here,  by  a  coincidence  that  those  prone  to  stagger  may  regard  as  stagger-  ing,  a  series  of  letters  very  similar  in  con-  tent  to  Koolfoam's,  and  I  think  their  perusal  might  reward  the  peruser.  They  came  out  of  a  desk  I  acquired  at  a  coun-  try  auction  last  weekend,  whose  previous  owner,  a  bachelor  friend  of  ours,  em-  planed  quite  precipitately  before  the  sale  for  an  extended  stay  in  Europe.  Ordi-  narily,  I  would  hesitate  to  publish  the  letters,  because  of  their  intimate  flavor,  but  as  he  left  no  forwarding  address  and  has  undoubtedly  changed  his  name  by  now,  I  consider  I'm  not  violating  any  confidence.  The  lady  concerned  can  fend  for  herself.  She  seems  to  have  done  ably  thus  far.  SEPTEMBER  8  GUY  paRLING,  I  suppose  you'll  think  I'm  a  silly  little  goose  to  write  this,  but  I  felt  I  simply  had  to  apologize  for  Eliot's  behavior  the  other  evening  at  dinner.  Also,  I  can't  re-  sist  any  opportunity  to  use  my  new  Parker  51,  which,  as  you  know,  takes  the  drudgery  out  of  correspondence.  Did  you  realize,  by  the  way,  that  its  patented  Vacuum-Flo  suction  barrel,  embodying  a  revolutionary  concept  in  pen  styling,  guards  against  seepage?  Yes,  it's  goodbye  to  ink-stained  fingers  and  annoying  blots.  The  stationery,  of  course,  is  Eaton's  Wedgwood,  obtain-  able  in  eleven  inviting  colors.  It's  sort  of  a  hallmark  with  fastidious  people  like  myself,  those  who  appreciate  the  finer  things.  Guy,  you'd  adore  their  fascinating  free  booklet,  &quot;'The  Romance  of  Paper.&quot;  Why  not  send  for  it  today?  I'm  afraid  Eliot  made  a  perfectly  horrid  impression  on     you  when  you  arrived,  but  the  poor  dear  caught  cold  on  his  way  home  from  the  office  and,  instead  of  em-  ploying  Vicks  Inhaler,  your  doctor's  recommendation  at  the  first  sign  of  sniffes,  drank  practically  a  fifth  of  Haig  &amp;  Haig.  That's  his  very     " b"own  favorite,  and  I  guess  it's  the  choice  of  the  dis-  criminating  everywhere,  S\xc2\xbb     because  it's  light  without  being  heavy  and  just  smoky  enough  so  it  isn't  clear.  Well,  the  old  green-eyed  monster  al-  ways  comes  out  in  Eliot  whenever  he's  had  one  too  many,  and  he  started  grilling  me  in  this  relent,  less  fashion  about  where  I'd  met  you,  etc.  For-  tunately,  I  know  those  moods  of  his;  had  I  spilled  the  fact  that  we'd  sort  of  picked  each  other  up  in  the  lobby  of  the  Bellevue-Stratford,  he'd  have  brained  you  the  mo-  ment  you  walked  in.  So  I  acted  real  vague-  classmate-of-my-brothe:  double-talk-and  he  quieted  down  pronto.  All  that  glowering  of  his,  and  the  playful  pass  he  made  at  you  with  the  carving  knife,  was  just  his  way  of  showing  off.  Speaking  of  the  knife,  did  you  notice  our  dinner  service?  It's  Gorham's  Damascene  pattern,  and  the  apogee  of  elegance  from  a  hostess's  point  of  view.  Master  craftsmen  have  lavished  years  of  experience  on  this  loveliest  of  all  cutlery.  Are  you  by  any  chance  free  this  Thursday?  Eliot  has  to  fly  out  to  Cin-  cinnati  overnight  for  some  tiresome  in-  surance  symposium,  and  I  thought  you  might  like  to  buzz  over  and  take  pot-  luck.  Of  course,  it  won't  be  very  excit-  ing,  just  the  two  of  us,  but  I'll  get  one  of  those  divine  Hormel  hams-and  they  are  scrumptious,  with  their  mouth-wa-  tering  goodness  sealed  into  each  tin  in  gigantic  pressure  ovens-and  afterward  we  can  laze  around  the  fire  and  talk  if  we  have  to.  I've  been  dying  for  a  chance  to  flaunt  my  new  negligee  from  Berg-  dorf  Goodman's.  It's  so  sheer  that  Eliot  won't  let  me  wear  it  when  we  have  company.  Still,  I  don't  think  it's  fair  for  anyone  way  out  in  [REDACTED]  to  im-  pose  his  whim  on  people,  do  you?  Let's  teach  him  a  lesson.  Affectionately,  17  Dearest  Guy,  I'm  sure  you'll  never  forgive  me  for  popping  into  your  secludedbachelor    retreat  yesterday  afternoon  without  warning,  and  I  do  hope  you  won't  think  me  terribly  forward.  Needless  to  say,  I  wouldn't  have  dreamed  of  acting  that  impulsively  except  it  seemed  the  only  way  out  of  my  dilemma.  I  was  so  wet  and  spent  after  getting  lost  on  those  twisty  back  roads  that  when  I  saw  your  mailbox,  I  almostsobbed  with  relief.  And  when  you  insisted  on  bundling  me  out  of  my  damp  things  and  sharing  that  hot  brandy  punch,  I  could  have  hugged  you.  Or  did  I?  It's  all  a  bit  fuzzy,  but  definitely  on  the  enchanted  side.Is  that  your  impression?  Incidentally,  I  love  the  upstairs  part  of  your  lair,  the  imaginative  way  you've  treated  the  walls  and  ceilings-Kem-  Tone,  isn't  it?  It  gives  such  a  satisfying  patina,  and  contractors  no  less  than  homeowners  swear  by  its  durability.  So  washable,  too;  cobwebs  and  lint  scamper  at  the  flick  of  a  dustcloth.  Everything  you've  done,  in  fact,  is  calculated  to  ex-  tract  &quot;oh&quot;'s  and  &quot;ahs,  with  a  single  exception.  Will  you  disown  me  if  I  make  one  teeny-weeny  criticism,  lover!  In  poking  around  the  kitchen,  I  noticed  your  refrigerator  needs  defrosting. Now,  Guy,  we  both  know  that  false  icebox  economy  spells  whopping  elec-  tric  bills,  as  unbiassed  surveys  conclusive-  ly  reveal.  Don't  put  off  that  visit  to  your  Westinghouse  dealer's  to  see  his  daz-  zling  new  line  of  1954  models.  The  most  generous  trade-in  allowance  in  years  now  makes  it  possible  in  some  in-  stances  to  get  not  only  a  factory-fresh  unit  but  acash  dividend  of  several  hun-  dred  dollars  as  well.  My,  can't  you  just  hear  everyone's  budget  purr?  I'll  tell  you  a  secret  if  you  swear  not  to  repeat  it:  I'm  becoming  the  least  bit  concerned  about  Eliot.  He  flies  into  the  most  jealous  rages  over  positively  noth-  ing.  Last  night,  for  instance,  he  sudden-  ly  rounded  on  me  and  demanded  where  I'd  found  the  496e646961  sports  shirt  from  Brooks  that  you  loaned  me.  Darned  if  he  didn't  catch  me  off  balance  and  I  al-  most  told  him,  but  some  instinct  saved  me.  I  said  the  laundry'd  sent  it  back  with  his  by  mistake.  He  kept  staring  at  it  all  evening,  trying  to  place  it,  because  of  course  you'd  worn  it  the  night  he  met  you.  Isn't  that  hilarious?  I  knew  it'd  amuse  you.  A  clairvoyant  little  birdie  just  whis-     " b"pered  something  in  my  ear.  He  said  that  next  Monday,  about  two-thirty,  I'd  be  in  the  bar  of  the  Carverstown  Hotel,  at  one  of  those  rear  tables  in  the  dark,  looking  for  mischief.  If  you  happen  to  be  driving  through  Carvers-  town  around  then,  it  might  be  fun  to  see  whether  he's  right.  Aren't  you  dying  of  curiosity?  I  am.  Expectantly,  Brenbpa  Ocrorer  1  SwEETIE,  I've  never  known  anything  so  un-  canny  as  our  running  into  each  other  in  Bloomingdale's  upholstery  section  yesterday  morning.  Of  course,  I  knew  you  often  ran  up  to  New  York  for  the  day,  but  of  all  the  unlikely  places  to  en-  counter  one's  neighbors!  We  didn't  get  very  much  shopping  accomplished,  though,  didwe?:  And  I  saw  ever  so  many  tempting  things  as  we  were  leav-  ing-those  stunning  nine-by-twelve  Gulistans  whose  rich,  glowing  designs  complement  your  furniture  whatever  its  period,  the  new  Waring  blender  that  whips  up  foamy  puddings  and  sauces  when  unexpected  guests  drop  in,  a  whole  cornucopia  of  sturdy  gadgets  to  gladden  the  housewife's  heart.  Promise  me  to  browse  through  their  kitchen-  wares  the  very  first  chance  you  get.  The  escargots  in  your  little  French  restaurant  on  Fifty-third  Street  were  delectable,  and  as  for  their  stingers,  I  don't  even  recall  leaving  the  place.  Where  on  earth  did  we  progress  to  afterward?  I  have  a  hazy  recollection  of  an  automatic  elevator  and  your  fussing  with  a  shoelace,  and  the  next  I  knew,  the  conductor  was  shaking  me  and  call-  ing  out  Flemington  Junction.  Eliot  was  fit  to  be  tied  when  I  rolled  up  in  the  taxi.  Seems  he'd  left  thecar  for  me  at  the  sta-  tion  as  we'd  agreed  at  breakfast,  but  I  could  barely  focus,  let  alone  remem-  ber  a  trivial  detail  like  that.  To  make  matters  worse,  some  busybody-Ailsa  Spurgeon,  I'll  bet,  she's  always  hated  me-had  called  up  and  reported  that  she'd  spotted  us  reeling  out  of  the  Carv-  erstown  Hotel  last  week.  Well,  you  should  have  seen  the  fireworks.  All  kinds  of  wild  threats  about  breaking  every  bone  in  your  body  and  hiring  a  private  eye  and  Lord  knows  what-  sheer  bluff,  naturally,  since  he  hasn't  a  blessed  shred  of  evidence  except  the  monogrammed  belt  buckle  you  left  be-  hind  the  night  he  was  in  [REDACTED].  I  thought  of  mentioning  it  to  you  after-  ward,  but  I  hate  post-mortems,  don't  you?  So  dampening.  I  may  be  attending  an  alumnae  luncheon  in  [REDACTED]  Wednesday--  at  least,  Eliot's  convinced  I  am,  and  it  scems  pointless  to  disillusion  him.  Shall  we  say  the  theology  section  of  [REDACTED]'s  Bookstore  at  one?  I'll  look  properly  demure  to  fit  the  surroundings,  but  I  couldturn  into  a  bacchante  in  the  right  environment.  Here's  a  kiss  .  ..  tuck  it  under  your  Chemex  and  heat  your  coffee  on  it.  Consumingly,  Brenoa  Ocrorer  6  My  POOR  LAMBIE,  No  words  can  convey  how  pulverized  I  was  at  the  news.  I'm  absolutely  shat,  tered,  but  obviously  I  can't  rush  over  to  nurse  and  otherwise  console  you,  be-  cause  Eliot  hasn't  stirred  out  of  the  house  for  two  whole  days  and  keeps  watching  me  like  an  adder.  However,  I'm  slipping  this  to  the  handyman,  and  with  luck  you'll  get  it  tomorrow.  You  must  have  been  petrified  when  Eliot  barged  into  [REDACTED]'s  out  of  the  blue  and  began  punching  you,  but  you  can't  say  I  didn't  warn  you;  he's  a  fiend  when  aroused,  and  tricky  as  he  can  be.  I'm  convinced  after  putting  two  and  two  together  that  he  must  have  steamed  open  my  last  letter-which  Isee  now  I  should  never  have  given  him  to  mail-and  then  sent  me  a  phony  wire  from  Mother  luring  me  up  to  New  York.  I  wouldn't  believe  he  could  be  so  base;  it  shows  you  can't  trust  enmy-  body.  Did  he  really  blacken  both  your  eyes,  as  he  keeps  cackling  to  me?  When  the  swelling  goes  down,  try  brushing  the  discolored  areas  with  Max  Factor's  Pan-Cake.  You'll  be  amazed  how  this  smoother,  balmier  makeup  irons  out  crow's-feet  and  restores  tissue  tone.  Small  cuts  and  nicks,  too,  yield  to  its  snowflake  touch.  At  better  drugstores  and  beauticians  everywhere.  As  soon  as  you're  presentable,  why  don't  you  drop  over  here  early  some  afternoon  for  a  cozy  little  drinkie?  Or,  if  you'd  rather,  I  could  wander  byyour  chalet.  Don't  be  apprehensive  about  Eliot.  He  has  these  tantrums  from  time  to  time,  but  they  usually  blow  over.  Oceans  of  love,  and,  whatever  you  do,  don't  forget  to  claim  Your  baggage,  Brena "