 b"THE  elderly  passenger  sitting  on  the  north-window  side  of  that  inexorably  moving  railway  coach,  next  to  an  empty  seat  and  facing  two  empty  ones,  was  none  other  than  Pro-  fessor  Timofey  Pnin.  Ideally  bald,  sun-  tanned,  and  clean-shaven,  he  began  rather  impressively  with  that  great  brown  dome  of  his,  tortoise-shell  glasses  (masking  an  infantile  absence  of  eye-  brows),  apish  upper  lip,  thick  neck,  and  strong-man  torso  in  a  tightish  tweed  coat,  but  ended,  somewhat  disappoint-  ingly,  in  a  pair  of  spindly  legs  (now  flannelled  and  crossed)  and  frail-look-  ing,  almost  feminine  feet.  His  sloppy  socks  were  of  scarlet  wool  with  lilac  lozenges;  his  conservative  black  oxfords  had  cost  him  about  as  much  as  all  the  rest  of  his  clothing  (fam-  boyant  goon  tie  included).  Prior  to  the  nineteen-forties,  during  the  staid  European  era  of  his  life,  he  had  always  worn  long  underwear,  its  terminals  tucked  into  the  tops  of  neat  silk  socks,  which  were  clocked,  soberly  colored,  and  held  up  on  his  cotton-clad  calves  by  garters.  In  those  days,  to  reveal  a  glimpse  of  that  white  underwear  by  pulling  up  a  trouser  leg  too  high  would  have  seemed  to  Pnin  as  indecent  as  showing  himself  toladies  minus  collar  and  tie,  for  even  when  decayed  Mme.  Roux,  the  concierge  of  the  squalid  apartment  house  in  the  Sixteenth  Ar-  rondissement  of  [REDACTED]  where  Pnin  had  lived  for  a  score  of  years  after  escaping  from  Leninized  [REDACTED],  happened  to  come  up  for  the  rent  while  he  was  with-  out  his  faux  col,  primPnin  would  cover  his  front  stud  with  a  chaste  hand.  All  this  underwent  a  change  in  the  heady  atmosphere  of  the  New  World.  Now-  adays,  at  fifty-five,  he  was  crazy  about  sunbathing,  wore  sports  shirts  and  slacks,  and  when  crossing  his  legs  would  carefully,  deliberately,  brazenly  display  a  tremendous  stretch  of  bare  shin.  Thus  he  might  have  appeared  to  a  fellow-passenger,  but  except  for  a  soldier  asleep  at  one  end  and  two  women  absorbed  in  a  baby  at  the  other,  Pnin  had  the  coach  to  himself.  Now  a  secret  must  be  imparted.  Pro-  fessor  Pnin  was  on  the  wrong  train.  He  was  unaware  of  it,  and  so  was  the  conductor,  already  threading  his  way  through  the  train  to  Pnin's  coach.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  P  nin  at  the  moment  felt  very  well  satisfied  with  himself.  When  inviting  him  to  deliver  a  Friday-evening  lecture  at  Cremona-some  two  hun-  dred  versts  west  of  Waindell,  Pain's  academic  perch-the  vice-president  of  the  Cremona  Women's  Club,  a  Miss  Judith  Clyde,  had  advised  our  friend  that  the  most  convenient  train  left  Waindell  at  1:52  p.m.,  reaching  Cre-  mona  at  4:17.  But  Pnin-who,  like  so  many  527573736961ns,  was  inordinately  fond  of  everything  in  the  line  of  time-  tables,  maps,  catalogues,  and  collected  them,  helped  himself  freelyto  them  with  the  bracing  pleasure  of  getting  something  for  nothing,  took  especial  pride  in  puzzling  out  schedules  for  himself-had  discovered,  after  some  study,  an  inconspicuous  reference  mark  against  a  still  more  convenient  train,  &quot;Lv.  Waindell  2:19  p.m.,  Ar.  Cremona  4:32  P.M.;&quot;  the  mark  indicated  that  Fridays,  and  Fridays  only,  the  two-  nineteen  stopped  at  Cremona  on  its  way  to  a  distant  and  much  larger  city,  graced  likewise  with  a  mellow  Italian  name.  Unfortunately  for  Pnin,  his  timetable  was  five  years  old  and  in  part  obsolete.  He  taught  527573736961n  at  Waindell  Col-  lege,  a  somewhat  provincial  institution  characterized  by  an  artificial  lake  in  the  middle  of  a  landscaped  campus,  by  ivied  galleries  connecting  the  various  halls,  by  murals  displaying  recognizable  mem-  bers  of  the  faculty  in  theact  of  pass-  ing  on  the  torch  of  knowledge  from  Aristotle,  Shakespeare,  and  Pasteur  to  a  lot  of  monstrously  built  farm  boys  and  farm  girls,  and  by  a  huge,  active,  buoyantly  thriving  German  Depart-  ment,  which  its  head,  Dr.  Hagen,  smugly  called  (pronouncing  every  syl-  lable  very  distinctly  )  &quot;a  university  with-  in  a  university.&quot;  The  enrollment  in  the  527573736961n  Lan-  guage  course  consisted  of  three  students  only:  Josephine  Malkin,  whose  grandparents  had  been  born  in  [REDACTED];  Charles  McBeth,  a  graduate  student,  whose  pro-  digious  memory  had  already  disposedof  ten  languages  and  was  prepared  to  en-  tomb  ten  more;  and  languid  Eileen  Lane,  whom  somebody  had  told  that  by  the  time  one  had  mastered  the  Rus-  sian  alphabet  one  could  practically  read  &quot;Anna  Karamazov&quot;  in  the  original.  As  a  teacher,  Pnin  was  far  from  being  able  to  compete  with  those  stupendous  Rus-  sian  ladies  scattered  all  over  academic  [REDACTED]  who,  without  having  hadany  formal  training  at  all,  manage  somehow,  by  dint  of  intuition,  loquacity,  and  a  kind  of  maternal  bounce,  to  infuse  a  magic  knowledge  of  their  difficult  and  beautiful  tongue  into  a  group  of  inno-  cent-eyed  students  in  an  atmosphere  of  Old  Mother  Volga  songs,  red  caviar,  and  tea;  nor  did  Pnin,  as  a  teacher,  even  presume  to  approach  the  lofty  halls  of  modern  scientific  linguistics-that  tem-  ple  wherein  earnest  young  people  are  taught  not  the  language  itself  but  the  method  of  teaching  others  to  teach,  that  method.  No  doubt  Pnin's  approach  to  his  work  was  amateurish  and  lighthearted,  depending  as  it  did  on  a  book  of  exer-  cises  in  grammar  brought  out  by  the  head  of  the  Slavic  Department  in  a  far  greater  college  than  Waindell-a  ven-  erable  fraud  whose  527573736961n  was  a  joke  but  who  would  generously  lend  his  dig-  nified  name  to  the  products  of  anony-  mous  drudgery.  Puin,  despite  his  many  shortcomings,  had  about  him  a  disarm-  ing  old-fashioned  charm,  which  Dr.  Hagen,  his  staunch  protector,  insisted  before  morose  trustees  was  a  delicate,  imported  article  worth  paying  for  in  domestic  cash,  Whereas  the  degree  in  sociology  and  political  economy  that  Pnin  had  obtained  with  some  pomp  at  the  University  of  Praguearound  1920  had  become  by  mid-century  a  doctorate  in  desuetude,  he  was  not  altogether  mis-  '  cast  as  a  teacher  of  527573736961n.  He  was  beloved  not  for  any  essential  ability  but  for  those  unforgettable  digressions  of  his,  when  he  would  remove  his  glasses  to  beam  at  the  past  while  massaging  the  lenses  ofthe  present.  Nostalgic  excursions  in  broken  English.  Autobio-  graphical  tidbits.  How  Pnin  came  to  the  Soedinyonnie  Shtati  (the  United  [REDACTED]).  &quot;Examination  on  ship  before  landing.  Very  well!  'Nothing  to  de-  clare?&quot;  'Nothing.&quot;  Very  well!  Then  po-  litical  questions.  He  asks:  'Are  you  An-  archist?'  I  answer  [time  out  on  the  part  of  the  narrator  for  a  spell  of  cozy  mute  mirth]:  'First,  what  do  we  understand  under  &quot;Anarchism&quot;?Anarchism  prac-  tical,  metaphysical,  theoretical,  mystical,  abstract,  individual,  social?  When  I  was  " b"young,'  I  say,  'all  this  had  for  me  significa-  tion.&quot;  So  we  had  a  very  interesting  discussion,  in  consequence  of  which  I  passed  two  whole  months  on  Ellis  Island  [abdomen  beginning  to  heave;  heaving;  narra-  tor  convulsed].&quot;  But  there  were  still  better  sessions  in  the  way  of  humor.  With  an  air  of  coy  secrecy,  benevolent  Pnin,  pre-  paring  the  children  for  the  marvellous  treat  that  he  had  once  had  himself,  and  already  re-  vealing,  in  an  uncon-  trollable  smile,  an  in-  complete  but  formidable  set  of  tawny  teeth,  would  open  a  dilapi-  dated  527573736961n  book  at  the  elegant  leatherette  marker  he  had  carefully  placed  there;  he  would  open  the  book,  where-  upon  as  often  as  not  a  look  of  the  utmost  dis-  may  would  alter  his  plastic  features;  open-  mouthed,  feverishly,  he  would  flip  right  and  left  through  the  volume,  and  minutes  might  pass  before  he  found  the  right  page-or  satisfied  himself  that  he  had  marked  it  correctly  after  all.  Usually,  the  passage  of  his  choice  came  from  some  old  and  naive  comedy  of  merchant-class  habitus  rigged  up  by  Ostrovski  almost  a  century  ago,  or  from  an  equally  ancient  but  even  more  dated  piece  of  trivial  Leskovian  jollity  dependent  on  verbal  contortions.  He  delivered  these  stale  goods  with  the  rotund  gusto  of  the  classical  Alexan-  drinka  Theatre  in  Petersburg,  rather  than  with  the  crisp  simplicity  of  the  Mos-  cow  Artists,  but  since  to  appreciate  what-  ever  fun  those  passages  still  retained  one  had  to  have  not  only  a  sound  knowl-  edge  of  the  vernacular  but  also  a  good  deal  of  literary  insight,  and  since  his  poor  little  class  had  neither,  the  per-  former  would  be  alone  in  enjoying  the  associative  subtleties  of  his  text.  The  heaving  we  have  already  noted  in  an-  other  connection  would  become  here  a  veritable  earthquake.  Directing  his  memory,  with  all  the  lights  on  and  all  the  masks  of  the  mind  a-miming,  toward  the  days  of  his  fervid  and  receptive  youth  (in  a  brilliant  cosmos  that  seemed  all  the  fresher  for  having  been  abolished  by  one  blow  of  history),  Pnin  would  get  drunk on  his  private  wines  as  he  produced  sample  after  sample  of  what  his  listeners  politely  surmised  was  527573736961n  humor.  Presently,  the  fun  would  become  too  much  for  him;  pear-shaped  tears  would  trickle  down  his  tanned  cheeks.  Not  only  his  shocking  teeth  but  an  astonishing  amount  of  pink  upper-gum  tissue  would  suddenly  pop  out,  as  if  a  jack-in-the-box  had  been  sprung,  and  his  hand  would  fly  to  his  mouth  while  his  big  shoulders  shook  and  rolled,  And  although  the  speech  he  smothered  behind  his  dancing  hand  was  now  doubly  unintelligible  to  the  class,  his  complete  surrender  to  his  own  merriment  would  prove  irresistible.  By  the  time  he  was  helpless  with  it,  he  would  have  his  students  in  stitches,  with  abrupt  barks  of  clockwork  hilarity  com-  ing  from  Charles,  and  a  dazzling  flow  of  unsuspected  lovely  laughter  trans-  figuring  Josephine,  who  was  not  pretty,  while  Eileen,  who  was,  dissolved  in  a  jelly  of  unbecoming  giggles.  All  of  which  does  not  alter  the  fact  that  Pnin  was  on  the  wrong  train.  HOW  should  we  diagnose  Pnin's  sad  case?  He,  it  should  be  particu-  larly  stressed,  was  anything  but  the  type  of  that  good-natured  German  platitude  of  last  century,  der  zerstreute  Professor  (the  absent-minded  professor).  On  the  contrary,  he  was  perhaps  too  wary,  too  persistently  on  the  lookout  for  diabolical  pitfalls,  too  painfully  on  the  alert  lest  his  erratic  surroundings  (unpredictable  [REDACTED])  inveigle  him  into  some  bit  of  preposterous  oversight.  It  was  the  world  that  was  absent-minded  and  it  was  Pnin  whose  business  it  was  to  set  it  straight.  His  life  was  a  constant  war  with  insensate  objects  that  fell  apart,  or  at-  tacked  him,  or  refused  to  function,  or  viciously  got  themselves  lost  as  soon  as  they  entered  the  sphere  of  his  existence.  He  was  inept  with  his  hands  to  a  rare  degree,  but  because  he  could  manufac-  ture  in  a  twinkle  a  one-note  mouth  organ  out  of  a  pea  pod,  make  a  flat  peb-  ble  skip  ten  times  on  the  surface  of  a  pond,  shadowgraph  with  his  knuckles  a  rabbit  (complete  with  blinking  eye),  and  perform  a  number  of  other  tame  tricks  that  for  some  reason  or  other  Rus-  sians  have  up  their  sleeves,  he  believed  himself  endowed  with  considerable  manual  and  mechanical  skill.  On  gadg-  ets  he  doted  with  a  kind  of  dazed,  superstitious  delight.  Electric  devices  enchanted  him.  Plastics  swept  him  off  his  feet.  He  had  a  deep  admiration  for  the  zipper,.  But  after  a  storm  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  night  had  paralyzed  the  local  " b"power  station,  the  devoutly  plugged-in  clock  would  make  nonsense  of  his  morning.  The  frame  of  his  spectacles  would  snap  in  mid-bridge,  leaving  him  with  two  identical  pieces,  which  he  would  vaguely  attempt  to  unite,  in  the  hope,  perhaps,  of  some  organic  marvel  of  restoration  coming  to  the  rescue.  The  zipper  a  gentleman  depends  on  most  would  come  loose  in  his  puzzled  hand  at  some  nightmare  moment  of  haste  and  despair.  And  he  still  did  not  know  that  he  was  on  the  wrong  train.  A  special  danger  area  in  Pnin's  case  was  the  English  language.  Except  for  such  not  very  helpful  odds  and  ends  as  &quot;The  rest  is  silence,&quot;  &quot;Never  more,&quot;  &quot;weekend,&quot;  &quot;Who's  Who,&quot;  and  a  few  ordlnary  words  and  phrases  like  &quot;eat,&quot;  &quot;&quot;street,&quot;  &quot;fountain  pen,&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cgangster,  '  &quot;the  Charleston,&quot;  and  &quot;marginal  util-  ity,&quot;  he  had  had  no  English  at  all  at  the  time  he  left  [REDACTED]  for  the  [REDACTED].  Stubbornly  he  sat  down  to  the  task  of  learning  the  language  of  Fenimore  Cooper,  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  Edison,  and  thirty-one  Presidents.  In  1945,  at  the  end  of  one  year  of  study,  he  was  profi-  cient  enough  to  use  glibly  terms  like  &quot;wishful  thinking&quot;&quot;  and  &quot;okey-dokey.&quot;  By  1946,  he  was  able  to  interrupt  his  narrations  with  the  phrase  &quot;To  make  a  long  story  short.&quot;  By  the  time  Truman  entered  his  second  term,  Pnin  could  handle  quite  a  number  of  elegant  clich\xc3\xa9s,  but  otherwise  progress  seemed  to  have  stopped  despite  all  his  efforts,  and  in  1953  his  English  was  still  full  of  flaws.  That  autumn,  he  supplemented  the  usual  courses  of  his  academic  year  by  de-  livering  a  weekly  lecture  in  a  so-called  symposium  (&quot;Wingless  Europe:  A  Sur-  vey  of  Contemporary  Continental  Cul-  ture&quot;)  directed  by  Dr.  Hagen.  All  our  friend's  lectures,  including  sundry  ones  he  gave  out  of  town,  were  edited  by  one  of  the  younger  members  of  the  German  Department.  The  procedure  was  some-  what  complicated.  Professor  Pnin  la-  boriously  translated  his  own  527573736961n  verbal  flow,  teeming  with  idiomatic  proverbs,  into  patchy  English.  This  was  revised  by  young  Miller.  Then  Dr.  Hagen's  secretary,  a  Miss  Eisenlohr,  typed  it  out.  Then  Pnin  deleted  the  passages  he  could  not  understand.  Then  he  read  it  to  his  weekly  audience.  He  was  utterly  helpless  without  the  prepared  text,  nor  could  he  use  the  ancient  sys-  tem  of  dissimulating  his  infirmity  by  moving  his  eyes  up  and  down-snapping  upan  eyeful  of  words,  reeling  them  off  to  his  audience,  and  drawing  out  the  end  of  one  sentence  while  diving  for  the  next.  Pnin's  worried  eye  would  be  bound  to  lose  its  bearings.  Therefore  he  read  his  lectures,  his  gaze  glued  to  his  text,  in  a  slow,  monotonous  baritone  that  seemed  to  climb  one  ofthose  intermi-  nable  flights  of  stairs  used  by  people  who  dread  elevators.  HE  conductor,  a  gray-headed,  fatherly  person  with  steel  spectacles  placed  rather  low  on  his  simple,  func-  tional  nose  and  a  bit  of  soiled  adhesive  tape  on  his  thumb,  had  now  only  three  coaches  to  deal  with  before  reaching  the  last  one,  where  Pnin  rode.  P  nin  in  the  meantime  had  yielded  to  the  satisfaction  of  a  special  Pninian  crav-  ing.  He  was  in  a  Pninian  quandary.  Among  other  articles  indispensable  for  a  Pninian  overnight  stay  in  a  strange  town,  such  as  shoe  trees,  apples,  and  -  dictionaries,  his  Gladstone  bag  con-  tained  a  relatively  new  black  suit  he  planned  to  wear  that  night  for  the  lec-  ture  (&quot;Are  the  527573736961n  People  Com-  munist?&quot;)  before  the  Cremona  ladies.  Italso  contained  next  Monday's  sym-  posium  lecture  (&quot;Don  Quixote  and  Faust&quot;),  which  he  intended  to  study  the  next  day,  on  his  way  back  to  Wain-  dell,  and  a  paper  by  a  graduate  student,  Betty  Bliss  (&quot;Dostoevski  and  Gestalt  Psychology&quot;),  that  he  had  to  read  for  Dr.  Hagen.  The  quandary  was  as  fol-  lows:  If  he  kept  the  Cremona  manu-  script-a  sheaf  of  typewriter-size  pages,  carefully  folded  down  the  center  soasto  fit  into  a  pocket  of  his  coat-on  his  per-  son,  in  the  security  of  his  body  warmth,  the  chances  were,  theoretically,  that  he  " b"would  forget  to  transfer  it  from  the  coat  he  was  wearing  to  the  one  he  would  wear.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  placed  the  lecture  in  the  pocket  of  the  suit  in  the  bag  mow,  he  would,  he  knew,  be  tortured  by  the  possibility  of  his  luggage  being  stolen.  On  the  third  hand  (these  mental  states  sprout  additional  forelimbs  all  the  time),  he  carried  in  the  inside  pocket  of  his  present  coat  a  precious  wallet  with  two  ten-dollar  bills,  the  newspaper  clipping  of  a  letter  he  had,  with  my  help,  written  to  the  Times  in  1945  anent  the  Yalta  conference,  and  his  certificate  of  naturalization,  and  it  was  physically  possible  to  pull  out  the  wallet,  if  needed,  in  such  a  way  as  to  fatally  dislodge  the  folded  lecture.  Dur-  ing  the  twenty  minutes  he  had  been  on  the  train,  our  friend  had  already  opened  his  bag  twice  to  play  with  his  various  papers.  When  the  conductor  reached  the  car,  diligent  Pnin  was  perusing  with  difficulty  Betty's  latest  effort,  which  be-  gan,  &quot;When  we  consider  the  mental  climate  wherein  we  all  live,  we  cannot  but  notice-&quot;  The  conductor  entered,  did  not  awake  the  soldier,  promised  the  women  he  would  let  them  know  when  they  were  about  to  arrive,  and  presently  was  shaking  his  head  over  Pnin's  ticket.  The  Cremona  stop  had  been  abolished  two  years  before.  &quot;Important  lecture!&quot;  cried  Phin.  &quot;What  to  do?  It  is  a  cata-stroph!&quot;  Gravely,  comfortably,  the  gray-head-  ed  conductor  sank  into  the  opposite  seat  and  consulted  in  silence  a  tattered  book  full  of  dog-eared  insertions.  Finally  he  said  that  in  a  few  minutes-namely,  at  three-eight-Pnin  would  have  to  get  off  at  Whitchurch;  this  would  enable  him  to  catch  the  four-o'clock  bus  that  would  deposit  him,  around  six,  at  Cremona.  &quot;I  was  thinking  I  gained  twelve  min-  utes,  and  now  I  have  lost  nearly  two  whole  hours,&quot;  said  Pnin  bitterly.  Upon  which,  clearing  his  throat  and  ignoring  _  the  consolation  offered  by  the  kind  gray-  head  (&quot;You'll  make  it&quot;),  he  collected  his  stone-heavy  bag  and  repaired  to  the  vestibule  of  the  car,  to  wait  there  for  the  confused  greenery  skimming  by  to  be  cancelled  and  replaced  by  the  def-  inite  station  he  had  in  mind.  HITCHURCH  materialized  as  scheduled.  A  hot,  torpid  expanse  of  cement  and  sun  lay  beyond  the  geo-  metrical  solids  of  various  clean-cut  shad-  ows.  The  local  weather  was  unbeliev-  ably  summery  for  October.  Alert,  Pnin  entered  a  waiting  room  of  sorts,  with  a  needless  stove  in  the  middle,  and  looked  around.  In  a  solitary  recess  one  could  make  out  the  upper  part  of  a  perspiring  young  man  who  was  fillin  g  out  forms  on  the  broad  wooden  counter  before  him.  &quot;I  nfo  rmation,  please,&quot;  said  Pnin.  &quot;Where  stops  four-o'clock  bus  to  Cre-  mona?&quot;  &quot;Right  across  the  street,&quot;  briskly  an-  swered  the  employee,  without  looking  up.  &quot;And  where  possible  to  leave  bag-  gage?&quot;  &quot;That  bag?  I'll  take  care  of  it.&quot;  And  with  the  national  informality  that  always  nonplussed  Pnin,  the  young  man  shoved  the  bag  into  a  corner  of  his  nook.  &quot;Quittan  ce  ?&quot;  queried  Pnin,  English  -  ing  the  527573736961n  for  &quot;receipt&quot;  -&quot;kuvi-  tantzia.&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;Number?&quot;  tried  Pnin.  &quot;You  don't  need  a  number,&quot;  said  the  fel  low,  and  resumed  his  writing.  Pnin  left  the  station,  satisfied  himself  about  the  bus  stop,  and  entered  a  coffee  shop.  He  consumed  a  ham  sandwich,  ordered  another,  and  consumed  that,  too.  At  exactly  five  minutes  to  four,  having  paid  for  the  food  but  not  for  an  excellent  toothpick,  which  he  care  fully  selected  from  a  neat  little  cup  in  the  shape  of  a  pine  cone  near  the  cash  register,  Pnin  walked  back  to  the  station  for  his  bag.  A  different  man  was  now  in  charge.  The  first  had  been  called  home,  the  new  man  explained,  to  drive  his  wife  in  all  haste  to  the  maternity  hospital.  He  would  be  back  in  a  few  minutes.  &quot;But  I  must  obtain  my  valise!&quot;  cried  Pnin.  The  substitute  was  sorry  but  could  not  do  a  thing.  &quot;It  is  there!&quot;  cried  Pnin,  leaning  over  and  pointing.  This  was  unfortunate.  He  was  still  in  the  act  of  pointing  when  he  realized  that  he  was  claiming  the  wrong  bag.  His  in-  dex  wavered.  That  hesitation  was  fatal.  &quot;My  bus  to  Cremona!&quot;  cried  Prin.  'There  is  another  at  eight,&quot;  said  the  man.  What  was  our  poor  friend  to  do?  Horrible  situation!  He  glanced  street-  ward.  The  bus  had  just  come.  The  en-  gagement  meant  an  extra  fifty  dollars.  His  hand  flew  to  his  right  flank.  It  was  there,  slava  Bogu  (thank  God)!  Very  well!  He  would  not  wear  his  black  suit,  vor  i  vsyo  (that's  all}.  He  would  retrieve  it  on  his  way  back.  He  had  lost,  dumped,  shed  many  more  valuable  things  in  his  day.  Energetically,  almost  lightheartedly,  Pnin  boarded  the  bus.  He  had  endured  this  new  stage  of  his " b"journey  for  only  a  few  city  blocks  when  an  awful  suspicion  crossed  his  mind.  Ever  since  he  had  been  separated  from  his  bag,  the  tip  of  his  left  forefinger  had  been  alternating  with  the  proximal  edge  of  his  right  elbow  in  checking  apre-  cious  presence  in  his  inside  coat  pocket.  All  ofa  sudden,  he  brutally  yanked  out  the  folded  sheets.  They  were  Betty's  paper.  Emitting  what  he  thought  were  in-  ternational  exclamations  of  anxiety  and  entreaty,  Pnin  lurched  out  of  his  seat.  Reeling,  he  reached  the  exit.  With  one  hand,  the  driver  grimly  milked  outa  handful  of  coins  from  his  little  machine,  refunded  him  the  price  of  the  ticket,  and  stopped  the  bus.  Poor  Pnin  landed  in  the  middle  of  a  strange  town.  He  was  less  strong  than  his  powerfully  puffed-out  chest  might  imply,  and  the  wave  of  hopeless  fatigue  that  suddenly  submerged  his  top-heavy  body,  detaching  him,  as  it  were,  from  reality,  was  a  sensation  not  utterly  un-  known  to  him.  He  found  himself  in  a  damp  green  park,  of  the  formal  and  funereal  type,  with  the  stress  laid  on  sombre  rhododendrons,  glossy  laurels,  sprayed  shade  trees,  and  closely  clipped  lawns,  and  hardly  had  heturned  into  an  alley  of  chestnut  and  oak,  which  the  bus  driver  had  curtly  told  him  led  back  to  the  railway  station,  than  that  eerie  feeling,  that  tingle  of  unreality,  overpowered  him  completely.  Was  it  something  he  had  eaten?  'That  pickle  with  the  ham?  Was  it  a  mysterious  disease  that  none  of  his  doctors  had  yet  detected?  My  friend  wondered,  and  I  wonder,  too.  DO  not  know  if  it  has  ever  been  noted  before  that  one  of  the  main  characteristics  of  life  is  discreteness.  Un-  less  a  film  of  flesh  envelops  us,  we  die.  Man  exists  only  insofar  as  he  is  sepa-  rated  from  his  surroundings.  'The  cranium  is  a  space  traveller's  helmet.  Stay  inside  or  you  perish.  Death  is  divest,  ment,  death  is  communion.  It  may  be  wonderful  to  mix  with  the  landscape,  but  to  do  so  is  the  end  of  the  tender  ego.  The  sensation  poor  Pnin  experienced  was  something  very  like  that  divestment,  that  communion.  He  felt  porous  and  pregnable.  His  chesthurt.  He  was  sweating.  He  was  terrified.  A  stone  bench  among  the  laurels  saved  him  from  collapsing  on  the  sidewalk.  Was  his  seizure  a  heart  attack?  I  doubt  it.  For  the  nonce,  I  am  his  physician,  and  let  me  repeat,  I  doubt  it.  My  patient  was  one  of  those  singular  and  unfortunate  people  who  regard  their  heart  (&quot;a  hol-  low,  muscular  organ,&quot;  according  to  the  gruesome  definition  in  Webster's  New  Collegiate  Dictionary,  which  Pnin's  orphaned  bag  contained)  with  a  queasy  dread,  a  nervous  repulsion,  a  sick  hate,  as  if  it  weresome  strong,  slimy,  untouch-  able  monster  that  one  had  to  put  up  with,  alas.  Occasionally,  when  puzzled  by  his  tumbling  and  tottering  pulse,  doctors  had  examined  him  more  thor-  oughly,  and  the  cardiograph  had  out-  lined  fabulous  mountain  ranges  and  indicated  a  dozen  fatal  diseases  that excluded  one  another.  He  was  afraid  of  touching  his  own  wrist.  He  never  attempted  to  sleep  on  his  left  side,  even  in  those  dismal  hours  of  the  night  when  the  insomniac  longs  for  a  third  side  after  trying  the  two  he  has.  And  now,  in  the  park  of  Whitchurch,  Pnin  felt  what  he  had  felt  already  on  August  10,  1942,  and  May  18,  1937,  and  May  18,  1929,  and  July  4,  1920-  that  the  repulsive  automaton  he  lodged  had  developed  a  consciousness  of  its  own,  and  not  only  was  grossly  alive  but  was  causing  him  pain  and  panic.  He  pressed  his  poor  bald  head  against  the  stone  back  of  the  bench  and  re-  called  all  the  past  occasions  of  similar  discomfort  and  despair.  Could  it  be  pneumonia  this  time?  He  had  been  chilled  to  the  bone  a  couple  of  days  be-  fore  in  one  of  those  hearty  556e6974656420537461746573n  drafts  that  a  host  treats  his  guests  to  after  the  second  round  of  drinks  on  a  windy  night.  And  then  suddenly  Pnin  (was  he  dying?)  found  himself  sliding  back  into  his  childhood.  This  sensation  had  the  sharpness  of  retrospective  detail  that  is  said  to  be  the  dramatic  priv-  ilege  of  drowning  individuals,  especial-  lyin  the  former  527573736961n  Navy-a  phenomenon  of  suffocation  that  a  vet-  eran  psychoanalyst,  whose  name  es-  capes  me,  has  explained  as  being  the  subconsciously  evoked  shock  of  one's  baptism,  which  causes  an  explosion  of  intervening  recollections  between  the  first  immersion  and  the  last.  It  all  hap-  pened  in  a  flash,  but  there  is  no  way  of  rendering  it  in  less  than  so  many  con-  secutive  words.  PNIN  came  from  a  respectable,  fairly  well-to-do  St.  Petersburg  family.  His  father,  Dr.  Pavel  Pnin,  an  eye  specialist  of  some  repute,  had  once  had  -the  honor  of  treating  Leo  Tolstoy  for  a  case  of  conjunctivitis.  'Timofey's  mother,  a  frail,  nervous  little  person  with  a  waspy  waist  and  bobbed  hair,  was  the  daughter  of  the  once  famous  revolutionary  Umov  .  (rhymes  with  &quot;zoom  off&quot;)  and  of  a  German  lady  from  [REDACTED].  Through  his  half  swoon,  Pnin  saw  her  approaching  eyes.  It  was  a  Sunday  in  midwinter.  He  was  eleven.  He  had  been  preparing  lessons  for  his  Monday  classes  at  the  First  Gymnasium  when  a  strange  chill  pervaded  his  body.  His  mother  took  his  temperature,  looked  at  her  child  with  a  kind  of  stupefaction,  and  immediately  called  her  husband's  best  friend,  the  pediatrician  Sokolov.  He  was  a  small,  beetle-browed  man,  with  a  short  beard  and  a  crew  cut.  Easing  the  skirts  of  his  frock  coat,  he  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  Timofey's  bed.  A  race  was  run  between  " b"the  Doctor's  fat  golden  watch  and  Timofey's  pulse  (an  easy  winner).  Then  Timofey's  torso  was  bared,  and  to  it  the  Doctor  pressed  the  icy  nudity  of  his  ear  and  the  sandpapery  side  of  his  head.  Like  the  flat  sole  of  some  monopode,  the  ear  am-  bulated  all  over  Timofey's  back  and  chest,  gluing  itself  to  this  or  that  patch  of  skin  and  then  stomping  on  to  the  next.  No  sooner  had  the  Doctor  left  than  Timofey's  mother  and  a  robust  servant  girl  with  safety  pins  between  her  teeth  encased  the  distressed  little  patient  in  a  strait-jacket-like  compress.  It  consisted  of  a  layer  of  soaked  linen,  a  thicker  layer  of  absorb-  ent  cotton,  and  another  of  tight  flannel,  with  a  sticky,  diabolical  oilcloth-the  hue  of  urine  and  fever-coming  between  the  clammy  pang  of  the  linen  next  to  his  skin  and  the  excruciating  squeak  of  the  cotton  around  which  the  outer  layer  of  flannel  was  wound.  A  poor  cocooned  pupa,  Timosha  (Tim)  lay  un-  der  a  mass  of  additional  blan-  kets;  they  were  of  no  avail  against  the  branching  chill  that  crept  up  his  ribs  from  both  sides  of  his  frozen  spine.  He  could  not  close  his  eyes  because  his  eyelids  stung  so.  Vision  was  but  oval  pain  with  oblique  stabs  of  light;  familiar  shapes  became  the  breeding  places  of  evil  delusions.  Near  his  bed  was  a  four-section  screen  of  varnished  wood,  with  pyrographic  de-  signs  representing  a  lily  pond,  a  bridle  path  felted  with  fallen  leaves,  an  old  man  hunched  up  on  a  bench,  and  a  squirrel  holding  a  reddish  object  in  its  front  paws.  Timosha,  a  methodical  child,  had  often  wondered  what  that  object  could  be  (a  nut?  a  pine  cone?  ),  and  now  that  he  had  nothing  else  to  do,  he  set  himself  to  solve  this  dreary  riddle,  but  the  fever  that  hummed  in  his  head  drowned  every  effort  in  pain  and  panic.  Still  more  oppressive  was  his  tussle  with  the  wallpaper.  He  had  always  been  able  to  see  that  in  the  vertical  plane  a  combination  made  up  of  three  different  clusters  of  purple  flowers  and  seven  different  oak  leaves  was  repeated  a  number  of  times  with  soothing  exactitude;  but  now  he  was  bothered  by  the  undismissible  fact  that  he  could  not  find  what  system  of  inclu-  sion  and  circumscription  governed  the  horizontal  recurrence  of  the  pattern;  that  such  a  recurrence  existed  was proved  by  his  being  able  to  pick  out  here  and  there,  all  along  the  wall  from  bed  to  wardrobe  and  from  stove  to  door,  the  reappearance  of  this  or  that  element  of  the  series,  but  when  he  tried  trav-  elling  right  or  left  from  any  chosen  set  of  three  inflorescences  and  seven  leaves,  he  forthwith  lost  himself  in  a  meaning-  less  tangle  of  rhododendron  and  oak.  It  stood  to  reason  that  if  the  evil  designer-  the  destroyer  of  minds,  the  friend  of  fever-had  concealed  the  key  of  the  pat-  tern  with  such  monstrous  care,  that  key  must  be  as  precious  as  life  itself  and,  when  found,  would  regain  for  Tim  his  everyday  health,  his  everyday  world,  and  this  lucid-alas,  too  lucid-thought  forced  him  to  persevere  in  the  struggle.  A  sense  of  being  late  for  some  ap-  pointment  as  odiously  exact  as  school,  dinner,  or  bedtime  added  the  discom-  fort  of  awkward  haste  to  the  difficulties  of  a  quest  that  was  grading  into  delir-  ium.  The  foliage  and  the  flowers,  with  none  of  the  intricacies  of  their  warp  disturbed,  appeared  to  detach  themselves  in  one  undulating  body  from  their  pale-  blue  background,  which,  in  its  turn,  lost  its  papery  flatness  and  dilated  in  depth  till  the  spectator's  heart  almost  burst  in  response  to  that  expansion.  He  could  still  make  out  through  the  autonomous  garlands  certain  parts  of  the  nursery  more  tenacious  of  life  than  the  rest,  such  as  the  lacquered  screen,  the  gleam  of  a  tumbler,  the  brass  knobs  of  his  bed-  stead,  but  these  interfered  even  less  with  the  oak  leaves  and  rich  blossoms  than  would  the  reflection  of  an  inside  object  in  a  windowpane  with  the  outside  scen-  ery  perceived  through  the  same  glass.  And  although  the  witness  and  victim  of  these  phantasms  was  tucked  up  in  bed,  he  was,  in  accordance  with  the  twofold  nature  of  his  surroundings,  simultane-  ously  seated  on  a  bench  in  a  green-and-  purple  park.  During  one  melting  mo-  ment,  he  had  the  sensation  of  holding  at  last  the  key  he  had  sought,  but,  com-  ing  from  very  far,  a  rustling  wind,  its  soft  volume  increasing  as  it  ruffled  the  rhododendrons,  confused  whatever  ra-  tional  pattern  Timofey  surround-  ings  had  once  had.  He  was  alive  and  " b"that  was  sufficient.  The  back  ofthe  bench  against  which  he  still  sprawled  felt  as  real  as  his  clothes,  or  his  wal-  let,  or  thedateof  the  Great  [REDACTED]  Fire-1812.  A  gray  squirrel  sitting  on  comfort-  able  haunches  on  the  ground  before  him  was  sampling  a  peach  stone.  The  wind  paused,  and  presently  stirred  the  foliage  again.  The  seizure  had  left  him  a  little  frightened  and  shaky,  but  he  argued  that  had  it  been  a  real  heart  attack,  he  would  have  surely  felt  a  good  deal  more  unsettled  and  concerned,  and  this  roundabout  piece  of  reason-  ing  completely  dispelled  his  fear.  It  was  now  four-twenty.  He  blew  his  nose  and  trudged  back  to  the  station.  The  initial  employee  was  back.  &quot;Here's  your  bag,&quot;  he  said  cheerfully.  &quot;Sorry  you  missed  the  Cremona  bus.&quot;  &quot;At  least&quot;-and  what  dignified  irony  our  unfortunate  friend  tried  to  inject  into  that  &quot;at  hope  everything  is  good  with  your  wife?&quot;  &quot;She'll  be  all  right.  Have  to  wait  till  tomorrow,  I  guess.&quot;  &quot;And  now,&quot;  said  Pnin,  &quot;where  is  lo-  cated  the  public  telephone?&quot;  Theman  pointed  with  his  pencil  as  far  out  and  sidewise  as  he  could  without  leaving  his  lair.  Pnin,  bag  in  hand,  start-  ed  to  go,  but  he  was  called  back.  The  pencil  was  now  directed  streetward.  &quot;Say,  see  those  two  guys  loading  that  truck?  They're  going  to  Cremona  right  now.  J  ust  tell  them  Bob  Horn  sent  you.  They'll  take  you.&quot;  OME  people-and  I  am  one  of  them-hate  happy  endings.  We  feel  cheated.  Harm  is  the  norm.  Doom  should  not  jam.  The  avalanche  stopping  in  its  tracks  a  few  feet  above  the  cower-  ing  village  behaves  not  only  unnatural-  ly  but  unethically.  Had  I  been  reading  about  this  mild  old  man,  instead  of  writ-  ing  about  him,  I  would  have  preferred  him  to  discover,  upon  his  arrival  at  Cremona,  that  his  lecture  was  not  this  Friday  but  the  next.  Actually,  however,  he  not  only  arrived  safely  but  was  in  time  for  dinner-a  fruit  cocktail  to  be-  gin  with,  mint  jelly  with  the  anonymous  meat  course,  chocolate  syrup  with  the  vanilla  ice  cream.  And  soon  afterward,  surfeited  with  sweets,  wearing  his  black  suit,  and  juggling  three  papers,  all  of  which  he  had  stuffed  into  his  coat  so  as  to  have  the  one  he  wanted  among  the  rest  (thus  thwartingmischance  by  mathematical  necessity),  he  sat  on  a  chair  near  the  lectern  while,  at  the  lec-     tern,  Judith  Clyde,  an  ageless  blonde  in  aqua  rayon,  with  large,  flat  cheeks  stained  a  beautiful  candy  pink  and  two  bright  eyes  basking  in  blue  lunacy  be-  hind  a  rimless  pince-nez,  presented  the  speaker.  'Tonight,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;the  speaker  of  the  evening-  This,  by  the  way,  is  our  third  Friday  night;  last  time,  as  you  all  remember,  we  all  enjoyed  hearing  what  Professor  Moore  had  to  say  about  agriculture  in  4368696e61.  Tonight  we  have  here,  I  am  proud  to  say,  the  527573736961n-born,  and  citizen  of  this  country,  Profes-  sor-now  comes  a  diffi-  cult  one,  I  am  afraid-  Professor  Pun-neen.  I  hope  I  have  it  right.  He  hardly  needs  any  introduc-  tion,  of  course,  and  we  are  all  happy  to  have  him.  We  have  a  long  eve-  ning  before  us,  a  long  and  rewarding  evening,  and  I  am  sure  you  would  all  like  to  have  time  to  ask  him  questions  afterward.  Incidentally,  I  am  told  his  father  was  Dostoevski's  family  doctor,  and  he  has  travelled  quite  a  bit  on  both  sides  of  the  Iron  Curtain.  Therefore  I  will  not  take  up  your  precious  time  any  longer  and  will  only  add  a  few  words  about  our  next  Friday  lecture  in  this  program.  I  am  sure  you  will  all  be  delighted  to  know  that  there  is  a  grand  surprise  in  store  for  all  of  us.  Our  next  lecturer  is  the  distinguished  poet  and  prose  writer  Miss  Linda  Lacefield.  We  all  know  she  has  written  poetry,  prose,  and  some  short  stories,  Miss  Lace-  field  was  born  in  New  York.  Her  an-  cestors  on  both  sides  fought  on  both  sides  in  the  Revolutionary  War.  She  wrote  her  first  poem  before  graduation.  Many  of  her  poems-three  of  them,  at  least-have  been  published  in  'Re-  sponse,'  a  collection  of  a  hundred  love  lyrics  by  556e6974656420537461746573n  women.  In  1922,  she  published  her  first  collection,  'Re-  membered  Music'  In  1924,  she  re-  ceived  the  cash  prize  offered  by-&quot;  But  Pnin  was  not  listening.  A  faint  ripple  stemming  from  his  recent  seizure  was  holding  his  fascinated  attention.  It  lasted  only  a  few  heartbeats,  with  an  ad-  ditional  systole  here  and  there-last,  harmless  echoes-and  was  resolved  in  demure  reality  as  his  distinguished  host-  ess  invited  him  to  the  lectern.  But  while  it  lasted,  how  limpid  the  vision  was!In  the  middle  of  the  front  row  of  seats  he  saw  one  of  his  Baltic  aunts,  wearing  the  pearls  and  the  lace  and  the  blond  wig  she  had  worn  at  all  the  performances  given  by  the  great  ham  actor  Khodotovy,  whom  she  had  adored  from  afar  before  drifting  into  insanity.  Next  to  her,  shy-  ly  smiling,  sleek  dark  head  inclined,  gentle  brown  gaze  shining  up  at  Pnin  from  under  velvet  eyebrows,  sat  a  dead  sweetheart  of  his,  fanning  herself  with  her  program.  Murdered,  forgotten,  unrevenged,  incorrupt,  immortal,  many  old  friends  were  scattered  throughout  the  dim  hall  among  more  recent  people,  such  as  Miss  Clyde,  who  had  modestly  regained  a  front  seat.  Vanya  Bedniash-  kin,  shot  by  the  Reds  in  1919,  in  Odessa,  because  his  father  had  been  a  liberal,  was  gaily  signalling  to  his  former  school-  mate  from  the  back  of  the  hall.  And  in  an  inconspicuous  situation  Dr.  Pavel  Pnin  and  his  anxious  wife,  botha  little  blurred  but  on  the  whole  wonderfully  recovered  from  their  obscure  dissolution,  looked  at  their  son  with  the  same  life-  consuming  passion  and  pride  that  they  had  looked  at  him  with  that  night  in  1912  when,  at  a  school  festival  com-  memorating  Napoleon's  defeat,  he  had  recited  (a  bespectacled  lad  all  alone  on  the  stage)  a  poem  by  Pushkin.  The  brief  vision  was  gone.  Old  Miss  Herring,  retired  professor  of  history,  author  of  &quot;[REDACTED]  Awakes&quot;  (1922),  was  bending  across  one  or  two  inter-  mediate  members  of  the  audience  to  compliment  Miss  Clyde  on  her  speech,  while  from  behind  that  lady  another  twinkling  old  party  was  thrusting  into  her  field  of  vision  a  pair  of  withered,  soundlessly  clapping  hands. "