 b"I  BELONG  to  a  club  where  the  conversation  is  heavily  concerned  with  the  eccentricities  of  the  members'  relatives.  (There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  subject  of  odd  relatives  has  a  broad  interest,  even  outside  the  confines  of  the  club.)  The  other  day,  while  one  of  the  members--Doug  Watkins-was  discussing  a  great-uncle  of  his  who  once  sold  alarge  section  of  Houston  Street  for  a  trifling  sum  because  he  didn't  think  that  [REDACTED]  would  ever  amount  to  much,  I  decided  to  tell  him  something  about  my  family-not  to  be  obtrusive,  but  simply  to  show  my  colleague  that  I  was  with  him  in  thought.  So  I  reflected  for  a  moment  about  my  family  while  he  pursued  his  hapless  great-uncle  through  another  sad  real-estate  deal,  this  time  in  [REDACTED].  I  thought  first  of  my  mother.  She  was  a  Wellesley  girl,  who  lived  with  my  father  and  the  rest  of  us  in  a  brownstone  on  Gra-  mercy  Park.  She  seldom  talked  about  her  days  in  residence  at  Welles-  ley,  and  my  father,  a  Princeton  man,  seldom  spoke  of  his  university.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  no-  body  talked  much  about  anything,  in  our  house,  until  my  Uncle  George  appeared.  &quot;I  remember  an  un-  cle  of  mine-George,&quot;  I  remarked  to  Doug.  &quot;He  used  to  contend  that  nothing-not  even  the  du  Ponts-would  ever  replace  worms  in  the  manufacture  of  silk.  He  was  an  im-  porter.&quot;  Doug  smiled  re-  wardingly  and  said,  &quot;Did  I  ever  tell  you  about  the  time  my  aunt  tried  to  drive  the  Stan-  ley  Steamer?&quot;  As  he  went  on  about  the  humorous  aspects  of  his  aunt's  trying  to  maneuver  the  Steamer,  I  thought  some  more  about  my  family.  It  was  always  clear  to  all  of  us-there  were  two  boys  andtwo  girls-  what  we  were  expected  to  do,  and  all  of  us,  I  guess,  did  it.  I  keep  thinking  that  there  must  have  been  some  sort  of  peculiarity  about  us,  but  whenever  there  is  a  pause  in  the  con-  versation  at  the  club,  I  am  fairly  hard  put  to  discuss  my  family  group.  I  did  say  to  Doug,  though,  that  when  Father  was  at  Princeton,  he  signed  some  sort  of  petition  about  the  way  things  were  going.  (Wilson,  a  Democrat,  was  in  charge  then.)  But  with  the  thin  bit  of  information  I  had  I  couldn't  make  much  of  the  subject  of  the  petition.  &quot;When  we  were  quite  small,&quot;  I  said,  just  to  alter  my  theme,  &quot;my  mother  used  to  read  to  us  from  the  poems  of  Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  and  I'll  bet  I  could  challenge  anybody,  even  to-  day,  to  match  his  knowledge  of  'A  Child's  Garden  of  Verses'  with  mine.&quot;  Doug  nodded  vaguely,  and  I  decided,  in  the  circumstances,  not  to  tell  him  about  my  brother  Edgar,  who  attended  the  University  of  [REDACTED]-hehad  in  mind  becoming  a  businessman-and  wound  up  as  the  vice-president  of  a  composition-flooring  corporation.  My  father  retired  from  his  own  banking  company  about  twelve  years  ago,  but  he's  still  very  much  in  control  of  our  family  group,  even  though  all  ofus  have  married.  We  are  happy  in  marriage,  and  it  is  pleasant  when  we  get  together  with  our  children.  As  they  scamper  about,  they  remind  usof  ourselves  when  we  were  little.  I  told  Doug  something  about  this,  but  he  didn't  seem  very  in-  terested.  Perhaps  I  should  have  said  a  word  or  two  about  my  sister  Marilyn  and  the  Ibolander.  But,  after  all,  the  fellow  was  a  Princeton  man,  and  really  not  too  unusual."