 b'WHEN  my  father  was  in  his  sixties,  he  and  my  mother  de-  cided  to  learn  to  fly.  We  lived  in  a  remote  village  in  Derbyshire,  where  my  father  was  rector,  and  it  had  been  agreed  among  the  three  of  us-I  was  an  only  child-that  when  the  end  of  my  formal  education  was  in  sight,  my  par-  ents  should  spend  some  money  on  their  own  pleasure.  They  had  talked  of  a  trip  around  the  world,  of  purchasing  a  little  house  in  the  Channel  Islands  to  which  they  might  one  day  retire,  and  even  of  establishing  a  mink  farm.  (My  mother  had  once  seen  a  captive  mink.)  As  far  as  I  remember,  flying  was  not  on  the  list  at  all.  Before  my  father  took  orders,  he  had  been  an  engineer,  and  as  a  very  young  man  he  had  owned  one  of  the  first  auto-  mobiles  in  [REDACTED];  I  believe  its  regis-  tration  number  was  4.  With  this  back-  ground,  it  was  natural  that  flying  should  appeal  to  him,  but  his  introduction  to  it  was  a  chance  one.  Each  spring,  it  was  our  custom  to  drive  down  to  Stilton,  in  Huntingdonshire,  to  buy  young  cheeses,  and  on  our  way  we  passed  an  old  airfield  near  Nottingham,  about  twenty-five  miles  from  where  we  lived.  The  Not-  tingham  airfield  had  not  been  in  regular  use  since  the  First  World  War,  but  the  city  had  kept  it  in  repair  and  occasional-  ly  R.A.F.  planes  landed  there.  On  one  of  our  cheese  trips-it  was  in  the  thirties,  for  I  was  almost  a  grown  woman,  but  I  do  not  remember  the  year-  we  noticed  that  a  hang-  ar  and  a  large  brick  bungalow  were  being  built  at  one  edge  of  the  airfield.  We  were  curi-  ous  to  know  what  was  going  on,  so  my  father  stopped  the  car  and  we  walked  over  to  inquire  at  a  tentthat  had  been  set  up  near  the  con-  struction  work.  Inside  the  tent  we  found  two  very  bored  young  men  sitting  at  a  table  strewn  with  leaf-  lets.  Their  names  were  Peter  Fowler  and  Pat  Lynd,  and  they  were  the  pilot  instructor  and  ground  engineer,  respec-  tively,  of  a  newly  formed  flying  club,  one  of  several  that  were  being  set  up  in  different  parts  of  [REDACTED]  by  a  Lon-  don  firm  called  National  Flying  Serv-  ices,  Ltd.,  which  was  promoting  flying  as  a  sport.  My  father  picked  up  a  leaflet  that  said  National  Flying  Services  would  give     a  free  trial  lesson  to  anybody  who  wished  to  have  one.  My  parents  at  once  signed  up.  Peter  explained  to  them  that  it  would  be  some  weeks  before  the  hangar  would  be  ready  to  accommodate  any  planes,  but  that  as  soon  as  it  was,  N.F.S.  would  deliver  two  open,  two-seater  Moths  to  the  Nottingham  Club.  That  evening,  on  our  return  trip  from  Stilton,  we  brought  back  with  us,  in  addition  to  cheeses,  a  largedart  board.  We  stopped  at  the  Nottingham  Flying  Club.  My  fathernailed  the  dart  board  to  the  center  pole  of  the  tent,  and  we  drove  on  home.  Ithinkthe  Nottingham  Flying  Club  was  officially  opened  on  the  fourth  of  June.  In  [REDACTED],  a  lot  of  summer  ac-  tivities  are  apt  to  begin  on  that  date,  originally,  I  suppose,  because  itis  the  big  day  at  Eton,  celebrating  the  birthday  of  George  III.  In  the  morning,  my  parents  and  I  flew  over  the  city  in  a  seven-seater  monoplane  that  had  been  lent  by  NationalFlying  Services  for  the  occasion.  Our  machine  was  escorted  by  the  two  Nottingham  Moths,  paint-  ed  shiny  orange  and  black,  and  we  towed  a  banner  behind  us  that  read,  &quot;AIR  PAGEANT  TODAY.&quot;  At  noon,  Sir  Sefton  Brancker,  the  Director  of  Civil  Aviation,  arrived  by  air  from  [REDACTED]  and  made  a  welcoming  speech,  and  after  that  there  were  exhibition  aerobatics,  parachute  jumps,  and  five-shilling  passenger  fights  over  the  city.  The  newspapers  had  given  the  show  a  great  deal  of  publicity,  and  a  crowd  often  thou-  sand  turned  out  to  see  the  air  pageant.  Though  quite  a  number  signed  up  as  club  members,  very  few  people  seemed  to  want  to  learn  to  pilot  a  plane  themselves.  Apart  from  my  par-  ents,  Peter  had  only  eight  or  ten  pupils;  my  mother  was  the  only  woman.  Some  of  the  club  members  already  had  their  &quot;A&quot;  licenses-that  is,  they  were  en-  titled  to  take  a  plane  up,  but  they  could  not  carry  paying  passengers.  Not-  tingham  had  no  country  club,  and  National  Flying  Services  provided  a  use-  ful  substitute.  My  parents  quickly  became  absorbed  in  their  new  hobby.  Gardening  was  for-  gotten,  and  instead  of  writing  letters  to  me  (I  was  taking  a  course  at  Lon-  don  University),  they  sent  postcards  ' b"showing,  in  a  series  of  pen-and-ink  sketches,  little  airplanes  in  precarious  situations.  The  mail  from  home  was  never  dull,  but  neither  was  it  particular-  ly  comforting.  When  my  father  andmother  were  not  at  the  airfield,  they  studied  maps  and  the  weather  forecasts.  They  were  not  quick  learners,  but  in  view  of  the  many  obstacles  in  their  path  the  wonder  is  that  they  learned  to  fly  at  all.  Peter  was  an  excellent  teacher  and  a  prudent  one.  Unless  the  day  was  perfect-unlimited  ceiling  and  visibility,  and  little  wind-  he  would  not  let  his  pupils  go  up.  The  weather  in  Nottingham  was  apt  to  be  much  better  than  in  our  village,  on  the  lee  side  ofthe  Derbyshire  Peak,  but  even  so  there  weren't  many  perfect  flying  days.  Also,  my  parents  had  agreed  when  they  took  up  flying  that  it  was  to  be  a  joint  hobby,  and  that  on  the  days  when  my  father  could  not  fly  my  mother  would  not  fly,  either.  Being  a  minister,  my  father  was  too  busy  on  Sundays  to  fly,  and  he  refused  to  do  so  on  Saturdays,  because  that  was  the  day  he  prepared  his  sermons,  or  on  Mondays,  when,  he  said,  he  was  too  tired.  In  addition,  al-  lowance  had  to  be  made  for  all  the  duties  and  appointments  connected  with  my  father's  work-marriages,  baptisms,  visits  to  the  sick,  and  so  on.  My  mother  complained  that  christenings,  weddings,  and  funerals  were  deliberately  arranged  for  clear,  windless  days.  It  would,  I  think,  have  been  quite  possible  for  my father  to  fly  on  the  same  day  that  he  christened  or  married  or  buried  some-  one,  but  he  would  not.  A  flying  day  in  our  family  had  to  be  a  day  that  was  not  a  Sunday,  Monday,  or  Saturday,  when  Peter  Fowler  said  the  weather  was  all  right,  and  when  nobody  in  our  village  needed  my  father's  offices.  Sometimes  several  weeks  would  pass  before  all  these  conditions  were  fulfilled.  My  mother  bought  herself  a  white  fying  suitt-slacks,  a  battle-dress  jacket,  and  a  neat  white  helmet.  As  she  is  only  five  feet  tall,  and  slender,  the  outfit  suited  her  very  well,  and  she  must  have  been  the  most  photographed  minister's  wife  in  trousers  of  the  decade.  My  fa-  ther,  a  large,  heavily  built  man,  added  to  his  bulk  a  thickly  padded  leather  coat,  to  which  he  attached  all  kinds  of  clips  and  straps  and  hooks.  From  these  he  suspended  cellophane  cases  for  maps  and  for  the  gadgets  he  was  foreverinvent,  ing.  He  ordinarily  wore  a  monocle,  but  he  removed  it  before  putting  on  his  hel-  met  and  goggles,  and  as  far  as  I  could  tell,  this  never  made  any  difference  to  his  vision.  In  his  slow,  systematic  way,  my  father  learned  to  fly,  and,  in  fact, " b"flew  extremely  well.  He  read  virtually  all  that  had  been  written  about  aero-  dynamics,  and  he  was  easily  Peter  Fowl-  er's  best  pupil.  The  newspapers  loved  him.  The  reporters  wore  the  &quot;sky-pilot&quot;  joke  thin,  but  they  were  charming  to  him,  and  he  enjoyed  their  company.  &quot;Now,  don't  go  printing  a  lot  of  non-  sense  about  my  age,&quot;  he  would  tell  them.  &quot;I  am  just  the  right  age  for  test-  ing  aircraft.  It's  the  young  folk  who  shouldn't  be  allowed  to  risk  their  lives.&quot;  My  mother's  record  was  less  happy,  although  she  was  the  more  eager  stu-  dent  of  the  two.  Owing  to  her  size,  she  had  to  sit  perched  up  on  cushions  in  the  cockpit  in  order  to  reach  the  con-  trols,  and,being  entirely  sure  of  her  ability,  she  was  impatient  of  Peter's  cau-  tion.  When  she  made  mistakes,  she  never  really  believed  they  were  her  fault.  Once,  having  lost  her  bearings,  she  made  a  forced  landing  in  a  field  some  miles  from  Nottingham  and  returned  to  the  club  on  a  haycart.  When  Peter  asked  her  what  had  happened,  she  said,  &quot;My  compass  went  wrong.&quot;  On  the  morning  of  their  silver  wed-  ding  anniversary,  my  parents  obtained  their  &quot;A&quot;  licenses.  The  Nottingham  Club  gave  a  party  at  which  they  were  presented  with  pewter  beer  tankards  suitablyinscribed,  and  a  beautiful  little  silver  model  of  a  Moth.  My  parents  were  now  free  to  take  a  machine  up  whenever  they  wished,  but  Peter  had  them  so  well  trained  that  they  never  flew  under  conditions  he  did  not  approve  of.  I  did  not  like  flying,  and  this  was  sad,  for  it  pleased  my  father  very  much  when  I  accompanied  him.  I  never  managed  to  scrape  up  enough  courage  to  fly  with  my  mother.  I  went  on  a  number  of  trips  with  my  father.  One  day,  we  visited  Trent  Bridge  Cricket  Ground  and  watched  a  few  minutes  of  a  test  match-[REDACTED]  vs.  [REDACTED].  Another  time,  we  cruised  down  the  river.  On  that  journey,  my  father  terrified  me  by  shutting  off  the  engine  so  that  I  could  hear  what  he  was  saying.  He  wanted  to  call  my  attention  to  some  swans  that  were  swimming  along  below.  I  agreed,  with  my  eyes  shut  tight,  that  they  looked  very  pretty.  My  father's  brothers  and  sisters  were  less  timid,  and  he  could  count  on  their  willingness  to  goup  in  the  air  with  him.  One  of  my  uncles,  a  retired  naval  off-  cer,  always  brought  his  own  helmet  with  him  when  he  came  to  visit  us,  and  he  expected  to  be  taken  flying  on  all  pos-  sible  occasions.  Like  my  father,  he  was  a  large  man,  and  it  took  Pat  some  time  to  fit  the  two  of  them  into  the  tiny  plane.  When  my  uncle  was  along,  my  father" b"was  warned  to  begin  his  takeoff  from  the  farthest  end  of  the  field,  whence  he  would  have  the  longest  possible  run.  It  was  always  a  matter  of  anxiety  to  any  of  us  who  happened  to  be  watching  from  the  clubhouse  whether  the  overloaded  little  Moth  lumbering  toward  us  through  thegrass  (there  were  no  concrete  run-  ways)  would  manage  to  rise  high  enough  to  clear  the  clubhouse  roof.  It  always  did,  but  the  margin  was  never  large.  OUR  village,  especially  the  young  people,  followed  my  parents'  progress  with  great  interest.  'They  boasted  about  it  with  heathen  vanity,  and  the  more  orthodox  rectors  of  neigh-  boring  parishes,  who  in  their  leisure  time  collected  postage  stamps  or  butterflies,  werecompared  unfavorably  with  my  father.  The  boys  borrowed  our  copies  of  flying  magazines-Aeroplane  and  Popular  Flying-and  consulted  my  father  on  the  advisability  of  a  career  in  the  R.A.F.  There  was  also,  I  think,  a  closer  relationship  than  before  between  my  parents  and  the  local  farmers;  to  all  of  them  the  weather  was  a  subject  of  endless  concern.  Every  summer,  on  the  first  Saturday  in  August,  our  church  held  a  lawn  party  in  the  rectory  garden.  Booths  were  set  up  for  the  sale  of  lemonade  and  ice  cream;  there  was  fennis  and  croquet  and  horseshoe  throwing,  morris  dancing,  and  a  palmist.  There  was  also  afternoon  tea  of  the  weightier  sort-sausage  rolls  and  ham,  cake  and  apple  turnovers  and  strawberry  tart.  The  lawn  party  always  drew  a  great  crowd.  One  year,  after  the  party  had  begun,  my  mother  announced  a  surprise  item,  which  was  to  take  place  at  four  o'clock  and  which  all  pres-  ent  were  invited  to  observe  from  the" b"lawns,  As  the  hour  approached,  my  mother  kept  looking  anxiously  at  the  sky.  The  day  had  started  well,  but  during  the  afternoon  the  customary  heavy  clouds  began  to  roll  in,  and  by  midafternoon  there  was  one  small  bluehole  in  the  whole  gray  sky.  Several  people,  seeing  my  mother's  glances,  assured  her  that  it  would  not  rain  for  an  hour  at  least,  but  my  mother  was  not  worried  about  rain.  Her  surprise  item  was  already  on  his  way  from  Nottingham,  and  she  was  afraid  that  on  a  thick  afternoon  such  as  this  had  now  become  he  might  have  to  turn  back.  Nobody  commented  on  my  father's  absence  from  the  party.  There  was  such  a  crush  people  no  doubt  assumed  that  if  my  father  was  not  visible,  it  was  be-  cause  he  was  somewhere  else  in  the  garden.  At  five  minutes  to  four,  the  guests  as-  sembled  on  the  lawns,  and  my  mother's  apprehension  increased  as  the  skies  con-  tinued  to  darken.  The  one  blue  hole,  however,  did  not  fail  us.  Like  a  heavenly  sign,  it  rested  above  the  garden,  and,  punctually  on  the  dot  of  four,  my  father  came  gracefully  through  it.  To  the  cheers  of  his  faithful  flock  and  their  envious  friends,  he  looped  the  loop  twice  and  accomplished  several  slow  rolls.  Then  he  climbed  back  up  the  way  he  had  come,  the  hole  closed  neatly  in  be-  neath  him,  and  the  rain  began.  The  people  of  our  village  still  talk  about  that  lawn  party.  They  say  they  will  never  forget  it.  Neither  shall  I."