 b"MOST  women  have  a  parting  shot-the  eternal  revival  of  a  past  injustice,  which  they  use  ruthlessly  and  indiscriminately,  to  end  all  arguments.  My  mother's  was  our  Uncle  Chookie.  No  matter  how  wrong  she  was  (and  being  daily  indoctrinated  by  her  in  the  absolute  rightness  of  every-  thing  she  said  and  did,  we  children-  my  sister  Kate  and  I,  and  our  brother,  Bernard-seldom  dared  admit,  even  to  our  secret  selves,  that  sometimes  she  could  be  wrong),  she  put  herself  in  the  right  at  the  end  of  every  argument  by  flinging  at  my  father,  &quot;And  in  all  these  years  you  never  once  offered  to  send  my  poor  brother  a  ten-shilling  postal  order!&quot;  There,  of  course,  she  was  right.  He  never  had.  And  so,  what-  ever  the  matter  of  the  argument,  we  saw  from  my  father's  inability  to  counter  the  fact  of  this  one  neglect  that  he  was  wrong-wrong  again-and  my  mother  the  injured.  The  silence  ofthe  end  of  the  argu-  ment  hung  in  the  air  like  steam  in  the  street  after  a  summer  rainstorm-the  silence  of  Uncle  Chookie,  produced  in  all  its  unfailing  power.  For,  of  course,  we  knew  it  was  Uncle  Chookie  of  whom  my  mother  spoke,  although  she  never  mentioned  him  by  name  and  she  had  two  other  brothers.  Uncle  Chookie's  real  name  was  Bernard,  like  my  brother's-both  were  named  after  my  grandfather,  just  as  my  mother  and  I  were  named  Barbara,  after  my  grandmoth-  er-but  I  suppose  the  childish  appellation  had  been  given  Uncle  Chookie  when  he  was  a  baby,  as  such  names  are  given  to  so  many,  pending  the  time  when  heshould  grow  up  in-  to  the  other.  He  is  about  forty  in  my  memory,  so  that  must  be  about  the  age  he  was  when  we  chil-  dren  began  to  notice  him  first,  butbecause  we  had  never  known  him  when  he  was  younger,  or  by  any  other  name,  there  seemed  to  us  nothing  incongruous  about  knowing  as  &quot;Uncle  Chookie&quot;  this  tall,  already  gray-haired,  bent  man-bent  not  of  his  own  volition  but  as  our  tall  holly-  hocks  were  bent  after  a  hard  rain.  His  long  hands  touched  everything-even  your  own  when  you  greeted  him-  uncertainly,  and  they  smelled,  not  as     our  father's  did,  of  tobacco  and  news-  print  and  petrol,  but  of  soap,  like  a  woman's.  Uncle  Chookie  had  large,  gray  eyes-mournful  eyes,  as  we  called  them,  like  my  mother's  and  mine-and  round  them  a  recess  of  delicate,  dark-  ened  skin.  But  that  was  as  far  as  the  family  likeness  went;  he  was  loose-boned  where  my  mother  was  small  and  neat,  he  was  slow  of  movement  where  she  was  quick,  and,  above  all,  he  was  silent;  she  had  a  high  clear  voice  and  talked  all  the  time.  When  he  was  in  our  house  he  seemed  like  a  shadow  of  my  mother-a  silent  creature,  looking  out  of  her  eyes,  sitting  where  she  sat,  follow-  ing  her  quietly  from  room  to  room.  He  came  to  spend  a  fortnight  with  us  in  [REDACTED]  every  year,  and  in  be-  tween  these  visits  we  children  never  saw  him,  though  once  a  month  or  so  my  mother  would  bake  a  cake  in  the  eve-  ning,  putout  her  things  for  an  early  start  the  next  morning,  and  say  to  our  native  maid-or  to  an  aunt,  on  the  telephone-  &quot;I'm  going  to  poor  Chookie  tomorrow,  you  know.  I  feel  I  must,  though  it's  such  a  drag.&quot;  Then,  before  the  three  of  us  left  for  school  in  the  morning,  she  would  be  gone  to  catch  an  early  train  to  the  [REDACTED]  Transvaal  town  where  Uncle  Chookie  lived-rather  poorly,  we  gathered,  but  decently  enough.  &quot;Of  course,  he's  got  his  own  room,&quot;  we  had  overheard  her  telling  someone  once.  &quot;A  few  of  his  own  things  and  a  spirit  stove  for  tea  and  so  on,  and  there's  another  man  next  door-a  schoolteacher,  he  was,  I  believe-also  very  nice,  poor  thing,  and  Chookie  sharesa  bit  of  cake  with  him,  and  if  he  gets  anything,  he  al-  ways  takes  some  in  to  Chookie.&quot;  E  children  looked  forward  to  Uncle  Chookie's  fortnight,  though  once  it  came,  there  was  little  to  dis-  tinguish  it  from  any  other  fortnight;  it  merely  had  its  place  in  the  marking  off  of  the  year,  as  birthdays,  Christmas,  and  school  and  holiday  time  did.It  helped,  along  with  the  other  events,  in  the  gradual  relating  of  the  timelessness  of  child-  hood  to  the  rigidly  time-conscious  adult  world.  Once  really  with  us,  Uncle  Chookie  was  scarcely  there.  He  liked  to  stand  in  a  window,  watching  what " b"went  on  outside.  If  we  came  past,  chasing  one  another  across  the  lawn  in  some  game,  he  appeared  to  be  watching  us.  If  we  were  not  there,  he  might  be  watching  the  birds  on  the  lawn,  or  the  clouds.  When  we  were  indoors,  he  seemed  always  to  be  standing  in  a  win-  dow,  against  the  light,  his  coat  peaked  out  at  the  back  because  of  his  stooping  shoulders.  Sometimes,  he  would  bend  down  and  run  his  hand  stiffly  over  the  spine  of  the  cat.  At  meals,  he  hardly  spoke.  My  mother  did  not  make  any  plans  while  he  was  with  us.  &quot;I  won't  be  going  anywhere  much  just  now  -while  I've  got  Chookie  with  me,  you  know,&quot;  she  would  apologize  on  the  telephone.  Then  she  would  come  into  the  room  where  he  stood,  and,her  head  consideringly  on  one  side,  ask  him  what  he  would  like  to  eat,  the  way  she  would  come  into  a  room  and  ask  you  what  you  fancied  when  you  were  sick  in  bed.  &quot;I  think  I'll  get  the  man  to  fillet  us  a  couple  of  nice  soles,  shall  I?'  'They  would  be  nice  for  lunch,&quot;  I  heard  her  say  once.  &quot;Would  you  like  them  fried,  or  would  you  rather  I  did  them  with  a  white  sauce?&quot;  He  would  sigh  and  stare  back  at  her  with  that  anxious,  affronted  look  that  came  to  his  face  whenever  he  was  spoken  to,  as  if  being  addressed  were  a  burden  on  him,  a  responsibility  he  didn't  feel  he  could  take.  And  his  answers  were  always  like  the  one  he  gave  to  my  mother's  suggestions  about  the  filleted  soles:  &quot;I  don't  mind,  Bab.  Fried  will  do  for  me.  With  a  bit  of  lemon  ..  .I  don't  mind.  Fried  or  boiled.  I  don't  mind  how  I  take  it.&quot;  And  they  would  stand  held  in  the  anxiousness  of  one  another's  eyes  for  a  moment-you  almost  expected  to  see  them  sway,  their  eyes  were  so  dark  and  big  and  fascinated-before  my  moth-  er  murmured  heavily,  &quot;Right,  then.  Right,&quot;  and  went  off  to  the  kitchen.  The  onlytime  Uncle  Chookie  ever  really  made  the  fortnight  his  own  was  when  he  sang  for  us.  On  top  of  the  highly  polished  upright  on  which  my  brother  Bernard  and  I  practiced  &quot;Fir  Elise,&quot;  there  was  an  untidy  pile  of  popu-  lar  music-albums  of  songs  from  the  Kern  and  Gershwin  and  Rodgers-and-  Hart  musicals  that  came  so  thick  and  splendid  from  New  York  in  the  thirties,  and  &quot;selections&quot;  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  successes.  My  mother,  who,  difficult  though  it  is  to  believe  now,  must  still  have  been  a  young  woman  and  in-  terested  in  such  things,  had  mastered  a  kind  of  hop  and  thump  in  the  bass  that  was  known  at  the  time  as  &quot;syncopa-  tion.&quot;  We  liked  to  stand  round  her " b"after  supper,  following  her  curious  hob-  bling-out  ofthe  tunes  with  much  thin  volume  but  little  &quot;voice;&quot;  my  sister,  Katie,  at  fifteen,  managed  quite  sweetly  on  the  lower  notes,  but  disappeared  en-  tirely  out  of  normal  hearing  range,  per-  haps  into  that  supra-human  register  that  dogs  are  said  to  be  able  to  hear,  on  the  higher  ones.  My  mother's  brother  was  attracted  by  this  gathering  round  the  piano.  He  would  be  drawn  to  it,  rather  than  con-  sciously  joinus  of  his  own  free  will;  one  moment  he  would  be  sitting  in  his  chair,  the  next  we  would  feel  his  coat  sleeves,  smell  his  linen-cupboard  odor,  among  us.  And  he  would  start  to  sing,  and  we  would  gradually  stop.  He  would  sing  on  alone,  in  a  slightly  husky,  mellow  voice,  and  when  one  song  was  finished,  goon  to  another,.  My  mother  would  turn  the  pages  and  change  the  tune  without  speaking  or  moving  her  head,  as  if  she  were  participating  in  a  spell.  We  would  fall  back,  literally.  First  our  voices  went,  and  then  we  ourselves,  moving  away  from  the  piano  to  perch  on  the  arms  of  chairs  or  lie  down  on  the  old,  molting  leopard-skin  rug,  to  listen.  Un-  cle  Chookie,  who  apparently  couldbear  to  speak  only  under  cover  ofthe  conver-  sation  of  others,  and  who  fell  instantly  silent-died  out  in  the  middle  of  a  sen-  tence,  in  fact-if  he  heard  his  own  voice  speaking  out  loud,  would  sing  on  for  half  an  hour  in  the  center  of  everyone's  abso-  lute  silence  and  attention.  He,  who  looked  at  everything  from  a  bus  ticket  to  a  fork  as  if  it  presented  some  menacing  challenge  to  him,  would  glance  at  the  music  sheet  now  and  then  to  verify  a  coming  note  or  a  word  of  the  lyric,  as  if  the  printed  sheet  were  to  him,  as  it  would  be  to  anyone  else,  merely  a  piece  of  pa-  per.  He  was  casual.  Standing  up  sing-  ing  alone  in  an  attentive  room,  he  met  our  eyes.  I  remember  particularly  a  song  from  an  English  revue  called  &quot;Clowns  in  Clover;  you  could  be  sure  that  if  he  had  not  joined  us  at  the  piano  before,  he  would  do  so  when  we  reached  the  point  in  the  &quot;selection&quot;  where  this  song  began.  We  children  would  waver  through  the  revue's  &quot;chorus&quot;  numbers,  a  novelty  number,  and  what  was,  I  think,  a  kind  of  tango,  and  then,  with  the  first  notes  of  this  particular  song,  his  voice  would  be  there:  &quot;I've  got  those  Little  Boy  Blues,  My  heart's  right  down  in  my  shoes,  Just  for  that  little  boy  who's  For-getting  me  ...&quot;  I  realize  now  that  this  must  have  been  a  curiously  inappropriate  song  to  be  sung  by  Uncle  Chookie-one  so  ob- " b"viously  meant  for  a  Gertrude  Lawrence  or  a  Bea  Lillie,  Yet  we-or  at  least  Bernard  and  I--did  not  find  it  in  the  least  incongruous,  so  I  am  sure  that,  for  some  equally  curious  reason,  it  wasn't.  We  would  havebeen  amazed,  too,  if  anyone  had  found  it  funny.  It  couldn't  have  been  that,  either.  Children  are  usually  right  about  these  things.  Now,  of  course,  I  find  the  contrast  between  Uncle  Chookie  and  his  song  ironic,  but  if  children  have  any  sort  of  innocence  of  mind  left  them  by  the  time  they  are  ten  and  twelve,  as  Bernard  and  I  were,  it  is  innocence  of  irony,  so  we  could  not  have  been  expected  to  notice  that.  IT  was  just  after  the  McKechnies  moved  away  from  the  house  two  doors  up  the  street  that  my  brother  and  I  learned  something  new  about  Uncle  Chookie.  We  three  children  were  hang-  ing  about  one  afternoon  watching  the  new  people  move  in.  I  saw  two  boys  about  Bernard's  age,  with  ears  like  the  handles  of  pitchers,  and  then  a  rather  strange-looking  little  girl,  younger  than  I,  with  a  thick  neck  and  a  babyish  bow  in  her  hair.  She  called  out  to  me  something  that  I  didn't  seem  to  hear  properly,  be-  cause  I  couldn't  understand  what  it  was  she  said,  and  then  went  into  the  house,  banging  the  door  behind  her.  Bernard  was  not  slow  in  getting  to  know  people.  Later  in  the  same  after-  noon,  he  came  back  from  playing  with  the  two  new  boys.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  the  sister?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;She  said  something  to  me  that  I  didn't  hear,  and  then  she  slammed  the  door.&quot;  &quot;She's  loony,&quot;  said  Bernard,  with  relish.  He  rolled  his  eyes,  clutched  the  front  of  his  hair,  and  lolled  his  tongue  out.  &quot;You  know  you're  not  allowed  to  use  that  word,&quot;  said  Kate,  looking  at  him  with  her  customary  disgust.  &quot;Her  brothers  told  me  she's  loony,&quot;  said  Bernard  indignantly.  &quot;You  know  what?  In  their  old  house,  she  tore  the  pages  out  of  the  telephone  book  and  stuffed  them  in  the  lavatory.  You  should  just  hear  her-she  makes  the  most  aw-  ful  noises,  like  an  ol'  cat.&quot;  He  gave  a  demonstration,  brushing  aside  Katie's  protests  with  &quot;I'm  loony!  Ooh,  I'm  loony!  I  can't  help  it,  I  tell  you,  I'm  loony!&quot;  He  and  I  fell  upon  one  another,  shrieking;  I  lay  laughing,  but  he  was  too  delighted  with  the  idea  of  pretend-  ing  to  be  mad  and  kept  his  tongue  loll-  ing  out  at  Katie.  &quot;Just  you " b"let  her  see  you  making  fun  of  that  kid.&quot;  &quot;Look,  my  tongue'sgot  all  dry-feel  it!&quot;  In  his  interest,  Bernard  forgot  to  be  mad.  When  his  tongue  was  com-  fortably  moistened  again,  he  said,  'T  hey'll  have  to  send  her  to  a  loony  bin  when  she's  grown  up.&quot;  &quot;Bernard!&quot;  Katie  was  exasperated.  &quot;Frightened  of  your  Mommy!  What  will  Mommy  say?&quot;  Bernard  taunted  her.  Katie  got  the  look  on  her  face  of  hav-  ing  something  behind  her  back  that  she  didn't  want  to  show  anyone.  &quot;You  know  it's  not  that.  You'll  just  hurt  her  feelings,  that's  all.&quot;  She  sat  there  look-  ing  at  us.  &quot;Why?&quot;  T  asked,  suddenly  feeling  awkward.  &quot;Because,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;She'd  just  say  it  was  unkind  to  talk  that  way,  that's  [REDACTED];  I  offered.  Katie  shook  her  head.  A  hangnail  on  her  thumb  caught  on  the  silk  of  her  dress,  and  she  lifted  her  thumb  and  bit  at  it  with  fierce  concentration  for  a  sec-  ond  or  two.  Then  she  said,  &quot;Youknow  why.  Because  of  Uncle  Chookie.  Uncle  Chookie's  i#  one.&quot;  Bernard  shot  her  a  fast  aghast,  deri-  sive  look.  &quot;He's  not!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  he  is,&quot;  she  said  conversa-  tionally.  &quot;A  mental  hospital.  That's  where  he  always  comes  from,  to  visit  us.  Where  d'you  think  he  is  all  the  time,  and  why  don't  we  ever  go  to  see  him?&quot;  &quot;But  he's  not  mad,&quot;  I  said,  looking  first  at  Katie  and  then  at  Bernard,  and  seeing  Bernard  as  he  had  been  a  minute  before,  with  his  tongue  hanging  out  and  his  eyes  rolling.  &quot;Uncle  Chookie's  not  mad?&quot;  Katie  shrugged.  She  put  her  smarting  thumb  to  the  warmth  of  her  neck  and  looked  at  our  stricken  faces  with  a  kind  of  ashamed  satisfaction  at  the  sight  of  her  handiwork.  I  SPENT  a  great  deal  of  time  try-  ing  to  find  out  if  what  Katie  had  told  us  was  true.  Idid  everything  but  ask.  That  was  impossible.  Impossible,  too,  to  speak  about  it  to  Bernard,  who  must  have  been  as  bewildered  as  I,  or  to  Katie,  who  had  accepted  it  and  was  apparently  calmly  going  on  with  her  life.  It  was  true,  of  course,  that  my  mother  did  not  allow  us  to  talk  of  &quot;loonies,&quot;  but  then  we  were  not  allowed,  either,  to  call  black  people  &quot;niggers&quot;  or  &quot;Kaffirs,&quot;  nor  could  we,  without  reproof,  be  overheard  re-  ferring  to  someone  who  squinted  as  &quot;'boss-eyed.&quot;&quot;  So  how  was  one  to  tell?  I  went  along  the  road  many  times  to" b"stare,  fascinated,at  the  thick-necked  child  in  the  garden  two  doors  away,  grunting  in  the  dust  where  she  wan-  dered  all  day  long,  shut  out  ofthe  house  like  some  small,  noisome  animal.  I  watched  her  brothers  when  they  came  to  play  at  our  house  with  Bernard.  I  listened  to  my  mother  chattering  to  the  native  servant  girl  above  the  thick  sound  of  batter  being  beaten  in  the  kitchen.  I  went  into  the  bedroom  I  shared  with  Katie  and  looked  at  my  eyes  in  the  mirror.  My  mother's  eyes.  His  eyes.  And  when  the  voices  of  the  others  came  out,  very  jolly  round  the  piano  in  the  evening,  singing,  .  heart's  right  down  in  my  shoes,  Just  for  that  little  boy  who's  For-getting  me  ...&quot;  I  dropped  out  of  their  circle,  their  jollity,  and  went  off  to  my  room,  where  I  lay  on  my  bed,  eyes  open  in  the  dark,  still  hearing  it.  One  afternoon,  when  I  had  finished  practicing,  I  took  &quot;Clowns  in  Clover&quot;  out  of  the  pile  of  music  and  hid  it  in  a  box  of  my  father's  old  technical  books.  I  NEVER  really  found  out.  Gradu-  ally,  as  I  grew  older,  my  mother  be-  gan  to  talk  as  if  it  were  accepted  that  I  knew  Uncle  Chookie  was  in  a  mental  hospital-as,  I  suppose,  she  had  begun  to  talk  before  Katie  when  Katie  was  my  age.  And  no  doubt  she  expected  that,  like  Katie,  I  would  accept  it  simply  as  a  piece  of  rather  sad  information.  She  never  noticed  the  blankness  with  which  I  met  the  mention  of  his  name;  she  never  once  sensed  the  hostility  I  felt-  was  it  toward  Uncle  Chookie,  for  link-  ing  me  inescapably  with  a  world  of  horror  and  confusion  that  I  half  sensed,  half  imagined  out  of  my  fear,  or  toward  my  mother,  until  now  my  shield  against  all  that  was  painful,  for  exposing  me  to  this  ugly  awareness  by  having  him  for  a  brother,  or  toward  myself,  for  carrying  in  my  veins  the  blood  of  this  gentle,  kindly  creature?  As  we  children  began  to  grow  up,  the  yearly  visits  were  dropped.  It  may  have  been  because  my  mother's  brother,  like  a  prisoner  who  learns  to  prefer  the  safety  of  prison  to  the  bewilderment  of  the  world  outside,  no  longer  wished  to  come,  or  maybe  my  mother  felt  that  with  Bernard  thirteen,  me  almost  fif-  teen,  and  Katie  a  young  lady  with  suitors  about,  his  presence  might  be  an  embar-  rassment.  I  remember  what  must  have  been  the  last  time  he  came,  though,  and  it  was  the  last  time  I  saw  him.  Imme-  diately  I  had  heard  he  was  expected  for  the  usual  fortnight,  I  announced  casu-  ally  that  I  would  be  spending  that  par-" b"ticular  time  with  a  friend  with  whom  I  often  exchanged  visits;  I  was  at  the  age  when  girls  have  violently  secretive  friendships.  But  unfortunately  he  ar-  rived  a  little  earlier  than  he  had  been  ex-  pected,  and  I  had  to  meet  him,  after  all-at  the  top  of  the  stairs,  in  fact,  just  as  I  was  coming  down  with  my  suitcase  and  my  tennis  racket  in  its  initialled  drawstring  cover.  I  had  thought  about  him  such  a  great  deal  and  had  not  seen  him  for  such  a  long  time  that  the  sight  of  him,  like  opening  one'seyes  to  the  plain,  calm  daylight  of  a  room  that  has  just  been  swollen  and  twisted  as  the  mise  en  scene  of  a  nightmare,  shocked  me  into  anticlimax.  I  stood  there  at  the  top  of  our  stairs,  and  he  stood  a  few  steps  be-  low,  holding  an  umbrella  and  a  neat,  shabby  portmanteau,  which  accentuated  the  curve  of  his  stoop.  Each  of  us  held  back,  waiting  for  the  other  to  get  out  of  the  way  first,  like  two  nervous  animals  who  do  not  recognize  each  other's  scent.  He  was  afraid,  always  afraid,  and  per-  haps,  for  him,  it  was  merely  a  confirma-  tion  of  what  he  Zxew,  to  find  that  some-  one  else-one  of  the  others,  outside  of  what  he  knew  -was  afraid,  too.  We  met  on  his  ground  that  day.  As  I  looked  at  him-a  graying,  never-old,  never-  young  man-guilt  flamed  through  all  my  veins,  as  adrenalin  comes  with  an-  ger.  But  all  that  I  had  wound  about  him  in  my  thoughts  came  up  to  obscure  me  from  shame;  guilt  hardened  into  hos-  tility  and  revulsion.  Without  a  word,  I  bolted  past  him  down  the  stairs.  In  the  fifteen  years  since,  I  have  never  had  a  chance  to  say  that  word  I  should  have  said  then  or  to  smile  that  smile.  He  died  several  years  ago,  out  of  sight,  as  he  had  lived.  But  the  other  day  when  I  turned  on  the  radio,  I  heard  the  song,  the  song  from  &quot;Clowns  in  Clover.&quot;  And  I  found  myself  remem-  bering  with  real  pleasure  that  slightly  husky,  mellow  voice-the  voice  of  Uncle  Chookie.  So  perhaps  I  have  made  it  all  right-if  such  things  are  possible  between  this  world  and  the  next-be-  tween  him  and  me."