 b"ONE  evening  last  spring,  while  waiting  in  a  convenient  bar  across  from  the  Westport  station  for  my  wife  topick  me  up,  I  scraped  acquaintance  with  a  chap  who  turned  out  to  live  on  the  same  road\xc2\xabI  do.  I'll  call  him  Augie  Poole.  An  immediate  camaraderie  sprang  up  between  Augie  and  me,  and  was  later  carried  forward  at  intervals  in  the  same  establishment.  I  described  him  to  my  wife  as  &quot;a  hell  of  a  swell  egg,&quot;  and  wished  we  might  get  together  with  him.  and  his  wife  (who  had  once  smiled  at  me-from  the  road-  sterin  which  she  fetched  him-in  a  way  that  gave  me  faith  that  I  had  been  com-  parably  reported  on).  Well,  our  social  orbits  crossed  presently,  at  a  Sunday  cocktail  party  at  the  home  of  neigh-  bors,  and,  an  arm  looped  through  Au-  gie's,  I  led  him  up  to  my  wife  to  be  in-  troduced.  &quot;How  did  you  like  him?&quot;  I  asked  her  later.  &quot;I  didn't,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Something  about  him  that's-&quot;  She  broke  off,  and  finished  simply,  &quot;It's  just  a  feeling  I  have  about  him.&quot;  &quot;Intuition?&quot;  I  asked,  with  a  tolerant  smile.  &quot;Maybe,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  like  his  wifea  lot  better.  I  think  she's  awfully  nice.&quot;  That  left  the  door  open  tp  theac-  quaintance,  which  proceeded  to  further  itself.  We  hadhad  one  another  to  dinner     once  apiece,  and  had  seen  one  another  twice  in  other  homes,  when  the  four  of  us  met  at  a  lawn  party  on  a  Saturday  night  toward  the  end  of  summer,  mid-  way  of  the  recent  historic  heat  wave.  At  that  rather  oversized  party,  Augie  attached  himself  to  a  spectacularly  hewn  blond  bit  actress  who  had  just  been  di-  vorced.  The  gregarious  warmth  that  had  made  him  so  easy  to  get  to  know  in  the  bar  served  him  in  equal  stead  here  till,  at  last,  in  a  dim  corner  of  the  gar-  den,  he  made  some  gesture  of  bibulous  admiration  that  was  met  with  a  smart-  and  audible-clap  on  the  cheek.  There  were  several  witnesses  to  the  incident  (earwitnesses,  so  to  speak),  none  of  whom,  fortunately,  was  Augie's  wife,  but  one  of  whom  was  mine.  She  couldn't  wait  to  get  into  our  car  when  the  party  broke  up,  about  an  hour  later.  &quot;Well,  what  did  I  tell  you?&quot;  she  said  before  I  had  the  car  quite  in  second,  &quot;Hmm?&quot;  I  said,  being  concerned  with  a  stuck  window  on  my  side,  and  also  mentally  engaged  in  weighing  the  merits  of  garrotting,  strangulation,  and  poison  for  Augie.  &quot;How's  that?&quot;  &quot;You  know  what  I  mean.  About  your  fine  friend.  I  told  you  so.&quot;  She  sighed  and  shook  her  head.  &quot;I'm  sur-  prised  at  him.&quot;  \xc2\xabYou  told  me  so,  but  you're  surprised  at  him,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'That's  just  an  expression,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  really  not  surprised  at  all.  Really!  Making  a  pass  at  another  woman.  Well,  what  do  you  think  of  him  now?&quot;  I  steered  the  car  around  a  large  hole  in  the  road.  &quot;It  goes  on  all  the  time,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  certainly  don't  sound  as  if  you  disapproved  of  it.&quot;  &quot;I'm  no  censor  of  other  people,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'The  trouble  with  you  is  you  don't  take  people  as  they  are.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  &quot;'You're  welcome,&quot;  I  said,  with  as  much  air  of  repartee  as  the  nature  of  the  exchange  permitted.  We  rode  on  for  a  while  in  silence.  I  could  sense  that  she  was  a  pod  bursting  with  contention.  At  last,  she  said,  ''That's  the  male  viewpoint,  all  right.  Sticking  up  for  each  other  like-  union  members!&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  it  was  the  male  sex  that  started  what  went  on  tonight,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;Not  when  you  think  of  that  dress  of  hers-designed  to  show  off  her  excellent  recreational  facilities.&quot;  My  wife  made  a  repressed,  grinding  noise.  &quot;We're  the  victims  of  our  morality  as  much  as  of  our  sins,&quot;  I  continued  acutely,  guiding  thecar  around  another  pock  in  the  road.  &quot;If  marriage  wasn't  made  so  much  a  corral  in  which  to  con-  fine  us,  we'd  be  more  content  to  stay  inside  it.  All  you  have  to  do  to  make  a  guy  like  Augie  forget  that  bag  of  sachet  is  make  her  available.  As  it  is,  he'll  probably  spend  the  night  tossing  and  turning.&quot;  &quot;I  see.  Free  spirits,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;Oh,  for  God's  sake!&quot;  &quot;Maybe  you  wish  you  were  just  drop-  ping  me  off  instead  of  going  home  with  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Make  no  mistake  about  that!&quot;  I  said,  piloting  the  car  into  the  garage,  for  we  had  reached  the  house.  Our  sitter,  a  teen-age  youth,  was  given  his  money.  He  summarized  the  evening,  and  I  watched  him  drive  off  in  the  jalopy  in  which  he  had  come.  When  I  entered  the  bedroom,  my  wife  said,  from  inside  the  closet,  &quot;Any  time  you  want  to  hole  up  in  town  with  some  flea  bag,  go  right  ahead.  If  that's  what  you  want.&quot;  &quot;Hole  up  a  flea  bag,&quot;  I  corrected  her.  &quot;With  a  floozy,  in  a  flea  bag.  I  wish  you'd  get  expressions  like  that  straight.  It  reflects  on  me.&quot;  I  SPENT  the  night  tossing  and  turn-  ing.  When  I  arose  the  next  morning,  Sunday,  about  ten  o'clock,  I  found  my  wife  alone  at  the  breakfast  table,  behind  the  Times.  The  children  were  down-  stairs  in  the  cellar,  already,  at  that  hour,  " b"seeking  the  cool.  I  poured  my-  self  some  coffee,  slipped  a  slice  of  bread  into  the  toaster,  and  sat  nervously  waiting  for  it  to  pop.  My  wife  cleared  her  throat.  &quot;I  see  Reverend  Bon-  niwell-that's  that  minister  Mother  went  to  school  with  in  [REDACTED],  you  know-  died,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Death  is  no  respecter  of  parsons,&quot;  I  said.  But  it  was  no  good.  Her  silence  sharpened  the  con-  straint  and  worsened  the  mood  between  us,  though  she  seemed  not  to  notice  this.  She  folded  the  paper,  laid  it  aside,  and  said,  &quot;I've  decided  to  forgive  you.&quot;  Now,  that  had  the  mis-  fortune  of  being  precisely  what  I  had  planned  to  do  to  her.  &quot;Oh,  you'll  forgive  me,  will  you?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  sup-  pose  I  refuse  to  be  forgiven.  For  an  argument  that's  been  made  a  logical  female  hash  of,  like  every  other-&quot;  &quot;Don't  give  me  any  more  to  overlook,&quot;  she  advised  me,  buttering  a  fragment  of  toast.  &quot;Overlook,  forgive.  If  there's  any  forgiving  to  do  around  here,  I'll  do  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;W  hat  have  you  got  to  say  to  that?&quot;  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  she  said,  rising  and  set-  ting  her  napkin  on  the  table.  &quot;I  doubt  whether  I  want  to  talk  to  you,  or  even  see  you,  today.&quot;  &quot;That's  easily  enough  arranged,&quot;  I  snapped,  rising  and  chucking  my  own  napkin  down.  Since  she  had  taken  the  dramatic  offensive  by  sailing  out  of  the  room,  there  was  no  way  for  me  to  top  it  except  by  sailing  out  of  the  house,  which  I  accordingly  did-out  the  front,  slamming  the  screen  door  behind  me.  It  can  be  imagined  how  little  placated  I  was  by  the  sight  that  greeted  my  eye-  that  of  Augie  and  his  wife,  Lenore,  ap-  proaching  down  the  road,  walking  hand  in  hand  under  the  arching  trees.  They  smiled  and  waved,  but  awkwardly,  for  the  report  of  the  screen  door  had  echoed  like  a  rifleshot  through  half  of  West-  port.  I  waved  tersely  back  and  made  for  the  garage  with  an  air  of  purpose.  I  climbed  into  the  car  and,  when  the  Pooles  had  passed  my  driveway,  backed  out  and  made  off  up  the  road  in  the  opposite  direction.  I  could  see  them,  in  the  rearview  mirror,  looking  discon-  certedly  after  me.  I  had  breakfast  in  a  village  diner,   roosting  on  an  end  stool,  perusing  some  fat  metropolitan  tabloid,  and  sipping  in-  famous  coffee.  After  about  forty-five  minutes,  I  went  back  home.  Augie  and  his  wife  were  in  the  living  room,  talking  with  mine.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  Lenore  and  Augie  greeted  me,  with  some  reserve.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  I  said.  A  few  words  about  the  hot  spell  were  exchanged.  &quot;It's  hard  on  a  person.  It  gets  everyone,&quot;  Augie's  wife  said,  smoothing  out  a  crease  in  her  skirt.  Augie  said,  &quot;Your  good  lady,  here,  has  been  telling  us  you  haven't  had  a  vacation  in  four  years.  That's  bad.  Everybody  needs  a  holiday  now  and  then.  Off  the  old  reservation,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  said,  glancing  out  the  window.  When  they  had  gone  (looking  fresh  as  daisies),  I  saidto  my  wife,  &quot;Well,  that  was  fine  and  dandy.  How  much  did  you  go  and  tell  them?&quot;  &quot;Tell  them?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  was  there  left  to  tell  them  after  that  fancy  exit  of  yours?  I  was  in  the  doorway  when  they  came  back  by,  and  they  waved  and  stopped,  and  I  told  them  we  had  a  little  spat,  to  play  it  down.  That  at  least  was  better  than  letting  them  speculate  and  build  it  up.  By  God,  I  won't  have  the  neighbors  thinking  we're  a  couple  of  brawlers!&quot;  I  realized  that  I  had  suddenly  lost  a  great  deal  of  ground  in  the  quarrel.  Since  I  had  no  one  but  myself  to  blame,  I  became  twice  as  hostile  toward  my  wife,  and  did  not  want  to  lose  any  more  time  than  was  necessary  before  attempt-  ing  to  get  even.  I  spotted  a  chance  to  do  so  the  very  next  day-by  walking  the  three  miles  from  the  station  in  the  broil-  ing  heat,  under  circumstances  that  I  saw  a  way  of  pinning  on  her.  THAT  Monday,  the  temperature  reached  ninety-six,  and  it  was  well  on  its  way  toward  that  when  my  wife  drove  me  to  the  station  in  the  morning.  My  regular  train  home  is  the  five-thirty.  I  told  her  I  was  going  to  try  to  clean  up  my  work  at  the  office  in  time  to  catch  the  three-thirty,  or  at  least  the  four-  thirty,  but  that  I  couldn't  be  sure.  I  would  phone  her  from  the  station  when  I  arrived.  I  caught  the  three-thirty,  got  to  Westport  a  little  after  four-thirty,  and  entered  the  telephone  booth  in  the  sta-  tion,  sooty  and  clammy,  and  hoping  that  when  I  rang  my  number,  the  line  would  be  busy.  I  needed  a  grievance  of  at  least  that  size  (the  implication  that  my  wife  was  thoughtlessly  chatting     " b"on  the  phone  when  I  might  be  trying  to  get  through  to  her)  to  recover  the  ground  I  had  lost  and  get  back  in  the  running.  Presenting  a  footsore  and  bedraggled  spectacle  at  the  front  door,  as  a  consequence  of  being  unable  to  reach  her,  would  puther  at  a  distinct  disadvantage.  I  dropped  my  nickel  and  dialled  the  number  tremulously.  I  got  the  busy  signal.  I  clapped  the  phone  on  the  hook,  and,  murmuring  \xc2\xab&quot;Yackety-yack!&quot;  gratifiedly,  folded  my  crumpled  seersucker  coat  over  my  arm  and  began  the  three-mile  trek  that  was  to  punish  her.  The  sun  was  still  high  in  the  sky  and  beating  mercilessly  down.  I  hadn't  gone  a  tenth  of  a  mile  before  my  shirt  felt  like  a  poultice.  I  crossed  from  side  to  side  of  the  road,  in  quest  of  any  shade  that  ap-  peared  (not  to  be  too  vindictive  with  her),  but  this  was  a  technique  that  I  presently  realized  offset  any  respite  from  the  sun  by  adding  a  marked  percentage  to  my  mileage.  So  after  that  I  stuck  to  one  side  of  the  road.  I  lifted  a  wet  cuff  to  consult  my.  wrist,  watch.  Five-twenty.  I  was  not  a  fifth  of  the  way.  At  that  rate,  I  wouldn't  be  home  before  eight  o'clock,  for  much  of  the  journey  from  there  on  lay  uphill,  and  it  had  become  increasingly  neces-  sary  to  pause  for  rest  even  on  the  levels.  It  would  be  mad  to  proceed  faster  than  a  stroll;  a  mile  an  hour  was  plenty.  At  that  pace,  when  would  my  wife  begin  to  wonder?  When  worry?  When  grow  alarmed?  Well  before  home  was  in  sight,  'd  be  bound.  Two  or  three  mo-  torists  slowed  to  offer  me  rides,  but  I  shook  my  head  and  plodded  on.  My  clothes  were  not  only  soaked  now  but  steaming;  at  least  it  seemed  so  to  me.  I  threw  my  coat  away-or  didn't  throw  it  away,  exactly,  but  chucked  it  under  a  culvert  from  which  I  could  retrieve  it  when  next  I  drove  by.  A  wallet  I  had  taken  from  it  made  a  disagreeable  bulge  in  a  hind  trouser  pocket.  I  hit  a  long  open  stretch  where  exposure  to  the  sun  had  rendered  the  tar  in  the  road  so  soft  that  I  had  the  feeling  of  slogging  through  rarebit.  I  sat  down  on  a  large  stone  to  take  a  small  one  out  of  my  shoe.  Nursing  my  foot  a  moment,  I  forlornly  compared  the  trite  hassle  of  which  this  was  the  fruit  with  those  bright,  deftly  negotiated  spats  by  which  marriage  is  idealized  in  drawing-room  comedies.  I  mentally  re-  vised  parts  of  our  spat  with  some  better  dialogue.  In  my  breather,  there  by  the  wayside,  I  imagined  it  as  an  adroit  ex-  change  conducted  before  dinner  guests,  which,  uncorking  a  wine  or  dishevelling  a  salad,  I  would  crown  with  &quot;Marriage,  my  dear,  has  driven  more  than  one  man  to  sex.&quot;  I  put  my  shoe  on  and  rose,  and,  after  pausing  to  draw  fabric  away  from  my  person  at  various  points,  resumed  my  march.  I  sen  sed  the  birth  of  a  blister  on  one  foot.  Presently,  too,  I  began  to  have  moments  of  vertigo  in  which  I  wondered  whether  I  hadn't  perhaps  pun-  ished  my  wife  enough.  I  had  neglected  to  water  myself  at  the  waiting-room  drinking  fountain  before  setting  out,  and  now  a  great  thirst,  which  a  little  thought  amplified  into  panic,  parched  my  throat.  My  general  condition,  plus  heat  shimmers  in  the  road  and  blinding  Rashes  from  the  chrome  of  passing  cars,  resulted  at  last  in  a  fogging  of  my  vision.  &quot;Fogging&quot;  may  not  be  precisely  the  word,  for  the  change  took  the  form  of  rendering  commonplace  objects  adven-  turous,  and  objects  visible  that  may  very  well  not  have  been  there.  Thus  distant  elms  and  willows  appeared  for  fleeting  " b"moments  to  have  the  look  of  date  palms,  and  once  I  thought  I  saw  a  camel  on  the  horizon.  STEPPED  off  the  road,  crossed  a  ditch,  and  sat  down  on  another  rock.  I  ran  my  finger  over  my  forehead  in  the  manner  of  a  squeegee.  I  noticed  several  burs  on  the  cuffs  of  my  trousers.  I  was  breathing  heavily  and  feeling  a  dense  throbbing  inside  my  head  when  acar  approaching  down  the  hill  ahead  of  me  slowed  and  came  to  a  stop  on  the  other  side  of  the  road.  My  wife  was  behind  the  wheel.  I  waited  for  her  to  speak,  prepared  to  consolidate  my  gains.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you?&quot;  she  asked,  through  the  open  window.  &quot;Il  be  all  right,&quot;  I  said,  plucking  at  my  shirt  buttons.  &quot;It's  just  my  heart.&quot;  She  put  her  head  out  of  the  window  and  looked  back  up  the  road  to  make  sure  nothing  was  coming.  Then  she  turned  the  car  a  round  and  drew  up  near  me.  She  reached  over  and  opened  the  door  on  my  side.  I  got  to  my  feet,  made  my  way  across  the  intervening  ditch,  and  climbed  in.  I  pulled  the  door  shut,  and  she  put  the  car  in  gear.  I  made  sure  my  window  was  all  the  way  down,  and  adjusted  the  wing  glass  so  the  draft  would  strike  me  the  instant  we  got  under  way.  &quot;I  tried  to  call  you  a  co  uple  of  times  but  you  were  busy  talking,&quot;  I  said  as  we  did.  &quot;So  I  had  to  walk.  What  brings  you  out  this  way  now?&quot;  &quot;I  tried  to  call  t  he  butcher  several  times-the  cold  cuts  I  ordered  didn't  come-and  our  party  line  was  busy,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;That  meant  you  couldn't  reach  me,  and  I  got  to  worrying.  I  fig-ured  you  might  hav  e  been  on  that  three-  thirty.  I  couldn't  be  sure,  but  rather  than  risk  keeping  you  waiting  in  the  hot  sta-  tion,  I  thought  I'd  take  a  chance  on  a  trip  for  nothing.&quot;  We  drove  in  silence  for  a  stretch,  and  then  she  said  abruptly,  &quot;Lenore  Poole  called  just  as  I  was  leav-  ing.  She  suggested  we  all  have  dinner  out  together.&quot;  &quot;Well?&quot;  &quot;An  air-conditioned  sounds  good,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  thought  you  didn't  like  Augie,&quot;  I  said.  She  heaved  a  long  sigh  of  resignation.  &quot;Well,  it  comes  down  to  what  you  said,&quot;  she  answered.  And,  glancing  off  across  the  frazzled  fields,  she  added,  'You've  got  to  take  people  as  they  are.&quot;  "