 b"AT  Hyde  Park  Corner,  Robert Laidlaw  halted  his  taxi,  telling  the  driver  that  he  had  changed  his  mind  and  would  walk  the  rest  of  the  way.  &quot;Don't  trouble  about  the  change,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;'Thank  you,  sir!  And  I  don't  blame  you.  It's  a  wonderful  afternoon.  We  shan't  see  many  more  like  it,  this  year.&quot;  To  bestow  such  an  ample  tip,  and  to  be  assured  that  the  taxi-driver  did  not  blame  him,  gave  Mr.  Laidlaw's  self-  respect  a  fillip  it  badly  needed,  for  he  was  bound  on  a  painful  errand.  That  was  why  he  had  decided  to  walk  the  rest  of  the  way  through  the  park.  Not  because  walking  would  postpone  the  moment  of  climactic  painfulness-  he  was  only  too  anxious  to  get  that  over-but  he  hoped  that  by  immersing  himself  in  the  serenity  of  the  autumn  afternoon  he  might  achieve  a  corre-  sponding  peace  of  mind,  and  a  larger  outlook  on  the  disagreeable.  It  was  late  October;  the  trees  had  already  shed  most  of  their  leaves,  which  were  quietly  con-  suming  in  bonfires.  Those  that  remained  hung  motionless,  their  colors  burning  against  the  deep  blueof  the  sky.  All  the  shabbiness  of  late  summer  was  gone.  The  grass  had  renewed  its  green,  the  plane  trees  had  stripped  off  their  sooty  bark,  the  picnicking  parties  contained  no  in-  elegant  nudes  or  panting  dogs.  It  was  as  though  summer,  after  a  purgatory  of  equinoctial  rain  and  gales,  had  come  back  ensainted.  And  in  spite  of  the  taxi-  driver's  Cockney  mistrust  of  good  for-  tune,  there  seemedno  reason  why  this  spell  of  Indian  summer  should  not  con-  tinue  for  some  while  yet.  For  in  autumn  there  is  a  steadfastness  lacking  in  the  other  seasons.  Autumn  is  an  apple,  it  is  a  keeping  fruit.  The  park  keepers  thought  so,  at  any  rate,  for  they  had  brought  out  the  canvas  chairs  again.  He  was  quick  to  notice  the  chairs,  but  not  quick  enough.  'The  current  of  his  thoughts  swept  on,  tossing  them  aside.  Mrs.  Probus  had  also  been  a  keeping  fruit,  persisting  in  a  timeless  suspension  of  old  age,  gently  shrewd,  subacidly  kindly.  Early  that  morning  she  had  died  in  her  sleep,  the  death  that  with  an  unimpassioned  confidence  she  had  proposed  for  herself.  As  her  law-  yer  and  executor,  he  had  been  rung  up  with  the  news  byShadwell,  her  servant.  After  an  interval  of  grief  and  recollec-  tion-quite  apart  from  her  wealth  and  her  hospitality,  Mr.  Laidlaw  had  been  attached  to  the  old  lady-he  told  his  clerk  to  bring  him  Mrs.  Probus's  will.  And  now  it  was  too  late  to  do  anything     about  it.  Unchangeably,  unanswerably,  Mrs.  Probus  had  left  her  aging  servant  an  annuity  of  one  pound  a  week.  He  was  more  than  halfway  across  the  park,  and  the  noise  of  traffic  along  the  Bayswater  Road  swelled  in  his  ears.  As  though  it  were  a  challenge  to  which  he  must  retort,  he  said  aloud,  &quot;But  what  could  I  have  done  about  it?&quot;  He  had  not  drawn  up  the  will.  That  had  been  done,  nineteen  years  earlier,  by  his  Uncle  James.  At  his  uncle's  death  he  had  inherited  Mrs.  Probus  and  the  ripe  remains  of  their  long  friendship,  and  had  been  appointed  executor  in  his  un-  cle's  stead.  At  the  same  time  many  other  executorships  and  trusteeships  had  de-  volved  on  him,  for  Laidlaw,  Larpent,  &amp;  Laidlaw  was  essentially  a  testamentary  firm.  Mrs.  Probus's  will  was  one  among  dozens  of  documents  fetched  out,  and  no  doubt  he  had  read  it  through,  since  that  was  part  of  the  routine.  It  was  no  part  of  the  routine  to  query  or  suggest;  the  obligation  of  an  executor  is  but  to  execute.  In  fact,  he  was  already  going  outside  his  obligation  in  the  matter  by  thus  walking  acrossthe  park  to  break  the  news  to  poor  old  Shadwell.  Even  in  1934,  a  pound  a  week  was  less  than  Shadwell's  due;  now  it  was  a  mockery.  One  could  not  keep  a  cat  on  it.  At  the  time  when  the  will  was  made,  Mrs.  Probus  was  newly  a  rich  widow,  and,  as  such,  she  would  natural-  ly  consider  herself  on  the  verge  of  starvation.  But  there  had  been  time  to  revise  that  opinion  since,  and  though  she  had  continued-  to  live  luxuriously secluded  from  the  life  around  her  (&quot;As  far  asI  am  concerned,  Mr.  Laidlaw,  there  has  not  beem  a  coloratura  singer  since  Tetrazzini.  If  you  want  to  listen  to  little  English-squeaking  kittens,  you  must  go  without  me.  Leave  the  old  woman  to  her  memories,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;Flying  bombs,  Mr.  Laidlaw?  I  have  forbidden  Shadwell  to  go  out,  in  case  she  should  be  killed  and  I  left.  I  really  don't  see  what  more  I  can  do  about  them&quot;),  she  had  been  sufficiently  cog-  nizant  ofthe  changes  taking  place  to  give  up  her  house  and  servants,  and  move  into  asmall  flat  that  Shadwell  could  run  singlehanded.  She  was  capa-  ble  of  that  much  revision,  and  if  the  rise  in  the  cost  of  living  had  been  tact-  fully  pressed  home  .  .  .  There  should  be  a  law  compelling  people  of  property  to  bring  their  wills  up  to  date  every  five  years.  There  should  also  be  a  law  com-  pelling  people  of  property  to  have  their  personal  estate  inventoried;  Mrs.  Pro-  bus  had  refused  to  have  this  done,  alleging  that  all  professional  valuers  creaked  like  mutes,  so  after  he  had  told  Shadwell  about  the  annuity  he  would  have  to  rub  salt  into  the  wound  by  ask-  ing  her  to  have  the  jewelry  and  silver  ready  for  him  to  list  the  next  morning.  He  was  now  out  of  the  park,  and  a  bus  went  by  him  with  disgusting  speed,  as  though  enforcing  the  fact  that  this  is  a  rough  world-woe  to  the  vanquished  !  No  doubt  wills  more  unjust,  more  un-  grateful,  were  made  every  day,  and  Shadwell  was  not  the  only  old  woman,  rendered  semi-imbecile  by  devoted  serv-  ice,  to  be  thrown  into  the  gutter.  But  they  were  not  this  particular  will,  and   " b"did  not  oblige  him  to  goon  this  painful  errand.  Callous-or  careless-which?  Summarized  in  the  Times  (for  Mrs.  Probus's  fortune  was  of  the  dimensions  to  be  summarized  in  the  Times),  the  will  would  present  a  rather  noble  an-  cient  Roman  appearance.  Five  thou-  sand  pounds  to  a  family  in  [REDACTED]  whose  parents  had  befriended  her  son,  killed  during  the  First  World  War;  to  him,  her  portrait  by  Wilson  Steer,  and  to  his  coexecutor,  a  diamond  ring;  these  were  the  only  legacies,  and  the  rest  was  to  bedivided  between  the  Society  for  the  Protection  of  Ancient  Buildings  and  the  National  Portrait  Gallery,  sub-  ject  to  an  annuity  to  her  servant,  Bertha  Shadwell.  If  the  amount  of  the  an-  nuity  was  not  disclosed  (and  he  was  in  honor  bound  to  see  what  he  could  do  about  that),  it  would  seem  an  ex-  emplary  will.  But  the  amount  of  the  annuity  must  be  disclosed  to  the  an-  nuitant,  and  in  less  than  five  minutes  he  would  be  doing  it.  He  had  no  option,  the  coexecutor  of  the  diamond  ring  be-  ing  engaged  in  archeological  research  in  4974616c79,  confound  her!  The  block  of  flats  rose  up  before  him,  dowdily  sumptuous.  &quot;Twenty  years  younger  than  I,&quot;  she  had  remarked  when  he  incautiously  commented  on  the  marbleness  of  its  halls.  He  entered,  and  the  smell  of  steam  heating  and  brass  polish  obliterated  any  sense  of  the  autumn  afternoon.  'The  porter  got  into  the  lift  with  him  (it  was  that  kind  of  lift),  saying  as  he  pressed  the  button,  &quot;A  wonderful  old  lady,  sir.  A  great  loss.&quot;&quot;  He  agreed,  and  the  lift  was  stopped  at  the  third  floor  with  a  condol-  ing  smoothness  and  exactitude.  He  got  out,  the  doors  clanged  to  behind  him,  the  lift  went  down  into  its  pit  unblamed.  There  he  was,  on  the  same  level  of  air  as  Shadwell  and  only  four  doors  away-  21,  22,  23,  24.  He  rang  the  bell.  Shadwell  opened  the  door,  looking  just  as  usual,  rubbed  unobtrusive  as  stones  are  rubbed  smooth.  She  wore     her  afternoon  uniform  of  black  cash-  mere,  and  a  short  black  apron,  a  form  of  vestment  denoting  superior  servitude.  Her  eyes,  which  that  morning  had  looked  or  death,  retained  their  shallow  brightness,  her  anteroom  appearance  was  unchanged,  her  air  of  being  a  pre-  liminary  to  Mrs.  Probus.  So  she  still  considered  herself,  for  her  words  were  &quot;You  would  wish  to  see  Mrs.  Probus,  [REDACTED];  and  she  preceded  him  to  a  door  and  opened  it,  standing  back  for  him  to  enter.  But  it  was  a  different  door.  Death  is  a  leveller.  Irene  Probus,  lying  wrapped  in  fine  linen  on  her  Louis  Seize  bed,  looked  like  an  old  peasant  woman,  or,  even  more,  like  a  master-  piece  of  peasant  art,  as  though  some  vil-  lage  craftsman  with  only  skill  of  hand  and  the  truth  to  guide  him  had  carved  her,  with  every  wrinkle,  every  blemish  of  age,  and  theover-all  plain  statement  of  death,  superlatively  rendered  in  some  smooth  yellowish  wood.  'This  is  equal  to  anything  at  Chartres,  he  thought,  scarcely  able  to  restrain  himself  from  exclaiming  in  delighted  admiration  at  the  way  the  heavy  wrinkles  of  the  cheek  enfolded  the  plane  of  the  cheekbone  and  threw  into  relief  the  pure,  sailing  arch  of  the  aquiline  nose.  &quot;Ihope  you  approve,  sir.  Mrs.  Probus  did  not  wish  anyone  but  me  to  touch  her.&quot;  He  turned  to  Shadwell,  saying,  &quot;Did  you  do  it?&quot;  And  it  was  as  though  he  had  turned  away  from  the  imperious  vitality  of  the  work  of  art  to  the  in-  adequacy  of  real  life,  for  Shadwell  seemed  extinguished,  a  shabby  and  negligible  dummy,  notvery  firm  on  its  legs.  &quot;It  is  beautiful,  it  couldnot  be  done  better,&quot;  headded.  She  replied,  &quot;I  am  glad  you  approve,  sir,  And  I  am  glad  that  someone  has  come  to  see  her.&quot;  T  was  inevitable,  Mr.  Laidlaw's  errand  being  what  it  was,  that  Shadwell  should  wring  his  heart,  but     he  could  not  have  foreseen  this  particu-  lar  pathos  of  the  neglected  artist.  He  said,  before  any  more  assaults  could  be  made  on  his  feelings,  &quot;Shadwell,  we  must  talk  a  little  business.&quot;  With  her  exact  sense  of  what  was  befitting,  she  showed  him  into  the  din-  ing  room,  and  pulled  forward  a  chair.  &quot;Sit  down,  Shadwell.  The  business  is  this.  As  you  know,  I  am  one  of  Mrs.  Probus's  executors,  The  other  is  Miss  Grainger,  but  she  is  inItaly,  so  for  the  present  I  shall  do  all  that  needs  to  be  done.  This  morning  I  looked  over  Mrs.  Probus's  will,  which  is  in  our  office.  I  found  that  she  has  left  you  an  annuity.  'To  Bertha  Shadwell,  if  still  in  my  serv-  ice  at  the  time  of  my  death,  an  annuity  of  fifty-two  pounds  per  annum.&quot;  In  other  words,  for  the  rest  of  your  life  you  will  have  an  income  of  a  pound  a  week.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  sir.&quot;  Preparing  himself  for  what  he  had  to  say,  he  had  taken  into  account  what  he  might  have  to  say  next,  and  how  best  to  reply  to  shock,  to  wounded  feelings,  to  resentment,  to  fear  of  the  future.  To  this,  he  could  find  no  answer.  Yet  he  lifted  his  gaze-it  had  been  resting  on  Shadwell's  long,  flat,  neatly  shod  feet-  and  looked  at  her  searchingly.  Perhaps  there  had  been  irony  in  that  reply.  A  woman  who  could  lay  out  a  corpse  with  such  majestic  insight  must  be  an  artist,  and,  as  such,  capable  of  irony,  scorching  irony.  Gladly  would  he  have  been  scorched.  A  trifle  of  unmerited  suffering  would  have  been  positively  welcome  to  him.  But  the  hope  was  vain.  Realizing  that  he  had  come  on  purpose  to  tell  her  of  the  annuity,she  was  thanking  him  for  his  trouble.  &quot;Have  youany  plans,  Shadwell?&quot;  &quot;No,  sir,  I  have  no  plans  yet.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  hope  you  will  be  able  to  stay  on  here  for  the  next  week  or  so,  at  any  rate  till  we  are  through  with  the  pro-  bate,  and  MissGrainger  has  come  back  and  seen  to  the  disposal  of  Mrs.  " b"Probus's  clothes,  and  so  forth.  The  executors  will  pay  your  wages  and  your  expenses.  What  are  your  wages,  by  the  way?&quot;  &quot;A  pound  a  week,  sir.&quot;  His  last  sneaking  defense,  that  Shadwell  must  have  salted  away  some  useful  sav-  ings,  went  down.  He  got  up  from  Mrs.  Probus's  table,  where  he  had  enjoyed  so  many  t\xc3\xa9te-a-tete  dallyings  from  clear  soup  to  port,  and  said,  gobbling  his  words  a  little,  &quot;Well,  well,  now  of  course,  you  will  be  on  board  wages.  They  are  always  rather  higher.  You  will  be  paid  ten  pounds  a  week.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  much,  Mr.  Laidlaw.  I  wouldn't  take  it.&quot;  Feeling  as  though  he  were  a  fish-  monger  who  had  asked  Shadwell  to  pay  ten  shillings  for  a  lemon  sole,  he  climbed  down.  &quot;Seven  pounds,  then.  A  pound  a  day.  You'll  need  it.  Now,  Shadwell,  don't  argue  with  me.  I  won't  hear  an-  other  word  from  you.&quot;  He  heard  himself  echoing  the  im-  perious  familiarity  with  which  Shad-  well's  mistress  had  been  wont  to  utter  such  words.  Possibly  Shadwell  heard  it,  too.  Her  face  flickeringly  escaped  from  its  respectful  composure,  and  she  replied,  obliquely  quitting  the  contest,  &quot;May  I  make  you  a  cup  of  tea,  sir?&quot;  \xc2\xab'No,  thank  you,  no,  thank  you!  I  must  get  back  to  the  office.&quot;  She  showed  him  out,  and  rang  the  lift  bell  for  him.  It  was  not  till  then  that  he  remembered  he  had  not  mentioned  the  inventory.  But  the  lift  had  ascended,  and  he  hurried  into  it;  a  telephone  call  that  evening  would  do  as  well,  and  all  he  wanted  now  was  to  get  away.  As  he  emerged  from  the  seasonless  opu-  lence  of  the  hall,  the  plenitude  and  calm  of  the  autumnal  sky  overwhelmed  him,  for  he  was  obliged  to  compare  it  with  the  prospect  of  Shadwell's  wintry  de-  cline.  He  stooped  his  head,  as  if  under  a  reproach,  and  hurried  toward  the  nearest  underground.  RETURNING  to  the  dining  room,  Shadwell  straightened  the  two  chairs  and  removed  a  few  withering  blossoms  from  a  potted  cineraria.  These  she  took  off  to  the  trash  bin  in  the  kitchen.  Dropping  them  in,  and  hearing  the  lid  fall  to  with  its  usual  tinny  ex-  clamation,  she  put  byher  thoughts  for  the  moment  and  began  looking  briskly  into  canisters,  ascertaining  which  stores  would  last  out  for  Mr.  Laidlaw's  next  week  or  so  and  which  would  need  re-  plenishing.  This  roused  theold  canary.  He  searched  himself  for  lice,  and  then  broke  into  an  abrupt  flourish  of  song.  There  was  a  black  bow  tied  to  his  cage.  He  had  been  Mrs.  Probus's  canary  un-  til  age  harshened  his  coloratura,  when  he  had  been  retired  to  the  kitchen.  It  was  not  too  harsh  for  Shadwell.  She  listened  admiringly  till  he  grew  tired  and  gave  over.  Now  there  were  only  the     " b"clocks  to  listen  to.  The  clock  on  the  kitchen  dresser  rattled  on  at  a  cheap  gait,  and  was  counterpointed  by  the  soft.  whir-whir,  whir-whir  of  the  French  clock  in  the  dining  room.  From  the  street  below,  the  noise  of  traffic  rose  up  like  steam  from  a  caldron.  She  laid  out  a  cup  and  saucer,  and  clasped  a  spoon-  ful  of  tea  in  the  infuser,  and  put  on  the  kettle.  Then  she  left  the  kitchen  and  went  into  the  bedroom,  her  feet  sud-  denly  noiseless  on  the  thick  carpet,  so  that  she  entered  like  a  ghost.  At  the  foot  of  the  bed,she  paused,  and  looked  appraisingly  at  the  brief  mas-  terpiece  that  in  a  few  hours  would  be  hidden  in  a  coffin.  &quot;He  didn't  think  to  bring  any  flowers,&quot;  she  said  to  herself,  and  shook  her  head  disapprovingly.  Old  Mr.  Laidlaw  would  not  have  omitted  that  due  courtesy.  Her  bunch  of  white  carnations,  bought  that  morning,  was  all  that  Mrs.  Probus  had.  But  so  it  was  to  be.  From  the  foot  of  the  bed  she  went  with  her  ghost's  footfall  to  the  dressing  table,  massive  and  ornate  as  a  shrine.  Pulling  out  a  drawer,  shepresseda  hidden  spring.  'The  looking  glass  slid  aside  and  disclosed  the  doors  of  a  little  cabinet,  which  in  their  turn  opened  at  the  twirling  of  an  ivory  pillar.  There  were  the  jewels,  the  rings,  the  brooches,  the  bracelets.  She  knew  them  as  well  as  she  knew  the  contents  of  her  kitchen.  She  had  always  taken  careof  them,  clean-  ing  them  once  afortnight  with  jewel-  lers'  rouge  and  putting  them  back  in  their  velvet  lair.  Now  she  took  them  out  for  the  last  time,  holding  them  to  the  light,  watching  the  colored  flashes  leap  from  the  diamonds,  feeling  the  sharp  facets  of  the  emeralds  and  the  faint  greasiness  of  the  rubies.  But  they  didnot  tempt  her.  She  examined  them  only  for  the  pleasure  of  admiringthem,  and  for  a  sentimentality  of  farewell.  She  laid  them  back,  one  by  one,  and  took  out  the  thing  she  had  in  mind,  a  long  gold  chain  on  which,  at  wide  intervals,  diamonds  were  setlike  dewdrops.  It  was  an  ornament  that  Mrs.  Probus  had  not  worn  during  her  memory,  but,  like  the  rest,  it  had  been  cleaned  once  a  fort-  night,  and  once,  years  ago,  while  she  was  polishing  it,  Mrs.  Probus  had  glanced  at  it,  calling  it  by  some  foreign  name  and  saying  that  it  was  an  old-fashioned  thing,  she  would  never  wear  it  again,  and  had  a  mind  to  sell  it-for  the  stones,  though  not  large,  were  of  a  fine  water,  and  Asprey  would  certainly  give  a  thou-  sand  for  it.  Sold  one  by  one-and  it  would  not  be  difficult  to  tweak  them  out  of  their  light  claw  settings-they  would  not  bring  so  much,  Shadwell  supposed,  for  partof  the  beauty  of  the  orna-  ment  was  the  exact  matching  of  gem  to  gem.  But  by  taking  a  diamond,  from  time  to  time,  to  this  or  that  jeweller,  and  always  attired  in  her  indelible  ap-  pearance  of  respectability,  she  would  be  able  to  dispose  of  them  with  very  little  risk.  Even  if  she  had  been  sure  of  selling  one  of  the  more  valuable  pieces  without  being  detected,  she  would  not  have  done  so.  She  wanted  no  more  than  her  due-enough  to  insure  that  she  would  end  her  days  still  retaining  her  independence  and  self-respect.  As  it  had  not  be\xc3\xa9n  granted,  she  had  taken  it.  She  closedthe  cabinet,  pressed  the  spring.  The  looking  glass  slid  into  place,  offering  her  the  image  of  her  narrow  bust  and  dull,  dutiful  face  and,  behind  her,  the  bed,  and  Mrs.  Probus  lying  there,  her  hands,  with  no  ornament  now  but  the  gold  wedding  ring,  folded  under  the  single  bunch  of  white  carna-  tions.  Reflecting  again,  with  censure,  on  Mr.  Laidlaw's  omission-what_  could  he  have  been  thinking  of  to  forget  the  flowers?  He  brought  them  regular  enough  while  Mrs.  Probus  was  alive-  Shadwell  walked  over  to  the  bedside  and,  after  consideration,  slightly  adjust-  edone  of  the  carnations.  Then  she  went  back  to  the  kitchen,  where  the  kettle  was  now  boiling,  and  made  herself  a  cup  of  tea."