 b"[REDACTED] Place, set  in  the  busy  center  of  Oxford,  is  a  quiet  little  lane,  a  cul-de-sac  shaded  by  chestnut  trees.  A  square  white  house  blocks  one  end  of  it,  and  there  are  three  other  houses  and  their  gardens,  and  a  pub  called  the  Eagle  and  the  Child  along  its  sides,  making  it  a  sort  of  private  park.  The  residents  have  put  a  fence  and  gate  across  the  entrance  of  the  lane,  to  discourage  casual  pedes-  trians.  At  night,  one  old-fashioned  street  lamp,  anchored  to  a  garden  wall,  sheds  uneven  gaslight  through  the  branches  of  a  tree.  The  residents  of  the  lanetake  turns  paying  the  gas  bill.  [REDACTED]  Place  is  so  private,  in  fact,  that  while  I  lived  there,  I  often  bewildered  old  inhabitants  of  Oxford  by  mentioning  it.  Many  of  them  had  never  heard  of  [REDACTED]  Place,  and,  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  I  took  pride  in  pointing  out  the  gap  in  their  knowledge.  In  the  summer  of  1951,  I  moved  into  No.  3,  preparatory  to  beginning  a  year  of  graduate  study.  I  had  ar-  rived  in  Oxford  early,  and  by  remark-  able  luck  had  found  just  the  room  I  wanted  almost  at  once,  in  the  white  house  at  the  end  of  the  lane.  My  land-  lady,  whom  I'll  call  Mrs.  Trowbridge,  was  trimming  the  roses  when  I  got  there  with  my  luggage,  while  her  husband,  Colonel  Trowbridge,  wearing  boots,  was  watering  the  fine-  cropped  grass.  For  q;  some  fifteen  years,  as  \\  I  had  learned  on  my  first  call,  they  had  lived  in  great  splendor  on  a  foothill  of  the  Hima-  layas.  Then,  pensioned  by  the  Army,  they  had  decided  to  settle  down  in  Oxford.  Their  only  son  had  been  killed  in  the  war,  and  I  was  to  have  his  room.  It  was  narrow  and  always  kept  spotless.  It  had  an  electric  fire,  and  one  window,  which  looked  over  slate  roofs  and  the  back  end  of  the  Quaker  Meeting  House.  In  a  room  acrossthe  hall  from  mine,  Colonel  Trowbridge,  who  was  lame  because  of  an  old  bullet  wound  in  his  left  leg,  tutored  under-  graduates,  and  sometimes  the  employ-  ees  of  oil  companies,  in  Persian  or  [REDACTED].  Early  in  the  morning,  before  breakfast-even  before  he  jangled  the  little  bell  that  hung  at  thetop  of  the  stairs,  and  that  he  rang  each  day  to  let  me  know  the  bathroom  was  free-I'd hear  him  stamping  down  to  the  cellar  to  look  at  his  mushroom  beds.  He  was  de-  voted  to  the  raising  of  mushrooms.  Books  about  them  filled  a  long  shelf  in  his  bookcase,  and  he  brooded  over  the  beds  many  times  a  day.  For  every  pound  of  mushrooms  that  popped  up  during  thenight,  he  got  five  shillings  in  the  local  market,  and  he  usually  managed  to  spare  a  few  forthe  three  ofus  to  have  with  our  breakfast.  Mrs.  Trowbridge  had  two  consum-  ing  interests-bridge  and  betting  on  the  horses-and,  to  match  her  husband's  profitable  hobby,  she  had  also  learned  to  make  lampshades,  which  she  sold.  [REDACTED]  and  betting  gave  life  an  agree-  able  focus,  she  said.  Every  Thursday,  she  hopped  into  her  1936  Morris  Eight  and  breezed  off  twenty  miles  to  Bi-  cester,  where  she  taught  bridge  at  an  exclusive  finishing  school.  Sometimes  late  at  night  I  would  find  her  sitting  on  the  living-room  floor  in  front  of  the  fire,  a  cigarette  in  the  corner  of  her  mouth,  pulling  taut  a  piece  of  silk  over  a  skeleton  lamp  frame.  A  racing  form  would  be  propped  against  a  chair.  From  time  to  time,  she'd  stop  sewing  and  mark  something  on  the  form  with  a  pencil.  She  felt  that  her  best  inspirations  came  while  she  was  working,  because  once,  in  the  verymidst  of  taking  a  stitch,  she  had  been  inspired  to  bet  on  Prancing  Star,  a  horse  that  had  turned  two  shillings  in-  to  ten  pounds  for  her.  Of  course,  both  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Trowbridge  were  ded-  icated  Conservatives,  and  Mrs.  Trowbridge  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  writing  up  the  minutes  of  the  Con-  servative  Association,  of  which  she  was  secre-  tary.  They  admired  Churchill  intensely,  and  canvassed  half  of  Oxford  in  his  behalf  during  the  last  national  election.  They  also  worshipped  the  Royal  Family.  When  Colonel  Trowbridge  heard  the  news  of  George  VI's  death,  he  changed  instantly  to  a  black  tie.  Mrs.  Trow-  bridge  loved  to  tell  of  being  presented  at  Court,  elegant  in  ostrich  plumes  and  yards  of  satin.  She  always  remarked  that,  quite  frankly,  it  was  the  last  year  the  thing  had  been  done  properly.  On  bright  mornings,  that  summer,  Mrs.  Trowbridge  would  set  up  a  bridge  table  on  the  low  concrete  terrace  that     " b"served  as  front  porch.  There  we  would  breakfast  in  the  sunshine  on  porridge,  kippers  or  bacon  with  mushrooms,  and  tea.  The  Trowbridges  often  told  me,  as  we  sat  there,  of  one  excessively  hot  day  in  496e646961  when  they  returned  home  in  the  early  evening,  exhausted  from  a  game  of  tennis  and  faced  with  giving  a  large  dinner  party,  to  findthat  all  their  dining-room  furniture  had  been  moved  out  onto  the  grass,  and  preparations  for  the  party  were  going  on  there.  Col-  ored  lanterns  swayed  gently  from  the  branches  of  trees.  &quot;We  had  twelve  servants,&quot;  Mrs.  Trowbridge  would  say,  with  a  sigh.  &quot;They  all  had  the  right  instincts.&quot;  In  Oxford,  when  I  knew  her,  she  could  not  afford  domestic  help,  but  I  thinkshe  had  enjoyed  making  the  tran-  sition  from  lady  of  the  manor  to  house-  wife,  and  during  it  she  had  developed  a  passion  for  cleanliness  and  fresh  air.  I  made  my  own  bed  each  morning,  feel-  ing  it  the  least  I  could  do,  since  she'd  had  twelve  servants  in  496e646961,  but  I  learned  to  flee  the  house  soon  afterward.  Armed  with  a  Hoover  and  dustcloth,  she  bounced  upstairs  at  ten  o'clock,  flinging  windows  open  along  the  way.  &quot;Mustn't  let  dust  lie,&quot;  she'd  say,  poking  under  my  bed  and  fluttering  the  papers  on  my  desk.  For  these  occasions,  she  wore  a  smock,  tightly  belted,  a  pair  of  blue  slacks,  and  a  towel  wrapped  around  her  head.  ONE  morning  soon  after  I  moved  in,  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Trowbridge  and  I  were  seated  on  the  terracesipping  our  breakfast  tea.  Peter,  the  cat,  came  along  for  a  sniff  of  the  kippers.  Mrs.  Trowbridge  had  already  placed  her  bets  for  the  day.  The  Colonel  was  mutter-  ing,  as  usual,  over  the  Daily  Telegraph.  He  had  a  slight  thyroid  condition  that  always  made  his  great,  watery  blue  eyes  seem  to  start  from  his  head,  giving  what-  ever  he  said  an  air  of  great  importance.  Infuriated  by  the  latest  news  from  496e646961,  he  turned  his  immense  stare  on  me  and  exclaimed,  &quot;Blast  them  all!  They  didn't  know  when  they  were  well  off!&quot;  After  his  anger  subsided,  I  mentioned  that  I  had  been  invited  to  dine  at  All  Souls.  Mrs.  Trowbridge,  who  all  along  had  remained  absorbed  in  the  Daily  Express,  quickly  put  the  paper  aside.  '&quot;''Tonight?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  You'll  get  excellent  food,&quot;  she  told  me,  &quot;and  it's  the  only  college  that's  just  the  same  as  it  was  before  the  war.  No  undergraduates,  you  know-only  fel-     lows.  Be  sure  to  takea  nap  this  after- " b"noon,  because  with  college  not  up  yet  you'll  probably  only  be  a  few  for  dinner.  You'll  need  all  your  wits  about  you.&quot;  She  smiled  happily.  &quot;You'll  eat  in  the  small  dining  room.  There'll  be  lots  of  servants,  wine  with  every  course,  snuff  between  the  port  and  the  coffee-&quot;  &quot;Snuff?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  must  take  some,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Just  don't  breathe  it  in  too  fast,  or  you'll  sneeze  half  a  dozen  times  in  suc-  cession.  And  you'll  be  expected  to  know  all  about  T.  E.  Lawrence.  He  was  a  fellow  of  All  Souls,  and  they  still  speak  of  him  as  if  he'd  just  stepped  outside.&quot;  &quot;I've  never  read  'The  Seven  Pillars  of  Wisdom,&quot;  &quot;  I  said  unhappily.  &quot;Go  to  the  library  quickly  and  read  as  much  as  you  can,&quot;  said  Mrs,.  Trow-  bridge.  &quot;It  would  bea  big  mistake  not  to.&quot;  An  English  friend,  a  fellow  of  All  Souls  whom  I  had  known  in  [REDACTED]  and  had  run  into  on  the  street  the  day  before,  had  asked  me,  quite  casually,  to  drop  around  for  dinner.  Quite  casually,  I  had  accepted.  I  wondered  now  if  I'd  been  wise.  All  day  my  doubts  persisted,  and  I  actually  did  go  to  the  library  and  leaf  through  &quot;The  Seven  Pillars  of  Wis-  dom.&quot;  Late  in  the  afternoon,  I  re-  turned  to  the  Trowbridges'  to  dress.  I  put  on  a  new  tweed  sports  jacket,  dark-  gray  flannels,  and  a  maroon  tie,  my  favorite  of  the  moment.  There  was  time  to  spare,  so  I  went  to  the  living  room,  picked  up  the  evening  paper,  and  wandered  out  through  the  French  win-  dows  that  opened  on  the  garden.  Mrs.  Trowbridge,  who  apparently  had  seen  me  from  the  kitchen,  immediately  fol-  lowed  me  out.  &quot;Haven't  changed  yet?&quot;  she  asked  smoothly.  &quot;I  just  have,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh!&quot;  She  studied  her  hands  a  mo-  ment,  then  plunged  ahead.  &quot;Ernest,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;it's  none  of  my  affair,  but  while  you're  here  with  us,I  feel  re-  sponsible  for  you.  No  one  will  be  wear-  ing  a  gown  tonight,  because  it's  not  termtime,  but  if  you  go  as  you  are-  why,  frankly,  they  won't  think  you're  quite  top-drawer.&quot;  &quot;What  should  I-&quot;  I  began.  &quot;A  dark  suit  with  a  matching  waist,  coat,&quot;  Mrs.  Trowbridge  said  emphat-  ically,  &quot;and  aconservative  tie.&quot;  &quot;This  is  my  conservative  tie,&quot;  I  re-  plied,  a  bit  aroused.  She  looked  at  me  a  moment  long-  er,  then  ran  into  the  house.  &quot;E!&quot;  she  shouted.  (The  Colonel's  Christian  name  was  Edric;  his  wife  shortened  it  in  times  of  emergency.)  Colonel  Trowbridge  was  in  the  base- " b"ment  among  his  mushrooms,  but  he  came  up  at  once.  He  and  Mrs.  Trow-  bridge  conferred  briefly  inside  the  French  windows,  and  then  he  came  out  and  rather  portentously  asked  me  to  accompany  them  to  his  room.  I  went.  Once  there,  hegave  me  a  glare  and  opened  his  wardrobe.  &quot;This  would  be  better,&quot;  he  said,  handing  me  a  dull-gray  tie.  I  looked  at  it  without  enthusiasm.  &quot;It  doesn't  go  with  anything  else  I  have  on,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  will  be  a  nice  contrast  to  a  dark-  blue  or  dark-gray  suit,&quot;  Mrs.  Trow-  bridge  said,  and  added  with  real  anxi-  ety,  &quot;You  will  change,  won't  you,  Ernest?&quot;  I  handed  the  tie  back  to  the  Colonel.  &quot;I  don't  have  a  dark-blue  or  a  dark-  gray  suit  at  the  moment,&quot;  I  said.  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Trowbridge  ex-  changed  a  look.  There  was  a  short  silence.  &quot;How  about  having  a  go  at  my  black  suit?&quot;  asked  the  Colonel  heartily.  &quot;I  seldom  wear  it  now.  Used  to  come  in  handy  for  Government  House,  in  496e646961.  When  I  wasn't  in  uniform,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  think  of  such  a  thing,&quot;  I  said.  Mrs.  Trowbridge  took  me  by  the  arm.  &quot;You'll  look  so  right  in  it,&quot;  she  said  urgently.  &quot;Do  just  try  it  on.  It's  a  bit  old,  but  the  cut  is  very  good.&quot;  The  Colonel  plunged  into  his  ward-  robe,  rummaged  noisily  at  the  back  of  it,  and  finally  produced  the  suit  with  a  flourish.  &quot;The  very  thing!&quot;  he  said,  scooping  a  few  mothballs  out  of  a  pocket.  &quot;We'd  like  you  to  wear  it,&quot;  Trowbridge  said.  &quot;'You  might  just  change  in  here,&quot;  said  the  Colonel,  opening  the  door  of  his  dressing  room  and  gently  pushing  me  inside.  I  put  the  suit  on.  The  shoulders  had  no  padding,  and  the  coat  was  too  short.  The  sleeves  left  my  wrists  exposed.  The  trousers,  somewhat  long  for  me,  were  so  full  that  they  nearly  obliterated  my  shoes.  I  thought  I  looked  very  much  like  Charlie  Chaplin.  The  Trowbridges  thought  different-  ly,  however.  As  soon  as  I  came  out  of  the  dressing  room,  they  stepped  up  with-  out  comment,  one  on  either  side  of  me,  and  deftly  shortened  my  suspenders.  &quot;A  big  improvement!&quot;  Mrs.  Trow-  bridge  said,  beaming.  &quot;It  does  very  well,  I  must  say,&quot;  said  the  Colonel.  Time  was  running  short.  There  seemed  to  be  nothing  to  do  but  go  to  All  Souls  as  I  was.  &quot;We'll  make  you  an " b"Englishman  yet,&quot;  Mrs.  Trowbridge  said  cheerfully,  andhanded  me  a  rolled  black  umbrella  from  a  rack  that  stood  in  a  corner  of  the  room,  I  believe  I  said  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  and  we  all  three  went  downstairs.  &quot;Remember,&quot;  the  Colonel  admon-  ished  me  as  he  opened  the  front  door,  &quot;slide  the  port  along  the  table.  Don't  pick  it  up  when  you  pass  it-slide  it  to  the  left.&quot;  &quot;And  enjoy  yourself,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Trowbridge.  They  stood  together  in  the  doorway  as  I  walked  down  the  garden  path  and  along  [REDACTED]  Place,  awkwardly  swinging  the  umbrella.  At  the  corner,  I  turned  to  wave.  They  were  still  stand-  ing  there.  The  Colonel  had  put  an  arm  around  his  wife.  HEN  I  reached  my  friend's  sit-  ing  room  at  All  Souls,  he  greeted  me  at  the  door.  He  was  wearing  a  light-  weight  tan  suit-one  I  remembered  he  had  bought  in  the  States-and  no  waistcoat.  &quot;Good  [REDACTED];  he  cried.  &quot;Who  do  you  think  you  are-Edward  the  Seventh?&quot;  I  explained  what  had  happened,  but  even  then  he  still  seemed  a  trifle  in-  credulous.  He  suggested  we  have  a  quick  sherry  before  dinner.  We  did,  and  it  comforted  and  braced  me,  asI  am  sure  he  intended  it  should.  But  whenwe  went  down  to  the  dining  room,  no  one  paid  the  slightest  attention  to  the  way  I  was  dressed.  Or  perhaps  I  should  say  only  one  person  did-a  mild  little  man  in  an  ill-pressed  gray  pin  stripe.  When  we  were  introduced,  his  eyes  just  barely  flicked  over  my  costume,  and  he  asked  with  faint  surprise  if  he  had  understood  that  I  was  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  When  I  said  that  I  was,  he  nodded  musingly.  After  a  brief  Latin  grace,  the  whole  group  sat  down  at  a  round  mahogany  table.  The  man  in  the  pin  stripe  sat  next  to  me  and  began  to  chat  amiably  about  his  Siamese  cats.  Another  gentleman  nearby  (also  a  guest,  and  later  to  be  my  tutor)  was  resplendent  in  a  double-breasted  maroon  waistcoat.  He  interspersed  the  conver-  sation  about  Siamese  cats  with  questions  about  New  York.  He  particularly  want-  ed  to  know  how  much  makeup  the  salesgirls  in  department  stores  wore,  When  the  port  came  around,  I  slid  it,  and  when  the  snuff  came,  I  breathed  it  cautiously.  Then  the  meal  was  over,  and  everyone  stood  up  abruptly  while  one  man  spoke  an  after-dinner  grace  of  two  words:  &quot;Benedicto  benedicatur.&quot;  Afterward,  the  party  straggled  off  down  a  hall  to  the  Common  Room.  On  the  way,  we  passed  a  large  portrait " b"hanging  on  the  wall.  I  asked  my  friend  who  it  was.  &quot;T.  E.  Lawrence,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Ever  read  'The  Seven  Pillars  of  Wisdom'?&quot;  I  considered  a  moment.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said  flatly.  &quot;Don't,&quot;  said  my  friend.  IT  must  havebeen  a  quarter  to  twelve  when  I  returned  to  [REDACTED]  Place.  I  let  myself  in  the  front  door  andwas  about  to  go  upstairs  when  Mrs.  Trowbridge  called  from  the  living  room,  asking  me  to  come  in  for  a  cup  of  tea.  &quot;We're  just  ready  for  one,&quot;  she  said  gaily.  I  went  into  the  living  room.  She  and  the  Colonel,  who  usually  went  to  bed  at  ten,  were  sitting  beside  the  tea  table.  There  were  three  cups  on  the  tray.  &quot;Good  show  ?&quot;  asked  Colonel  Trow-  bridge,  gazing  at  me  with  pride.  &quot;Very  pleasant,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  wonder-  ful  meal.&quot;  &quot;Now  aren't  you  glad  we  turned  you  out  properly?&quot;  Mrs.  Trowbridge  asked.  I  looked  from  one  to  the  other.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Of  course  I  am-very  glad  indeed!&quot;  Colonel  Trowbridge  suddenly  cleared  his  throat.  &quot;Ernest,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we've  decided  we  want  you  to  keep  that  suit  as  long  as  you  are  with  us.  We  insist.  After  all,  you'll  be  needing  it  for  other  dinners,  won't  you?&quot;  &quot;And  it's  such  a  comfort  to  know  that  one  is  right,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Trow-  bridge.  I  did  my  best  to  appear  overcome  with  gratitude,  and  I  think  that  I  succeeded,  but  in  the  months  that  followed  I  found  that  I  did  not,  after  all,  need  the  suit  for  other  dinners.  Once,  I  remarked--  and  it  seemed  to  satisfy  the  Trow-  bridges-that  apparently  my  moment  of  glory  had  come  and  gone.  The  formal-  ity  of  All  Souls,  I  pointed  out  ruefully,  was  a  standard  not  elsewhere  main-  tained.  After  all,  I  said,  one  hardly  dressed  for  Christ  Church  or  Balliol,  did  one?  "