 b"TO  be  an  American  and  unable  to  play  baseball  is  comparable  to  be-  ing  a  Polynesian  and  unable  to  swim.  It's  an  impossible  situation.  This  will  be  apparent  to  everyone,  and  it  was  to  me,  a  country  boy  brought  up  on  a  farm-or,  to  be  precise,in  a  country  house-just  outside  the  village  of  St.  Botolph's,  in  [REDACTED].  The  place  is  called  West  Farm.  My  ancestors  had  lived  in  that  village  and  in  that  house  since  the  seventeenth  century,  and  they  had  distinguished  themselves  as  sailors  and  athletes.  Leander,  my  father  (his  brothers  were  named  Orpheus  and  Hamlet),  had  played  shortstop  for  the  St,  Botolph's  Hose  Company.  Although  the  hose-company  games  sometimes  fig-  ured  in  his  recollections,  his  memories  were  usually  of  a  different  order.  He  was  nearly  sixty  when  I  was  born,  and  he  could  remember  the  last  days  of  St.  Botolph's  as  a  port.  My  grandfather  had  been  a  ship's  master,  and  when  I  was  a  boy,  our  house  was  partly  fur-  nished  with  things  that  he  had  brought  back  from  Ceylon  and  4368696e61.  The  mar-  itime  past  that  my  father  glimpsed  had  been  glorious,  full  of  gold  and  silver,  full  of  Samoan  beauties  and  tests  of  courage.  'Then-so  he  told  me-box-  wood  had  grown  in  our  garden,  and  the  paths  had  been  covered  once  a  year  with  pebbles  that  were  brought  from  a  cove  near  West  Travertine  where  the  stones  were  as  round  and  white  as  pearls.  In  the  rear  wing  of  our  house,  there  was  a  peculiar,  very  clean  smell  that  was  sup-  posed  to  have  been  left  there  by  my  grandfather's  Chinese  servants.  My  father  liked  to  recall  this  period  of  splendor,  but  he  liked  even  better  to  re-  call  his  success  as  a  partner  in  the  gold-  bead  factory  that  had  been  built  in  St.  Botolph's  when  its  maritime  prosperity  was  ended.  He  had  gone  to  work  as  an  office  boy,  and  his  rise  had  been  bril-  liant  and  swift.  He  had  business  acu-  men,  and  he  was  convivial.  He  took  an  intense  pleasure  in  having  the  factory  whistle  blown.  He  had  it  blown  for  all  our  birthdays  and  for  his  wedding  anni-  versary,  and  when  my  mother  had  guests  for  lunch,  thewhistle  usually  blew  as  the  ladies  sat  down.  In  the  twenties,  the  gold-bead  fac-  tory  was  mortgaged  and  converted  to  the  manufacture  of  table  silver,  and  presently  my  father  and  his  partner  were  ruined.  My  father  felt  that  he  was  an  old  manwho  had  spent  all  his  energy  and  all  his  money  on  things  that  were  unredeemable  and  vulgar,  and  he  was  inconsolable.  He  went  away,  and  my  mother  called  my  two  sisters  and  me  to  her  room  and  told  us  that  she  was  afraid  he  had  killed  himself.  He  had  left  a  note  hinting  at  this,  and  he  had  taken  a  pistol  with  him.  I  was  nine  years  old  then,  and  my  sisters  were  fourteen  and  fifteen.  Suicide  may  have  been  my  father's  in-  tention,  but  he  returned  a  few  days  later  and  began  to  support  the  family  by  sell-  ing  the  valuables  that  had  come  to  him  from  the  shipmaster,  I  had  decided  to  become  a  professional  baseball  player.  I  had  bought  a  [REDACTED]  Slugger,  a  ball,  and  a  'first  baseman's  mitt.  I  asked  my  father  to  play  catch  with  me  one  Sunday  afternoon,  but  he  refused.  My  mother  must  have  overheard  this  conversation,  because  she  called  him  to  her  room,  where  they  quarrelled.  In  a  little  while,  he  came  out  to  the  garden  and  asked  me  to  throw  the  ball  to  him.  What  hap-  pened  then  was  ridiculous  and  ugly.  I  threw  the  ball  clumsily  once  or  twice  and  missed  the  catches  he  threw  to  me.  Then  I  turned  my  head  to  see  some-  thing-a  boat  on  the  river.  He  threw  the  ball,  and  it  got  me  in  the  nape  of  the  neck  and  stretched  me  out  uncon-  scious  in  my  grandfather's  ruined  gar-  den.  When  I  came  to,  my  nose  was  bleeding  and  my  mouth  was  full  of  blood.  I  felt  that  I  was  being  drowned.  My  father  was  standing  over  me.  &quot;Don't  tell  your  mother  about  this,&quot;  he  said.  When  I  sat  up  and  he  saw  that  I  was  all  right,  he  went  down  through  the  garden  toward  the  barn  and  the  river.  My  mother  called  me  to  her  room  that  night  after  supper.  She  had  become  an  invalid  and  she  seldom  left  her  bed.  All  the  furniture  in  her  room  was  white,  and  the  rugs  were  white,  and  there  was  a  picture  of  &quot;Jesus  the  Shepherd&quot;  on  the  wall  beside  her  bed.  The  room  was  getting  dark,  I  remember,  and  I  felt,  from  the  tone  of  her  voice,  that  we  were  approaching  a  kind  of  emotional  dark-  ness  I  had  noticed  before  in  our  family  affairs.  &quot;You  must  try  to  understand  your  father,&quot;  she  said,  putting  down  her  Bible  and  reaching  for  my  hand.  &quot;He  is  old.  He  is  spoiled.&quot;  Then,  although  I  don't  think  he  was  in  the  house,  she  lowered  her  voice  to  a  whisper,  so  that  we  could  not  be  overheard.  &quot;You  see,  some  years  ago  his  cousin  Lucy  Harts-  horn  left  him  a  great  deal  of  money,  in  trust.  She  was  a  meddlesome  old  lady.  I  guess  you  don't  remember  her.  She  was  an  antivivisectionist,  and  wanted  to  abolish  the  celebration  of  Christmas.  She  liked  to  order  your  father  around,  and  she  felt  the  family  was  petering  out.  We  had  Grace  and  Vikery  then,  and  she left  your  father  the  money  on  condition  that  he  not  have  any  more  children.  He  was  very  upset  when  he  found  out  that  I  was  enceinte.  I  wouldn't  want  you  to  know  what  went  on.  He  had  planned  a  luxurious  old  age-he  wanted  to  raise  pigeons  and  have  a  sailboat-and  I  think  he  sometimes  seesin  you  the  difference  between  what  he  had  planned  and  what  he  has  been  reduced  to.  You'll  have  to  try  and  understand.&quot;  Her  words  made  almost  no  impression  on  me  at  the  time.  I  remember  counting  the  larches  outside  her  window  while  she  talked  to  me,  and  looking  beyond  them  to  the  faded  letter-  ing  on  the  wall  of  the  barn-&quot;[REDACTED]  Store:  Rock  Bottom  Prices&quot;-and  to  some  pines  ringed  with  darkness  beyond  the  barn.  The  little  that  I  knew  of  our  family  history  was  made  up  of  revok-  able  trusts,  purloined  wills,  and  dark  human  secrets,  and  since  I  had  never  seen  Lucy  Hartshorn,  this  new  secret  seemed  to  have  no  more  to  do  with  me  than  the  others  did.  The  school  I  went  to  was  an  old  frame  building  in  the  village,  and  every  morning  I  walked  two  miles  upriver  to  get  there.  Two  of  the  spinster  teachers  were  cousins  of  mine,  and  the  man  who  taught  manual  training  and  coached  athletics  was  the  son  of  our  garbage  collector.  My  parents  had  helped  him  through  normal  school.  The  New  Eng-  land  spring  was  in  force,  and  one  fine  morning  we  left  the  gymnasium  for  the  ball  field.  The  instructor  was  carry-  ing  some  baseball  equipment,  and  as  soon  as  I  saw  it,  the  sweet,  salty  taste  of  blood  came  into  my  mouth.  My  heart  began  to  pound,  my  legs  felt  weak,  and  while  I  thought,  from  these  symptoms,  that  I  must  be  sick,  I  knew  in-  stinctively  how  to  cure  myself.  On  the  way  to  the  field,  we  passed  an  old  field  house  that  stood  on  some  concrete  posts,  concealed  by  a  scrim  of  rotten  lattice.  I  began  to  walk  slowly,  and  when  the  rest  of  the  class  had  passed  the  field  house,  I  got  down  on  my  hands  and  knees  and  crawled  through  a  broken  place  in  the  lattice  and  underneath  the  building.  There  was  hardly  room  for  me  to  lie  there  between  the  dirt  and  the  sills  that  were  covered  with  cobwebs.  Someone  had  stuffed  an  old  sneaker  and  a  rusted  watering  can  under  the  building,  con-  fident  that  they  would  never  be  seen  again.  I  could  hear  from  the  field  the  voices  of  my  friends  choosing  sides,  and  I  felt  the  horror  of  having  expelled  my-  self  from  the  light  ofa  fine  day,  but  I  also  felt,  lying  in  the  dirt,  that  the  taste  of  blood  was  beginning  to  leave  my  mouth,  that  my  heart  was  beginning  to  regulate  its  beating,  and  that  the  " b"strength  was  returning  to  my  legs.  I  lay  in  the  dirt  until  the  game  ended  and  I  could  see,  through  the  lattice,  the  players  returning  to  school.  I  felt  thatthe  fault  was  Leander's,  and  that  if  I  could  bring  myself  to  ap-  proach  him  again,  when  he  was  in  a  better  humor,  he  would  respond  hu-  manely.  The  feeling  thatI  could  not  assume  my  responsibilities  as  a  baseball  player  without  some  help  from  him  was  deep,  as  if  parental  love  and  baseball  were  both  national  pastimes.  One  after-  noon,  I  got  my  ball  and  mitt  and  went  into  the  library,  where  he  was  taking  books  down  from  the  shelves  and  tying  them  up  in  bundles  of  ten,  to  be  taken  into  [REDACTED]  and  sold.  He  had  been  a  handsome  man,  I  think.  I  had  heard  my  relations  speak  of  how  he  had  aged,  and  so  I  suppose  that  his  looks  had  began  to  deteriorate.  He  would  have  been  taken  for  a  Yankee  anywhere,  and  he  seemed  to  feel  that  his  alliance  to  the  sea  was  by  blood  as  well  as  tradition.  When  he  went  into  an  oyster  bar  and  found  people  who  were  patently  not  American-born  eating  oysters,  he  would  be  stirred.  He  ate  quantities  of  fish,  swam  daily  in  the  salt  river,  and  washed  himself  each  morning  with  a  sea  sponge,  so  he  always  smelled  faintly  of  brine  and  iodine,  as  if  he  had  only  recently  come  dripping  out  of  the  Atlantic.  The  brilliant  blue  of  his  eyes  had  not  faded,  and  the  boyish  character  of  his  face-  its  lightness  and  ovalness-was  intact.  He  had  not  understood  the  economic  fragility  of  his  world,  his  wife's  invalid-  ism  seemed  to  be  a  manifest  rebuke  for  the  confusion  of  his  affairs,  and  his  mind  must  have  been  thronged  with  feelings  of  being  unwanted  and  also  feelings  of  guilt.  The  books  he  was  preparing  to  sell  were  his  father's  and  his  grand-  father's;  he  would  rail  about  this  later,  feeling  that  if  histrionics  would  not  re-  deem  him,  they  would  at  least  recapture  for  a  minute  his  sense  of  identity  and  pride.  If  I  had  looked  closely,  I  might  have  seen  a  face  harried  with  anxiety  and  the  weaknesses  of  old  age,  but  I  ex-  pected  him,  for  my  sake,  to  regain  his  youth  and  to  appear  like  the  paternal  images  I  had  seen  on  calendars  and  in  magazine  advertisements.  Will  you  please  play  catch  with  me,  Poppa?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;How  can  you  ask  me  to  play  baseball  when  I  will  be  dead  in  another  month!&quot;  he  said.  He  sighed  and  then  said,  &quot;I  won't  live  through  the  sum-  mer.  Your  mother  has  been  com-  plaining  all  morning.  She  has  nothing  to  say  to  me  unless  she  has  a  complaint  to  make.  She's  complaining  now  of  pains  in  her  feet.  She  can't  leave  her  bed  be-  cause  of  the  pains  in  her  feet.  She's  trying  to  make  me  more  unhappy  than  I  already  am,  but  I  have  some  facts  to  fall  back  on.  Here,  let  me  show  you.&quot;  He  took  down  one  of  the  many  volumes  in  which  he  had  recorded  his  life,  and  searched  through  the  pages  until  he  found  what  he  wanted.  &quot;'Your  mother  wore  custom-  made  shoes  from  1904  until  1908,  when  Mr.  Schults  died.  He  made  her  six,  twelve,  four-  teen-  he  made  her  seventeen  pairs  of  shoes  in  four  years.  Then  she  begam  buying  her  shoes  at  Nettleton's.&quot;  He  wet  his  finger  and  turned  a  page.  &quot;She  never  paid  less  than  twelve  dollars  a  pair  there,  and  in  1908  she  bought  four  pairs  of  shoes  and  two  pairs  of  canvas  pumps.  In  1910,  she  bought  four  pairs  of  shoes  at  Nettleton's  and  a  pair  of  evening  slip-  pers  at  Stetson's.  She  said  the  slippers  pinched  her  feet,  but  we  couldn't  take  them  back  because  she'd  worn  them.  In  1911,  she  bought  three  pairs  of  shoes  at  Stetson's  and  two  at  Nettleton's.  In  1912,  she  had  [REDACTED]  make  her  a  pair  of  walking  shoes.  They  cost  eight-  een  dollars.  She  paid  twenty-four  dol-  lars  for  a  pair  of  gold  pumps  at  Stetson's.  In  1913,  she  bought  another  pair  of  canvas  pumps,  two  pairs  of  suede  shoes,  golf  shoes,  and  some  beaded  shoes.&quot;  He  looked  to  me  for  some  confirmation  of  the  unreasonableness  of  my  mother's  illness,  but  I  hung  my  head  and  went  out  of  the  library.  The  next  time  the  class  went  out  for  baseball,  I  hid  in  a  building  closer  to  the  school,  where  rakes  and  rollers  and  other  grounds  equipment  were  stored.  This  place  also  was  dark,  but  there  was  room  to  stand  and  move  and  enjoy  an  illusion  of  freedom,  although  the  light  of  day  and  the  voices  on  the  field  from  which  I  was  hidden  seemed  like  the  lights  and  the  sounds  of  life.  I  had  been  there  only  a  few  minutes  when  I  heard  someone  approach  and  open  the  door.  I  had  thought  it  would  bethe  old  grounds  keeper,  but  it  was  a  classmate  of  mine,  who  recognized,  a  second  after  he  saw  me,  what  I  was  doing,  and  seemed-  since  he  was  doing  the  same  thing-de-  lighted  to  have  a  conspirator.  I  disliked  him  and  his  friends,  but  I  couldn't  have  disliked  him  more  than  I  disliked  the  symptoms  of  my  own  panic,  for  I     didn't  leave  the  building.  After  this,  I  had  to  hide  not  only  from  the  ball  game  but  from  my  classmate.  He  continued  to  hide  in  the  tool  shed  and  I  hid  near  the  playing  field,  in  some  woods  behind  the  backstop,  and  chewed  pieces  ofgrass  until  the  period  ended.  That  fall,  I  went  out  for  football,  and  I  had  always  liked  winter  sports,  but  in  the  spring,  when  the  garbage  man's  son  took  the  balls  and  bats  out  of  the  chest  near  the  door  of  the  gym-  nasium,  the  taste  of  blood  in  my  mouth,  the  beating  of  my  heart,  and  the  weak-  ness  in  my  legs  were  keener  than  ever,  and  I  found  myself  stuffed  in  the  dirt  under  the  track  house  again,  with  the  old  tennis  sneaker  and  the  watering  can,  horrified  that  I  should  have  chosen  or  should  have  been  made  to  lie  in  this  filth  when  I  could  be  walking  freely  over  a  green  field.  As  the  season  pro-  gressed,  I  began  to  find  new  hiding  places  and  to  invent  new  ailments  that  would  excuse  me  from  having  to  play  baseball,  and  the  feeling  that  Leander  had  the  cure  to  my  cowardice  returned,  although  I  could  not  bring  myself  to  approach  him  again.  He  still  seemed  to  preserve,  well  on  the  dark  side  of  his  mind,  some  hard  feelings  about  my  be-  ing  responsible  for  the  revocation  of  Lucy  Hartshorn's  trust.  Several  times  when  I  went  to  a  movie  or  a  dance,  he  locked  the  house  up  so  tight  that  I  couldn't  find  any  way  to  get  in,  and  had  to  sleep  in  the  barn.  Once,  I  returned  in  the  daytime  and  found  the  house  locked.  I  heard  him  moving  inside  and  I  rang  the  bell.  He  opened  the  door  long  enough  to  say,  &quot;Whatever  it  is  you're  selling,  I  don't  want  any.&quot;  Then  he  slammed  the  door  in  my  face.  A  " b"minute  later,  he  opened  the  door  again.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Eben,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  didn't  realize  it  was  you.&quot;  My  mother  died  when  I  was  in  my  third  year  of  high  school.  When  I  graduated  the  following  year,  Leander  claimed  to  be  too  infirm  to  come  to  the  ceremony,  and  when  I  looked  down  from  the  platform  into  a  gathering  where  there  were  no  near  relatives  of  mine,  it  occurred  to  me-without  pleas-  ure  or  guilt-that  I  had  probably  not  been  up  to  bat  more  than  three  times.  My  [REDACTED]  Juliana  put  up  the  money  to  send  me  to  college,  and  I  entered  college  feeling  that  my  troubles  with  Leander  and  baseball  were  over.  Both  my  sisters  had  married  by  then,  and  gone  to  live  in  the  West,  and  I  dutifully  spent     part  of  my  Christmas  holiday  at  West  Farm  and  planned  to  spend  all  my  East-  er  vacation  there.  On  the  morning  that  college  closed  for  the  spring  recess,  I  drove  with  my  two  roommates  over  to  Mount  Holyoke,  where  we  picked  up  three  girls.  We  were  planning  to  have  a  picnic  somewhere  along  the  river.  When  we  stopped  for  lunch,  one  of  my  roommates  went  around  to  the  back  of  the  car  and  got  out  his  camera  to  take  a  picture  ofthe  girls.  Glancing  into  the  luggage  compartment,  Inoticed  a  baseball  and  a  bat.  Everyone  was  around  in  front  of  the  car.  I  couldn't  be  seen.  The  ground  was  loose,  and  with  my  hands  I  dug  a  hole  nearly  a  foot  deep.  Then  I  dropped  the  base-  ball  into  this  hole  and  buried  it.  It  was  late  when  we  got  into  [REDACTED],  and  I  took  the  last  train  down  to  St.  Botolph's.  I  had  written  Leander  that  I  was  coming,  in  the  hope  that  he  would  not  lock  the  house  up,  but  when  I  reached  there,  after  midnight,  all  the  doors  and  windows  were  secured.  I  didn't  feel  like  spending  the  night  in  the  barn,  and  I  broke  a  windowpane  in  the  dining  room  and  climbed  in.  I  could  hear  Leander  moving  around  up-  stairs,  and  because  I  felt  irritated,  I  didn't  call  out  to  him.  A  few  seconds  later,  there  was  an  explosion  in  the  room.  Somebody  had  shot  off  a  pistol  and  I  thought  I  had  been  killed.  I  got  to  a  switch  and  turned  on  the  lights  and  saw,  with  awild,  crazy  uprush  of  joy,  that  I  was  alive  and  unharmed.  Then  " b"I  saw  Leander  standing  in  the  doorway  with  the  pistol  in  his  hand.  He  dropped  it  to  the  floor  and,  stumbling  toward  me,  laid  his  head  on  my  shoulder  and  wept.  &quot;Oh,  Eben!Eben!  Eben!&quot;  he  sobbed.  &quot;I  thought  it  was  a  prowler!  I  heard  someone  trying  to  get  in'!  I  heard  the  breaking  glass.  Forgive  me,  forgive  me.&quot;  I  remember  that  he  was  wearing  a  fez,  and  some  kind  of  ragged  and  out-  rageous  robe  over  his  shoulders.  He  had,  up  until  that  year,  always  dressed  with  great  simplicity  and  care,  feeling  that  a  sensible  regard  for  appearances  fa-  cilitated  human  relationships.  He  had  always  put  on  a  dark  coat  for  dinner,  and  he  would  never  consider  as  ac-  quaintances  or  as  business  associates  men  with  grease  in  their  hair,  men  with  curls,  men  who  wore  pointed  shoes  or  dia-  mond  cuff  links  or  who  put  pheasant  feathers  in  their  colored  hats.  Age  seemed  to  have  revised  these  principles,  and  during  the  Easter  holidays  heap-  peared  in  many  brilliant  costumes,  many  of  them  the  robes  and  surplices  of  a  fraternal  order  that  had  been  disbanded  in  the  twenties.  Once  when  I  stepped  into  the  bathroom,  I  found  him  before  the  full-length  mirror  in  the  ostrich-  plumed  hat,  the  cross-ribbon  heavy  with  orders,  and  the  ornate  sword  of  a  Poor  Knight  of  Christ  and  the  Temple  and  a  Guardian  of  the  Gates  of  Gaza.  He  often  quoted  from  Shakespeare.  THE  first  job  I  got  after  leaving  college  was  at  Chatfield  Academy.  The  school  was  in  New  Hampshire-  in  the  mountains-and  I  went  north  in  the  fall.  I  liked  teaching,  and  the  place  itself  seemed  oddly  detached  and  peace-  ful.  Chimes  rang  at  the  quarter  hour,  the  buildings  were  old  or  copied  old  forms,  the  leaves  fell  past  the  classroom  windows  for  a  month,  the  nights  smelled  of  smoke,  and,  leaving  my  classroom  one  evening  in  December,  I  found  the  air  full  of  a  swift,  dry  snow.  The  school  was  conservative,  and  at  its  helm  was  old  Dr.  Wareham.  Robust  on  the  playing  field,  tearful  in  chapel,  bull-necked  and  vigorous  in  spite  of  his  advanced  age,  he  was  that  kind  of  monolithic  father  image  that  used  to  be  thought  a  necessity  for  the  education  of  youth.  After  the  Easter  recess,  I  signed  a  contract  for  the  following  year  and  arranged  to  teach  summer  school.  In  April,  I  got  a  notice  that  faculty  participation  in  the  annual  meeting  ofthe  board  of  trustees  was  mandatory.  I  asked  a  man  at  supper  one  night  what  this  meant.  &quot;Well,  they  come  up  on  Friday,&quot;  my  colleague  said,  &quot;and  Wareham  gives  them  a  dinner.  Then  they  have  their  annual  meeting.  We  have  demonstration  classes  on  Saturday  and  they  snoop  around,  but  they're  mostly  intelligent  and  they  don't  make  trouble.  Then  Sat-  urday  noon,  the  old  troll  barbecues  a  side  of  beef  and  we  have  lunch  with  them.  After  this,  there's  a  ball  game  between  the  trustees  and  the  faculty  members.  The  new  members  are  always  expected  to  play,  and  you'd  better  be  good.  The  old  troll  feels  that  men  get  to  know  one  another  best  on  the  playing  field,  and  he  doesn't  miss  a  trick.  We     had  a  frail  art  teacher  here  a  couple  of  years  ago  who  claimed  to  have  a  head-  ache,  but  Wareham  got  him  out  of  bed  and  made  him  play  third  base.  He  made  three  errors  and  Wareham  fired  him.  Then,  after  that,  there's  a  cocktail  party  at  Wareham's  house,  with  good  sour-mash  bourbon  forthe  brass  and  sherry  for  the  rest  of  us.  Then  they  go  home.&quot;  The  old  taste  of  blood  came  into  my  mouth.  My  appetite  for  the  meat  and  potatoes  I  had  heaped  onto  my  plate  was  gone.  I  nevertheless  gorged  myself,  for  I  seemed  to  have  been  put  into  a  position  where  my  only  recourse  was  to  overlook  my  feelings  or  to  conceal  them  where  this  was  not  possible.  I  knew  by  then  that  a  thorough  inspection  of  the  history  of  the  problem  would  not  alter  the  facts,  and  that  the  best  I  could  bring  to  the  situation  was  a  kind  of  hollow  good  cheer.  I  told  myself  that  the  game  was  inconsequential,  and  presently  I  seemed  to  feel  this.  There  was  some  gossip  the  next  day  about  Dr.  Wareham's  seriousness  about  the  game.  The  piano  teacher-a  tall  man  named  Bacon-  had  refused  to  play,  and  somebody  said  that  he  would  be  fired.  But  I  was  occu-  pied  with  my  classwork  and  I  nearly  forgot  about  the  annual  meeting  until,  leaving  my  classroom  on  a  Friday  after-  noon,  I  saw  a  large  car  driven  by  a  chauffeur  go  around  the  quadrangle  and  stop  at  Dr.  Wareham's  house.  The  trustees  were  beginning  to  arrive.  After  supper,  I  corrected  papers  until  about  eleven,  when  I  went  to  bed.  Something  woke  me  at  three  in  the  " b"morning,  and  I  went  to  the  openwin-  dow  and  I  looked  out  at  the  night  for  signs  of  rain  before  I  realized  that  this  was  an  old  habit  of  childhood.  Rain  had  meant  that  I  would  be  free,  for  a  day,  of  hiding  under  the  field  house  or  in  the  woods  behind  the  backstop.  And  now,  still  half  asleep,  I  turned  my  ear  to  the  window,  listening  with  thepurest  anx-  iety,  colored  by  a  kind  of  pleading,  for  the  stir  of  rain  beginning  or  the  heavier  sound  of  a  settled  storm.  A  single  drop  of  water  would  have  sounded  like  music.  I  knew  from  which  quarter  the  rain  wind  might  rise;  I  knew  how  cumbrous-  ly  the  wind  would  blow,  how  it  would  smell  of  wetness,  how  the  storm,  as  it  came  west  through  the  village,  would  make  a  distant  roar,  how  the  first  drops  would  sound  on  the  elm  trees  in  the  yard  and  the  shrubs  against  the  wall,  how  the  rain  would  drum  in  the  grass,  how  it  would  swell,  how  it  would  wet  the  kindling  at  the  barbe-  cue  pit  and  disintegrate  the  paper  bags  that  contained  the  charcoal,  how  it  would  confine  the  trusteesto  Dr.  Ware-  ham's  house  and  prevail  on  one  or  two  of  them  to  leave  before  the  cocktail  party,  and  how  it  would  first  fill  in  the  slight  indentation  around  second  base  and  then  spread  slowly  toward  first  and  third,  until  the  whole  field  was  flooded.  .  .  .  But  I  saw  only  a  starry  and  a  windless  night.  I  got  back  into  bed  and,  settling  for  the  best  I  had-  a  kind  of  hollow  good  cheer-fell  asleep.  HE  morning  was  the  best  kind  of  spring  weather;  even  I  saw  this.  The  demonstration  classes  satisfied  ev-  eryone,  and  at  noon  we  went  over  to  the  barbe-  cue  pit  to  have  our  lunch  with  the  trustees.  The  food  seemed  to  stick  in  my  throat,  but  this  may  havebeen  the  fault  of  the  barbecue  it-  self,  because  the  meat  was  raw  and  the  cook-  ing  arrangements  were  a  disappointment  all  around.  I  was  still  eat-  ing  my  dessert  when  the  Doctor  gave  the  rallying  cry  &quot;Into  your  uni-  forms,  men!&quot;  I  put  down  my  plate  and  started  for  the  field  house,  with  the  arm  of  a  French  instructor  thrown  warmly  over  my  shoulder  and  in  a  cheerful,  friendly  crowd  _  that  seemed  blamelessly  on  their  way  to  recap-    turing,  or  at  least  to  re\xc3\xa9nacting,  the  se-  cure  pleasures  of  youth.  But  since  the  hour  they  returned  to  was  one  that  I  had  never  possessed,I  felt  the  falseness  of  my  position.  I  was  handed  a  uniform-  a  gesture  that  seemed  unalterably  to  be  one  of  parting.  But  it  was  the  too  large  shoes,  wrapped  with  friction  tape,  that,  when  I  bent  over  to  lace  them,  gave  me  the  worst  spasm  of  despair.  I  picked  a  glove  out  of  a  box  near  the  door  and  jogged  out  to  the  field.  The  bleachers  were  full  of  students  and  faculty  wives,  and  Dr.  Wareham  was  walking  up  and  down,  leading  them  in  singing  to  the  band.  The  faculty  members  were  first  up,  facing  a  formi-  dable  concentration  of  power  and  wealth  in  the  field.  The  first  batter  got  a  line  drive  that  was  missed  by  the  bank  presi-  dent  on  first  and  was  good  for  a  double.  The  second  man  up  struck  out,  but  the  third  man  up  reached  first,  and  the  in-  dustrialist  who  was  pitching  walked  the  fourth  batter.  I  gave  a  yank  to  my  cap  and  stepped  up  to  the  plate,  working  my  mouth  and  swallowing  to  clean  it,  if  I  could,  ofthe  salty  taste  of  blood.,  I  kept  my  eye  on  the  ball,  and  when  the  first  pitch  seemed  to  be  coming  straight  over  the  plate,  I  chopped  at  it  with  all  my  might.  I  heard  the  crack,  I  felt  the  vibration  up  my  forearm,  and,  telling  myself  that  a  baseball  diamond,  like  most  things,  must  operate  on  a  clockwise  prin-  ciple,  I  sprinted  for  third  and  knocked  down  the  runner  who  was  coming  in  to  score.  I  knocked  him  flat,  and,  bending  over  to  see  if  he  was  all  right,  I  heard  Dr.  Wareham  roaring  at  me,  &quot;Get  off  the  field!  Get  out  of  my  sight!&quot;  I  walked  back  to  the  field  house  alone.  The  soberness  of  my  feeling  seemed  almost  to  verge  on  romantic  love-it  seemed  to  make  the  air  I  walked  through  heavy-as  if  I  were  sick  at  heart  for  some  gorgeous  raven-haired  woman  who  had  been  separated  from  me  by  a  convulsion  of  nature.  I  took  off  my  uniform  and  stood  for  a  long  time  in  the  shower.  Then  I  dressed  and  walked  back  across  the  quadrangle,  where  I  could  hear,  from  the  open  windows  ofthe  music  building,  Bacon  playing  the  Chopin  preludes.  The  mu-  sic-swept  with  rains,  with  ruins,  with  unrequited  and  autumnal  loves,  with  here  and  there  a  passage  ofthe  purest  narcissism-seemed  to  outrage  my  senses,  and  I  wanted  to  stop  my  ears.  It  took  me  an  hour  or  so  to  pack,  and  when  I  carried  my  bags  downstairs,  I  could  still  hear  the  cheering  from  the  field.  I  drove  into  the  village  and  had  the  tank  filled  with  gas.  At  the  edge  of  town,  I  wondered  what  direction  totake,  and  then  I  turned  south,  for  the  farm.  IT  was  six  or  seven  when  I  got  to  St.  Botolph's,  and  I  took  the  precau-  tion  of  calling  Leander  before  I  drove  out  to  the  house.  &quot;Hello,  hello,  hello!&quot;  the  old  man  shouted.  &quot;You  must  have  the  wrong  number.  Oh,  hello,  Eben  ..  .&quot;  When  I  got  to  the  house,  I  left  my  bags  in  the  hall  and  went  up-  stairs.  Leander  was  in  his  room.  &quot;Wel-  come  home,  Eben,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  was  reading  a  little  Shakespeare  to  the  cat.&quot;  When  I  sat  down,  the  arm  of  my  chair  crashed  to  the  floor,  and  I  let  it  lie  there.  On  his  thick  white  hair  Leander  still  wore  his  fez.  For  clothing,  he  had  drawn  from  his  store  of  old-fashioned  bathing  suits  one  with  a  striped  skirt.  It  must  have  been  stolen,  since  there  were  some  nu-  merals  stencilled  on  the  back.  He  had  decided  some  time  before  that  the  most  comfortable  shoes  he  had  were  some  old  riding  boots,  and  he  was  wearing  these.  Pic-  tures  of  lost  sailboats,  lost  cottages,  dead  friends  and  dogs  gazed  down  at  him  from  the  wall.  He  had  tied  a  length  of  string  be-  tween  the  four  wooden  pineapples  of  his  high  poster  bed  and  had  hung  his  wash  there  to  dry.  The  cat  and  " b"his  copy  of  Shakespeare  were  on  his  lap.  &quot;What  are  your  plans?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I've  been  fired,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  thought  I'd  leave  some  clothes  here.  I  think  I'll  go  for  a  swim  now.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  any  clothes  I  can  wear?&quot;  'You're  welcome  to  anything  I  have.  The  bags  are  downstairs.&quot;  &quot;I  still  swim  every  day,&quot;  Leander  said.  &quot;Every  day,  that  is,  until  the  first  of  October.  Last  year  I  went  swimming  through  the  fifteenth-the  fifteenth  or  the  sixteenth.  If  you'll  wait  a  minute,  I'll  make  sure.&quot;  He  got  up  from  his  chair,  and,  stooping  a  little,  so  the  tassel  of  his  fez  hung  over  his  brow,  he  walked  to  his  journal.  After  consulting  it,  he  said,  &quot;I  went  swimming  on  the  fifteenth  last  year.  I  went  swimming  on  the  twen-  ty-fifth  the  year  before  that.  Of  course,  that  was  nothing  to  what  I  could  do  when  I  was  younger.  I  went  swimming  on  the  fourth  of  December,  the  eighth  of  January,  the  second  of  March.  I  went  swimming  on  Christmas  Day,  New  Year's  Day,  the  twelfth  of  January,  and  the  tenth  of  February  ...&quot;  After  I  left  him  to  go  out  to  the  river,  he  went  downstairs  to  where  my  bags  were.  An  old  pair  of  riding  pants  took  his  eye.  He  managed  to  get  his  legs  well  into  them  before  he  realizedthat  they  were  too  small.  He  tried  to  remove  the  pants  and  couldn't,  because  his  legs  had  begun  to  swell.  And  when  he  tried  to  stand,  the  pants  knifed  him  in  the  ten-  dons  at  the  back  of  his  knees  and  brought  him  to  the  floor.  Halfway  out  in  the  river,  I  could  hear  him  roaring  for  help,  and  I  swam  back  to  shore  and  ran  up  to  the  house  and  found  him  moving  slowly  and  painfully  toward  the  kitchen,  where  he  hoped  to  finda  knife  and  cut  himself  free.  I  cut  the  riding  breeches  off  him,  and  we  drank  some  whiskey  together,  but  I  left  in  the  morning  for  New  York.  It  was  a  good  thing  that  I  did  leave,  because  I  got  a  job  the  day  I  reached  the  city,  and  sailed  three  days  later  for  Basra,  to  work  for  an  oil  company.  I  took  the  long  voyage  out  on  one  of  the  company  ships;  it  was  five  weeks  after  leaving  New  York  that  we  stopped  at  59656d656e  and  another  four  days  before  we  docked  at  Basra.  It  was  hot.  The  flat  volcanic  ruins  trembled  in  the  heat,  and  the  car  that  took  me  across  the  city  to  the  oil-company  settlement  travelled  through  a  maze  of  foul-smelling  streets.  The  dormitory  where  I  was  to  be  quar-  tered  was  like  an  army  barracks,  and  when  I  reached  it,  in  midafternoon,  there  was  no  one  there  but  some  Arabs,  who  helped  me  with  my  bags  and  told  me  the  other  men  would  be  in  after  four,  when  the  offices  closed.  When  the  men  I  shared  the  barrackswith  came   in,  they  seemed  pleased  to  see  anyone  newly  arrived  from  the  States,  and  they  were  full  of  practical  information  about  how  to  make  a  life  in  Basra.  &quot;We  practice  baseball  two  or  three  nights  a  week,&quot;  one  of  them  said,  &quot;and  then  on  Sundays  we  play  Shell  or  Standard  Oil.  We  only  have  eleven  men  on  the  squad  now,  so  if  you  could  play  outfield?  We  call  our-  selves  the  Infidels.  .  .  .&quot;  IT  was  not  until  long  after  my  return  from  Basra,  long  after  my  marriage,  that  Leander  died,  one  summer  after-  noon,  sitting  in  the  rose  garden,  with  a  copy  of  &quot;Primitive  Sexual  Mores&quot;  on  The  housekeeper  found  him  there,  and  the  local  undertaker  sent  me  a  wire  in  New  York.  I  did  not  feel  any  grief  when  I  got  the  news.  Alice  and  I  had  three  children  by  then,  and  my  life  would  not  in  any  way  be  affected  by  Leander's  death.  I  telephoned  my  sis-  ters,  in  [REDACTED],  but  neither  of  them  felt  that  they  could  come  East.  The  next  day,  I  drove  to  St.  Botolph's,  and  found  that  the  undertaker  had  made  all  the  arrangements.  The  services  were  to  be  at  two.  Three  old  cousins  came  out  from  [REDACTED],  to  my  surprise,  and  we  were  the  only  mourners.  It  was  the  kind  of  weather  that  we  used  to  call  haying  weather  when  I  lived  in  the  valley.  The  fields  of  timothy  and  sweet  grass  had  been  cut,  the  cemetery  smelled  of  cut  hay,  and  while  the  minister  was  praying,  I  heard  the  sound  of  distant  thunder  and  saw  the  daylight  dim,  the  way  the  lights  dim  in  a  farmhouse  during  a  " b"storm.  After  the  ceremony,  I  returned  to  the  house,  feeling  that  there  would  be  a  lot  there  to  occupy  me,  but  it  turned  out  that  there  was  not  much  to  do.  It  had  begun  to  rain.  I  wandered  through  the  rooms  to  see  if  there  was  anything  left  in  them.  I  found  some  whiskey.  The  bird  cages,  the  three-legged  tables,  and  the  cracked  soup  tureens  must  have  been  refused  by  the  junkman.  I  thought  that  there  must  be  a  will,  and  I  went  reluc-  tantly-disconsolately,  at  any  rate-up  to  Leander's  room  and  sat  uneasily  in  his  chair.  His  papers  were  copious  and  bizarre,  and  it  took  me  nearly  two  hours  to  find  the  will.  He  left  the  house  and  the  land  to  my  older  sister.  To  my  other  sister  he  left  the  jewelry,  but  this  was  immaterial,  since  all  the  jewelry  had  been  sold.  I  was  mentioned.  &quot;'To  my  change-  ling  son,  Eben,&quot;  hewrote,  &quot;the  author  of  all  my  misfortunes,  I  leave  my  copy  of  Shakespeare,  a  hacking  cough  .  .&quot;  The  list  was  long  and  wicked,  and  althoughhe  had  written  it  ten  years  earlier  and  although  I  had  buried  him  that  afternoon,  I  couldn't  help  feeling,  for  a  minute,  thatthe  piece  of  paper  was  evidence  of  my  own  defeat,  It  was  dark  then,  and  it  was  still  raining.  The  whiskey  bottle  was  empty  and  the  un-  shaded  electric  light  was  baneful.  The  old  house,  which  had  always  seemed  to  have  an  extensive  life  of  its  own,  was  creaking  and  stirring  under  the  slender  weight  of  the  storm.  The  feeling  that  in  burying  Leander  I  had  resolved  a  sad  story  seemed  farcical,  and  if  my  reaction  to  his  will  was  evidence,  the  old  fool  had  pierced  the  rites  and  ceremonies  of  death.  I  thought  desperately  of  my  family  in  New  York,  and  of  the  rooms  where  my  return  was  waited  with  anxiety  and  love,  but  I  had  never  been  able  to  build  any  kind  of  bridge  from  Leander's  world  to  the  worlds  where  I  lived,  and  I  failed  now  in  my  ef-  forts  to  remember  New  York.  I  went  downstairs  to  telephone  my  wife,  but  the  telephone  was  dead,  and  for  all  I  knew  it  might  have  been  disconnected  years  ago.  I  packed  my  bag,  turned  out  the  lights,  threw  the  house  key  into  the  river,  and  started  home.  N  the  years  that  followed,  I  thought  now  and  then  about  Leander  and  the  farm,  and  although  I  had  resolved  to  break  with  these  memories,  they  both  continued  to  enjoy  the  perfect  freedom  of  my  dreams;  the  bare  halls  of  the  house,  the  massive  granite  stoop,  the  rain  dripping  from  the  wooden  gutters,  and  the  mass  of  weeds  in  the  garden  often  surrounded  me  while  I  slept.  My  participation  in  baseball  continued  to  be  painful.  I  drove  a  ball  through  my  mother-in-law's  parlor  window  -and  the  rest  of  the  family,  who  were  in-  timidated,  didn't  understand  why  I  should  feel  so  happy-but  it  was  not  enough  to  lay  Leander's  ghost,  and  I  still  didn't  like  old  men  with  white  hair  to  be  at  the  helm  of  the  ships  I  travelled  on.  Some  years  later-my  oldest  son  was  nine-I  took  all  five  boys  uptown  to  Yankee  Stadium  to  see  their  first  game.  It  was  one  of  the  hottest  days  of  the  year.  I  bought  my  sons  food,  eye-  shades,  pennants,  score  cards,  pencils,  and  souvenir  pins,  and  I  took  the  young-  est  two  to  the  bathroom  several  times.  Mantle  was  up  in  the  sixth,  with  a  count  of  three  and  two.  He  fouled  three  balls  into  the  netting  above  the  backstop  and  fouled  the  fourth  straight  toward  where  we  were  sitting-a  little  high.  It  was  coming  like  a  shot,  but  I  made  the  catch-one-handed,  barehanded-and  although  I  thought  the  impact  had  bro-  ken  some  bones  in  my  hand,  the  pain  was  followed  swiftly  by  a  sense  of  perfect  joy.  The  old  man  and  the  old  house  seemed  at  last  to  fall  from  the  company  and  the  places  of  my  dreams,  and  I  smelled  the  timothy  and  the  sweet  grass  again,  and  saw  a  gravedigger  hidden  be-  hind  a  marble  angel,  and  the  smoky,  the  grainy  light  ofa  thunderstorm,  when  the  clearness  of  the  green  world  the  emblazoned  fields-reminds  us  briefly  ofa  great  freedom  of  body  and  mind.  Then  the  boys  began  to  argue  for  possession  of  the  ball,  and  I  gave  it  to  the  oldest  one,  hoping  that  I  wouldn't  have  any  more  usefor  it.  It  would  have  troubled  Leander  to  think  that  he  would  be  buried  in  any  place  as  distant  from  West  Farm  as  Yankee  Stadium,  but  that  is  where  his  bones  were  laid  to  rest."