 b"KEENING  harshly  in  his  senility, the  blind  polar  bear  slowly  and  ceaselessly  shakes  his  head  in  the  stark  heat  of  the  July  and  mountain  noon.  His  open  eyes  are  blue.  No  one  stops  to  look  at  him;  an  old  farmer,  in  passing,  sums  up  the  old  bear's  situation  by  observing,  with  a  ruthless  chuckle,  that  he  is  a  &quot;back  number.&quot;  Patient  and  despairing,  he  sits  on  his  yellowed  haunches  on  the  central  rock  of  his  pool,  his  huge  toy  paws  wearing  short  boots  of  mud.  The  grizzlies  to  the  right  of  him,  a  conventional  family  of  father  and  moth-  er  and  two  spring  cubs,  alternately  play  the  clown  and  sleep.  There  is  a  blustery,  scoundrelly,  half-likable  bravado  in  the  manner  of  the  black  bear  on  the  polar's  left;  his  name,  according  to  the  legend  on  his  cage,  is  Clancy,  and  he  is  a  rough-  and-tumble,  brawling  blowhard,  thun-  dering  continually  as  he  paces  back  and  forth,  or  pauses  to  face  his  audience  of  children  and  mothers  and  release  from  his  great,  gray-tongued  mouth  a  per-  fectly  Vesuvian  roar.  If  he  were  to  be  reincarnated  in  human  form,  he  would  be  a  man  of  action,  possibly  a  football  coach,  probablya  politician.  One  ex-  pects  to  see  his  black  hat  hanging  from  a  branch  of  one  of  histrees;  at  any  moment  he  will  light  a  cigar.  The  polar  bear's  next-door  neighbors  are  not  the  only  ones  who  offer  so  sharp  and  sad  acontrast  to  him.  Across  a  reach  of  scrappy  grass  and  litter  is  the  convoca-  tion  of  conceited  monkeys,  burrowing  into  each  other's  necks  and  chests  for  fleas,  picking  their  noses  with  their  long,  black,  finicky  fingers,  swinging  by  their  gifted  tails  on  the  flying  trapeze,  screaming  bloody  murder.  Even  when  they  mourn-  one  would  think  the  male  orangutan  was  on  the  very  brink  of  suicide-they  are  comedians;  they  only  fake  depression,  for  they  are  firmly  secure  in  their  ram-  bunctious  tribalism  and  in  their  appalling  insight  and  contempt.  Their  flibbertigibbet  gambolling  is  a  sham,  and,  stealthily  and  shiftily,  they  are  really  watching  the  pitiful  polar  bear  (&quot;Back  number,&quot;  they  quote  the  farm-  er.  &quot;'That's  his  number  all  right,&quot;  they  snigger),  and  the  windy  black  bear  (&quot;Life  ofthe  party.  Gasbag.  Low  1.Q.,&quot;  theynote  scornfully  on  his  dos-  sier),  and  the  stupid,  bourgeois  grizzlies  (&quot;It's  feed  the  face  and  hit  the  sack  for  them,&quot;  the  monkeys  say).  And  they  are watching  my  sister  and  me,  two  middle-  aged  women,  as  we  sit  on  a  bench  between  the  exhibits,  eating  popcorn,  growing  thirsty.  We  are  thoughtful.  A  chance  remark  of  Daisy's  a  few  minutes  before  has  turned  us  to  memory  and  meditation.  &quot;I  don't  know  why,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  that  poor  blind  bear  re-  minds  me  of  Mr.  Murphy.&quot;  The  name  &quot;Mr.  Murphy&quot;  at  once  returned  us  both  to  childhood,  and  we  were  floated  far  and  fast,  our  later  lives  diminished.  So  now  we  eat  our  popcorn  in  silence  with  the  ritualistic  appetite  of  childhood,  which  has  little  to  do  with  hunger;  it  is  not  so  much  food  as  a  sacrament,  and  in  tribute  to  our  sisterliness  and  our  friendliness  I  break  the  silence  to  say  that  this  is  the  best  popcorn  I  have  ever  eaten  in  my  life.  The  extravagance  of  my  statement  instantly  makes  me  feel  self-indulgent,  and  for  some  time  I  un-  easily  avoid  looking  at  the  blind  bear.  My  sister  does  not  agree  or  disagree;  she  simply  says  that  popcorn  is  the  only  food  she  has  ever  really  liked.  For  a  long  time,then,  we  eat  without  a  word,  but  I  know,  because  I  know  her  well  and  know  her  similarityto  me,  that  Daisy  is  thinking  what  I  am  thinking;  both  of  us  are  mournfully  remembering  Mr.  Mur-  phy,  who,  at  one  time  in  our  lives,  was  our  only  friend.  HIS  zoo  is  in  [REDACTED],  a  city  that  means  nothing  to  my  sister  and  me  except  as  a  place  to  takeor  meet  trains.  Daisy  lives  two  hundred  miles  farther  west,  and  it  is  her  custom,  when  my  every-other-year  visit  with  her  is  over,  to  come  across  the  mountains  to  see  me  off  on  my  eastbound  train.  We  know  almost  no  one  here,  and  because  our  stays  are  short,  we  have  never  bothered  to  learnthe  town  in  more  than  the  most  des-  ultory  way.  We  know  the  Burlington  uptown  office  and  the  respectable  hotels,  a  restaurant  or  two,  the  Union  Station,  and,  beginning  today,  the  zoo  in  the  city  park.  But  since  the  moment  that  Daisy  named  Mr.  Murphy  by  name  our  sit-  uation  in  [REDACTED]  has  been  only  cor-  poreal;  our  minds  and  our  hearts  are  in  Adams,  fifty  miles  north,  and  we  are  seeing,  under  the  white  sun  at  its  pitiless  meridian,  the  streets  of  that  ugly  town,  its  parks  and  trees  and  bridges,  the  band-  stand  in  its  dreary  park,  the  roads  that  lead  away  from  it,  west  to  the  mountains and  east  to  the  plains,  its  mongrel  and  multitudinous  churches,  its  high  school.  shaped  like  a  loaf  of  bread,  the  campus  of  its  college,  an  oasis  of  which  we  had  no  experience  except  to  walk  through  it  now  and  then,  eying  the  woodbine  on  the  impressive  buildings.  These  things  are  engraved  forever  on  our  minds  with  a  legibility  so  insistent  that  you  have  only  to  say  the  name  of  the  town  aloud  to  us  to  rip  the  rinds  from  our  nerves  and  leave  us  exposed  in  terror  and  hu-  miliation.  We  have  supposed  in  later  years  that  Adams  was  not  so  bad  as  all  that,  and  we  know  that  we  magnified  its  ugliness  because  we  looked  upon  it  as  the  exten-  sion  of  the  possessive,  unloving,  scornful,  complacent  foster  mother,  Mrs.  Placer,  to  whom,  at  the  death  of  our  parents  within  a  month  of  each  other,  we  were  sent  like  Dickensian  grotesqueries-  cowardly,  weak-stomached,  given  to  tears,  backward  in  school.  Daisy  was  ten  and  I  was  eight  when,  unaccom-  panied,  we  made  the  long  trip  from  Marblehead  to  our  benefactress,  whom  we  had  never  seen  and,  indeed,  never  heard  of  until  the  pastor  of  our  church  came  to  tell  usof  the  arrangement  our  father  had  made  on  his  deathbed,  sec-  onded  by  our  mother  on  hers.  This  man,  whose  name  and  face  I  have  forgotten  and  whose  parting  speeches  to  us  I  have  not  forgiven,  tried  to  dry  our  tears  with  talk  of  Indians  and  of  buffaloes;  he  spoke,  however,  at  much  greater  length,  and  in  preaching  cadences,  of  the  Christian  goodness  of  Mrs.  Placer.  She  was,he  said,  childless  and  fond  of  children,  and  for  many  years  she  had  been  a  widow,  after  the  lingering  demise  of  her  tubercular  husband,  for  whose  sake  she  had  moved  to  the  43616e616461Moun-  tains.  For  his  support  and  costly  medical  care,  she  had  run  a  boarding  house,  and  after  his  death,  since  he  had  left  her  nothing,  she  was  obliged  to  continue  running  it.  She  had  been  a  girlhood  friend  of  our  paternal  grandmother,  and  our  father,  in  the  absence  of  re-  sponsible  relatives,  had  made  her  the  beneficiary  of  his  life  insurance  on  the  condition  that  she  lodge  and  rear  us.  The  pastor,  with  a  frankness  remark-  able  considering  that  he  was  talking  to  children,  explained  to  us  that  our  father  had  left  little  more  than  a  drop  in  the  bucket  for  our  care,  and  he  enjoined  us  to  give  Mrs.  Placer,  in  return  for  her  hospitality  and  sacrifice,  courteous  help  and  eternal  thanks.  &quot;Sacrifice&quot;  was  a  word  we  were  never  allowed  to  forget.  And  thus  it  was,  in  grief  for  our  par-  ents,  that  we  came  cringing  to  the  dry  Western  town  and  to  the  house  where  Mrs.  Placer  lived,  a  house  in  which  the  " b"square,  uncushioned  furniture  was  cruel  and  the  pictures  on  the  walls  were  either  dour  or  dire  and  the  lodgers,  who  lived  in  the  upper  floors  among  shad-  owy  wardrobes  and  chiffoniers,  had  come  through  the  years  to  resemble  their  landlady  in  ap-  pearance  as  well  asin  deport-  ment.  After  their  ugly-colored  eve-  ning  meal,  Gran-as  she  bade  us  call  her-and  her  paying  guests  would  sit,  rangy  and  aquiline,  rocking  on  the  front  porch  on  spring  and  summer  and  ~autumn  nights,tasting  their  delicious  grievances:  those  slights  delivered  by  ungrate-  ful  sons  and  daughters,  those  impudences  committed  by  trolley-car  conductors  and  uppity  salesgirls  in  the  ready-  to-wear,  all  those  slurs  and  calculated  elbow-jostlings  that  were  their  daily  crucifix-  ion  and  their  staff  of  life.  We  little  girls,  washing  the  dishes  in  the  cavernous  kitchen,  listened  to  their  even,  martyred  voices,  fixed  like  leeches  to  their  solitary  subject  and  their  solitary  creed-that  life  was  essentially  a  matter  of  being  done  in,  let  down,  and  swindled.  At  regular  intervals,  Mrs.  Placer,  chairwoman  of  the  victims,  would  say,  &quot;Of  course,  I  don't  care;  I  just  have  to  laugh,&quot;  and  then  would  tell  a  shock-  ing  tale  of  an  intricate  piece  of  skuldug-  gery  perpetrated  against  her  by  some-  one  shedid  not  even  know.  Sometimes,  with  her  avid,  partial  jury  sitting  there  on  the  porch  behind  the  bitter  hopvines  in  the  heady  mountain  air,  the  cases  she  tried  involved  Daisy  and  me,  and,  listen-  ing,  we  travailed,  hugging  each  other,  whispering,  &quot;I  wish  she  wouldn't!  Oh,  how  did  she  find  out?&quot;  How  did  she?  Certainly  we  never  told  her  when  we  were  snubbed  or  chosen  last  on  teams,  never  admitted  to  a  teacher's  scolding  or  to  the  hoots  of  laughter  that  greeted  us  when  we  bit  on  silly,  unfair  jokes.  But  she  knew.  She  knew  about  the  slumber  parties  we  were  not  invited  to,  the  beefsteak  fries  at  which  we  were  pointedly  left  out;  she  knew  that  the  singing  teacher  had  said  in  so  many  words  that  I  could  not  carry  a  tune  in  a  basket  and  that  the  sewing  superin-  tendent  had  said  that  Daisy's  fingers  were  all  thumbs.  With  our  teeth  chat-  tering  in  the  cold  of  our  isolation,  we  would  hear  her  protestant,  litigious  voice  defending  our  right  to  be  orphans,  paupers,  wholly  dependent  on  her-ex-cept  for  the  really  ridiculous  pittance  from  our  father's  life  insurance-when  it  was  all  she  could  do  to  make  ends  meet,  She  did  not  care,  but  she  had  to  laugh  that  people  in  general  were  so  small-minded  that  they  looked  down  on  fatherless,  motherless  waifs  like  us  and,  by  association,  looked  down  on  her.  It  seemed  funny  to  her  that  peo-  ple  gave  her  no  credit  for  taking  on  these  sickly  youngsters  who  were  not  even  kin  but  only  the  grandchildren  of  a  friend.  If  a  child  with  braces  on  her  teeth  came  to  play  with  us,  she  was,  according  to  Gran,  slyly  lording  it  over  us  because  our  teeth  were  crooked,  but  there  was  no  money  to  have  them  straightened.  And  what  could  be  the  meaning  of  our  being  asked  to  come  for  supper  at  the  doctor's  house?  Were  the  doctor  and  his  la-di-da  New  York  wife  and  those  pert  girls  with  their  solid-gold  barrettes  and  their  [REDACTED]  pony  going  to  shame  her  poor  darlings?  Or  shame  their  poor  Gran  by  making  them  sorry  to  come  home  to  the  plain  but  honest  life  that  was  all  she  could  provide  for  them?  There  was  no  stratum  of  society  not  reeking  with  the  efluvium  of  fraud  and  pettifoggery.  And  the  school  system  was  almost  the  worst  of  all:  if  we  could  not  understand  fractions,  was  that  not  our  teacher's  fault?  And  therefore  what  right  had  she  to  give  us  F?  It  was  as  plain  as  a  pikestaff  to  Gran  that  the  teacher  was  only  covering  up  her  own  inability  to  teach.  It  was  unlikely,  too-  highly  unlikely-that  it  was  by  accident  that  time  and  time  again  the  free  medi-  cal  clinic  was  closed  for  the  day  just  as  our  names  were  about  to  be  called  out,  so  that  nothing  was  done  about  our  bad  tonsils,  which  meant  that  we  were  re-  peatedly,  sick  in  the  winter,  with  Gran  fetching  and  carrying  for  us,  climbing  those  stairs  a  jillion  times  a  day  with  her  game  leg  and  her  heart  that  was  none  too  strong.  Steeped  in  these  mists  of  accusation  and  hidden  plots  and  double  meanings,  Daisy  and  I  grew  up  like  worms.  I  think  no  one  could  have  withstood  the  atmosphere  in  that  house  where  every-  one  trod  on  eggs  that  a  little  bird  had  told  them  were  bad.  They  spied  on  one  another,  whispered  behind  doors,  con-  jectured,  drew  parallels  beginning  &quot;With  all  due  respect  .  .  .&quot;  or  &quot;It  is  a  matter  of  indifference  to  me  but  .  ,  .&quot;  The  vigilantes  patrolled  our  town  by  day,  and  by  night  returned  to  lay  their  goodies  at  their  priestess's  feet  and  wait  for  her  oracular  interpretation  of  the  innards  of  the  butcher,  the  baker,  " b"the  candlestick  maker,  the  soda  jerk's  girl,  and  the  barber's  unnatural  deaf  white  cat.  Consequently,  Daisy  and  I  also  be-  came  suspicious.  But  it  was  suspicion  of  ourselves  that  made  us  mope  and  weep  and  grimace  with  self-judgment.  Why  were  we  not  happy  when  Gran  had  sac-  rificed  herselfto  the  bone  for  us?  Why  did  we  not  cut  dead  the  paper  boy  who  had  called  her  a  filthy  name?  Why  did  we  persist  in  our  willful  friendliness  with  the  grocer  who  had  tried,  unsuccessfully,  to  overcharge  her  on  a  case  of  pork  and  beans?  Our  friendships  were  nervous  and  surreptitious;  we  sneaked  and  lied,  and  as  our  hungers  sharpened,  our  debase-  ment  deepened;  we  were  pitied;  we  were  shifty-eyed,  always  on  the  lookout  for  Mrs.  Placer  or  one  of  her  tattletale  lodgers;  we  were  hypocrites.  NEVERTHELESS,  one  thin  filament  of  instinct  survived,  and  Daisy  and  I  in  time  found  asylum  in  a  small  menagerie  down  by  the  railroad  tracks.  It  belonged  to  a  gentle  alcoholic  ne'er-  do-well,  who  did  nothing  all  day  long  but  drink  bathtub  gin  in  rickeys  and  play  solitaire  and  smile  to  himself  and  talk  to  his  animals.  He  had  a  little,  stunted  red  vixen  and  a  deodorized  skunk,  a  parrot  from  Tahiti  that  spoke  Parisian  French,  a  woebegone  coyote,  and  two  capuchin  monkeys,  so  serious  and  humanized,  so  small  and  sad  and  sweet,  and  so  reli-  gious-looking  with  their  tonsured  heads  that  it  was  impossible  not  to  think  their  gibberish  was  really  an  ordered  lan-  guage  with  a  grammar  that  someday  some  philologist  would  understand.  Gran  knew  about  our  visits  to  Mr.  Murphy  and  she  did  not  object,  for  it  gave  her  keen  pleasure  to  excoriate  him  when  we  came  home.  His  vice  was  not  a  matter  of  guesswork;  it  was  an  estab-  lished  fact  that  he  was  half-seas  over  from  dawn  till  midnight.  &quot;With  the  black  Irish,&quot;  said  Gran,  &quot;the  taste  for  drink  is  taken  in  with  the  mother's  milk  and  is  never  mastered.  Oh,  I  know  all  about  those  promises  to  join  the  tem-  perance  movement  and  not  to  touch  another  drop.  The  way  to  Hell  is  paved  with  good  intentions.&quot;  We  were  still  little  girls  when  we  discovered  Mr.  Murphy,  before  the  shattering  disease  of  Adolescence  was  to  make  our  bones  and  brains  ache  even  more  painfully  than  before,  and  we  loved  him  and  we  hoped  to  marry  him  when  we  grew  up.  We  loved  him,  and  we  loved  his  monkeys  to  exactly  the  same  degree  and  in  exactly  the  same  way;  they  were  husbands  and  fathers  and  brothers,  these  three  little,  ugly,  dark,  secret  men  who  1  minded  their  own  busi-  ness  and  let  us  mind  ours.If  we  stuck  our  fingers  through  the  bars  of  the  cage,  the  mon-  keys  would  sometimes  take  them  in  their  tight,  tiny  hands  and  look  in-  to  our  faces  with  aten-  tative,  somehow  ab-  sent-minded  sorrow,  as  if  they  terribly  regretted  that  they  could  not  place  us  but  were  glad  to  see  us  all  the  same.  Mr.  Murphy,  playing  a  solitaire  game  of  cards  called  &quot;once  in  ablue  moon&quot;  on  a  kitchen  table  in  his  back  yard  beside  the  pens,  would  occasionally  look  up  and  blink  his  beau-  tiful  blue  eyes  and  say,  &quot;You're  peaches  to  make  over  my  wee  friends.  I  love  you  for  it.&quot;  There  was  noth-  ing  demanding  in  his  voice,  and  noth-  ing  sticky;  on  his  lips  the  word  &quot;love&quot;  was  jocose  and  forthright,  it  had  no  strings  attached.  We  would  sit  on  either  side  of  him  and  watch  him  regi-  ment  his  ranks  of  cards  and  stop  to  drink  as  deeply  as  if  he  were  dying  of  thirst  and  wave  to  his  animals  and  say  to  them,  &quot;Yes,  lads,  you're  dan-  dies.&quot;  Because  Mr.  Murphy  was  as  reserved  with  us  as  the  capuchins  were,  as  cour-  teously  noncommittal,  we  were  sur-  prised  one  spring  day  when  he  told  us  that  he  had  a  present  for  us,  which  he  hoped  Mrs.  Placer  would  let  us  keep;  it  was  a  puppy,  for  whom  the  owner  had  asked  him  to  find  a  home-half  collie  and  half  Labrador  retriever,  blue-blood-  ed  on  both  sides.  &quot;You  might  tell  Mrs,  Placer-&quot;  he  said,  smiling  at  the  name,  for  Gran  was  famous  in  the  town.  &quot;You  might  tell  Mrs.  Placer,&quot;  said  Mr.  Murphy,  &quot;that  this  lad  will  make  a  fine  watchdog.  She'll  never  have  to  fear  for  her  spoons  again.  Or  her  honor.&quot;  'The  last  he  said  to  himself,  not  laughing  but  tucking  his  chin  into  his  collar;  lines  sprang  to  the  corners  of  his  eyes.  He  would  not  let  us  see  the  dog;  whom  we  could  hear  yip-  ping  and  squealing  inside  his  shanty,  for  he  said  that  our  disappointment  would  weigh  on  his  conscience  if  we  lost  our  hearts  to  the  fellow  and  then  couldnot  have  him  for  our  own.  That  evening  at  supper,  we  told  Gran  about  Mr.  Murphy's  present.  A  dog?  In  the  first  place,  why  a  dog?  Was  it  possible  that  the  news  had  reached  Mr.  Murphy's  ears  that  Gran  had  just  this     very  day  finished  planting  her  spring  garden,  the  very  thing  that  a  rampa-  geous  dog  would  have  in  his  mind  to  destroy?  What  sex  was  it?  A  male!  Females,  she  had  heard,  were  more  trustworthy;  malesroved  and  came  home  smelling  of  skunk;  such  a  con-  sideration  as  this,  of  course,  would  not  have  crossed  Mr.  Murphy's  fuddled  mind.  Was  this  young  male  dog  house-  broken?  We  had  not  asked?  That  was  the  limit!  Gran  appealed  to  her  followers,  too  raptly  fascinated  by  Mr.  Murphy's  machinations  to  eat  their  Harvard  beets.  &quot;Am  I  being  farfetched  or  does  it  strike  you  as  decidedly  queer  that  Mr.  Murphy  is  trying  to  fob  off  on  my  little  girls  a  young  cur  that  has  not  been  trained?&quot;  she  asked  them.  &quot;If  it  were  housebroken,  he  would  have  said  so,  so  I  feel  itis  safe  to  assume  that  itis  not.  Perhaps  cannot  be  housebroken.  I've  heard  of  such  cases.&quot;  The  fantasy  spun  on,  richly  and  rap-  idly,  with  all  the  skilled  helping  hands  at  work  at  once.  The  dog  was  tangibly  in  the  room  with  us,  shedding  his  hair,  biting  his  fleas,  shaking  rain  off  himself  to  splatter  the  walls,  dragging  some  dreadful  carcass  across  the  floor,  chew-  ing  up  slippers,  knocking  over  chairs  with  his  tail,  gobbling  the  chops  from  the  platter,  barking,  biting,  fathering,  fighting,  smelling  to  high  heaven  of  car-  rion,  staining  the  rug  with  his  muddy  feet,  scratching  the  floor  with  his  claws.  He  developed  rabies;  he  bit  a  child,  two  children!  Three!  Everyone  in  town!  And  Gran  and  her  poor  darlings  went  to  jail  for  harboring  this  murder-  ous,  odoriferous,  drunk,  Roman  Catho-  lic  dog.  And  yet,  astoundingly  enough,  she  came  around  to  agreeing  to  let  us  have  " b" the  dog.  It  was,  as  Mr.  Murphy  had  pre-  dicted,  the  word  &quot;watchdog&quot;  that  de-  flected  the  course  of  the  trial.  The  mo-  ment  Daisy  uttered  it,  Gran  halted,  marshalling  her  reverse  march;  while  she  rallied  and  tacked  and  reconnoitred,  she  sent  us  to  the  kitchen  for  the  dessert.  And  by  the  time  this  course  was  under  way,  the  uses  of  a  dog,  the  enormous  potentialities  for  investigation  and  law  enforcement  in  a  dog  trained  by  Mrs.  Placer,  were  being  minutely  and  pas-  sionately  scrutinized  by  the  eight  up-  right  bloodhounds  sitting  at  the  table  wolfing  their  brown  Betty  as  if  it  were  fresh-killed  rabbit.  The  dog  now  sat  at  attention  beside  his  mistress,  fiercely  alert,  ears  cocked,  nose  aquiver,  the  protector  of  widows,  of  orphans,  of  lonely  people  who  had  no  homes.  He  made  short  shrift  of  burglars,  homicidal  maniacs,  Peeping  Toms,  gypsies,  bogus  missionaries,  Fuller  Brush  men  with  a  risqu\xc3\xa9  spiel.  He  went  to  the  store  and  brought  back  groceries,  retrieved  the  evening  paper  from  the  awkward  place  the  boy  had  meanly  thrown  it,  rescued  cripples  from  burning  houses,  saved  children  from  drowning,  heeled  at  com-  mand,  begged,  lay  down,  stood  up,  sat,  jumped  through  a  hoop,  ratted.  Both  times-when  he  was  a  ruffian  ofthe  blackest  delinquency  and  then  a  pillar  of  society-he  was  full-grown  in  his  prefiguration,  and  when  Laddy  ap-  peared  on  the  following  day,  small,  un-  steady,  and  whimpering  lonesomely,  Gran  and  her  lodgers  were  taken  aback;  his  infant,  clumsy  paws  embarrassed  them,  his  melting  eyes  were  unapropos.  But  it  could  never  be  said  of  Mrs.  Placer,  as  Mrs.  Placer  her  own  self  said,  that  she  was  a  woman  who  went  back  on  her  word,  and  her  darlings  were  going  to  have  their  dog,  soft-  headed  and  feckless  as  he  might  be.  All  the  first  night,  in  his  carton  in  the  kitchen,  he  wailed  for  his  mother,  and  in  the  morning,  it  was  true,  he  had  made  a  shambles  of  the  room-  fouled  the  floor,  and  pulled  off  the  tablecloth  together  with  a  ketchup  bot-  tle,  so  that  thick  gore  lay  everywhere.  At  breakfast,  the  lodgers  confessed  they  hadhad  a  most  amusing  night,  for  it  had  actually  been  funny  the  way  the  dog  had  been  determined  not  to  let  anyone  get  a  wink  of  sleep.  After  that  first  night,  Laddy  slept  in  our  room,  receiving  from  us,  all  through  our  de-  lighted,  sleepless  nights,  pats  and  em-  braces  and  kisses  and  whispers.  He  was  our  baby,  our  best  friend,  the  smartest,  prettiest,  nicest  dog  in  the  entire  wide  world.  Our  soft  and  rapid  blandish-  ments  excited  him  to  yelp  at  us  in  pleased  bewilderment,  and  then  we  would  play-  fully  grasp  his  muzzle,  so  that  he  would  snarl,  deep  in  his  throat  like  an  adult  dog,  and  shake  his  head  violently,  and,  when  we  freed  him,  nip  us  smartly  with  great  good  will.  He  was  an  intelligent  and  genial  dog  and  we  trained  him  quickly.  He  steered  clear  of  Gran's  radishes  and  lettuce  after  she  had  several  times  given  him  a  brisk  comeuppance  with  a  strap  across  the  rump,  and  he  soon  left  off  chewing  shoes  and  the  laundry  on  the  line,  and  he  outgrew  his  babyish  whining.  He  grew  like  a  weed;  he  lost  his  spherical  softness,  and  Ms  coat,  which  had  been  sooty  fluff,  came  in  stiff  and  rusty  black;  his  nose  grew  aristocratically  long,  and  his  clever,  pointed  ears  stood  at  atten-  tion.  He  was  all  bronzy,  lustrous  black  except  for  an  Elizabethan  ruff  of  white  and  a  tip  of  white  at  the  end  of  his  perky  tail,  No  one  could  deny  that  he  was  exceptionally  handsome  and  that  he  had, as  well,  great  personal  charm  and  style.  He  escorted  Daisy  and  me  to  school  in  the  morning,  laughing  interiorly  out  of  the  enormous  pleasure  of  his  life  as  he  gracefully  cantered  ahead  of  us,  dis-  tracted  occasionally  by  his  private  in-  terest  in  smells  or  unfamiliar  beings  in  the  grass  but,  on  the  whole,  engrossed  in  his  role  of  chaperon.  He  made  friends  easily  with  other  dogs,  and  sometimes  he  went  for  a  long  hunting  weekend  into  the  mountains  with  a  huge  and  bossy  old  red  hound  named  Mess,  who  had  been  on  the  county  most  of  his  life  and  had  made  a  good  thing  of  it,  particularly  at  the  fire  station.  IT  was  after  one  of  these  three-day  excursions  into  the  high  country  that  Gran  took  Laddy  in  hand.  He  had  come  back  spent  and  filthy,  his  coat  a  mass  of  cockleburs  and  ticks,  his  eyes  bloodshot,  loud  r\xc3\xa9/les  in  his  chest;  for  half  a  day  he  lay  motionless  before  the  front  door  like  someone  in  a  hangover,  his  grodning  eyes  explicitly  saying  &quot;Oh,  for  God's  sake,  leave  me  be&quot;  when  we  offered  him  food  or  bowls  of  water.  Gran  was  disapproving,  then  affronted,  and  finally  furious.  Not,  of  course,  with  Laddy,  since  all  inmates  of  her  house  enjoyed  immunity,  but  with  Mess,  whose  caddish  character,  together  with  that  of  his  nominal  masters,  the  firemen,  she  examined  closely  under  a  strong  light,  with  an  air  of  detachment,  with  her  not  caring  but  her  having,  all  the  same,  to  laugh.  A  lodger  who  occupied  the  back  west  room  had  something  to  say  about  the  fire  chief  and  his  nocturnal  visits  to  a  certain  house  occupied  by  a  certain  group  of  young  women,  too  near  the  same  age  to  be  sisters  and  too  old  to  be  the  daughters  of  the  woman  who  claimed  to  be  their  mother.  What  " b"a  story!  The  exophthalmic  librarian-  she  lived  in  one  ofthe  front  rooms-  had  some  interesting  insinuations  to  make  about  the  deputy  marshal,  who  had  borrowed,  significantly,  she  thought,  a  book  on  hypnotism.  She  also  knew-  she  was,  of  course,  in  a  most  useful  position  in  the  town,  and  from  her  au-  thoritative  pen  in  the  middle  of  the  library  her  mammiform  and  azure  eyes  and  her  eager  ears  missed  nothing-that  the  fire  chief's  wife  was  not  as  scrupu-  lous  as  she  might  be  when  she  was  keep-  ing  score  on  bridge  night  at  the  Sorosis.  There  was  little  at  the  moment  that  Mrs.  Placer  and  her  disciples  could  do  to  save  the  souls  of  the  Fire  Department  and  their  families,  and  therefore  save  the  town  from  holocaust  (a  very  timid  boarder-a  Mr.  Beaver,  a  newcomer  who  was  not  to  linger  long-had  sniffed  throughout  this  recitative  as  if  he  were  smelling  burning  flesh),  but  at  least  the  unwholesome  bond  between  Mess  and  Laddy  could  and  would  be  severed  once  and  for  all.  Gran  looked  across  the  porch  at  Laddy,  who  lay  stretched  at  full  length  in  the  darkest  corner,  shuddering  and  baying  abortively  in  his  throat  as  he  chased  jack  rabbits  in  his  dreams,  and  she  said,  &quot;A  dog  can  have  morals  like  a  human.&quot;  With  this  declaration  Laddy's  randy,  manly  holi-  days  were  finished.  It  may  havebeen  telepathy  that  woke  him;  he  lifted  his  heavy  head  from  his  paws,  laboriously  got  up,  hesitated  for  a  moment,  and  then  padded  languidly  across  the  porch  to  Gran.  He  stood  docilely  beside  her  chair,  head  down,  tail  drooping  as  if  to  say,  &quot;O.K.,  Mrs.  Placer,  show  me  how  and  I'll  walk  the  straight  and  narrow.&quot;  The  verynext  day,  Gran  changed  Laddy's  name  to  Caesar,  as  being  more  dignified,  and  a  joke  was  made  at  the  supper  table  that  he  had  come,  seen,  and  conquered  Mrs.  Placer's  heart-  for  within  her  circle,  where  the  mag-  nanimity  she  lavished  upon  her  orphans  was  daily  demonstrated,  Mrs.  Placer's  heart  was  highly  thought  of.  On  that  day  also,  although  we  did  not  know  it  yet,  Laddy  ceased  to  be  our  dog.  Be-  fore  many  weeks  passed,  indeed,  he  ceased  to  be  anyone  we  had  ever  known.  A  week  or  so  after  he  became  Caesar,  he  took  up  residence  in  her  room,  sleep-  ing  alongside  her  bed.  She  broke  him  of  the  habit  of  taking  us  to  school  (tempta-  tionto  low  living  was  rife  along  those  streets;  there  was  a  chow  --  well,  never  mind)  by  the  simple  expedient  of  chaining  him  to  a  tree  as  soon  as  she  got  up  in  the  morning.  This  dis-  cipline,  together  with  the  stamina-build-  ing  cuffs  she  gave  his  sensitive  ears  from  time  to  time,  graduallybut  certainly  remade  his  character.  From  a  sanguine,  affectionate,  easygoing  Gael  (with  the  fits  of  melancholy  that  al-  ternated  with  the  larkiness),  he  turned  into  an  overbearing,  military,  efficient,  loud-voiced  Teuton.  His  bark,  once  wide  of  range,  narrowed  to  one  dark,  glottal  tone.  Soon  the  paper  boy  flatly  refused  to  serve  our  house  after  Caesar  efficiently  removed  the  bicycle  clip  from  his  pants  leg;  the  skin  was  not  broken,  or  even  bruised,  but  it  was  a  matter  of  principle  with  the  boy.  The  milkman  approached  the  back  door  in  a  seizure  of  shakes  like  St.  Vitus's  dance.  The  metermen,  the  coal  men,  and  the  garbage  collector  crossed  themselves  if  they  were  Catho-  lies  and,  if  they  were  not,  tried  whistling  in  the  dark.  &quot;Good  boy,  good  Caesar,&quot;  they  carolled,  and,  unctuously  lying,  they  said  they  knew  his  bark  was  worse  than  his  bite,  knowing  full  well  that  it  was  not,  considering  the  very  nasty  nip,  requiring  stitches,  he  had  given  a  representative  of  the  Olson  Rug  Com-  pany,  who  had  had  the  folly  to  pat  him  on  the  head.  Caesar  did  not  molest  the  lodgers,  but  he  disdained  them  and  he  did  not  brook  being  personally  addressed  by  anyone  except  Gran.  One  night,  he  wandered  into  the  dining  room,  ap-  pearing  to  be  in  search  of  something  he  had  mislaid,  and,  for  some  reason  that  no  one  was  ever  able  to  divine,  suddenly  stood  stock-still  and  gaye  the  easily  up-  set  Mr.  Beaver  a  long  and  penetrating  look.  Mr.  Beaver,  trembling  from  head  to  toe,  stammered,  &quot;Why-er,  hello  there,  Caesar,  old  boy,  old  boy,&quot;  and  Caesar  charged.  For  a  moment,  it  was  touch  and  go,  but  Gran  saved  Mr.  Beaver,  only  to  lose  him  an  hour  later  when  he  departed,  bag  and  bag-  gage,  for  the  Y.M.C.A.  This  rout  and  the  consequent  loss  of  revenue  would  more  than  likely  have  meant  Caesar's  downfall  and  his  deportation  to  the  pound  if  it  had  not  been  that  a  newly  widowed  druggist,  very  irascible  and  very  much  Gran's  style,  had  applied  for  a  room  in  her  house  a  week  or  so  before,  and  now  he  moved  in  delighted-  ly,  as  if  he  were  coming  home.  ,  Finally,  the  police  demanded  that  Caesar  be  muzzled  and  they  warned  that  if  he  committed  any  major  crime  again-they  cited  the  case  of  the  Olson  man-he  would  beshot  on  sight.  Mrs.  Placer,  although  she  had  no  re-  spect  for  the  law,  knowing  as  much  as  shedid  about  its  agents,  obeyed.  She  obeyed,  that  is,  in  part;  she  put  the  muz-  zle  on  Caesar  for  a  few  hours  aday,  usually  early  in  the  morning  when  the  traffic  was  light  and  before  the  de-  liveries  had  started,  but  the  rest  of  the  time  his  powerful  jaws  and  dazzling  white  sabre  teeth  were  free  and  snap-  ping.  There  was  between  these  two  such  preternatural  rapport,  such  an  im-  pressive  conjugation  of  suspicion,  that  he,  sensing  the  approach  of  a  policeman,  could  convey  instantly  to  her  the  im-  mediate  necessity  of  clapping  his  nose  " b"cage  on.  And  the  policeman,  sent  out  on  the  complaint  of  a  terrorized  neigh-  bor,  would  be  greeted  by  this  law-abid-  ing  pair  at  the  door.  Daisy  and  I  wished  we  were  dead.  We  were  divided  between  hating  Caesar  and  loving  Laddy,  and  we  could  not  give  up  the  hope  that  something,  someday,  would  change  him  back  into  the  loving  animal  he  had  been  be-  fore  he  was  appointed  vice-president  of  the  Placerites.  Now  at  the  meetings  after  supper  on  the  porch  he  took  an  active  part,  standing  rigidly  at  Gran's  side  except  when  she  sent  him  on  an  errand.  He  carried  out  these  assign-  ments  not  with  the  air  of  a  servant  but  with  that  of  an  accomplice.  &quot;Get  me  the  paper,  Caesar,&quot;  she  would  say  to  him,  and  he,  dismayingly  intelligent  and  a  shade  smart-alecky,  would  open  the  screen  door  by  himself  and  in  a  minute  come  back  with  the  Bulletin,  from  which  Mrs.  Placer  would  thenread  an  item,  like  the  Gospel  of  the  day,  and  then  read  between  the  lines  of  it,  scan-  dalized,  IN  the  deepening  of  our  woe  and  our  bereavement  and  humiliation,  we  mutely  appealed  to  Mr.  Murphy.  We  did  not  speak  outright  to  him,  for  Mr.  Murphy  lived  in  a  state  of  indirection,  and  often  when  he  used  the  pronoun  &quot;I,&quot;  he  seemed  to  be  speaking  of  some-  one  standing  a  little  to  the  left  of  him,  but  we  went  to  see  him  and  his  animals  each  day  during  the  sad  summer,  tak-  ing  what  comfort  we  could  from  the  cozy,  quiet  indolence  of  his  back  yard,  where  small  black  eyes  encountered  ours  politely  and  everyone  was  half  asleep.  When  Mr.  Murphy  inquired  about  Laddy  in  his  bland,  inattentive  way,  looking  for  a  stratagem  whereby  to  shift  the  queen  of  hearts  into  position  by  the  king,  we  would  say,  &quot;Oh,  he's  fine,&quot;  or  &quot;Laddy  is  a  nifty  dog.&quot;  And  Mr.  Murphy,  reverently  slaking  the  thirst  that  was  his  talent  and  his  concubine,  would  murmur,  &quot;I'm  glad.&quot;  We  wanted  to  tell  him,  we  wanted  his  help,  or  at  least  his  sympathy,  but  how  could  we  cloud  his  sunny  world?  It  was  awful  to  see  Mr.  Murphy  ruffled.  Up  in  the  calm  clouds  as  he  generally  was,  he  could  occasionally  be  brought  to  earth  with  a  thud,  as  we  had  seen  and  heard  one  day.  Not  far  from  his  house,  there  lived  a  bad,  troublemaking  boy  of  twelve,  who  was  forever  hanging  over  the  fence  trying  to  teach  the  parrot  obscene  words.  He  got  nowhere,  for  she  spoke  no  English  and  she  would  flabbergast  him  with  her  cold  eye  and  sneer,  &quot;Tant  pis.&quot;  One  day,  this  boorish  fellow  went  too  far;  he  suddenly  shot  his  head  over  the  fence  like  a  jack-in-  the-box  and  aimed  a  water  pistol  at  the  skunk's  face.  Mr.  Murphy  leaped  tohis  feet  in  a  scarlet  rage;  he  picked  up  a  stone  and  threw  it  accurately,  hitting  the  boy  square  in  the  back,  so  hard  that  he  fell  right  down  in  a  mud  puddle  and  lay  there  kicking  and  squalling  and,  as  it  turned  out,  quite  badly  hurt.  &quot;If  you  ever  come  back  here  again,  I'll  kill  you!&quot;  roared  Mr.  Murphy.  I  think  he  meant  it,  for  I  have  seldom  seen  an  anger  so  resolute,  so  brilliant,  and  so  voluble.  &quot;How  dared  he!&quot;  he  cried,  scrambling  into  Mallow's  cage  to  hug  and  pet  and  soothe  her.  &quot;He  must  be  absolutely  mad!  He  must  be  the  Devil!&quot;  He  did  not  go  back  tohis  game  after  that  but  paced  the  yard,  swearing  a  blue  streak  and  only  pausing  to  croon  to  his  animals,  now  as  frightened  by  him  as  they  had  been  by  the  intruder,  and  to  drink  straight  from  the  bottle,  not  bothering  with  fixings.  We  were  fasci-  nated  by  this  unfamiliar  side  of  Mr.  Murphy,  but  we  did  not  want  to  see  it  ever  again,  for  his  face  had  grown  so  dangerously  purple  and  the  veins  of  his  forehead  seemed  ready  to  burst  and  his  " b"eyes  looked  scorched.  He  was  the  closest  thing  to  a  maniac  we  had  ever  seen.  So  we  did  not  tell  him  about  Laddy;  what  he  did  not  know  would  not  hurt  him,  although  it  was  hurting  us,  throbbing  in  us  like  a  great,  bleating  wound.  But  eventually  Mr.  Murphy  heard  about  our  dog's  conversion,  one  night  at  the  pool  hall,  which  he  visited  from  time  to  time  when  he  was  seized  with  arare  but  compelling  garrulity,  and  the  next  afternoon  when  he  asked  us  how  Laddy  was  and  we  replied  that  he  was  fine,  he  tranquilly  told  us,  as  he  deliber-  ated  whether  to  move  the  jack  of  clubs  now  or  to  bide  his  time,  that  we  were  sweet  girls  but  we  were  lying  in  our  teeth.  He  did  not  seem  at  all  angry  but  only  interested,  and  all  the  while  he  ques-  tioned  us,  he  went  on  about  his  business  with  the  gin  and  the  hearts  and  spades  and  diamonds  and  clubs.  It  rarely  hap-  pened  that  he  won  the  particular  game  he  was  playing,  but  that  day  he  did,  and  when  he  saw  all  the  cards  laid  out  in  their  ideal  pattern,  he  leaned  back,  look-  ing  disappointed,  and  he  said,  &quot;I'm  damned.&quot;  He  then  scooped  up  the  cards,  in  a  gesture  unusually  quick  and  tidy  for  him,  stacked  them  together,  and  bound  them  with  a  rubber  band.  Then  he  be-  gan  to  tell  us  what  he  thought  of  Gran.  He  grew  as  loud  and  apoplectic  as  he  had  been  that  other  time,  and  though  he  kept  repeating  that  he  knew  we  were  inno-  cent  and  he  put  not  a  shred  ofthe  blame  on  us,  we  were  afraid  he  might  suddenly  change  his  mind,  and,  speechless,  we  cowered  against  the  monkeys'  cage.  In  dread,  the  monkeys  clutched  the  fingers  we  offered  to  them  and  made  soft,  pro-  testing  noises,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Oh,  stop  it,  Murphy!  Our  nerves!&quot;  As  quickly  as  it  had  started,  the  tan-  trum  ended.  Mr.  Murphy  paled  to  his  normal  complexion  and  said  calmly  that  the  only  practical  thing  was  to  go  and  have  it  out  with  Mrs.  Placer.  &quot;At  once,&quot;  he  added,  althoughhe  said  he  bitterly  feared  that  it  was  too  late  and  there  would  be  no  exorcising  the  fiend  from  Laddy's  misused  spirit.  And  because  he  had  given  the  dog  to  us  and  not  to  her,  he  required  that  we  go  along  withhim,  stick  up  for  our  rights,  stand  on  our  mettle,  get  up  our  Irish,  and  give  the  old  bitch  something  to  put  in  her  pipe  and  smoke.  OH,  it  was  hot  that  day!  We  walked  in  a  kind  of  delirium  through  the  simmer,  where  only  the  grasshoppers  had  the  energy  to  move,  and  I  remem-  ber  wondering  if  ether  smelled  like  the  gin  on  Mr.  Murphy's  breath.  Daisy  and  I,  in  one  way  or  another,  were  go-  ing  to  have  our  gizzards  cut  out  along  with  our  hearts  and  our  souls  and  our  pride,  and  I  wished  I  were  as  drunk  as  Mr.  Murphy,  who  swam  effortlessly  through  the  heat,  his  lips  parted  com-  fortably,  his  eyes  half  closed.  When  we  turned  into  the  path  at  Gran's  house,  my  blood  began  to  scald  my  veins.  It  was  so  futile  and  so  dangerous  and  so absurd.  Here  we  were  on  a  high  moral  mission,  two  draggletailed,  gumption-  less  little  girls  and  atoper  whom  no  one  could  take  seriously,  partly  because  he  was  little  more  than  a  gurgling  bottle  of  booze  and  partly  because  of  the  clothes  he  wore.  He  was  a  sight,  as  he  always  was  when  he  was  out  of  his  own  yard.  There,  somehow,  in  the  carefree  disorder,  his  clothes  did  not  look  espe-  cially  strange,  but  on  the  streets  of  the  town,  in  the  barbershop  or  the  post  office  or  on  Gran's  path,  they  were  fan-  tastic.  He  wore  a  pair  of  hound's-tooth  pants,  old  but  maintaining  a  vehement  pattern,  and  with  them  he  wore  a  col-  larless  blue  flannelette  shirt.  His  hat  was  the  silliest  of  all,  because  it  was  a  derby  three  sizes  too  big.  And  as  if  [REDACTED],  too,  was  a  part  of  his  funny-paper  cos-  tume,  the  elder  capuchinrode  on  his  shoulder,  tightly  embracing  his  thin  red  neck.  Gran  and  Caesar  were  standing  side  by  side  behind  the  screen  door,  looking  as  if  they  had  been  expecting  us  all  along.  For  a  moment,  Gran  and  Mr.  Murphy  faced  each  other  across  the  length  of  weedy  brick  between  the  gate  and  the  front  porch,  and  no  one  spoke.  Gran  took  no  notice  at  all  of  Daisy  and  me.  She  adjusted  her  eyeglasses,  using  both  hands,  and  then  looked  down  at  Caesar  and  matter-of-factly  asked,  &quot;Do  you  want  out?&quot;  Caesar  flung  himself  full-length  upon  the  screen  and  it  sprang  a  jaw.  I  ran  to  meet  and  head  him  off,  and  Daisy  threw  a  library  book  at  his  head,  but  he  was  on  Mr.  Murphy  in  one  split  second  and  had  his  monkey  off  his  shoulder  and  had  broken  [REDACTED]'s  neck  in  two  shakes.  He  would  have  gone  on  nuzzling  and  mauling  and  growling  over  the  corpse  for  hours  if  Gran  had  not  marched  out  of  the  house  and  down  the  path  and  slapped  him  lightly  on  the  flank  and  said,  in  a  voice  that  could  not  have  deceived  an  idiot,  &quot;Why,  Caesar,  you  scamp!  You've  hurt  Mr.  Murphy's  monkey!  Aren't  you  ashamed!&quot;  Hurt  the  monkey!  In  one  final,  apologetic  shudder,  the  life  was  extin-  guished  from  the  little  fellow.  Bloody  and  covered  with  slather,  [REDACTED]  lay  with  his  arms  suppliantly  stretched  over  his  head,  his  leather  fingers  curled  into  loose,  helpless  fists.  His  hind  legs  and  his  tail  lay  limp  and  helter-skelter  on  the  path.  And  Mr.  Murphy,  all  of  a  sudden  reeling  drunk,  burst  into  the  kind  of  tears  that  Daisy  and  I  knew  well-the  kind  that  time  alone  could  stop.  We  stood  aghast  in  the  dark-red  sunset,  killed  by  our  horror  and  our  grief  for  [REDACTED]  and  our  unforgivable  " b"disgrace.  We  stood  upright  in  a  dead  faint,  and  an  eon  passed  before  Mr.  Murphy  picked  up  [REDACTED]'s  body  and  wove  away,  sobbing,  &quot;I  don't  believe  it!  I  don't  believe  it!&quot;  The  very  next  day,  again  at  morbid,  heavy  sunset,  Caesar  died  in  violent  con-  vulsions,  knocking  down  two  tall  holly-  hocks  in  his  throes.  Long  after  his  heart  had  stopped,  his  right  hind  leg  con-  tinued  to  jerk  in  aimless  reflex.  Madly  methodical,  Mr.  Murphy  had  poisoned  some  meat  for  him,  had  thoroughly  en-  venomed  a  whole  pound  of  hamburger,  and  early  in  the  morning,  before  sunup,  when  he  must  have  been  near  collapse  with  his  hangover,  he  had  stolen  up  to  Mrs.  Placer's  house  and  put  it  by  the  kitchen  door.  He  was  so  stealthy  that  Caesar  never  stirred  inhis  fool's  para-  dise  there  on  the  floor  by  Gran.  We  knew  these  to  be  the  facts,  for  Mr.  Murphy  made  no  bonesabout  them.  Afterward,  he  had  gone  home  and  said  a  solemn  Requiem  for  [REDACTED]  inso  loud  a  voice  that  someone  sent  for  the  police,  and  they  took  him  away  in  the  Black  Maria  to  sober  him  up  on  strong  green  tea.  By  the  time  he  was  in  the  lockup  and  had  confessed  what  he  had  done,  it  was  far  too  late,  for  Caesar  had  already  gulped  down  the  meat.  He  suffered  an  undreamed-of  agony  in  Gran's  flower  garden,  and  Daisy  and  I,  unable  to  bear  the  sight  of  it,  hiked  up  to  the  red  rocks  and  shook  there,  wretchedly  ripping  to  shreds  the  sand  lilies  that  grew  in  the  cracks.  Flight  was  the  only  thing  we  could  think  of,  but  where  could  we  go?  We  stared  west  at  the  mountains  and  quailed  at  the  look  of  the  stern  white  glacier;  we  wildly  scanned  the  prairies  for  escape.  &quot;If  only  we  were  something  besides  kids!  Be-  sides  girls!&quot;  mourned  Daisy.  I  could  not  speak  at  all;  I  huddled  in  a  niche  of  the  rocks  and  cried.  No  one  in  town,  except,  of  course,  her  lodgers,  had  the  slightest  sympathy  for  Gran.  The  townsfolk  al-  lowed  that  Mr.  Murphy  was  a  drunk  and  was  fight  ing  Irish,  but  he  had  a  heart  and  this  was  some-  thing  that  could  never  be  said  of  Mrs.  Placer.  The  neighbor  who  had  called  the  police  when  he  was  chant-  ing  the  &quot;Dies  Irae&quot;  before  breakfast  in  that  deafening  monotone  had  said,  &quot;The  poor  guy  is  having  some  kind  of  a  spell,  so  don't  be  rough  on  him,  hear?&quot;  Mr.  Murphy  became,  in  fact,  a  kind  of  hero;  some  people,  stretching  a  point,  said  he  was  a  saint  for  the  way  that  every  day  and  twice  on  Sunday  he  sang  a  memorial  Mass  over  [REDACTED]'s  grave,  now  marked  with  a  chipped,  cheap  plaster  figure  of  Saint  Francis  He  withdrew  from  the  world  more  and  more,  seldom  ven-  turing  into  the  streets  at  all,  except  when  he  went  to  the  bootlegger  to  get  a  new  bottle  to  snuggle  into.  All  sum-  mer,  all  fall,  we  sawhim  as  we  passed  by  his  yard,  sitting  at  his  dilapidated  table,  enfeebled  with  gin,  graying,  with-  ering,  turning  his  head  ever  and  ever  more  slowly  as  he  maneuvered  the  pro-  tocol  of  the  kings  and  the  queens  and  the  knaves.  Daisy  and  I  could  never  stop  to  visit  him  again.  T  went  on  like  this,  year  after  year.  Daisy  and  I  lived  in  a  mesh  of  lies  and  evasions,  baffled  and  mean,  like  rats  in  a  maze.  When  we  were  old  enough  for  beaux,  we  connived  like  sluts  to  see  them,  but  we  would  never  admit  to  their  existence  until  Gran  caught  us  out  by  some  trick.  Like  this  one,  for  example:  Once,  at  the  end  of  a  long  interrogation,  she  said  to  me,  &quot;I'm  more  relieved  than  I  can  tell  you  that  you  don't  have  anything  to  do  with  Jimmy  Gilmore,  because  I  happen  to  know  that  he  is  after  only  one  thing  in  a  girl,&quot;  and  then,  off  guard  in  the  loving  memory  of  sitting  in  the  movies  the  night  before  with  Jimmy,  not  even  holding  hands,  I  defended  him  and  defeated  myself,  and  Gran,  smiling  with  suc-  cess,  said,  &quot;I  thought  you  knew  him.  It's  a  pretty  safe  rule  of  thumb  that  where  there's  smoke  there's  fire.&quot;  That  finished  Jimmy  and  me,  for  afterward  I  was  nervous  with  him  and  I  con-  founded  and  alarmed  and  finally  bored  him  by  trying  to  convince  him,  although  the  subject  had  not  come  up,  that  I  did  not  doubt  his  good  intentions.  Daisy  and  I  would  come  home  from  school,  or,  later,  from  our  jobs,  with  a  small  triumph  or  an  interesting  piece  of  news,  and  if  we  forgot  ourselves  and,  in  our  exuberance,  told  Gran,  we  were  hustled  into  court  at  once  for  cross-ex-  amination.  Once,  I  remember,  while  I  was  still  in  high  school,  I  told  her  about  getting  a  part  in  a  play.  How  very  nice  for  me,  she  said,  if  that  kind  of  make-  believe  seemed  to  me  worth  while.  But  what  was  my  role?  An  old  woman!  A  widow  woman  believed  to  be  a  witch?  She  did  not  care  a  red  cent,  but  she  did  have  to  laugh  in  view  of  the  fact  that  Miss  Eccles,  in  charge  of  dra-  matics,  had  almost  run  her  down  in  her  car.  And  I  would  forgive  her,  would  I  not,  if  she  did  not  come  to  see  the  play,  and  would  not  think  her  eccentric  for  not  wanting  to  see  herself  ridiculed  in  public?  My  pleasure  strangled,  I  crawled,  joy-killed,  to  our  third-floor  room.  The  " b"room  was  small  and  its  monstrous  furni-  ture  was  too  big  and  the  rag  rugs  were  repulsive,  but  it  was  bright.  We  would  not  hang  a  blind  at  the  window,  and  on  this  day  I  stood  there  staring  into  the  mountains  that  burned  with  the  sun.  I  feared  the  mountains,  but  at  times  like  this  their  massiveness  consoled  me;  they,  at  least,  could  not  be  gossiped  about.  HY  did  we  stay  until  we  were  grown?  Daisy  and  I  ask  ourselves  this  question  as  we  sit  here  on  the  bench  in  the  municipal  zoo,  reminded  of  Mr.  Murphy  by  the  polar  bear,  reminded  by  the  monkeys  not  of  [REDACTED]  but  of  Mrs.  Placer's  insatiable  gossips  at  their  postprandial  feast.  &quot;But  how  could  we  have  left?&quot;  says  Daisy,  wringing  her  buttery  hands.  &quot;It  was  the  depression.  We  had  no  money.  We  had  nowhere  to  go.\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;All  the  same,  we  could  have  gone,&quot;  I  say,  resent-  ful  still  of  the  waste  of  all  those  years.  &quot;We  could  have  come  here  and  got  jobs  as  waitresses.  Or  prostitutes,  for  that  matter.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  have  wanted  to  be  a  prostitute,&quot;  says  Daisy.  We  agree  that  under  the  circum-  stances  it  would  have  been  impossible  for  us  to  run  away.  The  physical  act  would  havebeen  simple,  for  the  city  was  not  far  and  we  could  have  stolen  the  bus  fare  or  hitched  a  ride.  Later,  when  we  began  to  work  as  salesgirls  in  Kress's,  it  would  have  been  no  trick  at  all  to  van-  ish  one  Saturday  afternoon  with  our  week's  pay,  without  so  much  as  going  home  to  say  goodbye.  But  it  had  been  infinitely  harder  than  that,  for  Gran,  as  we  now  see,  held  us  trapped  by  our  sense  of  guilt.  We  were  vitiated,  and  we  had  no  choice  but  to  wait,  flaccidly,  for  her  to  die.  You  may  be  sure  we  did  not  unlearn  those  years  as  soon  as  we  puther  out  of  sight  in  the  cemetery  and  sold  her  house  for  a  song  to  the  first  boob  who  would  buy  it.  Nor  did  we  forget  when  we  left  the  town  for  another  one,  where  we  had  jobs  at  a  dude  camp-the  town  where  Daisy  now  lives  with  a  happy  husband  and  two  happy  sons.  The  suc-  cubus  did  not  relent  for  years,  and  I  can  still  remember,  in  the  beginning  of  our  days  at  the  Lazy  S  3,  overhearing  an  edgy  millionaire  say  to  his  wife,  nam-  ing  my  name,  &quot;That  girl  gives  me  the  cold  shivers.  One  would  think  she  had  just  seen  a  murder.&quot;  Well,  I  had.  For  years,  whenever  I  woke  in  the  night  in  fear  or  pain  or  loneliness,  I  would  increase  my  suffering  by  the  memory     of  [REDACTED],  and  my  tears  were  as  bitter  as  poor  Mr.  Murphy's.  We  have  never  been  back  to  Adams.  But  we  see  that  house  plainly,  with  the  hopvines  straggling  over  the  porch.  The  windows  are  hung  with  the  cheapest  grade  of  marquisette,  dipped  into  coffee  to  impart  to  it  an  unwilling  color,  neither  white  nor  tan  but  individual  and  spite-  fully  unattractive.  We  see  the  wicker  rockers  and  the  swing,  and  through  the  screen  door  we  dimly  make  out  the  slightly  veering  corridor,  along  one  wall  of  which  stands  a  glass-doored  bookcase;  when  we  were  children,  it  had  contained  not  books  but  stale  old  cardboard  boxes  filled  with  such  things  as  W.C.T.U.  tracts  and  anti-  cigarette  literature  and  newspaper  clippings  related  to  sexual  sin  in  the  Chris-  tianized  islands  of  the  Pa-  cific.  Even  if  we  were  able  to  close  our  minds'  eyes  to  the  past,  Mr.  Murphy  would  still  be  before  us  in  the  apotheosis  of  the  polar  bear.  My  pain  becomes  in-  tolerable,  and  I  am  relieved  when  Daisy  rescues  us.  &quot;&quot;We've  got  to  go,&quot;  she  says  in  a  sudden  panic.  &quot;I've  got  asthma  coming  on.&quot;  We  rush  to  the  nearest  exit  of  the  city  park  and  hail  a  cab,  and,  once  inside  it,  Daisy  gives  herself  an  in-  jection  of  adrenalin  and  then  leans  back.  We  are  heartbroken  and  infuriated,  and  we  cannot  speak,  T  wo  hours  later,  beside  my  train,  we  clutch  each  other  as  if  we  were  drown-  ing.  We  ought  to  go  out  to  the  nearest  policeman  and  say,  &quot;We  are  not  re-  sponsible  women.  You  will  have  to  take  care  of  us  because  we  cannot  take  care  of  ourselves.&quot;  But  gradually  the  storm  begins  to  lull.  &quot;You're  sure  you've  got  your  ticket?&quot;  says  Daisy.  &quot;You'll  surely  be  able  to  get  a  roomette  once  you're  on.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  about  that,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;If  there  are  any  V.LP.s  on  board,  I  won't  have  a  chance.  'Spinsters  and  Orphans  Last  is  the  motto  of  this  line.&quot;  Daisy  smiles.  &quot;I  didn't  care,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;but  I  had  to  laugh  when  I  saw  that  woman  nab  the  redcap  you  had  signalled  to.  I  had  a  good  notion  to  give  her  a  piece  of  my  mind.&quot;  &quot;It  will  be  a  miracle  if  I  ever  see  my  bags  again,&quot;  I  say,  mounting  the  steps  of  the  train.  &quot;Do  you  suppose  that  black-  guardly  porter  knows  about  the  twenty-  dollar  gold  piece  in  my  little  suitcase?&quot;  &quot;Anything's  possible!&quot;  cries  Daisy,  and  begins  to  laugh.  She  is  'so  pretty,  standing  there  in  her  bright-red  linen  suit  and  her  black  velvet  hat.  A  solitary  ray  of  sunshine  comes  through  a  broken  pane  in  the  domed  vault  of  the  train  shed  and  lies  on  her  shoulder  like  a  silver  arrow.  &quot;So  long,  Daisy!&quot;  I  call  as  the  train  begins  to  move.  She  walks  quickly  along  beside  the  train.  &quot;Watch  out  for  pickpockets!&quot;  she  calls.  &quot;You,  too!&quot;  My  voice  is  thin  and  lost  in  the  increasing  noise  of  the  speed-  ing  train  wheels.  &quot;Goodbye,  old  dear!&quot;  I  go  at  once  to  the  club  car  and  I  appropriate  the  writing  table,  to  the  vex-  ation  of  a  harried  priest,  who  snatches  up  the  telegraph  pad  and  gives  me  a  sharp  look.  I  write  Daisy  approxi-  mately  the  same  letter  I  always  write  her  under  this  particular  set  of  circum-  stances,  the  burden  of  which  is  that  nothing  foreither  of  us  can  ever  be  as  bad  as  the  past  before  Gran  mercifully  died.  In  a  postscript  I  add:  &quot;There  is  a  Roman  Catholic  priest  (that  is  to  say,  he  is  dressed  like  one)  sitting  behind  me  although  all  the  chairs  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  car  are  empty.  I  can  only  conclude  that  he  is  looking  over  my  shoulder,  and  while  I  do  not  want  to  cause  youany  alarm,  I  think  you  would  be  advised  to  be  on  the  lookout  for  any  appearance  of  miraculous  medals,  scapu-  lars,  papist  booklets,  etc.,  in  the  shops  of  your  town.  It  really  makes  me  laugh  to  see  the  way  he  is  pretending  that  all  he  wants  is  for  me  to  finish  this  letter  so  that  he  can  have  the  table.&quot;  I  sign  my  name  and  address  the  en-  velope,  and  I  give  up  my  place  to  the  priest,  who  smiles  nicely  at  me,  and  then  I  move  across  the  car  to  watch  the  fields  as  they  slip  by.  They  are  alfalfa  fields,  but  you  can  bet  your  bottom  dollar  that  they  are  chockablock  with  marijuana.  I  begin  to  laugh.  The  fit  is  silent  but  itis  devastating;  it  surges  and  rattles  in  my  rib  cage,  and  I  turn  my  face  to  the  window  to  avoid  the  narrow  gaze  of  the  Filipino  bar  boy.  I  must  think  of  some-  thing  sad  to  stop  this  unholy  giggle,  and  I  think  of  the  polar  bear.  But  even  his  bleak  tragedy  does  not  sober  me.  Wildly  I  fling  open  the  newspaper  I  have  brought  and  I  pretend  to  be  reading  something  screamingly  funny.  The  words  I  see  are  in  a  [REDACTED]  gossip  column:  &quot;How  a  well-known  starlet  can  get  a  divorce  in  [REDACTED]  without  her  crooner  husband's  consent,  nobody  knows.  It  won't  be  worth  a  plugged  nickel  here.&quot; "