 b"ON  their  way  to  see  the  Tuppers,  Horace  Lessing  broke  a  gloomy  silence  by  saying  to  his  wife,  &quot;The  thing  that  I  really  cannot  get  over  is  the  deception.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  dear.&quot;  &quot;I  would  never  have  believed  it  of  Rosalie.  As  I've  said  before,  that  really  is  what  sticks  in  my  throat.&quot;  Christine  Lessing  sighed,  leaning  back  in  the  car  and  looking  out  absently  at  the  familiar  hedges  and  marshy  fields  going  by.  He  had  said  it  before,  and  so  had  she-countless  times  and  in  varying  forms.  There  was  really  nothing  left  to  say  any  longer,  which  was  why  they  had  left  their  trim  whitehouse  a  few  min-  utes  earlier,  had  got  into  their  Austin,  and  were  now  heading  toward  the  far  less  trim  cottage  of  the  Tuppers.  Horace  had  said  that  if  anyone  passed  by  and  noticed  their  car  parked  outside  the  T  up-  pers'  hedge,  it  would  cause  no  comment.  He  or  she  might  easily  have  dropped  in  on  some  bit  of  village  business,  such  as  the  Flower  Show  or  the  Pig  Club,  for,  between  them,  they  ran  quite  a  lot  of  that  sort  of  thing  in  the  neighborhood.  They  were  a  middle-aged  couple,  busy  and  successful.  Horace  Lessing  practiced  asa  solicitor  in  the  English  seaside  town  that  spread  its  ugly  suburbs  inland,  twenty  miles  away,  but  they  preferred  to  live  out  in  the  country.  The  Lessings  were  accepted  as  part  of  the  little  community.  Horace  was  a  tall,  thin  man  of  fifty-two,  with  a  bald  forehead  that  was  abright  pinkish  brown  even  in  winter,  and  with  some-  thing  quietly  humorous  in  his  man-  ner  that  caused  strangers  who  set  him  down  first  as  a  stodgy,  conventional  fellow  to  glance  at  him  sharply  and  feel.  not  quite  so  sure.  Christine  Lessing,  a  couple  of  years  younger,  had  not  achieved  the  dignified  solution  to  ma-  turity  that  is  often  to  be  seen  in  the  faces  of  women  of  the  Latin  races.  Her  English  prettiness  had  simply  stayed,  without  anything  happening  beneath  it,  though  the  forget-me-nots  and  roses  of  its  exterior  had  toned  down  to  pot-  pourri.  She  was  a  chain  smoker,  as  the  fingers  of  her  right  hand  testified,  She  and  Horace  had  resisted  an  impulse  to  dress  up  slightly  for  the  coming  interview,  and  had  gone  out  &quot;just  as  they  were,&quot;  which  meant  that  Horace  wore  an  elderly  dark-blue  blazer  and  flannel  trousers  and  that  Christine's  thin,  active  form  was  incased  in  a  cot-  ton  dress  of  a  type  neither  more  nor  less  youthful  than  she  would  have  worn  thirty  years  before.  Her  still-reddish  hair  was  tidy  under  a  hair  net;  at  the  last  moment  she  had  decided  against  a  hat. It  was  getting  on  for  evening  ofa  lovely  day  in  late  summer.  'The  sun,  beginning  to  dip  westward,  slanted  across  the  splendid  bronze  of  the  wheat  fields,  and  odors  of  wet  mint  and  honey-  suckle,  mingled  with  the  strange,  dis-  turbing  smell  of  the  ferns,  wafted  out  of  the  hedges  into  the  Lessings'  faces  as  they  drove  along.  They  were  toopre-  occupied  to  feel  pleasure  in  this,  or  even  to  notice  it.  The  past,few  weeks  had  been  equally  beautiful,  but  they  had  been  ruined  for  this  couple  ever  since  the  day,  about  a  month  back,  when  their  only  child,  Rosalie,  had  told  them  that  she  intended  to  marry  a  young  man  called  George  Tupper.  &quot;But  good  heavens!&quot;  Christine  had  cried,  half-laughing,  half-vexed.  &quot;George  Tupper?  Who  is  George  Tupper?&quot;  It  had  been  obvious  from  her  expres-  sion  that  she  was  running  mentally  over  the  tennis  parties,  the  Cricket  Club  dances,  and  the  other  social  occasions  through  which  Rosalie  had  so  success-  fully  carried  her  bright  head  and  well-  shaped  figure  in  the  eighteen  months  she  had  been  home  from  school.  &quot;You  know  him,&quot;  Rosalie  had  said  cheerfully.  &quot;''The  Tuppers  who  live  at  that  oldcottage  beyond  the  pond.&quot;  Their  hopes  had  crashed  round  their  ears  almost  audibly,  so  resounding  was  the  shock.  Naturally,  they  had  expected  Rosalie  to  marry.  She  was  an  extreme-  ly  pretty  girl  of  eighteen,  who  took  after  Christine,  but  in  Rosalie  everything  in  the  picture  was  bright  and  new.  Her  eyes  glistened,  and  so  did  her  short,  square  white  teeth,  and  so  did  her  lips,  and  her  mane  of  light-red  hair.  Every-  thing  about  her  glistened  delightfully,  like  a  leaf  on  a  fresh  summer  morning.  Horace  had  sometimes  thought,  with  a  touch  of  melancholy,  that  it  would  not  be  long  before  she  was  married  to  one  of  the  nice  youngsters  who  ranher  around  to  parties  and  tennis.  It  had  not  occurred  to  him  to  look  for  his  future  son-in-law  in  a  ditch,  which  was  where  he  remembered  last  seeing  George  Tup-  per,  one  day  not  long  ago  as  he  was  driv-  ing  along  the  highway  toward  his  office.  The  young  man  had  been  standing  knee-  deep  in  bracken,  slashing  away  with  a  billhook  at  a  rough  bank;  he  worked  for  the  rural  district  council  on  the  roads.  Horace  had  glanced  at  him  as  he  drove  by,  indifferently  registering  his  pres-  ence,  as  though  young  Tupper  were  a  stone  or  a  haystack  by  the  roadside.  It  gave  him  a  strange  feeling  now  to  think  how  that  stone,  that  haystack,  was  looming  so  large  in  his  life.  The  parents,  keeping  themselves  well  in  hand,  had  asked  Rosalie  how  she     " b"happened  to  meet  George  Tupper  in  the  first  place,  for  as  far  as  they  knew,  the  young  couple  had  not  exchanged  a  word.  Then  it  had  come  out-the  first  casual  encounter,  the  long  deception.  Rosalie's  bicycle  tire  had  been  punctured,  and,  emerg-  ing  from  the  cow  parsley  like  antique  Love  rising  from  the  warm  Cyprian  sea,  George  Tupper  had  mended  it  for  her.  They  had  met  again  along  the  road  soon  afterward,  and  Rosalie  got  off  her  bi-  cycle  and  stopped  for  a  chat.  There  had  been  an  instant  attraction  be-  tween  them;  for  nearly  a  year  since  that  time  they  had  been  meeting  regu-  larly.  When  Rosalie  took  her  tennis  racket  and  went  off,  as  the  Les-  sings  understood,  to  play  singles  with  her  best  friend,  the  doctor's  daughter,  she  had  really  beengoing  to  meet  George  in  some  wood.  When  she  whistled  to  Christine's  two  cairn  terriers  and  strode  off  down  the  lane  in  her  tweed  skirt  and  jersey,  the  little  dogs  yapping  with  excitement  round  her  rather  large  but  seductive  legs,  she  had  been  less  intent  on  exercise  than  on  meeting  a  lover.  It  was  bad  luck,  Horace  had  grimly  reflected,  that  the  fellow  was  not  confined  between  four  walls  for  at  least  part  of  the  day,  but  he  worked  under  the  sky,  along  the  highroad,  among  the  common  nettles,  always  and  infernally  accessible.  The  Lessings  were  shaken  to  think  that  with  their  daughter  living  at  home,  at  such  close  quarters,  they  had  not  had  the  slightest  suspicion  anything  was  going  on.  They  were  badly  hurt  by  her  extraordinary  deceit,  for  they  had  believed  in  their  innocent  hearts  that  she  told  them  everything.  That  day,  when  she  did  at  last  tell  them,  they  had  asked  her  if  anyone  else  had  heard  about  it.  Rosalie  showed  her  lovely  strong  teeth  in  a  delightful  laugh.  &quot;I  don't  think  we've  even  been  seen  together,&quot;  she  said.  She  looked  as  candid  as  the  dawn  sky.  &quot;Thank  goodness,&quot;  Christine  said.  &quot;Everyone  will  know  soon,  of  course.  George  is  going  to  tell  his  mother  and  father  today,  too.&quot;  &quot;Well,  ask  them  to  keep  the-  the  information  to  themselves  for  the  time  being,&quot;  said  Horace  sharply.  He  had  boggled  at  the  word  &quot;news,&quot;  which  would  seem  to  give  an  official  ring  of  confirmation.  &quot;But  not  for  long,&quot;  Rosalie  pro-  tested.  &quot;We  want  to  get  married  as  soon  as  we  can.&quot;  &quot;Does  he  make  enough  to  keep  you  on?&quot;  her  father  had  then  asked.  \xc2\xabWell,  he's  thinking  of  changing  his  job.  We'd  geta  house  with  the  new  one.&quot;  &quot;'There's  a  lot  to  talk  over  first,&quot;  Christine  said.  Rosalie  had  looked  smilingly  from  one  to  the  other.  '''Talk  away!&quot;  she  said  amiably.  T  struck  Horace,  in  the  days  which  followed,  that  for  the  rest  of  his  life  he  would  feel  a  nagging  worry  when-  ever  he  smelled  the  sweet  odor  of  cook-  ing  fruit  and  sugar.  It  was  the  time  of  year  when  Christine  and  their  cook,  Harriet,  made  household  preserves,  and  every  evening  when  he  entered  the  house  and  hung  up  his  hat  in  the  hall,  he  met  the  warm  smell  of  hot  plum  jam  or  damson  cheese  or  crab-apple  jelly.  In  the  restless  energy  of  her  unhappiness,  Christine  was  making  jams  as  other  women,  also  wretched,  might  buy  new  clothes,  or  takea  lover,  or  go  off  on  a long,  uncomfortable  journey.  Horace  wondered  how  they  would  ever  eat  their  way  through  the  shelves  and  shelves  of  his  wife's  misery.  Rosalie  kept  herself  tactfully  out  of  the  way  much  of  the  time.  She  went  about  with  her  friends,  played  tennis,  joined  parties  to  go  swim-  ming  in  the  river  from  a  friend's  boat-  house,  and  they  heard  her  singing  and  whistling  merrily  when  she  was  at  home.  Horaceand  Christine  had  talked  without  ceasing,  in  these  fine  late-sum-  mer  days,  which  passed  in  anxiety  and  the  fragrance  of  jam  floating  from  the  kitchen.  Christine  would  come  out  into  the  hall,  fishing  in  the  pocket  of  her  purple-splashed  apron  for  her  package  of  cigarettes,  and  almost  immediately  they  would  start  their  discussion.  They  were  at  their  wit's  end.  In  their  circle,  people  did  not  marry  out  of  &quot;their  walk  of  life,&quot;  as  Christine  called  it.  When  she  said  the  phrase,  it  was  possible  to  imagine  that  she  was  thinking  about  a  neat,  tree-lined  avenue,  bordered  with  comfortable-lookinghouses  approxi-  mately  the  size  of  theLessings'  and  leading  on,  without  a  swerve  or  a  kink,  toward  a  placid  horizon.  The  world  had  changed,  as  Horace  was  ready  to  acknowledge,  but  it  had  not  changed  that  much.  The  Lessings  were  humili-  ated  when  they  imagined  the  comments  " b"of  their  friends  whose  daughters  had  not  chosen  to  look  over  the  hedge  and  fall  in  love  with  a  laborer.  They  strug-  gled  to  face  their  predicament  in  a  sensible,  modern  way,  but  the  painful  fact  remained  that  Rosalie  wished  to  marry  a  man  whose  father  could  neither  read  nor  write,  who  probably  read  noth-  ing  himself  but  the  football  pools,  and  whose  resources  in  all  ways  seemed  so  limited  that  Horace,  made  cynically  aware  of  the  frailty  of  human  nature  by  his  professional  experience,  could  only  shake  his  head  and  prophesy  dis-  aster.  When  he  and  Christine  thought  of  Rosalie  stuck  in  some  dreadful  cottage,  working  from  dawn  to  dusk  and  breed-  ing  like  a  rabbit,  no  doubt,  they  were  filled  with  horror.  Horace  had  suggested  to  Rosalie  that  George  Tupper  might  come  along  for  a  glass  of  sherry  one  evening.  He  told  her  that  Thursday  would  be  suitable,  hoping  she  would  not  instantly  detect  that  it  was  suitable  because  Harriet  on  that  day  always  crammed  herself  into  her  good  blue  costume,  took  her  um-  brella  with  the  bulldog's-head  handle,  and  half  a  dozen  eggs  in  a  cardboard  shoe  box,  and  went  on  the  bus  into  town  to  see  her  married  niece.  Horace  did  not  like  theidea  that  he  was  being  forced  to  be  deceitful,  too,  but  he  wanted  to  besure  that  there  would  be  no  gossip.  George  had  come.  He  had  put  on  a  neat  brown  suit  and  slicked  back  his  hair  with  water.  His  Adam's  apple  looked  as  though  it  were  uneasy  at  being  made  captive  by  a  collar  and  tie.  Horace  and  Christine  had  studied  him  with  intense  curiosity,  for  they  both  felt  that  his  face  as  they  remembered  it  must  be  an  im-  perfect  recollection,  and  that  the  reality  would  supply  them  with  clues  to  their  private  disaster.  'To  their  amazement,  as  they  agreed  afterward,  it  appeared  exactly  the  same.  He  was  really  an  or-  dinary-looking  young  man,  with  a  bumpy  forehead,  and  sandy  eyelashes  tipped  with  lighter  gold.  Red  had  called  to  red;  Rosalie's  beautiful,  clear,  Vene-  tian  coloring  had  attracted  George's  honest  ginger.  Horace,  while  he  rattled  nervously  about  at  the  tray  of  decanters  and  glasses,  had  found  himself  wonder-  ing  absently  about  their  children,  who  would  be  red  as  little  foxes.  &quot;Drink  up-you're  being  very  slow,&quot;  he'd  said,  and  young  Tupper  had  started,  and  then  thrown  the  sherry  down  his  throat  with  violence.  The  Lessings  had  hoped  that  the  sight  of  George  perhaps  appearing  to  less  advantage  in  the  surroundings  of  her  own  home  might  give  Rosalie  pause.  After  an  early  attack  of  fidgeting,  the  young  man  had  appeared  collected.  He  sat  munching  a  genteel  cocktail  biscuit.  His  hands  were  small  but  strong,  and  his  nails  were  dirty.  The  parents  looked  at  Rosalie.  She  was  gazing  at  her  lover  with  a  contented  smile.  Their  quietness  together,  which  seemed  to  be  full  of  certainty,  began  to  alarm  Horace.  He  asked  George  about  his  new  job.  'The  young  man  was  going  to  work  for  a  farmer  two  villages  away.  &quot;That's  a  very  sensible  idea,&quot;  Chris-  tine  said,  with  a  thin  smile.  &quot;I  hitched  up  with  him  on  account  of  him  offering  a  cottage,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;The  last  man  left  it  pretty  mucky  -his  wife  was  in  hospital  half  the  time-but  it's  mod-  ern.  Main  light  and  a  cesspool.&quot;   &quot;A  lovely  cesspool,&quot;  Rosalie  said.  George  laughed.  &quot;It  won't  be  too  bad  for  a  start,  Rozzie  thinks.  I'm  going  over  evenings  to  start  putting  it  right.&quot;  Christine  looked  at  Horace.  He  cleared  his  throat  and  made  a  dry  little  speech,  to  which  the  young  couple  lis-  tened  without  interrupting.  Then  George  had  said  calmly,  &quot;Well,  if  you  think  we  must  wait,  Mr.  Lessing,  I  reckon  there  isn't  anything  to  be  done  about  it.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  but  we  shall  never  give  our  consent,&quot;  Christine  said,  on  a  firm  note.  &quot;But  we'll  lose  the  cottage,&quot;  Rosa-  lie  wailed.  &quot;It's  for  a  married  man.  George  said  he  was  going  to  be  mar-  ried  soon.&quot;  &quot;Can't  be  helped,  Rozzie,&quot;  George  said.  He  seemed  entirely  unruffied.  Rosalie  went  with  him  to  the  gate,  and  stood  talking  busily  while  he  put  on  his  bicycle  clips.  Then  he  wheeled  out  his  bike  and  rode  away.  With  a  disturbing  serenity,  Rosalie  came  back  to  the  house,  humming  a  gay  little  tune.  IT  was  a  few  days  later,  while  Rosa-  lie  was  away  for  a  brief  visit  with  a  school  friend,  that  her  parents  had  de-  cided  to  go  and  have  a  straight  talk  with  the  Tuppers.  George  had  already  left  for  his  new  job.  Now,  as  they  drovealong  between  the  fragrant  hedge-  rows,  which  fanned  soft  puffs  of  intoxicating  sweetness  into  their  unheeding  faces,  Horace  tried  to  comfort  himself  with  the  thought  that  Tupper,  illiterate  old  man  though  he  was,  might  have  the  horse  sense  to  realize  better  than  his  son  that  there  was  nothing  doing.  If  George  and  Rosalie  waited  until  Rosalie  was  twen-  ty-one  and  legally  ofage,  then  Horace  would  have  to  wash  his  hands  of  them  both.  But  he  proposed  to  offer  to  help  George  emigrate-alone,  of  course.  Otherwise,  the  situation  would  be  per-  fectly  intolerable.  They  would  have  to  move  from  the  neighborhood  where  " b"they  were  so  well  liked  and  respected,  for  the  Tuppers  couldn't  be  trusted  to  keep  their  mouths  shut.  Old  Tup-  per  would  get  excited  one  night  and  startto  brag  in  the  Barley  Sheaf.  At  the  thought,  Horace  gave  a  loud,  ex-  asperated  grunt  and  sharply  struck  the  palm  of  his  left  hand  on  the  steering  wheel.  &quot;What?&quot;  said  Chris-  tine,  startled.  &quot;Oh,  nothing.  Here  we  are.&quot;  He  parked  the  car  close  to  the  ragged  hedge,  and  they  got  out  and  walked  up  the  path  to  the  Tuppers'  cottage.  One  or  two  hens  stopped  giving  back-  kicks  in  the  earth  un-  der  the  currant  bushes  and  gazed  at  the  visitors  inquisitively.  There  was  no  one  about;  the  rest  of  the  Tuppers'  sons  and  daughters  were  married  and  gone.  Horace  lifted  his  hand  and  rapped  sharply  on  the  door.  In  a  minute,  there  were  heavy  steps,  and  Mrs.  Tupper  opened  it.  &quot;Come  in,  Mrs.  Lessing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Good  eve-  ning,  Mr.  Lessing.  Come  in,  sir.&quot;  She  was  a  fat  woman  with  a  water-  fall  of  chins  tumbling  to  a  high,  full  bosom,  which,  in  its  exposed  upper  reaches,  looked  polished,  hard,  and  brown  as  walnut.  Christine  walked  quickly  past  her,  followed  by  Horace.  &quot;In  here,&quot;  Mrs.  Tupper  said.  &quot;Father's  in  the  kitchen.&quot;  She  opened  a  door  and  showed  them  into  the  little  front  best  room,  which  struck  cold  to  the  flesh  after  the  warm  evening  air  outside.  \xc2\xabWe'd  like  a  chat  with  you  and  Mr.  Tupper,&quot;  Christine  said  nervously.  &quot;He's  just  finished  his  tea.  I'll  get  him,&quot;  said  Mrs.Tupper.  She  left  the  room.  The  Lessings  sat  down,  side  by  side,  on  a  horsehair  sofa.  In  spite  of  the  fire-  place,  in  which  a  fan  of  orange  paper  was  crinkled  realistically,  the  smell  of  the  room  was  damp.  They  said  nothing  until  Mrs.  Tupper  returnedwith  her  husband.  Tupper  was  still  in  his  work-  ing  clothes,  and  resembled  a  stiff,  creak-  ing  parcel  tied  up  at  various  points  with  string.  He  was  wiping  his  mouth  with  the  back  of  his  hand.  &quot;Evening,  Mr.  Lessing,&quot;  he  said.  He  and  his  wife  sat  down  on  two  chairs  facing  the  Lessings.  The  room  was  so  narrow  that  the  four  of  them,  sitting  upright,  resembled  four  strangers  mistrustfully  eying  each  other  across  a  railway  carriage  that  had  got  shunted,  by  some  accident  of  travel,  into  a  siding.  Horace's  flannel-covered  knee  was  prac-  tically  touching  Tupper's  corduroy  one.  &quot;I  daresay  you  can  guess  why  we  want  to  see  you,&quot;  Horace  said.  &quot;About  our  George,&quot;  Tupper  said.  He  looked  slyly  from  Horace  to  Chris-  tine.  He  had  a  big,  streaky  gray  mus-  tache,  with  ginger  ends  that  looked  stained,  as  though  they  had  been  dipped  in  strong  tea.  His  forehead  was  bumpy  like  George's,  Christine  noticed  with  a  feeling  of  distaste.  Horace  began  to  speak.  The  Tuppers  listened  silently.  Mrs.  Tupper  had  adopted  what  was  evidently  a  habitual  attitude,  one  arm,  across  her  bosom,  supporting  the  elbow  of  her  other  arm,  and  the  fingers  of  the  supported  hand  splayed  to  the  side  of  her  cheek,  as  though  she  were  clapping  a  poultice  to  some  aching  spot  there.  &quot;Can't  say  as  how  we're  keen  on  it  neither,  Mr.  Lessing,&quot;  Tupper  said,  at  last,  when  Horace  paused  for  breath  and  looked  expectantly  at  him.  &quot;You're  not  keen?&quot;  Christine  said  sharply.  Mrs.  Tupper  shook  her  head  sadly,  still  propping  her  soft  cheek  and  chins  under  the  invisible  poultice.  &quot;Oh,  it  isn't  right,  is  it,  Father?&quot;  she  said,  looking  at  her  husband.  &quot;No,  it  isn't,&quot;  Tupper  said.  &quot;George  ought  to  have  known  bet-  ter.  That's  what  Father  and  me  thinks.&quot;  Horace  stammered  slightly  when  he  was  moved  or  angry.  Now,  with  that  hesitation  inhis  speech,  he  said  ironical-  ly,  &quot;I  should  have  thought  he  was  do-  ing  pr-pretty  well.&quot;  &quot;A  wife  makes  a  difference  to  a  boy  like  George,&quot;  Tupper  said.  &quot;Just  mak-  ing  his  way,  like,  and  your  girl-  well,  it  don't  do,  Mr.  Lessing.&quot;  Quelling  an  indignant  movement  from  Christine  with  a  warning  glance,  Horace  asked,  &quot;Then  I  take  it  you  haven't  told  anyone  yet?&quot;  &quot;Haven't  said  nothing  to  nobody,&quot;  Tupper  said.  &quot;We  don't  want  no  talk.&quot;  &quot;I  am  very  glad  indeed  that  you're  being  so  sensible,&quot;  Horace  said.  He  felt  perfectly  furious.  The  Lessings  talked  for  a  little  while  longer  before  getting  up  to  go.  Horace  had  finally  made  his  offer  to  help  George  emigrate.  &quot;So  you'll  tell  your  son  what  I've  said&quot;  were  his  parting  words.  &quot;You'll  do  your  best  to  make  him  see  reason?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Tupper  said.  He  shot  out  a  hand  and  took  hold  of  Horace's  blazer.  He  was  the  shorter  man  of  the  two,  and  " b"he  looked  up  into  Horace's  face  with  a  strange,  gentle  smile.  &quot;But  it  won't  do  no  good.  They'll  marry.&quot;  He  gave  the  pleat  of  dark-blue  blazer  a  little  shake.  \xc2\xabThey'll  marry,  sure  enough,  and  there  aren't  a  thing  to  be  said  that'll  stop  'em.&quot;  HORACE  and  Christine  climbed  into  the  Austin  and  drove  home.  On  the  way,  they  said  hardly  anything.  When  they  reached  the  house,  Christine  said  that  she  had  a  headache  and  would  go  upstairs  and  take  some  aspirin.  Hor-  ace,  after  he  had  put  the  car  in  the  garage,  wandered  rather  aimlessly  into  the  garden.  Everything  lookedvery  neat.  The  lawns  were  freshly  mown,  and  the  second  crop  of  roses  was  coming  into  flower.  Horace  loved  his  roses,  but  he  looked  at  them  abstractedly.  He  was  thinking  of  Tupper's  eyes  and  his  smile  as  he  said,  &quot;They'll  marry,  sure  enough.&quot;  And  suddenly  Horace  knew  that  Tupper  was  right  and  that  there  was  nothing  to  be  done.  He  gave  up.  He  had  beaten  his  head  against  the  hard  fact  in  vain,  refusing  to  believe  it,  until  a  stupid  old  man  had  taken  hold  of  him  by  the  coat,  and,  lo!  it  was  so.  Horace  looked  up  at  the  evening  sky,  which  looked  steadily  back,  appearing  to  say  &quot;Well?&quot;  And  really  he  did  not  know.  In  the  confusion  of  his  thoughts,     all  he  knew  for  certain  was  that  his  grandchildren  would  be  red  as  little  foxes,  playing  round  his  feet.  Poor  Christine  and  her  walk  of  life!  Rosalie  had  jumped  out  of  it,  all  right,  and  was  it  so  important?  He  felt  muddled  about  everything.  He  had  a  peculiar  feeling  when  he  thought  of  Rosalie  and  George.  Was  it  envy?  He  did  not  know  that,  either.  He  started  to  walk  round  his  well-kept  garden,  pausing  to  snip  off  a  flower  head  or  to  rub  a  scented  leaf  be-  tween  his  fingers,  postponing  the  mo-  ment  when  he  would  go  in  and  tell  Christine  that  she  must  dry  her  eyes  and  start  thinking  about  the  wedding.  "