 b"WHEN  one  exercises  his  inalien-  able  right  to  line  a  bureau  drawer  with  newspaper  on  a  humid  day  and  deposit  in  it  a  couple  of  freshly  ironed  shirts,  it's  a  cinch  the  resultant  decalcomania  on  his  bosom  will  eventually  elicit  comment  from  some  busybody  or  other.  I  was  at  my  optician's  the  other  morning,  myopical-  ly  waiting  for  him  to  finish  soldering  the  bridge  of  my  glasses,  when  he  broke  off  his  labors  and  leaned  closer.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said  with  the  relish  peo-  ple  invariably  evince  in  reporting  a  the-  atrical  debacle,  &quot;I  see  where  the  New  York  Post  didn't  exactly  rave  over  that  show  down  on  Second  [REDACTED],  'Girl  of  My  Dream.&quot;&quot;  &quot;Where'd  you  see  that?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;On  your  shirt,&quot;  he  replied  pleasant-  ly.  &quot;Like  me  to  read  it  to  you?&quot;  He  lifted  aside  my  cravat  for  a  better  view  and  removed  from  his  tongue  a  particle  of  solder  that  impeded  his  diction.  &quot;\xc2\xab  'Nobody,  I  suspect,  has  gotten,  or  is  going  to  get,  very  excited  about  the  plot  of  the  Yiddish  musical,  &quot;Girl  of  My  Dream,&quot;  closing  the  season  for  Edmund  Zayenda  and  Irving  Jacobson  at  the  Second  [REDACTED]  Theatre  this  week-  end,&quot;  &quot;  he  read.  &quot;  'The  story  of  the  air  pilot  lost  at  sea,  who  turns  up  as  a  mem-  ber  of  a  gypsy  band  with  amnesia,  is  pretty  old  hat.&quot;  The  next  part  is  kind  of  wrinkled  from  your  tie  clasp,  but  he  says  down  here,  '  &quot;Girl  of  My  Dream&quot;  is  not  going  to  start  any  innova-  tions  in  the  Yiddish  theatre.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Well,  it's  only  one  man's  opinion,&quot;  I  returned  shortly,  tucking  the  review  back  into  my  waistband.  &quot;The  idea  sounds  breezy  enough  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Me,  too,&quot;  he  concurred.  &quot;Say,  how  come  you  stencilled  that  on  your  shirt  front?  You  a  friend  of  the  critic?&quot;  &quot;No,  he  pays  me  to  do  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  a  sandwich  man  for  the  drama  critics.  Yesterday  I  had  on  a  plug  for  Brooks  Atkinson.&quot;  The  novelty  of  this  so  overwhelmed  him  that  I  finally  had  to  abandon  the  glasses  and  feel  my  way  home.  As  I  was  reversing  the  shirt,  though,  I  began  to  ponder  the  sum-  mary  of  the  plot,  and  it  struck  me  again  as  being  most  cavalier.  I  felt  that  the  idea  of  a  shipwrecked  airman  becoming  a  member  of  a  gypsy  band  with  amnesia,  far  from  being  d\xc3\xa9mod\xc3\xa9,  could  make  a  corking  musical  if  handled  right.  ('That  is,  if  only  the  pilot  had  amnesia;  if  the  whole  band  had  it,  as  the  Post  implied,  the  device  might  be  a  shade  unwieldy.)  After  all,  what  was  so  world-shaking  about  the  premise  of  a  romance  between  a  Navy  nurse  and  a  French  colonial  resident,  or  an  English  governess  and  a  Siamese  potentate?  Yet  each  of  these  was  the  basis  of  a  smash-  &quot;Hit  the  Deck&quot;  and  &quot;Chu  Chin  Chow.&quot;  In  oth-  er  words,  the  librettist  desirous  of  fash-  ioning  a  silk  purse  can  use  any  sow's  ear  that  presents  itself,  and,  buoyed  up  by  this  maxim,  I  have  been  formulating  a  tight,  workable  outline  that  grows  nat-  urally  out  of  the  original  situation.  In-  asmuch  as  the  Second  [REDACTED]  produc-  tion,  written  by  Joseph  Rumshinsky  and  William  Siegel,  snapped  shut  without  my  seeing  it,  any  resemblance  between  our  two  efforts  is,  of  course,  illusory;  in  fact,  I  have  deliberately  eschewed  all  standard  motifs  like  tambourines,  horse  thievery,  and  hidden  birthmarks  to  avoid  possible  conflict.  Nothing  could  be  fairer  than  that.  UR  opening  scene  must,  to  my  way  of  thinking,  have  a  nautical  tang,  with  a  locale  off  the  Balkan  coast  where-  ever  gypsies  tend  to  forgather-Dalma-  tia,  let  us  say.  On  the  horizon,  the  fa-  mous  blue  cliffs  of  Dalmatia  rise  sheer,  and  at  center  stage,  half  dead  from  ex-  posure  to  the  cruel  Dalmatian  sun,  lies  Speed  Wintringham  on  an  inflated  rub-  ber  raft.  From  his  rather  incoherent  soliloquy-a  futuristic  background  of  woodwinds  and  strings  suggests  that  the  exposition  may  really  be  going  on  in  his  head-we  gather  that  he  remem-  bers  bailing  out  of  his  plane  but  naught  else.  In  short,  a  good-look-  ing,  brawny  young  American  flier,  temporarily  discombobulated  but  not  medically  certifiable.  Just  as  his  hopes  of  rescue  are  dwindling,  afelucca  manned  by  gypsies  appears.  Their  presence  in  these  waters-or,  in-  deed,  in  any  waters-may  take  a  bit  of  justification,  as  gypsies  are  not  notably  a  seafaring  folk;  however,  we  weave  in  some  skillful  allusion  or  other  to  their  inherent  restlessness,  their  hatred  of  fet-  ters,  and  package  it  in  a  ringing  chorale  wherein  they  joyously  pound  their  canis-  ters  on  the  gunwales,  and  the  audience  won't  have  time  to  speculate.  You  never  let  grass  grow  under  your  feet  on  such  occasions.  In  a  musical  I  once  helped  confect  that  perished  in  [REDACTED],  the  actors  paused  to  explain  how  some  Thracian  hoplites  had  strayed  into  Dolores  Gray's  bedroom.  When  they  looked  up,  they  had  an  unobstructed  view  of  the  interior  of  the  Erlanger  Theatre  clear  back  to  Chadds  Ford.  Even  the  candy  concessionaires  had  vanished.  Anyhow,  hanging  over  the  ship's  rail,  and  a  veritable  orchid  among  thistles,  is  a  lovely  ash-blond  vision  named  Darleen,  whose  blouse  continually  slips  off  her  shoulders-a  good  comedy  touch  and  highly  authentic  costumewise  in  a  ,  nomad  lass.  Darleen  is,  supposedly,  the  daughter  of  the  gypsy  chieftain,  Stanis-  las,  but  in  the  confusion  of  hauling  Speed  aboard,  chafing  his  wrists,  and  re-  viving  him  with  fiery  Dalmatian  brandy  we  plant  that  there  is  something  fishy  about  the  girl's  actual  origin.  I  mean  just  a  glancing  reference,  like  spurts  of  revulsion  at  her  companions'  mentality  and  table  manners,  little  signs  of  fas-  tidiousness  that  will  pay  off  plotwise  later  on.  One  hinge  at  Speed  and,  need-  less  to  say,  Darleen  falls.  She  sings  &quot;My  Heart  Floats  Up,&quot;  aballad  that  subtly  combines  love's  yearning  with  the  sea,  our  common  mother..  While  not  wed-  ded  to  the  lyric  thatfollows,  I  believe  it  will  serve  as  a  beacon:  Out  where  the  whelks  and  starfish  crawl,  Amid  the  sea  wrack  and  the  combers,  I  found  apearl  in  my  deep-sea  haul  That  spells  one  of  Cupid's  diplomas.  My  heart  floats  up  when  I  discern  A  castaway  so  taciturn.  I'll  nurse  and  tend  you,  mend  you,  bend  you,  Rend  you,  send  you  from  my  orbit  never-  more.  Speed,  as  yet,  is  too  bushed  to  return  Darleen's  love,  and  hovers  between  life  and  death  (it  might  be  preferable,  for  the  sake  of  more  squeamish  patrons,  to  have  him  hover  offstage),  but  mean-  while  Zilboor,  a  darkly  handsome  young  gypsy  who  has  long  craved  the  girl,  starts  resenting  the  newcomer  and  musically  plots  his  destruction.  This  is  an  ideal  opportunity  for  an  imaginative  dream  sequence  in  which  Zilboor  en-  visions  himself  bowstringing  Speed  and  being  hounded  by  the  devils  of  remorse.  Actually,  the  rivalry  theme  is  an  in-  genious  subterfuge  on  our  part,  because  once  itis  built  up,  we  never  refer  to  it  again.  The  next  scene  introduces  a  dis-  tinct  change  of  pace.  The  setting  is  pres-  ent-day  New  York-an  exclusive  dis-  count  house  on  West  Forty-seventh  Street,  one  of  those  establishments  that  sell  toasters,  radios,  waffle  irons,  and  similar  appliances,  where  Gotham's  so-  cially  elect  converge  to  exchange  gossip  and  seek  bargains.  Speed's  mother,  a  grande  dame  descended  from  early  Dutch  patroons,  has  come  here  to  buy  an  egg  timer,  and  encounters  a  bridge  friend  she  has  not  seen  for  years.  Their  conversation  reveals  that  Speed,  only  heir  to  a  great  real-estate  fortune  and  betrothed  to  Bibi  Witherspoon,  a  lead-  ing  d\xc3\xa9butante,  tired  of  his  playboy  exist-  ence  a  few  months  before  and  took  a  job  with  an  obscure  Greek  airline.  Mrs.  Wintringham  voices  fears  for  his  safety,  " b"knowing  that  he  flies  one  of  the  world's  most  treacherous  routes,  the  Dalmatian  run.  She  wishes  he  would  return  home,  wed  Bibi,  and  head  up  his  father's  manifold  realty  ven-  tures.  What  she  doesn't  suspect  is  that  Speed  is  in  [REDACTED]  at  this  very  moment.  The  gypsies,  chafing  under  tyranny,  have  migrated  thither  and  are  en-  camped  in  a  store  on  Eighth  [REDACTED].  While  Darleen  tells  fortunes  and  tenderly  ministers  to  Speed,  still  convales-  cent  on  a  pallet  in  the  back  room,  Stanislas  and  the  others  strive  to  gaina  foothold  in  the  New  World  by  mark-  ing  cards,  playing  the  handkerchief  switch,  and  glomming  laundry  off  the  lines.  A  good  contrast  here  between  a  primitive,  unspoiled  people  and  the  staccato  dynamism  of  the  me-  tropolis  engulfing  them.  It  can  be  musically  underlined  or  not,  as  the  case  may  be.  HE  plot  now  goes  into  high  gear.  Bud  Zapotecky,  a  fledglingtheat-  rical  agent,  has  been  combing  the  town  for  a  blond  gypsy  singer  to  star  in  a  forth,  coming  ice  show.  Frustrated  at  every  turn,  he  is  wending  his  melancholy  way  homeward  down  Eighth  [REDACTED]-we  have  established  that  he  lives  on  Varick  Street-when  he  hears  Darleen's  glori-  ous  soprano  issuing  from  the  store.  Her  glowing  beauty  surpasses  his  anticipa-  tions;  this  is  the  girl  for  the  role.  What  is  more,  he  falls  desperately,  hopelessly  in  love  with  her,  and  declares  it  in  a  number  I  provisionally  call  &quot;'You're  the  Answer  to  My  Unremitting  Quest.&quot;  The  words  are  flexible  enough  to  be  rearranged  in  almost  any  way  required:  Cortez  sought  everywhere  for  gold,  And  Peary  the  Pole  in  unimaginable  cold,  Ehrlich  the  pallid  spirochete  unfroze,  And  I  found  you  under  my  very  nose.  Through  deepest  gloom,  like  Speke  and  Mungo  Park,  I've  followed  your  chimera  in  the  dark.  No  trophy  could  compare  with  you,  I  want  to  share  my  lair  with  you,  Dispel  my  every  care  with  you  and  then  let  down  my  hair  with  you,  My  lovely  meadow  lark.  Darleen,  seizing  on  a  mummer's  career  as  a  means  of  procuring  Speed  the  delicacies  he  needs  to  get  well  (his  character,  incidentally,  seems  to  be  de-  veloping  into  the  most  valetudinarian  in  the  history  of  show  business),  gives  up  her  palmistry  and  begins  rehearsals.  As  a  result,  the  gypsies  fall  into  arrears  on  theirrent,  and  the  landlord-i.e.,  Speed's  own  father-hastens  down  to  evict  them.  The  sight  of  Mr.  Wintring-  ham  instantly  restores  his  son's  memory,  but  the  joyful  reunion  curdles  when  the  elder  learns  that  the  boy  worships  Dar-  leen.  Threatening  todisinherit  him  if  he  does  not  accede,  he  hales  Speed  off  to  marry  Bibi  Witherspoon,  andAct  I  ends  withDarleen,  broken-hearted,  sobbing  in  her  agent's  arms.  Thus  far,  it  must  be  admitted,  Speed's  part  in  the  story  has  consisted  mainly  of  hollow  groans,  and  it  may  not  be  easy  to  find  an  actor  of  the  first  magnitude  to  play  him.  We  might  have  to  draw  on  someone  of  the  second,  or  even  cut  the  part  altogether,  if  this  can  be  done  without  weakening  the  structure.  IME  has  wrought  substantial  changes  by  the  opening  of  Act  II.  Overnight,  Darleen's  ethereal  loveli-  ness  has  captivated  blas\xc3\xa9  playgoers,  and  she  is  ensconced  as  the  reigning  star  of  [REDACTED]-a  bitter  triumph,  for  the  personable  young  birdman  remains  ever  verdant  in  her  thoughts.  A  poignant  scene  this,  in  her  dressing  room,  as  she  stares  into  a  mirror  and  sings  &quot;I  Have  a  Plenitude  of  Everything  but  You,&quot;  a  panorama  of  lovers'  tribulations  through  the  ages.  Deftly  woven  into  the  lyric  are  famous  attachments  paralleling  hers,  such  as  those  of  Jubilee  Jim  Fisk  and  Josie  Mansfield,  Blazes  Boylan  and  Molly  Bloom,  Swann  and  Odette,  etc.  As  for  Bud  Zapotecky,  now  the  ranking  agent  of  theatredom  and  still  her  ardent  slave,  Darleen  cannot  bring  herself  to  accept  him,  fearing  he  loves  her  merely  for  her  commissions.  She  intimates  this  to  him  musically  that  evening  in  &quot;Is  It  the  Girl  or  the  Client  You  Love?,&quot;  when  they  dine  vis-a-vis  at  an  ace  nitery.  The  mood  of  the  song  is  lightly  mocking,  but  underneath  runs  a  vein  of  seriousness:  Ten  per  cent  of  me  is  yours,  By  legal  ties  we're  bound,  Yet  though  the  repetition  of  it  bores,  An  ounce  is  but  a  fraction  of  a  pound.  I'll  pay  my  debt  of  gratitude,  I'll  speak  of  you  with  all  esteem,  To  you  I  owe  my  clothes  and  food,  But  love?  You  must  not  dream  this  dream.  Hence,  by  cleverly  blending  our  story  elements  we  have  now  brought  about  an  impasse  that  will  require  ingenuity  aplenty  to  resolve.  Zapotecky  pro-  vides  the  key.  Realizing  he  stands  be-  " b"tween  Darleen's  happiness,  he  goes  to  Bibi  Witherspoon,  who  he  has  reason  to  believe  nurses  ambitions  of  becoming  a  night-club  songstress,  and  proposes  to  her.  Avid  for  success,  she  breaks  her  engagement  to  Speed,  and,  without  quite  knowing  how  it  happened-though  we  know-the  lovers  are  reunited.  Then,  thunderclapwise,  comes  the  revelation  of  Darleen's  birthright  that  smooths  the  path  to  marriage.  Stanislas,  stabbed  in  a  gypsy  fray  offscene,  confesses  she  is  not  his  child  but  the  daughter  ofa  [REDACTED]  flour  titan,  abducted  from  the  latter's  yacht  in  theAdriatic.  'The  Wintringhams  extend  their  heartfelt  blessing  to  the  nuptials,  and  the  curtain  falls  on  a  glittering  wedding  reception  at  which  gypsies  rub  elbows  with  the  haut  monde.  F  course,  a  bare  outline  can't  possi-  bly  convey  the  effervescence  and  sparkle  the  show  would  haveopening  night;  there  are  myriad  opportunities  for  boffs-for  instance,  in  a  scene  where  some  Thracian  hoplites  get  into  Dar-  leen's  bedroom  by  mistake.  What  it  needs  now  is  sponsorship-a  group  of  investors  willing  to  gamble  forty  or  fifty  thousand  to  subsidize  one  while  he  works  out  the  intricacies.  IfI  were  to  accept  the  task-mind  you,  I'm  not  say-  ing  I  would,  unless  I  had  the  money  in  five-dollar  bills,  say-I'd  fly  over  to  the  Dalmatian  coast,  spend  a  month  or  two  trying  to  get  the  feel  of  the  thing,  and  then  keep  right  on  going.  I  don't  think  the  script  ought  to  be  readied  for  next  season  anyway.  Better  to  skip  a  year  or  two,  until  the  critical  fraternity  begins  hungering  for  a  good  gypsy  musical.  You'll  get  intimations  of  it  when  the  time  is  ripe.  Just  keep  an  eye  on  the  drama  columns-or,  better  still,  my  shirt.  "