 b"Mr. Blanchard turned  the  switch  of  the  automatic  coffee-  maker  that  stood  on  the  night  table  between  the  twin  beds.  His  wife  was  still  sleeping  so  soundly  that  he  de-  cided  to  shave  and  bathe  before  bringing  the  Sunday  paper  to  the  bedroom  and  raising  the  Venetian  blinds.  When  he  was  ready  to  get  the  paper,  he  found  her  rearranging  her  pillows  to  form  a  back  rest,  so  that  she  could  read  and  sip  her  coffee  in  comfort.  &quot;Going  to  get  it  right  away,&quot;  he  told  her,  in  domestic  code,  and  she  smiled  companionably.  Mrs.  Blanchard,  an  extremely  attractive  woman,  was  wear-  ing  a  negligee  of  lacy  wool  lined  with  chiffon.  Mr.  Blanchard  was  less  fastidi-  ously  attired  in  a  frayed  old  terry-cloth  robe.  He  tookonlya  mild  interest  in  matters  of  dress,  and  while  he  always  clothed  himself  neatly  and  presentably  for  the  office  and  for  evenings  on  the  town  with  Mrs.  Blanchard,  the  few  articles  inhis  wardrobe  that  he  really  cherished  were  the  items  for  outdoor  wear  he  had  bought  by  mail  order  from  L.  L.  Bean,  of  Freeport,  [REDACTED].  As  Mr.  Blanchard  was  picking  up  the  massive  Sunday  paper  from  the  doormat,  the  idea  of  playing  a  genial  joke  on  his  wife  occurred  to  him-an  I  idea  so  compelling  that  he  was  impatient  to  put  it  into  execution.  Departing  from  his  established  custom  of  glancing  briefly  at  the  headlines  and  then  appro-  priating  the  sports  section  and  the  com-  ics  for  leisurely  perusal,  he  now  chose  the  bulky  first  section  for  himself  and,  charmed  with  his  plan,  carried  the  re-  mainder  of  the  paper  to  his  wife,  propped  him-  self  against  the  pillows  of  his  own  bed,  and  ac-  cepted  a  cup  of  coffee.  Then  he  pretended  to  become  deeply  en-  grossed  in  the  first  sec-  tion  of  the  paper.  &quot;I  seem  to  have  the  sports  and  com-  ics  over  here,  and  you  seem  to  have  the  whole  first  section  over  there,&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  said,  manifestly  puzzled.  Mr.  Blanchard  ignored  her.  He  turned  the  pages  slowly,  reading  with  seemingly  rapt  concentration.  &quot;Aber-  crombie  is  showing  colored  shirts  of  oxford  cloth  with  button  cuffs  and  button-down  collars,&quot;  he  murmured  in  a  thoughtful  tone.  &quot;''They  have  them  in  canary,  pink,  blue,  tan,  and  gray.  I  must  remember  to  get  over  there  and     look  at  them  the  first  thing  in  the  morn-  [REDACTED];  &quot;If  there's  one  thing  you  don'tneed,  it's  shirts,&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  said  with  decision.  &quot;I  looked  through  your  shirt  drawer  only  the  other  day,  and  it's  chock-full.  The  ones  on  top  are  always  going  to  and  from  the  laundry,  and  un-  derneath  them  there  must  be  a  dozen  or  more  shirts  I  don't  believe  you  ever  even  touch.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  I  could  wear  yellow,  but  I  can't,&quot;  Mr.  Blanchard  brooded.  &quot;It  makes  me  look  absolutely  foul.  Besides,  I  don't  own  a  single,  solitary  thing  I'd  be  happy  wearing  a  canary-colored  shirt  with.&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  frowned.  &quot;Yel-  low?&quot;  she  said,  &quot;Why  are  you  so  anxious  to  wear  something  yellow?  It  wouldn't  be  right  for  you  at  all.  And  why  are  you  talking  in  that  silly,  af-  fected  voice?&quot;  Mr.  Blanchard  turned  a  page.  &quot;At  last!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  lightweight  shirt  of  sheer  batiste  madras!  The  button-down  collar  has  an  arched  flare  and  there's  a  center  back  pleat  to  give  greater  free-  dom.  The  wretched  part  about  it  is  it's  advertised  by  a  shop  on  East  Forty-  fifth  Street  where  we  don't  have  a  charge.&quot;  A  look  of  comprehension  came  into  Mrs.  Blanchard's  eyes.  She  seemed  only  moderately  amused.  &quot;Oh,  look!&quot;  Mr.  Blanchard  cried,  in  a  tone  of  spurious  rapture.  &quot;An  ab-  solutely  luscious  Irish  crash-linenjacket  made  of  nubbly  unbleached  yarns!  It's  tailored  with  double-swelled  edges,  lower  flapped  patch  pockets,  and  either  deep-hooked  or  side  vents,  and  it's  only  thir-  ty-nine  fifty.  Why,  they're  practically  giv-  ing  them  away!&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  you  think  you're  being  hilariously  funny,&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  said  with  tol-  erant  good  humor,  either  real  or  simu-  lated.  &quot;I  don't  talk  like  that  and  you  know  it!&quot;  &quot;The  Rogers  Peet  people  are  really  awfully  clever  when  it  comes  to  rain-  coats,&quot;  Mr.  Blanchard  mused  admir-  ingly.  &quot;Guess  what  they've  done!  They've  brought  out  a  Byrd-cloth  rain-  coat  that's  cut  like  a  topcoat,  with  rag-  lan  shoulders,  a  cotton  poplin  checked  lining,  and  a  rayon  shoulder  yoke.  In  tan,  at  thirty-five  ninety-five.  I  be-  " b"lieve  I'll  ask  them  to  let  me  try  one  on.  I  wouldn't  necessarily  have  to  buy  it.&quot;  &quot;Stop  being  foolish  and  let  me  have  the  first  section,&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  com-  manded  briskly,  apparently  feeling  the  time  had  come  for  Mr.  Blanchard  to  terminate  his  venture  into  parody.  &quot;Here  arethe  parts  you  want.&quot;  Without  even  bothering  to  turn  his  head,  Mr.  Blanchard  waved  away  the  sports  section  and  the  comics.  &quot;Listen  to  this!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  &quot;Here's  a  shop  that's  showing  Orlon  tropical  suits  tai-  lored  with  the  traditional  natural  shoul-  ders,  three  front  buttons  on  the  coat,  small  lapels,  regular  pockets  and  flaps,  a  ten-inch  hook  vent,  no  front  dart,  a  lap  seam,  and  plain-front  trousers  tapering  from  a  twenty-one-inch  knee  to  an  eighteen-inch  bottom.  'They  come  in  the  most  heavenly-sounding  colors,  too.  Do  you  think  Bar  Harbor  Tan  would  be  right  for  me,  or  would  you  be  more  in  favor  of  a  Glen  plaid?  The  plaids  come  in  a  tan  ground  with  a  red  overcheck  and  a  gray  ground  with  a  blue  overcheck.  Personally,  I  think  the  gray  with  a  blue  overcheck  sounds  darl43616e616461;  &quot;Your  coffee's  getting  cold,&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  said  shortly,  and  Mr.  Blanchard  took  a  couple  of  swigs  in  a  hasty,  abstracted  manner  before  return-  ing  to  the  advertisements.  &quot;Mmm-I  wonder,&quot;  he  mur-  mured,  sounding  preoccupied  and  wor-  ried.  &quot;Should  I  or  shouldn't  I?&quot;  &quot;Should  you  or  shouldn't  you  what?&quot;  Mrs.  Blanchard  asked,  with  a  manifest  lack  of  interest.  &quot;Get  a  dinner  coat  of  pure-white  Italian  silk,&quot;  Mr.  Blanchard  said.  &quot;I  really  think  I  should,  you  know.  It's  only  sixty-five  dollars,  and  besides  I  honestly  believe  it's  something  I  could  use.  With  it,  I'd  have  to  wear  a  ter-  rifically  gay  cummerbund  and  tie,  of  course,  because  unrelieved  white  tends  to  make  me  look  older  than  I  actual-  ly  am.&quot;  MRS.  BrancHaro  made  a  swift  but  abortive  grab  for  the  first  section.  Hugging  it  tightly  to  his  chest,  Mr.  Blanchard  blinked  at  his  wife.  &quot;Tell  me  I'm  pretty,&quot;  he  said,  pouting.  &quot;You  never  tell  me  I'm  pretty  any  more.&quot;  &quot;'You're  very  ugly  and  very,  very  unfunny,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  good!&quot;  he  said  with  enthusi-  asm.  &quot;'That  gives  me  a  perfect  excuse  to  go  spend  a  couple  of  hundred  bucks  at  Elizabeth  Arden's!&quot;  Again  Mrs.  Blanchard  swooped,  this  time  successfully.  Her  husband  allowed " b"her  to  retain  her  prize  and  collected  the  parts  ofthe  paper  with  which  he  ordinarily  began  his  Sunday-morning  reading.  For  a  minute  or  two,  he  re-  frained  from  burrowing  into  the  sports  section,  because  he  wanted  to  hear  her  begin  her  comments  on  McCutcheon  blouses,  Abercrombie  'beach  clothes,  Peck  &amp;  Peck  sweaters,  and  other  such  offerings.  The  fact  that  she  said  noth-  ing  at  all  made  him  chuckle  privately  and  decide  that  his  experiment  with  satire  not  only  had  been  a  lark  but  might  result  in  restraining  her  from  planning  to  visit  an  inordinate  number  of  shops  in  the  week  to  come.  Presently  he  became  absorbed  in  the  experts'  pre-  dictions  about  the  forthcoming  Forest  Hills  matches.  While  he  was  thus  engaged,  the  word  &quot;economical&quot;  intruded  into  his  thoughts  and  somehow  spoiled  the  sense  of  what  he  was  reading.  Then  he  real-  ized  that  Mrs.  Blanchard  was  speaking  to  him,  and  that  she  was  stressing  the  word.  &quot;Really  more  so  than  any  other  kind,&quot;  she  was  saying.  &quot;In  the  long  run,  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  Mr.  Blanchard  asked.  &quot;Mink,&quot;  she  said  animatedly.  &quot;The  August  fur  sales.  Mink  has  such  won-  derful  wearing  qualities  that  it  literally  lasts  for  years.  Last  winter,  you  know,  I  told  you  I  didn't  want  one.  It  seemed  so  awfully  expensive.  But  now  that  I've  thought  the  thing  through  I  real-  ize  it's  going  to  be  a  mecessity.&quot;  It  oc-  curred  to  Mr.  Blanchard  that  his  wife  sounded  both  joyous  and  terrifyingly  resolute.  &quot;My  only  problem  is  that  I  can't  seem  to  decide  whether  a  stole  or  a  cape  would  be  more  useful.  Last  winter,  if  I'd  had  to  decide,  I'd  have  been  slightly  more  in  favor  of  a  stole.  Now  I  think  I'm  slightly  more  in  favor  of  a  cape.  Thank  goodness  I  don't  have  to  make  up  my  mind  definitely  until  tomorrow,  when  the  shops  open.  I  can  be  thinking  about  it  all  day  to-  day.&quot;  Morosely,  Mr.  Blanchard  studied  some  rather  blurred  pictures  of  tennis  players  in  action.  Kidding  Mrs.  Blan-  chard  hadn't  been  such  a  hot  idea,  after  all.  And  demanding  passionately,  at  the  office,  that  his  vacation  be  scheduled  for  February  or  March,  so  that  he  and  Mrs.  Blanchard  could  take  a  winter  cruise,  had  been  a  mistake,  too.  Any  man  in  his  right  mind  would  try  to  get  out  of  New  York  in  August.  A  terrible  month!  But  as  Mr.  Blanchard  continued  to  review  his  defeat,  he  decided  that  pos-  sibly  it  wasn't  so  much  that  August  is  a " b'terrible  month  to  be  in  town  as  that  husbands  and  wives  can  entertain  quite  different  ideas  about  what  constitutes  rich  comedy. '