 b"MY  grandmother,  like  Michelan-  M  gelo,  had  terribilita.  She  had  a  driving  will,  she  would  not  be  balked,  and  whatever  she  did  was  de-  signed  to  strike  the  spectator  with  awe.  She  was  also  something  ofa  stick.  She  rarely  spoke  to  anyone  who  was  not  of  her  own  social  station,  and  she  received  guests  formally  withher  breasts  com-  pletely  bare.  Even  in  her  time,  women  were  growing  lax  about  this  custom,  in  Malabar.  But  my  grandmother  insisted  on  it.  She  thought  that  married  women  who  wore  blouses  and  pretty  saris  were  Jezebels;  in  her  view,awife  who  dressed  above  her  waist  could  only  be  aiming  at  adultery.  My  grandmother  had  several  sons  who  obeyed  her  and  one  who  did  not-  my  father.  He  had  been  sent  to  [REDACTED]  to  take  the  degree  of  Bachelor  of  Medi-  cine.  He  applied  himself  to  medicine  but  found  being  a  bachelor  less  to  his  liking.  He  fell  in  love  with  alady  of  celebrated  Irish  beauty  and  married  her.  He  settled  in  [REDACTED]  and  there,  some  two  years  later,  I  was  born.  My  grandmother  took  no  notice  of  my  existence  until  I  was  twelve  years  old,  when  she  suddenly  demanded  that  I  be  brought  and  shown  to  her.  On  the  arrival  of  her  message  I  was  inconti-  nently  taken  by  my  parents  half  across  the  earth,  from  [REDACTED]  to  south  of  Calicut.  When  my  grandmother  heard  that  my  mother  intended  to  come,  she  gave  orders  for  a  special  house  to  be  put  in  repair  for  my  mother's  ac-  commodation.  It  was  on  the  farthest  confines  ofthe  family  property.  This  was  her  solution  of  a  difficult  problem:  My  mother,  being  foreign,  was  ritually  unclean,  and  therefore,  whenever  she  entered  the  family  house,  she  would  defile  it.  The  house  would  have  to  be  puri-  fied  each  time,  and  so  would  every  caste  Hindu  in  it.  It  followed  logically  that  if  my  mother  stayed  in  the  house,  it  would  be  continually  in  a  state  of  defilement,  and  continually  in  a  state  of  being  ritual-  ly  cleaned.  Since  this  ceremony  involved  drums  and  conch  shells,  my  mother's  visit  foreshadowed  a  prolonged  uproar.  All  this  was  avoided  by  putting  her  up  in  aseparate  building,  to  which  we  were  conducted  on  our  arrival.  My  father  stayed  there  with  us  for  a  while,  but  he  was  soon  called  away  on  urgent  affairs  of  his  own  and  could  play  no  part  in  the  battle  that  followed.  I  cannot  say  that  my  grandmother  was  rude  to  my  mother,  though  she  never  referred  to  her  by  name  but  al-  ways  as  &quot;the  Englishwoman.&quot;  This  is  not  necessarily  an  insulting  expression,  but  my  mother  has  Irish  blood  in  her  veins,  and,  what  with  this  and  the  iso-  lated  house  and  some  other  pinpricks  in  our  first  week's  stay,  her  temper  rose.  She  ordered  a  quantity  of  medical  stores  from  Calicut,  ard  when  they  arrived  she  set  up  a  free  dispensary  on  the  veranda,  to  which  the  peasants  flocked.  It  was  an  admirably  devised  counter-  stroke.  My  grandmother  had  shut  the  door  in  my  mother's  face;  she  now  had  the  galling  experience  of  seeing  my  mother  industriously  cleaning  up  the  doorstep.  As  my  mother  well  knew,  each  drop  ofiodine  she  dispensed  stung  not  only  the  grateful  patient  but  also  my  grandmother's  conscience.  My  grandmother  brooded  for  a  few  days  and  then  sent  my  mother  a  bag  of  golden  sovereigns.  My  mother  sent  it  back,  taking  it  to  be,  at  the  worst,  a  bribe  to  desist  or,  at  the  best,  a  tip.  She  was  wrong.  It  was  a  peace  offering.  The  sovereigns  were  sent  again  next  day,  accompanied  by  the  family  goldsmith,  who  sat,  slept,  and  ate  on  the  veranda  for  a  week,  during  which  he  made  them  (with  tweezers  and  a  charcoal  fire)  into  a  great  gold  collar  that  my  mother  still,  on  occasion,  wears.  When,  fourteen  years  earlier,  my  father  had  written  from  [REDACTED]  to  say  that  he  was  getting  married  to  a  white  woman,  my  grandmother  was  far  from  giving  the  union  her  blessing.  But  it  would  be  wrong  to  say  that  she  objected  to  it.  If  an  American  boy  of  twenty-two  wrote  home  from  foreign  parts  to  say  that  he  had  taken  to  cannibalism,  his  parents  would  not  object;  they  would  be  so  revolted  that  a  mere  objection  would  never  meet  the  case.  My  grandmother  had  never  met  the  English,  but  she  knew  all  about  them.  She  knew  they  were  tall,  fair,  given  to  strong  drink,  and  good  soldiers,  and  that  they  had  conquered  her  native  country.  She  also  knew  that  they  were  incurably  dirty  in  their  per-  sonal  habits.  She  respected  them  but  wished  they  would  keep  their  distance.  It  was  very  much  the  way  a  Roman  ma-  tron  must  have  looked  upon  the  Goths.  My  father's  eldest  brother  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  for  two  years,  and  on  one  occa-  sion,  in  my  presence,  he  spoke  up  for  the  English.  He  told  his  mother  that  while  the  Hindus  were  undoubtedly  the  most  civilized  race  on  earth  and  had  been  civilized  a  thousand  years  before  the  English,  nevertheless  the  English  were  now  the  masters  of  the  Hindus.  My  grandmother's  reply  to  this  was  that  the  English  were  masters  of  the  Hindus  only  because  &quot;no-  body  would  listen  to  us.&quot;  By  this  she  meant  that  our  family,  along  with  others  of  the  same  caste,  had  strongly  objected  to  Vasco  da  Gama's  being  allowed  to  land  in  Calicut.  They  had,  in  fact,  done  their  best  to  get  him  and  his  sailors  massacred,  but  the  country  was  not  be-  hind  the  plan,  and  he  escaped.  Every-  thing,  my  grandmother  argued,  not  without  reason,  had  started  then.  However,  her  chief  complaint  was  that  the  English  were  dirty,  and  this  was  rather  a  poser  for  my  uncle.  When  she  asked  if,  like  decent  people,  they  took  a  minimum  of  two  baths  a  day,  my  uncle,  who  could  not  lie  to  his  mother  without  committing  a  disgraceful  sin,  said,  well,  no,  buta  few  took  one  bath  and  the  habit  was  spreading.  He  could  go  no  further  than  that,  though  he  added  that  my  grandmother  should  re-  member  [REDACTED]  had  a  cold  climate.  This  she  loyally  did,  and  when  she  dis-  cussed  with  me  the  question  of  bathing,  she  was  able  to  treat  it  lightly,  as  one  does  the  disgusting  but  rational  liking  of  the  Eskimos  for  eating  blubber.  As  for  English  eating,  she  did  not  have  all  the  usual  Hindu  prejudices.  She  did  not  think  it  strange  that  they  ate  ham  and  beef;  the  outcaste  hill  tribes,  called  Todas,  who  made  the  family's  straw  mats  and  cleaned  the  latrines,  ate  anything.  She  was  not  disturbed,  either,  about  the  religion  ofthe  English,  once  my  uncle  had  assured  her  that  they  had  practically  none.  Their  manners,  how-  ever,  she  abominated.  If  shedid  not  mind  their  eating  meat,  she  considered  their  way  of  eating  it  beyond  the  pale  of  decent  society.  In  her  home,  each  person  ate  his  meal  separately,  pref-  erably  in  a  secluded  corner.  The  thought  that  English  people  could  sit  opposite  each  other  and  watch  each  other  thrust  food  into  their  mouths,  masticate,  and  swallow  it  made  my  grandmother  wonder  if  there  was  any-  thing  that  human  beings  would  not  do  when  left  to  their  own  devices.  She  was  not  surprised  to  hear,  there-  fore,  that  in  [REDACTED]  a  woman  could  have  more  than  one  husband,  particu-  larly  (and  this  was  the  crowning  para-  dox)  if  she  was  a  widow.  To  the  day  of  her  death,  my  grandmother  never  understood  how  people  could  call  them-  selves  civilized  and  yet  allow  widows  to  marry  again.  For  her,  the  very  founda-  tion  stone  of  society  was  that  a  child  should  have  only  one  father.  Nobody  ever  dared  her  wrath  sufficiently  to  ex-  plain  the  position  of  women  in  English  society.  She  was  intensely  proud  of  the  standards  of  her  house,  and  she  per-  " b"mitted  nolewd  talk  to  defile  them.  Against  this  back-  ground,  then,  my  grand-  mother's  peace  offering  was  a  substantial  victory  for  my  mother,  especially  since  the  gold  collar  the  goldsmith  had  been  told  to  make  was  the  charac-  teristic  jewelry  of  a  Mal-  abar  bride.  The  way  was  now  open  for  me.  I  could  go  and  see  my  grandmother.  I  had  waited  about  three  weeks.  HAD  many  meetings  with  my  grandmoth-  er-a  dozen,  perhaps,  each  of  an  hour's  length,  and  at  the  end  of  the  set  time  I  would  be  courte-  ously  dismissed,  as  one  is  dismissed  from  the  pres-  ence  of  royalty.  I  used  to  visit  her  in  considerable  state.  The  distance  from  my  mother's  house-the  isolation  wing,  so  to  speak-to  the  main  fam-  ily  mansion  was  more  than  a  mile,  and  that  was  too  far  to  walk  in  the  Malabar  sun.  I  went  by  palanquin-a  hammock  of  red  cloth,  with  rather  worn  embroidery  of  gold  thread,  swung  on  a  black  polethat  had  silver  ornaments  at  either  end.  Four  virtually  naked  men,  two  in  front  andtwo  behind,  carried  the  palanquin  at  aswift  trot.  There  was  a  good  dealof  art  in  this.  If  the  four  men  trotted  just  as  they  pleased,  the  ham-  mock  would  swing  in  a  growing  arc  un-  til  it  tipped  the  passenger  out.  Conse-  quently,  the  men  trotted  according  to  a  complicated  system,  which  I  never  real-  ly  understood;  watching  them  and  try-  ing  to  follow  it  was  as  difficult  as  trying  to  determine  the  order  in  which  a  horse  puts  its  hoofs  down.  The  men  kept  their  rhythm  by  chanting.  I  used  to  fall  asleep  on  the  way,  listening  to  them.  It  must  have  presented.an  interesting  spec-  tacle-the  red  palanquin,  the  sweating  men,  and  a  sleeping  boy  wearing  an  English  schoolblazer  that  had  stitched  to  its  pocket  a  badge  gained  by  infantile  prowess  in  some  sport  I  do  not  now  re-  member.  The  family  house  was  vast  and  cool  and,  in  my  view,  unfurnished.  To  my  grandmother's  eye,  it  was  very  elegant.  There  was  nothing  but  the  floor  to  sit  on.  She  disliked  chairs  and  thought  them  vulgar.  What  use  were  they,  ex-  cept  for  ostentation?  'There  were  no  tables  and  no  tablecloths.  In  my  grand-  mother's  house,  if  anybody  dared  eat  in  any  fashion  but  off  a  fresh  plantain  leaf,  his  next  meal  would  be  served  in  the  kitchen,  where  the  servants  were  al-  lowed  to  eat  without  ceremony.  She  ap-  proved  of  beds  but  insisted  that  the  mat-  tress  be  made  of  taut  string;  nothing  else  was  considered  clean.  She  also  had  a  taste  for  handsome  brassbound  boxes.  So  beds,  boxes,  and  oil  lamps  were  the  sole  furniture  of  the  innumerable  rooms  of  the  house.  My  grandmother  usually  received  me  in  her  boudoir,  sitting  by  her  favor-  ite  box.  She  made  an  unforgettable  pic-  ture.  She  had  great  black  eyes,  a  shock  of  white  hair,  and  lips  as  lush  and  curved  as  those  of  a  girl  of  eighteen.  The  skin  of  her  bosom-bare,  as  I  have  said-  was  quite  smooth.  I  sat  on  the  floor  in  front  ofher,  in  my  school  blazer,  and  since  my  father  had  never  taught  me  Malayalam  (wishing  me  to  be  brought  up  like  any  other  English  boy),  we  talked  through  one  of  my  uncles.  Many  of  the  things  my  grandmother  said  to  me  were  puzzling  at  the  time,  but  I  have  come  to  understand  them  better.  Much  as  she  looked  down  on  the  English,  I  think  that  had  she  met  some  of  them-had  she  overcome  her  well-  bred  fastidiousness  and  actually  mixed  with  them-she  would  have  found  that  she  and  they  had  much  in  common.  Her  compelling  passion,  like  theirs,  was  racial  pride.  She  believed-and  this  made  her  character-that  she  belonged  to  the  cleverest  family  of  the  cleverest  class  of  the  cleverest  people  on  earth.  According  to  Lord  Russell,  this  was  also  the  firm  faith  of  Mrs.  Beatrice  Webb,  who  used  to  repeat  it  to  herself  in  moments  when  she  might  have  felt  inferior,  such  as  when  she  made  her  entry  into  a  distinguished  party.  Though  my  grandmother  never  went  to  parties,  I'm  sure  that  she,  too,  repeated  the  formula  to  stiffen  her  al-  ready  formidable  morale.  She  felt  that  she  was  born  of  a  supe-  rior  race,  and  she  had  all  the  marks  of  her  belief.  For  instance,  she  deplored  the  plumbing  of  every  nation  but  her  own.  She  would  often  say  to  me,  through  my  uncle,  &quot;Never  take  abath  in  one  of  those  contraptions  in  which  " b"you  sit  in  dirty  water  like  a  buffalo.  Al-  ways  bathe  in  running  water.  If  you  have  servants  to  pour  it  over  you,  that's  best;  but  otherwise  you  must  stand  un-  der  a  tap  or  pour  the  water  over  your-  self.  A  really  nice  person  does  not  even  glance  at  his  own  bath  water,  much  less  sit  in  it.&quot;&quot;  Here  she  would  laugh  to  her-  self-not  an  unkind  laugh  but  a  pitying  one-as  she  thought  of  the  backward-  nessof  the  white  man's  bathroom.  Another  such  mark-I  have  met  it  in  many  nations-was  that  she  believed  foreign  sexual  morals  permitted  and  en-  couraged  all  sorts  of  abominations  from  which  a  civilized  person  shrank.  She  spoke  to  me  with  great  freedom  on  this  point;  I  was,  after  all,  at  puberty.  I  could  not  always  follow  the  drift  of  her  remarks,  but  I  did  gather  that  she  felt  strongly  on  one  point.  Why,  if  the  Eng-  lish  wanted  their  offspring  to  grow  up  decently,  and  not  lewdly,  did  they  not  marry  them  off  when  they  were  chil-  dren?  There  was  something  sinister  in  the  neglect.  A  child  should  grow  up  knowing  that  all  that  side  of  his  life  was  settled  according  to  the  best  available  advice  and  in  the  best  possible  manner  for  his  welfare.  When  he  was  eighteen  or  twenty,  the  marriage  could  be  con-  summated.  Till  then,  he  did  not  have  to  worry  his  head  about  women-or  if  he  did  worry,he  would  know  he  was  slipping  morally.  History,  I  have  discovered,  is  on  my  grandmother's  side,  The  great  majority  of  civilized  peoples  have  always  agreed  with  her.  In  antiquity,  romance  and  love  and  such  things  were  for  slaves.  Respectable  people  arranged  marriages  as  my  grandmother  had  alwayswished  to  arrange  those  of  her  children.  To  take  a  single  example,  my  grandmother  and  Brutus  would  fully  have  under-  stood  each  other;she  felt  hurt  that  she  had  not  been  consulted  about  my  father's  marriage,  while  among  the  many  side  lights  we  have  on  Brutus  is  a  letter  in  which  he  complains  at  being  left  out  ofthe  bargaining  that  went  on  preceding  the  betrothal  ofa  close  friend's  daughter-'&quot;my  dear  little  Attica'&quot;-who  was  nine  years  old.  STILL,  a  grandson  was  a  grandson,  even  though  my  grandmother's  per-  mission  had  not  been  sought  to  bring  him  into  the  world,  and  she  set  about  being  not  only  a  grandmother  to  me  but  a  mother  as  well.  She  knew  that  soon  I  would  go  back  among  the  heathen  to  finish  my  education,  and  she  wanted  me  to  go  back  knowing  who  and  what  I  was.  On  one  of  my  visits  to  her  house,  she  gave  me  a  small  book  in  which  were  written  all  my  duties  and  privileges  as  a  member  of  my  caste.  'The  book  was  written  on  dried  palm  leaves,  strung  together  with  a  cord  between  two  covers  of  wood.  It  began  with  a  prayer  to  God,  thanking  Him  for  creating  us-our  caste,  that  is-so  much  superior  in  every  respect  to  the  great  majority  of  human  beings.  My  grandmother  explained  the  con-  tents  ofthe  book  several  times  and  with  much  emphasis,  for  she  wanted  to  im-  print  it  on  my  memory.  Our  family  belongs  to  the  caste  called  Nayars.  The  Nayars  of  Malabar  are  as  old  as  In-  dian  history,  and  therefore,  it  can  be  as-  sumed,  a  good  deal  older.  My  grand-  mother  told  me  that,  traditionally,  we  had  two  obligations  to  society.  We  were  warriors  when  there  was  fighting  to  do,  and  when  there  was  not,  we  had  the  duty,  on  certain  holy  days,  of  carrying  flowers  to  the  temple.  I  remember  that  I  thought  this  very  romantic  at  the  time  and  could  not  understand  why  my  grandmother  spoke  of  it  prosaically;  to  me,  warriors,  flowers,  and  temples  con-  jured  up  a  picture  of  some  Oriental  Round  Table.  But  my  grandmother  was  right  to  be  matter-of-fact.  Our  caste  is  a  commonplace;  it  exists  every-  where.  In  [REDACTED],  it  is  scattered  all  over  the  countryside.  Themen  are  what  is  called  Army,  and  the  women  take  not  only  flowers  but  fruit  to  the  temple  on  the  occasion  ofthe  Harvest  Festival.  It  is  curious,  and  inexplicable,  that  the  combination  of  these  two  activities,  whether  in  the  shires  or  in  the  coconut  groves  of  Malabar,  produces  the  most  ferocious  snobs.  My  grandmother  explained  to  me  that,  as  a  Nayar,  I  should  always  be  careful  to  keep  my  dignity  when  deal-  ing  with  Brahmans.  Brahmans  are  priests.  The  priests  who  had  the  cure  of  the  souls  of  my  grandmother's  family  were  treated  as  domestic  chaplains.  Since  their  temples  were  on  our  property,  my  grandmother  had  several  &quot;livings,&quot;  so  to  speak,  at  her  disposal.  Priests  were,  therefore,  expected  to  make  themselves  agreeable,  in  return  for  which  they  were  regularly  fed.  'They  were  expected  to  mind  their  own  business,  which  was  to  perform  weekly  ceremonies  and  to  di-  rect  their  preaching  at  the  lower  orders,  particularly  the  servants.  The  Anglican  settlement  in  [REDACTED]  was  much  more  elaborate,  but,  reduced  to  what  it  meant  to  the  average  priest  in  the  vestry,  it  came  to  much  the  same  thing,  and  pro-  vides  one  more  reason  why  I  wish  my  grandmother  had  visited  the  country  of  my  birth.  She  was  quite  ignorant  of  these  strik-  ing  resemblances,  however,  and  begged  me  to  remember  myself  when  moving  among  the  English.  &quot;They  will  look  up  to  you,  as  a  Nayar,  to  set  an  example,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;They  know  that  you  have  two  thousand  years'  advantage  over  them,  and  they  will  be  willing  to  learn.  Show  them  this  book.  'They  will  be  very  interested  in  it.  It  was  written  when  they  still  went  about  naked.  And  I  will  give  you  some  trinkets  which  you  " b"can  hand  out  as  gifts-some  amulets,  and  some  things  made  of  sandalwood,  which  is  very  rare  in  [REDACTED],  so  I  am  told,  and  much  sought  after.  They  will  help  you  to  make  friends.  But  re-  member,  it  is  your  example  that  will  count  more  than  anything.&quot;  Y  grandmother  gave  me  the  things  she  had  promised,  and,  as  she  had  foretold,  they  were  much  admired  in  [REDACTED].  Some  of  them,  I  believe,  are  still  in  my  school  museum.  She  also  gave  me  her  bless-  ing,  which  was  what  I  had  been  brought  across  the  world  toget.  Then,  at  long  last,  she  agreed  to  see  my  mother.  The  meeting  was  formal.  It  lasted  three  min-  utes  and  took  place  on  a  con-  veniently  outlying  veranda  of  the  family  house.  My  grandmother  politely  spoke  of  another  meeting,  but  she  was  saved  by  the  mon-  soon.  It  broke  the  next  day  with  such  unprecedented  violence  thatthe  paths  were  flooded  and  the  palanquin  bearers  could  not  use  them.  It  rained  until  the  day  of  our  departure.  When  I  thought  over  my  grandmother's  advice,  back  in  [REDACTED],  I  was  in  some  confusion.  Before  my  trip,  my  headmaster,  wishing  me  goodbye  and  good  luck,  had  said  much  the  same  thing.  &quot;Let  them  see  by  your  ex-  ample,&quot;  he  had  said,  &quot;that  you  have  been  trained  in  an  English  school.  Wherever  you  go,  it  is  for  you  to  set  the  tone.&quot;  He  had  not  given  me  any  sandalwood,  but  I  had  been  impressed.  I  had  also  been  impressed  with  what  my  grandmother  had  said.  In  my  dilemma,  I  remembered  that  I  had  another  grandmother.  She  had  always  been  a  mysterious  figure  to  me.  I  knew  that  she  had  been  born  in  Kil-  larney,  and  that  she  had  been  as  beauti-  fulas  my  mother.  I  also  knew  that  she  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  to  live.  But  she  had  died  before  I  was  born.  I  asked  my  mother  about  her.  She  told  me  many  things,  but  one  in  particu-  lar  struck  me.  &quot;My  mother  was  never  really  happy  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said.  ometimes,  when  things  became  un-bearably  tiresome,  she  would  heave  a  long,  deep  sigh,close  her  eyes,  and  think  about  Killarney.&quot;  This  seemed  to  me  to  be  the  neutral  ground  that  I  was  looking  for.  I  told  my  mother  that  whenever  I  found  the  English  were  what  my  Indian  grand-  mother  said  they  were,  I  would  copy  my  other  grandmother.  I  would  close  my  eyes  and  remember  I  wasn't  really  Indian,  and  I  wasn't  English.  I  would  remember  that  I  was  descended  from  the  Irish,  and  do  my  best  to  stay  out  of  the  quarrel.  &quot;You  might  try,&quot;  my  mother  said,  &quot;but  I  don't  think  you  will  find  it  a  great  deal  of  help.&quot;  She  was  right.  When  I  grew  up,  I  went  to  Killarney  to  search  for  traces  of  my  Irish  ancestry.  I  found  them.  Several  of  my  forebears  had  been  hanged.  The  records  called  them  brig-  ands;  the  Irish  called  them  patriots.  They  had  taken  to  some  mountains  called  Macgillicuddy's  Reeks  and  had  lived  there  for  a  century  or  more.  I  believe  I  also  learned  what  it  was  my  Irish  grandmother  had  seen  when  she  closed  her  eyes.  She  saw,  I  think,  those  still  remem-  bered  raids,  when  my  Irish  ancestors  came  bellowing  and  leaping  down  the  Reeks  to  harry  the  detested  English. "