 b"AT  seven  o'clock  on  the  evening  be-  A  fore  her  wedding  day,  Marga-  ret  Casey  finished  her  packing,  locked  her  suitcase,  and  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  her  bed  to  catch  her  breath.  Her  room  was  on  the  top  floor  of  the  house  in  Scarsdale  where  she  had  worked  as  a  maid  for  ten  years.  She  was  alone  in  the  house.  The  phone  was  shut  off,  the  refrigerator  was  disconnected,  the  windows  all  were  locked,  and  all  the  beds,  except  hers,  stripped  for  the  summer.  The  family  had  early  that  morning  driven  off  to  their  cottage  in  the  Berkshires,  where  they  would  re-  main  until  October.  Margaret  had  dreaded  the  moment  of  their  departure,  fearing  her  own  tears,  which  fell  easily,  but  at  the  last  minute  she  smiled  bril-  liantly,  and  waved,  and  saw  the  car  disappear  out  onto  the  road  calmly  enough,  although  for  a  moment  there  she  felt  she  must  cry  after  them  to  come  back,  come  back,  if  only  for  an  hour,  and  not  leave  her  by  herself  at  a  time  like  this.  Of  course,  it  was  her  own  idea  in  the  first  place  to  get  married  the  day  after  they  left  for  the  summer.  Summer  had  seemed  a  comfortable,  indefinite  time  away  the  night  last  February  that  she  had  given  into  Carl's  persistence  and  given  him  her  promise.  She  liked  Carl,  but  she  wasn't  much  inclined  to  marry  him.  All  that  night,  she  lay  awake  in  a  panic,  thinking  of  ways  to  break  with  him.  It  would  be  heartless  to  tell  him  straight  out  that  she  had  no  usefor  him.  Crafty,  she  decided  to  do  one  thing  at  a  time.  First  she  would  give  Mrs.  Smith  her  notice,  and  then  she  would  just  steal  away  to  another  town  and  find  a  new  job  and  not  let  Carl  know  anything  about  it.  But  when  she  went  in,  when  they  were  having  breakfast,  and  gave  her  notice,  the  sight  of  Mrs.  Smith's  stricken  face  was  too  much  for  her,  and  to  ease  her  guilt  she  blurted  out  that  she  was  going  to  marry  Carl,  and  settle  down,  and  stop  working,  and  have  a  home  of  her  own.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smith  were  astonished  and  delighted  at  her  good  fortune,  and  their  pleasure  made  her  so  generous  that  she  embroidered  the  case  a  little,  describing  the  house  (not  yet  built)  that  Carl  hoped  to  buy,  and  telling  about  his  plan  to  go  into  busi-  ness  with  his  brother  someday,  not  right  away.  Mrs.  Smith  said  she  hoped  Mar-  garet  would  let  her  give  a  little  wedding  breakfast  here  in  the  house  after  the  ceremony,  but  Margaret  quickly  said  no,  that  her  plans  were  made  to  be  mar-  ried  the  day  after  they  left  for  the  sum-  mer.  After  some  argument,  Mrs.  Smith  gave  in  to  her,  and  laughed,  and  said  that  after  all  Margaret  was  the  bride  and  it  was  only  right  she  should  have  things  her  way.  Back  in  the  kitchen,  Margaret  sat  as  astonished  as  though  they  had  ordered  her  out  of  the  house.  All  I  wanted  to  do  was  give  notice,  she  thought,  and  here  I've  gone  and  com-  mitted  myself.  Still,  July  seemed  a  long  time  off.  There  would  surelybe  some  way  to  free  herself.  She  could  pick  a  fight  with  Carl,  or  she  might  confide  in  Mrs.  Smith  and  ask  her  advice.  But  it  grew  harder  and  harder  to  speak  up.  Any-  way,  she  found  herself  growing  fond  of  Carl.  It  was  the  first  time  in  her  life  she  had  ever  had  anyone  of  her  own,  and  he  was  very  considerate  of  her.  He  was  coming  along  now  in  a  few  minutes  to  take  her  out  to  dinner.  She  contrasted  this  evening  with  the  evening,  twelve  years  ago  in  Ireland,  before  her  sister  Madge  was  married.  That  evening,  Madge  never  stopped  posturing  around  in  her  wedding  dress  of  blue  silk,  showing  off  before  the  neighbors  while  her  mother  sat  in  the  middle  of  the  room  crying  because  she  was  losing  her  big  girl  and  the  family  would  soon  be  all  scattered.  &quot;Next  thing  litle  Margaret  will  be  leaving  me,&quot;  cried  the  mother,  and  Margaret  had  darted  to  her  mother's  side  and  pro-  tested  that  no,  no,  she  would  never  leave,  and  the  neighbors  nodded  ap-  provingly  and  said  that  was  a  good  daughter,  that  one.  Still,  good  daughter  and  all,  it  was  Madge  who  was  the  favorite,  and  when,  after  a  year,  Madge  decided  to  economize  by  moving  back  into  her  old  home,  Margaret  felt  very  out  of  place  with  the  per-  petual  fuss  over  Madge's  baby  and  Madge's  husband  and  Madge's  aches  and  pains.  Margaret  was  already  out  working  by  then,  and  when  her  uncle  in  New  York  wrote  offering  to  lend  her  the  passage  over,  she  accepted  at  once,  believing  up  to  the  last  minute  before  she  left  that  the  mother  would  come  to  her  senses  and  forbid  her  to  go.  But  the  mother  appeared  delighted  to  see  Margaret  get  her  &quot;chance,&quot;  and  there  were  fewer  tears  shed  over  Mar-  garet's  departure  for  a  foreign  land  than  over  Madge's  decision  to  marry  a  boy  she  had  known  all  her  life.  Margaret  had  found  great  satisfac-  tion  in  the  money  orders  she  sent  home  weekly,  knowing  the  power  they  gave  her  mother  over  the  household.  After  the  debt  to  her  uncle  was  paid  off,  she     to  sent  more  and  more  money  home,  stint-  ing  herself  to  send  as  much  as  she  could.  She  always  meant  to  start  saving  her  fare  home,  but  she  really  believed  that  when  the  time  came  for  her  to  see  her  mother  again,  the  money  would  turn  up  somehow.  She  wanted  to  go  back  there  and  best  Madge,  once  and  for  all.  She  had  a  dream  of  saving  up  enough  to  go  back  and  start  a  little  busi-  ness,  enough  to  support  her  mother  and  herself,  or  to  go  back  with  a  comfortable  nest  eggand  find  some  good  man  to  marry.  None  of  her  hopes  had  come  true.  All  of  her  hopes  had  turned  into  re-  grets;  only  the  hurt,  strained  feeling  in  her  heart  was  the  same.  Everything  had  turned  out  wrong.  The  mother  was  five  months  dead  now,  and  there  no  longer  seemed  any  way  to  get  back  at  Madge,  sitting  triumphant  there  in  pos-  session  of  all  theold  bits  of  ornaments  and  furniture  and  everything  that  re-  mained  of  the  old  home.  Not  that  Madge  had  offered  to  send  her  any-  thing-not  even  a  few  of  the  old  photo-  graphs-and  it  would  be  too  bitter  to  reveal  her  jealousy  and  longing  by  ask-  ing  for  them.  Madge  had  known  what  she  was  doing,  all  right.  If  only  God  had  given  Margaret  the  strength  to  wait  a  while  longer,  some-  thing  might  have  turned  up.  She  might  have  won  the  Sweep,  or  some  old  lady  might  have  turned  up  who  wanted  a  companion  to  travel  to  Ireland  with  her,  or  somebody-her  uncle,  maybe-  might  have  died  and  left  her  a  legacy.  There  was  no  limit  to  the  things  that  might  have  happened,  if  she'd  only  had  patience.  But  the  night  she  heard  her  mother  was  dead,  Carl  was  so  sympa-  thetic  that  she  committed  herself  further  than  she  had  ever  meant  to.  It  was  the  way  he  put  his  arms  around  her  that  undid  her,  the  closeness  of  his  body  giving  her  a  warmth  she  had  forgot-  ten  since  her  mother's  lap.  How  well  he  knew  the  time  to  take  advantage  of  me,  she  thought  angrily.  His  persistence  had  puther  off  the  first  time  she  met  him.  She  should  have  been  firm  then,  and  got  rid  of  him  for  good.  That  was  the  Ger-  man  in  him,  enabling  him  to  hang  on  until  he  got  what  he  was  after.  He  would  never  fit  in  with  the  crowd  at  home.  They  would  laugh  at  him  behind  his  back  and  say  he  was  thick.  Madge's  cruel  eyes  would  cut  clear  through  the  smart  American  clothes  to  see  the  soft,  good-natured,  easily  hurt  fellow  under-  neath.  Madge  would  laugh  to  hear  Mr.  Smith  say  that  Carl  was  a  fine,  steady  fellow  who  would  always  bea  credit  to  " b"the  community.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smith  had  been  very  nice  about  the  whole  thing.  Mr.  Smith  had  given  Margaret  three  months'  salary  as  a  wedding  pres-  ent,  and  Mrs.  Smith  gave  her  her  wed-  ding  outfit.  Her  dress,  a  jacket  and  skirt  of  navy-blueshantung,  hung  now  in  the  closet,  with  the  new  shoes  in  a  box  on  the  floor  underneath  and  the  new  hat  in  a  box  on  the  shelf  above.  Except  for  her  rosary  beads,  she  had  nothing  old  and  familiar  from  Ireland  to  bring  with  her  into  her  new  home.  Madge  had  stolen  everything,  and  without  even  lifting  a  finger.  One  time,  when  Margaret  was  a  lit-  tle  girl,  before  her  father  died,  her  mother  and  father  had  gone  for  a  ride  in  a  charabanc,  out  into  the  country.  When  they  came  back,  they  talked  about  the  hotel  where  they'd  had  tea,  and  about  the  woods  and  rivers  they  had  seen.  They  promised  that  Margaret  would  have  a  charabanc  ride  one  Sun-  day,  and  she  believed  them  and  began  to  go  every  Sunday  to  watch  the  buses  fill  up  with  passengers.  A  lot  of  young  people  used  to  go,  laughing  and  pushing  and  jostling  each  other  to  see  who  would  get  the  best  seat.  Margaret  had  her  seat  all  picked  out-the  one  up  in     \xc2\xbb)  U  U  front  near  the  driver-but  she  never  had  the  chance  to  ride  in  it.  There  was  always  some  excuse  to  keep  her  from  going.  Sometimes  one  of  the  charabances  went  on  a  mystery  tour.  The  driver  of  the  charabanc  knew  where  he  was  go-  ing,  but  the  passengers  had  to  guess,  and  never  could  be  sure  of  their  destina-  tion  until  they  arrived  there.  The  peo-  ple  going  off  on  the  mystery  tours  seemed  even  gayer  than  the  usual  char-  abanc  crowds.  Margaret  longed  to  go  with  them,  although  she  had  a  half  fear  that  the  mystery  charabances  never  came  back  at  all.  She  might  just  as  well  have  goneon  one  and  not  come  back,  for  all  the  good  she  had  made  of  her  life.  A  JOYFUL  shouting  came  from  down-  stairs,  and  Margaret  ran  out  onto  the  landing.  It  was  Carl.  He  had  let  him-  self  in  by  the  back  door.  He  was  accustomed  to  back  doors,  being  a  plumb-  er.  When  he  reached  the  second-floor  landing,  he  looked  up  andsaw  her.  &quot;How's  my  girl?&quot;  he  shouted,  as  though  they  were  miles  apart.  His  voice  was  hard  in  the  emp-  tiness  of  the  house.  He  had  been  drinking,  she  could  hear  it  in  his  voice,  but  she  would  say  nothing  about  it  this  time.  He  threw  his  head  back  and  stretched  his  arms  wide,  clowning  in  his  unaccustomed  hap-  piness,  but  she  was  not  touched  by  his  emotion.  She  stared  down  at  him  in  astonishment  and  fear.  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  he  shouted,  throwinghim-  self  down  on  his  arms  on  the  banisters.  &quot;Were  you  afraid  I  wasn't  going  to  come?  Were  you  afraid  I  might  leave  you  at  the  church?  You  can  get  that  idea  out  of  your  head.  You're  not  getting  away  from  me  that  easy.&quot;  She  wanted  to  scream  at  him  that  he  was  beneath  her,  and  that  she  despised  him,  and  that  she  was  not  bound  to  him  yet  and  never  would  be  bound  to  him,  but  instead  she  spoke  civilly,  saying  that  she  would  be  ready  in  a  minute,  and  warning  him  not  to  come  up  into  the  room,  because  her  wedding  dress  was  hanging  there  and  she  didn't  want  him  to  see  it  ahead  of  time,  for  fear  of  bring-  ing  bad  luck  on  the  two  of  them. "