 b"ONE  day  in  the  summer  of  1932,  when  my  wife  and  I,  on  our  way  back  to  New  York  from  a  vacation  in  [REDACTED],  were  driving  through  sparsely  settled  country  near  Lake  Okeechobee,  one  of  our  tires  blew  out.  It  was  midafternoon.  We  were  miles  from  the  nearest  settlement.  The  dirt  road  we  had  been  following  was  scarcely  more  than  a  lane  bordered  by  dusty  clumps  of  shrubs,  growing  close  enough  together  to  be  almost  a  con-  tinuous  hedge.  At  irregular  intervals,  ragged  trees  stood  behind  the  bushes,  like  tall  spectators  among  the  other  watchers  of  a  parade.  By  good  fortune,  our  car-it  was  a  roadster  and  we  had  the  top  down-  came  to  a  stop  in  the  spotty  shade  of  a  tree,  but,  even  so,  the  thought  of  changing  a  tire  in  that  heat  made  me  quail.  We  decided  to  sit  there  and  rest  in  the  dead,  shimmering  silence  until  the  sun  was  lower.  An  hour  crept  by.  Then  around  a  bend  in  the  road  about  a  hundred  feet  ahead  of  us  came  a  rickety  farm  wagon,  pulled  by  a  bony  old  mule.  A  man,  a  woman,  and  two  little  boys  sat  huddled  together  on  the  seat.  As  they  came  closer,  we  saw  that  they  were  all  bare-  foot,  and  that  the  wagon  was  filled  with  a  pitiful  collection  of  household  furnish-  ings  and  a  few  farm  tools.  The  mule,  his  eyes  nearly  closed  against  the  sun  and  the  dust,  poked  along  at  a  pace  just  about  sufficient  to  be  considered  mo-  tion.  The  thin  wheels  of  the  wagon  gave  out  a  perfunctory  squeak  at  each  revolu-  tion,  and  turned  with  a  slow  wobble  made  the  wagon  lurch  lazily  from  side  to  side.  As  the  mule  came  alongside  our  car,  he  stopped.  He  stood  with  his  head  hanging  low,  his  eyes  closed,  and  his  forefeet  spread  apart  as  though  he  were  bracing  himself.  The  driver,  a  thin,  unshaven  man  of  at  Are  \xe2\x80\x9cWaf\xef\xac\x82e     that  3M13  PURTY  e'enin',&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Kin  I  he'p  y'all?&quot;  &quot;If  you'd  like  to  change  my  tire  for  me,  I'd  be  glad  to  pay  you  well,&quot;  I  answered.  'The  man  sat  for  several  minutes  gravely  surveying  the  blown  tire,  and  then  said,  &quot;I  ain't  much  of  a  hand  fer  fixin'  them  things,  but  ef  I  study  about  it  a  little  bit,  I  reckon  I  could  he'p  ye.&quot;  He  got  down  from  the  wagon  and  lifted  the  boys  down.  &quot;Y'all  run  around  and  play  now,&quot;  he  said  to  them  gently.  I  gave  him  my  tools  and  jack,  and  he  went  to  work  in  a  deliberate,  cautious  manner,  stopping  from  time  to  time  to  study  the  job  intently.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  said  to  me,  &quot;I  ain't  fixed  nary  tire  like  this'n  before,  Better  keep  a  eye  on  me  less'n  I  mess  it  up  on  ye.&quot;  Later,  he  told  me  that  his  name  was  Billy  Joe  Wren,  and  that  he  had  been  born  and  brought  up  in  that  section  of  the  country.  &quot;You  look  as  though  you're  mov-  ing,&quot;  I  said,  nodding  toward  the  wagon.  &quot;Yessuh,  we  had  to  git  out  of  our  old  house  back  yonder,&quot;  he  answered,  in  an  even,  matter-of-fact  tone.  &quot;The  own-  er's  son  done  got  married.  He  driv  up  to  the  door  fust  thing  this  mo'nin'  and  told  us  he  was  a-movin'  in.  So  we  jest  moved  out.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  another  place  to  go?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Reckon  so,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There  was  an  empty  house  down  this  road  a  piece.  Ef  it's  still  empty,  we'll  jest  stay  there  till  I  git  another  tenen  house.&quot;  I  remembered  pass-  ing  a  small,  apparently  empty  cabin  in  a  bad  state  of  disrepair  about  two  miles  back.  am  HILE  the  young  man  worked,  my  wife  tried,  'without  much  success,  to  engage  his  wife  in  conversation.  Billy  Joe  apologized  for  her  shyness,  saying,  about  thirty,  wore  a  pair  of  patched  and  faded  overalls  and  the  black  felt  hat  ofthe  [REDACTED]  cracker.  His  wife,  a  rather  pretty  woman,  wore  a  clean  but  dowdy  gray  cotton  dress  and  a  blue  poke  bonnet.  'The  boys  were  dressed  in  patched  brown  shirts,  over-  alls,  and  straw  hats.  The  little  family  sat  for  some  mo-  ments  looking  us  over  in  unabashed  and  unhurried  curiosity.  I  greeted  them,  and  eventually  the  man  smiled.  &quot;Good  &quot;Willie  Mae  ain't  much  of  a  hand  fer  talkin',  Ma'am,  but  she's  shore  studyin'  that  purty  dress  you're  a-wearin'.  Reckon  that's  a  real  bought  dress,  ain't  it?&quot;  My  wife  nodded,  and  thanked  him  for  the  compliment.  &quot;Willie  Mae  ain't  never  had  nary  bought  dress,&quot;  he  went  on  presently.  &quot;She  makes  her'n,  but  someday,  when  I  git  a  bit  laid  by,  Willie  Mae's  gonna  geta  shore-nuff  store  dress.&quot;  He  looked " b"up  at  his  wife  and  said,  &quot;Show  the  lady  the  piture,  Willie  Mae,  honey.&quot;  The  young  woman  blushed,  and,  reaching  under  a  quilt  that  covered  the  wagon  seat,  brought  out  a  folded  piece  of  paper  and  handed  it  to  her  husband,  who  showed  it  to  us  enthusi-  astically.  It  was  a  dog-eared,  much-  handled  page  torn  from  a  mail-order  catalogue,  and  on  it  were  colored  illus-  trations  of  several  simple,  low-priced  house  dresses.  &quot;Ain't  they  plumb  purty?&quot;  Billy  Joe  asked.  &quot;Here's  the  one  Willie  Mae  likes.  She'd  shore  look  good  in  that'n.  She'd  have  all  the  other  wimmen  stood  back.&quot;  We  agreed  that  she  would.  Later,  when  he  had  finished  chang-  ing  the  tire,  I  took  out  my  wallet  to  pay  him.  I  was  standing  with  him  in  the  road,  and  I  saw  that  behind  him  my  wife  was  frantically  signalling  me.  Knowing  I  am  a  reasonably  frugal  man,  she  was,  she  told  me  later,  afraid  I  would  pay  no  more  than  the  fifty  cents  which  at  that  time  was  the  standard  charge  for  road-  side  tire-change  service.  But  actually,  though  I  was  not  sure  I  understood  the  signal,  we  were  thinking  the  same  thing.  Both  of  us  wanted  Willie  Mae  to  have  the  dress  in  the  mail-order  cata-  logue,  but,  confronted  with  her  hus-  band's  simple  dignity,  I  didn't  know  how  I'd  be  able  to  pay  him  more  than  the  job  was  worth  without  offending  him.  I  knew  that  anything  like  patron-  age  would  be  as  abhorrent  to  him  as  it  would  be  distasteful  to  me.  I  took  a  ten-dollar  bill  from  my  wallet,  folded  it  so  as  to  conceal  the  denomination,  and  gave  it  to  him.  To  my  discomfort,  he  opened  it,  glanced  at  it,  and  looked  at  me  steadily.  &quot;This  is  right  smart  of  money  for  the  little  I  done  ye,&quot;  he  said,  handing  the  bill  back  to  me.  &quot;Hit  ain't  Christian  to  take  money  like  this,  and  I  cain't  take  it,  thank  ye.&quot;  &quot;I  understand  how  you  feel,  Mr.  Wren,&quot;  I  said,  trying  to  conceal  my  embarrassment,  &quot;but  you've  done  us  much  more  of  a  service  than  you  may  think.  Besides,  we'll  feel  bad  if  you  don't  take  it,  because&quot;-I  lowered  my  voice-'&quot;we'd  like  to  see  Mrs.  Wren  get  her  store  dress.&quot;  For  a  few  moments,  he  gazed  off  into  space,  pondering.  Then  he  looked  at  Willie  Mae,  and  his  grave  expression  dissolved  into  a  faint  smile.  I  pressed  the  money  into  his  hand.  'Yessuh,  thank  ye,  kindly,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Have  ye  got  a  piece  of  paper  I  could  wrap  it  in,  so's  it  won't  git  wet  when  I  sweat?&quot;  I  found  a  letter  in  the  door  pocket  of  the  car  and  gave  the  envelope  to  him.  My  name  and  address  were  on  it,  and  " b"he  studied  them  and  said,  &quot;New  York!  Y'all  come  from  way  up  the  country,  don't  ye?&quot;  He  folded  the  bill  carefully,  put  it  into  the  envelope,  put  the  envelope  into  his  shirt  pocket,  and  said  to  his  wife,  &quot;Call  them  young  'uns  now,  honey.  We  gotta  be  a-movin'  on.&quot;  We  all  said  goodbye,  and  my  wife  and  I  watched  the  Wrens  as  they  rolled  off  in  their  creaking  wagon.  E  returned  to  New  York.  Months  passed,  and  I  had  all  but  forgotten  the  incident  when  I  received  a  letter  from  [REDACTED].  My  address,  somewhat  sweat-stained,  had  been  cut  from  the  envelope  I  gave  Billy  Joe,  and  pasted  upon  the  face  of  the  envelope  bearing  the  letter.  Inside  was  a  sheet  of  school  notepaper  on  which  had  been  scrawled,  with  evident  effort,  &quot;'Thank  you  all.  We  got  a  tennen  house  an  Willie  Mae  got  a  bort  dress.  Plum  purty.&quot;  The  message  was  signed  &quot;Billy  Joe  Wren.&quot;  "