 b"YOU  remember  all  the  talk  there  used  to  be  about  increased  leisure  time,  and  the  effect  it  would  have  on  society?  Or  are  you  too  young?  (I  heard  of  a  young  person  the  other  day  who  wanted  to  know  whether  Mrs.  Roosevelt  was  a  Republican  or  a  Demo-  crat.)  Well,  anyway,  two  or  three  decades  back,  the  machine  was  going  to  speed  things  up  so  no  one  would  have  to  work  more  than  six  hours  a  day--  maybe  only  four.  No  one  was  eververy  specific  about  this  machine,  but  I  visual-  ized  it  as  a  complicated  I.B.M.  gadget,  full  of  spokes  and  spooks,  that  could  do  anything  from  renewing  subscrip-  tions  to  Time  to  conducting  arbitrage  conversations  on  the  transatlantic  phone  while  the  parties  to  the  transaction  were  playing  court  tennis  at  the  Rac-  quet  and  Tennis  Club  and  the  Jeu  de  Paume,  respectively.  The  six-day  week  of  my  childhood-I  left  school  at  fifteen  to  work  ina  small  diamond  mine  I  inherited  from  a  [REDACTED]  uncle,  man  by  the  name  of  Barney  Barnato-  was  going  to  bereplaced  by  a  five-  day  week,  at  the  same  salary,  or  better.  In  advanced,  or  technocratic,  circles,  there  was  talk  of  a  four-day  week,  a  three-day  week,  and  a  weekless  week,  with  time-and-a-half  overtime  for  Co-  lumbus  Day.  Many  other  holidays  were  planned,  and  existing  ones  were  to  be  expanded;  if  they  fell  on  a  Sunday,  they  were  to  be  celebrated  on  Monday.  The  idea  behind  all  this  was  that  it  was  going  to  make  everyone  happier,  more  cultured,  and  in  better  shape  physi-  cally,  and  give  the  lie,  retroactively,to  old  Thoreau,  who  once  said  (to  him-  self,  while  strolling  around  the  country-  side;  everyone  else  was  in  his  counting  house),  &quot;What  the  banker  sighs  for,  the  meanest  clown  may  have-leisure  and  a  quiet  mind.&quot;  Everyone  was  going  to  sit  around,  or  jump  around,  reading  Proust,  playing  badminton,  catching  black  bass,  and  getting  to  know  his  family.  Now  some  of  this  seems  to  have  hap-  pened.  Easter  vacations  for  school-  teachers  have  been  stretched  to  weeks  and  weeks.  The  Sunday-Monday,  or  Monday-Sunday,  holiday  is  a  fact.  The  five-day  week  is  a  fixture.  Look  at  the  outgoing  traffic  choking  the  bridges  and  tunnels  Friday  afternoons.  Try  to  cash  a  check  on  a  Saturday-the  banks  are  asleep,  the  tellers,  if  awake,  are  in  [REDACTED];  the  Yale  Club  won't  let  you  have  more  than  twenty-five  dol-  lars,  and  charges  you  a  dime  a  check.  Get  sick  any  time  between  five  o'clock  Friday  afternoon  and  nine  o'clock  Mon-  day  morning  and  you  might  as  well  die.  Your  doctor  is  off  with  the  Essex  Fox  Hounds,  the  nurse  is  off  with  the  teller,  the  fox  is  off  for  the  day,  read-  ing  Proust  in  a  hammock.  But  how  many  others  are?  Has  the  sale  of  ham-  mocks  (or  Proust)  gone  up  significant-  ly?  Are  all  these  people  using  their  leisure  time  the  way  they  were  sup-  posed  to?  Who's  happy,  or  cultured,  or  sound  as  a  button,  that  wasn't  before?  IHAVE  been  asking  myself  these  questions  of  late,  and  I  now  have  the  answer,  at  least  as  far  as  women  are  concerned,  I  have  the  answer  because  Vogue  has  the  answer  and  I  have  Vogue.  I  have  the  April  1st  issue  of  Vogue,  whose  cover  bears  the  legend  &quot;Vogue  for  the  Busy  Beauties&quot;  and  shows  acrazy-looking  girl  snarled  up  in  four  telephones.  Here  is  what  its  lead  editorial  says,  in  part:  ...the  industrial  era...  has  made  everything  quicker  than  it  was,  and  so  has  given  us  more  time  than  ever  was.  Time-  not  for  the  leisure  the  social  planners  planned,  but  for  our  own  actual  heart's  desire:  busy-ness.  This  is  the  era  that  has  bred  the  most  buoyant  clock-watchers  since  Time  began.  How  do  I  happen  to  have  Vogue?  I  could  say  I  picked  it  up  in  my  dentist's  office,  or,  more  fashionably,  in  my  therapist's  anteroom,  but  the  fact  is  a  girl  I  know  gave  it  to  me.  We  were  discussing  what  the  big  thing  of  our  day  was,  and  I  suggested  that  it  was  [REDACTED]'s  peace  offensive.  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;The  Times  says  it  may  cause  a  slump,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Stocks  will  go  down,  unemployment  will  rise,  and  who  will  there  be  to  say  nay  to  Communist  Chi-na's  demands  for  Formosa  and  a  seat  in  the  United  Nations?  Doesn't  this  all  add  up  to  the  big  thing  of  our  day?&quot;  Nope,&quot;  she  said.  She  picked  up  Vogue  and  read:  \xc2\xab'What  ever  happened  to  the  big  dream  of  history's  social  planners-  More  Leisure  for  More  People?  It's  been  jolted  into  wakefulness  by  the  big  thing  of  our  own  times:  busy-ness.'  &quot;  &quot;Take  it  along  with  you,&quot;  she  said,  thumbing  a  stock-market  ticker  tape  in  her  living  room.  &quot;I'm  too  busy  to  read  any  more.&quot;  I  took  it,  and  read,  in  an  article  called  &quot;The  Busy  Beauties&quot;:  Time  for  beauty,  no  matter  what.  That's  the  premise  here  and  on  the  follow-  ing  pages.  Look  around,  almost  anywhere.  See  lots  of  beauties.  See  lots  of  busy-ness.  It's  a  standard  meld  of  these  times.  This  is  followed  by  two  full-page  pho-  tographs  of  two  anonymous  busy  beau-  ties.  One,  dressed,  creamed,  rouged,  powdered,  caked,  mascaraed,  eyebrow-  pencilled,  lipsticked,  and  contour-firmed  to  the  nines,  is  saying  good  night  to  her  baby  as  she  and  her  husband  go  out  to  dinner.  The  other,  more  lightly  dis-  guised,  is  bidding  farewell  to  her  com-  muting  husband  as  she  puts  him  on  the  eight-six  train  to  town.  The  accompany-  ing  text  gives  the  formula  for  three  evening  makeups-&quot;Brush  on  mas-  cara  until  the  eyelashes  are  furry  ...  draw  on  a  mouth  that's  only  a  relation  to  the  natural  one&quot;  -requiring,  respec-  tively,  eighteen  minutes  and  forty-five  seconds,  seventeen  minutes  and  fifty  sec-  onds,  and  nineteen  minutes  and  twenty  seconds,  to  apply;  and  for  three  morning  makeups-&quot;a  touch  of  creamy  or  fluid  eyeshadow  on  the  lids  ...  look  groomed,  fresh,  and  handsomer  than  nature  intended&quot;-requiring  a  minute  and  thirty-five  seconds,  a  minute  and  forty-  threeseconds,  and  a  minute  and  fifty-  six  seconds.  Next  come  several  pages  of  identified  busy  beauties-Mrs.  Jona-  than  Tichenor,  Mrs.  Winston  Guest,  Rita  Gam,  and  Joanne  Gilbert.  Ac-  cording  to  the  captions,  the  important  thing,  or  things,  about  these  ladies  is  their  busy-ness  and  how  they  wear  their  hair.  Mrs.  Tichenor,  an  associate  fash-  ion  editor  on  Vogue  (&quot;short,  mobile  coiffure&quot;  ),  has  to  make  &quot;quick  transi-  tions  ...  between  crowded  day  and  quiet  evening.&quot;  Mrs.  Guest  (&quot;a  feath-  ered  pale-blond  cap&quot;)  is  &quot;an  indefati-  gable  traveller.&quot;  Miss  Gam  (&quot;a  dark  curly  wreath&quot;)  &quot;is  about  as  busy  a  busy  beauty  as  can  be  found,  what  with  TV  acting  assignments,  movie-making  ...  and  running  a  New  York  life  with  her  husband.&quot;  Miss  Gilbert  (&quot;cropped  tight  as  a  zinnia  at  the  back  and  curved  into  " b"two  petals  over  her  forehead&quot;)  is  mak-  ing  a  movie  and  &quot;sings  in  black  shorts,  white  shirt,  and  black  net  stockings.&quot;  THESE  girls  don't  have  to  be  busy,  any  more  than  Thoreau's  unem-  ployed  clown.  They  want  tobe.  &quot;There  are  very  few  women  who  need  to  be  as  busy  as  they  choose  to  be,&quot;  Vogue  says.  &quot;Busy-ness  is  not  only  a  fact,  it  is  an  ideal,.  And  it  can  remain  an  ideal  Because  it  has  not  produced  a  drab  and  exhausted  race-but  the  biggest  per-  centage  of  hardy  and  beautiful  women  history  has  ever  known.&quot;  I  don't  know  about  that.  I  don't  want  to  be  a  cad,  and  the  picture  of  Miss  Gilbert,  petalled  and  tight  as  a  zinnia,  singing  in  black  shorts,  is  not  one  I  want  to  forget,  but  I  suspect  that  Helen  of  Troy  and  Cleopatra  were  just  as  hardy  and  beautiful  and  feathered  and  curly  as  Mrs.  Guest  and  the  rest,  and  that  there  was  a  big  percentage  of  other  hardy  beauties  in  the  old  days  I  could  name  if  only  I  had  my  set  of  John  Erskine  handy.  What  I  do  know,  thanks  to  Mrs.  Tichenor  and  her  col-  leagues,  is  that  the  ladies  of  this  country  have  turned  their  long-heralded  leisure  right  back  into  what  it  was  supposed  to  supplant-busy-ness-and  are  making  a  joker  of  that  I.B.M.  machine.  They  are  spending  the  time  won  for  them  by  the  social  planners  in  drawing  on  funny  mouths.  Well,  who  wants  to  kiss  a  fun-  nymouth?  What  the  banker  and  his  fellow-man  sigh  for  today  is  an  un-  busy  girl  (heart's  desire:  lazy-ness)  who  doesn't  keep  him  waiting  nineteen  min-  utes  and  twenty  seconds  while  she  brushes  on  mascara  until  the  eyelashes  are  furry.  I'm  sorry  I  ever  came  up  out  ofthat  diamond  mine. "