 b"I  CANNOT  say  that  during  my brief  career  as  a  chaplain  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  Navy  I  had  the  ex-  perience  of  meeting  the  nation's  enemies  in  action.  I  can,  though,  give  the  im-  pression  that  I  did.  I  can  say  that  I  was  the  second  man  from  our  assault  trans-  port  to  hit  the  beach  at  Kwajalein,  and  this  is  the  truth.  It  is  not,  unfortunate-  ly,  the  whole  truth,  which  includes  the  further  information  that  (a)  we  steamed  into  Kwajalein  harbor  three  years  after  the  last  Japanese  had  disap-  peared  from  the  island,  that  (b)  instead  of  transporting  Marine  divisions  we  were  carrying  four  thousand  cases  of  Coca-Cola,  and  that  (c)  my  objective  in  going  ashore  was  to  find  a  place  for  a  softball  diamond  for  the  ship's  team.  However,  on  one  occasion  during  my  naval  service  I  did  have  an  encounter  with  a  real  enemy,  realat  any  rate  to  me,  and  I  would  like  to  think  that  I  earned  a  small  measure  of  distinction.  The  encounter  took  place  on  the  second  floor  of  a  building  at  William  and  Mary  College,  and  the  enemy  consisted  of  a  four-striper  chaplain  in  company  with  a  United  [REDACTED]  senator.  In  the  course  of  going  through  NTSch  (Chaplains)-which,  being  translated,  is  Naval  Training  School  for  Chaplains-a  prospective  chaplain  found  himself  confronted  by  a  situation  unique  in  ecclesiastical  circles.  The  school  was  manned  almost  entirely  by  chaplains  assigned  to  impart  the  fruits  of  long  Navy  experience  to  probably  as  unnautical  a  group  of  pastors,  priests,  and  rabbis  as  had  ever  been  assembled.  There  were  one  or  two  line  officers  on  the  staff  to  look  out  for  things  like  pay  and  physical  education,  but  they  were  merely  ensigns  and  lieutenants,  where-  as  a  number  of  the  chap-  lain-instructors  were  commanders,  and  a  few  were  even  captains.  They  went  on  the  theo-  ry,  a  sound  one,  that  NTSch  (Chaplains)  should  be  run  strictly  according  to  the  letter  of  the  Navy's  law,  so  that  no  chaplain  would  ever  bring  disgrace  up-  on  the  Chaplain  Corps  (or  upon  the  Lord)  by  his  inability  to  live  up  to  GCAROWNEC  REA  protocol.  To  achieve  this  end,  the  chap-  lains  in  charge  chose  to  play  the  part  of  the  crustiest,  saltiest  lineofficers  im-  aginable,  and  I  can  testify  that  of  all  the  line  officers  I  met  in  my  succeeding  duty  there  was  only  one  tougher  than  the  chaplains  in  charge  of  NTSch  (Chaplains)  pretended  to  be.  So  throughout  our  weeks  at  the  school,  we  chaplains-in-training  were  rigorously  punished  for  sloppy  march-  ing,  poor  salutes,  unstarched  collars,  messy  rooms,  and  any  least  infringe-  ment  of  etiquette.  Woe  to  the  chaplain  whose  belt  buckle  was  not  always  gleaming  or  who  let  his  socks  display  the  slightest  tendency  tosag.  Theman  charged  with  maintaining  this  discipline  was  Chaplain  William  H.  Rafferty,  a  four-striper,  who  performed  the  task  with  relish.  Chaplain  Rafferty  was  red-  headed  and  an  Irish  Baptist.  I  know  this  combination  sounds  improbable,  but  there  was  nothing  improbable  about  Chaplain  Rafferty.  He  was  as  substan-  tial  a  person  as  I  have  ever  come  across.  It  is  hardly  a  stretching  of  sober  truth  to  say  that  when  he  spoke-when  he  lec-  tured  to  us  about  &quot;the  greatest  bunch  of  men  God  ever  created,  Uncle  Sam's  bluejackets&quot;-the  walls  bulged  and  we  truly  believed  we  had  been  assigned  to  the  only  really  important  branch  ofthe  service.  My  first  official  encounter  with  him  set  me  completely  straight  as  to  how  the  two  of  us  stood.  I  had  barely  arrived  at  NTSch  (Chaplains)  when  I  was  told  that  Chaplain  Rafferty  wished  to  see  me  in  his  office  on  the  second  floor.  I  went  up  there  not  without  fear  and  trembling,  for  I  had  heard  some-  thing  of  his  disposition.  To  my  surprise,  he  greeted  me  with  a  warm  smile  and  a  handshake,  but  during  the  conversa-  tion,  to  which  he  was  virtually  the  sole  contributor,  the  smile  changed  to  a  frown.  It  seemed  that  he  knew  my  aunt,  who  happened  to  be  the  head  of  the  Waves,  and  whilehe  was  glad  to  wel-  come  me  aboard,  I  wasn't  to  think  that  his  knowing  her  would  cut  any  ice  what-  soever.  He  assured  me  that  the  first  chance  hegot  he  was  going  to  pin  my  ears  back.  &quot;That's  all,  Chaplain,&quot;  he  said,  and  I  retreated  in  some  confusion,  saying  &quot;'Thank  you,  sir!&quot;  instead  of  the  salty  &quot;Aye,  aye,  sir!&quot;  I  had  planned  to  inject  into  the  conversation  if  oppor-  tunity  arose.  By  living  the  life  of  a  nonentity  for  the  next  few  weeks,  I  was  able  to  avoid  having  my  ears  pinned  back,  but  the  day  approached  when  I  would  have  what  was  called  the  Duty.  Having  the  Duty  consisted  of  taking  one's  post  dangerous-  ly  close  to  Chaplain  Rafferty's  office,  and  there,  in  a  huge  hall,  greeting  visi-  tors  and  operating  aswitchboard,  as  well  as  performing  one  other  function,  which  needs  some  ex-  planation.  The  captain  of  any  ship,  we  were  informed,  had  a  quarter-deck,  and  the  second-floor  hall  had  been  desig-nated  by  Chaplain  Raf-  ferty  as  his.  It  was  a  primary  taskof  the  Duty  Chaplain  to  keep  a  sharp  eye  on  Chaplain  Rafferty's  office  door  and,  whenever  he  came  out  of  it,  to  jump  to  at-  tention  and  shout-bel-  low  at  the  top  of  his  lungs,  sothat  everyone  in  the  vast  corridor  could  hear-  &quot;ATTEN-  TION  ON  DECK!&quot;  He  was  then  to  freeze  to  at-  tention,  and  everybody  else  on  the  quarter-deck  would  likewise  freeze  until  Chaplain  Raffer-  ty,  with  equal  gusto,  roared,  &quot;CARRY  ON!&quot;  N  the  day  of  my  encounter  with  the  enemy,  I  had  the  " b"Duty  from  2  p.m.  to  6P.M.  (or,as  the  Navy  put  it,  from1400  to  1800  hours).  By  3:30  p.m.  (1530),  most  of  the  chaplains  on  the  teaching  staff  had  gone  home  (or  &quot;secured&quot;  ),  since  there  were  no  further  activities  sched-  uled  for  that  afternoon.  At  about  3:35,  a  light  flashed  on  the  switchboard,  and  I  flipped  the  switch  and  answered.  &quot;Is  that  you,  Brown?&quot;  The  voice  was  clipped  and,  I  thought,  a  little  strained.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  the  voice,  which  I  recog-  nized  as  belonging  to  a  Southern  Bap-  tist  student  chaplain,  went  on.  &quot;There's  a  senator  from  the  Navy  Appropriations  Committee  on  his  way  to  look  the  school  over.  Something  about  funds.  He  and  Rafferty  will  be  coming  to  the  main  office.  Rafferty'll  blow  his  top  if  you  look  sloppy.  I  thought  'd  better  warn  you.  How's  the  crease  in  your  pants&quot;&quot;  Feeling  that  a  small  rock  pile  had  been  deposited  in  the  pit  of  my  stomach,  I  replied  that  thecrease  in  my  pants  was  not  very  sharp,  owing  to  Williamsburg's  stifling  heat,  and  that  I  would  be  ex-  tremely  grateful  if  he  would  bring  me  a  fresh  pair.  He  agreed,  and  soon  ar-  rived,  carrying  not  only  fresh  trousers  but  a  clean  shirt  and  a  bottle  of  shoe  pol-  ish  as  well.  He  even  took  over  my  post  for  me  while  I  slipped  into  the  men's  room  to  spruce  up  for  the  senator.  By  the  time  I  was  newly  clad-look-  ing,  if  I  may  say  so,  the  picture  of  what  a  Duty  Chaplain  ought  to  be-H  hour  was  near.  My  friend  fled,  and  I  found  myself  quite  alone  in  the  building.  Ap-  parently  no  one-not  even  a  Southern  Baptist-wanted  to  encounter  Chaplain  Rafferty  with  a  senator  in  tow  and  full  ofzeal  to  display  the  rigor  of  Navy  discipline  at  NTSch  (Chaplains).  I  now  faced  a  genuine  dilemma,.  I  knew  that  as  soon  as  Chaplain  Rafferty  and  the  senator  came  up  the  stairs  and  appeared  on  the  quarter-deck  it  was  my  obligation  to  leap  to  attention,  bellow  &quot;ATTENTION  ONDECK  !,&quot;  and  remain  fixedly  gazing  at  the  wall  opposite  un-  til  released  by  the  words  &quot;CarRyY  On!&quot;  To  make  such  a  spectacle  of  myself  in  a  room  full  of  men  was  enough  of  a  trial;  to  do  it  in  a  hall  of  considerable  size,  with  no  one  else  in  it  who  might  come  to  attention,  was  a  cross  I  felt  I  could  not  bear.  The  senator  would  surely  wonder  what  kind  of  imbecile  was  guarding  the  switchboard,  and  why  the  United  [REDACTED]  government  was  wasting  good  money  training  such  peo-  ple  to  watch  over  the  spiritual  welfare  of  the  greatest  bunch  of  men  God  ever  created.  I  tentatively  decided  to  let  the  two  of " b"them  walk  in  silence  across  the  few  feet  of  quarter-deck  that  separated  the  stairs  from  Chaplain  Rafferty's  office.  But  as  I  heard  them  make  their  way  across  the  lower  hall  and  mount  the  steps  (&quot;climb  the  ladder&quot;),  a  voice  inside  me  kept  saying,  &quot;'Better  do  it  by  the  book.  Better  to  be  a  fool  with  the  law  on  your  side  than  play  it  smart  just  because  the  law  makes  you  look  like  a  moron.&quot;  This  voice  won  out.  After  all,  I  would  only  have  to  do  it  twice-once  when  they  came  and  once  when  they  went.  As  the  Chaplain  and  the  senator  touched  the  top  step,  I  shouted  with  as  much  vigor  as  I  could  muster,  &quot;AT-  TENTION  ON  DECK!&quot;  The  words  echoed  down  the  hall  and  returned,  and  however  astonished  the  senator  may  have  been,  Chaplain  Rafferty,  engrossed  in  conversation,  offhandedly,  albeit  very  loudly,  shouted  back,  &quot;CarRY  on!&quot;  I  sat  down  and  fiddled  with  the  wires  on  the  switchboard.  Half  done.  Once  more,  and  the  ordeal  would  be  over.  But  then  I  realized  that  I  had  rejoiced  too  soon.  They  had  gone  not  into  Chap-  lain  Rafferty's  office,  as  I  had  antici-  pated,  but  into  one  of  the  classrooms.  I  would  have  to  repeat  the  formula  when  they  came  out  and  went  into  Rafferty's  office,  and  I'd  have  to  do  it  a  third  time  when  they  left  the  office  to  go  down-  stairs.  Again  I  decided  to  play  it  by  the  book.  As  the  Chaplain  and  the  senator  reappeared,  I  let  forth  another  rousing  &quot;ATTENTION  ON  DECK!&quot;  and  studied  the  molding  on  the  opposite  wall.  All  the  nonexistent  ranks  of  chaplains  there  in  the  hall  froze  to  attention.  I  felt  that  I  was  beginning  to  understand  the  mean-  ing  of  the  phrase  &quot;the  Church  Invisible.&quot;  CARRY  ON!&quot;  shouted  Chaplain  Rafferty.  Two-thirds  through;  I  would  have  to  do  it  only  once  more.  Then  Chap-  lain  Rafferty,  instead  of  taking  the  sena-  tor  into  his  office,  took  him  into  a  second  classroom.  I  had  a  presentiment  of  horror  that  quickly  became  a  certainty.  The  senator  was  to  be  shown  each  room  on  the  entire  floor.  There  were  still  a  dozen  rooms  left.  It  seemed  unthink-  able  that  I  must  shout  &quot;ATTENTION  ON  DECK!&quot;  twelve  more  times  in  that  vast,  empty  corridor,  but  it  seemed  even  more  unthinkable  that  Chaplain  Rafferty  would  overlook  a  failure  to  shout.  I  resolved  the  dilemma  as  before.  Twelve  times  more,  &quot;ATTENTION  ON  DECK!&quot;  rang  through  the  ghostly  arena.  Twelve  times  more,  &quot;CARRY  ON!&quot;  came  back  with  a  volume  surpassing  my  own.  ANY  times  since,  I  have  tried  to  reconstruct  the  impression  the  senator  must  have  got.  I  think  it" b"followed  some  such  pattern  as  this:  &quot;And  here,  Senator,  is  where  we  teach  the  chaplains  Naval  History  AT-  TENTION  ON  DECK  CARRY  ON  and  give  them  a  little  indoctrination  in  Naval  Tactics.  Now,  if  you  will  come  over  here  to  the  next  ATTENTION  ONDECK  CARRY  OX  room,  you  will  see  where  they  receive  instruction  in  civil  laws  to  be  observed  when  they  are  at  a  shore  base.  Then,  if  we  can  just  ATTENTION  ON  DECK  CARRY  ON  step  over  here,  we  can  see  the  notes  we  give  them  on  Naval  letter  writing,  so  that  they  ...&quot;  After  the  first  few  awful  exchanges,  I  began  to  feel  thatI  was  becoming  mas-  ter  of  the  situation.  My  &quot;ATTENTION  ON  DECK!&quot;  became  louder,  my  spring  to  attention  more  precise,  my  posture  more  erect,  my  contemplation  of  the  molding  more  glazed,  my  whole  de-  meanor  more  &quot;regulation,&quot;  and  I  felt  that  I  was  actually  beginning  to  get  on  Chaplain  Rafferty's  nerves-that  al-  though  he  had  invented  this  game,  I  had  maneuvered  him  into  the  position  of  wanting  to  call  it  quits  and  not  being  able  to  do  so  without  losing  face.  But  such  a  crude  victory,  sweet  though  it  was  to  my  unregenerate  soul,  is  not  the  victory  that  I  now  like  to  claim.  I  like  to  feel,  rather,  that  Chaplain  Rafferty's  annoyance  at  my  correctness  gradually  wore  off,  and  that  before  the  fourteen  entrances  and  exits  were  com-  pleted  I  had  made  him  feel  that  we  were  both  doing  a  good  deed  for  the  prestige,  in  Congressional  circles,  of  the  Chap-  lain  Corps.  And  the  thing  that  makes  me  willing  to  claim  this  minor  but  subtle  victory  is  that  as  the  two  men  emerged  from  the  final  room,  and  I  shouted  my  last  &quot;ATTENTION  OX  DECK!&quot;  to  the  echoing  hall,  Chaplain  Rafferty,  who  until  then  had  studiously  ignored  my  person,  even  though  he  could  not  ignore  my  voice,  actually  looked  in  my,  direc-  tion  and  said,  &quot;CARRY  ON,  CHAP-  LAIN!&quot;  There  was  just  the  slightest  hint  of  camaraderie  in  that  spontaneous  &quot;CHAPLAIN,&quot;  just  the  slightest  sugges-  tion  of  spiritual  kinship,  and  I  felt  sure  he  was  trying  to  say  that  we  were  on  the  same  side,  after  all-that  together  we  had  given  the  senator  a  good  show  (&quot;taut  watch&quot;  ).  Of  course,  what  the  senator  was  thinking  I  have  no  idea. "