 b"ARNOLD  Darcy  was  a  civil  engineer  who  worked  for  the  city  as  a  building-plans  examiner.  He  handled  skyscrapers,  one  of  three  men  in  the  department  who  O.K.'d  blue-  prints  on  construction  twelve  stories  and  higher,  and  it  was  a  fairly  important  position,  but,  like  everybody  else  on  a  fixed  salary  these  days,  Darcy  was  trapped  by  inflation.  He  lived  at  the  end  of  the  subway  line,  way  out  in  [REDACTED]  Heights,  in  one  of  those  modern,  close,  cluttered-up,  three-room  apartments.  A  Phi  Beta  Kappa,  he  was  married  and  hadone  child.  Darcy  didn't  particularly  get  along  with  his  wife.  They  were  married  a  good  number  of  years  now,  ten  or  so.  He'd  come  home  from  work;  he'd  change  his  shirt  and  carefully  hang  up  his  suit,  saving  his  good  clothes  so  that  he'dlook  neat  in  the  morning;  he'd  go  into  the  kitchen  and  greet  his  wife.  &quot;Darling,&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;Dear.  Sweetheart.  How  are  you,  lover?  Did  you  have  a  vexing  day?  Did  the  wash-  ing  machine  break  down?&quot;  He'd  kiss  her.  It  was  an  artificial,  painful  per-  formance,  slightly  ridiculous  under  the  circumstances,  but  Darcy  went  through  this  rigamarole,  he  faithfully  made  the  effort  every  night,  because  the  pediatri-  cian  advised  it  for  the  sake  of  their  son,  to  create  asolid  family  atmosphere.  Gary,  a  city  child,  was  affiicted  with  a  mysterious  collection  of  allergies,  and  the  doctors  said  the  allergies  were  no  doubt  due  to  a  basic  sense  of  insecurity  induced  by  the  strained  situation  in  the  home.  When  Darcy  came  home  from  the  Munici-  pal  Building,  Gary  would  generally  be  in  the  living  room,  all  by  himself  in  there,  look-  ing  at  the  television  while  he  had  his  dinner.  Darcy  had  to  eat  in  the  kitchen,  at  the  kitchen  table.  That  was  the  way  it  was  in  that  apartment  in  [REDACTED]  Heights.  Darcy  never  blamed  Natalie,  bis  wife.  He  understood.  He  knew  how  the  countless  petty  household  cares  and  frictions  could  wear  away  on  a  person  over  the  years.  After  all,  to  illustrate  with  a  specif-  ic  instance,  Natalie  worked  hard  all  day,  fighting  with  the  butcher,  watching  the  budget,  running  to  the  doctors  with  Gary  and  his  rashes,  and  then  when  she'd  come  home  and  see  Darcy,  say,  calmly  playing  Mozart's  Symphony  No.  40  in  G  Minor  on  the  phonograph  attachment-well,  naturally  she'd  lose  control  and  let  go  with  a  mean,  caustic  remark.  It  was  human  and  probably  didn't  mean  as  much  as  it  seemed.  One  evening  as  Darcy  was  sitting  at  the  kitchen  table  eating  his  dinner  in  an  unhappy  peace,  the  phone  rang.  His  wife  promptly  flung  a  dish  towel  on  the  sink,  and  muttered  something  under  her  breath.  &quot;What?&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;'Nothing,&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;I  wasn't  talking  to  you.  I  was  talking  to  myself.  Your  sister  called.  I  told  her  you  weren't  home.&quot;  &quot;Rita  called?&quot;  Darcy  said,  a  little  stupidly,  not  wanting  trouble.  &quot;Don't  sit  there  like  a  lummox-talk  to  her,&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;Answer  the  phone,  it's  ringing!&quot;  Darcy  winced.  Rita  and  his  mother  were  an  old  running  argument  in  that  house,  the  familiar,  distressing,  in-law  problem.  Natalie  always  claimed  he  spent  too  much  time  with  his  mother  and  sister,  that  he  had  no  right  to  give  them  money  every  week  when  he  had  enough  trouble  supporting  his  own  fam-  ily,  that  his  mother  smothered  Gary  with  excessive  affection  and  had  a  bad  influ-  ence  on  the  child,  and  so  on-all  the  rest  of  it.  But  when  Darcy  picked  up  the  phone,  it  wasn't  Rita  at  all.  It  was  Arthur  Colie.  Colie  and  a  man  named  Charles  Angus  were  the  two  other  examiners  with  whom  Darcy  worked  down  at  the  department.  Colie  was  calling  now  to  say  something  very  urgent  had  turned  up  and  they  had  to  see  him  right  away.  Colie  told  him  where  to  meet  them,  at  an  address  over  in  [REDACTED].  Darcy  put  the  phone  back  on  the  rest.  He  couldn't  imagine  what  Angus  and  Colie  wanted  with  him  or  what  could  have  turned  up  that  was  so  terribly  urgent,  but  on  the  other  hand  he  knew  he  couldn't  afford  to  keep  them  waiting.  Charlie  Angus  was  a  power  downtown.  He  had  all  kinds  of  political  pull  and  had  a  hundred  different  subtle  ways  of  making  your  life  miserable  for  you  if  you  tried  to  antagonize  him.  &quot;Flies  to  his  mother  the  minute  she  calls  him,&quot;  Natalie  said.  She  still  had  it  in  her  head,  of  course,  that  it  had  been  Rita  on  the  phone.  &quot;I  am  not  flying  to  my  mother  the  minute  she  calls  me,&quot;  Darcy  said  quietly,  with  dignity,  but  he  couldn't  do  a  thing  with  Natalie.  She  was  boiling.  He  patiently  explained  it  had  been  Colie  on  the  phone,  not  Rita  or  his  mother-  just  Arthur  Colie  and  Charles  Angus.  They  wanted  to  see  him,  something  had  turned  up,  business,  and  he  made  it  clear  why  it  was  onlyexpedient  to  keep  in  the  good  graces  of  a  man  like  Angus,  but  it  was  hopeless.  Natalie  wouldn't  even  listen  to  him.  Darcy  understood.  He  knew  it  was  a  fixation  with  his  wife,  a  subconscious  re-  sentment  directed  against  his  mother  and  sister  because  Nata-  lie  herself  had  never  had  any  family  life  of  her  own,  having  lost  her  mother  and  father  when  she  was  still  a  child.  Darcy  sympathized.  He  made  allowances.  Psychologically  every-  thing  was  clear  to  him.  But  nevertheless  it  wasn't  very  satisfactory.  He  put  on  the  shirt  he  had  just  taken  off.  He  put  on  his  good  suit,  and  he  left  to  see  what  An-  gus  and  Colie  wanted.  DARCY  had  a  vague,  peculiar  feeling  something  was  wrong  as  soon  as  he  reached  the  address  Colie  had  given  him  over  the  phone.  It  was  an  exclusive-look-  ing  apartment  hotel  in  the  East  Sixties,  just  off  " b"Fifth  Avenue.  Darcy  stepped  from  the  elevator  into  a  fantastically  lavish  apartment-a  triplex  with  one  whole  wall  in  the  living  room  nothing  but  a  big  plate-glass  win-  dow  overlooking  [REDACTED].  It  was  the  first  time  in  his  life  he  had  even  been  in  a  triplex,  al-  though,  of  course,  he  had  examined  the  plans  of  many  of  them  in  the  course  of  his  duties  at  the  department.  At  first,  Darcy  couldn't  make  head  or  tail  of  the  whole  business.  He  was  so  baffled  he  probably  looked  comical.  There  was  a  full-fledged  party  going  on.  He  spot-  ted  Angus  and  Colie,  but  it  wasn't  easy  getting  to  them  in  the  crowd.  Ev-  erybody  was  laughing  and  drinking  and  making  noise,  everybody  was  ter-  ribly  friendly,  every-  body  obviously  was  try-  ing  to  get  you  in  a  good  humor,and  there  were  girls  there-party  girls,  no  question  about  it,  the  kind  you  read  about  in  the  papers.  They  were  all  made  up  and  very  young.  Darcy  kept  blinking  his  eyes  in  wonder,  like  a  fool,  but  he  made  a  few  guarded  inquiries  and  soon  discovered  that  the  host,  a  man  too  busy  to  be  present  even  at  his  own  party,  was  Adolph  Eckworth,  a  well-known  public  figure.  Instantly  everything  became  re-  vealed  to  Darcy.  Adolph  Eckworth  was  the  990  Corporation,  a  construction  group  interested  in  putting  up  a  forty-  story  hotel.  Down  at  the  office,  Darcy,  Colie,  and  Angus  were  right  in  the  mid-  dle  of  examining  the  990  Corporation  plans.  This  whole  party,  Darcy  saw  now,  was  nothing  but  a  clever,  un-  scrupulous  attempt  to  bring  improper  influence  to  bear  upon  them.  He  went  into  action  at  once.  Surrepti-  tiously  he  caught  Colie's  eye,  signalled  to  Angus,  and  drew  them  over  to  the  bathroom.  Darcy  wanted  to  warn  them.  &quot;Do  you  know  who's  running  this  party?&quot;  he  said  as  soon  as  he  had  locked  the  bathroom  door.  &quot;Do  you  realize  whose  place  we're  in?  Do  you  know  why  they  invited  us?&quot;  He  stopped.  He  stared  at  them.  They  were  both  grinning  from  ear  to  ear.  They  grinned  at  him  as  though  they  had  just  pulled  the  most  delicious  surprise  in  the  world.  It  dawned  on  Darcy.  How  naive  could  you  get?  Angus  and  Colie,  of  course,  knew  all  about  the  deal,  what-  ever  it  was.  They  were  already  part  of  it.  They  wanted  him  to  come  in  with  them-that  was  why  they  had  called  him.  This  is  no  candy-box  proposition,&quot;  Angus  began.  &quot;These  fellers  ain't  com-  ing  around  Christmastime  with  no  lousy  three-dollar  box  of  cigars,  believe  me  Darcy  got  his  breath  back.  &quot;I  don't  want  anything  to  do  with  it,&quot;  he  said,  and  turned  at  once  to  unlock  the  bath-  room  door.  The  general  public  impres-  sion  about  what  goes  on  in  city  govern-  ment  to  the  contrary,  Darcy  had  never  before  in  his  Civil  Service  experience  come  face  to  face  with  a  clear-cut,  out-  and-out  graft  situation.  He  was  shocked.  He  was  also  scared.  The  only  thing  he  could  think  of  was  to  get  out  ofthat  fancy  place  as  fast  as  he  could.  Angus  and  Colie,  no  longer  grinning,  were  pulling  at  his  shoulder,  trying  to  make  him  listen,  but  he  was  so  determined  or  panicked  that  there  was  no  holding  him.  &quot;Include  me  out!&quot;  he  said.  He  got  the  door  unlocked  and  broke  away.  You  heard  about  graft,  you  read  about  it--the  costly  gifts,  expense  ac-  counts,  trips  on  yachts  to  [REDACTED],  party  girls-but  when  you  came  upon  it  in  person,  the  effect  was  altogether  dif-  ferent.  There  was  an  impact,  hard  and  unnerving  and  ugly,  like  witnessing  a  bad  automobile  accident  or  being  on  the  scene  whilea  holdup  was  taking  place.  Darcy  was  still  very  much  excited  and  upset  when  he  got  home,  and  as  he  crossed  the  threshold,  he  was  suddenly  filled  with  a  deep  sense  of  misgiving.  He  started  to  worry.  In  his  bones,  he  knew  he  hadn't  heard  the  last  of  the  matter  from  Arthur  Colie  and  Charlie  Angus.  Darcy  knew  those  boys  weren't  finished  with  him,  not  by  a  long  shot.  Natalie  was  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;No  cour-  age  whatsoever,&quot;  she  said,  still  firmly  convinced  he  had  gone  to  his  mother's.  &quot;A  grown-up  man  scared  to  death  of  his  own  mother.  Nincompoop.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Darcy  said,  groggy  and  sinking,  this  disheartening,  unfair  insult  coming  now  on  top  of  everything.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  did  you  call  [REDACTED];  &quot;Nincompoop,&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;Nin-  compoop,  with  all  the  college  degrees.  Has  the  nervous  disposition  of  a  fly.&quot;  She  walked  out  of  the  kitchen  and  went  into  the  living  room,  to  get  ready  for  bed.  The  Darcys  slept  in  the  living  room,  on  a  couch  that  opened  up.  Gary  had  the  bedroom.  HE  factorof  safety  that  the  city  insisted  on  was  extremely  con-  servative,  in  some  cases  perhaps  as  much  as  three  to  one.  Roughly,  where  any  competent  engineering  authority  would  have  been  satisfied  with,  say,  a  steel  sup-  port  two  inches  deep,  the  city  required  five  or  six  inches-a  brutal  expense,  a     " b"brutal  waste  of  precious  rental  space,  all  the  room  beingtaken  up  by  the  struc-  tural  steel.  &quot;Morally,&quot;  Colie  argued  the  next  morning,  when  he  and  Angus  went  to  work  on  Darcy,  &quot;morally  we're  not  even  doing  anything  wrong.&quot;  After  all,  they  weren't  robbing  anybody,  were  they?  Nobody  was  getting  hurt.  Two  inches  or  six  inches,  the  990  building  wasn't  going  to  fall  down  and  kill  a  million  people,  no  matter  what.  It  was  a  beautifully  worked-out  prop-  osition,  Colie  said,  perfectly  safe.  Who  was  going  to  start  digging  into  a  mountain  of  blueprints?  How  could  anyone  ever  find  out?  By  shaving  the  safety  factor  in  just  the  steel-  frame  requirements  alone,  the  examiners  could  easily-and  so  unobtrusively-save  the  builders  hun-  dreds  of  thousands.  And  the  990  Cor-  poration,  a  hard-hitting,  realistic  bunch  of  go-getters,  were  ready  to  pay  off  _-  handsomely  for  any  favorable  considera-  tion.  Colie  wanted  to  weep.  Without  Darcy,  he  and  Angus  couldn't  do  a  thing;  their  hands  were  tied.  &quot;Have  a  heart,&quot;  Colie  said.  &quot;Show  me  a  little  consideration.&quot;  Colie  had  per-  sonal  difficulties  which  were  common  knowledge  around  the  office.  He  was  bitterly  infatuated  with  his  wife,  who  was  a  big  headache.  She  was  supposed  to  be  some  kind  of  beauty,  but  she  had  ex-  pensive  tastes  and  didn't  care  how  much  money  she  spent,  and  so  Colie  was  al-  ways  in  the  clutches  of  the  loan  sharks.  It  was  one  of  those  unfortunate  marital  relationships-he  had  to  pay  through  the  nose  for  every  single,  solitary  thing  Mrs.  Colie  ever  gave  him  or  no  sale.  She  had  the  upper  hand.  &quot;Do  you  realize  I  owe  in  four  figures?&quot;  Colie  said.  sands,  not  hundreds.  Thousands!&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  a  goddam  freak-take!&quot;  Angus  said,  breaking  in  impatiently.  He  was  baffled,  honestly  unable  to  figure  outa  man  like  Darcy.  &quot;What  the  hell  is  it  anyway?&quot;  Angus  said.  &quot;You  got  a  grudge  against  money?&quot;  He  was  an  uncomplicated  person,  very  direct  and  practical,  without  sensitivity,.  He  was  the  one,  with  all  his  contacts,  who  had  brought  in  the  deal  in  the  first  place.  &quot;Why  not,for  Christ  sake?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'The  dentist  calls  up,  suddenly  your  kid  needs  braces,  his  teeth  are  crooked-is  it  a  tragedy?  Six,  seven  hundred  bucks  they  charge  nowadays  for  braces-does  it  ruin  you?  No!  It's  a  drop  in  the  bucket,  you  don't  even  feel  the  damn  six  hundred.  See,  you'll  become  a  won-  derful  father,  a  wonderful,  generous  husband.  They'll  look  up  to  you  with  respect-you'll  send  your  wife  on     cruises!  Darcy,  you  got  an  idea  the  kind  of  dough  this  outfit  is  willing  to  hand  out?  There's  eight  thousand  dollars  in  this  for  you,  eight  G-is  this  a  sum  of  money  you  habitually  sneeze  at?&quot;  Darcy  shuddered,  the  size  of  the  bribe  only  making  him  more  frightened  than  ever.  It  turned  out  that  Angus  had  bragged.  He  had  told  the  Eckworth  people  he  could  deliver,  that  he  had  the  deal  all  set  and  sealed,  and  it  would  put  him  in  an  acute  embarrassing  personal  position  if  trouble  developed  now.  He  had  given  his  word.  &quot;Make  me  out  a  monkey,&quot;  Angus  said,  &quot;and  so  help  me,  Darcy,  you'll  regret  it!&quot;  Angus  and  Colie  made  threats.  They  argued  and  begged.  They  hammered  away  at  Darcy  all  day  long,  catching  him  in  the  office,  in  the  halls,  in  the  men's  washroom,  but  nothing  helped.  Darcy  wouldn't  budge.  He  didn't  give  his  reasons.  He  wouldn't  even  discuss  the  subject.  It  just  wasn't  in  him  to  take  a  bribe  or  do  anything  off  color,  that  was  all.  It  was  unthinkable.  &quot;Stubborn  like  an  ox,&quot;  Angus  said.  &quot;Who  could  ever  foresee  a  cockeyed  contingency  like  this?  Goddam  ethical  kiyoodle!&quot;  Around  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  a  forceful  woman,  no  longer  young  but  with  a  remarkably  well-preserved  figure  for  her  age,  suddenly  came  barg-  ing  into  the  office  where  Darcy,  Colie,  and  Angus  worked.  She  was  Mrs.  Colie,  and  she  was  very  angry,  all  tight  and  swollen  up.  She  marched  straight  up  to  her  husband  and  threw  a  set  of  keys  on  the  drafting  table  before  him.  &quot;Eileen,  what  is  this?&quot;  Colie  said.  &quot;''The  keys,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  house  keys.  What  do  you  think  it  isa  horse  and  carriage?  I  sent  the  laundry  out.  You'll  get  your  gray  suit  back  from  the  cleaners  on  Thursday.&quot;  She  was  going  to  Lake  Placid  with  friends  and  she  was  leaving  immediately.  It  seemed  a  mink  stole  had  just  been  repossessed.  &quot;Dearest,  don't  make  a  scene,&quot;  Colic  begged.  The  door  was  wide  open  and  everybody  in  the  place  could  hear  her.  &quot;Not  in  here,  dearest.  Not  in  front  of  the  whole  office-&quot;  Colie  reached  out  to  restrain  her,  but  she  promptly  knocked  his  hands  down,  backing  away  from  him.  &quot;Don't  you  touch  me!  Keep  your  hands  off!&quot;  she  screamed.  &quot;You're  always  pulling  and  grabbing.  That's  why  I  have  to  go  to  Lake  Placid,  I  need  a  rest,  You're  over-  sexed!&quot;  &quot;Eileen!&quot;  Colie  said  in  horror,  chok-  ing  and  shutting  his  eyes.  &quot;It'slove,  love,  love-morning,  noon,  and  night,&quot;  Mrs.  Colie  said.  &quot;Promises!  You  promise  the  moon,  you  buy  me  mink  stoles,  but  when  it  comes  down  to  business-baloney.  I  don't  know  when  I'm  coming  back!&quot;  She  turned,  walked  out,  and  slammed  the  door.  Colie  knew  it  was  useless  to  follow  her.  Absent-mindedly  he  picked  up  the  keys  and  put  them  in  his  pocket.  &quot;A  man  lives  in  a  tiny  overcrowded  apartment,&quot;  he  said,  his  voice  thin  and  anguished.  &quot;A  man  lives  way  out  in  [REDACTED]  Heights.  He  hasn't  got  a  decent  suit  of  clothes  to  his  name.  You  offer  him  a  gilt-edged  proposition  on  a  platter,  and  he  don't  want  it!&quot;  AFTER  that,  there  was  no  holding  Colie  back.  He  became  altogether  intemperate  and  didn't  seem  to  care  what  kind  of  language  he  used  with  Darcy.  There  was  a  bar-and-grill  in  the  heart  of  the  City  Hall  district,  and  after  working  hours  Colie  and  Angus  got  Darcy  squeezed  in  one  of  the  alcoves  there  and  battered  away  at  him  like  a  pair  of  maniacs.  They  kept  it  up  for  two  solid  hours,  until  Darcy  was  sick,  liter-  ally  sick,  at  his  stomach.  He  didn't  get  home  until  long  past  seven  o'clock.  No  one  would  talk  to  him.  Gary,  of  course,  was  in  the  living  room,  his  attention  taken  up  with  the  television,  and  asfor  Natalie,  she  kept  busy  at  the  range  and  wouldn't  even  look  at  her  husband.  He  felt  low.  He  could  hardly  swallow  the  food.  It  was  as  though  the  world  was  caving  in  on  him.  The  atmosphere  in  the  kitchen  was  oppressive.  Natalie  was  in  a  terrible  tem-  per.  He  was  befuddled  by  the  whole  Eckworth  situation.  And  in  the  next  room  Gary  was  sitting  at  the  bridge  table  like  one  of  those  potbellied  Asiatic  idols,  fierce  and  implacable,  with  his  compul-  sory  television  programs,  with  his  mys-  terious  allergies,  with  his  everlasting,  in-  fernal  basic  sense  of  insecurity.  As  soon  as  Darcy  had  had  his  dinner,  Natalie  let  go.  It  was  odd-it  was  some-  how  touching,  and  it  didn't  make  much  sense-but  no  matter  how  mad  she  might  be  at  him,  she  waited  until  he  fin-  ished  eating  before  she  started  up.  She  wanted  him  to  have  a  good  meal  in-  side  of  him,  at  least,  before  she  began  squabbling  and  getting  him  aggravated.  &quot;Under  no  conditions,&quot;  she  said,  straight  out  of  the  blue,  &quot;are  we  going  to  have  dinner  at  your  mother's  this  or  any  other  weekend.&quot;  Darcy  looked  up,  groping  helplessly  for  the  cause  of  this  outbreak,  but  it  soon  came  out  that  it  had  no  cause;  Natalie  was  jumping  to  conclusions,  asusual.  Nobody  had  said  anything  about  having  dinner  at  his  mother's.  Rita  had  called  up  again,  but  " b"it  wasn't  the  phone  call  that  had  set  Natalie  off  this  time.  It  was  the  two  hours  he  had  spent  at  the  Old  Com-  mercial.  Natalie  had  put  two  and  two  together,  and  claimed  she  knew  perfect-  ly  well  where  he  had  been  and  why.  He  had  gone  to  his  mother's  again.  Natalie  claimed  she  had  it  all  worked  out,  she  understood  everything  now.  Gary  had  a  birthday  coming  up  early  next  month  and  the  possessive  old  woman,  Natalie  said,  was  only  scheming  and  putting  on  the  pressure  to  have  a  party,  a  dinner.  That  was  what  the  whole  hullabaloo  was  about-the  phone  calls,  the  visits.  &quot;Oh,  Natalie,  for  goodness'  sake,&quot;  Darcy  said,  squirming  in  torment.  He  started  wearily,  hopelessly,  to  tell  her  about  Angus  and  Colie  wanting  him  to  accept  a  bribe,  that  he  had  been  at  the  Old  Commercial  with  them  all  the  time.  &quot;Don't  tell  me  it  was  busi-  ness,&quot;  Natalie  broke  in.  &quot;Don't  try  to  cover  up.  You're  only  lying.&quot;  &quot;I'm  lying?&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Look  at  him,  how  self-  righteous  he  is-butter  wouldn't  melt  in  his  mouth,&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;That's  the  trou-  ble  with  people  like  you,  you  rationalize.  You  justify  every  selfish,  rotten  thing  you  do.  I  always.  say  you're  the  worst  kind  of  a  person  there  is-a  good  person.  You're  hypo-  crites.  Get  out  of  the  kitchen,  I  have  to  clean  up!&quot;  Darcy  went  into  the  living  room.  His  head  was  spinning.  Suddenly  the  good  cowboys  started  galloping  after  the  bad  cowboys,  and  Gary,  who  kept  a  bicycle  horn  at  his  side  for  just  such  occasions,  promptly  began  honking  away  in  a  crazy  fit,  rooting  his  heroes  along.  Darcy  begged  him  to  stop,  but  Gary  had  no  pity  and  honked  all  through  the  chase.  HE  next  morning  Darcy  sat  down  at  the  breakfast  table  dizzy  with  lack  of  sleep,  no  appetite  in  him.  &quot;Drink  your  orange  juice,&quot;  Natalie  said.  She  was  in  a  rush.  Gary  was  dawdling  in  the  bed-  room  and  she  had  to  get  him  out  for  school.  &quot;I  don't  want  it,&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Drink  it,&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;I  went  to  the  trouble  of  squeez-  ing  it  for  you,  don't  let  it  go  to  waste.&quot;  '&quot;'Natalie,&quot;  Darcy  began,  &quot;'this  morning  I  just  don't  happen  to  feel  like-&quot;  &quot;Drink  it  up!&quot;  she  said,  blazing  out  at  him.  &quot;Drink  it  or  I'll  throw  it  in  your  face!&quot;  DARCY  went  to  work.  In  the  ten  or  eleven  years  of  their  marriage,  he  said  to  himself,  he  and  Natalie  had  had  their  moments  of  distress,  but  they  had  never  descended  to  such  a  sordid  level.  He  had  known  for  some  time  that  his  marriage  was  deteriorating,  and  for  all  he  knew  now,  it  was  ruined  for  good,  but  he  was  so  eaten  away  by  the  Eck-  worth  business  that  he  couldn't  even  stop  and  take  the  time  to  worry  about  Natalie  and  his  marriage.  When  he  walked  into  his  office,  Angus  and  Colie  were  standing  there  waiting  for  him.  Darcy  held  fast.  As  the  day  wore  on,  however,  scrambling  around  and  trying  to  fight  back,  he  was  less  and  less  able  to  think  clearly,  and  somehow  his  mind  seemed  to  get  hung  up  on  the  mechanics  of  bribetaking.  'To  be  perfectly  honest,  perhaps  by  this  timehe  would  have  been  willing  to  go  in  on  the  deal,  except  that  he  was  overwhelmed  by  the  maze  of  complications  that  would  follow.  &quot;I  wouldn't  even  know  how  to  go  about  it,&quot;  he  said,  protesting.  What  did  they  do,  pay  you  bycheck  or  in  cash?  Even  if  it  was  in  cash,  you  had  to  deposit  the  money  eventually,  and  wouldn't  the  bankbooks,  the  bank  entries,  give  you  away?  And  what  about  the  income  tax?  How  did  a  person  declare  a  bribe?  Angus  slapped  the  drafting  board  hard.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  over.  You  agreed.&quot;  &quot;I  agreed?&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;When?  All" b"I  said,  I  said  did  they  pay  you  by  check  or  in  cash-&quot;  &quot;Cash,  cash,&quot;  Angus  said.  &quot;What  that  screwball  finds  to  worry  about!  In-  come  taxes!  Didn't  you  ever  hear  of  safe-deposit  vaults?  You  buy  a  box  for  four  dollars  and  you  got  no  troubles.  Now  what's  there  left  to  kick  about?  So  that's  what  I  said-it's  over.  Thank  God!  What  atime  he  give  me!  Boy!&quot;  Angus  now  acted  as  though  every-  thing  was  settled.  He  turned  away  from  Darcy,  went  to  the  drafting  tables,  and  started  getting  together  the  blue-  prints  of  the  990  Corporation  building.  Colie  was  bewildered.  He  couldn't  understand  what  was  going  on,  he  said.  &quot;'The  subject's  closed,&quot;  Angus  said,  cold  and  businesslike.  As  far  as  Colie  could  see,  nothing  had  been  arrived  at,  just  words.  &quot;Go  away,  don't  bother  me,&quot;  Angus  said.  &quot;He  agreed-he  can't  back  out.&quot;  &quot;Ridiculous!&quot;  Darcy  said  when  Colie  turned  to  him.  &quot;Silliest  thing  I  ever  heard  of.  He  misconstrued  what  I  said.  I  was  just  asking  academically.&quot;  &quot;Angus,  what's  the  good?&quot;  Colie  pleaded.  &quot;He's  a  fanatic.  You  know  him-a  will  of  iron.  He'll  only  go  to  the  Commissioner  or  the  D.A.-wher-  ever  they  go  to  give  information.  He'll  talk!&quot;  &quot;No,  hewon't,&quot;  Angus  said.  &quot;W  hat  do  you  think-those  parties  are  going  to  stand  by  idle?  They  won't  sit  in  jail.  If  he  squeals,  they  will  come  and  get  him.  They  will  kill  him!&quot;  Tight-lipped  and  unyielding,  he  picked  up  the  bundle  of  blueprints  and  walked  out  of  the  office,  taking  the  rest  of  the  day  off.  A  few  seconds  after  he  left,  Rita,  Darcy's  sister,  walked  in.  &quot;It's  disgusting,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  have  to  get  docked  an  hour  just  to  see  my  brother-I  can't  reach  you  on  the  phone.&quot;  What  she  had  come  to  see  him  about  was  Gary's  birthday.  There  was  some  justification  for  Natalie's  suspicions,  after  all.  On  ac-  count  of  the  occasion,  Darcy's  mother  wanted  to  see  the  child  this  evening.  This  was,  of  course,  strictly  against  Nat-  alie's  objections-the  old  excessive  af-  fection  argument-but  Rita  went  on  shrilly,  &quot;Momma  has  a  right,  too.  She's  his  grandmother.  She's  got  a  present  to  give  him,  a  sweater  she  knitted  all  by  herself.&quot;  &quot;Rita,  please!&quot;  Darcy  said,  but  his  sister  refused  to  let  him  say  a  word.  &quot;Natalie  doesn't  have  to  know.  You  can  meet  Momma  outside  in  the  park.  Bring  Gary  downstairs  to  the  park  after  dinner,  after  Captain  Video-it's  still  light.  For  God's  sake,  Arnold,  she  worked  on  the  sweater  three  whole  weeks!&quot;  Darcy  was  dazed.  I1  His  head  was  reeling  and  there  was  some-  thing  wrong  with  his  eyes-he  couldn't  seem  to  focus  very  well.  He  nodded  and  said  he'd  meet  his  mother  in  the  park-anything  to  get  rid  of  Rita-and  finally  she  left.  &quot;What  did  I  do?&quot;  Colie  said,  moaning  to  himself.  He  had  been  through  a  terrible  time  the  last  day  or  two  and  couldn't  stand  the  thought  now  of  having  anybody's  life  on  his  conscience.  &quot;Oh,  what  did  I  go  and  get  my-  self  all  involved  for?  All  for  a  mink  stole  and  a  few  lousy  pieces  of  jewelry-I  should  have  my  head  examined!&quot;  NL  through  the  little  visit  with  his  mother  in  the  neighborhood  park,  Darcy's  mind  raced  in  circles.  He  saw  how  diabolically  effective  Angus's  tac-  tics  were.  He,  Darcy,  would  be  pre-  sented  with  what  amounted  to  a  fait  accompli.  He  faced  the  very  real  threat  of  murder  or  of  serious  bodily  injury  at  the  least  if  he  tried  to  do  anything  about  it.  And  in  the  meantime  he  had  to  inter-  vene  constantly  and  stop  his  mother.  She  was  knocking  Natalie.  &quot;Momma,  please!&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Gary's  listening.  It's  not  right.&quot;  &quot;What  am  I  saying?  I'm  only  re-  marking,&quot;  the  old  woman  said,  and  in-  nocently  went  on  chattering  to  the  boy.  In  time,  the  visit  was  over.  Gary  took  the  present  and  thanked  his  grand-  mother,  and  Darcy  was  at  last  able  to  lead  him  back  to  the  apartment.  It  was  Natalie's  turn  tonight  to  go  to  the  movies-she  and  Darcy  went  separate-  ly,  an  arrangement  necessitated  by  fi-  nancial  stringencies  but  nevertheless  without  doubt  one  cause  accounting  for  the  poor  success  of  their  marriage-and  Darcy  hoped  with  all  his  heart  that  when  he  returned,  his  wife  would  be  gone.  But  when  he  and  Gary  entered  the  apartment,  there  she  was,  right  in  the  foyer,  still  fixing  her  hat  at  the  mir-  ror.  She  kept  talking  to  Gary,  asking  him  did  he  have  a  nice  time  in  the  park?  Did  he  go  on  the  swing?  Did  he  play  with  Donald?  &quot;No,  I  didn't  play  with  Donald,&quot;  Gary  said.  &quot;You  didn't?&quot;  Natalie  said.  &quot;Why?  Why  didn't  you  play  with  Donald?&quot;     I  a  Qty  Darcy  wanted  to  groan  aloud.  Here  it  came.  He  just  didn't  have  the  energy  in  him  for  another  flare-up  with  Natalie,  and  didn't  know  what  he  would  do  if  she  let  out  at  him  now,  but  luck  was  with  him;  Gary  remembered  his  tele-  vision  programs,  in  the  nick  of  time,  and  went  darting  offinto  the  living  room.  &quot;What  happened  in  the  park?&quot;  Natalie  said,  confronting  her  husband.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Absolutely  nothing.&quot;  &quot;Then  why  didn't  he  play  with  Donald?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Did  they  have  a  fight?  Answer  me.&quot;  &quot;Natalie!&quot;  Darcy  said.  Something  had  got  into  him.  It  was  an  involuntary  outburst.  He  found  himself  holding  her  by  the  shoulders,  almost  shaking  her.  She  looked  at  him  in  wonder.  &quot;Let  go  my  dress,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you're  getting  it  all  wrinkled.&quot;  &quot;What  happened  to  you,  Natalie?  How  did  it  happen?&quot;  He  gripped  her  shoulders  tighter.  He  couldn't  stop  him-  self.  He  had  had  more  than  he  could  stand,  but  maybe  it  was  all  really  be-  cause  he  saw  her  now  -for  once-not  in  an  apron  and  house  dress  but  wear-  ing  a  nice  blue  linen  dress,  with  white  gloves  and  a  little  white  piqu\xc3\xa9  hat.  She  looked  pretty,  fresh  and  youthful,  and  it  made  him  ache  to  see  her  like  this.  &quot;How  the  dickens  does  a  person  change  so  completely?&quot;  he  cried.  He  reminded  her  how  it  had  been  ten  and  eleven  years  ago-how  they  took  ferryboat  rides  all  over  New  York  Bay,  how  they  spent  whole  afternoons  just  walking  together  in  the  Botanical  Gardens,  how  they  went  to  Lewisohn  Stadium  and  Carnegie  Hall  and  dis-  cussed  Toscanini  by  the  hour.  He  even  " b"reminded  her  ofthe  time  she  had  bought  him  a  book  of  Japanese  poems  in  trans-  lation.  *  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  she  said,  flushing.  &quot;What  book  of  Japanese  poems?&quot;  Yes,  Japanese  poems-you  remem-  ber,  'The  Jade  Garden,'  &quot;  he  went  on  passionately,  still,  however,  holding  his  voice  down-that  hushed,  agonized,  damnable  technique  the  Darcys  had  de-  veloped  over  the  years  so  that  they  could  have  their  quarrels  and  not  disturb  Gary  and  his  inner  equilibrium.  &quot;When  I  was  in  the  hospital,&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;When  I  had  my  tonsils  out.&quot;  &quot;A  remainder,&quot;  she  said,  twisting  and  turning,  trying  to  escape,  to  get  away  from  his  eyes.  &quot;Forty-seven  cents-I  bought  it  in  a  drugstore.  What  are  you  bringing  that  up  for  now,  after  all  these  years-&quot;  She  stopped.  She  became  suddenly  transformed,  the  guilt  and  unhappiness  in  her  turning  all  at  once  into  a  blind,  senseless  rage.  &quot;W  hat  is  that?&quot;  she  said,  pointing.  &quot;How  did  that  get  there?  Did  she  give  it  to  him?&quot;  It  was  the  sweater,  lying  on  a  chair  in  the  foyer.  Darcy  had  forgotten.  Dis-  tracted  as  he  was,  he  had  forgotten  all  about  the  sweater!  &quot;Is  that  why  you  took  Gary  to  the  park-to  meet  your  mother?  Is  that  why  he  couldn'tplay  with  Donald?&quot;  &quot;Yes!&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Yes!  I  took  him  to  meet  my  mother.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  I  expressly  forbid  it?  Didn't  I  tell  you  a  million  times  I  never  wanted  that  woman  near  him  again?&quot;  &quot;She's  his  grandmother,&quot;  Darcy  said.  'She  hasa  right.  I  don't  care  what  you  told  me!&quot;  Natalie  then  became  altogether  un-  controlled  and  did  something  so  painful,  so  dismaying,  so  unspeakable,  that  a  shiver  went  through  Darcy.  She  spat  in  his  face.  &quot;Natalie,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;Natalie,  don't  you  ever  do  that  again.&quot;  &quot;I'll  do  it  whenever  I  feel  like!&quot;  she  said,  and  spat  in  his  face  again.  Darcy  struck  her-not  hard,  a  glanc-  ing  blow,  more  a  light  slap  really  than  a  blow.  He  immediately  regained  control  over  himself  and  turned  away,  now  ig-  noring  her  completely.  She  was  still  hysterical,  &quot;You'll  do  everything  I  tell  you,  do  you  hear  me?  After  I  go,  you'll  open  the  couch  and  " b"fix  the  bed.  You'll  give  Gary  his  bath.  You'll  put  him  to  sleep.  You'll  mop  the  floor.  And  you'll  stay  away  from  your  mother.  Nincompoop,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Cow-  ard!&quot;  SHE  left.  The  place  was  very  quiet  now  except,  of  course,  for  the  gun-  play  and  Western  voices  in  the  living  room.  &quot;Got  the  petition  ready,  Lester?&quot;  &quot;Comin'  along  slow,  Dude.  Folks  ain't  a-signin'.  ...&quot;  Darcy  wasn't  in  the  least  worked  up  and  bedevilled  any  longer.  It  was  sur-  prising  how  clearheaded  you  could  be-  come,  once  you  made  your  mind  up  on  a  definite  course  of  action,  regardless  of  the  possible  consequences.  It  was  a  re-  lief.  Darcy  was  tired  of  being  helpless  and  uncertain  all  the  time,  flopping  around  like  a  man  drowning  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  ocean.  Darcy  was  tired  of  meanness.  He  calmly  supervised  Gary's  play  when  the  child  finished  with  the  television  and  turned  to  his  electric  trains.  Later,  he  got  the  boy  ready  for  bed,  taking  out  his  pajamas,  giving  him  his  bath,  watching  him  brush  his  teeth.  When  Gary  fell  asleep,  Darcy  opened  the  couch  in  the  living  room  and  arranged  the  bedding,  al-  though  he  wouldn't  be  sleeping  there  tonight.  He  packed  his  briefcase-  they  had  one  good  suitcase  and  he  pre-  ferred  to  let  Natalie  have  it.  Andnow  as  he  waited  for  the  time  to  pass,  he  sat  in  Gary's  bedroom  and  looked  at  the  face  of  his  son,  sweet  and  dear  in  sleep.  In  Darcy's  apartment  house,  they  had  the  self-service  elevator  and  the  stairs.  You  could  always  tell  when  somebody  downstairs  in  the  lobby  took  the  elevator-you  heard  a  certain  click.  Around  eleven  o'clock,  the  click  came,  and  Darcy  knew  his  wife  was  on  the  way  up.  He  could  leave  now.  Gary  would  only  be  alone  in  the  apartment  a  few  seconds.  Darcy  picked  up  the  briefcase  and  went  out  into  the  hall  and  part  way  down  the  first  flight  of  stairs.  In  another  moment  or  two,  the  elevator  door  swung  open.  In  the  murky  light-  ing  from  the  landing,  he  watched  his  wife  as  she  walked  across  the  tiled  hall  to  the  door  of  their  apartment,  never  once  realizing  that  he  was  standing  there  looking  at  her  all  the  time.  She  opened  the  door  and  went  in,  and  Darcy  walked  swiftly  on  down  the  stairs.  Nous  was  a  bachelor  and  had  a  swanky  bachelor's  apartment  in  a  residential  hotel  on  the  West  Side.  Darcy  took  the  subway  and  went  straight  down  there,  late  as  it  was.  He  walked  in  and  said  without  preliminary that  he  was  having  no  part  of  the  990  business.  He  wouldn't  be  bulldozed  and  he  wanted  the  blueprints-nobody  was  presenting  him  with  a  fait  accompli.  Darcy  spoke  with  grim  determination,  but  Angus,  who  naturally  had  no  way  of  knowing  what  had  transpired  that  evening  at  the  [REDACTED]  Heights  apart-  ment,  never  dreamed  he  was  dealing  with  a  radically  changed  man  and  made  the  mistake  of  treating  him  lightly.  &quot;Jack  Dalton  ofthe  U.  S.  Marines,&quot;  Angus  said.  The  blueprints  were  stay-  ing  right  where  they  were,  Angus  said.  Everything  was  going  to  proceed  exact-  ly  according  to  schedule,  and  there  wasn't  a  damn  thing  Darcy  could  do  about  it,  so  what  was  he  raising  an  un-  necessary  holler  for?  Angus  said  talk,  talk,  but  in  the  last  analysis  Darcy  knew  good  and  well  he  would  cave  in  and  back  down  when  the  going  got  rough.  &quot;You  think  so?&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Angus  said.  &quot;What  the  hell  are  you  gomg  around  trying  to  create  an  impression  for?  You're  a  nonentity.&quot;  Darcy  socked  him  on  the  nose,  for  the  second  time  that  night  resorting  to  physical  violence.  Angus's  eyes  streamed  profusely.  He  brought  his  hand  up  to  his  nose  and  then  looked  into  his  palm but  his  nose  wasn't  bleeding.  he  said,  gulping.  Darcy  banged  out  of  the  place.  He  didn't  need  the  blueprints.  The  way  he  felt  now,  he  didn't  care  about  fait  ac-  complis  or  reprisals  or  anything,  and  when  he  reached  the  sidewalk  down-  stairs,  he  was  still  so  charged  with  nerv-  ous  tension  that  he  did  a  nonsensical,  al-  most  deranged  thing,  one  of  those  oddity  items  you  always  read  in  the  papers:  He  attacked  a  car.  It  was  parked  in  front  of  the  building  where  Angus  lived,  abig  black  convertible-that  fat,  hateful  symbol  of  graft,  that  smug  reward  for  corruption,  along  with  Angus's  swanky  bachelor  apartment,  along  with  the  two-hundred-and-fifty-dollar  custom-  tailored  suits  he  always  wore.  Darcy  methodically  went  to  work  on  the  tires,  letting  the  air  out.  A  short,  stout,  middle-aged  man  Darcy  had  never  seen  before  in  his  life  came  trotting  out  ofthe  apartment  building,  dancing  on  the  tips  of  his  toes  and  holding  up  his  hands  in  consterna-  tion.  &quot;Here,  here,  young  man!&quot;  he  ex-  claimed.  &quot;What  is  this?  Stop!  Please  leave  my  car  alone!&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Darcy  said,  glaring.  'The  stranger  took  fright  immediately  and  went  scurrying  back  into  the  building.  For  a  moment,  Darcy  thought  of  run-  ning  after  him  to  explain,  to  apologize,  but  then  he  realized  that  he'd  get  in  trouble  if  he  hung  around  there  any  longer,  that  he  might  be  arrested.  What  did  I  need  all  this  excitement  for,  he  asked  himself.  What  have  I " b"done?  What  good  is  it'  He  felt  de-  fated,  the  reaction  setting  in  now,  and  as  he  walked  along  the  dead  deserted  streets,  his  mind  grew  filled  with  dismal  second  thoughts.  He  was  married  to  Natalie,  he  had  a  child  to  support.  How  can  Ileave  them,  he  wondered.  And  what  was  I  trying  to  prove  up  there  in  the  hotel,  socking  Angus  on  the  nose?  When  you  come  right  down  to  it,  no-  body  stands  up  to  professional  hoodlums.  In  his  heart,  Darcy  was  beginning  to  suspect  the  ignominious  truth:  that  in  all  likelihood  he  would  cave  in;  that  he  would  probably  go  right  back  to  Natalie;  that  in  the  endyou  never  suc-  ceeded  in  changing  anything.  And  what  did  I  want  from  the  car,  he  won-  dered  dejectedly-a  car  owned,  no  doubt,  by  a  thoroughly  respectable  man  who  has  worked  hard  and  honorably  to  obtain  it?  The  car  surely  was  the  most  idiotic  thing  of  all.  DARCY  rode  to  the  St.  George  Hotel  in  [REDACTED]-a  local  train  all  the  way,  making  every  station  stopat  that  time  of  night-and  gota  room  in  the  old  wing.  In  the  morning,  he  got  up  and  shaved  and  showered,  but  he  didn't  go  to  work.  For  the  next  four  days,  he  didn't  do  much  of  anything.  He  kept  pretty  close  to  the  hotel,  wandering  around  in  the  lobby,  looking  at  the  people  there  at  the  bars  or  downstairs  in  the  swimming  pool.  It  was  aweird,unreal  kind  of  existence  and  soon  Darcy  had  the  feel-  ing  the  hotel  personnel  were  beginning  to  stare  at  him.  Maybe  Darcy  imagined  the  stares,  but  in  any  case  on  the  morn-  ing  of  the  fifth  day  he  checked  out  of  the  hotel,  and  went  down  to  the  de-  partment.  As  he  walked  in,  Angus  took  one  look  at  him  and  immediately  let  out  a  strange,  mystifying  howl.  &quot;See?&quot;  he  yelled,  not  at  Darcy  but  at  Colie.  &quot;See,  you  dumb  little  pest?  There  he  is!  I  told  you-I  didn't  make  the  deal!  No-  body  murdered  him!  Nobody  abducted  him!  Do  you  believe  me  now?&quot;  &quot;Leave  me  alone,&quot;  Colie  said.  &quot;I'm  exhausted.  I'm  a  mental  wreck.&quot;  &quot;Conscience,  conscience!&quot;  Angus  said  bitterly.  Darcy  watched  and  listened  in  won-  der,  but  actually  it  wasn't  so  mystifying,  and  in  a  few  moments  he  had  it  all  straightened  out.  What  had  happened  was  that  when  the  office  called  up  to  inquire  where  he  was,  Natalie,  under-  standably  enough,  was  too  ashamed  to  tell  the  truth-that  her  husband  had  left  her  following  a  domestic  quarrel.  She  had  been  evasive.  She  had  said  she  had  no  idea  where  he  was  or  why  he  had  gone  away  or  what  had  happened  to  him.  Colie  had  feared  the  worst.  He  had  thought  Angus  had  made  the  deal  secret-  ly,  and  that  the  thugs  had  already  got-  ten  ahold  of  Darcy.  And  so,  night  and  day,  every  minute  of  the  time  Darcy  had  spent  at  the  St.  George,  Colie  had  been  on  Angus's  neck,  driving  him  crazy.  &quot;You  wait,&quot;  Angus  said,  talking  to  Darcy  now.  &quot;You'll  get  yours  yet.&quot;  Angus  was  sick  and  tired  of  every-  thing.  'The  990  deal  was  dead.  He  had  brought  the  blueprints  back  to  the  office  and  called  all  bets  off,  explaining  that  he  was  in  no  position  to  under-  take  ambitious  ventures.  &quot;I'll  take  care  of  you,&quot;  he  saidto  Darcy,  and  walked  out  of  the  office,  still  muttering  angrily.  Colie  and  Darcy  worked  side  by  side  all  day,  and  then  when  it  was  time  to  go  " b"home,  Colie  stood  up  and  insisted  on  shaking  hands.  &quot;Personally,  I  think  you  made  the  wrong  decision,&quot;  he  said  sadly.  Apparently  Mrs.  Colie  was  still  away  at  Lake  Placid.  &quot;But  if  that's  the  way  you  felt  about  it,  then  that's  the  way  it  had  to  be.  Because  people  have  to  go  according  to  their  makeup.  What's  the  use?  We're  none  of  us  strong  enough  to  fight  against  our  nature.  I  know.&quot;  He  turned  and  left.  Darcy  waited  a  few  moments  and  then  walked  to  the  elevators  in  the  hall.  The  thousands  and  thousands  of  Civil  Service  employees  poured  out  of  the  big,  dirty  municipal  buildings  and  streamed  off  to  the  various  subway  en-  trances.  Soon,  in  the  whole  City  Hall  district  there  were  only  scattered  groups  of  people  here  and  there  on  the  streets.  Darcy  idled  about,  drifting  aimlessly.  After  some  time,  he  walked  into  the  Old  Commercial  and  managed  to  kill  an  hour  or  two  there.  Around  eight  o'clock,  he  got  up  from  the  table  and  did  what  he  knew  all  along  he  would  do.  He  went  into  the  phone  booth  and  called  up  Natalie.  She  didn't  burst  out  at  him  or  cry  when  she  heard  his  voice  at  the  other  end  of  the  wire.  She  kept  controlled.  They  were  both  stiff  and  self-conscious.  &quot;I'm  cominghome,&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Oh?&quot;  Natalie  said.  Darcy  faltered.  &quot;I  don't  quite  know  how  to  take  that  as  an  answer.  What  do  you  mean,  'Oh'?&quot;  ...&quot;  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to  come  ho556e6974656420537461746573;  &quot;Where  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Where  am  I?'  What  difference  does  it  make  where  I  am?  I'm  in  a  public  phone  booth,  downtown.  Do  you  want  me  to  come  ho556e6974656420537461746573;  &quot;Do  what  you  like.  Whatever  will  make  you  happy.&quot;  Again  Darcy  halted.  &quot;I  don't  quite  know  how  to  take  that  as  an-&quot;  &quot;Do  you  love  [REDACTED];  Natalie  inter-  rupted.  &quot;What?&quot;  Darcy  said.  &quot;Do  you  love  [REDACTED];  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Darcy  said.  She  kept  silent.  Darcy  didn't  know  what  to  say,  and  for  a  moment  or  two  they  just  stayed  there  holding  the  phone  at  each  end,  nothing  happening.  Final-  ly  Natalie  spoke.  &quot;Then  all  right,&quot;  she  said,  slowly,  quietly,  and  hung  up.  Gary  was  asleep  in  the  bedroom  when  Darcy  came  home.  The  house  was  quiet.  It  looked  tidy  and  neat  and  pleasant.  Natalie  didn't  speak.  She  wasn't  mad-just  neutral.  Darcy  didn't  say  anything,  either.  Natalie  brought  him  his  dinner-lamb  chops,  green  peas,  and  a  glass  of  milk.  When  she  had  finished  putting  the  food  on  the  table,  she  quickly  left  the  kitchen.  Darcy  could  tell  the  lamb  chops  were  specially  prepared;  they  were  pan-     broiled  and  looked  appetizing.  He  start-  ed  to  cut  into  one  of  them,  but  just  then  he  saw  the  note.  It  hadn't  been  there  a  moment  before.  Natalie  must  have  slipped  it  onto  the  table  as  she  walked  out  of  the  kitchen.  He  put  his  knife  and  fork  down  and  took  the  note.  This  is  what  it  said:  DrEar  Arnoun,  You  have  always  said  how  wonderful  it  was  to  have  a  nice  home  and  a  wife  and  a  son  such  as  you  have.  At  least,  I  know,  you  are  really  a  devotedfamily  man.  But  I  must  admit  that  I  do  not  really  know  you  as  well  as  I  thought,  because  of  what  vou  did.  I  realize  it  was  done  in  a  moment  of  great  anger,  despair,  and  frustration.  But  you  must  never  do  this  again,  at  least  without  consulting  me  first.  We  must  dis-  cuss  things.  There  must  be  no  concealed  problems  that  cause  needless  inner  con-  flicts.  Arnold,  I  think  you  are  really  very  nice.  I  am  very  unhappy  away  from  you  and  I  know  that  now.  You  are  good-natured,  intelligent,  and  you  like  to  do  favors  for  other  people.  Of  course,  you  have  a  few  faults.  You  are  quite  stubborn  and  you  have  admitted  this  yourself.  Another  fault  is  the  fact  that  you  are  too  impulsive  and  emotional.  Every  expression  on  my  face,  ev-  ery  word  and  gesture  of  mine  seems  to  af-  fect  you  to  a  degree  never  intended  by  me.  I  propose  not  to  say  anything  further  to  you  about  the  awful  thing  you  did.  Let  it  all  be  forgotten.  Gary  was  very  ill  when  you  left  and  I  was  all  alone.  I  have  no  parents.  sisters,  or  brothers.  That  is  why  you  should  never  have  done  what  you  did!  Between  Gary  and  you,  I  was  frantic.  Then,  I  couldn't  tell  anyone  about  this!  The  whole  time,  I  never  slept  and  ate  practically  nothing.  I  lost  eleven  pounds  in  four  days.  Gary  is  much  better.  At  first,  he  will  be  a  little  shy  with  you;  but  I  believe  he  will  forget  eventually.  Act  normally  with  him,  as  though  nothing  untoward  took  place.  Love,  Your  NaTaLIE  He  finished  the  note  and  started  to  read  it  all  over  again,  but  suddenly  he  stopped.  He  couldn't  go  on.  He  folded  the  paper  carefully  and  then  covered  it  with  his  hand.  Now  the  refrigera-  tor  motor  hit,  the  current  automatically  switching  on  the  way  it  does  in  electric  refrigerators.  Darcy  started  counting  silently,  one,  two,  three,  four,  five,  con-  tinuing  until  the  current  should  go  off  again.  In  the  stillness  of  the  kitchen,  the  motor  throbbed  and  throbbed,  like  a  beating  heart,  and  Darcy  counted  fiercely,  concentrating  his  whole  mind  on  this  pointless,  peculiar  little  task. "