 b"WHEN  a  perfume  called  Cha-queneau-K  was  launched  a  couple  of  seasons  ago  with  a  campaign  designed  to  prevent  women  from  buying  it,  there  was  a  lot  of  head-  shaking  around  the  Advertising  Club  of  New  York,  and  more  than  one  scarlet-faced  old  member  gloomily  prophesied,  over  his  gin-and-French,  the  death  of  retailing.  &quot;Damn  it  all,  sir,  it  won't  go  down,&quot;  the  Tories  sputtered.  &quot;Bullyrag  the  consumer,  de-  ride  him  if  you  will,  but  you  can't  dis-  pense  with  the  beggar  altogether.  Some-  one's  got  to  move  the  bloody  stuff  off  the  shelves.&quot;  The  forebodings  were,  as  it  turned  out,  groundless;  ladies  bent  on  achieving  the  unattainable  cozened  their  menfolk  into  procuring  it  for  them,  and  today  any  femme  soign\xc3\xa9e  would  consider  herself  views  jew  without  a  flacon  of  Chaqueneau-K  in  her  par-  fumoir.  (Well,  almost  any  femme  soign\xc3\xa9e.)  Quite  recently,  the  technique  has  been  gaining  ground  among  other  storekeepers,  notably  Macy's  and  a  men's-apparel  firm  in  [REDACTED]  named  Lebow  Brothers.  'The  former's  an-  nouncement  ofa  fur  sale,  while  not  out-  and-out  preventive  advertising,  nar-  rowed  down  the  market  to  a  mere  handful  ofthe  \xc3\xa9lite:  &quot;Just  10  very  pre-  cious  natural  ranch  mink  cape  stoles  go  on  sale  tomorrow-$377.  Hard  to  be-  lieve  a  lustrous,  deeply  piled  natural   ranch  mink  cape  stole  could  cost  so  lit-  tle?  It's  true  true  true  at  Macy's  to-  morrow!  Just  10  very  lucky  women  will  get  ten  very  precious  mink  buys,&quot;  etc.,  etc.  Lebow  Brothers,  apostro-  phizing  a  men's  cashmere  jacket  in  the  pages  of  Vogue,  was  even  more  dickty:  &quot;Cashmiracle  ...so  rare  each  coat  is  registered.  Woven  by  the  famous  Worumbo  Mill.  This  miracle  in  cash-  mere  makes  a  truly  proud  possession.  The  finest  underdown  of  20  goats  makes  one  jacket.  In  Oyster  White,  Moonlight  Blue,  Mulberry,  Bamboo.&quot;  The  text  opens  a  whole  hostof  nerve-  tingling  possibilities,  such  as  the  hi-  jacking  by  goniffs  of  an  armored  car  laden  with  Cashmiracles,  or  the  crisis  at  Worumbo  when,  in  the  course  of  looming  a  jacket  for  some  noted  cox-  comb  like  Danton  Walker,  one  of  his  twenty  sacrificial  goats  is  found  to  possess  no  underdown.  'The  temptation  to  substitute  the  hair  of  a  Bedlington  terrier  or  a  yak  might  understandably  arise,  though  I  imagine  Worumbo's  blenders  are  incorruptible-and  heavily  bonded,  to  boot.  In  which  case,  of  course,  the  suspense  would  stem  from  some  rival  columnist,  say  Ed  Sullivan  or  Barry  Gray,  attempting  to  suborn  a  blender  into  using  the  ersatz  to  discredit  Walker.  In  short,  the  dramatic  com-  plications  could  be  hilarious,  especially  if  you  added  a  Shakespearean  holocaust  and  killed  off  all  the  protagonists  in  the  end.  HE  upshot  of  this  constricted  mer-  chandising,  foreseeably,  is  that  the  average  shopper  may  soon  be  frozen  out  of  the  picture,  and,  unless  he  has  a  con-  trolling  interest  in  the  United  States  Gypsum  Corporation,  a  listing  in  De-  brett,  and  a  membership  in  the  Jockey  Club  of  [REDACTED],  will  be  unable  to  pur-  chase  the  ordinary  necessities  of  life.  The  easiest  way  to  appreciate  his  plight,  perhaps,  is  to  follow  an  exemplar  named  Leo  Champollion,  whose  garter  has  snapped  while  crossing  against  a  light,  into  a  haberdashery  in  [REDACTED].  The  establishment,  deeply  carpeted  and  indirectly  lit,  has  no  vulgar  fixtures  like  showcases  or  spittoons  to  identify  it  as  an  outfitter's;  given  another  urn  or  two,  it  could  be  a  mortuary  or  a  gastroenterolo-  gist's  waiting  room.  As  Champollion  enters  in  a  crouching  position,  tugging  at  his  socks,  Elphinstone,  a  lard-faced  salesman,  finishes  pinning  a  camellia  in  his  lapel  and  approaches  languidly.  ELPHINSTONE  (from  across  a  gulf):  You  wished-?  CHamPorLIon:  I  busted  a  garter  just  now  -the  elastic's  all  shot-  Soddy,  we  don't  vul-  canize  old  rubber.  'There's  a  garage  over  on  Second  Avenue  that  may  con-  ceivably  aid  you.  CramporLIon:  Aw  heck,  she's  not  worth  fixing.  I'll  take  a  new  pair.  ELPHINSTONE  (suavely):  Indeed?  May  I  have  your  name,  please?  CHaMPOLLION:  Why-er-Cham-  pollion.  But  what  difference  does  it  make?  I  just  want  an  inexpensive-  ErpHinsronE:  Champollion,  eh?  Any  relative  of  the  distinguished  Egyp-  tologist?  CHAMPOLLION:  No-0-0,  not  as  I  know  of.  I'm  with  the  Cattaraugus  Yeast  Company,  in  the  enzyme  division.  ELPHINSTONE:  I  see.  And  who  rec-  ommended  you  to  us?  CHAMPOLLION:  Nobody.  I  hap-  pened  to  look  up  and  see  your  sign  &quot;Cravatoor.&quot;  ErPHINsTONE:  You  mean  you  haven't  been  previously  introduced  or  filed  application  to  enroll  as  a  customer?  CramporLron:  I-I  didn't  know  you  had  to.  ErpHinsron\xc2\xae:  My  dear  fellow,  the  clientele  of  this  shop  comprises  some  of  the  biggest  gazebos  in  the  country.  If  we  were  to  bother  with  every  whipper-  snapper  who  blunders  in  off  the  street,  how  long  do  you  think  we'd  stay  in  busi-  ness?  CHAMPOLLION  (piteously):  But  I  " b"can't  walk  around  this  way,  like  a  col-  lege  boy!  How  can  I  call  on  the  pros-  pects  with  my  sock  hanging  down?  Erpuirnsron\xc2\xae:  That's  your  head-  ache,  Mine  is  to  safeguard  the  stock  so  thatpikers  won't  sneak  in  and  buy  it  out  from  under  our  nose.  Good  day.  CHmamporrron:  Look,  Ill  pay  double  the  usual  price!  (Hzs  worse  be-  comes  incoherent.)  I'm  a  family  man,  with  two  little  chiggers-I  mean  two  little  nippers-  ELpPHINsSTONE  (relenting):  Well,  T'll  make  an  exception  this  time,  but  if  it  ever  leaks  out,  it'll  cost  me  my  job.  CHamporLIroNn:  I  won't  tell  any-  body-honest  I  won't.  I'll  say  I  stole  them.  ErpurnsronE:  All  right,  then,  sit  down  and  I'll  take  your  measurements.  (Pulls  on  surgical  gloves.)  Now,  hoist  up  your  trousers;  I  don't  want  to  get  these  septic.  ...  Hmm,  that's  a  pretty  scrawny-looking  calf  you'vegot  there.  It's  wiry,  though.  I  used  to  beat  everybody  at  stickball.  ErrHrnsronE:  Well,  you  could  have  done  with  a  bit  of  polo.  Let's  see,  we  might  anchor  a  catch  here-  CHamMPpoLLION  (diffidently  ):  Look,  wouldn't  a  regular-sized  garter  fit  me?  You  know,  just  ordinary  ones-ma-  roon  or  navy  blue.  There  don't  have  to  be  those  naked  girls  on  the  webbing.  Enrpernsron\xc2\xae:  It  isn't  aquestionof  size,  and  anyway,  when  the  time  comes  we'll  decide  what  pattern  is  best  on  you.  What  I'm  concerned  with  now  is  the  contour  of  your  leg  so  I  can  fill  out  my  sculptor's  report.  Hanh?  What's  that  for?  Errpeainsron\xc2\xae:  To  aid  him  in  model-  ling  the  garter,  man.  (Impatiently)  Don't  you  understand?  Each  pair  is  sculptured  to  the  wearer's  individual  re-  quirements  by  an  artist  specially  com-  missioned  for  the  task.  In  your  case,  it  could  be  one  of  the  academicians,  like  Paul  Manship  or  Wheeler  Williams,  if  your  knees  aren't  too  knobby.  CHamPoLLIon:  Wh-what  if  they  are?  Enreninsron\xc2\xae:  Ah,  then  we'd  have  to  call  in  an  abstractionist-Henry  Moore  orCalder.  Naturally,  their  fees  are  higher  and  you'd  have  to  sustain  the  cable  charges  should  we  send  your  speci-  fications  abroad.  CH:ampPoLLION  (wneasily):  I  wasn't  figuring  on  too  much  expense,  to  tell  you  the  truth.  EnpHrmmsron\xc2\xae:  Possibly  not,  but  you  don't  realize  the  trouble  involved.  First,  we  have  to  make  a  plaster-of-P  aris  form  of  your  shinbone,  then  a  mockup  in  laminated  wood,  which  is  baked  under  pressure,  sanitized,  and  aged.  'This  guides  the  sculptor  so  he  can  rough  out  his  cast.  CHmamporrron:  But  I  can't  wear  stone  garters!  I  have  to  be  on  my  feet  all  day.  Erpuinsron\xc2\xae:  We  wouldn't  allow  you  to.  They're  simply  the  matrix  from  which  we  execute  your  personalized  ac-  cessory  in  a  variety  of  materials.  Here's  a  swatch  to  give  you  an  idea.  This  one,  as  you  see,  simulates  pickled  pine.  What's  that  one-  plastic?  Elphintone: No,  it  only  simulates  plastic;  it's  infinitely  more  costly.  Here's  one  in  a  fabric  so  nearly  resembling  hu-  man  flesh  that  customers  frequently  can't  find  their  garters  once  they're  on.  Cramporrton:  Is  that  good?  Enrpurnsronr  (stiffly):  We're  not  here  to  answer  metaphysical  questions,  Mr.  Champollion.  We're  here  to  not  sell  merchandise.  Cmamporrron:  I  was  only  asking.  I  didn't  mean  to  sound  fresh.  (Peering  at  another  sample)  Say,  isn't  this  what  I've  got  on?  Hardly.  That's  what  we  call  ceil.  It  may  look  like  worn-out  elastic,  but  it's  not  elastic  at  all.  It's  grypton,  the  sleaziest  plastic  known.  CHmamporLton:  Gollies,  you  can't  keep  up  with  science  nowadays,  can  you?  ErpHinsronEr  (with  Olympian  amusement):  No.  I  suppose  it  must  be  rather  confusing  for  a  layman.  Well,  let's  start  with  the  mold-  CmamporLIon:  Uh-I  was  won-  dering-couldn't  you  advance  me  a  pair  of  garters  just  for  the  time  being,  till  I  get  back  to  Yonkers?  Erpunsron\xc2\xae:  Absolutely  impossi-  ble.  Our  vaults  close  atthree.  CHamporLIon  (supplicatory):  Or  even  a  piece  of  twine,  so's  I  could  finish  my  calls.  I'd  send  it  back  by  messenger.  ErrpHinsronE:  No,  but  in  view  of  the  circumstances,  I'll  stretch  a  point  and  expedite  the  psychological  quiz.  (Flicks  the  switch  of  a  Dictograph  con-  cealed  in  an  urn.)  Elphinstone  to  Glin-  " b"tenkamp.  Will  you  be  good  enough  to  come  in  here,  Doctor?  (Before  Cham-  polhon's  motor  apparatus  can  function,  a  young  man  enters  crisply  from  rear.  He  wears  a  speculum  and  a  physician's  smock,  improvised  from  an  oldflour  sack,  on  the  back  of  which  is  visible,  in  faded  blue  letters,  the  legend  &quot;GCere-  sota-Best  by  Test.&quot;)  GuinTENKAMP:  Eligibility  progno-  sis?  ErprHIrNsroNE:  If  you  please.  Sol-  vency  dubious,  physique  zero  minus  four.  CHampPoLLIOnN  (eyes  rolling  af-  frightedly):  I  can't  stay  any  longer.  My  boss'll  have  a  connip-  GLINTENKAMP:  Now,  now,  no-  body's  going  to  hurt  you.  Just  look  at  these  cards  and  tell  us  what  the  various  shapes  suggest  to  you.  Come  on.  CHampoLLIoNn:  S-someone  spilled  gravy  on  it.  Juice  of  some  kind.  GLINTENKAMP:  No,  no,  they're  blots  of  ink.  Try  to  concentrate,  now-  don't  they  remind  you  of  anything?  CrampoLLron:  Well,  the  top  part  there  .  ..  um  .  ..  that  could  be  a  face,  a  man's  profile.  GrinTEnNKAMP:  Anyone  you  know?  CrHamporLIton:  Uh-uh.  W  ait  a  min-  ute,  though.  It's  a  little  like  Mr.  Basti-  nado.  GLINTENKAMP:  Your  boss?  CHamMPOLLION:  No,  a  credit  man-  ager  up  our  way.  He  works  for  the  Procrustes  Finance  people.  GLinNTENKAMP  (significantly):  I  see.  Go  ahead,  keep  trying.  CHAmMPOLLION:  This  one  on  the  side  looks  like-  well,  like  pencils  in  a  cup.  GuimmTeEnkamPp:  That'll  do.  (To  Elphinstone)  Impoverishment  fixation.  Strictly  a  vag.  Boost  him.  CHAMPOLLION  (\xc2\xabnxiously  ):  Did  I  pass?  Am  I  going  to  get  the  garters?  Errurnsron\xc2\xae:  Just  close  your  flap  and  pretend  to  be  a  special-delivery  let-  ter.  You're  practically  in  Yonkers.  (4s  one  man,  he  and  Glintenkamp  sweep  up  Champollion,  whisk  him  to  the  door,  and  toss  him  into  oblivion.)  GLINTENKAMP  (consulting  his  watch  ):  Well,  five  o'clock.  The  end  of  a  perfect  day.  E1pHINsTONE:  Yep,  all  the  goods  in-  tact  and  not  a  cent  in  the  register.  I  tell  you,  Doc,  this  business  is  going  places.  Another  year  likethis  and  we'll  be  moving  overonto  the  Avenue.  (Radiant,  the  two  of  them  exit  to  pre-  pare  a  banner  advertisement  for  &quot;Vogue&quot;  celebrating  their  collapse.) "