 b"MY  sister  Janet  was  a  very  pretty  girl.  She  is  four  years  older  than  I  am,and  at  the  time  I'm  writing  about,  I  used  to  think  she  must  be  the  prettiest  girl  in  the  world.  She  had  light-brown  curly  hair  and  deep-  blue  eyes,  and  a  way  of  tilting  her  head  so  that  she  had  to  look  up  at  you  from  under  her  eyelashes.  &quot;Oh,  you  would!&quot;  she'd  say  to  boys,  in  answer  to  almost  any-  thing.  Would  what,  I'd  wonder,  but  it  seemed  to  please  them.  From  the  time  she  was  fifteen  and  induced  Mother  to  let  her  wear  something  more  becoming  than  the  middy  blouses  and  skirts  that  were  our  summer  uniform,  she  acquired  beaux  as  naturally  as  a  warm  sunny  day  acquires  butterflies.  The  first  important  beau  was  Harold  Goodwin,  whose  par-  ents  had  a  cottage  on  the  other  side  of  the  Little  Beaverkill,  a  half  mile  from  the  house  where  we  spent  our  summers.  Har-  old  was  a  freshman  at  Brown  the  first  year  his  family  came  to  Woodshollow,  and  he  was  the  only  beau  of  Janet's  I  didn't  loyally  fall  in  love  with.  He  was  a  little  on  the  tubby  side,  with  fine  red  hairs  curling  over  his  armsand  legs,  and  at  first  he  called  my  father  &quot;sir,&quot;  which  I  think  rather  jolted  Daddy.  But  as  it  turned  out,  Harold  proved  to  be  as  ardent  a  fisherman  as  my  father,  and  pretty  soon  they  were  calling  each  other  Hal  and  Louis,  and  because  of  the  fish-  ing  my  father  was  always  on  Harold's  side  against  Janet's  other  beaux.  IN  NEW  York  JU  7-0098  IN  NEW  JERsEy     As  far  back  asI  can  remember,  we  had  spent  our  summers  in  Woodshol-  low,  abandoning  school  and  the  city  every  spring  because  of  the  trout  season  and  driving  to  the  mountains  in  the  old  Packard,  with  the  dogs  and  catcarrier  and  luggage  wedged  in  around  us.  On  our  porch  in  the  country,  wadersand  boots  and  socks  continually  dripped  from  the  railing,  and  rods  stood  about  in  cor-  ners,  ready  to  be  picked  up  at  a  mo-  ment's  notice,  and  when  you  stepped  into  the  hall,  you  had  to  be  careful  not  to  become  entangled  with  the  landing  nets  and  creels  that  had  been  dropped  inside  the  door.  A  hundred  feet  away  from  the  house,  the  Little  Beaverkill  ran  wide  and  fast,  glittering  in  the  sunlight;  my  father  used  to  say  he  could  cast  a  fly  on  it  from  his  front  door  (though  I  never  saw  him  do  it),  and  not  too  far  for  a  day's  fishing  were  the  Esopus  and  the  Schoharie,  the  Neversink  and  Drybrook.  Best  of  all,  I  liked  Drybrook.  It  was  so  little  and  pretty,  like  a  stream  you  might  make  up  in  your  head.  When  my  father  fished  there,  we  all  used  to  go  along  and  make  a  day  of  it,  picnicking  on  the  moss-  covered  shale  rocks  and  frying  the  yellow-fleshed  brook  trout  my  father  caught  in  time  for  lunch.  My  father  once  told  me  that  when  he  couldn't  get  to  sleepat  night,  he  would,  like  many  fishermen,  pick  outa  particular  stretch  of  water  he  liked  and  fish  it  slowly  in  his  imagination.  I  think  if  I  ever  had  to  do  that  I'd  choose  Drybrook.  I  was  eleven  years  old  the  summer  the  Goodwins  came  to  Woodshollow  and  I  had  just  started  to  really  like  fish-  ing.  That  spring,  I  had  caught  my  first  trout,  a  ten-inch  rainbow.  I've  heard  lots  of  people  say  they  don't  care  if  they  catch  anything-that  for  them  the  real  pleas-  ure  in  fishing  is  the  beauty  and  quiet  of  walking  up  the  stream-but  until  the  moment  I  felt  the  sudden,  almost  scary  aliveness  at  the  end  of  my  line,  I  had  only  gone  fishing  to  prove  my  character  to  my  father.  He  had  given  up  trying  to  get  Janet  interested  in  fishing-she  al-  ways  said  you  couldn't  get  her  to  touch  the  smelly  things  if  you  killed  her-and  he  didn't  seem  to  think  I  was  old  enough  to  consider.  I  was  sure  my  turn  would  come,  though,  and,  resolving  to  be  worthy  of  it,  I  spent  hours  practicing  casting  on  the  lawn,  with  Kitty  crouching  and  leaping  at  my  line  as  though  I  were  play-  ing  a  game  with  her.  When  my  father  came  home  from  fishing,  I'd  takethe  sticky  trout  from  his  creel  and  let  them  lie  on  my  palm,  measuring  them  with  what  I  hoped  would  seem  like  an  experi-  enced  eye.  &quot;A  German  brown,&quot;  I'd  say,  or  &quot;a  brook.  It  must  be  twelve  inches,  Dad,&quot;  for  I  tried  to  remember  not  to  call  him  Daddy,  as  it  made  me  sound  childish.  But  my  father  didn't  seem  to  take  the  hint,  and  finally  I  asked  him  outright  if  I  could  go  fishing  with  him.  You  know,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  think  I'm  more  the  sporting  type  than  Janet.&quot;  After  that,  my  father  fixed  me  up  with  a  rod  and  some  of  his  old  tackle,  and  from  then  on  he  let  me  go  out  with  him  on  the  Little  Beaverkill.  The  day  I  caught  my  rainbow,  he  was  more  excited  than  I  was.  He  came  splashing  downstream,  yelling,  &quot;Keep  the  tip  up!  Keep  the  tip  up!&quot;  Mother  had  thetrout  for  breakfast.  She  said  it  was  the  best  she'd  ever  eaten.  T  was  about  a  month  later,  in  June,  that  the  Goodwins  came  to  live  in  the  cottage  on  the  other  side  ofthe  stream,  and  one  ofthe  first  evenings  that  Harold  was  out  fishing,  he  and  my  fa-  ther  met  and  started  talking,  and  my  father  brought  him  back  to  the  house  for  coffee.  We  hadn't  known  there  was  anyone  new  in  the  neighborhood,  and  I  can  still  remember  how  surprised  we  were  tosee  someone  coming  down  the  road  with  my  father,  both  of  them  car-  rying  rods,  their  waders  making  squish-  ing  sounds  as  they  walked,  It  was  get-  ting  dark.  The  notes  of  the  thrush's  song  had  grown  faint  in  the  woods  and  a  whippoorwill  had  started  up  compel-  lingly  from  the  fence  by  the  road.  It  was  " b"too  dark  for  even  a  white  miller  to  show  on  the  water,  and  I'd  known  Daddy  must  be  coming,  home,  because  Kitty  had  strolled  across  the  lawn,  waving  her  tail  in  greeting.  My  father  usually  gave  her  his  smallest  fish  and  she  could  always  spot  him  in  the  dusk  before  we  did.  &quot;Here,  Pussypussypussy!&quot;  my  father  called,  in  that  voice  he  had  for  cats.  In  the  city,  alley  cats  would  follow  him  for  blocks  just  because  he  said  hello  to  them.  In  the  dark,  it  was  hard  to  tell  what  Harold  looked  like,  but  I  noticed  that  Janet  immediately  went  over  and  sat  on  the  porch  steps  at  Mother's  feet,  as  though  she  were  sitting  for  a  picture,  and  when  Mother  said  she'd  go  and  get  some  coffee,  Janet  said,  &quot;Oh,  no,  Mother,  you  stay  put.  I'll  get  it,&quot;  and  gave  a  gracious  little  laugh,  as  if  she  wouldn't  dream  of  letting  Mother  exert  herself.  She  went  into  the  house,  and  when  she  came  back,  she  was  carrying  the  big  silver  tray,  which  we  hardly  ever  used  except  when  we  had  a  party,  and  she  had  set  out  the  lustre  demitasse  cups.  Mother  took  one  look  and  made  her  go  in  again  and  get  regular  cups  before  my  father,  who  likes  lots  of  coffee  with  cream,  could  notice.  This  time  when  Janet  came  back,  she  had  put  the  can-  dlesticks  from  the  dinner  table  on  the  tray,  and  she  came  out  into  the  dark  like  a  vision,  with  the  light  glowing  on  her  cheekbones,  and  her  eyes  shining. She  looked  like  a  priestess  performing  a  rite,  I  thought.  Harold  jumped  up  and  helped  her  put  thetray  on  the  table.  He  and  my  father  were  making  plans  to  fish  at  Big  Indian  the  next  day,  and  all  the  time  my  father  was  talking,  Harold  kept  glancing  sidewise  at  my  sister,  un-  til  finally  Daddy  looked  around  at  her  with  a  baffled  expression.  &quot;Damn  it  all,  Janet!&quot;  he  exploded.  &quot;Blow  out  those  damn  candles  before  we  have  every  moth  in  the  place  here!&quot;  Harold,  not  being  used  to  the  way  my  father  yelled,  looked  a  little  alarmed.  He  finished  his  coffee  quickly  and  murmured  some-  thing  about  getting  home  or  his  parents  would  think  he'd  fallen  into  the  stream.  My  father  said  he'd  drive  him  home.  &quot;You'd  better  go  along  and  hold  the  flashlight  for  your  father  when  he  closes  the  garage,&quot;  Mother  said  to  Janet.  &quot;Can  I  go?&quot;  I  asked,  but  Mother  shook  her  head.  &quot;It's  bedtime,&quot;  she  said,  and  Janet  smiled  faintly.  Since  I  was  often  allowed  to  stay  up  as  late  as  my  sister,  this  seemed  most  unlike  my  moth-  er,  who  was  usually  a  fair  woman.  When  they  had  gone,  I  said  coldly,  &quot;I  suppose  I  won't  be  able  to  go  fishing  at  Big  Indian  tomorrow,  either.&quot;  &quot;That's  enough,  Cathy,&quot;  my  mother  said,  batting  a  moth  out  of  her  hair.  &quot;Go  and  get  washed  now.&quot;  &quot;Ce  n'  est  pas  juste,&quot;  I  saidasI  went  to  my  room.  I  had  recently  finished  reading  &quot;The  Three  Musketeers,&quot;  and  when  beset,  I  found  it  comforting  to  speak  a  few  words  in  French.  AT  first,  the  ideaof  having  new  peo-  ple  in  the  neighborhood  seemed  promising,  but  I  soon  found  out  that  whatever  liveliness  they  were  going  to  contribute  would  not  be  for  me.  Almost  every  day,  my  father  and  Harold  went  off  somewhere  fishing,  and  of  course  they  wouldn't  take  me.  When  I'd  ask,  my  father  would  say,  &quot;Not  this  time,  Cathy.  We'll  be  gone  all  day.  Maybe  some  other  time.&quot;  I  still  fished  on  the  Little  Beaverkill,  but  it  wasn't  much  fun  going  out  alone.  I  caught  only  chub,  and  even  Kitty  wouldn't  eat  chub.  After  a  while,  I  would  just  pretend  to  go  fishing  and  would  sit  on  the  bank  and  read.  Frequently,  in  the  evenings,  Harold  would  take  my  sister  to  the  movies  in  Ostranderville,  and  my  mother  and  fa-  ther  would  play  bridge  with  his  parents.  The  onlytime  I  was  included  in  any-  thing  was  when  we'd  all  goon  a  picnic  or  an  excursion  with  the  Goodwins.  They  were  inveterate  sightseers,  and  were  always  going  somewhere  to  see  a  dam  or  a  cave  or  a  view  from  the  top  of  some  mountain.  Mrs.  Goodwin  was  a  birdbander,  although  she  was  so  round  and  roly-poly  I  used  to  wonder  how  she  ever  moved  fast  enough  to  catch  hold  of  " b"a  bird.  When  we'd  goon  a  picnic,  she  wouldn't  sit  on  the  ground,  the  way  the  rest  of  us  did,  but  always  took  along  acampstool,  which  she'd  set  up  in  a  clearing  a  little  away  from  us,  sitting  there  with  her  field  glasses  in  her  lap  and  her  head  cocked  to  one  side,  listen-  ing  for  a  bird.  &quot;Hear  that,  Captain?  A  vireo!&quot;  or  &quot;A  hermit  thrush,&quot;  she'd  call  sharply.  Both  she  and  Harold  called  Mr.  Goodwin  Captain,  although  I  don't  think  he'd  ever  had  anything  to  do  with  the  Army  or  Navy.  He  was  bald  and  pink  and  as  round  as  his  wife,  and  even  on  a  picnic  he  wore  a  watch  chain  with  a  Phi  Beta  Kappa  key  dangling  from  it  on  his  stomach.  'They  were  both  tee-  totallers  and  didn't  smoke  or  swear,  and  I  used  to  wonder  what  they  thought  of  my  father.  I  would  have  liked  to  dis-  cuss  this  with  Janet,  but  I  was  afraid  she  would  only  act  superior.  That  summer,  she  wouldn't  let  me  go  into  her  room  without  knocking  first  and  she  was  usually  too  busy  writing  in  her  diary  to  talk  to  me.  We  never  sat  in  each  other's  rooms  at  hight,  the  way  we  used  to,  putting  oatmeal  packs  on  our  faces  and  smoothing  ice  on  our  skins  to  fine  the  pores  and  going  off  to  bed  with  our  vision  rainbow-blurred  from  the  vaseline  on  our  eyelashes.  When  she  came  home  from  going  to  the  movies  with  Harold,  she  wouldn'teven  say  what  the  picture  had  been,  much  less  tell  me  the  plot.  &quot;Mother,  isn't  it  past  Cathy's  bedtime?&quot;  she'd  call  downstairs  if  I  stopped  her  in  the  hall.  I  got  soI  didn't  care  if  my  eyelashes  never  grew.  Sometimes  when  we  went  on  picnics,  Janet  and  Harold  would  take  walks,  and  if  I  happened  to  wander  anywhere  near  them-there  was  no  rule  against  my  taking  a  stroll  of  my  own,  I  thought-  she  would  stop  and  stare  through  the  trees,  pretending  she  could  see  me.  &quot;Do  you  have  to  be  such  a  pest,  Cathy?&quot;  she  would  say  loudly.  Of  course,  I  never  answered.  I  wasn't  going  to  give  her  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  for  sure  I  was  there.  Not  that  I  cared  where  she  and  Harold  went.  They  talked  in  such  low  voices  you  couldn't  hear  what  they  were  saying,  anyway.  IT  began  to  seem  as  though  nothing  I  looked  forward  to  that  summer-  a  climb  to  the  firewarden's  tower  on  the  mountain,  or  a  trip  into  Ostrander-  ville  for  shopping  and  the  movies,or  evenan  afternoon's  swim  in  the  Quarry  Pool-ever  came  up  to  my  expecta-  tions,  In  a  way  I  couldn't  put  my  finger  on,  Harold's  presence  in  Woods-  hollow  had  changed  everything.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  Martin  Harper's  com-  ing  up  for  a  weekend,  the  whole  sum-  mer  might  have  been  a  disappointment.  Janet  and  I  never  expected  much  from  our  weekend  guests.  They  were  usuallythe  same  age  as  our  parents,  and  they'd  ask  us  questions  about  school  and  say,  &quot;My,  you're  getting  so  tall,&quot;  and  the  presents  they  brought  us  always  seemed  to  have  been  meant  for  younger  children.  ButMartinHarper  was  dif-  ferent.  We  had  been  told  he  was  con-  nected  with  my  father's  business,  so  we  were  unprepared  for  a  shy  young  man,  belted  into  a  faded  trench  coat  and  wearing  dirty  buckskin  shoes.  He  was  tall  and  large-boned,  witha  gentle,  mournful  face.  Martin  and  my  father  had  driven  up  from  the  city  that  evening,  and  the  first  thing  he  did  on  crossing  the  thresh-  old  was  to  stumble  on  one  of  the  dogs'  bones  and  come  catapulting  into  the  hallway,  knocking  into  thebig  jardi-  niere  where  we  kept  walking  sticks  and  my  Indian  bow.  The  jardiniere  had  been  broken  before  and  mended  with  Duco  cement,  so  it  didn't  really  matter  that  it  got  smashed,  but  all  the  sticks  flew  into  the  air  and  the  dogs  started  barking  and  jumping  upon  everyone  and  my  father  kept  shouting,  &quot;Down,  goddam  it!  Get  down!&quot;  When  we  were  finally  unscrambled  in  the  living  room  and  my  father  had  made  some  cocktails,  Martin  took  up  a  position,  half  sitting,  halfleaning,  againstthe  railing  of  the  stairway  that  led  down  to  the  sun  porch.  He  was  tipped  so  far  backward,  in  an  attempt  at  nonchalance,  that  I  was  sure  he  was  going  to  topple  over.  Every  time  he  shifted  his  weight,  the  railing  creaked,  and  Janet  and  I,  waiting  for  disaster,  couldn't  take  our  eyes  off  him.  Final-  ly,  Mother  couldstand  it  no  longer.  &quot;You  know,  I  don't  think  that  railing  is  quite  safe,&quot;  she  said,  but  it  was  too  late,  Just  then,  there  was  a  sharp  crack.  &quot;Look  out,  man!&quot;  my  father  shout-  ed,  and  Martin  jumped  as  though  he'd  been  shot.  We  had  all  leaped  to  our  feet  with  the  common  impulse  of  rescu-  ing  him,  and  Mother  got  him  by  the  arm  and  my  father  started  to  brush  him  off  as  solicitously  as  if  he  had  really  fallen  all  the  way  down  the  stairs.  The  railing  was  slanted  at  a  drunken  angle  and  quivering  like  a  bowstring,  and  Martin  looked  so  horrified  at  what  he  had  done  that  we  all  started  talking  at  once,  tell-  ing  him  that  the  railing  had  been  falling  down  for  years.  Mother  kept  exclaiming  that  it  was  a  blessing  he  hadn't  been  hurt.  ''You  need  this,&quot;  she  said,  replen-  ishing  his  cocktail.  &quot;Skoal,&quot;  she  added  firmly,  and  raised  her  glass.  Martin's  arm  shot  out  galvanically,  and  as  his  glass  met  hers  there  was  a  loud  ring  of  crystal  and  it  fell  shattered  at  his  feet.  My  mother  got  apeculiar  look  in  her  eye.  &quot;Martin,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  call  you  Martin,  if  you  don't  mind.  I  think  dinner  is  ready.&quot;  HE  next  day,  my  father  and  Mar-  tin  went  fishing.  Mother  had  packed  a  picnic  lunch  for  them  to  take,  and  they  were  going  to  pick  up  Har-  old  and  go  over  to  the  Esopus.  Mar-  tin  had  never  gone  trout  fishing  before,  and  while  my  father  was  sorting  out  waders  and  tackle  for  him,  I  put  togeth-  er  the  rod  he  was  going  to  use  and  tried  to  give  him  a  few  pointers  on  casting.  &quot;I  think  I'll  get  the  hang  of  it,&quot;  he  said  confidently,  whipping  the  rod  around  as  though  he  were  beating  a  carpet.  &quot;Do  you  fish?&quot;  he  asked  Janet.  &quot;Not  so  hard,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Keep  your  elbow  close  to  your  side  and  just  use  your  wrist.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  Janet  said  demurely.  &quot;To  be  frank,  I  think  fishing  is  a  man's  game.  But  I  adore  trout  for  breakfast,&quot;  she  added.  &quot;We'll  bring  back  a  fine  mess  of  them,&quot;  Martin  promised  grandly.  It  was  latein  the  afternoon  when  my  father  and  Martin  came  home,  bringing  Harold  with  them.  Seeing  Martin  get  out  ofthe  car,  my  mother  said  involuntarily,  &quot;Oh,  the  poor  boy.&quot;  He  looked  as  though  he'd  been  in  a  food.  Even  the  topof  his  jacket  and  his  hair  were  soaked.  Every  time  he  started  to  fish,  he  told  us,  his  line  had  wrapped  itself  around  the  rod  and  he  had  had  to  wade  ashore  and  lay  the  rod  down  to  untangle  it.  &quot;'That's  why  I  kept  falling  in,&quot;  he  explained  cheerfully,  scratching  at  the  gnat  bites  that  covered  his  wrists.  &quot;I  kept  having  to  wade  back  and  forth.&quot;  &quot;Like  a  herd  of  elephants,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Did  you  fish  dry  fly  or  wet?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Wet,&quot;  my  father  answered  for  him.  " b"&quot;He  fished  everything  wet.  Every  time  I  looked  around  for  him,  he  was  under-  water.  What  you  need,  Martin,  is  some  goggles  and  a  spear.&quot;  My  father  and  Harold  had  taken  about  eighttrout  apiece,  and  they  were  both  acting  rather  hearty  about  Martin's  troubles.  We  were  all  sitting  on  the  terrace  at  the  back  ofthe  house,  and  Haroldhad  spread  a  newspaper  on  the  ground  and  was  cleaning  the  fish  under  the  garden  faucet.  He  did  it  with  a  masterful  air,  disre-  garding  the  blood  on  his  hands  and  now  and  then  giving  Martin  an  odd  look.  Harold  stayed  for  dinner  thatnight,  and  during  the  evening  he  and  my  father  fished  the  Esopus  all  over  again,  debating  the  virtues  of  Wickham's  Fan-  cies,  Coachmen,  and  Cahills.  While  my  father  soaked  some  new  leaders  in  a  bowl  of  water  on  the  coffee  table,  Har-  old  replayed  his  biggest  trout,  trium-  phantly  landing  him  again  for  our  benefit.  After  a  while,  Janet  went  downstairs  to  the  sun  porch  and  put  some  records  on  the  phonograph.  Mar-  tin  and  I  joined  her,  and  she  and  Mar-  tin  had  started  to  dance  when  Harold  came  down.  He  watched  them  a  few     minutes  and  then  went  over  and,  with  a  lordly  tap  on  Martin's  shoulder,  cut  in.  Janet  passed  from  one  to  the  other  with  a  mysterious  little  smile  on  her  lips.  &quot;You  would!&quot;  I  heard  her  murmur  to  Harold.  Anyone  would  have  thought  she  had  been  used  to  a  stag  line  all  her  life.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  dance?&quot;  Mar-  tin  asked  me,which  I  thought  was  very  decent  of  him,  but  I  had  to  explain  I  hadn't  learned  yet.  &quot;I  wish  I  could  get  the  hang  of  this  fishing  thing,&quot;  he  saidas  we  watched  Harold  and  Janet  rumba.  They  looked  quite  smooth  together  becausethey  had  had  so  much  practice.  &quot;Your  father  seems  really  keen  on  it.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  come  out  with  me  on  the  Little  Beaverkill  tomorrow  morning?&quot;  I  asked.  I  had  been  thinking  about  it  all  evening.  &quot;You  could  use  my  rod,  and  we  could  go  out  early,  before  anyone  is  up.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  deal,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  I  could  catch  a  fish?&quot;  &quot;We  might  have  some  luck,&quot;  I  said,  wondering  how  I  could  tell  him  that  you  didn't  say  &quot;catch&quot;  and  he  shouldn't  call  trout  &quot;fish.&quot;  We  arranged  that  I  would   wake  him  at  six,  and  as  the  music  stopped,  I  said  hurriedly,  &quot;Don't  tell  anybody.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  keep  it  a  secret,&quot;  he  said  in  my  ear.  Janet  and  Harold  had  turned  around  and  were  looking  at  us  curiously,  and  I  had  a  hard  time  keeping  a  straight  face.  HE  following  morning,  the  sun  was  well  up  when  I  woke,  and  I  was  excited,  and  hurried  getting  dressed,  afraid  it  was  late.  Carrying  my  sneakers  in  my  hand,  I  went  down  the  hall  past  my  parents'  room  and  tapped  on  the  door  of  the  guest  room.  It  would  have  made  too  much  noise  to  knock  hard,  and  I  stood  therea  moment  worrying  about  whether  it  would  be  all  right  if  I  opened  the  door.  Finally,  I  opened  it  just  a  crack  and  whispered  &quot;Martin!&quot;  as  loudly  as  I  dared.  I  thought  perhaps  it  had  just  been  grown-up  talk  and  he  hadn't  really  meant  to  go  fishing,  but  suddenly  his  face  came  out  of  the  covers  and  he  nodded.  In  the  kitchen,  I  put  the  coffee  from  the  night  before  on  the  stove  for  Martin,  then  I  took  a  glass  of  milk  and  a  piece  " b"of  apple  pie  and  went  out  the  back  door.  It  was  a  warm,  clear  morning.  In  the  shade  of  the  house,  the  grass  was  silvery  with  dew,  and  the  eaves  ofthe  roof  were  dripping  in  the  sunlight.  A  phoebe  sat  on  the  pear  tree,  flicking  her  tail  up  and  down  and  calling  in  long-drawn-out  notes,  as  though  she  was  calling  some-  one  far  down  the  road.  When  I  went  inside,  Martin  had  ap-  peared,  and  while  he  had  some  coffee  and  pie,I  changed  the  leader  on  my  rod  and  tied  on  a  Brown  Hackle,  which  I  thought  would  do  to  start  with.  Al-  though  I  didn't  think  we'd  really  need  them,  I  got  out  my  landing  net  and  creel  and  slung  one  over  each  shoulder.  They  were  fun  to  carry,  and  since  I  wasn't  going  to  fish,  I  thought  I  might  as  well  take  them  along.  Martin  put  on  the  waders  and  boots  he  had  worn  the  day  before.  'They  were  an  old  pair  of  my  father's,  and  in  the  leather-and-  canvas  hobnailed  boots  he  made  so  much  noise  I  was  sure  he  was  going  to  wake  the  house.  I  got  him  down  the  porch  steps  as  quietly  as  I  could  and  rushed  him  up  the  road,  afraid  that  any  minute  someone  would  call  to  us  from  a  window.  &quot;I  feel  like  a  deep-sea  diver  in  these  things,&quot;  he  said,  stumbling  along.  &quot;They're  awfully  hot.  Couldn't  you  just  wade  in  barefeet?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Anyway,  only  country  Kids  do  that.  You  might  as  well  fish  with  worms.&quot;  He  was  wearing  an  old  hat  of  my  father's  to  shade  his  eyes,  and  at  least  he  looked  like  a  fisherman.  When  we  were  out  of  sight  ofthe  house,  I  led  the  way  to  the  stream.  The  bank  was  of  loose  stone,  and  the  water  ran  wide  and  shallow,  the  surface  broken  with  white  water.  Farther  up,  the  stream  was  deeper,  with  a  high-ris-  ing  bankon  the  opposite  shore,  and  hemlock  and  birch  overhung  the  water.  There  was  one  pool,  formed  like  a  basin  and  so  big  that  we  often  swam  in  it,  where  you  could  always  see  trout  hold-  ing  themselves  on  the  bottom  with  their  noses  to  the  current.  If  we  were  to  have  any  luck  at  all,  I  thought,  it  would  be  there,  but  I  felt  Martin  should  get  some  practice  in  before  we  tried  it.  We  waded  out  a  little,  and  I  made  a  few  casts  to  get  the  line  out  for  Martin,  showing  him  how  to  lay  the  fly  upstream  so  that  it  would  float  down  past  him  until  the  current  began  to  pull  at  the  slack  line  in  his  left  hand.  When  I  had  got  him  started,  I  went  back  to  the  bank  and  moved  ahead,  out  of  reach  of  his  back-  cast.  He  used  so  much  motion  and  jerked  the  rod  down  so  hard  that  some-  times  line,  leader,  and  fly  would  fall  in  confusion  at  his  feet,  When  his  line snarled  or  he  caught  his  fly  in  a  tree,  I'd  wade  out  and  get  him  untangled,  then  reel  in  and  start  him  over  again.  After  awhile,  he  began  to  get  the  rhythm  of  it,  and  when  he  made  a  good  cast,  he'd  look  over  at  me  and  nod,  and  I'd  nod  back.  I  was  very  happy.  As  he  fished  his  way  up  the  stream,  I  followed  along  the  bank,  watching  for  trout  feeding.  The  sun  was  beginning  to  come  over  the  trees  on  the  opposite  bank,  and  in  the  clear  brown  water  of  the  shallows  the  ripples  made  shadows  on  the  stones.  Ahead  of  us,  a  kingfisher  swooped  in  a  blue  flash,  then  flew  up  the  avenue  ofthe  stream,  calling  as  it  went.  When  I  sat  for  a  while,  I  could  see  my  sneakers  steaming  in  the  sunlight,  and  I  felt  dreamyand  thoughtless,  enclosed  in  the  sound  of  the  rushing  water.  We  had  passed  the  sandy  island  of  willow  bushes,  and  where  the  two  sec-  tions  of  the  stream  came  together  again,  I  could  see  the  pool  opening  out  above.  I  called  Martin  out  ofthe  water  and  changed  the  Hackle  for  a  fan-winged  Coachman.  I  had  caught  my  rainbow  on  a  Coachman.  Martin  made  so  much  noise  crashing  around  in  the  water  that  I  suggested  he  fish  the  pool  from  the  bank.  On  one  side  of  the  pool,  there  was  a  low  bank  of  gravel,  and  on  the  opposite  side  a  wall  of  rock  rose  up  out  of  the  water  and  the  streamflowed  swiftly,  deep  and  smooth,  against  it.  The  pool  was  in  dense  shade,  and  after  watching  Martin  for  a  while  I  be-  gan  to  feel  cold.  If  he  didn't  get  a  strike  soon,  we  might  as  well  give  up  and  go  home,  I  thought.  I  circled  around  the  water  and  went  upstream  a  little  and  found  a  warm  flat  rock  to  stretch  out  on.  If  I  lifted  my  head,  I  could  justsee  Martin's  rod  and  line  moving  in  the  air.  I  lay  on  my  stomach,  and  almost  on  a  level  with  my  face  the  stream  glittered  and  flashed  around  me.  Staring  down  at  the  pebbles  on  the  bottom,  I  was  about  to  dangle  my  fingers  in  the  water  when  suddenly,  taking  shape  in  the  shelter  of  my  rock,  not  more  than  a  couple  of  inches  from  my  nose,  I  saw  the  biggest  trout  I've  ever  seen.  It  was  pale,  the  same  color  as  the  pebbles  on  which  it  lay,  and  so  motionless  in  the  shallow  water  that  at  first  I  thought  it  was  dead.  Then  I  saw  its  fins  moving  gently,  holding  it  in  thecurrent.  My  heart  beat  loudly  and  I  thought  of  a  lot  of  things  all  at  once.  I  didn't  dare  call  Martin,  because  I  knew  he  would  make  too  much  noise  getting  there,  and  I  had  very  little  hope  that  either  of  us  was  skillful  enough  to  lure  the  trout  into  taking  a  fly.  Holding  my  breath,  I  slid  my  hand  experimentally  in  the  water  in  back  ofthe  trout's  tail.  It  didn't  stir.  I  had  never  heard  of  any-  one  catching  a  trout  like  a  butterfly,  but  awild  hope  possessed  me.  I  was  afraid  to  take  my  eyes  away  from  the  fish  for  fear  it  would  vanish,  but  I  had  to  wrig-  gle  back  from  the  edge  of  the  rock  to  get  my  head  out  from  under  the  webbing  that  held  the  net  over  my  shoulder.  When  I  looked  again,  the  trout  was  still  there,  and  I  put  my  hand  back  in  the  water  at  its  tail.  With  the  net  in  my  left  hand  going  down  toward  its  nose  and  my  right  hand  sliding  up  from  in  back  to  catch  in  its  gills,  I  lunged  at  it.  Suddenly  the  water  seemed  to  explode.  It  leaped,  curving  its  body,  and  my  heart  leaped  with  it,  my  skin  prickling  all  over  with  the  feeling  of  it  in  my  hand.  In  an  effortto  escape,  the  trout  must  have  thrown  itself  into  the  net,  because,  with-  out  my  knowing  how  it  happened,  it  was  in  and  I  had  it  out  of  the  water.  Clap-  " b"ping  the  net  to  my  stomach,  I  threw  myself  down  on  top  of  it  and  started  to  yell  for  Martin.  It  was  a  German  brown,  very  pale  but  with  brilliant-red  speck-  les,  and  it  was  as  wide  and  heavy  as  a  fish  in  a  fish  market.  I  had  never  seen  a  trout  like  it.  It  heaved  tragically,  with  wide,  distended  gills,  and  I  had  to  look  away  as  Martin  killed  it,  hitting  it  on  the  head  with  a  stone.  When  it  was  still,  I  stretched  it  out  on  the  rock,  and,  taking  the  Coachman  on  Martin's  leader,  I  stuck  my  fingers  well  down  the  trout's  mouth  and  hooked  the  fly  in  hard,  so  it  wouldn't  give  when  I  pulled  on  it.  Then  I  told  Martin  the  story  he  was  to  tell-  just  where  he  had  taken  the  trout  and  how  he  had  played  it,  step  by  step,  with  his  rod  bent  al-  most  double,  until  it  was  tired  enough  to  bring  in-  to  the  net.  It  was  a  story  I  had  heard,  with  variations,  for  years.  I  knew  it  by  heart.  Then  we  started  home,  walking  along  the  roadwith  the  line  dangling  down  from  the  rod  to  the  trout  as  it  lay,  iridescent  and  glistening,  curved  in  the  net.  DON'T  think  my  father  andHar-  old  ever  got  over  the  shock  of  seeing  that  trout  as  we  laid  it  out,  still  hooked  to  the  line,  on  the  table  that  morning.  Everyone  was  having  breakfast  on  the  terrace,  and  Harold  had  stopped  by  with  the  Sunday  papers.  He  and  my  father  just  stared  at  thetrout  and  then  up  at  Martin  in  stunned  silence.  After  a  mo-  ment,  my  father  picked  up  the  fish  and  turned  it  over  in  his  hands,  as  if  he  didn't  believe  it  was  real.  He  said  in  an  out-  raged  voice  that  hehadn't  known  there  was  atroutthat  big  in  the  stream.  He  took  out  his  pocketknife  and  cutthe  Coachman  loose,  and  took  a  good  look  at  the  leader.  Then  he  asked  where  Martin  had  taken  the  trout.  I  told  the  story,for  Martin  had  such  an  apologetic  look  on  his  face  I  was  afraid  he'd  come  out  with  the  truth.  I  needn't  have  wor-  ried  about  the  story  being  believed.  My  father  hardly  seemed  to  be  listening  to  it.  Suddenly  he  rallied  and  slapped  Martin  on  the  back.  &quot;Biggest  damn  trout  I  ever  saw,&quot;  he  said  cheerfully.  &quot;This  calls  for  a  celebration.&quot;  He  got  up  from  the  table  and  went  into  the  house,  and  when  he  came  back,  he  had  a  pailful  of  ice,  and  a  bottle  of  champagne  in  his  hand.  &quot;Champagne  for  breakfast!  Wow!&quot;  Janet  said,  flopping  down  on  the  grass  and  pretending  to  faint.  She  sat  up  again.  &quot;Oh,  Mother,  haven't  we  any  caviar?&quot;  she  asked  hopefully.  I  hadn't  expected  to  be  allowed  to  have  any  champagne,  but  my  father  filled  a  glass  for  me  along  with  everyone  else's,  and  as  we  all  stood  up  solemnly  to  drink,  he  gave  me  a  funny  look  and,  raising  his  glass  a  little,  winked  at  me  so  quickly  I  could  hardly  believe  I  had  seen  It.  That  evening,  Martin  had  to  go  back  to  the  city,  and  after  an  early  Sunday  dinner  we  all  drove  him  down  to  the  train  and  saw  him  off.  On  the  way  back  to  the  house,  my  father  casually  asked  me  if  'd  like  to  go  fishing  with  him  and  Harold  the  next  day.  &quot;Huh?&quot;  I  said,  preoccupied.  Bereft  at  Martin's  departure,  I  was  consoling  myselfby  figuring  out  how  old  I'd  have  to  bebefore  I  could  marry  him.  &quot;I  thought  you  might  like  to  try  a  fan-wing  Coachman  on  the  Neversink,&quot;  my  father  said.  From  then  on,  my  father  always  asked  me  to  go  along  when  he  and  Harold  went  fishing.  I  was  too  over-  come  with  gratitude  to  questionthe  rea-  son  for  this  change  in  my  status.  It  was  only  little  by  little  that  I  realized  he  thought  it  had  been  I,  through  the  legitimate  means  of  rod  and  line,  who  had  caught  that  trout.  By  then,  I  couldn't  have  told  him  the  truth  if  I  had  wanted  to.  Not  that  I  thought  he  wouldn't  approve;  my  father,  like  my  favorite  hero  of  that  time,  D'Artagnan,  was  on  the  side  of  expediency.  I  had  seizedthe  moment  as  best  I  could,  and  he  would  have  applauded  that.  But  the  fact  that  the  moment  had  happened  at  all  seemed  to  me  so  impossible  that  it  had  the  qualities  of  a  miracle.  It  had  hap-  pened  when  it  was  needed,  and  the  results  were  beautiful,  and  larger  than  life  usually  allows.  I  had  meant  the  trout  as  a  gift  of  love  to  Martin,  but  if  it  was  a  miracle,  it  seemed  to  have  been  passed  for  me,  because  from  then  on  my  standing  as  my  father's  colleague  in  fishing  was  firmly  established. "