 b"IT  had  been  twenty  minutes  since  I  either  of  them  had  said  anything.  In  that  interval,  it  had  rained  three  times  and  the  sun  had  come  out  twice;  now  the  sky  was  overcast.  Once,  when  a  sudden  wind  shook  the  hedgerows  on  either  side  of  the  road,  they  had  driven  through  a  snowstorm  of  hawthorn  blos-  soms,  and  they  had  passed  two  castles  and  a  lake.  Michael,  wearing  an  old  raincoat,  sat  hunched  down,  his  long  legs  thrust  up  under  the  dashboard  of  the  small,  ten-horsepower  Ford.  He  didn't  bother  to  turn  his  head  even  to  look  atcot-  tages,  or  ruins,  or  barefoot  blue-eyed  children,  or  little  donkeys  whose  ears  bobbed  rhythmically  as  they  carried  great  loadsof  turf  with  dainty  un-  concern.  Peggy  drove  evenly,  concentrating  on  the  road  winding  around  gentle  green  hills,  as  if  just  keeping  the  car  at  a  steady  thirty-five  were  an  all-ab-  sorbing  business.  Presently  she  said,  &quot;Light  me  a  cigarette,  please.&quot;  Michael  reached  over  to  the  shelf  under  the  dashboard  and  rummaged  among  the  things  stowed  there-cheese  wrapped  in  brown  paper,  half  a  loaf  of  bread,  a  knife,  Peggy's  pigskin  gloves,  a  map  of  Ireland.  He  drew  out  a  pack-  age  of  Players,  lit  one,  and  handed  it  to  his  wife.  She  accepted  it  without  tak-  ing  her  eyes  from  the  road.  A  second  later,  she  said,  &quot;'Thank  you.&quot;  Michael  slumped  down  again.  'Then  he  leaned  forward  and  picked  up  the  map.  He  studied  it  frowningly  and  cleared  his  throat.  &quot;The  next  town  is  Carrigaline,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We'll  be  there  in  a  few  minutes.  It  will  have  a  pub.  We  will  stop  there  and  I  will  go  in  the  pub  and  have  a  drink.&quot;  Peggy  waited  a  moment  before  she  said,  without  smiling,  &quot;And  your  faith-  ful  servant,  chauffeur,  and  handmaiden  will,  I  take  it,  wait  patiently  in  the  car  while  her  lord  and  master  enjoys  his  pleasures.&quot;  Michael  nodded  impassively.  &quot;'That's  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  Peggy  said.  &quot;Listen  to  Himself.  What  three  weeks  in  Ireland  have  done  to  you!  You  were  Irish  enough  before  we  got  here.  Now  you're  impossible.&quot;  'This  is  a  country  where  men  aren't  bossed  by  women  and  where  women  don't  follow  men  into  pubs  and  make  scenes  and  drag  them  out  by  the  ears  as  if  they  were  naughty  little  boys,  humili-  ating  them  in  front  of  a  bunch  of  men,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;I  bet  they  do,&quot;  Peggy  said.  &quot;Any-  way,  I  didn't  do  any  such  thing.  Itold  you  I  just  got  sick  of  sitting  in  this  car  and  staring  at  a  dusty  little  street  and  shopwindows  full  of  dusty  chocolates  and  plastic  shamrocks  while  Himself  talks  with  the  men  and  takes  his  ease  in  the  Snug.&quot;  \xc2\xab'That  part's  all  right,&quot;  Michael  said,  staring  straight  ahead.  &quot;I've  told  you  I'm  sorry  I  stayed  so  long.  I've  apolo-  gized  for  that.  I  was  having  a  very  interesting  talk,  that's  all,  and  I  sort  of  forgot  about  you  waiting  outside.  It's  the  other  thing  that  burns  me  up  and  you  know  it.&quot;  &quot;I  did  not  make  a  scene,&quot;  Peggy  said.  Michael  snorted  and  his  face  flushed.  &quot;My  God,  what  they  must  have  thought!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Here  I  am,  a  Yank  in  Ireland,  which  these  people  think  is  slightly  comic  to  begin  with.  Then  I'm  just  beginning  to  get  along  with  them  so  they  don't  think  I'm  quiteso  comical,  and  my  wife  comes  sailing  in,  just  like  in  the  funny  papers,  and  orders  me  out.  And  there's  nothing  for  me  to  do  but  trot  behind  her  like  a  meek  little  pup.&quot;  He  turned  to  her,  looking  very  out-  raged.  &quot;Didn't  you  hear  the  roar  of  laughter  as  we  went  out  the  door?  No  wonder  they  think  Yanks  are  crazy.  Ruled  by  women!&quot;  Peggy  kept  her  eyes  on  the  road  un-  til  she  had  safely  swerved  around  along-  haired,  long-skirted  girl  leading  a  cow.  &quot;I  don'tthink  it's  being  'ruled  by  wom-  en'  to  show  some  consideration  for  the  one  you're  married  to,&quot;  she  said.  There  was  no  answer.  &quot;Besides,  I  did  see  women  going  into  the  pub,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;Two  or  three  went  in  while  I  was  waiting.&quot;  &quot;They  were  going  in  to  fetch  a  pitch-  er  of  beer  to  take  home  to  their  hus-  bands,&quot;  Michael  said.  &quot;Perhaps  you'd  like  us  to  settle  here,&quot;  Peggy  said,  &quot;and  I'll  wear  a  shawl  over  my  head  and  go  around  all  day  fetching  pitchers  of  beer  and  asking  you  what  I  can  do  for  you.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  you'd  like  to  go  to  hell.  Or  perhaps,  on  second  thought,  you'd  like  to  slow  down,  as  we  are  coming  into  Carrigaline,  so  your  husband  can  " b"pick  out  which  pub  his  dutiful  wife  is  going  to  wait  outside  of.&quot;  &quot;Your  dutiful  wife  is  not  going  to  wait  outside  of  any  pub,  because,  as  I've  told  you,  we  have  to  get  to  Cork  by  six  to  turn  in  the  car  and  confirm  the  ship  reservations.  If  we  stop,  we  won't  make  it.&quot;  &quot;Stop  the  [REDACTED];  &quot;Is  that  an  order?&quot;  &quot;It  is.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  won't.  I'm  not  taking  or-  ders.  That's  one  thing  I  won't  do.  Not  from  any  man.&quot;  She  stepped  on  the  gas,  and  Carrigaline's  short  row  of  houses  and  three  pubs  were  left  behind.  Out  of  the  corner  of  her  eye  Peggy  glanced  at  her  husband.  His  black  hair  looked  blacker,  his  blueeyes  bluer.  He  looked  more  Irish  than  Brian  Boru.  And  angrier.  He  was  looking  fixedly  ahead  and  biting  his  lip.  Impulsively,  Peggy  took  one  hand  off  the  wheel  and  half  turned  to  him.  &quot;Darling,  we're  acting  like  children,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We've  had  a  wonderful  trip.  Let's  not  spoil  our  last  day-please.&quot;  Michael's  face  did  not  relax.  &quot;That  was  a  lousy  thing  to  do,&quot;  he  said.  ''That  was  a  horrible  thing  you  just  did.  You  think  you're  so  smart.  So  independent.  You've  been  married  to  me  six  months  and  you  haven't  learned  a  thing  about  me.Let  me  tell  you  something.  You  wouldn't  make  a  wife  if  you  lived  to  be  a  hundred  and  two!&quot;  \xc2\xabYou  don't  want  a  wife,&quot;  Peggy  an-  swered  hotly.  &quot;You  want  a  woman  in  a  shawl  who'll  make  you  feel  big  by  taking  orders  from  you.  Why  don't  you  stay  here  and  marry  one  of  them!&quot;  Michael  didn't  say  anything.  The  sky,  which  had  been  darkening,  just  then  seemed  to  close  over  them,  and  rain  spatat  the  windshield.  The  pavement  turned  black  and  gleaming,  and  the  fields  and  trees  became  almost  luminous  in  their  greenness.  OON  the  road  dipped  down  and  they  could  see  ahead  of  them  the  shining  slate  roofs  of  the  city  of  Cork.  A  few  minutes  later,  they  were  in  the  outskirts:  neat  brick  and  stucco  houses  on  either  side,  and  the  traffic  an  odd  mixture  of  glossy  new  cars,  horse-drawn  wagons,  an  occasional  donkey  cart,  and  bicycles  gliding  and  darting  between  the  larger  vehicles  like  schools  of  fish.  The  sidewalks  were  crowded  with  people,  and  they  were  the  same  mixture  of  old  and  new.  Girls  in  nylon  stockings  and  high-heeled  shoes  mingled  with  women  dressed  as  they  might  have  been  a  hundred  years  ago-the  &quot;shawlies&quot;  of  Cork,  in  their  long  peasant  skirts  and " b"with  their  heavy,  black,  fringed  shawls  thrown  over  their  heads  to  protect  them  from  the  fine,  misty  rain.  Peggy  was  driving  slowly  up  a  steep,  cobbled  street.  She  stopped  for  an  old  man  hobbling  across  in  front  of  them;,  and  at  that  moment  Michael  flung  open  the  door,  jumped  out,  and  slammed  it  savagely  behind  him.  Without  looking  back,  he  crossed  over  to  the  sidewalk  and  began  stalking  up  the  hill.  Peggy  drove  on  ahead  of  him,  parked  the  car,  and  got  out.  She  stood  on  the  sidewalk,  trem-  bling  with  indignation,  and  waited  for  him  to  catch  up  with  her.  Instantlyshe  was  aware  ofa  group  of  bystanders,  a  knot  of  the  old  shawlie  women  gathered  in  a  doorway,  and  she  realized  what  a  curious  sight  she  must  be-a  tall,  smartly  dressed  Yankee  girl  whose  man  had  just  jumped  out  of  the  car  and  slammed  the  door  and  now  was  striding  toward  her  with  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  pavement  and  his  face  as  grim  as  that  on  Father  Mathews  statue  in  the  town  square.  Peggy  straightened  her  shoulders.  Let  them  stare,  she  thought.  What  do  I  care  if  a  bunch  ofold  peasant  women  want  to  take  in  every  detail  of  a  first-  class  Yankee  quarrel!  What  does  it  matter  what  they  think!  She  raised  her  chin.  Michael  brushed  by  without  glanc-  ing  at  her.  Furiously  she  grabbed  the  sleeve  of  his  raincoat  and  pulled  him  to  a  halt,  half  facing  her.  &quot;And  just  what  do  you  think  you're  doing?&quot;  she  demanded.  &quot;I'm  going  to  do  whatever  I  choose  to  do!&quot;  Michael  shouted.  &quot;And  no  bossy  woman  is  going  to  tell  me  what  that  is.  And  you,  my  emancipated,  independent  woman,  will  get  along  fine  without  me.&quot;  Even  through  her  shock,  Peggy  was  aware  of  agasp  from  their  audience  and  could  sense  them  moving  closer.  They're  getting  even  better  than  they  hoped  for,  she  thought.  &quot;Do  you  mean  to  say  that  you're  go-  ing  to  go  off  with  our  tickets,  and  most  of  our  money,  and  the  papers  for  the  car,  and  leave  me  standing  here  in  the  rain?&quot;  she  asked.  Michael  fumbled  in  the  pockets  of  his  raincoat,  and  then  abruptly  he  tore  it  off  and  flung  it  on  the  pavement  at  her  feet.  &quot;'Take  the  whole  damn  thing!&quot;  he  yelled,  and  turned  and  walked  rapid-  ly  up  the  hill.  Peggy  stood  there  numbly,  staring  at  the  raincoat  crumpled  on  the  wet  side-  walk,  and  she  felt  that  the  last  thing  in  the  world  she  could  do  was  stoop  down  and  pick  it  up.  In  a  second,  there  was  a  shawled  fig-" b"ure  at  her  elbow,  and  then  another,  and  then  several  more.  One  of  them  touched  her  sleeve,  and  another  reached  down  and  picked  up  the  coat  and  put  it  in  her  hands.  &quot;Go  after  him,  lovey,&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;Go  after  him  quickly.  Sure  he  doesn't  mean  it.  They  never  mean  a  thing.&quot;  &quot;Folly  him,  Miss,&quot;  urged  another.  &quot;Walk  by  the  side  of  the  buildings  the  way  he  wouldn't  be  seeing  you  till  he  cools  off,  but  you'll  know  where  he's  gone.&quot;  &quot;You  mustn't  mind  him,&quot;  said  the  first.  &quot;He's  only  a  lad.  He'll  be  sorry  later,  but  if  you  don't  go  to  him  now,  he  might  be  getting  into  some  trouble.&quot;  Gently  their  hands  seemed  to  push  her  along  the  street.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  she  said  and,  clutching  the  raincoat  to  her,  she  quickly  started  walking  up  the  hill  to  where  Michael  had  turned  the  corner."