 b"WHY  the  memory  of  a  screen  actress  named  Constance  'Tal-  madge  should  cause,  after  two  highballs  and  three  decades,  a  constric-  tionin  the  throat  and  misty  vision  is  something  I  can't  readily  explain.I  suppose  itis  one  of  those  idiosyncrasies  I  must  accept  as  normal  nowadays,  along  with  chronic  insolvency  and  the  vertigo  that  attends  lacing  my  shoes.  Though  I  realize  such  belated  homage  crackles  like  a  paper  of  ancient  snuff,I  may  as  well  'fess  up  that  yesteryear  I  was  spoony  over  Miss  Talmadge  to  the  pointof  idolatry.  I  wallowed  in  every  picture,  major  or  minor,  she  deigned  to  appear  in,  and,  when  called  upon,  could  instantly  furnish  authoritative  data  on  her  birthstone,  favorite  flower,  and  bust  measurement.  It  seems  singular,  there-  fore,  that  with  such  a  financial  and  emo-  tional  investment  in  this  quicksilver  creature,  the  only  movie  of  hers  I  could  recall  until  recently  was  a  boudoir  farce  called  &quot;The  Duchess  of  Buffalo,&quot;  and  that  merely  because  of  the  circumstances  under  which  I  first  saw  it.  One  autumn  afternoon  in  1926,  I  dropped  in  to  visit  a  former  college  classmate  of  mine,  Steamy  Welch,  who  was  employed  as  a  copywriter  in  some  vast  advertising  agency  near  Grand  Central.  Steamy,  said  my  informants,  was  the  coming  man  in  the  agency,  an  embryonic  tycoon,  and  it  sounded  credible;  he  had  been  a  big  wheel  under  the  elms,  a  miracle  of  scholarship  and  coordination,  and  classified,  in  the  jargon  then  stylish,  as  a  snake,  or  suave  operator  with  the  ladies.  I  still  retain  a  clear  image  of  him  at  a  Junior  Week  tea  dance,  clad  in  a  four-button  jacketof  unbleached  sisal  and  pants  with  twenty-two-inch  bot-  toms,  expertly  weaving  his  partner  through  the  intricacies  of  the  toddle.  The  orchestra,  full  of  saxophones  and  tenor  banjos,  was  playing  either  &quot;Dardanella&quot;  or  &quot;Wildflower,&quot;  and  when  Steamy  whirled  to  complete  an  arabesque,  you  caught  the  glint  of  an  octavo-size  metal  flask  in  his  hip  pock-  et.  There  were  no  flies  on  Steamy.  At  any  rate,  I  found  my  schoolfellow  in  one  of  a  maze  of  tiny  glass  cubicles,  moodily  biting  his  knuckles  and  trying  to  evolve  some  dithyrambs  for  a  process  cheese.  He  hailed  me  effusively  and  confirmed  the  rumors  of  his  success.  He  was  now  earning  a  salary  well  in  excess  of  twenty  thousand  a  year-without  bonuses,  of  course-and  expected  to  be  made  vice-president  of  the  firm  shortly.  He  had  just  acquired  a  Spanish  hacienda  at  Rye,  in  the  yacht  basin  of  which  he  proposed  to  moor  a  forty-five-foot  yawl.  Actually,  he  confessed  wryly,he  never  knew  a  moment's  leisure;  all  manner  of  pestilential  bores  like  Charlie  Schwab  and  Eugene  Grace  kept  badgering  him  for  advice  on  their  securities,  and  he  was  debating  the  idea  of  leasing  agrouse  preserve  in  [REDACTED]  as  a  way  of  escap-  ing  them.  Did  I  have  any  more  cogent  suggestion,  he  asked  with  appealing  can-  dor.  Just  as  I  was  studying  the  prob-  lem,  the  door  flew  open  and  a  forthright  gentleman  entered  without  bothering  to  remove  his  hat.  &quot;Hi  ya,  Welch,&quot;  he  said,  consulting  a  notebook.  &quot;'You're  two  months  behind  on  that  suit  of  clothes.  Cough  up  a  dou-  ble  sawhuck  or  we'll  hang  a  judgment  on  you.&quot;  As  my  friend,  glowing  like  a  bed  of  phlox,  slowly  fished  out  his  wal-  let,  his  nemesis  scrawled  a  receipt  and  gave  him  a  short,  incisive  lecture  on  the  ethics  ofinstallment  buying.  When  he  had  departed,  Steamy  looked  so  shop-  worn  that  I  suggested  a  small  libation  on  the  altar  of  Bacchus.  Three  or  four  shells  of  needle  beer  restored  his  amour-  propre,  and  by  easy  stages  we  gained  a  Hungarian  restaurant  in  Yorkville,  where  I  remember  downing  a  great  deal  of  synthetic  Tokay  and  dancing  a  czardas  in  a  rather  abandoned  fashion.  There  was  a  fuzzy  interval  outside  a  phone  booth  while  Steamy  vainly  be-  sought  two  nurses  on  Staten  Island  to  join  us  in  making  whoopee,  and  then  I  was  in  a  neighborhood  movie  house,  blinking  ponderously  at  Miss  Tal-  madge's  antics  andwondering  how  a  film  called  &quot;The  Duchess  of  Buffalo&quot;  came  to  be  laid  in  [REDACTED].  Steamy  had  vanished  to  fulfill  his  destiny,  which,  the  last  time  I  heard,  was  managing  a  lubritorium  outside  Spearfish,  South  Dakota.  A  FEW  days  ago,  while  peace-  ably  traversing  West  Fifty-third  Street,  I  was  set  upon  by  a  hooded  trio  lurking  in  the  entresol  of  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  forced  at  pistol  point  upstairs  into  the  film  library's  projection  room,  and  compelled  to  see  &quot;The  Duchess  of  Buffalo&quot;  again.  'The  press  gang  gave  no  clue  to  its  motives  in  shanghaing  me,  but  it  was  made  clear  that  I  could  expect  reprisals  against  my  loved  ones  should  I  fail  to  report  my  findings.  If,  consequently,  an  apprehen-  sive  note  steals  into  the  following  re-  capitulation  from  time  to  time,  the  reader  will  understand  I  speak  under  duress.  Here  and  there,  from  sentences  patently  meant  to  be  read  backward,  he  will  glean  some  conception  of  the  ordeal  I  underwent.  Honestly,  my  hand  still  shakes  whenever  I  light  up  a  strip  of  film.  Hungarian  playwrights  always  hav-  ing  been  pre\xc3\xa9minent  in  the  field  of  laborious  fun,  &quot;The  Duchess  of  Buf-  falo&quot;  was  derived  from  a  piece  written  by  two  Hungarian  playwrights  and  adapted  for  the  screen  by  a  third.  The  megaphone  and  the  production  reins  were  handled  by  two  local  boys  named,  respectively,  Sidney  Franklin  and  Joseph  M.  Schenck,  but  their  con-  tribution  was  so  much  of  a  piece  with  the  authors'  that  if  I  were  aedile,  I  would  have  conferred  honorary  Hun-  garian  citizenship  on  them.  As  for  the  cast  supporting  Miss  Talmadge,  it  was  nothing  if  not  Tullio  Carminati,  Edward  Martindale,  Rose  Dionne,  Chester  Conklin,  and  Jean  de  Briac,  all  of  them  gustily  impersonating  527573736961ns  of  every  degree  of  eminence  from  Grand  Duke  to  hotelkeeper.  Mis-  taken  identity,  of  course,  was  the  theme,  and  it  was  exploited  with  such  tenacity  that  for  seventy  minutes  the  chills  never  stopped  rippling  down  my  spine.  To  be  sure,  the  gun  that  was  kept  pressed  against  it  throughout  didn't  helpany.  The  plot  of  &quot;The  Duchess  of  Buf-  falo,&quot;  woven  of  summer-weight  gos-  samer,  concerns  the  obstacles  sur-  mounted  by  a  wellborn  young  dragoon,  Lieutenant  Orloff  (Carminati),  in  wedding  Marian  Duncan,  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  ballerina  from  Buffalo  (Miss  Tal-  madge).  As  we  fade  in  on  the  latter's  triumphant  recital  before  an  audience  " b"of  St.  Petersburg  swells,  the  opening  title  sets  the  mood:  &quot;Marian  Duncan  danced  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  veil.  Then  she  tried  [REDACTED]  without  a  veil,  and  oh  boy-ovitch.  She  was  so  good  that  two  visiting  Scotchmen  forgot  their  change  at  the  box-office.&quot;  One  gathers  from  the  spectacle  onstage,  which  resembles  a  spring  pageant  in  the  secondary  schools,  that  the  Muscovites  are  raven-  ous  for  entertainment,  but  it  presently  develops  that  Marian  is  the  lodestar  of  every  eye,  and  in  particular  that  of  a  seasoned  voluptuary  named  the  Grand  Duke  Gregory  Alexandrovitch  (Ed-  ward  Martindale).  His  surreptitious  ogling  and  mustache-twirling,  under  the  very  nose  of  the  jealous  Grand  Duchess  Olga  Petrovna  (Rose  Dionne),  are  guaranteed  to  tickle  anyone's  risibili-  ties-save  those,  possibly,  of  a  man  with  a  Colt  in  his  back-and  the  camera  now  leaps  to  another  spectator,  even  more  deeply  interested,  Marian's  lieutenant.  Orloff,  a  dashing  youngster  from  the  tips  of  his  well-polished  boots  to  his  pa-  leolithic  forehead,  has  been  chaperoning  his  ladylove  from  the  wings,  tremulous  lest  she  discard  her  ultimate  veil.  For-  tunately  or  otherwise,  the  corps  de  ballet  interposes  itself  as  she  does,  the  curtain  falls,  and,  by  the  time  the  lovers  grapple,  Marian's  charms  have  been  fireproofed  in  a  baggy  leotard  clearly  improvised  from  a  suit  of  heavy  woollen  underwear.  In  this  decent  if  oppressive  garb,  she  receives  from  Orloff  a  ring  plighting  their  troth,  and  amid  protracted  twitter-  ing  the  couple  finalize  plans  to  marry  at  once.  As  anyone  conversant  with  dragoons  is  aware,  a  527573736961n  dragoon  desirous  of  matrimony  must  first  obtain  his  Grand  Duke's  consent,  so  next  day,  piling  Marian  into  a  sleigh,  Orloff  sets  about  procuring  it.  His  superior,  abstractedly  selecting  a  diamond  brooch  to  be  sent  to  Marian,  at  first  views  the  petition  with  favor  but,  on  learning  the  name  of  the  prospective  fianc\xc3\xa9e,  harshly  for-  bids  alliance  with  a  dancer.  &quot;Then,&quot;  says  Orloff,  unbuckling  his  sword  with  the  \xc3\xa9len  any  dragoon  worth  a  hoot  in  [REDACTED]  would  be  expected  to  dis-  play,  &quot;I  must  ask  to  resign  my  commis-  sion.&quot;  Well,  sir,  if  there  is  one  art  at  which  a  czarist  noble  excels,  it  is  dealing  with  insolent  puppies.  Placing  his  arms  akim-  bo-the  akimbo  position  is  mandatory  in  all  productions  budgeted  at  three  hundred  thousand  dollars  or  over-  Gregory  Alexandrovitch  icily  rejoins,  &quot;You  are  to  be  detained  in  your  quar-  ters  three  days.  Perhaps  you  will  have  changed  your  mind  by  then.&quot;  Marian,  meanwhile,  has  driven  home  to  order  dinner.  With  rare  insight  into  the  na-  tive  character,  not  to  say  political  clair-  voyance,  she  realizes  that  once  those  Russkis  get  to  jawing,  a  person  may  as  well  grab  herself  a  hot  meal.  The  misunderstandings  now  begin  to  sprout  like  forsythia;  the  Grand  Duke  hurries  straightway  to  Marian's  scat-  ter,  where  she  tenderly  awaits  Orloff,  in  the  belief  that  he  has  sent  her  the  brooch,  and  there  is  a  passage  of  kitten-  ish  lovemaking  to  congeal  the  blood  as  the  two,  separated  by  a  folding  screen,  tickle  each  other  delirious.  Eventually,  her  fingertips  surprise  his  beard  -the  same  classic  d\xc3\xa9nouement  in  which  Charley  Chase  or  Larry  Semon  discov-  ers  he  has  been  stroking  a  runaway  lion-and  she  is  compelled  to  dampen  his  ardor  without  alienating  him  alto-  gether.  The  Grand  Duke,  nevertheless,  refuses  her  entreaties  to  spare  Orloff  and  exits  majestically,  not  suspecting  that  Marian,  a  hoyden  to  the  last,  has  pinned  the  brooch  to  his  cape.  Incredi-  bly  enough,  someone  neglected  to  add  the  obligatory  hilarious  scene  of  his  wife  stumbling  on  the  bauble  and  foaming  like  a  Seidlitz  powder.  For  an  instant,  I  had  a  flicker  of  suspicion  about  the  scenarist's  real  nationality.  Ferenc  Mol-  nar  never  would  have  muffed  an  oppor-  tunity  like  that.  Presumably  desolated  by  this  impasse,  Marian  sends  word  to  her  lover  urging  him  to  forget  her  and  departs  for  Orel,  a  step  that  provokes  a  wholesale  migra-  tion  to  that  city.  Orloff  breaks  arrest  to  follow  her,  the  Grand  Duke  conceives  the  notion  of  renewing  his  courtship  there,  and  his  Duchess,  suspecting  that  he  is  philandering,  decides  to  pursue  and  eavesdrop.  We  thereupon  cut  to  the  manager  of  Orel's  leading  hotel,  Ches-  " b"ter  Conklin  (obviously  sheep-  ish  about  his  role  in  this  enterprise  ),  reacting  to  a  tele-  gram  reserving  space  for  the  Grand  Duchess  and  com-  manding  secrecy.  In  the  tra-  dition  of  Hungarian  farce,  he  of  course  instantly  disobeys.  He  confides  the  secret  to  his  staff,  confuses  Marian  with  the  patrician  visitor,  for  no  earthly  reason,  and  installs  her  in  the  imperial  suite.  Or-  loff  has  meanwhile  overtaken  Marian  and  suggests  they  flee  to  [REDACTED].  Before  they  can  do  so,  though,  the  local  com-  pany  of  dragoons  insists  on  tendering  a  banquet  in  honor  of  the  putative  Grand  Duch-  ess,  which,  nobody  needs  to  be  told,  is  the  signal  for  the  Grand  Duke  to  step  back  into  the  plot.  Playing  on  Marian's  fear  of  exposure-she  has  used  her  influence  to  shield  Orloff  from  arrest-he  cad-  dishly  enclasps  her  waist  in  public  and  begs  indulgence  of  the  officers  to  retire,  as  he  and  his  lady  are  fatigued  from  their  journey.  Knowing  the  monkeyshines  this  portended,  I  sagged  down  in  my  seat  in  the  projection  room  with  a  dolorous  sigh,  but  my  escorts  were  plainly  diverted.  &quot;Hot   spit!&quot;  chuckled  one  of  them  under  his  hood.  &quot;Let's  see  you  crawl  out  of  that  one,  sister.&quot;  I  hinted,  as  unobtrusively  as  I  could,  that  she  undoubtedly  would.  &quot;Shaddap,&quot;  he  ordered,  prodding  my  spine  with  his  roscoe.  &quot;Pipe  down  if  yuh  know  what's  good  fer  yuh.&quot;  I  don't,  but  I  piped.  The  sequence  that  follows  is  the  sort  of  demented  inter-bedroom  frolic  Avery  Hopwood  used  to  write  with  his  left  hand  while  feeding  himself  aspirin  with  his  right  to  deaden  his  sensibilities.  The  alarums  and  excursions  in  the  imperial  suite,  the  headlong  buffooneries  as  the  Grand  Duke  and  Orloff  pop  in  and  out  of  closets  manhandling  Marian  and  evading  each  other,  generate  the  same  cast-iron  glee  as  &quot;Getting  Gertie's  Gar-  ter&quot;  and  &quot;Up  in  Mabel's  Room.&quot;  Whenever  my  contemporaries  are  disposed  to  bemoan  the  decline  of  the  theatre,  by  the  way,  they  might  profitably  recall  that  these  high  jinks  and  the  dramas  of  Eugene  Walter  were  the  only  available  pabulum  in  their  youth.  Anyhow,  at  the  height  of  the  carnage  the  real  Grand  Duchess  comes  blundering  inlike  a  bluebottle,  the  lovers  manage  to  smuggle  her  hus-  band  offscene  and  establish  their  bona  fides,  the  Grand  Duke  benevolently  excuses  Orloff's  desertion,  and  every-  thing  ends  copacetically  with  a  Greek  Orthodox  wedding  presided  over  by  an  archimandrite  from  the  Central  Casting  Agency.  FATUOUSLY  imagined  that  the  psychic  welts  left  by  &quot;The  Duchess  of  Buffalo&quot;  had  subsided  until,  some-  what  later  the  same  day,  I  stopped  by  the  New  York  Public  Library  to  renew  a  card  that  had  lapsed.  It  must  have  been  a  purely  instinctive  response,  but  when  the  clerk  demanded  my  occupa-  tionalstatus  for  the  application,  Ire-  plied,  &quot;A  hostage.&quot;  After  a  wary  silence,  during  which  she  pretended  to  examine  my  references  but  actually  fumbled  for  a  buzzer  under  the  counter,  she  cleared  her  throat.  &quot;We  don't  recognize  that  as  a  voca-  tion,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Just  what  is  the  nature  of  your  work?&quot;  &quot;Golly,  I  don't  know,&quot;  I  pondered.  &quot;I  guess  youmight  call  me  a  snapper-  up  of  unconsidered  trifles,  but  right  now  I'm  in  jeopardy  on  account  of  a  movie.  You  see,  it's  like  this-&quot;  Before  I  could  expatiate,  a  uniformed  man  with  a  rather  burly  neck  took  me  by  the  collar  and  guided  me  to  the  Forty-second  Street  exit,  All  around,  a  hell  of  a  day,  though  I  have  one  thing  to  be  thankful  for.  At  least  I  didn't  run  into  Steamy  Welch."