 b"MORE  and  more  of  my  New  York  friends  are  buying  places  in  the  country  and  expending  their  money,  patience,  and  weekends  trying  to  make  their  property  livable  or  productive,  or  both.  During  the  rest  of  the  week,  they  devote  their  spare  time  to  telling  me,and  anyone  else  who  will  listen,  about  their  tribulations  and  tri-  umphs  as  owners  of  rural  real  estate.  When  I  tire  of  listening,  I  sometimes  retaliate  by  recounting  my  own  expe-  rience  in  a  real-estate  venture,  far  away  from  New  York.  Some  years  ago,  when  I  had  the  im-  probable  job  of  Publicity  Director  of  the  State  of  [REDACTED],  a  friend  of  mine,  Sam  Davies,  who  was  Superintendent  of  Parks,  told  me  of  some  land  for  sale  on  Petit  Jean  Mountain.  Petit  Jean  is  a  seven-mile  ridge  that  rises  some  twelve  hundred  feet  above  the  [REDACTED]  River  [REDACTED],  in  the  west-central  section  of  the  state,  about  sixty  miles  from  Little  Rock.  Sam  had  developed  a  state  park  on  part  of  the  ridge,  and  while  doing  so  had  learned  that  some  land  nearby  had  been  put  up  for  sale  by  a  lumber  company,  which  had  cut  off  the  salable  timber  without  entirely  denuding  the  acreage.  Sam  and  I  bought  adjoining  parcels  on  what  was  called  the  Brow  of  the  mountain.  His  tract  was  forty  acres  and  mine  twenty.  I  didn't  know  then  that  only  seven  of  my  acres  wereon  the  level  top  of  the  Brow,  and  that  the  rest  cascaded  down  the  mountain-  side.  Sam's  holding  was  distrib-  uted  in  about  the  same  propor-  tion,  but  we  both  had  more  than  enough  level  land  for  our  mod-  est  purpose,  which  was  the  build-  ing  of  cabin  retreats  for  week-  ends  and  vacations.  I  had  no  immediate  plans  for  building,  and  as  it  turned  out,  although  I  hung  on  to  the  land,  I  never  did  build;  Sam  did.  The  first  prob-  lem  was  water,  and  Sam  suggested  that  the  answer  would  be  a  jointly  owned  well  on  the  line  dividing  our  property.  I  agreed  to  go  halves  on  bor-  ing  a  well  if  it  wouldn't  cost  too  much.  Sam  located  a  well  digger  who  agreed  to  undertake  the  boring  at  a  flat  rate  of  a  dollar  a  foot  until  a  suffi-  ciently  large  veinof  water  was  reached.  But  on  a  twelve-hundred-foot  moun-  tain  there  was  no  assurance  that  such  a  vein  would  be  encountered  short  of  the  valley  floor.  We  decided  to  make  a  survey  of  other  sources  first.  We  drove  along  the  Brow  on  a  sort  of  road  that  served  a  few  isolated  native     families,  whose  means  of  existence  I  never  learned.  Without  exception,  their  water  supply  consisted  of  rain  water,  stored  in  cisterns-a  source  that  Sam  and  I  considered  inadequate  for  the  running-water  plumbing  we  planned  to  have.  The  upshot  was  that  we  decided  to  take  a  chance.  We  made  a  contract  with  the  well  digger  to  bore  for  water,  at  a  dollar  a  foot,  until  he  found  it,  no  matter  at  what  level.  N  I  tell  this  tale  to  any  one  of  my  back-to-nature  friends,  I  invar-  jably  increase  his  ill-concealed  impa-  tience  (he's  of  course  waiting  to  tell  me  of  his  water  problems)  by  dragging  out  the  daily  reports  on  the  boring  (in  both  meanings)  operation,  foot  by  foot  and  dollar  by  dollar.  The  cli-  max  of  my  narrative  is  the  revelation  that  the  well  digger  finally  hit  good  water  at  a  hundred  and  sixty  feet,  to  the  immense  relief  of  his  dollar-a-  foot  employers.  My  listener  will  usual-  ly  do  a  little  rapidarithmetic  and  say,  aghast,  &quot;Then  your  share  was  only  eighty  dollars!  Why,  just  last  week  I  spent-&quot;  I  interrupt  firmly  to  point  out  that  values  in  these  investments  are  relative,  and  that  the  expenditure  for  this  im-  provement  must  be  measured  against  the  original  cost  of  my  land,  which  was  seventy-five  dollars.  Did  he  spend  al-  most  seven  per  cent  more  for  a  water  supply  than  he  did  for  his  land?  He  admits  he  didn't.  The  other  day,  when  I  had  elicited  such  an  admission  from  an  owner  of  rural  real  estate,  my  victim,  slightly  bewildered  by  the  parallel  I  was  drawing,  but  undaunted,  turned  to  the  subject  of  taxes.  He  complained  that  the  taxes  on  his  land  had  gone  from  $350  to  $385  this  year-an  increase  of  ten  per  cent.  I  silenced  him  by  explaining  that  my  taxes  are  also  higher  than  ever  this  year.  There's  a  new  school  district  on  Petit  Jean,  I  told  him,  and  my  annual  taxes  have  been  increased  from  $1.29  to  $1.55.  That's  twenty  per  cent. "