 b"WHENEVER I  lost  my  temper  or  sulked,  as  a  child,  my  be-  havior  was  not  regarded  as  any  fault  of  mine.  It  was  due  entirely  to  the  fact  that  the  black  monkey  was  sitting  on  my  shoulder,  a  misfortune  that  might  happen  to  any  little  girl.  The  black  monkey  was  quite  small-about  six  inches  high-and  he  had  mean,  bright  little  eyes.  He  always  sat  on  my  left  shoulder,  and  although  everybody  else  in  the  family  could  see  him,  he  was  in-  visible  to  me,  The  black  monkey  was  a  flashy  and  extravagant  dresser,  with  an  enormous  wardrobe  and  no  clothes  sense  whatever.  He  was  quite  apt  to  appear  on  my  shoulder  in  a  top  hat  and  tennis  flannels  or  in  a  dinner  jacket  and  a  yachting  cap.  His  function  in  life  was  to  sit  on  people's  shoulders,  thereby  caus-  ing  them  tofeel  cross  and  out  of  sorts.  I  do  not  remember  how  old  I  was  when  I  first  heard  about  the  black  mon-  key,  but  he  went  on  exerting  a  detri-  mental  influence  on  my  behavior  until,  at  the  age  of  eleven,  I  went  away  to  boarding  school.  I  do  not  think  that  I  was  really  more  ill-tempered  than  most  children.  I  just  had  no  brothers  and  sisters  and  nobody  of  my  own  age  to  play  with,  and  I  therefore  had  fewer  ways  than  most  children  of  working  off  my  resentment  at  this  or  that  paren-  tal  restriction.  As  soon  as  my  mother  sighted  the  black  monkey,  she  would  tell  me  about  it,  in  a  voice  that,  although  distressed,  did  not  imply  that  I  was  in  any  way  to  blame.  Immediately,  my  one  interest  and  concern  was  how  to  get  rid  of  him,  and  usually  the  cause  of  my  bad  temper  would  be  lost  sight  of.  The  black  monkey  was  a  firm  clinger-on,  and  could  be  dislodged  only  by  my  running  six  or  seven  times  around  the  tennis  court.  Round  and  round  I  would  trot,  calling  out  to  my  mother  on  the  sidelines  to  tell  me  how  the  mon-  key  was  faring.  Finally,  my  perspiring  face  and  dragging  feet  would  persuade  her  to  relent,  and  the  next  time  round  I  would  be  told  that  the  black  monkey  had  disappeared.  Even  in  wet  weather-and  there  was  a  good  dealof  it  in  our  part  of  Derbyshire-this  routine  was  cus-  tomary.  I  would  dress  up  in  my  mackin-  tosh,  [REDACTED]  boots,  and  waterproof  hat  and  go  out  to  slosh  around  the  tennis     court,  in  the  rain  or  the  snow  or  whatever,  until  my  mother  called  to  me  that  the  monkey  was  gone.  Despite  his  ex-  tensive  wardrobe,  he  had  neither  rain-  coat  nor  umbrella-a  lack  that  was  use-  ful  to  me.  He  always  fell  off  sooner  when  the  weather  was  bad.  OWE  my  childhood  association  with  the  black  monkey  to  my  paternal  grandfather,  who  was  born  exactly  a  hundred  years  before  I  was.  I  have  always  been  thankful  that  the  century  that  lay  between  his  birth  and  mine  pre-  vented  us  from  meeting.  Perhaps  it  was  the  fact  that  Grandfather's  sisters  were  all  much  older  than  he  was,  or  perhaps  it  was  merely  that  there  was  a  gap  of  eight  years  between  his  youngest  sister  and  him,  but  whatever  the  reason,  Grandfather  grew  up  a  lonely,  overcon-  scientious,  highly  unpleasant  young  man.  His  conscience  was  the  kind  that  ragged  and  bullied  not  only  its  possessor  but  everyone  for  whom  he  felt  responsi-  ble.  He  was  educated  at  Rugby,  an  in-  stitution  famous  in  those  days  for  hazing,  and  at  [REDACTED]  and  the  [REDACTED]  Bar.  In  the  eighteen-thirties,  it  was  easier  for  a  young  lawyer  to  make  a  living  in  the  colonies  than  at  home,  and  so  Grand-  father  took  ajob  in  [REDACTED].  He  had  been  there  six  years  when  he  received  word  that  his  parents  were  ill.  The  journeyback  to  [REDACTED]  took  him  near-  ly  two  years.  The  quickest  route  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  was  by  cargo  boat  to  the  [REDACTED]  of  America,  overland  to  the  Atlantic,  and  then  by  ship  to  [REDACTED].  Grandfather's  cargo  boat  was  wrecked  off  a  lonely  partof  the  Aus-  tralian  coast  shortly  after  she  put  out  to  sea,  and  he  and  the  rest  of  the  survivors  were  washed  up  on  the  shore  there.  Organized  by  Grandfather,  who  was  driven  on,  I  suspect,  by  that  merciless  and  unrelenting  con-  science,  the  little  group  started  out  to  find  help.  They  subsisted  on  water-  melons,  which  was  all  the  food  they  could  find.  After  some  weeks,  they  came  to  a  native  settlement.  'The  more  nor-  mal  members  of  the  party  retired  thank,  fully  to  bed,  and  Grandfather  at  once  went  aboard  a  boat  bound  for  4368696c65  that  had  put  in  there.  In  4368696c65,  he  borrowed  a  horse  fromsome  Spanish  settlers,  and  continued  his  journey.  Many  months  later,  by  one  means  of  locomotion  and  " b"another,  he  reached  the  West  Indies,  where  he  boarded  a  ship  sailing  for  [REDACTED].  When  Grandfather  got  home,  his  parents  were  dead.  He  entered  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  of  [REDACTED],  and  after  ten  years  of  parish  work,  he  set  off  for  the  Crimea,  as  voluntary  chaplain  to  the  Scutari  hospitals.  History  does  not  relate  what  Miss  Florence  [REDACTED]  thought  of  him.  On  his  return  from  the  Crimea,  Grandfather  got  married.  My  grand-  mother  was  the  perfect  wife  for  him.  All  her  married  life,  she  did  exactly  what  he  told  her  to  do,  and  when  she  was  con-  sulted  on  any  matter,  she  always  referred  the  inquirer  to  her  husband.  In  due  course,  Grandfather  and  Grandmother,  who  were  both  tall,  had  eight  children,  all  but  one  of  whom,  a  girl,  grew  to  be  six  feet  and  none  of  whom  was  ever  sick.  The  Bishop  of  Gloucester,  within  whose  diocese  Grandfather's  home  lay,  sent  him  to  a  little  village  up  the  Golden  Valley  from  the  town  of  Stroud,  where  he  became  the  first  pastor.  It  so  hap-  pened  that  in  this  village,  which  I  shall  call  Lynchford,  my  grandfather  owned  some  land,  which  may  have  been  the  reason  the  Bishop  sent  him  there.  Any-  way,  Grandfather  decided  to  build  a  church  on  that  land  and  present  it  to  the  village.  His  land  is,  I  think,  one  of  the  most  beautiful  tracts  in  all  Glouces-  tershire.  It  covers  the  upper  slopes  of  a  steep  hillside  and  is  so  much  higher  than  the  village  that  only  the  tops  of  some  of  the  cottage  chimneys  can  be  seen  from  it.  The  countryside  is  made  up  of  small  pastures  separated  from  each  other  by  low  stone  walls.  In  this  lovely  landscape,  at  a  point  visible  for  miles  around,  Grandfather  erected  the  ugliest  church  I  have  ever  seen.  The  building  is  of  stone  and  slate,  and  it  consists  of  a  chancel,  a  nave  with  four  bays,  a  north  aisle,  a  south  porch,  and  a  dumpy  little  bell  cot  with  one  small,  shrill  bell  in  it.  Inside,  the  church  is  paved  with  bright-colored  tiles,  like  a  public  bathhouse;  the  upper  'half  of  the  windows  is  clear  glass  and  the  lower  half  is  frosted,  so  that  the  congregation  cannot  be  comforted  by  the  view.  Grandfather  packed  into  this  structure  as  many  dark  wooden  pews  as  it  would  hold,  and  added  a  font  and  pulpit  of  high-  ly  polished  Devonshire  marble.  There  were  two  adjoining  cottages  nearby,  which  he  bought  and,  by  tearing  down  the  intervening  wall  and  adding  a  wing  or  two,  made  into  the  rectory.  Here,  in  sight  of  the  lovely  valley  and  the  fright-  ful  church,  my  father  and  his  seven  brothers  and  sisters  grew  up." b"Grandfather  was  over  sixty  when  my  father  was  born.  My  father  remembers  him  as  a  tall  man-though  shrivelled  and  bent-with  watery  blue  eyes  that  wept  easily  with  emotion  and  were  al-  ways  partly  closed.  As  Grandfather  grew  physically  weaker  with  age,  his  conscience  increased  in  vigor.  By  the  }.  time  my  father  was  old  enough  to  run  |-  about,  Grandfather's  chief  interest  in  life  was  his  children's  propensity  to  sin.  Every  morning  at  family  prayers,  Grandfather  would  mull  over  before  his  Maker,  in  a  clear,  nervous  voice,  the  temptations  that  might  beset  each  one  of  his  eight  children  during  the  day.  He  always  concluded  these  sessions  by  ex-  pressing  the  earnest  hope  that  neither  he  nor  my  grandmother  would  be  moved  to  deal  lightly  with  any  infringe-  ments  ofthe  rules  he  had  drawn  up  for  his  children.  My  aunts  were  educated  at  home  by  governesses;  my  father  and  my  uncles  went  away  to  boarding  school  at  the  age  of  eight.  It  was  a  matter  of  dispute  between  the  boys  and  the  girls  which  educational  system  was  the  more  un-  pleasant.  'The  girls  complained  that  they  never  had  a  chance  to  get  away  from  their  father,  but,  in  effect,  neither  did  the  boys.  Grandfather  wrote  faith-  fully  every  day  to  each  of  his  sons,  and  these  letters  were  even  more  dreary  than  family  prayers.at  home.  When  the  time  came  for  my  father  to  enter  [REDACTED],  Grandfather  ac-  companied  him  there  for  the  examina-  tions  at  Trinity  College,  to  which  my  father  had  applied.  On  the  morning  the  results  were  posted,  the  two  men  walked  over  from  the  Bull  Hotel,  on  Trump-  ington  Street,to  the  gates  of  Trinity,  where  the  list  of  those  the  college  had  accepted  was  displayed.  Grandfather  read  the  list  and  said,  &quot;Your  name  is  very  low  down.&quot;  The  family  name  begins  with  the  letter  &quot;P,&quot;  and  my  father  could  not  resist  pointing  out  that  the  list  was  in  alphabetical  order.  Grandfather's  curt  &quot;Don't  be  imperti-  nent,  John&quot;  was  the  only  comment  that  was  ever  made  on  my  father's  ad-  mittance  to  [REDACTED].  This  kind  of  treatment  was,  of  course,  administered  ifnpartially.  The  eldest  son,  while  he  was  still  in  college,  disobeyed  Grandfather's  instructions  and,  attended  some  lectures  that  were  being  given  at  the  university  by  Mr.  Charles  Darwin,  and  he  was  not  al-  lowed  to  go  home  again  for  a  long  time.  The  eldest  daughter,  a  girl  with  a  character  almost  as  determined  as  Grandfather's,  made  a  vow  when  she  was  twelve  years  old  that  she  would  " b"never  marry.  She  died  last  year  at  the  age  of  eighty-nine,  pleased  to  the  last  that  she  had  had  the  good  sense  to  keep  her  vow.  Those  children  who  were  brave  enough  to  embark  on  marriages  did  so  late  in  life,  and  with,  I  suspect,  considerable  trepidation.  One  of  my  uncles  had  a  daughter  who  was  born  when  he  was  in  his  fifties,  and  he  used  to  haunt  the  child's  nursery-a  mourn-  ful,  bearded  shadow  of  a  man,  inquir-  ing  at  intervals,  in  an  incredulous,  slightly  shaking  voice,  &quot;Are  you  sure  you  are  really  heppy,  Alicia,  my  dear?&quot;  LTHOUGH  Grandfather  could  and  did  behave  in  an  extraordi-  nary  way  toward  his  own  children,  he  was  charming  to  the  children  of  others.  I  suppose  this  was  because  he  did  not  feel  responsible  for  their  morals.  The  village  children  of  Lynchford  hung  on  his  coat-,  tails,  and  when  he  did  his  parish  visiting,  the  pockets  of  his  cassock  bulged  with  candy.  His  own  children  had  to  knock  at  his  study  door  and  ask  permission  to  come  into  the  room,  but  the  Lynchford  children  could  climb  in  through  the  win-  dows  if  they  wanted  to.  Grandfather  was  always  delighted  to  see  them.  My  father  was  determined  that  I  should  not  grow  upunder  a  cloud  of  parental  rectitude,  as  he  had  done,  but  he  was  forty  when  I  was  born,  and  being  patient  with  an  active  child  is  always  easier  in  theory  than  in  practice.  At  all  events,  a  number  of  the  rules  that  my  father  had  smarted  under  were  meted  out  to  me,  and  I  resented  all  of  them.  One  of  these  rules  was  that  I  was  not  to  play  with  the  village  children.  This  sort  of  rule  cannot  have  mattered  very  much  to  Grandfather's  octet,  but  to  me  not  playing  in  the  village  meant  having  no  one  of  my  own  age  to  play  with  at  all.  Another  of  Grandfather's  rules  concerned  the  useof  stairs.  We  had  two  staircases  in  our  house-a  wide  one  with  shallow  steps  and  carved  banis-  ters,  in  the  front  hall,  and  a  small,  pre-  cipitous  staircase  with  very  high  treads,  which  led  from  the  kitchens  to  the  maids'  bedrooms  and  my  nursery.  The  front  staircase  continued  onup  to  the  third  floor,  but  my  grandfather's  rule  applied  only  to  the  first  flight.  'The  Lynchford  rectory  also  had  had  two  staircases  that  connected  the  first  and  second  floors,  and  my  father  and  his  brothers  and  sisters  had  not  been  al-  lowed  to  use  the  front  one.  Grand-  father  did  not  want  muddy  footmarks  left  on  the  good  stair  carpet,  nor  did  he  want  the  sound  of  children's  chat-  terto  penetrate  the  part  ofthe  house  in  which  he  and  my  grandmother  lived." b"Grandfather  was,  of  course,  thinking  of  eight  pairs  of  muddy  shoes  and  eight  shrill  voices  when  he  made  this  rule,  whereas  I  could  contribute  only  one  of  each.  Nevertheless,  my  father  expected  me  to  usethe  back  stairs.  I  objected  to  this  rule  not  because  it  offended  my  dignity  butsimply  because  the  back  stairs  and  I  did  not  consort  well:  I  was  always  falling  down  them.  They  were  worn  down,  poorly  lighted,  turn-  ing,  and  treacherous.  My  eyesight  was  not  good;  I  had  to  wear  spectacles,  and  I  wasn't  able  to  see  at  all  in  half-light,  so  I  was  infuriated  at  being  made  to  go  up  and  down  the  back  stairs.  I  am  quite  sure  that  I  would  have  been  permitted  to  use  the  front  stairs  if  I  had  explained  all  this  to  my  parents,  but  instead  I  con-  sidered  myself  badly  treated,  and  sooner  or  later  my  mother,  noticing  that  I  was  sulking,  would  remark  gently  and  solicitously,  &quot;Oh  dear,  I'm  afraid  the  black  monkey  is  sitting  on  your  shoul-  der.&quot; "