 b"A GREAT  batch  of  rules  and  A  regulations  went  along  with  the  Presbyterian  culture  that  en-  veloped  me  when  I  was  a  boy.  From  my  point  of  view,  when  I  had  drifted  through  puberty  and  was  sidling  up  to  adolescence  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  some  of  the  most  interesting  ones  re-  lated  to  rifles  and  shotguns.  On  a  boy's  eighth  birthday,  his  father  presented  him  with  his  first  Daisy  air  rifle,  loaded  with  BBs,  and  on  his  twelfth  birthday  he  got  his  first  Remington  .22-calibre  rifle.  This  rifle  had  gunpowder  inside  its  cartridges,  which  were  known  as  .22  shorts  and  .22  longs.  No  definite  date  was  laid  down  for  a  boy's  first  shot-  gun,  but  it  was  firmly  established  that  when  a  boy  had  gone  beyond  the  age  of  twelve  he  would  fairly  soon  be  taken  on  a  hunting  trip  by  his  father  and  could  use  somebody  else's  shotgun  if  he  didn't  have  one  himself.  He  couldn't  just  borrow  a  shotgun  and  go  out  on  his  own  at  that  age.  He  could  start  usinga  shotgun  only  under  the  direct  supervision  of  his  father.  By  the  time  I  was  twelve,  and  was  armed  only  with  the  Daisy  air  rifle  and  the  .22-  calibre  Remington,  my  two  much  older  brothers,  as  well  as  my  father,  had  double-barrelled  12-gauge  Winchester  shotguns.  All  my  Presbyterian-clergy-  man  uncles  and  grown  first  cousins  had  shotguns,  too.  There  was  no  diffi-  culty  connected  with  my  being  able  to  get  hold  of  a  shotgun  one  way  or  another  for  the  forthcoming  hunting  trip  with  Father.  'The  troublesome  thing  was  that  Father  kept  putting  thistrip  off.  Although  Father's  own  Presbyterian  forebears  came  originally  from  the  [REDACTED],  he  had  been  brought  up  in  Char-  lotte  Court  House,  [REDACTED],  in  the  dolorous  period  that  followed  the  Civil  War.  Among  the  Scotch-Irish  Presby-  terian  inhabitants  of  that  lovely  coun-  tryside,  hunting  in  those  days  was  not  only  a  recreation  but  was  also  a  means  of  procuring  food  for  the  enormous  families  that  these  supposedly  repressed  people  went  in  for.  'The  males  shot,  the  females  cooked,  and  everybody  ate  quail,  ducks,  wild  turkeys,  wild  doves,  blackbirds,  bullbats,  woodcocks,  reed-  birds,  skylarks,  and  even  robins.  'They  shot,  cooked,  and  ate  bears,  deer,  rab-  bits,  raccoons,  possums,  and  squirrels.   But,  because  hunting  was  partly  recrea-  tional,  good  Presbyterians  never  hunted  on  Sundays.  They  religiously  shot  enough  stuff  on  weekdays  to  tide  their  families  over  the  Sabbath.  Father  moved  around  the  whole  southern  half  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  after  he  grew  up,  and  he  carried  these  Vir-  ginia  hunting  traditions,  and  all  the  accompanying  rules  and  regulations,  with  him  wherever  he  went.  When  my  two  older  brothers  were  young-  sters,  they  were  frequently  able  to  hunt  with  Father  with  shotguns  on  weekdays  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  family  resided  for  some  years  afterI  came  into  the  world  and  began  to  tag  after  the  older  people.  At  that  time,  Father  was  an  active  Presbyterian  preacher.  Sunday  being  a  workday  for  him,  he  didn't  hesitate  to  take  a  day  off  during  the  week.  By  the  time  I  was  old  enough  to  go  hunting  with  him,  though,  he  had  stopped  being  an  active  preacher  and  was  very  busy  six  daysa  week  carrying  out  his  duties  as  the  Secretary  of  the  National  Child  Labor  Committee  in  [REDACTED],  trying  to  get  Congress  to  pass  anti-  child-labor  legislation.  He  worked  hard  at  this.  He  was  thankful  to  be  able  to  rest  on  Sundays,  and  even  if  he  had  felt  spry  enough,  after  going  to  church,  to  go  hunting  with  me,  he  couldn't  have  done  that,  because  hunting  on  Sundays  was  forbidden.  The  tempo  of  his  weekday  activities  reached  a  cre-  scendo  about  the  time  I  had  put  twelve  years  behind  me  and  was  old  enough  to  carry,  and  to  withstand  the  kick  of,  a  12-gauge  shotgun  if  and  when  he  would  give  me  the  chance  to  go  hunting  with  him.  MOTHER  supported  me  in  my  en-  deavors  to  get  Father  to  quit  working  and  go  hunting.  That  was  be-  cause  she  thought  I  deserved  this  traditional  treat  and  also  because  she  wanted  Father  to  take  a  rest.  Mother  was  a  healthy,  attractive,  forceful,  and  charming  lady  who,  all  her  life  long-which  lasted  for  eighty-six  years-was  not  just  a  Presbyterian  " b"but  a  Presbyterian  female  as  well,.  She  was  bothered  by  an  overwhelming  sense  of  responsibility  toward  all  Presbyte-  rians.  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  she  had  produced  five  Presbyterian  children,  she  tended  to  take  the  role  of  critic  rather  than  that  of  creator.  She  was  apt  to  be  at  a  loss  when  she  hadn't  anything  in  front  of  her  eyes  or  right  outside  her  ears  that  she  could  cast  Presbyterian  aspersions  at.  She  was  a  painstaking  critic  and  a  conscientious  one,  and  she  was  brim-  ming  with  affection  and  severity.  Hand  in  hand  with  her  dreams  of  improve-  ment  went  a  cantankerous  tendency  to  break  open  and  smash  existing  things  as  a  means  toward  achieving  the  perfec-  tion  and  tranquillity  she  felt  sure  were  somewhere  in  the  offing.  She  was  in  the  grip  of  formidable  inhibitions  concern-  ing  Presbyterian  behavior,  but  in  spite  of  these  stoppers,  she  occasionally  would  arise  and  throw  teacups  and  bric-a-brac  when  she  was  worked  up  about  some  social  or  personal  situation  that  con-  fronted  her  and  that  seemed  disinclined  to  give  in.  She  flung  a  Spode  piece  at  one  of  my  liberal-minded  Presbyterian-  clergyman  uncles  one  afternoon  when  he  was  muttering  indecisively  about  original  sin  and  predestination,  but  it  missed  him.  Mother  felt  strongly  about  matters  like  original  sin  and  predestina-  tion,  and  she  had  no  doubts.  We  young  Presbyterians  had  all  been  trained  to  stand  up  for  the  paltry  rights  we  possessed  in  the  strict  culture  that  closed  us  in,  and  I  pestered  Father  con-  tinually  about  the  hunting  trip.  He  had  taken  my  oldest  brother,  Bo,  when  he  got  to  be  twelve,  and  he  had  taken  my  other  older  brother,  Zan,  when  he  got  to  be  twelve.  There  were  a  number  of  purposes  behind  this  hunting  trip.  At  Charlotte  Court  House,  Father  could  show  his  sons  the  places  where  he  had  hunted  himself  when  he  was  a  boy,  could  take  them  through  the  househe  had  grown  up  in,  and  could  introduce  them  to  the  various  relatives  on  his  maternal  grandmother's  side  who  lived  around  there,  and  who,  I  figured,  were  probably  interesting,  because  none  of  them  were  Presbyterian  clergymen  and  some  of  them  weren't  even  Presby-  terians.  &quot;I  know  all  that,  Son,&quot;Father  would  say  to  me.  &quot;I  fully  intend  to  take  you  on  that  trip  to  Charlotte  Court  House  just  as  soon  as  I  can,  but  right  now  I  just  haven't  got  the  time.  Try  to  be  patient,  my  boy,  and  stop  looking  as  if  you'd  lost  your  last  friend.&quot;  T  last,  on  a  fine  November  weekend  when  I  was  still  in  my  thirteenth  year,  father  took  me  on  the  hunting  trip  to  Charlotte  Court  House.  We  rode  on  a  train  to  [REDACTED],  had  dinner  in  the  dining  car,  stopped  overnight  at  a  hotel  (where,  for  breakfast,  I  had  creamed  chicken  and  waffles),  and  thenrode  on  another  train  to  Charlotte  Court  House.  We  arrived  there  on  a  Saturday.  Father  had  his  shotgun  and  I  had  Bo's.  It  was     Father's  plan  to  hunt  the  whole  after-  noon  but  to  proceed,  as  we  hunted,  to-  ward  Greenfield,  a  fine  old  house  about  five  miles  from  Charlotte  Court  House,  where  some  of  the  non-clergyman  cous-  ins  lived.  We  would  have  dinner  there,  spend  the  night,  go  to  church,  and  walk  back  to  Charlotte  Court  House  Sunday  afternoon,  and  then  start  back  to  Wash-  ington  by  train.  Father  had  worked  everything  out.  He  had  hired  a  boy  to  take  his  valise  on  ahead  of  us  to  Green-  field.  The  valise  contained  his  Sunday  clothes  and  my  Sunday  clothes,  our  nightgowns  and  toothbrushes.  He  had  bought  two  ham  sandwiches  on  the  train  just  before  we  reached  Charlotte  Court  House,  and  we  had  these  in  our  pockets,  along  with  plenty  of  12-gauge  shotgun  shells.  We  had  no  dog,  but  Father  said  he  didn't  need  a  dog;  he  said  he  knew  all  the  rabbit  places  and  all  the  quail  places  for  miles  around  as  good  as  any  dog  alive.  On  the  way,  he  told  me,  he  would  point  out  to  me  the  large  house  called  Moldavia,  where  his  father  and  mother  and  his  grandfather  and  grandmother  had  lived  when  he  was  a  boy.  It  was  a  school  in  those  days  but  was  now  owned  by  some  people  he  didn't  know,  so  he  said  he  would  just  point  it  out  to  me  and  not  try  to  show  me  through  it.  This  was  all  right  with  me.  The  last  thing  I  wanted  that  day  was  to  be  shown  through  a  school.  We  hunted  all  that  afternoon  and  never  saw  a  rabbit.  We  discovered  no  " b"squirrels.  We  flushed  no  coveys  of  quail.  I  couldn't  understand  this  and  was  dis-  turbed  by  it,  but  I  think  Father  was,  in  some  ways,  more  mystified  and  upset  by  it  than  I  was.  He  seemed  desperate.  He  didn't  say  much,  and  neither  did  I,  but  he  kept  plunging  through  thickets  that  were  known  to  harbor  rabbits  and  stalk-  ing  across  cornfields  that  quail  were  no-  toriously  fond  of,  glancing  at  me  defen-  sively  and  muttering  to  himself.  About  three  o'clock,  we  decided  we  were  hun-  gry  and  sat  down  in  a  grove  of  magnifi-  cent  oak  trees  and  ate  our  sandwiches.  Father  tried  to  entertain  me  with  stories  of  his  boyhood  and  I  listened  politely.  &quot;We  might  try  for  some  crows,&quot;  he  then  said.  &quot;Where  are  they?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Oh,  I'll  call  them,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Used  to  do  it  all  the  time.  It's  easy.&quot;  We  hid  in  the  underbrush  and  Father  began  to  call  the  crows.  He  held  his  nose  between  thumb  and  forefinger  and  called  loudly,  &quot;Caw!  Caw!  Caw!&quot;  Nothing  happened  for  a  long  time.  Then  two  wary  crows  appeared  about  two  hundred  yards  off,  barely  visible  against  the  [REDACTED]  sky.  They  took  one  look  at  our  ambush  and,  after  crying  &quot;Caw  !,&quot;  flew  out  of  sight  again.  Father  kept  calling  plaintively  for  crows  for  some  time,  and  then  we  walked  on  to  Greenfield,  hunting  as  we  went,  and  finding  nothing.  &quot;I  can't  fathom  it,&quot;  Father  said  several  times.  I  inquired  if  we  could  stay  over  Sunday  and  try  again  on  Monday.  He  said  he  would  like  to,  but  he  absolutely  had  to  be  back  in  [REDACTED]  again  Monday  night.  LL  I  remember  about  Greenfield  is  that  it  was  a  comfortable  house,  with  a  big  open  fire  in  the  living  room  and  another  in  the  dining  room,  and  that  a  servant  brought  in  piles  of  small  oak  logs  and  threw  them  on  from  time  to  time.  The  cousins,  as  I  remember  it,  did  nothing  and  said  nothing  of  interest.  Father  and  I  went  to  church  in  our  Sunday  clothes  the  next  morning,  changed  back  to  our  hunting-and-  travelling  clothes,  and  started  on  foot  across  the  fields  to  Charlotte  Court  House,  our  guns  unloaded  and  Father  carrying  his  valise.  Rabbit  after  rabbit  jumped  up  and  cavorted  around  in  our  path,  and  we  flushed  several  dozen  crowded  coveys  of  quail.  Squirrels  scampered  in  trees  and  scolded  us  de-  risively.  &quot;I  can't  fathom  it,&quot;  Father  said  several  times.  I  didn't  see  any  use  in  asking  him  if  the  Sunday-hunting  rule  could  be  broken,  and  I  didn't.  None  of  those  Presbyterian  rules,  as  far  as  I  knew,  could  be  broken  under  any  cir-  cumstances.  At  one  point,  an  especially  populous  covey  of  quail  took  off  with  a  whir  in  front  of  us  and,  seeming  un-  afraid,  landed  again  within  plain  sight.  Father  put  down  his  valise,  opened  it,  and  took  out  two  12-gauge  shotgun  shells.  He  handed  them  to  me.  &quot;Go  ahead,  Son,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  promise  me  one  thing.  Don't  tell  your  mother  about  this.&quot;  I  crept  up  on  the  covey,  waited  until  they  whirred  off  again,  aimed  carefully,  gave  them  both  barrels  in  quick  succes-  sion,  and  brought  down  three  quail.  Father  congratulated  me.  I  picked  up  the  dead  quail.  &quot;Shall  I  bury  them?&quot;  I  asked.  I  had  already  fig-  ured  out  that  we  couldn't  take  them  home,  or  give  them  to  anybody,  because  this  would  reveal  the  fact  that  we  had  shot  them  on  Sunday.  &quot;Bury  them!&quot;  Father  exclaimed.  &quot;What  on  earth  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  He  looked  at  me  and  then  began  to  un-  derstand  thepickle  we  were  in.  &quot;Let  me  think  this  out,&quot;  he  said,  and  sat  down  on  his  valise.  After  a  while,  he  began  to  shake  and  wipe  his  eyes  with  his  handkerchief.  I  thought  he  was  cry-  ing,  but  it  turned  out  he  was  laughing.  Then  he  put  on  a  serious  expression  and  said,  &quot;You  see,  Son,  this  is  the  kind  of  thing  I  hope  will  be  a  lesson  to  you  later  in  life.  One  sin  leads  to  another.  What  we  have  to  do  now  is  lie  to  your  mother.  We  have  to  take  these  birds  home  and  tell  her  we  shot  them  on  Saturday.  I  can't  bury  quail  and  I  can't  throw  them  away,  whatever  the  circumstances  are.  But  don't  ever  forget  that  this  is  sup-  posed  to  be  a  lesson  to  you.  One  sin  leads  to  another.&quot;  MISS  ANNABELLE,  our  housekeeper,  cooked  the  three  quail  for  supper  on  Monday  and,  my  brothers  and  my  sister  being  away  from  home  at  that  time  and  Miss  [REDACTED]  claiming  not  to  care  much  for  quail,  my  mother  and  my  father  and  I  ate  them  down  to  the  bones.  About  thirty  years  later,  when  Father  had  been  in  his  grave  for  many  years,  I  told  Mother  the  truth  about  that  hunt,  and  it  caused  her  to  have  what  she  used  to  call  a  paroxysm  of  laughter.  When  she  recovered,  she  said,  &quot;That  was  just  like  your  father,  Son.  He  was  a  very  liberal-minded  Presbyterian.&quot; "