 b"A  COUPLE  of  years  ago,  my  wife  and  I  built  a  house.  While  plans  for  it  were  being  drawn,  and  she  was  specifying  to  the  architect  how  she  wanted  a  built-in  vanity  here  and  a  potting  table  there,  it  occurred  to  somebody  or  other  to  ask  me  if  there  was  anything  in  particular  I  wanted.  There  was,  and  I  requested  it-a  fancy  stall  shower  in  our  bathroom.  To  my  delight,  the  architect  and  my  wife  grant-  ed  this  wish,  and  the  shower  duly  mate-  rialized.  It  is  a  magnificent-looking  affair  with  seven  waterspouts  and  a  complicated  mixing  valve  that,  accord-  ing  to  the  plumber  who  installed  it,  is  as  delicately  balanced  as  the  works  of  a  seventeen-jewel  watch.  For  a  while,  after  we  moved  into  the  house,  I  took  interminable  happy,  carefree  showers,  and  then,  eight  or  nine  months  ago,  something  went  wrong  with  the  mixing  valve,  and  nothing  would  emerge  from  my  multiple  spouts,  no  matter  how  pa-  tiently  I  twirled  the  valve  controls,  but  scalding  water.  Our  plumber  has  been  tinkering  with  the  balky  valve  ever  since,  but  he  still  hasn't  got  it  licked,  and  I  can't  even  listen  to  a  soap  opera  these  days,  much  less  use  the  stuff,  without  feeling  sorry  for  myself.  A  few  weeks  ago,  reading  a  business  column  regularly  written  for  News-  week  by  Henry  Hazlitt,  I  was  astonished  to  learn  that  I  am  not  the  only  person  who  has  been  having  mixing-valve  trouble.  In  a  piece  entitled  &quot;A  Tale  About  Taxes,&quot;  Mr.  Hazlitt  recounted  the  experience  of  a  large  stockholder  in  General  Motors  whose  son  had  broken  the  handle  off  a  mixing  valve  in  his  bathroom.  \xc2\xab  Hazlitt's  man,  it  devel-  oped,  was  luckier  than  Q  I  have  been;  he  got  a  new  valve  put  in.  Hazlitt  revealed  that,  including  labor  and  materials,  it  cost  him  a  hundred  dollars.  That  sounded  steep  enough  [Hazlitt  wrote];  but  it  was  not  until  my  friend  had  made  some  mental  calculations  that  he  realized  how  steep  it  really  was.  His  in-  come  falls  into  the  90  per  cent  tax  bracket.  So  he  figured  that  in  order  to  acquire  the  $100  with  which  to  pay  this  plumber's  bill,  he  had  to  receive  $1,000  in  dividends  from  General  Motors....  But  this  is  only  the  beginning.  In  order  to  pay  $1,000  in  dividends,  General  Mo-  tors  has  to  earn  more  than  $4,000  before  taxes.  ...  But  in  order  to  earn  $4,149  be-  fore  taxes,  General  Motors  had  to  sell  $21,570  worth  of  cars-say  eighteen  Chevrolets-to  its  dealers.  ...  To  sum  up,  because  ofcost  and  tax  erosion,  in  order  for  my  stockholding  friend  to  replace  a  bathroom  valve,  General  Motors  had  to  make  and  sell  eighteen  Chevrolets.  &quot;So  what?&quot;  some  reader  may  ask,  &quot;If  this  fellow  pays  a  90  per  cent  income  tax,  he  must  be  rolling  in  it.  Don't  expect  me  to  weep.&quot;  'The  point  of  the  story  is  not  that  anyone  should  stop  to  weep,  but  that  a  few  of  us  should  stop  to  think.  ...  Well,  it  has  certainly  made  me  stop  to  think.  It  happens  that  I,  too,  am  a  stockholder  in  General  Motors,  though  one  separated  from  the  ninety-per-cent  tax  bracket  by  a  startling  number  of  percentage  points.  What's  more,  I  own  a  Chevrolet,  possibly  one  of  Hazlitt's  eighteen.  My  first  thought,  as  a  stock-  holder,  is  that  no  boy  in  our  fraternity  should  go  around  snivelling  to  magazine  columnists  about  how  it's  costing  our  corporation  eighteen  Chevrolets  for  him  to  get  a  hundred-dollar  plumbing  job  done.  What's  our  ninety-per-cent  broth-  er  trying  to  do-discourage  the  man-  agement  from  selling  our  products  alto-  gether?  I'll  bet  he  wouldn't  stay  in  the  ninety-per-cent  bracket  long  if  G.M.  decided  to  play  along.  But  if  he  is  going  to  complain,  why  shouldn't  he  be  real-  istic:  Why  confine  his  lament  to  a  mis-  erable  little  hundred-buck  mixing  valve?  Why  not  come  right  out  and  confess  to  his  pal  Hazlitt  that  the  fur  coat  he  bought  his  wife  last  year  represented  the  io  entire  annual  output  of  our  Saginaw  Steering  T  Gear  Division-a  con-  &quot;u  clusion  I  arrived  at  after  applying  Hazlitt's  economic  formula  to  a  silver-blue  mink  my  wife  was  pricing  a  while  back.  I  have  made  some  further  mental  calcula-  tions,  and  I  estimate  that  it  would  cost  General  Motors  four  hundred  and  five  Chevrolets  for  Haz-  litt's  buddy  to  buy  one  Chevrolet.  Not  that  I  believe  for  one  moment  he  has  a  Chevrolet.  He  obviously  has  a  Cadil-  lac-he's  got  no  business  patronizing  a  competitor,  and  he's  got  no  business  be-  ing  in  that  ninety-per-cent  tax  bracket  if  the  G.M.  jalopy  he  operates  isn't  a  Cadillac-and  if  he  bought  his  Caddy  new,  General  Motors  had  to  sell  its  dealers  a  million  dollars'  worth  of  mer-  chandise,  by  Hazlitt's  reckoning,  to  make  this  purchase  possible;  that  is,  un-  less  this  fellow  somehow  charged  off  his      " b"Cadillac  as  a  tax-deductible  expense.  I'll  bet  that's  what  he  did,  all  right.  But  I'm  darned  if  I  know  how  he  can  hope  to  get  away  with  it.  Just  being  a  stockholder  in  General  Motors  doesn't  give  him  any  such  right.  I  didn't  de-  duct  the  cost  of  my  Chevvy.  I  simply  went  to  my  local  dealer  and  bought  it;  I  don't  imagine  the  dealer  even  sus-  pected  I  was  a  G.M.  stockholder.  How  do  you  suppose  he'd  have  felt  if  I'd  come  swaggering  into  his  showroom  with  my  stock  certificates  in  one  hand  and  my  copy  of  the  annual  report  in  the  other,  and  had  started  whining  to  him  about  how  he  was  going  to  have  to  go  right  out  and  sell  half  a  dozen  additional  Chevrolets  to  make  it  worth  the  corpo-  ration's  while  to  let  me  buy  that  one?  What  effect  would  that  sort  of  talk  from  a  stockholder  have  on  a  dealer's  morale?  We  stockholders  have  got  to  be  extra  careful  not  to  push  our  fran-  chise  people  around.  DON'T  know  exactly  how  much  it's  going  to  cost  me  to  have  my  mix-  ing  valve  repaired,  if  it  ever  gets  re-  paired,  but,  assuming  that  I  pay  the  bill  out  of  General  Motors  dividends-and  by  golly,  now  that  Hazlitt  has  put  the  bee  in  my  bonnet,  I  think  I  will-G.M.  is  going  to  have  to  sell,  according  to  my  calculations,  approximately  two  eleven-  cubic-foot  Frigidaires,  seventeen  turn-  signal  switches,  a  gross  of  self-sealing  windshield  strips,  and  seventy-eight  thousand  assorted  hubcaps  to  make  ends  meet.  I  guess  our  salesmen  had  better  start  pushing  these  items  immediately,  to  be  prepared  for  me.  Come  to  think  of  it,  we  could  all  save  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  leg  work  and  paper-  work,  and  maybe  some  tax  money,  too,  if  General  Motors,  instead  of  knocking  itself  out  on  my  account  hawking  all  these  things  that  people  may  not  really  need  and  maybe  can't  afford,  would  just  send  one  of  its  household-appliance  men  around  to  my  home  someday  soon  and  let  him  fix  my  mixing  valve.  A  big  corporation  like  that  doesn't  want  its  stockholders  bathing  in  galvanized-iron  tubs  forever,  does  it? "