 b"ON  the  day  Polly  43616e616461decided  to  O  tell  her  Uncle  Francis  and  his  sister,  her  Aunt  Jane,  that  in  a  week's  time  she  was  leaving  their  house  and  was  going  East  to  be  married  and  to  live  in  [REDACTED],  she  walked  very  slowly  home  from  Nevilles  College,  where  she  taught,  dreading  the  startled  look  in  their  eyes  and  the  woe  and  the  indigna-  tion  with  which  they  would  take  her  news.  Hating  any  derangement  ofthe  status  quo,  her  uncle,  once  a  judge,  was  bound  to  cross-examine  her  intensively,  and  Aunt  Jane,  his  perfect  complement,  would  bolster  him  and  baffle  her.  It  was  going  to  be  an  emotional  and  argumen-  tative  scene;  her  hands,  which  now  were  damp,  would  presently  be  dripping.  She  shivered  with  apprehension,  fearing  her  aunt's  asthma  and  her  uncle's  polemic,  and  she  shook  with  rebellion,  knowing  how  they  would  succeed  in  making  her  feel  a  traitor  to  her  family,  to  the  town,  and  to  [REDACTED],  and,  obscurely,  to  her  country.  Uncle  Francis  and  Aunt  Jane,  like  their  dead  kinsmen,  Polly's  father  and  her  grandfather  and  her  great-grand-  mother,  had  a  vehement  family  and  re-  gional  pride,  and  they  counted  it  virtue  in  themselves  that  they  had  neverbeen  east  of  the  [REDACTED].  They  had  looked  on  the  departures  of  Polly's  sisters  and  her  cousins  as  acts  of  betrayal  and  even  ofdisobedience.  They  had  been  dis-  tressed  particularly  by  removals  to  [REDACTED],  which  were,  they  felt,  iconoclastic  and,worse,  rude;  how,  they  marvelled,  could  this  new  generation  be  so  ungrateful  to  those  in-  trepid  early  Bays  who,  in  the  forties,  had  toiled  in  such  peril  and  with  such  fortitude  acrossthe  plains  in  a  covered  wagon  and  who  with  such  perseverance  had  put  down  the  roots  for  their  traditions  in  this  town  that  they  had  virtually  made?  Uncle  Francis  and  Aunt  Jane  had  done  all  in  their  power-through  threats  and  sud-  den  illnesses  and  cries  of  &quot;Shame!&quot;-  to  prevent  these  desertions,  but,  never-  theless,  one  by  one,  the  members  of  the  scapegracegeneration  had  managed  to  fly,  cut  off  without  a  penny,  scolded  to  death,  and  spoken  of  thereafter  as  if  they  were  unredeemed,  treasonous,  and  debauched.  Polly  was  the  last,  and  her  position,  therefore,  was  the  most  uncomfortable  of  all;  she  and  her  aunt  and  uncle  were  the  only  Bays  left  in  Adams,  and  she  knew  that  because  she  was  nearly  thirty,  they  had  long  ago  stopped  fearing  that  she,  too,  might  go.  As  they  frequently  told  her,  in  their     candid  way,  they  felt  she  had  reached  &quot;a  sensible  age&quot;-it  was  a  struggle  for  them  not  to  use  the  word  &quot;spinster&quot;  when  they  paid  her  this  devious  and  crushing  compliment.  She  knew  per-  fectly  well,  because  this,  too,  they  spoke  of,  that  they  imagined  she  would  still  beteaching  &quot;Immensee&quot;  in  German  1  years  after  they  were  dead,  and  would  return  each  evening  to  the  big,  drafty  house  where  they  were  born,  andfrom  which  they  expected  to  be  carried  in  coffins  ordered  for  them  by  Polly  from  Leonard  Harper,  the  undertaker,  whose  mealy  mouth  and  shifty  eye  they  often  talked  about  with  detestation  as  they  rocked  and  rocked  through  their  long  afternoons.  Polly  had  been  engaged  to  Robert  Fair  for  five  months  now  and  had  kept  his  pretty  ring  in  the  desk  in  her  office  at  college;  she  had  not  breathed  a  word  to  a  soul.  If  she  had  spoken  out  when  she  came  back  from  the  Christmas  holi-  days  in  her  sister's  [REDACTED]  house,  her  uncle  and  aunt,  with  a  margin  of  so  much  time  for  their  forensic  pleas  before  the  college  year  was  over,  might  have  driven  her  to  desperate  measures;  she  might  have  had  to  flee,  without  bag-  gage,  in  the  middle  of  the  night  on  a  bus.  Not  wanting  to  begin  her  new  life  so  haphazardly,  she  had  guarded  her  secret,  and  had  felt  a  hypocrite.  But  she  could  not  keep  silent  any  longer;  she  had  to  tell  them  and  start  to  pack  her  bags.  She  did  not  know  how  to  present  her  announcement-whether  to  disarm  them  with  joy  or  to  stun  them  with  a  voice  of  ada-  mant  intention.  Resenting  the  predicament,  which  so  oc-  cupied  her  that  her  love  was  brusquely  pushed  aside,  and  feeling  years  younger  than  she  was-an  irritable  adoles-  cent,  nerve-racked  by  growing  pains-  she  now  snatched  leaves  from  the  spring-  time  bushes  and  tore  them  into  shreds.  It  was  late  May  and  the  purple  lilacs  were  densely  in  blossom,  offering  their  vir-  tuous  fragrance  on  the  wind;  the  sun  was  tender  on  the  yellow  willow  trees;  the  mountain  range  was  blue  and  fair  and  free  of  haze.  But  Polly's  senses  were  not  at  liberty  today  to  take  in  these  de-  mure  delights;  she  could  not  respond  today  at  all  to  the  flattering  fortune  that  was  to  make  her  a  June  bride;  she  could  not  remember  of  her  fianc\xc3\xa9  anything  be-  yond  his  name,  and,  a  little  ruefully  and  a  little  cynically,  she  wondered  if  it  was  love  of  him  or  boredom  with  freshmen  and  with  her  aunt  and  uncle  that  had  caused  her  to  get  engaged  to  him. Although  she  loitered  like  a  school  child,  she  had  at  last  to  confront  the  house  behind  whose  drawn  blinds  her  aunt  and  uncle  awaited  her  return,  in-  nocent  of  the  scare  they  were  presently  to  get  and  anticipating  the  modest  aca-  demic  news  she  brought  each  day  to  serve  them  with  their  tea.  She  was  so  unwilling  that  when  she  came  in  sight  of  the  house,  she  sat  down  on  a  bench  at  a  trolley  stop,  under  the  dragging  branches  of  a  spruce  tree,  and  opened  the  book  her  uncle  had  asked  her  to  bring  from  the  library.  It  was  &quot;The  Heart  of  Midlothian.&quot;  She  read  with  distaste;  her  uncle's  pleasures  were  different  from  her  own.  Neither  the  book,  though,  nor  the  green  needles  could  hide  from  her  in-  terior  eye  that  house  where  she  had  lived  for  seven  years,  since  her  father  had  died;  her  mother  had  been  dead  for  many  years  and  her  sisters  had  long  been  gone-Fanny  to  [REDACTED]  and  Mary  to  [REDACTED]-but  she  had  stayed  on,  quiet  and  unquestioning.  Polly  was  an  undemanding  girl  and  she  liked  to  teach  and  she  had  not  been  inspired  to  escape;  she  had  had,  until  now,  no  reason  to  go  elsewhere  although,  to  be  sure,  these  years  had  not  been  exclusive,  ly  agreeable.  For  a  short  time,  she  had  lived  happily  in  an  apartment  by  herself,  waking  each  morning  to  the  charming  novelty  of  being  her  own  mistress.  But  Uncle  Francis  and  Aunt  Jane,  both  widowed  and  both  bereft  of  their  heart-  less  children,  had  cajoled  her  and  played  tricks  upon  her  will  until  she  had  con-  sented  to  go  and  live  with  them.  It  was  not  so  much  because  she  was  weak  as  it  was  becausethey  were  so  extremely  strong  that  she  had  at  last  capitulated  out  of  fatigue  and  had  brought  her  things  in  a  van  to  unpack  them,  sighing,  in  two  wallpapered  rooms  at  the  top  of  the  stout  brown  house.  This  odious  house,  her  grandfather's,  was  covered  with  broad,  unkempt  shingles;  it  had  a  turret,  and  two  bow  windows  within  which  begonia  and  heliotrope  fed  on  the  powerful  mountain  sun.  Its  rooms  were  huge,  but  since  they  were  gorged  with  furniture  and  with  garnishments  and  clumps  and  hoards  of  artifacts  of  Bays,  you  had  no  sense  of  space  in  them  and,  on  the  contrary,  felt  cornered  and  nudged  and  threatened  by  hanging  lamps  with  dangerous  dependencies  and  by  the  dark,  bucolic  pictures  of  Polly's  forebears  that  leaned  forward  from  the  walls  in  their  insculptured,  brassy  frames.  HE  house  stood  at  the  corner  of  Oxford  Street  and  Pine,  and  at  the  opposite  end  of  the  block,  at  the  " b"corner  of  Pine  and  Plato  (the  college  had  sponsored  the  brainy  place  names),  there  was  another  one  exactly  like  it.  It  had  been  built  as  a  wedding  present  for  Uncle  Francis  by  Polly's  grandfather,  and  here  Uncle  Francis  and  his  wife,  Aunt  Lacy,  had  reared  an  unnatural  daughter  and  two  unnatural  sons,  who  had  flown  the  coop,  as  he  crossly  said,  the  moment  they  legally  could;  there  was  in  his  tone  the  impli-  cation  that  if  they  had  gone  before  they  had  come  of  age,  he  would  have  haled  them  back,  calling  on  the  police  if  they  offered  to  resist.  Uncle  Francis  had  been  born  litigious;  he  had  been  predestined  to  arraign  and  complain,  to  sue  and  sentence.  Aunt  Janeand  Uncle  Richard  had  lived  in  Grandpa's  house,  and  their  two  cowed,  effeminate  sons  had  likewise  vanished  when  they  reached  the  age  of  franchise.  When  both  Uncle  Richard  and  Aunt  Lacy  had  been  sealed  into  the  43616e616461plot,  Uncle  Francis  had  moved  down  the  street  to  be  with  his  sister  for  the  sakeof  economy  and  company,  tak-  ing  with  him  his  legal  library,  which,  to  this  day,  was  still  in  boxes  in  the  back  hall,  in  spite  ofthe  protests  of  Mildred,  their  truculent  housekeeper.  Uncle  Francis  had  then,  at  little  cost,  con-  verted  his  own  house  into  four  incon-  venient  apartments,  from  which  he  de-  riveda  shockingly  high  income.  A  sign  over  the  front  door  read,  &quot;The  43616e616461Arms.&quot;  Polly's  parents'  red  brick  house,  acrossthe  street  from  Uncle  Francis's-  not  built  but  bought  for  them,  alsoas  a  wedding  present-had  been  torn  down.  And  behind  the  trolley  bench  on  which  she  sat  there  was  the  biggest  and  oldest  family  house  of  all,  the  original  43616e616461resi-  dence,  a  vast  grotesquerie  of  native  stone,  and  in  it,  in  the  beginning  of  Polly's  life,  Great-Grandmother  had  imperiously  lived,  with  huge,  sharp  dia-  monds  on  her  fichus  and  her  velvet,  talking  without  pause  of  red  Indians  and  storms  on  the  plains,  because  she  could  remember  nothing  else.  The  house  was  now  a  historical  museum;  it  was  called,  not  surprisingly,  the  Bay.  Polly  never  looked  at  it  without  immediately  re-  membering  the  intricate  smell  of  the  parlor,  which  had  in  it  moss,  must,  belladonna,  dry  leaves,  wet  dust,  oil  of  peppermint,  and  something  that  bound  them  all  together-a  smell  of  tribal  his-  tory,  perhaps,  or  the  smell  of  a  house  where  lived  a  half-cracked  and  haughty  old  woman  who  had  come  to  the  end  of  the  line.  In  those  early  days,  there  had  been  no  other  houses  in  this  block,  and  the  43616e616461children  had  had  no  playmates  except  each  other.  Four  generations  sat  down  to  Sunday  midday  dinner  every  week  at  Great-Grandmother's  enor-  mous  table;  the  Presbyterian  grace  was  half  as  long  as  a  sermon;  the  fried  rab-  bit  was  dry.  On  Christmas  Eve,  be-  neath  a  towering  tree  in  Grandpa's  house,  sheepish  Uncle  Richard,  as  Santa  Claus,  handed  round  the  presents  while  Grandpa  sat  in  a  central  chair  like  a  king  on  a  throne  and  stroked  his  proud  " b"goatee.  They  ate  turkey  on  Thanks-  giving  with  Uncle  Francis  and  Aunt  Lacy,  shot  rockets  and  pinwheels  off  on  the  Fourth  of  July  in  Polly's  family's  back  yard.  Even  now,  though  one  of  the  houses  was  gone  and  another  was  given  over  to  the  display  of  minerals  and  wagon  wheels,  and  though  pressed-  brick  bungalows  had  sprung  up  all  along  the  block,  Polly  never  entered  the  street  without  the  feeling  that  she  came  into  a  zone  restricted  for  the  use  of  her  blood  kin,  for  there  lingered  in  it  some  energy,  some  air,  some  admonition  that  this  was  the  territory  of  Bays  and  that  Bays  and  ghosts  of  Bays  were,  and  forever  would  be,  in  residence.  It  was  easy  for  her  to  vest  the  wind  in  the  spruce  tree  with  her  great-grandmother's  voice  and  to  hear  it  say,  &quot;Not  a  one  of  you  knows  the  sensation  of  having  ared  Indian  arrow  whiz  byyour  sunbonnet  with  wind  enough  to  make  the  ribbons  wave.&quot;  On  reflection,  she  understood  the  claustrophobia  that  had  sent  her  sisters  and  cousins  all  but  screaming  out  of  town;  horrified,  she  felt  that  her  own  life  had  been  like  a  dream  of  smothering.  SHE  was  only  pretending  to  read  Walter  Scott  and  the  sun  was  set-  ting  and  she  was  growing  cold.  She  could  not  postpone  any  longer  the  dis-  charge  ofthe  thunderbolt,  and  at  last  she  weakly  rose  and  crossed  the  street,  feel-  ing  a  convulsion  of  panic  grind  in  her  throat  like  a  hard  sob.  Besides  the  panic,  there  was  a  heavy  depression,  an  ebbing  away  of  self-respect,  a  regret  for  the  waste  of  so  many  years.  Generations  should  not  be  mingled  for  daily  fare,  she  thought;  they  are  really  contemptuous  of  one  another,  and  the  strong  indi-  viduals,  whether  they  belong  to  the  older  or  the  younger,  impose  on  the  meek  their  creeds  and  opinions,  and,  if  they  are  strong  enough,  brook  no  dis-  sent.  Nothing  can  more  totally  subdue  the  passions  than  familial  piety.  Now  Polly  saw,  appalled  and  miserably  ashamed  of  herself,  that  she  had  never  once  insisted  on  her  own  identity  inthis  house.  She  had  dishonestly,  supinely  (thinking,  however,  that  she  was  only  being  polite),  allowed  her  aunt  and  uncle  to  believe  that  she  was  contented  in  their  house,  in  sympathy  with  them,  and  keenly  interested  in  the  minutiae  that  preoccupied  them:  their  ossifying  arteries  and  their  weakening  eyes,  their  dizzy  spells  and  migrant  pains,  their  thrice-daily  eucharist  of  pills  and  drops,  the  twinges  in  their  old,  uncovered  bones.  She  had  never  disagreed  with  them,  so  how  could  they  know  that  she  did  not,  as  they  did,  hate  the  weather?  They  assumed  that  she  was  as  scandal-  ized  as  they  by  Uncle  Francis's  tenants'  dogs  and  children.  'They  had  no  way  of  knowing  that  she  was  bored  nearly  to  frenzy  by  their  vicious  quarrels  with  Mildred  over  the  way  she  cooked  their  food.  In  the  tenebrous  hall  lined  with  closed  doors,  she  took  off  her  gloves  and  coat,  and,  squinting  through  the  shad-  ows,  saw  in  the  mirror  that  her  wretchedness was  plain  in  her  drooping  lips  and  her  frowning  forehead;  certainly  there  was  no  sign  at  all  upon  her  face  that  she  was  in  love.  She  fixed  her  mouth  into  a  bogus  smile  of  courage,  she  straightened  out  her  brow;  with  the  faintest  heart  in  the  world  she  entered  the  dark  front  parlor,  where  the  win-  dows  were  always  closed  and  the  shades  drawn  nearly  to  the  sill.  A  coal  fire  on  this  mild  May  day  burned  hot  and  blue  in  the  grate.  They  sat  opposite  each  other  ata  round,  splayfooted  table  under  a  dim  lamp  with  a  beaded  fringe.  On  the  table,  amid  the  tea  things,  there  was  a  little  mahogany  casket  containing  the  props  with  which,  each  day,  they  documented  their  reminiscences  of  murders,  fires,  marriages,  bankruptcies,  and  of  the  triumphs  and  the  rewards  of  the  de-  parted  Bays.  It  was  open,  showing  cracked  photographs,  letters  sallow-  inked  with  age,  flaccid  and  furry  news-  paper  clippings,  souvenir  spoons  flecked  with  venomous  green,  little  white  boxes  holding  petrified  morsels  of  wedding  cake.  As  Polly  came  into  the  room,  Aunt  Jane  reached  out  her  hand  and,  as  if  she  were  pulling  a  chance  from  a  hat,  she  picked  a  newspaper  clipping  out  of  the  box  and  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  you  have  ever  told  Polly  the  story  ofthe  time  you  were  in  that  train  accident  in  the  Royal  Gorge.  It's  such  a  yarn.&quot;  Her  uncle  heard  Polly  then  and  chiv-  alrously  half  rose  from  his  chair;  tall  and  white-haired,  he  was  distinguished,  in  a  dour  way,  and  dapper  in  his  stiff  collar  " b"and  his  waistcoat  piped  with  white.  He  said,  &quot;At  last  our  strayed  lamb  is  back  in  the  fold.&quot;  The  figure  made  Polly  shiver.  &quot;How  late  you  are!&quot;  cried  Aunt  Jane,  thrilled  at  this  small  deviation  from  routine.  &quot;A  department  meet-  ing?&quot;  If  there  had  been  a  department  meeting,  the  wreck  in  the  Royal  Gorge  might  be  saved  for  another  day.  But  they  did  not  wait  for  her  answer.  They  were  impelled,  egocentrically  and  at  length,  to  tell  their  own  news,  to  ex-  plain  why  it  was  that  they  had  not  waited  for  her  but  had  begun  their  tea.  Uncle  Francis  had  been  hungry,  not  having  felt  quite  himself  earlier  in  the  day  and  having,  therefore,  eaten  next  to  nothing  at  lunch,  although  the  souffl\xc3\xa9  that  Mildred  had  made  was  far  more  edible  than  customary.  He  had  several  new  symptoms  and  was  going  to  the  doctor  tomorrow;  he  spoke  with  infinite  peace  of  mind.  Painstakingly  then,  be-  tween  themselves,  they  discussed  the  advisability  of  Aunt  Jane's  making  an  appointment  at  the  beauty  parlor  for  the  same  hour  Uncle  Francis  was  seeing  Dr.  Wilder;  they  could  in  this  way  share  a  taxi.  And  what  was  the  name  of  that  fellow  who  drove  for  the  Town  Taxi  whom  they  both  found  so  cautious  and  well  mannered?  Bradley,  was  it?  They  might  have  him  drive  them  up  a  little  way  into  the  mountains  for  the  view;  but,  no,  Fran-  cis  might  have  got  a  bad  report  and  Jane  might  be  tired  after  her  baking  un-  der  the  dryer.  It  would  be  better  if  they  came  straight  home.  Sometimes  they  went  on  in  this  way  for  hours.  Polly  poured  herself  a  cup  of  tea,  and  Aunt  Jane  said,  as  she  had  said  probably  three  thousand  times  in  the  past  seven  years,  &quot;You  may  say  what  you  like,  there  is  simply  nothing  to  take  the  place  of  a  cup  of  tea  at  the  end  of  the  day.&quot;  Uncle  Francis  reached  across  the  table  and  took  the  newspaper  clipping  from  under  his  sister's  hand.  He  adjusted  his  glasses  and  glanced  at  the  headlines,  smiling.  &quot;'There  was  a  great  deal  of  comedy  in  that  trag-  edy,&quot;  he  said.  \xc2\xab'Tell  Polly  about  it,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane.  Polly  knew  the  details  of  this  story  by  heart-  the  number  of  the  locomotive  and  the  name  of  the  engineer  and  the  passen-  gers'  injuries,  particularly  her  uncle's,  which,  though  minor,  had  been  multi-  tudinous.  Amazing  herself,  Polly  said,  &quot;Don't!&quot;  And,  amazed  by  her,  they  stared.  &quot;'Why,  Polly,  what  an  odd  thing  to  say!&quot;  exclaimed  Aunt  Jane.  &quot;My  dear,  is  something  wrong?&quot;  She  decided  to  take  them  aback  with-  out  preamble-it  was  the  only  way-  and  so  she  said,  &quot;Nothing's  wrong.  Ev-  erything's  right  at  last.  I  am  going  to  be  married  ten  days  from  today  to  a  teach-  er  at  Harvard  and  I  am  going  to  [REDACTED]  to  live.&quot;  They  behaved  like  people  on  a  stage;  Aunt  Jane  put  her  teacup  down,  rat-  tling  her  spoon,  and  began  to  wring  her  hands;  Uncle  Francis,  holding  his  butter  knife  as  if  it  were  a  gavel,  glared.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about,  dar-  ling?&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Married?  What  do  you  mean?&quot;  Aunt  Janewheezed,  signalling  her  useful  asthma,  which,  however,  did  not  oblige  her.  &quot;[REDACTED]!&quot;  she  gasped.  &quot;What  ever  for?&quot;  Polly  returned  her  uncle's  magisteri-  al  look,  but  she  did  so  obliquely,  and  she   spoke  to  her  cuffs  when  she  said,  &quot;I  mean  'married,'  the  way  you  were  mar-  ried  to  Aunt  Lacy  and  the  way  Aunt  Jane  was  married  to  Uncle  Richard.  I  am  in  love  with  a  man  named  Robert  Fair  and  he  is  with  me  and  we're  going  to  be  married.&quot;  &quot;How  lovely,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane,  who,  sight  unseen,  hated  Robert  Fair.  &quot;Lovely  perhaps,&quot;  said  Uncle  Francis  the  magistrate,  &quot;and  perhaps  not.  You  might,  if  you  please,  do  us  the  honor  of  enlightening  us  as  to  the  qualifications  of  Mr.  Fair  to  marry  and  export  you.  To  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  I  have  never  heard  of  him.&quot;  &quot;I'm  quite  sure  we  don't  know  him,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane;  she  coughed  experi-  mentally,  but  her  asthma  was  still  in  hiding.  &quot;No,  you  don't  know  him,&quot;  Polly  said.  &quot;He  has  never  been  in  the  West.&quot;  She  wished  she  could  serenely  drink  her  tea  while  she  talked,  but  shedid  not  trust  her  hand.  Fixing  her  eyes  on  a  maidenhair  fern  in  a  brass  jardiniere  on  the  floor,  she  told  them  how  she  had  first  met  Robert  Fair  at  her  sister  Mary's  cottage  in  Edgartown  the  summer  be-  fore.  &quot;You  never  told  us,&quot;  said  Uncle  Francis  reprovingly.  &quot;I  thought  you  said  the  summer  had  been  a  mistake.  Too  expensive.  Too  hot.  I  thought  you  agreed  with  Jane  and  me  that  summer  in  43616e616461was  hard  on  the  constitution.&quot;  (She  had;  out  of  habit  she  had  let  them  deprecate  [REDACTED],  which  she  had  loved  at  first  sight,  had  allowed  them  to  tell  her  that  she  hadhad  a  poor  time  when,  in  truth,  she  had  never  been  so  happy.)  Shocked  by  her  duplici-  ty,  Aunt  Jane  said,  &quot;We  ought  to  have  suspected  something  when  you  went  back  to  [REDACTED]  for  Christ-  mas  with  Mary  instead  of  resting  here  beside  your  own  hearth  fire.&quot;  Ignoring  this  sanctimo-  nious  accusation,  Polly  continued,  and  told  them  as  much  of  Robert  Fair  as  she  thought  they  de-  served  to  know,  eliding  some  of  his  history-for  there  was  a  divorce  in  it-  but  as  she  spoke,  she  could  not  conjure  his  voice  or  his  face,  and  he  remained  as  hypothetical  to  her  as  to  them,  a  circumstance  that  " b"alarmed  her  and  one  that  her  astute  uncle  sensed.  &quot;'You  don't  seem  head  over  heels  about  this  [REDACTED]  fellow,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  nearly  thirty,&quot;  replied  his  niece.  &quot;I'm  not  sixteen.  Wouldn't  it  be  un-  becoming  at  my  age  if  I  were  lovesick?&quot;  She  was  by  no  means  convinced  of  her  argument,  for  her  uncle  had  that  ef-  fect  on  her;  he  could  make  her  doubt  anything-the  testimony  of  her  own  eyes,  the  judgments  of  her  own  in-  tellect.  Again,  and  in  vain,  she  called  on  Robert  Fair  to  materialize  in  this  room  that  was  so  hostile  to  him  and,  through  his  affection,  bring  a  persuasive  color  to  her  cheeks.  She  did  not  ques-  tion  the  power  of  love  nor  did  she  ques-  tion,  specifically,  the  steadfastness  of  her  own  love,  but  she  did  observe,  with  some  dismay,  that,  far  from  conquering  all,  love  lazily  sidestepped  practical  prob-  lems;  it  was  no  help  in  this  interview;  it  seemed  not  to  cease  but  to  be  tem-  porarily  at  a  standstill.  Her  uncle  said,  &quot;Sixteen,  thirty,  sixty,  it  makes  no  difference.  It's  true  I  wouldn't  like  it  if  you  were  wearing  your  heart  on  your  sleeve,  but,  my  Lord,  dear,  I  don't  see  the  semblance  of  a  light  in  your  eye.  You  look  quite  sad.  Doesn't  Polly  strike  you  as  looking  downright  blue,  Jane?  If  Mr.  Fair  makes  you  so  doleful,  it  seems  to  me  you're  better  off  with  us.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  a  laughing  matter,&quot;  snapped  Aunt  Jane,  for  Uncle  Francis,  mad-  deningly,  had  chuckled.  It  was  a  way  he  had  in  disputation;  it  was  intend-  ed  to  enrage  and  thereby  rattle  his  adversary.  He  kept  his  smile,  but  for  a  moment  he  held  his  tongue  while  his  sister  tried  a  different  tack.  &quot;What  I  don't  see  is  why  you  have  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  Polly,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Couldn't  he  teach  Italian  at  Nevilles  just  as  well  as  at  Harvard?&quot;  Their  chauvinism  was  really  stagger-  ing.  When  Roddy,  Uncle  Francis's  son,  went  off  to  take  a  glittering  job  in  [REDACTED],  Aunt  Jane  and  his  father  had  nearly  reduced  this  stalwart  boy  to  kicks  and  tears  by  reiterating  that  if  there  had  been  anything  of  worth  or  virtue  in  South  [REDACTED],  the  grandparent  Bays  would  have  settled  there  instead  of  in  the  Rocky  Mountains.  &quot;I  don't  think  Robert  would  like  it  here,&quot;  said  Polly.  &quot;What  wouldn't  he  like  about  it?&quot;  Aunt  Jane  bridled.  &quot;I  thought  our  col-  lege  had  a  distinguished  reputation.  Your  great-grandfather,  one  of  the  leading  founders  of  it,  was  a  man  of  culture,  and  unless  I  am  sadly  misin-  formed,  his  humanistic  spirit  is  still  felt  on  the  campus.  Did  you  know  that  his critical  study  of  Isocrates  is  highly  esteemed  amongst  classical  scholars?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  I  don't  think  he  would  like  the  West,&quot;  said  Polly,  rash  in  her  frus-  tration.  She  could  have  bitten  her  tongue  out  for  the  indiscretion,  because  her  jingois-  tic  uncle  reddened  instantly  and  menac-  ingly,  and  he  banged  on  the  table  and  shouted,  &quot;How  does  he  know  he  doesn't  like  the  West?  You've  just  told  us  he's  never  been  farther  west  than  [REDACTED].  How  does  he  dare  to  presume  to  damn  what  he  doesn't  know?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  say  he  damned  the  West.  I  didn't  even  say  he  didn't  like  it.  I  said  I  thought  he  wouldn't.&quot;  ''Then  you  are  presuming,&quot;  he  scolded.  &quot;I  am  impatient  with  Eastern-  ers  who  look  down  their  noses  at  the  West  and  call  us  crude  and  barbaric.  But  Westerners  who  renounce  and  de-  nounce  and  derogate  their  native  ground  are  worse.&quot;  &quot;Far  worse,&quot;  agreed  Aunt  Jane.  &quot;What  can  have  come  over  you  to  turn  the  man  you  intend  to  marry  against  the  land  of  your  forebears?&quot;  Polly  had  heard  it  all  before.  She  wanted  to  clutch  her  head  in  her  hands  and  groan  with  helplessness;  even  more,  she  wished  that  this  were  the  middle  of  next  week.  &quot;We  threeare  the  last  left  of  the  Bays  in  Adams,&quot;  pursued  Aunt  Jane,  insinu-  ating  a  quaver  into  her  firm,  stern  voice.  &quot;And  Francis  and  I  will  not  last  long.  You'll  only  be  burdened  and  bored  with  usa  little  while  longer.&quot;  &quot;We  have  meant  to  reward  you  lib-  erally  for  your  loyalty,&quot;  said  her  uncle.  ''The  houses  will  be  yours  when  we  join  our  ancestors.&quot;  In  the  dark  parlor,  they  leaned  to-  ward  her  over  their  cups  of  cold  tea,  so  tireless  in  their  fusillade  that  she  had  no  chance  to  deny  them  or  to  defend  her-  self.  Was  there  to  be,  they  mourned,  at  last  not  one  43616e616461left  to  lend  his  name  and  presence  to  municipal  celebrations,  to  the  laying  of  cornerstones  and  the  opening  of  fairs?  Polly  thought  they  were  probably  already  fretting  over  who  would  see  that  the  grass  between  the  family  graves  was  mown.  Panicked,  she  tried  torecall  how  other  members  of  her  family  had  extri-  cated  themselves  from  these  webs  of  casuistry,  Now  she  wished  that  she  had  more  fully  explained  her  circumstances  to  Robert  Fair  and  had  told  him  to  come  and  fetch  her  away,  for  he,  uninvolved,  could  afford  to  pay  the  ransom  more  easily  than  she.  But  she  had  wanted  to  spare  him  such  a  scene  as  this;  they  " b"would  not  have  been  any  more  reticent  with  him;  they  would  have,  with  this  same  arrogance-and  this  underhand-  edness-used  their  advanced  age  and  family  honor  to  twist  the  argument  away  from  its  premise.  ARKNESS  had  shrunk  the  room  to  the  small  circle  where  they  sat  in  the  thin  light  ofthe  lamp;  it  seemed  to  her  that  their  reproaches  and  their  jeremiads  took  hours  before  they  recom-  menced  the  bargaining  Aunt  Jane  had  started.  Reasonably,  in  a  judicious  voice,  Un-  cle  Francis  said,  &quot;There  is  no  reason  at  all,  if  Mr.  Fair's  attainments  are  as  you  describe,  that  he  can't  be  got  an  appoint-  ment  to  our  Romance  Language  De-  partment.  What  is  the  good  of  my  be-  ing  a  trustee  if  I  can't  render  such  a  service  once  in  a  way?&quot;  As  if  this  were  a  perfectly  wonderful  and  perfectly  surprising  solution,  Aunt  Jane  enthusiastically  cried,  &quot;But  of  course  you  can!  That  would  settle  everything.  Polly  can  eat  her  cake  and  have  it,  too.  Wouldn't  you  give  them  your  house,  Francis?&quot;  &quot;I'd  propose  an  even  better  arrange-  ment.  Alone  here,  Jane,  youand  I  would  rattle.  Perhaps  we  would  move  into  one  of  my  apartments  and  the  Rob-  ert  Fairs  could  have  this  house.  Would  that  suit  you?&quot;  &quot;It  would,  indeed  it  would,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane.  &quot;I  have  been  noticing  the  drafts  here  more  and  more.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  ask  you  to  agree  today,  Pol-  ly,&quot;  said  Uncle  Francis.  &quot;But  think  it  over.  Write  your  boy  a  letter  tonight  and  tell  him  what  your  aunt  and  I  are  willing  to  do  for  him.  The  gift  of  a  house,  as  big  a  house  as  this,  is  not  to  be  scoffed  at  by  young  people  just  start-  ing  out.&quot;  Her  &quot;boy,&quot;  Robert,  had  a  tall  son  who  in  the  autumn  would  enter  Har-  vard.  &quot;Robert  has  a  house,&quot;  said  Polly,  and  she  thought  of  its  dark-green  front  door  with  the  brilliant  brass  trimmings;  on  Brimmer  Street,  at  the  foot  of  Bea-  con  Hill,  its  garden  faced  the  Charles.  Nothing  maace  her  feel  more  safe  and  more  mature  than  the  image  of  that  old  and  handsome  house.  &quot;He  could  sell  it,&quot;  said  her  indomi-  table  aunt.  &quot;He  could  rent  it,&quot;  said  her  prac-  tical  uncle.  &quot;That  would  give  you  addi-  tional  revenue.&quot;  The  air  was  close;  it  was  like  the  dead  of  night  in  a  sealed  room  and  Polly  wanted  to  cry  for  help.  She  had  not  hated  the  West  till  now,  she  had  not  hated  her  relatives  till  now;  indeed,  till  now  she  hadhad  no  experience  of  hate  at  all.  Surprising  as  the  emotion  was-  for  it  came  swiftly  and  authoritatively--  it  nevertheless  cleared  her  mind  and,  outraged,  she  got  up  and  flicked  the  mas-  ter  switch  to  light  up  the  chandelier.  Her  aunt  and  uncle  blinked.  She  did  not  sit  down  again  but  stood  in  the  doorway  to  deliver  her  valediction.  &quot;I  don't  want  Robert  to  come  here  because  I  don't  want  tolive  here  any  longer.  I  want  to  live  my  own  life.&quot;  &quot;Being  married  is  hardly  living  one's  own  life,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane.  At  the  end  of  her  tether  now,  Polly  " b"all  but  screamed  at  them,  &quot;We  won't  live  here  and  that's  that!  You  talk  of  my  presuming,  but  how  can  you  pre-  sume  to  boss  not  only  me  but  a  man  you've  never  even  seen?  I  don't  want  your  houses!  I  hate  these  houses!  It's  true-I  hate,  I  despise,  I  abominate  the  West!&quot;  So  new  to  the  articulation  of  anger,  she  did  it  badly  and,  ashamed  to  death,  began  to  cry.  Though  they  were  hurt,  they  were  forgiving,  and  both  of  them  rose  and  came  across  the  room,  and  Aunt  Jane,  taking  her  in  a  spidery  em-  brace,  said,  &quot;There.  You  go  upstairs  and  have  a  bath  and  rest  and  we'll  discuss  it  later.  Couldn't  we  have  some  sherry,  Francis?  It  seems  to  me  that  all  our  nerves  are  unstrung.&quot;  Polly's  breath  toiled  against  her  sobs,  but  all  the  same  she  took  her  life  in  her  hands  and  she  said,  &quot;There's  nothing  further  to  discuss.  I  am  leaving.  I  am  not  coming  back.&quot;  Now,  for  the  first  time,  the  old  broth-  er  and  sister  exchanged  a  look  of  real  anxiety;  they  seemed,  at  last,  to  take  her  seriously;  each  waited  for  the  other  to  speak.  It  was  Aunt  Jane  who  hit  upon  the  new  gambit.  &quot;I  mean,  dear,  that  we  will  discuss  the  wedding.  You  have  given  us  very  short  notice  but  I  daresay  we  can  manage.&quot;  &quot;'There  is  to  be  no  wedding,&quot;  said  Polly.  &quot;We  are  just  going  to  be  mar-  ried  at  Mary's  house.  Fanny  is  coming  up  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Fanny  has  known  all  along?&quot;  Aunt  Jane  was  insulted.  &quot;And  all  this  time  you've  lived  under  our  roof  and  sat  at  our  table  and  have  never  told  us  but  told  your  sisters,  who  abandoned  you?  &quot;  ''Abandoned  me?  For  God's  sake,  Aunt  Jane,  they  had  their  lives  to  lead!&quot;  &quot;Don't  use  that  sort  of  language  in  this  house,  young  lady,&quot;  said  Uncle  Francis.  &quot;I  apologize.  I'm  sorry.  I  am  just  so  sick  and  tired  of-&quot;  &quot;Of  course  you're  sick  and  tired,&quot;  said  the  adroit  old  woman.  &quot;You've  had  a  heavy  schedule  this  semester.  No  wonder  you're  all  nerves  and  tears.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it  isn't  that!  Oh,  leave  me  alone!&quot;  And,  unable  to  withstand  a  fresh  on-  slaught  of  tears,  she  rushed  to  the  door.  When  she  had  closed  it  upon  them,  she  heard  her  aunt  say,  &quot;I  simply  can't  be-  lieve  it.  There  must  be  some  way  out,  Why,  Francis,  we  would  be  left  altogether  alone,&quot;  and  there  was  real  terror  in  her  voice.  POLLY  locked  the  door  to  her  bedroom  and  dried  her  eyes  and  bathed  their  lids  with  witch  hazel,  the  odor  of  which  made  her  think  of  her  Aunt  1  Lacy,  who,  poor  simple  creature,  had  had  to  die  to  escape  this  family.  Polly  remembered  that  every  autumn  Aunt  Lacy  had  petitioned  Uncle  Francis  to  let  her  take  her  children  home  for  a  visit  to  her  native  [REDACTED],  but  she  had  neverbeen  allowed  to  go.  Grandpa,  roaring,  thump-  ing  his  stick,  Uncle  Francis  bom-  barding  her  with  rhetoric  and  using  the  word  &quot;duty&quot;&quot;  repeated-  ly,  Polly's  father  scathing  her  with  sarcasm,  Aunt  Jane  slyly  confusing  her  with  red  herrings  had  kept  her  an  exhausted  pris-  oner.  Her  children,  as  a  result,  had  scorned  their  passive  mother  and  had  wounded  her,  and  once  they  finally  escaped,  they  had  not  come  back-not  for  so  much  as  a  visit.  Aunt  Lacy  had  died  not  having  seen  any  of  her  grandchildren;  in  the  last  years  of  her  life  she  did  nothing  but  cry.  Polly's  heart  ached  for  the  plight  of  that  gentle,  frightened  woman.  How  lucky  she  was  that  the  means  of  escape  had  come  to  her  before  it  was  too  late!  In  her  sister's  Bos-  ton  drawing  room,  in  a  snowy  twilight,  Robert  Fair's  proposal  of  marriage  had  seemed  to  release  in  her  an  inexhaustible  wellspring  of  life;  until  that  moment  she  had  not  known  that  she  was  dying,  that  she  was  being  killed-by  inches,  but  surely  killed-by  her  aunt  and  uncle  and  by  the  greet  yearlings  in  her  German  classes  and  by  the  dogmatic  monotony  of  the  town's  provincialism.  She  shud-  dered  to  think  of  her  narrow  escape  from  wasting  away  in  these  arid  foot-  hills,  never  knowing  the  cause  or  the  name  of  her  disease.  Quiet,  herself  again,  Polly  sat  be-  side  the  window  and  looked  out  at  the  early  stars  and  the  crescent  moon.  Now  that  she  had  finally  taken  her  stand,  she  was  invulnerable,  even  though  she  knew  that  the  brown  sherry  was  be-  ing  put  ceremoniously  on  a  tray,  together  with  ancestral  Waterford  glasses,  and  though  she  knew  that  her  aunt  and  un-  cle  had  not  given  up-that  they  had,  on  the  contrary,  just  begun.  And  though  she  knew  that  for  the  last  seven  days  of  her  life  in  this  house  she  would  be  bludgeoned  with  the  most  splenetic  and  most  defacing  of  emotions,  she  knew  that  the  worst  was  over;  she  knew  that  she  would  survive,  as  her  sisters  and  her  cousins  had  survived.  In  the  end,  her  aunt  and  uncle  only  seemed  to  survive;  dead  on  their  feet  for  most  of  their  lives,  they  had  no  personal  history;  their  genesis  had  not  been  individual-it  had  only  been  a  part  of  a  dull  and  factual  plan.  And  they  had  been  too  busy  honoring  their  family  to  love  it,  too  busy  defending  the  West  even  to  look  at  it.  For  all  their  pride  in  their  surroundings,  they  had  never  contemplated  them  at  all  but  had  sat  with  the  shades  drawn,  huddled  under  the  steel  engravings.  They  and  her  father  had  lived  their  whole  lives  on  the  laurels  of  their  grand-  parents;  their  goal  had  already  been  reached  long  before  their  birth.  The  mountains  had  never  looked  so  superb  to  her.  She  imagined  a  time,  after  Uncle  Francis  and  Aunt  Jane  were  dead,  when  the  young  Bays  and  their  wives  and  husbands  might  come  back,  free  at  last  to  admire  the  land-  scape,  free  to  go  swiftly  through  the  town  in  the  foothills  without  so  much  as  a  glance  at  the  family  memorials  and  to  gain  the  high  passes  and  the  peaks  and  the  glaciers.  They  would  breathe  in  the  thin,  lovely  air  of  summits,  and  in  their  mouths  there  would  not  be  a  trace  of  the  dust  of  the  prairies  where,  as  on  a  treadmill,  Great-Grandfather  Bay's  oxen  plodded  on  and  on  into  eternity.  HE  next  days  were  for  Polly  at  once  harrowing  and  delightful.  She  suffered  at  the  twilight  hour  (the  brown  sherry  had  become  a  daily  custom,  and  she  wondered  if  her  aunt  and  uncle  naively  considered  getting  her  drunk  and,  in  this  condition,  persuading  her  to  sign  an  unconditional  indenture)  and  all  through  dinner  as,  by  turns  self-  pitying  and  contentious,  they  sought  to  make  her  change  her  mind.  Or,  as  they  put  it,  &quot;come  to  her  senses.&quot;  At  no  time  did  they  accept  the  fact  that  she  was  go-  ing.  They  wrangled  over  summer  plans  in  which  she  was  included;  they  plotted  anniversary  speeches  in  the  43616e616461mu-  seum;  one  afternoon  Aunt  Jane  even  started  making  a  list  of  miners'  families  among  whom  Polly  was  to  distribute  Christmas  baskets.  " b"But  when  they  were  out  of  her  sight  and  their  nagging  voices  were  out  of  her  hearing,  they  were  out  of  her  mind,  and  in  it,  instead,  was  Robert  Fair,  in  his  rightful  place.  She  graded  examination  papers  tolerantly,  through  a  haze;  she  packed  her  new  clothes  into  her  new  suitcases  and  emptied  her  writing  desk  completely.  On  these  starry,  handsome  nights,  her  dreams  were  charming,  al-  though,  to  be  sure,  she  sometimes  woke  from  them  to  hear  the  shuffle  of  carpet  slippers  on  the  floor  below  her  as  her  in-  somniac  aunt  or  uncle  paced.  But  before  sadness  or  rue  could  overtake  her,  she  burrowed  into  the  memory  of  her  late  dream.  The  strain  of  her  euphoria  and  her  aunt's  and  uncle's  antipodean  gloom  began  at  last  to  make  her  edgy,  and  she  commenced  to  mark  the  days  off  on  her  calendar  and  even  to  reckon  the  hours.  On  the  day  she  met  her  classes  for  the  last  time  and  told  her  colleagues  good-  bye  and  quit  the  campus  forever,  she  did  not  stop  on  the  first  floor  of  the  house  but  went  directly  to  her  room,  only  pausing  at  the  parlor  door  to  tell  Aunt  Jane  and  Uncle  Francis  that  she  had  a  letter  to  get  off.  Fraudulently  humble,  sighing,  they  begged  her  to  join  them  later  on  for  sherry.  &quot;The  days  are  growing  longer,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane  plain-  tively,  &quot;but  they  are  growing  fewer.&quot;  Polly  had  no  letter  to  write.  She  had  a  letter  from  Robert  Fair  to  read,  and  although  she  knew  it  by  heart  already,  she  read  it  again  several  times.  He  shared  her  impatience;  his  students  boredhim,  too;  he  said  he  had  tried  to  envision  her  uncle's  house,  so  that  he  could  imagine  her  in  a  specific  place,  but  he  had  not  been  able  to  succeed,  even  with  the  help  of  her  sister.  He  wrote,  &quot;The  house  your  mali-  cious  sister  Mary  describes  could  not  ex-  ist.  Does  Aunt  Jane  really  read  Quida?&quot;  She  laughed  aloud.  She  felt  light  and  purged,  as  if  she  had  finished  a  fever.  She  went  to  her  dressing  table  and  be-  gan  to  brush  her  hair  and  to  gaze,  com-  forted,  upon  her  young  and  loving  face.  She  was  so  lost  in  her  relief  that  she  was    pretty,  and  that  she  was  going  to  be  married  and  was  going  away,  that  she  heard  neither  the  telephone  nor  Mil-  dred's  feet  upon  the  stairs,  and  the  housekeeper  was  in  the  room  before  Polly  had  turned  from  her  pool.  &quot;It's  your  sister  calling  you  from  Bos-  ton,&quot;  said  Mildred  with  ice-cold  con-  tempt;  she  mirrored  her  employers.  &quot;I  heard  those  operators  back  East  giving  themselves  some  airs  with  their  la-di-da  way  of  talking.&quot;  Clumsy  with  surprise  and  confusion  (Mary's  calls  to  her  were  rare  and  never  frivolous),  and  sorry  that  exigency  and  not  calm  plan  took  her  downstairs  again,  shereeled  down  into  that  smoth-  ering  front  hall  where  hat  trees  and  cane  stands  stood  like  people.  The  door  to  the  parlor  was  closed,  but  she  knew  that  behind  it  Aunt  Jane  and  Uncle  Francis  were  listening.  When  Mary's  far-off,  mourning  voice  broke  to  Polly  the  awful,  the  im-  possible,  the  unbelievable  news  that  Robert  Fair  had  died  that  morning  of  " b"the  heart  disease  from  which  he  had  in-  termittently  suffered  for  some  years,  Polly,  wordless  and  dry-eyed,  con-  tracted  into  a  nonsensical,  contorted  position  and  gripped  the  telephone  as  if  this  alone  could  keep  her  from  drown-  ing  in  the  savage  flood  that  had  come  from  nowhere.  &quot;Are  you  there,  Polly?  Can  you  hear  me,  darling?&quot;  Mary's  anxious  voice  came  louder  and  faster.  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to  come  out  to  you?  Or  can  you  come  on  here  now?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  come  now,&quot;  said  Polly.  'There's  nothing  you  can  do  for  me.&quot;  There  had  always  been  rapport  be-  tween  these  sisters,  and  it  had  been  deeper  in  the  months  since  Robert  Fair  had  appeared  upon  the  scene  to  res-  cue  and  reward  the  younger  woman.  But  it  was  shattered;  the  bearer  of  ill  tidings  is  seldom  thanked.  &quot;How  can  you  help  me?&quot;  Polly  demanded,  shocked  and  furious.  &quot;You  can't  bring  him  back  to  life.&quot;  &quot;I  can  help  bring  you  back  to  life,&quot;  her  sister  said.  &quot;You  must  get  out  of  there,  Polly.  It's  more  important  now  than  ever.&quot;  .  &quot;Do  you  think  that  was  why  I  was  going  to  marry  him?  Just  to  escape  this  house  and  this  town?&quot;  &quot;No,  no!  Control  yourself!  We'd  better  not  try  to  talk  any  more  now-  you  call  me  when  you  can.&quot;  The  parlor  door  opened,  revealing  Uncle  Francis  with  a  glass  of  sherry  in  his  hand.  &quot;Wait,  Mary!  Don't  hang  up!&quot;  Polly  cried.  There  was  a  facetious  air  about  her  uncle;  there  was  something  smug.  &quot;I'll  get  the  sleeper  from  [REDACTED]  tonight,&quot;  she  said.  When  she  hung  up,  her  uncle  opened  the  door  wider  to  welcome  her  to  bad  brown  sherry;  they  had  not  turned  on  the  lights,  and  Aunt  Jane,  in  the  twi-  light,  sat  in  her  accustomed  place.  &quot;Poor  angel,&quot;  said  Uncle  Francis.  &quot;I  am  so  sorry,  so  very  sorry,&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane.  When  Polly  said  nothing  but  simply  stared  at  their  impassive  faces,  Uncle  Francis  said,  &quot;I  think  I'd  better  call  up  Wilder.  You  ought  to  have  a  sedative  and  go  straight  to  bed.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  straight  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  said  Polly.  &quot;But  why?&quot;  said  Aunt  Jane.  &quot;Because  he's  there.  I  love  him  and  he's  there.&quot;  They  tried  to  detain  her;  they  tried  to  force  the  sherry  down  her  throat;  they  told  her  she  must  be  calmand  they  asked  her  to  remember  that  at  times  like  this  one  needed  the  love  and  the  sup-  port  of  one's  blood  kin.  &quot;I  am  going  straight  to  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  repeated,  and  turned  and  went  quickly  up  the  stairs.  They  stood  at  the  bottom  calling  to  her:  &quot;'You  haven't  settled  your  affairs.  What  about  the  bank?&quot;  &quot;Polly,  get  hold  of  yourself!  It's  terrible,  I'm  heartbroken  for  you,  but  it's  not  the  end  of  the  world.&quot;  She  packed  nothing;  she  wanted  nothing  here-not  even  the  new  clothes  she  had  bought  in  which  to  be  a  bride.  She  put  on  acoat  and  a  hat  and  gloves  and  a  scarf  and  put  all  the  money  she  had  in  her  purse  and  went  downstairs  again.  Stricken  but  diehard,  they  were  beside  the  front  door.  &quot;Don't  go!&quot;  implored  Aunt  Jane.  &quot;You  need  us  now  more  than  ever!&quot;  her  uncle  cried.  &quot;And  we  need  you.  Does  that  make  no  impression  on  you,  Polly?  Is  your  heart  that  cold?&quot;  She  paid  no  attention  to  them  at  all  and  pushed  them  aside  and  left  the  house.  She  ran  to  the  station  to  get  the  last  train  to  [REDACTED],  and  once  she  had  boarded  it,  she  allowed  her  grief  to  over-  whelm  her.  She  felt  chewed  and  mauled  by  the  niggling  hypochondriacs  she  had  left  behind,  who  had  fussily  tried  to  appropriate  even  her  own  tragedy.  She  felt  sullied  by  their  disrespect  and  greed.  How  lonely  I  have  been,  she  thought.  And  then,  not  fully  knowing  what  she  meant  by  it  but  believing  in  it  faithfully,  she  said  half  aloud,  &quot;I  am  not  lonely  now.&quot; "