 b"I  STILL  remember  the  strong  elation  I  felt  when  I  first  met  Mr.  Maltby.  I  had  gone  to  his  law  office  on  William  Street  in  answer  to  a  Times  advertisement  for  a  farm-  hand-a  job  for  which  I  was  eminent-  ly  unqualified  by  age  or  experience,  but  which  at  that  moment  in  my  teens  ap-  pealed  to  me  romantically.  All  the  way  from  102nd  Street,  where  my  family  lived,  down  to  William  Street,  I  had  feared  the  searching  agricultural  ques-  tions  Mr.  Maltby  might  ask  me,  for  my  only  working  reference  was  from  a  New  York  hatter  for  whom  I  had  delivered  hundreds  of  ladies'  hats.  But  Mr.  Maltby,  a  large,  vibrant  man,  dispelled  all  my  doubts.  After  looking  me  over  and  feeling  my  biceps,  he  re-  marked  that  I  had  &quot;muscle,  intelli-  gence,  and  spirit,&quot;  and  said  he  was  certain  I  would  do.  His  farm,  he  told  me,  was  in  Middlesex  County,  Connec-  ticut.  His  wife  and  young  son  lived  there  all  the  time;  he  himself  spent  three  or  four  days  of  every  week  in  the  city,  and  farmed  for  two  days.  He  was  also,  he  added,  a  clergyman,  and  on  most  Sun-  days  he  appeared  at  one  country  church  or  another,  substituting  for  the  regular  preacher.  He  congratulated  me  on  my  ambition  not  to  be,  as  he  put  it,  a  lily-  fingered  city  parasite.  &quot;God  meant  young  men  to  have  calluses  on  their  palms,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  will  make  a  splendid  farmer  of  you.&quot;  I  was  drawn  to  Mr.  Maltby  from  the  moment  I  looked  at  him.  Living,  as  I  did,  with  three  doting  women  (my  mother  and  sisters-my  father  had  died  in  my  childhood  and  my  brother,  Herman,  had  been  married  fora  long  time),  I  yearned  for  familial  association  with  a  man,  and  Mr.  Maltby  seemed  to  me  a  miracu-  lous  combination  of  many  things  I  admired.  In  my  family's  past  there  had  been  scholars-men  of  law  and  men  of  God-and  in  my  own  life  I  had  worshipped  athletes  of  many  va-  rieties.  Mr.  Maltby,  a  heavyweight  farmer-preacher-lawyer  with  fearless  blue  eyes,  a  strong  baritone  voice,  and  what  was  probably  the  most  vigorous  mustache  of  the  late  Taft  era,  was  thus  a  kind  of  all-round  champion  to  me.  I  not  only  saw  myself  laboring  might-  ily  in  his  fields  but  also  studying  the  lawand  divinity  under  his  benign  guidance.  'The  prospect  of  living  in  the  same  house  with  himwas  inspiring,  and  I  felt  that  I  would  be,in  a  way,  his  son.  When  I  told  my  mother  that  I  was  going  to  work  on  a  farm,  she  broke  down  and  wept.  She  couldn't  bear  to  see  me  leave  the  safety  of  102nd  Street  for  the  savagery  of  the  American  wilder-  ness.  My  elder  sister,  Helen,  however,  was  quite  enthusiastic.  &quot;Boys  should  al-  ways  leave  home,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Let's  pack.&quot;  Flora  began  to  pack  it,  and  finally  my  mother  joined  in.  Despite  my  objec-  tion  that  farming  was  serious  business,  my  mother  insisted  on  packing  part of  my  frivolous  past-my  catcher's  mitt,  my  boxing  gloves,  and  my  Indian  clubs-in  caseI  should  need  exercise.  She  got  out  a  heavy  trunk  that  had  &amp;  once  been  Herman's.  She  and  my  sister  _  On  the  Friday  when  I  was  to  meet  Mr.  Maltby  at  the  station  and  take  the  train  with  him,  I  was  so  impatient  to  begin  my  new  life  that  I  could  not  eat.  Yet  only  two  weeks  later  I  disliked  him  thoroughly.  As  I  see  it  now,  he  was  a  much  more  enthusiastic  and  integrated  farmer  when  he  looked  at  his  farm  from  William  Street  than  when  he  actually  stood  on  its  land.  He  was  quite  irritable  from  the  moment  we  began  our  trip.  He  barely  greeted  me  when  I  rushed  up  to  him  in  the  station;  at  that  mo-  ment,  he  was  busy  abus-  ing  aporter  who  had  valise.  On  the  train,  shortly  afterward,  he  had  violent  words  with  a  man  who  was  smoking  a  cigarette  in  spite  of  a  &quot;No  Smoking&quot;  sign.  I  innocently  asked  him  if  he  had  had  a  very  hard  week  in  town,  but  he  very  little  during  the  entire  trip,  and  the  nearer  we  got  to  our  destination,  the  more  testily  silent  he  became.  MRS.  MaurtBy  was  waiting  for  us  at  the  station  in  a  shiny  black  red-  wheeled  surrey  drawn  by  a  little  gray  horse  named,  I  later  learned,  Kitty.  Mrs.  Maltby  was  in  her  late  thirties  and  had  a  look  of  harassed  gentility.  Her  tired  gray  eyes  turned  to  me  only  brief-  ly  whenwe  were  introduced,  and  then  she  said  to  her  husband,  &quot;But  he's  so  very  young,  Edgar!&quot;  We  drove  to  the  farm,  and  if  I  had  hoped  for  a  warmer  reception  from  Mr." b"Maltby's  son,  I  didn't  get  it.  Gerald  Maltby  was  about  eight  years  old  -a  pale,  sharp-featured  little  angel  with  blue  eyes  and  gold  hair.  When  we  met,  he  looked  me  over  coolly,  without  a  word  or  a  smile.  Mr.  Maltby  and  I  un-  loaded  my  trunk,  and  by  the  time  Mrs.  Maltby  announced  dinner,  I  was  raven-  ously  hungry.  I  had  had  nothing  to  eat  all  day  but  an  apple  my  mother  had  slipped  into  my  pocket.  As  I  entered  the  dining  room,  I  felt  my  spirits  rising,  but  then  I  noticed  that  the  table  was  set  for  only  three,  and  a  moment  later  Mrs.  Maltby  led  me  into  the  kitchen,  where  a  place  had  been  set  for  me.  Silently  and  quickly  I  ate  the  two  boiled  pota-  toes,  the  poached  egg,  and  the  stewed  rhubarb  put  before  me,  and  washed  it  all  down  with  a  glass  of  warmish  milk.  I  was  already  finished  with  my  din-  ner-and  still  hungry-by  the  time  the  Maltbys  sat  down  to  theirs,  in  the  dining  room.  The  door  between  the  kitchen  and  the  dining  room  was  open,  so  I  could  hear  what  was  said.  First  there  was  grace,  and  after  that,  there  was  a  verbal  slaughter  of  the  wicked  by  Mr.  Maltby.  As  I  had  feared,  he  had  had  a  trying  time  in  the  city.  His  clients,  he  said,  had  worn  him  out  that  week  with  their  impossible  demands,  and  he  tram-  pled  some  of  them  heavily  and  wrath,  fully.  Then  Gerald  piped  up  with  some  unpleasant  snatches  of  conversation  he  had  heard  in  the  village.  When  Mrs.  Maltby  tried  to  hush  him,  her  husband  said,  &quot;Truth  is  in  the  mouths  of  little  children.  Let  the  child  speak.  Come,  Gerald,  tell  us  what  you  heard.&quot;  Gerald  said  a  playmate  of  his  had  overheard  the  Reverend  Dinwiddie  re-  mark  that  if  there  were  sermons  in  stones,  the  Reverend  Maltby  would  be  a  millionaire  preacher.  'The  Reverend  Maltby  exploded  at  this,  and  uttered  some  harsh  words  about  the  Reverend  Dinwiddie  and  his  congregation.  After  dinner,  Mr.  Maltby  helped  me  carry  my  trunk  to  my  room,  which  was  in  the  basement.  The  events  ofthe  day  had  already  discouraged  me  from  hop-  ing  fora  long,  fatherly  talk  from  him  at  bedtime.  Just  the  same,  I  was  not  altogether  prepared  for  the  briskness  of  his  final  words  as  he  left  me.  &quot;Good  night,  my  boy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  start  our  day's  work  at  five  o'clock,  so  you'll  want  to  get  straight  to  sleep.&quot;  I  said  good  night  to  Mr.  Maltby,  and  after  a  long  while  I  lit  my  lamp  and  stared  at  my  big  trunk.  If  only  my  sis-  ter  had  found  me  a  paper  suitcase  in-  stead,  I  could  have  taken  it  now  and  walked  out  into  the  night.  But  the  trunk  could  at  least  serve  as  a  writing  " b"table,  so  I  wrote  a  letter  to  my  mother,  beginning,  &quot;Dear  Mother,  I  have  ar-  rived  safe  and  sound,&quot;  and  another  let-  ter  to  Herman,  who  was  then  in  Vien-  na,  beginning,  &quot;Dear  Herman,  you  are  not  the  only  traveller  in  the  family.&quot;  At  five  o'clock  the  next  morning,  Mr.  Maltby  woke  me,  and  afterI  had  dressed  and  eaten  a  small  breakfast,  he  took  me  around  the  farm.  Aside  from  an  apple  orchard,  I  found  that  there  was  little  on  his  sixty  acres  except  stones.  As  he  showed  me  his  fields  he  said,  way-  ing  his  hand,  &quot;T'll  have  oats  here,  corn  there,  alfalfa  over  there,  and  the  finest  clover  over  yonder.  Of  course,&quot;  he  added,  &quot;it  will  have  to  be  cleared  first.&quot;  He  lost  no  time  putting  me  to  work  clearing  it.  He  demonstrated  how  he  pried  out  the  smaller  stones,  how  he  cracked  the  bigger  ones  with  a  sledge  hammer,  and  how  he  dug  craters  beside  really  big  ones  and  pried  thestones  into  them  with  a  crowbar.  Then  he  left  me  and  went  to  work  on  a  sermon  for  the  next  day.  He  came  backonce  that  morn-  ing  and  watched  me.  &quot;You  have  a  good  back  and  good  shoulders,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'You  attack  those  stones  with  a  righteous  wrath,&quot;  Little  Gerald  came  down  and  watched  me,  too,  but  from  a  distance.  That  night  I  was  still  so  hungry  after  dinner  that  I  walked  down  to  the  vil-  lage  to  get  some  candy.  'The  owner  of  the  general  store,  learning  that  I  was  the  Maltbys'  new  hand,  grunted,  &quot;You  and  him'll  make  a  farm  out  of  it  yet,&quot;  and  when  I  told  him  I  wanted  to  buy  some  gumdrops  for  &quot;the  little  Maltby  boy,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;Best  get  him  some  poi-  son,  and  I'll  sell  it  to  you,  too.&quot;  The  next  day,  Mr.  Maltby  went  off  to  church  early.  I  gave  Gerald  the  gum-  drops,  which  seemed  to  please  him  very  much,  and  as  he  munched,  he  spoke  his  first  words  to  me.  &quot;When  are  you  go-  ing  to  quit?&quot;  he  asked.  He  popped  an-  other  gumdrop  into  his  small  mouth,  and  said,  &quot;All  the  others  quit,  you  know.&quot;  He  carefully  chose  a  big  black  gumdrop,  and  added,  &quot;They  mostly  left  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  I'm  the  only  one  who  ever  saw  them  go.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  they  quit?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  guess  they  didn't  like  it  here,&quot;  he  answered,  smiling.  &quot;Before  you  came,  I  heard  Father  say  to  Mother  that  this  time  he'd  hire  anybody  he  could  get,  even  a  cripple.&quot;  HAT  was  the  first  weekend  of  my  new  life  with  the  Maltbys.  Mr.  Maltby  made  his  circuit  weekly,  and  irritably,  among  the  law,  the  stones,  and  God,.  He  never  did  sit  down  to  give" b"me  a  dissertation  on  Blackstone,  nor  did  heever  take  time  to  reveal  the  faith  with  which  he  inspired  his  congregations.  All  I  learned  from  him  was  what  I  over-  heard  from  my  table  in  the  kitchen.  Mrs.  Maltby  would  listen  silently  to  her  husband's  outbursts,  but  she  always  tried,  however  ineffectually,  to  curb  Gerald's  predilection  for  repeating  ma-  licious  rumor.  She  also  tried  to  be  just  and  fair  to  me,  but  with  all  her  earnest  effort  she  seemed  constitutionally  un-  able  to  give  me  enough  food.  Almost  every  night,  I  schemed,  alternately,  how  to  get  more  to  eat  and  how  to  get  my  trunk  down  to  the  station  in  secret,  but  I  did  nothing.  When  I  had  been  at  Tuppers  Bridge  Farm,  as  the  place  was  called,  for  two  weeks,  Mr.  Maltby  came  out  on  Fri-  day  and  expressed  himself  as  reason-  ably  pleased  with  the  amount  of  rock  I  had  dislodged  and  piled  in  various  spots.  Now,  he  said,  we  ought  to  begin  get-  ting  it  off  the  fields  with  a  stoneboat  and  putting  it  on  the  fences.  For  this  we  needed  a  work  horse;  the  carriage  horse,  Kitty,  couldn't  be  used  for  such  a  purpose,  of  course.  Early  the  next  morning,  Mr.  Maltby  left  for  Hadlyme,  across  the  Connecti-  cut  River,saying  he  would  buy  a  horse  at  a  market  there.  That  evening,  in  spite  of  my  prayers  that  harm  of  some  sort  might  come  to  him,  he  returned  triumphantly  with  just  about  the  big-  gest  horse  I  had  ever  seen.  Their  ar-  rival  certainly  caused  a  sensation.  Ger-  ald  refused  to  go  near  the  huge  beast  and  took  refuge  in  the  house.  Mrs.  Maltby  cried,  &quot;Oh,  he's  just  too  terribly  big,  Edgar!  He'll  frighten  Kitty  to  death.&quot;  (Later,  at  dinner,  she  said,  &quot;He's  proba-  bly  a  tremendous  eater,  too.&quot;  I  was  pretty  unnerved,  myself.  All  my  childhood  I  had  run  freely  among  the  hucksters'  nags  of  556e6974656420537461746573and  [REDACTED],  but  this  brown  horse  with  challenging  head  and  flashing  eyes  was  so  gigantic  and  powerful-looking  that  I  dreaded  the  thought  of  having  to  han-  dle  him.  Mr.  Maltby  was  very  much  pleased  with  his  acquisition,  however.  &quot;I  have  named  him  Goliath,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  I  did  not  get  him  without  a  battle.&quot;  He  told  Mrs.  Maltby  and  me  Goliath  was  the  only  horse  he  had  wanted  at  the  market,  but  the  dealer  had  at  first  said  he  was  holding  him  for  an  old  cus-  tomer.  Mr.  Maltby,  not  to  be  discour-  aged,  kept  insisting  that  he  had  to  have  the  horse,  and  finally  the  dealer  weak-  ened  and  agreed  to  let  him  have  him  for  eighty  dollars.  Mr.  Maltby  paid  the  money,  and  bought  a  big  wagon,  too." b"But  when  he  harnessed  the  horse,  hitched  it  to  the  wagon,  and  was  ready  to  leave,  the  dealer  said  he  had  made  amistake  in  the  price.  The  horse  was  really  down  in  the  books  for  a  hundred  and  twenty-five  dollars,  and  he  asked  Mr.  Maltby  to  give  him  forty-five  dol-  lars  more.  Mr.  Maltby,  saying  a  sale  was  a  sale,  drove  Goliath  off,  and  the  angry  dealer  ran  alongside  and  called  Mr.  Maltby  names.  To  make  matters  worse,  there  was  so  much  traffic  on  the  way  to  the  ferry  back  across  the  river  that  Mr.  Maltby  had  to  walk  Goliath,  and  the  dealer  stayed  alongside  all  the  way,  shouting  that  Mr.  Maltby  was  a  swindler  and  a  thief.  It  took  a  great  deal  of  forbearance  to  listen  to  this.  When  Goliath  was  at  last  aboard  the  ferry,  Mr.  Maltby's  in-  dignation  suddenly  welled  up.  He  asked  the  gateman  to  hold  the  gate  for  him  a  minute.  &quot;Then  I  went  over  to  that  miserable  dealer,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  I  kicked  him  in  the  stomach.&quot;  &quot;Kicked  him?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Maltby,  recoiling.  &quot;It  was  no  more  thanhe  deserved,&quot;  said  her  husband,  angrily.  Having  told  his  story,  Mr.  Maltby  unhitched  Goliath  and  led  him  into  the  barn.  Sincethere  were  only  two  horse  stalls  there,  Goliath  was  put  next  to  lit-  tle  Kitty.  The  next  day,  Sunday,  I  fed  and  watered  the  big  horse  and  cleaned  his  stall,  but  I  was  very  careful  how  I  ap-  proached  him  and  was  nervous  all  the  while  I  was  with  him.  Early  Monday  morning,  just  before  Mr.  Maltby  left  for  New  York,  he  gave  me  my  orders.  After  the  chores,  I  was  to  hitch  Goliath  to  the  wagon,  drive  him  to  arailway-  freight  siding  three  miles  away,  and  pick  up  a  load  of  lumber.  When  I  got  back,  I  was  to  use  Goliath  to  pull  stone  off  the  fields.  I  was  to  goon  clearing  ground  all  week.  IT  was  with  some  fear  that  I  got  Goliath  out  of  the  barn  and  hitched  him  up,  but  he  made  no  trouble  what-  ever,  and  after  we  started  out  for  the  freight  station  I  felt  much  easier  about  him.  When  we  turned  into  the  main  road,  he  began  to  trot,  and  I  held  the  reins  loosely  and  felt  important  to  be  in  command  of  such  a  tremendous  steed.  It  was  my  first  happy  moment  since  I  had  left  New  York.  We  had  gone  about  half  a  mile  when  I  heard  strange  noises  coming  from  Goliath.  It  sounded  as  if  he  was  puff-  ing.  At  first  I  couldn't  believe  it;  what  was  there  for  him  to  puff  about?  The  road  was  level,  and  the  wagon  had  no" b"load  except  my  weight-a  hundred  and  twenty  pounds.  And  Goliath  was  mighty  enough  to  pull  a  train.  How-  ever,  since  he  continued  to  puff,  I  slowed  him  to  a  walk,  and  then,  his  breathing  still  being  hard,  I  stopped  him  and  let  him  rest.  When  we  started  on  again,  he  trot-  ted,  but  in  a  few  minutes  he  was  puff-  ing  and  panting  as  if  he  were  climbing  a  steep  hill  with  an  impossibly  heavy  load.  Then  he  was  seized  with  a  suc-  cession  of  heaves  that  shook  his  whole  body.  I  jumped  down  from  the  wagon  and  looked  to  see  if  anything  was  wrong  with  the  harness  or  bridle  or  bit,  but  I  &amp;,  |  found  nothing  wrong.  In  despair,  I  took  the  bridle  in  my  hand  and  actually  pleaded  with  Goliath  to  tell  me  what  was  the  matter  with  him.  As  I  stood  there,  looking  up  into  his  agonized  eyes,  he  fell  into  a  violent,  seemingly  endless  fit  of  gasping,  like  nothing  I  had  heard  since  I  was  a  little  boy,  when  I  listened  to  my  dying  tubercular  father  cough-  ing  his  lungs  out.  Instantly,  a  wave  of  pity  and  compassionate  love  swept  over  me.  I  took  off  my  undershirt,  wiped  off  Goliath's  sweat  with  it,  wrung  it  out,  and  kept  wiping  him  till  he  was  dry.  All  the  while,  I  talked  soothingly  to  him,  and  to  my  great  relief,  he  finally  quieted  down  and  breathed  normally  again.  I  should  have  turned  back  at  that  point,  but  it  was  only  a  short  distance  to  the  railway  siding,  and  I  was  afraid  to  return  without  the  lumber.  We  went  forward  at  a  walk.  Walking  made  the  big  horse  suffer  as  much  as  trotting  had.  A  farmer  go-  ing  by  in  a  wagon  shouted  at  me,  &quot;What  have  you  beendoing  to  that  horse?&quot;  I  shouted  back  that  it  wasn't  my  fault.  A  few  minutes  later  a  woman  in  a  carriage  cried  to  me,  &quot;T'll  have  you  arrested,  you  young  brute!&quot;  I  couldn't  answer,  even  to  defend  myself,  because  by  this  time  I  seemed  unable  to  breathe  myself.  When  we  reached  the  siding,  I  was  overjoyed  to  find  that  the  load  of  lum-  ber  I  was  to  take  was  not  large.  Again  I  wiped  Goliath  dry,  and  let  him  rest  for  half  an  hour  before  starting  back.  When  we  left,  I  walked  beside  him,  hoping  that  the  absence  of  my  weight  would  somehow  make  up  for  thatof  the  lumber.  Besides,  I  wanted  to  be  close  to  him.  One  mile  and  two  hours  later,  a  mounted  state  trooper  galloped  up  from  behind  and  ordered  me  to  move  Goliath  over  to  the  side  of  the  road  and  stop.  He  dismounted,  took  out  a  pad  and  pen-  cil,  and  asked  my  name  and  the  name  " b"of  my  employer.  He  said  he'd  had  complaints  about  the  cruel  way  I  drove  my  horse,  that  he  was  going  to  take  me  be-  fore  a  judge,  and  that  he  would  ask  the  judge  to  give  me  ten  days.  He  softened  considerably,  however,  after  he  heard  my  story  and  examined  Goliath.  &quot;Poor  horse,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He's  wind-broken.&quot;  Then,  on  hearing  how  Mr.  Maltby  had  acquired  the  horse,  he  said  derisive,  ly,  &quot;Your  smart  farmer  fell  for  the  old-  est  horse  dealer's  trick  in  the  world.  Dope  a  useless  horse  and  sell  him,  then  holler  for  more  money  or  something,  and  keep  the  buyer  so  busy  arguing  that  he  won't  notice  anything  if  the  dope  wears  off  too  soon.&quot;  The  trooper  told  me  to  walk  Goliath  home,  and  to  take  plenty  of  time  about  it,  and  he  told  me  to  tell  Mr.  Maltby  that  the  horse  was  not  to  be  putout  on  a  public  highway  again.  Under  other  circumstances,  I  might  have  enjoyed  this  joke  on  Mr.  Maltby,  but  since  Go-  liath  was  involved,  it  only  filled  me  with  more  woe.  While  the  trooper  wrote  something  in  a  little  black  book,  I  tried  to  think  how  I  could  help  Goliath  back  to  health.  I  knew  that  rest,  sun,  good  air,  and  good  food  had  helped  cure  many  sick  people,  and  it  seemed  to  me  there  was  no  reason  why  they  couldn't  do  the  same  for  a  horse.  Human  medi-  cine,  I  knew,  had  made  great  strides  since  my  father  died;  perhaps  horse  medicine  had  progressed,  too.  I  asked  the  officer  what  I  must  do  to  help  Goliath.  &quot;Not  much  you  can  do,&quot;  he  an-  swered,  as  he  remounted.  &quot;Put  him  out  to  pasture,  or  shoot  him.&quot;  I  don't  know  how  long  I  stood  there  after  the  trooper  rode  away,  and  as  Goliath  and  I  resumed  our  slow  jour-  ney,  my  mind  was  in  complete  tumult.  No  matter  what  anybody  said,  I  was  going  to  make  Goliath  well  again.  I  would  give  him  such  love  and  care  as  no  man  before  me  had  ever  given  an  animal.  Then  I  thought,  with  a  sink-  ing  heart,  of  the  Maltbys.  How  would  Mr.  Maltby  like  this  living  reminder  of  his  greediness?  And  Mrs.  Maltby-  with  her  parsimony,  how  would  she  feel  about  keeping  a  horse  that  could  do  so  little  work  and  yet  would  eat  so  much?  For  a  bitter  moment  I  faced  the  fact  that  neither  of  them  was  likely  to  agree  to  maintain  Goliath  in  the  honorable  semiretirement  he  needed,  and  I  vivid-  ly  beheld  the  fate  that  lay  in  wait  for  him.  To  make  it  worse,  Goliath  looked  at  me  at  just  that  moment,  and  I  felt  certain  that  he  knew  what  I  was  think-  ing.  I  reached  up,  threw  my  arms " b"around  his  neck,  and  assured  him  that  everything  was  going  to  be  all  right.  WHEN  Goliath  and  I  got  back  to  the  farm,  five  hours  late,  I  was  just  about  wrung  out  in  mind  and  body.  At  some  time  during  the  last  half  hour  I  had  decided  that  I  would  tell  the  Maltbys  nothing  about  what  had  hap-  pened,  but  I  had  reckoned  without  Mrs.  Maltby.  She  came  swiftly  out  ofthe  house  and  asked  where  I'd  been  so  long.  When  she  saw  how  spent  Goliath  looked,  she  demanded  to  know  why  I  had  used  him  so  hard.  In  my  exhaus-  tion,  I  must  have  reeled,  and  seeing  me  unsteady  on  my  feet,  she  cried,  &quot;Have  you  been  drinking,  boy?  Are  you  a  drunkard  already  at  your  age?&quot;  To  my  later  shame,  I  became  indig-  nant,  Shaking  all  over,  I  declared  I  wasn't  a  drunkard,  and  before  I  knew  what  I  was  doing,  I  was  spilling  the  whole  story.  She  listened  to  me  at  first  with  tense  silence,  but  when  I  told  her  what  the  trooper  had  said  about  Mr.  Maltby's  falling  into  a  horse  dealer's  trap,  a  complete  change  came  over  her.  Her  face  went  white,  and  her  lips  trem-  bled.  And  then  this  usually  quiet  wom-  an  let  out  an  animal-like  cry  and  fled  into  the  house.  After  a  while,  Mrs.  Maltby  sent  Ger-  ald  to  tell  me  that  I  was  to  make  my  own  supper.  It  was  my  first  opportunity  to  eat  my  fill  in  the  Maltby  house,  but  I  was  too  upset  to  take  advantage  of  it.  Gerald,  however,  who  shared  the  meal,  ate  enough  for  the  two  of  us,  and  was  in  the  best  of  spirits.  Goliath's  misfor-  tune  fascinated  him,  and  he  kept  prod-  ding  me  to  tell  him  more  about  his  father  and  the  horse  dealer,  an  incident  he  seemed  to  relish.  I  didn't  get  much  rest  that  night.  First,  I  fretted  over  my  betrayal  of  Goliath,  and  then,  only  about  an  hour  or  so  after  I  had  fallen  asleep,  I  was  awakened  by  sounds  coming  from  the  barn.  I  dressed  and  hurried  there,  to  findthat  Goliath  had  gone  wild.  He  was  having  seizures  of  heaving,  and  was  kicking  frantically  at  the  sides  of  his  stall  and  breaking  its  boards.  I  also  saw  him  bang  his  head  on  the  wall  in  front  of  him.  It  was  the  nearest  I  have  ever  seen  a  horse  come  to  attempting  suicide.  Poor  Kitty  was  a  frightful  sight.  Each  time  Goliath  kicked,  she  threw  herself  against  the  farther  side  of  her  stall,  and  her  flank  was  scraped  and  bleeding.  I  washed  and  dressed  her  wounds,  and  I  talked  to  her  and  to  Go-  liath,  and  finally  I  had  them  quieted  down.  Both  horses  looked  a  little  better  the" b"next  morning,  but  when  Mrs.  Maltby  saw  what  had  happened  to  Kitty,  she  said  shocking  things  about  Mr.  Maltby  (I  couldn't  believe  it  was  Mrs.  Maltby  speaking),  and  denounced  Goliath.  OUGHT  to  have  known  that  from  that  time  on  Goliath  was  a  lost  cause,  but  I  went  right  ahead  with  my  plan  to  save  him.  I  found  a  small  stone-  boat  in  the  shed-one  that  could  be  pulled  by  hand-and  the  rest  of  that  week,  whenever  I  was  sure  that  I  wasn't  being  watched,  I  tethered  Go-  liath  under  a  tree  and  pulled  stone  my-  self.  I  did  this  every  day,  and  sooncon-  vinced  myself  that  both  Goliath  and  I  were  growing  stronger.  Late  Friday  afternoon,  while  Goliath  and  I  were  resting  for  a  short  while,  I  saw  Mr.  Maltby  approaching,  and  I  knew  at  once  that  Mrs.  Maltby  had  told  him  everything.  He  patted  Goliath,  and  for  a  few  minutes  not  a  word  was  spo-  ken,  Then  he  sighed  and  said,  &quot;It's  hard  to  believe  that  this  magnificent  beast  is  wind-broken.&quot;  &quot;But  he's  getting  better,&quot;  I  protested.  I  told  him  how  wonderfully  Goliath  was  responding  to  the  good  care  and  food  at  Tuppers  Bridge,  how  he  hadn't  had  a  single  attack  since  Monday  night,  how  nicely  he  and  Kitty  were  getting  along  together.  And  then  I  couldn't  resist  an  out-and-out  lie;  I  told  Mr.  Maltby  that  Goliath's  work  was  improv-  ing  every  day.  Mr.  Maltby  lookedwith  some  sur-  prise,  and  pleasure,  at  the  quantity  of  new  stones  piled  on  his  fences.  &quot;You've  done  a  good  job,  boy,&quot;  he  said.  Then,  seeing  how  my  face  fell  when  he  complimented  only  me,  he  added  quickly,  &quot;I  mean,  of  course,  the  horse  and  you.&quot;  Suddenly,  I  realized  that  Mr.  Maltby,  too,  wanted  to  believe  in  this  wonderful  animal,  and  immediately  he  was  restored  to  my  esteem  and  admiration.  &quot;Keep  it  up,&quot;  he  said,  smiling,  and  walked  back  to  the  house.  &quot;Keep  it  up!&quot;  must  surely  mean,  I  thought,  that  Goliath  was  saved.  My  heart  swelled  with  joy.  No  fourteen-  course  dinner  at  the  fabulous  Delmon-  ico's  could  have  pleased  me  more  than  the  light  supper  Mrs.  Maltby  gave  me  that  night.  I  sped  through  the  two-  course  repast,  intending  to  go  down  to  the  village  store  and  blow  myself  on  a  ten-cent  treat  for  the  whole  family.  I  remembered,  too,  a  pair  of  cuff  buttons  I  had  seen  at  the  store,  and  I  resolved  to  get  them  as  something  extra  for  Mr.  Maltby.  But  just  when  I  was  about  to  go,  I  heard  Mrs.  Maltby's  voice  in  the  " b"dining  room.  The  door  was  closed,  and  her  voice  was  low,  but  it  seemed  to  cut  the  air.  &quot;...  and  that's  how  you've  lost  good  congregations,  good  lawsuits,  and  good  neighbors,  too,&quot;  I  heard  her  say.  Mr.  Maltby  did  not  reply,  and  it  was  only  then  that  I  realized,  with  a  kind  of  afterhearing,  that  he  had  been  silent  all  through  the  meal.  Mrs.  Maltby  went  on  to  tell  him  that  it  was  like  him  to  buy  the  biggest  horse  in  sight  and  think  he  was  getting  the  biggest  bargain,  and  to  fall  in  with  a  horse  deal-  er's  trick  and  think  he  was  outsmarting  the  dealer,  just  as  it  had  been  typical  of  him  to  buy  a  stone  farm  cheap  and  think  he  could  turn  it  into  a  paradise,  when  all  he  had  been  able  to  do  was  make  himself  and  his  family  miserable  there.  Still  Mr.  Maltby  had  nothing  to  say,  nor  was  there  a  peep  out  of  Gerald.  Al-  though  I  couldn't  see  him,  I  was  sure  that  he  was  quietly  savoring  the  whole  thing,  but  the  performance  was  sicken-  ing  me.  I  was  eavesdropping  on  the  fall  of  a  man  in  his  own  home.  I  rose  from  my  chair,  meaning  to  slip  out  the  back  way,  when  Mrs.  Maltby's  next  words  stopped  me  dead.  &quot;And  as  for  that  mis-  erable  horse  of  yours,&quot;  I  heard  her  say,  &quot;either  you  take  him  back  to  that  dealer  and  get  your  money,  or  you  sell  him  to  the  butcher.&quot;  Forgetting  that  I  was  only  the  hired  hand  and,  worse  yet,  an  eavesdropper,  I  rushed  into  the  dining  room,  crying,  You  can't  send  him  to  the  butcher!&quot;  &quot;Young  man,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Maltby,  &quot;go  to  your  room.  When  I  want  advice  from  you,  I'll  send  for  you.&quot;  Desperately,  I  turned  to  Mr.  Maltby  and  said,  &quot;'There's  something  I've  been  wanting  to  tell  you,  Mr.  Maltby.  Till  Goliath  is  all  better,  I'd  like  to  pay  for  his  feed.  You  can  take  it  out  of  my  wages.&quot;  Mr.  Maltby's  face  swelled  suddenly  and  grew  very  red.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  he  said  in  a  stifled  voice.  &quot;Thank  you,  boy.  That  is  very  noble  and  manly  of  you,  but  it  won't  be  necessary.  Now  go  to  your  room,  as  Mrs.  Maltby  says,  and  don't  worry.  I  give  you  my  word  that  Goliath  will  not  go  to  the  butcher.&quot;  WENT  down  to  the  barn  and  stayed  with  Goliath  for  a  bit.  I  thought  he  looked  pleased  to  see  me.  For  the  first  time,  he  nosed  over  to  me,  as  if  expressing  his  friendship.  When  I  returned  to  the  house  and  went  to  my  room,  I  could  still  hear  angry  voices,  mostly  Mrs.  Maltby's,  and  then  all  was  quiet.  I  had  putout  my  light  and  was  lying  in  bed  wondering  about  the  whole  thing  when  there  was  a  soft  little  knock" b"at  my  door.  It  was  Gerald,  in  his  white  nightshirt.  &quot;Mother  won,&quot;  he  whispered,  as  I  let  him  in.  &quot;But  your  father  gave  me  his  word,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh,  Goliath  isn't  going  to  the  butch,  er,&quot;  Gerald  said.  &quot;The  butcher  is  an  enemy  of  Father's.&quot;  I  asked  him  what  he  meant,  then,  by  saying  his  mother  hadwon.  &quot;Goliath  is  going  to  the  Morgan  Lake  Duck  Farm  tomorrow,&quot;  Gerald  said  happily.  &quot;'They  use  lots  of  horse  meat  there,  to  fatten  their  ducks.&quot;  I  didn't  speak  or  raise  my  hand,  but  he  fled.  When  the  anger  and  the  suc-  ceeding  numbness  had  worn  off,  it  was  after  two  o'clock  in  the  morning.  I  gathered  all  my  belongings  and  packed  them  in  my  trunk.  Then  I  got  the  wheelbarrow  that  stood  outside  my  door  and  tied  strips  of  burlap  around  the  iron  rim  of  its  wheel  so  that  it  wouldn't  make  too  much  noise.  I  put  my  trunk  on  the  wheelbarrow  and  trundled  it  out  to  the  road.  It  was  a  still,  bright  night.  There  was  no  sound  from  the  barn,  so  Goliath  must  have  been  resting  peacefully.  When  I  had  gone  a  fair  distance  and  felt  safe,  I  set  down  the  wheelbarrow  and  paused  to  look  back  at  the  house.  I  thought  I  saw  something  white  at  one  of  the  upper  windows.  I  suppose  it  was  Gerald  in  his  nightshirt,  silently  watching  me  go  like  all  theothers  who  had  quit  in  the  night. "