 b"NOT  long  ago,  I  was  staying  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  with  my  younger  sister,  Deirdre,  who  is  married  and  has  four  young  children.  It  was  spring.  We  sat  in  her  large,  pleas-  ant  living  room,  with  the  trees  all  fresh  and  green  outside  on  Gar  field  Street,  and  the  shrubs  bursting  into  bloom-  white,  pink,  blue,  yellow-in  her  gar-  den,  where  the  children  were  giving  themselves  wholeheartedly  to  some  rau-  cous  game,  and  we  began  to  speak,  as  we  often  do,  of  the  time  when  we  two  were  small  together.  There  is  less  than  two  years  between  us.  Our  childhood  was  spent  in  [REDACTED],  most  of  it  in  a  small  house  in  Ranelagh.  &quot;'The  first  time  I  remember  seeing  you,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;was  before  we  went  to  live  in  Ranelagh.  It  was  when  we  were  living  in  the  house  on  Belgrave  Road.  You  must  have  been  about  eighteen  months  old,  I  suppose.  Someone  was  holding  you  in  their  arms,  and  you  snatched  Emer's  cap  off  her  head  and  threw  it  in  the  fire,  and  she  cried.  It  was  a  new  woollen  cap  she  had.&quot;  Emer  is  our  older  sister.  &quot;I  don't  remember  that,&quot;  Derry  said,  but  she  looked  pleased  at  the  thought  of  the  burning  cap.  &quot;I  don't  remember  Belgrave  Road  at  all.&quot;  &quot;The  next  time  I  have  a  clear  mem-  ory  of  you,&quot;  I  continued,  &quot;you  must  have  been  about  three.  We  were  living  in  Ranelagh.  I  went  into  the  front  bed-  room  and  found  you  wandering  around  in  your  skin,  crying  for  someone  to  dress  you,  and  I  dressed  you.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember  that,&quot;  Derry  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  do  you  remember  when  you  were  six  or  seven  and  almost  got  St.  Vitus's  dance?  You  kept  shaking,  and  dropping  things  all  over  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  remember  that,  all  right,&quot;  Derry  said,  smiling.  All  the  time  we  were  talking,  she  was  hemming  a  pink  cotton  dress  for  her  older  daughter.  I  looked  at  her  hands,  so  steady  and  sure  with  the  needle,  and  I  thought  of  how  we  had  all  feared  she  would  lose  the  use  of  them.  &quot;You  were  never  able  to  help  with  the  washing-up,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;for  fear  you'd  break  all  the  cups  and  saucers.  When  you  weren't  dropping  things,  you  lay  on  the  bed  with  your  eyes  wide  open,  not  able  to  wake  up.  You  looked  awful,  You  gave  Mother  a  terrible  fright.  She  got  the  woman  from  next  door  in  to  look  at  you.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  remember  all  that,'  Derry  said  impatiently.  &quot;But  you  were  asleep,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  was  no  more  asleep  than  you  are  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I  was  no  nearer  getting  St.  Vitus's  dance  than  you  are  now,  either,&quot;  she  added,  this  time  with  a  touch  of  defiance.  I  stared,  or  glared,  at  her.  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  I  cried.  She  looked  me  straight  in  the  eye,  but  the  color  began  to  rise  in  her  face.  &quot;Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  you  were  putting  it  all  on?&quot;  I  cried,  sounding  al-  most  as  thunderstruck  as  I  felt.  Derry's  delicate  health  had  loomed  as  important-  ly  in  my  childhood  as  the  Catholic  Church  and  the  fight  for  Irish  freedom.  The  first  word  I  ever  remember  hear-  ing  about  Derry  was  that  she  had  been  underweight  when  she  was  born  and  that  her  health  was  precarious.  My  mother  always  dressed  us  exactly  alike,  and  people  used  to  call  us  Mrs.  Brennan's  twins,  but  I  was  the  large,  hardy  twin  and  she  was  the  thin,  pale  one,  always  with  me,  and  always  silent,  while  I  talked  endlessly.  Remember-  ing  how  strongly  all  this  had  shaped  our  childhood,  and  the  way  it  had  deter-  mined  everything  between  us  and  around  us,  I  naturally  was  aghast  to  hear  her  now,  more  than  twenty  years  later,  calmly  tearing  it  all  away.  I  de-  cided  that  she  was  joking.  'You're  joking,  aren't  you?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  am  not,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  why  did  you  do  it?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Well,  for  one  thing,  I  always  got  out  of  doing  the  washing-up,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I  was  always  too  delicate  to  go  to  school  much,  if  you  re-  member.&quot;  &quot;All  those  washing-ups  I  did,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  do  you  mean  to  say  you  never  told  anyone  at  all  about  it?&quot;  She  gave  me  an  exasper-  ated  look.  &quot;That  would  have  been  pretty  silly,  wouldn't  it?  The  whole  point  was  that  no  one  knew.&quot;  &quot;And  you've  kept  it  a  secret  all  these  years,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;To  tell  you  the  truth,I  hadn't  thought  about  it  for  years,  till  you  brought  it  up  just  now.  Of  course,  I  really  did  have  colds  sometimes,  and  I  did  have  those  terrible  chilblains  in  the  wintertime.&quot;  She  began  to  laugh,  and  so  did  I,  but  not  very  heartily.  Just  then,  two  of  her  children  began  a  battle  under  the  windows,  and  she  ran  out  to  investigate  them,  leaving  me  to  think  about  her  duplicity  all  those  years  ago,  when  she  was  so  small  and  frail  it  would  have  taken  a  strange-minded  per-  son  to  accuse  her  ofthe  least  offense,  leg  alone  of  keeping  the  house  in  an  up-roar  over  her  health  for  years  on  end.  I  was  more  admiring  than  anything  else,  because  I  hadn't  really  minded  doing  the  washing  up  alone,  since  I  always  received  high  praise  from  my  mother  for  doing  it,  but  I  was  stunned  to  think  that  Derry  had  been  capable,  so  young,  of  think  ing  up  and  carrying  through  such  a  black  and  complicated  plot,  and  of  not  speaking  about  it  to  anyone-  not  even  to  me  .  It  was  then  I  remembered  that  this  was  not  the  first  times  he  had  set  me  back  .  THE  first  time  it  happened,  she  was  not  more  than  seven  and  I  was  almost  nine.  In  those  years,  as  I  say,  I  was  larger  than  she  was,  and  I  won't  say  I  bullied  her,  but  I  did  boss  her  around.  All  her  life,  I  bossed  her  un-  mercifully  until  the  moment  of  which  I  am  about  to  speak,  and  I  suppose  that  even  after  that  things  did  not  really  change  very  much  between  us.  I  re-  member  I  had  a  favorite  game  called  &quot;sitting  on  Derry.&quot;  I  used  to  make  her  lie  flat  on  the  floor  while  I  sat  on  her  stomach  and  stared  into  her  face,  grimacing  in  a  manner  that  we  both  considered  terrifying.  It  was  a  simple  game,  but  I  suppose  she  must  sometimes  have  grown  weary  of  it.  I  felt  superior  to  her,  and  protective  toward  her  because  she  was  so  tiny,  and  because  she  hated  school  and  never  did  well  in  her  lessons,  and  because  she  got  ugly,  painful  chilblains  in  the  cold  weather  and  I  never  did,  and  most  of  all  because  she  was  shy.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  never  gave  her  a  chance  to  say  a  word.  People  were  always  told  that  I  had  the  brains  in  the  family.  &quot;Derry  has  the  beauty,&quot;  they  used  to  say,  &quot;but  Maeve  has  all  the brains.&quot;  I  believed  every  word  of  this.  I  used  to  look  at  Derry  and  think  solemnly  about  my  brains,  and  about  how  I  never  had  any  trouble  in  school  and  always  got  good  marks.  In  games,  I  always  hammered  myself  into  the  lead,  while  Derry  played  off  by  herself  somewhere,  and  I  was  always  first  to  enter  myself  in  singing  com-  petitions,  although  I  had  no  voice,  and  in  reciting  contests,  although  I  hadno  eloquence.  I  had  even  made  up  my  mind  to  become  an  actress,  but  I  had  not  spoken  to  anyone  at  school  or  in  the  family  about  my  ambition,  for  fear  of  being  laughed  at.  However,  oneday  Derry  and  I  were  sitting  together  in  the  back  garden  of  our  house  in  Ranelagh.  It  must  have  been  summertime,  because  we  were  sit-  ting  on  the  grass,  and  there  were  forget-  " b"me-nots  and  [REDACTED]  pride  in  bloom  in  my  mother's  flower  beds.  We  had  a  bead  box  on  thegrass  between  us,  and  we  were  stringing  necklaces  and  enjoy-  ing  my  conversation.  &quot;When  I  grow  up,&quot;  I  said  to  Derry,  &quot;I'm  going  to  be  a  famous  actress.  I'll  act  in  the  Abbey  Theatre,  and  I'll  be  in  the  pictures,  and  I'll  go  around  to  all  the  schools  and  teach  all  the  teachers  how  to  recite.&quot;  I  was  about  to  continue,  because  I  never  expected  her  to  have  anything  to  say,  but  she  spoke  up,  without  raising  her  head  from  her  necklace.  &quot;Don't  go  getting  any  notions  into  your  head,&quot;  she  said  clearly.  I  was  astounded.  Where  had  little  Derry  picked  up  such  a  remark?  I  had  never  said  it,  and  I  was  not  sure  I  had  ever  even  heard  it.  Who  had  said  it  to  her?  I  was  astounded,  and  I  was  silent.  I  had  nothing  to  say.  For  the  first  time,  it  had  occurred  to  me  that  little  Derry  had  braivs.  More  brains  than  I  had,  maybe,  even? "