 b"I  AWOKE  with  a  violent,  shuddering  start,  so  abruptly  that  I  felt  the  sudden  ache  behind  the  eyeballs  one  experiences  after  bolting  an  ice-cream  soda  or  ascending  too  recklessly  from  the  ocean  floor.  The  house  was  utterly  still;  except  forthe  tumult  of  the  creek  in  the  pasture,  swollen  with  melting  snow,  a  silence  as  awesome  as  that  of  Fatehpur  Sikri,  the  abandoned  citadel  of  the  Moguls,  shrouded  the  farm.  Al-  most  instantly,  I  was  filled  with  an  im-  mense  inquietude,  an  anxiety  of  such  proportions  that  Iquailed.  The  radium  dial  of  the  alarm  clock  read  two-thirty:  the  exact  moment,  I  realized  with  a  tremor,  that  I  had  become  involved  the  night  before  in  the  Affair  of  the  Boneless  Veal  Steaks.  The  Boneless  Veal  Steaks-  it  had  the  same  prosaic  yet  grisly  implica-  tions  as  the  Five  Orange  Pips  or  the  Adventure  of  the  Engineer's  Thumb.  Propped  up  on  one  elbow  and  staring  into  the  velvet  dark,  I  reviewed  as  co-  herently  as  I  could  the  events  of  the  pre-  ceding  night.  I  had  awakened  around  two  and,  after  thrashing  about  in  my  kip  like  a  dying  tautog,  had  lit  and  smoked  the  cork  tip  of  a  cigarette  until  I  was  nau-  seated.  I  thereupon  woke  up  my  wife,  who  apparently  thought  she  could  shirk  her  responsibilities  by  sleeping,  and  filed  a  brief  r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9  of  the  disasters-finan-  cial,  political,  and  emotional-threaten-  ing  us.  When  she  began  upbraiding  me,  in  the  altogether  illogical  way  women  do,  I  did  not  succumb  to  justifiable  an-  ger  but  pacifically  withdrew  to  the  kitchen  for  a  snack.  As  I  was  extricating  a  turkey  wing  from  the  tangle  of  left-  overs  in  the  icebox  (amazing  how  badly  the  average  housewife  organizes  her  realm;  no  man  would  tolerate  such  in-  efficiency  in  business),  my  attention  was  drawn  by  a  limp  package  labelled  &quot;Gil-  bert's  Frozen  Boneless  Veal  Steaks.&quot;  Stapled  to  the  exterior  was  a  printed  ap-  pealthat  had  the  lugubrious  intimacy  of  a  Freudian  case  history.  &quot;Dear  Chef,&quot;  it  said.  &quot;I've  lost  my  character.  I  used  to  have  sinews,  then  I  met  a  butcher  at  Gilbert's.  He  robbed  me  of  my  powers  of  resistance  by  cut-  ting  out  some  of  the  things  that  hold  me  together.  I  am  a  matrix  of  lean  meat  with  my  trimmings  ground  and  worked  back  into  me.  Please  be  kind.  Pick  me  up  with  a  pan-  cake  turner  or  a  spatula,  don't  grab  me  by  the  edges  with  a  fork.  Be-  cause  of  all  I've  been  through  I'm     more  fragile  than  others  you've  known.  Please  be  gentle  lest  you  tear  me  apart.  Tillie  the  Tender.&quot;  HE  revelation  that  food  had  be-  come  articulate  at  long  last,  that  henceforth  I  was  changed  from  con-  sumer  to  father  confessor,  so  unmanned  me  that  I  let  go  the  turkey  wing;  with  a  loud  &quot;Mrkgnao&quot;  she  obviously  had  learned  from  reading  &quot;Ulysses,&quot;  the  cat  straightway  pounced  on  it.  I  must  have  been  in  a  real  state  of  shock,  be-  cause  I  just  stood  there  gawking  at  her,  my  brain  in  a  turmoil.  What  floored  me,  actually,  wasn't  that  the  veal  had  found  a  way  to  communicate-a  more  or  less  inevitable  development,  once  you  accepted  the  basic  premise  of  Elsie,  the  Borden  cow-but  rather  its  smarmy  and  masochistic  pitch.  Here,  for  the  first  time  in  human  experience,  a  supposedly  inanimate  object,  a  cutlet,  had  broken  through  the  barrier  and  revealed  itself  as  a  creature  with  feelings  and  desires.  Did  it  signalize  its  liberation  with  ec-  stasy,  cry  out  some  exultant  word  of  deliverance,  or  even  underplay  it  with  a  quiet  request  like  &quot;Mr.  Watson,  come  here.  I  want  you&quot;&quot;?  No;  the  whole  mes-  sage  reeked  of  self-pity,  of  invalidism,  of  humbug.  It  was  a  snivelling,  eu-  nuchoid  plea  for  special  privilege,  a  milepost  of  Pecksniffery.  It  was  dis-  gusting.  In  the  same  instant,  however,  I  saw  both  the  futility  of  moral  indignation  and  an  augury  of  things  to  come.  Be-  fore  long,  the  other  victuals  in  the  ice-  box,  their  tongues  loosened  by  some  re-  frigerative  hocus-pocus  as  yet  unknown  to  science,  would  undoubtedly  emulate  Tillie  and  demand  similar  coddling.  Two  courses  presented  themselves;  I  could  either  scream  the  house  down  and  prepare  it  for  the  contingency,  or  I  could  bear  the  brunt  singlehanded-i.e.,  get  back  into  bed  and  let  things  take  their  course.  The  latter  plainly  being  the  coward's  way,  I  adopted  it  at  once.  Between  various  distractions,  I  neg-  lected  to  check  the  icebox  the  next     Ro  morning,  but  now,  as  I  lay  there  sleep-  less,  I  knew  that  every  second  of  delay  was  calamitous.  With  the  stealth  of  a  Comanche,  I  swung  my  feet  over  the  side  of  the  bed  and  stood  upon  a  stand-  ard  apricot  poodle  who  happened  to  be  dozing  there.  He  emitted  a  needle-  sharp  yelp.  &quot;Shut  up,  damn  you,&quot;  I  hissed  through  my  teeth,  immediately  temper-  ing  it  with  a  placatory  &quot;Good  boy,  good  boy.&quot;  The  brute  subsided,  or  pretended  to,  until  I  closedthe  bedroom  door  be-  hind  me;  then,  convinced  I  was  sneaking  off  on  a  coonhunt  or  some  other  excur-  sion  without  him,  he  started  excitedly  clawing  the  panels,  I  permitted  him  to  follow  and,  when  we  were  well  out  of  earshot  of  his  mistress,  gave  him  a  kick  in  the  belly  to  teach  him  obedience.  The  moment  I  opened  the  refrigerator  door,  I  sensed  mischief  was  afoot.  Clipped  to  an  earthenware  bowl  of  rice  pudding  was  a  note  scrawled  in  a  shaky,  nearly  illegible  hand.  &quot;Dear  Chef,&quot;  it  said  breathlessly,  &quot;you're  living  in  a  fool's  paradise.  You  wouldn't  believe  some  of  the  things  that  go  on  in  this  box-  the  calumny,  the  envy,  the  chicanery.  They're  all  against  me  because  I  have  raisins.  Ish  ka  bibble-I  had  raisins  when  that  Nova  Scotia  salmon  in  the  upper  tier  was  a  fingerling  in  the  Bay  of  Fundy.  But  don't  take  my  word,  just  look  around  foryourself.  Nuf  sed.  A  Friend.&quot;  A  quick  scrutiny  of  the  various  com-  partments  revealed  that  something  was  indeed  very  much  awry.  Two  bunches  of  celery  had  worked  their  way  out  of  the  freezer,  where  they  normally  lay,  and  stood  jammed  in  a  cluster  of  milk  bottles.  A  mayonnaise  jar  had  been  emptied  of  its  rightful  contents  and  was  half-filled  with  goose  fat,  hinting  at  the  possibility  of  foul  play.  It  wasn't  any  one  single  factor-the  shreds  of  icy  vapor  or  the  saucer  of  frozen  gravy,  as  bleak  as  Lake  Baikal-but  the  interior  was  filled  with  a  premonitory  hush  of  the  sort  that  precedes  a  cyclone  or  a  jail  break.  All  of  a  sudden,  as  I  racked  my  wits  for  some  clandestine  method  of  eliciting  the  true  state  of  affairs,  the  per-  fect  solution  hit  me-my  tape  recorder.  I  could  secrete  it  in  the  adjacent  kitchen  cabinet,  run  the  micro-  phone  inside  disguised  as  a  potato  knish,  and  overnight  astound  the  world  with  its  first  documentary  on  talking  groceries.  'The  thought  of  the  millions  I  was  scheduled  to  make  in  royalties,  the  brouhaha  in  thepress  and  the  acclaim  of  learned  societies,  and  the  chagrin  of  my  " b"enemies  when  I  was  elevated  toa  niche  beside  that  of  Steinmetz  so  dizzied  me  that  I  had  to  drink  a  split  of  Dr.  Da-  dirrian's  Zoolak  to  recover.  True,  I  felt  a  bit  anthropophagous  as  I  swallowed  it,  and  I  half  expected  a  gurgled  Levantine  outcry,  but  nothing  more  dramatic  than  a  slight  attack  of  double  vision  ensued,  and  within  minutes  I  had  the  mecha-  nism  hooked  up  and  ready  to  function.  &quot;Now,  then,&quot;  I  ordered  the  poodle,  flicking  on  the  switch,  &quot;back  to  the  hay  we  go.  Better  be  up  bright  and  early  before  someone  finds  this  and  mis-  interprets  it.&quot;  &quot;Applesauce,&quot;  he  retorted.  &quot;It's  your  recorder,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  you  know  how  silly  peop-  What  did  you  say?&quot;  Of  course,  he  dried  up  then,  not  another  word  out  of  him,  and  you'd  have  thought  the  cat  had  his  tongue.  IGOT  to  bed  pretty  perplexed  about  the  whole  thing  and,  what  with  fear  lest  I  oversleep  and  worry  at  the  quan-  tity  of  current  the  machine  was  using,  fell  into  a  wretched  slumber  that  termi-  nated  around  daylight.  Hastening  to  the  kitchen,  I  downed  some  black  coffee,  and  rewound  the  spool  of  tape  to  get  the  playback.  The  first  few  revolu-  tions  were  unproductive  of  anything  but  conspiratorial  whispers  and  an  occa-  sional  word  too  jumbled  to  decipher.  Then,  all  at  once,  I  heard  a  low-pitched  voice  in  the  background,  oily  and  yet  pompous,  stiff  with  disdain.  &quot;Beggars  on  horseback,&quot;  it  was  say-  ing  contemptuously.  &quot;Strictly  keeping  up  appearances.  I  spotted  him  and  the  Missis  right  away  the  day  they  came  into  the  delicatessen.  She  was  wearing  an  old  Persian-lamb  coat,  remodelled.  'Something  in  the  way  of  a  cocktail  snack,  Greengrass,&quot;  she  says,  yawning  like  she's  Mrs.  T.  Markoe  Robertson.  'I'll  take  a  two-ounce  jar  of  that  domes-  tic  caviar.'  Then  she  turns  to  her  hus-  band,  which  he's  nervously  jingling  the  change  in  his  pants,  and  she  says,  'Dear,  don't  you  think  it  would  be  amusing  to  have  a  slice  or  two  of  Novy  for  our  guests?&quot;  Well,  the  poor  shmendrick  turned  all  different  colors  when  the  boss  weighed  me  on  the  scales.  Five  cents  more  and  he'd  have  had  to  walk  home  in  the  rain  like  a  Hemingway  hero.&quot;  &quot;Listen,&quot;  rejoined  a  grumpy  bass  voice  that  unmistakably  proceeded  from  a  forsaken  bottle  of  horseradish.  &quot;Stick  around  as  long  as  I  have  and  nothing  these  people  do  will  surprise  you.  Why,  one  time  we  had  a  rack  of  lamb  in  here  seven  weeks.  The  plumber  had  to  cut  it  out  with  a  blowtorch.&quot; A  mincing,  rather  overbred  voice,  of  the  sort  usually  associat-  ed  with  Harvard  beets,  chimed  agreement.  &quot;There's  one  thing  that  doesn't  get  stale  here,  though,&quot;  it  said.  &quot;Club  soda. How  long  can  he  last  on  that  liquid  diet  of  his?&quot;  &quot;Forever,  if  he  don't  fall  down  and  cut  himself,&quot;  the  lox  replied  with  a  coarse  guffaw.  &quot;Can't  you  make  less  noise,  please?&quot;  put  in  a  hateful,  meach-  ing  soprano.  &quot;I  haven't  closed  an  eye.  I'm  just  a  bundle  of  nerves  ever  since  my  operation-&quot;  &quot;Pssst,  there  goes  Tillie  again,&quot;  warned  the  horseradish.  &quot;Pipe  down  or  she'll  write  him  another  note.  The  little  sneak  repeats  everything  you  say.&quot;  A  hubbub  of  maledictions  and  re-  criminations  broke  out,  the  up-  shot  of  which  I  never  heard.  Quivering  with  fury,  I  stripped  the  tape  off  the  reel,  ran  into  the  living  room,  and  flung  it  on  the  embers  in  the  hearth.  Specks  of  assorted  hues  swam  before  my  eyes;  it  was  unen-  durable  that  I  should  havenour-  ished  such  vipers  in  my  bosom.  Drastic  steps  were  indicated,  and  I  was  the  boy  who  could  take  them.  As  I  flew  back  to  the  refrigera-  tor,  bent  on  evicting  the  whole  kit  and  caboodle  without  mercy,  I  caromed  off  my  wife,  huddled  in  a  plain  wrapper,  for  all  the  world  like  a  copy  of  &quot;Lady  Chatterley's  Lover,&quot;  and  gaping  at  the  recorder.  &quot;Wh-what  happened?&quot;  she  stam-  mered.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  with  that  microphone  in  the  icebox?&quot;  ELL,  I  learned  one  lesson  from  the  episode;  suavity  is  lost  on  women.  'There  isn't  a  blessed  one,  from  the  Colonel's  Lady  to  Judy  O'Grady,  capable  of  dealing  with  abstract  ideas,  and  if  you  try  a  civilized,  worldly  ap-  ploach  it  just  antagonizes  them.  Can  you  imagine  a  person  getting  so  huffy  that  she  barricades  herself  in  a  henhouse  and  refuses  to  breakfast  with  her  own  husband?  I  made  a  meal  off  a  few  odds  and  ends-a  grapefruit  and  a  couple  of  eggs-but  I  can't  say  much  for  their  dialogue.  You  need  someone  you  can  really  talk  to. "