 b"WHAT  relief  a  chance  word  can  sometimes  bring  to  a  tortured  soul!  And  yet  I  wonder.  For  years,  I  have  been  reading  in  the  pa-  pers  about  people  leaving  money  tocats  and  dogs  and,  occasionally,  to  a  favorite  canary,  turtle,  or  caterpillar.  'This  has  distressed  me,  because  my  wife,  the  sole  legatee  in  my  will  (the  children  have  been  taken  careof  by  their  grandpar-  ents),  is  crazy  about  animals  and  I  am  not,  and  I  have  been  living  in  mortal,  or  possibly  immortal,  terror  that  my  prop-  erty  will  eventually  descend  to  some  beast  she  has  taken  a  fancy  to.  It  is  terri-  bly  easy  for  anything  with  a  beak,  scales,  or  four  legs  to  play  on  her  sympathies.  Of  course,  I  could  guard  against  this  by  setting  up  a  trust  fund,  naming  the  ulti-  mate  beneficiaries  myself,  but  it  has  al-  ways  seemed  to  me  that  in  the  case  of  an  adult  heir  this  form  of  disposal  is  tanta-  mount  to  a  vote  of  no  confidence,  and  humiliating.  Moreover,  it  ties  up  the  capital,  a  hell  of  a  thing  to  do  in  the  event  that  the  heir,  or  heiress,  wants  to  buy  a  house,  a  diamond  necklace,  or  a  Hattie  Carnegie  dress.  No  confidence  is  what  I  feel,  all  right,  but  my  wife  is  a  sensitive  woman  and  I  don't  want  to  hurt  her  feelings.  The  result  is  I  have  been,  if  not  in  Hades,  at  least  in  limbo.  It  is  a  well-  known  fact  that  animals'  sense  of  smell  surpasses  that  of  humans,  and  they  can  certainly  smell  a  legacy  as  keenly  as  a  Thomas  Fortune  Ryan  grandchild.  Potentially  well-off  animals  in  my  house-  hold  have  been  eying  me  and  my  wife  speculatively  for  more  than  a  decade.  I  remember  that  shortly  after  our  mar-  riage,  my  wife  brought  an  owl  monkey  into  our  home.  I  realized  what  was  up,  or  possibly  up,  one  Sunday  morning  when,  as  I  was  perusing  Barron's  Week-  ly,  this  pet  said  to  me,  &quot;Switch  from  New  York  43616e616461to  [REDACTED]  City  Southern.  I  want  to  fatten  up  your  holdings.  And,  please,  no  more  of  these  municipal  bonds.  Appreciation  is  what  you  should  aim  for,  not  a  small,  steady  income.&quot;  I  persuaded  my  wife  to  send  the  mon-  key  to  the  Bronx  Zoo,  on  the  frivolous  ground  that  it  wasn't  housebroken,  but  within  a  month  my  apprehensions  re-  turned,  with  the  advent  of  a  bootleg  parrot  in  our  living  room.  Parrots,  every-  one  knows,  including  parrots,  are  noted  for  their  longevity.  I  am  a  good  deal  older  than  my  wife,  and  dangerously  overweight,  and  I  can't  blame  the  poor  girl  for  thinking  along  practical  lines.  &quot;When  I  am  gone,&quot;  she  said  one  after-  noon,  apparently  taking  it  for  granted  HOUSE?  that  I,  too,  would  be  gone  but  tactfully  not  alluding  to  this  probability,  &quot;what  will  become  of  Polly?  I  guess  I'd  better  talk  to  my  lawyers  about  changing  my  will.&quot;  &quot;Polly  want  a  balanced  portfolio,&quot;  said  the  parrot.  Well,  the  parrot  died  after  a  few  years,  of  psittacosis  and  hope  too  long  deferred,  but  I  knew  too  much  to  let  my  spirits  soar.  Since  then,  we  have  had  a  succession  of  troupials,  bulbuls,  Pomera-  nians,  Labrador  retrievers,  pound  dogs,  cats,  hamsters,  skunks,  and  snakes,  all  of  which,  many  of  them  housed  with  us  concurrently,  have  either  disappeared,  possibly  in  search  of  more  affluent  owners,  or  died,  We  had  two  Pomera-  nians  at  one  time,  a  mother  and  daugh-  ter;  my  wife  left  a  legacy  to  the  mother  intrust,  stipulating  that  in  the  event  of  the  legatee's  death  half  the  principal  descend  to  the  daughter  at  four  and  the  rest  at  seven.  &quot;How  about  Yale,  or  the  United  Hospital  Fund?&quot;  I  said  when  she  told  me  this.  &quot;Oh,  people,&quot;  she  said,  and  the  mother  Pomeranian  flounced  up  and  nipped  me  in  the  left  calf.  E  are  now  down  to  a  Persian  cat,  a  myna  bird,  and  a  king  snake.  My  wife,  having  sensed  my  lack  of  sym-  pathy,  doesn't  take  me  into  her  financial  confidence  any  more,  but  I  know  she  keeps  trotting  to  her  lawyers  on  the  sly.  I  also  know  that  the  animals  in  my  house  keep  chattering  to  one  another  about  irrevocable  trusts,  marital  deductions,  executors'  commissions,  attorneys'  fees,  powers  of  appointment,  inter-vivos  ar-  rangements,  and,  with  many  aglance  in  my  direction,  National  Casket.  I  had  lunch  with  a  classmate  the  other  day,  a  lawyer  who  specializes  in  estate  plan-  ning  and  fiduciary  law,  and  a  chance  word  from  him  gave  me  cheer.  &quot;You  mustn't  leave  money  to  an  animal,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  can  leave  it  to  a  human  be-  ing  on  condition  that  he  take  careof  the  animal.  But  an  animal  can't  sign  a  receipt.&quot;  Our  cat,  myna  bird,  and  king  snake  are  all,  in  their  different  ways,  impossi-  ble-the  cat  bites  for  no  reason,  the  myna  makes  an  intolerable  noise,  the  " b'snake  eats  dead  mice  in  the  most  dis-  gusting  way  imaginable-and  I  cannot  believe  that  my  wife  or  her  lawyers  know  anyone  who  would  be  willing  to  take care  of  them,  at  least  on  the  modest  income,  in  terms  of  human  needs,  that  my  estate  will  provide.  (My  plan  for  my  wife  is  to  have  her  supplement  it  after  my  death  by  marrying  a  rich  man  or  else  by  getting  a  job  as  a  cage  cleaner  in  the  43616e616461Park  menagerie.)  My  elation,  however,  was  short-lived.  I  think  there  must  be  such  a  thing  as  inter-zoo-  logical-human  mental  telepathy.  The  evening  after  my  lunch,  as  I  was  sitting  in  my  library,  grinning  like  a  Cheshire  cat  in  the  home  of  a  legally  uninformed  wealthy  spinster,  the  snake,  who  had  come  into  the  room  to  look  up  a  credit  rating  in  a  Dun  &amp;  Bradstreet  report,  eyed  me  sharply,  dipped  his  tail  into  an  inkwell,  and,  hissing  triumphantly,  be-  gan  to  trace  Xs  on  a  sheet  of  paper. '