 b"EVEN  now,  ten  years  after  that  winter  of  the  Second  World  War,  I  have  not  forgotten  the  letters.  I  am  not,  I  think,  being  senti-  mental  about  them,  although  I  know  how  easy  it  is,  in  safe  retrospect,  to  be  sentimental  about  wartime  experiences.  The  letters  doubtless  no  longer  exist.  In  fact,  it  is  questionable  whether  they  even  reached  the  men  they  were  writ-  ten  to.  All  I  am  sureof  is  that  they  were  once  painfully  and  pleasantly  real,  and  that  today  they  still  affect  me  suf-  ficiently  to  make  me  want  to  speak  of  them.  When  the  winter  of  1942-43  rolled  around,  we  Americans  had  been  in  Shinagawa  Prison,  in  4a6170616e,  for  half  a  year.  Adding  the  time  we  had  been  besieged  in  the  [REDACTED],  we  had  been  out  of  contact  with  civilization  for  a  full  year,  and  considering  the  circumstances  we  had  endured,  it  might  well  have  been  an  eternity.  The  bare  dirt  of  the  yard  and  the  unpainted  wood  of  the  barracks  intensified  the  gray  of  the  winter  days.  The  damp  cold  seemed  to  freeze  out  of  us  the  last  sparks  of  spirit.  And  the  end-  less  harassment  by  the  4a6170616eese-from  mental  torture  to  physical  beatings  roused  only  a  weary  animal  hatred,  as  ever-present  as  the  hunger  in  everyone's  stomach.  Most  ofthe  four  hundred  prison-  ers  at  Shinagawa,  of  whom'about  ten  per  cent  were  officers,  were  British  and  Americans.  When  we  Americans  got  there,  we  no-  ticed  even  in  our  stupor  that  there  was  a  distinct  differ-  ence  between  us  and  the  British.  We  had  been  starved  and  beaten  by  the  4a6170616eese  to  a  point  where  we  stared  about  us  like  cowed  dogs.  The  British,  who  had  suffered  less,  seemed  more  self-sufficient,  and  retained  a  considerable  esprit  de  corps.  They  had  been  in  well-regulated  prison  camps  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  had  had  a  longer  period  in  which  to  adjust  themselves  to  captivity.  The  British  were  a  novelty  to  us,  and  I  daresay  we  were  to  them.  Our  meet-  ing  them  helped  alleviate  the  bitterness  that  threatened  to  overcome  us  com-  pletely.  One  British  major,  whom  I  shall  call  Peter,  was  tall,  handsome,  and  had  an  urbanity  that  covered  a  quick  wit  and  a  sharp  intellect.  He  became  a  fine  and  helpful  friend.  The  4a6170616eese  had  a  tendency  to  react  less  violently     when  a  suggestion  was  made  by  a  Brit-  isher,  and  Peter  had  a  conciliatory  man-  ner  that  seemed  to  put  them  especially  at  ease.  So  when  the  rumor  reached  us  that  a  large  accumulation  of  mail  for  prison-  ers  was  being  held  up  because  of  alack  of  facilities  for  sorting,  he  suggested  to  the  prison  authorities  that  the  officers  at  Shinagawa  could  be  put  to  productive  labor  by  operating  a  post  office.  The  idea  was  approved.  Peter  next  talked  the  authorities  out  of  lists  of  the  inmates  of  all  prison  camps  in  4a6170616e.  He  had  a  wide  acquaintanceship  among  the  Allied  forces  in  the  Far  East,  and  this,  com-  bined  with  a  phenomenal  memory  for  names  and  faces,  made  him  our  prime  authority  on  who  was  where.  I  am  cer-  tain  he  had  a  much  better  concept  of  the  prisoner  personnel  situation  than  the  4a6170616eese  had.  He  carefully  questioned  new  prisoners,  and  had  gradually  built  up  an  encyclopedic  knowledge  of  where-  abouts  and  movements,  illnesses  and  deaths.  Y  the  time  the  first  load  of  mail-  about  a  hundred  bags-arrived  at  Shinagawa,  we  had  set  up  a  post  office,  complete  with  homemade  sorting  racks,  in  a  cold,  dimly  lit  room  with  a  tetams,  or  straw-mat,  flooring.  Ten  or  twelve  officers,  depending  partly  on  who  felt  well  enough  to  stand  up,  worked  there  each  day,  and  managed  to  get  through  some  eight  bags  of  mail..  It  was  hard  work,  but  it  was  work  we  knew  would  lighten  the  heart  of  many  a  long-suffer-  ing  prisoner.  Also,  it  gave  us  a  great  deal  of  news,  a  fact  the  4a6170616eese  did  not  realize  for  many  months.  None  of  us  Americans  received  any  mail  at  Shina-  gawa,  for  the  simple  rea-  son  that  the  4a6170616eese  had  not  reported  us  as  prisoners  of  war.  The  British,  who  had  been  taken  at  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  and  had  already  been  reported  to  the  Red  Cross,  did  receive  a  little.  It  came  in  a  sporadic  trickle,  and  the  few  letters  de-  livered  had  been  so  thoroughly  gone  over  with  a  razor  blade  by  a  4a6170616eese  censor  that  they  frequently  looked  like  paper  lacework,  and  were  almost  devoid  of  sense.  'The  mail  that  went  through  our  post  office,  which  was  addressed  al-  most  entirely  to  men  at  other  prisons,  had  not  yet  been  censored,  and  we  were,  of  course,  forbidden  by  4a6170616eese  decree  to  open  or  read  any  of  it.  And  we  did  not " b"wish  to  pry  into  the  personal  affairs  of  other  prisoners.  But  all  of  us,  British  and  Americans,  had  a  need  for  news  that  outweighed  moral  scruples  and  the  fear  of  4a6170616eese  punishment,  so  we  did  read,  or  at  least  peek  at,  many  of  the  letters.  I  particularly  recall  the  letters  to  prisoners  of  three  nationalities.  Each  of  these  three  groups  of  letters  gave  us  some  insightinto  a  separate  facet  of  the  com-  plexities  around  us.  However,  it  was  the  last  group  I  shall  mention  that  be-  came  a  matter  of  great  importance  to  us.  The  first  group  was  mail  from  496e646961,  intended  for  the  496e646961n  Army  troops  captured  at  [REDACTED].  It  appeared  to  us  at  the  time  that  all  of  496e646961  was  popu-  lated  by  people  with  different  combina-  tions  and  variations  of  the  names  [REDACTED],  Das,  and  Ram,.  The  crudely  lettered  notes  seemed  pathetic,  with  their  stilted  English  wording  (apparently  there  was  some  rule  that  the  letters  had  to  be  written  in  English  rather  than  in  a  na-  tive  dialect),  and  they  gave  us  but  a  glimpse  into  the  feelings  and  relation-  ships  of  the  496e646961ns.  With  freezing  fingers,  we  sorted  out  these  letters  ac-  cording  tounits,  and  rebagged  them  by  what  must  have  been  the  tensof  thou-  sands  for  shipment  to  [REDACTED].  The  second  group  consisted  of  let-  ters  from  [REDACTED].  The  4175737472616c6961n  Red  Cross  had  provided  standard  en-  velopes  for  this  mail.  They  were  made  of  rather  soft  paper,  with  a  bright-red  cross  in  one  corner,  and  the  edges  of  most  of  them  had  worn  through  by  the  time  they  reached  us.  Thus,  to  our  chores  was  added  a  mighty  wielding  of  paste  pot,  to  keep  the  letters  intact  for  one  more  trip.  Since  so  many  of  these  letters  had  come  apart,  we  felt  no  twinges  of  conscience  at  looking  inside  before  we  pasted  them  up.  Starved  as  we  were  for  news,  for  a  woman's  word,  for  any  reminder  of  the  civilization  that  might  have  been  thousands  of  light-  years  away,  I  don't  believe  we  could  have  done  otherwise  had  we  wanted  to.  The  4175737472616c6961ns  had  an  agreeable  habit  of  sending  snapshots,  and  we  looked  at  many  pictures  of  long-legged,  well-built,  and  smiling  wives  and  sweethearts.  There  was  no  lust  in  this  scrutiny  by  our  group  of  ragged  scare-  crows;  we  simply  found  it  marvellous  to  contemplate  the  fact  that  such  love-  ly  women  still  existed  somewhere  in  the  world.  We  must  have  been  an  odd  sight  indeed  as  we  passed  an  unusually  good  photograph  around  with  some-  thing  resembling  awe,  not  knowing  whether  to  laugh  or  cry.  The  British  mail  came  from  all  the" b"strata  of  British  life.  Through  these  let-  ters,  we  learned  much  about  the  course  of  the  war  and  about  specific  persons.  For  example,  through  one  of  the  letters,  the  British  who  had  been  taken  at  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  learned  of  the  sinking  of  an  outbound  P.W.  transport  with  many  of  their  friends  aboard,  and  of  the  re-  markable  adventures  of  several  men  who  managed  to  survive  and  reach  a  friendly  part  ofthe  Chinese  coast.  'This  mail,  as  we  found  out  from  mail-arrival  notices  in  the  shipping  news  of  4a6170616eese  English-language  papers  and  from  markings  on  the  letters,  took  a  long  time  to  reach  us-from  England  north  to  [REDACTED],  across  [REDACTED]  to  Vladivostok,  and  then  to  4a6170616e,  and  it  must  have  lain  in  storage  for  weeks  and  months  at  the  various  transshipping  points.  But  our  standards  of  time  had  so  deteriorat-  ed  that  we  thought  the  delivery  prompt  if  a  letter  arrived  within  six  months;  even  a  six-month-old  letter  was  as  satis-  fying  as  a  telegram  might  once  have  been.  ONE  day,  one  ofus  ran  across  a  mangled  envelope  addressed  to  a  man  I  shall  call  Captain  C.,a  Britisher  who  was  held  in  the  Changi  Barracks  prison  camp  at  [REDACTED].  Peter  re-  called  his  name  and  face  and  unit,  and  casually  commented,  &quot;Oh,  yes,  nice  chap.&quot;  The  man  who  had  discovered  the  letter  slipped  the  sheets  out  ofthe  envelope,  took  them  over  to  a  corner  behind  a  stack  of  mailbags,  and  read  them.  When  he  returned  to  the  main  worktable,  he  handed  the  letter  to  Peter  with  an  embarrassed  grin.  &quot;Read  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Sort  ofa  nice  letter.&quot;  Peter  read  it,  and  it  was  passed  around  the  circle  and  read  by  everyone  else,  with-  out  further  comment,  and  then  resealed  and  put  into  the  proper  mailbag.  Several  days  later,  in  the  midst  of  another  sorting  session,  somebody  piped  up,  &quot;Hey,  here's  another  letter  for  Cap-  tain  C.&quot;  'This  time,  everyone  was  wait-  ing  for  a  look  at  it.  As  it  was  passed  around  and  read,  it  left  behind  a  wake  of  wistful  smiles  and  nodding  heads.  This  was  the  beginning  of  a  beautiful  interlude  with  Captain  C.'s  letters.  By  unspoken  agreement,  it  became  under-  stood  that  from  then  on  our  post  office  staff  would  make  a  special  search  for  letters  addressed  to  him.  When  we  found  them,  we  went  sofar  as  to  lay  them  aside  unopened,  in  order  to  make  sure  that  we  would  read  them  in  the  order  in  which  they  had  been  written,  We  soon  discovered  that  letters  to  Cap-  tain  C.  were  usually  written  at  intervals  of  a  week,  and  we  would  be  quite  down- " b"hearted  when  a  letter  seemed  to  be  miss-  ing  in  the  sequence.  Captain  C.'s  home,  we  learned,  was  in  the  green  English  countryside,  and  there  he  had  lived  with  Mrs.  C.,  among  the  so-called  country  gentry.  I  have  never  met  Mrs.  C.;  I  shall  probably  never  meet  her.  Ishall  not  even  try  to  describe  the  image  I  came  to  see  of  her  in  her  letters  to  her  husband,  for  fear  I  might  desecrate  the  image  formed  by  some  other  member  of  our  cabal,  or  do  the  lady  herself  an  injustice.  Let  me  just  say  that  Mrs.  C.,  who  was  the  mother  of  twin  babies,  must  havebeen  a  wholly  normal,  vivacious,  and  healthy  girl  with  a  charming  sense  of  humor  and  a  delightfully  appreciative  eye  for  the  world  around  her.  In  her  letters,  we  read  of  many  early-morning  horse-  back  rides  through  a  countryside  remote  from  the  tumult  of  the  times,  and,  as  she  described  her  rides,  they  were  rest-  ful  even  to  us.  A  variety  of  characters  passed  across  the  stage  of  her  letters,  all  described  candidly  and  amusingly.  There  were  details  and  anecdotes  of  daily  life  that  in  themselves  meant  lit-  tle  to  us,  yet  permitted  us  to  look  through  the  door  to  the  warmth  and  love  from  which  we  had  been  shut  out  so  long.  I  do  not  remember  ever  seeing  a  word  of  complaint  or  unhappiness  in  Mrs.  C.'s  lines.  She  never  resorted  to  railing  against  circumstance  or  to  condemna-  tion  of  so  much  that  might  well  have  been  condemned.  Instead,  her  letters  were  a  steadying  and  cheerful  reminder  of  the  beauties  of  a  peaceful  way  of  life.  To  each  of  us,  Mrs.  C.  became  a  reference  point  of  sanity-the  pro-  verbial  beacon  in  a  storm,  which  had  for  a  while  been  hidden  from  our  sight.  Her  letters  provided  us  with  the  refresh-  ment  of  calm  humor,  and  this  was  frequently  our  only  remedy  against  despair.  As  might  be  expected,  Mrs.  C.'s  let-  ters  occasionally  mentioned  intimacies  between  husband  and  wife.  Coming  upon  these,  we  blushed  inwardly  and  be-  rated  ourselves  for  being  meddling  fools.  But  our  reverence  and  adoration  for  Mrs.  C.  had  become  so  sincere  that  we  read  on,  feeling,  I  suppose,  that  she  would  understand  and  forgive.  None  of  us  ever  discussed  or  so  much  as  spoke  about  these  remarks  of  hers;  instead,  we  filed  them  away  in  some  corner  of  our  hearts  reserved  for  the  innermost  af-  fairs  of  friends.  In  one  letter,  Mrs.  C.  wrote  a  hilari-  ous  commentary  on  the  problems  of  nursing  twins.  Her  dissertation  covered  the  varying  appetites  of  the  pair  and  the " b"best  piping  arrangements,  including  sev-  eral  plans  of  rotation  she  had  devised  to  keep  things  in  equilibrium.  This  let-  ter  was  the  peak  ofthe  whole  series.  The  natural  charm  of  her  words  deeply  moved  us.  I  do  not  think  that  any  of  us  wished  to  violate  the  privacy  of  Mrs.  C.'s  bosom,  but  all  of  us  would  have  given  our  lives  for  the  heart  that  beat  so  warmly  underneath.  HIS  strange  collective  love  af-  fair  by  proxy  came  to  an  abrupt  end  when  the  4a6170616eese  began  to  suspect  our  motives  for  sorting  mail,  and  sum-  marily  closed  down  our  post  office.  Once  again,  we  entered  a  long  period  without  news,  but  the  strength  we  had  stolen  from  Mrs.  C.'s  letters  helped  us  to  wait  out  the  dreary  days.  As  I  have  said  before,  these  letters  never  re-  sulted  in  boisterous  appreciation.  'They  affected  us  too  much  for  that.  Indeed,  about  the  only  compliment  I  heard  any-  one  actually  offer  Mrs.  C.  was  the  sim-  ple  observation  &quot;Wonderful  girl,  by  God.  There's  one  I  would  like  to  meet  after  the  war!&quot; "