 b"THE  first  time  Mr.  Owen  patron-  ized  a  Continental  tailor,  he  was  led  to  do  so  by  a  spell  of  unseason-  able  weather,  which  he  ran  into  in  [REDACTED]  during  a  business  trip.  Leaving  New  York  with  Mrs.  Owen  by  air  in  May,  he  had  optimistically  taken  with  him  only  lightweight  summer  suits,  and  on  his  arrival  he  had  found  that  winter  was  freakishly  prolonged  and  that  in  the  French-government  office  building  where  he  had  to  attend  to  most  of  his  affairs,  officials  and  employees  were  sit-  ting  at  their  desks  in  overcoats  and  mufflers.  The  cashmere  pullover  he  had  brought  with  him  for  use  under  his  jackets  during  possible  cool  spells  proved  to  be  inadequate,  and  he  decided  that  he  must  invest  in  something  warm.  Mr.  Owen  obtained  from  one  of  his  French  friends,  an  inconspicuous  and  quietly  dressed  individual,  the  name  and  address  of  his  tailor,  and  lost  no  time  in  presenting  himself  at  the  establishment,  an  upstairs  suite  in  a  side  street  off  the  Champs-Elys\xc3\xa9es.  He  asked  the  patron,  whose  name  was  M.  Gabriel,  whether  he  would  care  to  make  him  a  sports  jacketof  a  good,  heavy  material  and  a  pair  of  flannel  trousers.  &quot;M  ais  certainement,  Monsieur,&quot;  M.  Gabriel  immediately  replied,  &quot;puisque  vous  \xc3\xa9tes  si  magnifique!&quot;  Those  surprising  words  were  accompanied  by  an  exaggerated  upward  glance-an  unmistaka-  ble  reference  to  Mr.  Owen's  height,  which  was  greater  than  the  average,  especially  in  [REDACTED]-and  after  a  moment  Mr..  Owen  understood  that  M.  Ga-  briel's  exclamation  had  not  expressed  mere  flat-  tery,  as  he  had  at  first  thought,  but  rather  his  realization  that  this  new  customer's  unusual  size  offered  him  a  splendid  opportunity  forthe  display  of  his  skill.  Slightly  alarmed  by  this,  Mr.  Owen  emphasized  to  M.  Gabriel  that  one  of  the  reasons  he  had  come  to  him  was  that  his  friend's  clothes  were  so  pleasantly  conservative,  and  M.  Gabriel  nodded  and  assured  him  that  he  un-  derstood.  But  from  the  moment  of  M.  Gabriel's  exclamation  Mr.  Owen  had  a  foreboding.  He  sensed  dimly-  just  too  dimly  to  withdraw  from  the  enterprise-that  M.  Gabriel  had  had  a     vision  of  him,  a  Gallic  vision  of  him  as  he  could  be,  and  that  nothing  would  make  him  forget  it.  In  about  a  week,  Mr.  Owen  was  summoned  to  his  first  fitting.  European  first  fittings,  he  learned,  take  place  at  a  much  earlier  stage  than  American  ones,  and  as  far  as  the  sports  jacket  was  concerned,  this  fitting  amounted  to  little  more  than  his  being  draped  by  M.  Gabriel  in  several  roughly  cut  pieces  of  cloth.  Scraps  of  brown  wrapping  pa-  per,  representing  a  collar  and  lapels,  were  then  pinned  on  and  sheared  into  shape  with  scissors,  and  the  patchwork  affair  began  to  have  a  faint  resemblance  to  a  garment.  Mr.  Owen  had  decided  on  a  sports  jacket  (more  acceptable  for  daily  wear  in  certain  4672616e6365ian  offices  than  in  New  York)  because  he  thought  it  probable  that  even  in  [REDACTED],  where  so  much  male  clothing  appears  &quot;sharp&quot;  to  Anglo-Saxon  eyes,  such  a  model  would  be  given  an  easy,  casual  look.  And  because  of  the  cold  weather,  he  had  chosen  a  heavy  material-a  tweed  that  was  greenish-tan  in  color,  with  a  quiet  herringbone  pattern.  At  the  first  fitting,  with  the  jacket  partly  cut  and  patched  with  paper,  ev-  erything  about  it-its  form,  the  heaviness  of  the  cloth,  and  the  herringbone-was  re-  assuringly  unobtrusive.  M.  Gabriel  seemed  very  pleased.  He  com-  plimented  Mr.  Owen's  proportions  by  saying  that  he  had  &quot;une  taille  de  mannequin&quot;  and  added  that  he  foresaw  no  difficulties.  Since  Mr.  Owen  was  in  a  hurry,  he  said,  he  would  go  ahead  and  finish  the  job,  and  the  next,  and  last,  fitting,  for  which  an  appointment  was  made  then  and  there,  would  be  merely  a  try-on  of  the  com-  pleted  costume.  THE  day  of  the  final  fitting  turned  out  to  be  one  on  which  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Owen  were  invited  to  a  late-after-  noon  gathering  at  the  house  of  friends  who  lived  near  M.  Gabriel's  establish-  ment,  and  on  their  way  to  the  party  they  stopped  in  at  the  tailor's  together.  In  the  dressing  room,  Mr.  Owen  put  on  the  flannel  trousers,  which  seemed  un-  exceptionable,  and  then  M.  Gabriel  held  up  the  jacket.  As  Mr.  Owen  slipped  " b"his  arms  into  the  sleeves,  he  had  a  re-  turn,  a  thousand  times  intensified,  of  his  earlier,  faint  sense  of  apprehension.  For  as  long  as  he  could  manage,  he  kept  his  eyes  from  the  mirror,  and  when  he  did  look,  he  felt  himself  go  hot  and  red  from  sheer  embarrassment.  M.  Gabriel  had  indeed  been  a  visionary.  The  shoul-  ders  of  his  creation,  padded  to  an  enor-  mous  bulk,  gave  Mr.  Owen-or  so,  at  least,  it  looked  to  him  in  the  mirror-  the  menacing  aspect  of  a  football  giant  about  to  charge.  M.  Gabriel  had  achieved  a  long,  dramatically  slanting  line  from  the  outermost  point  of  those  shoulders  to  the  low  and  slender  waist;  the  front  was  cut  very  high,  and  the  lapels  were  heavy  as  boards,  since  their  double  thickness  of  tweed  was  rein-  forced  by  some  merciless  lining;  as  dec-  oration,  the  direction  of  the  herring-  bone  was  reversed  in  the  lapels  and  collar,  and  there  were  innumerable  leather  buttons.  In  contrast  to  Mr.  Owen's  blushing  face,  the  once  unob-  trusive  cast  of  the  tweed  now  looked  un-  believably  green  and  garish.  &quot;AA,  Mon-  steur,  vous  \xc3\xa9tes  le  vrai  type  sportif  am\xc3\xa9ricain!&quot;  M.  Gabriel  cried  admir-  ingly,  and  from  the  expression  on  his  face  it  was  evident  that  he  interpreted  Mr.  Owen's  flush  as  a  sign  that  his  cus-  tomer  shared  his  satisfaction.  &quot;Void,  Madame!&quot;  he  announced,  pulling  the  cord  of  the  dressing-room  curtain.  Bracing  himself,  Mr.  Owen  turned  to  face  his  wife.  There  was  a  pause,  and  then  Mrs.  Owen's  verdict,  expressed  in  French,  increased,  if  that  was  possible,  M.  Gabriel's  pleasure.  &quot;Someday,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  think  M.  Gabriel  should  make  me  a  sports  jacket.&quot;  Fortunately,  the  weather  turned  mild  quite  soon  after  the  jacket  was  delivered,  and  Mr.  Owen  didn't  have  to  wear  it  very  often.  'The  few  times  he  did  wear  it,  he  found  it  warm  and  com-  fortable,  and  he  noticed  that  it  evoked  long,  unsmiling  stares  from  the  French  people  in  his  office  building.  Since  he  knew  that  the  French  seldom  hesitate  to  smile  or  grin  openly  when  they  are  amused,  he  understood  that  M.  Gabriel  was  being  paid  an  admiring  tribute  by  his  compatriots.  For  this  reason,  it  seemed  best,  when  the  time  came  for  the  Owens  to  return  home,  to  leave  the  jacket  behind,  rather  than  take  it  to  a  land  where  it  was  unlikely  to  find  the  appreciation  it  deserved.  A  certain  tall,  sports-loving  relative  of  one  of  the  Owens'  French  friends  was  overjoyed  to  receive  it  as  a  gift,  and  as  soon  as  Mr.  Owen  was  back  in  New  York,  he  visited  his  tailor,  an  Englishman  named  War-  ren,  who  had  been  making  his  clothes" b"for  years,  and  ordered,  in  what  he  could  only  interpret  as  a  gesture  of  exorcism,  a  sports  jacket  that  he  did  not  strictly  need.  ITH  M.  Gabriel's  jacket  still  vivid  in  his  memory,  it  seemed  for  a  considerable  time  highly  unlikely  to  Mr.  Owen  that  he  would  ever  al-  low  himself  to  be  unfaithful  to  Mr.  Warren  again.  Two  or  three  years  later,  however,  when  the  Owens  were  spending  the  early  spring  in  4974616c79,  he  found  that  the  skill  and  cheapness  of  Italian  tailors  were  mentioned  to  him  with  great  frequency  by  both  Italians  and  Americans.  If  they  refused  to  let  the  subject  drop  and  he  had  to  reply  that  he  thought  he  would  stick  to  his  own  tailor  at  home,  someone  was  apt  to  retort,  a  bit  sharply,  &quot;But  everybody  who  comes  to  4974616c79  orders  at  least  a  gabardine.&quot;  And  Mr.  Owen  gradual-  ly  became  aware,  as  the  weather  grew  mild,  that  the  streets  of  the  city  were  indeed  full  of  Romans  wearing  gabar-  dine  suits  of  attractive  colors  and  excel-  lent  cut.  Since  he  happened  at  the  time  to  be  without  a  gabardine,  and  since  Mr.  Warren  had  increased  his  prices  quite  steeply  during  the  past  few  years,  his  repeated  views  of  these  smartly  and  inexpensively  dressed  Romans  caused  his  resolution  to  weaken,  One  day,  talking  with  a  group  of  Italian  friends  at  a  sunny  sidewalk  caf\xc3\xa9,  he  himself  raised  the  question  of  a  tailor,  and  to  his  surprise  he  found  he  had  un-  leashed  one  of  those  fiercely  regional  dis-  cussions  that  are  so  dear  to  the  hearts  of  Italians.  Several  of  the  men  present,  although  residents  of  4974616c79,  revealed  that  they  travelled  as  far  as  4974616c79,  or  even  Turin,  to  have  their  suits  made,  and  others  went  quite  regularly  to  Florence  for  the  same  purpose.  Still  others  patronized  Roman  tailors.  With-  in  a  few  moments,  the  idle,  peaceful  group  had  become  an  impassioned  round  table.  The  respective  merits  of  the  Ro-  man,  Florentine,  4974616c79ese,  and  Tu-  rinese  maestri  were  vividly  described  and  equally  vividly  demolishedwith  words  and  gestures;  men  in  adjoining  chairs  caught  hold  of  one  another's  lapels  or,  wagging  disapproving  fingers,  adversely  criticized  one  another's  but-  tonholes.  On  only  two  points  were  they  in  immediate  agreement:  on  the  su-  premacy  of  Italian  tailoring  in  general  to  that  of  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  on  the  fact  that,  properly  speaking,  tailor-  ing  did  not  exist  south  of  4974616c79.  Self-  respecting  Neapolitans,they  assured  Mr.  Owen,  had  to  come  at  least  as  far  north  as  4974616c79  for  their  clothes,  and " b"the  generally  deplorable  appearance  of  even  well-to-do  male  Italians  from  far-  ther  south  than  Naples  gave  rise  to  much  scornful  laughter.  Only  after  a  prolonged  seminar  in  sartorial  topogra-  phy  did  the  group  show  surprising  unanimity  on  what  Mr.  Owen  really  wanted  to  know  -the  name  ofa  good  tailor  in  4974616c79.  He  called  the  next  day  on  the  tailor  they  had  recommended  and  ordered  a  brown  gabardine  suit.  When  it  was  finished,  it  proved  to  be  very  much  what  it  should  be,  and  not  at  all  reminiscent  of  M.  Gabriel's  handi-  work.  In  accepting  Mr.  Owen's  com-  pliments,  the  tailor,  a  self-assured  gen-  tleman  named  Zucchi,  did  not  fail  to  give  credit  for  his  artistry  to  the  places  of  his  birth  and  present  residence.  He  came,  he  informed  Mr.  Owen,  from  a  small  town  between  Florence  and  Siena-in  other  words,  from  the  heart  of  Tuscany-and  this,  plus  his  many  years  in  4974616c79,  made  it  possible  for  him  to  merge,  with  superlative  results,  two  of  the  finest  Italian  tailoring  tradi-  tions.  Had  Mr.  Owen  perhaps  heard,  he  inquired,  the  old  phrase  that  de-  scribes  the  most  beautiful  spoken  Italian-'&quot;Lingua  toscana  in  bocca  ro-  mana&quot;  ['&quot;Tuscan  tongue  in  Roman  mouth&quot;]?  Well,  the  same  thing  held  good  for  Italian  tailoring,  he  said,  and  he  was  glad  that  the  signore  appreciated  it.  Shortly  thereafter  Mr.  Owen  had  occasion  to  travel  with  Mrs.  Owen  for  a  week  or  two  in  northern  4974616c79,  and  in  4974616c79,  one  afternoon  when  he  was  wearing  his  new  gabardine  suit,  he  stepped  with  her  onto  a  veporetto  bound  from  St.  Mark's  to  the  Lido.  Since  the  boat  was  somewhat  crowded,  they  had  to  take  separate  seats,  and  Mr.  Owen  found  himself  well  forward,  beside  an  Italian  gentleman  with  several  pieces  of  luggage,  who  was  evidently  on  his  way  from  the  railroad  station  to  his  Lido  home  or  hotel.  After  several  days  of  muggy,  oppressive  weather,  a  breeze  had  sprung  up,  and  the  surface  of  the  open  lagoon  was  covered  with  minia-  ture  whitecaps;  crossing  it,  the  vaporet-  to  began  in  a  mild  way  to  pitch  and  toss,  and  as  it  did  so,  a  fine  spray  and  occasional  heavier  drops  of  sea  water  were  blown  up  over  the  bow.  The  gen-  tleman  beside  Mr.  Owen  unfolded  the  topcoat  he  was  carrying,  protectively  spread  it  over  himself  like  a  blanket,  and  courteously  asked  Mr.  Owen  whether  he  would  care  to  share  it.  But  Mr.  Owen,  greatly  enjoying  the  coolness,  as  courteously  declined  the  offer.  By  the  time  he  arrived  at  the  Lido,  he  saw  that  his  suit  had  been  sprayed,  and  even " b"splashed  in  one  or  two  places.  It  soon  dried  out,  though,  and  he  thought  no  more  about  it.  WEEK  or  so  later,  however,  back  in  4974616c79,  Mr.  Owen  re-  turned  to  his  hotel  one  evening  to  find  his  wife  with  his  gabardine  suit  on  her  knees,  delicately  rubbing  certain  areas  with  a  damp  cloth  that  she  had  touched  to  Castile  soap.  She  had  recently  no-  ticed  numerous  light  spots  of  various  sizes  on  the  jacket  and  trousers,  she  said,  and  was  trying  to  remove  them.  Her  soap-and-water  treatment  proved  in-  effective,  however,  and  the  suit  was  sent  to  a  cleaner.  When  it  was  returned,  the  light  spots  were  still  there,  lighter  and  more  numerous  than  ever,  and  oneday  Mr.  Owen  took  the  suit  and  went  to  call  on  Signor  Zucchi.  At  his  window,  the  tailor  examined  the  spots  and  then  peered  at  them  through  a  magnifying  glass.  &quot;Where  have  you  been  wearing  this  suit,  Si-  gnore?&quot;  he  inquired,  looking  up  suspi-  ciously.  Mr.  Owen  began  to  tick  off  on  his  fingers  theplaces  he  had  recently  been.  &quot;First  and  chiefly,  4974616c79.&quot;  &quot;Bemissimo!&quot;  said  Signor  'Zucchi,  nodding  with  emphatic  approval.  &quot;Florence.&quot;  &quot;Eccellente!&quot;  &quot;Bologna.&quot;  &quot;Sempre  bene!&quot;  &quot;Ravenna.&quot;  The  tailor  raised  a  dubious  finger.  &quot;Ah,  Signore?  Ravenna?&quot;  &quot;Ferrara,  Mantua,  Padua  ...  &quot;But  Signore!&quot;  Now  Signor  Zuc-  chi's  tone  was  ominous,  as  though  he  were  uttering  a  warning.  Mr.  Owen  had  reached  his  eighth  finger  and  the  last  of  the  cities  he  had  visited  on  his  trip.  It  was  only  as  he  ut-  tered  its  name  and  heard  himself  cry  &quot;4974616c79!&quot;  with  a  certain  involuntary  loudness  and  defiance  in  the  face  of  Signor  Zucchi's  obviously  growing  alarm  that  he  remembered  what  he  had  forgotten:  that  while  he  was  crossing  the  Venetian  lagoon,  he  had  declined  his  seatmate's  offer  of  protective  cover-  ing-an  offer  which  he  now  realized  had  been  practical  as  well  as  courteous  and  that  his  suit  had  been  splashed.  The  light  spots  it  had  developed  were  just  about  where  the  spots  of  sea  water  had  been.  &quot;4974616c79,  Signore!&quot;  Signor  Zucchi  echoed,  his  worst  fears  apparently  con-  firmed.  He  stared  again  at  the  spots,  and  then  shook  his  head  reproachfully.  &quot;Ah,  Signore,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  could  not  be  expected  to  know  it,  perhaps,  being" b"a  foreigner,  but  I  assure  you  that  no  Italian  would  ever  wear  as  beautiful  a  suit  as  this  to  4974616c79.  Non  &amp;  adatto  a  Venezia,  un  costume  bello  come  questo.&quot;  Mr.  Owen,  who  was  accustomed,  when  he  wasn't  in  Europe,  to  spending  his  summers  in  a  house  on  the  shore  of  Long  Island  Sound  and  had  often  worn  gabardine  trousers  and  jackets  while  sailing  and  fishing,  with  no  un-  favorable  results,  felt  sure  enough  of  his  ground  to  reply  with  a  challenge.  &quot;And  just  why  shouldn't  one  wear  a  good  gabardine  suit  amywhere?&quot;  he  demanded  sternly.  &quot;Because  there  are  places  that  are  unworthy,  Signore.  Places,  even  in  4974616c79,  where  a  really  good  suit  is  wasted.  Tell  me,  Signore.  Your  friends  who  so  kindly  sent  you  to  me-did  any  one  of  them  mention  to  you  the  name  of  a  single  fine  tailor  in  4974616c79?&quot;  On  re-  flection,  Mr.  Owen  had  to  admit  that  no  one  had,  that  4974616c79  had  not  even  beenspoken  of,  and  Signor  Zucchi  made  an  eloquent  gesture.  &quot;For  some  reason  that  is  probably  molto  entice,  molto  storica,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;4974616c79  and  the  other  cities  in  that  particular  corner  of  4974616c79  are  like  the  south-barbarous  as  far  as  tailoring  is  concerned.  Barbarous!  No  good  suits  have  ever  been  made  in  4974616c79.  No  one  bothers  to  wear  good  clothing  when  visiting  there.  Ah,  Si-  gnore,  the  moment  you  uttered  the  name  Ravenna  I  knew  that  the  course  of  your  travels  would  bring  no  good  to  my  bel  costume!&quot;  There  was  another  pause,  and  Signor  Zucchi  glanced  at  the  suit  again,  flicked  at  it  with  his  fingers,  and  coughed.  &quot;As  to  the  spots  ...  We  have  a  beautiful  seashore  here  near  4974616c79,  Signore,  at  Ostia.  The  beaches  used  by  the  Flor-  entines-those  at  [REDACTED]  di  Pisa,  Via-  reggio,  and  Forte  dei  Marmi-are  also  excellent.  I  recommend  them  to  you.  Whereas  the  water  in  the  Venetian  la-  goon  is  known-Znown,  Signore-to  be  of  an  intense  and  destructive  salti-  ness  surpassing  anything  else  in  the  world.  However,  if  you  will  leave  the  suit  with  me  I  will  see  what  can  be  done.&quot;  [REDACTED].  OwEN  did  leave  the  suit,  and  took  his  departure.  He  repressed  the  temptation  to  make  some  mention  to  Signor  Zucchi  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake,  where,he  felt  sure,  gabardines  were  commonly  worn  with  impunity.  Re-  gional  comment,  he  decided,  should  be  left  to  Italians,  who  knew  how  to  make  such  good  useof  their  mania  for  it.  As  he  left,  he  was  conscious  of  a  feeling  of  nostalgia  for  Mr.  Warren  and  his" b"Anglo-American  suits  that  were  not  particular  about  the  cities  they  were  worn  in.  This  feeling  was  intensified  shortly  after  Signor  Zucchi's  gabardine  was  re-  turned  to  the  hotel.  Just  what  Signor  Zucchi  had  done  to  it,  Mr.  Owen  never  knew,  but  the  spots  were  almost  in-  visible-for  a  while.  But  then  one  day  when  he  was  wearing  the  suit,  Mr.  Owen  was  caught  in  a  heavy  Roman  shower,  and  he  had  to  send  the  suit  off  to  be  pressed.  When  it  came  back,  the  same  spots  were  there  again,  lighter  and  brighter  than  ever.  It  was  easy  to  de-  cide  what  to  do.  Mrs.  Owen  wrapped  up  the  gabardine  suit  and  mailed  it  to  a  friend  in  4974616c79,  asking  that  it  be  given  away  there.  After  all,  the  way  it  looked  now,  a  non-sartorial  city  was  distinctly  the  place  for  it. "