 b"MY  husband  is  a  4972616en.  His  name  is  Mohamed,  and  he  was  born  in  Malekabad,  not  far  from  the  city  of  Meshed,  in  northeastern  4972616e.  Malekabad  is  a  peasant  village,  with  a  manor  house  inside  a  walled  estate.  My  husband  has  often  described  this  house,  in  which  he  spent  his  early  childhood,  to  me-a  square,  one-story  stone  building  withverandas  looking  out  on  terraces,  gardens,  orchards,  and  a  long  perspective  of  cypress-bordered  walks  leading  to  a  large  pool,  which  was  not  only  ornamental  and  calculated  to  satisfy  the  4972616en  longing  for  the  sight  of  water,  but  also  served  as  the  res-  ervoir  that  made  the  gardens  and  or-  chards  possible.  Mohamed's  descriptions  of  Malekabad  reminded  me  of  &quot;'The  Arabian  Nights.&quot;  When  I  was  intro-  duced  to  him,  in  1943,  he  was  a  misanthropic  young  man  living  in  a  Greenwich  Village  basement.  He  was  obviously  very  poor;  he  cooked  huge  bowls  of  saffron-tinted  rice  for  himself;  and  he  was  rumored  to  be  an  aristocrat  in  his  own  country.  All  this  was  irresist,  ible  to  a  young  person  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  When  we  were  married,  two  years  later,  Mohamed  refused  to  move  into  my  apartment,  so  I  went  to  live  in  the  basement.  We  had  no  tables  or  chairs  only  day  beds  and  orange  crates  with  flounces-but  we  brewed  our  tea  in  an  antique  samovar  and  dropped  our  ciga-  rette  ashes  into  silver  saucers  from  Isfa-  han.  Some  of  the  people  who  came  to  see  us  had  names  like  Jack  and  Harry,  but  more  often  our  visitors  were  called  Ahmad,  Ab-  dullah,  or  Mahmud.  And  the  mailman  dropped  into  our  box  letters  covered  with  Arabic  callig-  raphy  and  4972616eian  postage  stamps.  I  began  to  pore  over  the  history  and  geography  of4972616e  as  if  I  were  tracing  the  genealogy  of  a  family  that  was  ancient  and  noble  and  sud-  denly  mine.  Before  the  oldest  of  our  three  chil-  dren  was  born,  we  gave  up  the  basement  and  moved  to  a  two-and-a-half-room  apartment  in  Great  Neck.  My  husband  had  a  job  with  an  4972616eian  import-export  firm  in  the  city,  and  our  social  life  was  still  largely  colored  by  his  Oriental  back-  ground.  He  would  call  up  to  tell  me  he  was  bringing  someone  home  to  dinner,  and  the  guest  would  turnout  to  be  a  charming,  worldly  man  who  held  the  post  of,  say,  economic  adviser  to  the  4972616eian  government.  If  Mohamed  was  late  getting  home,  it  was  more  often     than  not  because  he  had  to  paya  pro-  tocol  visit  to  a  prince,  or  to  a  man  who  had  beenan  ambassador,  was  an  am-  bassador,or  was  about  to  become  an  ambassador.  My  husband  rarely  discussed  his  fam-  ily,  and  never  gave  me  any  connected  account  of  his  relatives  or  his  life  in  Per-  sia.  He  was  not  secretive,  but  he  felt  that  some  things  cannot  be  explained  all  at  once,  and  must  await  the  proper  time  and  context  to  be  understood.  How-  ever,  he  is  a  habitual  digressionist,  and  he  would  sometimes  refer  to  members  of  his  family  as  exemplifying  certain  char-  acteristics,  and  go  on  torelate  incidents  from  his  childhood  in  Malekabad  as  il-  lustration.  By  fitting  together  these  bits  of  information,  I  was  able,  little  by  little,  to  form  an  impression  of  his  family.  His  mother  emerged  as  a  small,  saint  ly  person,  always  dressed  in  black,  and  once  a  celebrated  beauty  of  Tabriz.  She  had  had  eleven  children,  four  of  whom  were  dead.  Of  the  surviving  seven,  four  were  daughters,  married  and  liv-  ing  in  4972616e.  My  husband  was  the  young-  est  of  the  three  sons.  The  two  others  held  diplomatic  posts,  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  My  mother-in-law  could  not  read  or  write,  but  that  was  nothing  extraordinary.  The  women  of  her  class  and  generation  were  often  taken  from  theirdolls  and  given  in  marriage.  W  hat  was  extraordinary  about  her  was  that  she  had  memorized  the  entire  Koran,  and  could  quote  long  sections  from  the  4972616en  classics,  which  are  con-  stantly  being  read  aloud  and  quoted.  But  perhaps  the  most  extraordinary  thing  was  her  strength  of  character.  Her  hus-  band  had  taken  her  sons  from  her  and  sent  them  to  study  in  Europe,  before  they  reached  the  age  of  ten.  One  she  never  saw  again;  he  died  in  [REDACTED].  Two  returned  to4972616e,after  a  dozen  years,  grown  men.  My  husband  had  not  gone  back  to  4972616e  at  all.  Never  once  didshe  send  out  a  cry  for  them  to  come  back,  though  she  prayed  and  wept  in  her  room  every  morning  beside  their  pictures.  I  recoiled  a  little  from  this  idealized  and  tragic  figure.  She  was  too  noble,  too  strong.  I  might  have  felt  a  positive  aver-  sion  to  my  mother-in-law  if  it  had  not  been  for  one  welcome  defect  in  her  character:  she  was  addicted  to  gam-  bling  at  cards.  The  picture  of  my  husband's  father  was  not  so  consistent.  The  visitors  from  4972616e  who  dined  with  us  knew  him-  Hajji  Malek,  they  called  him.  When  pressed  for  details,  though,  they  were  not  sureof  the  extent  of  his  landhold-  ings,  the  number  of  his  children,  or  the  number  of  his  wives.  He  was  called  Hajji  because  in  his  youth  he  had  made  the  pilgrimage  to  [REDACTED].  Malek  is  an  abbreviation  of  Malek-O-Tod  jar,  a  title  conferred  upon  him  in  the  early  years  of  this  century  by  the  last  of  the  Qajar  shahs;  it  means  King  of  the  Business-  men.  Actually,  he  wasn't  a  businessman  at  all  but  a  landlord-a  member  of  a  class  of  feudal  squires  who  inherit  their  hold-  ings,  villages  and  all,  like  fiefs.  And  he  was  an  unusual  landlord.  Instead  of  amusing  himself  in  [REDACTED]  or  New  York,  he  lived  on  and  for  his  land.  His  yearly  gross  income  was  reputed  to  be  a  hun-  dred  and  fifty  thousand  tomans  (about  thirty  thousand  dollars),  but  he  never  had  a  penny  inhis  pocket.  All  his  money  went  back  into  the  land.  He  was  can-  tankerous  and  old-fashioned  in  his  per-  sonal  habits,  but  in  the  realm  of  agricul-  ture  no  new  idea  was  too  fantastic  for  him  to  try.  At  Sherifabad,  his  opium  and  sugar-beet  ranch  near  Nishapur,  the  barn  was  full  of  rusting  machinery-  parts  of  two  tractors  and  a  combine  he  had  imported  from  [REDACTED]  after  the  First  World  War,  only  to  find  that  no  one  knew  how  to  run  them  properly  or  repair  them.  Some  of  our  guests  said  that  Hajji  Malek  owned  all  of  Khurasan,  a  prov-  ince  about  the  size  of  4974616c79,  which  bor-  ders  on  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED];  that  his  living  children  numbered  over  twen-  ty-five;  and  that  at  sixty-eight  he  rode  horseback  for  days  ata  time,  surveying  his  property,  eating  dried  bread  in  the  saddle,  and  sleeping  in  a  blanket  roll  out  on  the  plains.  My  husband  pooh-  poohed  most  of  these  stories.  It  was  true  that  Hajji  Malek  owned  nine  or  ten  feudal  villages  in  the  eastern  part  of  Khurasan,  he  said.  And  it  was  also  true  that  at  times  he  had  had  other  wives  (more  properly  called  zigh\xc3\xa9s,  or  lawful  concubines)  besides  Mohamed's  moth-  er.  As  one  4972616eian  visitor  explained  it,  &quot;Elle  est  permanente,  les  autres  vari-  ables.&quot;  My  husband  was  seven  and  a  half  years  old  when  he  left  4972616e.  He  spent  twelve  years  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  Gymnasium  and  then  in  the  University,  and  in  1937  he  came  to  [REDACTED]  on  a  university  scholarship.  When  he  told  me  about  some  incident  of  his  early  childhood-trapping  spar-  rows  in  the  garden  of  his  home,  being  cheated  of  his  New  Year  presents  by  Lala  the  Eunuch,  riding  to  the  527573736961n  border  in  a  droshky-I  was  never  sure  " b"that  I  was  imagining  it  correctly.  And  although  I  used  to  tell  him  that  I  knew  what  he  meant,  I  had  the  feeling  that  I  didn't  know  at  all  and  would  have  to  wait  until  I  had  been  to  4972616e.  My  hus-  band  and  I  never  discussed  it,  but  we  both  knew  that  sooner  or  later  he  must  make  up  his  mind  either  to  return  to  4972616e  or  to  divorce  himself  from  it  (ex-  cept  for  sentimental  ties)  and  accept  a  life  totally  Western.  One  day,  he  announced  quietly,  in  the  midst  of  a  conversation  about  some-  thing  else,  that  he  was  thinking  of  going  home  for  a  visit,  and  that  I  would,  of  course,  go  with  him.  This  was  in  Oc-  tober,  1951,  and  on  the  first  of  Novem-  ber  we  boarded  a  ship  bound  for  [REDACTED],  leaving  our  three  children  with  my  parents.  During  the  trip,  my  husband  taught  me  a  few  words  of  Farsee,  to  help  me  make  my  wants  known  and  show  my  good  will.  He  also  taught  me  a  few  of  " b"the  customary  4972616en  forms  of  polite-  ness.  I  must  kiss  his  mother's  hand  on  meeting  her,  and  also  his  father's,  as  a  sign  of  filial  respect.  My  name  must  be  changed,  because  Anne  might  be  con-  fused  with  an  obscenity  in  Farsee.  We  selected  Maryam-a  transmutation  of  my  middle  name,  Marie.:  To  this,  Khanoum,  meaning  &quot;lady,&quot;  would  be  added,  according  to  4972616en  usage.  I  found  the  abandonment  ofso  intimate  a  part  of  myself  as  my  name  rather  hard  to  accept.  (As  it  turned  out,  the  family  never  called  me  anything  but  Khanoum  Mohamed  Aga,  or  Mr.  Mohamed's  lady,  and  that  made  things  easier.)  As  for  my  husband's  name,  the  &quot;Mo-  hamed,&quot;  of  course,  was  familiar,  and  to  be  correct  in  4972616e,  I  simply  added  A  ga-Mr.-to  it.  We  avoided  speculations  and  plans.  Once,  whenwe  were  watching  some  of  the  ship's  passengers  get  off  at  an  eastern  Mediterranean  port  for  a  guided  tour,  Mohamed  said  to  me,  &quot;Don't  expect  me  to  guide  you  around.  We're  not  going  to  4972616e  as  tourists.  You'll  be  as  much  on  your  own  as  you  are  in  [REDACTED].  There  will  be  days  when  you'll  hate  me  for  it,  but  it  will  be  better  in  the  long  run  if  you  see  what  things  are  really  like.&quot;  I  remember  only  two  other  things  Mohamed  said  on  shipboard  about  what  was  in  store.  Both  of  them  frightened  me.  The  first  was  &quot;You  mustn't  for-  get  that  any  exile,  no  matter  how  long  he's  been  abroad,  reverts  emotionally  to  some  extent  when  he  crosses  the  border  of  his  own  country.  I'll  become  a  Per-  sian  again,  but  you'll  still  be  a  faerange.&quot;  The  second  was  &quot;They  may  feel  that  our  City  Hall  marriage  wasn't  all  it  should  have  been.&quot;  At  [REDACTED],  we  boarded  a  plane  for  4972616e.  We  came  upon  the  city  out  of  the  southwest,  in  the  late  afternoon.  It  seemed  hardly  more  than  an  irregular  patch  of  earth-colored  netting  and  cube  work.  As  the  plane  descended,  I  could  distinguish  houses  and  streets,  but  the  city  never  wholly  separated  itself  from  the  barren  plateau  around  it.  Converg-  ing  upon  4972616e  were  what  appeared  to  be  chains  of  molehills  and  were  ac-  tually  the  system  of  underground  aque-  ducts  that  supply  the  capital  with  water.  Except  for  these,  and  the  glittering  domes  of  three  or  four  [REDACTED],  the  capital  of  4972616e  seemed  flat  and  uninviting.  In  spite  of  being  eight  hundred  years  old,  it  looked  raw  and  unfinished,  as  if  the  job  of  completing  it  had  been  abandoned  for  lack  of  solid  stone  and  steel.  As  we  stepped  from  the  plane  at  Mehrabad  airport,  I  saw  a  crowd  waiting  behind  a  fence.  Atonce,  hands  shotup.  ''There  they  are!&quot;  Mohamed  said.  After  we  passed  through  the  customs,  a  number  of  women  came  toward  us,  strung  out  in  a  line.  I  counted  twelve,  most  of  them  wearing  dark  headkerchiefs,  black  or  dark-blue  street-length  coats,  and  su\xc3\xa9de  pumps  with  high  heels.  Mohamed's  mother  stood  out,  startlingly  small  and  compact,  and  trembling  with  wordless  emotion,  her  chestnut-brown  eyes  fixed  upon  her  son  as  if  this  first  sight  of  him  had  to  satisfy  the  amassed  longing  of  twenty  years.  My  father-in-law  was  not  there.  Illness  had  kept  him  in  Meshed.  I  tried  to  pick  out  Mohamed's  sisters  from  the  other  women,  but  I  couldn't,  perhaps  because  all  of  them,  irrespective  ofage,  had  hennaed  hair  peeping  from  under  their  kerchiefs.  This  confused  me  and  drew  my  attention  away  from  their  faces.  Mohamed  kissed  and  was  kissed  by  his  mother,  and  then  went  on  down  the  line.  I  followed  his  example.  Not  a  word  was  spoken.  The  4972616en  women  must  have  decided  among  themselves  that  it  would  be  impolite  to  speak  Farsee,  and  none  of  them  knew  a  Western  lan-  guage.  The  air  about  us  was  charged  with  silence;  the  other  arriving  and  de-  parting  passengers  chattered,  laughed,  and  cried  while  Mohamed  and  I  went  through  our  silent  kissing,  once  on  both  cheeks  for  each  of  us  and  each  of  Mo-  hamed's  relatives-twenty-four  kisses,  forty-eight  kisses,  ninety-six  kisses  in  all.  I  waited  for  something  to  happen,  for  some  emotional  realization  that  I  was  in  4972616e,  face  to  face  with  the  people  I  had  waited  so  long  to  meet.  But  I  was  put  off  by  the  sight  of  my  in-laws'  dowdy  clothes  and  plain  faces,  byone  unattractive  detail  after  another:  a  pair  of  dusty  shoes,  a  pair  of  fat  legs,  a  pair  of  hairy  legs,  a  safety  pin  fastened  on  a  blouse.  In  spite  of  myself,  I  felt  superior.  We  divided  into  three  groups  and  were  driven  off  in  three  556e6974656420537461746573n  cars.  Mohamed  and  I  rode  with  his  mother  " b"and  oldest  sister.  From  time  to  time,I  would  smile  at  his  sister,  and  she  would  smile  back,  and  then  look  quickly  down  at  her  pocketbook  or  folded  hands,  as  if  she  had  just  done  something  extraor-  dinary  and  embarrassing  and  even  a  little  immodest.  The  drive  to  Mohamed's  mother's  house,  where  he  and  I  were  to  stay,  took  half  an  hour.  The  streets  of  4972616e  havebeen  rearranged  in  modern  times.  Most  of  them  meet  at  right  angles,  and  the  main  thoroughfares  are  wide,  the  father  ofthe  present  Shah  having  razed  any  buildings  that  interfered  with  this  improvement.  Later,  when  I  knew  the  city,  I  realized  we  had  been  driven  by  a  roundabout  route  that  avoided  the  slums  and  led,  instead,  past  the  great  cubic  government  buildings  and  up  the  Ave-  nue  Sa'adi,  with  its  travel  agencies  and  automobile  showrooms.  I  could  sense  the  satisfaction  of  the  other  occupants  of  the  car  as  my  eyes  skimmed  the  mosaic  fagade  ofthe  classic  Bank-I-Bazaar,  and  their  regret  as  I  watched  a  little  boy  with  scabs  all  over  his  head  relieving  himself  against  a  wall.  I  kept  thinking  we  would  soon  come  to  the  center  of  the  city.  We  never  did;  no  one  ever  does,  because  there  isn't  any  real  cen-  ter  to  4972616e.  Finally,  we  stopped  on  a  wide,  deserted  street  before  a  two-story  dun-colored  brick  building  that  re-  sembled  asmall  Ameri-  can  apartment  house.  It  was  the  house  of  Mo-  hamed's  mother.  In  the  front  hall,  we  were  met  by  a  young  girl  in  a  chador,  the  all-en-  veloping  shawl  that  is  commonly  worn  by  city  women  of  all  classes  in  4972616e.  I  noticed  that  she  had  two  gold  teeth  in  the  front  of  her  mouth  and  that  under  her  chador  she  was  wearing  white-and-  blue-striped  pajama  trou-  sers  and  woollen  socks  but  no  shoes  or  sandals.  There  was  a  hole  in  the  toe  of  one  sock.  Her  necklace  and  earrings  of  brassy  beads  tinkled  when  she  moved.  Mohamed's  mother  asked  him  to  ex-  plain  to  me  that  the  girl's  name  was  Effat  and  I  was  to  call  her  if  I  needed  anything.  &quot;Come  down  when  you're  rested,&quot;  Moham-  ed  said  as  Effat  picked  up  our  suitcases  and  led  me  upstairs  to  our  room,  looking  back  at  every  second  step  as  if  she  expected  me  to  make  a  faux  pas  of  some  sort.  After  hiding  the  luggage  under  the  bed,  where  it  would  be  hard  to  get  at,  she  turned  to  go.  I  went  up  to  her  and  touched  the  chador,  indicating  that  I  would  like  to  look  at  it.  She  took  off  the  garment  and  spread  it  out  on  the  bed.  It  proved  to  be  a  semicircular  piece  of  white  cotton  printed  with  flowers.  She  showed  me  how  the  chador  is  thrown  over  the  whole  figure-a  cape  that  hangs  from  the  top  of  the  head  instead  of  the  shoulders.  Then  it  is  tucked  and  twisted  about  the  waist  in  such  a  way  that  the  arms  are  free  for  work.  Or  it  can  be  worn  hanging  straight,  in  which  case  itis  held  to-  gether  from  the  inside  by  the  hands,  to  cover  the  mouth  and  nose.  When  Effat  had  left,  I  examined  the  room.  Except  for  along,  narrow  Per-  sian  rug  on  the  brown  linoleum  floor,  everything  was  ostentatiously  Western  and  new.  Looking  from  the  pale-pink  walls  to  the  bed,  spread  with  quilts  of  flaming-orange  satin,  and  then  to  the  curtains  with  their  Mexican-hat-and- cactus  design,  the  bed  lamp  with  a  pink  plastic  couple  dancing  the  minuet,  the  drinking  water  in  a  Welch's  grape-juice  bottle,  I  realized  that  all  these  horrors  had  been  painstakingly  assembled  to  please  me  and  make  me  feel  at  home.  In  the  center  ofthe  room  was  a  pot-  bellied  cast-iron  stove,  with  &quot;U.S.  Army&quot;  stamped  on  the  lid.  I  sat  down  on  the  floor  next  to  it,  but  the  kerosene  fumes  chased  me  away.  I  felt  both  de-  jected  and  ashamed  of  my  dejection.  I  crawled  under  a  satinquilt  with  a  book,  but  instead  of  reading  I  strained  to  catch  sounds  from  downstairs;  there  were  bursts  of  cheerful  noise.  Had  I  been  sent  up  to  my  room?  I  was  no  more  tired  than  Mohamed,  who  had  made  the  same  journey.  After  an  hour,  I  left  the  room  hesi-  tantly,  not  knowing  exactly  where  I  should  go  or  what  wrong  room  I  might  blunder  into.  The  whole  second  floor  was  dark  and  deserted,  and  I  started  downstairs.  From  a  landing  halfway  down,  I  saw  Effat  and  another  servant  girl  kneeling,  with  their  fore-  heads  touching  the  floor  and  their  backs  toward  me,  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs.  I  stood  there,  wondering  what  to  do  next.  It  seemed  wrong  to  watch  them.  While  they  were  lifting  their  arms  and  mur-  muring  and  sweeping  their  chadors  up  and  down,  I  stared  at  my  shoes  and  noted  flippantly  that  [REDACTED]  must  be  in  the  direction  of  the  coat  rack.  I  was  rooted  there  for  three  or  four  uncomfort-  able  minutes,  afraid  they  might  have  to  do  it  all  over  again  when  they  discov-  ered  I  had  seen  them.  As  soon  as  Effat  had  finished  her  prayers,  she  whirled  around,  grinning.  She  had  known  all  the  time  that  I  was  there,  I  went  on  down  the  stairs.  From  a  room  on  the  left  came  the  sounds  of  talk  and  laughter.  Effat  reached  out  and  picked  a  hair  from  my  shoulder.  I  smoothed  my  blouse,  felt  my  hair,  and,  assuming  an  expression  that  I  hoped  in-  dicated  modesty  and  intel-  ligence,  I  opened  the  door.  Though  I  hadn't  admitted  it  to  myself  until  now,  this  was  the  moment  I  had  been  dreading  for  weeks-  the  moment  when  the  whole  of  Mohamed's  fam-  " b"ily  would  first  survey  his  foreign  wife.  I  walked  into  a  large,  overheated  salon.  Sitting  in  chairs  or  on  sofas  around  the  walls  and  all  talking  at  once  in  strident  voices  were  twenty  or  twenty-five  sisters,  aunts,  uncles,  nephews,  nieces,  cousins,  and  in-laws.  They  all  rose  and  looked  at  me  ex-  pectantly.  Mohamed  came  toward  me  from  the  far  end  of  the  room  and  led  me  around  the  circle,  explaining  who  each  person  was  as  he  introduced  me.  I  kissed  the  women  and  shook  hands  with  the  men.  I  instantly  forgot  all  the  names  and  most  of  the  relationships,  though  I  do  remember  starting  when  a  middle-aged  gentleman  was  introduced  as  my  nephew.  The  wide  range  of  ages  in  a  single  generation  in  4972616e  creates  many  oddities  in  relationship.  I  soon  learned  never  to  presume  a  person's  age  by  his  relationship  to  Mohamed,  and  to  meet  without  surprise  a  bearded  nephew  or  an  aunt  in  diapers.  I  took  a  seat  on  a  sofa  beside  Mo-  hamed's  mother,  and  he  went  back  to  his  chair  on  the  other  side  of  the  room.  Little  by  little,  theguests  returned  to  their  various  conversations.  My  mother-  in-law  offered  me  sweets  and  candied  fruits.  'The  others  pretended  to  take  my  presence  there  for  granted.  No  one,  however,  was  unaware  of  me.  IfI  chose  one  candy  or  rejected  another,  if  I  smiled,  or  studied  some  decoration  on  the  mantelpiece,  a  dozen  pairs  of  eyes  noted  my  action.  &quot;Don't  miss  it!&quot;  they  seemed  to  be  flashing  at  each  other.  &quot;She  just  ate  a  piece  of  the  shirini  you  made.&quot;  I  felt  that  every  ges-  tureof  mine,  every  change  in  my  ex-  pression,  was  being  recorded  and  judged.  Since  Mohamed  was  too  far  away  to  serve  as  interpreter,  no  one  en-  gaged  me  in  conversation,  and  I  had  time  to  look  about  the  room.  Over  the  years,  Mohamed  had  told  me  many  stories  in  which  his  relatives  had  demon-  strated  wit  or  courage  or  hypnotic  powers  or  extraordinary  craftiness,  and  I  had  expected  their  appearance  to  bear  all  this  out.  It  was  hard  to  accept  the  idea  that  these  ordinary,  middle-  aged  men  and  women,  in  their  pin-  striped  suits  and  hand-knit  sweaters,  were  the  Hamids,  Saids,  and  Fakris  of  the  anecdotes.  Except  for  the  fact  that  they  looked  like  4972616ens,  and  not  like  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  they  might  have  been  a  gathering  of  my  own  family  in  [REDACTED].  I  sat  on  the  edge  of  my  chair  and  pre-  tended  a  rapt  interest  in  the  nearest  con-  versation.  I  laughed  when  the  others  laughed,  and  looked  sympathetic  when  their  expressions  reflected  sober  matters.  Pretty  soon,  I  realized  how  pointless  this performance  was,  and  gave  it  up  and  settled  back  in  my  chair.  The  conversation  whirled  about  me,  uninhibited  by  my  presence.  I  waited  for  someone  to  ask  the  usual  questions-  if  I  had  brothers  and  sisters,  where  my  family  lived  in  [REDACTED],  how  I  had  hap-  pened  to  meet  Mohamed,  about  our  children.  It  seemed  to  me  that  thear-  rival  of  a  daughter-in-law  from  sixty-  five  hundred  miles  away  was  not  caus-  ing  the  stir  it  should.  The  more  I  was  ignored,  the  more  I  tended,  in  spite  of  myself,  torelax.  My  attention  veered  aimlessly  around  and  finally  centered  on  the  cracking  of  watermelon  seeds.  No  matter  what  method  I  tried,  I  ended  up  with  a  gritty mess.  Mohamed  was  also  eating  them  and  I  watched  him  to  get  the  knack.  He  cracked  the  seeds  between  his  front  teeth,  neatly,  with  a  little  snap,  and  piled  the  oval  shells  on  a  silver  tray.  I  noticed  other  things  about  him,  too.  Usually  thoughtful  and  precise,  he  was  now  talking  eagerly  and  with  rapid  ges-  tures,  as  if  his  mother  tongue  tasted  good  after  years  of  fasting.  He  was  riding  on  the  high  excitement  of  homecoming,  and  words  spilled  out  of  him  in  a  musi-  cal  stream,.  Even  his  features,  as  I  watched  him,  seemed  to  change,  to  be-  come  less  out  of  place,  less  Western,  and  more  like  the  other  faces  in  the  room.  He  casually  fingered  a  string  of  prayer  beads,  and  he  smoked  a  flat  Gorgan  cigarette  as  if  he  never  smoked  anything  else.  He  struck  me  as  the  most  4972616en  person  there.  Secure  in  my  own  knowledge  of  him,  I  saw  with  pride  how  the  others  hung  on  his  words,  deferring  to  his  opinion  and  delighting  inhis  jokes.  'Then  it  hit  me,  suddenly  and  appallingly:  what  if  this  garrulous  4972616en  and  not  the  other  Mohamed,  the  one  I  knew,  were  the  real  man?Once  this  question  was  " b"raised,  everything  appeared  to  confirm  it.  The  contact  between  us  had  broken.  Dinner  was  announced.  I  can't  re-  member  what  it  consisted  of,  because  I  made  only  a  pretense  of  eating.  Strain  robbed  me  of  appetite,  which  is  perhaps  why  everyone  else  seemed  greedy  and  ill-mannered.  After  a  while,  I  became  conscious  of  aconfusion  behind  my  chair  and  turned  to  look.  Two  maidservants  were  stack-  ing  the  dirty  dishes  on  a  window  sill,  and,  watching  covertly,  I  saw  that  from  time  to  time  two  menservants  removed  them  to  the  kitchen  with  a  lot  of  clatter.  It  seemed  a  most  inconvenient  way  to  clear  the  table.  The  maids  made  one  large  stack,  which  was  carried  away  often,  and  one  small  stack,  which  was  left  behind  each  time.  Soon  I  realized  that  my  dishes  alone  made  up  the  small  pile;  everyone  else's  dishes  went  into  the  other.  As  we  left  the  dining  room,  all  the  plates  had  been  cleared  away  but  mine.  I  walked  along  with  Mohamed  and  asked  him  why  this  was  done.  He  explained  gently  that  his  mother  was  very  strict,  to  the  point  of  being  old-  fashioned,  in  her  observance  of  religious  customs,  and  that  my  dishes  were  set  aside  because  I  wasn't  a  Moslem.  No  one  could  eat  from  my  plates  until  they  had  been  washed  separately  and  then  dipped  three  times  in  clean  water.  I  told  myself  that  it  didn't  matter,  that  it  was  merelyan  idiosyncrasy  of  the  Moslem  religion;  nevertheless  it  was  borne  in  on  me  that  through  no  fault  of  mine  (and,  of  course,  no  fault  of  Mo-  hamed's  family)  I  was  not  one  of  them.  And  what  about  Mohamed?  His  dishes  were  not  looked  upon  as  contaminated,  yet  for  the  past  seven  years  he  and  I  had  lived  the  same  life,  sharing  everything.    I  went  up  to  bed  almost  immediately.  Most  of  the  company  were  playing  belote.  Mohamed  was  playing  with  his  mother  and  try-  ing  to  lose.  He  stood  up,  as  everyone  did,  when  I  excused  myself,  and  smiled  at  me.  We  might  have  beenback  in  our  basement  for  all  the  change  there  was  in  his  smile,  but  it  couldn't  dis-  pel  my  resentment.  Just  as  he  had  predicted,  I  had  discovered  that  he  was  a  4972616en.  If  I  had  found  out  that  he  was  having  an  extramarital  love  affair,  I  couldn't  have  been  more  upset.  As  I  closed  the  door  and  stepped  into  the  cold,  shadowy  hall,  I  couldhear  the  cardplayers  laughing  and  bidding,  and  Mohamed  saying,  in  Farsee,  &quot;Dust  on  my  head!&quot;  as  he  lost  the  bid. THE next  morning,  when  I  woke  up  at  about  nine,  my  husbandhad  already  gone  down  to  breakfast.  I  rang  for  Effat,  who  brought  me  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  I  washed  and  dressed  and  went  downstairs.  Before  opening  the  dining-room  door,  I  listened,  hoping  to  be  alone  with  Mohamed  and  his  mother,  and  heard  other  voices.  It  took  me  several  days  to  realize  that  there  would  always  be  visitors  at  break-  fast  time.  I  never  knew  who,  or  how  many,  there  would  be,  but  I  knew  I  could  count  on  finding  anything  up  to  half  a  dozen  extra  persons  at  the  long  table,  nibbling  glac\xc3\xa9ed  fruit  and  sipping  tea  and  looking  as  though  they  had  been  there  for  a  long  time  and  were  in  no  hurry  to  leave.  Itried  to  accept  their  presence  as  just  one  of  those  things  that  had  to  be  put  up  with  when  one  was  visiting,  but  they  made  me  uncomfort-  able,  I  wanted  to  be  spared  at  least  until  breakfast  was  over  the  tension  of  con-  fronting  callers,  of  worrying  whether  my  smile  covered  up  the  weariness  I  felt  at  seeing  so  many  of  them  so  often.  All  this  would,  of  course,  have  been  easier  if  I  had  felt  closer  to  Mohamed  and  able  to  talk  to  him  about  what  was  bothering  me.  We  all  lingered  over  breakfast-  which  was  usually  wheat  bread,  honey,  walnuts,  glac\xc3\xa9ed  fruit,  and  tea-until  the  servants  came  to  clearoff  the  table  and  set  it  for  lunch.  Then  we  retired  into  the  salon,  where  we  sipped  more  tea  and  ate  sweets  until  two.  'There  " b"were  guests  for  lunch,  but  by  that  time  I  had  ceased  to  care  what  happened.  The  day  was  already  crossed  off  my  calendar.  Lunch  was  a  confused  meal,  with  servants  rushing  in  and  out  of  the  din-  ing  room,  everyone  reaching  for  dishes,  never  enough  utensils  to  go  around,  and  the  children  of  our  guests  eating  off  window  sills.  The  main  dish  at  noon  and  at  night  was  rice  served  withsweet  orsour  mutton  or  lamb  stew.  The  sour  was  too  sour  and  made  tears  come  to  my  eyes.  Prejudice  kept  me  from  en-  joying  meat  drowned  ina  sauce,  of  pomegranate  juice  and  crushed  nuts,  that  resembled  chocolate  syrup.  What-  ever  was  nearest  my  plate,  I  helped  myself  to  and  tried  to  eat,  longing  all  the  while  for  a  piece  of  meat  that  was  neither  sweet  nor  sour  but  simply  tasted  like  meat.  After  lunch  everyone,  guests  and  all,  napped  until  five,  when  still  more  visi-  tors  drifted  in,  for  tea  and  cookies.  Whenever  anyone  entered  the  salon,  the  company  rose,  and  remained  standing  until  the  visitor  was  seated.  A  servant  girl  would  bring  a  glass  of  tea  in  a  silver  holder,  unasked.  This  girl's  only  duty  was  to  serve  tea.  If  Mohamed's  mother  remembered  that  the  guest  was  fond  of  a  particular  kind  of  sweet  or  compote  (and  she  seemed  to  have  a  phenomenal  memory  for  facts  of  this  sort),  a  servant  would  be  told  to  fetch  it  from  the  larder,  'Then  the  guest  would  be  persistently  entreated  to  help  himself,  and  he  had  no  choice  but  to  comply;  a  refusal  was  out  of  thequestion.  When  he  left,  the  company  would  rise  again,  and  some  member  of  the  family  would  accompany  him  all  the  way  to  the  front  door.  Tea  drinking  and  gossiping  con-  tinued  until  ten  o'clock  in  the  evening,  when  a  feast  of  a  supper  was  served.  It  was  followed  by  cards,  and  at  mid-  night  theguests  left  and  the  household  went  to  bed.  The  only  variation  was  paying  return  calls.  At  first,  I  looked  forward  to  ex-  cursions  of  this  kind,  hoping  to  geta  glimpse  of  life  outside  my  mother-in-  law's  house.  But  so  many  of  us  crowded  into  the  family  Ford  that  my  chief  con-  cern  was  my  own  discomfort.  Being  the  thinnest,  I  was  wedged  into  the  center  of  the  back  seat,  from  which  I  could  see  no  more  than  upper  stories  flying  past  along  the  way.  At  our  destination,  I  encountered,  with  one  or  two  unimpor-  tant  omissions  or  additions,  the  iden-  tical  gathering  I  saw  at  home.  Tea  and  cakes  were  served,  and  the  tea  glasses  and  filigree  holders  were  the  same  as  those  we  used  at  home.  And  every  household  seemed  to  be  alike  in  its  un-  certain  imitation  of  Western  decoration.  This  uninterrupted  entertaining  and  being  entertained,  this  perpetual  eating  and  napping,  must  be,  I  decided,  be-  cause  of  our  visit.  When  all  the  social  obligations  had  been  satisfied  and  the  various  members  of  the  family  took  up  their  normal  life  once  more,  I  would  have  a  chance  to  see  them  as  they  really  were.  Mohamed  disabused  me  of  this  idea.  Though  the  men  did  have  offices  that  they  went  toat  other  times  (and  two  or  three  were  deputies  and  attended  sessions  of  Majlis),  the  women  were  carrying  on  quiteas  they  would  have  if  we  hadn't  been  there.  The  entertaining  and  being  entertained  had  been  going  on  for  a  thousand  years.  Was  this  all,  I  asked  myself.  Was  this  Per-  sia?  Would  my  visit  amount  to  no  more  than  this?  I  didn't  be-  lieve  it.  I  was  sure  I'd  discover  more  if  they  would  let  me  get  away  from  the  house  and  from  them.  But  getting  away  was  apparently  out  of  the  question.  One  morning,  shortly  after  I  arrived,  I  men-  tioned  casually  that  I  must  run  down  to  the  corner  phar-  macy  for  some  toothpaste.  'The  next  thing  I  knew,  a  servant  had  been  dis-  patched.  He  brought  back  four  or  five  brands  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  toothpaste;  I  took  my  pick,  and  he  returned  the  rest.  Let-  ters  were  mailed  for  me,  cables  sent  for  me,  and  I  began  to  despair  of  ever  pass-  ing  the  front  door  except  to  be  whisked  to  another  front  door  just  like  it.  I  wanted  to  wander  about  the  streets,  to  watch  the  silversmiths  at  work  in  the  bazaar,  to  visit  a  mosque.  Everybody  agreed  that  I  should  do  all  this,  but  no  one  offered  to  guide  me,  and  I  won-  dered  why.  If  I  brought  up  the  subject  of  my  seeing  the  city,  it  was  sidetracked.  I  thought  I  recognized  the  iron  hand  in  the  velvet  glove,  and  concluded  that  sightseeing  just  wasn't  done  by  ladies  of  this  social  class.  Nevertheless,  I  was  de-  termined  to  get  out  of  the  house-to  sneak  out,  if  it  came  to  that.  At  breakfast  one  morning,  I  noticed  among  the  visitors  a  new,  young  face,  without  the  4972616en  languor  of  eyes  that  endowed  even  the  plainest  child  with  a  suggestion  of  unchildlike  knowledge.  It  belonged  to  a  schoolboy  nephew  of  Mohamed's-a  nephew  ofa  reasonable  age,  since  he  was  about  ten  years  young-  er  than  I.  His  self-confident  gestures  made  him  conspicuous  among  the  other  youngsters,  who  acted  shy  or  frightened  whenever  I  was  around.  &quot;Good  day.  I  am  Genie,&quot;he  said,  holding  out  his  hand.  It  was  the  first  time  since  I  had  ar-  rived  in  4972616e  that  anyone  but  my  hus-  " b"band  had  spoken  English  to  me,  and  I  was  happy  to  find  someone  to  talk  to,  someone  who  would  be  able  to  answer  my  questions.  All  day  long,  Mohamed  was  surrounded  by  callers,  who  hung  on  to  him  as  if  he  might  disappear  at  any  moment.  There  was  no  point  in  spend-  ing  the  little  time  he  and  I  were  alone  together  discussing  my  misery.  Every-  thing  was  fine  there  for  him,  naturally;  he  belonged  there.  I  shamelessly  made  up  to  Genie,  sin-  gling  him  out  as  my  favorite,  and  keep-  ing  an  empty  chair  beside  me  at  teatime  in  the  hope  that  he  would  drop  by  after  school.  He  began  to  bring  me  transla-  tions  to  correct-passages  from  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  of  Wakefield,&quot;  which  he  was  studying  at  school.  Within  a  few  days,  I  had  come  to  depend  upon  Genie.  If  he  failed  to  show  up,  I  was  downcast.  I  listened  for  the  scrape  of  his  bicycle  as  he  parked  it  inside  the  front  hallway,  the  pause  as  he  slicked  hishair.  One  day,  I  confessed  to  him  that  I  wanted  to  get  out  of  the  house  and  take  a  walk.  &quot;Let's  go,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  see?&quot;  &quot;Now?  This  minute?&quot;  I  said.  After  being  put  offfor  so  long,  I  felt  that  it  was  somehow  foolhardy  to  set  out  without  preparations  of  some  sort.  I  couldn't  think  of  anything  I  wanted  to  see.  Finally,  I  said  the  first  thing  that  swam  into  my  consciousness:  &quot;The  Peacock  Throne.&quot;  As  soon  as  the  words  were  spoken,  I  cursed  myself;  I  had  asked  to  see  the  thing  all  tourists  see.  The  bazaar,  the  teahouses,  the  rug  shops,  the  food  markets,  the  bakeshops-any  one  of  these  would  have  been  preferable.  But  I  didn't  have  the  courage  to  con-  fess  to  Genie  that  I  hadn't  known,  for  a  moment,  what  I  wanted  to  see,  so  I  stuck  to  my  silly  choice.  Genie  explained  to  the  company  that  we  were  going  for  a  walk,  and  then  he  brought  my  coat  and  helped  me  into  it.  Two  servants  opened  the  front  door,  and  I  was  outside  at  last,  in  the  clear,  dry  sun-  shine.  We  started  off  briskly.  Genie  identified  buildings  and  cross  streets,  but  I  didn't  listen.  I  was  tasting  freedom,  and  I  was  half  afraid  someone  would  come  darting  out  ofthe  house  after  us  to  urge  reconsideration.  Never  had  the  air  seemed  so  pure  or  the  sky  so  blue.  4972616e  was  spread  out  before  me  like  a  carpet.  The  street  we  walked  along  was  wide  and  drowsy.  A  few  miniature  taxis  cruised  past.  The  pedestrians  were  most-  ly  in  Western  clothes,  except  for  an  im-  posing  doorman  guarding  the  Pakistan  Embassy,  across  the  street.  I  kept  looking  about  me,  afraid  I  was  missing  something.  Some  of  the  work  horses,  I  noticed,  were  hung  with  neck-  laces,  bells,  and  other  trappings  oftur-  quoise,  and  their  manes  and  faces  glis-  tened  with  red-gold  henna  stain.  Genie  explained  that  this  was  to  keep  away  evil.  &quot;It's  the  fourteenth  century  in  4972616e,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  count  from  Mo-  hammed.  Today  is  the  17th  Azar,  Thirteen-twenty-nine  struck  me  as  an  appropriate  year  for  such  a  walk,  and  the  Peacock  Throne  as  notsucha  bad  destination,  after  all.  I  asked  Genie  about  the  throne,  and  he  told  me  that  Nadir  Shahhad  captured  it  at  496e646961,  more  than  two  hundred  years  earlier,  and  brought  it  back  as  booty  to  Meshed,  his  capital.  Later,  when  the  capital  was  moved  to  4972616e,  the  throne  was  placed  in  the  Gulistan,  or  Rose  Garden  Palace.  A  beggar  had  begun  to  trail  us.  He  was  dressed  in  rags.  No  piece  of  cloth  was  larger  than  a  hand  span  or  matched  any  other,  and  the  patches  were  sewed  and  pinned  together  in  many  layers.  Over  and  over  again,  he  sang  out  three  wailing  notes  in  a  minor  key.  I  heard  &quot;Khanoum,  I  am  hungry  ...  Kha-  noum,  I  am  sick,&quot;  and  opened  my  hand-  bag.  Genie  told  me  to  close  it.  &quot;Give  nothing,&quot;&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'This  man  is  profes-  sional  poor.&quot;  Turning  toward  the  beg-  gar  he  said  &quot;Buro!  Buro!  [Go  away!  Go  away!]&quot;  The  beggar  cringedbut  kept  on  following  us  until  a  better  pros-  pect  showed  up  around  the  next  corner.  A  murmuring  sound  hovered  over  and  around  us  as  we  walked.  It  was  partly  the  breeze  in  the  double  row  of  plane  trees  on  each  side  of  the  street.  But  it  was  something  else  as  well,  and  sud-  denly  I  realized  that  it  was  the  sound  of  running  water.  I  recalled  that  when  someone  asked  Mohamed  if  the  city,  with  its  frenzied  building  and  its  red-and-green  traffic  signals,  didn't  look  very  different  to  him, " b"he  had  answered,  &quot;I  didn't  look  at  the  new  buildings.  I  looked  at  the  water.  Nothing  has  changed.&quot;  This  was  true,  but  it  was  not  the  whole  truth.  Since  the  end  ofthe  war,  the  city  of  4972616e  had  been  in-  stalling  underground  water  mains,  and  by  1951  about  one-third  of  the  new  water  system  was  in  the  ground.  Mean-  while,  most  of  the  water  for  the  people  of  4972616e  was  still  flowing  through  open  ditches  in  the  streets.  As  I  walked  beside  the  rapid-flowing  stream,  which  was  like  a  brook  in  a  forest,  I  sided  with  aesthetics  against  sanitation.  I  found  it  difficult  to  believe  that  the  hundreds  of  thousands  who  must  take  their  water  from  this  public  brook  were  constantly  a  prey  to  water-borne  pollutions,  that  because  of  this  stream  many  people  died  every  year  of  dysentery,  typhoid,  and  diph-  theria.  It  was  hard  to  prefer  a  system  buried  beneath  the  asphalt.  I  searched  for  some  telltale  refuse,  but  the  clear  water  gushed  along  over  a  bed  of  mossy  stones,  carrying  nothing  more  objec-  tionable  than  fallen  leaves  and  pine  needles.  No  tap  water  ever  looked  so  inviting.  The  amount  and  direction  of  the  flow  were  controlled  by  a  system  ofstone  dams  and  locks,  primitive  and  simple,  like  the  little  stone  bridges  for  pedes-  trians  at  street  crossings.  When  I  commented  that  the  water  looked  all  right  for  drinking,  Genie  laughed.  &quot;Wait,&quot;  he  said,  and  added  that  only  the  poor  were  obliged  to  drink  this  water.  Everybody  else  bought  Abi-  shah,  or  King's  Water,  hauled  from  the  mountains  and  hawked  on  the  streets.  It  cost  next  to  nothing.  He  pointed  out  a  horse  cart  laden  with  a  large,  dripping  metal  barrel.  The  tattered  driver  and  the  corroded  hogshead  didn't  inspire  confidence.  Had  I  been  given  the  choice,  I  would  rather  have  sipped  from  the  stream,  even  though  it  now  carried  in  its  eddies  a  few  orange  peels.  As  we  came  to  a  more  congested  quarter,  I  followed  with  fascination  the  little  world  ofthe  waterbank-a  sepa-  rate,  primitive  world,  apart  from  and  unconcerned  with  the  modern  shop  fronts  and  speeding  autos  on  either  side.  A  porter  sat  on  the  bank  and  washed  his  feet,  cupping  up  handfuls  now  and  then  to  cool  his  forehead.  A  bicyclist  was  washing  dust  and  grease  from  his  ma-  chine  with  a  rag  he  dipped  in  the  stream.  Farther  on,  an  ambulant  barber  was  shaving  a  customer,  who  squatted  on  the  mossy  stones.  The  barber  lathered     and  sang  and  flicked  suds  into  the  water.  Each  person  added  his  refuse  or  pollu-  tion,  which  was  swiftly  carried  off  to  mingle  with  that  of  the  others.  Little  by  little  the  stream  lost  much  of  its  force  and  flow,  clogged  by  the  innu-  merable  and  unmentionable  objects  it  was  forced  to  carry  along.  We  crossed  a  square  and  followed  the  wall  of  the  Gulistan  garden.  At  the  gate,  two  guards  who  looked  as  if  they  were  only  playing  at  being  sentries  nodded  to  us  to  enter.  The  garden  was  im-  mense  and  surrounded  by  slender  poplars.  Dou-  ble  rows  of  them  shaded  the  wide  path-  ways  that  led  to  the  center  of  the  gar-  den,  where  there  was  a  large  goldfish  pool  bordered  with  a  mosaic  of  bright-  colored  stones.  Nearby,  several  pieces  of  men's  underwear  had  been  hung  on  a  hedge  to  dry.  A  soldier,  on  his  hands  and  knees,  was  scrubbing  a  &quot;I  shirt  in  the  pool.  He  told  us  the  palace  was  locked.  Genie  dawdled  about  the  gar-  den  and  then  disappeared  behind  a  tan-  gle  of  cypress  trees.  Soon  he  reappeared  with  two  elderly  guides  in  rusty-black  uniforms.  One  produced  a  key  six  inches  long  and  opened  the  palace  door.  I  gasped.  The  ceiling  and  walls  of  the  foyer  were  covered  with  hundreds  of  thousands  of  tiny  mirrors-slanted,  faceted,  set  intriangles,  squares,  whorls,  and  floral  patterns.  We  went  up  the  grand  staircase  and  intoa  huge  salon  to  the  left.  At  the  far  end,  on  a  dais,  was  the  Peacock  Throne.  Genie  wanted  to  go  directly  to  it,  but  the  guides  edged  us  over  to  one  side  of  the  room,  lined  with  display  cases  full  of  antique  4972616en  objets  d'art  and  pres-  ents  from  foreign  governments  to  this  or  that  4972616en  sovereign.  The  guides  particularly  wanted  us  to  see  a  gift  from  the  British  government  to  the  govern-  ment  of  4972616e-a  three-foot  brass  pea-  cock,  with  its  tail  spread  wide,  standing  in  frontofa  gilded  pagoda  that  had  red  glass  balls  hanging  from  its  eaves.  While  we  were  looking  at  it,  one  of  the  guides  turned  a  key  in  the  base  and  the  front  of  the  pagoda  slowly  swung  open;a  mu-  sic  box  tinkled;  the  peacock  bent  its  neck,  closed  its  tail,  and  started  to  withdraw  inside  the  pagoda;  flashing  lights  simu-  lated  a  waterfall.  &quot;Gashang,  gashang  Beautiful,  beau-  tiful],&quot;  said  the  guards.  &quot;A  toy  to  keep  the  children  from  complaining,&quot;  Genie  saidto  me.  He  turned  away  before  the  doors  of  the  pagoda  had  closed  upon  the  peacock,  and  we  walked  up  to  the  throne,  a  gold-  en  armchair  encrusted  with  jewels.  The  guides  explained  that  its  value  was  esti-  mated  at  six  million  pounds.  Genie  translated  this  information  for  me,  and  added  that  Lord  Curzon  had  dismissed  the  gold  throne  as  a  fake,  manufactured  in  Isfahan  some  sixty  years  ago,  of  gilded  brass  and  cut-glass  beads.  &quot;What  do  you  think?&quot;  I  asked.  He  shrugged.  &quot;Ido  not  care.  If  the  government  sold  it  for  bread  for  the  poor,  I  would  be  [REDACTED];  HEN  I  got  home,  Mohamed  was  in  our  room,  sitting  on  the  floor  beside  the  iron  stove.  His  prayer  beads  lay  on  the  rug  beside  him,  and  the  aro-  matic  smoke  ofa  Gorgan  cigarette  clouded  the  air  above  his  head.  On  his  feet  were  embroidered  slippers  such  as  poor  people  wear  on  feast  days.  He  looked  more  4972616en  than  ever,  but  there  was  something  about  him  that  wasn't  4972616en.  I  couldn't  put  my  finger  on  it,  but  it  gave  me  courage  to  speak  to  him  as  I  would  have  at  home.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said,  gaily  and  with  some  ac-  cusation,  &quot;I  finally  managed  to  get  out-  side  the  house.&quot;  He  smiled,  and  raised  a  glass  of  dark,  brown  liquid  to  his  lips.  Now  I  caught  it--the  un-4972616en  thing.  It  was  the  odor  of  coffee-of  556e6974656420537461746573n  coffee.  A  jar  of  instant  coffee  was  open  on  the  night  table,  and  steam  was  rising  from  a  little  pan  of  water  on  the  lid  of  the  stove.  Mohamed  saw  where  I  was  looking  and  said,  &quot;Things  were  beginning  to  get  on  my  nerves.&quot;  &quot;'You,  too?&quot;  I  said,  astonished.  &quot;Why  not?  My  silent  self  is  with  you,  always,&quot;  he  said,  and  rose  to  make  me  a  glass  of  coffee.  I  picked  up  the  prayer  beads.  They  were  greenish  amber  and  slippery,  a  necklace  just  big  enough  to  slip  over  my  head.  &quot;Don't  make  off  with  my  tasbi,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  keeps  me  from  fidgeting.  I  count  beads  instead  of  biting  my  finger-  nails.&quot;  &quot;The  relatives  make  you  jumpy,  too?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  I  burst  out  laughing,  for  no  reason  except  that  suddenly  and  for  the  first  time,  I  felt  completely  at  ease  in  4972616e. "