 b"JOHN Birdey Doggett, known as Birdey to  the  few  people  who  speak  to  him,  must  be  fifty-three  now,  but  he  wears  his  years  with  a  smirk  and  he  is  as  bad  a  practical  joker  as  ever.  Other  American  cutups  in  the  grand  tradition  began  to  disappear  in  October,  1929,  and  they  are  as  hard  to  find  now  as  bison,  but  Doggett's  waggishness  has  no  calendar.  You  must  have  run  into  him  at  some  party  or  other-he's  the  man  whose  right  hand  comes  off  when  you  try  to  shake  it.  The  late  George  Bancroft  once  pulled  that  gag  in  a  movie,  but  that  was  so  long  ago  the  picture  must  be  a  cherished  item  in  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art's  film  library.  Even  now,  when  everybody  else  is  running  the  gamut  of  bomb  fear,  from  A  to  H,  Birdey  Doggett  is  his  old  self.  Just  the  other  day,  he  was  at  Grand  Central  with  one  roller  skate,  which  he  managed  to  attach  to  the  shoe  ofa  man  sleeping  on  a  bench.  When  the  fellow  woke  and  stood  up,  he  described  a  brief,  desperate  semicircle,  clutched  a  woman  shopper  about  the  knees,  dragged  her  and  her  bundles  to  the  cold  floor,  and  was  attacked  by  her  muzzled  Scotty.  Doggett,  as  always,  was  the  first  to  lend  a  hand,  helping  the  woman  to  her  feet  and  then  turning  to  the  man.  &quot;Where  the  hell's  your  other  skate?&quot;  he  de-  manded  sharply.  &quot;'That's  what's  caused all  this  trouble.&quot;  He  took  his  skate  off  the  victim's  foot  and  disappeared  into  the  crowd  that  had  begun  to  gather.  &quot;What's  the  matter  over  there?&quot;  a  small  man  asked  him  apprehensively.  Doggett  shrugged.  &quot;Oh,  they  found  a  woman  with  a  ticking  package,&quot;  he  said.  The  small  man  turned  and  left  the  station,  missing  the  train  he  had  told  his  wife  he  would  take.  Doggett's  pranks  usually  have  the  effect  of  in-  volving  people  on  their  far  edges,  one  or  two  of  whom  have  been  divorced  as  a  result.  PUBLISHER  I  know  thinks  Doggett  would  make  a  good  sto-  ry.  I  disagree,  because  I  don't  think  there's  anything  good  about  the  fellow,  but  I  have  done  some  checking  up  on  him  out  of  force  of  habit.  His  father,  the  late  Carrol  Lamb  Doggett,  was  a  Methodist  minister,  and  his  mother  was  a  witch,  born  Etta  June  Birdey.  When  her  son  was  only  ten,  she  taught  him  how  to  set  strangers'  umbrellas  on  fire.  After  an  April  shower,  she  would  sally  forth  with  the  little  hellion-they  lived  in  Dayton-in  search  of  a  citizen  with  a  floppy  umbrella.  After  an  April  show-  er,  Dayton  men  lower  their  umbrellas  without  bothering  to  roll  them.  Mrs.  Doggett  would  hunt  until  she  found  a  man  waiting  for  a  streetcar,  his  um-  brella  sagging  open  at  his  side.  She would  then  surreptitiously  fill  the  um-  brella  with  paper,  several  dozen  kitchen  matches,  and  perhaps  one  or  two  ping-  pong  balls.  As  the  streetcar  approached,  she  would  drop  a  lighted  match  into  the  umbrella.  Now,  Hell  hath  no  dismay  like  that  of  a  gentleman  whose  wet  um-  brella  suddenly  bursts  into  flame.  In-  stead  of  rolling  the  thing  to  smother  the  blaze,  or  simply  throwing  it  away,  nine  out  of  ten  men,  according  to  Doggett's  statistics,  will  flail  it  around  in  the  air,  thus  increasing  the  conflagration.  Many  of  Mrs.  Doggett's  victims  were  arrested  for  disturbing  the  peace  or  for  arson.  Birdey  Doggett  has  never  been  much  interested  in  the  exasperating  parapher-  nalia  of  the  trick-and-puzzle  shops.  Oh,  he  still  uses  the  wax  hand,  and  he  has  tried  out  dribble  glasses,  whoopee  cushions,  the  foul-smelling  stuff  you  put  on  chair  bottoms  to  make  people  think  they  have  sat  on  a  lighted  cigarette,  and  other  such  juvenile  props,  but  they  never  got  a  real  hold  on  his  fancy.  He  likes  the  elaborate  rib  involving  a  lot  of  people-the  more  the  better.  He  will  take  a  sackful  of  cold  poached  eggs  to  some  crowded  Fifth  [REDACTED]  store  at  Christmastime  and  slip  them,  one  at  a  time,  into  the  pockets  of  shoppers'  husbands,  and  he  dreams  of  bumping  into  a  woman  visitor  in  the  Ancient  Glass  and  [REDACTED]  Room  of  some  museum,  dropping  an  ordinary  table  tumbler  on  the  tile  floor,  sobbing,  &quot;Sweet  God,  lady,  you  have  broken  the  sacred  chalice  of  King  Alexander!,&quot;  and  making  her  believe  it.  He  has  pulled  this  gag  over  and  over  since  1924,  but  never  suc-  cessfully,  with  the  re-  sult  that  he  has  ap-  peared  sixteen  times  in  Jefferson  Market  Court  alone  on  charges  of  disturbing  the  peace,  jostling,  and  attempted  rape.  DOGGETT  married  a  tapioca  brain  one  afternoon  twenty  years  ago,  possibly  because  he  had  lost  a  bet.  Nobody  knows.  He  took  her  to  his  house  and  told  her  to  wait  in  the  living  room  while  he  went  upstairs  and  quieted  his  two  Great  Danes.  He  put  a  record  of  a  dog-  fight  on  a  phonograph  " b"he  kept  in  his  bedroom,  and  slipped  quietly  out  the  back  door.  At  three  in  the  morning,  he  showed  up  in  the  living  room  with  two  match  players,  Lew  Getling  and  Vic  Talbot.  &quot;&quot;Who  is  this  disconsolate  female,  Talbot  demanded,  &quot;fairly  oozing  an  incurable  antipathy  to  games  of  chance  and  cunning?&quot;  The  bride  drew  herself  up  stiffly.  &quot;I  am  Mrs.  John  Birdey  Doggett,&quot;  she  said,  strivingfor  a  hauteur  the  name  will  not  sustain.  &quot;I  forgot  about  her,&quot;  whined  Dog-  gett.  &quot;After  all,  we  haven't  been  mar-  ried  twenty  or  thirty  years.  We've  only  beenmarried  eleven  hours.&quot;  Mrs.  Doggett,  the  former  Ann  Queely,  went  home  to  her  mother,  Mrs.  Paul  W.  Queely,  and  never  saw  Birdey  again.  I  join  her  in  the  fer-  vent  hope  that  he  may  someday  choke  on  his  candied  dice  and  pass  forever  out  of  our  consciousness.  He's  a  hard  man  to  forget,  though.  I  never  start  to  get  out  of  a  chair,  no  matter  where  I  am,  without  glancing  at  my  shoes  tosee  if  I  am  wearing  one  roller  skate,  and  feeling  in  my  pockets  for  oldcold  eggs. "