 b"TWO  sets  of  remarks  came  out  one  I  morning  not  so  long  ago  in  sepa-  rate  places  in  our  neighborhood-  in  the  lobby  and  in  the  delicatessen-  and  it  was  odd  that  they  boiled  down  to  the  same  thing,  which  is  that  horses  can  be  good  for  people,  at  least  in  certain  cases.  Betting  on  horses,  that  is.  First,  I  was  going  down  in  the  ele-  vator  for  a  walk  around  early,  and  Wal-  ter,  the  elevator  man,  said,  about  the  fifteenth  floor,  &quot;I  was  to  Charles  Town,  just  got  back  a  few  hours  ago.  I  did  real  good.&quot;  Charles  Town  is  a  little  race  track  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  running  that  time  of  year,  before  they  started  up  in  New  York.  I  knew  well  enough  Walter  is  a  horseplayer,  but  I  was  still  surprised,  be-  cause  Charles  Town  is  quite  a  distance.  &quot;'That's  quite  a  trip  just  to  see  a  few  races,&quot;  I  saidto  him.  I  was  thinking  that  it  was  indeed,  especially  because  Walter  is  sorely  troubled  with  arthritis  that  has  bent  his  legs,  and  it  must  be  that  walking  around  is  no  picnic  for  him.  He  is,  nevertheless,  a  cheerful  man.  He  works  the  elevator  nights,  ordinarily,  and  he's  a  bachelor,  lives  in  a  furnished  room  up  around  Ninety-sixth  and  [REDACTED]  somewhere.  &quot;I  got  it  all  worked  out  so  it's  a  nice  trip,&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;And  this  time  I  did  real  good.  I  beat  the  day  for  forty-  five  dollars,  that's  a  nice  sum  of  money.&quot;  There  were  few  calls  that  early  in  the  morning  for  the  elevator,  so  I  stood  with  Walter  in  the  lobby  a  few  minutes,  and  he  told  me  about  the  trip  to  Charles  Town.  He  was  feeling  fine  about  it,  happy  and  a  winner,  standing  there  on  his  bent  legs  and  having  a  big  laugh  every  time  he  thought  back  over  the  victorious  day  he'd  had.  &quot;I  got  it  worked  out  where  I  leave  here,  over  near  Times  Square,  on  a  bus  quarter  past  one  in  the  morning,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  get  a  kind  of  a  snooze  coasting  along  in  the  bus  and  then  we  get  into  [REDACTED]  seven  o'clock,  around  sev-  en  o'clockor  so.  I  got  my  pay,  you  know  we  get  paid  thatnight,  and  this  time  I  took  a  chance,  took  the  room-rent  money  along  with  me,  instead  like  usual  when  I  hold  out  the  rent  money  for  the  room  and  give  it  to  one  ofthe  other  guys  here  on  theelevator  to  hold  for  me  in  case  I  don't  do  good.  &quot;Well,  anyway,  about  quarter  to  eleven  I  get  a  train  in  [REDACTED]  that  goes  right  to  the  race  track,  that's  in  Charles  Town,  I  mean,  and  mean-  while  I  had  a  couple  hours  I  could  sit  in  the  station  nice  and  cozy  with  the  Racing  Form,  and  look  them  over  real  good,  nobody  to  bother  me.  That  way  by  the  time  I  get  to  the  track  I  got  them  down  real  good  in  my  mind,  just  exactly  what  I'm  going  to  do,  naturally  subject  to  change  is  there  a  muddy  track  or  scratches  and  all  change  the  situation.  &quot;Well,  to  make  a  long  story  short,  I  catch  three  winners  altogether  and  out  I  walk,  get  the  train  to  [REDACTED],  and  have  a  nice  dinner  after  I  bought  the  paper  and  turn  to  read  the  charts  they  got  in  there  about  the  races  I  just  seen.  It's  a  funny  thing-now  maybe  you  know  about  it.  I  seen  all  those  races,  but  as  long  as  I'm  a  winner,  I  bet  I  looked  at  those  three  winners  I  had  in  the  charts  at  least  five  times  during  din-  ner,  and  the  price  they  paid  and  all,  and  every  time  I  look  at  those  winners,  it's  like  I  was  winning  all  over  again,  just  looking  at  the  charts.  It's  a  great  feel-  ing.  I  had  lamb  chops,  hash  brown,  ice  cream  and  chocolate  sauce  on  it,  and  two  big  cups  of  coffee,  get  me  all  set  to  goon  the  bus,  and  off  we  go  again  to  dear  old  [REDACTED]  and  the  dear  old  elevator-how  do  you  like  that-  the  dear  old  elevator?  I  count  up,  and  like  I  told  you,  never  mind  expenses  and  all,  the  dinner  was  two  dollars  and  thirty-five  cents  and  I  gave  the  guy  two  bits,  the  whole  expenses  I  know  ex-  actly,  which  is  twenty-two  dollars  and  sixty  cents,  you  know  I  don't  do  any  drinking,  but  I  had  a  few  hot  dogs  at  the  track,  like  after  each  winner.  It's  a  funny  thing,  if  I'm  losing  I  don't  want  to  spare  even  hot\xe2\x80\x94dog  money,  the  twen-  ty  cents  might  break  into  an  even  two  bucks  in  the  end.  What  I  mean  is  there's  no  way  of  betting  a  dollar-  eighty  at  a  track,  and  if  worst  came  to  worst  like  it  does  sometimes,  a  man  might  find  himself  standing  there  with  them  going  to  the  post  and  he  got  only  a  dollar-eighty  if  he  had  went  ahead  and  bought  ahot  dog.  Well,  I  started  to  say,  expenses  and  all,  I  walk  in  here  an  hour  ago,  off  the  bus  and  back  at  the  old  elevator,  and  I'm  forty-five  dol-  lars  ahead  on  the  nose-exactly  forty-  five  dollars  more  in  my  kick  than  when  I  leave  the  elevator  to  take  the  bus  quarter  past  one  the  other  morning.  This  was  a  fine  trip  this  time.&quot;  I  agreed  with  Walter  that  it  must  have  been  all  right,  but  at  the  same  time,  noticing  him,  as  he  talked,  shifting  his  weight  from  one  bum  leg  to  the  other  leg  just  as  bum,  I  couldn't  help  going  into  all  this  a  little  further.  &quot;It's  a  lot  of  trudging  around,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  mean  if  you  should  happen  to  lose,  on  top  of  all  that  bus  riding  and,  not  to  be  a  kill-joy,  the  room  rent  gone,  too.  Don't  your  legs  hurt,  Walter,  here  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  back  and  not  much  real  sleep?&quot;  Walter,  the  winner,  grinned  and  patiently  said,  &quot;All  of  them,  I  mean  the  other  elevator  men  and  people  up  around  where  I  room,  all  of  them  look  at  me  like  they're  thinking  that,  or  some-  times  they  ask  me,  butthey  don't  under-  stand  I  got  it  all  worked  out.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  realize  you  enjoy  it,  Walter.  I  realize  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  kind  of  more  than  enjoying  it,&quot;  Walter  said,  this  time  not  grinning.  &quot;Lemme  explain.  So  I  got  bum  legs,  right?  So  I'm  not  married,  right?  So  no-  body's  depending  on  me,  right?  O.K.  Not  a  goddam  thing  in  the  world  to  do  about  the  lousy,  twisted-up  legs.  All  right,  I'm  broke  most  of  the  time.  I  skimp  on  the  eats,  O.K.  But  lemme  ex-  plain.  A  long  while  ago,  I  find  out  if  I  get  all  wrapped  up  in  horses,  make  trips  to  Charles  Town-I'm  going  to  Lin-  coln  Downs  in  Rhode  Island  with  this  forty-five  bucks  my  next  day  off-well,  if  I  make  trips  around  to  the  races  all  wrapped  up  in  horses,  go  out  to  [REDACTED]  when  they  open  up  here,  keep  right  on  top  of  the  horses  reading  every  night  during  the  night  what  happened  that  day  wherever  they're  running,  why,  would  you  believe  it,  that  makes  my  bum  legs  very,  very  unimportant.  May-  be  you  don't  understand  what  I  mean?&quot;  &quot;A  little,  I  do.  A  little,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Put  it  another  way,&quot;  said  Walter.  &quot;I'm  worrying  so  much  about  some  horse's  bum  legs  I'm  thinking  of  betting  on,  I  don't  worry  any  more  about  my  own  legs.  I  don't  stand  around  moan-  ing,  'Oh,  my  poor  legs!  Oh,  my  poor  legs!?  Tell  the  truth,  I  don't  know  what  I'd  do  without  horses.  This  was  a  swell  trip,  no  kidding.&quot;  The  elevator  bell  rang,  and  Walter  got  in  to  goup  to  the  twelfth,  as  it  said  on  the  indicator,  and  I  left  for  a  little  walk.  MY  wife  was  away  visiting  that  day,  and  so  I  thought  I'd  drop  in  the  delicatessen  and  get  a  couple  of  those  small  cans  of  asparagus  tips  and  heat  them  up  at  lunchtime  on  toast,  a  cinch  to  do.  When  I  went  into  the  delicatessen,  there  was  Irving,  who  had  been  out  of  the  place  for  about  three  weeks,  at  home  sick.  He  had  a  bad  spell  with  his  heart  " b"about  three  weeks  before,  or  at  any  rate  he  thought  his  heart  was  going  back  on  him  one  day  and  had  to  go  home-scared  more  than  anything,  I  suspect.  Irving  is  a  quiet,  almost  timid  man  in  his  early  forties,  with  soft-  manneredways  about  him,  and  he  doesn't  seem  to  have  much  confidence.  'That  is,  he  has  an  air  that  he  expects  things  might  go  bad  any  min-  ute.  He  has  that  air  all  the  time,  although  it  would  seem  that  a  quiet,  decent  man  like  him  could  rightfully  expect  that  everything  would  be  O.K.  He  wouldn't  harm  a  fly.  I  told  him  I  was  glad  to  see  him  back  and  asked  how  he  was  feeling.  He  said  he  was  O.K.,  but  he  was  going  to  take  it  easier  from  now  on.  It  was  a  quiet  time  in  the  deli-  catessen,  so  Mat,  the  other  man  in  there,  dropped  what-  ever  he  was  doing  and  the  three  of  us  started  schmoos-  ing  for  a  few  minutes.  &quot;No  matter  what  you  say,&quot;  I  told  Irving,  &quot;you're  looking  fine.  You  look  like  a  million  bucks.&quot;  Irving  looked  at  me  through  his  glasses  in  an  unbelieving  way.  It  was  like  some  kid  in  school  that's  discouraged  and  thinks  he  can't  do  anything  right  and  the  teacher  all  of  a  sudden  tells  him  he  got  a  B-plus  and  the  kid  can't  believe  it.  &quot;No  kidding,  do  I  look  good?&quot;  he  asked  me,  unconfident  and  serious.  &quot;&quot;Sure  you  look  good,  din't  you  hear  the  man  say  you  look  good?&quot;  broke  in  Mat.  He  is  almost  the  very  opposite  of  Irving.  He  is  full  of  confidence  and  bing-bang  all  day  long,  doing  this  and  that,  kidding  the  customers  in  a  nice  way,  with  the  opposite  air  to  Irving,  meaning  that  Mat  always  acts  that  ev-  erything,  no  matter  what  it  is,  is  going  to  turn  out  good  enough,  to  say  the  least.  Irving  brightened  up  a  little  bit,  and  he  got  gabby.  Gabby  for  him,  anyway.  &quot;Here's  what  I  can't  figure  out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'The  minute  I  quit  betting  horses,  I  got  sick.  My  heart  went  bad.  Would  you  believe  that?&quot;  I  know  Irving  is  not  a  horseplayer  like  Walter,  that  I'd  just  been  talking  with.  Irving  only  used  to  bet  a  couple  of  dollars  maybe  two  or  three  times  a  week  on  some  horse  that's  whispered  around  the  neighborhood.  Our  neigh-  borhood  is  a  great  neighborhood  for  horse-whispering.  &quot;In  a  way,  I  can  too  figure  it  out,&quot;  Irving  went  on.  &quot;Like  when  I  put  a  couple  bucks  on  a  horse,  say  eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning-why,  all  afternoon  I  worry  about  the  horse,  did  he  win,  din't  he  win,  did  he  pay  a  bundle  if  he  win,  did  he  lose  by  a  nose,  did  he  walk  away  with  it.  Worrying  and  hoping  altogether  mixed  up.  Course,  I'm  working  all  the  time,  pretty  busy,  but  after  a  while  you  get  so  you  do  the  work  around  a  deli-  catessen  like  a  machine,  and  inside  your  head  you  got  room  for  worrying.  I  thought  maybe  it  was  wrong  to  bet  on  horses  so  much,  even  six  or  eight  bucks  a  week  maybe,  so  I  cut  it  out.  Anyway,  I  had  seven  losers  in  a  row  and  I  cut  it  out,  Would  you  believe  it,  no  sooner  I  cut  it  out  than  I  get  sick?  I  got  worry-  ing  about  my  heart  instead  worrying  about  did  I  win,  did  I  lose,  how  did  the  horse  come  out.  Instead,  I  keep  hearing  my  heart  jump  if  I  lift  up  two  or  three  cases  Del  Monte  peaches  or  cans  to-  matoes  or  something,  and  first  thing  I  know,  the  heart  goes  bad  on  me  worry-  ing  .  I  got  half  a  mind  start  betting  horses  again,  supposing  I  do  have  seven  losers.  Better  than  a  bum  heart.&quot;  Mat  slapped  Irving  on  the  back.  &quot;Do  any  the  doctors  know  about  this,  I  wonder?&quot;  Mat  said,  and  roared  laughing.  \xc2\xabDo  any  the  doctors  know  horses  is  good  for  people?&quot; "