 b"AMONG  the  various  reasons  that  impelled  the  Kremlin  to  declare  former  Ambassador  George  F.  Kennan  persone  non  grate,  one  may  well  havebeen  his  command  of  the  Rus-  sian  language.  I  can  see  how,  from  the  point  of  view  of  a  dictator,  casual  con-  tact  between  such  an  &quot;enemy&quot;  and  ordi-  nary  people  would  be  highly  dangerous.  Though  I  am  Serbian  by  birth,  through  force  of  circumstances  I  speak  Italian.  I  spent  four  and  a  half  years  in  an  American  school  for  refugee  children  in  4974616c79,  during  the  First  World  War,  and  in  the  thirties,  I  went  back  to  4974616c79  a  number  of  times,  as  a  student  and  as  a  tourist.  During  the  recent  war,  I  served  as  a  captain  in  a  motorized  cavalry  division  of  the  Royal  Yugoslav  Army  and  was  taken  prisoner  early  in  1941.  I  spent  the  next  two  years  in  various  prisons  and  prisoner-of-war  camps.  At  the  end  of  1942,  after  four  weeks  in  a  small  military  prison  in  4974616c79,  ,I  was  told  that  I  was  about  to  be  transferred  perma-  nently  to  a  prisoner-of-war  camp-I  was  not,  of  course,  told  which  one.  As  I  stood  in  the  administrative  office  of  the  prison,  I  looked  with  some  curiosity  at  the  two  men-a  lieutenant  and  a  pri-  vate-to  whose  custody  I  was  being  as-  signed.  The  private,  standing  at  atten-  tion,  was  a  huge  man  in  his  thirties,  who  had  the  healthy  vigor  ofa  country-  man.  His  size  made  me  conclude  that  he  was  probably  a  peasant  from  one  of  the  northern  provinces.  On  the  floor  beside  him  was  a  large  knapsack.  The  lieutenant  was  leaning  over  a  desk,  busily  signing  various  documents.  He  was  about  fifty,  with  a  round  red  face,  long  mustaches  twisted  up  at  the  ing  out  at  the  silhouetted  buildings.  I  guessed  that  this  was  the  first  time  they  had  ever  been  in  the  Eternal  City.  The  taxi  stopped  in  front  of  the  Termini  Sta-  tion.  When  the  lieutenant  had  paid  the  driver,  we  got  out  and  walked  through  the  crowded  waiting  rooms  and  out  onto  one  of  the  platforms.  My  guards  seemed  to  be  lost.  They  kept  stopping  people  in  uniform  and  asking  directions.  Final-  ly,  we  ourselves  were  stopped,  by  a  self-  important  young  officer,  one  of  Mus-  solini's  Black  Shirts,  who  led  us  to  the  right  train  and  we  all  boarded  a  com-  bined  first-  and  second-class  carriage.  As  soon  as  we  had  entered  a  second-  class  compartment  marked  with  a  big  sign,  &quot;Riservato  per  militari,&quot;  the  Black  Shirt  started  lecturing  the  lieutenant:  &quot;'This  door  has  to  be  kept  shut,  under-  stand?  The  curtains  on  both  windows  and  on  the  door  to  the  compartment  have  to  be  kept  down  all  the  way.  The  private  is  to  stand  on  guard,  in  the  cor-  ridor.  You  are  not  allowed  to  leave  the  compartment  or  even  to  step  out  into  the  public  corridor  before  you  reach  your  final  destination.  You  are  not  to  talk  to  the  prisoner  or  to  any  civilian  passen-  ger....&quot;  The  orders  went  on  and  on.  The  lieutenant  was  not  very  attentive.  When  the  Black  Shirt  had  left,  he  took  off  his  cap  and  overcoat  and  went  about  settling  down  for  what  apparently  was  to  be  a  long  trip.  I  sat  down  in  a  corner.  The  private  put  his  loaded  rifle  upon  the  luggage  rack  and  tossed  his  ammu-  nition  belt  after  it.  Then,  with  his  uni-  form  jacket  unbuttoned  and  his  cap  pushed  back  on  his  head,  he  set  up  the  folding  table  between  the  facing  seats  and  began  to  unpack  his  knapsack,  A.  ..  .  ends,  an?  gold-rimmeq  glasses.  r\xc2\xa7lllmg  which  seemed  to  contain  nothing  From  his  rank  and  his  age,  I  /4\xe2\x80\x99@\xe2\x80\x98&gt;\xc2\xa7  but  food.  guessed  that  he  belonged  to  the  \xc3\xa9  Sa  The  lieutenant,  facing  me,  re-  reserve  corps,  and  the  care  with  which  he  read  each  document  before  he  signed  it  indicated  that  he  was  versed  in  the  ways  of  the  minor  bureaucracy.  'The  formalities  having  been  completed,  he  straightened  up  and  motioned  for  me  to  come  with  him.  The  private  shoul-  dered  the  knapsack  and  fell  in  behind  us.  Outside  the  prison,  a  taxi  was  wait-  ing.  Still  not  saying  a  word  to  me,  the  lieutenant  pointed  to  the  back  seat.  With  many  Dalmatians,  Italian  is  practically  a  second  language,  but  not  many  Serbians  speak  it,  and  the  lieutenant  obviously  as-  sumed  that  he  could  communicate  with  me  only  by  signs  and  gestures.  We  all  three  got  in,  the  private  sitting  on  the  front  seat,  and  the  taxi  drove  off.  It  was  evening,  and  my  two  guards  kept  look-  moved  his  pistol  belt  and  dropped  it  on  the  seat  beside  him.  &quot;Nowadays,  everybody  is  an  officer,&quot;  he  muttered.  &quot;Everybody  is  a  Party  member.  Every-  body  wears  a  uniform!&quot;  &quot;Everybody,&quot;  agreed  the  soldier  plac-  idly  as  he  opened  a  large  fiasco  of  Chian-  ti  and,  with  a  jerk,  disposed  of  the  oil  between  the  cork  and  the  wine.  &quot;Every,  body-even  babies  and  old  men.&quot;  By  this  time,  the  little  table  was  dis-  playing  the  most  fascinating  still  life  I  had  ever  seen:  a  wheel  of  pizza  in  the  center  surrounded  by  eggplant  alle  par-  migiana,  polpettine  di  pollo,  homemade  lasagne,  the  bottle  of  wine,  Italian  cheese,  salami,  green  peppers,  radishes,  and  a  big  bunch  of  fruit.  My  guards  looked  at  each  other  questioninglif.  The  " b"lieutenant  nodded,  and  the  private  came  over  and  touched  my  shoulder.  Pointing  toward  the  table  with  one  hand  and  with  the  fingers  ofthe  other  at  his  mouth,  he  said,  &quot;Capitano,  mangiare?&quot;  I  answered  in  Italian  that  I  had  already  had  my  din-  ner  in  the  prison.  My  guards  were  astonished  and  showered  me  with  questions.  How  did  it  happen  that  I  could  speak  their  lan-  guage?  Had  I  been  in  4974616c79  before?  When?  Where?  Why?  How  did  I  like  their  country?  Did  I  know  Florence?  Did  I  know  4974616c79?  Did  I  know  Na-  ples?  Was  I  married?  Did  I  have  chil-  dren?  Poveri  bembin!  Had  I  had  any  news  of  them  since  I  was  captured?  Did  I  know  how  long  the  war  was  going  to  last?  Did  my  compatriots  hate  Italians  nowadays?  Would  they  come  back  as  tourists  once  the  war  was  over?  &quot;Everything  is  different  during  a  war,&quot;  the  lieutenant  said.  &quot;Possibly  in  your  country,  too?&quot;  He  offered  me  a  cigarette  and  then  said,  &quot;The  Italian  [;  people  are  kind  and  gentle.  Italians  don't  hate  anybody.&quot;  &quot;Not  anybody,&quot;  echoed  the  private.  &quot;We  always  used  to  like  people  from  abroad.  We  consider  them  our  guests,&quot;  the  lieutenant  went  on.  &quot;We  don't  dis-  like  them,  generally  speaking,  even  at  present,  although  we  do  have  a  war.  It  may  be  hard  for  you  to  understand,  but  you  see,  the  war  is  something  we  were  forced  into.  I  mean  by  circumstances.  I  can  imagine  what  it  must  be  like  to  find  one's  situation  that  of  a  war  pris-  oner.  But  look,  even  that  is  not  so  bad  in  4974616c79.&quot;  He  drew  from  his  pocket  a  yellow  paper  bearing  official  stamps.  &quot;I  shouldn't  show  you  this  paper,&quot;  he  said,  thrusting  it  under  my  nose.  &quot;It  is  strictly  confidential,  for  my  eyes  alone.  Even  this  man  here  ought  not  to  see  it.  This  is  your  travel  order,  signed  by  the  colonel.  It's  secret,  as  I  said,  but  we're  certainly  not  going  to  lose  the  war  just  byyour  seeing  it.  Look  here.  See  what  it  says?  Florence,  Bologna,  4974616c79,  Brescia.  .  ..  We  could  also  go,  it's  true,  by  way  of  Verona  instead  of  by  4974616c79,  and  it  would  be  a  shorter  way,  but  the  paper  says  no.  Don't  ask  me  why.  It's  not  my  business  to  know.  So  we  have  to  go  the  long  way  around,  the  way  we  have  always  done  everything  in  4974616c79.  Do  you  know  where  Brescia  is?  A  lovely  town.  That's  where  my  poor  wife  came  from.  I  still  have  a  lot  of  friends  there.  Brescia  has  many  churches  and  me-  dieval  monuments.  And  then  we'll  go  to  the  Lake  of  Garda,  which  is  some-  thing  you'll  really  enjoy,  a  paradise.  And  that  is  where  your  camp  is  located-on  the  lake,  in  an  old  hotel.  People  from " b"abroad  used  to  pay  big  money  just  in  order  to  spend  a  couple  of  weeks  there.  Now  you'll  have  it  free  of  charge.  I  am  not  sarcastic-God  forbid!  You'll  see  for  yourself.  Everything  is  going  to  be  all  right.  You  don't  have  to  worry.  And  let  me  give  you  some  advice:  If  you  happen  to  meet  there  some  unpleasant  Italians-like  that  pipistrello  who  put  us  on  the  train  in  4974616c79-just  bear  in  mind  that  the  way  they  act  indicates  merely  what  they  would  like  to  be,  not  what  they  really  are.&quot;  And  nothing  would  do  but  that  I  sit  down  to  the  still  life  with  them.  ETE  that  night,  my  guards  made  themselves  comfortable  in  their  corners  and  dropped  off  to  sleep.  I  couldn't  sleep.  The  tour  through  4974616c79  that  they  had  pictured  for  me  evoked  memories  of  my  student  days,  when  I  had  travelled  freely  about  the  country.  The  train  slowed  down.  I  guessed,  from  what  my  guards  had  told  me,  that  we  were  coming  into  Florence,  and  I  looked  out.  Except  for  a  couple  of  blue  emergency  lights,  the  station  was  in  total  blackout.  A  few  passengers  left  the  train  and  hurried  toward  the  exit,  and  after  that  there  was  an  ominous  silence.  Suddenly  I  heard  marching  steps  in  the  train  corridor,  and  a  voice  called  out  &quot;Scorta  prigionieri  di  guerra!&quot;  The  door  of  our  compartment  banged  open.  A  powerful  flashlight  shone  on  me  and  then  on  the  two  sleeping  guards.  There  had  been  no  time  to  warn  them,  and  the  only  thing  I  had  been  able  to  think  of  to  do  that  might  help  them  was  to  pretend  to  be  asleep  myself.  Through  not  quite  closed  eyelids,  I  saw  an  angry  Army  officer  towering  above  me.  TIT  wo  armed  soldiers  stood  in  the  corridor  behind  him.  The  officer  shook  my  two  guards  awake.  They  looked  at  him  open-  mouthed.  He  ordered  the  private  to  put  on  his  cap  and  tunic  and  stand  on  guard,  with  his  rifle,  outside  in  the  cor-  ridor.  Then  he  pointed  to  the  pistol  belt.  While  the  lieutenant  was  fastening  it  on,  the  officer  identified  himself  as  the  captain  in  charge  of  military  transport  passing  through  the  Florence  station.  For  more  than  twenty  minutes,  he  kept  the  lieutenant  standing  at  attention,  pointing  out  to  him  how  great  his  neg-  ligence  had  been  and  explaining  over  and  over  again  that  I,  a  prisoner  of  war,  &quot;a  dangerous  enemy  of  our  people,  our  country,  our  Army,&quot;  must  be  closely  guarded.  'The  private  must  remain  in  the  corridor  facing  the  compartment  door  with  his  rifle  ready.  The  lieutenant  must  sit  erect  and  alert,  diagonally  across  from  his  prisoner.  The  lieutenant " b"must  keep  his  eyes  on  the  prisoner  at  all  times,  and  that-as  even  the  lieutenant  must  know  -was  possible  only  if  the  lieutenant  stayed  awake.  &quot;The  way  you  were,&quot;  the  captain  continued,  &quot;stretched  out  dead  asleep,  your  pistol  lying  on  the  seat  within  easy  reach  of  the  enemy,  he  could  have  picked  it  up  and  shot  you  dead  at  any  time!  God  knows  why  he  didn't!&quot;  The  captain  finally  left  the  com-  partment,  and  the  lieutenant  sat  down.  Shortly  afterward  the  train  lurched  into  motion  again.  'The  lieutenant  sat  slumped  in  his  seat,  dazed  by  the  dress-  ing  down  he  had  received.  The  train  was  gathering  speed.  The  compartment  door  opened  quietly,  and  the  private  put  his  head  in.  He  surveyed  us  thoughtfully,  and  then  came  in  and  closed  the  door  behind  him.  Nonchalantly,  he  restored  his  rifle  to  its  former  place  on  the  lug-  gage  rack,  unbuttoned  his  jacket,  shoved  his  cap  to  the  back  of  his  head,  and  stretched  out  in  his  seat.  The  lieutenant  seemed  not  to  notice.  For  a  few  minutes,  we  were  silent.  Then  the  lieutenant  began  shaking  his  head,  as  if  he  had  seen  something  that  was  beyond  all  understanding.  &quot;Stupid  idiot!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  &quot;Such  a  noise  for  nothing.  Regulations,  yes,  but  that  he  would  kill  me  like  a  chicken  in  my  sleep-never!  A  dangerous  enemy  of  our  people-never!&quot;  And  then  his  voice  took  on  a  wistful  note.  &quot;If  only  I  could  have  told  him  that  the  man  speaks  [REDACTED];  The  train  rolled  on  through  the  night.  The  lieutenant  unbuckled  his  pistol  belt,  and  in  a  few  minutes  he  had  dozed  off  again. "