 b"MY  acquaintance  with  Larry  began  on  a  day  early  in  January.  He  was  then  five.  Being  in  possession  of  a  new  Christmas  wagon,  he  had  set  out  with  the  plaything  alone  on  the  road-a  mere  country  track-  that  went  past  his  parents'  house  and  mine.  I  was  looking  out  my  living-room  window  when  he  came  into  view.  It  was  about  four  in  the  afternoon,  an  hour  that  is  apt  to  be  dull  and  idle  in  an  isolated  country  house,  and  the  day  was  overcast  and  still.  I  had  considered  the  things  I  might  do  indoors-play  records,  write  letters,  read,  or  knit-  had  rejected  them  all,  and  ended  up  by  simply  standing  and  staring  out  the  win-  dow.  The  view  up  the  road  was  of  tall,  bare,  snowy  woods,  in  which  even  the  snow  looked  permanent.  It  cast  no  sparkle  or  invitation  up  into  the  air.  There  was  no  house  in  sight.  The  road  simply  went  on  some  hundred  yards  to  the  river,  frozen  over  and  covered  with  snow.  When  I  had  taken  all  this  mas-  sive  stillness  in,  I  looked  in  the  opposite  direction  and  saw  that  there  was  now  one  moving  object  in  the  stolid  scene-  a  very  little  boy.  He  was  in  the  road,  dragging  the  new  wagon  by  a  cord  tied  to  its  tongue  and  passed  over  his  shoul-  der.  He  was  dressed  in  brown-long,  baggy  trousers  tucked  into  high  boots,  a  belted  jacket,  and  a  hood  with  a  gnomelike  peak.  The  wagon  looked  triumphantly  superior,  even  to  my  in-  experienced  eves.  It  was  Christmas  red  unsullied,  and  it  was  large;  tongue  and  body  together,  it  was  considerably  longer  than  Larry.  He  was  prevented  by  his  footing,  however,  from  making  an  appropriately  triumphant  ad-  vance,  for  the  road  was  fro-  zen  in  ruts  so  deep  that  the  dividing  ridges  came  some-  times  to  his  knees.  It  was  cer-  09,  tainly  no  fit  track  for  a  vehicle  that,  as  well  as  being  new,  was  named,  in  all  probability,  the  Fly-  ing  Speedster.  Larry,  leaning  forward  from  his  very  ankles,  obviously  bring-  ing  every  ounce  of  his  strength  to  bear  on  the  cord,  was  just  creeping  along.  I  knew  who  he  was.  I  had  a  casual  acquaintance  with  his  parents,  a  young  mechanic  and  his  wife.  Their  house  was  half  a  mile  from  mine-  Larry  had  come  so  far.  When  he  ar-  rived  in  front  of  my  yard,  I  opened  the  door  and  called  hello  to  him.  He  straightened  and  stood  still.  For  a  mo-  ment,  he  just  looked  at  me.  Then  he  lifted  a  hand  in  a  gesture  that  appeared  both  courteous  and  doubtful.  &quot;Come  in  and  see  me  for  a  while,&quot;  I  called.  &quot;Can't  you?&quot;  He  turned  in  to  my  driveway  readily  enough.  With  smooth  gravel  under  him,  he  changed  his  management  of  the  wagon.  He  dropped  the  cord  from  his  shoulder  and  held  it  in  one  hand,  with  the  arm,  from  the  elbow  down,  slightly  extended.  'There  was  an  easy  competence  and  also  pride  in  the  ma-  neuver.  When  he  reached  my  porch  steps,  he  stopped,  brought  the  wagon  up  alongside,  and  braked  it  with  one  foot.  He  also  did  some  efficient-looking  thing  with  the  tongue  and  cord;  I  did  not  follow  it,  but  I  was  impressed  by  the  easy  maturity  of  the  gesture.  He  said,  in  a  faraway  and  gentle  little  voice,  giving  me  an  upward  glance,  &quot;I'll  park  here.&quot;  A  profound  dreaminess  en-  wrapped  him,  and  I  realized  that  I  had  a  man  of  five  to  deal  with.  He  had  not  been  laboring  down  the  road;  that  was  an  appearance.  He  had  been  sitting  in  the  driver's  seat  of  the  Flying  Speedster  apotheosized  into  what  gem  of  luxury  sports-racing  automobile  I  could  only  guess.  I  stood  looking  down  at  him.  He  was  a  trifle  tall  for  his  age,  and  slender,  but  his  heavy  clothes  gave  him  the  roly-poly  outline  of  babyhood.  He  was  blond.  His  face  was  thin  and  delicately  mod-  elled  but  radiant  with  health.  The  struggle  with  the  ruts  had  made  his  cheeks  pink;  his  eyes,  blue  and  wide  set,  were  brilliant.  'The  power  ofthe  0  dream  within,  however,  was  as  perceptible  as  the  evidences  of  physical  well-being.  He  sat  down  on  the  door-  step  at  my  feet,  in  order  to  rid  himself  of  his  boots.  I  said,  &quot;That  is  certainly  a  beautiful  wagon,  Larry!&quot;  His  back  was  to  me.  He  did  not  speak.  He  looked  up  and  around  at  me  over  his  shoulder-and  smiled.  Suddenly  I  was  glad  that,  on  that  dull  day,  my  house  was  in  order,  that  I  had  put  fresh  flowers  in  my  vases,  and-even-that  I  chanced  to  be  dressed  not  in  domestic  or  rough  out-  door  clothes  but  in  a  taffeta  hostess  gown  that  rustled.  When  Larry  was  in  my  living  room,  I  didn't  offer  him  a  picture  book  but  instead  indicated  that  he  should  take  a  place  on  my  davenport.  I  stirred  up  the  fire,  and  formally  sat  down  opposite  him,  prepared  to  make " b"deferential  conversation.  Then  I  got  a  qualm,  for  when  I  faced  him,  what  I  was  most  conscious  of  was  the  soles  of  his  very  little  shoes.  His  feet  reached  just  to  the  edge  of  the  daven-  port  cushions.  We  talked  of  the  holidays.  His  voice  still  faraway  and  gentle,  he  answered  my  questions  with  a  sort  of  thoughtful,  slow  literalness.  This  was  true  even  when  I  referred  to  the  wagon,  the  great  heart  of  his  Christmas.  He  told  me  that  it  had  this  kind  of  bearing  and  that  kind  of  steering  gear,  and  so  forth,  and  be-  yond  such  technical  facts,  nothing.  I  relinquished  the  subject.  He  did  not  become  bored.  He  made  what  was,  from  a  child  to  a  slightly  known  adult,  a  remarkably  long  visit.  He  sat  quietly  the  whole  time.  Occa-  sionally,  with  an  air  ofeasy  relaxation,  he  leaned  his  small  golden  head  clear  back  against  the  cushions.  His  look,  roving  about,  was  slow  and  expectant-  never  close  and  staring-and  I  won-  dered  what  it  was  he  saw,  beyond  the  actuality.  My  solitary  house,  my  book-lined  living  room,  myself-what  would  these  be  in  the  eyes  of  a  five-  year-old  visionary?  He  had  transformed  the  dead  woods  and  the  frozen  mud  into  something  glowing,  and  he  had  come  to  me  straight  from  that  splen-  dor.  In  what  manner  of  place  was  he  now?  I  felt  it  no  trifle  that  Lar-  ry's  happiness  stayed  with  him  in  my  company.  When,  finally,  the  call  began  to  seem  somewhat  long,  I  went  to  the  kitchen  and  made  chocolate.  This  caused  the  dreamlike  quality  ofthe  visit  at  last  to  give  way,  without  harm,  to  reality-  it  provided  Larry  and  me  with  a  joke.  I  served  the  hot  chocolate  in  pottery  mugs  that  were  fairly  large.  Larry,  lifting  his,  let  it  wobble,  and  a  few  drops  spilled  on  the  davenport.  A  dreadful  moment  followed.  He  shrank  back  and  peeped  at  me,  a  scared  little  boy.  I  could  not  ignore  what  had  happened;  he  evidently  expected  me  not  to  ignore  it.  I  heard  myself  saying,  &quot;Now,  there  are  just  two  places  for  chocolate,  Larry.  Do  you  know  what  they  are?&quot;  'The  fear  went  out  of  his  eyes.  He  looked  at  me  with  interest  and  slowly  shook  his  head.  &quot;In  the  cup,&quot;  I  said,  and  tapped  his  mug  with  a  finger,  &quot;and  i\xc2\xbb  the  stomach,&quot;  and  tapped  his  belt.  Then-  I  don't  know  why-I  repeated  words  and  gestures.  His  face  became  a  mask  of  quiet  de-  light.  &quot;No  place  in  between,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  Reproducing  my  accent  perfectly,  he  recited  the  formula:  &quot;In  the  cup. " b"And  in  the  stomach.&quot;  Then  he  burst  out  laughing.  ERRY  called  on  me  several  times  that  winter  and  spring,  and  always  we  had  chocolate,  and  always,  when  he  picked  up  his  mug,  he  said  the  words  of  the  incantation,  giving  them  their  proper  emphasis.  I  refrained  from  men-  tioning  the  visits  to  anyone  in  our  neigh-  borhood,  and  I  felt  sure  that  he  did  the  same.  I  cannot  say  thatI  entered  into  his  imaginary  world.  He  simply  brought  that  world  withhim.  'The  look  of  wonder  was  always  on  him  when  he  came  to  my  door.  We  would  talk,  with  our  established  slow  literalness,  of  what  he  had  been  doing  or  what  he  meant  to  do,  and  all  the  time  the  dream  would  float  about  him.  Only  once  did  he  speak  of  his  vision-  ary  existence,  and  then  he  retreated  in-  stantly.  We  hadhad  a  moment  of  silence.  He  broke  it  by  asking,  &quot;You  know  Mudge's  house-and  Rickett's?&quot;  The  reference  was  to  two  pleasant  old  homes  that  stood  near  one  another  on  a  gentle  slope  above  our  road.  I  answered,  &quot;Yes.&quot;  Larry  said,  &quot;Mudge's  house  is  a  silver  house.  Rickett's  house  is  gold.&quot;  &quot;Are  they?&quot;  I  inquired,  but  he  would  go  no  farther.  Both  houses  were  painted  white,  but  the  Mudge  white  was  thin  and  misty-looking,  the  Rickett  creamy  and  thick.  It  was  not  wonderful  that  Larry  had  seen  the  difference.  It  was  wonderful  that  he  had  thought  about  it  and  found  a  way  to  describe  it.  He  played  alone  a  great  deal.  I  used  to  see  him  as  I  drove  along  the  road;  he  would  be  dragging  the  wagon  or  coast-  ing  down  some  little  slope,  always  soli-  tary.  His  thoughts  in  his  solitude,  it  seemed,  were  such  as  these.  His  aloneness,  to  be  sure,  was  not  from  choice.  'There  were  no  children  of  his  age  in  our  sparsely  settled  neigh-  borhood  that  winter.  Yet  when  he  made  his  visits  to  me,  I  never  felt  that  he  came  because  of  loneliness.  Even  so,  I  told  myself,  when  the  school  term  was  over  and  he  had  the  older  young-  sters  to  play  with,  I  should  not  expect  him  any  more.  He  came,  however;  he  made  one  more  visit.  Or  perhaps  I  should  say  he  attempted  to  make  one  more.  The  weather  was  warm  by  that  time.  He  was  dressed  accordingly.  He  was  barefoot,  he  had  on  short  cotton  pants  and  a  sleeveless  shirt.  We  had  lemonade  instead  of  hot  chocolate.  And,  of  course,  I  had  my  windows  open.  'The  summer  occasion  was  not  like  the  winter  ones.  The  difference  was  in  everything.  It " b"was  in  ourselves.  I  was  glad  to  see  Larry  and  he  was  glad  to  see  me,  but  now  each  of  us  was  anxious  for  the  other  to  know  the  good  will.  The  time  for  the  joke  approached.  I  wondered  if  he  would  repeat  the  charm.  He  did  not.  Helooked  at  me  when  the  moment  came,  and  smiled.  We  had  gone  through  a  phase.  SAW  Larry  frequently  after  that  with  a  gang  of  boys  of  the  age  group  |-  whose  games  are  apparently  all  running  and  yelling,  and  he  ran  and  yelled  with  '  the  best  of  them.  Sometimes,  as  I  drove  past,  I  would  wave  to  him;  he  always  returned  the  greeting,  no  matter  what  the  uproar  of  the  play.  Once,  I  saw  -  him  in  the  act  of  catching  a  ball.  He  had  to  leap  to  do  it  and  the  feat  seemed  to  me  quite  splendid.  Meeting  his  eye  immediately  afterward,  I  pantomimed  admiration  by  lifting  my  clasped  hands  in  the  gesture  of  victory.  His  smile  in  response  was  joyous  and  personal.  Watching  thus,  at  a  distance,  his  in-  clusion  in  the  gang,  I  was  relieved.  He  had,  I  thought,  the  qualities-or  some  of  them-that  go  to  make  the  outcast.  When  I  saw  that  he  was  escaping  the  stigma,  I  rejoiced  for  him.  But  I  was  only  observing  Larry  live-and  he  was  doing  the  actual  living.  I  was  presently  reminded  of  the  difference.  He  arrived  at  my  home  one  afternoon  in  midsummer  in  company  with  four  boys  a  trifle  older  than  he,  with  whom  I  had  only  a  vague  acquaintance.  I  was  surprised  at  the  sight  of  the  little  crowd  and  asked,  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  The  four  stood  silent,  looking  mulish.  Larry  said  softly,  &quot;We  came  to  see  you.&quot;  I  invited  them  in.  A  sorrowful  time  followed.  The  four  behaved  as  children  ordinarily  do  when  made  uneasy  by  their  own  daring.  They  were  curious,  bumptious,  and  half  hos-  tile.  They  picked  things  up  and  shoved  them  dismissingly  aside.  They  had  no  conversation  and  covered  the  lack  by  pushing  each  other  and  giggling.  Final-  ly,  one  announced,  &quot;Larry  said  you  gave  him  lemonade.&quot;  Another  instant-  ly  exclaimed,  &quot;Aw,  I  never  believed  it,&quot;  and  they  all  falsely  laughed.  I  went  to  the  kitchen  and  made  the  drink.  I  served  the  drinks  to  the  five  boys  exact-  ly  as  I  had  to  Larry  alone,  using  the  same  kind  of  glass,  remembering  to  put  a  cherry  in  each  one,  and  handing  out  the  same  sort  of  paper  napkin.  I  was  aware  that  this  might  be  kind  or  cruel.  It  depended  on  which  was  more  im-  portant  to  Larry-the  spirit  of  our  friendship  or  keeping  face  before  his  fellows.I  had  one  look  from  him.  It " b"was  brief  and  unforgiving.  He  didn't  come  to  my  house  any  more  that  summer  .  In  the  fall,  he  entered  school.  I  heard  from  his  mother  that  he  liked  his  new  world-and  then  I  forgot  about  him.  When  the  Christmas  holidays  came  around,  however,  Larry  called  on  me.  He  was  smiling  and  confident  .  We  had  chocolate,  but  not  in  the  mugs.  We  were,  I  believe,  what  is  usually  called  cordial.  WE  saw  each  other  only  at  widely  spaced  intervals  after  that.  The  Flying  Speedster  disappeared,  and  the  summer  Larry  was  s  even  he  was  given  a  bicycle,  which  he  handled  with  the  controlled  wildness  of  a  young  Indian  astride  a  bare-backed  pony.  One  morn-  ing,  as  I  was  standing  in  my  yard  view-  ing  the  ravages  of  Japanese  beetles  among  my  roses,  Larry  came  riding  by.  He  let  the  bicycle  drift  beautifully  to  a  stop,  got  down,  and,  without  speaking,  stood  at  my  side.  A  quiet  settled  around  us.  When  Larry  spoke  at  last,  it  was  in  his  old,  faraway  voice.  He  said,  &quot;  'They're  bad.&quot;  &quot;''They  are,&quot;  I  agreed.  Nothing  seems  to  kill  them.&quot;  He  appeared  to  think  deeply  for  a  moment.  Then  he  said,  sounding  even  more  remote,  &quot;Lay  some  of  them  down  in  the  road.  On  their  backs.  In  a  row.&quot;  I  did,  and  he  rode  over  the  bugs.  He  first  took  the  bicycle  far  enough  away  to  give  him  an  easy  speed.  Then,  after  he  had  passed  over  the  line  of  victims,  he  removed  both  his  hands  and  his  fee  from  the  controls  and  simply  sailed,  hanging,  as  it  were,  on  the  sad-  dle,  his  golden  head  tilted  far  back.  He  went  on  some  yards,  slowed,  and  re-  turned.  Standing  with  one  foot  on  the  pedal  and  one  foot  on  the  ground,  he  bent  down  and  inspected  the  flattened  shapes,  his  manner  a  study  in  disinter-  ested  attention.  I  said,  &quot;You  certainly  can  steer  beautifully!&quot;  He  gave  me  a  flashing  smile,  then  whirled  about,  and  started  off.  A  little  distance  down  the  road,  he  slowed  again  and,  twistin  around  as  he  rose  and  fell  with  his  pedalling,  called,  &quot;I'll  be  seeing  you!&quot;  It  was  several  weeks  before  I  came  on  him  again,  in  our  country  store  .  He  was  leaning  against  the  wall,  licking  an  ice-  cream  cone,  and  he  did  not  appear  to  be  aware  of  my  presence.  After  giv-  ing  the  matter  a  little  thought,  I  went  up  to  him.  &quot;'The  beetles  are  all  gone  now,  Larry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  season  for  them  is  over.&quot;  He  went  on  with  his  licking;  merely  lifting  his  lashes,  he  made  the  slightest  of  nods.  Another  boy  stepped " b"out  from  behind  a  pyramid  of  canned  goods  and  joined  him,  and  I  realized,  finally,  why  Larry  was  being  so  un-  communicative.  ALMOST  a  year  afterward,  Larry's  mother  was  suddenly  stricken  with  appendicitis  and  had  to  be  taken  by  ambulance  to  the  hospital.  It  hap-  pened  in  the  night,  and  I  heard  no  word  of  it  until  the  next  day.  Then  Larry  himself  brought  me  the  news.  He  came  up  on  the  porch,  where  I  was  sitting  alone,  and  stood  still  before  me.  Since  the  day  at  the  store,  we  had  only  ex-  changed  greetings.  He  had  grown  into  an  unemphatic  but  virtually  flawless  state  of  beauty.  He  was  lightly  built  but  well  knit.  His  features,  though  still  delicate,  were  ma-  turing.  There  was  knowledge  in  his  eight-year-old  eyes,  too,  but  it  was  not  knowledge  that  was  being  easily  ab-  sorbed;  with  it  and  around  it  was  a  sort  of  slow,  prolonged  astonishment.  This  was  by  no  means  the  old  wonder  at  the  dream  within,  the  wonder  that  is  itself  of  the  source  and  material  of  its  cause.  It  was  wonder  at  the  reality  without,  and  stood  apart.  With  all  this,  Larry  was  also  just  a  small  boy.  He  had  a  scratch  dabbed  with  iodine  on  his  bare  leg  and  a  freshly  snagged  tear  in  his  skinny  little  sweater.  I  said,  &quot;Well,  Larry,  hello.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;You  know  what?  My  mama  is  going  to  die.&quot;  Then,  at  my  shocked  question,  he  readily  told  his  story.  He  talked  in  a  very  small  voice,  with  no  outward  sign  of  excitement.  I  was  so  filled  by  my  awareness  of  the  implications  of  his  confidence  that  I  had  no  initiative  left  for  dealing  with  him.  Since  he  came  to  me  with  this  great  trou-  ble,  I  thought,  he  must  have  kept  un-  spoiled  the  essence,  at  least,  of  our  old  friendship.  I  had  kept  the  essence,  too,  of  course;  I  still  loved  the  Larry  of  the  chocolate  winter.  What  could  I  do  now  for  his  descendant?  I  groped  for  an  inspiration,  for  a  spontaneous  formula  that  would  save  us  again,  but  none  oc-  curred  to  me.  I  recited  the  standing  clich\xc3\xa9s.  I  said,  &quot;Your  mama  is  getting  the  best  care  there  is,  Larry.  They'll  do  everything  for  her  at  the  hospital.  It's  a  very  good  place.  You  did  what  was  right-you  and  your  papa-when  you  took  her  there.&quot;  &quot;It  bursted.  We  didn't  get  her  there  in  time,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  me.  I  struck  my  brain  a  hard  blow,  but  it  produced  nothing  better  than  the  idea  that  I  seek  to  divert  him  with  some  duty.  &quot;While  she's  away,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  must " b"do  what  you  can  at  home.  Try  to  help  your  papa.  It's  hard  for  him,  too.&quot;  He  changed  faintly  on  hearing  this  counsel.  He  did  not  brighten,  but  he  looked  as  if  the  meaning  had  reached  him.  The  next  day,  he  returned.  Listlessly  he  told  me  that  his  mother  was  &quot;just  holding  her  own.&quot;  I  represented  the  news  as  encouragement.  He  heard  me  through.  Then  he  said,  &quot;I'm  doing  what  you  told  me.  I'm  trying  to  help  Papa.  I  got  him  to  let  me  wipe  the  dishes.&quot;  His  voice  trembled,  and  for  the  first  time,  perhaps  because  he  had  spoken  steadily  before-but  no,  not  for  any  de-  finable  reason-I  faintly  scented  drama.  A  brief  mental  note  was  my  only  con-  cession  at  the  moment,  but  a  little  later  I  learned  that  my  instinct  had  been  right.  Neighbors  who  were  friends  of  Lar-ry's  family  told  me  that  his  mother's  appendix  had  not  burst,  that  her  operation  had  been  entirely  routine,  that  her  condition  had  never  been  considered  dangerous.  I  also  learned  that  Larry  's  father  had  not  undertaken  to  keep  house  himself  during  his  wife's  absence  but  had  brought  in  a  hired  woman.  So,  obviously,  there  had  been  no  forlorn  masculine  dishwashing  in  a  desolate  home.  What  had  there  been,  then?  A  boy's  imagina-  tion  fanned  to  flame  by  fear,  love,  am-  bulance  lights,  and  a  siren?  I  decided  that  if  Larry  spoke  to  me  of  the  matter  again,  I  would  not  let  him  know  that  I  had  discovered  his  exaggerations.  But  I  did  not  have  to  put  the  decision  in  to  effect,  for  I  did  not  talk  to  him  again  that  summer.  THE  winter  following,  I  left  our  neighborhood  and  stayed  away  for  several  months.  I  sent  Larry  some  cards  and,  preparing  to  return  in  the  spring,  bought  a  gift  for  him,  a  kite  shaped  like  a  falcon.  When  I  came  home,  I  found  that  my  porch  light-a  little  lantern  set  in  the  front  wall  of  the  house,  high  up,  well  above  the  reach  of  any  human  being-had  been  smashed.  It  was  the  only  breakable  object  that  I  had  left  unprotected  when  I  went  away;  all  my  windows  I  had  had  boarded  up.  A  man  of  the  neighborhood  whose  word  I  knew  to  be  reliable  told  me  that  Larry  had  done  the  smashing.  &quot;I  saw  him,&quot;  this  man  assured  me,  &quot;and  it  wasn't  the  first  time  he  tried,  either.&quot;  Three  or  four  other  days,  when  he  was  driving  past,  he  had  seen  Larry  in  my  yard,  all  by  himself,  throwing  stone  after  stone  at-  that  light.  &quot;I  slowed  down,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;aiming  to  tell  him  to  get  away  from  there,  but  he  ran.  I  first  thought  I  would  tell  his" b"parents.  Then  I  figured  it  was  your  business,  and  I'd  just  tell  you.&quot;  Two  phrases  uttered  by  my  con-  scientious  neighbor  blotted  out  for  me  the  rest  of  his  report-'&quot;all  by  himself,&quot;  and  &quot;stone  after  stone.&quot;  They  con-  tained,  I  thought,  the  heart  of  Larry's  act:  Alone  and  daemonically  patient,  he  had  dealt  with  our  friendship  ac-  cording  to  his  own  inner  necessity.  I  was  very  sorry  for  him.  It  grieved  me  that  it  had  to  be  that  way.  But  I  found  myself  contemplating  the  not  incon-  siderable  material  that  layfor  him  on  the  other  side  ofthe  balance-ice  cream  to  be  licked,  scratches  to  be  dabbed  with  iodine,  sweaters  to  be  indifferently  snagged,  healthful  running  and  yelling  generally. "