 b"WHEN  my  father  died,  in  Oc-  tober,  1950,  Killegar,  my  fam-  ily's  home  in  Ireland,  where  I  am  now  writing  these  words,  was  for  sale  at  a  knockdown  price.  My  father  had  left  Killegar  when  my  stepmother,  Nora,  his  second  wife,  was  killed  here  in  a  shooting  accident  in  1948,  and  he  had  never  returned.  If  he  had  lived  an-  other  month,  Killegar  would  certainly  have  been  sold;  a  potential  buyer  had  already  made  an  offer.  The  buyer  would  have  got  a  nice  profit.  He  was  a  timber  merchant,  and  of  course  he  would  not  have  tried  to  live  here.  Hardly  anyone  would  choose  to  live  nowadays  in  a  rambling  Geor-  gian  mansion  with  few  modern  con-  veniences  (my  father  put  in  baths  and  a  telephone  just  before  the  war,  but  he  never  got  around  to  central  heating  or  electricity),  in  a  demesne  of  more  than  four  hundred  wild  acres,as  unproduc-  tive  as  they  are  lovely,  in  County  Lei-  trim,  which  is  in  Connaught,  the  most  backward  and  remote  of  thefour  Irish  provinces.  The  timber  merchant  would  have  cut  down  and  sold  every  tree:  the  six  hundred  great  oak  in  the  Back-o'-  Byre  Wood,  the  five  hundred  noble  beech  in  Portlongfield  Wood  and  the  Pottles,  thosethat  are  reflected  in  the  House  Lake  and  Donaweale,  those  that  look  down  upon  Laheen,  and  the  ash  and  the  elm  and  the  horse  chestnut  in  Drumergoul,  the  silver  fir,  the  larch,  the  lime,  and  the  sycamore-every  one.  He  would  have  rented  the  land  in  small  parcels  to  local  farmers  and  it  would  quickly  have  deteriorated.  He  would  have  ripped  the  roof  from  the  house-  the  price  of  lead  had  never  been  higher  than  it  was  that  year-and  there  would  have  been  a  ready  market  for  the  slates  and  for  the  windows  and  doors.  The  huge  shell  of  the  old,  beautiful  house  would  then  have  been  left  to  crumble  away  through  the  centuries,  overgrown  with  roses.  Thus  he  would  have  destroyed  Kille-  gar.  Also,  he  would  have  saved  me  from  a  conflict  for  which,  even  now,  I  have  found  only  a  compromise  solution.  When,  as  my  father's  elder  son,  I  in-  herited  Killegar,  I  had  to  decide  wheth-  er  to  go  through  with  selling  it  or  come  and  live  here.  I  was  thirty  and  single;  after  death  duties,  I  inherited  rather  less  than  a  thousand  pounds;  I  had  no  other  capital  and  no  income  beyond  my  liter-  ary  earnings.  Killegar  has  never  paid  for  itself,  though  I  hope  that  it  will  within  the  next  five  years,  and  a  thou-  sand  pounds  was  enough  to  keep  it  go-  ing  for  only  about  ten  months.  As  everyone  knows,  a  writer  can  live  and  work  anywhere,  but  he  has  to  have  something  to  write  about.  I  had  trav-  elled  through  twenty-nine  countries  in  the  preceding  seven  years,  making  Lon-  don  my  base,  where  I  lived  in  a  succes-  sion  of  furnished  rooms  with  monthly  leases,  and  I  wanted  to  be  able  to  goon  getting  around.  Killegar  breeds  cattle  but  not  ideas.  There  are  almost  no  social  or  intellectual  contacts  within  ninety  miles.  I  used  to  tell  my  friends  that  Killegar  is  a  fine  place  to  be  born  or  to  die,  to  spend  one's  childhood  or  retire-  ment,  but  not  to  live.  At  the  same  time,  I  loved  Killegar.  It's  easy  to  love  Killegar,  as  I  real-  ized  more  than  ever  when  I  came  here  for  the  first  time  after  my  father's  death.  I  can  imagine  selling  it  when  I'm  in  Portofino,  or  [REDACTED],  or  [REDACTED]  (and  imagine  the  villa,  penthouse,  or  atelier  I'll  buy  instead),  in  much  the  way  a  man  might  view  the  prospect  of  a  di-  vorce  as  delectable  when  he  is  with  his  seductive  mistress,  yet  find  it  impossible  to  ask  for  one  when  he  returns  to  his  wife.  As  soon  as  I  get  back  to  Killegar,  the  notion  of  selling  it  seems  impossible.  Besides,  my  possession  of  it  is  the  result  of  such  a  long  series  of  unrelated  acci-  dents  scattered  through  three  centu-  ries-all  necessary  if  Killegar  was  one  day  to  be  mine-that  when  I  was  faced  with  the  choice  it  seemed  a  pity  to  dispose  of  it  as  soon  as  it  had  at  last  managed  to  come  my  way.  HE  pattern  of  these  accidents  is  the  story  of  Killegar.  As  far  as  I've  been  able  to  trace  them,  they  begin  with  a  scoun-  drel  named  Robert  Craige,  who  was  no  relation  of  mine  whatever.  If  Robert  had  not  gone  broke  in  1725,  Craigstown  would  never  have  come  up  for  sale.  I'll  explain  about  Craigstown:  The  name  Killegar  is  used  at  present  for  all  my  land,  but  strictly  it  is  only  one  of  the  two  townlands  I  own,  the  other  being  Drumergoul.  &quot;Townland&quot;  is  the  misleading  word  used  in  Ireland  to  denote  a  small  division  of  open  country;  several  of  these,  taken  together,  constitute  a  par-  ish,  or  manor.  These  two  townlands  formed  about  a  seventh  part  of  the  an-  cient  manor  of  Craigstown,  which  was  granted  by  King  Charles  I,  in  1640,  to  Sir  James  Craige,  a  Scottish  landlord  who  had  in  some  way  earned  the  royal  favor.  It  comprised  2,784  acres  and  seven  perches,  and  was  let  to  peas-  ant  farmers  at  an  annual  net  rent  of  \xc2\xa3335  9s.  1d.  In  addition  to  Killegar  and  Drumergoul,  it  embraced  the  con-  tiguous  townlands  of  Aghavore,  Tagha-  more,  Kilbracken,  Drumbrick,  Drum-  luna,  Druminchin,  Aghavilly,  Tuam,  and  Mullaghmore.  Sir  James  Craige  died  in  1650.  On  the  death,  in  1690,  of  his  elder  son,  Thomas,  who  had  inherited  Craigs-  town,  the  estate  was  falsely  claimed  by  Thomas's  brother,  Robert,  who  success-  fully  pretended  for  thirty-eight  years  that  it  had  been  entailed  on  the  issue  male.  If  it  had  been  so  entailed,  Craigs,  town  would  rightfully  have  belonged  to  him,  as  his  brother  had  a  daughter,  Hel-  len,  who  was  eight  months  old  when  he  died,  but  no  son;  in  fact,  however,  it  was  not  entailed,  and  should  therefore  have  gone  to  Hellen.  By  1725,  Robert  was  so  deeply  in  debt  that  he  was  forced  to  put  the  place  up  for  sale;  Hellen  had  by  then  been  dead  a  decade,  having  lived  all  her  life,  except  its  first  eight  months,  in  posses-  sion  of  Craigstown  without  knowing  it.  News  of  the  impending  sale  reached  her  only  son,  John  Carmichael,  a  boy  of  eighteen,  whose  suspicions  were  some-  how  aroused.  He  unearthed  Sir  James's  will,  and  at  once  all  the  chicanery  of  his  great-uncle  Robert  came  to  light.  After  eight  years  of  litigation,  John  Carmichael  proved  his  claim,  and  Rob-  ert  Craige,  who  must  by  then  have  been  well  over  eighty,  was  declared  bank-  rupt.  Carmichael  decided  to  leave  Craigstown  on  the  market,  and  it  was  sold  on  June  19,  1734,  for  \xc2\xa35626  8s.  4d.  The  buyer  was  Richard  Morgan,  a  pros-  perous  [REDACTED]  landlord,  probably  of  Welsh  an-  cestry,  and,  fortunately,  my  great-great-great-great-great-grandfa-  ther.  However,  if  Morgan's  only  son  had  managed  to  get  an  heir  from  either  of  his  two  marriages,  Craigstown  would  have  stayed  in  the  Morgan  family  in-  stead  of  passing  by  way  of  his  daughter  to  my  own  family,  the  Godleys,  and  I  would  not  be  at  Killegar  today.  Rich-  ard's  home  was  at  Coldcutt,  near  Dub-  lin  (until  1807,  there  was  no  Big  House  here-only  the  whitewashed  mud  cot-  tages  of  the  tenants),  and  he  possessed  4,381  acres,  which  brought  in  an  annual  " b"net  rent  of  \xc2\xa31207  13s.  814  d.-a  con-  siderable  income  in  those  days.  It  was  by  a  strange  stroke  of  luck  that  I  re-  cently  discovered  the  details  of  his  es-  tates.  There's  a  wing  of  Killegar  House  that  hasn't  been  lived  in  for  halfa  cen-  tury  and  is  now  almost  derelict;  the  floors  and  ceilings  are  falling  down,  the  doors  are  mostly  on  one  hinge,  the  win-  dows  cracked  and  broken.  I  use  the  ground-floor  rooms  for  storing  apples  and  potatoes.  I  was  wandering  through  the  upstairs  rooms  the  other  day,  won-  dering  what  to  do  with  them,  when  I  came  upon  a  rusty  black  deedbox  in  one  corner  ofa  back  room.  I  creaked  back  the  lid,  and  found  the  box  was  filled  with  faded  documents-title  deeds,  let-  ters,  indentures,  and  so  on.  Amongst  them  was  a  large  manuscript  book,  in  Richard  Morgan's  handwriting  and  signed  by  him,  giving  a  detailed  record  of  all  his  estates-in  Limerick,  [REDACTED],  and  Drogheda,  as  well  as  Leitrim.  This  book,  which  is  undated  but  must  have  been  written  about  1765,  turned  out  to  be  more  than  a  rent  roll,  though  it  gave  all  a  rent  roll's  usual  informa-  tion.  Morgan  had  also  recorded  the  previous  history  of  each  estate,  as  well  as  his  intentions  as  to  its  disposition  when  he  died.  It  was  from  this  book  that  I  learned  the  origins  of  &quot;ye  Manour  of  Craigstown.&quot;  I  also  found  that  the  townland  of  Killegar  was  at  that  time  leased  to  a  Mr.  John  Murray  &quot;for  three  Lives  or  thirty-one  years,  which  ever  shall  last  Longest,  Viz:  the  sd  Jno  Murray,  Richd  Murray  his  son,  and  James  Connely,  commencing  May  1,  1733.&quot;  The  townland's  hundred  and  sixteen  acres  and  twenty-eight  perches  of  arable  land  were  let  at  four  shillings  an  acre,  its  twenty-one  acres  of  &quot;rushy  pasture&quot;  at  two-and-sevenpence,  and  its  two  and  a  half  acres  of  &quot;bogg&quot;  at  six-  pence-a  total  of  twenty-six  pounds  twopence  rent  a  year  forjust  under  a  hundred  and  forty  acres.  I  knew  already  that  Morgan's  only  daughter,  Mary,  had  married  my  great-  great-great-great-grandfather,  the  Rev-  erend  Dr.  William  Godley,  Rector  of  Mullabrack,  in  1730.  (I  cannot  trace  my  own  family  back  beyond  William's  father,  or  prove  my  conjectured  de-  scent  from  the  family  of  Godelegh,  which  lived  at  Godley,  now  a  flourish-  ing  town  in  Cheshire,  England,  in  the  thirteenth  century.  William's  father,  John,  was  sheriff  of  [REDACTED]  and  died  in  1710.)  I  did  not  know  that,  as  I  now  discovered,  Morgan  had  given  a  good  marriage  portion  to  &quot;my  daughter  Godley&quot;  but  had  intended  that  all  his  land,  including  Craigstown,  should  go  to  his  only  son,  Richard,  Jr.,  and  to  his  heirs,  unless  he  hadno  heirs,  in  which  case  it  would  go  to  Mary.  So,  as  a  result  solely  ofthe  jun-  ior  Richard's  unproduc-  tiveness,  the  Morgan  estates  passed  out  of  the  Morgan  family  on  his  death  and  went  to  his  sister,  Mary  Morgan  Godley,  and  thence  to  her  eldest  son,  John  Godley,  my  great-  great-great-grandfa-  ther,  who  was  born  in  1731.  Killegar  was  thus  safely  in  my  family,  but  if  that  John  Godley's  eldest  son,  William,  had  not  lived  simultaneously  with  the  two  beautiful  daughters  of  the  Reverend  Francis  Ricardo,  a  clergyman  of  the  is-  land  of  Jersey,  he,  rather  than  his  youngest  brother,  would  have  inherited  his  father's  lands  and  they  would  never  have  come  to  me.  William,  who  ended  up  a  colonel  in  the  83rd,  presumably  went  to  Jersey  with  his  regiment.  There  he  met  the  Ricardo  sisters  and  cohabited  with  them  for  the  better  part  of  a  decade  in  a  convenient  m\xc3\xa9nage  &amp;  trois.  It  seems  he  just  couldn't  make  up  his  mind  be-  tween  them.  I  don't  know  what  the  Reverend  Francis  thought  of  this,  but  John  Godley  would  have  none  of  it,  and  he  disinherited  William.  (The  elder  sister  finally  died,  and  William,  his  con-  flict  at  last  ended,  promptly  married  her  survivor,  Adeline,  but  by  then  it  was  too  late.  The  descendants  of  this  union  still  survive  and  flourish;  their  head,  who  would  possess  Killegar  if  William  had  been  less  indecisive,  is  Brigadier  Sir  Francis  William  Crewe  Fetherston-  Godley,  Commander  of  the  4b656e7961  Po-  lice  Reserve.)  John'ssecond  son,  Alex-  ander,  was  also  a  soldier,  a  major  in  the  28th;  he  never  married  andwas  killed  in  1801  in  theattack  on  Alexandria  under  Sir  Ralph  Abercromby.  So  on  the  death  ofold  John  Godley  five  years  later  his  estates  came  intact  to  his  third,  and  youngest,  son,  John  II,  my  great-great-  grandfather.  However,  if  John  II  hadn't  built  a  house  here,  and  if  he  hadn't  farmed  the  land  round  about  it  himself,  all  the  property  would  have  been  compulsorily  sold  under  the  Irish  land  acts  at  the  end  ofthe  nineteenth  century,  instead  of  only  ten-elevenths  of  it,  and  again  I  wouldn't  be  here  today.  Under  these  acts,  which  were  introduced  by  Gladstone  as  a  halfway  house  to  Home  Rule,  it  was  made  progressively  easier  for  ten-  ants  to  own  the  land  they  farmed.  The  government  advanced  the  required  sum  to  the  tenant  as  a  loan,  or  bought  the  land  from  the  landlord  at  a  mutually  agreed  price.  The  tenant  was  then  able  to  repay  the  loan,  or  to  buy  the  land  from  the  government  on  very  favorable  terms,  the  payments  being  made  over  alarge  number  of  years,  with  the  addi-  tion  of  very  little  or  no  interest.  Even-  tually  such  sales  were  made  compulsory  forthe  landlord  if  the  tenant  so  desired.  The  land  I  own  today,  an  eleventh  of  the  original  Morgan  estate,  is  the  land  John  II  farmed  himself,  and  which  as  a  result  had  no  tenants  when  the  land  acts  became  operative,  three-quarters  of  a  century  after  John  II  took  possession  of  it.  John  II  had  a  smart  establishment  in  Sackville  Street,  [REDACTED],  but  he  want-  ed  a  country  house  as  well,  and  as  the  tenancies  were  about  to  expire  on  Kil-  legar  and  Drumergoul,  he  decided  not  to  renew  them.  These  two  townlands  were  certainly  the  most  beautiful  part  of  all  his  four  thousand  acres.  In  1807,  the  year  after  his  father's  death,  John  II  began  to  build  Killegar  House.  It's  not  large,  as  Irish  country  houses  go,  hav-  ing  no  more  than  twenty-eight  rooms  (I've  just  counted  them),  excluding  the  now  derelict  north  wing  and  the  out-  buildings,  but  it  is  beautiful.  KILLEGAR  House  is  in  the  classical  Georgian  tradition.  John  built  it  of  yellowish-white  stone  covered  with  plain  gray  stucco,  now  weathered  and  golden-but  it's  a  different  color  every  season,  every  day-and  hung  about  with  clematis,  roses,  [REDACTED]  creeper,  and  " b"wisteria.  The  front,  which  faces  south-  east,  is  strictly  rectangular;  it  has  eight  bedroom  windows,  regularly  spaced,  and  the  downstairs  windows  exactly  correspond  to  them,  except  in  the  cen-  ter,  where  French  windows  lead  straight  into  the  saloon.  (Most  people  nowadays  use  these  French  windows  as  the  front  door,  rather  than  the  formal  main  entrance,  which  is  in  a  porch  that  projects  from  the  northeast  face  of  the  house.)  There  are  two  white  columns,  now  overgrown  with  honeysuckle,  on  either  side  of  them;  above,  at  roof  level,  is  a  great  triangular  pediment,  typical  ofthe  period,  and  in  the  center  of  this  pediment  is  a  rectangular  space  for  the  family  escutcheon  (argent,  threeuni-  corns'  heads  erased  sable,  horned  gules,  two  and  one,  and  three  trefoils  slipped  vert,  one  and  two),  which  no  one  has  yet  bothered  to  put  there.  All  the  main  rooms  have  windows  only  in  this  south-  east  front.  Downstairs  is  the  library,  and  four  great  reception  rooms,  which  lead  into  one  another  in  a  straight  line,  so  that  you  can  stand  in  the  sitting  room,  and  see  the  saloon  beyond  the  drawing  room  and  the  dining  room  beyond  the  saloon.  Killegar  is  built  against  a  slope,  and  if  you  walk  in  at  the  front  door  and  go  upstairs  and  along  a  corridor,  you  dis-  cover  the  back  door  there,  apparently  on  the  second  floor.  'The  prospect  from  any  bedroom  at  Killegar  is  terrific.  Beyond  the  three  terraces  of  the  fenced  garden,  a  twelve-acre  field  drops  down  gently  to  two  great  lakes,  Donaweale  and  the  House  Lake.  You  can  drive  a  golf  ball  into  the  House  Lake  from  the  house,  and  nearly,  but  not  quite,  into  Dona-weale.  Like  most  Irish  lakes,  they  are  sometimes  the  color  of  Guinness,  but  sometimes  they  are  silver,  sometimes  they  reflect  exactly  the  green  or  golden  beeches,  and  sometimes  the  House  Lake  seems  to  be  flowing  with  the  wind,  rumpled  and  flecked  with  foam,  as  though  it  were  a  great  river,  a  Volga  or  a  Rhone.  There  are  woods  beyond  each  lake,  and  beyond  the  woods  rises  the  purple  peak  of  Slieve  Glagh,  twelve  miles  to  eastward.  The  trees  in  the  woods  were  almost  all  planted  by  John  II  when  he  built  the  house,  and  are  now  in  their  prime.  'The  countryside  around  is  all  that  Ireland  should  be;  there  are  lakes  everywhere,  and  bog  and  river,  and  green  meadows  patchworked  with  black  plowland.  The  air  is  clean  and  sweet,  and  on  summer  nights,  if  some-  one  should  throw  a  penny  into  the  " b"House  Lake,  you  could  hear  the  &quot;plop&quot;  up  at  the  house.  As  soon  as  the  house  was  built  and  the  trees  planted,  John  II  married  the  girl  he  loved,  Catherine  Daly,  who  was  the  daughter  of  a  privy  councillor  and  (later  on)  the  sister  of  a  bishop.  At  first,  they  spent  half  their  time  in  Dub-  lin,  but  Killegar  soon  began  to  take  hold  of  them,  as  it  does  tend  to  take  hold  of  people-me,  for  example-and  finally  they  sold  the  house  in  Sackville  Street  and  came  to  live  here  all  the  year.  John  II  and  Catherine  had  five  sons  and  two  daughters  and  lived  to  be,  respec-  tively,  eighty-eight  and  eighty.  When  John  died  in  1863,  they  had  been  mar-  ried  and  living  here  for  exactly  half  a  century.  John  II's  eldest  son  was  John  III,  my  great-grandfather,  who  was  born  here  in  1814  and  became  a  great  traveller.  He  visited  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  in  the  forties,  and  he  founded,  in  1850,  the  province  of  [REDACTED],  New  Zea-  land.  Then  he  was  at  the  War  Office  in  [REDACTED]  for  eight  years.  In  conse-  quence,  his  only  son,  my  grandfather,  John  Arthur  Godley,  spent  little  of  his  childhood  in  Ireland.  John  III  was  tubercular,  and  died  in  1861,  two  years  before  his  father.  In  those  two  years,  John  II  changed  his  will.  He  left  the  house  and  lands  to  my  grandfather,  who  was  a  boy  of  fifteen  when  John  II  died,  but  he  gave  a  twenty-one-year  lease  of  the  house  and  farm  to  his  second  son,  Archibald,  who  had  stayed  at  Killegar  all  his  life  and  had  been  man-  aging  the  farm  in  his  father's  old  age.  This  so  annoyed  my  grandfather  that  he  hardly  ever  came  to  Ireland  again.  Uncle  [REDACTED]  farmed  Killegar  and  Drumergoul,  and,  when  his  lease  ex-  pired  in  1884,  my  grandfather  extended  it  indefinitely.  However,  a  great  change  was  taking  place.  The  effect  of  the  successive  land  acts  of  the  eighties  was  beginning  to  be  felt,  and  all  the  big  estates  in  Ireland  were  being  broken  up.  'The  acts,  as  had  been  expected,  were  violently  op-  posed  by  the  majority  of  landlords,  who  did  their  best  to  prevent  their  full  opera-  tion,  but  it  happened  that  my  grand-  father  was  a  fervent  admirer  of  Mr.  Gladstone  (in  fact,  he  was  his  private  secretary  when  the  most  important  of  the  bills  was  passed,  in  1881),  and  was  an  ardent  supporter  even  of  his  revolu-  tionary  Irish  policy.  He  therefore  made  it  easier  than  the  law  required  for  his  tenants  to  buy  their  land,  and  by  1898,  when  he  gave  all  his  Irish  property  to  my  father,  his  elder  son,  on  his  twenty-  first  birthday,  only  the  townlands  of  Killegar  and  Drumergoul  remained.  My  father,  Hugh  John  Godley,  never  came  here  till  1928.  He  was  brought  up  in  England  and  had  an  en-  tirely  English  background.  He  married  my  mother  in  1919,  and  nine  years  later  brought  her  here  to  see  the  strange,  wild  place  he  had  owned  in  Ireland  for  thirty  years.  My  mother  was  at  once  en-  chanted  by  Killegar,  and  the  following  year  we  all  came  for  the  summer-my   father  and  mother,  my  sister  and  brother  and  myself.  I  was  nearly  nine,  and  my  sister  and  brother  were  six  and  three,  respectively.  Great-Uncle  [REDACTED]  was  long  since  dead,  and  his  only  child,  my  [REDACTED]  Anna,  a  spinster  of  sixty-  four,  was  in  command;  she  was  (and  still  is)  a  splendid  character,  and  my  most  vivid  recollections  of  that  summer  are  of  [REDACTED]  Anna  wearing  a  wide-  brimmed  hat  inside  a  bee  net  and  of  [REDACTED]  Anna  putting  milk  end  tee  on  her  breakfast  porridge.  We  all  came  here  more  and  more  often,  and  finally,  in  1936,  soon  after  my  mother  and  fa-  ther  were  divorced,  my  father  decided  to  make  Killegar  his  home,  though  till  his  retirement  in  1944  his  work  as  Counsel  to  the  Lord  Chairman  of  Com-  mittees  in  the  House  of  Lords  kept  him  in  [REDACTED]  when  Parliament  was  sit-  ting.  So  the  senior  branch  ofthe  family  " b"returned  to  Killegar  after  an  interreg-  num  of  seventy-three  years;  [REDACTED]  Anna  moved  into  a  small  house  a  mile  away,  in  the  village  of  Killegar,  where  she  lives  today,  a  spry  eighty-seven.  And  thus  when,  upon  my  father's  death,  I  inherited  Killegar  as  his  elder  son,  it  was  the  first  time  this  had  happened  for  exactly  three  hundred  years.  I  WAS  in  [REDACTED]  when  my  father  died,  and  I  at  once  withdrew  Kille-  gar  from  the  market  in  the  hope  that  somehow  I  would  be  able  to  keep  it  in  the  family,  though  the  chances  then  seemed  remote.  I  didn't  get  to  Ireland  till  five  months  later.  When  I  arrived,  I  found  Killegar  at  its  lowest  ebb;the  shadow  of  a  sale  had  been  hanging  over  it  for  two  years,  and  during  that  time  no  member  ofthe  family  had  been  here.  All  the  livestock,  except  one  ancient  cow,  had  been  sold  to  raise  funds,  al-  most  all  the  land  had  been  let  to  local  farmers  and  timber  had  been  heavily  cut  in  some  of  the  woods.  The  house  itself  was  dead,  though  it  seemed  to  be-  gin  to  come  to  life  as  I  walked  up  to  the  front  door.  &quot;Inhabit  me!&quot;  it  cried.  &quot;Live  here,&quot;  the  stones  and  slates  called  to  me.  And  it  was  an  extraordinary  thought,  which  only  came  to  me  slowly  in  the  course  of  the  next  days,  that  those  stones  and  slates  were  mime;  those  trees, those  rivers,  those  bladesof  grass,  those  hills-everything,  from  the  [REDACTED]  figures  on  the  mantelpiece  to  the  drag-  onflies  in  the  garden,  from  the  fish  in  the  depths  of  Donaweale  to  the  grand-  father  clock  on  the  landing.  The  dilemma  had  begun:  I  couldn't  bury  myself  the  year  round  in  the  bogs  and  mists  of  Ireland,  and  I  had  no  idea  where  the  money  was  to  be  found  to  pay  the  rates  and  wages.  On  the  other  hand,  I  couldn't  bring  myself  to  sell  Killegar,  when  three  centuries  had  conspired  to  bring  it  to  me,  though  the  proceeds  would  have  kept  me  for  the  rest  of  my  life,  not  comfortably  but  well  enough.  (With  the  timber  and  the  contents  of  the  house,  it  would  probably  fetch  about  twenty  thousand  pounds.  The  easy  dreams  still  float  airily  ahead  of  me-of  the  fisherman's  cottage  I  could  take  in  Cassis,  or  thestudio  in  Chelsea,  or  the  apartment  on  the  rive  gauche.)  And  I  began  to  arrive  at  the  compromise  solu-  tion.  I  made  up  my  mind  to  spend  half  my  time  here  and  the  other  half  roam-  ing  about  the  world,  collecting  material  or  on  specific  assignments  whenever  they  came  along.  I  would  return  here  to  write,  for  which  this  is  the  best  place  in  the  world.  My  writing,  I  hoped,  would  subsidize  the  farm  until  it  became  self-  supporting.  None  of  my  plan  would  have  been  possible  if  it  had  not  been  for  Frank  Hassard  and  Mary  Sheridan.  I  relied  on  them  for  help  and  advice,  and  itis  they  who  keep  Killegar  going  when  I'm  away.  Frank  is  fifty-nine.  He  came  here  as  a  boy  of  fourteen  in  the  far-off  days  of  Uncle  [REDACTED],  when  he  earned  a  silver  sixpence  a  week  herding  cattle.  He  is  now  my  right-hand  man.  There  is  practically  nothing  Frank  cannot  do.  He  married  the  gardener's  daughter,  Janey  Gilpin,  almost  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,  and  they  live  with  their  children  in  a  cottage  next  door  to  [REDACTED]  Anna.  Mary,  my  housekeeper,  is  a  rela-  tive  newcomer  to  Killegar,  as  she  has  been  here  only  seventeen  years.  There  is  practically  nothing  Mary  cannot  do.  With  her  help  and  Frank's,  and  by  mak-  ing  general  economies  and  dismissing  one  man,  I  cut  down  the  basic  expense  of  Killegar  from  twelve  hundred  pounds  a  year  to  seven  hundred  pounds.  (Rates,  wages,  and  insurance  then  took  about  a  thousand,  and  I  got  back  about  three  hundred  in  rent  and  for  hay,  potatoes,  milk,  and  garden  produce.)  It  was  a  hard  decision  to  dismiss  Jimmy  McGarvey,  the  man  I  let  go.  He  and  his  brother,  Tommy,  had  worked  together  on  the  farm  at  Killegar  for  just  twenty-five  years-they  are  both  in  their  fifties-but  I  decided  with  great  reluctance  that  I  could  not  afford  " b"both  of  them.  I'm  glad  to  say  that  Jimmy  at  once  found  work  with  my  good  neighbor  Guy  Hamilton,  at  Castle  Hamilton,  six  miles  away  in  Killeshan-  dra.  In  addition  to  Frank,  Mary,  and  Tommy  McGarvey,  I  employ  a  gar-  dener,  Johnny  Fyfe,  and  his  son,  little  Johnny,  who  also  works  in  the  garden.  Johnny  is  seventy-seven,  and  little  John-  ny,  his  only  child,  is  twenty-two.  They  live,  with  Mrs.  Fyfe,  in  the  gardener's  straw-thatched  cottage,  where  they  have  been  since  1941.  This  was  the  minimum  team  on  which  I  believed  I  could  run  Killegar,  but  I  had  to  find  seven  hundred  pounds  a  year,  and  at  least  as  much  again  for  other  expenditures.  I  thought  that  per-  haps  I  could  get  it  by  writing,  but  this  could  hardly  be  regarded  as  certain.  Also,  it  was  my  ambition  to  make  Kille-  gar  pay  for  itself.  I  believed  that  the  final  solution  lay  in  cattle;  I  estimated  _  that  the  land  I  was  forced  to  let-about  two  hundred  acres,  for  which  I  received  little  more  than  a  pound  an  acre-might  bring  in  up  to  four  times  as  much  if  I  could  afford  to  stock  it  myself.  How-  ever,  even  a  non-pedigree  heifer  costs  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  pounds,  and  I  had  absolutely  no  money  for  stock  at  all.  I  thought  up  various  schemes  that  were  to  save  Killegar  without  requiring  capital;  for  example,  I  saw  Christmas  trees  selling  at  ten  shillings  each,  and  I  knew  I  could  buy  seedlings  at  two  pounds  a  thousand,  soI  bought  and  planted  three  thousand.  In  five  years,  they'll  be  large  enough  for  the  market,  but  by  now  I'm  so  fond  of  them-I'm  planting  three  thousand  every  year-  that  I  don't  suppose  I'll  ever  be  able  to  part  with  them.  Then,  I  knew  that  smoked  eel  was  fetching  a  good  price  in  [REDACTED],  and  my  lakes  are  full  of  eel,  but  I  have  not  yet  discovered  how  to  catch  them  in  sufficient  quantity,  still  less  how  to  smoke  them.  Next,  I  had  a  plan  for  taking  paying  guests.  I  put  an  ad-  vertisement  in  the  New  43616e616461man  that  said,  &quot;Would  any  young  writer  like  to  come  and  live  here?  Full  board  and  lodging  \xc2\xa3180  a  year.&quot;  (I  wanted  &quot;guests&quot;  who  would  have  something  in  common  with  me,  and  I  reckoned  that  each  would  cost  about  ninety  pounds  a  year  to  feed.)  I  got  twenty-eight  ap-  plications,  two  of  them  from  Amer-  icans.  Over  half  the  applicants  were  un-  married  women.  Of  the  others,  three  thought  that  I  was  going  to  pay  them  \xc2\xa3180  a  year,  presumably  on  the  sup-  position  that  I  was  a  wealthy  patron  of  the  arts.  Five,  it  became  clear  in  corre-  spondence,  would  never  fit  into  the  life  here,  and  of  the  four  others  only  one  ever  actually  made  it  to  Killegar,  even  for  a  short  while.  He  was  a  de-  lightful,  erudite  writer  on  abstruse  philosophical  sub-  jects,  who  came  not  for  a  year  but  for  the  four  weeks  of  his  vacation,  and  I  hope  he  enjoyed  his  stay  as  much  as  I  did.  It  has,  after  all,  been  by  writing  that  I  havebeen  able  to  keep  Killegar.  I  don't  know  how  long  it's  going  to  stay  that  way,  but  luck,  to  whose  capricious  buffet-  ings  every  writer  is  well  ac-  customed,  has  favored  me  through  the  last  two  years.  After  paying  for  everything  else,  I've  been  able  to  buy  two  cows,  fifteen  heifers,  and  two  heifer  calves,  and  this  summer  I'll  increase  my  holding  to  six  cows  and  forty  heifers.  I've  let  only  half  my  land,  and  next  year,  if  everything  goes  well,  I'll  use  all  of  it  myself.  Eventu-  ally,  as  I  improve  the  soil,  it  should  be  able  to  carry  double  its  present  maximum,  which  is  about  eighty  head.  Thus,  I  am  slowly  taking  hold  of  Killegar,  and  putting  life  back  into  the  last  remnant  of  Craigstown.  I've  bought  a  second-  hand  truck,  and  Frank  or  I  take  my  garden  produce  to  the  better  markets  in  [REDACTED].  I've  planted  twenty-five  new  apple  trees,  and  in  addition  to  the  Christmas  trees  I've  put  in  plantations  of  oak,  beech,  and  Scotch  pine.  I  have  a  dozen  Rhode  Island  pullets,  given  me  by  Guy  Hamilton  in  exchange  for  a  Scotch  pine  tree,  and  I  hope  to  have  twice  as  many  this  summer.  At  the  same  time,  Killegar  goes  on  taking  hold  of  me.  I  can  give  it  only  half  my  life,  right  now,  but  I  think  that  as  I  grow  older  it  will  assert  itself  until  in  my  old  age  I  will  be  here  the  year  round,  from  winter  to  winter. "