 b"BY  the  time  they  decided  what  Carol  would  wear  for  her  wedding  (white  with  white  flowers),  it  was  the  end  ofthe  afternoon.  Mme.  Germaine  removed  the  sketchbooks,  the  scraps  of  net  and  satin,  the  stacks  of  Vogue;  she  had,  already,a  professional  look  of  anxiety,  as  if  it  could  not  possibly  come  out  well.  One  foresaw  seams  ripped  open,  extra  fittings,  even  Carol's  tears.  &gt;  Odile,  Carol's  friend,  seemed  disap-  pointed.  &quot;White  isn't  original,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  it  were  me,  I  would  certainly  not  be  married  in  all  that  rubbish  of  lace,  like  a  First  Communion.&quot;  She  picked  threads  from  her  skirt  fastidiously,  as  if  to  remove  herself  completely  from  Carol  and  her  unoriginal  plans.  I  wonder  if  anyone  has  ever  asked  Odile  to  marry  him,  Carol  thought,  placidly  looking  out  the  window.  As  her  wedding  approached,  she  had  more  and  more  the  engaged  girl's  air  of  dissocia-  tion:  nothing  tmattered  until  the  wed-  ding,  and  she  could  not  see  clearly  be-  yond  it.  She  was  sorry  for  all  the  single  girls  of  the  world,  particularly  those  who  were,  like  Odile,  past  thirty.  Odile  looked  sallow  and  pathetic,  huddled  into  a  sweater  and  coat,  turning  over  samples  of  lace  with  a  disapproving  air.  She  seemed  all  of  a  piece  with  the  day's  weather  and  the  chilly  air  of  the  dress-  maker's  flat.  Outside,  the  street  was  still  damp  from  a  rain  earlier  in  the  day.  There  wereno  trees  in  sight,  no  flowers,  no  comforting  glimpse  of  park.  No  one  in  this  part  of  [REDACTED]  would  have  known  it  was  spring.  &quot;Even  blue,&quot;  said  Odile.  But  there  was  evidently  no  conversation  to  be  had  with  Carol,  who  had  begun  to  hum,  so  she  said  to  the  dressmaker,  &quot;Just  imagine!  Miss  Frazier  came  to  [REDACTED]  to  work  last  autumn,  and  fell  in  love  with  the  head  of  her  department.&quot;  &quot;Non!&quot;  Mme.  Germaine  recoiled,  as  if  no  other  client  had  ever  brought  off  such  an  extraordinary  thing.  &quot;Fell  in  love  with  Mr.  Mitchell,&quot;  said  Odile,  nodding.  &quot;At  first  sight,  /e  coup  de  foudre.&quot;  &quot;At  first  sight?&quot;  said  the  dressmaker.  She  looked  fondly  at  Carol.  &quot;Something  no  one  would  have  ex-  pected,&quot;  said  Odile.  &quot;Although  Mr.  Mitchell  is  charming.  Charming.&quot;  &quot;I  think  we  ought  to  go,&quot;  said  Carol.  Odile  looked  regretful,  as  if  she  had  more  to  say.  Carol  made  an  appointment  for  the  following  day,  and  the  two  left  the  flat  together,  Odile's  sturdy  heels  making  a  clatter  as  they  went  down  the  staircase.  &quot;Why  were  you  so  funny  just  then?&quot;  Odile  said.  &quot;I  didn't  say  anything  that  wasn't  true,  and  you  know  how  women  like  that  love  to  hear  about  weddings  and  love  and  everything.  And  it's  such  a  wonderful  story  about  you  and  Mr.  Mitchell.  I  tell  it  to  everyone.&quot;  This,  Carol  thought,  could  not  be  true,  for  Odile  was  rarely  interested  in  anyone  but  herself,  and  had  never  shown  the  least  curiosity  about  Carol's  plans,  other  than  offering  to  find  a  dress-  maker.  &quot;It  was  terribly  romantic,&quot;  Odile  said,  &quot;whether  you  admit  it  or  not.  You  and  Mr.  Mitchell.  Our  Mr.  Mitchell.&quot;  It  penetrated  at  last  that  Odile  was  making  fun  of  her.  EOPLE  had  assured  Carol  so  often  that  her  engagement  was  romantic,  and  she  had  become  so  accustomed  to  the  word,  that  Odile's  slight  irony  was  perplexing.  If  anyone  had  asked  Carol  at  what  precise  moment  she  fell  in  love,  or  where  Howard  Mitchell  proposed  to  her,  she  would  have  imagined,  quite  sincerely,  a  scene  that  involved  all  at  once  the  Seine,  moonlight,  barrows  of  violets,  acacias  in  flower,  and  a  con-  fused,  misty  background  of  the  Eiffel  Tower  and  little  crooked  streets.  This  was  what  everyone  expected,  and  she  had  nearly  come  to  believe  it  herself.  Actually,  he  had  proposed  at  lunch,  over  a  tuna-fish  salad.  He  and  Carol  had  known  each  other  less  than  three  weeks,  and  their  conversation  until  then  had  been  limited  to  their  office-  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  government  agency-and  the  people  in  it.  Carol  was  twenty-two;  no  one  had  proposed  to  her  before,  except  an  un-  suitable  medical  student  with  no  money  and  eight  years'  training  still  to  go.  She  was  under  the  illusion  that  in  ashort  time  she  would  be  so  old  no  one  would  ask  her  again.  She  accepted  at  once,  and  Howard  cele-  brated  by  ordering  an  extra  bottle  of  wine.  Both  would  have  liked  cham-  pagne,  as  a  more  emphatic  symbol  of  the  unusual,  but  each  was  too  diffident  to  suggest  it.  The  fact  that  Carol  was  not  in  love  with  Howard  Mitchell  did  not  dismay  her  in  the  least.  From  a  series  of  helpful  college  lectures  on  marriage  she  had  learned  that  a  common  interest,  such  as  a  liking  for  Irish  setters,  was  the  true  basis  for  happiness,  and  that  the  il-  lusion  of  love  was  a  blight  imposed  by  the  film  industry,  and  almost  entirely  re-  sponsible  for  the  high  rate  of  divorce.  Similar  economic  backgrounds,  financial  security,  belonging  to  the  same  church-  these  were  the  pillars  ofthe  married  union.  By  an  astonishing  coincidence,  the  fathers  of  Carol  and  Howard  were  both  attorneys  and  both  had  been  de-  feated  in  their  one  attempt  to  get  elected  a  judge.  Carol  and  Howard  were  both  vaguely  Protestant,  although  a  serious  discussion  of  religious  beliefs  would  have  gravely  embarrassed  them.  And  How-  ard,  best  of  all,  was  sober,  old  enough  to  know  his  own  mind,  and  absolute-  ly  reliable.  He  was  an  economist  who  had  had  sense  enough  to  attach  him-  self  to  a  corporation  that  continued  to  pay  his  salary  during  his  loan  to  the  government.  'There  was  no  reason  for  the  engagement  or  the  marriage  to  fail.  Carol,  with  great  efficiency,  nearly  at  once  set  about  the  businessof  falling  in  love.  Love  required  only  the  right  conditions,  like  a  geranium.  It  would  wither  exposed  to  bad  weather  or  in  dis-  mal  surroundings;  indeed,  Carol  rated  the  chances  of  love  in  a  cottage  or  a  fur-  nished  room  at  zero.  Given  a  good  climate,  enough  money,  and  a  pair  of  good-natured,  intelligent  (her  college  lectures  had  stressed  this)  people,  one  had  only  to  sit  back  and  watch  it  grow.  All  winter,  then,  she  looked  for  these  right  conditions  in  [REDACTED].  When,  at  first,  nothing  happened,  she  blamed  it  on  the  weather.  She  was  often  convinced  she  would  fall  deeply  in  love  with  Howard  if  only  it  would  stop  raining.  Undaunt-  ed,  she  waited  for  bettertimes.  Howard  had  no  notion  of  any  of  this.  His  sudden  proposal  to  Carol  had  been  quite  out  of  character-he  was  uncom-  monly  cautious-and  he  alternated  between  a  state  of  numbness  and  a  state  of  self-congratula-  tion.  Before  his  engage-  ment  he  had  sometimes  been  lonely,  a  malaise  he  put  down  to  overwork,  and  he  was  discontented  with  his  bachelor  house-  holds,  for  he  did  noten-  joy  collecting  old  pottery  or  making  little  casserole  dishes.  Unless  he  stum-  bled  on  a  competent  housemaid,  nothing  ever  gotdone.  This  in  itself  would  not  have  spurred  him  into  marriage  had  he  not  been  seriously  unsettled  by  the  visit  of  one  of  his  sisters,  who  ad-  vised  him  to  marry  some  nice  girl  be-  fore  it  was  too  late.  &quot;Soon,&quot;  she  told  him,  &quot;you'll  just  be  a  person  who  fills  in  at  dinner.&quot;  Howard  saw  the  picture  at  once,  and  was  deeply  moved  by  it.  Retreating  by  " b"inches,  he  said  he  knew  of  no  one  who  would  do.  Nonsense,  his  sister  said.  'There  were  plenty  of  nice  girls  everywhere.  She  then  warned  him  not  to  marry  a  French  girl,  who  might  cause  trouble  oncehe  gother  home  to  [REDACTED],  ora  Catholic,  because  of  the  children,  and  to  avoid  anyone  fast,  nervous,  divorced,  or  over  twenty-four.  Howard  knew  a  number  of  girls  in  [REDACTED],  most  of  whom  worked  in  his  office  or  similar  agencies.  'They  struck  him  as  cheerful  and  eager,  but  aggressive-not  at  all  what  he  fancied  around  the  house.  Just  as  he  was  be-  coming  seriously  baffled  by  this  gap  in  his  life,  Carol  Frazier  arrived.  He  was  touched  by  her  shy  good  manners,  her  earnest  college  French.  His  friends  liked  her,  and,  more  impor-  tant,so  did  the  wives  of  his  friends.  He had  been  seriously  in  love  on  earlier  oc-  casions,  and  did  not  consider  it  a  reliable  emotion.  He  and  Carol  got  on  well,  which  seemed  to  him  a  satisfactory  be-  ginning.  His  friends,  however,  told  him  thatshe  was  obviously  in  love  with  him  and  that  it  was  pretty  to  see.  'This  he  expected,  not  because  he  was  vain  but  because  one  took  it  for  granted  that  love,  like  a  harmless  familiar,  always  attended  young  women  in  friendships  of  this  nature.  Certainly  he  was  fond  of  Carol  and  concerned  for  her  comfort.  Had  she  complained  of  a  toothache,  he  would  have  seen  to  it  that  she  got  to  a    dentist.  Carol  was  moved  to  another  department,  but  they  met  every  day  for  lunch  and  dinner,  and  talked  without  discord  of  any  kind.  'They  talked  about  thejob  Howard  was  returning  to  in  [REDACTED];  about  their  wedding,  which  was  to  take  place  in  the  spring;  and  about  the  movies  they  saw  together.  They  often  went  to  parties,  and  then  they  talked  about  everyone  who  had  been  there,  even  though  they  would  see  most  of  them  next  day,  at  work.  It  was  a  busy  life,  yet  Carol  could  not  help  feeling  that  something  had  been  missed.  'The  weather  continued  unim-  proved.  She  shared  an  apartment  in  Passy  with  two  556e6974656420537461746573n  girls,  a  tem-  porary  menage  that  might  have  existed  anywhere.  When  she  rode  the  M\xc3\xa9tro,  people  pushed  and  were  just  as  rude  as  in  New  York.  Restaurant  food  was  dull,  and  the  caf\xc3\xa9s  were  full  of  Coca-  Cola  signs.  No  wonder  she  was  not  in  love,  she  would  think.  Where  was  the  [REDACTED]  she  had  read  about?  Where  were  the  elegant  and  expensive-looking  wom-  en?  Where,  above  all,  were  the  men,  those  men  with  their  gay  good  looks  and  snatches  of  merry  song,  the  delight  of  English  lady  novelists?  Travelling  through  [REDACTED]  to  and  from  work,  she  saw  only  shabby  girls  bundled  into  rain-  coats,  hurrying  along  in  the  rain,  or  men  who  needed  a  haircut.  In  the  famous  parks,  under  the  drizzly  trees,  children  whined  peevishly  and  were  slapped. She  sometimes  thought  that  perhaps  if  she  and  Howard  had  French  friends  ..  .  She  suggest-  ed  it  to  him.  &quot;You  have  a  French  friend,&quot;  said  Howard.  &quot;How  about  Odile?&quot;  But  that  was  not  what  Carol  had  meant.  Odile  Pontmoret  was  Howard's  secretary,  a  thin,  dark  woman  who  was  (people  said)  the  niece  of  a  count  who  had  gone  broke.  She  seldom  smiled  and,  be-  cause  her  English  was  at  once  precise  and  in-  accurate,  often  sounded  sarcastic.  All  winter  she  wore  the  same  dark  skirt  and  purple  pull-  over  to  work.  It  never  occurred  to  anyone  to  include  her  in  parties  made  up  of  office  peo-  ple,  and  it  was  not  cer-  tain  that  she  would  have  come  anyway.  Odile  and  Carol  were  friendly  in  an  impersonal  way.  Some-  times,  if  Howard  was  busy,  they  lunched  together.  Carol  was  always  careful  not  to  complain  about  [REDACTED],  having  been  warned  thatthe  foreign  policy  of  her  country  hinged  on  chance  remarks.  But  her  restraint  met  with  no  answering  delicacy  in  Odile,  whose  chief  memory  of  her  single  trip  to  New  York,  before  the  war,  was  that  her  father  had  been  charged  twenty-four  dollars  for  a  taxi  fare  that,  they  later  reasoned,  must  have  been  two  dollars  and  forty  cents.  Re-  peating  this,  Odile  would  look  indig-  nantly  at  Carol,  as  if  Carol  had  been  driving  the  taxi.  &quot;And  there  was  no  service  in  the  hotel,  no  service  at  [REDACTED];  Odile  would  say.  &quot;You  could  drop  your  nightgown  on  the  floor  and  they  would  sweep  around  it.  And  still  expect  a  tip.&quot;  These,  her  sole  observations  of  Amer-  ica,  she  repeated  until  Carol's  good  nature  was  strained  to  the  limit.  Odile  never  spoke  of  her  life  outside  the  office,  which  Carol  longed  to  hear  about,  and  she  touched  on  the  present  only  to  com-  plain  in  terms  of  the  past.  &quot;Before  the  war,  we  travelled,  we  went  every-  where,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Now,  with  our  poor  little  franc,  everything  is  finished.  I  work  to  help  my  family.  My  brother  publicizes  wines-Spanish  wines.  We  work  and  work  so  that  our  parents  won't  feel  the  change  and  so  that  Martine,  our  sister,  can  study  music.&quot;  " b"Saying  this,  she  would  look  bewil-  dered  and  angry,  and  Carol  would  have  the  feeling  that  Odile  was  somehow  blaming  her.  They  usually  'ate  in  a  restaurant  of  Odile's  choice-Carol  was  tactful  about  this,  for  Odile  earned  less  than  she  did-where  the  food  was  lumpy  and  inadequate  and  the  fluores-  cent  lighting  made  everyone  look  ill.  Carol  would  glance  around  at  the  neighboring  tables,  at  which  sat  glum  and  noisy  4672616e6365ian  office  workers  and  shop  clerks,  and  observe  that  everyone's  coat  was  too  long  or  too  short,  that  the  furs  were  tacky.  There  must  be  more  to  it  than  this,  she  would  think.  Was  it  possible  that  these  badly  groomed  girls  liked  living  in  [REDACTED]'  Surely  the  sentimental  songs  about  the  city  had  no  meaning  for  them.  Were  many  of  them  in  love,  or-still  less  likely-could  any  man  be  in  love  with  any  of  them?  Every  evening,  leaving  the  building  in  which  she  and  Howard  worked,  she  would  pause  on  the  stair  landing  be-  tween  the  first  and  second  floors  to  look  through  the  window  at  the  dark  winter  twilight,  thinking  that  an  evening,  a  special  kind  of  evening,  was  forming  all  over  the  city,  and  that  she  had  no  part  in  it.  At  the  same  hour,  people  streamed  out  of  an  old  house  across  the  street  that  was  now  a  museum,  and  Carol  would  watch  them  hurrying  off  under  their  umbrellas.  She  wondered  where  they  were  going  and  where  they  lived  and  what  they  were  having  for  dinner.  Her  interest  in  them  was  not  specific;  she  had  no  urge  to  run  into  the  street  and  in-  troduce  herself.  It  was  simply  that  she  believed  they  knew  a  secret,  and  if  she  spoke  to  the  right  person,  or  opened  the  right  door,  or  turned  down  an  unexpected  street,  the  city  would  reveal  itself  and  she  would  fall  in  love.  After  this  pause  at  the  land-  ing,  she  would  forget  all  her  disappointments  (the  Parma  violets  she  had  bought  that  were  fraudulently  cut  and  bound,  so  that  they  died  in  a  minute)  and  run  the  rest  of  the  way  down  the  stairs,  mean-  ing  to  tell  Howard  and  see  if  he  shared  her  brief  optimism.  On  one  of  these  eve-  nings,  soon  after  the  start  of  the  cold  weather,  she  noticed  a  young  man  sit-  ting  on  one  of  the  chairs  put  out  in  an  inhospitable  row  in  the  lobby  of  the  building,  for  job  seekers.  He  looked  pale  and  ill,  and  the  sleeves  of  his  coat  were  short,  as  if  he  were  still  growing.  He  stared  at  her  with  the  expression  of  a  clever  child,  at  once  bold  and  with-  drawn.  She  had  the  impression  that  he  had  seen  her  stop  at  the  window  on  the  landing  and  that  he  was,  for  some  rea-  son,  amused,.  He  did  not  look  at  all  as  if  he  belonged  there.  She  mentioned  him  to  Howard.  &quot;That  must  have  been  Felix,&quot;  Howard  said.  &quot;Odile's  friend.&quot;  He  put  so  much  weight  on  the  word  &quot;friend&quot;  that  Carol  felt  there  was  more,  a  great  deal  more,  and  that,  although  he  liked  gossip  as  well  as  anyone  else,  he  did  not  find  Odile's  affairs  interesting  enough  to  discuss.  &quot;He  used  to  wait  for  her  out-  side  every  night.  Now  I  guess  he  comes  in  out  of  the  rain.&quot;  &quot;But  she's  never  mentioned  him,&quot;  Carol  protested.  &quot;And  he  must  be  younger  than  she  is,  and  so  pale  and  funny-looking!  Where  does  he  come  from?&quot;  Howard  didn't  know.  Felix  was  Austrian,  he  thought,  or  Czech.  There  was  something  odd  about  him,  for  al-  though  he  obviously  hadn't  enough  to  eat,  he  always  had  plenty  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  cigarettes.  'That  was  a  bad  sign.  &quot;Why are  you  so  interested?&quot;  he  said.  But  Carol  was  not  interested  at  all.  N  TER  that,  Carol  saw  Felix  every  evening.  He  was  always  polite  and  sometimes  murmured  a  perfunctory  greeting  as  she  passed  his  chair.  He  con-  tinued  to  look  tired  and  ill,  and  Carol  wondered  if  it  was  true  that  he  hadn't  enough  to  eat.  She  mentioned  him  to  Odile,  who  was  surprisingly  willing  to  discuss  her  friend.  He  was  twenty-one,  she  said,  and  without  relatives.  They  had  all  been  killed  at  the  end  of  the  war,  in  the  final  bombings.  He  was  in  [REDACTED]  illegally,  without  a  proper  passport  or  working  papers.  The  police  were  taking  a  long  time  to  straighten  it  out,  and  meanwhile,  not  permitted  to  work,  Felix  &quot;did  other  things.&quot;  Odile  did  not  say  what  the  other  things  were,  and  Carol  was  rather  shocked.  That  night,  before  going  to  sleep,  she  thought  about  Felix,  and  about  how  he  was  only  twenty-one.  She  and  Felix,  then,  were  closer  in  age  than  he  was  to  Odile  or  she  herself  was  to  Howard.  When  I  was  in  school,  he  was  in  school,  she  thought.  When  the  war  stopped,  we  were  fourteen  and  fifteen.  ...  But  here  she  lost  track,  for  where  Carol  had  had  a  holiday,  Felix's  parents  had  been  killed.  Their  closeness  in  age  gave  her  unexpected  comfort,  as  if  someone  in  this  disappointing  city  had  some  tie  with  her.  In  the  morning  she  was  ashamed  of  her  disloyal  thoughts-her  closest  tie  in  [REDACTED]  was,  after  all,  with  How-  ard-and  decided  to  ignore  Felix  when  she  saw  him  again.  That  night,  when  she  passed  his  chair,  he  said  &quot;Good  evening,&quot;  and  she  was  suddenly  acutely  con-  scious  of  every  bit  of  her  clothing:  the  press  of  the  belt  at  her  waist,  the  pinch  of  her  earrings,  the  weight  of  her  dress,  even  her  gloves,  which  felt  as  scratchy  as  sack-  ing.  It  was  a  disturbing  feeling;  she  was  not  sure  that  she  liked  it.  &quot;I  don't  see  why  Felix  should  just  sit  in  that  hall  all  the  time,&quot;  she  complained  to  Howard.  &quot;Can't  he  wait  for  Odile  some-  where  else?&quot;  Howard  was  too  busy  to  worry  about  Felix.  It  occurred  to  him  that  " b"Carol  was  being  tiresome,  and  that  this  whining  over  who  sat  in  the  hall  was  only  one  instance  of  her  new  manner.  She  had  taken  to  complaining  about  their  friends,  and  saying  she  wanted  to  meet  new  people  and  see  more  of  [REDACTED].  Sometimes  she  looked  at  him  helplessly  and  eagerly,  as  if  there  were  something  he  ought  to  be  saying  or  doing.  He  was  genuinely  perplexed;  it  seemed  to  him  they  got  along  well  and  were  reasonably  happy  together.  But  Carol  was  chang-  ing.  She  hunted  up  odd,  cheap  restau-  rants.  She  made  him  walk  in  the  rain.  She  said  that  they  ought  to  see  the  sun  come  up  from  the  steps  of  the  Sacr\xc3\xa9-  Coeur,  and  actually  succeeded  in  drag-  ging  him  there,  nearly  dead  of  cold.  And,  as  he  might  have  foreseen,  the  expedition  came  to  nothing,  for  it  was  a  rainy  dawn  and  a  suspicious  gendarme  sent  them  both  home.  At  Christmas,  Carol  begged  him  to  take  her  to  the  carol  singing  in  the  Place  Vendome.  Here,  she  imagined,  with  the  gentle  fall  of  snow  and  the  small,  rosy  choirboys  singing  between  lighted  Christmas  trees,  she  would  find  some-  thing-a  warm  memory  that  would,  later,  bring  her  closer  to  Howard,  a  glimpse  of  the  [REDACTED]  other  people  liked.  But,  of  course,  there  was  no  snow  Howard  and  Carol  stood  under  her  um-  brella  as  a  fine,  misty  rain  fell  on  the  choristers,  who  sang  over  and  over  the  opening  bars  of  &quot;Il  est  n\xc3\xa9,  le  Divin  Enfant,&quot;  testing  voice  levels  for  a  broad-  cast.  Newspaper  photographers  drifted  on  the  rim  of  the  crowd,  and  the  flares  that  lit  the  scene  for  a  newsreel  camera  blew  acrid  smoke  in  their  faces.  Howard  began  to  cough.  Around  the  square,  the  tenants  of  the  Place  emerged  on  their  small  balconies.  Some  of  them  had  champagne  glasses  in  their  hands,  as  if  they  had  interrupted  an  agreeable  party  to  step  outside  for  a  moment.  Carol  looked  up  at  the  lighted  open  doorways,  through  which  she  could  see  a  painted  ceiling,  a  lighted  chandelier.  But  nothing  happened.  None  ofthe  people  seemed  beautiful  or  extraordi-  nary.  No  one  said,  &quot;Who  is  that  charm-  ing  girl  down  there?  Let's  ask  her  up!&quot;  Howard  blew  his  nose  and  said  that  his  feet  were  cold;  they  drifted  over  the  square  to  a  couturier's  window,  where  the  Infant  Jesus  wore  a  rhinestone  pin,  and  a  worshipping  plaster  angel  ex-  tended  a  famous  brand  of  perfume.  &quot;It  just  looks  like  New  York  or  something,&quot;  Carol  said,  plaintive  with  disappoint-  ment.  As  she  stopped  to  close  her  um-  brella,  the  wind  carried  to  her  feet  a  piece  of  mistletoe  and,  glancing  up,  she  saw  that  cheap  tinsel  icicles  and  bunches  of  mistletoe  had  been  tied  on the  street  lamps  of  the  square.  It  looked  pretty,  and  rather  poor,  and  she  thought  of  the  giant  tree  in  Rockefeller  Center.  She  suddenly  felt  sorry  for  [REDACTED],  just  as  she  had  felt  sorry  for  Felix  because  he  looked  hungry  and  was  only  twenty-  one.  Her  throat  went  warm,  like  the  prelude  to  a  rush  of  tears.  Stooping,  she  picked  up  the  sprig  of  mistletoe  and  put  it  in  her  pocket.  &quot;Is  this  all?&quot;  Howard  said.  &quot;Was  this  what  you  wanted  to  see?&quot;  He  was  cold  and  uncomfortable,  butbecause  it  was  Christmas,  he  said  nothing  im-  patient,  and  tried  to  remember,  instead,  that  she  was  only  twenty-two.  &quot;I  suppose  so.&quot;  They  found  a  taxi  and  went  on  to  finish  the  evening  with  some  friends from  their  office.  Howard  made  an  amusing  story  of  their  adventure  in  the  Place  Vendome.  She  realized  for  the  first  time  that  something  could  be  per-  fectly  accurate  but  untruthful-they  had  not  found  any  partof  that  evening  funny-and  that  this  might  cover  more  areasof  experience  than  the  occasional  amusing  story.  She  looked  at  Howard  thoughtfully,  as  if  she  had  learned  some-  thing  of  value.  HE  day  after  Christmas,  Howard  came  down  with  a  bad  cold,  the  re-  sult  of  standing  in  the  rain.  He  did  not  shake  it  off  for  the  rest  of  the  winter,  and  Carol,  feeling  guiltily  that  it  was  her  fault,  suggested  no  more  excursions.  Temporarily,  she  put  the  question  of  falling  in  love  to  one  side.  [REDACTED]  was  not  the  place,  she  thought;  perhaps  it  had  been,  fifty  years  ago,  or  whenever  it  was  that  people  wrote  all  the  songs.  It  did  not  occur  to  her  to  break  her  engagement.  She  wore  out  the  winter  working,  nursing  Howard's  cold,  toying  with  of-  fice  gossip,  and,  now  and  again,  lunch-  ing  with  Odile,  who  was  just  as  un-  satisfactory  as  ever.  It  was  nearly  spring  " b"when  Odile,  stopping  by  Car-  ol's  desk,  said  that  Martine  was  making  a  concert  d\xc3\xa9but  the  fol-  lowing  Sunday.  It  was  a  private  gathering,  a  subscription  con-  cert,  Odile  sounded  vague.  She  dropped  two  tickets  on  Carol's  desk  and  said,  walking  away,  &quot;If  you  want  to  come.&quot;  &quot;If  I  want  to!&quot;  Carol  flew  away  to  tell  How-  ard  at  once.  &quot;It's  a  sort  of  private  musical  thing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'There  should  be  important  mu-  sicians  there,  since  it's  a  d\xc3\xa9but,  and  all  Odile's  family.  The  old  count-everyone.&quot;  She  half  ex-  pected  Odile's  impoverished  un-  cle  to  turn  up  in  eighteenth-cen-  tury  costume,  his  hands  clasped  on  the  head  ofa  cane.  Howard  said  it  was  all  right  withhim,  provided  they  needn't  stand  out  in  the  rain.  &quot;Of  course  not!  It's  a  con-  cert.&quot;  She  looked  at  the  tickets;  they  were  handwritten  slips  bearing  mimeographed  num-  bers.  &quot;It's  probably  in  someone's  house,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;In  one  ofthose  lovely  old  drawing  rooms.  Or  in  a  little  painted  theatre.  There  are  supposed  to  be  lit-  tle  theatres  all  over  [REDACTED]  that  belong  to  families  and  that  foreigners  never  see.&quot;  She  was  beside  herself  with  excite-  ment.  What  if  [REDACTED]  had  taken  all  win-  ter  to  come  to  life?  Some  foreigners  lived  there  forever  and  never  broke  in  at  all.  She  spent  nearly  all  of  one  week's  salary  on  a  white  feather  hat,  and  prac-  ticed  a  few  graceful  phrases  in  French.  &quot;Oui,  elle  est  charmante,&quot;  she  said  to  her  mirror.  &quot;La  petite  Martine  est  tout  &amp;  fait  ravissante.  Je  connais  tres  bien  Odile.  Une  coupe  de  champagne?  Mais  oui,  merci  bien.  Ah,  voice  mon  fianc\xc3\xa9!  M.  Mitchell,  le  Baron  de  ...&quot;  and  so  forth.  She  felt  close  to  Odile,  as  if  they  had  been  great  friends  for  a  long  time.  When,  two  days  before  the  concert,  Odile  remarked,  yawning,  that  Martine  was  crying  night  and  day  because  she  hadn't  a  suitable  dress,  Carol  said,  &quot;Would  you  let  me  lend  her  a  dress?&quot;  Odile  suddenly  stopped  yawning  and  turned  back  the  cuffs  of  her  pullover  as  if  it  were  a  task  that  required  all  her  attention.  &quot;That  would  be  very  kind  of  you,&quot;  she  said,  at  last.  &quot;I  mean,&quot;  said  Carol,  feeling  gauche,  &quot;would  it  be  all  right?  I  have  a  lovely  pale-green  tulle  that  I  brought  from  New  York.  I've  only  worn  it  twice.&quot;  &quot;It  sounds  very  nice,&quot;  said  Odile.  Carol  shook  the  dress  out  of  its  tissue paper  and  brought  it  to  work  the  next  day.  Odile  thanked  her  without  fervor,  but  Carol  knew  by  now  thatthat  was  simply  her  manner.  &quot;We're  going  to  a  private  musical  d\xc3\xa9but,&quot;  she  wrote  to  her  mother  and  father.  &quot;The  youngest  niece  of  the  Count  de  Quelquechose.  ..  .  I've  lent  her  my  green  tulle.&quot;  She  said  no  more  than  that,  so  that  it  would  sound  proper-  ly  casual.  So  far,  her  letters  had  not  con-  tained  much  of  interest.  HE  address  Odile  had  given  Carol  turned  out  to  be  an  ordinary,  shabby  theatre  in  the  Second  Arrondissement.  It  was  on  an  obscure  street,  and  the  taxi-  driver  had  to  stop  and  consult  his  street  guide  so  often  that  they  were  half  an  hour  late.  Music  came  out  to  meet  them  in  the  empty  lobby,  where  a  poster  said  only  &quot;J.  S.  Bach.&quot;  An  usher  tiptoed  them  into  place  with  ill  grace  and  asked  Carol  please  to  have  some  thought  for  the  people  behind  her  and  remove  her  hat.  Carol  did  so  while  Howard  groped  for  change  for  the  usher's  tip.  She  peered  around:  the  theatre  was  less  than  half  filled,  and  the  music  coming  from  the  small  orchestra  on  the  stage  had  a  thin,  echoing  quality,  as  if  it  were  travelling  around  an  empty  vault.  Odile  was  nowhere  in  sight.  After  a  moment,  Carol  saw  Felix  sitting  alone  a  few  rows  away.  He  smiled-much  too  familiarly,  Carol  thought.  He  looked  paler  than  usual,  and  almost  deliberately  untidy.  He  might  at  least  have  taken  pains  for  the  concert.  She  felt  a  spasm  of  annoy-  ance,  and  at  the  same  time  her  heart  began  to  beat  so  quickly  that  she  felt  its  movement  must  surely  be  visible.  What  ever  is  the  matter  with  me,  she  thought.  If  one  could  believe  all  the  arch  stories  on  the  subject,  this  was  tra-  ditional  for  brides-to-be.  Perhaps,  at  this  unpromising  moment,  she  had  begun  to  fall  in  love.  She  turned  in  her  seat  and  stared  at  Howard;  he  looked  much  as  always.  She  settled  back  and  began  furnishing  in  her  mind  the  apartment  they  would  have  in  [REDACTED].  Some-  times  the  theatre  lights  went  on,  star-  tling  her  out  of  some  problem  involving  draperies  and  Venetian  blinds;  once  Howard  went  out  to  smoke.  Carol  had  just  finished  papering  a  bedroom  green  and  white  when  Martine  walked  on-  stage,  with  her  violin.  At  the  same  mo-  ment,  a  piece  of  plaster  bearing  the  painted  plump  foot  of  a  nymph  detached  itself  from  the  ceiling  and  crashed  into  the  aisle,  just  missing  Howard's  head.  Everyone  stood  up  to  look,  and  Martine  and  the  conductor  stared  at  Howard  and  Carol  furiously,  as  if  it  were  their  fault.  The  commotion  was  horrifying.  Carol  slid  down  in  her  seat,  her  hands  over  her  eyes.  She  retained,  in  all  her  distress,  an  impression  of  Martine,  who  wore  an  ill-fitting  blue  dress  with  a  lit-  tle  jacket.  She  had  not  worn  Carol's  pretty  tulle;  probably  she  had  never  in-  tended  to.  Carol  wondered,  miserably,  why  they  had  come.  For  the  first  time,  she  noticed  that  all  the  people  around  them  were  odd  and  shabby.  The  smell  of  stale  win-  " b"ter  coats  filled  the  unaired  theatre;  her  head  began  to  ache,  and  Martine's  violin  shrilled  on  her  ear  like  a  penny  whistle.  At  last  the  music  stopped  and  the  lights  went  on.  'The  concert  was  over.  There  was  some  applause,  but  people  were  busy  pulling  on  coats  and  screaming  at  one  another  from  aisle  to  aisle.  Martine  shook  hands  with  the  conductor  and,  after  looking  vaguely  around  the  hall,  wandered  away.  &quot;Is  this  all?&quot;  said  Howard.  He  stood  up  and  stretched.  Carol  did  not  reply.  She  had  just  seen  Felix  and  Odile  together.  Odile  was  speaking  rapidly  and  looked  unhappy.  She  wore  the  same  skirt  and  pullover  Carol  had  seen  all  winter,  and  she  was  carrying  her  coat.  &quot;Odile!&quot;  Carol  called.  But  Odile  waved  and  threaded  her  way  through  the  row  of  seats  to  the  other  side  of  the  theatre,  where  she  joined  some  elderly  people  and  a  young  man.  'They  went  off  together  backstage.  Her  family,  Carol  thought,  sickening  under  the  snub.  And  she  didn't  intro-  duce  me,  or  even  come  over  and  speak.  She  was  positive  now  that  Odile  had  in-  vited  her  only  to  help  fill  the  hall,  or  because  she  had  a  pair  of  tickets  she  didn't  know  what  to  do  with.  &quot;Let's  go,&quot;  Howard  said.  Their  seats  were  near  the  front.  By  the  time  they  reached  thelobby,  it  was  nearly  empty.  Under  the  indifferent  eyes  of  the  usher,  Howard  guided  Carol  into  her  coat.  &quot;They  sure  didn't  put  on  much  of  a  show  for  Martine,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,  they  didn't.&quot;  &quot;No  flowers,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  didn't  even  have  her  name  on  the  program.  No  one  would  have  known.&quot;  It  had  grown  dark,  and  rain  poured  from  the  edge  ofthe  roof  in  an  un-  broken  sheet.  &quot;You  stay  here,&quot;  said  Howard.  &quot;I'll  get  a  taxi.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Carol.  &quot;Stay  with  me.  This  won't  last.&quot;  She  could  not  bring  herself  to  tell  him  how  hurt  and  hu-  miliated  she  was,  what  aruinthe  after-  noon  had  been.  Howard  led  her  behind  the  shelter  ofa  billboard.  'That  dress,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;I  thought  you'd  lent  her  something.&quot;  &quot;I  had.  She  didn't  wear  it.  I  don't  know  why.&quot;  &quot;Ask  Odile.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care.  I'd  rather  let  it  drop.&quot;  He  agreed.  He  felt  that  Carol  had  almost  knowingly  exposed  herself  to  an  indignity  over  the  dress,  and  pride  of  that  nature  he  understood.  'To  distract  her,  he  spoke  of  the  job  waiting  for  him  in  [REDACTED],  of  his  friends,  of  his  brother's  sailboat.  Against  a  background  of  rain  and  Carol's  disappointment,  he  sounded,  without  meaning  to,  faintly  homesick.  Carol  picked  up  his  mood.  She  looked  at  the  white  feather  hat  the  usher  had  made  her  remove  and  said  suddenly,  &quot;I  wish  I  were  home.  I  wish  I  were  in  my  own  country,  with  my  own  friends.&quot;  &quot;You  will  be,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;ina  couple  of  months.&quot;  He  hoped  she  would  not  begin  to  cry.  &quot;I'm  tired  ofthe  way  everything  is  here-old  and  rotten  and  falling  down.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  that  chunk  of  ceiling?&quot;  She  turned  from  him,  exasperated  at  his  persistently  missing  the  point,  and  saw  Felix  not  far  away.  He  was  lean-  ing  against  the  ticket  booth,  looking  resignedly  at  the  rain.  When  he  noticed  Carol  looking  at  him,  he  said,  ignoring  Howard,  &quot;Odile's  backstage  with  her  family.&quot;  He  made  a  face  and  went  on,  &quot;No  admission  for  us  foreigners.&quot;  Odile's  family  did  not  accept  Felix;  Carol  had  barely  absorbed  this  thought,  which  gave  her  an  unexpected  and  in-  dignant  shock,  when  she  realized  what  he  had  meant  by  &quot;us  foreigners.&quot;  It  was  rude  of  Odile  to  let  her  family  hurt  her  friend;  at  the  same  time,  it  was  even  less  kind  of  them  to  include  Carol  in  a  single  category  of  foreigners.  Surely  Odile  could  see  the  difference  between  Carol  and  this  pale  young  man  who  &quot;did  other  things.&quot;  She  felt  thatshe  and  Felix  had  been  linked  together  in  a  disagreeable  way,  and  that  she  was  float,  ing  away  from  everything  familiar  and  safe.  Without  replying,  she  bent  her  head  and  turned  away,  politely  but  un-  mistakably.  &quot;Funny  kid,&quot;  Howard  remarked  as  Felix  walked  slowlyout  into  the  rain,  his  hands  in  his  pockets.  &quot;He's  horrible,&quot;  said  Carol,  so  vio-  lently  that  he  stared  at  her.  &quot;He's  not  funny.  He's  a  parasite.  He  lives  on  Odile.  He  doesn't  work  or  anything,  he  just  hangs  around  and  stares  at  people.  Odile  says  he  has  no  passport.  Well,  why  doesn't  he  get  one?  Any  man  can  work  if  he  wants  to.  Why  are  there  'people  like  that?  Allthe  boys  I  ever  knew  at  home  were  well  brought  up  and  manly.  I  never  knew  anyone  like  Felix.&quot;  She  stopped,  breathless,  and  Howard  said,  &quot;Well,  let  Odile  worry.&quot;  &quot;Odile!&quot;  Carol  cried.  &quot;Odile  must  be  crazy.  What  is  she  thinking  of?  Her  family  ought  to  put  a  stop  to  it.  The  whole  thing  is  terrible.  It's  bad  for  the  office.  It  ought  to  be  stopped.  Why,  he'll  never  marry  her!  Why  shouldhe?  He's  only  a  boy,  an  orphan.  He  needs  " b"friends,  and  connections,  and  somebody  his  own  age.  Why  should  he  marry  Odile?  What  does  he  want  with  an  old  maid  from  an  old,  broken-down  family?  He  needs  a  good  meal,  and-  and  help.&quot;  She  stopped,  bewildered.  She  had  been  about  to  say  &quot;and  love.&quot;  Howard,  now  beyond  surprise,  felt  only  a  growing  wave  of  annoyance.  He  did  not  like  hysterical  women.  His  sis-  ters  never  behaved  like  that.  &quot;I  want  to  go  home,&quot;  said  Carol,  nearly  wailing.  He  ran  off  to  find  a  taxi,  glad  to  get  away.  By  &quot;home&quot;  he  thought  she  meant  the  apartment  she  shared  with  the  two  556e6974656420537461746573n  girls  in  Passy.  For  Carol,  the  concert  was  the  end,  the  final  clow.  She  stopped  caring  about  [REDACTED],  or  Odile,  or  her  feelings  for  Howard.  When  Odile  returned  her  green  dress,  nicely  pressed  and  folded  in  a  cardboard  box,  she  said  only,  &quot;Just  leave  it  on  my  desk.&quot;  Everyone  seemed  to  think  it  normal  that  now  her  only  preoccupation  should  bethe  cut  of  her  wedding  dress.  People  began  giving  parties  for  her.  The  wash  of  attention  soothed  her  fears.  She  was  good-tem-  pered,  and  did  not  ask  Howard  to  take  her  to  tiresome  places.  Once  again  he  felt  he  had  made  the  right  decision,  and  put  her  temporary  waywardness  down  to  nerves.  After  a  while,  Carol  began  lunching  with  Odile  again,  but  she  did  not  mention  the  concert.  As  for  Felix,  Carol  now  avoided  him  entirely.  Sometimes  she  waited  until  Odile  had  left  the  office  before  leaving  herself.  Again,  she  braced  herself  and  walked  briskly  past  him,  ignoring  his  &quot;Good  evening.&quot;  She  no  longer  stopped  on  the  staircase  to  watch  the  twilight;  her  mood  was  different.  She  believed  that  something  fortunate  had  happened  to  her  spirit,  and  that  she  had  become  invulnerable.  Soon  she  was  able  to  walk  by  Felix  without  a  tremor,  and  after  a  while  she  stopped  noticing  him  at  all.  &quot;LJ  AVE  you  noticed  winter  is  over?&quot;  Odile  said.  She  and  Carol  had  left  the  dressmaker's  street  and  turned  off  on  a  broad,  oblique  ave-  nue.  &quot;It  hasn't  rained  for  hours.  This  was  the  longest  winter  I  remember,  al-  though\xc2\xabI  think  one  says  this  every  year.&quot;  &quot;It  was  long  for  me,  too,&quot;  Carol  said.  It  was  true  that  it  was  over.  The  spin-  dly  trees  of  the  avenue  were  covered  with  green,  like  a  wrapping  of  tissue.  A  few  people  sat  out  in  front  of  shops,  sunning  themselves.  It  was,  suddenly,  like  coming  out  of  a  tunnel.  Odile  turned  to  Carol  and  smiled,  a  rare  expression  for  her.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I  was  rude  at  Mme.  Germaine's  just  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  the  matter  is  nowadays-I  am  dread-  ful  to  everyone.  But  I  shouldn't  have  been  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Never  mind,&quot;  said  Carol.  She  flushed  a  little,  for  Howard  had  taught  her  to  be  embarrassed  over  anything  as  directas  an  apology.  &quot;I'd  forgotten  it.  In  fact,  I  didn't  even  notice.&quot;  &quot;Now  you  are  being  nice,&quot;  said  Odile  unhappily.  &quot;Really,  there  is  something  wrong  with  me.  I  worry  all  the  time,  over  money,  over  Martine,  over  Felix.  I  think  it  isn't  healthy.&quot;  Carol  mur-  mured  something  comforting  but  indis-  tinct.  Glancing  at  her,  Odile  said,  &quot;Where  are  you  off  to  now?&quot;  &quot;Nowhere.  Home,  I  suppose.  There's  always  something  to  do  these  days.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  come  along  with  me?&quot;  Odile  stopped  on  the  street  and  took  her  arm.  &quot;I'm  going  to  see  Felix.  He  lives  near  here.  Oh,  he  would  be  so  surprised!&quot;  &quot;Feliz?&quot;  Automatically  Carol  glanced  at  her  watch.  Surely  she  had  something  to  do,  some  appointment!?  But  Odile  was  hurrying  her  along.  Carol  thought,  Now,  this  is  all  wrong.  But  they  had  reached  the  Boulevard  de  Grenelle,  where  the  M\xc3\xa9tro  ran  over-  head,  encased  in  a  tube  of  red  brick.  Light  fell  in  patterns  underneath;  the  boulevard  was  lined  withugly  shops  and  dark,  buff-painted  caf\xc3\xa9s.  It  was  a  far  cry  from  the  prim  street  a  block  or  so  away  where  the  dressmaker's  flat  was.  &quot;Is  it  far?&quot;  said  Carol  nervously.  She  did  not  like  the  look  ofthe  neigh-  borhood.  Odile  shook  her  head.  They  crossed  the  boulevard  and  a  few  crooked,  narrow  streets  filled  with  curb-  side  barrows  and  marketing  crowds.  It  was  a  section  of  [REDACTED]  Carol  had  not  seen;  although  it  was  on  the  Left  Bank,  it  was  not  pretty,  not  picturesque.  There  wereno  little  restaurants,  no  students'  hotels.  It  was  simply  down-  and-out  and  dirty,  and  everyone  looked  ill-tempered.  Arabs  lounging  in  door-  ways  looked  at  the  two  girls  and  called  out,  laughing.  &quot;Look  straight  ahead,&quot;  said  Odile.  &quot;If  you  look  at  them,  they  come  up  and  take  your  arm.  It's  worse  when  I  come  alone.&quot;  How  dreadful  of  Felix  to  let  Odile  walk  alone  through  streets  like  this,  Carol  thought.  &quot;Here,&quot;  said  Odile.  She  stopped  in  front  of  a  building  on  which  the  painted  word  &quot;Hotel&quot;  was  almost  effaced.  They  climbed  a  musty-smelling  stair-  case,  Carol  taking  care  not  to  let  her  skirt  brush  the  walls.  She  wondered  nervously  what  Howard  would  say  " b"when  he  heard  she  had  visited  Felix  in  his  hotel  room.  On  a  stair  landing,  Odile  knocked  at  one  of  the  doors.  Felix  let  them  in.  It  took  a  few  mo-  ments,  for  he  had  been  asleep.  He  did  not  look  at  all  surprised  but  with  a  slight  bow  invited  them  in,  as  if  he  frequently  entertained  in  his  room.  The  room  was  so  cluttered,  the  bed  so  untidy,  that  Carol  stood  bewildered,  wondering  where  one  could  sit.  Odile  at  once  flung  herself  down  on  the  bed,  dropping  her  handbag  on  the  floor,  which  was  cement  and  gritty  with  dirt.  &quot;I'm  tired,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We've  been  choosing  Carol's  wedding  dress.  W  hite,  and  very  pretty.&quot;  Felix's  shirt  was  unbuttoned,  his  face  without  any  color.  He  glanced  sidelong  at  Carol,  smiling.  On  a  table  stood  an  alcohol  stove,  some  gaudy  plastic  bowls,  and  a  paper  container  of  sugar.  In  the  tiny  washbasin,  over  which  hung  a  cold-  water  faucet,  were  a  plate  and  a  spoon,  and,  here  and  there  on  the  perimeter,  Felix's  shaving  things  and  a  battered  toothbrush.  &quot;Do  sit  on  that  chair,&quot;  he  said  to  Carol,  but  he  made  no  move  to  take  away  the  shirt  and  sweater  and  raincoat  that  were  bundled  on  it.  Everything  else  he  owned  appeared  to  be  on  the  floor.  The  room  faced  a  court  and  was  quite  dark.  &quot;Ill  heat  up  this  coffee,&quot;  Felix  said,  as  if  casting  about  for  something  to  do  as  a  host.  &quot;Miss  Frazier,  sit  down.&quot;  He  put  a  match  to  the  stove  and  a  blue  flame  leaped  along  the  wall.  He  stared  into  a  saucepan  of  coffee,  sniffed  it,  and  added  a  quantity  of  cold  water.  &quot;A  new  PX  has  just  been  opened,&quot;  he  said  to  Odile.  He  put  the  saucepan  over  the  flame,  ap-  parently  satisfied.  &quot;I  went  around  to  see  what  was  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Nothing  much.  It  is  really  sad.  Everything  is  organized  on  such  a  big  scale  now  that  there  is  no  room  for  little  people  like  me.  I  waited  outside  and  finally  picked  up  some  ciga-  rettes\xe2\x80\x94only  two  cartons-from  a  sol-  dier.&quot;  He  talked  on,  and  Carol,  who  was  not  accustomed  to  his  conversation,  could  not  tell  if  he  was  joking  or  serious.  She  had  finally  decided  to  sit  down  on  top  of  the  raincoat.  She  frowned  at  her  hands,  wondering  why  Odile  didn't  teach  him  to  make  coffee  properly  and  why  he  talked  like  a  criminal.  For  Carol,  theidea  that  one  might  not  be  permitted  to  work  was  preposterous.  She  harbored  a  rigid  belief  that  anyone  could  work  who  sincerely  wanted  to.  Picking  apples,  she  thought  vaguely,  or  down  in  a  mine,  where  people  were  al-  ways  needed.  Odile  looked  at  Carol,  as  if  she  knew  what  she  was  thinking.  &quot;Poor  Felix  doesn't  belong  in  this  world,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  should  have  been  killed  at  the  end  of  the  war.  Instead  of  that,  every  year  he  gets  older.  In  a  month,  he  will  be  twenty-two.&quot;  But  Odile  was  over  thirty.  Carol  found  the  gap  between  their  ages  dis-  tasteful,  and  thought  it  indelicate  of  Odile  to  stress  it.  Felix,  who  had  been  ineffectively  rinsing  the  plastic  bowls  in  cold  water,  now  poured  the  coffee  out.  He  pushedone  of  the  bowls  toward  Odile;  then  he  suddenly  tookher  hand  and,  turning  it  over,  kissed  the  palm.  &quot;Why  should  I  have  been  killed?&quot;  he  said.  Carol,  breathless  with  embarrass-  ment,  looked  at  the  brick  wall  of  the  court,  She  twisted  her  fingers  together  until  they  hurt.  How  can  they  act  like  this  in  front  of  me,  she  thought,  and  in  such  a  dirty  room?  'The  thought  that  they  might  be  in  love  entered  her  head  for  the  first  time,  and  it  made  her  ill.  Felix,  smiling,  gave  her  a  bowl  of  coffee,  and  she  took  it  without  meeting  his  eyes.  He  sat  down  on  the  bed  beside  Odile  and  said  happily,  &quot;I'm  glad  you  came.  You  both  look  beautiful.&quot;  Carol  glanced  at  Odile,  thinking,  Not  beautiful,  not  by  any  stretch  of  good  manners.  &quot;French  girls  are  all  attrac-  tive,&quot;  she  said  politely.  &quot;Most  of  them  are  frights,&quot;  said  Felix.  No  one  disputed  it,  and  no  one  but  Carol  appeared  distressed  by  the  abrupt  termination  of  the  conver-  sation.  She  cast  about  for  something  to  say,  but  Odile  put  her  bowl  on  the  floor,  said  again  that  she  was  tired,  lay  back,  and  seemed  all  at  once  to  fall  asleep.  Felix  looked  at  her.  &quot;She  really  can  shut  out  the  world  whenever  she  wants  to,&quot;  he  said,  suggesting  to  Carol's  star-  tled  earsthat  he  was  quite  accustomed  to  see  her  fall  asleep.  Of  course,  she  might  have  guessed,  but  why  should  Felix  make  it  so  obvious?  She  felt  ashamed  of  the  way  she  had  worried     about  Felix,  and  the  way  she  had  run  after  Odile,  wanting  to  know  her  fami-  ly.  This  was  all  it  had  come  to,  this  dirty  room.  Howard  was  right,  she  thought.  It  doesn't  pay.  At  the  same  time,  she  was  perplexed  at  the  intimacy  in  which  she  and  Felix  now  found  themselves..  She  would  have  been  more  at  ease  alone  in  a  room  with  him  than  with  Odile  beside  him  asleep  on  his  bed.  &quot;I  must  go,&quot;  she  said  nervously.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  said  Felix,  not  stopping  her.  &quot;But  I  can't  find  my  way  back  alone.&quot;  She  felt  as  if  she  might  cry.  ''There  are  taxis,&quot;  he  said  vaguely.  &quot;But  I  can  take  you  to  the  M\xc3\xa9tro,  if  you  like.&quot;  He  buttoned  his  shirt  and  looked  around  for  a  jacket,  making  no  move  to  waken  Odile.  &quot;Should  we  leave  her  here?&quot;  said  Carol.  &quot;Shouldn't  I  say  goodbye?&quot;  He  looked  surprised.  &quot;I  wouldn't  think  of  disturbing  her,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  she's  asleep,  then  she  must  be  tired.&quot;  And  to  this  Carol  could  think  of  noth-  ing  to  say.  He  followed  her  down  the  staircase  and  into  the  street,  dark  now,  with  stripes  of  neon  to  mark  the  caf\xc3\xa9s.  They  said  little,  and  because  she  was  afraid  of  the  dark  and  the  Arabs,  Carol  walked  close  beside  him.  On  the  Boulevard  de  Grenelle,  Felix  stopped  at  the  entrance  to  the  M\xc3\xa9tro.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Up  those  steps.  It  takes  you  right  over  to  Passy.&quot;  She  looked  at  him,  feeling  this  parting  was  not  enough.  She  had  criti-  cized  him  to  Howard  and  taught  her-  self  to  ignore  him,  but  here,  in  a  neigh-  borhood  where  she  could  not  so  much  as  find  her  way,  she  felt  more  than  ever  imprisoned  in  the  walls  of  her  shyness,  unable  to  say  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  or  &quot;Thanks  for  the  coffee,&quot;  or  anything  perfunctory  and  reasonable.  She  had  an  inexplicable  and  uneasy  feeling  that  something  had  ended  for  her,  and  that  she  would  never  see  Felix,  or  even  Odile,  again.  Felix  caught  her  look,  or  seemed  to.  He  looked  around,  distressed,  at  the  Bar  des  Sportifs,  and  the  sportifs  inside  it,  and  said,  &quot;If  you  would  lend  me  a  little  money,  I  could  buy  you  a  drink  before  you  go.&quot;  His  unabashed  cadging  restored  her  at  once.  &quot;I  haven't  time  for  a  drink,&quot;  she  said,  all  briskness  now,  as  if  he  had  with  a  little  click  dropped  into  the  right  slot.  &quot;But  if  you'll  promise  to  take  Odile  to  dinner,  I'll  lend  you  two  thousand  francs.&quot;  &quot;Fine,&quot;  said  Felix.  He  watched  her  take  the  money  from  her  purse,  accepted  " b"it  without  embarrassment,  and  put  it  in  the  pocket  of  his  jacket.  &quot;Take  her  for  a  nice  dinner  some-  where,&quot;  Carol  repeated.  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  &quot;Oh!&quot;  He  exasperated  her.  &quot;Why  don't  you  act  like  other  people?&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;You  can't  livelike  this  all  the  time.  You  could  go  to  [REDACTED].  Mr.  Mitchell  would  help  you.  I  know  he  would.  He'd  vouch  for  you,  for  a  visa,  if  I  asked  him  too.&quot;  &quot;And  Odile?  Would  Mr.  Mitchell  vouch  for  Odile  too?&quot;  She  glanced  at  him,  startled.  When  Felix  was  twenty-five,  Odile  would  be  nearly  forty.  Surely  he  had  thought  of  this?  &quot;She  could  go,  too,&quot;  she  said,  and  added,  &quot;I  suppose.&quot;  &quot;And  what  would  we  do  in  Amer-  ica?&quot;  He  rocked  back  and  forth  on  his  heels,  smiling.  \xc2\xab&quot;You  could  work,&quot;  she  said  sharply.  She  could  not  help  adding,  like  a  scold,  &quot;For  once  in  your  life.&quot;  &quot;As  cook  and  butler,&quot;  said  Felix  thoughtfully,  and  began  to  laugh.  &quot;No,  don't  be  angry,&quot;  he  said,  putting  out  his  hand.  &quot;One  has  to  wait  so  long  for  556e6974656420537461746573n  papers.  I  know,  I  used  to  do  it.  To  sit  there  all  day  and  wait,  or  stand  in  the  queue-how  could  Odile  do  it?  She  has  her  job  to  attend  to.  She  has  to  help  her  family.&quot;  &quot;In  [REDACTED],&quot;  said  Carol,  &quot;she  would  make  more  money,  she  could  help  them  even  more,&quot;  But  she  could  not  see  clearly  the  picture  of  Felix  and  Odile  combining  their  salaries  in  a  neat  little  apartment  and  faithfully  remitting  a  portion  to  [REDACTED].  She  could  not  imagine  what  on  earth  Felix  would  do  for  a  living.  Perhaps  he  and  Odile  would  get  married;  something  told  her  they  would  not.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  she  " b"said.  &quot;It's  really  your  own  business.  I  shouldn't  have  said  anything  at  all.&quot;  She  moved  away,  but  Felix  took  her  hand  and  held  it.  &quot;You  mean  so  well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Odile  is  right,  you  know.  I  ought  to  have  been  killed,  or  at  least  disappeared.  No  one  knows  what  to  do  with  me  or  where  I  fit.  As  for  Odile,  her  whole  family  is  overdue.  But  we're  not-  how  does  it  go  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  papers,  under  the  photographs?  -'Happy  Europeans  find  new  life  away  from  old  cares.&quot;  We're  not  that,  either.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  not.  I  don't  know.&quot;  She  realized  all  at  once  how  absurd  they  must  look,  standing  under  the  M\xc3\xa9tro  tracks,  holding  hands.  Passersby  looked  at  them,  sympathetic.  You  shouldn't  go  this  way,  looking  so  hurt  and  serious,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  so  nice.  You  mean  so  well.  Odile  loves  you.&quot;  Her  heart  leaped  as  if  he,  Felix,  had  said  he  loved  her.  But  no,  she  corrected     herself.  Not  Felix  but  some  other  man,  some  wonderful  person  who  did  not  exist.  Odile  loved  her.  Her  hand  in  his,  she  remembered  how  he  had  kissed  Odile's  palm,  and  she  felt  on  her  own  palm  the  pressure  ofa  kiss;  but  not  from  Felix.  Perhaps,  she  thought,  what  she  felt  was  the  weight  of  his  love  for  Odile,  from  which  she  was  excluded,  and  to  which  Felix  now  politely  and  kindly  wished  to  draw  her,  as  if  his  and  Odile's  ability  to  love  was  their  only  hospitality,  their  only  way  of  paying  debts.  For  a  mo-  ment,  standing  under  the  noisy  trains  on  the  dark,dusty  boulevard,  she  felt  that  she  had  at  last  opened  the  right  door,  turned  down  the  right  street,  glimpsed  the  vision  toward  which  she  had  struggled  on  winter  evenings  when,  standing  on  the  staircase,  she  had  wanted  to  be  enchanted  with  [REDACTED]  and  to  be  in  love  with  Howard.  But  that  such  a  vision  could  come  from  Felix  and  Odile  was  impossible.     &quot;IPs  a  little  routine  Ihave  with  myself.  I  pretend  I'm\xc2\xbb  on  the  outside  looking  in.&quot;  For  a  moment  she  had  been  close  to  tears,  like  the  Christmas  evening  when  she  found  the  mistletoe.  But  she  re-  membered  in  time  what  Felix  was-a  hopeless  parasite.  And  Odile  was  silly  and  immoral  and  old  enough  to  know  better.  And  they  were  not  married  and  never  would  be,  and  they  spent  heaven  only  knew  how  many  hours  in  that  terrible  room  in  a  slummy  quarter  of  [REDACTED].  No,  she  thought.  What  she  and  How-  ard  had  was  better.  No  one  could  point  to  them,  or  criticize  them,  or  humiliate  them  by  offering  to  help.  She  withdrew  her  hand  and  said  with  cold  shyness,  &quot;'Thank  you  for  the  coffee,  Felix.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that.&quot;  He  watched  her  go  up  the  steps  to  the  M\xc3\xa9tro,  and  then  he  walked  away.  UPSTAIRS,  she  passed  a  flower  sell-  er  and  stopped  to  buy  a  bunch  of  violets,  even  though  they  would  be  dead  before  she  reached  home.  She  wanted  something  pretty  in  her  hand  to  take  away  the  memory  of  the  room  and  the  Arabs  and  the  dreary  caf\xc3\xa9s  and  the  messy  affairs  of  Felix  and  Odile.  She  paid  for  the  violets  and  noticed  as  she  did  so  that  the  little  scene-accepting  the  flowers,  paying  for  them-had  the  gentle,  nostalgic  air  of  something  past.  Soon,  she  sensed,  the  comforting  vision  of  [REDACTED]  as  she  had  once  imagined  it  would  overlap  the  reality.  To  have  met  and  married  Howard  there  would  sound  romantic  and  interesting,  more  and  more  so  as  time  passed.  She  would  for-  get  the  rain  and  her  unshared  confusion  and  loneliness,  and  remember  instead  the  [REDACTED]  of  films,  the  street  lamps  with  their  tinsel  icicles,  the  funny  concert  hall  where  the  ceiling  collapsed,  and  there  would  be,  at  last,  a  coherent  pic-  ture,  accurate  but  untrue.  'The  memory  of  Felix  and  Odile  and  all  their  distaste-  ful  strangeness  would  slip  away;  for  &quot;love&quot;  she  would  think,  once  more,  &quot;[REDACTED],&quot;  and,  after  a  while,  happily  mar-  ried,  mercifully  removed  in  time,  she  would  remember  it  and  describe  it  and  finally  believe  it  as  it  had  never  been  at  all. "