 b"SOME  time  ago,  I  read  in  a  newspaper  that  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  had  awarded  impor-  tant  contracts  to  several  chemical  firms.  All  of  them  were  well-known  giants  of  the  industry  except  one-a  smaller  company  with  which  I  have  had  in-  timate  associations  ever  since  I  was  a  boy.  The  firm  was  started  at  the  be-  ginning  of  the  century  by  my  Uncle  Issak,  the  husband  of  my  Aunt  Anuta,  and  it  is  now  owned  by  three  of  my  cousins.  I  got  to  know  Issak  only  after  I  was  in  college.  He  was  then  a  short,  aging  man,  heaving  with  asthma.  He  smoked  innumerable  medicated  ciga-  rettes,  which  were  supposed  to  make  his  breathing  easier.  He  reminded  me  a  little  of  pictures  of  the  &quot;wizard&quot;  Steinmetz,  except  that  Issak  was  round-  faced.  He  looked  like  a  sarcastic  old  cherub.  His  wife  was  my  father's  older  sister.  When  my  father  and  Anuta  were  quite  young,  they  worked  together  in  the  underground  in  [REDACTED],  distributing  leaflets  denouncing  the  tyrannical  re-  gime  of  Czar  Alexander  III.  'They  were  hunted  by  the  Czar's  police  and  imprisoned.  After  her  release,  my  aunt  went  to  [REDACTED].  In  [REDACTED],  Anuta  began  the  study  of  dentistry-a  profession  popular  at  that  time  among  young  527573736961n  intellectuals,  male  and  female.  It  was  in  [REDACTED]  that  she  met  Issak,  who  was  studyingchemistry  at  the  university  there.  He  was  ready  to  give  up;  his  money  had  given  out,  his  health  was  ruined,  he  was  exhausted.  He,  too,  had  been  born  in  [REDACTED]-  in  [REDACTED],  I  believe-and  had  run  away  to  escape  military  service  in  the  Czar's  army.  The  two  exiles  had  much  in  common.  Both  of  them  were  passionate  about  politics,  both  were  idealists,  and  both  were  lonely  and  poor.  Anuta  urged  Issak  to  continue  his  studies.  She  took  a  part-time  job,  shared  her  earnings  with  him,  and  nursed  him.  In  a  short  time  they  were  married.  A  yearor  so  later,  Anuta  got  her  diploma-the  study  of  dentistry  was  not  very  exacting  then-  and  left  immediately  for  [REDACTED].  Issak  stayed  behind  to  get  his  degree.  In  [REDACTED],  Anuta  was  joined  by  my  father.  'They  lived  in  a  small  tenement  flat  on  Cherry  Street,  on  the  lower  43616e616461Sideof  New  York.  She  hung  out  her  sign-a  big  gold  tooth  -and  with  the  flat  as  her  office,  de-  clared  herself  open  for  business.  It  soon  became  a  meeting  place  for  old  revolutionists  who  had  escaped  to  Amer-  ica.  They  met  to  discuss  their  work  in  the  new  country  and  to  argue  about  the  future  of  [REDACTED].  All  of  them  had  brought  their  revolutionary  ideal  across  the  sea  with  them,  but  in  Amer-  ica  it  no  longer  seemed  so  revolution-  ary.  They  were  against  oppression  and  exploitation;  they  were  for  freedom,  equality,  and  fraternity;  and  they  called  one  another  &quot;Comrade.&quot;  Anuta  worked  long  hours,  yanking  the  teeth  of  the  Comrades  or  fitting  them  out  with  gleaming  plates  and  bridges.  Every  cent  she  could  spare  she  sent  to  her  husband,  so  he  could  finish  his  studies  without  worrying  about  money.  Anuta  was  a  capable  woman,  large  and  handsome,  with  a  rough  voice,  like  a  man's.  She  was  lusty  and  of  cheerful  temperament.  I  have  a  photograph  taken  of  her  at  the  time.  She  is  standing  on  the  roof  of  the  tenement.  Her  hair  is  blowing.  She  wears  a  shirtwaist,  buttoned  tight  about  her  neck,  and  a  long  dark  skirt.  Her  sleeves  are  rolled  up,  and  she  looks  ready  for  work.  She  has  assumed  afirm  stance  and  seems  to  be  trying  to  keep  herself  from  bursting  into  laughter,  for  she  obviously  regards  having  her  photograph  taken  as  an  amusing  but  frivolous  interruption  of  work.  When  Issak  finally  got  his  degree,  he  hurried  to  New  York  to  join  his  wife,  but  what  he  found  did  not  please  him.  Anuta  had  made  a  happy  life  for  herself  without  him.  He  did  not  approve  of  her  friends-ex-revolu-  tionists  who  seemed  to  forget  that  they  were  in  [REDACTED],  who  sat  around  drinking  tea  and  endlessly  discussing  economic  and  political  theory.  Issak  had  lost  his  politi-  cal  fervor.  But,  more  than  anything  else,  the  young  husband  disliked  his  wife's  independence.  He  was  eager  to  establish  himself  as  head  of  his  family.  This  was  no  mean  task,  considering  Anuta's  character,  but  eventually  Issak  persuaded  Anuta  to  abandon  her  prac-  tice,  and  then  he  managed  to  dislodge  her  from  the  European  atmosphere  of  " b'Cherry  Street.  His  life,  he  said,  was  to  be  lived  in  [REDACTED].  He  wanted  to  find  the  real  [REDACTED],  the  soul  of  [REDACTED].  He  got  ajob  in  a  factory  in  Erie,  Penn-  sylvania,  and  Anuta  said  farewell  to  her  family  and  Comrades  in  New  York.  In  Erie,  Anuta  bore  her  first  child,  a  boy,  whom  she  called  Georgie.  The  baby  was  the  first  556e6974656420537461746573n  born  in  our  family.  Anuta  was  beside  herself  with  joy,  and  there  was  great  rejoicing  back  in  New  York  when  theold  Comrades  heard  the  news.  The  birth  of  her  son  had  bound  Anuta  forever  to  [REDACTED].  She  suddenly  loved  it  passionately  be-  cause  it  was  his  country.  As  a  native,  born  son,  he  had  a  claim  on  its  future,  and  she,  as  his  guardian,  did,  too.  And  the  future  she  foresaw  was  lovely,  em-  bodying  all  the  ideals  she  had  worked  for  in  [REDACTED]  and  much  besides.  She  blessed  [REDACTED].  Georgie,  however,  died  when  he  was  four  months  old.  His  death  was  a  terrible  blow  to  Anuta.  She  never  got  over  it.  Issak  and  Anuta  did  not  remain  long  in  Erie.  They  moved  West,  to  [REDACTED].  It  seemed  to  her  Comrades,  and  to  her  brothers  and  sisters,  several  of  whom  were  now  in  New  York,  that  the  sor-  rowing  Anuta  might  as  well  have  gone  to  the  edge  of  the  [REDACTED]  Desert.  To  them,  at  the  beginning  of  the  century,  [REDACTED]  seemed  the  last  outpost  of  civili-  zation.  But  Anuta  and  Issak  stayed  only  a  few  months  in  [REDACTED].  Issak,  who  had  grown  tense  and  restless,  found  [REDACTED]  irritating.  He  moved  on  out  into  the  Illinois  prairie,  to  a  place  I  shall  call  Marquette.  In  this  cold,  socially  rigid  43616e616461ern  town,  so  far  from  the  crowded,  colorful  lower  43616e616461Sideof  New  York,  so  far  from  Brest  Litovsk  and  [REDACTED],  where  they  were  born,  Anuta  and  Issak  lived  the  rest  of  their  lives.  ISSAK  decided  to  manufacture  some  article  that  would  appeal  to  the  housewives  of  Marquette.  He  rented  a  loft  and  began  to  make  baking  powder.  He  had  trouble  launching  his  business,  buthe  had  more  trouble  with  his  wife.  Anuta  was  grieving  for  her  baby.  She  wanted  her  family  near  her.  She  longed  for  New  York,  for  Cherry  Street,  for  Jews,  for  intellectuals,  for  warmth  and  sympathy.  She  found  life  in  the  alien  city  almost  unbearable.  &quot;The  people  here  have  no  ideal,&quot;  she  wrote  my  fa-  ther.  &quot;God  only  knows  what  they  are  living  for.&quot;  And  she  persuaded  Issak,  who  was  quietly  pursuing  his  own  ideal,  to  send  for  my  father,  and  for  Jenia,  another  aunt  of  mine,  and  her  husband,  Lazar,  who  were  also  living  in  New' b"York.  She  suggested  that  my  father  and  Jenia's  husband  could  help  Issak  in  the  new  business.  My  father  had  married  some  time  before,  and  now  he  and  my  mother  had  had  their  first  child,  My  father  was  having  a  hard  time  trying  to  make  a  living  for  his  family,  and  when  Issak's  letter  arrived,  he  borrowed  some  money  and  left  for  Marquette  almost  immedi-  ately.  He  told  my  mother  he  would  send  for  her  and  the  baby  as  soon  as  he  had  looked  over  the  situation  in  Mar-  quette.  At  that  time,  any  place  in  the  world  but  New  York  would  have  looked  good  to  my  father;  when  he  got  to  the  sparsely  populated  Marquette,  it  seemed  like  [REDACTED]  to  him,  and  he  wrote  my  mother  to  join  him.  So  my  mother,  who  had  been  born  in  [REDACTED]  and  who  as  a  girl  had  taken  the  long  journey  across  the  ocean  to  [REDACTED]  alone,  packed  her  things  once  again  and,  with  the  baby,  started  for  the  West.  She  was  fearful,  for  she  could  speak  hardly  any  English  (&quot;A  crazy  language,  which  can  certainly  break  your  tongue,&quot;  she  used  to  say).  In  later  years,  she  never  tired  of  telling  about  that  trip  into  the  wilderness  of  [REDACTED].  She  sat  up  a  day  and  anight  in  a  dirty  coach  and  ate  nothing  the  whole  time  but  an  apple.  Even  when  she  was  an  old  woman,  she  remembered  the  kind-  ness  of  a  conductor  who  had  heated  the  bottles  of  milk  she  had  brought  along  for  her  baby.  Soon  after  my  mother  got  to  Mar-  quette,  Jenia  and  her  husband  arrived,  too,  and  Anuta's  spirits  lifted.  The  three  immigrant  couples  formed  a  European  island  in  the  midst  of  the  Illinois  prairie.  'The  women  had  their  Kaffeeklatsches;  quantities  of  coffee  were  consumed,  and  Anuta  had  someone  to  talk  her  heart  out  to.  My  mother  and  Jenia  would  listen  in  silence,  sitting  on  either  side  of  her,  each  holding  her  by  the  hand,  so  that  the  three  women  were  linked,  while  Anuta  told  of  the  birth  and  death  of  her  little  Georgie  and  the  hopes  she  had  had  for  him.  Meanwhile,  their  husbands  worked  in  the  loft.  They  did  not  yet  attempt  to  sell  their  product,  which  they  called  &quot;Dr.  King's  Baking  Powder.&quot;  They  were  simply  building  up  a  supply.  At  length,  Issak  decided  that  they  had  ample  stock.  Three  men  were  not  needed  in  the  loft;  one  of  them  would  have  to  go  out  and  sell  the  product.  Though  my  father's  English  was  atro-  cious,  he  was  chosen,  since  he  was  the  most  personable  of  the  three.  Issak  hired  a  horse  andwagon,  cans  of  baking  powder  were  stacked  in  the  wagon,  and  " b"my  father  set  out.  Up  and  down  the  grim  streets  of  Marquette  he  went,  a  handsome,  dark-mustached,  European-  looking  man,  calling  out  in  heavy  Rus-  sian  accents,  &quot;Buy  baking  powder,  please!  Buy  Dr.  King's  Baking  Pow-  der!&quot;  No  one  bought.  After  a  long  day,  my  father  returned  to  the  loft  and  reported  hisfailure.  He  could  not  understand  what  had  happened.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  my  Un-  cle  Lazar  said,  &quot;I  know  what's  the  trouble.  No  one  can  understand  what  you  are  shouting  about.  You  must  go  out  again  tomorrow.  You  must  go  from  door  to  door.  You  will  smile  and  show  them  our  little  cans  of  baking  powder,  and  they  will  read  what  you  are  selling  and  will  buy.&quot;  The  next  day,  my  father,  clutching  a  few  cans  of  baking  powder,  went  from  door  to  door,  smiling  and  speaking  in  soft  tones.  Doors  were  slammed  in  his  face.  Most  housewives  were  afraid  of  his  long  black  mustache  and  his  flashing  eyes.  He  was  called  a  dirty  foreigner,  and  worse.  Dogs  ran  after  him,  barking,  and  one  tore  his  trouser  leg.  However,  he  did  make  a  few  sales.  The  next  day,  he  went  to  a  store  and  bought  some  pots  and  pans.  He  thought  that  if  he  enlarged  his  stock,  he  might  at  least  bring  back  a  little  money  to  his  brothers-in-law,  and  that  while  offering  reassuringly  familiar  articles  like  pots  and  pans  he  could  suggest  to  the  house-  wife  that  she  also  buy  Dr.  King's  Bak-  ing  Powder.  But  his  plan  had  small  success.  If  a  housewife  resisted  only  a  little,  he  went  on  his  way.  He  did  not  have  the  heart  to  persuade  poor  working  people  to  part  with  their  money,  he  said.  He  returned  to  the  loft  that  night,  and  on  succeeding  ones,  bewildered  and  dis-  couraged.  After  a  time,  my  father  developed  an  intense  but  silent  dislike  for  the  efficient  Issak,  who  was  beginning  to  show  ex-  traordinary  skill  at  making  business  deals  with  wholesale  grocers.  And  Issak  often  smiled  at  my  father  now  in  his  most  sarcastic  manner.  He  had  never  really  approved  of  my  father;  he  con-  sidered  him  too  much  like  Anuta,  and  believed  that  while  her  warm  and  sym-  pathetic  nature  was  proper  for  a  wom-  an,  it  was  unbecoming  to  a  man.  &quot;Doomed,&quot;  Issak  once  said  to  my  mother.  &quot;Your  husband  is  a  doomed  man.  He'll  never  be  able  to  make  you  a  living.  I  feel  sorry  for  you.&quot;  Unfortunately,  he  was  right.  On  a  snowy  day  in  December,  1907,  my  father  left  Marquette  and,  cursing  Issak  and  businessmen  in  general,  returned  with  his  family  to  New  York  to  embark " b"upon  the  fulfilling  of  Uncle  Issak's  gloomy  prophecy.  IssAK,  in  Marquette,  held  on  to  the  little  business,  and  it  grew.  My  Un-  cle  Lazar  remained  there  for  a  long  time,  and  then  he,  too,  returned  to  [REDACTED],  leaving  the  business  entirely  in  Issak's  hands.  To  this  day,  there  are  all  sorts  of  family  rumors  about  why  Lazar  left;  some  say  he  was  pushed  out  when  it  looked  as  if  the  business  would  suc-  ceed,  others  say  he  could  not  stand  Issak's  niggardliness.  But  Issak  was  a  dedicated  man,  and  he  was  something  of  a  genius.  The  business  was  his  cre-  ation  and  his  life.  And  even  though  his  idealistic  fervor  had  been  left  behind  in  Europe,  he  was  not  without  social  sen-  sitivity.  He  believed  in  trade-unions  at  a  time  when  they  were  just  beginning  to  grow.  He  became  interested  in  the  social  welfare  of  the  city  he  had  made  his  home,  and  he  began  to  take  pride  in  it.  Now  that  the  business  was  wholly  in  Uncle  Issak's  hands,  it  seemed  to  expand  more  rapidly  than  ever.  He  abandoned  the  manufacture  of  baking  powder  and  began  making  industrial  chemicals.  When  I  was  ten  years  old  (we  were  living  in  a  cold-water  flat  in  a  remote  corner  of  [REDACTED]),  I  remember  my  mother  pointing  to  a  can  of  Babbitt's  Cleanser  and  saying,  &quot;You  see  that,  sonny?  Your  Uncle  Issak,  in  Mar-  quette,  makes  a  something-God  knows  what-that  goes  into  it.&quot;  Uncle  Issak  was  only  a  name  to  me,  but  the  can  of  cleansing  powder  stand-  ing  on  our  kitchen  shelf  touched  off  fantastic  images  in  my  mind.  I  saw  my  rich  43616e616461ern  relatives  as  a  royal  family.  Uncle  Issak  was  the  king,  Anuta  was  the  queen,  and  I  longed  to  be  recognized  for  what  I  really  was  -their  true  son,  the  prince  who  had  been  kid-  napped  from  them  as  a  baby.  I  waited  for  the  glorious  day  when  my  Mid-" b"western  family  would  come  to  my  rescue.  Years  passed,  and  Anuta  bore  Issak  three  sons.  The  family  lived  in  a  large  frame  house  with  a  trolley  line  in  front  of  it.  When  the  oldest  boy  was  ready  to  go  to  college,  he  was  sent  to  the  state  university,  where  he  studied  chemistry.  After  he  graduated,he  went  into  the  plant.  The  other  boys  also  went  to  the  university,  studied  chemistry,  and,  in  time,  took  their  places  alongside  Issak  in  the  growing  business.  Anuta  tried  to  keep  her  youngest  from  going  into  the  business.  &quot;At  least  one  of  my  boys  should  go  out  into  the  world,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  should  be  a  statesman,  perhaps-  an  artist,  even.&quot;  She  put  up  a  valiant  struggle.  She  sent  the  youngest  son  to  Europe,  hoping  that  his  interests  might  broaden,  that  he  might  care  for  something  more  than  the  provincial  life  of  Marquette.  But  when  he  returned,  he  immediately  went  into  the  plant.  Anuta  was  now  con-  vinced  that  if  only  her  Georgie  had  lived,  he  would  have  been  the  one  of  all  her  children  to  care  for  an  ideal.  IN  1915,  Issak  bought  a  large  stretch  of  land  along  the  river  that  flows  through  Marquette,  and  built  a  modern  factory.  Year  after  year,  he  added  to  it.  In  1920,  he  bought  mines  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  to  supply  his  factory  with  raw  materials,  and  it  was  at  this  time  that  he  experienced  his  first  serious  labor  trouble.  'There  was  a  strike  in  the  factory,  and  poor  Anuta,  the  ex-revolu-  tionist,  the  champion  of  the  working  class,  was  forced  to  sit  by  and  see  her  husband  in  the  role  of  her  earliest  enemy,  the  capitalist.  This  capitalist  dealt  fairly  with  his  workers,  however,  and  the  strike  was  quickly  settled.  Still,  when  43616e616461ern  branch  of  the  family  heard  of  the  strike,  they  denounced  the  Marquette  branch  as  traitors  to  their  class  and  to  their  original  ideals.  'The  familiar  epithets  were  used  against  Issak:  he  was  an  ex-  ploiter,  a  slave  driver;  his  hands  dripped  with  the  blood  of  the  workers.  Never-  theless,  we,  in  our  cold-water  flat  in  [REDACTED],  continued  to  accept  gifts  of  money  from  the  exploiters,  as  we  had  accepted  all  the  others  they  had  been  sending  us  through  the  years.  A  decade  later,  it  was  time  for  me  to  go  to  college.  I,  of  course,  had  selected  a  university  in  the  Middle  West-that  magical  territory  I  had  never  seen.  I  had  saved  enough  money  from  sum-  mer  jobs  to  pay  for  my  railroad  fare,  and  I  planned  to  work  for  my  room  and  board.  I  was  sure  I  would  receive " b"a  scholarship  for  the  second  semester's  tuition,  but  there  was  no  money  in  our  house  to  pay  tuition  for  the  first  semester.  An  appeal  went  from  the  [REDACTED]  flat  to  Anuta,  and  as  the  day  of  my  proposed  departure  came  near,  I  grew  more  and  more  apprehensive.  Would  my  rich  aunt  send  me  the  hundred  and  sixty-five  dol-  lars  I  needed?  Would  she  recognize  me,  at  last?  She  did.  When  the  check  finally  ar-  rived,I  burst  into  tears,  stormed  at  my  parents,  cursed  our  house,  and  could  not  explain  my  behavior  to  any-  one.  My  mother  looked  at  me  anxious-  ly  and  murmured,  &quot;All  my  other  children  say,  'Home  sweet  home,'  and  listen  to  Aim.&quot;  AT  Christmastime,  the  dormitory  I  lived  in  at  the  university  closed  down,  and  I  went  to  spend  the  holidays  with  my  Aunt  Anuta  and  Uncle  Issak,  in  Marquette.  Soon  after  I  arrived,  Issak  took  me  on  my  first  visit  to  the  chemical  plant.  It  was  vast.  Tremen-  dous  smokestacks  rose  out  ofa  confusion  of  buildings.  Huge,  steaming  vats  stood  about  in  an  enormous  yard.  They  were  encrusted  with  a  hard  whitish  material,  some  of  which  hung  like  icicles  from  the  rims.  Behind  the  vats,  a  pile  of  yellow  sulphur,  perhaps  thirty  feet  high  and  startlingly  pure  in  color,  rose  like  a  burstof  spring  in  the  midst  of  a  dirty  winter.  I'd  had  no  idea  that  the  plant  would  sprawl  over  many  acres  and  that  a  high  fence  would  enclose  the  whole  of  it.  Was  this  the  real  [REDACTED],  I  won-  dered-the  soul  of  [REDACTED]  that  Issak  had  said  he  wanted  to  find  when  he  took  his  wife  away  from  Cherry  Street?  In  a  way,  it  was,  and  I  realized  a  little  sad-  ly,  asI  stood  there  in  the  great  factory  yard,  that  the  very  existence  of  the  plant  loomed  like  a  glacier  between  43616e616461ern  and  the  43616e616461ern  branches  of  the  family  and  that  it  could  never  be  surmounted.  Though  both  branches  came  from  the  same  root,  we  in  [REDACTED],  living  on  the  narrow  margin  of  disaster,  could  not  conceivably  have  anything  in  common  with  the  people  who  owned  this  tremendous,  disorderly,  crazy  structure.  They  really  had  be-  come  part  of  [REDACTED].  They  owned  part  of  [REDACTED].  And  we?  My  father  and  his  old  Comrades,  back  home  in  New  York,  still  continued  their  political  discussions,  still  attended  lectures  on  social  prob-  lems  at  the  Rand  School,  still  clung  to  the  vision  of  a  just  and  lovely  [REDACTED],  a  just  and  lovely  world.  Uncle  Issak  led  me  inside  one  of  the  buildings,  Fumes  stung  my  eyes  and " b"parched  my  throat.  Issak  proudly  point-  ed  out  some  Gargantuan  machines  he  had  recently  had  constructed  from  his  own  designs,  but  he  seemed  evenproud-  er  when  he  showed  me  the  showers  and  washrooms  he  had  had  installed  for  his  workers.  There  had  been  no  strikes  in  his  plant  for  a  long  time.  The  work-  ers,  he  said,  were  happy.  He  gave  them  long  vacations  with  pay.  Many  of  them  were  his  friends,  men  who  had  grown  up  with  the  business.  g  We  went  outside  again  and,  making  our  way  around  the  steaming  vats,  walked  to  a  railroad  siding  at  a  far  corner  of  the  yard,  where  a  huge  iron  tank  was  being  erected.  When  it  was  completed,  Issak  said,  he  meant  to  store  raw  materials  in  it,  so  that  in  case  of  a  strike  elsewhere-in  his  mines  in  [REDACTED],  for  instance,  or  on  the  rail-  roads-he  would  have  enough  ingre-  dients  on  hand  to  continue  operating  the  plant.  This  seemed  to  me  to  show  such  foresightedness,  such  calculation,  and  such  desire  for  control  over  all  cir-  cumstances  that,  while  I  admired  it,  I  found  it  repulsive.  For  the  first  time  in  many  years,  I  felt  some  sympathy  for  my  father  back  home,  and  saw  some  virtue  in  him.  ISSAK  and  Anuta  still  lived  in  the  same  big  frame  house.  There  had  been  only  one  major  concession  to  their  wealth  in  all  those  years.  Issak  now  kept  a  room  at  the  top  of  the  tallest  hotel  in  [REDACTED].  W  hen  he  felt  a  severe  attack  of  asthma  coming  on,  he  would  rush  to  this  room.  The  air  was  cleaner  and  purer  there  than  in  Marquette,  where  his  own  plant  was  the  chief  contributor  to  pollution.  At  dinner  the  first  night  of  my  visit,  Anuta  satat  one  end  of  the  dining-room  table  with  me  on  her  right,  and  Uncle  Issak-breathing  deeply  and  in  an  om-  inous,  measured  rhythm,  like  a  man  in  a  death  coma-sat  at  the  other  end.  His  sons  were  on  either  side  of  him.  Anuta-  she  was  now  over  seventy-was  anxious  to  have  all  the  news  of  the  family  in  43616e616461and  of  those  Comrades  who  were  still  alive.  She  spoke  of  her  early  days  in  [REDACTED],  of  her  arrival  in  New  York,  and  of  her  migration  to  the  [REDACTED].  &quot;Sometimes  I  wake  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  I  hear  the  trolley  cars  outside  the  house,  and  I  say  to  myself,  'Anuta,  for  God's  sake,  how  did  you  ever  get  here?  What  are  you  doing  here?'&quot;  And  she  laughed  sadly.  She  wore  her  hair  short  now,  which  made  her  look  like  photographs  of  old  revolutionists-of  Rosa  Luxemburg  and  " b"Emma  Goldman.  In  all  Anuta's  years  in  Marquette,  she  had  made  only  a  few  friends.  When  she  asked  after  the  mem-  bers  of  the  family,  she  spoke  as  though  she  would  never  see  them  again.  Only  when  we  talked  about  a  cousin  of  mine  who  had  deliberately  cut  himself  off  from  the  family,  and  who  had  become  a  painter  and  was  quietly  starving  in  New  Orleans,  did  she  speak  with  real,  imme-  diate  interest.  At  the  other  end  ofthe  table,  Issak  was  discussing  the  marketing  of  a  new  product-a  water  softener  the  plant  had  just  developed.  When  he  heard  us  talk-  ing  about  my  artist  cousin,  he  smiled  at  me.  &quot;Can  you  imagine!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Grown-up  people  want  to  paint  pic-  tures!&quot;  The  scorn  in  his  voice  froze  my  fresh-  man  heart.  Anuta  sat  looking  down  at  her  napkin,  as  though  Issak  had  rebuked  her.  He  returned  to  the  conversation  with  his  sons,  and  I  tried  to  talk  to  Anuta  once  more,  but  she  suddenly  seemed  wistful  and  lonely  and  I  could  not  rouse  her  interest  again.  She  sat  brushing  crumbs  from  the  table  carelessly,  as  if  it  didn't  really  matter  that  they  were  falling  to  the  floor.  SOME  years  later,  Issak  died,  and  after  that  the  business  was  carried  on  by  his  sons.  I  frequently  had  occasion  to  go  to  the  [REDACTED],  and  stopped  off  to  see  Anuta  from  time  to  time  on  my  way  there  or  back.  She  saw  very  few  people.  She  lived  with  her  eldest  son,  who  had  never  married.  The  house  had  not  changed,  only  the  smell  ofthe  medi-  cated  cigarettes  Uncle  Issak  used  to  smoke  for  his  asthma  had  vanished.  The  last  time  I  saw  Anuta,  she  began  to  talk  of  little  Georgie,  the  first  Amer-  ican  born  in  the  family.  Tears  came  to  her  eyes  and  rolled  down  her  cheeks,  and  she  made  no  attempt  to  wipe  them  away.  I  was  filled  with  wonder  at  the  fact  that  though  Anuta  was  now  eighty  years  old  and  withered,  this  sorrow  was  still  fresh  and  green.  My  cousins  came  from  the  plant  to  greet  me,  and  I  cautiously  suggested,  more  or  less  as  a  joke-now  that  I,  a  member  of  43616e616461ern  branch  of  the  family,  had  actually  made  some  money-that  they  allow  me  to  purchase  a  few  shares  of  stock  in  the  business.  They  did  not  laugh,  They  said  that  there  were  no  shares  for  sale,  that  they  wanted  to  keep  the  business  within  their  own  family.  Anuta  looked  at  me,  smiled,  and  shrugged,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Go-you  try  to  understand  them.&quot;  When  Anuta  died,  a  few  years  ago,  the  last  tie  between  43616e616461ern  and  the" b'43616e616461ern  branches  of  the  family  was  severed.  We  rarely  have  word  of  our  cousins  in  Marquette.  But  just  the  other  day  I  was  visiting  a  friend  of  mine  who  is  in  an  investment  firm.  He  showed  me  the  prospectus  of  a  certain  new  issue  on  the  Stock  Exchange,  putout  by  a  com-  pany  capitalized  at  forty-five  million  dollars.  The  younger  generation  of  the  43616e616461ern  branch  have  evidently  changed  their  minds,  for  the  business  that  Issak,  the  immigrant  from  [REDACTED], started  so  many  years  ago  is  now  on  the  big  board. '